UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN


B46C

vel

Chaplain of the Fleet

Jl fiobd

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE

AUTHORS OF
THE MONKS OF Helena,'

-HE GOLDEN Butterfly,' ' THE MONKS OF THELEMA,' ' READY-J.IONEY

Mortify,' ' DY CELIA's ARBOUR,' ' THIS SON OF VULCAN,' ' MY LITTLE

GIRL,' 'the CASE OF MR. LUCRAFT,' ' WITH HARP AND CROWN,'

'when THE SHIP COMES HOME,' ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

EouKon
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



ni

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

Part I.
WITHIN THE RULES.

Chapter Page

I. HOW KITTY LOST HER FATHER AND HER







FRIENDS

II. HOW KITTY MADE ENGAGEMENTS -

III. HOW WE CAME TO LONDON ON THE COACH -

IV. HOW KITTY FIRST SAW THE DOCTOR -
V. HOW KITTY WITNESSED A FLEET WEDDING - 100

VL HOW KITTY BEGAN TO ENJOY THE LIBERTIES

OF THE FLEET 134

VII. HOW KITTY LEARNED TO KNOW THE DOCTOR - 158
Vii HOW KITTY SPENT HER TIME - - - 168

IX. HOW THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE MADE TWO

WOMEN PRISONERS - - - - - 191

X. HOW THE DOCTOR WAS AT HOME TO HIS

FRIENDS 201

XL HOW THE DOCTOR DISMISSED HIS FRIENDS - 234
XII. HOW KITTY EXECUTED THE DOCTOR'S Revenge
- 246

XIII. HOW LORD CHUDLEIGH WOKE OUT OF SLEEP - 271

XIV. HOW MRS. DEBORAH WAS RELEASED - - 28G
XV. HOW MRS. ESTHER WAS DISCHARGED - - 299

CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET,

PART I.

WITHIN THE RULES.

CHAPTER I.

HOW KITTY LOST HER FATHER AND HER FRIENDS.

My life has been (above any merits of my
own) so blessed by Providence, that methinks
its history should be begun with the ringing
of bells, the singing of psalms, the sound of
cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all
kinds of music. For surely the contemplation
of a happy course should, even towards
its close, be accompanied by a heart full of
cheerful piety and gratitude. And though,
as often happens to us in the Lord's wisdom,

VOL. I. 1

ill fortune, disappointment, troubles of the
flesh, and pain of disease may perhaps afflict
me in these latter years of fleeting life, they
ought not to lessen the glad song of praise for
blessings formerly vouchsafed (and still dwelling
in my memory) of love, of joy, and of
happiness. Truly, the earth is a delightful
place ; a fair garden, which yields pleasant
fruit ; and, if it may be so said with becoming
reverence, there are yet, outside the gates of
Eden, places here and there which for beauty
and delight, to those who thither win their
way, are comparable with Paradise itself
In such a place it has been my happy lot to
dwell.

Yet, just as the newborn babe begins his
earthly course with a wail — ah, joyful cry
for ear of mother ! — so must this book begin
with tears and weeping.

The weeping is that of an crj^han over her
dead father ; the tears are those which fall
upon a coffin beside an open grave : they are
the tears of men and women come to pay
this reverence at the burial of a man who
was their best friend and their most faithful
servant.

All the morning the funeral knell has been
tolling ; the people listen, now, to the solemn
words of a service which seems spoken by the
dead man himself to those who mourn. They
admonish and warn, but they bid them be of
good cheer, lift up hearts, and trust in the
Lord.

When we are in great grief and sorrow,
outward things seem to affect us more than
in ordinary times, when the heart is in repose
and the mind, perhaps, slower of apprehension.
The day, for instance, was late in
May ; the blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch
were sinmns^ in the wood beside the church :
a lark was carolling in the sky ; a cuckoo
was calling from a coppice ; the hedges were
green, and the trees were bright with their
first fresh foliage ; the white may-blossom,
the yellow laburnum, and the haycock were at
their best, and the wild roses were just
beginning.

To the country girl who had never yet left
her native village, this joy of the spring was
so natural that it did not jar upon the grief
of her soul. When the funeral was over,
and the grave filled in and the people all dispersed,

she stood for a few moments alone,
and then walked away across the long grass
of the churchyard, stepping lightly over the
graves of the villagers, opened the little
wicket-orate which led to the vicarage Gfai^den,
passed in, and sought a sheltered place
where, beneath the shade of bushes, she sat
upon a bench and folded her hands, looked
before her, and fell a- thinking.

She was between sixteen and seventeen,
but tall of her age, and looked older ; she
wore a new black frock; she had thrown her
straw hat with black ribbons upon the bench
beside her. As for her face, I suppose it
was pretty. Alas ! I am a hypocrite, because
I how that it was pretty. As yet,
she did not know it, and had never thought
about her face. Her eyes were brown (she
has ever been thankful to have had brown
eyes) ; her features were regular, and her
face rather long ; her hair was abundant and
soft : it was like the hair of most English
maidens, of a dark brown, or chestnut (it is
now white) ; her arms were shapely, and her
fingers thin and delicate (they were the
fingers of a Pleydell) ; as for her complexion,

it was as good as can be expected in a girl
whose blood is pure, who has, as yet, known
no late hours, who has been tauoiit to use
plenty of cold water and no washes or messes,
who has run about without tliinkino- of
freckles, and has lived in the open air on
homely food. In other words, as fine a show
of red and white was in the cheeks of that
child as ever Sir Joshua Reynolds tried to
copy upon canvas.

She was thinking many things. First, of
her f^^,ther and his death ; of the funeral, and
the grief shown by people whom she had
thought to be hard of heart, insensible to his
admonitions and untouched by his prayers.
Yet they stood about the grave and wept,
rude women and rough men. Would they
ever again find a minister so benevolent, so
pious, and so active in all good works ? She
thought of the house, and how dark and
lonely it was, deserted by its former owner.
She thought of what she should do, in the
time before her, and how she would be received
in her new home. One things comforted
her : she looked older than she was, and
was tall and strong. She could be helpful.

Then she drew out of her pocket a letter
written for her only three days before her
father died. She knew it quite by heart, but
yet she read it again slowly, as if there might
still be something in it which had escaped
her.

My beloved Daughter ' (thus it ran),

Knowing that I am about to die and
to appear before my Father and merciful
Judge, it is right that I should bestir myself
to make thee comprehend the situation in
which thou wilt be placed. Of worldly
wealth I have, indeed, but little to give
thee. Face thy lot with hope, resignation,
and a cheerful heart. The righteous man,
said one who knew, hath never been found to
beo: his bread. Indeed, the whole course of
this world is so ordered (by Divine wisdom),
that he who choose the narrow path,
cliooseth also the safest. Therefore, be of
good cheer.

'Imprimis. When I am buried, search
the bedstead, and, in the head thereof, will
be found a baof containing the sum of one
hundred guineas in gold pieces. I have

saved this money during my twenty years of
incumbency. I trust that it will not be laid
to my charge that I did not give this also to
the poor ; but I thought of my daughter
first. Secondly, Farmer Goodpenny is indebted
to me in the sum of twenty-two
pounds, four shillings, and eighteen, for
which I have his note. I charge thee that
he be not asked to pay interest, and since it
may be that he hath not the money, let it
wait his good time. He is an honest man,
who fears God. Thirdly, there is money,
some twelve pounds or more, lying in my
desk for present use. Fourthly, there are
several small sums due to me, money put out
and lent (but not at usury), such as five
shillings from the widow Oxon, and other
amounts the which I will have thee forgive
and remit entirely ; for these my debtors are
poor people. The horse is old, but he will
fetch five pounds, and the cow will sell for
two. As for the books, they may be sent to
Maidstone, where they may be sold. But I
doubt they will not bring more than ten
guineas, or thereabouts, seeing that the call
for works of divinity is small, even among

my brethren of the cloth. And ^yhen you
go to London, forget not to ask of Mr.
Hangman, publisher, of St. Paul's Churchyard,
an account of my ^^ Sermons," published
by hmi last year ; my essay on '' Philo-judges,"
issued four years ago ; and my
Reflections on the Christian State," which
he hath by him in manuscript. He will perhaps
be able to return a larger sum of money
than I was led by him at first to expect.

^ My will and plain injunctions are as
follows :

'When everything has been paid that is
owing, and there are none who can hereafter
say that he had a claim upon me which was
unsatisfied, get together thy wearing apparel
and effects, and under some proper protection,
as soon as such can be found, go to
London, and there seek out thy uncle and
mother's brother, the Reverend Gregory
Shovel, Doctor of Divinity, of whom I have
spoken to thee of old. I take shame to
myself that I have not sent him, for many
years, letters of brotherly friendship. Nor
do I rightly remember" where he is to be
found. But I know that he lives, because

once a year there comes to me a keg or anger
of rum, which I know must be from him, and
which I have drunk with my parishioners ina
spirit of gratitude. Perhaps it would have
been more consistent in a brother clergyman
to have sent one of the latest books of our
scholars. But he means well, and the rum
is, I confess, of the best, and a generous
drink, in moderation. He Alas once Curate
and Lecturer of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields ;
but I would have thee go first to the Coffee
House in St. Paul's Churchyard, where they
know all the London clergy, and ask for his
present lodging. This found, go to him, tell
him that I am dead, give him thy money,
entrust thyself to him, and be guided by him
as thou hast been by me.

And now, my daughter, if a father's
prayers avail thee, be assured that I die like
Jacob the patriarch, blessing thee and commanding
thee. For my blessing, I pray that
the Lord may have thee in His keeping, and
give thee what is good for the eternal life.
For my commandment — Be good : for herein
is summed up the whole of the Commandments,


And remember, my child, the Christian
who Ives in fear of death is fooHsh : even ashe
is foolish who will not lay hold of the
promise, and so lives in terror of the Judgment.
For now I know — yea, I how — that
the Lord loveth best that man who all the
days of his life walks in faith and dies in
hope.

Your loving father,

^ Lawrence Pleydell.'

Had ever a girl so sweet a message from
the dead, to keep and ponder over, to comfort
and console her '\ She knew every word of
it already, but the tears came afresh to her
eyes in thinking of the dear hand which
wrote those words — quiet now, its labours
done, in the cold grave. Her father's last
Will and Testament gave her more than
riches — it gave her strength and consolation.
The example of his life, which was so
Christian and so good, might be forgotten,
because the girl was too young to understand
it, and too ignorant to compare ; but this
letter of true faith and religion would never
be forgotten.

The Reverence Lawrence Pleydell, Master
of Arts and sometime Fellow of the ancient
and learned College or House of Christ,
Cambridge, was (which is a thing too rare in
these days) a country clergyman who was also
a scholar, a divine, a man of pious thought,
and a gentleman by descent, though only of
a younger branch. It is too often found that
if a country clergyman be a gentleman, he
continues the habits of his class, such as
fox-hunting, card-playing, and 
concerning which, although the Bishops
seem not yet of one mind upon the matter, I
for my humble part, remembering what kind
of man was my good father, venture to think
are pursuits unworthy of one who holds a
cure of souls. And when a clergyman is a
scholar, he is too often devoted entirely to
the consideration of his Greek and Latin
authors, whereby his power over the hearts
of the people is in a measure lost. Or, if
he is a divine, he is too often (out of the
fulness of his mind) constrained to preach
the subtleties and hidden things of theology,
which cannot be understood of the common
people, so that it is as if he were speaking in

an unknown tongue. And sometimes the
parson of the parish is but a rude and coarse
person, of vulgar birth, who will smoke
tobacco with the farmers — yea, even with the
labourers — drink with them, and not be
ashamed to be seen in beer-houses, taprooms,
or even at such unseemly diversions
as bull-baiting, badger-drawing, and cockfighting.
It were to be wished that the
Church were purged of all such.

The parish contained, besides farmers, but
one family of gentlefolk, that of Sir Robert
Levett, Knight, who With his wife and two
children lived at the Hall, and had an estate
worth two thousand a year at least. When
the vicar's Avise died (she was somewhat his
inferior in point of family, but had a brother
in the Church), and his child was left without
a mother, nothing would do for Lady
Levett than that the little maid should betaken
into the Hall and brought up, having
governesses and teaching, with her own
daughter, Nancy, who was of about the same
age, but a little younger. So the two girls
were playfellows and scholars together, being
taught those things which it befits a lady to

learn, although one of them would be a poor
lady indeed. There was one son, Will, who
was at first at Eton with his cousin (and Sir
Bobert's ward), Harry Temple, the young
Squire of Wotton Hampstead. It was a
fearful joy when they came home for the
holidays. For, although they kept the house
in activity and bustle, making disorder and
noise where there was generally quiet and
order, yet after the manner of boys, who
rejoice to show and feel their strength, they
would play rough tricks upon the two girls,
upset and destroy their little sports, and
make them understand what feeble things
are young maidens compared with boss.

Now just as the two girls were different —
for one grew up tall and disposed to be
serious, which was Kitty Pleydell, and the
other was small and saucy, always with a
laugh and a kiss, which was Nancy Levett —
so the boys became different : for one, which
was Will Levett, a rosy-cheeked lad, with a
low forehead and a square chin, grew to dislike
learning of all kinds, and was never
happy except when he was in the stables
with the horses, or training the dogs, or fox-hunting,

or shooting, or fishing, or in someway
compassing the death of wild creatures,
sports to which his father was only moderately
addicted ; but the other, Harry
Temple, was more studiously disposed,
always came home with some fresh mark
of his master's approbation, and read every
book he could find.

There came a change in their behaviour to
the girls as they grew older. Will ceased to
set a dost to bark at them, and to crack a
whip to frighten them, or ride unbroken
colts in order to make them cry out for fear;
and Harry ceased to tease and torment them
with little tricks and devices of mischief
at which they were half pleased and half
humiliated.

When the boys left school they were sent
to Pembroke College, Cambridge, a colles
in which many generations of Levetts had
been educated. After two terms, Will came
home, looking cheerful though somewhat
abashed. He had been rusticated sine die, as
the phrase runs: which means that he was not
to go back again until he had made such ample
submission and apology, with promises of

future amendment, as \you1cI satisfy the
authorities as to the safety of allowing him
back.

It was not known rightly what he had done :
there was a story in which a retriever, a horse,
a punch-bowl, a badger, a barges, a pump, and
a water-trough were curiously mixed uj), and
his rustication had somehow to do with the
introduction of a proctor (whom one understands
to be a learned and reverend magistrate)
and a bull-door, into this inconsistent and discordant
company.

Sir Robert looked grave when he received
his son, my lady wept, and the girls were
ashamed ; but all speedily recovered their
good spirits, and the whole stable rejoiced
exceedingly to see Will back among them.
Even the foxes and their cubs. Sir Robert
said, Which had of late waxed fat and lazy,
manifested a lively pleasure, and hastened to
get thin so as to afford the greatest sort
possible ; the trout practised all fcheir tricks
in readiness for one who respected a fish of
subtlety; the pheasants and young partridges
made haste to stow" strong on the wino- : the
snipe and small birds remembered why Nature

had taught them to use a devious and uncertain
fliof-ht : the rabbits left ofi running
straight ; the otters remembered the uncertainty
of life and the gior}^ of a gallant
fight : the ferrets laughed, thinking of the
merry days they were going to have ; the
hares, who never take any solid interest in
being hunted, ran away to the neighbouring
estates ; and the badgers, who were going to
be drawn in their holes, turned sulky.

This was what Sir Robert told the girls,
who laughed, but believed that it was all
true. As for Cambridge there was no more
thought of that. Will had had enough of
lectures, chapels, and dons ; henceforth, he
said, he should please himself

Man,' said Sir Robert, ' who is ever disappointed,
must continually be resigned.
What if Will hath refused to get learning ?
He will not, therefore, gamble away the
estate, nor disgrace the name of Levett.
Holdfast is a good dog. It is the fortune of
this house that if, once in a while, its head
prove a fool as regards books, he still sticks
to his own.'

Will promised to stick fast to his own, and

though he gave himself up henceforth altogether
to those pursuits which make a man
coarse and deaden his sensibility (whereby he
loses the best part of his life), he promised,
in his father's opinion, to prove a capable
manager and just landlord, jealous of his own
rights, and careful of those of others.

Will thus remaining at home, the girls saw
him every day, and though they had little
talk with him, because it could not be expected
that they should care to hear how
the dogs behaved, and how many rats had
been killed that morning, yet he Alas, in his
rough way, thoughtful of them, and would
bring them such trifles as pretty eggs, stuffed
kingfishers, dressed moleskins, and so forth,
which he got in his walks abroad. In the
evening he would make his artificial flies,
twist his lines, mend his landing-nets, polish
his guns ; being always full of business, and
kindly taking no notice while Nancy or Kitty
read aloud, nor seeming to care what they
read, whether it was the poetry of Pope or
some dear delightful romance ; or the ' Spectator,'
or the plays of Shakespeare. All was
one to him.

VOL. I. 2

He seemed in those days a good-natured
young man who went his own way and
troubled himself not one whit about other
people. Women were inferior creatures, of
course : they could not shoot, hunt, fish, ride
to hounds; they had no strength ; they did
not like to see things killed ; they did not
love sport ; they did not drink wine ; they
did not take beer for breakfast ; they did not
smoke tobacco ; they loved tea, chocolate,
coffee, and such vanities ; they loved to dress
fine and stand up making bows to men, which
they called dancing ; they loved to read a lot
of nonsense in rhymes, or to cry over the
sorrows of people who never lived. Women,
however, had their uses : they kept things in
order, looked after the dinner, and took care
of the babies.

Will did not say all these things at once ;
but they were collected together and written
down by the girls, who kept a book between
them, where they entered all the things they
heard which struck their fancy. Nancy even
went so far as to try to make up a story
about the proctor and the pump, but never
dared show it, except to her father, who

pinched her ear and laughed. They called
the page about the ways of women ' Will's
Wisdom and continually added to it without
his knowledge ; because Will, like all men
who love the sports of the field and not the
wisdom of the printed page, became quickly
angry if he were laughed at. The girls always
pictured Esau, for instance, as a grave man,
with a square chin, who talked a good deal
about his own hunting, took no interest in
the occupations of the women, and could never
see a joke.

Two years or so after Will's rustication,
Harry came of age and left Cambridge without
taking a degree. There were bonfires,
and oxen roasted whole, and barrels of beer
upon the green when he took possession of
his own estate and went to live in his own
house, which was three miles and a half from
the Hall.

He came from Cambridge having no small
reputation for learning and wit, being apt at
the making of verses in English, Latin, and
Italian. He was, moreover, skilled in mathematical
science, and especially in astronomy ;
he had read history, and understood the course

of politics. I think that from the beginning
he aspired to be considered one of those who
by birth and attainments are looked upon as
the leaders of the world ; he would be a
scholar as well as a gentleman ; he would bea
poet, perhaps to be ranked with Pope or
Dryden ; he would be a man of fashion ; and
he would sit in ladies salons, while other men
sat over bottles of port, and talked gallantry.
As for his appearance, he was tall and slight
in figure ; his face was long and rather thin ;
his eyes were grave; his manner was reserved;
to the girls he was always courteous, asking
their opinion, setting them right when they
were wrong, lending them books, and directing
them what to read. To Kitty he was a
man to be respected, but never, she may truly
say, did she allow her thoughts to dwell on
the possibility of love : perhaps because love
is between opposites, so that the grave may
love the gay; perhaps because she knew very
early that Lady Levett earnestly desired one
thing — that Harry might fall in love with
Nancy; and perhaps because to Nancy herself,
little, merry Nancy, whose heart was full of
sunshine as her eyes were full of sunlight,

and her lips never moved but to say and sing
something saucy, or to laugh and smile — to
Nancy, I say, this man was as an Apollo,
and she wondered that all women, not to
speak of men (whose stupidity in the matter
of reverence for each other is well known)
cid not fall down before him and do him
open worship.

A few months after Harry Temple came
of age, the vicar was taken ill with a putrid
fever, caught while administering the last
rights of the Church to a dying woman, and
was carried off in a fortnight. This disaster
not only robbed 2^oor Kitty of the best of
fathers, but also of the kindest patron and the
most loving friend ; for it took her away from
the Hall, and drove her out, as will be presently
seen, to meet dangers she had never
imagined among a people whose wickedness
after many years, and even to this day,
makes her wonder at the lono^sufFerinix of the
Lord.

Hoar KITTY MADE ENGAGEMENTS.

The day after the funeral, Sir Robert Levett
himself walked to the Vicarage in the afternoon,
and found the girl still in the garden,
on her favourite seat. As soon as she looked
into his kind face she burst into fresh tears.

Cry on, pretty,' he said, sitting beside her,
and with a tear in his own eye. ' Cry on ; to
cry is natural. Thou hast lost the best and
most Christian father that ever girl had; therefore
cry on till thou art tired. Let the tears
fall. Don't mind me. Out handkerchief. So
good a scholar shall we never see again. Cry
on, if thou hast only just begun, should it bring
thee comfort. Nor ever shall we hear so good
a preacher. When thou hast finished let me
have my say. But do not hurry.

Even at the very saddest, when tears
flow as unceasingly as the fountains in
the Land of Canaan, the sight of an elderly
Gentleman sittings on a bench beneath a mule
his hat beside him, his wig in his
hands for coolness, his stick between his legs,
and his face composed to a decent patience,
waiting till one had finished, would be
enough to make any girl stop crying.
Kitty felt immediately inclined to laugh ;
dried her eyes, restrained her sobs, and
pulled out her father's will, which she gave
to Sir Robert to read.

He read it through twice, slowly, and then
he hummed and coughed before he spoke :

A good man, Kitty child. See that thou
forget not his admonitions. I would he were
here still to admonish us all. Sinners that
we were, to heed his voice no better. And
now he is ozone — he is gone. Yet he was
a younger man than I, by ten years and more,
and I remain.' Here he put on his wig and
rose. ' As for this money, child, let us lose
no time in making that safe, lest some thief
should rob thee of it. A hundred guineas 1
And twenty more with Farmer Goodpenny I

And tills inoiic}^ waitiucf at the publisher's !^^
Airily thou art an Iumih^ss, untrod !' '

Tn the bedroom, at. Ilu^ lu\'ul of llu* i;Tea.t
IumI. [\w\ hound IxMicaili (lie mat [r(>ss a. long;" |
narrow box secretly Girl inW) (he pnni'l close
lo the iL;'i'eat cross-beam. 1 say seer(>(ly, bnt ,
it was a secret known \o all t1n^ world. K\\x-
]painters always made those s(H*rct hiding;
]places in beds, so that had th(M'e been a
roblxM- In the house ht^ would June bej^-nn
by searchiiiL;- in that ])l;u'(\ Sii* Ivohia't kiu>w j
where to lind tlu^ spring, aid ([niddv opened I
the bm.

Within il lay two canvas bags, tied net.
\Mdd hairs so little hold so i^Teat a snm ^
Sn" Robert tossed them tito his pockets as \

carelessly as if they WiM'c bail's ol' cherries. ,

snow, little maid,' said he, sitting" on (he
bed, * that month is safe; and ln' siiri^ (hat I ^

shall call on hearer (M)odpenny to-morrow. j

Let WW know \\hat is tt be dt^ne about thv I
lather's wish (hat then shouldst i^'o U^ \
1 jcMidon \

*WluMi, siuno luoiillis \\\W\\ Kitty-vviMit li ths [miIi-
lislior, tl)al. L;-(>ntloin;ni inl\>rintMl her that llicro was no
honey to ivcoivo, because ho had born a loser by tho publication
of the books.

It is his iDJ unction, sir,' said Kitty, gravely.
I must obey his with'

^ Yet thy father, 'child, did not know London.
And to send a young girl like thyself,
with a bag of guineas about thy neck, to ask
in a coffee-house for the address of a clergyman
is, methinks, a wild-goose sort of business.
As for Dr. Shovel, 1 have heard the name —

to be sure, it cannot be the same man '

he stopped, as if he would not tell me what
it was he had heard.

It is my father's command,' she repeated.

Unless nothing better should be found.
Now, London is a dangerous place, full of
pitfalls and traps, especially for the young
and innocent. We are loth to leave thee,
Kitty; we are afraid to let thee oho. Nothing
do for Lady Levett but that thou remain
behind with us and Nancy.'

This was a generous offer, indeed. Kitty's
eyes filled with tears again, and while she
stood trying to find words of gratitude, and
to decline the offer so as not to appear
churlish, madam herself came running up
the stairs, in her garden-hat and plain pinner,
and fell to kissing and crying over the sfirl.

Then she had to be told of the will and last
commands.

^ To be sure,' she said, ' thy father's commands
must be respected and obeyed. Yet
I know not whether it would not be well to
disobey them. Kitty, my dear, stay with us
and be my daughter, all the same as Nancy.
I do not ask thee to enter my service, or to
receive wages, or to do work for me any other
than a daughter may.'

Kitty shook her head again. She was truly-grateful
: there was no one so kind as her
ladyship ; but she must go to London as her
father bade her.

Why,' cried Sir Robert, 'the child is right.
Let her go. But if she is unhappy with her
friends, or if she is in any trouble, let her
know where to look for help.'

There may be cousins,' said madam, ' who-will
find thee too pretty for their own faces,
and would keep thee at home with the towel
and dusters and napkins. I Avould not have
our Kitty a Cinderella — though house-service
is no disgrace to a gentlewoman. Or there
may be manners and customs of the house
that a young girl should disapprove. Of

there maybe harsh looks instead of kind words.
If that is the case, Kitty, come back to us,
who love thee Avell, and will receive thee with
kisses and joy.'

Then they left her in the empty house,
alone with Deborah, the house servant.

She was looking over her father's books,
and taking out one or two which she thought
she might keep in memory of him (as if anything
were needed) when she heard steps,
and Deborah's voice inviting some one to
enter.

It was Harry Temple ; he stood in the
doorway, his hat in his hand, and under his
arm a book.

I was meditating in the fields,' he said,
what I should say to Kitty Pleydell, in
consolation for her affliction. The learned
Boethius '

Oh, Harry T she cried, ^ do not talk tome
of books. What can they say to comfort
anyone ?'

He smiled. Harry's smile showed how
much he pitied people not so learned as
himself

The greatest men,' he said, ' have been

comforted by books. Cicero, for instance . .
Nay, Kitty, I will not quote Cicero. I came
to say that I am sorry indeed to learn that we
shall lose thee for a time.'

Alas !' she said, ^ I must go. It is my
father's order.'

I am sure,' he replied, ' that you would
not leave us for a lighter reason. You know
our hearts, Kitty, and how we all love you.'

I know ' Kitty began to cry again.

Everybody was so full of love and pity. ' T
know, Harry. And perhaps I shall never
n — n — never see you again.'

And does that make this parting harder ?'
He turned very red, and laid his precious
book of consolation on the table.

Why, of course it does,' she replied, wiping
her eyes.

^ You shall see usagain,'he went on earnestly.
You shall come back with me. Kitty, I Avill
give you one twelvemonth of absence. You
know I love you tenderly. But your father's
commands must be obeyed. Therefore for a
whole year I shall not seek you out. Then,
when I come for you, will you return with
me, never to go away again '?'



'Oh!' she cried, clasping her hands, ^ how
joyfully Avill I return !'

The young man took her hand and raised
it to his lips.

Divine maid !' he cried. ' Fit to grace a
coronet, or to make the home of a simple
gentleman an Arcadia of pastoral pleasure !'

Do not mock me, Harry she said, snatching
away her hand, ' with idle compliments.
But forget not to come and carry me away.'

Alas !' he said ; ' how shall I exist — how
bear this separation for twelve long months ?
Oh ! divine Kitty ! Thou wilt remain an
ever-present idea in my heart.'

Harry,' she burst out laughing in her
tears, ' think of the learned Boethius !'

So he left her.

In half an hour another visitor appeared.

This time it was Will. He was in his
usual careless disorder ; his scarlet coat a
good deal stained, his waistcoat unbuttoned,
his wig awry, his boots dusty, his neckerchief
torn, his hands and cheeks browned by the
sun. He carried a horse whip, and was followed
by half-a-dozen dogs, who came
crowding into the room after him.

So,' he said, sittings down and leaning his
chin upon his whip stock, thou must go, then V

What do you want with me, Will V she
asked, angry that he should show so little
sympathy.

Why,' he replied, rubbing his chin with
the whip stock, ^ not much, Kitty. Nancy
will come to cry.'

Then you can go away, Will'

I came to say, Kitty, that though you do
be going to go ' (Will easily dropped into
country talk), ' 1 hanna forget thee. There !'

Thank you, Will.'

As for the matter of that, I love thee —
ah ! like I love old Over here.'

Thank you again. Will.'

^ And so I've brought along a sixpence —
here it is — and we'll break it together.'
Here he bent and broke the coin with his
strong fingers. ' My half goes into my
pocket — so ; and the other half in thine —
there.' He threw it on the table. ' Well,
that's done.' He stood up, looked at me sorrowfully,
and heaved a great sigh. 'I doubt
I've a-done wrong. Hadst been going to
stay, a' w^oulden a spoke yet awhile. Liberty

is sweet — girls are skittish. Well, we'll take
a twelvemonth yet. There's no hurry.
Plenty time before us. I shall have my
liberty for that while. Mayhap I will fetch
thee in the spring. Ay, May's the best
month to leave the hoofs and the birds, thouo"li
the vermin will beofin to swain — rot 'em !
Come, Rover. Good-bye, wench.'

He gave her a resounding kiss on the
cheek, and turned away.

The girl laughed. She did not pick up
the broken sixpence, which, indeed, she hardly
noticed, her mind being full of many things.

Presently Nancy came, and the two girls
spent a miserable evening together, in great
love and friendship.

Now, how could an ignorant country girl,
who had never thought over these things at
all, guess that she had engaged herself to be
married, in one day, in one hour even, to two
different men ? Yet that was exactly what
this foolish Kitty had actually done.

HOW WE CAME TO LONDON ON THE COACH.

With the purpose, therefore, of carrying out
my father's injunctions, I remained for a few
days at the Vicarage alone, having one servant
to take care of me. But, had it not been for
an accident, I might have remained at the
village all my life. ' For,' said Lady Levett,
it is but right, child, that the instructions of
your father should be carried out ; I should
like to know, however, who is to take charge
of thee to London, and how we are to get
thee there ? A young maid cannot be sent
to London on a pack-horse, like a bundle of
goods. As for Sir Robert, he goes no more
to town, since he has ceased to be a member.
I care not for the court, for my own part, and
am now too old for the gaieties of London.

Nancy will enjoy them, I doubt not, quite soon
enough ; and as for the boys, I see not very
well how they can undertake so great a
charge. I doubt, Kitty,, that thou must
come to the Hall, after all. You can be
useful, child, and we will make you happy.
There is the still-room, where, heaven knows,
wdiat with the cowslip-wine, the strong waters,
the conserving, pickling, drying, candying,
and the clove gillifiowers for palliating, there
is work enough for you and Nancy, as well
as my still-room maid and myself And just
now. Sir Robert calling every day for a
summer sallet (which wants a light hand), to
cool his blood !'

I would very willingly have gone to the
Hall ; I asked nothing better, and could
think of nothing more happy for myself, if it
could so be ordered. My father's wishes
must certainly be obeyed ; but if no one at
the Hall could take charge of me, it seemed,
at first, as if there could be no going to
London at all, for our farmers and villagers
were no great travellers. None of them
knew much of this vast round world beyond
their own fields, unless it where the nearest
VOL. T. 3

market town, or perhaps Maidstone, or even
Canterbury. Now and again one of the
rustics would go for a soldier (being crossed
in love) ; but he never came home again to
tell of his campaigns. Or one would go fora
gentleman's servant (being too lazy to work
like his father) ; then he would return filled
with all the wickedness of London, and stay
corrupting the minds of the simple folk, till
Sir Robert bade him pack and be off, for a
pestilent fellow. Or one would go away to
the nearest market-town to be apprenticed to
a handicraft (being ambitious, as will happen
even to simple clods, and aspiring to a shop).
But if he succeeded, such an one would
seldom come back to the place which gave
him birth.

An accident happened which served my
purpose. There was a certain farmer on Sir
Robert's estate, whose sister had married
a London tradesman of respectability and
reputed honesty, named Samuel Gambit (he
was a builder's foreman, who afterwards became
a master builder, and made great sums
of money by taking city contracts. His son,
after him, rose to be an alderman in the city

of London). Whether the young woman
was in ill health, or whether she was prompted
by affection, I know not, but she left her
husband for a space and journeyed into the
country to see her friends and people. Now
when I heard, by accident, that she was
about to return, my heart fell, because I
saw that my time was come, and that a
proper person to take charge of me during
the journey was found in Mrs. Gambit.

Madam sent for her. She was a strong,
well-built woman, of about six or seven and
twenty, resolute in her bearing, and sturdy of
speech. She was not afraid, she said, of any
dangers of the road, holding (but that was
through ignorance) highwaymen in contempt ;
but she could not be answerable, she said,
and this seemed reasonable, for the safety of
the coach, which might upset and break our
necks. As for the rest, she would be proud
to take the young lady with her to London,
and madam might, if she Ravished, consider
the extra trouble worth something ; but that
she left to her ladyship.

I know,' said Lady Levett, ' that it is a
great charge for you to conduct a young 



tlewoman to town in these bad and dangerous
times, when not only the high roads are
thronged with robbers, and the streets with
footpads, but also the very inns swarm with
villains, and gentlemen are not ashamed to
insult young persons of respectability in
stage-coaches and public places. But Kitty
is a good girl, not giddy, and obedient. I
will admonish her that she obey you in everything
upon the road, and that she keep eyes,
ears, and mouth closed all the way.'

The good woman undertook to have her
eye upon me the whole journey. Then Lady
Levett made her promise that she would take
me straight to St. Paul's Coffee House, St.
Paul's Churchyard, there to inquire after my
uncle's residence, and never leave me until
she had seen me deposited safely in Dr.
Shovel's hands.

Now was I in a flutter and agitation of
spirits indeed, as was natural, considering
that I was going to leave my native place for
the first time in my life and to seek out new
relations.

Nancy !' I cried, ' what will be my lot ?
What will become of me V

Nancy said that she would tell my fortune
if I would only leave off walking about and
wringing my hands and be comfortable.

Then she sat down beside me in her pretty,
affectionate way, and threw her arms round
my waist, and laid her head upon my
shoulder.

'■ You are so tall and so pretty, Kitty, that
all the men will lose their hearts. But you
must listen to none of them until the right
man comes. Oh ! I know what he is like.
He will be a great nobleman, young and
handsome, and oh, so rich ! he will kneel at
your feet as humble as a lover ought to be,
and implore you to accept his title and his
hand. And when you are a great lady,
riding in your own coach, as happy as the day
is long, you will forget — oh no, my dear !
sure I am you will never forget sour loving
Nancy.'

Then we kissed and cried over each other
in our foolish girls' way, promising not only
kind remembrance, but even letters sometimes.
And we exchanged tokens of friendship.
I gave her a ring, which had been my
mother s, made of solid silver with a turquoise

and two pearls, very rich and good, and she
gave me a silver-gilt locket with chased back,
and within it a little curl of her hair, brown
and soft.

Lady Levett gave me nothing but her
admonition. I was going, she said, to a
house where I should meet with strangers
who would perhaps, after the manner of
strangers, be quicker at seeing a fault than a
grace, and this particularly at the outset and
very beginning, when people are apt to be
suspicious and to notice carefully. Therefore
was to be circumspect in my behaviour, and,
above all, be careful in my speech, giving soft
words in return for hard, and answering railing,
if there was any railing, with silence.
But perhaps, she said, there would be no
railing, but only kindness and love, in the
which case I was all the more to preserve
sweet speech and sweet thoughts, so as not to
trouble love. Then she was good enough to
say that I had ever been a good maid and
dutiful, and she doubted not that so I would
continue in my new world, wherefore she
kissed me tenderly, and prayed, with tears
in her eyes — for my lady, though quick and

sharp, was wondrous kind of heart — that the
Lord would have me in His keeping.

I say nothing about Sir Robert, because
he was always fond of me, and would almost
as soon have parted from his Nancy.

Now it was a week and more since I had,
without knowing it, received those overtures
of love from Harry Temple and Will, which
I took in my innocence for mere overtures of
friendship and brotherly affection. They
thought, being conceited, like all young men,
that I had at once divined their meaning and
accepted their proposals ; no doubt they gave
themselves credit for condescension and me
for gratitude. Therefore, when, the evening
before I came away, Harry Temple begged
me, with many protestations of regret, not to
inform Sir Robert or madam of his intentions,
I knew not what to say. What intentions ?
why should I not ?

Reigning star of Beauty !' he cried, laying
his hand upon his heart, ' T entreat thy
patience for a twelvemonth. Alas ! such
separation ! who can bear it !

((

Fond Thyrsus sighs, through mead and vale,
His absent nymph lamenting " '

Oh, Harry !' I cried, ' what do I care
about Thyrsus and absent nymphs \ You
have promised to bring me back in a year.
Very well, then, I shall expect you. Of
course you can tell Sir Robert whatever you
please. It is nothing to me what you tell
Sir Robert or my lady.'

She is cold as Diana,' said Harry, with a
prodigious sigh ; but I broke from him, and
would hear no more of such nonsense. Sighing
shepherds and cruel nymphs were forever
on Harry Temple's lips.

As for Will, of course he wanted to have
an explanation too. He followed Any,
and, in his rustic way, begged to say a word
or two.

^ Pray go on, Will,' I said.

T promised a twelvemonth,' he explained.
I'll not go back upon my word. I did say
a twelvemonth.'

A twelvemonth ? Oh yes. You said
the same as Harry, I remember.'

^ I don't know what Harry said, but I'll
swear, whatever Harry said, I said just the
clean contrary. Now then, liberty's sweet, my
girl. Come, let us say fifteen months. Lord !

when a man is twenty-one he don't want to
be tied by the heels all at once. Let's both
have our run first. You are but a filly yet —
ay — a six-months' puppy, so to say.'

^ You said a twelvemonth, Will,' I replied,
little thinking of what he meant. How,
indeed, could I know ? ^ I shall expect you
in a twelvemonth.'

Very good, then. A twelvemonth it
must be, I suppose. Shan't tell my father
yet, Kitty. Don't you tell un neither,
there's a e^ood girl. Gad ! there will be a
pretty storm with my lady when she hears it !
HoThol'

Then he went off chuckling" and shaking
How could a courtly gentlemanlike
Sir Robert and a gentlewoman like her
ladyship have a son who was so great a clown
in his manner and his talk ? But the sons
do not always take after their parents. A
stable and a kennel, when they take the place
of a nursery and a school, are apt to breed
such bumpkins even out of gentle blood.

In the morning at five I was to start in
the cart Which would take us across the
country to the stage-coach.

Nancy got up with me, and we had a fine
farewell kissing. The boys were up too ;
Harry out of compliment to me, dressed in a
nightcap and a flowered morning-gown ;
and Will out of compliment to his kennel,
for whose sake he always rose at daybreak.
He was dressed in his old scarlet coat, he
carried a whip in one hand, and half-a-dozen
dogs followed at his heels.

'Kemember, sweet Kitty,' whispered
Harry, with a ceremonious bow, ^ it is but fora
twelvemonth.'

Only a year,' said Will. ' Heart up, my
pretty 1'

They heard what each had said, and they
were looking at each other puzzled when I
drove away.

What did you mean. Will ?' asked Harry,
when the cart was out of sight, ^ by saying
only a twelvemonth ?

I meant what I meant he replied doggedly.
' Perhaps you know, and perhaps
you don't.'

^ Of course I know said Harry. ^ The
question is, how do you know "?'

Well replied Will, ' that is a pretty odd



question, to be sure. How could I help
knowing X

I think said Harry, red in the face,
that some one has been injudicious in telling
anyone.'

Will laughed.

She ought not to have told, that's a fact.
But we will keep it secret, Harry ; don't tell
her ladyship.'

So that each thought that the other knew
of his engagement with Kitty.

Little heed gave I to them and their
promises. It was pleasant, perhaps, though
I soon forgot to think about it at all, to remember
that Harry and Will after a
twelvemonth Avould come to carry me home
again, and that I should never leave the old
place again. But just then I was too sad to
remember this. I was going away, heaven
knew where, amongst strangers, to people
who knew me not ; and I mounted the cart
in which we were to begin our journey crying
as sadly as if it had been the dreadful cart
which goes to Tyburn Tree. The best thing
to cure a crying fit is a good jolting. It is
impossible to weep comfortably when you are

shaken and rolled about in a country cart
among the deep, hard ruts of last winter.
So I presently put np my handkerchief, dried
my eyes, and thought of nothing but of clinging
to Mrs. Gambit when the wheels sank
deeper than usual. The way lay along the
lanes which I knew so well, arched over with
trees and lofty hedges, then in their beautiful
spring dressing. It led past the churchyard,
where the sun was striking full upon my
father's new-made save. I tried to think of
him, but the cart jolted so terribly that I was
fain to remember only how I carried his last
admonitions in my bosom, and the money in
two bags sewn to my petticoats.

Presently the lane led on to the high-road,
which was not quite so rough, and here we
came to the roadside inn where the stagecoach
changed horses. We waited an hour
or so, until at length we saw it coming slowly
up the hill, piled with packages and crowded
with passengers. But there was room for
two more, and we mounted to our places outside.
Presently the machine moved slowly
along again. It was so heavily-laden and the
roads were so rough, that we rolled as if every

moment we were going to roll over into the
ditch, where we should all be killed. Mrs.
Gambit loudly declared that nothing should
ever again take her out of London, where a
body could ride in a coach without the fear of
being upset and the breaking of necks. On
this journey, however, no necks were broken,
because the coach did not upset. When the
rolling was very bad, Mrs. Gambit clutched
me with one hand and her left-hand neioii-
hour with the other. I, in my turn, seized
her with one hand and my right-hand neighbour
with the other. Then we both shrieked,
until presently, finding that we did not
actually go over, I began to laugh.

My neighbour was a clergyman of grave
and studious aspect. He wore a full wig,
which had certainly been a second-hand one
when it was bought, so shabby was it now ;
his gown was also shabby, and his stockings
were of grey worsted. Clearly a country
clergyman of humble means. His face, however,
looked young. When I caught him by
the arm, he laid hold of my hand with both
of his, saying, gravely, ' Now, madam, I hold
you so tightly that you cannot fall.' This

was very kind of him. And, presently, he
wanted to lay his arm round my waist for my
better protection. But this was taking more
trouble than I would consent to.

There was, however, a worse danger than
that of upsetting. This year, England suffered
from a plague of highway robbers, the like of
which was never before known. The roads
were crowded with them. They were mostly
disbanded soldiers, who, being either disinclined
to return to their old trades, or being
unable to find employment, roamed about the
country either singly or in pairs, or in bands,
rogues and vagabonds, ready to rob, steal,
plunder, or even murder as occasion offered.
They were sometimes so bold that they would
attack a whole coachful of passengers, and
take from them whatever they carried, unless,
as sometimes happened, there were one or
two valiant men on the coach ready to give
them a warm reception with guns, pistols,
swords, or even stout cudgels. They were
said seldom to show much fight (being conscious
of the gallows awaiting them if
they were wounded or captured), and would
generally make off. But it was not always

that passengers were found ready to risk the
fight, and in most cases they sat still and delivered.


With this danger before us, it was not
surprising that the conversation should turn
upon highwaymen whenever the road became
a little smooth, and I listened with terror to
the tales I heard. Most of them Avere related
by a man who sat opposite to me. He wore
a scratch wig (probably his second-best), and
had his hat flapped and tied about his ears as
if it where winter. He was, I suppose, a
merchant of some kind, because he talked a
great deal about prices, and stocks, and
markets, with other things, Greek and
Hebrew to me. Also, he looked so uneasy,
and kept watching the road with so anxious
an air, that I felt sure he must be carrying a
great parcel of money, like me, and I longed
to advise him to imitate my prudence ; and at
the next town we got down to sew it within
his coat. He continually lamented, as we
went along, the desperate wickedness of the
highway-robbers : he spoke of it as if he were
entirely disinterested, and regarded not at all
the peril to his own fortune, but only the

danger of their own souls, liable to be
wretchedly lost and thrown away by their
dreadful courses. And he talked so feelingly
on this subject that one began to feel as if
good words were being spoken to the edification
of the soul. As for their suppression,
he said that, in their own interests, strong
measures would be necessary. Trade would
never flourish, and therefore men would not
be induced to follow a respectable trade until
ships could sail the seas without fear of
pirates, and honest merchants carry their
property up and down the king's highway
without fear of highwaymen. Here we came
in sight of a man on horseback, and we all
kept silence for an anxious space, till we discovered,
by his greet wig and black coat,
that it was nothing but a country surgeon
riding out to see a patient. Then the merchant
went on to say that since the gallows
did not terrify these evil-doers, he, for one,
eras for trying how they would like the
French wheel.

At this there was a terrible outcry : the
clergyman, especially, asking if he wished to
introduce French barbarities.

Such things,' he said solemnly, ' are the
natural accompaniment of Popery. Pray, sir,
remember Smithfield.'

^ Sir,' said the merchant, ^ I hope I am as
good a Protestant as my neighbours. I call
that, however, not barbarity but justice and
mercy which punishes the guilty and deters the
weak. As for barbarities, are we Protestants
better than our neighbours'? Is it not barbarous
to floor* our soldiers and sailors for insubordination
; to floor our rogues at the cart-tail ;
to lash the backs of women in Bridewell ; to
cut and scourge the pickpockets so long as
the alderman chooses to hold up the hammer ?
Do we not hack the limbs of our traitors, and
stick them up on Temple Bar ? Truly, the
world would come to a pretty pass if we were
to ask our cut-throats what punishment would
hurt them least.'

I like not the breaking of legs on wheels
cried Mrs. Gambit. ' But to call the flogging
of Bridewell hussies barbarous ! Fie, sir \
You might as well call bullbaiting barbarous.*

No one wanted to encourage highway
robbers, yet none but this merchant from
foreign parts would allow that an Englishman,

VOL. I. 4

however wicked, should cruelly have his

limbs broken and crushed by a rod of iron.
As for the gentlemen of the road,' said

Mrs. Gambit, ' I, for one, fear them not.

They may take the butter and eggs in my

basket, but they won't find my money, for

that is in my shoe.'

Nor mine,' said I, taking courage and

thinking to show my cleverness ; * for it is all

sewn safe inside my petticoats.'

Hush, silly women !' cried the merchant.
*You know not but there is a highwayman
sitting in disguise on the coach beside you.
I beg pardon, sir,' he turned to the clergyman
beside me — ' no offence, sir — though I
have heard of a thief who robbed a coach
after travelling in it dressed as a gentleman
of your cloth.'

None, sir, none,' replied his reverence.
Yet am I not a highwayman, I do assure
you for your comfort. Nor have I any money
in my pocket or my shoe. I am but a simple
clergyman, going to look at a benefice which
hath been graciously bestowed upon me.'

That, sir,' said the merchant, ' is satisfactory,
and I hope that no other ears have heard

what these ladies have disclosed. Shoes ?
petticoats ? Oh, the things that I have seen
and heard !'

The clergyman then told us that he had a
wife and six daughters and that the preferment
(two hundred pounds a year !) would
make a man of him, Who had as yet been little
better than a slave with sixty pounds for all
his income. The Christian year, he told us,
was a long Lent for him, save that sometimes,
as at Christmas and Easter-tide, he was able
to taste meat given to him. Yet he looked
fat and hearty.

My drink,' he said, ' is from the spring,
which costs nothing ; and my bread is but
oatmeal-porridge, potatoes, or barley-meal.'

Then he pressed my hand in his, said I resembled
his wife in her younger days, and declared
that he already felt to me like a father.

There sat next to the merchant a young
gentleman of about seventeen or eighteen,
brave in scarlet, for he had just received
a commission as ensign in a regiment of
the line, and was on his way to join his
colours, as he told us with pride. Directly
highway robbers were mentioned he 



sumecl, being a young man with rosy and
blushing cheek, fitter for a game of cricket on
the green than for war's alarms, a fierce and
warlike mien, and assured us that we ladies
should not want protection while he was on
the coach. And he made a great show of
loosening his sword in the scabbard to ensure
its quick and ready use, should the occasion
rise. The merchant received these professions
of courage with undisguised contempt ;
the clergyman smiled ; Mrs. Gambit nodded
her head and laughed, as if he was a boy
whose talk meant nothing. I neither laughed
at him nor scowled at him. In fact I was
thinking, girl-like, what a handsome boy he
was, and hoping that he would some day
become a great general. As the country
seems at the present juncture sadly in want
of great generals, I fear he has been killed inaction.


When we stopped for dinner, at one
o'clock — I remember that I never before saw
so prodigious a piece of roast beef upon
the table — our host must needs spoil all
enjoyment of the meal by asking us, just as
we were sat down, sharp-set by the air, if we

had met or seen anything of a certain ' Black
Will who seemed to be very well known by
all. The very name caused our poor merchant
to push back his plate untasted, and the
young officer to rise from the table and hasten
to assure himself that his sword was loose in
the scabbard.

^ Because said the landlord, ' it is right for
you to know that Black Will is reported in
this neighbourhood with all his crew : a
bloody lot, gentlemen. I hope you have no
valuables to speak of upon you. However,
perhaps they will not meet you on the road.
They murdered a man last year, a young
gentleman like you, sir nodding to the
ensign, 'because he offered resistance and
drew his sword. What is a little toothpick
like that, compared with a quarter-staff in the
hands of a sturdy rogue ? So they beat his
brains out for him. Then they gagged and
used most unmercifully, kicking him till he
was senseless, an honest gentleman like yourself,
sir' — he nodded to our merchant — ' who
gave them the trouble of taking off his boots,
where, for greater safety, as the poor wretch
thought, he had bestowed his money '

God bless my soul !' cried the merchant,
changing colour so that I for one felt quite
certain that his was there too, and that his
courage was down in his boots as well, to
keep the money company. ^ Bless my soul !
hanging, mere hanging, is too good for such
villains.'

It is indeed,' replied the landlord, shaking
his head. * There was a young lady, too' — I
started, because he looked at me — ' who had
her money sewn in a bag inside her frock.' T
blushed red, knowing where mine was.
^ They made her take it off and dance a
minuet with one of them in her petticoats.
But indeed there is no end to their Wickedness.
Come, gentlemen, let me carve faster ;
spare not the beef ; don't let Black Will spoil
your appetites. Cut and come again. He
may be twenty miles away. A noble sirloin,
upon my word ! To be sure, he may be Avaiting
on the hill there in the wood.'

A glass of brandy, landlord,' cried the
merchant, who surely was a dreadful coward.
Tell me, would he be alone ?'

Not likely.' The landlord, I thought, took
a pleasure in making us uneasy. ' He would

have two or three with him. Perhaps six.
With pistols. Do take some more beef.
And blunderbuss. Ah ! a desperate wicked

change.'

In such cheerful discourse we took our
dinner, and then, with trepidation, mounted
to our places and drove away.

We got up the hill safely, and met no
Black Will. During: the next stage Ave all
kept an anxious look up and down the road.
The coach seemed to crawl, and the way was
rouo^h. The sight of a man on horseback
made our hearts beat ; if we saw two, we gave
ourselves up for lost. But I was pleased all
the time to mark the gallant and resolute
behaviour of the boy, who, with his hand
upon the hilt of his sword, sat pale but determined;
and when he caught my eye, smiled
with the courage of one who would defend us
to the death, as I am sure he would, like the
gallant young knight he was.

Towards the evening we caught sight of
the tower of Canterbury Cathedral, and soon
afterwards we rolled through the streets of
that ancient city, and got down at the Crown
Inn, where we were to rest for the night.

I pass over, as unworthy of record, my own
wonder at so great and beautiful a city. This
was the first town I had ever seen ; these the
first shops ; and this the first, and still the
grandest, to my mind, of great cathedral
churches. We walked through the great
church at sunset, where there was something
truly awful in the lofty arches mounting-heavenward,
and the gloom of the roof.
Outside there were Gothic ruins ; rooks were
calling to each other in the trees, and swifts
were flying about the tower.

At supper we had more talk about highway
robbers, but we were assured that there
was less danger now, because between Canterbury
and London the road is more frequented,
and therefore robbers, who are by nature a
timorous folk, hesitate to attack a coach.
Moreover, the landlord told us that we should
have with us two or three honest citizens of
Canterbury, substantial tradesmen, who
travelled to London together for mutual protection,
taking money with them, and pistols
with which to defend themselves.

One of them,' he added, ' is a lieutenant
in the train-band, and a draper in the city : a

more resolute fellow never handled a yard-measure.'


The gentlemen ordered a bowl of punch
after supper, and we retired. As we left the
room, the clergyman followed us. Outside
the door, Mrs. Gambit having already begun
to go upstairs, he said he would give me his
benediction, which he did, kissing me on the
cheeks and lips with much (and undeserved)
affection. He was good enough to say that
I greatly resembled his youngest sister, the
beautiful one, and he desired closer acquaintance.
Nor could I understand why Mrs.
Gambit spoke scornfully of this act of kindness,
which was entirely unexpected by me.
Kindness, quotha !' she cried. ' A pious
man indeed, to love to kiss a pretty maid
I like not such piety.'

In the morning the train-band lieutenant,
with his two friends, came swasfsrerino^ to the
inn. He carried his pistols openly, and made
more display of them, I thought, than was
necessary, considering his character for resolution
and desperate bravery. Then we
started, our little soldier still ready with his
sword.

The road was smoother ; it ran for the
most part along enclosures and gentlemen's
parks. It was broad and straight,
having been made, we were told by the
draper, in the time of the Romans ; and
as we drew nearer to London, the villages
became more frequent, and the road was
covered with carts, waggons, and carriages of
every kind, all moving towards London.
Was London bigger than Canterbury ? I
asked. They laughed at my innocence, and
began to tell me that you might take the
whole of Canterbury out of London and not
miss it much : also that he or she who had
not seen London had not seen the greatest
marvel and wonder of the world.

There are fine buildings,' said the merchant,
' in Paris, though the streets are foul ;
but in London there are buildings as fine,
with streets that are broader : and there is
the trade. Aha !' — he smacked his lips — •
Paris hath no trade. One has to see the
ships in the . Pool, and the Custom House,
and the wharves, before one can understand
how great and rich a city is London. And
one should also — but that, young lady, you

cannot ever do, live as long as you will,
being only a woman — feast at one of the
great City Companies to understand how
nobly they can use their wealth.'

We were still anxious about highwaymen,
but our fears were greatly lessened by the
presence of the brave draper of Canterbury.
The clergyman kept up a flow of anecdotes,
which showed strange acquaintance with the
wickedness of the Avorld, on highwaymen,
footpads, robbers of all kinds, deceivers of
strangers, and practises on innocence. The
merchant listened eagerly, and together they
bemoaned the credulity of the ignorant, and
the subtlety of the designing.

Our spirits grew higher as we neared the
end of our journey. Now, indeed, there was
but little fear. The coach travels from
Canterbury to London in a single day; we
should arrive before nightfall.

Ha ! ha 1' said the merchant, rubbing his
hands, ^ we who travel encounter many
dangers. In London one can go to bed
without fearing to be murdered in your
sleep, and walk abroad without looking to
be brained and murderous treated for the

sake of a purse and a watch. There maybe
pickpockets, shooters, and such petty
rogues : there may be footpads about St.
Pancreas or Lincoln's Inn Fields, but small
villains ail compared with these desperate
rogues of highwaymen.'

Desperate indeed said the clergyman.
•* Dear sir, we should be grateful for our preservation.'


It was already past seven when we arrived
at the Talbot Inn. The merchant fetched a
deep sigh, and thanked Providence aloud for
keeping us safe from the danger of ^ Stand and
deliver !' The clergyman said, ' Amen,' but
gently reproved the merchant for not allowing
him, as an ordained minister, to take the
lead in every devotional exercise. When
they got clown they entered the house together.
The young ensign pulled off his hat
to me, and said that no doubt the rogues had
got wind of an officer's presence on the stage.
Then he tapped his sword-hilt significantly,
and got down, and I saw him no more. The
gallant draper, getting down slowly, lamented
that he must still be carrying loaded pistols,
Vvdtli never an opportunity for using them

upon the I'oad, and unlocked his weapons
with as much ostentatious care as he had
shown in loading them. For my own part, I
had no taste for fighting, or for seeing fights,
and was only too glad to escape the hands of
men who, if tales were true, did not even
respect a girl's frocks. The clergyman bestowed
a final benediction upon me, saying
that he craved my name with a view to a
closer friendship ; and would have kissed me
again had not Mrs. Gambit pushed him
away with great roughness.

The thing I am now about to relate will
doubtless seem incredible. Yet it is true. I
learned it some time after, when Black Will
was hanged, and his last Dying Speech and
Confession was cried in the streets.

The merchant and the clergyman entered
the Talbot Inn to drink together a bowl of
punch at the former's expense. Before separating,
the latter, out of respect for his cloth,
called for a private room, whither the punch
was presently brought.

Now, when they had taken a glass or two
each, both being very merry, they were disturbed
by the entrance of three tall and ill-favoured

fellows, who walked into the room
and sat down, one on each side of the merchant.


Gentlemen !' he cried, ' this is a private
room, ordered by his reverence here and
myself for the peaceful drinking of a thanksgiving
glass.'

No replied the clergyman, rising and
locking the door ; ^ I find, dear sir, that this
room had been already bespoke by these
gentlemen, Who are friends of mine own, and
that we have very urgent business which
particularly concerns yourself

At these words the merchant turned
pale, being, as you may imagine, horribly
frightened, and perceiving that he had fallen
into a nest of hornets. Whereupon he
sprang to his feet, and would have rushed to
the door, but that two of the villains seized
him and pushed him back into the chair,
while the third drew a knife and held it at
his throat, informing him that his weasand
would most certainly be cut across did he
but move a finger or utter a sigh. At this
dreadful threat the poor man gave himself
up for lost, and said no more, only the tears

of despair rolled down his face as he thought
of what was going to happen to him.

The good clergyman then, with smiles and
a polite bow, informed him that in this world
things are not always what they seemed to
be. ' Honest tradesmen,' he said, ' often turnout
to be common cheats, and substantial
citizens become bankrupts. Therefore, it is
not surprising if a reverend minister of the
Established Church should occasionally bear
a hand in a little scheme in which good acting
and dexterity are essentials necessary for success.
In fact,' he went on, drinking up all
the punch meanwhile, ' though to you and
to many good friends I am a pious divine,
among my particular intimates and these
gentlemen of the road ' — here he pointed to
the three villains — ^ I am no other than
Black Will, at your service ! Nay, do not
faint, dear sir. Although you would break
me on the wheel, had you the power, I
assure you I shall do you no harm in the
world. Wherefore, kick off your boots !'

Alas ! in his boots was the money which
the poor man was bringing home from
France. They took it all. They tied him to

his chair, and that to the table. They
gagged him ; they put his wig on the table,
tied a handkerchief over his head, so that he
should seem to be asleep ; and then they left
him, telling the waiter that the gentleman
in the blue room was tired after his journey,
and would like to be undisturbed for an hour
or two.

To think that this villain (who was but
twenty-four when he was hanged, a year or
so later) should dare to feel towards me like
a father, and to give me his blessing — on the
lips !

CHAPTER lY.

HOW KITTY FIRST SAW THE DOCTOR.

It was past seven in the evening when we
arrived at the Talbot Inn of Southwark, and
too late to begin our search after my uncle
that evening. Mrs. Gambit, therefore, after
conference with a young man of eight-and-twenty
or so, dressed in broadcloth, very
kindly offered me a bed at her own lodging
for the night. This, she told me, was in a
quiet and most respectable neighbourhood,
viz., Fore Street, which she begged me not to
confound with Houndsditch. I readily assured
her that I would preserve separate the
ideas of the two streets, which was easy to
one who knew neither.

She then informed me that the young man
Alas no other than her husband, foreman of

VOL. I. 5

works to a builder, and that, to save the expense
of a porter, he would himself carry my box.
Mr. Gambit upon this touched his hat respectfully,
grinned, shouldered the box, and
led the way, pushing through the crowd
around us, and elbowing them to right and left
without a word of excuse, as if they were so
many ninepins.

I learned afterwards that it is customary
with the mechanical tradesmen of London
thus to assert their right of passage, and as
it is not everyone who gives way, the porter's
burden is not unfrequently lowered while he
stops to fight one who disputes his path. In
evidence of these street fights, most of the
London carters, coachmen, chairmen, porters,
and labourers, bear continually upon their
faces the scars, recent or ancient, of many
such encounters. As for the gentlemen, it
seems right that they should not disdain to
strip and take a turn with their fists against
some burly ruffian who would thrust his unmannerly
body past his betters, confident in
his superior strength.

Mr. Gambit looked round from time to
time to see if we were following, and it gave

me pain to observe how my box, which was
long in shape, became the constant cause of
sad accidents ; for with it Mr. Gambit either
knocked off a hat, or deranged a wig, or
struck violently some peaceful person on the
back of his head, or gave an inoffensive
citizen a black eye, or caused profane passengers
to swear. He was, however, so big,
strong, and careless about these reproaches,
that no one cared to stop him or offered to
fight him until he was well on ahead.

It's a royal supper,' he turned and nodded
pleasantly, shouting these words to his wife ;
the box thus brought at rioiit angles to the
road, barred the way while he spoke, except
to the very short. ' Tripe — fried tripe I —
with onions and carrots and potatoes. Will
be done to a turn at eight. Make haste 1'

What crowds ! what rushing to and fro !
vv hat jostling, pushing, and crowding ! What
hurrying, and what wicked language ! Sure
something dreadful must have happened, nor
could I believe Mrs. Gambit when she assured
me that this was the usual crowd of
London.

Then we came to London Bridge : and I

o

5—2

saw the ships in the river and the Tower of
London. Oh, the forests of masts ! And,
beyond the river, the steeples of the great
city shining bright in the evening sunshine.
Which of them was my uncle's church ?

We crossed the bridge ; we walked up
Gracechurch Street to Cornwall ; we passed
through a labyrinth of narrow and winding
lanes, crowded like the wider streets. Mr.
Gambit hurried along, thinking, I suppose, of
his supper, and using my box as a kind of
battering-ram with which to force a way.
Presently we came to a broad street, which
was, in fact, Fore Street, where was Mrs.
Gambit's lodging.

Eight o'clock,' said Mr. Gambit, as we
reached the top of the stairs. * Now for
supper.'

There was such a noise in the street below
that we could hardly hear the church bells as
they struck the hour. Yet there were churches
all round us. But their bells clanging together
only added somewhat to the general tumult.

^ Eight o'clock, wife — good time !'

He dropped my box upon the floor, and
hastened down the stairs.

It was a comfortable lodging of two rooms,
in one of Avliicli a cloth was laid for supper,
which Mr. Gambit speedily brought from a
cook-shop, and we had a royal supper indeed,
with two courts at least of the nauseous
black beer of London, to which such men are
extravagantly addicted.

Supper ended, Mr. Gambit lit a pipe of
tobacco and began to smoke, begging me not
to mind him. His wife told him of the farm
and her brother, and I tried to listen through
the dreadful noise of the street below. It
was a warm evening, and our window was
thrown open ; people were passing up and
down, talking, singing, whistling, shouting,
and swearing. I could hear nothing else ;
but the good man seemed as if he was deaf
to the roar of the street, and listened to his
wife as quietly as if we were in the fields. I
asked him presently, with a shout, what was
the cause of the dreadful riot and tumult %
He laughed, and said that it was always the
same. It was a pity, I said, that London,
being so rich, could not keep the streets
quiet.

Ay, but,' said he, ' there are plenty of

poor people as well, and you must first ask
what they think about having their mouths
shut;

The strangeness of the place and the noise
in the streets kept me awake nearly all that
night, so that, when Mrs. Gambit called mein
the morning, I was still tired. But it was
time to be up and seeking for my uncle.

We got everything ready : my father's last
will and testament; my bags of money, which
Mrs. Gambit carried for me in her basket,
and tied the basket to her arm ; and my box
of clothes. Then, because Mrs. Gambit said
that a young lady should not v/alk with her
box carried by a porter, like a servant wench,
we hired a coach and told him to drive us to
St. Paul's Coffee House.

It is not far from Fore Street to St. Paul's
Churchyard, but the crowd in the streets, the
waggons and carts, and the dreadful practice
of London drivers to quarrel and then to
stop while they abuse each other, delayed usa
great deal, so that it was already half-past
nine when we came to the Coffee House.

We got down, leaving the coach at the door.

It was a place the like of which I had

never dreamed of. To be sure, everything
new to me just then, and my poor rustic
brain was turning with the novelty. There
was a long room which smelt of tobacco, rum-punch,
coffee, chocolate, and tea ; it was
already filled with gentlemen, sitting on the
benches before small tables, at which some
were taking pipes of tobacco, some were
talking, some were writing, and some were
reading the newspapers. Running along one
side of the room was a counter covered with
coffee-pots, bottles of Nantes, Jamaica rum,
Hollands, and Geneva ; there were also
chocolate-dishes, sugar, lemons, spices, and
punch-bowls. Behind the counter sat a
young woman, of grave aspect, knitting, but
holding herself in readiness to sersre the customers.


The gentlemen raised their heads and
stared at me ; some of them whispered and
laughed : all o^azed as if a Avoman had no
more business there than in the inner precincts
of the Temple. That was what occurred
to me instantly, because they were, I observed,
all of them clergymen.

They were not, certainly, clergymen who

appeared to have risen in the world, nor did
their appearance speak so much in their
favour as their calling. They were mostly,
in fact, clad in tattered gowns, with disordered
or shabby wigs, and bands whose
whiteness might have been restored by the
laundress, but had changed long since into a
crumpled yellow. I heard afterwards that
the house was the resort of those ' tattered
crape,* as they are irreverently called, who
come to be hired by the rectors, vicars, and
beneficed clergy of London, for an occasional
sermon, burial, or christening, and have no
regular cure of souls.

On such chance employment and odd jobs
these reverend ministers contrive to live.
They even vie with each other and underbid
their neighbours for such work ; and some,
who have not the means to spend a sixpence
at the Coffee House, will, it is said, walk up
and down the street, ready to catch a customer
outside. One fears that there must be other
reasons besides lack of interest for the ill
success of these men. Surely, a godly life
and zeal for religion should be, even in this
country of patronage, better rewarded than

by this old age of penury and dependence.
Surely, too, those tattered gowns speak a
tale of improvidence, and those red noses tell
of a mistaken calling.

This, however, I did not then know, and I
naturally thought there must be some great
ecclesiastical function in preparation, a confirming
on a large scale, about to be celebrated
in the great cathedral close beside, whose
vastness was such as amazed and confounded
me. These clergymen, whose poverty was
no doubt dignified by their virtues, were
probably preparing for the sacred function
after the manner practised by my father,
namely, by an hour's meditation. Perhaps
my uncle would be among them.

Seeing me standing there helpless, and I
dare say showing, by my face, what I immediately
manifested in speech, my rusticity,
the young woman behind the counter came
to my assistance, and asked me, very civilly,
what I lacked.

I was told,' I stammered, ' to inquire at
the St. Paul's Coffee House for the present
lodging of my uncle.' As if there was but
one uncle in all London !

Certainly, madam,' said the woman, ' if
you will tell me yom uncle's name.'

I was told that you knew, at this house,
the residence of every London clergyman.'

^ Yes, madam, that is true ; and of a good
many country clergymen. If you will let
me knovz his name, we will do what we canto
assist you.'

He is named ' (I said this with a little
pride, because I thought that perhaps, from
my own rusticity and the homeliness of my
companion, she might not have thought me
so highly connected), * he is the Reverend
Gregory Shovel, Doctor of Divinity.'

Lord save us !' she cried, starting back
and holding up her hands, while she dropped
her knitting-needle. Why did she stare,
smile, and then look upon me with a sort of
pity and Wonder ? ' Dr. Shovel is your
uncle, madam ?'

Yes,' I said. ' My father, who Alas also
a clergyman, and is but lately dead, bade me
come to London and seek him out.'

She shook her head at this news, and called
for one William. There came from the other
end of the room a short-legged man, with the

palest cheeks and the reddest nose I had
ever seen. They spoke together for a few
minutes. William grinned as she spoke, and
scratched his head, under the scantiest who' I
had ever seen.

Can you tell me ?' I began, when she
returned. I observed that William, when he
left her, ran quickly up the room, whispering
to the gentlemen, who had ceased to stare at
me, and that, as soon as he had whispered,
they all, with one consent, put down their
pipes, or their papers, or their coffee, stayed
their conversation, and turned their clerical
faces to gaze upon me, With a universal grin,
which seemed ill-bred, if one might so speak
of the clergy. ' Can you tell me ?'

I can, madam ; and will,' she replied.
What, did your father not know the present
residence of Dr. Shovel % I fear it will not
be cjuite such as a young lady of your breeding,
madam, had a right to expect. But
doubtless you have other and better friends.'

She has indeed,' said Mrs. Gambit, ' if
his honour Sir Robert Levett, Justice of the
Peace, is to be called a good friend. But, if
you please, tell us quickly, madam, because

our coach waits at the door, and waiting is
money in London. The country for me,
where a man will sit on a stile the whole day
long, and do nothing, content with his daily
wage. And the sooner we get away from
these reverend gentlemen, who stare as if
they had never seen a young lady from the
country before, the better.'

^ Then the young woman went on, ' tell
your man to drive you down Ludgate Hill
and up the Fleet Market on the prison side ;
he may stop at the next house to the third
Pen and Hand. You will find the doctor's
name written on a card in the window.'

We thanked her, and got into the coach.
When we told the coachman where to go, he
smacked his leos with his hand, and burst out
laughing.

I thought as much,' cried the impudent
rascal. ' Ah, Mother Slips ! wouldn't the
doctor serve your turn, but you must needs
look out for one in the Coffee House ? I
warrant the doctor is good enough for the
likes of you T

He cracked his whip, and we drove off
slowly.

Now, which was really extraordinary, all
the reverend gentlemen of the coffee-room
had left their places and were crowded round
the door, some of them almost pushing their
wigs into the coach windows in their eagerness
to look at us. This seemed most unseemly
conduct on the part of a collection of
divines ; nor did I imagine that curiosity so
undignified, and so unworthy a sacred profession,
could be called forth by the simple
appearance of a young girl in the coffee-room.

The faces formed a curious picture. Some
of the clergymen were stooping, some standing,
some mounting on chairs, the better to
see, so that the doorway of the Coffee House
seemed a pyramid of faces. They were old,
young, fat, thin, red, pale, of every appearance
and every age ; they were mostly disagreeable
to look at, because their possessors
were men who had been unsuccessful, either
through misfortune or through fault ; and
they all wore, as they stared, a look of delighted
curiosity, as if here was something,
indeed, to make Londoners talk — nothing
less, if you please, than a girl of seventeen,
just come up from the country.

Bless us !' cried Mrs. Gambit, ^ are the
men gone mad ? London is a wicked
place indeed, when even clergymen come
trooping out merely to see a pretty girl !
Fie for shame, sir, and be off with you !'

These last words were addressed to one old
clergyman with an immense wig, who was
actually thrusting his face through the coach
window. He drew it back, on this reprimand,
and we went on our way.

I looked round once more. The young
woman of the counter was still in the doorway,
and with her William, with the scrubby
wig and the red nose ; round them were the
clergymen, and they Avere all talking about
me, and looking after me. Some of them
Avaofofed their heads, some shook theirs, some
nodded, some were holding their heads on
one side, and some were hanging theirs.
Some were lauo:hin<j, some smiling, some
were grave. What did it mean ?

'If,' said Mrs. Gambit, ' they where not
clergymen, I should say they were all tom-fools.
And this for a pretty girl — for you
are pretty, Miss Kitty, with your rosy cheeks
and the bright eyes which were never yet

spoiled by the London smoke. Bat there
must be plenty other pretty girls in London.
And them to call themselves clergymen !'

Perhaps they were looking at you, Mrs.
Gambit.'

The idea did not seem to displease her.
She smiled, smoothed the folds of her gown,
and pulled down the ends of her neckerchief.

Five years ago, child, they might. But
I doubt it is too late. Set them up, indeed !
As if nothing would suit them to look at
but the wife of a respectable builder's foreman.
They must go into the country, must
the, after the pretty faces '?'

But oh, the noise and tumult of the
streets ! For as we came to the west front
of St. Paul's, we found Ludgate Hill crowded
with such a throng as I had never before
believed possible. The chairmen jostled each
other up and down the way. The carts,
coaches, drays, barrows, waggons, trucks,
going up the hill, met those going down, and
there was such a crush of carriages, as, it
seemed, would never be cleared. All the
drivers were swearing at each other at the
top of their voices.

Shut your ears, child !' cried Mrs. Gambit.
But, immediately afterwards : ' There ! it's
no use ; they could be heard through my
grandfather's nightcap ! Oh, this London
wickedness !'

There are many kinds of wickedness in
London ; but the worst, as I have always
thought, because I have seen and heard so
much of it, is the great and terrible vice of
blasphemy and profane swearing, so that, if
you listen to the ragamuffin boys or to the
porters, or to the chair and coachmen, it
would seem as if it Avere impossible for them
to utter three words without two, at least,
being part of an oath.

Then some of the drivers fought with each
other ; the people in the coaches looked out
of the Windows — swore, if they were men ; if
they were ladies, they shrieked. Most of
those who were walking up and down the
hill took no manner of notice of the confusion
; they pushed on their way, bearing
parcels and bundles, looking neither to the
right nor to the left, but straight in front, as
if they had not a moment to spare, and must
push on or lose their chance of fortune. Some

there were, it is true, who lingered, looking at
the crush in the road and the men fighting ;
or, if they were women, stopping before the
shops, in the windows of which were hoods,
cardinals, sashes, pinners, and shawls, would
make the mouth of any girl to water only to
look at them. At the doors stood shorten,
bravely habited in full-dressed wigs with
broad ribbon ties behind, who bowed and invited
the gazers to enter. And there were a
few who loitered as they went. These carried
their hats beneath their arms, and dangled
canes in their right hands.

There was plenty of time for us to notice all
that passed, because the block in the way took
fully half an hour to clear away. We were
delayed ten minutes of this time through the
obstinacy of a drayman, who, after exchanging
with a carter oaths Which clashed, and clanged,
and echoed in the air like the bomb shells at the
siege of Mans, declared that he could not possibly
go away satisfied until he had fought his
man. The mob willingly met his views, applauding
so delicate a sense of honour. They
made a ring, and we presently heard the shouts
of those who encouraged the combatants, but

VOL. I. 6

happily could not see them, by reason of the
press. Mrs. Gambit should fain have witnessed
the fight ; and, indeed, few country
people there are dio do not love to see two
sturdy fellows thwack and belabour each other
with quarter-staff, single-stick, or fists. But
I was glad that we could not see the battle,
being, I hope, better taught. My father, indeed,
and Lady Levett, were agreed that in
these things we English were little better than
the poor pagan Romans, who crowded to see
gladiators do battle to the death, or prisoners
fight till they fell, cruelly torn and mangled by
the lions ; and no better at all than the poor
Spanish papists who flock to a circus where
men fight with bulls. It is hard to think that
Homan gentlewomen and Spanish ladies would
go to see such sights, whatever men may do.
Yet in this eighteenth century, when we have
left behind us, as we flatter ourselves, the
Gothic barbarisms of our ancestors, we still run
after such cruelties and cruel sports as fights
with fists, sticks, or swords, baiting of bull,
bear, and badger, throwing stones at cocks,
killing of rats by dogs and ferrets, fights of
cocks, dogs, cats, and whatever other animals

can be persuaded to fight and kill each
other.

When the fight was over, and one man
defeated — I know not which, but both were
horribly bruised and stained with blood — the
carts cleared away rapidly, and we were able
to 0:0 on. Is it not strangle to think that the
honour of such a common fellow should be
satisfied ' when he hath gotten black eyes,
bloody nose, and teeth knocked down his
throat '?

We got to the bottom of the hill, and
passed without further adventure through
the old gate of Lud, with its narrow arch
and the stately effigy of Queen Elizabeth
looking across the Fleet Bridge. Pity it is that
the old gate has since been removed. For my
own part, I think the monuments of old times
should be carefully guarded and kept, not
taken away to suit the convenience of draymen
and coaches. What would Fleet Street
be without its bar ? or the Thames without
its river-Q^ates '? Outside, there was a broad
space before us. The Fleet river ran, filthy
and muddy, to the left, the road crossing it
bv a broad and handsome stone bridge, where

6—2

the way was impeded by the stalls of those
who sold hot surety and medicines warranted
to cure every disease. On the right,
the Fleet had been recently covered in, and
was now built over with a long row of booths
and stalls. On either side the market were
rows of houses.

'■ Fleet Market,' said the driver, looking
round. ' Patience, young lady. Five minutes,
and we are there.'

There was another delay here of two or
three minutes. The crowd was denser, and
I saw among them two or three men with
eager faces, who wore white aprons, and ran
about whispering in the ears of people, especially
of young people. I saw one couple, a
young man and a girl, whom they all, one
after the other, addressed, whispering, pointing,
and inviting. The girl blushed and
turned away her head, and the young man,
though he marched on stoutly", seemed not
ill pleased with their proposals. Presently
one of them came to our coach and put his
head in at the window. It was as impudent
and ugly a head as ever I saw. He squinted,
one eye rolling about by itself, as if having

quarrelled with the other ; he had had the
bridge of his nose crushed in some fight ;
some of his teeth stuck out like fanofs, but
most Avere broken ; his chin was bristly with
a three days' beard ; his voice was thick and
hoarse ; and when he began to speak, his
hearers began to think of rum.

Pity it is,' he said, ' that so pretty a pair
cannot find gallant husbands. Now, ladies,
if you will come with me I warrant that in
half an hour the doctor will bestow you upon
a couple of the young noblemen whom he
most always keeps in readiness.'

Here the driver roughly bade him begone
about his business for an ass, for the young
lady was on her way to the doctor's. At
this the fellow laughed and nodded his head.

'Aha!' he said, 'no doubt we shrill find the
gentleman waiting. Your ladyship will remember
that I spoke to you first. The fees of
us messengers are but half-a-crown, even at
the doctor's, where alone the work is secure.'

^ What means the fellow?' cried Mrs. Gambit.
' What have we to do with gentlemen V

All right, mother,' he replied, with
another lauofh. Then he mounted the doorstep,

and continued to talk while the coach
slowly made its way.

We were now driving along the city side
of the Fleet Market, that side on which
stands the prison. The market was crowded
with buyers and sellers, the smell of the
meat, the poultry, and the fruit, all together,
being: strong rather than delicate.

This said Mrs. Gambit, ' is not quite like
the smell of the honeysuckle in the Kentish
hedges.'

The houses on our right seemed to consist
of nothings but taverns, where sio-ns were
hoisted up before the doors. At the corner,
close to the ditch, was the Rainbow, and four
doors higher up was the Hand and Pen, next
to that the Bull and Garter, then another
Hand and Pen, then the Bishop Blaize, a third
Hand and Pen, the Fighting Cocks, and the
Naked Boy. One called the White Horse
had a verse written up under the sign :

I\Iy White Horse shall beat the Dear,

And make the Angel fly ;
Turn the Ship with its bottom u^^ ;
And drink the Three Cups dry.'

But what was more remarkable was that
of the repetition in every window of a singular

announcement. Two hands were painted, or
drawn rudely, clasping each, other, and below
them was written, printed, or scrawled, some
such remarkable legend as the following :

Weddings Performed Here.'

A Church of England Clergyman always on the Premises.

^ Weddings performed Cheap.'

The Only Safe House.'

The Old and True Register.'

Marriage by Church Service and Ordained Clergymen.'

Safety and Cheapness.'

The Licensed Clergyman of the Fleet.'

Weddings by a late Chaplain to a Nobleman — one

familiar with the Quality.'

No Imposition.'

'■ Not a Common Fleet Parson ;'

with other statements which puzzled me exceedingly.


You do well, ladies,' the man with us
went on, talking with his head thrust into
the coach, * you do well to come to Doctor
Shovel, whose humble servant, or clerk, I am.
The doctor is no ordinary Fleet parson. He
does not belong to the beggarly gentry —
not regular clergymen at all — who live in a
tavern, and do odd jobs as they come, for a
guinea a week and the run of the landlord's

rum. Not he, madam. The doctor is a
gentleman and a scholar : Master of Arts of
the University of Cambridge he was, whereby
reason of their great respect for his learning
and piety, they have made him Doctor
of Divinity. There is the Rev. Mr. Ark-well,
who will read the service for you for
half-a-crown ; he was fined ^nq shillings last
week for drunkenness and profane swearing.
Would it be agreeable to your ladyship to be
turned off by such an impious rogue ? There
is the Rev. Mr. Signore will do it for
less, if you promise to lay out your wedding
money afterwards on what he calls his Nantes :
he hath twice been fined for selHng spirituous
drinks without a license. Who would trust herself
to a man so regardless of his profession ?
Or the Rev. John Mottram — but there, your
ladyship would not like to have it read in a
prison. Now, at the doctor's is a snug room
with hassocks. There is, forsooth, the Rev.
Walter Wyatt, brother of him who keeps the
first Pen and Hand after you turn the corner ;
but sure, such a sweet young lady would scorn
to look for drink after the service ; or the Prov.
John Grierson, or Mr. Walker, or Mr. Alexander

Keith, will do it for what they can get,
ay ! even — it is reported — down to eighteen-pence
or a shilling, with a sixpenny worth of
Geneva. But your ladyship must think of your
lines ; and where is your security against
treachery ? No, ladies. The doctor is the only
man ; a gentleman enjoying the liberties of
the Fleet, for which he hath given security ; a
Cambridge scholar; who receives at his lodging
none but the quality : no less a fee than a
guinea, with half-a- crown for the clerk, ever
enters his house. The guinea, ladies, includes
the five-shilling stamp, with the blessing
of the Archbishop of Canterbury, which
binds the happy pair like an act of parliament
or a piece of cobbler's wax. This cheapness
is certainly due to the benevolence and piety
of the doctor, who would be loth indeed to
place obstacles in the way of so Christian and
religious a ceremony.'

We have certainly,' cried Mrs. Gambit, in
dismay at such a flow of words, 'got into
Tom Fool's Land. This man is worse than
the parsons at the Coffee House.'

Now, ladies,' the fellow went on, throwing
the door wide open with a fling, and letting

down alio stops, ' this is tho liouso. Look at
11, ladies !*

We got down nil stood looking at it.

It was a \o\\ liouso ol* loan apju^aranoo,
Iniilt in two stories ot' brick and tinibor, the
first timor (>vorhaiigin^' alio lower, as was the
fashion until the present ooiufortablc and
liaudsoino nuuK^ oi' using stucco and flat front
was adopted. The brie had been once
c'overetl with a cc^al of yellow wash, which
lead erunibled away over most ol' the front ;
the timber hail once boon painted, but the
l^iint lead fallen c'tV. The roof was gabled ;
like the rest oi the house, ii looked decaying
and neglected, "^^rhe w inflow ol' the xoowx
wliirli looked out tijion the street was broad,
but it was set with leaden iVames oi'the kind
called diamond, provided with the common
greenish glass ; every other pane being those
llhck bullscye panes, which would stand a blow-wit
h a club without being broken. I kittle
light woidd enter at that window but I'or \^\\<i
bright sun which shone l\ill upon it: the
casement, however, was set c^pen tc) catch
the air.

As tor the air, that was hardly worth

catching, so foul was it with the fumes of the
market. Ptii>-ht in front of the door stoodaoTeat
heap of cabbage leaves, stalks, and vegetable
refuse, which sometimes was collected, put in
barrows and carted into the Fleet Ditch, but
sometimes remained for months.

]airs. Gambia sniffed disdainfully.

Give me Fore Street,' she said. ' There's
noise, if you ]ike, but no cabbage-stalks.'

^ This, ladies,' said the man after a pause,
so that we might be overpowered with the
grandeur of the house ; ' this is no other than
the great Dr. Shovel's house. Here shall
you find a service as regular and as truly
read as if you were in the cathedral itself
Not so much as an amen dropped. They do
say that the doctor is a private friend of the
dean, and hand-in-glove vrith the bishop.
This way. Your ladyship's box \ I will
carry it. This is the good doctor's door.
The clerk's fee half-a- crown; your ladyship
will not forget, unless the young gentleman,
which is most likely, should like to make
it half-a-guinea. I follow your ladyships.
Doubt not that, early as it is, his reverence
will be found up and ready for good works.'

I believe said Mrs. Gambit, ' that this
man would talk the hind legs off a donkey.
Keep close to me, Miss Kitty. Here maybe
villainy ; and if there is, there's one at
least that shall feel the weight of my ten
nails. Young man,' she addressed the fellow
with sharpness, ' you let that box alone,
or if you carry it, go before; I trust
Londoners as far as I can see them, and no
farther.'

Pray, ladies,' cried the man, 'have no
suspicion.'

It's all right,' said the coachman, grinning.
Lord ! I've brought them here by dozens.
Go in, madam. Go in, young lady.'

This way, ladies,' cried the man. ' The
doctor will see you within.'

'A clergyman,' continued Mrs. Gambit,
taking no manner of notice of these interruptions,
* may not always, no more than a
builder's foreman, choose where he would live.
And if his parish is the Fleet Market, among
the cabbages, as I suppose the doctor's is, or
about the Fleet Prison, among the miserable
debtors, as I suppose it may be, why he
must fain live here with the cabbage-stalks

it;

Your ladyship,' the messenger went on,
addressing himself to me, ^ will shortly, no
doubt, be made happy. The gentleman,
however, hath not yet come. Pray step
within, ladies.'

You see, Miss Kitty,' said Mrs. Gambit,
pointing to the window, with a disdainful
look at this impertinent fellow, ' this is certainly
the house. So far, therefore, we are safe.'

In the window there hung a card, on which
was written in large characters, so that all
might read :

Reverend Gregory SHOVEL,

Doctor of Divinity.
Formerly of Cambridge University.

Now, without any reason, I immediately
connected this announcement with those
curious advertisements I had seen in the
tavern windows. And yet, what could my
uncle have to do with marrying ? And what

did the man mean by his long rigmarole and
nonsense about the Reverend This and the
Reverend That ?

However, Mrs. Gambit led the way, and I
followed.

The messenger pushed a door open, and we
found ourselves in a low room lit by the broad
window with the diamond panes of which I
have spoken. The air in the room was close,
and smelt of tobacco and rum : the floor was
sanded : the wainscoting of the walls was broken
in places ; walls, floors, and ceiling were all
alike unwashed and dirty : the only furniture
was a table, half-a-dozen cushions or hassocks,
and one great chair with arms and back of
carved wood. On the table was a arose
volume. It was the Prayer - book of the
Established Church of England and Ireland,
and it was lying open, I could plainly see, at
the Marriage Service.

At the head of the table, a reflection of
the sunlight from the window falling full
upon his face, sat a man of middle age, about
fifty-five years or so, who rose when we came
in, and bowed with great gravity. Could
this be my uncle ?

He was a very big and stout man — one of
the biggest men I have ever seen. He was
clad in a rich silk gown, flowing loosely and
freely about him, white bands, clean and
freshly starched, and a very full wig. He
had the reddest face possible : it was of a
deep crimson colour, tinged With purple, and
the colour extended even to the ears, and the
neck — so much of it as could be seen — was as
crimson as the cheeks. He had a full nose, long
and broad, a nose of great strength and very
deep in colour ; but his eyes, which were large,
reminded me of that verse in the Psalms,
wherein the divine poet speaks of those Avhose
eyes swell out With fatness ; his lips were gross
and protruded ; he had a large square forehead
and a great amplitude of cheek. He
was broad in the shoulders, deep-chested and
portly — a man of great presence ; Avhen he
stood upright he not only seemed almost to
touch the ceiling, but also to fill up the
breadth of the room. My heart sank as I
looked at him ; for he Alas not the manner
of man I expected, and I Alas afraid. Where
were the outward signs and tokens of that
piety Aldrich tiny father had led me to expect

in my uncle ? I had looked for a gentle
scholar, a grave and thoughtful bearing.
But, even to my inexperienced eyes, the
confident carriage of the doctor appeared
braggart : the roll of his eyes Avhen we
entered the room could not be taken even
by a simple country girl for the grave contemplation
of a humble and fervent Christian :
the smell of the room was inconsistent with
the thought of religious meditation : there
were no books or papers, or any other outward
signs of scholarship ; and even the presence
of the Prayer-book on the table, with the
hassocks, seemed a mockery of sacred things.

So, good Koger,' he said in a voice loud
and sonorous, yet musical as the great bell of
St. Paul's, so deep was it and full — So, good
Power, whom have we here '?'

A young lady, sir, whom I had the good
fortune to meet on Ludgate Hill. She was
on her way to your reverence's, to ask your
good offices. She is — ahem ! — fully acquainted
with the customary fees of the Establishment.'


That is well,' he replied. * My dear young
lady, I am fortunate in being the humble

instrument of making so sweet a creature
happy. But I do not see . in fact . . .
the other party.'

The young lady expects the gentleman
every minute said the excellent Roger.

Oh !' cried Mrs. Gambit, * the man is stark
mad — staring mad !'

Sir I faltered — ^ here is, I fear, some
mistake.'

He waved both of his hands with a gesture
reassuring and grand.

No mistake, madam, at all. I am that
Dr. Shovel before whom the smaller pretenders
in these Liberties give place and
hide diminished heads. If by any unlucky
accident your lover has fallen a prey to some
of those (self-styled) clerical gentry, who are
in fact impostors and sharpers, we will
speedily rescue him from their talons. Describe
the gentleman, madam, and my
messenger shall pro and seek him at the
Pen and Hand, or at some other notorious
place.'

The clerk, meanwhile, had placed himself
beside his master, and now produced a greasy
Prayer-book, with the aid of which I suppose

VOL. I. 7

he meant to give the responses of the Church.
At the mention of the word ' mistake ' a look
of doubt and anxiety crossed his face.

^ There is, indeed, some mistake, sir I
repeated. * My errand here is not of the
kind you think.'

Then, madam, your business with me
must be strange indeed. Sirrah !' he addressed
his clerk, in a voice of thunder,
hast thou been playing the fool % What
was it this young lady sought of you '?'

Oh, sir ! this good person is not to blame,
perhaps. Are you indeed the Rev. Gregory
Shovel, Doctor of Divinity ?'

No other, madam.' He spread out both
his arms, proudly lifting his gown, so that he
really seemed to cover the whole end of the
room. ^ No other : I assure you I am Dr.
Gregory Shovel, known and beloved by
many a happy pair.'

^ And the brother-in-law of the late Reverend
Lawrence Pleydell, late vicar of '

He interrupted me. ' Late vicar ? Is, then,
my brother-in-law dead ? or have they, which
is a thing incredible, conferred preferment
upon sheer piety ?'

Alas ! sir I cried, with tears, ' my father
is dead.'

Thy father, child !'

Yes, sir ; I am Kitty Pleydell, at your
service.'

Kitty Pleydell I' He bent over me across
the table, and looked into my face not unkindly.
^ My sister's child I then how '

He turned upon his clerk, who now stood with
staring eyes and open mouth, chap-fallen and
terrified. ' Fool !' he thundered. ' Get thee
packing, lest I do thee a mischief T

7—2

HOW KITTY WITNESSED A FLEET WEDDING.

Then I pulled out my father's letter, and
gave it to him to read.

He took it, read it carefully, nodding
gravely over each sentence, and then returned
it to me.

Lawrence, then,' he said softly, ^ Lawrence
is dead ! Lawrence Pleydell is dead ! And
I am living. Lawrence ! He hath, without
reasonable doubt, passed away in full assurance.
He hath exchanged this world for a
better. He hath gone to happiness. Nay, if
such as he die not in faith, what hope remains
for such sinners as ourselves ? Then
would it be better for those who dwell in the
Liberties of the Fleet if they had never been
born. So. My sister's child. Hold up thy

face, my dear He kissed me as he spoke,
and held his hand under my chin so that he
could look at me well. ' There is more
Pleydell than Shovel here. That is well,
because the Pley dells are of gentle blood.
And the daughter doth ever favour the
father more than the mother. Favour him
in thy life, child, as well as in thy features.

Lawrence is dead !' he went on. * The
gentlest soul, the most pious and religious
creature that the world has ever seen. He,
for one, could think upon his Maker without
the terror of a rebellious and prodigal son.
The world and the flesh had no temptations
for him. A good man, indeed. It is long
since I saw him, and he knew not where I
live, nor how. Yet he, who knew me when
I was vounof, trusted still in me — whom no
one else will trust. This it is to start in life
with goodly promise of virtue, scholarship,
and religion.'

He cleared his throat, and was silent
awhile.

Thy father did well, child. I will treat
thee as my own daughter. Yet I know not,
indeed, where to bestow thee, for this house

is not fit for girls, and I have none other.
Still, I would fain take thy father's place, sofar
as in me lies. He, good man, lived in the
country, where virtue, like fresh butter and
new-laid eggs, flourishes easily and at the
cost of a little husbandry in the ways of
prayer and meditation. As for us who live
in great cities, and especially in the Rules
or Liberties of the Fleet, we may say with
the Psalmist, having examples to the contrary
continually before us, with temptations
such as dwellers in the fields wot not of,
'* He that keeper the Law, happy is he !"
I have neither wife nor child to greet thee,
Kitty. I must bestow thee somewhere.
What shall we do ?'

He paused to think.

I might find a lodging but no, that

would not do. Or in but the house is

full of men. There is the clerk of St.
Sepulchre's, whose wife would take thee ;
but the rector bears me a heavy grudge.
Ho ! ho !' he laughed low down in his chest.
There is not a parish round London, from
Limehouse to Westminster, and from Southwark
to Highgate, where the niece of Dr.

Shovel would not find herself flouted, out of
the singular hatred which the clergy bear tome.
For I undersell them all. And if they
pass an Act to prevent my marrying,
then will I bury for nothings and undersell
them still. Well, I must take order in this
matter. And who are you, my good woman V
He asked this of Mrs. Gambit.

^ Jane Gambit, sir,' she replied, * at your
service, and the wife of Samuel Gambit,
foreman of works. And my charge is not
to leave Miss Kitty until she is safe in your
reverence's hands. There are the hands,

to be sure ; but as for safety ' She

paused, and sniffed violently, looking round
the room with a meaning air.

^ Why, woman, you would not think the
child in danger with me V

I know not, sir. But Miss Kitty has
been brought up among gentlefolk, and the
room is not one to which she has been accustomed
to live in, or to eat in, or to sleep in,
either at the Vicarage or the Hall. Tobacco
and the smell of rum may be very well — in
their place, which, I humbly submit, is in a
tavern, not a gentlewoman's parlour.'

^ The woman speaks reason,' lie grovvled^
laying his great hand upon the table. ' See,
my dear, my brother-in-law thought me
holding a rich benefice in the Church. Those
get rich benefices who have rich friends and
patrons. I had none ; therefore I hold no-benefice.
And as for my residence, why,
truly, I have little choice except between
this place and the Fleet Prison, or perhaps
the King's Bench. Else might I welcome
thee in a better and more convenient lodging.
Know, therefore, Kitty, without any concealment,
that I live here secluded in the
Liberties of the Fleet in order that my
creditors, of whom I have as many as most
men and more importunate, may no longer
molest me when I take my walks abroad ;
that I am in this place outside the authority
of the bishop ; and that my occupation is to
marry, with all safety and despatch, without
license, or asking of banns, or any of the
usual delays, those good people Who wish
to be married secretly and quickly, and can
afford at least one guinea fee for the ceremony.'


I stared in amazement. To be sure, every

clergyman can marry, but for a clergyman
to do naught else seemed strange
indeed.

He saw my amazement ; and, drawing his
tall and burly figure upright, he began to
deliver an oration — I call it an oration,
because he so puffed his cheeks, rolled his
sentences, and swelled himself out while he
spoke, that it was more like a sermon or
oration than a mere speech. In it he seemed
to be trying at once to justify himself in my
eyes, to assert his own self-respect, and to
magnify his office.

It is not likely, child,' he said, ' that thou
hast been told of these marriages in the
Fleet. Know, therefore, that in this asylum,
called the Rules of the Fleet, where debtors
find some semblance of freedom and creditors
cease to dun, there has grown up a custom of
late years by which marriages are here
rapidly performed (for the good of the
country), which the beneficed clergy would
not undertake without great expense, trouble,
delay, and the vexation of getting parents' and
guardians' consent, to say nothing of the prodigality
and wasteful expense of feasting which

follows what is called a regular marriage.
Therefore, finding myself some years ago
comfortably settled in the place, after contracting
a greater debt than is usually possible
for an beneficed clergyman, I undertook
this trade, which is lucrative, honourable,
and easy. There are indeed he added,
^ both in the Prison and the Rules, but more
especially the latter, many Fleet parsons ' —
here he rolled his great head with complacency
— ^ but none, my child, so great and
celebrated as myself Some, indeed, are
mere common cheats, whose marriages — call
them, rather, sacrilegious impostures — are
not worth the paper of their pretended certificates.
Some are perhaps what they profess
to be, regularly ordained clergymen of
the Church of England and Ireland as bylaw
established, the supreme head of which
is his gracious Majesty. But even these are
tipplers, and beggars, and paupers — men who
drink gin of an evening and small beer in
the morning, whose gowns are as ragged as
their reputations, and who take their fees in
shillings, with a dram thrown in, and herd
with the common offscourings of the town.

whom they marry. Illiterate, too : not a
Greek verse or a Latin hexameter amonof
them all. Go not into the company of such,
lest thou be corrupted by then' talk. In the
words of Kmo^ Lemuel : '^ Let them drink
and forget their poverty, and remember their
misery no more." ' Here he paused and adjusted
his gown, as if he were in a pulpit.
Indeed, for the moment, he imagined,
perhaps, that he was preaching. ' As forme,
Gregory Shovel, my marriages are what
they pretend to be, as tight as any of the
archbishop's own tying, conducted with due
decorum by a member of the University of
Cambridge, a man whose orders are beyond
dispute, whose history is known to all, an
approved and honoured scholar. Yes, my
niece, behold in me one who has borne off
University and College medals for Latin
verse. My Latin verses, wherein I have
been said to touch Horace, and even to excel
Ovid, whether in the tender elegiac, the
stately alcaic, the melting sapphic, or the
easy-flowing hendecasyllabic loved of Martial,
have conferred upon my head the bays
of fame. Other Fleet parsons'? Let them

hide their ignorant heads in their secondhand
perruques ! By the thunders of
Jupiter!' — his powerful voice rose and
rolled about the room like the thunder by
which he swore — ' By the thunders of
Jupiter, I am their Bishop ! Let them
acknowledge that I, and I alone, am The
Chaplain of the Fleet I'

During this speech he swelled himself out
so enormously and so flourished his long
gown, that he seemed to fill the whole room.
I shrank into a corner, and clasped Mrs.
Gambit's hand.

This kind of terror I have always felt
since, whenever, which is rare, I have heard
a man speak in such a full, rich, manliness of
voice. It was a voice with Which he might
have led thousands to follow him and do his
bidding. When 1 read of any great orator
at whose speeches the people went mad, so
that they did what he told them were it but
to rush along the road to certain death, I
think of the Reverend Dr. Shovel. I am
sure that Peter the Hermit, or St. Bernard,
must have had such a voice. While he spoke,
though the words were not noble, the air was

such, the voice was such, the eloquence was
such, that my senses were carried away, and
I felt that in the hands of such a man no
one was master of himself His demeanour
was so majestic, that even the shabby, dirty
room in which he spoke became for the time
a temple fit for the sacred rites conducted by
so great and good a man : the noise of carts,
the voices of men and women, were drowned
and stilled beneath the rolling music of his
voice. I was rapt and astonished and terrified.
Mrs. Gambit was so far impressed when
the doctor began this oration, that she instantly
assumed that attitude of mind and
body in which country people always listen
to a sermon : that is to say, she stood with
her chin up, her eyes fixed on the ceiling
(fie I how black it was !)^ her hands crossed,
and her thoughts wandering freely whithersoever
they listed. It is a practice which
sometimes produces good effects, save when
the preacher, which is seldom, hath in his
own mind a clear message to deliver from
the Revealed Word. For it prevents a congregation
from discerning the poverty of the
discourse; and in these latter days of Whitfield,

Wesley, and the sad schisms which
daily we witness, it checks the progress of
Dissent.

The doctor, after a short pause, swept back
his flowing goAvn with a significant gesture of
his left hand, and resumed the defence or
apology for his profession. It was remarkable
that he spoke as earnestly, and with as
much force, eloquence, and justness in this
address to two women — or to one and a half,
because Mrs. Gambit, thinking herself in
church, Alas only half a listeners if he had
been addressing a great congregation beneath
the vast dome of St. Paul's. The doctor, I
afterwards found, was always great ; no mean
or little ways were his : he lived, he spoke,
he moved, he thought like a bishop. Had
he been actually a bishop, I am sure that his
stateliness, dignity, and pomp would have
been worthy of that exalted position, and that
he would have graced the bench by the exhibition
of every Christian virtue, except
perhaps that of meekness. For the doctor
was never meek.

Let us,' said the doctor, ^ argue the question.
What is there contrary to the Rubric

in my calling ? The Church hath wisely
ordered that marriage is a state to be entered
upon only after sanctification by her ministers
or priests ; I am one of those ministers.
She hath provided and strictly enjoined a
rule of service ; I read that service. She hath
recommended the faithful to marry as if to
enter a holy and blessed condition of life ; I
encourage and exhort the people to come tome
with the design of obeying the Church
and entering upon that condition. She hath,
in deference to the laws of the land, required
a stamped certificate (at five shillings) ; I
find that certificate in obedience to the law.
Further, for the credit of the cloth, and
because people must not think the ministers
of the Church to be, like common hackney
coachmen, messengers, running lackeys, and
such varlet, at the beck and call of every
prentice boy and ragamuffin wench v/ith a
yard-measure and a dish clout for all their
fortune ; and because, further, it is well to
remind people of thrift, especially this common
people of London, who are grievously given
to waste, prodigality, gluttony, fine clothes,
drinking;, and all such extravaaaaii^S^fi^y,

fuiNOlS Library;
M URBANA-champaign

how except by thrift will they find money to
pay their lawful tithes to Mother Church ?wherefore
it is my custom — nay, my undeviating
rule — to charge a fee of one guinea at
least for every pair, with half-a-crown for the
services of the clerk. More may be given ;
more, I say, is generally given by those who
have money in pocket, and generous, grateful
hearts. What, indeed, is a present of ten
guineas in return for such services as mine %
Child, know that I am a public benefactor ;
behold in me one who promotes the happiness
of his species ; but for me maids would
languish, lovers groan, and cruel guardians
triumph. I ask not if there be any impediment
; I inquire not if there be some to forbid
the banns ; I do not concern myself with the
lover s rent-roll ; I care not what his profession
— T have even married a lady to her footman,
since she desired it, and a nobleman to
his cook, since that was his lordship's will. I
ask not for consent of parents ; the maiden
leaves my doors a wife : when she goes home,
no parents or guardians can undo the knot
that I have tied. Doctors, learned in theology,
casuistry, science, and philosophy, have

been called by divers names ; there have been
the Subtle Doctor, the Golden Doctor, the
Eloquent Doctor. For me there has been
reserved the title of the Benevolent Doctor ;
of me let it be said that he loved even beyond
his respect towards his diocesan, even beyond
obedience to his ecclesiastical superiors, even
beyond consideration to the parish clergy,
who by his means were deprived of their fees,
the happiness of his fellow men and women.'

His voice had dropped to the lower notes,
and his last words were spoken in deep but
gentle thunder. When he had finished, Mrs.
Gambit dropped her chin and returned to
practical business.

And pray, sir, what will Miss Kitty do V

Recalled to the facts of the case, the
doctor paused. His cheeks retracted, his
breadth and height became perceptibly
smaller.

What will she do ? That is, indeed, a
difficulty.'

If,' said Mrs. Gambit, ^ your honour is a
prisoner '

Woman !' he roared, ' I enjoy the Liberties
of the Fleet — the Liberties, do you hear ?

VOL. I. 8

Prate not to me of prisoners. Ts Dr. Shovel
a man, think ye, to clap in a prison X

Well, then, is Miss Kitty to live here V
She looked round in disgust. ' Why, what a
place is this for a young lady virtuously and
godly reared ? Your ceiling is black with
smoke ; the windows are black with dirt ;
the walls are streaked with dirt ; the floor is
as thick with mud as the road — faugh ! If
your honour is a bishop, as you say you are,
you can doubtless put the poor young lady,
who is used to sweet air and clean floors,
where she will get such — and that without
profane swearing.'

The last remark was caused by language
used at that moment outside the window by
a man wheeling: a barrow full of cabbages,
which upset. While picking up the vegetables,
he swore loudly, administering rebuke
in a couple of oaths at least, and in some
cases more, to every head of cabbage in turn.
An unreflecting wretch indeed, to break a
commandment upon a senseless vegetable I

Nay I said, ' my uncle will do what is
best for me.'

I will do for thee,' he said, ' what 1 can.

This place is not fit for a young girl. All
the morning it is wanted for my occupation.
In the evening I am visited by gentlemen
who seek me for certain merits, graces or
beauties of conversation in which I am said
(although I boast not) to be endowed with
gifts beyond those allotted to most men. No,
child, thou must not stay here.'

While we stood waiting for his decision, we
became aware of a most dreadful noise outside.
Men where shouting, women were
screaming ; of course bad language and
cursing formed a large part of what was
said. The air about the Fleet was always
heavy with oaths, so that at last the ear
grew accustomed to them, and we noticed
them no more than in the quiet fields one
notices the buzzing of the insects. But these
people, whoever they were, congregated outside
the door of the house ; and after more
oaths and loud talk, the door was opened and
they all tramped noisily into the room — a
party of men and women, twelve in all — and
drew up in some sort of order, every man
leading a woman by the hand. As for the
men, though I had never seen the sea, I knew

8—2

at once that monsters so uncouth and rouofh
could be none other than sailors. They were
all dressed alike, and wore blue jackets with
flannel shirts and coloured silk neckties ;
every man carried round his waist a rope, at
the end of which was a knife ; they wore
three-cornered hats without lace or any kind
of trimming ; they had no wigs, but wore
their own hair plastered with tallow, rolled
up tightly and tied behind ; and one bore a
great and grisly beard most terrible to behold.
Great boots covered their feet ; their hands
were smeared with tar ; their faces were
weather-beaten, being burnt by the sun and
blown by the breeze ; their e3^es were clear
and bright, but their cheeks were bruised as
if they had been fighting : they were all
laughing, and their countenances betokened
the greatest satisfaction with everything. As
for the women, they were young, and some of
them, I suppose, were handsome, but they
looked bold and rough. They were very
finely dressed, their frocks being of silk and
satin, with flowered shawls, and hats of a
grandeur I had never before seen ; immense
hoops and great patches. But the fight outside

had torn their finery, and more than one
nymph had a black eye. However, these
accidents had not diminished the general joy,
and they were laughing with the mem

Why — why !' roared the doctor, as he
called them to attention by banging the table
with his fist, so that the windows rattled, the
women shrieked, and the plaster fell from the
wall. ' What is this ? Who are ye ?'

The impudent fellow with the white apron
who had brought us to the place, here stepped
in, bringing with him another couple. He,
too, had been fighting, for his face was bleeding
and bruised. Fighting, I presently found,
was too common in Fleet Market to call for
any notice.

What is this, Koger V repeated the doctor.
'These tarpaulins are no cattle for my
handling. Let them go to the Pen and
Hand, or some other pigsty where they can
be irregularly and illegally married for
eighteen pence and a glass of rum.'

'Please your reverence,' said Roger,
handling his nose, which was swollen,
tenderly, 'they are honest gentlemen of
the sea, paid off at Wapping but yester

night, still ill their sea-going clothes by
reason of their having as yet no time to
buy long-shore rigging ; not common sailors,
but mates by rating in the ship's books, and
anxious to be married by none other than
sour reverence

Ay — ay ! honest Roger.' The doctor's
voice dropped and became soft and encouraging.
' Ay — ay ! this is as it should
be. Know they of the fee X

^ They wish me to offer your reverence
said the clerk, ' a guinea apiece, and five
guineas extra for your honour's trouble, if so
be so small a gift is worth your acceptance ;
with half-a-crown apiece for the clerk, and
a guinea for his nose, which I verily believe is
broken in the bridge. I have had great
trouble, your reverence, in conveying so
large a party safe. And indeed I thought,
at one time, the Rev. Mr. Shell would
have had them all. But the gallant gentlemen
knew what was best for them ; and so,
your honour, with a nose '

The doctor shook his head and interrupted
any further explanation.

That would indeed have been a misfortune

for these brave fellows. Come, Roger, collect
the fees, and to business with what speed we
may.'

Now then,' said Roger, roughly, * money
first, business afterwards. No fee, no marriage.
Pay up, my lads !'

The men lugged out handfuls of gold from
their pockets, and paid without hesitation
what they were told. But the women
grumbled, saying that for half-a-crown and
a dram they would have been married quite
as well, and so much more to spend. When
the doctor had put the fees in his pocket, he
advanced to the table and took up the
Prayer-book. What would my father have
said had he witnessed this sight '{

Then Power pulled out his greasy book,
and put himself in place ready to say the
responses. All being ready, the doctor again
banged the table with his fist so that they
all jumped, and the women screamed again,
and more plaster fell off the wall.

Now, all of you !' he roared, ' listen tome.
The first man who interrupts, the first
woman who laughs, the first who giggles,
the first who dares to misbehave or to bring

contempt on this religious ceremony, I will
with my own clerical hands pitch headfore-
most into the street. And lie shall remain
unmarried !*

Whether they were awed by his great
voice and terrible aspect, the men being
short of stature as all sailors seem to be, or
whether they feared to be pitched through
the window, or whether they trembled at the
prospect of remaining unmarried (perhaps for
life) if the doctor refused to perform the
ceremony, I know not. What is quite
certain is that they one and all, men and
women, became suddenly as mute as mice,
and perfectly obedient to the commands of
Koger the clerk, who told them where to
stand, when to kneel, what to say, and what
to do. A curtain ring acted as wedding-ring
for all.

The doctor would omit nothing from the
service, which he read from beginning to
end in his loud musical voice. When he had
married the whole six, he shut the Prayer-book,
produced six stamped certificates,
rapidly filled in the names and dates, which
he also entered in his ' Register,' a great book

with parchment cover. Koger acted as witness.
Then the brides were presented by •
the doctor with the certificates of their marriage.
The ceremony lasted altogether about
half-an-hour.

You are now, ladies and gentlemen he
said, smiling pleasantly, ' married fast and
firm, one to the other. I congratulate you.
Marriage in the case of sailors and sailors'
wives is a condition of peculiar happiness, as
you will all of you presently discover. The
husband, at the outset, is liable for the debts
of his wife' — here the men looked sheepishly
at each other — ' this no doubt will be brought
home to all of you. There are several brave
gentlemen of the sea now languishing in the
Fleet Prison through inability to pay off
these encumbrances. They will continue to
lie there for the whole term of their lives,
these unfortunate men. Husbands are also
liable for the debts incurred by thei* wives
while they are abroad ' — here one or two of
the men murmured something about London
Port and giving it a wide berth, which I did
not understand. ' As for the wives of seafaring
men, their blessings and privileges arc

also peculiar and numerous. They will have
to remain at home and pray for the safety of
the husbands whom they will see perhaps
once every five years or so : they will, in this
widowed state, be able to practise many
Christian virtues which those who enjoy the
constant presence of a husband are less
often called upon to illustrate : such are
patience under privation, resignation, and
hope. Most of them will find the allowance
made to them by their husbands insufficient
or irregularly paid. If any of them marry
again, or be already married, it is, let me tell
you, a hanging matter. Yea, there are
already in Newgate hard by, several unfortunate
women cast for execution who have
married again while their husbands were at
sea. Lying in the cells they are, waiting
for the cart and the gallows I" Here the
women looked at one another and trembled,
while their cheeks grew pale. '' It is too late
now. Should there be any woman here who
has committed the crime of bigamy, let that
woman know that it is too late for aught but
repentance. The gallows awaits her. You
are now therefore, my friends, bound to each

other. I trust and hope that these marriages
have not been hastily or lightly entered upon.
You have heard the duties of husband to
wife and wife to husband, in the words of the
service duly read to you by a clergyman of
the Church of England. Go now, perform
those duties : be bright and shining examples
of temperance, fidelity, and virtue. Should
any man among you find that his marriage
hath led him, through such a cause as I have
indicated, to the King's Bench, or the Fleet,
or the Compter ; should he have to exchange,
against his will, the free air of the sea for the
confinement of a gaol, and the rolling deck
for the narrow courtyard ; should he see himself
reduced (having never learned any handicraft
or trade) to starvation through these
liabilities of his wife, or should any woman
among you have hereafter to stand her trial
for bigamy either for this work newly accomplished
or for any future crime of the
same nature, it will then be your comfort to
reflect that you were not married by an
irregular, self-constituted, self-styled Fleet
parson, but by an ordained clergyman and a
Doctor of Divinity. Wherefore, I wish you

well. Now go, less noisily than you came.
But the noise I impute to your ignorance, as
not knowing the quality of the man into
whose presence you so rudely pushed. As
for the marriage feast, see that you enjoy it
in moderation. Above all, let your liquors
be good. To which end — I speak it purely
out of my benevolence and for the good of
head and stomach — you will find the rum at
the Bishop Blaize cheap and wholesome.
Be not tempted to prefer the Rainbow or
the Naked Boy, where the liquor is deplorable;
and perhaps, in an hour or so, I may look in
and drink your healths. Roger, turn them
out.'

They went away sheepish and crestfallen,
who had come noisy and triumphant. I
was ashamed, thinking of my father, and
yet lost in wonder, looking at my uncle who
had so easily tamed this savage crew.

I am glad said the doctor, when they
had gone, ' that this chance did not become
the windfall of an irregular and unlicensed
practitioner. They cannot say that I warned
them not. Well, let them have their way.
A few days more and the men will be afloat

again, all their money gone ; and the
women '

Will they starve, sir X I asked.

I doubt it much,' he replied. ' Come,
child, I have thought of a plan for thee.
Follow me. And you, good woman, come
with us that you may see your charge in
safety.'

The thing that I had seen was like a
dream — the appearance of the disorderly
sailors and the women whom they married ;
the words of the service read solemnly in
this unhallowed room ; the exaction of the
money beforehand ; the bleeding faces and
marks of the recent fight ; the exhortation of
the doctor ; the disappearance of the actors ;
the swollen nose, black eye, and the importance
of the clerk reading the responses
what strange place was this whereunto I
had been led ? One pitied, too, the poor
fellows on whom Fate had bestowed such
wives. I thought, child as I was, how
terrible must be life encumbered with such
women ! Womanlike, I was harder on the
women than the men. Yet truly, women
are what men make them.

Follow me, child.'

He led us out of the house, turning to the
right. In the market was a lot of country
people who were standing about a stall. And
we heard a voice : ' There's the doctor — there
goes the great Dr. Shovel.'

My uncle drew himself up to his full
height, and stalked grandly along with the
eyes of the people upon him. ^ See he
seemed to say, by the swelling folds of his
gown, ^ see my fame, how widespread it is —
my reputation, how great !'

He stopped at the corner of Fleet Lane,
where the houses were no longer taverns, and
announcements of marriages were no looser
to be seen. It was a house of three stories
high, with a door which, like all the doors in
that neighbourhood, stood ever open.

Here the doctor stopped and addressed
Mrs. Gambit :

You spoke of safety. I am about to confide
this child to the care of two gentlewomen,
poor but of good birth and character, whom
unjust laws and the wickedness of men have
condemned to imprisonment. I know of no
better guardians ; but you shall satisfy yourself

before you go away. Wait a moment
while I confer with the ladies.'

We stayed below for ten minutes. Then
my uncle came down the stairs, and bade me
return With him to be presented to the ladies,
who had kindly accepted the charge on condition,
he said, of my good conduct.

I followed him, Mrs. Gambit keeping close
to me. We stopped at a door on the first
floor. The room was poor and shabby : the
furniture, of Which there was not much, was
old and worn : there was no carpet : a white
blind was half drawn over the window : the
place, to judge by the presence of a saucepan,
a kettle, and a gridiron, was apparently a
kitchen as well as a sitting-room : all, excepta
great portrait of a gentleman, in majestic
wig and splendid gown, which hung over the
fireplace, was mean and pinched. Two ladies,
of fifty or thereabouts, stood before me, holdings
out hands of welcome.

They were both exactly alike, being small
and thin, with hollow cheeks, bright eyes,
and pointed features like a pair of birds :
they wore white caps, a sort of grey frock in
cheap stuff : their hair was white : their hands

were thin, with delicate fingers, transparent
like the fingers of those who have been long
in bed with sickness : they were of the same
height, and appeared to be of the same age
namely, fifty or thereabouts. My first
thought, as I looked at them, was that they
had not enough to eat — which, indeed, like
all first thoughts, was correct, because that
had generally been the case with these poor
creatures.

Kitty,' said the doctor, taking me by the
hand. ' I present you to Mistress Esther
Pimpernel' — here the lady on the left dipped
and curtsied, and I also, mighty grave — ' and
to Mrs. Deborah Pimpernel ' — here the same
ceremony with the lady on the right.
Ladies, this is my niece Kitty Pleydell,
daughter of my deceased sister Barbara and
her husband Lawrence Pleydell of pious
memory. I trust that in consenting thus
generously to receive this child in your ward
and keeping, you will find a reward for your
benevolence in her obedience, docility and
gratitude.'

Doctor,' murmured Mrs. Esther, in a voice
like a turtledove's for softness, ^ I am sure

that a niece of yours must be all sensibility
and goodness.'

Goodness, at least said her sister, in
sharper tones.

I saw that the difference between the sisters
lay chiefly in their voices.

She will, I trust, be serviceable to you,'
said the doctor, waving his hand. ^ She hath
been Avell and piously brought up to obedient
ways. Under your care, ladies, I look for a
good account of her.'

Dear and reverend sir Mrs. Esther cooed,
we are pleased and happy to be of use to
you in this matter. No doubt little miss,
who is well grown of her years, will repay
your kindness with her prayers. As for us,
the memory of your past and present goodness
'

Tut, tut r he replied, shaking his great
head till his cheeks wao^s^led, ^ let us hear no
more of that. In this place ' — here he laid
his right hand upon his heart, elevating his
left, and leaning his head to one side — *in
this place, where infamy and well-deserved
misery attend most of those who dwell in it,
it is yours, as it should be mine, to keep

VOL. I. 9

burning continually the pure flame of a
Christian life

How sweet ! how noble !' murmured the
sisters.

Was it possible % The man whom we had
just seen reading the service of Mother
Church, which my father had taught me to
regard as little less sacred than the words of
the Bible itself, in a squalid room, reeking with
the fi .es of rum and stale tobacco, before a
gang of half-drunken sailors, assumed naturally
and easily, as if it belonged to him, the attitude
and language of one devoted entirely to
the contemplation and practice of virtue and
good works. Why, his face glowed with
goodness like the sun at noonday, or the sun
after a shower, or, say, the sun after a good
action. The doctor, indeed, as I learned
later, could assume almost any character he
pleased. It pleased him, not out of hypocrisy,
but because for a time it was a return to the
promise of his youth, to be with these ladies
the devout Christian priest. In that character
he felt, I am convinced, the words
which came spontaneously to his lips : for the
moment he was that character. Outside, in

the Fleet Market, he was the great Dr.
Shovel — great, because among the Fleet
parsons he was the most successful, the most
learned, the most eloquent, the most important.
In his own room he marries all
comers, after the manner we have seen ; and
it raised the envy of his rivals to see how
the crowd flocked to him. Bat in the evening
he received his friends, and . rank and
talked with them in such fashion as I never
saw, but of which I have heard. Again, it
raised their envy to witness how men came
from all quarters to drink with the doctor.
At that time he was no longer the Christian
advocate, nor the clergyman ; he was a rollicking,
jovial, boon companion, who delighted
to tell better stories, sing better songs, and
hold better talk — meaning more Avitty, not
more spiritual talk — than any of those who
sat with him. I have never been able to
comprehend svhat pleasure men, especially
men of mature years, can find in telling
stories, and laughing, drinking, smoking tobacco,
and sino:inof with one another. Women

O CD

find their pleasures in more sober guise : they
may lie in small things, but they are inno-

9—2

cent. Think what this world would be were
the women to live like the men, as disorderly,
as wastefully, as noisily !

Now, good woman,' said my uncle to
Mrs. Gambit, ' are you satisfied that my
niece is in safe hands ?'

'The hands are good enough,' replied
the woman, looking round her ; ' but the
place '

The place is what it is,' said the doctor,
sharply ; ' we cannot alter the place.'

Then I will go, sir.'

With that she gave me my parcel of
money, kissed me and bade me farewell,
curtsied to the ladies, and left us.

I shall send up, ladies,' said the doctor,
a few trifles of additional furniture : a couple
of chairs, one of them an arm-chair — but not
for this great, strong girl, if you please — a
bed, a shelf for books ; some cups and saucers
we shall provide for you. And now, ladies,
I wish you good-morning. And for your
present wants — I mean the wants of this
hungry country maid, who looks as if mutton
hunof in toothsome leo^s on every verdant
hedge — this will, I think, suffice ;' he placed

money in Mrs. Esther's hand — I could not
but think how he had earned that money —
and left us.

When he was gone the two ladies looked
at each other with a strange, sad, and wistful
expression, and Mrs. Esther, with the guineas
in her hand, burst into tears.

HOW KITTY BEGAN TO ENJOY THE LIBERTIES OF
THE FLEET.

Her tears disconcerted me extremely. What
did she cry for ? But she presently recovered j
and dried her eyes. Then she looked at me
thoughtfully, and said :

Sister, I suppose this child has been ;
accustomed to have a dinner every day V i

Surely,' replied Miss Deborah. ^ And today
we shall all dine.' j

To-day we should all dine ? Were there,
then, days when we should all go hungry ?

You must know, my dear Miss Esther
explained in a soft, sad voice, ' that we are
very poor. We have, therefore, on many |
days in the week to go without meat. Other i
wise we should have to do worse ' — she looked '

round the room and shuddered — ^ v/e should
have to give up the independence of our soH-tide.
Hunger, my child, is not the worst thing
to bear.'

A piece of roasting-beef, sister,' said
Mrs. Deborah, who had now assumed a hat
and a cloak, ' with a summer cabbage, and a
pudding in the gravy.'

And I think, sister,' said Mrs. Esther,
her eyes lighting up eagerly, ' that we might
take our dinner — the child might like to take
her dinner — at twelve to-day.'

While Mrs. Deborah went into the market,
I learned that the two sisters had taken no
food except bread and water for a Aveek, and
that their whole stock now amounted to two
shillings in money and part of a loaf. AVhat
a strange world was this of London, in which
gentlewomen had their lodging in so foul a
place and starved on bread and water !

'But,' she repeated with a wan smile, ' there
are worse things than hunger. First, we
must pay our rent. And here we are at least
alone ; here we may continue to remember
our breeding.'

Before Mistress Deborah returned, I also

learned that they were chiefly dependent on
a cousin for supplies of money, which were
made to them grudgingly (and indeed he was
not rich), and that the doctor had provided
for my maintenance with the offer of so large
a weekly sum that it promised to suffice for
the wants of all.

We are said Mrs. Esther, ' but small
eaters ; a Httle will suffice for us. But you,
child, are young ; eat without fear, eat your
fill ; the money is for you, and we shall
grudge you nothing.'

While the beef was roasting I noticed how
their eyes from time to time, in spite of
themselves, would be fixed upon the meat
with a hungry and eager look. Nor had I
any enjoyment of the meal till I had seen
their pangs appeased. After the plenty of
the Vicarage and the Hall, to think of
bread and water, and not too much bread,,
for days together ! Yet, hungry as they
were, they ate but little ; it shamed me to
go on eating, being always a girl of a vigorous
appetite and hard-set about the hour of noon;
it shamed me at first, also, to observe their
ways of thrift, so that not the least crumb

should be wasted. Mrs. Deborah read my
thoughts.

In this place,' she said, ^ we learn to value
what it takes money to procure. Yet there
are some here poorer than ourselves. Eat,
child, eat. For us this has been, indeed, a
feast of Belshazzar.'

Dinner over, we unpacked my box, and
they asked me questions. I found that they
were proud of their birth and breeding ; the
portrait over the fire was, they told me, that
of their father, once Lord Mayor of London,
and they congratulated me upon being myself
a Pleydell, which, they said, was a name
very well known in the country, although
many great city families might be ignorant
of it.

No gift, my dear,' said Mrs. Esther, * is
so precious as gentle blood. Everything
else may be won, but birth never.'

All day long there went on the same dreadful
noise of shouting, crying, calling, bawling,
rolling of carts, cracking of whips, and trampling
of horses' feet. In the evening I asked,
when the sun went down, but the noise decreased
not, if it was always thus.

'Always they replied. ^ There is no cessation,
day or night. It is part said Mrs.
Deborah, ^ of onr punishment. ' We are
condemned, child ; for the sin of having a
negligent trustee, we go in captivity, shame,
and degradation all our lives.'

^ Nay,' said her sister, ' not degradation,
sister. No one but herself can degrade a
gentlewoman.'

Truly, the noise was terrible. When I read
m the 'Paradise Lost,' of fallen angels in their
dark abode, I think of Fleet Market and the
Fleet Rules. It began in the early morning
with the rolling of the carts : all day long
in the market there was a continual crying
of the butchers : ' Buy, buy, ladies — buy !
Rally up, ladies — rally up I' There were
quarrels unceasing and ever beginning, with
fights, shouting and cursing : the fish-women
quarrelled at their stalls ; the poultry wives
quarrelled over their baskets ; the porters
quarrelled over their burdens ; the carters
over the right of way ; the ragamuffin boys
over stolen fruit. There was nothing pleasant,
nothing quiet, nothing to refresh ; nothing
but noise, brawling, and contention. And if

any signs of joy, these only drunken laughter
from open tavern-doors.

Thus I besran to live, beings then a maid of
sixteen years and seven months, in the Rules
and Liberties of the Fleet Prison ; surely as
bad a place, outside Newgate Prison, as could
be found for a girl brought up in innocence
and virtue. For, let one consider the situation
of the Rules. They include all those
houses which lie between the ditch, or rather
the market, on the west, and the Old Bailey
on the east — fit boundaries for such a place,
the filthy turbid ditch and the criminal's gaol
and Fleet Lane on the north to Ludgate
Hill on the south. These streets are beyond
and between the abodes of respectability and
industry. On the east was the great and
wealthy City with the merchants' houses ; on
the west the streets and squares where the
families of the country had their town residence
; on the south, the river ; on the north,
the dark and gloomy streets of Clerkenwell,
where thieves lay in hiding and the robbers
of the road had their customary quarters.
Why, Jonathan Wild himself, the greatest
of villains, lived hard by in Ship Court. Is

there, anywhere, in any town, an acre more
thickly covered with infamy, misery, starvation,
and wretchedness

S5> :

If we walked abroad, we could not ^o north
because of Clerkenwell, where no honest woman
may trust herself : if we went south we
had to walk the whole length of the market,
past the marrying taverns, so that shame fell
upon my heart to think how my uncle was one
of those who thus disgraced his cloth : when we
^^ot to the end, we might walk over the Fleet
Bridge, among the noisy sellers of quack medicines,
pills, powders, hot surety, pies,
flounders, mackerel, and oysters; or on Lud-gate
Hill, where the touts of the Fleet
parsons ran up and down inviting couples
to be married, and the Morocco men went
about, book in hand, to sell their lottery
shares. The most quiet way when we took
the air was to cross Holborn Bridge, and
so up the hill past St. Andrew's Church,
where, if the weather were fine, we might
2ro as far as the hardens of Grav's Inn, and
there sit down among the trees and feel for a
little the joy of silence.

Said Mrs. Deborah, one dav, v\'hen we two

\.
had sat there, under the trees, for half an

hour, listening to the cawing of the rooks :

Child, the place ' — meaning the Rules —
is the City of Destruction after Christian
and Christiana, and the boys, and Mercy
Avere all gone away.'

We lived in one room, which was both
kitchen and parlour. We had no servant ;
the doctor's provision kept us in simple
plenty ; we cleaned and dusted the place for
ourselves ; we cooked our dinners, and washed
our dishes ; we made our dresses : we did for
ourselves all those things which are generally
done by a servant. Mrs. Esther said that there
was no shame in doing things which, if left
undone would cause a gentlewoman to lose
her self-respect. 'Twas all, except the portrait
of her father, that she had left of her former
life, and to this she would cling as something
dearer than life.

There were other lodgers in the house.
All who lodged there Avere, of course,
prisoners ' enjoying ' the Rules — who else
would live in the place \ On the ground-floor
was Sir Miles Lackington, Baronet. He
was not yet thirty, yet he had already got rid

of a great and noble estate by means of
gambling, and now was compelled to hide his
head in this refuge, and to live upon an
allowance of two guineas made weekly to
him '^by a cousin. This, one would have
thought, was a disgrace enough to overwhelm
a gentleman of his rank and age with shame.
But it touched him not, for he was ever gay,
cheerful, and ready to laugh. He was kind
to my ladies and to me ; his manners, when
he was sober, were gentle ; though his face
was always flushed and cheeks swollen by
reason of his midnight potations, he was still
a handsome fellow ; he was careless of his
appearance as of his fortune ; he would go
with waistcoat unbuttoned, wig awry, neckcloth
loose, ruffles limp ; but however he
went it was With a laugh. When he received
his two guineas he generally gave away the
half among his friends. In the evening they
used to carry him home to his room on the
ground-floor, too drunk to stand.

I soon got to know him, and we had
frequent talks. He seemed to be ever meeting
me on the stairs when I Event a-marketing;
he called upon us often, and Avould sit with

me during the warm summer afternoons,
when the sisters dropped off to sleep. I
grew to like him, and he encouraged me to
say freely what I thought, even to the extent
of rating him for his profligate practices.

Why,' he would say, laughing, * I am at
the lowest — I can go no lower; yet I have
my two guineas a week. I have enough to
eat, I drink freely : what more can I want ?'

I told him what his life seemed to me.

He laughed again at this, but perhaps uneasily.


Does it seem so terrible a thing he said,
leaning against the window with his hands in
his pockets, * to have no cares ? Believe me,
Kitty, Fortune has brought me into a harbour
where winds and tempests never blow.
While I had my estate, my conscience
plagued me night and morning. And yet I
knew that all must fly. Hazard doth always
serve her children so, and leaves them naked.
Well — it is gone. So can I play no more. But
he who plays should keep sober if he would
win. Now that I cannot play, I may drink.
And again, when, formerly, I was rich and a
prodigal, friend and enemy came to me with

advice. I believe they thought the Book of
Proverbs had been written specially to meet
my case, so much did they quote the words
of Solomon, A^^ar, and Lemuel. But, no
doubt, there have been fools before, and truly
it helped a fool no whit to show him his
folly. '' As a thorn goeth up into the hand
of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of
fools." I remember that proverb. Now
that Hazard hath taken all, there is no longer
occasion for advice. Child, you look upon
one who hath thrown away his life, and yet is
happier in his fall and repents not. For I
make no doubt but that, had I my fortune
back, 'twould fly away again in the same
fashion.'

He concluded with an allusion to the
Enemy of Mankind, for which I rebuked
him, and he laughed, saying :

Pretty Puritan, I will offend no more.'
Had I been older and more experienced, I
should have known or suspected why he came
so often and met me daily. Kitty had found
favour in the sight of this dethroned king.
He loved the maid : her freshness, her rosy
cheeks, her youth, her innocence pleased him,

I suppose. We know not, we women, for
what qualities there are in us that we are
loved by men, so that they will commit so
many follies for our sake.

Thou art such a girl, sweet Kitty,' he
said to me, one day, ' so pretty and so good,
as should tempt a man wallowing contentedly
in the piastres of the world, to get up, wash
himself, and go cleanly, for thy sake. Yet
what a miserable wretch should I be did I
thus learn to feel my own downfall !'

And aofain he told me once that he was
^00 far gone to love mQ ; and not far enough
gone to do me an injury.

Wherefore,' he added, ' I must worship
at thy shrine in silent admiration.'

It was kindly done of Sir Miles to spare
an ignorant girl. For so ignorant was Kitty,
and so brotherly did he seem, that had he
asked her to become his wife, I think she
would have consented. Oh, the fine state, to
be my Lady Lackington, and to live in the
Rules of the Fleet !

Another lodger in our house, a man whose
face inspired me with horror, so full of selfish
passion was it, was a Captain Dunquerque.

VOL. I. 10

With him were his wife and children. It
was of the children, poor things, that our
Esther spoke when she said there where some
in the place poorer than themselves ; for the
wife and children starved, while the captain,
their father, ate and drank his fill. A gloomy
man, as well as selfish, who reviled the fate
which he had brought upon himself. Yet for
all his reviling, he spared himself nothing so
that his children might have something. I
am glad that this bad man has little to do
with my history.

Another lodger, who had the garret at the
top, was Solomon Stallabras, the poet.

It is very well known that the profession
of letters, of all the trades, callings, and conditions
of men, is the most precarious and
the most miserable. I doubt, indeed, whether
that ought to be called a profession which
requires no training, no colleges or schools, no
degree, and no diploma. Other professions
are, in a way, independent : the barrister doth
not court, though he may depend upon, the
favour of attorneys ; the rector of the parish
doth not ask the farmers to support him, but
takes the tithes to which he is entitled ; the

poor author, however, is obhgecl to receive of
his publisher whatever is offered, nor is there
any corporate body or guild of authors by
whom the situation of the poet may be considered
and his condition improved. Alone
among learned men, the author is doomed to
perpetual dependence and poverty. Indeed,
when one considers it, scarce anything else is
to be expected, for, in becoming an author, a
man is so vain as to expect that to him will
be Pau ted what has been Given to no man except
Shakespeare — a continual flow of strength,
spirits, ingenuity, wit, and dexterity, so as to
sustain, without diminution or relaxation, the
rapid production of works for the delight of
the world. I say rapid, because the books
are bought by publishers at a low rate, though
they are sold to the public at large sums.
And, if we think of it, scarce any author
produces more than one or two books which
please the world. Therefore, when the fountain
runs dry, whither is that poor author to
turn 1 The public will have none of him ;
his publisher will have none of him ; there
remains, it is true, one hope, and that unworthy,
to get subscriptions for a volume

10—2

which he will never produce, because he will
have eaten up beforehand the money paid for
it before it is written.

The Fleet Prison and its Kules have
always been a favourite resort and refuge
for poets and men of letters. Robert Lloyd
died there, but long after I went away ;
Richard Savage died there ; Churchill was
married in the place, and would have died
there, had he not anticipated his certain fate
by dying early ; Samuel Boyce died there ;
Sir Richard Baker died there ; William
Oldys, who died, to be sure, outside the
Rules, yet drank every night within them ;
lastly, within a stone's throw of the Rules,
though he was never a prisoner, died the
great John Bunyan himself

I heard my ladies, from time to time, talk
of a certain Mr. Stallabras. They wondered
why he did not call as usual, and laid the
blame upon me ; little madam had made him
shy. One day, however, Mrs. Esther being
called out by one of Captain Dunquerque's
children, came back presently, saying that
Mr. Stallabras was starving to death in his
room.

Mrs. Deborah made no reply, but instantly
hurried to the cupboard, when she took down
the cold beef which was to be our dinner, and
cut off three or four goodly slices ; these she
laid on a plate, with bread and salt, and put
the whole upon a napkin ; and then she disappeared
swiftly.

The poor young man ! the dear young
man T cried Mrs. Esther, wringing her hands.
What can we do ? My dear, the sweetest
and most mellifluous of poets ! The pride
and glory of his age ! It is he who wrote
'^ Hours of the Night," the "Pleasures of
Solitude," the " Loves of Amoret and
x^moretta," and other delightful verses ; yet
they let him languish in the Fleet ! What
are my countrymen thinking of? Would it
not be better to rescue (while still living) so
ingenious and charming a writer from his
poverty, than to give him (as they must),
after his death, a grave in Westminster
Abbey ?'

I asked her if we should read together
these delightful poems.

We have no copy,' she said. ^ Mr. Stalls
who is all sensibility, insists, from time

to time, upon our having copies, so that we
may read them aloud to him. Yet his necessities
are such that he is fain to take them
away again and sell them. As for his
manners, my dear, they are every fine, being
such as to confer distinction upon the Kules.
He has not the easy bearing of Sir Miles
Lackington, of course, which one would not
expect save in a man born to good breeding ;
but he possesses in full measure the courtesy
which comes from study and self-dignity. Yet
he is but a hosier's son.'

Mrs. Deborah here returned, bearing an
empty plate.

She had trouble at first, she said, to persuade
him to eat. His prejudices as a
gentleman and a scholar were offended by
the absence of horse-radish ; but, as he had
eaten nothing for two days, he was induced
to waive this scruple, and presently made a
hearty meal. She had also persuaded him
to come downstairs in the evening, and take
a dish of tea.

Thanks to the doctor's liberality in the
matter of my weekly board, tea was now a
luxury in which we could sometimes indulge.

Nothing gave Mrs. Esther more gratification
than the return, after long deprivation, to
that porte beverage.

At about five o'clock the poet made his
appearance. He was short of stature, with a
turned-up nose, and was dressed in a drab-coloured
coat, with a bag wig, and shoes with
steel buckles. Everything that he wore had
once been fine, but their splendour was faded
now; his linen was in rags, his shoes in holes ;
but he carried himself with pride. His dignity
did not depend upon his piu^se ; he bore
his head high, because he thought of his
fame. It inflicted no wound to his -^ pride to
remember that he had that day been on the
eve of starvation, and was still without a
farthing.

'Miss Kitty,' he said, bowing very low,
'you see before you one who, though a
favourite of the Muses, is no favourite of
Fortune :

" 'Gainst hostile fate his heart is calm the while,
Though Fortune frown, the tuneful sisters smile."

Poetry, ladies, brings with it the truest consolation.'


And religion said Mrs. Esther.

There lives not — be sure — the wretch,'
cried the poet, ^ who would dissociate religion
and the Muse

This was very grand, and pleased us all.
We had our dish of tea, With bread and
butter. I went on cutting it for the poet till
the loaf was quite gone.

During the evening he gave utterance to
many noble sentiments — so noble, indeed,
that they seemed to me taken out of books.
And before he went away he laid down his
views as to the profession of letters, of Which
I have already spoken, perhaps, too severely.

It is the mission of the poet and author,'
he said, ' to delight, and to improve while
delighting. The man of science may instruct
; the poet embodies the knowledge,
and dresses it up in a captivating way to
attract the people : the divine teaches the
dogmas of the Church ; the poet conveys, in
more pleasing form, the lessons and instructions
of religion : the philosopher and moralist
lay down the laws of our being; the
author, by tropes and figures, by fiction, by
poetry, shows the proper conduct of life, and
teaches how the way of virtue leads to happiness.



Is not this a noble and elevating
career ? Does not a man do well who says to
himself, '^ This shall be my life ; this my lot " ^'

He paused, and Ave murmured assent to
his enthusiasm.

It is true,' he went on, ' that the ungrateful
world thinks little of its best friends ;
that it allows me — me, Solomon Stallabras,
to languish in the Rules of the Fleet. Even
that, however, has its consolation ; because,
ladies, it has brought me the honour and
happiness of your friendship.'

He rose, saluted us all three in tarn, and
sat down again.

Art,' he went on, ' so inspires a man with
great thoughts, that it makes more than a
gentleman — it makes a nobleman — of him.
Who, I would ask, when he reads the sorrows
of Clarissa, thinks of the trade — the mere
mechanical trade — in which the author's
money was earned ? I cannot but believe
that the time will come when the Court
itself, unfriendly as it now is to men of
letters, will confer titles and place upon that
poor poet whose very name cannot now reach
the walls of the palace.'

My ladies' good fortune (I mean in receiving
the weekly stipend for my maintenance)
was thus shared by the starving poet, whom
they no longer saw, helpless to relieve him,
suffering the privation of hunger. Often
have I observed one or other of the sisters
willingly go without her dinner, pleading a
headache, in order that her portion might be
reserved for Mr. Stallabras.

For sensibility,' said Mrs. Esther, * is like
walking up a hill : it promotes appetite.'

So does youth,' said Mrs. Deborah, more
practical. ^ Mr. Stallabras is still a young
man, Kitty ; though you think thirty old',

That he was a very great poet we all
agreed, and the more so when, after a lucky
letter, he secured a subscriber or two for his
next volume, and was able to present us once
more with a book of his own poetry. I do
not know whether he more enjoyed hearing
me read them aloud (for then he bowed,
spread his hands, and inclined his head this
way and that, in appreciation of the melody
and delicacy of the sentiments), or whether
he preferred to read them himself; for then
he could stop when he pleased, with, ^ This

idea, ladies, was conceived while wandering
amid the fields near Bagnigge Wells ;' ' This
came to me while watching the gay throng
in the Mall ;' ' This, I confess, was an inspiration
caught in church.'

Kitty should enter these confessions in a
book,' said Mrs. Esther. ' Surely they will
become valuable in the day — far distant, I
trust — when your life has to be written, Mr.
Stallabras.'

Oh, madam !' He bowed again, and
lifted his hands in deprecation. But he was
pleased. ' Perhaps he said, ' meaner bards
have found a place in the Abbey, and a volume
dedicated to their lives. If Miss Kitty will
condescend to thus preserve recollections of
me, I shall be greatly flattered.'

I did keep a book, and entered in it all
that dropped from his lips about himself, his
opinions, his maxims, his thoughts, and so
forth. He gradually got possessed of the
idea that I would myself some day write his
life, and he began insensibly to direct his
conversation mainly to me.

Sometimes he met me in the market, or on
the stairs, when he would tell me more.

I always knew he said, ' from the very
first, that I was born to greatness. It was in
me as a child, when, like Pope, I lisped in
numbers. My station, originally, was not
lofty, Miss Kitty.' He spoke as if he had
risen to a dazzling height. * I was but the
son of a hosier, born in Fetter Lane, and
taught at the school, or academy, kej^t by
one Jacob Crooks, who was handier with the
rod than with the Gradus ad Parnassus.
But I read, and taught myself; became at
first the hack of Mr. Dudley, and gradually
rose to eminence.'

He had, indeed, risen ; he was the occupant
of a garret ; his fame lay in his own
imagination ; and he had not a guinea in the
world.

Miss Kitty,' he said, one day, ^ there is
only one thing that disqualifies you from
being my biographer.'

I asked him what that was.

You are not, as you should be, my wife.
If virtue and beauty fitted you for the station
of a poet's wife, the thing Avere easy. Alas,
child 1 the poet is poor, and his mistress would
be poorer. Nevertheless, believe that the

means, and not the Avill, are wanting to make
thee my Laura, my Stella, and me thy
Petrarch, or thy Sidney.'

It was not till later that I understood how
this starveling poet, as well as the broken
baronet, had both expressed their desire
(under more favourable circumstances) to
make love to me. Grand would have been
my lot as Lady Lackington, but grander still
as Mistress Stallabras, wife of the illustrious
poet, who lived, like the sparrows, from hand
to mouth.

HOW KITTY LEARNED TO KNOW THE DOCTOR.

Those evenings of riot from ^vhicli Sir Miles
was so often carried home speechless, were
spent in no other place than that very room
where I had seen the marriage of the sailors ;
and the president of the rabble rout was no
other than the doctor himself.

I learned this of Sir Miles. If my ladies
knew it, of which I am not certain, they
were content to shut their eyes to it, and to
think of the thing as one of the faults which
women, in contempt and pity, ascribe to the
strange nature of man. I cannot, being now
of ripe years, believe that Heaven hath
created in man a special aptitude for debauchery,
sin, and profligacy, while women
have been designed for the illustration of

virtues which are the opposite to them. So
that, when I hear it said that it is the way
of men, T am apt to think that way sinfuL

It was Sir Miles himself who told me of it
one mornings'. I found him leaning against
the doorpost with a tankard of ale in his
hand.

^ Fie, Sir Miles !' I said. ' Is it not shameful
for a gentleman to be carried home at
night, like a pig V

^ It is he replied. ' Kitty, the morning is
the time for repentance. I repent until I
have cleared my brain with this draught of
cool October.'

It is as if a man should drag a napkin in
the mud of the Fleet Ditch to clean it,' I
said.

He drank off his tankard, and said he felt
better.

Pretty Miss Kitty,' he said, ' it is a fine
morning ; shall we abroad ? Will you trust
yourself with me to view the shops in Cheapside
or the beaux in the Mall \ I am at thy
service, though, for a Norfolk baronet, my
ruffles are 01 the shabbiest.'

I told him that I would ask Mistress

Esther for permission. He said he wanted
first a second pint, as the evening had been
long and the drink abundant, after which his
brain would be perfectly clear and his hand
steady.

I told him it was a shame that a gentleman
of his rank should mate with men whose
proper place was among the thieves of
Turnmill Street, or the porters of Chick Lane,
and that I would not walk with a man whose
brain required a quart of strong ale in the
morning* to clear ito



As for my companions he said, taking
the second pint which the boy brought him
and turning it about in his hands, ' we have
very good company in the Liberties — quite as
good as your friend Christian, in that story
you love so much, might have had in Vanity
Fair, had he been a lad of mettle and a toper.
There are gentlemen of good family, like
myself ; poets like Solomon Stallabras ;
merchants, half-pay captains and broke lieutenants
; clerks, tradesmen, lawyers, parsons,
farmers, men of all degrees. It is like the
outside world, except that here all are equal
who can pay their shot. Why, with the

doctor at the head of the table, and a bowl of
punch just begun, hang me if I know any
place where a man may feel more comfortable
or drink more at his ease.'

The doctor ?' I asked. Now I had seen
so little of my uncle that I had almost forgotten
the marriage of the sailors, and was
beginning again to think of him as the pious
and serious minister who spoke of sacred
things to my guardians. ' The doctor V

Ay ;' Sir Miles drank off the whole of his
second pint. ^ Who else ?' His voice became
suddenly thick, and his eyes fixed, with a
strange light in them. ' Who else but the
doctor ? Why, what would the Kules be
without the doctor ? He is our prince, our
bishop, our chaplain — what you will — the
right reverend his most gracious majesty the
Kino; of the Rules,' Sir Miles waved his
hand dramatically. ' He keeps us sweet ; he
polishes our wits ; but for him we should be
wallowing swine : he brings strangers and
visitors to enliven us ; drinks with us, sings
with us, makes wit for us from the treasures
of his learning ; condescends to call us his
friends ; pays our shot for us ; lends us

VOL. I. 11

money ; gives food to the starving, and
drink — yes, drink, by gad ! to the thirsty, and
clothes to the naked. Ah, poor girl ! you
can never see the doctor in his glory, with all
his admirers round him, and every man a
glass of punch in his hand and a clean
tobacco-pipe in his mouth. The doctor % he
is our boast ; a most complete and perfect
doctor ; the pride of Cambridge ; the crown
and sum of all doctors in divinity !'

He had forgotten, I suppose, his invitation
to take me for a walk, for he left me here,
staggering off in the direction of the Hand
and Pen, where, I doubt not, he spent the
rest of his idle and wasted day.

It would have been useless and cruel to
talk to my guardian about this discovery. It
was another thing to be ashamed of. Sir
Miles told me less than the truth. In fact
the doctor's house was the nightly resort of all
those residents in the Rules whom he would
admit to his society. Hither, too, came,
attracted by his reputation for eloquence, wit,
and curious knowledge, gentlemen from the
Temple, Lincoln's Inn, and other places, who
were expected, as a contribution to the evening,

to send for bowls of punch. But of this
presently.

I saw my uncle seldom. He visited the
sisters from time to time, and never failed to
ask particularly after my progress in knowledge,
and especially in the doctrines of the
Church of England. On these occasions he
generally left behind him, as a present, some
maxim or precept tending to virtue, which we
could repeat after his departure and turn over
in our minds at leisure. Once he found me
alone, Mrs. Deborah being indisposed and confined
to her room, where her sister was nursing
her. He took advantage of their absence to
impress upon me the necessity of circumspection
in my manner of life.

^ Heaven knows, child,' he said, ^ what thy
future will be. Hither come none but profligates
and spendthrifts. Yet what else can
I do with thee ? Where bestow thee X

Oh, sir !' I said, ^ let me not be taken 
dear ladies.'

Thou shalt not, child ; at least for the
present. But it is bad for thee to live here ;
it is bad for thee to have as an uncle one whose
life is sadly inconsistent with his Christian

11—2

profession, and who might despair, were it not
for the example of Solomon (methinks from
his history may be sucked consolation by all
elderly and reverend sinners). Like him,
what I lack in practice I partly make up
with precept. He who, like me, is a Fleet
parson, should be judged differently from
his fellows : he is without the license and
therefore hath forfeited paternal affection
of his bishop ; he is exposed to temptations
which beset not other folk ; among those
who flock to him for marriage are some who
Avould fain commute their fees for brandy and
strong drinks, or even bilk the clergyman
altogether — a sin which it is difficult to believe
can be forgiven. Hence arise strife and
wrath, unseemly for one who wears a cassock.
Hither come those who seek good fellowship
and think to find it in the Rules : Templar,
young bloods, and wits. Hence arise drinking
and brawling ; and as one is outside the
law, so to speak, so one is tempted to neglect
the law. I say nothing of the temptations of
an empty purse. These I felt, with many
pricking and instigation of the Evil One,
while I was yet curate of St. Martin's-in-the-

Fields, before I escaped my creditors by
coming here. Then I was poor, and found,
as the Wise Man says, that * The poor is
hated even of his own neighbour

He went on, half preaching, half talking.

A man who sinned greatly, yet preached
much ; who daily fell, yet daily exhorted his
neighbour to stand upright ; who knew and
loved, as one loves a thing impossible to
attain, the life of virtue ; who drank, laughed,
and bawled songes of an evenings with his boon
companions ; v/ho married all comers, no question
asked, without scruple and without remorse,
a priest whose life was a disgrace to
his profession; who did kind and generous
things, and paid that homage to Virtue which
becomes one who knows her loveliness.

It pleased him to talk, but only with me,,
about himself He was always excusing himself
to me, ashamed of his life, yet boasting
of it and glorying in it ; conscious of his
infamy, and yet proud of his success ; always
thinking by what plea he could justify himself,
and maintain his self-respect.

^ I am a man,' he said, ' who is the best of a
bad profession. My work is inglorious, but

I am glorious ; my rivals, who would rob me
of my very practice, do not hate me, but
esteem and envy me. I have, yea, outside
these Kules, friends who love me still ; some
of them pity me, and some would see me
(which is impossible) restored to the fold and
bosom of the Church; some who drink with
me, talk with me, borrow of me, walk with
me, smoke with me, and are honoured by my
friendship. There is no man living w4io
would wish me harm. Surely, I am one of
those who do good to themselves, whom,
therefore, their fellow-men respect.'

I have said that he was generous. Sir
Miles spoke the truth when he declared that
the doctor fed the starving and clothed the
naked. Truly it seems to me natural to believe
that these good deeds of his must be a
set-off to the great wickedness of his life.
There were no occupants of the prison and
its Liberties who were rich. Some there were
who would have starved but for the charity
of their friends. The poor prisoners were
allowed to beg, but how could poor gentlewomen
like my guardians bear to beg for
daily bread ? Rather would they starve. As

for the prison, I know nothing of it ; I never
saw the inside ; it was enough for me to see
its long and dreary wall. I used to think at
night of the poor creatures shut up there in
hopeless misery, as I thought, though Sir
Miles declared that most of them were
happier in the prison than out ; and beside
the latticed gate there stood every day a man
behind bars begging with a plate and crying :
Pity the poor prisoners.'

Is it not sad that the same punishment of
imprisonment must be meted out to the
rogue and the debtor, save that we let the
rogue go free while we keep the debtor locked
up ? Truly, the Vicar of St. Bride's or even
the Dean of St. Paul's himself could preach
no better sermon, could use no words more
fitted to arrest the profligate and bring the
thoughtless to reason, than that doleful cry
behind the bars. Nor could any more salutary
lesson be impressed upon young spendthrifts
than to take them from house to
house in the Rules and show them the end of
graceless ways.

HOW KITTY SPENT HER TIME.

As soon as they were settled together, and
the ladies had decided in their own minds
that the girl would lighten their lives, they
resolved that Kitty's education must not be
neglected, and for this end bes^an to devise
such a comprehensive scheme as would have
required the staff of a whole university to
carry it through. Everything was set down
(upon a slate) which it behoved a girl to
know. Unfortunately the means at their
disposal did not allow of this great scheme.
Thus it was fitting that music should be
taught : Mrs. Deborah had once been a proficient
on the spinner, but there was no
spinner to be had ; the French tongue forms
part of polite education, but though both

ladies had learned it of old, their memory
Alas defective, and they had neither dictionary
nor grammar nor any book in the language ;
limning, both with pencil and in water-colours,
should be taught, but the sisters could neither
of them draw, and hardly knew a curve from
a straight line. Telegraphy is almost a necessary,
but the handwriting of both ladies was
tremulous, and of antiquated fashion ; they
knew not the modern Italian hand. There
was in the Rules a professor in the art, and
an attempt was made to get lessons from him.
But he was already old and hastening to the
grave, which speedily closed over him ; his
hand shook, because he drank strong waters ;
his coat was stained with beer and punch ;
his wig smelt always of tobacco.

Mrs. Deborah undertook, as a beginning, to
teach the girl book-keeping by single and
double entry. How or Why she ever came to
learn this science has never been understood.
Yet she knew it, and was proud of it.

It is a science,' she said, ' which controls
the commerce of the world. By its means
are we made rich; by the aid of book-keeping
we apportion the profit and the loss, which

are the rewards of the prudent or the punishment
of the thriftless. Without book-keeping,
my dear, the mysteries and methods of which
I am about to impart to you, neither a
Whittington, nor a Gresham, nor even a
Pimpernel, would have risen to be Lord
Mayor of London.'

Kitty only imperfectly grasped the rudiments
of the science. No doubt, had she
been placed in a position of life where it was
required, she would have found it eminently
useful. Mrs. Esther, for her part, taught her
embroidery and sampler work. As for preserving,
pickling, making of pastry and homemade
whines, cookery, distilling, and so forth,
although the sisters had been in their younger
days notable, it was impossible to teach these
arts, because, even if there had been anything to
pickle or preserve, there was only one sitting-room
in which to do it. Therefore, to her
jDresen sorrow, Kitty speedily forgot all that
she had formerly learned in the still-room at
Lady Levett's. For there is no station so
exalted in which a lady is not the better for
knowing the way in which such things should
be done, if it is only that she may keep her

maids in order. And if, as the learned Dr.
Johnson hath informed us, a lady means one
who dispenses gifts of hospitality and kindness,
there is another reason why she should
know the value of her mats. There is some



thing diviDe in the contemplation of the
allotment of duty to the two sexes : man
must work, build up, invent, and acquire, for
woman to distribute, administer, and divide.

As for reading, they had a book on the
history of England, with the cover off, and
wanting the title-page with several chapters.
There was one of those still remaining in
which the author exhorted his readers (her
teachers told the girl that the admonition
belonged to women as well as men) never to
grow faint or to weary in the defence of their
Liberties. She ignorantly confounded the
Liberties of the country with the Liberties of
the Fleet, and could not avoid the reflection
that a woman would certainly put more heart
into her defence of the Liberties if these
were cleaner, and if there were fewer men
who swore and got drunk. There were also
a Bible and a Church Prayer-book ; there
were three odd volumes of ' Sermons ;' and

there were besides odd volumes of romances,
poems, and other works which Mr. Solomon
Stallabras was able to lend.

Mrs. Deborah added to her knowledge of
book-keeping some mastery over the sublime
science of astronomy. By standing on chairs
at the window when the west wind blew the
fogs away and the sk}^ was clear, it was possible
to learn nearly everything that she had
to teach. The moon was sometimes visible,
and a great many of the stars, because, looking
over the market, the space was wide.
Among them were the Pole Star, the Great
Bear, Orion's belt, and Cassiopeia's chair.
It was elevation to the soul on such occasions
to watch the heavenly bodies, and to
listen while Mrs. Deborah discoursed on the
motions of the planets and the courses of the
stars.

The moon, my dear,' she would say,
originally hung in the heavens by the hand
of the Creator, goes regularly every four
weeks round the sue, while the sun goeth
daily round the earth : when the sun is between
the earth and the moon (which happens
accidentally once a month or thereabouts),

part of the latter body is eclipsed : wherefore
it is then of a crescent-shape : the earth itself
goes round something — I forget what — every
year : while the planets, according to Addison's
hymn, go once a year, or perhaps he
meant once a month, round the moon. This
is the reason why they are seen in different
positions in the sky. And I believe I am
right in saying that if you look steadily at
the Great Bear, you may plainly see that
every night it travels once about the earth
at least, or it may be oftener at different
seasons. When we reflect ' — here she quoted
from recollection — ' that these bodies are sofar
distant from us, that we cannot measure the
space between ; that some of them are supposed
to be actually greater than our own world; that
they are probably inhabited by men and
women like ourselves ; that all their movements
round each other are regular, uniform,
never intermittent — how ought we to admire
the wisdom and strength of the Almighty
Hand which placed them there !'

Then she repeated, with becoming reverence,
the words of Mr. Addison, the Christian
poet, beginning :

Soon as the evening shades prevail
The moon takes up the wondrous tale,
And nightly to the listening earth
Repeats the story of her birth.
While all the stars that round her burn,
And all the planets in their turn,
Confirm the tidings as they roll
And spread the truth from pole to pole.'

In such meditations and exercises did these
imprisoned ladies seek to raise their souls
above the miseries of their lot. Indeed, one
may think there is nothing which more tends
to make the mind contented and to prevent
repining, than to feel the vastness of nature,
the depths and height of knowledge open toman's
intellect, the smallness of one's self, and
the wisdom of God. And although poor
Mrs. Deborah's astronomy was, as has been
seen, a jumble ; although she knew so little,
indeed, of constellations or of planets, that
the child did not learn to distinguish Jupiter
from the Pole Star, and never could understand
(until that ingenious gentleman, who
lately exhibited an orrery in Piccadilly, taught
her) how the planets and stars could go round
the moon, and the moon round the sun, and
the sun round the earth, without knocking

against and destroying one another, she
must be, and is, deeply grateful for the
thoughts which the good lady awakened.

In all things the sisters endeavoured to
keep up the habits and manners of gentlefolk.
The dinner was at times scanty, yet
Alas it served on a fair white cloth, with
plates and knives orderly placed : a grace
before the meat, and a grace after.

In the afternoon, when the ' dinner was
eaten, the cloth removed, and the plates
washed, they were able sometimes to sally
forth and take a walk. In the summer afternoons
it was, as has been said, pleasant to
walk to the gardens of Gray's Inn. But
when they ventured to pass through the
market there was great choice for them. The
daily service in the afternoons at St. Paul's
was close at hand : here, while the body was
refreshed with the coolness of the air, the
mind was calmed with the peace of the
church, and the soul elevated by the chanting
of the white-robed choristers and the
canons, while the organ echoed in the roof.
After the service they would linger among
the tombs, of which there are not many ;

and read the famous Latin inscription over
the door of the cathedral, ' Si monumentum
requires circumspect. '

I knew him,' Mrs. Esther would whisper,
standing before the great man's monument.
He was a friend of my father's, and he often
came and talked, my sister and myself being-then
but little, on the greatness of astronomy,
geometry, and architecture. In the latter
years of his life he would sit in the sunshine,
gazing on the noble cathedral he had built.
Yet, grand as it is, he would still lament that
his earlier plans, which were grander still,
had not been accepted.'

Then out into the noisy street again : back
to the shouts of chairmen, waggon-drivers,
coachmen, the bawling of those who cried up
and down pavements, the cries of flying
piemen, newsmen, boys with broadsheets,
dying confessions, and ballads — back to the
clamour of Fleet Market.

Another excursion, which could only be
undertaken when the days were long, was
that to Westminster Abbey.

The way lay along the Strand, which, when
the crowded houses behind St. Clement's and

St. Mary's were passed, Alas a wide and
pleasant thoroughfare, convenient for walking,
occupied by stately palaces like Northumberland
and Somerset Houses, and by
great shops. At Charing Cross one might
cross over into Spring Gardens, where, Mrs.
Esther said, there Alas much idle talk among
young people, with drinking of Rhenish
wine. Beyond the gardens was St. James's
Park : Kitty saw it once in those days, being
taken by Sir Miles Lackington ; but so
crowded was it with gallant gentlemen, whose
wigs and silken coats were a proper set-off to
the hoops and satins of the ladies, that she
was ashamed of her poor stuff frock, and
bade Sir Miles lead her away, which he did,
being that day sorrowful and in a repentant
mood.

I have myself worn those silk waistcoats
and that silver lace he said with a sigh.
My place should be among them now, were
it not for Hazard. Thy own fit station,
pretty pauper, is with those ladies. But
Heaven forbid you should learn what they
know ! Alas ! I knew not when I ought
to stop in the path of pleasure.'

VOL. I. 12

Fie !' said she. * Young men ought not
to find their pleasure in gambhng/

Humanity said Sir Miles, becoming more
cheerful when the Park was left, ' has with
one consent resolved to follow pleasure. The
reverend divines bid us (on Sunday) be content
\o forego pleasure ; in the week they, too, get
what pleasure they can out of a punch-bowl. I
am content to follow with other men. Come,
little Puritan, what is thy idea of pleasure ?'

That seemed simple enough to answer.

I would live in the country,' said she
readily, ^ away from this dreadful town ; I
would have enough money to drink tea
every day (of course I would have a good
dinner, too), and to buy books, to visit and
be visited, and make my ladies happy, and all
be gentlewomen together,'

And never a man among you all ?'

No — we should want no man. You men
do but eat, drink, devour, and waste. The
Rules are fall of unhappy women, ruined by
your extravagances. Go live all together,
and carry each other home at night, where
no woman can see or hear.'

He shook his head with a laugh, and answered

nothing. That same night, however,
he was led home at midnight, bawling some
drinking song at the top of his voice ; so
that the girl's admonition had no effect upon
him. Perhaps profligate men feel a pleasure
not only in their intemperance but also in
repentance. It always seemed to me as if
Sir Miles enjoyed the lamentations of a
sinner the morning after a debauch.

On the few occasions when their journey was
prolonged beyond Charing Cross, the ladies
were generally attended and protected by
Mr. Solomon Stallabras, who, though little
in stature, was brave, and would have
cudgelled a porter, or cuffed a guardsman,
in the defence of ladies, as well as the
strongest and biofofest gentleman.

There are many other things to see in
Westminster Abbey — the coronation throne,
Henry the Seventh's Chapel, the monuments
of kings, queens, great lords, and noble generals
— but Mr. Stallabras had an eye to one
spot only.

There he said, ' is the Poet's Corner :
with Dryden, Ben Jonson, and the glorious
dead of this spot, shall, perhaps, my ashes be

12—2

mixed. Ladies, immortality is the poet's
meed.'

The poor man needed some solace in these
days, when his poverty was excessive. Later
on he found a little success : obtained an order
for a volume of 'Travels in Cashmere' (whither
he had never been), which brought him in
eight guineas. He afterwards added * A romantic
Tale,' the scene of which was laid in
the same sweet abode of Sensibility. It was
interspersed with verses, as full of delicacy as
the tale itself. But the publisher, who gave
him ^NQ guineas for it, complained afterwards
that he had lost by his bargain. Mr. Stalls
often boasted of the great things he
could do were there no publishers, and
regretted the invention of printing, which
rendered this class, who prey upon the very
vitals of poor poets, a necessity.

These holidays, these after-hours of rest in
the tranquil aisles of St. Paul's, or the awful
Gothic shades of Westminster, were far between.
Mostly the three sat together over
their work, while the tumult raged below.

• Patience, child said Mrs. Deborah.
'• Patience awhile. We have borne it for nigh

thirty years. Can you, who have hope, not
bear it a Httle longer V

Said Mrs. Esther : ' Providence wisely
orders every event, so that each year or
each day shall add something to the education
of the soul. It is doubtless for some
wise purpose we have been kept in scarceness
among run agates and spendthrifts.'

On Sundays they generally went to the
church of St. Giles, Cripplegate. It was a
long way from the Rules, but the ladies liked
it because it was the church where their
father lay buried. From the place where
they sat in the seats of the poor, which
have neither cushions nor backs, they could
read the tablet to the memory of the late
Joshua Pimpernel, once Lord Mayor of
London, and Alderman of Portsoken Ward.
The great church was full of City memories,
dear to them from their childhood: when they
were girls they used to sit in a stately pew
with red serge seats and hassocks ; now, they
worshipped in the same church, but on the
benches among the poor women and the
children. Yet there was the same service,
with the rector and the clerk in their desks,

the schoolboys of the Charity along the left,
and the schoolgirls of the Chanty along the
right ; the beadles and vergers, the old
women who swept the church, opened the
pew doors, curtsied to the quality and remained
behind for doles — all brought back
their childhood. They were as poor themselves
as these old trots, but they could not stay
for doles. It is a large and handsome church,
filled With grave citizens, responsible men,
whose ventures are abroad on many seas,
respected for wealth and upright conduct,
good men and true, such as was, in his day,
my Lord Mayor Pimpernel himself; with
the citizens sit their wives bravely attired,
and their daughters making Gallant show in
hoops, patches, lace, baronet and muslin.
Outside the church a graveyard, piled and
full, still with a tree or two upon it, whose
boughs in June are covered with bright green
leaves, among which the sparrows twitter and
fly about. There is also a great round tower
of antique look, which once had been part of
the Woman wall of London.

Here they went to worship. When the
minister came to the words in the Litany —

Lord have mercy upon all imsoncrs and captives*
the sisters would catch each other by the
hand, and audibly follow the reader in
prayer as well as response. For thirty years,
for fifty-two Sundays in each year, they had
made that prayer in the same words, for most
of the time in the same church. Yet what
answer ?

Kitty took the prayer, presently, for herself
as well. If these ladies were prisoners,
why, what was she ? If they might not sleep
abroad, and only walk in the streets by permission
and license of the law, how was she
different from them, since she could not, being
but a maid, and young and penniless, go abroad
at all without them or some other protection ?

The sight of the leaves in the trees outside ;
the fluttering and flying of the sparrows, now
and then the buzzing of a foolish bee who had
found his way into the church, carried the
girl's thoughts away to the quiet place in the
country where, between Hall and Vicarage,
she had been brought up. Would the sweet
country never more be seen '? Was her life to
be, like that of these poor ladies, one long
prison among reprobates and profligates '?

The summer came on apace : it grew hot
in June ; in July it was so hot that they were
fain to sit all day and to sleep all night, with
open windows. The air was cooler, perhaps,
at night, but it was laden with the odours of
decaying cabbages, trodden peas and beans,
rotten strawberries, bruised cherries, broken
gooseberries, with the nauseous breath of the
butcher's stall, and the pestilential smell of the
poulterer's shop. Moreover, they could not but
hear the oaths and rivalries of those who sat
and lounged about the market, staying in the
open air because it was warm and because
it was cheap. The bulkheads, bunks, booths,
stalls, and counters of the market were free
and open to the world : a log of wood for a
pillow, a hard plank for a bed ; this was the
reward of a free and lawless life. On most
nights it seemed best to lie with windows
closed and endure the heat. Yet closed windows
could not altogether keep out the noise,
for on these summer niaiits all the knaves and
thieves unhung in this great town seemed to
be gathered here, pleased to be all together, a
Parliament of rogues, under the spent-houses
and on the stalls of the market. And as

in some Roman Catholic countries nuns and
monks maintain a perpetual adoration to the
Blessed Virgin, whom they ignorantly worship,
so did these reprobates maintain a perpetual
litany of ribaldry and foul conversation. It
never ceased. When one grew tired he lay
down and slept : his friends carried on the
talk ; the drinking-booths were open all night
long, so that those who talked might slake
their thirst, and if any waked and felt thirsty
he too might have a drain and so lie down
again. Dav and nii2rht there was a never-ending
riot : the ladies, as the hot days continued,
grew thinner and paler, but they bore
it patiently ; they had borne it for thirty
years.

Between two and three in the morning
there generally came a little respite ; most of
the brawlers where then asleep, drunk, or tired
out ; only at corners, where there was drink
to be had, men and women still gathered
together, talking and joking. At four, or
thereabouts, the market-carts began to arrive,
and noise of another kind began.

One morning in July Kitty awoke — it was
a hot and close night — just when all the

City clocks were striking three ; it was broad
daylight ; she sprang from bed, and drawing
the blind aside a little, looked out upon the
market below and the City around. In the
clear and cloudless air, before the new day
had charged it with a fresh covering or headpiece
of smoke, she saw the beautiful spires of
St. Bride's, St. Dunstan's, St. Andrew's, St.
Mary's and St. Clement's rising one beyond
the other into the clear blue sky, their
weathercocks touched by the morning sun;
on the south, over the river, were visible the
green hills of Surrey, the sun shining on
their hanging woods, as plain as if they were
half a mile away. On the north there were
the low hills of Highgate, Hampstead, and
Horsey, the paradise of its, and yet places
most beautiful, wooded and retired. Everywhere,
north, west, and south, spires of
churches rising up to the heavens, as if
praying for the folk beneath. And under
her eyes, the folk themselves !

They were human ruins of the past, the
present, and the future.

Old men were among them who lay with
curled-up limbs, shaking with cold, warm

though the night was and old women, huddled
up in scanty petticoats, lying with tremulous
lips and clasped hands. The cheeks both
of the old men and the old women were
swollen with drink. What was the record of
their lives ? Some of them had been rogues
and vagabonds from the very first, though
how they managed to scape the gallows
would be hard to tell. Doubtless their backs
were well scarred with the instigation of the
alderman's whip, and they could remember
the slow tread of the cart behind Which they
had marched from Newgate to Tyburn, the
cruel cat falling at every step upon their
naked and bleeding shoulders. Yet what
help ? They must starve or they must steal;
and, being taken, they must be hanged or
must be flogged.

Why, these poor old men and poor old
women should, had they not missed the
meaning of their lives, have been sitting in
high places, With the state and reverence due
to honoured age, with the memory of a life
well fought, hung with chains of gold, draped
with cloth of silver and lace. Yet they were
here, crouched in this filthy, evil-smelling

place, eyes shut, backs bent, lips trembling,
cheeks twitching, and minds hardened to
iniquity. Did any of them, perchance, remember
how one who knew declared that
never had he seen the righteous forsaken or
the good man beg his bread ?

A dreadful shivering seized the girl. What
plank of safety, what harbour of refuge was
open to her that she too might escape this
fate % What assurance had she that her end
might not be like unto the end of these ?
Truly none, save that faith by which, as
Paul hath taught, the only way to heaven
itself is opened.

Then there were young men with red and
swollen faces, thieves and vagabonds by profession,
who found the air of the market more
pleasant than that of Turnmill or Chick
Street. Yet it was an ominous and suspicious
place to sleep in ; a place full of bad
dreams for thieves, criminals, and debtors,
since close at hand was the Fleet Prison, its
wards crowded with the careless, dio
lounged and jested, and the hopeless, who
sat in despair ; since but a hundred yards
from them stood the black and gloomy Newgate,

its condemned cells full of wretches no
Averse than themselves, waiting to be hanged,
its courts full of other wretches, no worse
than themselves, waiting to be tried, sentenced,
and cast for execution, and its gaol-fever
hanging over all alike, delivering the
wards from their prisoners, cheating the
hangman, hurrying to death judge, jury,
counsel, prisoner, and warders together. But
they never think upon such things, these
poor rogues ; each hopes that while his
neighbour is hanged, he will escape. They
cannot stop to think, they cannot turn back :
behind them is the devil driving them downwards
; before them, if they dare to lift their
eyes, the horrid machinery of justice with
pillory, whip, and gallows. Among them,
here and there, pretty boys and girls, lying
asleep side by side upon the hard wooden
stalls ; boys with curly hair and rosy faces,
girls with long eyelashes, parted lips, and
ruddy cheeks — pity, pity, that when they
woke they should begin again the only trade
they knew : to thieve, filch, and pick pockets,
with the reward of ducking, pumping, flogging,
and hanging.

So clear was the air, so bright the morning,
that what she saw was impressed upon
her memory clearly, so that she can never
foret it. The old men and old women are
dead ; the young men and women are, one
supposes, hanged; what else could be their
fate ? And as for the boys and girls, the
little rogues and thieves, who had no conscience
and took all, except the whippings, for
frolic, are any left still to sleep on hot nights
in that foul place, or are all hanged, whipped
at the cart-tail, burnt in the hand, or at best,
transported to labour under the lash in the
plantations ?

Sinner succeeds unto sinner as the year
follows year ; the crop of gallows fruit increases
day by day ; but the criminals do not
seem to become fewer.

HOW THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE MADE TWO WOMEN
PRISONERS.

One Sunday evening in the autumn, the
market being then quiet, the two ladies and
the girl sat round a fire of coal, talking
together by its light. The memories of the
sisters, by some accident, were carried back
to the past, and they told the child the story,
of which she already knew a part, how by a
great and crying injustice of the law, they
had been shut up in prison, for no fault of
their own, for nearly thirty years.

My father's eyes,' said Mrs. Deborah,
looking at the portrait over the fireplace,
seem to rest upon me to-night.'

Mrs. Esther shuddered.

It is a sign, sister,' she said, ' that something
will happen to us.'

Mrs. Deborah laughed a little bitterly. I
thought afterwards that the laugh was like
that of Sarah, because a thing did happen to
her, as will presently be seen.

Nothing,' she said, ' will happen to you
and to me any more, Esther, except more
pain and more starvation.'

patience, Deborah,' sighed Mrs. Esther.
We who have borne our captivity for nine-and-twenty
years '

And seven months,' said her sister.

Can surely bear it a little longer.'

We were girls when we came here,' said
Mrs. Deborah ; ^ girls who might have had
lovers and become mothers of brave sons —
not that you, Kitty, should let your thoughts
run on such matters. But there are no honest
lovers for honest girls in the Rules of the
Fleet.'

Lovers !' echoed Mrs. Esther, With a
heavy sigh. ' Mothers I with sons ! Ah,
no ! not for us.'

'We are old women now, sister. Well,
everything is short that hath an end. Let

us take comfort. To earthly prison is a
certain end appointed.'

We came to the gaol, sister,' continued
Mrs. Esther ; ^ two girls, weeping, hand-in-hand.
Poor girls ! poor girls ! My heart
bleeds to think of them, so young and so
innocent.'

^ We shall go out of it,' said her sister,
with tears of joy. They shall write upon
our tombstones, '^ These sisters thank God
for death." '

What fault, we asked — ah ! Deborah, how
often we asked it ! — w4iat fault had we
committed ? For what sin or crime of ours
did this ruin fall upon us f

I ask it still,' said Deborah the impatient.
I ask it every day. How can they call this
a land of justice, Avhen two innocent women
can be locked up for life 1'

My sister, we may not kick against the
pricks. If laws are unjust they must be
changed, not disobeyed.'

Mrs. Deborah replied by a gesture of impatience.


^ We were blessed with parents,' said Mrs.
Esther, half talking to herself, half to me,

VOL. I. 13

^ whose worth and piety were as eminent as
their lofty positions in the city. Our respected
father was Lord Mayor in the year 1716, when,
with our esteemed mother, "who was by birth a
Baldwin, and the grand-daughter of Sir Rowland
Balchin,also once Lord Mayor, he bad the
honour of entertaining his Highness Prince
George of Denmark. We were present at
that royal banquet in the gallery. Our father

was also, of course, an alderman '

^ Of Porfcsoken Ward,' said Mrs. Deborah.

And Worshipful Master of the Company
of Armour Scourers.'

And churchwarden of St. Dionis Back-church,'
said Mrs. Deborah.

Which he beautified, adding a gallery at
his own expense.'

^ And where, in 1718, a tablet was placed in
the wall to his memory added Mrs. Deborah.

And one to the memory of Esther, his
wife,' continued the elder sister, ^ who died in
the year 1719, so that we, being still minors,
unfortunately became wards of a merchant,
an old and trusted friend of our father.'

A costly friend he proved to us,' said
Mrs. Deborah.

Nay, sister, blame him not. Perhaps he
thought to multiply our fortunes tenfold. Then
came the year of 1720, when, by visitation of
the Lord, all orders and conditions of men went
mad, and we, like thousands of others, lost
our little all, and from rich heiresses of
twenty thousand pounds a piece — such,
Kitty, was then our enviable condition — became
mere beo^o^ar-oirls.'

Worse,' said Mrs. Deborah, grimly.
Beggar-wenches are not in debt ; they may
go and lay their heads where they please.'

^ We were debtors, but to whom I know
not ; we owed a large sum of money, but how
much I know not ; nor have ever been able
to understand how our guardian ruined us,
with himself I was twenty-two, and my
sister twenty one ; we were of age ; no one
could do anything for us ; needs must we
come to the Fleet and be lodged in prison.'

Esther !' cried her sister, shuddering ;
must we tell her all X

My child,' continued Mrs. Esther, ' we
suffered at first more than we dare to tell
you. There was then in charge of the prison
a wretch, a murderer, a man whose sins

13—2

towards me I have, I hope, forgiven, as is my
Christian duty. But his sins towards my
sister I can never forgive ; no, never. It is
not, I believe,' she said with more asperity
than I had ever before remarked in her — ' it
cannot be expected of any Christian woman
that she should forgive in a wicked man his
wickedness to others.'

^ That is my case,' said Mrs. .Deborah.
The dreadful cruelties of Bambridge, so far
as I am concerned, are forgiven. I cannot,
however, forgive those he inflicted upon you,
Esther. And I never mean to.'

This seemed at the moment an edifying
example of obedience to the divine law.
Afterwards the girl wondered whether any
person was justified in nourishing hatred
against another. And as to that, Bam-bridge
was dead ; he had committed suicide ;
he had gone where no human hate could
harm him.

Everyone knows that this man must have
been a most dreadful monster. He was the
tenant, so to speak, of the prison, and paid so
much a year for the privilege of extorting
what money he could from the unfortunate

debtors. He made them pay commitment
fees, lodofino' fees, and fees of all kinds, so
that the very entrance to the prison cost a
poor wretch sometimes more than forty
pounds. He took from the two ladies all the
money they had, to the last guinea ; he
threatened them with the same punishment
which he (illegally) inflicted on the unfortunate
men ; he would, he said, clap them
in irons, set them in tubs, put them in the
strong-room, which was a damp and dark and
filthy dungeon, not fit for a Turk ; he kept
their lives in continual terror of some new
misery : they had ever before their eyes the
spectacle of his cruelties to Captain ,
whom he lamed ; Captain Sinclair,
whom he confined until his memory was lost
and the use of his limbs ; Jacob Mended,
whom he kept locked up till he gave up
his uttermost farthing ; and Sir William
Rich, whom he slashed with a hanger and
beat with sticks because he could not pay
his lodofino\

And as everyone knows, Bambridge was
at last turned out through the exertions of
General Oglethorpe.

And how can I forget the generous band,
"Who, touched with human woe, redressing searched
Into the horrors of the gloomy gaol ]'

ewe endured these miseries,' continued
Mrs. Esther, ' for four years, when our cousin
was able to go security and pay the fees for
us to leave the dreadful place and enjoy the
Rules. Here, at least, we have some liberty,
though we must live among scenes of rudeness,
and see and hear daily a thousand
things Which a gentlewoman should be able
to escape and forget. Our cousin she went
on, after a pause, ' is not rich, and is able to do
little for us : he sends us from time to time,
out of his poverty, something for our necessities
: out of this we have paid our rent, and
being able sometimes to do some sewing-work,
we have lived, though but poorly.
Two women want but little : a penny will
purchase a dish of broth.'

It is not the poverty we lament,' said Mrs.
Deborah, sit is the place wherein we live.'

Then,' Mrs. Esther went on, ' Heaven
sent us a friend. My dear, be it known to
you, that had it not been for the doctor, we
had, ere now, been starved. He it was who

found us in hunger and cold : he fed us,
clothed us, and warmed us.'

^ To us, at least, he will always be the best
of men,' said Mrs. Deborah.

More than that, sister ; he hath brought
us this child to be our joy and comfort :
though God in His mercy forbid that your
young days should all be wasted in this
wicked place, which surely is the very
mouth '

Here they were interrupted by an uproar in
the street below us : a bawling and bellowing
of many men : they were bringing home the
baronet, who was already drunk. Among the
voices Kitty heard, and hung her head with
shame, the tones of her uncle, as clear and
sonorous as the great bell of St. Paul's.

They said nothing for a space. When all
was quiet again, and the brawlers had withdrawn,
Mrs. Esther spoke in her gentle way.

'A man's life doth, doubtless, seem to
himself different from what he seems to the
women who know him. We know not his
moments of repentance, his secret prayers,
or his temptations. Men are stronger than
women, and they are also Weaker : their

virtues are nobler : their vices are more
conspicuous. We must not judge, but
continue to think the best. I was saying,
my dear, when we were interrupted by the
brawling of Sabbath-breakers, that your
uncle, the worthy doctor, is the most kindhearted
and generous of men. For all that
he has done to us, three poor and defenceless
women, we have nothing to give in return
but our prayers. Let us give him these, at
least. May the Lord of all goodness and
mercy reward him, strengthen him, and
forgive him whatever frailties do beset him !'

HOW THE DOCTOR WAS AT HOME TO HIS FRIENDS.

If it be true (which doubtless will be
denied by no one) that women are fond of
changing their fashions and of pranking
themselves continually in some new finery, it
is certainly no less true that men — I mean
young ones — are for ever changing their
follies as well as their fashions. The follies
of old men — who ought to be grave, in contemplation
of the next world — seem to remain
the same : some of them practise gluttony :
some love the bottle : some of them the green
table : some, even more foolish, pretend to
renew their youth and counterfeit a passion
for our sex. As for the fashions of the
young men, one year it is the cocking of a
hat, the next it is the colour of a waistcoat,

the cut of a skirt, the dressing of a wig, the
ribbon behind must be lengthened or reduced,
the foretop must stick up like a horn one
year and he flat the next, the curls must be
amplified till a man looks like a monstrous
ram or reduced till he resembles a monkey
who has been shaved ; the savor must have
hilt and scabbard of the fashionable shape,
which changes every year ; it must be worn
at a certain angle ; the rule about the breadth
of the ruffle or the length of the skirt must
be observed. So that, even as regards their
fashions, the men are even with the women.
Where we cannot vie with them is in the
fashion of their amusements, in which they
change for ever, and more rapidly than we
change the colour of a ribbon. One season
Hanelagh is the vogue, the next Vauxhall ;
the men were, for a year or two, bitten by
that strange madness of scouring the streets
by night, upsetting constables, throwing
pence against window-panes, chasing belated
and peaceful passengers, shouting and bellowing,
waking from sleep timid and helpless
women and children. Could one devise a
braver and more noble amusement ? Another

time there was the mischievous practice of
man-hunting. It was thought the work of a
fine fellow, a lad of spirit, to lie hidden, with
other lads of spirit, in Lincoln's Inn Fields,
or some such quiet place, behind the bushes,
until there might pass by some unfortunate
wretch, alone and unprotected. Then would
they spring to their feet, shouting, ' That's
he ! that's he ! after him, boys !' and pursue
the poor man through the streets with drawn
swords and horrid cries, until, half dead, he
rushed into some tavern or place of refuge.
As for actors, singers, or dancers, they take
them hip for a season, and then abandon them
for no merit or fault in them whatever ; one
day they are all for Church, and the next
they applaud Orator Henley ; one day they
shout for Nancy Dawson, and the next for
Garrick ; one day they are Whig and the
next Tory ; one year they brandish thick
clubs, wear heavy greatcoats with triple
capes, swear, drink porter, and go like
common coachmen ; the next, with amber
canes, scented gloves, laced ruffles, flowered
silk waistcoats, skirts extended like a woman's
hooped petticoat, they amble along as if the

common air was too coarse for them, mince
their words, are shocked at coarse language,
and can drink nothing less fine than Rhenish
or Champagne, though the latter be seven
shillings and sixpence a flask ; and as for
their walk, they go on tip-toe like a city
madam trying to look like a gentlewoman.
The next year, again, they are all for Hockley-
in-the-Hole and bear-baiting. This year,
the fashion was for a short space, and among
such as could get taken there, to spend the
evenings in the E-ules of the Fleet, where,
the bloods of the town had discovered, was
to be found excellent company for such as
liked to pay for it, among those who had
been spent and ruined in the service of fashion,
gaming, and gallantry.

There are plenty of taverns and houses of
call in London where a gentleman may not
only call for what he pleases to order, but
may also be diverted by the jests aDcl songs
of some debauched, idle fellow who lies and
lops about all day, doing no work and earning
no money, but in the evening is ready to
sing and make merriment for a bowl of
punch. This rollicking, roaring blade, the

lad of mettle, was once a gentleman, perhaps,
or a companion to gentlemen. To him
nature, intending her worst, hath given a
reckless temperament, an improvident brain,
a merry laugh, a musical voice, a genius for
mimicry, of which gifts he makes such excellent
use that they generally lead him to
end his days in such a position. Men need
not, for certain, go to Fleet Market to find'
these buffoons.

Yet, within the Rules, there was an extraordinary
number of these careless vagabonds
always ready to enjoy the present hour could
some friend be found to pay the shot. In
the morning they roamed the place, leaned
against bulkheads, sat in doorways, or hid
themselves within doors, dejected, repentant,
full of gloomy anticipations ; in the evening
their old courage came back to them, they
were again jocund, light-hearted, the oracle
of the tavern, the jester and Jack-pudding of
the feast, pouring out songs from the collections
of Tom D' IJrfey, and jokes from Browne
and Ned Ward.

Many of the taverns, the Bishop Blaize,
for example, and the Rainbow, kept one or

two of these fellows in their regular employ.
They gave them dinner, with, as soon as the
guests arrived in the evening, liberty to call
for what they pleased. If the visitors treated
them, so much the better for the house ; but
there were, however, conditions, unwritten
but understood : they were never to be sad,
never grave, never to show the least signs of
repentance, reflection, or shame ; and they
were not to get drunk early in the evening,
or before the better sort of visitors, whose
entertainment they were to provide. Shameful
condition ! shameful servitude, for man
(who hath a soul to think of) to obey !

One has to confess with shame that among
the tavern buffoons, the professional Tom Fools
of the Fleet, were several of those clergymen
whose trade it was to make rash couples
wretched for life. This peculiarity, not to be
found elsewhere, provided, perhaps, a novelty
in vice which for a time made the Kules a
favourite resort of men about town : the knowledge
that the man who without a rag left of the
gravity belonging to his profession, laughed,
sang, and acted for the amusement of all
comers, should have borne himself as a grave

and reverend divine, gave point to his jest
and added music to his song. It is not everyday
that one sees a merry-andrew in full-bottomed
wig, bands, and flowing gown; it is
not in every tavern that one finds the Reverend
James Lands dancing a hornpipe in
clogs, or the Reverend William Flood bawling
a comic song while he grins through a
horse-collar. Xor could the wits find at the
coffee-houses of St. James's or Covent
Garden, or at any ordinary place of amusement,
a clergyman at the head of the table
ruffling: it with the best — albeit with tattered
gown and shabby wig — ready with jest more
profane, wit more irreverent, song and story
more profligate than any of the rest.

As for Dr. Shovel, it must not be supposed
that he was to be found in any of these
places.

^ What !' he was wont to cry, '■ should a
man of reputation, a scholar whose Latin
verses have been the delight of bishops and
the pride of his college, a clergyman of
dignity and eloquence, condescend to take
the pay of a common vintner, make merriment
for the company of a madhouse, hobnob with a

tradesmen's club, play buffoon for a troop of
Templarss, and crack jests for any ragamuffin
prentice with half-a-crown to call for a
bottle ? No, sir ! The man who would know
Dr. Gregory Shovel must seek him in his own
house, where, as a gentleman and a scholar,
he receives such as may be properly introduced
on every night of the year — Sundays excepted,
when he takes his drink, for the most
part, alone.'

In fact, his house was the chief attraction
of the Rules ; but access was only granted
to those who were brought b}^ his friends.
Once introduced, however, a man was free of
the house, and might not only come again as
often as he pleased, but bring other friends.
Now, as men prize most that which is least
easy to procure, whether they want it or not,
it became a distinction to have this right of
spending the evening in the Fleet Market.
A fine distinction, truly !

Those, however, who went there were not
unlikely to find themselves among a goodly
assemblage of wits and men of fashion. The
doctor played the host with the dignity of a
bishop, and the hospitality of a nobleman ;

chairs were set around the table, in that room
where he performed his daily marriages ; those
who came late could stand or send for a bench
from the market; Koger and William, the two
clerks, were in attendance to go and fetch the
punch which the doctor or his guests provided
for the entertainment of all. Tobacco was
on the table ; the doctor was in the chair, his
long pipe in his mouth, his great head leaning
back, his eyes rolling as he talked, before him
his glass of punch. He was no buffoon ; he
did not cut capers, nor did he dance, nor
did he sing Tom D'Urfey's songs, nor did ho
quote Ned Yard's jokes. If the company
laughed, it was at one of his own stories, and
when he sang, the words were such as might
have been heard in any gentlewoman's parlour,
and the music was Arne's, Bull's, Lilly's, or
Carey's. E-ound him were poets, authors,
scholars, lawyers, country gentlemen, and
even grave merchants ; some of them Avere
out at elbows, threadbare, and sometimes
hungry, but they were as welcome as the
richer sort who paid for the punch. The
younger men came to listen to one who was
notorious for his impudent defiance of the
VOL. I. 14

law, and was reported to possess excellent
gifts of conversation and of manner. The
elder men came to look upon a man unabashed
in his disgrace, idiom they had
known the favourite of the town.

^ All the world,' Sir Miles Lackington told
me, ^ ran after Dr. Shovel when he was a
young man and evening lecturer at St.
Martin's-in-the-Fields ; never was clergyman
more popular in the world or in the pulpit ;
what was to be looked for when such a young
man spent his morning With great ladies, who
cried, ^' Oh, sweet sir ! oh, reverend sir !
how eloquent, how gracious are your words 1"
but that he should see within reach promise
of preferment, and run into debt to maintain
a fine appearance and a fine lodging '?'

The fine ladies had gone ofi" after other
favourite divines ; their promises were forgotten
; they had listened to other voices as
musical, and bowed their heads before other
divines as pious. The debts were unpaid —
the doctor in the Rules. He possessed no
longer the wonderful comeliness with which
he had stolen away the hearts of women, he
preached no more in any pulpit ; but his old

dignity was left, with his eloquence and his
wit. He who had charmed women now
attracted men.

Fie !' he would say ; ' remind me not of
that time. I was once the pet and plaything
of ladies, a sort of lapdog to be carried
in their coaches : a lackey in a cassock, with
my little store of compliments, pretty sayings,
and polite maxims : my advice on patches,
powder, and Eau de Chypre : my family
prayers : my grace before meat : my sermons
on divine right and the authority of the
Church ; and my anecdotes to make my lady
laugh and take the cross looks out of little
miss's dimpled cheeks. And, gentlemen,
withal a needy curate, a poor starveling, a
pauper with never a guinea, and a troop of
debts which would not disgrace a peer.

Whereas,' he would continue, ' here I live
free of duns and debt : the countesses may
go hang : I look for no more patrons : I expect
no beggarly preferment ; I laugh at my
ease, while my creditors bark but cannot
bites

To those who objected that in former times
he preached to the flock, and that his elo-

14—2

quench was now as good as lost to the Church,
he replied that, as Chaplain of the Fleet, he
preached daily, whereas formerly he had
preached but once a week, which was a clear
gain for righteousness.

What I would you have me send forth
my newly married lambs without a word of
exhortation beyond the rubric ? Nay, sir ;
that were to throw away the gift of speech,
and to lose a golden occasion. None leave
my chapel of ease unless fortified and exhorted
to virtue by such an admonition as
they have never before enjoyed

One evening in October, when the summer
was over and the autumn already set in, the
doctor sat as usual in his arm-chair. Before
him stood his tobacco-box, and beside it lay
his pipe. As yet, for it was but eight o'clock,
there was no punch. Four great wax candles
stood lighted on the table, and in the door-away
were the two impudent varlet, Avhom
he called his clerks, leaning against the posts,
one on either hand.

There was but one visitor as yet. He was
a young Templar, almost a boy, pale and
thai because of his late hours and his excesses.

And the doctor was admonishing him, being
at the time in a mood of repentance, or rather
of virtue.

Young man he said, ' I have observed
thee, and made inquiry among thy friends
regarding thy conduct, which resembles, at
present, that of the prodigal son while revelling
in his prodigality. Learn from this
place and the wretches who are condemned
to live in it, the end of profligacy. What
the words of Solomon have hitherto been
powerless to teach, let the Chaplain of the
Fleet enforce. The wellspring of wisdom is
as a flowing: brook, says the Wise Man. Yet
ye drink not of that stream. Also he saith
that Wisdom crieth at the gates, at the entry
of the city. But ye regard not. He hath
told ye how the young man, void of understanding,
falls continually into the pit of
destruction. But ye heed not. The drunkard
and the glutton, he hath declared, shall come
to poverty. Ye listen not, but continue to
eat and to drink. Wherefore, young man,
look around thee and behold this place. We
who are here sit among wine-bibbers and
spendthrifts : we have not in our comings

and goings — but, alas ! we never go — any
gracious paths of pleasantness : we go never
among the meadows to breathe the air of
buttercups and to ponder on the divine
wisdom : we Hasten perpetually to the cackle
of fools, the braying of asses, whom we could
indeed wish to be wild and on their native
Asiatic plains ; and the merriment of madmen,
which is like unto the crackling of
thorns beneath the pot : wee have —-though
our sins are multitudinous as the moments —
no time nor opportunity for repentance : and
even if we did repent, there is no way out
for us, no escape at all, but still we must
remain among;" the wicked until we die. Even
the Christian priest, who finds himself (through
thoughtlessness over money matters, being
continually occupied with higher things)
brought hither, must leave the ways which are
right, and cleave unto those which are wrong.
It is only by lying, bullying, and swearing,
that money (by which we live) is drawn here
out of the purses of silly and unwary people.
Granted that we draw it. What boots it if
one's rogues bring in a hundred couples in a
month ? The guineas melt away like snow

in the sunshine and nothing remains but the
evil memory of the sins by which they were
gotten

The Templar, astonished at such a sermon
from such a man, hung his head abashed.
He came to drink and be merry, and lo ! an
exhortation to virtue. While the doctor was
yet speaking, there came a second visitor —
no other than Mr. Stallabras, the poet, who
came, his head erect, his hand thrust in his
bosom, as if fresh from an interview with the
Muses. The doctor regarded him for a moment,
as one in a pulpit might regard a late-comer
who disturbed his sermon, and went on
with his discourse :

This is a place, young man, where gnashing
of teeth may be heard day and night by
him who has ears to hear, and who knows
that the sounds of riot and merriment are but
raised to drown despair : to him every song
is a throb of agony, every jest rings in his
ears like a cry of remorse : we are in a prison,
though we seem to be free ; we are laid by
the heels, though we are said to enjoy the
Liberties of the Fleet ; we live and breathe
like our fellows, but we have no hope for the

rest of our lives ; we go not forth, though
the doors are open ; we are having monuments,,
that fooHsh youth may learn by our luckless
fate to avoid the courses which have brought
us hither. Wherefore, young men, beware I
Dispute justitia month.'

He paused awhile, and then continued :
Yet we should not be pitied, because, forsooth,
we do but lie in the beds that we have
chosen. No other paradise save a heaven
of gluttony would serve our turn. In the
Garden of Eden, should we pera venture and
by some singular grace win thither, we should
instantly take to wallowing in the mud and
enjoying the sunshine : some of us would sit
among the piastres in happy conversation
and friendship with the swine : some would
creep downstairs and bask among the saucepans
before the kitchen fire : some would lie
among the bottles and casks in the cellar. Not
for such as have come here are the gardens,
the streams the meadows, and the hilltops.'

Then came two more guests, whom he
saluted gravely. These were accustomed to
the doctor's moods, and sat down to the
table, waiting in silence. He, too, became

silent, sitting with his head upon his hand.
Then came others, who also found the doctor
indisposed for mirth. Presently, however, he
banged the table with his fist, and cried out
in those deep tones which he could use so
well :

^ Come, life is short. Lamenting lengthens
not our days. Brothers, let us drink and
sing. Koger, go bring the bowl. Gentlemen
all, be welcome to this poor house.
Here is tobacco. Punch is coming. The
night is young. Let every man be merry.'

The room was half full : there were, besides
the residents and lodgers of the place, young-lawyers
from the Temple, Gray's Inn, and
Lincoln's Inn ; poets not yet in limbo ;
authors Who were still able to pay for their
lodgings ; young fellows whose creditors
Avere still forbearing ; and a few whose rich
coats and lace betokened their rank and
wealth.

The evening' beo^an, the doctor's voice loud
above all the rest. Half an hour afterwards,
when the air of the room was already heavy
with tobacco-smoke. Sir Miles Lackington, who
usually came with the earliest, arrived, bringing

with him a young gentleman of twenty-two
years or thereabouts, who was bravely
dressed in a crimson coat, lined with white
silk : he had also a flowered silk waistcoat
and the hilt of his sword was set with jewels.
He was, in fact, one of those gentlemen who
were curious to see this jovial priest, self-styled
Chaplain of the place Avhere there were
so many parsons, who set the laws of the
country at defiance with an audacity so
splendid. He looked surprised, as if he had
not expected so large an assembly.

'Follow me, my lord,' said the baronet,
whose jolly face was already flushed, and his
voice already thick with wine. ' Come, my
lord, let us get nearer the doctor. Gentlemen,
by your leave : will you make place for
his lordship % Doctor, this gentleman is none
other than the young Lord Chudleigh, who
hath heard of your eloquence and your learning,
and greatly desires your better acquaintance.
Rascal Roger, chairs for my lord and
myself !'

He pushed his way through the crowd,
followed by his guest. The doctor turned
his head, half rose ; his melancholy mood

had passed away : he was in happy vein : he
had sung one or two songs in a voice which
might have been heard at Temple Bar : he
had taken two or three glasses of punch, and
smoked a pipe and a half of the best Virginian;
he was in the paradise which he
loved. Yet when Sir Miles Lackington
spoke, when he named his guest, the doctor's
face became suddenly pale, he seemed to
totter, his eyes glared, and he caught at the
arm of his chair, as if about to be stricken
with some kind of fit. His friends, who had
never seen those ample and rubicund cheeks
other than of a glowing ruddiness, were
greatly terrified at this phenomenon.

The doctor is ill cried Solomon Stalls
starting to his feet. ' Give air — open
the windows — let us carry the doctor into
the street !'

But he recovered.

It is nothing,' he said, ' A sudden faintness.
The day has been close. Let no one
move.' He drank off his glass of punch :
the colour came back to his face and the
firmness to his leo^s. ' I am well ao^ain. Sir
Miles, you are always welcome. Were the

Liberties peopled with such as you, we should
be well sped indeed. Quick with the chairs,
Koger. I rejoice to see your lordship in this
poor house of mine. Had other noblemen of
your lordship's rank but kept their word, I
should this day have welcomed you in the
palace of a bishop. Forget, my lord, that I
am not a bishop : be assured that if I cannot
bestow the episcopal absolution and benediction
which he of London hath ever ready fora
nobleman, my welcome is worthy of a
prelate, and the punch not to be surpassed
even at Lambeth Palace. Sir Miles, you
forgot, I think, to make me acquainted with
his lordship's noble name.'

I am the Lord Chudleigh,' said the young
man, doubtfully, and with a pleasing blush.

Again, your lordship is welcome,' said
the doctor. '■ In the old days when I was
young and able to stir abroad in the world,
without a creditor in every street and a
vindictive dun in every shop (whose revenge
in this my confinement has only brought
lamentation on every mother's son, because
they remain all unpaid), it was my privilege
to be much with your noble father. In truth,
I knew not that he was dead.'

My father died two years ago at his
country house.'

Indeed !' The doctor gravely gazed in
his guest's face, both still standing. ^ Is that
really so ? But we who live in this retirement
hear little news. So Lord Chudleigh
is dead. I went ujDon the Grand Tour with
him. I was his tutor, his companion, his
friend, as he was kind enough to call me ;
he was two years younger than myself, but
our tastes were common, and what he bought
I enjoyed and often chose. There came a
time when — but your lordship is young — you
know not yet how rank and class separate
friends, how the man of low birth may trust
his noble friend too much, and he of rank
may think the decalogue written for the
vulgar. Your father is dead ! I had hoped
to see him if but once more, before he died :
it was not to be. I would have written to
him upon his deathbed had I known : I owed
him much — very much more than I could
hope to repay, yet would I have repaid something.
Your father died suddenly, my lord,
or after painful illness V

^ He died, Dr. Shovel, after a long and
very painful illness.'

^ Why, there,' cried the doctor as if
disappointed. ^ Had I only known there
would have been time for half-a-dozen
letters. I would I had been with him
myself

It is kind of you, sir,' said his lordship,
thus to speak of my father.'

Did he — but I suppose he had forgotten —
did he condescend to speak of me '?'

Never; replied Lord Chudleigh ; ' at least
not to me.'

^ There were certain passages in his life,' the
doctor went on, thoughtfully, ^ of such a kind
as recur to the memory of sick and dying
men, when the good and evil deeds of our
lives stand arrayed before us like ministering
spirits and threatening demons. Certain
passages, I say, which were intimately associated
with myself Indeed, it cannot be
that they entirely perished from his lordship's
memory. Since he spoke not of them, let
me not speak. I am sorry, my lord, to have
saddened you by thus recalling the thought
of your dead father.'

Nay, sir,' said Lord Chudleigh, ' to have
met so old a friend of my father s is a pleasure

I did not expect. I humbly desire, sir, your
better acquaintance.'

The company during this long talk were
mostly standing. It was no new thing to
meet a man of rank at the doctor's, but altogether
new to have the conversation assume
so serious a tone. Everyone felt, however,
that the dignity of the doctor was greatly
increased by this event.

Then the doctor waved his hand, and resumed
his cheerful expression.

^ Gentlemen,' he said, ' be seated all, I pray.
My lord, your chair is at my right. Enough
of the past. We are here to enjoy the
present hour, which is always with us and
always flying from us. We crown it with
flowers and honour it with libations : we sino
its presence with us : we welcome its coming,
and speed its parting with wine and song.
So far are we pagans : join with us in these
heathen rites wherein we rejoice in our life
and forget our mortality. None but poets are
immortal. Solomon — Solomon Stallabras, the
modern Apollo, the favourite of the Nine, we
drink your health and wish the long deferring
of your immortality. Let us drink, let us

talk, let us be merry, let us while away the
rosy hours.' He banged the table with his fist
and set the glasses clinking Then he filled
a glass with punch and handed it to Lord
Chudleigh. ' As for you, Sir Miles he said,
you may help yourself. Ah, tippler ! the
blush of the bottle is already on thy cheeks
and its light is in thy eyes. Wherefore, be
moderate at the outset. Koger, thou villain,
go order another bowl, and after that more
bowls, and still more bowls. I am athirst :
I shall drink continually : I shall become this
night a mere hogshead of punch. So will all
this honourable company ; bid the vintner beware
the lemon and be sparing of the sugar, but
liberal with the clove and the nutmeg. This
night shall be such a night as the Rules have
never before seen. Pain, rogue, run !' Koger
vanished. ' Let me sing you, my lord, a
song of my youth when nymphs and
shepherdesses ran in my head more than
Hebrew and theology.'

He sang in his rich, full, and musical
voice, the following ditty :

Cried the nymph, while her swain.
Sought for phrases in vain,
*' Ah, Corydon, let me a shy lover teach ;

Your flowers and rings,
Your verses and things,
Are pretty, but dumb, and I love a bold speech.

*' To dangle and sigh,

To stammer and cry,
Such foolishness angers us maidens in time :

And if you would please,

Neither tremble nor tease.
But remember to woo us with laughter and rhyme.

" Go, hang up thy crook,

Change that sorrowful look,
And seek merry rhymes and glad sayings in verse :

Remember that Kitty,

Rhymes still unto pity,
And Polly takes folly for better or worse.

'come jocund and gay,

As the roses in May,
With a rolling leg and a conquering smile :

Forget not that mirth

Ever rhymes unto worth.
And lucky the lover who laughs all the while." '

^ I wrote the song,' said the doctor, when
it was the fashion to be sighing at the feet
of Chloe. Not that my song produced any
impression on the fashion. Pray, my lord,
is it the custom, nowadays, to woo with a
honos face and a mournful sisfh ?'

VOL. I. 15

Lord Chudleigh laughed and put the
question by.

What do women care for lovers' sighs ?
I believe, gentlemen, they like to be carried
by assault. Who can resist a brave fellow,
all fire and passion, who marches to the
attack with a confident laugh and a gallant
bearings % It is the nature of the sex to admire
gallantry. Therefore, gentlemen, put
on your best ruffles, cock your hats, tie your
wigs, settle the angle of your swords, and on
with a hearty countenance.

I remember, being then in Constantinople,
and at a slave-market where Circassians were
to be bought, there came into the place as
handsome a young Turk as ever you might
wish to set eyes upon. Perhaps he was a
poet, because when he had the slaves brought
out for his inspection, at sight of the prettiest
and youngest of them all, he fell to sighing
just like an English gentleman in love. Presently
there came in an old ruffler of fifty,
who, without any sighs or protestations,
lugged out his purse and bought the slave,
and she went off delighted at having fetched so
good a price and pleased so resolute a fellow.'

The doctor continued to pour forth stories
of adventure and experience, interspersed
with philosophical maxims. He told of
courts and cities as he saw them in the year
1720, which was the year in which he made
the Grand Tour with the late Lord Chud-
leigh. He told old tales of Cambridge life.
While he talked the company listened, drank,
and smoked ; no one interrupted him. Meanwhile
he sent the punch about, gave toasts —
with every glass a toast, with every toast a
full 2rlass — and swore that on such a niofht no
one should pay but himself, wherefore let
every man fill up.

Come, gentlemen, we let the glasses flag.
I will sing you another song, written for the
good old days of Tom D'Urfey, Avhen men
were giants, and such humble topers as ourselves
would have met with scant respect.


Come all you honest topers, lend an ear, lend an ear,
While we drain the bowl and push the bottle round,
bottle round ;
"We are merry lads, and cosy, cosy here, cosy here ;

Though outside the toil and moil may resound, may
resound.

15—2

Let us drink reformation to mankind, to mankind ;

Example may they follow from our ways, from our
ways :
And whereas to their follies they are blind, they are
blind,
Their eyes may they open to their craze, to their craze.

For the miser all day long hugs his gold, hugs his gold ;

And the lover for his mistress ever sighs, ever sighs :
And the parson wastes his words upon his fold, upon his
fold ;
And the merchant to the ledger glues his eyes, glues
his eyes.

Eut we wrangle not, but laugh, while we drink, while we

drink ;
And we envy no man's happiness or wealth, or his

wealth :
"VVe rest from toil and cease from pen and ink, pen and

ink ;
And we only pray for liquor and for health, and for

health.

Then the miser shall, like us, call for wine, call for wine :

And the lover cry for lemon and the bowl, and the

bowl :
And the merchant send his clerks for brandy fine,

brandy fine ;
And the parson with a bottle soothe his soul, soothe

his soul.

'And the rogue shall honest grow, o'er a glass, o'er a glass ;
And the thief shall repent beside a keg, beside a keg :
And enmity to friendship quickly pass, quickly pass ;
While good fellows each to others drink a peg, drink
a peg.

'All kill-joy envies then shall disappear, disappear;

Contented shall we push the bottle round, bottle round ;
Por 'tis cosy, topers all, cosy here, cosy here ;

Though outside the toil and moil may resound, may
resound.'

Thus did the doctor stimulate his guests
to drink. As the night wore on, one by one
dropped away : some, among whom were Sir
Miles, dropped asleep ; a few lay upon the
floor. As for Lord Chudleigh, the fiery
liquor and the fumes of the tobacco were
mounting to his brain, but he was not, like
the rest, overpowered. He would have got
up and gone away, but that the doctor's
voice, or his eyes, held him to his place.

I am thinking,' said the doctor with a
strange smile, ' how your father at one time
might have rejoiced to think that you should
come here. The recollection of his services
to me must have soothed his last moments.
Would that I could repay them !'

Lord Chudleigh assured him that, so far
as he knew, there was nothing to repay, and
that, if there had been, his father's wish
would certainly have been to forgive the
debt.

He could not forgive the debt,' said the
doctor, laughing. ^ It was not in his power.
He would have owned the debt. It was not
money, however, but a kindness of quite
another sort.'

Then said Lord Chudleigh, prettily
bowing, ' let me thank you beforehand, and
assure you that I shall be proud to receive
any kindness in return that you may have an
opportunity to show me.'

Believe me, my lord,' said the doctor, * I
have the will, if not the power : and I shall
not forget the will, at least.'

*It is strange,' he continued, 'that he never
spoke about his younger days. Lord Chud-
leigh attracted to himself, between the age of
five-and-twenty and thirty, the friendship
and respect of many men, like myself, of
scholarship and taste, without fortune. He
with his friends was going to supply that defect,
a promise which circumstances prevented
him from fulfilling. The earthen
vessel swims merrily, in smooth water, beside
the vessel of brass ; when a storm rises
it breaks to atoms. We were the earthen
vessels, he the brazen ; we are all broken

to atoms and cyrouncl beneath the heel I,
who almost alone survive, though sunk as
low as any, am yet not the least miserable,
and can yet enjoy the three great blessings
of humanity in this age — T mean tobacco,
punch, and the Protestant religion. Yet one
or two of the earthenware pots survive :
Judge Tester, for instance, a fellow whose
impudence has carried him upwards. He
began by being a clown born and bred.
First he was sent to the Inns of Court,
where he fell into a red waistcoat and velvet
breeches, and so into vanity. Impudence, I
take it, is the daughter of Vanity. As for
the rest, a few found their way to this classic
region, on which Queen Elizabeth from the
Gate of Lud looks down with royal benignity;
but these are gone and dead. One, I know,
took to the road, and is now eno^aofed in
healthful work upon a Plantation of Maryland
; two were said to have joined the
Waltham Blacks, and lived like Robin
Hood, on venison shot in the forest, and
other luxuries demanded of wayfarers pistol
in hand ; one I saw not long ago equipped asa
small-coal man in blue surplice, his

shoulder laden with his wooden tinder, and
his measure twisted into the mouth of his
sack ; another, a light-weight and a younger
son, became a jockey, and wore the leathern
cap, the cut bob, the buff breeches, and the
fustian frock, till he was thrown and broke
his neck. I laugh when I think of what an
end hath come to all the greatness of those
days. To be sure, my lord paid for all and
promised future favours ; but we were fine
gentlemen on nothing, connoisseurs with,
never a guinea, dilettanti who could not pay
for the very eye-glasses we carried. In the
province of love and gallantry every man
beggar as he was, thought himself a perfect
Ordinates. We sang with taste ; we were
charming men, nonpareil. We had the
tastes of men of fortune ; we talked as if
the things we loved were within our reach ;
we dreamed of pictures, bronzes, busts, intaglios,
old china, or Etruscan paternal. And
we had the vices of the great as well as their
tastes. Like them we drank ; like them we
diced ; like them we played all night at
brag, all-fours, teetotum, tussle-cup, chuck-farthing,
hazard, lansquenet. So we lived.

and so we presently found the fate of earthen
vessels. Heaven hath been kinder to some
of us than we deserve. Wherefore, gentlemen,
drink about.' Here the doctor looked
round him. ' Gentlemen, I perceive that I
have been for some time talking to a sleeping
audience. Koger, pour me out another glass.
Swine of Circe, I drink to your headaches in
the morning. Now, lads, turn all out.'

HOW THE DOCTOR DISMISSED HIS FRIENDS.

Those of the guests who had not already
departed, were sitting or lying asleep upon
the floor or on the chairs. The last to succumb
had been Lord Chudleigh, not because
his was the strongest head, but because he had
drunk the least and struggled the hardest not
to fall a victim to the punch. Sir Miles had
long since sunk peacefully upon the floor,
where he lay in oblivion, one of the men
having loosened his cravat to prevent the
danger of apoplexy. Solomon Stallabras,
among whose vices was not included the love
of strong drink, was one of the earliest to
depart ; the young Templar whom the doctor
exhorted to virtue early in the evening,
was now lying curled up like a child in the

Corner, his virtuous resolutions, if he had
ever formed any, forgotten. Others there
were, but all were credulous, stupid, senseless,
or asleep.

The doctor stood over his victims, victorious.
He had taken, singly, more punch
than any three of them together ; yet there
they all lay helpless, while he was steady of
head and speech ; it was past two o'clock in
the morning ; the candles, low now, and
nearly spent, burned dim in the thick, 
air ; the walls were streaming
with the heat generated by the presence of
so many men and so much drink. Roger,
with the red nose and pale cheeks, still stood
stolidly at the door, waiting for the half-finished
bowl and the last orders ; beside him,
his fellow-lackey and clerk William.

'Turn all out, Roger,' said the doctor.

^ Aye, sir,' said Roger.

Both men addressed themselves to the
task. They were accustomed to turn out
their master's guests in this fashion. First,
they lifted the fallen form of Sir Miles, and
bore him carefully to his lodging ; then they
carried out the young Templar and the others

who lay snoring upon the floor, and deposited
them upon the stalls of the market outside,
where the fresh air of the night might be
expected to restore them speedily.

Meanwhile, Roger and William, for their
better protection, would themselves watch
over them until such time as they should
awake, rise, and be ready to be led home
With tottering step and rolling gait, for such
reward as the varlet might demand.

The doctor's clerks had a hard life. They
began to tout on Ludgate Hill and the Fleet
Bridge at eight ; they fought for their couples
all the morning with other touts ; in the
evening, they waited on the doctor s guests ;
at midnight, they bore them into the market ;
there they watched over them till they could
be taken home. A hard and difficult service.
But there were few of the men about the
Fleet who did not envy a situation so well
paid ; indeed, one cannot but admire the
hardness of men to whom a daily fight, with
constant black eyes, broken teeth, and bleeding
noce, appears of such slight importance
in the day's work, as not to be taken into
account.

There remained Lord Chiidleigh, who had
fallen asleep in his chair, and was the last.

As for this young gentleman, Roger,' said
the doctor, ' carry him upstairs and lay him
upon my bed ; he is of different stuff Do
not wake him, if you can help it.'

Nothing but an earthquake or an explosion
of gunpowder could have awakened the young
man, so senseless and heavy was he. They
bore him up the stairs, the doctor following ;
they took off his boots, his coat, and waistcoat,
put on him the doctor's nightcap, and
laid him in the bed.

All finished, the doctor bade them drink
off the rest of the punch, and begone.

The doctor, left quite alone, opened the
windows and doors, and stepped out into the
market. At two o'clock on a cold October
morning, even that noisy place is quiet ; a
west wind had driven away the smoke, and
the sky was clear, glittering with innumerable
stars. The doctor threw open his arms and
took a deep breath of the cold air, standing
with his wig off, so that the wind mio^it
freshen his brain. Before him he saw, but
he took no heed, the helpless forms of his

guests, lying on the stalls ; beside them sat,
wrapped in heavy coats, his two serving-men,
looking like vultures ready to devour their
prey, but for fear of their master, who would
infallibly cause them to be hanged.

After a few minutes in the open air, the
doctor returned to his room ; he was sober,
although he had taken enough punch to make
ten men drunk ; and steady of hand, although
he had smoked so much tobacco ; but the
veins on his face stood out like purple
cords, his eyes were bloodshot, his great lips
were trembling*.

He did not go to bed, but lit a fresh pair of
candles, and sat in his chair thinking.

His thoughts carried him back to sometime
of trouble, for he presently reached out
his hand, seized his tobacco-pipe, and crushed
it in fragments ; then he took the glass from
which he had been drinking, and crushed
that, too, in his great strong fingers.

I knew not,' he murmured, ' that the
villain was dead. If I had known that he
Alas ill, I should have gone to see him, if
only to remind him, with a curse, of the past.
He is dead ; I can never curse him face to

face, as I hoped to do. I did not think that
he would die before me ; he seemed stronger,
and he was younger. I looked to seek him
out at any time, when I wanted a holiday, or
when I wanted a diversion. I thought I
would take him in his own house, and show
him, in such words as only I can command,
how mean a creature he was, and what a
treacherous' cur. Now he is dead. He actually
never will be ]punished at all.'

This reflection caused him the greatest
sadness. He shook his head as he thought
it over.

^ It is not,' he said to himself, ' that I
wished to be revenged on him (though doubtless,
as men are but frail, that desire entered
somewhat into my hopes), so much as that I
saw in him a man who, above most men, deserved
to be punished. I break the law daily,
incurring thereby the penalty of a hundred
pounds, which I never pay, for each offence.
Yet truly am I less burdened in my conscience
than should have been this Lord Chudleigh.
And he hath died in honour. In this world
one man steals a pig, and receives the approbation
of his kind ; another looks over a wall,

and is clapped in gaol for it ; one man slaughters
a thousand, and is made a duke ; another
kills one, and is hanged. I am in prison,
who never did anything against the law until
I came here, nor harmed any except my
creditors. My lord, who thought the ten
commandments made for creatures of baser
blood, and the round world, with all that
therein is, only created for his own insatiable
appetite, lives in honour and dies — what can
I tell ? — perhaps in grace ; fortified, at least,
with the consolations of the Church and the
benedictions of his chaplain. So all things
seem matter of chance. As Solomon Stalls
says, in one of his fables :

" We little flies who buzz and die,
Should never ask the reason why." '

He yawned ; then, struck with a sudden
thought, he took one of the candles and
softly mounted the stairs. Shading the light
with his hand, he looked upon the face of the
young man sleeping on his bed. A handsome
young man, with regular features strongly
marked, delicate lips, and pointed chin.

^ Truly,' said the doctor, ^ a youth of great

beauty. Another David. He is more
handsome than his father, even in those
young days when he caressed me to my ruin,
and led me on with promises to my undoing.
Yet he hath the trick of the Chudleigh hp,
and he hath his father's nose. Would that
his father were alive, and that it was he and
not his son lying here at my mercy! The
son is something : out of regard to his
whither s memory, he shall not get off scotfree.
But what is to be done ? There is
nothing, I think, that I would not do ' — his
red face grew purple as he thought of his
wrongs — ' were his father livings, and could I
make him feel through his son. Nothing, I
believe. As I am a Christian man, if my
lord were alive this day, I think I could tie
a stone round the boy's neck and chuck him
into the Fleet Ditch at Holborn Bridge.
And yet, what a poor and miserable thing
to do I A moment of brutal satisfaction in
thinking of the father's agony — an eternity of
remorse. But his father is dead ; he cannot
feel at all any more, whatever I do. If I
could' — his face grew dark again, and he
ground his teeth — ^ I believe I could drag
VOL. I. 16

the boy downwards, little by little, and
destroy his very soul, to make his father
suffer the more

He gasped and caught his breath.

^ Why,' he murmured, ^ what is this ? It
is well for men that they are not led into
temptation. This young lord hath fallen
into my hands. Good. What shall I do
with him % He knows nothings. Yet he
must suffer something. It is the law. Weare
all under the law. For the third and
fourth generation — and he is only the first
generation. His children and his grandchildren
will have to suffer after him. It is not
my fault. I am clearly carrying out the law.
He is providentially led here, not that I may
take revenge upon the son of my enemy for
his father's Avrong, but that he might receive
chastisement at my hands, being those of the
fittest person, even as Solomon was chosen
to slay both Joab and Shine. What then
shall I do ? The Reverend Gregory Shovel
cannot murder the boy ; that would be the
common, vulgar thought of a Fleet Market
butcher or a hodman. Murder ? A nauseous
thought.'

He took up the candle and stole noiselessly
down the stairs, as if the thought had driven
him from the place.

When he was back in his own room he
began to walk up and down, thinking.

He is but a boy he said, ' a handsome
boy ; 'twould be a sin to harm him. Yet,
being sent here as he is, in a way that can
be no other than providential, 'twould be a
sin to let him go. How if I make him pay
all my debts, and so leave the Liberties and
live respectably ever after ? Respectably !'
he laughed a little. 'Why, who would
believe that the great Dr. Shovel could be
respectable ? The mud of this place, this
dwelling beside a ditch, hath entered into my
soul as the iron of the chains entered into
the soul of the prisoner. My name is too
deeply daubed with the Fleet mud ; it cannot
be cleansed. And should I give up my
place ? Should I leave to another the honour
I have won and the income I make therefrom
\ Shall there be another Chaplain of
the Fleet while I survive ? No ; that will
never do. How could I live away from this
room wherein I wallow day and night ?

16—2

Here am I at mine ease ; here I get wealth ;
I cannot leave this place.*

He was in great perplexity. He wandered
up and down ; hoAvas torn between his wrath
against the father and his consciousness that
it would be a mean and dreadful villainy to
take revenge upon the son.

I must have taken too much punch he
said, ' thus to be agitated. Punch, like wine,
is a mocker, strong drink is raging." The
Christian should forgive ; the father is dead ;
the lad is a handsome lad and may be good.
Besides, whatever I do to the boy, his sire
will neither know nor feel. I might as well
suppose that the legs and heads on Temple
Bar feel what is said about them below. I
am a fool ; yet am I but a man. For such
a crime even a saint would feel a righteous
wrath. Yet it is cowardly to take revenge
upon the son, the committer of the crime
having gone to his own place. Yet he in that
man's son. What then to do ?

He turned the question over a thousand
times, yet found no answer. At last a
thought came to him. He nodded his head
and laughed aloud. Then he sought his armchair,

adjusted his ample gown so as to get
the greatest amount of comfort out of it,
placed his feet upon a stool, and folded his
arms.

I have taken at least a quart of punch
more than is good for me. That is most
certain. Otherwise I should have known at
once what I should do. I have actually forgotten
the peculiarities of my own position.
Which shows that I am neither so young nor
so strong as I have been. Perhaps the system
wants a fillip. I will take a dose of
Norway tar water tomorrow. But first, my
lord, you shall find out, early in the morning,
why T am called the Chaplain of the Fleet.'

HOW KITTY EXECUTED THE DOCTORS REVENGE.

The doctor seldom transacted business before
nine o'clock in the morning, unless, as
sometimes happened, a spirited apprentice, a
lad of mettle, came with his master's daughter,
both stealing away at seven, before the
master and mistress were up, when she was
supposed to be attending morning prayers
at church, or helping Molly the maid with
the mop, and he was expected to be cleaning
out the shop and dressing the window. The
ceremony over, they would go home again,
but separately, young miss carrying her
Prayer-book before her as demure as a kitten,
looking as if she had never heard of a Fleet
marriage, and was ignorant of the great
Dr. Shovel, chaplain, yea, bishop of that

place ; while the boy, with brush and
broom and watering-can, would be zealously
about his master's work when that poor
man — his morning dish of chocolate or pint
of small ale despatched — appeared in the
shop for the conduct of the day's affairs.
Afterwards they could choose their own
time for declaring what had been done.
Thus did the doctor make or mar the fortunes
of many a bold prentice-boy.

This morning the doctor awoke from sleep
at seven or thereabouts, having in four hours
slept off the punch and tobacco in his armchair.
His face became almost benign in its
thoughtful kindliness as he remembered the
guest lying asleep upstairs, and what he was
about to do for him. He rose, shook himself,
opened the windows and doors, and went out
into the market, still in his nightcap, carrying
his wio^ in one hand and his silk handkerchief
in the other.

The market was already crowded with
purchasers, principally those dio buy a
barrowful of fruit and vegetables, and bawl
through the streets until all is sold. But
there was a good sprinkling of maids and

housewives buying provisions for the day.
The morning was fresh, with a Utile autumn
fog, and the sun shining through it Uke a
great yellow disk ; the waggons stood about
with their loads of cabbages, carrots, parsnips,
potatoes, apples, plums and shoes, waiting
till they could be discharged ; on the
heaped-up piles of fruit and vegetables you
could see hano^inof still the slender threads
and cobwebs which are spun every night in
autumn time by invisible spiders, and appear
in the mornings strung with beads of dew.

Stand aside I' cried the stall-keepers, one
and all. ^ Make way for the doctor ! Don't
you see the doctor % Room for the doctor !'

He walked magisterially to the pump, under
which he held his bare head for a few moments
while a boy pumped the cold water
over him. This done, he shook his head,
mopped his poll with his silk handkerchief
clapped on his wig, and returned to his own
house, his robes majestically floating around
him.

The market, proud of its doctor, made way
for him with salutations and inquiries after
his reverence's health.

At the house he found his two runners
waiting for him, as fresh — if pale cheeks
and red noses can look fresh — as if they had
not been up until two o'clock in the morning.

He sent for a pint of small ale, and began
to consider what next.

Roger he said, ^ canst thou, at the present
moment, lay thy hand upon a woman willing
to be a bride, either in the prison or elsewhere?'

Roger hesitated.

It depends, your reverence, on the bridegroom.
About Tower steps, for instance,
and down Wapping way, there are brides in
plenty to be picked up for the asking.'

Not brides for me, Roger. Think again.
I want a bride who wants a husband, and nota
sailor's money ; who will stick to her husband
and make him as happy in his wedded
life as you and the rest of mankind are or
have been.'

Rosier tinned. He was himself a widower,
and could be tickled with the joke.

I think I know the very w-oman,' he said.
A young widow '

Good,' said the doctor.
She has been extravagant, and is in
debt '

Very good said the doctor.

^ A prisoner in the Fleet ; but I can fetch
her out in a twinkling, for half-a-crown.'

Ay — ay,' said the doctor. ' Go on, honest
Koger. A widow, extravagant, and in debt.
That promises well.'

Her husband was an honest draper in
Gracechurch Street who lately died of smallpox,
leaving her a good business and a
thousand pounds in money. She hath already
squandered the thousand, wasted the business,
and brought herself to ruin. She is comely,
and is but thirty years of age ; to get out of
the Fleet, I think she would marry the '

^ She shall marry better than that, Roger.
Go fetch her here : tell her to come and talk
with me, and that if she pleases me in her
conversation and appearance, she may shortly
marry a gentleman.'

This,' said the doctor, when his man was
gone, ' will be a good stroke of business.
This shall be his punishment. My lord shall
marry this extravagant slut. No paltry
common revenge this. Just punishment for
the first generation. He will gain a pocketful
of debts and a wife who will stick to him

like a leech. Aha ! — a city wench — none of
your proud city madams, grand enough to bea
countess — but a plain tradesman's widow,
with no ideas beyond a dish of tea, Bag-nigger
Wells, strawberries at Bayswater,
cakes at Chelsea, or at the best, a night of
wonder-gaping at the quality at Yauxhall ;
a Avise of whom he will be ashamed from
the very first. This is good business. What
a pity ! what a thousand pities that his noble
father is no more !'

The doctor laughed and rubbed his hands.
Then he mounted the stairs again, and entered
his bedroom. The lad was still sound asleep ;
his cheeks less red, and his breathing
lighter.

His head will ache,' said the doctor. ' I
fear he is unaccustomed to punch. When he
wakes his limbs will feel like lead ; his
throat will feel like a limekiln ; his tongue
will be furred like the back of a squirrel ;
his eyes will be hot and heavy, as if he had
a fever; his hand will shake like the hand
of a palsied man ; he will totter when he tries
to walk. Aha ! cursed drink I Time was
when I, who am now as seasoned as a port-wine

cask, or a keg of Nantes, would feel the
same when I awoke after such a night. Age
brings its consolations.' He rubbed his hands,
thinking that he could now drink without
these symptoms. ^ I will marry him,' he
continued, ^ while he is yet half - drunk.
When he recovers, it will be time to explain
the position of things. Should I explain, or
should his wife ? Ho ! ho ! A draper's
widow, of Gracechurch Street, to marry the
heir of all the Chudleiofhs I'

He stood over the bed again, and passed his
hand lightly over the sleeping boy's cheeks.
Something in his look touched the doctor,
and his eyes softened.

^ Poor lad I I never had a son. Perhaps,
if there had been one, things would have been
different. He is a very handsome boy. Pity,
after all, that he must marry this jade, this
extravagant wench who will waste and scatter
his patrimony, and likely bring him to shame,
when, being so young, so handsome, and so
rich, he might have had the prettiest girl in
the country — ' here he started — ' might have
had — might have had — can he not have ? Is
there a prettier girl or a better-bred girl anywhere

in the land than Kitty Pleydell ?
What more can any man want ? She is of
gentle blood — on one side at least, for the
Shovels, it is very certain, do somewhat
smack of the soil. Never a Shovel, except the
Reverend Gregory Shovel, Doctor of Divinity,
who hath risen to greatness. Clods all. Here
is a great chance for such a revenge as would
have driven the old lord mad, and will be a
blessing and a boon to the young lord. Ho !
ho I my Lord Breaker of Promises, my Lord
Trampler of Dependents, my Lord Villain
and Rogue, how likes your lordship that your
son should marry my niece '? As for you,
young spark, I give you a bride so sweet, so
fair, so fresh, that by heavens ! you ought to
woo her for a twelvemonth, and then go and
hang your foolish neck by a garter because
she would not say yea. Well, well ! let us
return good for evil — let us still be Christians.
Yet no Lord Chudleigh hath deserved to have
any benefit at my hands.'

He rubbed his hands : he laughed to himself,
his shoulders rolling from side to side :
he nodded his head pleasantly at his victim,
then he went downstairs again, with grave

and thoughtful mien. He was thinking how
best to bring about his purpose.

He found, however, waiting below, Eager,
his man. With him there came a woman
dressed in shabby finery. She was a woman
of about thirty-two years of age, stout, and
still comely ; she looked about the room as if
in search of some one ; her face was eager
and anxious. When she saw the doctor, she
put her handkerchief to her eyes and burst,
or pretended to burst, into tears.

Alas, doctor !' she cried, ' I am truly
ashamed to come in such a plight. But I
have nothing else to put on. And Roger,
good man, says that the gentleman will not
wait. Who is the gentleman ? Surely not
Thomas Homage, the mercer, who always
promised to marry me when my husband
should die, and now refuses because, although
a warm man, he will not take upon him the
burden of my poor debts. Alas ! men are
ever thus towards us ]door women. Pray,
doctor, who is the gentleman ? Far be it
from me to keep the poor man waiting ; and
indeed, I was ever a pitiful woman, and '

You are under a little mistake, madam

said the doctor, interrupting her. ' There is
no gentleman here asking for you. Koger is
an ass, and a pig.'

Roger made no reply. Excess of zeal
frequently led him into mistakes. He stared
straight before him, and modestly edged
away in the direction of the door, so as to be
out of reach both of the doctor's fist, the
weight of which he knew already, and the
lady's nails.

The poor woman's face fell, and real tears
crowded into her eyes. Now the doctor was
a man who could not bear the sisrht of a
woman crying, so he hastened to soothe her.

Your case, madam he said, * hath
awakened my commiseration. I have sent
for you to know whether, should Roger be
able to find a suitable husband, you would be
willing to take him.'

Oh, doctor !' she sobbed ; ' best of men !
If only you can find me a husband, I should
be grateful to the end of my days. I would
marry anyone — anyone — even Roger.'

Roger swiftly vanished through the door.

He may be as old as Jerusalem, and as
ugly as a foreign Frenchman, but I would

marry him — to take my place in the prison
and go free once more.'

Rogers said the doctor, ' is a great matchmaker.
He hath persuaded many couples
into this room that never thought, when they
went out to take the air and see the shops, of
coming here. See, now, would the skipper
of a merchant-man serve your turn '?'

Doctor, I love a sailor. They make
confiding husbands, and they bring home
money.'

Once married, you are free. And then your
creditors would have to catch your husband,
who, if he is the handy tarpaulin that deserves
you, will show them a clean pair of heels off
the More. Madam, I will do my best.
Meanwhile, perhaps a guinea Avould be of
use to you.'

She cried in earnest as she took it. * Oh,
doctor, the debts are not much altogether ; a
poor two hundred pounds. And a man may
always be happy in the prison. There are
skittles and beer. But a woman never can.
And I would go to see him sometimes — say
twice a year.'

She went away weeping. But she stopped

when she saw Roger outside the door, and
held a few minutes' eac^er conversation with
him before she returned to her prison.
Perhaps he found some simple country lad
or sailor who was beguiled into marrying
her, only to take upon him her debts, and to
lie within four walls instead of her. But
indeed I know not.

We had finished our breakfast and were
tidying the room : my thoughts were full of
the country that morning, because I had
dreamed of the old place and the garden
with its yellow leaves, the trailing cobwebs,
banks covered with branches of mignonette,
nasturtium eight feet long, pinks now mostly
over, bending their faded heads, and the
larkspur, foxglove, Venus's looking-glass,
bachelors' buttons, mournful widow, boys'
love, stocks, their glory over now, their
leaves withering' and all run to seed. I was

o

talking about these sweet things with my
ladies, when I heard the doctor's voice at die
bottom of the stairs, bidding me quickly take
my hat and hood and run down to him, fo]*
that he needed me for half an hour.

I obeyed, little thinking Vviiat was to
VOL. I. 17

follow. He said nothing, but, by a gesture,
bade me follow him.

When we came to his house, Roger and
William, his two runners, were waiting
outside the door, and the room was set out
in the usual fashion, in readiness for any
who might chance to call.

You,' said the doctor to the men, ' wait
outside until I call you. Stay, fetch a quart
of ale at once.'

The ale brought, the men retired and shut
the door.

^ Kitty,' said my uncle, * I have long
intended to bestow upon thee the greatest
good fortune which it is in my power to
procure. Thou art a good girl : thou art my
sister's child : thou hast shown a spirit of
obedience. I have reflected that it is not
well for thee to remain much longer in the
Rules, and the only way to provide thee
with a home elsewhere, is to provide thee
with a husband.'

But, sir,' I said, beginning to be extremely
terrified, ' I do not want a husband.'

So say all young maids. We, child, know
what is best for them. I could have found

thee a husband among my friends. Sir Miles
Lackington, indeed, spoke to me concerning
the matter; he is a baronet. The Lack-ingens
are an old family ; but he hath
squandered his fortune, and I cannot learn
that any more money will come to him.
Besides, he drinks more than is befitting even
in a gentleman of title.'

Oh, sir !' I cried, ' not Sir Miles.'

No, Kitty ' — the doctor smiled benevolently
upon me — ' I regard thy happiness
first. No drunkard shall marry my niece.
Mr. Stallabras hath also opened his mind
upon thee ; he is an ingenious man, with a
pretty wit, and if verses were guineas, would
be a great catch for thee. But alas ! he
hath no money, so I dismissed him.'

Poor Solomon ! That, then, was the reason
of a late melancholy which we had remarked
in him. Mrs. Esther took it as caused by
the wrestling of genius, and said that the
soul within him was too great for the bodily
strength.

But, Kitty,' here the doctor beamed upon
me like the sun in splendour, ' I have here —
yea, even in this house, the husband of my

17—2

choice, the man who will make thee happy.
Start not — it is resolved. Child, they me'

I declare that I was so terrified by the
doctor's words, so amazed by his announcement,
so spellbound by his words and manner,
that I did not dare resist. Had he told me
that I was to be hanged, I could not have
made an effort to save myself.

They mel he repeated, bending his eyebrows,
and looking upon me no longer as a
sun in splendour, but as an angry judge
might look upon a criminal. ' Stand here —
so — do not move ; keep thy face covered with
thy hood, all but thine eyes. Give me your
hand when I ask it, and be silent, save when
I bid thee speak. Be not afraid, girl ; I do
this for thine own good. I give thee a gentleman
for thy husband. Thou shalt not leave
this place yet awhile, but needs must that
thou be married. I return in five minutes.'

He took the jug of beer and climbed the
stairs. I meanwhile stood where he had
placed me, my hood over my head, in the
most dreadful terror that ever assailed the
heart of any girl.

Upstairs the doctor awakened Lord Chud-

leigh with some difficulty. He sat up on the
bed and looked round him, Avonderinof where
he was.

I know now,' he murmured, * you are Dr.
Shovel, and this is '

Your lordship is in the Liberties of the
Fleet.'

^ My head is like a lump of lead,' said the
young man.

Your lordship was very merry last night,
as, indeed, befits the happy occasion.'

Was I merry ? Indeed, I think I was
very drunk. What occasion 1'

'Drink a little small ale,' said the doctor ;
'it will revive you.'

He took a long drink of the beer, and tried
to stand.

So,' he said, ' I am better already ; but
my head reels, doctor, and my legs are unsteady.
It serves me right. It is the first
time, and it shall be the last.'

I hope so, since your lordship is about to
undertake so important a charge.'

What charge ?' asked Lord Chudleigh
still dazed and unsteady.

Is it possible that your lordship hath forgotten

your mistress of whom you would
still be talking last night ? '' The sweetest
girl in England — the prettiest girl in all the
world — the fairest, kindest nymph" — I quote
your lordship

Lord Chudleigh stared in amazement.

The sweetest girl ? — what girl ?'

'Oh, your lordship is pleased to jest with me
'I remember you, Dr. Shovel, whom I
came to see last night with Sir Miles Lackington
; I remember the punch and the
songs ; but I remember nothing about any
girl.'

Why, she is downstairs now, waiting for
your lordship). You will come downstairs
and keep your appointment.'

He spoke in a peremptory manner, as if
ordering and expecting obedience.

My appointment \ Have I gone mad ?
It is this cursed punch of yours. My appointment
?'

The doctor gave him his coat and wig, and
helped him to put them on.

^ I attend your lordship. She is downstairs.
Take a little more ale to clear your
head : you will remember then.'

The young man drank again. The beer
mounted to his brain, I suppose, because he
laughed and straightened himself.

Why, I am a man again. An appointment
? No, doctor, hang me if all the beer
in your cellar will make me remember any
appointment ! Where is Sir Miles % He
might tell me something about it. Curse all
punch, I say. Yet, if the lady be downstairs,
as you say, I suppose I must have
made some sort of appointment. Let me see

her, at any rate. It will be easy to — to '

here he reeled, and caught hold of the doctor's
hand.

What a crime ! What a terrible wicked
thing was this which we did — my uncle and
I ! I heard the steps on the stairs ; I might
have run away; the door was before me ; but
I was afraid. Yes, I was afraid. My uncle
had made me fear him more than I feared
the laws of my God ; or, since that is hardly
true, he made me fear him so much that I
forgot the laws of my God. I did not runaway,
but I waited with a dreadful fluttering
of my heart.

I held my hood, drawn over my head, with

my left hand, so that only my eyes were
visible, and so I kept it all the time.

I saw in the door the most splendid hangman
I had ever seen ; he was richly dressed,
though his coat and ruffles showed some disorder,
in crimson coat and sash, with flowered
silk waistcoat, and sword whose hilt gleamed
v/ith jewels. His cheek was flushed and his
eyes had a fixed and glassy look ; the doctor
led him, or rather half supported him. Was
this young man to be my husband ?

Roger must have been watching outside,
for now he came in and locked the door
behind him. Then he drew out his greasy
Prayer-book, standing by his lordship, ready
to support him if necessary.

So,' he said, ' this is the sweetest girl in
all England — hang me if I remember ! Lookup,
my girl : let me see thy face. How can I
tell unless I see thy face V

Silence 1' said the doctor in a voice of
command.

T know not what strange power he possessed,
but at the sound of his voice the
young man became suddenly silent and looked
about the room, as if wondering. For myself,.

I knew that I was to be married to him ; but
why ? what did it mean ?

The doctor had begun the service. My
bridegroom seemed to understand nothing,
looking stupidly before him.

Roger read the responses.

The doctor did not hurry; he read the
exhortation, the prayers, the Psalms through
slowly and with reverence ; other Fleet
parsons scrambled through the service ; the
doctor alone knew what was due to the
Church; he read the service as a clergyman
who respects the service ought to
read.

Wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded
wife f

The man Koger gave the dazed bridegroom
a jog in the ribs.

Say '' I will," ' he whispered loudly.

I will,' said the young man.

Wilt thou,' the doctor turned to me, * have
this man to thy wedded husband X

Koger nodded to me. * Say '' I will," ' he
admonished me.

I obeyed ; yet I knew not wdiat I said, so
frightened was I.

Who giveth the doctor went on, 'this
woman to be married to this man 1'

The dirty, battered rogue, the clerk, took
my hand and laid it in that of the doctor. I
was given away by the villain Roger. Then
the service went on.

With this ring' — the man's hand was holding
mine, and it was dry and hot ; his face
was red and his eyes were staring — ^ with
this ring I thee wed ; with my body I thee
worship ; with all my worldly goods I thee
endow.'

Consider — pray consider — that when T
took part in this great wickedness, I was buta
young girl, not yet seventeen years old ;
that the thing came upon me so suddenly
that I had not the sense to remember what
it meant ; that my uncle was a man of
whom any girl would have been afraid. Yet
I knew that I ought to have fled.

When my bridegroom held my hand in his
I observed that it was hot and trembling ; his
eyes did not meet mine ; he gazed upon the
doctor as if skins what all this meant. I
took him, in my innocence, for a madman.

and wondered all the more what this freak of
the doctor's could mean.

For ring, the doctor drew from his guest's
little finger a diamond ring, which was full
large for my third finger.

When the service was finished, bride and
bridegroom stood stupidly staring at each
other (only that still I wore my hood drawn
over my face), while Koger placed upon the
table a great volume bound in parchment
with brass clasps.

This, my lord, is our Register,' said the
doctor, opening it at a clean page. ^ Sign
there, if you please, in your usual hand. I
will fill in the page afterwards.'

He took the pen and signed, still looking
with wondering eyes.

Now, child,' said the doctor, ' do you sign
here, after your husband. The certificate
you shall have later. For the present, I will
take care of it. Other practitioners of the
Fleet, my lord,' he said, with professional
pride, as he looked at his great volume,
^ would enter your name in a greasy pocketbook
and give your wife a certificate on unstamped
paper. Here you have a register fit

for a cathedra], and a certificate started with
no less illustrious a name than the Archbishop
of Canterbury. Your lordship hath
signed your name in a steady and workmanlike
fashion, so that none henceforth shall bo
able to malign your conduct on this days ;
they shall not say that you were terrified, or
bribed, or were in a state of liquor on the day
of your marriage ; all is free and above suspicion.
I congratulate your lordship on this
auspicious occasion. Roger, your mark here
as witness. So. It is customary, my lord, to
present the officiating clergyman, myself, with
a fee, from a guinea upwards, proportionate
to the rank and station of the happy bridegroom.
From your lordship will I take
nothing for myself; for the witness I will
take a guinea.'

Here the bridegroom pulled out his purse
and threw it on the table. He spoke not a
word, however ; I think his brain was
wandering, and he knew not what he did.
Yet he obeyed the voice of the doctor, and
fell into the trap that was set for him, like a
silly bird allured by the whistle of the fowler.
I am certain that he knew not what he did.

The doctor pulled one guinea from the
purse, and handed it back to the owner.

Rogers he said, ^ go drink his lordship's
health ; and hark ye — silence. If I hear that
you have told of this morning's doings, it shall
be the worst day in all your life. I threaten
not in vain. Go !'

Then the doctor took up the tankard of
ale which stood in the window^seat.

^ Your health, my lord ;' he drank a little
and passed it to his lordship, who drained it ;
and then, with a strange, wild look, he reeled
to the doctor's arm-chair and instantly fell
fast asleep.

Your husband is not a drunkard, Kitty,
though this morning he appears in that
light.'

But am I married X I asked.

You are really married. You are no
longer Kitty Pleydell : you are Catherine,
Lady Chudleigh. I wish your ladyship joy.'

I stared at him.

But he does not know me ; he never saw
me,' I remonstrated.

That he does not know you yet is very
true,' replied the doctor. ' When the fitting

time comes for him to know you, be sure that
I will remind him. For the present he shall
not know whom he has married

I perceive,' he went on, seeing that I made
no reply, ' that thou art a good and obedient
child. Ask no questions of me. Say not
one word to anyone of this day's work. Be
silent, and thou shalt have thy reward. Remember
— he silent. Now, go, child. Go,
Lady Chudleigh.'

HOW LORD CHUDLEIGH WOKE OUT OF SLEEP.

Alas ! there was small pride in that thought.
What joy of being Lady Chudleigh, when I
had to pick my way home through the dirty
and crowded market, thinking of the pain
and grief this wicked thing would cause my
ladies when they learned it, of the shame
with which my father's soul would have been
filled had he known it, and the wrath of
Lady Levett when she should hear it I ' Oh,
Kitty !' I thought, * how miserably art thou
changed in four short months ! In the happy
fields at home, everything (save when the
rustics swore at their cattle) breathed of
religion and virtue ; in this dreadful place,
everything leads to profligacy and crime.
And what a crime ! And the poor young

gentleman ! Did ever anyone hear the like,
that a young gM, not yet quite seventeen,
should thus consent to marry a man whom
she had never seen ! Oh, shame and disgrace
! And that young man, so handsome
and so gallant, albeit so tipsy that he could
scarcely stand. Who would have thought,
four months ago, that Kitty would be that
wicked creature V Afterwards, I thought of
the dreadful wickedness of marrying while
still in mourning for a father not yet six
months dead. But I confess that at first, so
confused was I, that this thought did not
oppress me. Indeed, there was almost too
much to think about. Suppose I was, by a
careless word, to reveal the secret \ Suppose
the rascal Koger were to tell it abroad in the
market ! Suppose the young man (v;hose
name I did not dare to pronounce) were to
see me, and find my name ! Suppose the
doctor were at once to reveal to my — husband,
I suppose I ought to call him — who
and what I was ! All these thoughts, 1 say,
crowded into mv mind together, and filled me
with repentant terrors.

I went straight home, because there was

no other place to go to. Mrs. Deborah reminded
me, when I had taken off my hood, that
Ave were still engaged upon the long outstanding
account between Richard Roe, gentleman,
and Robert Doe, draper. It was one of the
problems of the Book-keeping Treatise, how
rightly to state this account to the satisfaction
both of Doe (who wanted all he could get),
and of Roe (who wanted to pay as little as
possible). I remember that Richard Roe
had not only bought extraordinary things
(for a gentleman), such as ladies' hoops and
paniers, but had bought them in immense
quantities, to be explained, perhaps, by the
supposition that he was a benefactor to the
female sex, or perhaps that he was shipping
things to Madagascar, where I believe a
baronet pinner, if in scarlet, is considered
worth a diamond as big as a pigeon's egg ;
and a few bottles of eau de Chypre are
thought a bargain, if purchased by a ruby
weighing a pound or so.

We had been engaged for a month upon a
statement of the account showing the exact
liabilities of Richard Roe (who used to pay
in odd sums, with pence and farthings, at

VOL. I. 18

unexpected times) ; we never got it right,
and then we began again. Fortunately, it
costs nothing to clean a slate.

I sat down to this task with listless brain.
What girl, after being so suddenly hurled
into matrimony, with the possession of so
great a secret, could take any interest in the
debts of Richard Roe ? The figures got
mixed ; presently, I was fain to lay the slate
aside, and to declare that I could do no more
that day.

Nor, indeed, could I do anything — not
even hear what was said, so that my ladies
thought I was sickening for some fever ;
which was not improbable, fever being rife
at this time, owing to the smell from the
vegetables, and one of the little Dunquerques
in our own house down with it. Ah ! could
they only have guessed the truth, what
sorrow and pity would have been theirs, with
what righteous wrath at the sin !

When I was gone, the doctor called back
Roger, and they carried the unhappy bridegroom
again to the bedroom, where they laid
him on the bed and then left him to himself.

He will sleep said the doctor, experienced
in these cases, ^ until the afternoon. Have a
cup of mutton-broth for him when he wakes,
with a pint of small ale.'

Then he returned, and the ordinary business
of the day began. The couples came
in — half-a-dozen of them. One pair gave
him five guineas. They were an Irishman,
who thought he was marrying a rich widow ;
and a woman head over ears in debt, who
thought she was marrying a wealthy squire.
A week afterwards the unhappy bridegroom
came to the doctor to undo the match, which
was impossible. He escaped his wife's creditors,
however, and took to the road, where, after
many gallant exploits, he was caught, tried,
and hanged at Tyburn, making a gallant and
edifying end, and ruffling it bravely to the
very foot of the ladder. The day, therefore,
was profitable to the doctor.

Well begun, Koger,' he said, ' is well done.
The morning's work is worth ten guineas. I
would rest this afternoon ; wherefore, bring
no more couples. Yet one would fain not
disappoint the poor creatures. Let them
come, then, Koger. We may not weary in

18—2

Avell-doing. And, hark ye, take this guinea
to Mistress Dunquerque — not the captain,
mind — and bid her spend it for the children ;
and inquire whether Mr. Stallabras hath paid
his rent lately : if not, pay it ; and buy me,
on Ludgate Hill, a hat and feathers for Miss
Kitty ; and, varlet I if thou so much as
breathe of what was done here this morning
I threaten not, but I know the history of
thy life. Think of the past ; think of Newgate,
close by ; and be silent as the grave.'

At three o'clock in the afternoon, when
the doctor, after his dinner, sat over a cool
pipe of Virginia, Lord Chudleigh came downstairs.
He Yeas dressed and in his right
mind, although somewhat flushed of cheek
and his hand shaky.

Dr. Shovel,' he said, ' I thank you for
your hospitality, and am sorry that I have
abused it. I am ashamed to have fallen into
so drunken and helpless a condition.'

'Your lordship,' said the doctor, rising and
bowing, ' is welcome to such hospitality as
this poor house of a prisoner in the Liberties
of the Fleet can show a nobleman of your
rank. I am the more bound to show this

welcome to your lordship, because, for such
as is my condition, I am beholden to the late
Lord Chudleigh.'

This was a speech which might have more
than one meaning. His lordship made no
answer, staring in some perplexity, and
fearful that the punch might still be in his
head.

It was in this room,' he said presently,
^ that we drank last night. I remember your
chair, and these walls ; but I remember little
more. Fie, doctor ! your way of treating
guests is too generous. Yet I have had a
curious and uneasy dream. Those books ' — she
pointed to the Register and the Prayer-book —
were those upon the table last night ? They
were in my dream — a very vivid and real
dream. I thought I was standing here.
Your man was beside me. Opposite to me
was a girl, or woman, her face and figure
covered with a hood, so that I knew not
what she was like. Then you read the ,
drew the ring from off my
finger, and placed it upon hers. And you
pronounced us man and wife. A strange
and interesting dream !'

What was the ring, my lord V

A diamond ring set round with seven
pearls ; within, the crest of my house, and
my initials.'

Let me see the ring, my lord.'

He changed colour.

I cannot find it.'

*My lord, I know where is that ring.'
The doctor spoke gravely, bending his great
eyebrows. Lord Chudleigh was a man of
fine presence, being at least five feet ten
inches in height, without counting the heels
of his boots and the foretop of his wig. Yet
the doctor, whose heels were thicker and his
toupee higher, was six feet two without those
advantages. Therefore he towered over his
guest as he repeated :

I know where to find that ring 1'

You cannot mean, doctor ' cried Lord

Chudleigh, all the blood flying to his face.

I mean, my lord, simply this, that at
eight o'clock this morning, or thereabouts, you
rose, came downstairs, met a young lady who
was waiting for you, and were by me, in presence
of trustworthy witnesses, duly and
properly married.'

^ But it was a dream !' he cried, catching
at the table.

No dream at all, my lord. A fact, which
you will find it difficult to contradict. Your
marriage is entered in my Register; I have
the lines on a five-shilling stamp. I am an
ordained minister of the Church of England ;
the hours were canonical. It is true that I
may be fined a hundred pounds for consenting
to perform the ceremony ; but it will be hard to
collect that money. Meanwhile, those who
would inflict the fine, would be the last to
maintain that sacerdotal powers, conferred
upon me at ordination, can suffer any loss by
residence in the Rules of the Fleet. Ponder
this, my lord.'

Married !' cried Lord Chudleigh. ' Married
? It is impossible.'

'Your dream, my lord, was no dream at
all, but sober truth, believe me.'

Married X he repeated.

Married,' said Dr. Shovel. ' I fear that
your state of mind, during the performance
of the ceremony, was not such as a
clergyman could altogether wish to see. Still,
who am I, to decide when a gentleman is too
drunk to marry 1'

Married ! Oh this is some dreadful dream !
Where is my bride ? Show me my wife !'

She is gone, Lord Chudleigh.'
Gone ! Where is she gone X

The doctor shook his head for an answer.

Who is she \ What is her name ? How
came she here X

I am sorry that I cannot answer your
lordship in these particulars. She came —
she was married — she went away ! In her
own good time she will doubtless appear
again.'

But who is she V he repeated. ^ What is
she like ? Why did she marry me V

^ Why did your lordship marry her ? That,
methinks, would be the proper question.'

Show me your Register, man !' Lord
Chudleiofh was sober enough now, and brought
his fist down upon the table in peremptory
fashion. 'Show me your Register and your
certificate !'

Ta ! ta ! ta !' cried the doctor. ' Softly,
young man, softly ! We are not used to
threats in this chapel-offense, where I am
archbishop, bishop, and chaplain, all in one.
For the register, it is securely locked up ; for

the certificate, it is perhaps in the hands of
Lady Chudleigh.'

Lady Chudleigh !'

Perhaps her ladyship hath consigned it to
my keeping. In either case, yon shall not
see it.'

This is a conspiracy cried Lord Chud-
leigh. ^ I have been deceived by rogues and
knaves ! This is no true marriage.'

^ You would say that I am lying. Say so,
but, at your peril, tlnnlv so. You are as truly
married as if you had been united in your
own parish church, by your own bishop.
Believe that, for your own safety, if you
believe nothing else. At the right time,
her ladyship will be revealed to you. And
remember, my lord ' — here the doctor, towering
over him, shook his great fore-finger in
warning or menace — ^ should you attempt
another marriage in the lifetime of your
present wife, you shall be brought to your
trial for bigamy as sure as my name is
Gregory Shovel. Laws, in this country, are
not altogether made for the punishment of
the poor, and even a peer may not marry
more than one woman.'

I will have this wickedness exposed cried
his lordship, hotly.

Alas ! my lord said the doctor, ' the
name of Gregory Shovel is already well
known. I am but what your father caused
me to be.'

My father ! Then there is revenge. . . .
The benefits which my father conferred upon
you '

They were greater than any I can confer
upon you. He kept me with him as his
private jester. I found him wit : he fed me
upon promises. He turned me forth, to be
flung into a debtor's prison. That, however,
was nothing. Your lordship will own ' — here
the doctor laughed, but without merriment
* that I have returned good for evil ; for,
whereas your father robbed me of a wife, I
have presented you with one.'

villain !' cried my lord. ^ To revenge
the wrongs of the father upon the son — and
this Wretch continues to wear the gown of a
clergyman !'

Say what you ]please. So rejoiced am I
with this day's work that I allow you to cast
at me what names come readiest to your

tongue. But remember that curses sometimes
come home.'

Where is my wife, then V he demanded
furiously.

I shall not tell you. Meantime, choose.
Either let this matter be known to all the
world, or let it remain, for the present, a
secret between you and me. As for the lady,
she will be silent. As for the rogue, my
clerk, if he so much as breathes the secret to
the cabbage-stalks, I have that which will
hang him.'

I want to see the woman who calls herself
my Avise,' he persisted.

That shall you not. But perhaps, my
lord, you would like to go home to St.
James's Square with such a wedding-party as
we could provide for you : a dozen of Fleet
parsons fuddled; the bride's friends, who might
be called from their stalls in the market ; the
music of the butchers, with salt - boxes,
marrow-bones, and cleavers ; the bride herself.
Look out of the window, my lord.
Which of the ragged baggages and trollops
among the market-women most takes your
lordship's fancy '?'

Lord Chudleio:h looked and shuddered.

Go your way the doctor went on, ' and
always remember you have a spouse. Some
day, for the better glorifying of your noble
name, I will produce her. But not yet. Be
under no immediate apprehension. Not yet.
At some future time, when you are happy in
the applause of a nation and the honours of a
sovereign, when your way is clear before you
and your conscience gives you the sweet balm
of approbation, when you have forgotten this
morning, we shall come, your wife and I,
With " Room for my Lady Chudleigh ! Way
there for her ladyship and Dr. Gregory Shovel
from the Rules of the Fleet !" '

Man,' replied Lord Chudleigh, ' I believe
you are a devil. Do what you will ; do your
worst. Yet know that the woman may proclaim
her infamy and your own ; as for me, I
will not speak to her, nor listen to her, nor
own her.'

Good !' said the doctor, rubbing his hands.
We talk in vain. I now bid farewell to
your lordship. Those convivial evenings
which you desired to witness will still continue.
Let me hope to welcome your lordship

again on the scene of your unexpected
triumphs. Many, indeed, is the man who
hath come to this house sino-le and sone out
of it double ; but none for whom awaits a
future of such golden promise. My most
hearty congratulations on this auspicious and
joyful event ! What can come out of this
place but youth, beauty, birth, and virtue ?
And yet, my lord, there is one singularity in
the case. One moment, I pray ' — for Lord
Chudleigh was already outside the door —
^ you are the only man I ever knew who
spent his honeymoon — alone !'

HOW MRS. DEBORAH WAS RELEASED.

No one would be interested to read more of
my shame and repentance at that tie ; nor
does it help to tell how the doctor was asked
by my ladies if I was subject to any kind of
illness for which I might be sickening. The
reply of the doctor to them, and his private
admonitions to myself, may be partly passed
over ; it was true, no doubt, as he said while
I trembled before him, that a young girl,
ignorant and untaught, would do well to
trust her conscience into the spiritual direction
of a regularly ordained clergyman of the
Church of England like himself As for the
marriage, I was to remember that it was
done and could not be undone. He hung
round my neck by a black ribbon the diamond

ring, my wedding ring, by which to keep my
condition ever before myself; to be sure it
was not likely that I should forget it, without
the glitter and sparkle of the brilliant, which
I used to look at night and morning in secret.
What did he think of me, this husband of
mine, the young man with the handsome
face, the white hands, and the fixed, strange
eyes ? Did he, night and morning, everyday
curse his unknown wife ?

Let him curse,' said the doctor. ' Words
break no bones ; curses go home again ; deeds
cannot be undone. Patience, Kitty ! before
long thou shalt be confessed by all the world,
the Lady Chudleigh. Come, cheer up,
child I' he concluded kindly. ' As for what is
done, it is done. Partly T did it to clear off
an old score, whereof I may perhaps tell thee
at another time, and partly for thy honour
and glory. Thy father, Kitty, was proud of
his name and family, though he married my
sister, the daughter of a tenant farmer ; but
never a Pleydell yet has been lifted up so
high as thou shalt be : while as to the
Shovels, I am myself the only great man
they have yet sent into the world, and they

are not likely to go beyond the Chaplain of
the Fleet.'

Then he held up his great forefinger,
as long and thick as a school ruler, bent
his shaggy eyebrows, and pushed out his
lips.

'■ Kemember, child, silence I And go no
more moping and sorrowful, because thou
shalt soon sit in thine own coach, with the
world at thy feet, singing the praises of the
beautiful Lady Chudleigh. Such a girl as
my Kitty for Sir Miles Lackington ? Why,
he hath eyes for the beauty of a glass of Bordeaux
— he hath sense to rejoice over a bowl
of punch ; but from Helen of Troy or Cleopatra
of Egypt he would turn away for a
bottle of port. Or Stallabras, now — should
such a creature as he presume to think of
such a woman ? Let poets sing of women at
a distance — the farther off the better they
sing — that is right. Why, child, such curls
as thine, such roses of red and white, such
brown eyes, such lips and cheek and chin,
such a figure as thou canst show to dazzle
the eyes of foolish boys — Lord Chudleigh
should go on his knees before me in gratitude

and transport. And, believe me, some day
he will'

We are all alike, we women. Call us beautiful,
and you please us. It was almost the first time
that anyone had called me beautiful save Sir
Miles Lackingtonwhen in his cups, or Solomon
Stallabras in his poetic way. Yet every
pretty girl knows that she is pretty. There
are a thousand things to tell her : the
whispers of the women, the sidelong looks of
the folk in the streets, the envy of envious
girls, the praise of kindly girls, her glass, the
deference paid by men of all classes and all
ages to beauty, the warnings of teachers,
nurses, governesses and matrons that beauty
is but skin deep, virtue is better than looks,
handsome is as handsome does, 'tis better to
be good than pretty, comeliness lasts but a
year, while goodness lasts for ever, and soon
— all these things make a girl on whom
heaven has bestowed this most excellent gift
of beauty know quite as well as other people
what she possesses, though she knows not
yet the power of the gift.

'You are pretty, child,' said Mrs. Esther
VOL. I. 19

to me on the very same day as the doctor.
'■ You will be a beautiful woman.'

Which is no good to a girl in the Rules,'
said Mrs. Deborah, * but rather a snare and a
danger.'

^ Nay, sister said Mrs. Esther, ' it is a consolation
to be beautiful. You, dear, when
we were thirty years younger, were beautiful
enough to melt the heart even of the monster
Bambridge.'

A beautiful face and person Mrs. Deborah
added, with a smile on her poor face as she
thought of the past, * should belong to a good
and virtuous soul. In the better world I
have no doubt that the spirits of the just
will arise in such beauty of face and form as
shall be unto themselves and their friends an
abiding joy.'

Let us think so ; when I die it may be a
consolation to me that a return to the beauty
of my youth is nigh at hand. I am but a
woman, and there is nothing in the world —
except the love of my husband and my
children — that I think more precious than
my past beauty.

Soothed, then, by my uncle's flatteries,

comforted by his promises, and terrified by:
his admonitions, I fell in a very few days
into the dreams by which youth beguiles the
cares of the present. My husband, Lord
Chudleigh, would go his own way and never
ask after me ; I should go mine as if he did
not exist ; some time or other we should leave
the Liberties of the Fleet, and go to live near
Lady Levett and my dear Nancy. As for
the coronet and the rank, I was too ignorant
to think much about them. They were so
high above me, I knew so little what they
meant, that I no more thought of getting
them than of getting David's harp and crown.
I waited, therefore, being a wife and yet no
wife, married and yet never seen by my husband
; sacrificed to the wrath of the doctor,
as that poor Greek maiden in the story told
me by my father, murdered at Aulis to appease
the wrath of a goddess.

Two events happened which, between
them, quite drove the marriage out of my
mind, and for awhile made me forget it altogether.


The first of these was the illness of Mrs.
Deborah.

19—2

There was fever about the market, as I
have said ; one of the little girls of Mrs.
Dunquerque, in our house, was laid down
with it. In autumn there was always fever
in the place, caused, my ladies said, by the
chill and fog of the season, by the stench of
the vegetables and fruit of the market, and
perhaps by the proximity of Newgate, where
gaol fever Alas always cheating the gallows.
One day, therefore, Mrs. Deborah lay down,
and said she would rather not get up again
any more. She would not eat, nor would she
have any medicine except a little tar-water
which seemed to do her no good. When she
got very ill indeed, she consented to see an
apothecary ; he prescribed blood-letting,
which, contrary to expectation, made her
only weaker. Then we went to the old
woman who kept a herb shop at the other
end of Fleet Lane, and was more skilful
than any physician. She gave us feverfew,
camomile, and dandelion, of Which we made
hot drinks. As the patient grew worse instead
of better, she made an infusion of
shepherd's-purse, penniless, and pepper-avert,
to stimulate the system ; she brought

a tansy-pudding, which poor Mrs. Deborah
refused to eat ; and when gentian water
filled, the old woman could do no more.

On the fifth day, Mrs. Deborah gave herself
up, and contemplated her end in a becoming
spirit of cheerfulness. She comforted
her sister with the hope that she,
too, would before long join her in a world
where there is no noise, my dear, no
fighting, no profane swearing, no dirt, no
confusion, no bawling, no starving, no humiliation.
There shall we sit in peace and quiet,
enjoying the dignity and respect which will
be no doubt paid to two Christian gentlewomen.'


I might have known it,' sighed poor Mrs.
Esther in her tears. ' Only a week ago a
strange dos howled all nicrht below our
window. I should have known it for a
warning, sent for you, my dear, or me, or
for Kitty. It cannot have been meant for
Sir Miles, for the poor gentleman, being in
his cups, would not notice it : nor to Mr.
Stallabras, 'for he sets no store by such
warnings.'

^ It was for me,' said Mrs. Deborah with

resignation, while Mrs. Esther went on recollecting
omens.

Last night I heard the death-watch.
Then indeed, sister, I gave you up.'

It was a message for me,' said the sick
woman, as if she had been Christiana in the
story.

^ And this morning I heard a hen crow in
the market — a hen in a basket. Alas ! who
can have any doubt ?'

It is but six weeks,' said Mrs. Deborah,
feebly, ^ since a hearse on its way to a funeral
stopped before our door. I remember now,
but we little thought then, what that meant.'

I saw, only a fortnight ago,' continued
Mrs. Esther, *a winding-sheet in the tallow.
I thought it pointed at Kitty, but would
not frighten the child. Sister, we are but
purblind mortals.'

Far be it from me to laugh at beliefs
which have so deep a root in Englishwomen's
hearts : nor is it incredible to those who believe
in the divine interference, that signs
and warnings of death should be sent beforehand,
if only to turn the thoughts heavenward
and lead sinners to repent. But this I

think, that if poor Mrs. Deborah had not
accepted these warnings for herself, she
might have lived on to a green old age, as
did her sister. Being, therefore, convinced
in her mind that her time was come, she was
only anxious to make due preparation. She
would have been disappointed at getting
well, as one who has packed her boxes for a
long journey, but is told at the last moment
that she must wait.

As she grew weaker, her brain began to
wander. She talked of Bagnigge Wells, of
Cupid's Garden, the entertainments of her
father's company, and the childish days when
everything was hopeful. While she talked,
Mrs. Esther wept and whispered to me :

She was so pretty and merry ! Oh !
child, if you could have seen us both in our
young days— if you could have seen my
Deborah With her pretty saucy ways ; her
roguish smile, her ready wit made all to love
her ! Ah I me— me — those happy days ! and
now 1 My dear Deborah, it is well that thou
shouldst go.'

This was on the morning of Mrs. Deborah's
last day in life. In the afternoon her senses

returned to her, and \v^e propped her up, pale
and weak, and listened while she spoke words
of love and farewell to be kept sacred in the
memory of those who had to go on living.

For thirty years, dear sister she murmured,
while their two thin hands were held
in each other's clasp — ' for thirty years we
have prayed daily unto the Lord to have
pity upon all prisoners and captives, meaning,
more especially, ourselves. Now, unto
me hath He shown this most excellent
mercy, and calleth me away to a much
better place than we can imagine or deserve.
I had thought it would be well if
He would lead us out of this ward to some
place where, m green lanes and fields, we
might meditate for a space in quiet before
we died. I should like to have heard the
song of the lark and seen the daisies. But
God thinks otherwise.'

Oh, sister — sister !' cried Mrs. Esther.

'' There shall be no more death, neither
sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be
any more pain," ' said Mrs. Deborah. ^ Kitty,
child,' she turned her pale face to me, ^ be
kind to my sister.'

We wept together. Outside there was
the usual tumult of the market — men buying
and selling, with shouts and cries; within,
three women weeping, and one dying.

Go, dear said she who was dying; 'call
the doctor. He hath been very generous tous.
Tell him I would receive the last offices
from his hands.'

The doctor came. He read the appointed
service in that deep voice of his, Which was
surely given him for the conversion of the
wicked. The tears streamed down his face
as he bent over the bed, saying in the
words of the Epistle appointed : ' " My
daughter, despise not thou the chastening of
the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked
of Him. For whom the Lord loveth He
chastened ; and scourge th every child whom
He received." '

In the evening the poor lady died, being
released from her long imprisonment by that
Royal Mandate, the Will of God.

We buried her in the green and pleasant
churchyard of Islington. It is a sweet spot,
far removed from the noise of London ; and
though her poor remains feel nothing, nor

can hear any more the tumult of crowds, it
is good to think that round her are no streets,
only the few houses of the village. She lies
surrounded by fields and trees ; the daisies
grow over her grave, the lark sings above the
church : she is at rest and in peace.

HOW MRS. ESTHER WAS DISCHARGED.

After poor Mrs. Deborah's death my lessons
came to a sudden stop, and have never been
resumed. Some of that perspicacity of style
which I have often admired in our modern
divines might have fallen to my lot, to
enrich this narrative, had I continued in my
course of single and double book-keeping.

^ I am not clever,' said Mrs. Esther, ' like
Deborah. She was always the clever one as
well as the beauty. That gave her a right to
her little tempers, poor dear. I cannot teach
astronomy, because one star is to me exactly
like another. Nor do I know auo^ht about
book-keeping, except that it is a very useful
and necessary science. Therefore, Kitty,
thou must go untaught. For that matter,

I think you know as much as a woman need
ever know, which is to read, to write — but
one ought not to expect of a woman such
exactness in spelling as of a scholar — and
to cipher to such a moderate degree as may
enable her to add up her bills. But it
grieves me to think you are growing up so
tall and straight without learning how to
make so much as a single cordial, or any
strong waters. And with our means, what
chance of teaching you to toss a pancake,
fold an omelette, or dish a Yorkshire
pudding ?'

It was then that we began to console ourselves
for my ignorance, our troubles, and
even, I bear mind, for our late sad loss, by
reading ^ Clarissa,' a book which the doctor,
ever watchful in the interests of virtue, presented
to Mrs. Esther with a speech of condolence.
He said that it was a work whose
perusal could not fail most strongly to console
her spirit and to dispose her for resignation
; while for purity of morals, for justice
of observation, and for knowledge of the
human heart, it was unequalled in any
language. He then made a digression, and

compared the work with the ancient Greek
romances. Adventure, he said, was to be
found in Herodotus, and the story told by
Apuleius of Cupid and Psyche was exquisitely
pathetic ; yet none of the earlier
writers could be compared, or even named
in the same breath, with Mr. Richardson,
who reminded him especially of Sophocles, in
the tenderness With which he prepared the
minds of his audience for the impending
tragedy which he could not alter or abate,
seeing that it was the will of Necessity.
There was nothing, he went on to say, more
calculated to inspire or to strengthen sentiments,
of virtue in the breasts of the young
and especially in the young of the feminine
sex — than a contemplation of Clarissa's
virtue and Lovelace's wickedness. We were
greatly edified by these praises, coming from
so great a scholar and one so eminently fitted
to discourse on virtue. We received the
work, prepared (so far as I was concerned) to
partake of food for reflection of the satisfying
kind (so that the reader quickly lays aside
the work while he meditates for a few days
on what he has read) which is supplied by

the pious ' Drelincourt on Death,' Hervey's
'■ Meditations among the Tombs, or Young's
Night Thoughts.'

After dinner, my dear,' said Mrs. Esther,
you shall read it aloud to me. Do not stop
if I shut my eyes in order to hear the better.
These good books should be carefully listened
to, and read very slowly. Otherwise their
lessons may be overlooked, and this would bea
sad pity after all the good doctor's trouble
in first reading the book for us. What
scholarship, Kitty ! and wdiat a passion, nay,
what an ardour, for virtue animates that
reverend heart !'

I cannot but pause here to ask whether if
Mr. Kichardson had chosen to depict to the
life the character of a clergyman, who had
fallen into such ways as my uncle, with his
sins, his follies, his degradation, the doctor
would himself have laid it to heart ? Alas !
I fear not. We know not ourselves as weare
: wee still go dreaming we are something
better than we seem to others : we have a
second and unreal self : the shafts of the
satirist seem to pierce the hearts of others.
I am sure that many a Lovelace, fresh from

the ruin of another Clarissa (if, indeed, there
could be another creature so incomparable),
must have read this great romance with tears
of pity and indignation. Otherwise the race
of Lovelace would long since have become
extinct.

We received, therefore, ' Clarissa,' expecting
edification, but not joy. We even put it
aside for a week, because Mrs. Esther hardly
felt herself, at first, strong enough to begin a
new book, which might flood her mind with
new ideas and make her unsettled. At last,
however, she felt that we must no longer
postpone obeying the doctor.

Only a short chapter, my dear, to begin
with. Heavens ! how shall we struggle
through eight long* volumes f

I shall be ever thankful that it was my
duty to read these dear delightful pages of
this great romance. You may judge of our
joy when we read on, day after day, hurrying
over household work in the morning, neglecting
our walks abroad, and wasting candlelight
in the evening the more to enjoy it.
We laid aside the book from time to time
while we wept over the author's pathetic

scenes. Oh, the horrid usage of poor Clarissa !
Was ever girl more barbarously served ? Was
ever man so wicked as her lover % Were
parents ever so blinded by prejudice ? Had
girl ever so unkind a brother — ever so perverse
a sister ? I thought of her all day
long', and at night I dreamed of her : the
image of Clarissa was never absent from my
brain.

Everything in the book was as real to meas
the adventures of Robinson Crusoe or
those of Christian on his pilgrimage from the
City of Destruction. So long as the reading
of this immortal book lasted — we read page
after page twice, thrice, or four tunes over,
to get out of them the fullest measure of
sympathy, sorrow, and delight — we loved
with Clarissa : her sorrows were ours : we
breathed and talked Clarissa : Mrs. Esther
even prayed, I believe — though the book was
already printed, and therefore it was too late
for prayer — that the poor, sweet innocent
might escape the clutches of her wicked lover,
who, sure, was more a demon than a man :
we carried the thought of Clarissa even to
church with us.

We invited our friends to chaise with us
this new-found joy. Solomon Stallabras was
always ready to weep with us over a dish of
tea. Never any man had a heart more
formed for the tenderest sensibility. Kty
that his nose was so broad and so much
turned up ! Otherwise, this natural tenderness
might have been manifested in his countenance.
While I read he gazed upon my
face, and was fain, from time to time, to draw
forth his handkerchief and wipe the tears
from his streaming eyes.

Stop, Miss Kitty !' he would say ; * let us
pause awhile : let us come back to virtue and
ourselves. It is too much : the spectacle of
so much youth and beauty, so much innocence
— the fate of our poor Clarissa — read
by a nymph whose lot is so below her merits
it is too much Mrs. Pimpernel — it is indeed
!'

In some way, while I read, this poet, whose
imagination, as became his profession, was
strong, mixed up Clarissa with myself, and
imagined that mv ending: inioiit be in someway
similar to that of the heroine. Now,
with Solomon Stallabras, to think was to

VOL. I. 20

believe. Nothing: was wanting but a Lovelace.
I believe that he waited about the
market in hopes of finding him lurking in
some corner. Perhaps he even suspected
poor Sir Miles. Had he found him, he
assured Mrs. Esther, he fully intended to
pierce him to the heart with a spit or skewer
from one of the butchers' stalls ; adding that
it would be sweet for him to die, even from
the cart at Tyburn, for my sake. But no
Lovelace was trying to make me leave my
shelter with Mrs. Esther.

Sometimes Sir Miles Lackington came to
join in the reading, but we found him wanting
in sensibility. Without that quality, Richardson's
novels cannot be enjoyed. He inclined
rather to the low humour which makes men
enjoy Fielding's ' Tom Jones,' or Smollett's
'' Peregrine Pickle ' — works full, no doubt, of
a coarse vitality which some men like, but
quite wanting in the delicate shades of feeling
that commend an author to the delicacy of
gentlewomen. And to think that old Samuel
Richardson was nothing but a printer by
trade ! Heaven, which denied this most
precious gift of creation to such tender and

poetic souls as that of Solomon Stallabras,
vouchsafed to bestow it upon a printer — a
mechanical printer, who, if he was not paid
for setting up type himself, yet employed
common workmen, superintended their
labours, paid them their wages, and put
profits into his purse. It seems incredible,
but then Shakespeare was only an actor.

'The sunshine of genius,' said Solomon,
falls upon the children of the lowly as well
as those of the rich. I am myself a scion of
Fetter Lane.'

Sometimes, indeed, Sir Miles Lackington
was so wanting in delicacy, and so rude as
to lauofh at us for our tears.

You cry over Richardson he said ; ' but
if I were to bring you ^'Tom Jones" I warrant
you would laugh.'

''^Tom Jones"' said Mrs. Esther, 'is
clearly a work of coarseness. Ladies do not
wish to laugh. The laws of decorum forbid
unrestrained mirth to females of good breeding.
Fielding may suit the pewter pots of
the tavern ; Kichardson goes best with the
silver service of the mansion.'

We looked about us as if our room was the

20—2

mansion and our cupboard was lined ^yith
silver dishes.

Sir Miles launched ao^ain.

Give me a pewter mug well filled and
often filled,' he said, 'with " Tom Jones" to
bear it company, and I ask no more. '' Clarissa"
and the silver service may remain with you,
ladies. Strange, however, that folk should
prefer a printer to a gentleman. Why,'rield-
ing comes of an honourable house.'

^ Gentle blood,' replied Mrs. Esther, ' does
not, unfortunately, always bring the gifts of
poetry and sensibility. You are yourself of
gentle birth, Sir Miles, yet you own that you
love not Richardson. Many great authors
have been of lowly extraction, and Mr. Stal-libras
was saying finely but yesterday, that
the sunshine of genius falls upon the children
of the poor as often as upon those of the rich.'

Solomon inclined his head and coloured;
Sir Miles laughed again in his easy fashion.

But,' he said, ' Mr. Richardson knows
nothing about the polite ton. His men are
master tradesmen disguised in swords and
scarlet coats ; they are religious tradesmen,
wicked tradesmen, and so forth ; but they

are not gentlemen ; they cannot talk, think,
or walk, write, or act like gentlemen. If we
want to read about polite society, let us at
least ask gentlemen to write for u*^.'

Sir Miles read little, yet his judgment was
generally right, and since I have seen the
society of which Kichardson wrote, I have
learned that he was right in this case ; for
Richardson, pathetic and powerful as he is,
had certainly never been among the class
whose manners and conversation he attempted
to pourtray.

Presently we finished ' Clarissa ' with
floods of tears. I believe that no book was
ever written which has caused so many tears
as this work. Just then it was about the
end of the year : we had already eaten our
Christmas plum porridge in the darkest and
deadest time of the year, the time when fogs
fall over the town by day and stop all work :
when nights are long and days short : when
the market was quiet at night because it was
too cold to stand about or to lie in the open :
when all the fia-htins^ and brawling" were over
before five o'clock, and the evenings were
tranquil though they were long. It was just

after we ended our book, and were still tearful
under its influence, that our deliverance came
to us.

I think it was on the 31st of December
in that same year of grace, seventeen
hundred and fifty, in which I had come
to the Liberties, and twenty-nine full years
with some eleven months since the poor ladies
had been incarcerated. I well remember the
day, though not certain of the date. It
was evening : we had finished work : supper
was on the table when we should care to take
it — bread and an excellent Dutch cheese ; the
candle was extinguished, and we were sitting
before the fire. Mrs. Esther was talking, as
women love sometimes to talk, about the
little things they remember : she was telling
me — not for the first time — of the great frost
of 1714, when she was a young girl, and of
the fair which they held upon the ice ; of the
dreadful scare there was in 1718 from the
number of highwaymen and footpads, for
whose apprehension the Government offered
as much as £100 a head ; of Orator Henley,
who began to preach in Clare Market shortly
after the ladies came to the Fleet ; of the

dreadful storm in 1739, which killed the
famous colony of sparrows in the Mile End
Road ; of the long frost of 1739, when from
Christmas unto February the poor watermen
and fishermen could not earn a single penny ;
of the fever of 1741 ; of the banishment of
papists before the Pretender's landing, in
1744; of the great Rebellion of 1745, when
the city so nobly did its duty.

'My clear,' she said, 'we, that is the
citizens, because the prisoners of the Fleet
and the persons who enjoy the Liberties
could hardly be expected to contribute
money or aught but prayers — and most of
the poor creatures but little used to praying !
raised twelve thousand shirts with as many
garments to correspond, ten thousand
woollen caps (to serve, I suppose, as nightcaps
for our brave fellows when they slept
in the open air), ten thousand pairs of stockings,
twelve thousand gloves, a thousand
blankets — which onlj^ makes one blanket for
twelve men, but I hope they took turns
about — and nine thousand spatterdash.
There was a camp on Finchley Common, of
which we heard but did not visit ; the militia

were kept in readiness — a double watch was
set at every one of the city gates ; there were
some in the Liberties, who thought that a successful
invasion of England miofht lead to the
burning of account-books, registers, ledgers,
and warrants, in which case we might all get
out and keep out. For my own part, my
dear, and for my sister Deborah's part, I am
happy to say that we preferred the Protestant
succession even to our own freedom, and
wished for no such lawless ending to a captivity
however unjust, but prayed night and
day for the confusion of the young Pretender.
Happily our prayers were answered, and great
George preserved.'

Then we talked of the past year, how it
had brought Mrs. Esther a daughter — as she
was good enough to say — and taken away a
sister. She cried a little over her loss, but
presently recovered, and taking my hand in
hers, said many kind and undeserved things
to me, who had been often petulant and
troublesome : as that we must not part, who
had been so strangely brought together, unless
my happiness should take me away from
the Fleet (I thought, then, of my husband

and wondered if he would ever come to take
me away), and then said that as we were at
New Year's Eve, we should make good resolutions
for the next year, Which were to be
kept resolutely, not broken and thrown away;
that for her part, she designed, if I agreed and
consented to the change, to call me niece, and
I should call her aunt, by which mutual
adoption of each other our affection and duty
one towards the other would be strengthened
and founded, as it were, on a sure and stable
basis.

Not, my dear,' she added, ' that you can
ever call yourself a Pimpernel — an honour
granted to few — or that you should ever
wish to change your name ; but in all other
respects you shall be the same as if you were
indeed my own niece, the daughter of my
brother (but I never had one) or sister (but I
had only one, and she was as myself). Truly
the Pley dells are a worthy family of whom
wee have no need to be ashamed.'

I was assuring her that nothing could alter
my love and gratitude for her exceeding kindness,
when wee heard footsteps and voices on
the stairs, and presently a knock at the door,

and the doctor stood before us. Behind inn
were Sir Miles Lackington and Solomon
Stallabras.

Madam,' said the doctor, ' I wish you a
good evening, with the compliments of the
season. Merry as Avell as happy may you
be next year.'

I declare that directly I saw his face, my
heart leaped into my mouth. I hew that
he was come with great and glorious news.
For his eyes glowed with the light of some
suppressed knowledge, and a capacious smile
began with his lips and glowed over the vast
expanse of his ruddy cheeks.

Merry, doctor — no. But happy if God
will.'

Ta ! ta ! ta ! we shall see,' he replied.
Now, madam, T have a thing to say which
will take some time to say. I have taken
the liberty of bringing with me a bottle of
good old port, the best to be procured, which
strengthens the nerves and acts as a
sovereign cordial in cases of sudden excitement.
Besides, it is to-night New Year's
Eve, when all should rejoice." He produced
the bottle from under his gown and placed it

on the table. ' I have also taken the liberty
to bring with me our friends and wellwishers,
Sir Miles Lackington and Mr.
Stallabras, partly to — to — ' here he remembered
that a corkscrew was not likely to be
among our possessions — ' to draw the cork of
the bottle, a thing which Sir Miles does with
zeal and propriety.' The Baronet with great
gravity advanced and performed the operation
by a dexterous handling of the poker,
which detached the upper part of the neck.
So,' continued the doctor ; ^ and partly that
they too, who have been so long our true
and faithful friends, may hear what I have to
say, and so that we may all rejoice together,
and, if need be, sing psalms with merry
hearts.'

Merry hearts ? Were we to sing psalms
with merry hearts in the place where for
thirty years every day had brought with it
its own suffering and disgrace to this poor
lady ?

Yet, what news could the doctor have
which made his purple face so glad, as if the
sunlight instead of our fire of cannel coal
was shining full upon it \

Kitty child,' he went on, ' light candles :
not one candle— two candles, three candies,
four candles — all the candles you have in the
solace ; we will have an illumination. Sir
Miles, will you please to sit ? Mr. Stalls
will you take Kitty's chair 1 She will
be occupied in serving. Glasses, child, for
this honourable company. Why ' — he banged
his fist upon the table, but with consideration,
for it was not so strong as his own
great table — ^ why, I am happier this night
than ever I have been before, I think, in
all my life. Such a story as I have to
tell !'

I placed on the table the three candlesticks
which formed all our stock, and set
candles in them and lit them. I put out
such glasses as we had, and then I stood
beside Mrs. Esther's chair and took her
hand in mine. I knew not what to expect,
yet I was certain that it was something very
good for Mrs. Esther. Had it been for me,
the doctor would have sent for me ; or for
himself, he would have told it without this
prodigality of joy. Surely it must be for my
good patron and protector ! My pulses were

bounding, and I could see that Mrs. Esther,
too, was rapidly rising to the same excitement.


Certain I am,' said Sir Miles, ' that something
has happened. Doctor, let us quickly
congratulate you. Let us drink your health.
I burn to drink some one's health.'

Should something have happened,' said
the poet, ' T would it were something good
for ladies who shall be nameless.'

Stay,' said the doctor. He stood while
the rest were sitting. He thus increased the
natural advantage of his great proportions.
We are not yet come to the drinking of
healths. But, Mrs. Pimpernel, I must first
invite you, before I go on with what I have
to says, to take a glass of this most generous
vintage. The grapes which produced it grew
fat and strong in thinking of the noble part
they were about to fulfil : the sunshine of
Spain passed into their juices and filled them
With the spirit of strength and confidence :
that spirit lies imprisoned in the bottle before
us '

It does — it does !' murmured Sir Miles,
gazing thoughtfully at the bottle.

He ought to have been a poet !' whispered
Solomon.

The doctor looked round impatiently, and
swept the folds of his gown behind him with
a large gesture.

For what did the grapes rejoice % Why
was the vintage more than commonly rich ?
Because in the fulness of time it was destined
to comfort the heart and to strengthen the
courage of a most worthy and cruelly tried
lady. Indeed, Mrs. Pimpernel, wonderful are
the decrees of heaven ! Drink, madam.'

He poured out a glass of wine and handed
it to her. She stared in his face almost
stupidly : she was trying to repress a wild
thought which seized her : her lips were
parted, her gaze fixed, her hands trembling.

Drink it, madam,' ordered the doctor.

What is it ? oh ! what is it ?' she cried.

Drink the wine, madam,' said Sir Miles,
kindly. ^ Believe me, the wine will give you
courage.'

I took the glass and held it to her lips,
while she drank submissively.

'With a bottle of port before him,' said
Sir Miles, encouragingly, ' a man may have

patience for anything. With the help of
such a friend, would I receive with resignation
and joy, good fortune for myself or
disasters to all my cousins, male and female.
Go on, doctor. The lady hath taken one
glass to prepare her palate for the next.'

Patience, now,' said the doctor, ^ and
silence, all of you. Solomon Stallabras, if
you liken me again to a poet, you shall leave
this room, and lose the joy of hearing what I
have to tell.

It is now some three months that the
thought came into my mind of investigating
the case of certain prisoners lying forgotten
in the prison or dragging along a wretched
existence in the Rules. It matters not what
these cases were, or how I have sped in my
search. One case, however, has filled me
with gratitude and joy because — madam
he turned suddenly on poor Mrs. Esther,
*you will please to listen patiently. This
case concerns the unhappy fate of two poor
ladies. Their history, gentlemen ' — oh ! why
could be not get on faster ? — ^ is partly known
to you. They were daughters of a most
worthy and respected city merchant wlio^ in

his time, served many civic offices with
dignity and usefulness, including the highest.
He was a benefactor to his parish, beautified
his church, and died leaving behind him two
young daughters, the youngest of whom came
of age in the year 1720. To each of them
he left a large fortune, no less than twenty
thousand pounds. Alas ! gentlemen, this
money, placed in the hands of their guardian
and trustee, a friend as honourable as the
late Lord Mayor himself, the ladies' father,
namely Alderman Medlicott, Alas in the year
1720 shamefully pillaged and stolen by the
alderman's clerk, one Christopher March,
insomuch that (the alderman having gone
mad by reason of his losses) the poor girls
had no longer any fortune or an}^ friends to
help, for in that bad time most all the
merchants were hit, and everyone had to
look after himself as best he could. Also
this plundering villain had so invested part
of their money, in their own name by
forgeries, as to make them liable for large
sums which they had not the means of
paying. They were therefore arrested and
confined in the prison hard by, where under

the rule of the rogue Bambridge they suffered
many things which it is painful to recall or
to think about. Presently, however, that
tormentor and plague of the human race —
captious jiagellum — scourge of innocent
captives and languishing debtors, having
been mercifully removed, and having hung
himself like Judas and so gone to his own
place, these ladies found the necessary security
which ensures for all of us this partial liberty,
the with opportunity, should we embrace it, of
improving the golden hours. In other words,
gentlemen, they came out of the prison, and
have ever since dwelt amongst us in this
place.

Gentlemen, we have with us here many
improvident and foolish persons who have
mostly by their own misconduct reduced
themselves to our unhappy condition. It
needs not that in this place, which is not a
pulpit, I should speak of those who have
gambled away their property' — Sir Miles
shook his head — 'or drank it away' — Sir
Miles stared straight at the ceiling — * or have
missed their chances, or been forgotten bv
Fortune ' — Mr. Stallabras groaned. ' Of

VOL. I. 21

these things I will not speak. But it is a
thing notorious to all of us that the Liberties
are not the chosen home of virtue. Here
temperance, sobriety, morality, gentle words,
courteous bearing, truth, honour, kindness of
thought, and charity — which seeketh not her
own — are rarely illustrated and discourteously
entreated. Wherefore, I say, that for two
ladies to have steadfastly resisted all the
temptations of this place, and to have exhibited,
so that all might copy, the exemplar
of a perfect Christian life during thirty years,
is a fact which calls for the gratitude as well
as the astonishment of the wondering Kules.'

He ought to have been a ' began

Solomon Stallabras, wiping a sympathetic
tear, but caught the doctor's frowning eye
and stopped ; * an — an Archbishop,' he added
presently, with a little hesitation.

^ Sir said the doctor, 'you are right. I
ought to have been an archbishop. Many
an archbishop's Latin verses have been poor
indeed compared with mine. But to proceed.
Madam, I would fain not be tedious.'

Oh, sir said Mrs. Esther, whose brain
seemed confused with this strange exordium.

After thirty years or thereabouts of most
undeserved captivity and forced retirement
from the porte world — which they were born
to adorn — these ladies found themselves by
the will of providence forced to separate
One of them winged her glad flight to
heaven, the other was permitted to remain
awhile below. It was then that I began to
investigate the conditions of their imprisonment.
Madam,' he turned suddenly to Mrs.
Esther, so that she started in her chair and
trembled violently, ' think of what you would
most wish : name no trifling matter ; it is nota
gift of a guinea or two, the bettering of
a meal, the purchase of a blanket, the helping
of a poor family ; no boon or benefit of a day
or two. Let your imagination rove, set her
free, think boldly, aim high, think of the best
and most desirable thing of all.'

She tried to speak, her lips parted ; she
half rose, catching at my hand : but her words
were refused utterance ; her cheek grew so
pale and white that I thought she would
have swooned and seized her in my arms,
being so much stronger and bigger. Then I

21—2

ventured to speak, being moved myself to a
flood of tears.

Oh, madam ! dear madam 1 the doctor is
not jesting with you ; he hath in his hands
the thing that we desire most of all. He
brings you, I am sure, great news — the
greatest. Oh, sir' — I spoke now for her
who was struck dumb with hope, fear, and
astonishment — ' what can this poor lady want
but her release from this dreadful place %
What can she pray for, what can she ask,
morning and night, after all these years of
companionship with profligates, spendthrifts,
rogues, and villains, the noisy market-people,
the poor suffering women and children of this
den of infamy, but her deliverance ? Sir, if
you have brought her that, tell her so at
once, to ease her mind.'

Well said, Kitty,' cried Sir Miles. ^ Doctor >
speak out.'

No poet — not even Alexander Pope —
could have spoken more eloquently,' cried
Solomon Stallabras.

As for Mrs. Esther, she drew herself gently
from me, and stood with her handkerchief in

her hand, and tears in her eyes, her poor thin
fissure trembhno^.

I have brought with nae said the doctor,
taking her hand and kissing it, ' the release
of the most innocent prisoner in the world

She steadied herself for a few moments.
Then she spoke clearly and calmly.

^ That,' she said, 'has ever been the utmost
of my desire. I have desired it so long and
so vehemently (with my sister Deborah, to
whom it has been granted) that it has become
part of my very being. I have desired it, I
think, even more than my sister. Thirty
years have I been a prisoner in the Fleet,
though for twenty-six in the enjoyment of
these (so-called) Liberties. Gentlemen, you
know full well what manner of life has been
ours ; you know the sights, the sounds, the
wickedness of this place.' Here Sir Miles
hung his head. ' I am, as the doctor most
kindly hath told you, a gentlewoman born ;
my father, besides being a great and honourable
merchant of this most noble city of
London, once Lord Mayor, an Alderman
of Portsoken Ward, and Worshipful Master
of the Company of Armour Scourers, was

also a true Christian man, and taught us
early the doctrines and virtues of the true
faith. We were educated as heiresses ; we
were delicately brought up in the love of
duty and religion ; too delicately for women
fated to herd with the worst, and bear the
worst. It is, therefore, no merit of ours if
we have behaved, according to our light, as
Christian gentlewomen. Yet, sirs, kind
friends, it has been great unhappiness to us ;
bear with me a little, for when I think of my
sister's sufferings, and my own, I fain must
weep. It has been, believe me, great, great
unhappiness.'

I think we all wept with her. Yet it was
astonishing to see with what quiet dignity
she spoke, resuming, at a moment's notice,
the air not only of a gentlewoman, which she
had never lost, but of one who is no longer
troubled by being in a false position, and can
command, as well as receive, respect. I saw
before me a great city lady, as she had been
trained and brought up to be. Small though
she was, her dignity made her tall — as her
unmerited sufferings and patience made her
great.

Sir Miles laid his hand on the poet's
shoulder.

^ Great heaven !' he cried. ' Canst thou
weep any more over the misfortunes of
Clarissa, with this poor lady's sorrows in thy
recollection ?'

The doctor wiped his eyes. But for those
backsliding which we have already lamented,
what an admirable character, how full of
generosity, how full of sympathy, how kind
of heart, was my uncle !

^ Pray, madam he said, ^ be seated again.
Will you take another glass of wine ?'

^ No, doctor,' she replied. ^ This is now
no case for the help of wine. Pray finish
the story of your benevolent care.'

^ Why, madam, as for benevolence,' he said,
I have but done what Sir Miles Lackington
or Solomon Stallabras ' — the poet spread his
arms and tapped his breast — ^ would have
done, had they possessed the power of doing ;
Avhat, indeed, this crying slip of a girl would
have done had she known how. Benevolence
! Are we, then. Old Bailey prisoners,
chained by the leg until the time comes for
us to go forth to Tyburn Tree ? Are we

common rogues and vagabonds, that have no
bowels ? Can such a Use as yours be contemplated
with unmoved eyes ? Is Sir Miles a
Lovelace for hardness of heart ? or Solomon
Stallabras a salamander \ . Am I a
Nero ? Nay, madam, speak no more of
benevolence. Know, then, that of all the
people whom the conduct of the villain Christopher
March with regard to your affairs
injured, but two are left alive. The heirs of
the rest are scattered and dispersed. These
two have prospered, and are generous as well
as old ; their hearts melted at the tale of
suffering ; they have agreed together to give
back to you, not only the security which
keeps you here, but also a formal release of
your debt to them ; you can go whenever
sou please.'

Why, then,* shouted Sir Miles, grasping
the bottle, ^ we can drink her '

^ Stay,' said the doctor. ^ There is one
thing more. This generous gift restores to
you, not only liberty, but also your father s
country estate in Hertfordshire, worth six
hundred pounds a year. And here, madam,
are the papers which vouch for all. You

have now your own estate, and are once
more a gentlewoman of fortune and position.'


She took the papers, and held them
grasped tightly in her lap.

And now, gentlemen,' said the doctor,
gently taking the bottle from the baronet's
hands, ' we will drink — you, too, Kitty, my
dear, must join — a happy new year to Mrs
Esther Pimpernel.'

They drank it with no more Avords ; and
Sir Miles fell on his knees and kissed her
hand, but without speaking aught.

Mrs. Esther sat still and quiet, trying to
recover herself; but the first eloquence would
not return, and she could not speak for
crying and sobbing. In broken words she
said, while she caught the doctor's great
hand and held it, that he had been, in very
sooth, her guardian angel; that it was he
who had rescued her sister and herself from
the monster Bambridge and the horrors of
the prison ; that, but for him, they would
long ago have starved ; that, but for him,
she should have languished for the rest of
her days in the Rules. Then she prayed

that God would reward the protector and
defender of the poor.

The doctor drew away his hand, and, without
a word, walked out of the room with
hanging head, followed by Sir Miles and
Mr. Stallabras.

We shall go, my sweet Kitty ; together
we shall leave this dreadful place,' sho murdered
when we were alone. ' What is mine
is yours, my child. Let us humbly to our
knees.'

ENI) OF VOL. I.

I RIMED BY BILLING AND fcO^S

^ ^

,^wGH^s

,p^§V9V^^«

^vwy

f:%^^^yi^^;

^i^^^:>:tK/^;

""^^m^^^^y^^

^^^v^'^'^m^

VC'^w'

v^w^^Wv^^Vvf^^

-^.>^'^vvwv^yw'^GJ^vwy

;i:j^'

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

y$«

S-J*n-

I.161-O-1096

Chaplain of the Fleet

Jl Isabel

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE

AUTHORS OF

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY,' ' THE MONKS OF THELEMA,' ' Ready-money M.OK-

TIBOY,' • BY CELIa's ARBOUR,' ' THIS SON OF VULCAN,' ' MY LITTLE GIRL,'

'the CASE OF MR. LUCRAFT,* , ' WITH HARP AND CROWN,'

WHEN THE SHIP COMES HOME,' ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY


CONTENTS OF VOL. 11.

PART II.

THE QUEEN OF THE WELLS.

Chapter PAGE

I. HOW WE RETURNED TO THE POLITE WORLD - 1

IL HOW WE WENT TO THE WELLS - - - 20

III. HOW NANCY RECKONED UP THE COMPANY - 36

IV. HOW KITTY WENT TO HER FIRST BALL - 67
V. HOW KITTY WORE HER CROWN - - - 99

VL HOW THE DOCTOR WROTE TO KITTY - - 122

VII. HOW KITTY BROKE HER PROMISE - - 134

\lll. HOW KITTY HAD LETTERS AND VERSES - 151

IX. HOW LORD CHUDLEIGH WENT TO LONDON - 168

X. HOW TWO OLD FRIENDS CAME TO EPSOM - 181
XL HOW SIR MILES RENEWED HIS OFFER - - 203

Nil HOW HARRY TEMPLE PROVED HIS VALOUR - 217

Xii Hoar Burdens WAS ILLUMINATED - - 234

XIV. HOW MY LORD MADE HIS CONFESSION - - 254

XV. HOW NANCY HAD A QUICK TONGUE - - 268

THE

CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

PART II.

7'/I£ QUEEN OF THE WELLS.

Chapter I.

HOW WE RETURNED TO THE POLITE WORLD.

We love those places most where we lived
when we were young, and where we were
wooed and won, and where we had those
sweet dreams, which can only come to the
very yomig, of a happy future, impossible in
this transitory and fleeting life. Dear to me
and romantic are the scenes which to many
are associated with disease and infirmity, or
at best with the mad riot of the race, the
assembly, and the ball.

VOL. n. .22

Truly there is no time, for a woman like
the time when she is young and beautiful,
and is courted by a troop of lovers. She
feels her power, though she does not understand
it ; she remembers it long after the
power has gone, with the witchery of bright
eyes, soft cheeks, and blooming youth. I
think there can never be any faith or hope
in the future so strong; as to resist the siofh
over the past, the feeling that it is better to
be young than to be old : to blossom than to
wither.

When Ave went to Epsom Wells wee had
managed betvv'Cen us, by silence as to the
past and a tacit understanding, to forget the
Rules altogether. Forgetting, indeed, is
easy. Surely the butterfly forgets the days
when it was a mere crawling grub; Copies
queen no doubt soon learned to believe
that she had royal blood, or blue blood at
least, in her peasant veins (for my own
part, I think the king should have mated
with one nearer Iiis own rank). There is
little difficulty in putting out of sight what
we wish forgotten. There was a man, for
instance, about the Fleet market, running

o

odd jobs, who actually had forgotten that he
was once hanged. The people used to go
there on purpose to see the wretch, who was,
I remember, bow-legged and long-armed,
with broad shoulders ; his face was marked
with small-pox ; he squinted ; he had a
great scar upon his cheek ; the bridge of his
nose was broken ; he had no forehead visible ;
his ears projected on either side, and were
long, like the ears of a mule ; his eye-teeth
were like tusks ; and as for his expression, it
was that which John Bunyan may have had
in his mind when he wrote about the mob in
Vanity Fair, or the ill-favoured ones who
got over the wall and accosted. Christiana — an
expression which one may briefly describe as
indicating a mind not set upon spiritual
things. Now this man had actually once
been hanged, but being taken away after the
hanmno^ to Barber Sui-o^eons' Hall, near St.
Giles's Church, Cripplegate, was then restored
to life by one who thought to dissect him.
That was why everybody looked after him,
and would have asked him questions if they
had dared accost such a ruffian. For it
seemed to the unthinking as if he, alone

22—2

among living men, had, like Dante and
Virgil, gone into the regions of the dead,
conversed with the spirits of the mijust
(being himself a monstrous criminal), and,
after witnessing their tortures, had returned
to the living. To those who bribed him with
rum and then put questions, he replied that
as for the hanging, it might be as the gentleman
said, but he had forgotten it. As for
what he saw between his hanging and his
restoration to life, he had forgotten that too.
Noah if a man can forget having been hung,
it stands to reason that he can forget anything.


At all events, without the insensibility of
this Wretch, we speedily agreed to forget the
Fleet Kules, and in all our conversations to
make as if we had never been there at all,
and knew of the place, if at all, then only by
hearsay and common bruit and rumour. As
for the Chaplain of the Fleet, the great promoter
of those marriages which made the
place infamous and the chief performer of
them notorious, we agreed that we were only
to think of him as our benefactor.

Not that we put these resolutions into

words, but we arrived at them in the manner
common among women, with whom a smile
or a glance is as intelligible as many words
(with a bottle of wine) among men.

It was due to this desire to forget the
past that we never even read through the
Farewell to the Fleet,' presented to us by
Mr. Solomon Stallabras on the morning of
our departure. Tie first four lines, which
was as far as I got, ran as follows :

With easy air of conscious worth expressed,
Fair Pimpernel her sorrows oft addressed ;
The listening echoes poured her sighs abroad,
AVhich, all unheard by men, were heard by God"'

He handed the verses to us with a low bow
as we stepped into the coach, leaving him
behind still — poor wretch I — * enjoying ' the
Liberties.

We first repaired, with the view of spending
a period of retirement, to a convenient
lodo^inof in Need Lion Street, where Mistress
Esther set herself seriously to resume the
dress, manner, language, and feelings of a
gentlewoman.

We have been,' she said, 'like the sun in
eclipse. It is true that one does not cease

to enjoy, under all circumstances, the pride
of gentle birth, which has been my chief
consolation during all our troubles. But if
one cannot illustrate to the eyes of the world
the dignified deportment and genteel appearance
due to that position, the possession of
the privilege is a mere private grace, like the
gift of good temper, patience, or hope

At first and for some weeks wee held daily
conversations and consultations on the subject
of dress. We were, as may be guessed,
somewhat like Pocahontas, of Virginia, when
she left the savages and came into the polite
world — because we had to besoin from the
very first, having hardly anything in which
a lady could go abroad, and very little in
which she could sit at home. Truly delightful
was it to receive every day the packages
of brocades, lace, satins, silks, garnets, besides
chintz, muslins, woollen things, and
fine linen wherewith to deck ourselves, and
to talk with the dressmaker over the latest
fashion, the most proper style for madam, a
lady no longer young, and for me, who, as a
girl, should be dressed modestly and yet
fashionably.

We must go fine, child said Mrs. Esther.
^ \j for my part, because a fine appearance is
due to my position : you, because you are
young and beautiful. The gallants, to do
them justice, are never slow in running after
a pretty face ; but they are only fixed by a
pretty face in a pretty setting.'

Alas ! to think that my face, pretty or not,
already belonged, willy-nilly, to a man who
had never run after it.

Mrs. Esther found that not only the
fashions of dress, but those of furniture, of
language, of manners, and of thought, were
changed since her long imprisonment began.
We therefore made it our endeavour by reading
papers, by watching people, and by going
to such places as the Mall, the Park, and
even the fashionable churches, to catch, as
far as possible, the mode. Mistress Esther
never cjuite succeeded, retaining to the last a
touch of antiquated manners, an old-fashioned
bearing and trick of speech, which greatly
became her, though she knew it not. Meanwhile
we held long and serious talk about
the rust of thirty years, and the best way to
wear it off.

In one of the sermons of the Reverend
Melchior Sniallbrook, a divine now forgotten
but formerly much read, the learned clergyman
states that the sunshine of prosperity is
only dangerous to that soul in which tares
are as ready to spring as wheat : adducing asa
remarkable example and proof of this
opinion, the modern prelates of the Church
of England, whose lives (he said) are always
models to less fortunate Christians, although
their fortunes are so great. Now in Mistress
Esther s soul were no tares at all, so that the
sunshine of prosperity caused no decrease or
diminution of her virtues. She only changed
for the better, and especially in point of
cheerfulness and confidence. For instance
whereas we were formerly wont, being poorly
clad, to creep humbly to church, sit in the
seats reserved for the poor (which have no
backs to them, because the bishops consider
the backs of the poor to be specially
strengthened by Providence, which hath
laid such heavy burdens upon them), and
afterwards spend the day sadly over Hervey's
Meditations among the Tombs we now
went in hoops, laces, mantles, or cardinals

with faces patched, to the new church in
Queen Square, where we had front seats in
the gallery, and after church we dined off
roast meat, with pudding, and after dinner
read such discourses as presented, instead of
penitential m meditations, a thankful, nay, a cheerful
view of life. I am sure, for my own part,
I found the change greatly for the better.

But we made no new friends, because Mrs.
Esther wished to remain in strict retirement
until she had recovered what she called the
Pimpernel Manner.

It is a Manner, my dear, as you will
perceive when I recover it, at once dignified
and modest. My father and my grandfather,
both Lord Mayors, possessed it to an eminent
degree, and Avere justly celebrated for
it. My poor sister would never have acquired
it, being by nature too sprightly. I
was gradually learning it when our misfortunes
came. Naturally afterwards it
would have been absurd to cultivate its
further development. The Pimpernel Manner

would have been thrown away in such a

place as that to which we retired.'

T am so stupid that I never clearly understood

the Pimpernel Manner, even when
Mrs. Esther afterwards assured me that she
had now fully recovered it.

Meantime, my education was resumed in
the lighter departments. No girl who had
once tackled book-keeping, b}^ single and
double entry, could want any more solid instruction.
My guardian played the harpsichord
for me, while my dancing-master gave
me lessons in the minuet ; or she personated
a duchess, a countess, or even the most
exalted lady in the land, while the master, a
pink of courtesy, who had once danced on
the boards of Drury Lane, presented me
dressed in hoops and a train. I was so
diligent in dancing that I was soon ready, he
assured me, to make a figure at any assembly,
whether at Bath, Epsom, Tunbridge
Wells, Vauxhall, or Ranelagh. But for the
present these gaieties had to be postponed,
partly because the Pimpernel Manner was
slow in developing, and without it my
guardian would not stir abroad, partly because
we had no gentleman to go with us.
Sir Miles Lackington would, I am sure, have
gone with us, had wee asked him to take us.

Bat he was not to be depended upon if a
bottle of wine came in the way. Solomon
Stallabras would have gone, but the poor
poet had no clothes fit for a polite assembly
Moreover, there was an objection, Mrs.
Esther said, to both those gentlemen, that
the fact of their being in the enjoyment of
the Liberties of the Fleet might have been
thrown in our teeth at a polite assembly.

It seemed to me, then, being ignorant of
the extreme wickedness of men, a grievous
thing that gentlewomen cannot go whithersoever
they please without the protection of
a man. What sort of an age, I asked, is
this, which pretends to have cast aside
Gothic barbarism, yet cannot suffer its ladies
to go unprotected for fear of insult or damage
to their reputation ? Scourers and Shocks,
I said, no longer infest the streets, which are
for the most part secure even from footpads
and purse-cutters. I was as yet, however, unacquainted
with that class of man which loves
to follow a woman, to stare at her, and to
make her tremble with fear, being no better,
bat rather worse, than so many highwaymen,
common bullies, and professed rogues.

Sir Miles Lackington did not desert us.
Neither my cruelty, he said, nor his own unworthiness
could persuade him to do that ;
he must needs follow and worship at the
shrine of his unattainable sun and shining



star — with such nonsense as men will still be
talking even when they know that the woman
is not for them.

On the occasion of the first visit I privately
informed, him that we wished to have no
mention made of the place where we were once
residing. He very kindly agreed to silence
on this point, and we sustained between us a
conversation after the manner of j)o^ite
circles. Sir Miles would ask us, with a
pinch of snuff, if we liked our present
lodging — which Alas, as I have said, in Red
Lion Street, not far from the fields and the
Foundling Hospital — better than those to be
obtained in Hill Street and Breton Street,
or some other place frequented by the best
families. Madame, with a fashionable bow,
would reply that we were favourably placed
as regards air, that of Bloomsbury being
good for persons like herself, of delicate
chests; and that concerning educational conveniences

for miss, she found the quarter
superior to that mentioned by Sir Miles.
Then the honest baronet would relate, without
spawning or showing any signs of fatigue,
such stories of fashionable life as he had
learned from those who had lately come to
the Fleet, or remembered from his short career
amono^ the world of fashion. We agreed,
always without unnecessary waste of words,
to consider him as a gentleman about town,
familiar with the Great.

The doctor came but rarely. He brought
wise counsel. He was a miracle of wisdom.
No one is ever so wise in the conduct of his
friends' affairs as he who has wrecked his
own. Have we not seen farseeing and
prudent ministers of state, who have conducted
the business of the nation with skill
and success, yet cannot manage their own far
more simple business ?

Mrs. Esther talked to no one but to him
about the past. She had no secrets from
him. She even wished him, if possible, to
share in her good fortune, and wanted him to
appease his creditors with half of all that
was hers. But he refused.

My imprisonment he said, ' is also my
freedom. While I am lying in the Fleet I
can go abroad as I please ; I fear no arrest :
my conscience does not reproach me when I
jDass a shop and think of what I owe the
tradesman who keeps it, because my creditors
have paid themselves by capture of my body.
Your purse, dear madam, were it ten times
as long, would not appease the hungry maw
of all my creditors and lawyers. Of old,
before I took refuge among the offal and offscouring
of humanity, the prodigal sons, and
the swine, there was no street west of
Temple Bar where I did not fear the voice
of a creditor or expect the unfriendly
shoulder-tap of a bailiff. Besides, were I
free, what course would be open to me ?
Now I live in state, with the income of a
dean : outside I should live in meanness,
with the income of a curate. I will retire
from my present position — call it cure of
souls, madam — Avhen the Church recognises
merit by translating me from the Fleet
market to a fat prebendal stall. And, believe
me, Virtue may find a home even beside
those stalls, and among those grunting swine.'

I understand now, being much older and
abler to take a just view of things, that
if my uncle could have obtained his discharge
he would have been unwilling to take
it. For, granted that he was a learned and
eloquent man, that he would have attracted
multitudes to hear him, learning: and
eloquence, in the Church, do not always
obtain for a clergyman the highest preferment
; the doctor, who was no longer young,
mio'ht have had to languish as a curate on
forty or perhaps sixty pounds ^pev annum,
even though it became the fashion to attend
his sermons. And, besides, his character
was for ever gone, among his brethren of
the cloth. A man who has been a Fleet
parson is like one who has passed a morning
in hedging and ditching. He must needs
wash all over. Truly, I think that the doctor
was right. To exercise the functions of his
sacred calling all the morning for profit, to
drink with his friends all the evening, to
spend a large portion of his gains in deeds of
charity and generosity among a poor, necessitous,
prodigal, greedy, spendthrift, hungry,
thirsty, and shameful folk, who rewarded his

liberality by a profusion of thanks, blessings,
and good wishes, was more in accordance
with the doctor's habits of thought. He
persuaded himself, or tried to persuade
others, that he was doing a good work in the
morning ; in the afternoon he performed
works of charity ; in the evening he
abandoned himself to the tempter, who led
him to sing, drink, and jest among the rabble
rout of Comus.

One morning he bade me put on my hat
and walk with him, because he had a thing to
say. I obeyed with fear, being certain he was
going to speak about my unknown husband.
Girl r he said, as we walked past the
last house in Red Lion Street, and along the
pathway which leads to the Foundling
Hospital. ' Girl, I have to remind you and
to warn you.'

I knew well what was to be the warning.
^ Remember, you are now seventeen and
more ; you are no longer a young and silly
girl, you are a young woman ; thanks to
your friends, you have taken the position of a
young gentlewoman — even an heiress. You
will soon leave this quiet lodging and go

where you will meet society and the great
world ; you are pretty and well-mannered ;
you will have beaux and gallants dangling
their clouded canes at your heels and asking
your favours. But you are married. Remember
that : you are married. You must
be careful not to let a single stain rest upon
your reputation.'

Oh, sir !' I cried, ' I have endeavoured to
forget that mornings. Was that marriage
real ? The poor young gentleman was tipsy.
Can a tipsy man be married V

Real V The doctor stood and gazed at
me with angry eyes and puffed cheeks, so
that the old terror seized me in spite of my
fine frock and hoop. ' Real ? Is the girl
mad ? Am I not Gregory Shovel, Doctor
of Divinity of Christ's College, Cambridge ?
Not even the King's most sacred Majesty is
married in more Avorkmanlike fashion. Let
your husband try to escape the bond. Know
that he shall be watched ; let horn try to set
it aside : he shall learn by the intervention
of learned lawyers, if he do not trust my
word, that he is as much married as St.
Peter himself

VOL. II. 23

Alas !' I said. ^ But how shall my husband
love me X

^ Tut ! tut ! what is love ? You young
people think of nothing but love — the fond
inclination of one person for another. Are
you a pin the worse, supposing he never loves
you % Love or no love, make up thy mind,
child, that happy shall be thy lot. Be contented,
patient, and silent. When the right
day comes, thou shall step forth to the world
as Catherine, Lady Chudleigh.'

That day he said no more to mo. But he
showed that the subject was not out of his
thoughts by inquiries into the direction and
progress of my studies, which, he hinted,
should be such as would befit my rank and
position. Madam thought he meant my
rank as her heiress, a position which could
not be illustrated with too much assiduity.

Soon after we went to Bed Lion Street,
my uncle gave madam my bag of guineas.

^ Here is the child's fortune,' he said.
Let her spend it, but with moderation, in
buying the frocks, fal-lals, and trifles which
a young gentlewoman of fortune should wear.
Grudge not the spending. Should more be

wanting, more shall be found. In everything,
my dear lady, make my niece an accomplished
woman, a woman of ton, a woman who can
hold her own, a woman wiio can go into any
society, a woman fit to become the wife — well
the wife of a lord.'

It was on New Year's Day that we left
the Fleet ; it was in the summer, at the end
•of June, when we decided that enough had
been done to rub off the rust of that unfashionable
place.

You, my dear,' said Mrs. Esther, ' have
the sprightly graces of a well-born and well-bred
young woman : I can present you in
any society. I, for my part, have recovered
the Pimpernel Manner. I can now make an
appearance worthy of my father.'

I assured my kind lady that although, to
be sure, I had never been able to witness the
great original and model from which the
Pimpernel Manner was derived, yet that no
lady had so fine an air as herself ; which was
certainly true, madam being at once dignified
and gifted with a formal condescension very
pretty and uncommon.

show

WE WENT TO TfTE WELLS.

Access to the polite world is more readily
gained (by those who have no friends) at one
of the watering-places than in London.
Considering this we counselled whether it
would not be better to visit one, or all, of the
English Spas, rather than to climb slowly and
painfully up the ladder of London fashion.

Mrs. Esther at first inclined to Bath, which
certainly (though it is a long journey thither)
is a most stately city, provided with every
requisite for comfort, possessing the finest
assembly-rooms and the most convenient lodgings.
It also affords opportunities for making
the acquaintance and studying the manners
of the Great. Moreover, there can be no
doubt that its waters are efficient in the cure

of almost all disorders ; and the social enjoyment
of the hot bath, taken in the company
of the wits and toasts who go to be parboiled
together in that liquid Court of scandal,
chocolate, and sweets, is surely a thing
without a rival.

On the other hand, Tunbridge Wells is
nearer London ; the roads are good; a coach
reaches the place in one day ; and, so amazing
is the rapidity of communication (in which
we so far excel our ancestors), that the
London morning papers reach the Wells in
the evening, and a letter posted from the
Wells in the mornings can be answered in the
following: eyenins;'. Also the air is fine at
Tunbridge, the waters wholesome, and the
amusements are said to be varied. Add
to this that it is greatly frequented by the
better sort of London citizens, those substantial
merchants with their proud and richly
dressed wives and daughters, whom Mrs.
Esther always looked upon as forming the
most desirable company in the world. So that
it was at first resolved to go to Tunbridge.

But while we were making our preparations
to go there, a curious longing came

upon Mrs. Esther to revisit the scenes of her
youth.

My clear she said, * I should like to see
once more the Wells of Epsom, whither my
father carried us every year when we were
children. The last summer I spent there was
after his death, in the dreadful year of 1720,
when the solace was crowded with Germans,
Jews, and the people who flocked to London
with schemes which were to have made all
our fortunes, but which only ruined us, filled
the prisons and madhouse, drove honest men
upon the road and their children to the
gutters. Let us go to Epsom.'

Epsom Wells, to be sure, was no longer
what it had been. Indeed, for a time, the
place had fallen into decay. Yet of late,
with their horse-racing in April and June,
and the strange repute of the bone-setter
Sally Wallis, the salubrity of the air on the
Downs, the easy access to the town, which
lieth but sixteen miles or thereabouts from
Paul's, and the goodness of the lodgings,
the fame of the place had revived. The
gentry of the country-side came to the Monday
breakfasts and assemblies, when there was

music, card-playing, and dancing ; the old
buildings were again repaired, and Epsom
Wells for a few years was once more crowded.
To me, as will presently be very well understood;
the place will ever remain a dear
romantic spot, sacred to the memory of the
sweetest time in a woman's life, when her
heart goes out of her keeping, and she listens
with fear and delight to the wooing of the
man she loves.

We went there in the coach, which took
about three hours. We arrived in the afternoon
of a sunny day — it was a Friday, which
is an unlucky day to begin a journey upon —
in the middle of July. We were presently
taken to a neat and clean lodging in Church
Parade, where we en-Gfao^ed rooms at a moderate
charge. The landlady, one Mrs. Crump,,
was the widow, she told us of a respectable
hosier of Cheapside, who had left her with
but a slender stock. Her children, however,
were in good service and thriving; and, with
her youngest daughter, Cicely, she kept ,
a poor but genteel mode of
earning a livelihood.

The first evening: we sat at home until

sunset, when we put On our hoods and walked
under the trees which everywhere at Epsom
afford a delightful shade during the heat of
the day, and a romantic obscurity in the twilight.
A lane or avenue of noble lime-trees
was planted in the Church Parade. Small
avenues of trees led to the houses, and formed
porches with rich canopies of green leaves.
There was a good deal of company abroad,
and we could hear, not far off, the strains of
the music to which they were dancing in the
Assembly Rooms.

We have done well, Kitty,* said Mrs.
Esther, ' to come to this place, which is far
less changed than since last I came here. I
trust it is not sinful to look back with pleasure
and regret on the time of youth.' Here
she sighed. ' The good woman of the house,
I perceive with pleasure, remembers the
name of Pimpernel, nd made me a becoming
courtesy when I informed her of my
father's rank. She remembers seeing his
Lord Mayor's Show. There are, it appears,
many families of the highest distinction herewith
several nabobs, rich Turkey and Russian
merchants, great lawyers, and county gentry.

She assures me that all are made welcome,
and that the assemblies are open to the whole
company. And she paid a tribute to thy
pretty face, my dear.'

In the morning we were awakened, to our
surprise and delight, by a delectable concert
of music, performed for us, by way of salutation
or greeting, by the band belonging to the
jDlace. They played, in succession, a number
of the most delightful airs, such as, *A-
hunting we will go,' * Fain I would,' ' Spring's
a- coming,' ' Sweet Nelly, my heart's delight,'
and ' The girl I left behind me.' The morning
was bright, and a breeze came into my
open Window from the Surrey Downs, fresh
and fragrant with the scent of wild flowers.
My brain was filled with the most ravishing
ideas, though I knew not of what.

My dear,' said Mrs. Esther, at breakfast,
^ the compliment of the music shows the discernment
of the people. They have learned
already that we have pretensions to rank, and
are no ordinary visitors, not haberdashers'
daughters or grocers.'

(It is, we afterwards discovered, the rule of
the 2^1ace thus to salute new comers, without

inquiry afc all into their rank or fortune. We
rewarded the players with half-a-crown from
madam, and two shillings from myself)

It is, surely, a delightful thing to dress
one's self in the morning to the accompaniment
of sweet music. If I were a queen, I
would have a concert of music every day, to
begin Avhen I put foot out of bed : to sing in
tune while putting on one's stockings : to
dance before the glass while lacing one's
stays : to handle a comb as if it Alas a fan,
and to brush one's hair with a swimming
grace, as if one was doing a minuet, while
the fiddles and the flutes and the hautboys
are playing for you. Before I had finished
dressing, however, Cicely Crump, who was a
lively, sprightly girl, with bright eyes and
little nose, about my own age, came to help
me, and told me that those ladies who went
abroad to take the air before breakfast wore
in the morning an easy dishabille, and advised
me to tie a hood beneath the chin.

But not,' she said with a laugh, ^ not to
hide too much of your face. What will they
say to such a face at the ball '?'

We followed her advice, and presently

sallied forth. Althouofli it was but seven
o'clock, we found a goodly assemblage already
gathered together upon the Terrace, where,
early as it vas, the shade of the trees was
agreeable as well as beautiful. The ladies,
who looked at us with curiosity, were dressed
much like ourselves, and the gentlemen wore
morning-gowns, without swords : some of
the elder men even wore nightcaps, which
seemed to me an excessive simplicity.
Everybody talked to his neighbour, and there
was a cheerful buzz of conversation.

Nothing is changed, my dear,' said Mrs.
Esther, looking about her with great satisfaction
; ' nothing except the dresses, and these
not so much as we might have expected. I
have been asleep, dear, like the Beauty in
the story, for thirty years. But she kept
her youth, that lucky girl, while I —
heisfh-ho !'

Cicely came with us to show us the way.
We went first along the Terrace and then to
the Nest Parade, which was also beautifully
shaded with elms and limes. Between them
lies the pond, with gold and silver fish, very
pretty to look at, and the tumble-down watch-house

at one end. Tien she showed us the
pump-room.

Here is the spring,' she said, ' which cures
all disorders : the best medicine in the world.'

There was in the room a dipper, as they
call the women who hand the water to those
Who go to drink it. We were told that it
was customary to pay our footing with half-a-crown
; but we drank none of the water,
which is not, like that of Tunbridge Wells,
sweet and pleasant to the taste. Then Cicely
led us to another building hard by, a handsome
place, having a broad forthwith columns,
very elegant. This, it appeared, was the Assembly
Room, where were held the public
balls, concerts, and breakfasts. We entered
and looked about us. Mrs. Esther recalled
her triumphs in this very room, and shed
a tear over the past. Then a girl accosted us,
and begged permission to enter our names in a
great book. This (with five shillings each byway
of fees) made us free of all the entertainments
of the season.

Near the Assembly E-ooms was the coffeehouse,
used only by the gentlemen.

They pretend,' said Cicely, * to come here

for letter-writing and to read the news. I do
not know how many letters they write, but I
do know what they talk about, because I had
it of the girl who pours out their coffee, and
it is not about religion, nor politics, but all
about the toast of the day.'

What is the toast of the day V I asked.

Cicely smiled, like a saucy baggage as she
was, and said that no doubt Miss Kitty would
soon find out. ^ Already,' she said, * Mr.
Walsingham is looking at you.'

I saw an old gentleman already dressed
for the morning, With lace ruffles and a handkerchief
for the neck of rich crimson silk, who
sat on one of the benches beneath the trees,
his hands upon a stick, looking at me with a
sort of earnestness.

^ Hush !' cried Cicely, whispering ; ' he is
more than eighty years of age : he goes every
year to Epsom, Bath, and Tunbridge — all
three — and he can tell you the name of the
toast in every place for fifty years, and describe
her face.'

A ' toast,' then, was another word for a
young lady.

As we passed his bench, the old gentleman

rose and bowed with great ceremony to
madam.

Your most obedient servant, madam he
said, still looking at me. ' I trust that the
Wells will be honoured by your ladyship with
a long stay. My name is Walsingham,
madam, and I am not unknown here. Permit
me to offer my services to you and to
your lovely daughter.'

My niece, sir.' Madam returned the bov/
with a curtsey as deep. ^ My niece, Miss
Kitty Pleydell. We arrived last night, and
we expect to find our stay so agreeable as to
prolong it.'

^ The Wells, madam, will be delighted.'
He bowed again. ' I hope to be of assistance
— some little assistance — in making your
visit pleasant. I have known Epsom Wells,
and, indeed, Bath and Tunbridge as well, for
fifty years. Every year has been made remarkable
in one of these places, by the appearance
of at least one beautiful face : sometimes
there has been even three or four, so
that gentlemen have been divided in opinion.
In 1731, for instance, a duel was fought at
Tunbridge Wells, between mv Lord 

and Sir Humphrey Lydgate about
two rival beauties. Generally, however, the
Wells acknowledge but one queen. Yesterday
I was publicly lamenting that we had as
yet no one at Epsom whom we could hope to
call Queen of the Wells. Miss Kitty Pleader
— again he bowed low — *I can make that
complaint no longer. I salute your Majesty.'

'■ Oh, sir I said, abashed and confused,
you are jesting with me !'

He replied gravely, that he never jested on
so serious a subject as the beauty of a woman.
Then he hoped to see us again upon the
Terrace or on the Downs in the course of the
day, and left us with a low bow.

I told you, miss,' said Cicely, ' that it
would not be Ions: before you found out what
is meant by a toast.'

She next took us to a bookshop, where we
learned that for a crown we could carry home
any book we pleased from the sliojo and read
it at our ease ; only that we must return it in
as good condition as we took ih out, which
seems reasonable. The people in the shop,
as are all the people at Epsom, were mighty
civil ; and madam, partly with a view of

showing the seriousness of her reading, took
down a volume of sermons, which I carried
home for her.

Next day, however, she exchanged this
for a volume of ' Pamela which now began
to occupy our attention almost as much as
Clarissa' had done, but caused fewer tears
to flow. Now is it not a convenient thing
for people who cannot afford to buy all that
they would read, thus to pay a subscription
and to borrow books as many as they wish ?
I think that nothing has ever yet been invented
so excellent for the spread of knowledge
and the cultivation of taste. Yet it
must not go too far either ; for should none
but the libraries buy new novels, poems, and
other works of imagination, where would bethe
reward of the ingenious gentlemen who
write them '? No ; let those who can afford
buy books : let those who cannot, buy all
they can, and join the library for those they
cannot afford to buy. What room looks more
comfortably furnished than one which has its
books in goodly rows upon the shelves ?
They are better than pictures, better than
vases, better than plates, better than china



monkeys ; for the house that is so furnished
need never feel the duchess of a rainy
day.

There remained but two subscriptions to
pay before our footing was fairly established.

The leader of the music presented himself,
bowing, with his subscription-book in his
Ind. Time usual amount was half a guinea.
Madam o^ave a ruined, beings half for herself
and half for me, Writing down our names in
the book. I saw, as we came away, that a
little group of gentlemen quickly gathered
round the leader and almost tore the book
from his hand.

They are anxious to find out your name,
miss said Cicely. ^ Then they will go away
and talk in the coffee-house, and wonder who
you are and whence you came and what
fortune you have. Yet they call us women
gossips !'

Lastly, there was the clergyman's book.

Heaven forbid,' said madam, ' that we pay
for the music and let the prayers go
starving !'

This done, we could return home, having
fairly paid our way for everything, and wo
VOL. II. 24

found at our lodgings an excellent country
breakfast of cream, new-laid eggs, fresh wild
strawberries from Durdans Park, delicate
cakes of Mrs. Crump's own baking, and
chocolate, with Cicely to wait upon us.

It was the godly custom of the place to
attend public worship after breakfast, and at
the ringing of the bell we put on our hats
and went to the parish church, where we
found most of the ladies assembled. They
were escorted to the doors of the sacred
house by the gentlemen, who left them there.
Why men (who are certainly greater sinners,
or sinners in a bolder and more desperate
fashion than women) should have less need of
prayers than we, I know not ; nor why a
man should be ashamed of done what a
woman glories in doing. After their drinking,
their duels, their j^rodigalities, and
waste fulness, men should methinks crowd
into the doors of every church they can find,
women leading them thereto. But let us
not forget that men, when they live outside
the fashion and are natural, are by the bent
of their mind generally more religiously disposed
than women : and, as they make

greater sinners, so also do they make more
illustrious saints.

When we came out of the church (I forgot
to says that we were now dressed and ready
to make as brave a show as the rest) we found
outside the doors a lane of gentlemen, who,
as we passed, bowed low, hat in. hand. At
the end stood old Mr. Walsingham.

He stood with his hat raised high in air,
and a smile upon his lined and crowsfooted
face.

What did I say, Miss Kitty V he whispered.
' Hath not the Queen of the Wells
arrived V

I do not know what I might have said,
but I heard a cry of "' Kitty ! Kitty !' and,
looking round, sav — oh, the joy ! — none
other than my Nancy, prettier than ever,
though still but a little thing, who ran up tome
and threw herself in my arms.

24—2

UO^Y NANCY RECKONED UP THE COMPANY.

Nancy Levett herself, pretty and meny^
prattling, rattling Nancy, not grown a bit,
and hardly taller than my shoulder. I held
her out at arm's length.
You here, Nancy V
Then we kissed again.
And not a bit changed, Nancy !'
And oh ! so changed, Kitty. So tall and
grand. Come to my mother.'

Lady Levett was standing close by with
Sir Robert, who took me by the shoulders
and kissed my cheeks, forehead and lips in
fatherly fashion.

^ Gadso !' he cried. ' This is brave indeed.
Things are likely to go well at Epsom. We
have got back our Kitty, wife.'

Lady Levett was colder. Perhaps she
had miso^ivinof-s on what had been done with
me for the last twelvemonth. And then I,
who had gone away a simple, rustic maid,
was now in hoops, patches and powder.

Kitty will tell us presently,' she said, ' I
doubt not, what she has done, and under
whose protection she is travelling.'

Then I hastened to present Mrs. Esther,
who stood aside, somewhat embarrassed,

Madam,' I said, ' I present to you my
benefactress and guardian, Mrs. Esther, to
whose care I was entrusted by my uncle.
Dear aunt, this is my Lady Levett, Mrs.
Esther Pimpernel, Madam, hath done me
the singular kindness of calling me her niece.'

My niece and daughter by adoption,' said
that kind lady. 'Your ladyship will be
pleased, out of your goodness of heart, to
hear the best report of this dear child's
health and conduct. The good principles,
my lady, Vvdiich she learned of you and of
her lamented father, have borne fruit in
virtues of obedience and duty.'

Both ladies made a deep reverence. Then
said Lady Levett :

I assure you, my dear madam, I looked
for nothing less in this dear child. From
such a father as was hers, could ought but
good descend \ Madam, 1 desire your better
acquaintance. For Kitty's sake, I hope we
may bo friends.'

'Why,' said Sir Robert, * we are friends
already. Kitty, thou art grown : thou art a
fine girl. I warrant we shall have breaking
of hearts before all is done. Epsom Wells
was never so full of gallants. Well, breaking
of hearts is rare sport, and seldom hurts the
men, though they make so great a coil
about it in their rhymes and nonsense. But
have a care, both of you : sometimes the girls
get their own little cockle shells of hearts
broken in earnest.'

I should like to see the man amons^ them
all Who could break my heart,' said Nancy
jDcrtly, laughing.

Yours I' her father asked, tapping her
pretty rosy cheek. ' It is such a little one,
no one can find it : nevertheless, lass, it is
big enough to carry all thy father's in it, big
as he is.'

Then we began to ask questions all

together. I to inquire after the village and
the hail, the church, the ponies, the garden,
the hounds, the fruit, all the things we used
to think about : and Will, they told me, was
at home, but was coming to the Wells for
certain races in which he would himself ride.
Harry Temple was gone to London, but
would perhaps come to Epsom as soon as he
knew who was there. Why had I written
not one single letter ?

I blushed and hung my head. I could
not tell the truth, for the sake of Mrs.
Esther, how I was ashamed at first to speak
of the place in which I found myself, and
afterwards was afraid ; but I should have to
explain my silence.

It was not,' I stammered, ' that I was
ungrateful to your ladyship) for all your kindness.
But things where strange at first, and
there was nothing that I could take any
pleasure in telling your ladyship. And a
London letter from a simple girl, who can
send no news of the great world, is a worthless
thing to deliver by the post.'

Nay, child,' said Lady Levett, ' we should

not have grudged the charge for good tidings
of thy welfare

Our Kitty,' said Mrs. Esther, colouring a
little, for it is never pleasant to help at
concealing, dissembling, or falsifying things,
'has had a busy time of late. Your ladyship
knows, doubtless, that her education was not
completed. We have had masters and
teachers of dancing, music, deportment, and
the like during the last few months, and 1
trust that we shall find she will do credit to
the instruction she has received. Meanwhile
I have, for reasons which it would not
interest your ladyship to learn, been living
in great retirement. We had a lodging lately
in Ked Lion Street, not fur from the Foundling
Hospital, Avhere the air is good and the
situation quiet.'

We fell, presently, into a sort of procession.
First went Lady Levett and Mrs. Esther (I
overheard the latter speaking at length of her
father, the Lord Mayor, of her grandfather,
also the Lord Mayor, and of her last visit to
Epsom), then came Nancy, Sir Robert, who
held my hand, and myself The music, which
had stopped during prayers, began again now.

The Terrace was crowded with the visitors,
and Nancy began to point them out to me as
we walked along.

'Look, child — oh ! how beauty you have
grown ! — there is Mr. Pagoda Tree — it is
really Samuel Tree, or Obadiah Tree, or, I
think, Crabapple Tree, but they all call him
Pagoda Tree : he has made a quarter of a
million in Bengal, and is come running to
Bath, Epsom and Tunbridge, in search of a
wife. With all his money I, for one, would
not have him, the yellow little Nabob ! He
has five and twenty blacks at his lodgings,
and they say he sticks dinner-knives into
them if his curry be not hot enough. There
goes the Dean of St. Sepulchre's. He is
come to drink the waters, which are good fora
stomach enfeebled by great dinners ; there
is no better fox-hunter in the county, and no
finer judge of port. Pity to be seventy years
old when one has all the will and the power
to go on doing good to the Christian Church
by fox-hunting and drinking ' — he was
certainly a very red-faced divine, who looked
as if this world was more in his thoughts
than the next, where, so far as we know,

fox-hunting will not be practised and port
will not be held in esteem. ' You see yonder
little fribble, my dear — do not look at him,
or it will make him think the better of
himself; he is a haberdasher from town, who
pretends to be a Templar. A fribble, Kitty
oh I you innocent, tall, beautiful creature I
• — a fribble is a thing made up of rags, wig,
ruffles, wind, froth, amber cane, paint, powder,
coat-skirts and sword. Nothing else, I assure
you. No brains, no heart, no ears, no taste,
nothing. There are many fribbles at the
Wells, dio will dance with you, talk to you,
and — if you have enough money — would like
to run away with you. Don't throw yourself
away on a fribble, Kitty. And don't run away
With anybody. Nothing so uncomfortable.'

That gallant youth in the red-coat is an
officer, who had better be with his colours in
America than showing his scarlet at the
Wells. Yet he is a pretty fellow, is he not '{

Here are more clergymen ' One of them

somewhat reminded me of my uncle, for he
wore, like him, a full wig, a cassock of silk,
and a flowing gown ; also, he carried his head
with the assurance which belongs to one who

is a teacher of men, and respects his own
wisdom. But he differed from my uncle in
being sleek, which the famous Chaplain of
the Fleet certainly was not. He dropped
his eyes as he went, inwardly rapt, no doubt,
by heavenly thoughts.

That,' Nancy went on, ' is the great
Court preacher, the Reverend Bellamour
Paroles, Master of Arts. The shabby divine
beside him is the Vicar of Sissinghurst, in
Kent, who is here to drink the waters fora
complaint that troubles the poor man.
What a difference !'

The country parson went dressed in a grey-striped
calamanco nightgown ; he wore a wig
wdiicli had once been Avhite, but was now, by
the influence of this uncertain climate, turned
to a j^ale orange ; his brown hat was encompassed
by a black hatband ; his bands, which
might have been cleaner, decently retired
under the shadow of his chin ; his grey
stockings were darned with blue worsted.
As they walked together it seemed to me that
the country parson was saying to the crowd :
You see — I am in rags ; I go in darns,
patches, and poverty ; yet by my sacred

profession and my learning, I am the equal
of my brother in silk.' While the more
prosperous one might have been thought to
say : ^ Behold the brotherhood and equality
of the Church, when I., the great and fashionable,
know no difference between myself and
my humble brethren T

In the afternoon and evening there was,
however, this difference, that the town parson
was seen at the Assembly Rooms among the
ladies, while his country brother might have
been seen at the Crown, over a pipe and a
brown George full of strong October.

Then Nancy went on to point out more of
the visitors. There were merchants, well
known on the Royal Exchange ; courtiers
from St. James's ; country gentlemen, with
their madams, brave in muslin pinners and
baronet hoods, from estates remote from the
great town, where they had never ceased to
consider themselves the feudal lords of the
people as well as the land : there were younger
sons full of talk about horses and hounds :
there were doctors in black, with bag-wigs :
there were lawyers in vacation, their faces as
full of sharpness as is the face of a fox : there

were young fellows not yet launched upon
the fashionable world, who looked on with
the shyness and impudence of youth, trying
to catch the trick of dress, manner and carriage
which marks the perfect beau : there
were old fellows, like Mr. Walsingham, who
sat on the benches, or ran about, proud of
their activity, in attendance on the ladies.
It was indeed a motley crew.

They say that Epsom has come into
fashion again,' Nancy went on. 'I know
not. Tunbridge is a dangerous rival. Yet
this year the place is full. That young man
coming to speak to me you may distinguish
by your acquaintance, my dear.'

What a distinction ! ' He is — I hope your
lordship is Avell this morning — he is the
young Lord Eardisle}^, whose father is but
just dead. He is a Virginian by birth, and
all his fortune, with which the family estates
have been recovered, was made by tobacco on
his plantations. He has hundreds of negro
slaves, besides convicts. Yet he is of Octave
and serious disposition, and abhors the smell
of a pipe. Peggy Baker thinks to catch his
lordship. Yet coronets are not so easily won.'

She stopped again to speak to some ladies
of her acquaintance.

Well, my dear, as for our manner of life
here, it is the same as at all watering-places.
We dress and undress : we meet at church,
and on the Terrace and the New Parade,
and the Assembly Booms : we go to the
Downs to see races before dinner and after
dinner : we talk scandal : we say wicked
things about each other : we try to catch
the eyes of the men : we hate each other
with malice and uncharitableness : we raffle:
we gamble : we listen to the music : we exchange
pretty nothings with the beaux : we
find out all the stories about everybody here :
and we dance at the Assembly.'

She stopped to breathe.

This is a rattle,' said Sir Robert, ^ which
never stops — like the clack of the water-wheel.
Go on, Nan.'

One of our amusements she went on,
tossing her little head, 'is to buy strawberries,
cherries, vegetables, salad, fowls and
ducks of the jugglers who bring them to the
market, or carry them round to the houses
of the town. The gentlemen, I observe,

derive a peculiar satisfaction in chucking
those of the jugglers who are young and good-looking
under the chin. This, I confess, is a
pleasure which I cannot for my own part
understand.'

Saucy baggage !' said her father.

'- You and I, Kitty,' she continued, ^ who
do not want to chuck farmers' daughters
under the chin, may, when we are tired of
the races or the promenade, take an airing
in a coach, or watch the raffling, or the card-players.
Here they play cards all day long,
except on Sunday. Or wee may go to the
book-shop and hear the latest scandal : or
Ave may go home and trim our own things and
talk about frocks, and patches, and poetry,
and lace, and lovers. But, for Heaven's
sake, Kitty, do not, in this censorious place,
make that pretty face too cheap, and let no
one folios you on the Terrace but the best
of the company.'

Good advice,' said Sir Robert. * This girl
of mine has sot her father's head.'

As for cards,' Nancy went on, taking no
notice of her father's interruption, ^ the tables
are always laid in the Assembly Room : the

ladies mostly play at quadrille, and the
gentlemen at whist ; but there are tables
for hazard, lansquenet, faro, and baccarat,
where all comers are welcome, provided
they have got money to lose and can lose it
without also losing their temper, a thing
we women throw away daily, and lose
without regarding it, so cheap and abundant
a commodity it is. My dear, so long
as I value my face, I will never touch
the odious delightful things. Yet the joy
of winning your enemy's money ! Oh !
oh ! And the dreadful grief to lose your
own I

There is a concert this evening would
not advise you to attend it, but to wait for
Monday's ball — there to make your first
appearance. I shall go, because some of my
swains are going to play with the paid
musicians ; and of course I look to see them
break down and spoil the whole music, to
their great confusion.

But Monday — Monday is our day of
days. All Sunday we think about it, and
cannot say our prayers for thinking of the
dear delightful day. And what the clergyman

preaches about none of us know, for
wishing the day was here. On Monday we
have a great public breakfast to begin with :
the gentry come to it from all the countryside,
with the great people from Durdans':
in fine weather we breakfast under the trees
upon the Terrace while the music plays. You
will find it pleasant to take your chocolate
to the strains of flute and clarion, French
horn and hautboy : the sunshine raises the
spirits, and the music fills the head with
pretty fancies. Besides, every girl likes to
be surrounded by tall fellows who, though we
scare not a pin for one of them, are useful for
providing conversation, cakes, and creams,
telling stories, saying gallant things, fetching,
-carrying, and making Peggy Baker jealous,
son Monday, too, there are always matches
son the Downs : we pretend to be interested
in the horses : we come back to dinner and
a concert : in the afternoon, some of the
gentlemen give tea and chocolate ; and at
six o'clock, the fiddles tune up — oh, the
delicious scraping I — we all take our places :
sand then begins — oh ! oh ! oh ! — the dear,
delightful ■ ball ! My child, let Miss Peggy
VOL. II. 25

Baker dress her best, put on her finest ah^s,
and swim about with her most languishing*
sprawl, T know who shall outshine hers and
be the Queen of the Wells.'

Yourself, dear Nancy X

*No;. not myself, dear Nancy,' she replied,,
imitating. * Oh I you well may blush for
shame, pretty hypocrite ! 'Tis yourself, dear
Kitty,, that I mean. You shall burst upon
their astonished graze like Venus rising: from
the sea in our picture at home, only better
dressed than that poor creature !'

Just then a young lady, with the largest
]i.oop I had ever seen, with patches and
powder, and accompanied by three or for
gentlemen, came slowly along the walk. As
she drew near she looked at me with curiosity.
She was a tall girl — nearly as tall as
myself — with features rather larger than
ordinary, and as she moved I understood
w^iat Nancy meant by languishing and swimming.


Nancy ran to meet her, taking her by both
hands, and affecting a mighty joy.

Dear Miss Peggy,' she began ' I am
charmed to see you looking so wells-and

lovely. How that dress becomes your shape !
with what an air sits that hat !'

Oh, Miss Nancy !' Miss Peggy swam
and languished, ao^itatincf her fan and half
shutting her eyes, which were very large and
limpid.

'Praise from such a judge of beauty and
dress as yourself is rare indeed. What should
we poor women do Without the discrimination
of our own sex % Men have no discernment.
A well-dressed woman and a drasfo-le-
tail are all one to them.'

Not all men, dear Miss Peggy,' continued
Nancy, her eyes sparkling. ' Mr. Walsingham
was only saying this morning that you
are, like himself, a proof of the salubrity of
the Wells, since it is now the fifth season '

The third, dear child,' Miss Peggy interrupted,
with a tap oF her fan on Nancy's
knuckles — indeed, she deserved it. ' I am
very much obliged to Mr. Walsingham,
whose tongue is free with all the ladies at
the Wells. It is but yesterday since he said
of you '

This is my friend, Miss Kitty Pleydell,'
said Nancy quickly, rubbing her knuckles.

95 •>

LIBRARY

^ Kitty, my dear, you have heard of the
beautiful Peggy Baker, last year the Toast
of Tunbridge Wells, and the year before the
Toast of Bath. Up to the present she has
been our pride. On Monday evening you
shall see her in her bravest attire, the centre
of attraction, envied by us poor homely
creatures, who have to content ourselves
with the rustic beaux, the parsons, the
lawyers, and the half-pay officers.'

Nov, whether this artful girl did it on
purpose, or whether it was by accident, I
know not : but every word of this speech
contained an innuendo against poor Miss
Peggy. For it was true that she had been
for two years following a Toast, but she was
still unmarried, and without a lover, though
she had so many men for ever in her train ;
and it was also true that among her courtiers
at Epsom, the little band who held back
while the ladies talked, there were, as I
afterwards learned, at least three rustic
beaux, two lawyers, a fashionable parson,
and six half-pay officers. However, she disguised
whatever resentment she might have
felt, very kindly bade me welcome to the

Wells, hoped that I should enjoy the place,
told Nancy that her tongue ran away with
her, and that she was a saucy little baggage,
tapped her knuckles for the second time with
her fan, and moved away.

When Nancy had finished telling me of
the amusements of the place and the people —
I omit most of what she said as to the people
because, although doubtless true, the stories
did not redound to their credit, and may now
very well be forgotten — we left the Terrace,
Sir Robert now joining madam, and looked
at the stalls and booths which were ranged
along the side. They were full of pretty
things exhibited for sale, and instead of rude
'prentice boys for salesmen there were good-looking
girls, with whom some of the gentlemen
were talking and lauo^hinsr.

More chin-chucking, my dear,' said
Nancy.

It was the fashion to have a lottery at
almost every stall, so that when you bought
anything you received a ticket with your
purchase, which entitled you to a chance of
the prize. When you chose a bottle of scent,
the girl who grave it you handed with it a

ticket which gave one the chance of winning
five guineas : with a pair of stockings came a
ticket for a ten-guinea lottery. It was the
same thing with all the shops. A leg of
mutton bought at the butcher's might procure
for the purchaser the sum of twenty
guineas ; the barber who dressed your hair
presented you with a chance for his five-guinea
draw : the very taverns and ordinaries
had their lotteries, so that for every sixpenny
plate of boiled beef a 'prentice had his chance
with the rest, and might win a guinea : you
ordered a dozen oysters, and they came with
the fishmonger's compliments and a ticket for
his lottery, the first prize of which would be
two guineas, the drawing to take place on
such a day, with auditors appointed to see
all fair, and school children named to pull out
the tickets : even the woman who sold apples
and cherries in a basket loudly bellowed
along the street that she had a half-crown
draw, a five-shilling draw, and so on. Everyone
of us treasured up the tickets, but I
never met any who won. Yet we had the
pleasure of attending the drawing, dreaming
of lucky numbers, and spending our prizes

beforehand. I am sure that Nancy must
have spent m this way many hundreds of
pounds during the season, and by talking
over all the fine things she would buy, the
way in which their exhibition upon her little
figure would excite the passion of envy in
the breast of Peggy Baker and others, and
her own importance thus bedecked, she had
quite as much pleasure out of her imaginary
winnings as if they had been real
ones. It is a happy circumstance for mankind
that they are able to enjoy what they
never can possess, and to be, in imagination,
the great, the glorious, the rich, the powerful
personages which they can never, in the situation
wherein Providence has placed them,
hope to become.

Presently we went home to dinner, which
was served for us by Cicely Crump. After
dinner, while Mrs. Esther dozed, Cicely told
me her history. Her father, she said, had
been a substantial tradesman in Cheapside.,
and though little of stature, was in his
youth a man of the most determined courage
and resolution. When only just out of his
apprenticeship he fell in love with a beautiful

young lady named Jenny Medlicott (daughter
of the same Alderman Medlicott whose ruin
brought poor Mrs. Esther to destruction) r
as he knew that ho could never get the consent
of the alderman, being poor and of obscure
birth, and knowing besides that all is;
fair in love, this lad of mettle represented
himself to his nymph as a young gentleman
of the Temple, son of a country squire. In
this disguise he persuaded her to run away
with him, and they Avere married. But when
they returned to London they found that the-alderman
was ruined, and gone off his head.
Therefore they separated, the lady going to
Virginia with Lady Eardesley, mother of the
young lord now at Epsom, and the husband
going back to the shop. After the death of
poor Jenny he married again. *And,' said
Cicely, ' though my mother is no gentlewoman,
one cannot but feel that she might
have been Miss Jenny Medlicott herself had
things turned out differently. And that
makes all of us hold up our heads. And as
for poor father, he never forgot his first wife
and was always pleased to relate how he ran
a^yay with her all the Away to Scotland,

armed to the teeth, and ready, for her sake,
to fight a dozen highwaymen. Such a resolute
spirit he had !'

Then Nancy Levett came, bringing with
her a milliner, Mrs. Bergamot.

Kitty she cried, ' I cannot rest for thinking
of your first ball, and I have brought
you Mrs. Bergamot to advise. Mj^- dear,
you "^nu^t be well dressed.' Then she whispered
: ' Do you want money, dear ? I have
some.'

I told her I had as much as a hundred
and twenty guineas, at which she screamed
with delight.

Kitty !' she cried again, clasping my
hands. ' A hundred guineas ! a hundred
guineas ! and twenty more I My dear, that
odd twenty, that poor overflowing of thy
rich measure is the utmost I could get for
this season at the Wells. Oh ! happy, happy
girl, to have such a face, such a shape, such
eyes, such hair, such hands and feet, and a
hundred and twenty guineas to set all off!'

She sat down, clasped her hands, and
raised her eyes to heaven as if in thankfulness.
I think I see her now, the little

dainty merry maid, so arch, so apt, sitting
before me with a look which might be of
envy or of joy. She had eyes so bright, a
mouth so little, dimples so morning, a cheek
so rosy and a chin so rounded that one could
not choose but love her.

*Miss Pleydell/ she said to the milliner,
has not brought all her things from London.
You must get what she wants at once, for
Monday's balL Now, let us see.'

Then we held a parliament of four, counting
Cicely, over the great question of my frocks.
Nancy was prime minister, and did all the
talking, turning over the things.

Let me see, Mrs. Bergamot. Fetch us, if
you have them — what you have — in flowered
brocades — all colours — violet, pink, Italian
posies, rose, myrtle, jessamine, anything ; a
watered tabby would become you, Kitty ; any
painted .lawns, — silks and satins would be
almost too old for you : do not forget the
patches a la r/recque — Kitty, be very careful
of the patches ; gauzes, what you have, Mrs.
Bergamot ; we want more hoods, a feathered
muff, stomacher, Paris nets, eau de Chijpre
or eau de lace, whichever you have ; earrings

are no use to you, my poor child. Pity
that they did not pierce your ears : see the
Httle drops dangling at mine. At any rate,
thank Heaven that we neither of us want
vermilion for the cheeks. Poor Peggy ! she
paints these two. years and more. Puffs,
Mrs. Bergamot, and tippets, cardinals, any
pretty thing in sarsiiets, and what you have
in purple. Kitty, purple is your colour. Ycu
shall have a dress all purple for the next bale.
Ah ! if I could carry purple ! But you,
Kitty, with your height and figure — stand
up, child — why, she will be Juno herself !'

Truly,' said the dressmaker, ' as for Miss
Pleydell, purple has come into fashion in
pudding-time, as folk say.'

A pretty woman,' Nancy went on, examining
me as if I had been a dummy, ' nota
pretty "little thing" like me, is as rare in
Epsom as a black swan or a white blackbird,
or green yellow-hammer, or a red blue-tit.'

When the dressmaker was gone, and we
Avere left alone, Nancy began again, out of
her great experience, to talk of the place we
were in.

My dear,' she said, ' before one's father

one cannot say all that one would wish ' —
could such wisdom be possible at ?
^ This is a very shocking and
wicked place; we used to be taught that girls
ought to sit in a corner, after they had put
on their best things, and wait to be spoken
to, and not to think about attracting the
men ; and not, indeed, to think about the men
at all, save in their own room, where they
might perhaps pray that if there was any
men in the world not addicted to gambling,
drinking, cursing, hunting, fighting, and
striking, those men might be led by Heaven
to cast eyes of love upon them. Oh I' — here
she held up her hands and shook her head
just like a woman four times her age, and
steeped in experience — * in this place it
is not long that the girls sit in a corner,
and, indeed, I do not greatly love corners
myself; but the very wives, the matrons, the
married women, my dear,' — her voice rose
with each Avoid till it had mounted nearly to
the top of the possible scale, — ^ are coquettes,
who interfere with the girls, and would have
the gallants dangling at their heels. As for
their husbands, they are the last persons considered

worthy of their notice ; they put on
their dresses and deck themselves out to
please anybody rather than the persons
whom it should be their only study to please.'

Nancy I whispered, ' when you are
married, Avill you never, never dress to please
anybody but your husband V

Why,' she replied, 'my father, my mother,
my children (if I have any), my friends will
be pleased to see me go fine. But not for
lovers — oh 1'

We agreed that would-be lovers should be
received and properly dealt with before marriage.


Bashfulness, here,' continued the pretty
moralist, ' is — Heaven help us 1 — lack of
breeding ; what goes down is defiance of
manners and modesty. Propriety is laughed
at ; noise is wit ; laughter is repartee ; most
of the women gamble ; nearly all are in
debt ; nobody reads anything serious ; and
we backbite each other perpetually.'

I know not what had put her in so strange
a mood for moralising.

However,' she said, ' now that you are
come, we shall get on better. I have made

up my mind that you are to be the Toast of
the season. I shall set you off, because you
are brown and I am fair ; you are tall, and I
am short ; you are grave, and I am merry ;
you are thoughtful, and I am silly ; you have
brown eyes, and I have blue. We will have
none but the best men about us ; we will set
such an example as will shame the hoydens
of 2firls and tame the Shocks among the
men. Miss Lamb of Hackney, who thinks
herself a beauty, will then be ashamed to
jump about and scream at the Assembly with
nothing over her skinny shoulders. Peggy
Baker shall have after her none but the
married men (who are of no possible use except
to spoil a girl's reputation), although she
sighs and swims and sprawls with her eyes
half shut. Do you know that she sat for
her portrait to Since, at Marylebone Gardens,
as Anne Boleyn, and was painted with
eyelashes down to the corners of her mouth X

^ Nancy,' I cried, ' you are jealous of Miss
Peggy Baker.'

She laughed, and talked of something else.
Prom this I conjectured that Peggy had
said or reported something which offended

her. What head really been said, T learned
afterwards, was that Nancy was running*
after Lord Eardesley, which was unkind as
well as untrue.

Last year,' she said, ' after you went
away, nothing would serve my mother but a
visit to Bath. It is not so gay as Tun bridge
Wells, because the company are mostly
country folk, like ourselves, who stand upon
their dignity; but it is better than this place,
where there are so many London its that it
passes one's patience, sometimes, to see their
manners' — really, Nancy must have been
seriously put out. ' However, I dare say
Bath is as wicked as any of the watering
towns, when you come to know it. I liked
the bathing. What do you think, Kitty, of
everybody promenading in the water up to
their chins — that is to say, the little people,
like me, up to their noses (only I wore patterns
to make myself higher), and the tall
men up to their shoulders, in hot water 1
Everybody frolicking, flirting, and chattering,
while japanned trays float about covered with
confectionery, tea, oils, and perfumes for the
ladies ; and when you go away, your chair is

nothing but a tub full of hot water, in which
you are carried home. We stayed there all
July and August, though my mother would
have kept me, if she could, from the baths till
I was bigger. Harry Temple was there, too,
part of the time.'

And how doth Harry ?'

^ He is a good honest fellow,' said Nancy,
though conceited and a prig ; his mouth full
of learned words, and his head full of books.
He seemed to pine after your departure,
Witty, but soon recovered himself, and now
eats and drinks again as before. He found
some congenial spirits from Oxford at Bath,
and they used to talk of Art, and pictures
(when anyone was listening), and bronzes,
and all sorts of things that we poor people
know nothing of

Then she told me how Harry had made a
poem upon me, after my departure, which he
turned into Latin, Greek, and Italian, and
had given Nancy a copy. And how Will
had christened one pup Kitty, and another
Pleydell, and a third Kitty Pleydell, and
was casting around how to give a fourth
puppy my name as well.

It seemed so long: ao^o that I had almost
forgotten poor rustic Will, with his red face,
his short sturdy figure, and his determination.


Dear Kitty,' said Nancy, * if thou couldst
take a fancy for our Will — he is a brave lad,
though dull of parts and slow of apprehension.
As for Harry ' — here she stopped, and
blushed.

I remembered my secret, and blushed as
well (but for guilt and shame) ; while poor
Nancy blushed in maiden modesty.

Dear Nancy,' I replied, kissing her, ' believe
me, but I could never marry your
brother Will. And as for Harry '

^ As for Harry,' she echoed, with downcast
eyes.

It was easy to read her secret, though she
could not guess mine.

^As for Harry,' I said, * where could he be
better bestowed than '

Here I kissed her again, and said no more,,
because between two women what more need
be said ?

Alas ! I had quite forgotten — indeed, I

VOL. II. 26

never suspected — that I was actually engaged
to become the wife of both Harry and Will,
who was at this same time the wife of Lord
Chudleigh. And both men were on their
way to Epsom to claim the promise.

HOW KITTY Weet TO HER riRST BALL.

If I were to write all that Nancy said on
Saturday afternoon it would fill a volume ;
and if I where to write down all that we four
said about my dress for the Monday Ball,
it would take four volumes at least, so nimbly
ran our tongues. It was determined, however,
that the purple frock should be put in
hand at once, with ribbons and everything to
correspond ; but that for this occasion, as
time pressed, we would take my best frock,
a new white satin, never before worn. Mrs.
Bergamot would dress me, and the hairdresser
was engaged for two o'clock.

Everything,' said Nancy, * depends upon
the first impression. Already the world is
agog to see the beautiful Miss Pleydell

26—2

As for me, my dear, nobody
d my first appearance at all. And yet

thought I looked very nice. To be sure, a
.person of my inches cannot expect to command
attention. I am feeling my way, however,
and though I am little, my tongue is
sharp. After Monday we will have our
court, you and I, to ourselves. The men
will be at our feet, and Peggy may lie all on
a rock deploring.'

I asked her afterwards how she could
speak so openly before this milliner, who
would probably tell all the town what she
had said.

'My dear,' she replied sharply, 'your
Nancy is not altogether a goose, and she
knows what she is doing. Mrs. Bergatnot
is a most trustworthy person. I quite rely
upon her. I have never known her fail in
her duties as town-crier. She will spread it
abroad that you have brought a hundred
guineas and more to spend in frocks and
things ; she will tell everybody that you
have ordered a purple velvet in the first
fashion ; she will not fail to repeat that you
and I together mean to lead the company at

the Wells ; she will probably tell Peggy that
she may go and sit on a rock deploring ; and
she will inform Miss Lamb of Hackney that
her shoulders are skinny. They cannot hate
us worse than they do, therefore we weill
make them fear us.'

What a little spitfire was this Nancy of
mine !

To the religious and the sober, Sunday is
a day of serious meditation as well as of rest :
to me, the Sunday before the ball was a day
of such worldly tumult as should afford ample
room for repentance in these later years.
Unhappily, we repent but seldom of these
youthful sins. Yet, when we went to church,
the organ seemed to play a minuet, the hymns
they sang might have been a hey or a jig in a
country dance, and the sermon of the
preacher might have been a discourse on the
pleasures and enjoyments of the world, so
rapt was my mind in contemplation of these
vanities.

The service over, we walked out through a
lane of the godless men who had not gone to
church. Nancy came after me very demure,
carrying her Prayer-book, her eyes cast

down as if rapt in heavenly meditation.
But her thoughts VN^ere as worldly as my own,
and she presently found an opportunity of
whispering that Peggy Baker had thrown
glances of the greatest ferocity from her pew
at herself and me, that Mrs. Bergamot had
already spread the news about, and that the
concourse of men at the door of the sacred
place was entirely on my account. ' If it was
not Sunday,' she added, ^ and if it were not
for the crowd around us I should dance and
sing

The time for opening the ball was six, at
which time dancing began, and was continued
until eleven, according to the laws wisely
laid down by that public benefactor and
accomplished Amphitryon, Mr. Nash, who
effected so much improvement for Bath and
Tunbridge that his rules were adopted for all
other watering-places. Before his time there
were no fixed hours or fixed prices, the laws
of precedence were badly observed, the gentlemen
wore their swords, and disputes, which
sometimes ended in duels, were frequent and
unseemly. Now, however, nothing could be

more orderly than the manner of conducting
the entertainment. The charge of admission
was half-a-crown for gentlemen, and one
shilling for ladies ; no swords were permitted,
and the ball was opened by the gentleman of
the highest rank in the room. At Epsom, a
country squire or a city knight was generally
the best that could be procured, whereas at
Bath an earl was not uncommon, and even a
duke was sometimes seen.

My hairdresser, Who was, on these occasions
engaged from six o'clock in the morning
until six in the evening, was fortunately able
to give me half an hour at two o'clock, so
that I had not more than four hours or so
to sit without moving my head. This was a
very happy circumstance, many ladies having
to be dressed early in the morning, so that
for the whole day they could neither walk
about nor move for fear of the structure
toppling over altogether. Mrs. Bergamot
herself dressed me. I wore my white satin
frock over a great hoop with fine new point
lace for tuckers ; my kerchief and ruffles were
in lace, and I had on a pearl and coral necklace,
presented to me by Mrs. Esther, who

was contented to wear a black ribbon round
her neck in order that I might go the finer.
As for herself, she wore a rich brocade,
which greatly became her and made her look
like a countess.

^ Nay, child,' she said, ' not a countess, but
like a gentlewoman, as hath ever been my
simple ambition, and the daughter of a great
London merchant.'

But to think that in every house in Epsom
there was one girl, at least, or perhaps two,
who were spending as much time and thought
as myself upon the decoration of our persons
for this ball ! And what chance had I of
distinction among so many fine women of less
rustic breeding '?'

She will do, Mrs. Bergamot, I think,'
said Mrs. Esther.

Madam,' replied the dressmaker, who no
doubt considered it part of her business to
flatter her customers, ' Madam, I dare swear
that there hath not appeared — I do not say
at Epsom alone, but at Tunbridge and at
Bath — so beautiful a creature in the memory
of man. Mr. Walsingham, who remembers
all the beauties for fifty years, declares that

Miss Kitty surpasses all. Straight as a lance,
madam, and shapely as a statue, with such a
face as will deal havoc and destruction among
the men.'

Mrs. Esther nodded her head and laughed.
Then she shook her head and looked grave.

We must not become vain, Kitty,' she
said. ' Beauty is but skin-deep ; it fades like
the flowers : think only of virtue and goodness,
which never fade. And yet, child, thou
art young : thou art beautiful : be happy in
the sunshine, as is meet. Thank Heaven for
sunshine !'

She pressed my hand in hers, and the tears
rose to her eyes. Was she thinking of her
own youth, wdiicli had been so unhappy ?

When Mrs. Bergamot left us, she confessed
to me that, like me, she had been in a strange
agitation of spirit at the contemplation of this
assembly.

^ It is thirty years,' she said, ' since I have
been in a gay crowd. I thought that such a
thing as the sight of youth and happiness
would never come to me again. And to think
that, after all these years, I should go back
to the very room where, in 1720, amid a

crowd of adventurers, speculators, and gamblers,
who were going to ruin us all, I attended
my last ball I'

This was while we were waiting for the
chairs.

I think,' she went on, in her soft voice,
which was like the rippling of a stream, ^ that
my child will do credit to herself. I am glad
that you have kept your neck covered, my
dear. T would rather see you go modest
than fine. I hope that Lady Levett will be
there before us. In such cases as this the
sight of a friend gives us, as it were, an encouragement
: it is like a prop to lean against.
I hope the chairs v/ill not be late. On the
other hand, one would not, surely, arrive too
early. My dear, I am trembling all over.
Are you sure you have forgotten none of
your steps '? h\\ \ if no one were to ask you
to dance, I should die of shame and mortification
! But they will — oh ! they will. My
Kitty is too beautiful to sit among the crowd
of lookers-on.'

Here came Cicely, running to tell us that
the chairs were below, and that the men
swore they could not wait.

^ A minute — one minute only. Dear, dear,
low quick the girl is ! Cicely, take one last
look at Miss Kitty. Do you think, child,
she has got everything, and is properly
dressed V

'Quite properly, madam. No lady in the
assembly will shine like Miss Pleydell.'

Good girl. And, Cicely, if you see that
anything is wanting in my dress, do not
scruple to tell me. Young eyes are sometimes
quicker than old ones.'

'Nothing, madam. Your ladyship is
dressed in the fashion.'

Then the chairmen, who, like all their
tribe, were unmannerly fellows, bellowed that
they would wait no longer, and we descended
the stairs. One would have been ashamed to
confess the fact, but it actually was the very
first time I had ever sat in a chair. The
shaking was extremely disagreeable, and one
could not, at the beginning, feel anything but
pity for the poor men who made their living
by carrying about the heavy bodies of people
too fine or too lazy to walk. However, that
feeling soon wore off : just as the West Indian
and Virginian planters learn by degrees to

believe that their negro slaves like to work in
the fields, are thankful for the lash, and prefer
digging under a hot sun to sleeping in the
shade.

We arrived at the Assembly Kooms a few
minutes before six. The rooms were already
crowded : the curtains were drawn, and the
light of day excluded. But in its place there
was a ravishing display of wax candles,
arranged upon the walls on sconces, or hanging
from the ceiling. The musicians in the
gallery were already beginning, as is their
wont, to tune their instruments, twanging and
blowing, just as a preacher begins with a preliminary
hem.

My eyes swam as I surveyed the brilliant
gathering; for a moment I held Mrs. Esther by
the wrist, and could say nothing nor move. I
felt like an actress making her appearance for
the first time upon the stage, and terrified, for
the moment, by th e faces looking up, curious and
critical, from crowded pit and glittering boxes.

At that moment Lady Levett arrived with
her party. I think Sir Robert saw our distress
and my guardian s anxiety to appear at her
ease, for he kindly took Mrs. Esther by the

hand, and led her, as if she were the greatest
lady in the assembly, to the upper end, while
Nancy and I followed after.

Oh, Kitty !' she whispered ; ' there is no
one half so beautiful as you — no one in all
the room ! How the men stare ! Did they
never see a pretty woman before % Wait in
patience for a little, ye would-be lovers, till
your betters are served. Peggy Baker, my
dear, you will burst with envy. Look 1
Here she comes, with her courtiers.'

In fact, Miss Baker herself here appeared
with her mother, surrounded by three or four
gentlemen who hovered about her, and she
languidly advanced up the room.

She came straight to us, and, after saluting
Lady Levett and Mrs. Esther, held out her
hand to Nancy and curtseyed to me.

'You look charming' to-nio^ht, dear Miss
Nancy. That frock of yours — one is never
tired of it.'

And you — oh, dear Miss Peggy !' Nancy
turned white, because her frock was really
rather an old one.

It is good wearing stuff,' said Miss Peggy.
Yet I had thought that mode o-one out.'

So it had, my dear said Nancy, sharply ;
'and I believe it went out five seasons ago.
That is longer than I can recollect. But it
has come back again. Fashions do revive,
sometimes.'

This was a very ill-natured thing to say,
and made poor Miss Peggy wince and colour,
and she did not retaliate, because, I suppose,
she could think of nothing to says

Then old Mr. Walsingham, who had constituted
himself the director of the ceremonies,
appeared. He was dressed in the most beautiful
crimson silk coat, lined with white, and
purple waistcoat, and he came slowly up the
hall, with a gentleman whose bearing was as
great as his own, but whose years were
less.

^ It is young Lord Chudleigh,' whispered
Peggy Baker, fanning herself anxiously. ^ He
has come from Durdans with his party.'

Lord Chudleigh !

Heavens ! To meet in such a manner, in
such a place, my own husband !

What is the matter, Kitty dear ?' asked
Nancy. ^ You turned quite pale. Bite your
lips, my dear, to get the colour back.'

It is nothings am fairxt with the heat
and the lights, I suppose. Do not take notice
of me

Peggy Baker assumed an air of languor
and sensibility, which, though extremely fine,
was perhaps over-acted.

Lord Chudleigh/ she said, ' is of course
the person of the highest distinction in the
room. He will invite, I presume, Lady
Levett to open the ball with the first minuet.
If Lady Levett declines, he will be free to
select another partners

In fact, Mr. Walsingham conducted Lord
Chudleigh to Lady Levett, and presented
him to her. Her ladyship excused herself on
the ground that her dancing days were over,
which was of course expected. His lordship
then said a few words to Mr. Walsingham,
who nodded, smiled, and conducted him to
the little group composed of Nancy, Peggy
Baker, and myself. But he presented his
lordship — to me !

^ Since,' he said, while the room went round
with me, * since Lady Levett will not condescend
to open the ball with your lordship, I
beg to present you to Miss Kitty Pleydell,

who appears to-night, for the first time, atour
assembly ; and, I am assured, for the first
time in any assembly. My lord, the sun, when
he rises in splendour, dims the light of the moon
and stars. Miss Kitty, I would I were fifty
years younger, that I might challenge this
happy young gentleman for the honour of the
dance.'

Then Lord Chudleigh spoke. I remembered
his voice : a deep shame fell upon my
soul, thinking where and how I had heard
that voice before.

Miss Pleydell,' he said, bowing low, ' I
humbly desire the honour of opening the ball
with you.'

It was time to rally my spirits, for the eyes
of all the company were upon us. There was
only one thing to do — to forget for the moment
what was past, and address myself to the
future.

I can look back upon the evening with
pride, because I remember how I was able to
push away shame and remembrance, and to
think, for the moment, about my steps and
my partner.

Twang, twang, twang, went the fiddles.

The conductor raised his wand. The music
crashed and rang about the room.

Courage, Kitty 1' whispered Nancy.
Courage ! Think you are at home.'

The hall was cleared now, and the people
stood round in a triple circle, watching, while
my lord, his hat beneath his arm, offered me
his hand, and led me into the middle of the
room.

The last things I observed as I went with
him were Mrs. Esther, wiping away what
looked like a little tear of pride, and Peggy
Baker, with red face, fanning herself violently.
Poor Peggy ! Last year it was she who
would have taken the place of the most distinguished
lady in the company !

They told me afterwards that I acquitted
myself creditably. I could not permit myself
to think under what different circumstances
that hand had once before held mine. I
would not break down before the eyes of so
many people, and with Peggy Baker standing
by, ready to condole with me on my discomfiture.
But I could not bring myself to lookin
the face of my partner : and that dance
was accomplished with eyes down-dropped.

VOL. II. 27

Oh ! it was over at last ; the dance which
was to me the most anxious, the most delightful,
the most painful, that ever girl
danced in all this world ! And what do you
think strengthened my heart the while ? It
was the strangest thing : but I thought of a
certain verse in a certain old history, and I
repeated to myself, as one says things when
one is troubled :

Now the king loved Esther above all the
women, and she obtained grace and favour
in his sight : so that he set the royal crown
upon her head.'

^ Child,' whispered Mrs. Esther, her face
aglow with pleasure and pride, ' we are all
proud of you.'

Kitty,' said Lady Levett, who was more
critical, because she knew more of the polite
world, ^ you acquitted yourself creditably.
Next time, do not be afraid to look your
partner in the face. My lord, I trust that
Miss PleydelFs performance has made you
congratulate yourself on my declining the
honour of the minuet ?'

'■ Your ladyship,' said Lord Chudleigh,
may be assured that, if anything could compensate

for that disappointment, the grace
and beauty of my fair partner have effected
that object.'

Gadzooks !' cried Sir Robert. * Here is a
beating about the bush ! Kitty, my pretty
maid, no duchess could have danced better,
and never a queen in Christendom is more
beautiful ! Say I well, my lord '?'

Excellently well. Sir Robert. You have
said more than I dared ; not more than I
thought.'

Then Mr. Walsingham came bustling to
congratulate me.

But one opinion — only one opinion, Miss
Pleydell ! Lady Levett, your obedient servant.
Mrs. Pimpernel, I offer m}^ congratulations
on this young lady's success. I would
it had been Bath, or even Tunbridge, whence
the rumour of such beauty and such grace
would have been more quickly carried about
the country. But it will be spread abroad.
There are three hundred tongues here tonight,
who will talk, and three hundred pens
who will write. Miss Kitty, once more I
salute your Majesty — Queen of the Wells T

Then Lord Chudleigh, and Sir Bobert

27—2

Levett, and the gentlemen standing round
sank on one knee and bowed almost to the
ground, crying :

Queen of the Wells ! Queen of the Wells !'

And Nancy, in her pretty, saucy way, ran
and stood beside me, lauorhincr,

^ And I am her Majesty's maid of honour.
Kemember that, gentlemen all !'

The sauce baofo^aire !' cried Sir Robert.

And Peggy Baker, for whom in this hour
of triumph one felt a little pity, came too,
with a curtsey and a smile which looked
more like a frown.

Miss Pleydell must accept my homage,
too,' she said. ' We are fortunate in having
one so inimitably lovely for our Queen.
It makes one wonder where so much beauty
could have been hidden.'

I suppose she meant this as an innuendo
that I was not, therefore, accustomed to such
good company. I thought of Fleet Lane
and the market, and I laughed aloud.

But Lord Chudleigh was expected to
dance with another lady before the ball was
opened ; and here was another disappointment
for poor Peggy, for he led out Nancy who

took his hand with a pride and joy which did
one's heart good to look at. .

If I had been afraid to raise my eyes,
Nancy was not ; she looked in my lord's
face and laughed ; she talked and prattled all
the time she was dancing ; and she danced as
if the music was too slow for her, as if she
would fain have been spinning round like a
school-girl when she makes cheeses, as if her
limbs were springs, as if she would gladly
have taken her partner by both hands and
run round and round with him as she had so
often done with me when we were children
together, playing in the meadows beside the
Hall. All the people looked on and laughed
and clapped their hands ; never was so merry
a minuet, if that stately dance could ever be
made merry. As for me, I was able to look
at his face again, though that was only to
begin the punishment of my crime.

What did I remember of him ? A tall
young man of slender figure; with cheeks
red and puffed, a forehead on which the veins
stood out ready to burst, a hand that shook,
eyes that looked wildly round him ; a dreadful,
terrible, and shameful memory. But now,

how changed ! As for his features, I hardly-recognised
them at all. Yet I knew him for
the same man.

Go get a cunning limner and painter.
Make him draw you a face stamped with
some degrading vice, or taken at the moment
of committing some grievous sin against the
conscience. Suppose, for instance, that the
cheeks swell out with gluttony ; or let the
lips tremble with intemperance ; or let the
eyes grow keen and hawk-like with gambling :
let any vice he pleases be stamped upon that
face. Then let him go away and draw that
face (which before was dark with sin and
marked with the seal of the Devil) as it
should be, pure, wise, and noble as God, who
hath somewhere laid by the model and type
of every created face, intended it to be.
You will know it and you will know it not.

The face which I had seen was not the
face of a drunkard, but of a drunken man, of
a man heavy and stupid with unaccustomed
drink. I had always thought of him as of a
creature of whose violence (in his cups) I
should go in daily terror, when it should
please the doctor to take me to my husband.

Now that I saw the face again, the spirit of
drunkenness gone out of it, it seemed as if
the man could never stoop to weakness or
folly, so strong were the features, so noble
were the eyes. How could such a man, with
such a face and such a bearing, go about
with such a secret % But perhaps, like me,
he did not suffer himself to think about it.
For his face was as that of David when he
was full of his great mission, or of Apollo the
sun-god, or of Adonis whom the Syrian
women weep, or of Troilus when he believed
that Cressida was true.

To be sure, he never thought of the thing
at all. He put it behind him as an evil
dream : he would take no steps until he
wished to be married, when he would instruct
his lawyers, and they would break the bonds
which were no true bonds — asunder. If
he thought at all, he would think that he was
married — if that was indeed a marriage — to
some poor unworthy wretch who might beset
aside at pleasure : why should his thoughts
ever dwell — so I said to myself with jealous
bitterness — on the girl who stood before him
for ten minutes, her face muffled in a hood,

her eyes cast down, who placed a trembling
and wicked hand in his and swore to follow
his fortunes for better for worse ?

Alas, poor Kitty ! Her case seemed sad
indeed.

Then my lord finished his minuet with
Nancy, and other couples advanced into the
arena, and the dancing became general. Of
course there were nothing but minuets until
eight o'clock.

Nancy was merry. She said that her
partner was delightful to dance with, partly
because he was a lord — and a title, she said,
gives an air of grace to any block — partly because
he danced well and talked amiable.

^ He is a pretty fellow, my dear,' she said,
though of position too exalted for one so
humble as myself. He had exhausted ail his
compliments upon the Queen and had none
for a simple maid of honour, which I told
him at parting, and it made him blush like a
girl. How I love to see a man blush ; it is a
sign that there is yet left some remains of
grace. Perhaps Lord Chudleigh is not so
hardened as his fellows. Look at Peggy's
languid airs : she thinks a minuet should be

danced as if you were going to die the very
next minute ; and she rolls her eyes about as
if she were fainting for a man to kiss her. My
dear, Lord Chudleigh, I fear, is above us
both ; yet he is but a man, and all men are
made of tinder, and a woman is the sjDark. I
think he may be on fire before long. Think
not upon him until you find out how his
affections are disposed, and whether he is
free. A roving lord, at the watering-places,
who is young and handsome, is as dangerous
to us poor damsels, and plays as much havoc
among our hearts, as Samson when he had
got that jawbone, among the Philistines. A
truly dreadful thing it would be' — it was
wonderful that she should be saying all this
in ignorance, how every word went home —
to set your affections upon a lord, and to
find out afterwards that he was pledged to
somebody else. Hateful thing she would be 1'
While the minuets were dancing we stood
and watched the P'av throng. Never had I
dreamed of anything so gay and animated.
There were three hundred people, at least
as many men as women, and all dressed in
their very best. As for the ladies, it was

the fashion when I was a girl for all to be
powdered, but there were many modes of
dressings the head. For some wore aio^'rettes
of jewels (who could afford them), some false
flowers, and some true flowers, which were
pretty and becoming for a young girl : and
some had coiffures a la culhutte, some en charlotte,
some en papillon, or en vegetate, en equivocate,
en desespoir, or en tele de mouton.
The last was the commonest, in which there
were curls all over the back of the head.
And there were French curls which looked
something like eggs strung on a wire round
the head, and Italian curls or scallop-shells.
The petticoats Avere ornamented with falbalas
and pr et ant allies ; most ladies wore
criardes, and all had hoops, but some wore
hoops en eoiipole and some small hoops, and
some looked like a state-bed on castors, and
as if they had robbed the valance for the
skirt and the tester for the trimmings. But
there is no end to the changes of fashion.
As for the gentlemen, their vanities were
mostly in the wig, for though the full
wig was now gone out of fashion, having
given place to the neat and elegant tie-wig

with a broad black ribbon and a little bag,
or a queue, yet there Avere not wanting the
full-bottom periwig, the large flowing grizzle,
and the great wig with three tails. And
every kind of face, the vacant, the foolish,
the sensual, the envious, the eager, the pert,
the dignified, the brave, the anxious, the
confident — but none so noble as that face of
my lord.

Is our Queen meditating V

I started, for he was beside me.

'It is my first ball,' I said, 'and I am
wondering at the pretty sight of so many
happy and merry people.'

Their merriment I grant,' he replied.
*As for their happiness, we had better perhaps
agree to take that for granted.'

I suppose wee all agree to give ourselves
up to the pleasures of the hour,' I said. ' Can.
we not be happy, even if we have a care
which we try to hide X

I hope, at least,' he said, ' that Miss Pleyel
has no cares.'

I shook my head, thinking low, if all
hearts were opened and all secrets known,
there would be wailing instead of laughter,

and my lord and myself would start asunder
with shame on my part and loathing on his.

^ Yes,' he said ; ' an assembly of people to
please and to be pleased is a charming sight.
For a time Ave live in an atmosphere of ease
and contentment, and bask at the feet of the
Queen of Hearts.'

Oh, my lord !' I said, ^ do not pay me
compliments : I am only used to plain
truth.'

^ Surely that is the honest truth,' he said.
To be Queen of \\\q Wells is nothing, but to
be the Queen of Hearts is everything.'

Nay, then,' I returned, blushing, ^ I see
I must put myself under the protection of
Mr. Walsingham.'

The old beau was hovering round, and
gave me his hand with a great air of happiness.


From me,' he said, * Miss Pleydell knows
that she will hear nothing but truth. The
language of gallantry with a beautiful woman
is pure truth.'

It was eight o'clock, and country dances
began. I danced one with Lord Chudleigh
and one with some gentleman of Essex,

whose name T forget. But I remember that
next day he offered me, by letter, his hand,
and eight hundred pounds a year. At nine
we had tea and chocolate. Then more
country dances, in which my Nancy danced
with such enjoyment and happiness as made
Sir Robert clap his hands and laugh aloud.

At eleven all was over, mantles, hoods,
and capuchins where donned, and we walked
home to our lodgings, escorted by the gentlemen.
The last face I saw as we entered the
house was that of my lord as he bowed farewell.


Cicely was Avaiting to receive us.

Oh, madam !' she cried, * I was looking
through the door when my lord took out
miss for the minuet. Oh ! oh ! oh ! how
beautiful ! how grand she did it ! Sure
never was such a handsome pair.'

My dear,' said Mrs. Esther to me, when
Cicely had left us, ^ I believe there never was
known so great a success for a first appearance.
There is no doubt you are the reigning
Toast of the season, child. Well, enjoy
when you can, and be not spoiled by flattery,
Kitty, which is vanity. Such a face, they

all declare, such a figure, such eyes, such a
carriage, were never before seen at Epsom.
Beware of flatterers, my dear. Where did
you get such graces from ? Pay no heed to
the compliments of the men, child. Sure, it
is the prettiest creature ever formed. They
would turn thy head, my dear.'

In the middle of the night I awoke from
an uneasy dream. I thought that I was
dancing with my lord before all the people at
the assembly : they applauded loudly, and I
heard them whispering : ' What a noble pair!
Sure Heaven hath made them for each other !'
Then suddenly Peggy Baker burst through
the crowd, leading by the hand my uncle,
and crying : ' Lord Chudleigh, I congratulate
you upon your marriage ! Your bride is
with you, and here is the Chaplain of the
Fleet, who made you happy.' Then the
people laughed and hissed : the doctor lifted
his great forefinger and shook it at my lord ;
I saw his face change from love to disgust,
and with a cry I hid m]^ shameful cheeks in
my hands and fled the place.

The waking was no better than the dreaming.
The husband whom I had almost forgotten,

and whom to remember gave me no
more than a passing pang, was here, with
me, in the same town. What was I to do —
how treat him — in what words to tell him, if
I must tell him, the dreadful, the humiliating
truth ?

Or, again — a thought which pierced my
breast like a knife — suppose I were condemned
to see him with my own eyes, falling
in love, step by step, with another woman :
suppose that I where punished by perceiving
that my humble and homely charms would
not fix, though they might attract for a single
night, his wandering eyes : oh ! how could I
look on ill silence, and endure without a word
the worst that a woman can suffer '? Ah !
happy Esther, whom the king loved above
all women : so that he set the royal crown
upon her head !

The day broke while I was lying tortured
by these dreadful suspicions and fears. My
window looked towards the east : I rose,
opened the casement, and let in the fresh
morning air. The downs rose beyond the house
with deep heavy woods of elm and birch. There
was already the movement and stir of life

which begins with the early dawn : it is as
if the wings of the birds are shaking as their
pretty owners dream before they wake : as if
the insects on the leaves were all together exhorting
each other to fly about and enjoy the
morning sun, because, haply, life being so uncertain
to the insect tribe, and birds so numerous,
that hour might be their last : as if the
creatures of the underwood, the rabbits, hares,
weasels, ferrets, snakes, and the rest were moving
in their beds, and rustling the dry leaves
on which they lie. Over the tree-tops spread
broader and broader the red glow of the
morning : the sounds of life grew more distinct
: and the great sun sprang up. Then
I heard a late-singing thrush break into his
sweet song, which means a morning hymn
of content. The other birds had mostly done
their singing long before July : but near him
there sang a turtle with a gentle coo which
seemed to say that she had got all she
wanted or could look for in life, and was
happy. Truly, not the spacious firmament
on hio-h alone, but all created things do continually
teach man to laud, praise, and glorify
the name of the great Creator. ^ Whoso,'

says the Psalmist, ^ is wise and will observe
these things ' — but alas for our foolishness !
I looked, and drank the sweetness of the air,
and felt the warmth of the sun, but I thought
of nothing but my husband — mine, and yet
not mine, nor could he ever be mine save for
such confession and shame as made my heartsick
to think of To be already in love with
a man whom one had seen but twice ! was it
not a shame ? Yet such a man ! and he was
already vowed to me and I to him— although
he knew it not : and, although in a secret,
shameful way, the holy Church had made us
one, so that, as the service hath it, God Himself
had bound us together. To be in love
already ! Oh, Kitty I Kitty !

There is a chapter in the Song of Solomon
Which is, as learned men tell us, written
*of Christ and His Church,' the poet speaking
in such an allegory that, to all but the most
spiritual-minded, he seemeth to speak of the
simple love of a man and a maid. And
surely it may be read without sin by either
man or maid in love. ' I am,' she says, 'the
rose of Sharon and the lily of the valleys . . .
My beloved spake, and said unto me, Rise

VOL. II. 28

up, mj love, my fair one, and come away.
For lo I the winter is past, the rain is over
and gone ; the flowers appear on the earth ;
the time of the singing of birds is come, and
the voice of the turtle is heard in the land.'

When I had read that chapter and dried
my weeping eyes, and perhaps prayed awhile,
I lays down upon my bed again, and slept till
Cicely came at seven and called me up to
dress and walk abroad.

HOW KITTY WORE HER CROWN.

Thus happily began our stay at Epsom
Wells.

After our morning: walk we returned home,
beinor both fatigued with the excitement and
late hours, and one, at least, desirous to sit
alone and think about the strange and
perilous adventure of the evening. Strange,
indeed ; since when before did a man dance
with his own wife and not recognise her ?
Perilous, truly, for should that man go away
and give no more heed to his wife, then
would poor Kitty be lost for ever. For
already was her heart engaged in this adventure,
and, like a gambler, she had staked her
whole upon a single chance. Fortunately for
her, the stake was consecrated with tears of

28—2

repentance, bitterness of slime, and prayers
for forgiveness.

Mrs. Esther gently dozed away the
morning over 'Pamela.' I was occupied
with needlework. Cicely ran in and out of
the room, looking as if she longed to speak,
but dared not for fear of waking madam.

After a while she beckoned me to the door,
and whispered me that outside was a higgler
with ducklings and cherries, should we
please to choose them for our dinner. I
followed her, and after a bargain, in which
the Surrey maiden showed herself as good
as if she had been bred in Fleet Market
(though without the dreadful language), she
began upon the business Avhicli she was
burning to tell me.

Sure, Miss Kitty,' she said, ' all the world
is talking this morning about the beautiful
Miss Pleydell. The book-shop is full of
nothing else, the gentlemen in the coffeehouse
can talk of nothing but of Miss Pleyel,
and up and down the Terrace it is
nothing but " Oh, madam, did you see the
dancing of Miss Pleydell last night ?" '' Dear
madam, did you remark the dress of Miss

Pleydell ?" And •' Can you tell me whence
she comes, this beautiful Miss Pleydell T
And the men are all sio^hino-as if their hearts
would burst, poor fellows ! And they say
that Lord Chudleigh gave a supper after the
ball to the gentlemen of his acquaintance,
when he toasted the beautiful Miss Pleydell.
O the happiness ! He is a young nobleman
with a great estate, and said to be of a most
virtuous and religious disposition. The
gentlemen are mounting ribbons in honour of
the peerless Kitty, so I hear — and you will not
be offended at their venturing so to take your
name — and, with a little encouragement,
they will all be fighting for a smile from the
fair Kitty.'

Silly girl, to repeat such stories !'
Nay,' she replied, * it is all truth, every
word. They say that never since the Wells
began has there been such a beauty. The
oldest dipper, old Mrs. Humphreys, Who is
past eighty, declares that Miss Pleydell is
the loveliest lady that eider came to Epsom.
When you go out this afternoon you will be
finely beset.'

And so on, all the morning, as her occasion

brought her into the room, whisking
about, duster in hand, and always clatter,
clatter, like the mill-wheel.

After dinner we received a visit from no
other than Lord Chudleigh himself

He offered a thousand apologies for presenting
himself without asking permission,
kindly adding, that however he might find
Miss Kitty, whether dressed or in dishabille,
she could not be otherwise than charming. I
know one person who thought Kitty in her
morning frock, muslin pinner, and brown
hair (which was covered With little curls),
looped up loosely, or allowed to flow freely to
her waist, prettier than Kitty dressed up in
hoop, and patches, and powder. It was the
mirror which told that person so, and she
never dared to tell it to any other.

He had ventured, he said, still speaking to
Mrs. Esther, to present an offering of
flowers and fruit sent to him that morning
from his country house in Kent ; and then
Cicely brought upstairs the most beautiful
basket ever seen, filled with the finest flowers,
peaches, plums, apricots, and cherries. I had
se:)n none such since I said farewell to the

old Vicarage o-arden, where all those things
grew better, I believe, than anywhere else in
England.

My lord,' said my aunt, quite confused at
such a gift, such condescension! ^ What
can we say but that we accept the present
most gratefully'

Indeed, madam,' he replied, ' there is
nothing to say. I am truly pleased that my
poor house is able to provide a little pleasure
to two ladies. It is the first time, I assure
you, that I have experienced the joy of possessing
my garden.'

Then he went on to congratulate Mrs.
Esther on my appearance at the ball.

I hear,' he said, * that on the Terrace and
in the coffee-house one hears nothing but the
praises of the fair Miss Pleydell.'

I blushed, not so much at hearing my
name thus mentioned, because I was already
(in a single day — ^q, Kitty !) accustomed
and, so to speak, hardened, but because he
smiled as he spoke. My lord's smile was
not like some men's, bestowed upon every
trifle ; but, like his speech, considered. I
fear, indeed, that even then, so early in the

day, my heart was already thoroughly possessed
of his image.

'The child,' said Mrs. Esther, ^ must not
have her head turned by flattery. Yet, I
own, she looked and moved like one of the
three Graces. Yet we who love her must not
spoil her. It was her first ball, and she did
her best, poor child, to acquit herself with
credit.'

Credit,' said my lord, kindly, ' is a poor,
cold word to use for such a grace.'

*We thank your lordship,' Mrs. Esther
bowed with dignity. This, surely, was a return
to the Pimpernel Manner. ' We have
been living in seclusion, for reasons which
need not be related, for some time. Therefore,
Kitty has never before been to any
public assembly. To be sure, I do not
approve of bringing forward young girls too
early; although,formyown parti had already
at her age been present at several entertainments
of the most sumptuous and splendid
character, not only at Bagnigge Wells and
Cupid's Garden, but also at many great city
feasts and banquets for the reception of
illustrious personages, particularly in the

year of grace 171 S, when my lamented father
was Lord Mayor of London.'

The dear lady could never avoid introducing
the fact that she was thus honourably
connected.

Lord Chudleigh, however, seemed interested.
I learned, later, that some had been
putting about, among other idle rumours,
that I was the daughter of a tattered country
curate.

Indeed,' he said, ' I knew not that the
late Mr. PI ey dell had been the Lord Mayor.
It is a most distinguished position.'

Not Mr. Pleydell, my lord. Sir Samuel
Pimpernel Knight, my father, was the Lord
Mayor in question. His father was Lord
Mayor before him. Kitty Pleydell is not
my blood relation, but my niece and Award by
adoption. Her father was a most distinguished
Cambridge scholar and divine.'

There are Pleydells,' said Lord Chudleigh,
'in Warwickshire. Perhaps '

My father,' I said, ' was rector of a country
parish in Kent, where Sir Robert Levett hath
a large estate. He was the younger son of
the Warwickshire family of that name, and

died in the spring of last year. My relations
of that county I have never met. Now, ray
lord, you have my genealogy complete.'

^ It is an important thing to know,' he
said, laughing; ' in a place like Epsom, where
scandal is the staple of talk, as many freedoms
are taken with a lady's family as with her
reputation. I am glad to be provided with
an answer to those who would enact the part
of town-crier or backbiter, a character here
greatly aspired to. No doubt the agreeable
ladies, whose tongues in the next world will
surely be converted into two-edged swords,
have already furnished Miss Kitty with
highwaymen, tallow-chandlers, or attorneys
for ancestors, and Wapping, Houndsditch, or
the Rules of the Fleet ' — it was lucky that
Mrs. Esther had a fan — 'for their place of
residence. In the same way, they have
most undoubtedly proved to each other that
she has not a feature worth looking at, that
her eyes squint — pray pardon me. Miss Kitty
her hair is red, her figure they would have
the audacity to call crooked, and her voice
they would maliciously say was cracked. It
is the joy of these people to detract from

merit. You can afford to be charitable, Miss
Kitty. The enumeration of impossible disgraces
and the distortion of the rarest charms
afford these ladies some consolation for their
envy and disappointment.

I hope, my lord I said, ' that it will not
afford me a consolation or happiness to believe
that my sex is so mean and envious thus to
treat a harmless stranger.'

o

He laughed.

When Miss Kitty gross older,' he said
to Mrs. Esther, ' she will learn to place less
confidence in her fellows.'

Age,' said Mrs. Esther, sadly, ' brings the
knowledge of evil. Let none of us wish
to grow older. Not that your lordship hath
yet gained the right to boast this knowledge.'


Then my lord proceeded to inform us that
he purposed presenting some of the ladies of
the Wells with an entertainment, such as it
seems is expected from gentlemen of his
rank.

But I would not,' he said, ' invite the
rest of the company before I had made sure
that the Queen of the Wells would honour

me with her presence. I have engaged the
music, and if the weather holds fine we will
repair to Durdans Park, where we shall find
dancing on the grass, with lamps in the trees,
supper, and such amusements as ladies love
and we can provide.'

This was indeed a delightful prospect ; we
accepted with great joy, and so, with protestations
of service, his lordship departed.

There is,' said Mrs. Esther, * about the
manners of the Great a charming freedom.
Good breeding is to manners what Christianity
\z to religion. It is, if one may reverently
say so, a law of perfect liberty. My dear, I
think that we are singularly fortunate in
having at the Wells so admirable a young
nobleman, as well as our friends (also well-bred
gentlefolks) Sir Robert and Lady
Levett. I hear that the young Lord
Eardesley is also at the Wells, and was at
last night's assembly ; and no doubt there are
other members of the aristocracy by whom
we shall be shortly known. You observed,
Kitty, the interest shown by his lordship
when I delicately alluded to the rank and
exalted station of my late father. It is well

for people to know, wherever we are, and
especially when we are in the society of
nobility, that we are not common folk.
What ancestors did his lordship say that
envious tongues would give us — tallow-chandlers
? attorneys ? A lying and conscious
place, indeed !'

Later on, we put on our best and sallied
forth, dressed for the evening in our hoops,
patches and powder, but not so fine as for
Monday's ball. The Terrace and New
Pirate were crowded with people, and very
soon we were surrounded by gentlemen
anxious to establish a reputation for wit or
position b}^ exchanging a few words with the
Reigning Beauty of the season, none other, if
you please, than Kitty Pleydell.

But to think in how short a time — only a
few hours, a single night — that girl was*so
changed that she accepted, almost without
wondering, all the incense of flattery that
was offered up to her ! Yet she knew, being
a girl of some sense, that it was unreal, and
could not mean anything ; else a woman so
praised and flattered would lose her head.
The very extravagance of gallantry preserves

the sex from that calamity. A woman must
be a fool indeed who can really believe that
her person is that of a Grace, her smile the
smile of Venus, her beauty surpassing that
of Helen, and her wit and understanding
that of Sappho. She knows better : she
knows that lier wit is small and petty beside
the wit of a man : her wisdom nothing but
to learn a little of what men have said : her
very beauty, of which so much is said, but a
flower of a few years, whereas the beauty of
manhood lasts all a life. Therefore, when allis
said and done, the incense burned, the
mock prayers said, the hymn of flattery
sung, and the Idol bedecked with flowers
and gems, she loves to step down from the
altar, slip away from the worshippers, and
run to a place in the meadows, where waits a
swain who weill say : ' Sweet girl, I love
thee — with all thy faults !'

On this day, therefore, began my brief
reign as Queen of the AVells. Mr. Walsingham
was one of the first to salute me. With
courtly grace he bowed low, saying :

We greet our Queen, and trust her
Majesty is in health and spirits.'

Then all the gentlemen round formed a
lane, down which we walked, my old courtier
marching backwards.

The scene, Mrs. Esther said afterwards,
reminded her of a certain day long ago,
when they crowned a Queen of Beauty at
Bagnigge Wells, in the presence of the Lord
Mayor, her father.

To be sure, it was a very pretty sight to
watch all these gallants making legs and
handling their canes with such space as each
could command, some of them having studied
in those noble schools of manners, the salons
of Paris, or the reception-rooms of great
ladies in London. Yet it was certain to me
that not one of them could compare with my
lord — my own lord, I mean.

Presently we came upon Lady Levett and
her party, when, after a few w^orcis of kind
greeting from her ladyship and an admonition
not to believe more of what I was told than
I knew to be true, we divided, Nanc}^ coming
with me and Mrs. Esther remaining with
Lady Levett. The music was playing and
the sun shining, but a fine air blew from the
Downs, and we were beneath the shade of

the trees. We sat upon one of the benches,
and the gentlemen gathered round us.

^ Gentlemen,' said Nancy, ' I am the
Queen's maid of honour. You may all of
you do your best to amuse her Majesty — and
me. We give you permission to exhaust
yourselves in making the court happy.'

What were they to do \ What had they
to offer ? There was a bull-baiting in the
market at which my maid of honour cried
fie ! There was a match with quarter-staves
on the Downs for the afternoon, but that
met with little favour.

We need not leave home,' said Nancy,
to see two stout fellows bang each other
about the head with sticks. That amusement
may be witnessed any summer evening,
with Grinning;' through a horse-collar and
fighting with gloves on the village green at
home. Pray go on to the next amusement
on the list. The cock-pit you can leave out.'

One young gentleman proposed that Ave
might play with parties, a ridiculous fashion
of paper doll then in vogue as a toy for ladies
with nothing to do : another that we should
go hear the ingenious Mr. King lecture on

Astronomy : another that we should raffle
for chocolate creams : another that we should
do nothing at all, ' for said he, ^ why do we
come to the Wells but for rest and quiet %
and if Miss Pleydell and her maid of honour
do but grant us the j^i'ivilege of beholding
their charms, what need we of anything but
rest ?

" To walk and dine, and walk and sup,
To fill the leisure moments up,
Idly enough but to the few
Who've really nothing else to do.
Yet here the sports exulting reign,
And laughing loves, a numerous train ;
Here Beauty holds her splendid court,
And flatt'ring pleasures here resort." '

I, for one, should have enjoyed the witnessing
of a little sport better than the homage
of lovers.

Here is Miss Peggy Baker cried Nancy,
jumping up. ^ Oh ! I must speak to my
dear friend Miss Peggy

Miss Baker was walking slowly down the
Terrace, accompanied by her little troop of
admirers. At sight of us her face clouded
for a moment, but she quickly recovered and
smiled a languid greeting.

VOL. 11. 29

Dear Miss Peggy,' cried Nancy — I knew
she was going to say something mischievous
^ you come in the nick of time.'

Pray command me she replied graciously.


'It is a simple question '■ — Miss Baker
looked suspicious. ' Oh I a mere trifle ' —
Miss Baker looked uneasy. * It is only —
pray, gentlemen, were any of you in the
book-shop this morning V

All protested that they were not — a denial
which confirmed my opinion that impertinence
was comines.

'Nay,' said Nancy, 'we all know the truthfulness
of gallants, which is as notorious as
their constancy. Had you been there you
would not have paid Miss Pleydell those
pretty compliments which are as well deserved
as they are sincere. But, Miss Peggy,
a scandalous report hath got abroad. They
say that you said, this morning, at the bookshop,
that Kitty Pley dell's eyes squinted.'

Oh ! oh !' cried Mr. Walsingham, holding
up his hands, and all the rest cried 'Oh! oh!'
and held up theirs.

I vow and protest,' cried Peggy Baker,

blushing very much. ^ I vow and protest
'

I said,' interrupted Nanc}^, ' that it was
the cruellest slander. You are all good-nature.
Stand up, Kitty dear. Now tellus,
Miss Peggy, before all these gentlemen,
do those eyes squint '?'

Certainly not,' said poor Peggy, in great
confusion.

^ Look at them well,' continued Nancy.
Brown eyes, full and clear — eyes like an
antelope. Saw anyone eyes more straight ?'

Never,' said Peggy, thinning herself violently.


^ Or more beautiful eyes ?'

'■ Never,' replied Miss Peggy.

There,' said Nancy, ' I knew it. I said
that from the lips of Miss Peggy Baker
nothing but kind words can fall. You hear,
gentlemen ; women are sometimes found who
can say good things of each other : and if we
find the malicious person Who dared report
that Miss Peggy Baker said such a thing, I
hope you will duck her in the horse-pond.'

Miss Peggy bowed to us with her most
languishing air, and passed on. Nancy held

29—2

up her hands, while the gentlemen looked atone
another and laughed.

Oh, calumny !' she cried. ' To say that
Kitty's eyes were askew I'

For there had been a discussion at the
book-shop that morning, in which the name of
Miss Pleydell was frequently mentioned; and
her person, bearing, and face were all particularly
dwelt upon. Miss Baker, as usual
in their parliaments, spoke oftener, and with
the most animation. She possessed, on such
occasions, an insight into the defects of women
that was truly remarkable, and a power
of representing them to others which, while
it was eloquent and persuasive, perhaps erred
on the side of exa2^<xei'ation. She summed
up what she had to say in these kind words :

After all, one could forgive fine clothes
worn as if the girl had never had a dress on
fit to be seen before, and manners like a
hoyden trying to seem a nun, and the way of
dancing taught to the its who go to Sadler's
Wells, and a sun-burnt complexion, and hands
as big as my fan — all these things are rustic,
and might be cured — or endured. But I
cannot forgive her squint !'

And now she bad to recant publicly, and
confess that there was no squint at all.

This audacious trick of Nancy's was, you
may be sure, immediately spread abroad, so
that for that day at least the unfortunate
creature found the people looking after and
laughing wherever she went. Naturally, she
hated me, who really had done her no harm at
all, more and more.

The gentlemen, or one among them, I
know not who, offered this evening a general
tea-drinking with the music. It was served
under the trees upon the open walk, and was
very gay and merry. After the tea, when
the day began to decline, we went to the rooms
where, though there was no dancing, there
was talking;" and lausrhinof in one room, and in
the other games of cards of every kind —
cribbage, whist, quadrille, hazard, and lansquenet.
We wandered round the tables,
watching the players intent upon the chances
of the cards. I though!: of poor Sir Miles
Lackington, who might, had it not been for
his love of gaming, have been now, as he
began, a country gentleman with a fine estate.
In this room we found Lord Chudlei''h. Ho

was not playing, but was looking on at a
table where sat a young gentleman and an
officer in the army. He did not see us, and,
under pretence of watching the play of a
party of four ladies playing quadrille, one of
whom was Lady Levett, I sat down to watch
him. Was he a gambler ?

I presently discovered that he was not
looking at the game, but the players. Presently
he laid his hand upon the shoulder of
the younger man, and said in a quiet voice :

Now, Eardesley, you have had enough.
This gentleman knows the 2:ame better than
you.'

I hope, my lord cried the other player,
springing to his feet, 'that your lordship doth
not insinuate ■

I speak what I mean, sir. Lord Earless
will, if he takes my advice, play no more
with you.'

Your lordship,' cried the gentleman in
scarlet, * will perhaps remember that he is
speaking to a gentleman '

Who left Bath, a fortnight ago, under
such circumstances as makes it the more
necessary for me to warn my friend. No,

sir' — his eye grew hard, and his face stern.
No, sir. Do not bluster or threaten. I will
neither play with you, nor suffer my friends
to play with you ; nor, sir, will I fight with
you, unless you happen to attack me upon
the road. And, sir, if I see you here tomorrow,
the master of the ceremonies will
put you to the door by means of his lackeys.
Come, Eardesley.'

The gamester, thus roundly accused, began
to bluster. His honour was at stake; he lead
been grossly insulted ; he would have the
satisfaction of a gentleman ; he would let his
lordship know that his rank should not protect
him. With these noble sentiments, he
left the room, and the Wells saw him no
more.

Then, seeing me alone, for I had escaped
from my court, being weary of compliments
and speeches, he came to my chair.

I saw you, my lord,' I said, ' rescue that
young gentleman from the man who, I suppose,
would have won his money. Is it
prudent to engage in such quarrels ?'

The young gentleman,' he replied, ' is, in
-a sense, mv ward. The man is a notorious

sharper, who hath been lately expelled from
Bath, and will now, [ think, find it prudent
to leave the Wells. I hope, Miss Kitty, that
you do not like gaming ?'

Indeed, my lord, I do not know if I
should like what I have never tried. Tis
the first time I have seen card-playing.'

Then you must have been brought up ina
nunnery.'

Not quite that, but in a village, whereas
I have already told you, m}^ father was
vicar. I do not know any games of cards.'

'■ How did you amuse yourself in your
village ?'

I read, made puddings, worked samplers,
cut out and sewed my dresses, and learned
lessons with Nancy Levett.'

the pretty little girl who is always
laughing \ She should always remain young
never grow old and grave. What else did
you do r

We had a choir for the Sunday psalms —
many people came every Sunday to hear us
sing. That was another occupation. Then I
used to ride Vt^ith the boys, or sometimes
we would go fishing, or nutting, or blackberries

— oh ! there was plenty to do, and
the days were never too long.'

A better education than most ladies can
show,' he replied, with his quiet air of
authority.

And you, my lord. Do you never play
cards ?'

No,' he replied. ' Pray do not question
me further on my favourite vices, Miss Kitty.
I would not confess all my sins even to so
charming and so kind a confessor as yourself.'


I forgive you, my lord,' I said, * beforehand.
Especially if you promise to abandon
them all.'

There are sins,' he said slowly, ' which
sometimes leave behind them consequences
which can never be forgotten or undone.'

o

Alas ! T knew what he meant. His sin
had left him burdened with a wife — a creature
who had been so wicked as to take advantage
of his wickedness ; a woman whom he feared
to hear of and already loathed. Poor wife !
poor sinner ! poor Kitty !

HOW THE DOCTOR WROTE TO KITTY.

The next morning at dinner, we heard the
summons of the postboy's horn, and Cicely
presently ran in with a letter in her hand.
It was addressed to me, in a large bold handwriting,
and vas sealed v/ith red wax. I
opened it and found a smaller letter inside it,
marked ' Private. For my niece's eye alone.'
So that both letters were from my uncle, the
doctor.

Your private letter,' said Mrs. Esther,
doubtless contains some admonition or advice
designed for you alone. Put it in your
pocket, child, and read it in your own room.
As for the other letter, as it is not marked
private, it would be well for you to read it
aloud, after dinner, and while we are eating

one of my Lord Chudleigh's delicious
peaches.'

To this I willingly complied, because I
greatly feared the private letter would contain
some instructions concerning the secret
which the doctor and I possessed between us.
Accordingly, the dinner over, I began the
perusal of my uncle's letter.

'' My dear Niece,

^ " You will first of "all, and before
reading any farther, convey my dutiful respects
to the lady by whose goodness you
have been placed in a position as much above
Avhat you could have wished, as her benevolence
is above the ordinary experience of
mortals'"

Oh, the excellent man!' cried Mrs.
Esther.

"I have to report that, under Providence,
I am well in health, and in all respects doing
well ; the occupation in which I am now
engaged having received a stimulus by the
threatening of a new Act for the prevention
of (so-called) unlawful marriages. The increase

in the number of applicants for marriage
hath also (as is natural) caused an increase
in the upstarts and pretenders who
claim to have received canonical orders, being
most of them as ignorant as a butcher's
block, and no more ordained than the fellows
who banff a cushion in a conventicle. The
clergymen of London complain that the
parsons of the Fleet take away their parishioners,
and deprive them of their fees : they
cannot say that I, who never take less thana
guinea, undersell them. You will be glad
to learn that Sir Miles Lackino^ton hath left
this place. He hath lately received a legacy
from a cousin of a small estate, and hath
made an arrangement with his creditors, by
virtue of which his detainers are now removed.
Nevertheless, we expect him back
before long, being well assured that the same
temptation and vice of gambling, which
brought him here before, will aixain beset
him. Yet he promiseth brave things. We
gave him a farewell evening, in the which
his health was toasted, and more punch
drunk than was good for the heads of some
present, among whom were gentlemen members

of the Utter Bar, from the two Temples
and Lincoln's Inn, with many others, an
honourable company.

*' Tt wall also be a pleasure to you to learn
that the ingenious Mr. Stallabras is also at
large. Probably he, too, Avill return to us
ere long. For the present his sole detaining
creditor, who had supplied him for years with
such articles of apparel (at second-hand) as
were necessary for his decent appearance on
the credit of his future of-lord, agreed to take
ten guineas in full discharge of a bill for
forty, which the poet could never hope to pay,
nor the tradesmen to receive. The calling of
poet is at best but a poor one, nor should I
counsel anyone to practise the writing of
verse unless he be a man of fortune, like Mr.
Alexander Pope (unfortunately a Papist), ora
Fellow of some substantial college, such as
the Houses of Trinity, Peter, and Christ, at
Cambridge, like Mr. Pay. Nor is there any
greater unhappiness than to draw a bill, to
speak after the manner of merchants, upon
your future success and industry, and to
be compelled to discount it. He hath now
conceived the idea of a tragedy and of an epic

poem. The first he will endeavour to produce
at Drury Lane as soon as it is written :
the second he will immediately get subscribed
among his friends and patrons. Unfortunately
he has already obtained subscriptions
for a volume of verses, and, having
eaten the subscriptions, cannot now find a
publisher : in truth, I believe the verses are
not yet written. This melancholy accident
obliges him to seek for new. patrons. I wish
him well.

"•'It is, my dear niece, with the greatest
satisfaction that I learn you have, with Mrs.
Esther, gone to Epsom. The situation of
the place, the purity of the air upon the
Downs, the salubrity of the waters, the gaiety
of the company, will, I hope, all be conducive
to the health of that most excellent lady,
your best friend

Oh, the good man !' cried Mrs. Esther.

*''To whom I charge you be dutiful,
obedient, and careful in the smallest
punctilio. The cheerfulness of the amusements
(if Epsom be the same as when I once
visited it, when tutor to a young gentleman

of quality) should communicate to her spirit?!
something of the joy with which I could now
wish her to regard the world. As for yourself,
my child, I am under no apprehension
hut that music, gay companions, and your
time of life will together make you as mirthful
as is possible for human being. Remember,
however, that happiness is but for a
season : that mirth must never pass beyond
the bound of good manners : and that when
a woman is no longer young, the reputation
she has earned as a girl remains with her,
even to the grave. Wherefore, Kitty, be
circumspect. The town news is but little :
the (so-styled) young Pretender is said to be
moving again, but little importance is now
attached to his doings, and for the moment
the Protestant dynasty seems firm. But

Heaven knows " ' Here followed a

quantity of news about the ministers, the
Houses of Parliament, the foreign news, and
so forth, which I omit.

" I have seen a sermon, published this
year by one Laurence Sterne, on ' Conscience,'
which I would commend to Mrs. Pimpernel.
I also commend to you Dr. Samuel Johnson's

Vanity of Human Wishes,' and the first
number of the ' Rambler,' of which I hear
great things. Mr. Henry Fielding hath produced
a novel called ' Tom Jones of which
the town is talking. I mention it here in
order that you may be cautioned against a
book whose sole merit is the faithful delineation
of scenes and characters shocking to the
female moralist. For the same reason I
would have thee beware of Mr. Smollett's
Peregrine Pickle in Which, as a man who
knows — alas ! — the wickedness of the world,
I find a great deal to commend.

^ " Tl^e weather has been strangely hot
even for July, and fever is rife in this neighbourhood.
I hear that the Bishop of London
threatens me with pains and penalties. I
have sent word to his lordship, that if he will
not allows me to marry; I will hiivy, and that
at such prices as will leave his clergy nothing
but the fees of the paupers, beggars, and
malefactors.

'' I think that I have no more news to send.
I would that I were able to send thee such
tidings as mis^ht be looked for in a London
letter ; but I know not what actor is carrying

away all hearts, nor what lady is the
reigning toast, nor what is the latest fashion
in cardinal, sack, patch, or tie-wig, nor anything
at all that is dear to the hearts of an
assembly on the Terrace of Epsoui. Therefore,
with my duty to Mrs. Pimpernel,
" I remain, my dear niece,
'' Your loving uncle,
'* Gregory Shovel.

'^^ Doctor ofDivinitv."'

^ ^^ Post scriptum. — I enclose herewith a
short letter of admonition, which thou mayest
read by thyself, as such things are not interesting
to Mistress Pimpernel." ' '

^ Now,' cried Mrs. Esther, ' was there ever
such a man ? Living in such a place, he preserves
his virtue : among such dregs and oif-
scourings of mankind he stands still erect, proclaiming
and preaching Christian virtue. Oh,
Kitty ! why was not that man made a bishop?
Sure, there is no other position in the world
fit for him. With what eloquence would he
defend Christian faith ? With what righteous
indignation would he not expel evil-doers V
I did not dare to ask, which of course
VOL. II. 30

occurred to me, what indignation he would
show against such as violated the law by
marrying in the Fleet.

'Now,' I said, 'with your permission,
madam, I will retire, in order to read my
uncle's private letter of admonition.'

I opened the short note in fear ; yet there
was nothing alarming in it.

My dear Niece,

I add a Avoid to say that Lord
Chudleigh is going to visit Epsom, and hath
either engaged or been offered the mansion
of Durdans for the summer : perhaps he is
already there. It may be that you will
make his acquaintance : in any case you cannot
fail of behoof interested in his doings.
Since his visit to the Fleet, I hear that he
has been afflicted with a continual melancholy,
of which you and I know the cause. He
has also led a very regular and almost
monastic life, reproaching himself continually
for that lapse from temperance which
led to what he regards as the curse of his
life.

Child, if he pays you attentions, receive

them with such coquettish allurements as
your sex knows how to hang out. On this
point I cannot advise. But if he is attracted
by more showy and more beautiful women' —
I looked at the glass and smiled — ' then be
careful not to exhibit any jealousy or anger.
Kemember that jealousy and anger have
ruined many a Jemima fives, or raging
woman. Let things go on, as if nothing of
all that you and I wot of had happened.
He will be watched, and at the right time
will be called upon to acknowledge his wife.
Such a return for the evil done me by his
father shall be mine. And with such a
return of good for evil, a brilliant position
for yourself. If he should fall in love, if he
hath not already done so, with another
woman, you would, in one moment, blast
his hopes, trample on all that he held dear,
and make him ridiculous, a criminal, and a
deceiver. But it is at all times a more
Christian thing for a man to fall in love with
his own wife.

Remember, my dear Kitty, I place the
utmost reliance on thy good sense. Above
all, no woman's jealousies, rages, and fits of

30—2

madness. These things will only do thee
harm.

Your loving uncle,

Gregory Shovel,

Doctor of Divinity.'

Were one a stock or a stone ; had one no
feelings ; were one destitute of pity, sympathy
and compassion, these letters might
have been useful as guides to conduct. But
the thing had happened to me which my
uncle, in his worldly wisdom, could never
calculate upon : I had fallen in love with
Lord Chudleigh : I was passionately anxious
that he should fall in love with me. What
room, in such a condition of mind as was
this man, for advice so cold, so interested,
as this ? Return good for evil ? What had
I to do with that ? I wanted to wreak no
vengeance on my lord : I would have surrounded
him with love, and been willing to
become his servant, his slave, anything, if
only he would forgive me, take me for his
sweetheart, and make me his wife. But to
lay those snares : to look on coldly while he
made love to other women : to wait my time,

so as to bring shame and remorse upon that
noble heart — that, Kitty, was impossible.
Yet I could not write to my uncle things
which he could not understand. I could not
say that I repented and was very sorry : that
I loved my lord, and was determined to inflict
no harm upon him : and that, if he chose
to fall in love with another woman — who was
I, indeed, that he should love me'? — I was
firmly resolved that no act or word of mine
should injure him, even though I had to
stand in the church and see him with my
own eyes married to that other — that happy
woman — before the altar.

HOW KITTY BROKE HER PROMISE.

No one must think that I was sorry, or even
embarrassed, when I heard that Harry
Temple had joined the company at Epsom ;
and though the name of coquette was given
me by him, and that of jilt, with such other
abusive terms as the English tongue provides,
by Will Levett, later on, I beg that everyone
will believe me when I declare that I had
no knowledge at all of being betrothed, or
under any kind of promise, to either of these
two young men. Yet, as will have been
perceived by any who have read the second
chapter of this narrative, both of them had
just grounds for believing me to be their
promised wife. In fact, I was at the time
so silly and ignorant that I did not understand

what they meant ; nor had I, being so
much tossed about, and seeing so many
changes, ever thought upon their words at all,
since. And whereas there was no day in
which the thought of my dear and fond
Nancy did not come into my mind, there
never was a day at all in which my memory
dwelt upon either Will or Harry, save as
companions of Nancy. And although grievous
things followed upon this neglect of
mine, I cannot possibly charge myself with
any blame in the matter. As for Will, indeed,
his conduct was such as to relieve me
of any necessity for repentance; while Harry,
even if he did play the fool for a while,
speedily recovered his senses, and found consolation
in the arms of another. Lastly, men
ought not to go frantic for any woman : they
should reflect that there are good wives in
plenty to be had for the asking ; women virtuously
reared, who account it an honour (as
they should) to receive the offer of an honest
man's faithful service ; that no woman is so
good as to have no equal among her contemporaries
: while as for beauty, that is mostly
matter of opinion. I am sure I cannot understand

why they made me Queen of the Wells,
when Nancy Levett was passed over ; and I
have since seen many a plan ghi honoured
as a beauty, while the most lovely faces vere
neglected.

The first, then, of my two lovers — or promised
husbands — who arrived at Epsom was
Harry Temple.

We where walking on the New Parade in
the afternoon, making a grand display ; I in
my new purple velvet with purple ribbons,
a purple mantle and purple trimmings to my
hat, very grand indeed. Mr. Walsingham
was talking like a lover in a novel — I mean
of the old-fashioned and romantic school of
novel, now gone out. The art of saying fine
things, now too much neglected by the young,
was then studied by old and young.

^ Ladies,' he was saying, ' should never be
seen save in the splendour of full dress : they
should not eat in public, unless it be chocolate
and Turkish sweets : nor drink, unless
it be a dish of tea : they should not laugh,
lest they derange the position of the patch or
the nice adjustment of the coiffure: they may
smile, however, upon their lovers : all their

movements should be trim and evenly
balanced, according to rates of grace : in fact,
just as a woman was the last and most
finished work in Nature, so a lady dressed,
taught, and cultivated, should be the last and
most finished work in Art. The power of
beauty — Miss Pleydell will approve this —
should be assisted by the insinuation of polite
address : rank should be enhanced by the
assumption of a becoming dignity : dishabille
should hide at home : nor should she show
herself abroad until she has heightened and
set off her charms, by silk and satin, ribbons
and lace, paint, powder, and patches.'

^ I suppose, sir,' said Nelly, pointing to an
absurd creature whose follies were the diversion
of the whole company, * the dress of the
lady over there in the short sack would please
you. Her body a state-bed running upon
castors, and her head-dress made up of trimmings
taken from the tester. She is, sir, I
take it, a finished work of Art.'

Then she screamed : 'Oh, Kitty! here is
Harry Temple.' And then she blushed, so
that Mr. Walsingham looked at both of us
with a meaning smile. He came sauntering

along the walk, looking about him carelessly,
for as yet he knew none of the company. His
manner was improved since last I saw him,
a year and more ago : that was doubtless due
to a visit to the Continent. He was a handsome
fellow certainly, though not so tall or
so handsome as Lord Chudleigh : his features
were smaller and his air less distinguished ;
but still a pretty fellow. I thought of Nancy's
secret and laughed to myself, as yet never
suspecting what he would say. The great
difference at first limit between Harry
Temple and Lord Chudleigh was that the
former looked as if he was ready to take the
place which the world would assign to him,
while the latter would step to the front and
stand there as in his proper place. It is a
grand thing to be a leader of men.

Suddenly he saw us, and stood still with
such a look of bewilderment and astonishment
as I never saw.

Nancy !' — he had his eyes upon me all the
time — ' I knew you Avere here, but — but '

Here Nancy burst out laughing.

Harry does not remember you, Kitty. O
the inconstancy of men !'

^ Kitty X It was his turn to look confused
now. ' Is it possible ? Kitty Pleydell ? Yet,
surely '

I am sorry that Mr. Temple so easily forgets
his old friends,' I said.

*No, no. Forget? not at all.' He was so
disconcerted that he spoke in single words.
^ But such a change !'

A year ago,' I said, ' I was in russet
and brown holland, with a straw hat. But
this watering-place is not my native village,
and I wear brown holland frocks no
looser.'

^ Save in a pastoral,' said Mr. Walsingham.
A shepherdess should always wear brown
holland, with ribbons and patches, powder
and paint ; and a crook beautifully wreathed
with green ribbons.'

^ Gentlemen,' I said to my followers, ^ this
is my old friend, Mr. Harry Temple, of Wotton
Hampstead, Kent, whom you will, I doubt
not, welcome among you. But what punishment
shall be inflicted upon him for forgetting
a lady's face ?'

This gave rise to a dispute on an abstract
point of gallantry. One held that under no

circumstances, and during no time of absence,
however prolonged, should a gentleman forget
the face of his mistress ; another, that if
the lady changed, say from a child to a woman,
the forgetfulness of her face must not be
charged as a crime. We argued the point
with great solemnity. Nancy gave it as her
opinion that the rest of a woman's face might
be forgotten, but not the eyes because they
never change. Mr. Walsinofhani combated
this opinion. He said that the eyes of ladies
change when they marry.

What change ?' I asked.

The eyes of a woman who is fancy free,'
he said gravely, * are like stars : when she
marries, they are planets.'

Nay,' said Nancy ; * a woman does not
wait to be married before her eyes undergo
that change. As soon as she falls in love
they become planets. For whereas, before
that time, they go twinkle, twinkle, upon
every pretty fellow who has the good taste to
fall in love with her, as mine do when I look
upon Lord Eardesley '■ — the young fellow
blushed — ^ so, after she is in love, they burn
with a steady lio^ht upon the face of the man

she loves, as mine do when I turn them upon
Mr. Walsingham.'

She gazed with so exaggerated an ardour
into the old beau's wrinkled and crows-footed
face, that the rest of us laughed. He, for his
part, made a profound salute, and declared
that the happiness of his life was now
achieved, and that he had nothings left to live
for.

In the evening, a private ball Alas given in
the Assembly Kooms by some of the gentlemen,
Lord Chudleiofh amonof the number, to
a circle of the most distinguished ladies at the
Wells. In right of my position as Queen, I
opened the ball (of course with his lordship).
Afterwards, I danced with Harry. When
the country dances began, I danced again
with Harry, who kept looking in my eyes
and squeezing my hand in a ridiculous fashion.
At first I set it down to rejoicing and
fraternal affection. But he quickly undeceived
me when the dance was over, for
while we stood aside to let others have their
turn, he began about the promise which
we know of

Little did I think, sweet Kitty,' he said,

with half-shut eyes, ' that when I made that
promise to bring you back into Kent, you
would grow into so wonderful a beauty.'

Well, Harry,' I replied, ' it was kindly
meant of you, and I thank you for your promise
— which I now return you.'

You return me my promise T he asked, as
if surprised, whereas he ought most certainly
to have considered what had been my country
ignorance and my maidenly innocence when
he gave me his promise.

Certainly,' I said ; ' seeing that I am now
under the protection of Mrs. Esther Pimpernel,
and have no longer any need for your
services.'

My services '?' as if still more surprised.
I am convinced that he was only acting astonishment,
because he must have known
the truth had he reflected at all. 'Why,
Kitty, I do not understand. You are not,
surely, going to throw me over ?'

Then I understood at last.

Harry,' I said, ' there has been, I fearsome
mistake.'

'No,' he replied; 'no mistake— no mistake
at all. How could there be a mistake ?

You promised that you would return with
me, never to go away again.'

'Why, so I did. But, Harry, I never
thought '

'You "inst have known what I meant,
Kitty ! Do not pretend that you did not.
Oh ! you may open your eyes as wide as you
like, but I shall believe it, nevertheless.'

You have made a great mistake,' I said ;
that is very certain. Now let us have no
more talk of such things, Harry.'

Lord Chudleigh came at that moment to
lead me in to supper. I thought very little
of what had passed, being only a little vexed
that Harry had made so great a blunder.

The supper was pleasant too, with plenty
of wax candles, cold chickens, capons, wheat-ears,
ice-creams, and champagne, which is
certainly the most delicious wine ever made.

After supper, my lord asked me if there
was any friend of mine whom I would especially
like to be invited to his party at
Durdans ?

I named Harry Temple, whom my lord
immediately sought out, and invited in my
name. Harry bowed sulkily, but accepted.

Is there any person Lord Chndleigh
asked next, ' whom you would like not to be
asked ?'

No I said ; ^ I have no enemies.'

^ As if the Queen of the Wells could avoid
having enemies ?' he laughed. ' But there
are none who can do you harm, even by the
venom of spiteful tongues.'

He was silent for a minute or two, and
then he went on, with hesitation :

^ Pardon me, Miss Pleydell : I have no
right to speak of these things to you ; my
interest is greater than my politeness, and I
venture to ask you a question.'

^ Pray speak, my lord.'

A spiteful tongue has whispered it abroad
that you have to-day given your plighted
lover a cold reception.'

Who is my plighted lover ?

'Mr. Harry Temple. Tell me. Miss
Pleydell, if there is any promise between
you and this gentleman V

He looked at me in such a way as made
me both rejoice and tremble.

No, my lord,' I said, blushing against my
will, and to my great confusion ; * I am not

promised to Mr. Temple. Will your lordship
take me to the dancing-room 1'

It was a bright moonlit night when we
came' away. We walked home, escorted by
some of the gentlemen. Lord Chudleigh, ashe
stooped to take my hand, raised it rapidly
to his lips and pressed my fingers. The
action was not seen, I think, by the others.

That night I tried to put the case plainly
to myself.

I said : ' Kitty, my dear, the man you
want above all other men to fall in love with
you has done it ; at least, it seems so. He
seeks you perpetually; he talks to you; he
singles you out from the rest ; he is jealous ;
his eyes follow you about ; he sends fruit and
flowers to you ; he gives an entertainment,
and calls you the Queen of the Feast ; he
presses your hand and kisses your fingers.
What more, Kitty, would you have ?'

On the other hand, I thought : ' If he falls
in love with you, being already married, as he
believes, to another woman, he commits a sin
against his marriage vows. Yet what sin can
there be in breaking vows pronounced in such
a state as he was in, and in such a way \

VOL. II. 31

Why, they seem to me no vows at all, in
spite of the validity of the doctor's orders and
the so-called blessing of the Church. Yet he
cannot part from his wife by simply wishing ;
and, knowing that, he does actually commit
the sin of deceit in levying another woman.

Kitty what would you have ? For, if he
doth not love you, then are you miserable
above all women ; and if he does, then are
you grieved, for his own sake, for it is a sin
and ashamed for your own, because your
confession will be a bitter thing to say. Yet
must it be made, soon or late. Oh ! with
what face will you say to him : ^^ My lord, I
am that wife of the Fleet wedding " ? Or,
'' My lord, you need not woo me, for I was
won before I was wooed " ? Or perhaps,
worst thing of all, '' My lord, the girl who
caught your fickle fancy for a moment at
Epsom, whom you passed over, after a day
or two, for another who was not pretty
enough to fix your affections, is your lawful
wife "^

Kitty, I fear that the case is hopeless
indeed. For, should he really love you, what
forelock or expectancy is there but that the

love will turn to hatred when he finds that he
has been deceived "?'

Then I could not but remember how a
great lord, with a long rent-roll, of illustrious
descent, might think it pleasant for a day or
two to dance attendance upon a pretty girl,
by way of sport, meaning nothing further,
but that he could not think seriously of so
humble a girl as myself in marriage. It
would matter little to him that she was descended
from a long line of gentlemen,
although but a vicar's daughter : the Pley-
dells were only simple country gentlefolk. I
was a simple country clergyman's daughter
whose j)i*oper place would be in his mother's
stillroom : a daughter of one of those men
whose very vocation, for the most part,
awakens a smile of pity or contempt, according
as they are the sycophants of the squire
whose living they enjoy, or the drudges of
their master the rector whose work they do.
It was not in reason to think that Lord
Chudleigh — Would to Heaven he had not
come to Epsom Wells at all ! • Then, when the
doctor chose the day for revealing the truth,

31—2

I might have borne the hatred and scorn
which now, I thought, would kill me.

Oh, if one could fix him ! By what arts
do girls draw to themselves the love of men,
and then keep that love for ever, so that they
never seek to wander elsewhere, and the
world is for them like the Garden of Eden,
with but one man and one woman in it '? I
would have all his heart, and that so firmly
and irrevocably given to me, that forgiveness
should follow confession, and the heart remain
still in my keeping when he knew all my
wickedness and shame.

Then a sudden thought struck me.

Long ago, when I was a child, I had
learned, or taught myself, a thing which I
could fain believe was not altogether superstitious.
One day my father, who would still
be talking of ancient things, and cared for
little of more modern date than the Gospels,
told me of a practice among the ancients by
which they thought to look into the future.
It was an evil practice, he said, because if
these oracles were favourable, they advanced
with blind confidence ; and, if unfavourable,
with a heart already prepared for certain

defeat and death. Their method was nothing
in the world but the opening of a Virgil anywhere,
and accepting the first line which
offered itself as a prophecy of the event of
their undertakings. I was but a little things
when he told me this, but I pondered it in my
mind, and I reasoned in this way (nothing
doubting that the ancients did really in this
manner read the future) :

If these pagans could tell the event by
consulting the words of Virgil, a heathen like
unto themselves, how much more readily
ought we to learn what is going to happen
by consulting the actual Word of God V

Thereupon, without telling anyone, I used
to consult this oracle, probably by myself, in
every little childish thing which interested
me.

It was a thing presumptuous, though in my
childhood I did not know that it was a sin.
Yet I did it on this very night — a grown-up
Avoman — trying to get a help to soothe my
mind.

The moonlight was so bright that I could
j.ead at the open window without a candle.
I had long since extinguished mine.

I opened the Bible at random, kept my
finger on a verse, and took the book to the
casement.

There I read :

Wait on the Lord : be of good courage :
and He shall strengthen thy heart. Wait, I
say, on the Lord.'

Now these words I thankfully accepted asa
solemn message from Heaven, an answer to
my prayer.

So I laid me down, and presently fell fast
asleep).

HOW KITTY HAD LETTERS AND VERSES.

Everybody knows that a watering-place in
summer is a nest of sinmnof birds. I do not
mean the birds of the air, nor the ladies who
sing at the concerts, nor the virtuosos, male
and female, dio gather together to talk of
appogiatiira, sonata, and — and the rest of the
musical jargon. I mean rather those epigrammatists,
libellous imitators of Pasquin, and
love-verse writers who abound at such places.
Mostly they are anonymous, so that one
cannot thank them as one would. The
verses, this year at Epsom, came down
upon us in showers. They were stuck up on
the pillars of the porch of the Assembly
Rooms, they were laid upon the table of the
book-shop, they were handed about on the

Terrace. Also they came to me at my

lodgings, and to Nancy at hers, and very

likely to Peggy Baker at hers. Here, for

instance, is one set which were shown round

at the Assembly :

Epsom could boast no reigning Toast :
The Terrace wept for pity.
Kind Fortune said, " Come, lift your head :
I send you stately Kitty."

She came, she reigned, but still disdained
The crowd's applause and fancy ;
Quoth Fortune, " Then, content ye, men,
With pretty, witty Nancy." '

Every morning lovers were at our feet (on
paper). They wrote letters enjoining me
by those soft killing eyes ' (which rhymed
with ' sighs ') to take pity on their misery, or
to let them die. You would have thought,
to read their vows, that all the men in the
town were in profound wretchedness. They
'could not sleep : they could no longer go
abroad : they were wasting and pining away :
they were the victims of a passion which was
rapidly devouring them : Death, they said,
would be welcomed as a Deliverer. Yet it
will hardly be believed that, in spite of so
dreadful an epidemic of low fever, no outward

signs of it were visible in the town at all :
the gentlemen were certainly fat and in good
case : their hearts seemed merry within
them : they laughed, made jokes, sang, and
were jolly to outward show : their appetites
were good : they were making (apparently)
no preparations for demise. Their letters
and verses were, however, anonymous, so
that it was impossible to point with accuracy
to any sufferer who thus dissembled. From
information conveyed to me by Cicely Crump,
I believe that the verses and letters came in
great measure from the apprentices and
shorten employed by the mercers, haberdashers,
hosiers, and drapers of the town —
young men whose employment brings them
constantly into the presence of ladies, but
whose humble positions in the world forbid
them to do anything more than worship at a
great distance : yet their hearts are as inflammable
as their betters, and their aspirations
are sometimes above their rank, as witness
the gallant elopement of Joshua Crump,
Cicely's father, with Miss Jenny Medlicott,
daughter of an alderman : then they And
relief and assume a temporary dignity — as

they fondly think — in writing anonymous
love-letters. I think the letters must have
come from these foolish and conceited young
men, because I cannot understand how a
gentleman who values his self-respect could
so far humiliate himself as to write letters
which he would be ashamed to sign, declaring
himself the foolish victim of a foolish passion,
and addressing a fellow-creature, a being
like himself, with all the imperfections of
humanity upon her, as an angel (which is
blasphemous), and a sun of glory (which is
nonsense), or a bright particular star (which
is copied from the preface to the Bible). I
confess that we liked the open compliments
and public attentions of the gentlemen : they
pleased us, and we took them in sober
honesty for what they were worth — the base
coin of gallantry rings as pleasantly sometimes
as the guinea gold of love — but it is
one thing to be called a goddess in the
accepted language of exaggeration and mock
humility commonly used in polite assemblies,
and another to be addressed in a grovelling
strain, seriously and humbly, as if one were
the Lama of Tibet, or the great Bashaw, or

the Pope himself. It is pleasant to see a
young fellow dancing along the walk with
his hat under his arm, making reverence,
with his eyes full of admiration, his face lit
with smiles, and compliments upon his tongue,
because one knows that it is the natural
homage paid by an honest fellow to a pretty
girl, and that when years have robbed the
beauty, the homage will be paid to some one
else. But for these silly boys' letters

i^.nd then we made the sad discovery, by
comparing our letters, that they were not
even original. Many of them were, word
for word, the same, showing that they had
been copied from the same model. If it be
true that passion makes the most tongue-tied
lover eloquent, then this discovery proved
that the violence of the passion was as
feigned as the letters were false, unless
Nancy's supposition was true.

^ Fie !' cried she, ' the wretch has written
the same letters to both of us. Can he be in
love with two maids at the same time 1'

Then she took both letters and showed
them about among the company.

There was another kind of letter which

I received : it was filled with slander and
abuse, and was written in disguised handwriting.
Several of them came to me, and I
was foolish enough to be vexed over them,
even to shed tears of vexation. My anonymous
correspondent gave me, in fact, such
information and advice as the following,
which was not conveyed to me all at once,
but in several letters.

Your Lord Chudleigh is very well known
to be a gambler who hath already dipped
more than half his estate ; do you think it
possible that he should marry the daughter
of that poor thing — a country parson — with
no more fortune to her back than what a
city madam may chance to give her % Be not
deceived. Your triumph is to walk the
Terrace with him at your elbow : your
disgrace will be when he leaves you to
lament alone. . . .'

Do not think that any other gentleman
will stoop to pick up the cast-off fancy of
Lord Chudleigh. When he leaves you,
expect nothing but general desertion and
contempt. This advice comes from a well-wisher.'


Lord Chudleigh is, as is very well known,
the falsest and the most fickle of men.
When he hath added you to the list of
women whom he hath deceived, he will go
away to Bath or to\vn, there to boast of what
he hath done. He belongs to the Seven
Devils' Club, whose boast it is to spare no
man in play and no woman in love. Be
warned in time.'

Poor Kitty Pleydell ! Your reputation
is now, indeed, cracked, if not broken altogether.
Better retire to the obscurity of
your town lodging, where, with Mrs. Pimpernel,
you may weep over the chances that
you think to have lost, but have never really
possessed. Better take up, while is yet
time, with Harry Temple. All the Wells is
talking of your infatuation about Lord
Chudleigh. He, for his part, is amused.
With his friends he laughs and makes sport.'

And so on, and so on : words which, like
the buzzing of a fly or the sting of a gnat,
annoy for a while and are then forgotten.
For the moment one is angry : then one
remembers things and words which show
how false are these charles : one reflects

that the writer is more to be pitied than the
receiver : and one forgives. Perhaps I was
the readier to forgive because I saw a letter
written by no other (from the similarity of
the is and les) than Miss Peggy Baker, and
was fully persuaded that the writer of these
unsigned letters was that angry nymph
herself

As for the verses which were left at the
door, and brought by boys who delivered
them and ran away — Nancy said they had no
clothes on except a quiver and a pair of wings,
and so ran away for shame lest Cicely should
see them — they bore a marvellous resemblance
to those which the ingenious Mr.
Stallabras was wont to manufacture ; they
spoke of nymphs and doves and bosky
groves ; of kids and swains on verdant plains,
of shepherds' reeds and flowery meads, of
rustic flutes and rural fruits.

The fashion of verses,' said Mrs. Esther,
seems little changed since we were here in
1720. Doubtless the English language has
never been able to achieve a greater excellence
than that arrived at by Dryden, Pope,
Addison, and Steele.'

Perhaps the language of love is always
the same, and when a man feels that tender
emotion he naturally desires to quit the
garish town and the artificial restraints of
society, and with his inamorata to seek the
simple delights of the meadows and the fields,
there to be together :

Come, live with me and be my love,
And Tve-.vill all the pleasures prove '

So that to every lover the old language, with
its musty tropes and rusty figures, is new and
fresh, just as any other delight in life when
first tasted. I say nothing for that poor
weakling, that hothouse plant, the passion
affected by beaux at a watering-place for
fashionable beauties, which may use the
strong language of real love and yet is so
fragile as to be in danger of perishing with
every cold blast and frosty air.

I would not laugh at these simple poets,
because I have learned since then that there
are youths who, too bashful to speak, may
yet conceive such a pure and noble passion
for a woman — who certainly does not deserve
it — as may serve for them as a stimulus and

goad to great actions. For no creature,
whether man or woman, can do fit suit and
service to another, whether in thought or
action, without endeavouring to make himself
fit and worthy to be her servant. And if
he be but one of a hundred following in a
crowd of worshippers, it is good for him to
mark and obey the laws of gallantry and
knightly service, and to lay aside for a while
the talk of barrack, stable, co (Fee-house, and
gaming-room.

^ Pretty moralist,' said Nancy, ' you would
like the young fellows at your heel, doing
suit and service ; and you would like to feel
that their attendance is doing good to their
innocent souls. Now, for my part, I think
only how they may be doing good to myself,
and when I see them figuring and capering,
hat under arm, one foot valiantly stuck out —
so — the ties of their wigs wagging behind
them, and their canes bobbing at their wrists.
I feel, my dear, as if I was not born in vain.
All this posturing, all this capering, like a
French dancing-master or a bear with a
hurdy-gurdy, is meant for me — that is, except
what is meant for you, which is the larger

half. It may do good to the men : I am
sure T wish from my heart it does, because
the poor profligates want so much good done
to them ; but I rather love to think of the
honour it confers upon us women, and the
-envy, hatred, and malice it awakens in the
breast of our sisters. My dear Peggy Baker
is turning positively green with this hateful
passion of jealousy. To be a Toast, even a
second Toast, like me, when your superior
charms — I am not a bit jealous, Kitty, my
dear — have had their due acknowledgment,
is a very great honour. In years to come,
say about the beginning of the nineteenth
century, if I live so long, I shall say to my
grandchildren, who will then be about
eighteen or nineteen, and as beautiful as the
day, '' My dears," I shall say, '' your grandmother,
though you will find it difficult to
believe, was not always toothless, nor did her
hands always shake, nor were her cheeks
Wrinkled, nor were her chin and nose close
together. Look in the glass, girls, and you
may guess what your poor old grandmother
once was, in the days when she was pretty
Nancy Levett, a Toast when the beautiful
VOL. II. 32

Kitty Pleydell was Queen of the Wells.

Kitty Pleydell, who married ," no, my

dear, I will not say it, because it might bring
you bad hick.'

I told Nancy about Harry Temple's
strange mistake ; she grew very serious over
it, and reflected what was best to be done.
I warned her to say nothing herself, but to
leave him to his own reflections. First he
sulked, that is to say, he avoided me in
public, and did not even pay his respects to
Mrs. Pimpernel in private ; then he implored
me to give him another hearing. I gave him
what he asked, I heard him tell his story
over again, then T assured him once more
that it was impossible. He behaved very
strangely, refused to take my answer as final,
and vexed us by betraying in public the discontent
and anger which, had he possessed
any real regard for me, he ought to have
kept a secret in his own breast. Some of
the backbiters, as Lord Chudleigh told me,
put it about that I had thrown over my
former lover. Allusion to this calumny was
made, as has already been shown, in the
anonymous letters.

Lord Chudleigh paid me no compliments
and wrote me no verses, nor did he often join
in our train upon the Terrace. But he distinguished
us by frequently paying a visit to
our lodofinofs in the mornings, when he would
sit and read, or talk, and sometimes share our
simple dinner.

We who belong to the great City houses,'
said Mrs. Esther after one of these visits,
'' are accustomed from infancy to familiarity
with Nobility. My father, when Worshipful
Master of the Scourers' Company, or in
his year of office as Lord Mayor, would
sometimes have a peer on one side and a
bishop on the other. Baronets and simple
knights we hardly valued. Therefore these
visits of his lordship, which are no doubt a
great distinction for both of us, seem like a
return of my childhood.'

We learned from Lord Chudleigh that it
was his intention (afterwards fully carried
out) to take that active part in the administration
of state affairs to which his exalted
rank naturally called him.

I am ever of opinion,' he said, * that a
gentleman in this country owes it to his

32—2

birth and position to do his utmost for the
preservation of our liberties and the maintenance
of sound government.'

And he once told us, to our astonishment,
that had he lived in the days of Charles the
First, he should have joined the party of the
Parliament.

It seemed to me, who watched him
narrowly and with trembling, that he was
desirous, in these visits, to find out what
manner of person I was, and whether I possessed
any virtues to illustrate that external
comeliness which had already taken his fancy.
Alas ! I thought continually with shame of
the time when I should have to throw myself
at his feet and implore his mercy and forgiveness.


Then he encouraged me to talk about my
childhood and my father, taking pleasure, I
thought, in the contemplation of a life given
up to heaven and learning, and smiling at the
picture of Lady Levett, who ruled us all, the
two boys who came home to tease the girls,
and little Nancy, so fond and so pretty. I
wondered then that he should care to hear
about the way I lived, the books I read the

death of my honoured father, and the Httle
things Which make up a country maid's Kfe,
wherein the ripples and the gentle breezes
are as important to her as great storms .and
gales to men and women of the world. I
know, now, that when a man loves a girl
there is nothing concerned with her that he
does not want to know, so that her impose
may be present to him from the beginning,
and that he may feel that there has been no
year of her life, no action of hers at all, that
he does not know, with what she thought,
what she did, who were her friends, and what
she was like.

Thus he told me about his own country
house, which was a very fine place indeed,
and his gardens, stables, library, pictures, and
all the splendid things which he had inherited.


Two things we hid from each other, the
one that I was the o^irl whom he had married :
the other, that he was already married.

Child,' said Nancy, * the young lord hath
plainly bewitched thee. Remember, my
dear, that a woman must not be won too
easily. Can we not break his heart a little X

Lady Levett took occasion to speak to me
to the same effect.

Kitty,' she said, ^ I have eyes in my head
and can see. Do not encourage the man too
much. Yet it would be a grand match, and
I should be well content to see a coronet on
that pretty head. Still, be not too ready.
But he is a handsome fellow, and I believe
as good as we can expect of any man in this
profligate age. Nay, child, do not change
colour : I know nothing against his character,
except that he has a town house and that he
has lived much in London. But make him
feel a little the pangs of love. Listen, or
pretend to listen, to the addresses of another
man. When my husband came courting me,
do you think I said yes all at once ? Not so.
There were other suitors in the field, let me
tell thee, Kitty, as young and as rich as Sir
Bobert, and of as good a family. To be sure,
there was none so good in my eyes. As for
one, he rode to hounds all day, and in the
evening slept in his chair. He broke his
neck jumping a brook when he was but
thirty. Another, he drank October all day
long, and at night was carried to bed like a

log". When he was forty he was taken with
a seizure, being still a bachelor, all for love
of me and his brown jug, which I think he
loved still more. And a third, he was choleric,
and used to beat his grooms. Now, my
dear, a man who beats his grooms is just as
likely to beat his wife. Wherefore, beware
of strikers. And a fourth, he was a gambler,
and all night over his cards, so that I would
have none of him. He lost his estate and
went into the Austrian service. There he
was run through the body and killed in a
duel by a French chevalier, who had first
robbed him at faro. But do not think I let
my true love know my resolution. I plagued
him first, and teased him until he was
humble. Then I bade him be happy, and
the good man hath been happy ever since.'

Alas ! I could not tease my Lord or plague
him : I could not coquet with other men, even
though Peggy went about saying :

The silly wretch is in love with him : she
shows it in her eyes. the impudence V

HOW LORD CHUDLEIGH WENT TO LONDON.

Without telling anyone of his intention.
Lord Chudleigh posted one morning to town,
I was acquainted with this news by Miss
Peggy Baker, who informed me of it in her
kindest manner.

Dear Miss Pleydell/ she said, after morning
service, as we were coming out of churchy
have you heard the dreadful news V

I have heard no news I replied.

^ We have lost the chief ornament of the
company. Yes ; you may well turn pale ' —
I am sure I did nothing of the kind — ' Lord
Chudleigh has left Epsom — some say for the
season : some say on account of some distaste
he has conceived for the place : some say on
account of previous engagements.'

What kind of engagements \

I thought you would ask that. It is
rumoured that he is shortly to be married to
a young lady of good birth and with a fortune
equal to his own. It is certain that he
will not return.'

Really !' said Nancy, who had now come
to my aid, ' how shall you be able to exist,
dear Miss Peggy, without him '?'

^ I % Oh, indeed, I am not concerned with
Lord Chudleigh.'

I mean, how can you exist when the principal
subject for scandalous talk, and the chief
cause of anonymous letters, is removed '?'

She blushed and bit her lips.

I think. Miss Levett,' she gasped, ' that
you allow your tongue greater liberties than
are consistent with good-breeding'

'Better the tongue than the pen, dear
Miss Baker,' replied Nancy. * Come, Kitty,
we will go weep the absence of this truant
lord.'

The Temple still remains — he ! he I' said
Miss Baker.

This was a conversation at which I could
laugh, spiteful though it was. I knew not

that my lord was gone away, nor why. But
one thing I knew very well. He was not
gone to marry anyone. If that can be called
ease which was mostly shame, I felt easy,
because ordinary jealousy was not possible
With me. He could not marries, if he implied.
Poor lad ! his fate was sealed with mine.

Yet, thinking over what might happen, I
resolved that night upon a thing which would
perhaps incense my uncle, the doctor, beyond
all measure. I resolved that should that
thing happen which most I dreaded, that my
lord should fall in love with another woman,
I would myself, without his ever knowing
who had done it, release him from his ties.
I knew where the doctor kept his registers :
I would subtract the leaf which certified our
union, and would send it to my lord : or
should the doctor, as was possible, propose
any legal action, I would refuse to appear or
to act. Now without me the doctor was
powerless.

Lord Chudleigh Event to town, in fact, to
see the doctor. He drove to his town house
in St. James's Square, and in the morning he
sallied forth and walked to the Fleet Market.

The Reverence Dr. Shovel was doing a
great and splendid business. Already there
Avere rumours of the intention of Government
to bring in a bill for the suppression of these
lawless Fleet marriages. Therefore, in order
to stimulate the lagging, he had sent his
messengers, toutes, and runners abroad in
every part of the city, calling on all those
who wished to be married secretly, or to
avoid wedding expenses, feasts, and junket-kings,
and to be securely married, to make
haste, while there was yet time. Therefore
there was a throng every day from seven in
the morning, of prentices with their masters'
daughters, old men with their cooks, tradesmen
who would avoid the feasting sailors
home for a fevv^ weeks, as eager to marry a
wife as if they were to be home for the whole
of their natural lives, officers who wanted
to secure an heiress, and many honest folk
who saw in a Fleet-wedding the easiest way
of avoiding the expenses of their friends'
congratulations, with the foolish charges of
music, bells, dancing, and rejoicing which
often cripple a young married couple for
years. Why, the parents connived with the

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

girls and when these ran away early in the
morning, and came home falKng upon their
knees to confess the truth, the play had been
arranged and rehearsed beforehand, and the
forgiveness took the form of money for furniture
instead of for feasting. But still the
parents went about holding up their hands
and calling heaven to Witness that they could
not have believed their daughter so sly and
deceitful a puss.

Hither came Lord Chudleigh, heavy of
heart.

The doctor at eleven in the morning was in
the full swing of his work. Two couples of the
lower class were being married in the house.
Outside, the place was beset with wedding
parties, couples coming shyly and timidly,
and couples coming openly and without
shame. The toutes and runners of the rival
Fleet parsons were fighting, swearing, cajoling
and inviting people to stop with them, holding
out offers of cheapness, safe marriage, expedition,
secrecy, and rum punch. Strangers
to London, who had never heard of Doctor
Shovel's greatness, were led away to those pretenders
whose canonical orders were so doubtful.

I believe the world at large entertains contempt
for all Fleet parsons as a body (happily
no longer existent), but, for my own part,
while I hold the memory of the doctor in
mingled shame and respect, I despise the
rest because he himself held them in such low
esteem.

Roger, the touter, recognised his lordship,
as he made his way slowly through the mob
along the side of the market.

^ Good-morning, my lord,' he said — his face
was bloody and bruised, his tie-wig was awry,
his coat was torn, so fierce had been the
struggle of the morning — ^ good-morning, my
lord. We have not seen your lordship this
long while. Would your lordship lice speech
with the doctor ? He is busy now, and six
couples wait him. Warm work it is now !
But I think he will see your lordship. We
should be glad to drink your lordship's
health.'

The fellow made his way through the
crowd, and presently returned, saying that
the doctor was very near the benediction,
after which he would give his lordship ten

minutes, but no looser, and should lose a
guinea for every minute.

The doctor, in fact, was dismissing a pair
of couples with a few words of advice. They
were respectable young city people, getting
the secret marriage for the reasons which I
have already described.

You are now,' he said, married accord inof
to the rites of holy Mother Church. You.
are tied to each other for life. I hope you
will thank and continually bless my name for
tying the knot this morning. Kemember
what the Church charges her children in the
words of the service. Go : be honest in
your dealings, thrifty in your habits, cautious
in your trusts, careful of small gains ; so
shall you prosper. Let the husband avoid
the tavern in the morning, and the conventicle
on the Sunday ; let the wife study
plain, roast, and boiled, make her own dresses,
pretend not to be a fine madam, and have no
words with gallants from the west of Temple
Bar.

^ If, on the other hand,' he went on, knitting
his brows, ^ the husband spends his
money in clubs among the freemasons, and

in taverns ; if he do not stick to business, if
he cheat in his transactions ; or if the wife
go finely dressed, and talk with pretty
fellows when she ought to be cleaning the
furniture ; if they both go not to church
regularly and obey the instruction of their
rector, vicar, or curate — then, I say, the fate
of that couple shall be a signal example.
For the husband shall be hanged at Tyburn
Tree, and the wife be fioo^o^ed at Bridewell.
Go.'

They bowed, being overwhelmed with the
terrors of this parting advice, and departed.
Outside, they were greeted with a roar of
rough congratulation, and were followed by
the shouts of the market till they reached
Fleet Bridge, where they Avere quickly lost
in the crowd.

Then the doctor turned to Lord Chud-
leigh.

Your lordship has come, I suppose,' he
asked, Ho inquire after the health of her
ladyship ?

^ I come, Dr. Shovel,' replied my lord,
gravely, ' to know from your own lips, before
I commit the affair to counsel, how far I am

compromised by the disgraceful trick you
played upon me about a year ago.'

Your lordship is married said the doctor,
simply. ^ So far are you compromised, and
no further. Nay, we seek no further complication
in this business.'

He sat down in his wooden arm-chair, and,
with his elbow on the table, knitted his bushy
eyebrows, frowned, and shook his great forefinger
in his visitor's face.

^ Your lordship is married,' he repeated.
Of that have no doubt ; no doubt whatever is
possible. Tell your lawyer all ; refer him to me. '

The story,' said Lord Chudleigh, ' is this.
I come here, out of curiosity, to see you — a
man of whom I had heard much, though
little to your credit. I am received by you
with courtesy and hospitality. There is
much drinking, and I (for which I have no
defence to offer) drink too much. I awake
in the morning still half unconscious. I am
taken downstairs by you, .and married, while
in that condition, to some woman I had never
before seen. After this I am again put to
bed. When I awake, I am informed by you
what has taken place.'

That is a story neatly told said the
doctor. ' If I had to tell it, however, the
details would assume another complexion.
What brought your lordship to spend the
night in such a place as the Liberties of the
Fleet \ A common parson of the Fleet ?
Nay, that is improbable; my modesty forbids
me to believe so incredible a circumstance.
But Ave may suppose an appointment for the
morning ; an appointment made and kept ; a
secret marriage '

'Would you dare to tell such a story as
that V Lord Chudleigh interrupted the doctor
with vehemence. * Would you dare, sir, to
hint that I, Lord Chudleigh, had designed a
Fleet marriage V

My lord, where a member of your family,
where your father's son is concerned, 1 dare
a great deal, I assure you.'

And the woman — who is she ? Produce
me this wretch, this creature who became
an accomplice in the plot.'

'AH in good time. Be assured, my lord,
that we shall produce her in good time — at
the right time. Also, be resigned to the inevitable.
Nothing can unmarry you now.'

VOL. II. 33

I think,' said his lordship, ' that thou art
the greatest villain in England.'

Ta, ta, ta 1' The doctor lay back in his chair
with his arms extended and a genial laugh.
Your lordship is not complimentary. Still I
make allowances. I cannot fight you, because
I am a clergyman ; you can therefore say what
you please. And I own that it certainly is a
vexatious thing for a gentleman of your rank
and position to have a wife and yet to have no
wife : not to know her name and parentage.
Why, she may be in the soap-suds over the
family linen inthe Fleet Liberties, or selling hot
surety on Fleet Bridge, or keeping a farthing
sausage-stall inthe Fleet Market, or making the
rooms for the gentlemen in the Fleet Prison,
or frying beefsteaks in Butcher Bow ; or she
may be picking pockets in St. Paul's Churchyard,
or she may be beating hemp in Bridewell,
or she may be under the Alderman's rodin
Newgate. Nay, my lord, do not swear in
this place, which is, as one may say, a chapel-offense.
Then her parents : your lordship's
father and mother-in-law. Roger, my touter —
say — may be her parent; or she may come of
a dishonest stock in Turnmill Lane; or she

may be ignorant of father and mother, and
may belong to the numerous family of those
who sleep in the baskets of Co vent Garden
and the ashes of the glass-houses. I repeat,
my lord, that to swear in such a place, and
before such a man, a reverend divine, is
impious. Avoid the habit of swearing altogether
; but, if you must swear, let it be outside
this house.'

You will not, then, even tell me where she
is, this wife of mine ?'

^ I will not, my lord.'

You will not even let me know the depth
of my degradation 1'

My lord, I will tell you nothing. As for
her ladyship, I will say not a word. But as
I have shown you the possibilities on one
side, so I would show them to you on the
other. She may be the wretched creature
you fear. She may also be a gentlewoman
by birth, young, beautiful, accomplished ; fit,
my lord, to bear your name and to be your
wife.'

^ No,' he cried ; ^ that is impossible. What
gentlewoman would consent to such a marriage

V

33—2

The doctor laughed.

^ There are many things in this world he
said, that even Lord Chudleigh cannot understand.
Now, my lord, if you have nothing-more
to say, you may leave me. There are
already half a dozen expectant brides upon
the threshold. One would not, sure, keep
the poor things waiting. I am generally at
home, my lord, in the evening, and should
you feel inclined for another social night with
punch, and a song over the bowl, your lordship
will be welcome in spite of hard words

Lord Chudleigh answered not a word, but
walked away.

Small comfort had he got from the doctor.

Now was he in a sad plight indeed ; for his
heart was altogether filled with the image of
Kitty Pleydell. Yet how hope to win her ?
And how stand by and let her be won by
another man %

To be married in such a way, not to know
who or what your wife might be, is, surely, a
thing quite beyond any history ever told.

HOW TWO OLD FRIENDS CAME TO EPSOM.

The doctor's letter had informed us of the
liberation of Mr. Stallabras and Sir Miles
Lackington ; but we were not prepared for
their arrival at Epsom. They came, how-over,
travelling together by the coach, their
object being not so much, I believe, to visit
the watering-place of Epsom or to enjoy its
amusements, as to renew certain honourable
proposals, formerly made in less happy times,
to Kitty Pleydell.

Naturally, we were at first somewhat perturbed,
fearing the scandal should certain
tongues spread abroad the truth as to our
residence in the Fleet.

My dear,' said Mrs. Esther, with a little
sigh, ' my mind is made up. We will go to
Tunbridge out of their way.'

This was impossible, because they would
follow us. For my own part, I looked upon the
Fleet Rules with less shame than poor Mrs.
Esther. To her, the memory of the long degradation
was infinitely painful. For everybody,
certainly, a time of degradation, however
unmerited, is never a pleasant thing to remember.
I think that the whole army of
martyrs must agree together in forgetting the
last scenes of their earthly pilgrimage. The
buffetings, stripping, scourging, roasting,
burnings, and hangings, the long time of prison,
the starvation, the expectancy and fear — the-going
forth to meet the hungry lion and the
ruthless tiger — surely it cannot be comfortable
to remember these. No martyr on the roll
had ever been more innocent or undeserving of
punishment than Mrs. Esther Pimpernel : no
sufferer ever complained less : but she loved
not to think of the past, nor to be reminded
of it by the arrival of one whom she had
known there.

Nevertheless, when Sir Miles Lackington
presented himself at our lodging, he was
received with a gracious friendliness.

His newly recovered liberty made little;

alteration in the appearance of this prodigal
son. His dress was worn in the same easy
disorder, the ruffles being limp, his wig tied
carelessly, the lace upon his hat torn, as if in
some scuffle, and the buckles of his shoes were
an odd pair. His face preserved the same jolly
content, as if the gifts of Fortune were to be
regarded no more than her buffeting.

^ We are always said my guardian, with a
little hesitation, ^ we are always glad to welcome
old friends — even friends in common
misfortune. But, Sir Miles, it is not well to
remind us — or — or to talk to others of those
unhappy days.'
He laughed.

I remember them not,' he said. ' I never
remember any day but the present. Why
should we remember disagreeable things ?
Formerly we borrowed ; now we lend : let
us go on lending till we have to borrow again.
Do you remember Mr. Stallabras the poet V
Surely, we remembered Solomon.
^ He goes abroad now in a silk-lined coat
with laced ruffles. He has bought a new wig
and started a subscription list for a new poem,
having eaten up the last before the poem was

written. I subscribed for three copies yesterday,
and we pretended, both of us, he that
he did not want the money, and I that I
had always had it. Without forgetting and
pretending, where should we be ?'

Indeed,' said Mrs. Esther, ' one would not
willingly either forget or pretend. But some
things are best remembered in silence. The
memory of them should keep us humble. Sir
Miles.'

I do not Lavish to be humble,' replied the
baronet. ' Humble people do not sing and
drink, nor gamble, nor make love. They go
in sadness and with hanmng- heads. I would
still go proud.'

While he was with us came Solomon himself,
bravely dressed indeed, with about an ell
of ribbon tied around his throat, a new and
fashionable wig, and bearing himself with all
the dignity possible in a poet of .
His chin was in the air and his hat
under his arm when he marched into the
little room.

I shook hands with him, and whispered to
him not to mention the word Fleet. Thereupon
he advanced to Mrs. Esther with such

a bow as would have graced a court, saying
:

Madam, I have had the honour of being
presented to you in London, but I know not if
I am still distinguished by your recollection.'

Sir said Mrs. Esther, ' that person must
indeed be blind to merit who can forget Mr.
Stallabras, the favourite of the Muses.'

Oh, madam ! this compliment '

Oh, sir ! our hearts are not so insensible
as to forget those delightful verses, which
should be the glory of an unthinking age.'

I asked him then if he had received a
bequest.

I have found what is better,' he said, * a
female Maecenas. The virtues of antiquity
linger only in the breasts of the fair. She is
a person of singularly cold and calm judgment.
Despreaux himself had not a cooler
head or a sounder critical faculty. Therefore,
when such a lady prophesies immortal renown
to a poet, that poet may congratulate himself.
I am poet laureate to Lady Tamarind,
relict of Sir Joseph Tamarind, brewer and
sometime sheriff in the city of London. Her
ladyship's taste is considered infallible in all

subjects, whether china, tulips, plays, pictures,
fans, snuff-boxes, black boys, or poets

His eyes twinkled so brightly, his turn-up
nose seemed so joyfully to sniff the incense
of praise, prosperity had already made his
cheeks so sleek and fat, that we could hardly
recognise our starveling poet.

The taste,' said Mrs. Esther, ^ of a woman
who recognises the merit of your verses, Mr.
Stallabras, is beyond a doubt.'

He rubbed his hands and laughed.
^ I was already out — ' he began, but as we
all manifested the greatest confusion at the
beginning of this confession, he stopped and

turned red. ^ I mean I was — I was '

^ You were beginning, I think,' I interrupted,
' to open a new subscription.'

Thank you, Miss Kitty,' he replied. * I
was — as soon as I left the Ru — I mean, as
soon as 1 could, I went round among my
patrons with my project. This lady immediately
bought all my previous poems, including
the translation of " Lucretius" which
the rascal publisher declared had been his
ruin, when he went bankrupt, and presented
me with a hundred guineas, with which I

was enabled — ' here he surveyed his person
with satisfaction, and raised one leg to get a
better view of his stockings and shoe-buckles
* I was enabled to procure garments more
suitable to a personage of ambition, and to
present myself to the honourable company
assembled at Epsom on a footing of easy
equality.'

'But a hundred guineas will not last for
ever I said, thinking of the sums of money
which I had already spent on frocks and
ribbons since we came from London.

That is not all,' he said ; ' I have my new
volume of poems, which has been subscribed
by Lady Tamarind and her friends. This is
a change, is it not, Miss Kitty ? Formerly,
Avhen I was in the Eu — I mean, before my
good-fortune came] — a sixpenny ordinary
was beyond me : I have lived upon half-a-crown
for a week : I have written lines on a
Christian's Joys" when starving : and I
have composed the " Lamentations of a
Sinner" when contemplating suicide as the
only relief from my troubles. Now — now —
how different ! Fortune's wheel has turned
Fame is mine. And as for poems, I can

write as many as I please to give the world,
and always find a subscription list ready to
my hand. This brain, Miss Kitty, like the
fountain of Helicon, will run for ever ; that
is, while life and Lady Tamarind remain.'

The stream may get muddy sometimes
said Sir Miles, with a smile.

Fate, which condemns poets to poverty, also
compensates them with hope. If they are in
present sunshine, it will last for ever : if in
cold neglect, the future will give what the
past has refused : posterity will continue to
wave the censing-pot and send up wreaths of
spicy smoke, a continual flow, grateful to the
blessed spirit above : so that, fortunate or in
neglect, they dwell in a perpetual dream,
which keeps them ever happy.

Then the sanguine bard drew forth his new
subscription list.

I call it,' he said, ' by the modest title of
a "" Project for the Publication of a New
Collection of Odes and Heroic Pieces," by
Solomon Stallabras, Esquire. I am aware
that my birth gives no warrant for the assumption
of the rank of Esquire, but Lady
Tamarind is good enough to say that the

possession of genius lifts a man to the level
of the gentry, if not the nobility of the
country.'

It does, Solomon ; it does said Sir Miles.

I venture, ladies, therefore,' he said,
taking a pencil from his pocket, 'to solicit
your honoured names as subscribers for this
poor effort of a (perhaps) too ambitious bran.
The poems, when completed, will be printed
in royal quarto, with a portrait of the author
as he appears crowned by Fame, while the
Graces (draped for the occasion in the modern
taste) stand behind him : Cupid will raise
aloft the trumpet of Fame : the Muses will
be seen admiring from a gentle eminence
which represents Parnassus : Apollo will be
figured presenting the poet with his own
lyre, and the sacred stream will flow at his
feet — my own design. In the distance the
skin of Marshal Avill hang upon a tree, as a
warning to the presumption of rivals. The
work will be bound in calf, and will be issued
at the price of two guineas. For that small
sum, ladies, Solomon Stallabras offers a copy
of his poems.'

Oh, Mr. Stallabras !' cried Mrs. Esther,

^ for so charming a picture I would give not
two but twenty guineas, to say nothing of
the poems. Go on, dear sir ; raise our
thoughts to virtue, and strengthen our inclinations
in the path of duty. Poets, indeed,
make the way to heaven a path of
roses.'

Now here was a change from old times !
Solomon flourishing a subscription list in lace
and silk, and Mrs. Esther offering guineas
by the dozen ! Sir Miles, who was leaning
by the window just as he had been wont todo
in our poor lodging, nodded and laughed,
unseen by Mrs. Esther.

Permit me, sir,' she said, ' if you will be
so good, to put my name down for •'

Oh, madam !' The poet bowed low and
brandished his pencil.

For ten copies of this immortal work, in
one of which I would ask you to write your
name, in your own hand, for the enrichment
of the volume and the admiration of posterity.'


Madam,' said Solomon, with emotion, ^ I
will write my name in the whole ten.'

^ And, dear sir, one copy for Miss Kitty

'Such generosity I such princess, noble
patronage of the Poetical Art I' he fairly
chuckled as he wrote down the names.
Eleven copies ! Twenty-two guineas ! This
is indeed to realize fame.'

He received the money which Mrs. Esther
paid him with a countenance all smiles, although
he vainly tried to throw into his expression
the pride of the poet, to whom money
is but filthy lucre.

We then conversed on Epsom and its
beauties, and as the gentlemen had as yet
seen none of them, I proposed to lead them
to the Downs, whence I promised them such
a landscape as should infinitely rejoice their
eyes. They accepted with expressions of
gratitude, and we started. When, however,
we came to the doors of the Spread Eagle,
Sir Miles recollected that at twelve he always
took a tankard of cool October for the or-good
of his health. He therefore left us, promising
to follow. Bat as he did not come, and
wee saw him no more that day, I suppose he
found the society of the tankard more enchanting
than that of Kitty Pleydell. We
therefore walked up the hill alone, and presently

stood upon the open down, which commands
so noble a view. The place was quite
deserted that day, save for a single group of
gentlemen, who were conducting a match,
but so far off that we heard not their voices.

I took advantage of this solitude to convey
to the poet an instruction that it would be
better not to talk freely at Epsom concerning
such vicissitudes of fortune as we had experienced.
I pointed out to him that until
Mrs. Esther's position was securely fixed it
might do her injury to have her story garbled
by censorious tongues ; that, for his own
sake, his late connection with the Liberties
of the Fleet would be better concealed ; and
that, for myself, although it mattered less,
because I was never a prisoner while yet an
inmate of the Rules, I did not wish my story,
such as it was, to be passed about the Wells,
and mangled in the telling.

Mr. Stallabras declared stoutly that he
would not for worlds reveal one word about
the past — for my sake.

Nay,' I said, ' not for mine, but for the
sake of that dear lady to whom you owe so
much.'

It is true,' he Said ; * I owe her even life.
She hath fed me from her slender stores when
I was starving. And when no one would
even read my verses she would learn them
by heart and repeat them with tears. For
her sake, then, if not for yours.'

Then his face assumed an expression like
unto that with which he had once before
made me an offer of his hand, and I knew
that he was going to do it again. If
such a thing is going to be done, the sooner
it is over the better. Therefore I waited
with calmness, hoping that the paroxysm
would be short and not violent.

'Miss Kitty,' he began, turning very red,
some timeagol was penniless, almost starving,
and detained in the (absurdly called) Liberties
of the Fleet for the amount of forty pounds
sixteen shillings and eighteen — a sum so
small that it made me blush to confess it,
most of my friends in the same place being
incarcerated for substantial sums of hundreds
and even thousands. In this difficult position,
which required the philosophy of a Stoic
to endure with resignation, I had the temerity
to offer my hand to the most beautiful

VOL. II. 34

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

woman in the world. I have often, since,
wondered at my own audacity and her gentleness
while she refused so presumptuous a
proposal.'

Indeed, Mr. Stallabras,' I said, ^ you conferred
great honour upon me.'

He bowed.

'The position of affairs he went on, 'is
now changed. The poet's brows are crowned
with bays by the hand of a lady as skilled
in poets as she is in pug-dogs ; his pockets
are lined with guineas ; as for the Fleet
Rules — I whistle the memory of the place to
the winds. Phew ! it is gone, never to return :
I see before me a long and great future,
when booksellers will compete for the honour
of publishing me, and the greatest lords and
ladies in the land will rush to subscribe for
copies. Like Shakespeare, I shall amass a
fortune : like Prior, I shall receive offers of
embassies : like Addison and Chaucer, I shall
be placed in posts of honour and profit.'

I hope, Mr. Stallabras/ I said, ' that such
will indeed be your future'.

Do you, really, hope so. Miss Kitty ?'
His face flushed again, and I was quite sorry

for him, knowing the pain I was about to inflict
upon him. ' Do you hope so ? Then
that emboldens me to say — Fairest of your sex
divine nymph, accept the homage of a poet :
be celebrated for ever in his immortal verse.
Be my Laura ! Let me be thy Petrarch T

I will I replied. ' I accept that offer
joyfully. I will be to you what Laura was
to Petrarch, if that will content you.'

I gave him my hand, which he seized with
rapture.

Oh, beautiful Kitty 1' he cried, with such
joy in his eyes that I repented having said
so much, ' fortune has now bestowed upon
me all I ask. When, goddess, wilt thou
crown my happiness '?'

It is already crowned,' I replied. ' I have
given you, Mr. Stallabras, all you asked for.
Let me remind you that you yourself told
me the story of Petrarch's love. I will be
your Laura, but 1 must have the liberty of
doing what Laura did — namely, the right to
marry some one else.'

His face fell.

Oh !' he murmured. ' Why did I not say
Eloise V

34—2

'Because she was shut up in a convent.
Come, Mr. Stallabras, let us remain friends,
which is far better for both of us, and less
trying to the temper than being lovers. And
I will help you with your subscription-book.
As for being married, you would tire of mein
a week.'

Upon this he fell to protesting that it was
impossible for any man to tire of such a paragon
among women, and I dare say the poor
deluded creature really meant what he said,
because men in love are blind. When this
failed to move me, he lamented his ill-fortune
in having placed his hopes upon the heart of
a beautiful statue as cold as Dean. Nor was
it until he had prophesied death to himself
and prayed for ruin and loss of his fame, both
of which, he said, were now useless, or comparatively
useless to him, that I succeeded in
making him, to a certain extent, reasonable,
and calming his anger. He really had thought
that so grand an offer of marriage with a
poet, whom he placed on about the same
level with Homer, would tempt any woman.
According to some detractors of the fair sex,
every woman believes that every man must

fall in love with her : but I am sure that
there is no man who does not believe that he
is irresistible when once he begins to show a
preference or an inclination,

I then persuaded him, with honeyed words,
to believe in my sorrow that I was not able
to accept his proposals : and I added that ashe
had by this time sufficiently admired the
beauties of the landscape, we might return
to the town, when I should have the honour
of presenting him to some of the better sort
among the visitors.

He came down the hill with me, sighing
after the manner of poets in love, and panting
a little, because he was fat and short of
breath, and I walked fast.

We found the Terrace crowded with
people congregated for the morning talk ;
the breakfasts beings all eaten, the tea-drinking
over, morning prayers finished, and
the music playing merrily.

I presented the poet to Lady Levett as
^n ingenious gentleman whose verses, known
all over town, were doubtless already well
known to her ladyship. She had not the
hardness of heart to deny knowledge of the

poet, and gave him a kindly welcome to
Epsom, where, she said, she had no doubt
whatever but that he would meet with the
reception due to qualities of such distinction.

Then I ventured to suggest that Mr.
Stallabras was receiving names for a subscription
edition of his new poems. Lady Levett
added hers, and begged the poet to visit herat
her lodging where she would discharge her
debt.

In the course of an hour I presented
Stallabras to young Lord Eardesley, Harry
Temple, and half the gentlemen at the
Wells, asking of each a subscription to the
poems, so that the fortunate poet found himself
some fifty guineas the richer by his
morning's work.

Miss Kitty,' he said, humbly, ' I knew
not, indeed, that you were so great a lady.
The '' Queen of the Wells,'^ I am told. Not
but all who know your worth and kindness
must rejoice at this signal triumph. I now
plainly see why I must be content with the
lot of Petrarch.'

Once launched in society, the poet became
quickly a kind of celebrity. Just as, in some

years, a watering-place would boast of having
among its visitors such famous men as Dr.
Johnson, Mr. Garrick, or Mr. Richardson, so
now it pointed to Mr. Stallabras, and said to
strangers, * See I The great Mr. Stallabras !
The illustrious poet !'

He, like all men born in London, was
equal to the opportunity, and rose on the
wave of fashion ; his subscription list kept
mounting up ; he sent his poems to the press ;
he received proofs and read them beneath the
portico, which he compared to the columns
where the Roman poets had been accustomed
to read their compositions. We gathered
round and listened ; we cried, with our
handkerchiefs to our eyes : ' O Mr Stallabras,
how fine ! how wondrous pathetic ! how
just r Then would he bow and twist, and
wave his hand, and wag his head.

He became an oracle, and, like all oracles
in the matter of taste, he quickly learned to
give the law. He affected to understand
pictures, and talked about the *brio' of one
painter, and the ' three-lights ' rule of
another ; he was very sarcastic in the matter
of poetry, and would allow but two good

poets in the century — himself and Mr. Alexander
Pope ; in the region of romance he
would allow little credit to Fielding, but
claimed immortality for Richardson.

Oh, sir, pardon me he said to one who
attributed the greater merit to the former
writer. ' Pardon me. The characters and the
situations of Fielding are so wretchedly low
and dirty that I cannot imagine anyone
being interested in them. There is, I admit,
some strength of humour in him, but he
hath over written himself. I doubt he is a
strong, hulking sort of man.'

But, sir,' said Lady^Levett, 'we ladies
like men to be strong and hearty as becomes
a man. You surely do not mean that every
big man must have low tastes.'

The mind and the body are united,' said
the little poet, ' they influence one another.
Thus, in a weak frame we find delicacy,
and in a strong frame, bluntness. Softness
and tenderness of mind are often remarkable
in a body possessed of the same qualities.
Tom Jones could get drunk on the night of
his uncle's recovery — no doubt Mr. Fielding
would manifest his joy in the same manner.'

He went on to assure us that Lady 
an intimate friend cfMr. Fielding's;
that Booth was himself ; Tom Jones, again,
himself; Amelia his first wife; his brawls,
gaols, sponging-houses, and quarrels all
drawn from his own personal experience.

He who associates with low companions,
ladies,' concluded the ex-prisoner of the Fleet,
must needs himself be low. Taste consorts
only with tasteful persons.'

Should not a lady be beautiful, Mr. Stal-libras
'?' asked a bystander. * I always supposed
so, but since a man is not to be strong,
perhaps I was wrong.'

Sir !' Mr. Stallabras drew himself up to
his full height, and his fingers closed upon the
roll of proof-sheets as if it had been a sword-hilt.
' Sir 1 all ladies — who have taste — are
beautiful. I am ready to be the champion
of the sex. Some are more beautiful than
others,' here he raised his eyes to me and
sighed. ^ Some flowers are more beautiful
than others. The man of taste loves to let
his eyes rest on such a pleasing object,' — here
taro young gentlemen winked at each other —
she is a credit to her sex. When goodness

is joined to such beauty, as is the case with '

here he looked at me and hesitated.

Oh !' cried Nancy, ' say with me, Mr.
Stallabras, or Miss Peggy Baker.'

May I say Miss Pleydell V he asked,
with a comprehensive smile. ' There, indeed,
is all Clarissa, and the heart of sensibility, in
contemplating her perfections, reverts to the
scenes of our divine Richardson.'

HOW SIR MILES RENEWED HIS OFFER.

Thus did I get rid of one suitor, knowing
that there were still two more in the field, and
anxious about my lord's absence, which, I
doubted not, was concerned in some way with
me. Heavens ! if he should find out the
secret ! If the doctor should communicate
to him the thing which I desired to tell at
my own time and place.

The Evil One, at this juncture, suggested a
temptation of his own.

Suppose a message, which my lord could
trust, where to reach him, stating that there
would be no attempt to follow up the so-called
marriage in the Rules, that he could
go his own way, unmolested ; that the very
certificate and the leaf of the reo-sister containing

the proof of the marriage would be restored
to him — how would that be ?

Yet, what sort of happiness could a wife
expect who every day had to fear the chance
of detection and exposure ? Some time or
other he would learn that I was the niece of
the man who had dealt him this blow ; some
day he would learn the whole story. Why,
there was not only the doctor, but his man
Roger, the villain with the pale face, the
scarred cheeks, and the red nose. If the
doctor were dead, what would prevent such a
man from telling the story abroad and proclaiming
it to all comers ?

For poor Kitty there was only one course
open : she must work her way to happiness
through shame and confession. Yet with all
the shame and confession there was no certainty
that the happiness would follow. A
man vehemently loves and desires a woman,
but a woman vehemently desires the love and
desire of a man. I desired, with all my
strength and with all my might, the affections
of my lord. His image, his idea, were
with me always. For me there was no
other man in the world.

But first I had to deal with my present
suitors.

Solomon dismissed, and made happy with
praise and guineas (a poet is a creature whose
vanity seems always to outweigh all other
qualities), I had next to reckon with Sir
Miles,, who was more reasonable and yet more
persistent.

I knew that he had come to Epsom on
purpose to seek me out. That was borne in
upon me with a force not to be resisted. He
always did me the honour of showing me a
preference when we lived under the same
roof and when he would lie in wait for me at
the foot of the sanded stairs. And, of course,
I liked him. He was good-natured, he had
the air noble; he would not, certainly, beat
his wife or treat her unkindly, although he
would probably spend all the money in drink
and play. And whether he was rich or poor,
in the Kules or in the Prison, or wandering
free, he would still be the same easy, careless
creature, happy as the sunshine, happier by
candlelight, over a bowl of punch.

On the Terrace, where we met him in the
afternoon, he was the same, save that his

clothes were newer, as when, just as he
lounged now beneath the trees, he had then
lounged among the bulkheads and stalls of
the market, till evening came with the joys
of the day. Always with the carriage of a
gentleman. Most of the beaux of Epsom were
such gentlemen as claim the title of Esquire
by right of their profession as attorneys, barristers,
officers, nabobs, rich merchants, and
the like. As for their manners, they were
easy so long as they were natural, and then
they were somewhat barbarous ; when they
endeavoured to assume the manners of such
as Lord Chudleigh, they were awkward. As
for the young fellows from the country
estates, they were always clowns : they came
clowns to the Wells : they put on fine clothes :
laughed and grimaced : lost their money at
horse-racing and lansquenet, and went home
clowns. But Sn^ Miles Alas always, even
when drunk, a gentleman.

I suppose he had the impudence, at first,
to suppose that I was going to seek him out
and distinguish him before all the company
with my particular regard. When he discovered
that it was difficult to get speech

with the Queen of the Wells unless you joined
her court, he came along with the rest, and
was speedily as ready with his compliment,
his innuendo, his jest, and his anecdote. He
was more ready than most because he had
seen the great world in his youth, and had
caught their manner. The general run of
gallants were, it seemed to me, afraid of him.
To be sure, he was a big, strong man, could
have crunched two or three of the slender
beaux between his arms : yet he was the most
kind-hearted fellow in the world.

Three days after his arrival. Lord Chud-
leigh having then been away for a week, and
I beginning to Wonder what business kept
him so long from the apron-strings of Kitty,
he invited me to go with him to the Downs
to see a match. I would go with him,
though Avell I knew what he meant ; and, of
course, when we got to the Downs, the match
was over and the people going home.

'Egad, Miss Kitty,' he said, * there is
always such a plaguy crowd after your ladyship's
heels, that a man gets never a chance
of a word with you, save edgeways with the
pretty little beaux. Well, I have told Solomon

to go to the house and take care of Mrs.
Esther. There they are, cheek by jowl, and
her handkerchief up to her eyes over his
sentimental poetry. You and I can have a
talk to ourselves. It is only a quarter of a
mile from here to your lodging, but, if you
like to come with me by way of the old welland
Banstead, we can make it half a mile.'

Thank you. Sir Miles,' I said ; ' I am not
anxious to double that quarter of a mile.
Consider, if you please, that I have to get
home, dine, and dress for the day.'

'Very good. Have it your own way.
That, to be sure, you always will have. I
think, for my part, that you never looked so
nice as when you wore your hair in curls, and
a holland frock. Miss Kitty, do you remember
a certain day when a baronet, out at
elbows, offered you his hand — with nothing in

itr

I remember it perfectly.' I laughed at
the recollection. * And oh,' Sir Miles, to
think of how you looked Avhen you made
that condescending proposal. It was after a
most disgraceful evening — you best know
where. You had been brought home singing.

"Your neck-ribbon was untied, your wig awry,
your hand shaky, your cheeks red, and in
your left hand a brown mug full of old
October. What a suitor 1'

eyes,' he replied, laughing, without the
least appearance of being offended by my
picture. ' When in the Rules, I behaved
according to the custom of the place. I am
no longer in the Kules, but at the Wells. I
remember that tankard. Considering that
the day is sultry, I wish I had one in my
hand this very moment.'

^ I am sure, Sir Miles, that your conduct
Tinder these happier circumstances will reflect
greater credit upon you.'

Happier circumstances V he said. ^ Well,
I suppose so. In the Fleet I could borrow
of my cousins a guinea a week or thereabout
; yet borrowing is uncertain and undignified
: the manner of living was cheap, but it
was rude. Drink there was — more than one
had a right to expect ; drink was plentiful, but
only the doctor got good punch ; no morals
were expected of a Fleet Rules Christian. I
known that things are happier now than then.
However you might think so. Girls never

VOL. II. 35

have any philosophy. I have come into a small
estate of six hundred pounds a year. It is
not so much, by five times six hundred, as
what I started with ; still, with six hundred
a year, one can live. Do you not think so ?'

It seems to me a very handsome provision,'
I replied, thinking that Mrs. Esther
had about the same.

'Yes, it will do.'

He fanned his face with his hat, and before
me to sit down on the grass and listen to him
for a moment. Men, even the most careless,
like Sir Miles, have a way of becoming suddenly
solemn when they ask a woman to
become their wife. I know not whether their
gravity springs from a sense of their own
great worth, or from a feeling of un worthiness
; whether it is a compliment to the
woman they woo, or to themselves. Or it
may be a confession of the holiness of the
state of matrimony, which one would fain
hope to be the case.

Sir Miles then, blushing and confused
offered me, for the second time, his hand.

^ You see,' he said, ' the right hand doth
no long-er shake, nor doth the left hand hold

a pot of October. I no longer am carried
home at night.' He sighed, as if the reminiscence
of past times was pleasing but
saddening. ' I am not any more the man
that once I was. Will you, sweet Kitty —
will you be Lady Lackington V

I cannot I said.

There is an income of six hundred pounds
a year he went on. ' I believe there is a
small house somewhere ; we could live in it
rent-free. You were always fond of hens and
pigs, and milk, flowers, apples, and all these
things. I will keep two hundred pounds for
myself, and give you four. With two hundred
I shall have to manage, once a week or so, a
little hazard, or a trifling lansquenet.'

'What ?' I asked. ' Marry a gamester V
^ What matter as to that, when he will
settle his money on his wife ? Think of it,
Kitty. I am a baronet, though a poor one,
and of as good a family as any in Norfolk.
Why, the Lackingtons, as everybody knows,
were on their lands before the Conqueror

And if it is not enough to be a gamester,
you are also — oh, Sir Miles ! the shame of
it '

35—2

We gentlemen of Norfolk he replied,
without any appearance of shame, ^ are
honest topers all. I deny it not. Yet what
matters such a trifle in the habits of a man ?
Did any gentleman in the county drink
harder than my father? Yet he was hale
and tough at sixty, and would have lived to
eighty but for a fall he got riding home one
night after dinner, having a cask, or thereabouts,
of port inside him, by reason of which
he mistook an open quarry for the lane which
should have led him home, and therefore
broke his neck.'

So that, if Lis wife loved him, as no doubt
she did, it was the drink that robbed her of a
husband. Your tale hath a useful moral, Sir
Miles.'

Come, pretty Puritan, look at me. I am
twenty-nine— in my thirtieth year ; strong
and hearty, if I do get drunk of an evening.
What then % Do you want to talk to your
husband all night ? Better know that he is
safe asleep, and likely to remain asleep till
the drink is gone out of his head

Oh, the delights of wedlock ! To have
your husband brought home every night by
four stout fellows !'

Evening drink hurts no man. Have I a
bottle nose ? Do my hands shake ? Are my
cheeks fat and pale? Look at me, Kitty.'
He held out his arms and laughed.

Yes, Sir Miles I replied ; ' I think you
are a very lusty fellow, and, in a wrestling-bout,
I should think few could stand against
you. But as a husband, for the reasons I
have stated, I say — No !'

^ Take the four hundred, Kitty, and make
me happy. I love thee, my girl , with all my
heart.'

Sir Miles, I cannot do it honestly. Perhaps
I wish I could.'

^ ' You won't V He looked me full in the
face. * I see you won't. You have such a
tell-tale, straightforward face, Kitty, that it
proclaims the truth always. I believe sou
are truth itself They pulled you out of a
well, down in your country place, in a bucket,
and then went about saying you had been
born.'

Thank you. Sir Miles.'

^ Am I, therefore, to go hang myself in my
garters, or yours, if you avIII give them tome?'


If you do, I shall be the first to run and
cut you down

Sweet it were he murmured, ^ to be even
cut down by your fair hand. If one was sure
that you would come in time '

You will be reasonable, dear sir, and you
will neither say nor do anything silly.'

^ I do not suppose I shall pine away in
despair ; nor shall I hang my head ; nor
shall I go about saying that there are as
good fish in the sea as ever came out of it,
because, when we fished you, we fished the
best. And I swear, Kitty'— here he did
swear after men's profane way, but he needed
not to have sworn so loudly or so long —
that truly, sweet Kitty, thou art the fairest,
the loveliest, and the best fish that ever came
out of any sea — a bewitching mermaid ! I
wish thee a good husband.

On Stella's lap he laid his head,
And, looking in her eyes.
He cried, "Remember, when I'm dead.
That I deserved the prize." '

^ Thank you. Sir Miles. A shorter and a
less profane oath would surely have better
graced the subject.'

^ It cannot be graced too much he said, as
if to swear lustily was to confer honour upon
the woman he thought to love, ' For your
sake, Kitty, I would ever forswear punch,
tobacco, and strong waters ; drink nothing
but October ; and never get drunk save on
Saturdays nights : for your sake would I go
live in the country among the cocks and the
hens, the ducks and the pigs : for you would
I go religiously to church every Sunday at
forenoon, and expect the parson for the beef
and pudding after the sermon : for your sake
would I gamble no more, save once in a way
when quarter-day brought in the rents

That would be a mighty reformation
indeed. Sir Miles

Now, however, since you will not have
me, I shall play with four hundred a year out
of the six. But I will be careful, all the
same : I shall punt low, and never lose more
than a guinea a night.'

Thus I Alas rid of my second suitor. Sir
Miles ceased to attend the court of followers
who attended on the Terrace, but sat all day
in the card-room, playing. From time to
time he met and saluted me.

Be not afraid he would say, ' on my
belief. The card-tables are more pleasant
than the air under the trees, and I think
the players are better company than your
priggish popinjays. As for my habits, fair
Kitty, pattern of virtue, they have become
virtuous. I am never drunk — well, not often
and you have brought me luck. I have
won five hundred guineas from a nabob.
Think of the joy, when he pays me, of losing
it all again !'

HOW HARRY TEMPLE PROVED HIS VALOUR.

Thus were poet and baronet reduced to submission.
The third suitor Alas harder to
manage, because he turned sulky. Sportsmen
have said that a fish, or a bird, or a fox,
when he sulks, is then most difficult to secure.
Thus, to be captured or cajoled, the victim
must be in a good temper.

Now Harry Temple went in gloomy indignation,
as vas visible to all eyes. He walked
alone upon the Terrace, or sat alone in the
Assembly Room, a Killjoy to behold. That
would not have mattered, because no girl
feels much sorrow for a man who foolishly
sulks because he cannot marry her ; but everybody
knew, or thought they knew, the cause
of his heavy looks. Peggy Baker said I had

thrown him over for the sake of a lord, who
she added, kindly, would certainly throw me
over in turn. Some of the company cried
shame on the flinty-hearted woman who
could let so pretty a fellow go love-sick.

^ Kitty,' his melancholy seemed to say,
you left us a simple country girl : you would
have been proud of my addresses had you
understood my meaning' — this was quite
true : * you are now a woman of fashion, and
you have ambition : your head is turned with
flattery : you aspire to nothing short of a
coronet. In those days you were satisfied
with the approval of your looking-glass and
your conscience : now you would draw all
men to your heels, and are not happy unless
you make them all miserable.' But that was
not true at all ; I did not wish to make men
miserable ; and it was nothing to me whether
they were miserable or happy. I thought of
one man only, as is natural to a woman in love.

^ If,' I said to him one day, being tired
by such exhibition of temper, ' if you do not
like the place, why make yourself unhappy
by staying here ? Cambridge, methinks,
would be a more fitting abode for you, where

there are books and scholars : not a watering-place,
Avhere people come together to amuse
themselves and be merry.'

I shall stay here he replied, *' until I
find there is no hope for me

Oh, silly Harry 1' I said ; ' is there no
other woman in the world who will make you
happy, except ^oox Kitty Pleydell ?'

^ No — none he shook his melancholy wig,
the tie at the back of his head wagging
sorrowfully.

How was it possible to have any sympathy
with so rueful a lover ? Why, it made one
ridiculous. Everybody said that Harry
Temple was in love with me, that I, for the
worst of motives, viz. to catch a coronet, refused
him, and that he was an excellent
match, especially for one who was nothing
better than a country parson's daughter.

I believe only a curate, my dear,' Peggy
Baker would say. ' No doubt she lived on
bacon fat and oatmeal, and knitted her own
stockings. And yet she refuses Harry
Temple, a pretty fellow, though studious, and
a man whom any of us, gentlewomen born,
would be glad to encourage.'

Oh !' I said to him, ^ why do you not
go ? Why do you look reproaches on
mer

Because,' he rephed^ ' I still love you,
unworthy as you are

Unworthy ? Mr. Temple, methinks that
a little civility '

Yes, unworthy. I say that a girl who
throws over her oldest friends with the
almost avowed intention of securing a title,
without knowing anything of the character of
the man who bears it '

This is too much,' I said. ^ First, sir, let
me know what there is against Lord Chud-
leigh's character. Tell me, upon your word,
sir, do you know anything at all ? Is he nota
man of principle and honour ?'

I know nothing against him. I dare say
that he is what you think.'

Well, sir ; and in the next place, how dare
you accuse me of deliberately trying to attract
my lord % Do you know me so well as to
read my soul ? Do you know me so well as
to be justified to yourself when you attribute
such a motive to me V

'What other motive can I attribute to

you V he asked bitterly. ' Is he not a peer ?
Is he not rich V

Oh, Harry I' I cried, ' you will drive me
mad between you. Cannot a peer be a
good man ? Cannot a girl — I say — may nota

girl Harry, you force me to say it — is

it not possible for a girl to fall in love with a
man who is even a peer and a rich man ?
Go, sir! you have humbled me and made me
say words of which I am ashamed. Go, if
you please, and tell all the world what I
have said.'

Then he fell to asking my forgiveness.
He was, he said, wretched indeed : he had
long lost my love.

Man r I said, ' you never had it !' — and
now he was like to lose my friendship.

This talk about friendship between a man
and woman when both are young seems tome
a mighty foolish thing. For if the woman
is in love with some one else her friendship is,
to be sure, worth just nothing at all, because
she must needs be for ever thinking of the
man she loves. There is but one man in all
the world for her, and that man not he who
would fain be her friend. Therefore she

gives not a thought to him. Now if a man
be in love with one woman and ^ in friendship'
with another, I think that either his
love for one must be a poor lukewarm
passion, which I, for one, would not be
anxious to receive, or his friendship for the
other must be a chilly sort of thing.

However, one must not be angry for ever :
Harry Temple had made me say a thing
which I could not have said to any woman —
not even Nancy — and was ashamed of having
said : yet when he begged forgiveness I accorded
it to him. Harry, I was sure, would
not repeat what I had said.

Somebody about this time wrote another
of those little worthless epigrams or poems,
and handed it about.

Kitty, a fair Dissenter grown.
Sad pattern doth afford :
The Temple's laws she will not own,
Yet still doth love her Lord.'

'Do not be angry, Kitty,' said Nancy.
'This is the penalty of greatness. What would
Peggy Baker give to be lampooned ? Harry
is a fool, my dear. Any woman could tell, with
half an eye, that you are not the least in love

with him. What are the eyes of men Hke ?
Are they so Winded by vanity as not to be
able to see, without being told, when they
are disagreeable objects for a woman's contemplation
?'

I condole with you, Miss Pleydell,' said
Peggy Baker. ' To be the victim of an irreligious
and even impious epigram must be
truly distressing to one, like yourself, brought
up in the bosom of the Church.'

Thank you, dear Miss Peggy,' I replied,
returning her smiling courtesy. ' The epigram's
wound is easily healed. Is it true
that you are yourself the author 1'

Oh Lord, no !' she replied. ' I am but a poor
poet, and could not foi' the world write or say
anything to wound another woman's feelings.'

She would not, indeed, dear Kitty,' cried.
Nancy, who was with me. ' It is not true —
though you may hear it so stated — that Miss
Peggy said yesterday on the Parade that
your father was only a curate, and that you
made your own stockings. She is the kindest
and most generous of women. We think so,
truly, dear Miss Peggy. We would willingly,
if we could, send you half-a-dozen or so of

our swains to swell your train. But they
will not leave us.'

Was there ever so saucy a girl ?

Miss Peggy bit her lips, and I think she
would have liked to box Nancy's ears there
and then, had she dared. But a few gentlemen
were standing round us, laughing at
Nancy's sally. So she refrained.

Oh, Miss Nancy !' she replied, trying to
laugh, 'you are indeed kind. But I love
not the attentions of men at secondhand.
You are welcome to all my cast-off lovers.
Pray, Miss Pleydell, may I ask. when we
may expect his lordship back again V

I do not know,' I replied. ' Lord Chud-
leiofh does not send me letters as to his movements
or intentions.'

I said so,' she replied, triumphant for the
moment. ' T said so this morning at the
book-shop, when they were asking each other
what news of Lord Chudleigh. Some said
Miss Pleydell would surely know : I said
that I did not think there was anything between
his lordship and Miss Pleydell : and I
ventured to predict that you knew no more
about his movements than myself.'

Indeed,' said Nancy, coming to my assistance.
^ I should have thought you were
likely to know more than Kitty.'

Indeed, why V

Because,' said Nancy, laughing, ' his lordship,
who is, I believe, one of your cast-off
lovers, might perhaps have written to you
for old acquaintance' sake.'

Miss Peggy had no reason for loving me,
who had dethroned her, but she had reason
for hating Nancy, who always delighted in
bringing her to open shame.

What have I done to you. Miss Levett V
she asked her once, when they were alone.
You are not the rioting Toast : I am not

jealous of you : you have done no harm tome,
nor I to you. Yet you delight in saying
the most ill-natured things.'

you have done nothing to me, Miss
Peggy Nancy told her. ' But you have
done a great deal to my poor Kitty, who is
innocence itself. You have slandered her :
you have traduced her family, which everybody
knows is as good as your own, though
her father was a country clergyman and a
younger son : you have denied her beauty :

VOL. II. 3G

you have written anonymous letters to her,
calumniating a young nobleman who, I verily
believe, is a paragon of peers. No doubt,,
too, you have written letters to him calumniating
her character. Truly, with the best
intentions, you could not do much to hurt
her, for my Kitty is above suspicion.'

Very well, miss,' said Miss Peggy ; ' very
well: we understand each other. As for

your charges about anonymous letters '

'We keep them all,' said Nancy; 'and
with them a letter written and signed by
yourself. And I think I shall show the
letters about on the Terrace.'

If you dare ' but here she checked

herself, though in a great rage. ' You will
do as you please, Miss Levett. I shall know,
some day, how to revenge myself for your
insults. As for your curate's girl, I warrant
her innocence and her being " above suspicion
" — indeed 1 — to be pretty hypocrisy and
pretence. As if any woman was above suspicion
!'

Oh !' said Nancy, as a parting shot, ' nobody,
I assure you, ever thought Miss Peggy
Baker or any of her friends above suspicion.

Let us do you, dear miss, so much justice.
You shall not find us ungrateful or unmindful
of the benefits you have conferred, or are
about to confer upon us. Malice and spite,
when they are impotent, are amusing, like
the tricks of a monkey in a cage, or a bear
dancing at a stake.'

Such angry passions as these disturbed the
peaceful atmosphere of the Wells. What
use was it for Mr. Nash, of Bath, to deprive
the gentlemen of their swords when he left
the ladies their tongues ? ' The tongue can
no man tame : it is an unruly evil, full of
deadly poison.'

The accident which followed, a day or two
after this, may or may not have been instigated
by an enemy. Nancy always declared
it was, but then she may have been prejudiced,
and we never got at the truth.

Every Friday or Saturday there came
down from London a coach full of gentlemen
from the city or the Inns of Court, to spend
two or three days at the Wells. These
were our most noisy visitors : they pushed
into the coteries, and endeavoured to form
part of the trains of the beauties in vogue :

they drank too much wine : gambled fiercely
for small sums ; and turned the quiet decorum
of the assembly into a babel of riot,
noise, loud laughter, coarse jokes, and ill-breeding.
The Sunday was thus spoiled :
those of us who loved quiet stayed, for the
most part, at home when we were not in
church, or wandered on the quiet Downs,
where Ave were undisturbed. Solomon Stal-libras
attended us on these occasions, and
we turned our conversation on grave matters.
I exhorted him, for instance, to direct his
splendid genius to the creation of a sacred
epic, which should be to the eighteenth century
what Milton's 'Paradise Lost' was to the
seventeenth. He promised to think of it, and
we talked over various plans. The Deluge,
St. Paul, the Apocalypse, were discussed in
turn : for my own part, I thought that the
Book of Revelations would prove a subject
too sublime for our poet's strength, and
recommended, as a fitter subject for his easy
and graceful verses, the life and travels of St.
Paul. In these considerations we forgot, for
awhile, the calumnies of our enemy, and eachput
aside, for a time, his own private anxieties.

One Saturday evening, while Lord Chud-
leigh was still away, a noisier party than usual
were in the Assembly Rooms, and although
there was no dancing, the talk and quarrelling
of the gamblers were incessant, while lights
were huns out amons^ the trees, and the walk
was crowded with people. Neither Nancy
nor I was present, having little desire to be
stared at by ill-bred young citizens or pushing
Templarss. Unfortunately, Harry Temple
was among them.

While he was idling among the trees there
passed him a group of three young fellows,
all talking together noisily. I suppose they
had been drinking. One of them, unfortunately,
caught sight of Harry, and began to
laugh. Then they stopped, and then one
stepped forward and made Harry a profound
bow.

We welcome,' he said, * the Knight of the

Rueful Countenance. We condole with your

misfortune.

" Her Temple's rule she doth not own,
Though still she loves her Lord." '

Harry was not only melancholy, but also,
as some such men are, he was choleric ; and

lie was strong, being bred and brought up to
country pursuits. In a moment his cane was
in one hand and his assailant's cravat was in
his other. Then he began to beat the man
with his cane.

The others stood stupid with amazement.
Sir Miles, who was on his way to the tables,
and had seen the beginning of the fray,
stepped to the front.

^ Who interferes with Mr. Temple has todo
with me,' he shouted. ' Fair play, gentlemen.
Let them fiorht it out with fists like
men, first — and stick each other afterwards
with rapiers like Frenchmen, if they like.
Gentlemen, I am Sir Miles Lackington,
Baronet, at your service, if anyone wants a
little breathing.' >

He held his cane in readiness, but the
other gentlemen kept aloof. When Harry
had spent his rage, because, so far as I can
learn, there was no resistance, he shook off
his opponent, adjusted his wig, which was a
little deranged, and turned quietly to Sir
Miles :

You will oblige me. Sir Miles ? Thank
you, gentlemen all — your servant.'

He resumed his walk, lounging among the
trees, the women looking after him with a
mixture of fright and admiration, as calm as
if nothing had happened.

The man who was beaten was followed off
the field by his friends. Nor could Sir
Miles get speech of them that evening. In
the morning, dien he went to make his
murderous appointment, he found they were
ozone. Fioiitino:, it would seem, was not to
their liking ; though an insult to a harmless
gentleman was quite in their way.

I am sorry, Harry,' I said honestly, because
a woman cannot help respecting a man
who is brave and strong, * that the taking of
my name has caused you this trouble.'

I am sorry, too,' he ,said, sadly. ' Yet I
blame them not, Kitty.'

But you do blame me,' I replied. ' Harry,
if, in a little while — somehow — I am able to
show that I could not, even if I wished,
grant the thing you want — if — I say — I can
make that quite clearly and plainly to you —
will you promise to be reconciled to what
cannot — cannot be avoided X

If, Kitty — what an if ! But you ask the

impossible. There is no reason, there cannot
be. Why, such a thing is impossible.'

But again — if Harry, promise me so-much.'



He laughed grimly.

'Well, I promise.'

Give me your hand upon it,' I said.
Now we shall be friends indeed. Why, you
silly Harry, you let the days go by, and you
neglect the most beautiful girls who could
perhaps make you a hundred times as happy
as Kitty, all because you deck her out with
imaginary virtues Which she doth not possess.
Foolish Harry ! Open your eyes and look
about you. What do you see '?'

I, for my part, saw pretty Nancy running
along the walk to meet us. Love was in her
eyes, grace in her action ; youth, beauty,
sweetness in her comely shape, her rosy
cheeks, her pretty smile, her winning tongue,,
her curly locks. She was in morning dress,
without hoop or patch. Through the leaves,
of the trees the sun shone softly upon her,
covering her with a soft light which might
have been that in which Venus stole along
the shore in a golden mist to meet her son —

of which my father had read to me. She
was pretty, she was sweet ; far prettier than
I, who was so tall ; far sweeter than I, who
was full of evil passions and shame, being a
great sinner.

Foolish Harry !' I said. * What do you
see '?'

He only looked me in the face and replied
:

I see nothing but the beautiful Kitty.'
Oh, Wind, blind 1'

HOW Burdens WAS ILLUMINATED.

While these things were proceeding, Lord
Chudleigh being still absent from Durdans,
I received a second letter from the doctor.

After the usual compliments to Mrs.
Esther, he proceeded to the important part of
his communication :

For your private eye only.

I have to tell you that yesterday I saw
and conversed with Lord Chudleigh. He
sought me in order to find out, if possible,
the name, character, and condition of a certain
person. I refused to grant him that information,
I also assured him that he would
find it impossible to break the alliance with
which I had provided him. This I did with

the greater pleasure, having heard from a
sure source that he hath lately paid addresses
to you of so particular a kind as to make the
whole company at Epsom Wells believe that
they mean honourable proposals. I presume,
therefore, that could he destroy the evidence
of his former marriage he would be prepared
to offer his hand. This is every way better
than I could expect or wish, because when
the moment arrives for informing him of the
truth, I can point out to his lordship that his
opinion and mine of what a wife should be
exactly agree. Our triumph will then be
complete.'

Our triumph ! This was what he called it.
I was to be the consenting party to inflict
shame and humiliation upon my lord. This
was too much. Humiliation for him ? Why,
it was for myself, and my Avhole thoughts
Avere how to save him, how to set him free.
The doctor expected me to triumph over
him. Why, what did he know of a woman
in love ? To triumph over a man for whose
dear sake she would lay down her life to save
her lover from humiliation !

It was certain to my heart that my lord
already felt for me that warmth of affection
which impels a man to make a woman his
wife. I was sure of this. I was so sure that
I already gave myself in imagination entirely
to him, and placed his interests above my
own.

In short, before I ventured to confess the
fact to myself, and before he spoke to me — for
as yet he had said no word except in compliment
and common gallantry — I loved him.
There was, for me, but one thing wanting to
make me happy ; there was, for me, nothing
to think of, to hope for, to pray for, but the
welfare of that one man. And to such a
woman did the doctor send such a letter, proposing
that I should join him in covering
him with shame and indignation. Would I
thus let him choose the moment to confess
my shameful sin ? Would I assist in covering
the man I loved with confusion, who
would have clothed him in purple and placed
a chain about his neck, and helped him to
ride forth in bravery and triumph \ Forbid
the thought, kind Heaven ! Oh, that a man
should have such a mind, so thick and cloudy

as not to perceive that no woman but the
basest and worst could join a conspiracy so
hateful ! Unhappy girl, to be made the
victim of a plot in which the punishment
would fall upon herself, while the wickedness
would rest with the man who devised it, and
he against whom the plot was designed
would be its sole avenger !

I resolved to be beforehand with the
doctor. I would myself choose the time ; I
would tell him all : I would assure him that,
innocent as I had been in intention, I would
never, never seek to assert any rights over
him ; that he was free, and could go seek a
wife where he pleased. Ah ! should he
please to go elsewhere, it were better had I
never been born.

Then, whatever moment I might choose
for the confession, I could think of none
which could be chosen as favourable to myself.
I might write to him. That would be
best ; I would write : for how could a girl
bear to see that face, which had always looked
upon her with kindness and affection, suddenly
grow Iiard and stern, and reproach her
for her great wickedness with looks of horror

and indignation ? It seemed better to write.
But, for reasons which will presently appear,
that letter was never written.

My lord returned. He called upon us
next forenoon, and informed us, looking
grave and downcast, that he proposed to hold
his garden-party in Durdans Park on the
next day. People had come from Vauxhall
to decorate the trees, and there would be
fireworks, with supper, and concert of
horns.

I asked him, deceitfully, if his business in
London had prospered. He replied that it
had not turned out so favourably as he hoped :
and then he checked himself and added that,
to be sure, his affairs were of no interest
to us.

Said Mrs. Esther :

"Your lordship will not, I hope, believe
that anything which contributes to your
happiness is so indifferent to us.'

He bowed, and we began to talk again
about \i\^fete.

His invitations included all the visitors of
respectability at Epsom. Nancy, out of pure
kindness, had gone about inquiring of everyone

if he was invited ; and, if not, she got
him an invitation at once. We did not,
indeed, induce the tallow-chandlers and
hosiers of London, who frequented Epsom
that year in great numbers, but took up their
own end of the Assembly Rooms, and mostly
walked on the New Parade. But we included
all who could claim to belong to the polite
world, because nothings more humiliating;
than to be omitted from such a festivity at a
watering-place. T have known a lady of
fashion retire from Bath in mortification,
being forgotten at a public tea, and never
again show her face at that modish but
giddy town.

The company were to assemble at five
o'clock, the place of meeting being fixed in
that part of Durdans Park most remote from
the mansion, where the great trees of birch
and elm make such an agreeable wilderness
that one might fancy oneself in some vast
forest. We were escorted by Sir Miles
Lackington, who came because all his brother
gamblers had deserted the card-room for the
day ; and Mr. Stallabras — Solomon — was
dressed in another new coat (of purple), and

wore a sword with a surprisingly fine hilt.
He also had a pair of shoe-buckles in gold,
given him by his female Maecenas, the widow
of the brewer, in return for a copy of verses.
He was greatly elated, never before having
received an invitation from a person of such
exalted rank.

Now, indeed,' he said, ' I feel the full
sweetness of fame. This it is, Miss Kitty, to
be a poet. His society is eagerly sought
by the Great : he stands serene upon the
giddy height of fashion, ennobled by the
Muses (who possess, like our own august
sovereign, the right of conferring rank) : he
takes his place as an equal among those who
are ennobled b}^ birth. No longer do I deplore
that obscurity of origin which once
seemed to shut me out of the circles of the
polite. Fetter Lane may not be concealed
in my biography : it should rather be held upto
fame as the place in which the sunshine of
Apollo's favour (Apollo, Miss Kitty, was the
sun-god as well as the god of poets, which
makes the image appropriate) — the sunshine
of Apollo has once rested during the birth of
a humble child. It was at number forty-one

in the second pair back, n commodious garret,
that the child destined to immortality first
saw the Hight. No bees (so far as I can learn)
played about his cradle, nor did any miracles
of precocious genius foreshadow his future
greatness. But, with maternal prescience,
his mother named him Solomon.'

All this because Nancy made Lord Chud-
leigh send him an invitation ! Yet I doubt
whether his lordship had ever read one of his
l^oems.

It is a great blessing for a man to be a
poet,' said Sir Miles, smiling. ' If I were
a poet I dare say I should believe that
my acres were ni}^ own again. If I were
a poet I should believe that luck would
last.'

Does the name of Kitty cease to charm ?'
I asked.

Yes, it was true : Sir Miles had lost his
five hundred guineas, won of the nabob, and
was now reduced to punt at a guinea a night.
This hardship made him melancholy.

^ Yet,' he said, plucking up, * if I cannot
play, I can drink. Why, my jolly poet,'
slapping Solomon on the shoulder, * we will

VOL. II. 37

presently toast Miss Kitty as long as his
lordship's champagne lasts.'

Mrs. Esther said that she saw no reason
why, because one vice was no longer possible,
another should take its place.

Madam,' said the baronet, ' it is not that
I love one more than the other. When the
purse is full, Hazard is my only queen.
When the purse is empty, I call for the
bowl.'

In such converse we entered the park, and
followed in the procession of visitors, who
flocked to the place of meeting where, under
the trees, like another Robin Hood, Lord
Chudleigfh stood to receive his guests.

Kind Fortune has taken me to many feasts
and rejoicing since that day, but there are
none to which my memory more fondly and
tenderly reverts ; for here, amid the sweet
scent of woodland flowers, under the umbrageous
trees, while the air of the Downs,
fragrant and fresh, fanned our cheeks, my
lord became my lover, and I knew that he
was mine for ever, in that sweet bond of
union which shall only be exchanged by
death for another of more perfect love,

through God's sweet grace. Ah, day of
days ! whose every moment Ives eternally
in our hearts ! Sometimes I think that there
will hereafter be no past at all, bus: that the
sinner shall be punished by the ever-present
shame of his sins, and the saints rewarded
by the continual presence of great and noble
thoughts.

Horns were stationed at various parts of
the park, and while we drank tea, served tous
at rustic tables beneath the trees these
answered one another in lively or plaintive
strains. The tea finished, we danced to the
music of violins, on a natural lawn, as level
as a bowling-green, which seemed made for
the feet of fairies. After an hour of minuets,
the country dances began, and were carried
on until sunset. Then for a while we roamed
beneath the trees, and watched the twilight
grow darker, and presently rose the great
yellow harvest moon.

In such a scene,' said Solomon, who was
discoursing to a bevy of ladies, ' man shrinks
from speaking : he is mute : his tongue
cleaves to his palate ' — at all events, the poet
was not mute — 'here nature proclaims the

37—2

handiwork of the Creator.' He tapped his

forehead reflectively.

Great Feature speaks : confused the sceptic flies ;
Rocks, woods, and stars sing truth to all the skies.'

All the while the concert of the horns-charmed
the ear, ^Ahile the romantic aspect
of the woods by night elevated the souL
When we returned to our lawn we were delighted
and surprised to find coloured lamps
hanging from the trees already lit, imparting
a look most magical and wonderful, so that
we cried aloud for joy. Nor was this all :.
the tables were laid for supper with every
delicacy that our noble host could think of
or provide.

Everybody was happy that evening. I
think that even Peggy Baker forgot her
jealousies, and forgave me for the moment
when Lord Chudleigh gave as a toast, the
Queen of the Wells,' and all the gentlemen
drained a bumper in honour of Kitty Pleyel
While the supper went on, a choir of voices
sang glees and madrigals. Never was party
more enchanting : never was an evening
more balmy : never were guests more pleased
or host more careful for them.

After Slipper more lamps were lit and
hung upon the trees : the violins began again,
and country dances set in.

Now while I looked on, being more delighted
to see than to dance — besides, my
heart was strangely moved with what I now
know was a presentiment of happiness — Lord
Chudleigh joined me, and we began to talk,
not indifferently, but, from the first, gravely
and seriously.

You will not dance, Miss Kitty V he
asked.

No, my lord,' I replied ; ' I would rather
watch the scene, which is more beautiful
than anything I have ever dreamed of.'

Come with me,' he said, offering me his
hand. ^ to a place more retired, whence we
can see the gaiety, without hearing too much
the laughter.'

They should have been happy without
lauofhino' : the cries of merriment consorted
not with the scene around us.

Outside the circle of the lamps the woods
were quite dark, but for the light of the
solemn moon. We wandered away from the
noise of the dancers, and presently came to a

rustic bench beneath a tree, where my lord
invited me to rest.

It was not so dark but that I could see
his face, which was grave and unlike the
face of an eaofer lover. There was sadness
it and shame, as belongs to one who hasa
thing to confess. Alas ! what ought to-have
been the shame and sadness of my
face?

'While they are dancing and laughing
he said, * let us talk seriously, you and I,
Miss Kitty.'

Pray go on, my lord,' I said, trembling.

He began, not speaking of love, but of
general things : of the ambition which is
becoming to a man of rank : of the serious
charge and duties of his life : of the plans
which he had formed in his own mind
worthily to pass through the years allotted
to him, and to prepare for the eternity which
waits us all beyond.

But,' he said, sadly, ' we wander in the
dark, not knowing which way to turn : and
if we take a wrong step, whether from inadvertence
or design, the fairest plan may be
ruined, the most careful schemes destroyed.'

But we have a guide I said, ' and a
lio'ht;

^ We follow not our leader, and we hide
the light. Addison hath represented life
under the impose of a bridge, over which men
are perpetually passing. But the bridge is
set everywhere with hidden holes and pitfalls,
so that he who steps into one straightway
falls through and is drowned. We are
not always drowned by the pitfalls of life,
but, which is as bad, we are maimed and
broken, so that for the rest of our course we
go halt.'

I pray, my lord,' I said, that you may
escape these pitfalls, and press on with the
light before you to the goal of your most
honourable ambition.'

It is too late,' he said, sadly. * Miss
Kitty, you see in me the most wretched of
mortals, who might, I would sometimes
venture to think, have become the most
happy.'

You wretched, Lord Chudleigh ?' — oh,
beating heart ! — ' you wretched ? Of all
men you should be the most happy.'

^ I have tried,' he said, ' to escape from the

consequences of a folly — nay, a crime. But
it is impossible. I am fast bound and tied.'
He took my hand and held it, while he
added : ' I may not say what I would : I
may not even think, or hope, or dream of
what miofht have been.'

Might have been, my lord ?'

Which cannot, now, ever be. Kitty, I
thought after I discovered that it was impossible
that I would not return any more
to Epsom Wells : in the country, or
away on foreign travel, I might in time
forget your face, your voice, your eyes — the
virtues and £traces which sit so well in a form
so charming — the elevated soul '

'My lord ! my lord!' I cried, 'spare me

Yet,' I added, ' tell me all that is in your
mind. If I cannot rid you of your burden,
at least I may soothe your sorrow.'

The matter,' he replied, ' lies in a few
words, Kitty. I love you, and I may not
ask you to be my wife.'

I was silent for a while. He stood before
me, his face bent over mine.

Why not ?' I asked.

Because I have been a fool— nay, worse

than a fool, a knave ; because I am tied by
bonds which I cannot break : and I am unworthy
of so much goodness and virtue.'

^ Oh !' I cried, ' you know not. How can
you know ? I am none of the things which
you imagine in me. I am a poor and weak
girl ; if you knew me you would surely think
so too. I cannot bear that you should think
me other than what I am.'

Why, my angel, your very modesty and
your tears are the proof that you are all I
think, and more.'

No,' I cried. ' If I told you all : if I
could lay bare my very soul to you, I think
that you could ' — I was going to add, ' love
me no longer but I caught myself up intime
— * that you could no longer think of
me as better, but rather as worse, than other
girls.'

'You know,' he said, That 1 love you,
Kitty. You have known that for some time
have you not ?'

Yes, my lord,' I replied, humbly ; ' I
have known it, and have felt my own unworthiness.
Oh, so unworthy, so unworthy
am I that I have wept tears of shame.'

Nay — nay he said. 'It is T who am
unworthy. My clear, there is nothing you
could tell me which would make me love you
less.'

I shook my head. There was one thing
which I had to tell. Could any man be
found to forgive that ?

I came back here resolved to tell you all.
If I could not ask for your love, Kitty, I
might, at the very least, win your pity.'

What have you to tell me, my lord ^'

It was well that the night was so dark
that my face could not be seen. Oh, telltale
cheeks, aglow with fear and joys !

What have you to tell me 1' I repeated.

'It is a story which I trust to your
eyes alone,' he said. 'I have written it
down. Before we part to-night I will give it
to yoQ. Come' — he took lily hand again,
but his was cold — ' come, we must not stay
longer. Let me lead you from this slippery
and dangerous place.'

•'One moment' — I would have lingered
there all nic^-ht to listen to the accents of his
dear voice. ' If you, my lord, have a secret
to tell to me, I also have one to tell you.'

^ Nay he replied. ' T can hear none of
your pretty secrets. My peace is ahxady
destroyed. Besides he added desperately,
when you have read what I have written
you will see that it would be idle to waste
another thought upon me.'

I will read it I said, ' to-night. But,
my lord, on one promise.'

And that is ?'

That you will not leave Epsom without
my knowledge. Let me speak with you
once more after I have read it, if it is only
to weep with you and to say farewell.'

^ I promise.'

And — oh, my lord ! if I may say it —
since your lordship may not marry me, then
I, for your sake, will never marry any other
man.'

Kitty !'

^ That is my promise, my lord. And perhaps
— sometimes — you will give a thought
to your poor — fond Kitty.'

He caught me in his arms and showered
kisses upon my cheeks and lips, calling me
his angel and a thousand other names, until
I gently pushed him from me and begged

him to take me back to the company. He
knelt at my feet and took my hand in his,
holding" it in silence. I knew that he was
praying for the blessing of Heaven upon my
unworthy head.

Then he led me back to the circle of lights,
when the first person we met was Miss Peggy
Baker.

'Why, here,' she cried, looking sharply
from one to the other, ' are my lord and Miss
Pleydell. Strange that the two people we
have most missed should be found at the
same time — and together, which is stranger
still.'

Nancy left her swains and ran to greet me.

My dear,' she whispered, * you have been
crying. Is all well V

I am the happiest woman and the most
unhappy in the world,' I said. ' I wish I
were in my bed alone and crying on my
pillow ;' and she squeezed my hand and ran
back to her lovers.

My lord himself walked home with us.
We left before the party broke up. At
parting he placed in my hand a roll of
paper.

Remembers I whispered ; ' you have
promised

He made no answer, but stooped and
kissed my fingers.

HOW MY LORD MADE HIS CONFESSION.

It was not a long manuscript. I kissed the
dear handwriting before I began.

To the Queen of my Heart,' it began.

'Dearest Girl,

Since I first had the happiness of
worshipping at your shrine I have learned,
from watching your movements, listening to
your voice, and looking at your face, something
of what that heavenly beauty must
have been like which, we are told, captivated
and drove mad the ancients, even by
mere meditation and thought upon it.' Did
ever girl read more beautiful language ?
And by conversations with you, even in the
gay assembly or on the crowded Terrace,

I have learned to admire and to love that
goodness of heart which God hath bestowed
upon the most virtuous among women. I
say this in no flattery or desire to pay an
empty compliment, but sincerely, and out of
the respect and admiration, as well as the
love, which I have conceived for one who is,
I dare maintain, all goodness.' Oh, Kitty,
Kitty ! to read this with blushing cheeks
and biting conscience ! Surely it must make
people good to be believed good ; so that, by
a little faith, we might raise and purify all
mankind !

It is my purpose to-night, if I find an
opportunity, to tell you that I am the most
wretched man in the world, because by a
fatal accident, of which I must presently
force myself to speak, I am for ever shut out
from the happiness which it was, I believe,
the intention of a merciful Providence to
confer upon me. Yet am I also fortunate,
and esteem myself happy in this respect, that
I have for once in my life been in the
presence of as much female beauty and virtue
as Alas ever, I believe, found together in one
human soul. To tell you these things, to

speak of my love, is an alleviation of suffering.
To tell the cause of this unhappiness is worse
than to plunge a knife into tiny heart. Yet
must it be told to your ear alone.

Last year, about the early summer, a
rumour began to run through the coffeehouses
that there was a man of extraordinary
wit, genius, and humour to be met with in
the Liberties, or Wales, of the Fleet Prison.
These Rules, of which you know nothing ' —
oh, Kitty ! nothing ! — * sere houses, or lodgings,
lying in certain streets adjacent to the
Fleet Market, where prisoners for debt are
allowed, on payment of certain fees, and on
finding security, to reside outside the prison.
In fact they are free, and yet being, in the
eyes of the law. still prisoners, they cannot
any more be arrested for debt. Among these
prisoners of the Rules was a certain Reverend
Gregory Shovel, a man of great learning, a
Doctor of Divinity of Cambridge, a divine of
eloquence and repute, once a fashionable
preacher, who, being of extravagant and
luxurious habits, which brought him into
expenditure above his means, at last found
himself a prisoner in the Fleet ; and presently,

through the influence of friends, was
placed in the enjoyment of the E>ules.

Here, whether because he had exhausted
the generosity of his friends, or because he
craved for action, or for the baser purposes of
gain, he became that most unworthy thing, a
Fleet parson — one of a pestilent crew who go
through the form of marriage for all comers,
aud illegally bind together for life those
whom Heaven, in mercy and knowledge, had
designed to be kept asunder.

I believe that, by his extraordinary
ability and impudence, coupled with the fact
that he really was, Avhat his rivals chiefly
pretended to be, a clergyman of the Established
Church of England and Ireland, he
has managed to secure the principal part of
this nefarious trade to himself, and has become
Avhat he has named himself, '^ the
Chaplain of the Fleet."

This person attracted to himself, little by
little, a great gathering of followers, admirers,
or friends. No one, I suppose, could be the
friend of one who had so fallen ; therefore
the men who thronged to his lodgings, nearly
every night in the week, were drawn thither

VOL. II. 08

by the fashion, of running after a man who
talked, sang, told stories, and kept open
house in so desperate a quarter as the Fleet
Market, and who yet had the manners of a
gentleman, the learning of a scholar, and the
experience of a traveller.

It was for this reason, solely for curiosity,
that on one fatal evening last year I entreated
Sir Miles Lackington, a former friend of my
father sand myself, to present me to the doctor.
You have made the acquaintance of Sir Miles.
He was once, though perhaps the fact has
not been made known to you by him, also a
prisoner of the Rules. To this had he been
brought by his inordinate love of gambling,
by which he had stripped himself, in six
months, of as fine an estate as ever fell to
the lot of an English gentleman, and brought
himself to a debtor's prison. Sir Miles, who,
Avhen he could no longer gamble, showed
signs of possessing virtues hitherto unsuspected
in him, offered, on the occasion of
borrowing a few guineas of me, to conduct
me, if I wished to spend an evening with the
doctor, as he is called, to the house which
this doctor either owns or frequents.

I am not a lover of that low humour and
those coarse scenes depicted by Mr. Fielding
and Dr. Smollett. I do not delight in seeing
drunken men sprawl in the gutter, nor women
fight upon Fleet Bridge, nor bears baited, nor
pickpockets and rogues pilloried or flogged.
But I was promised something very different
from these scenes. I was to meet. Sir Miles
told me, a remarkable man, who could narrate,
declaim, preach, or sing a drinking song,
just as he was in the vein.

I accepted the invitation, the strangeness
of which affected my curiosity rather than
excited my hopes. I was to witness, I
thought, the spectacle of a degraded wretch
who lived by breaking the law, for each
offence being liable to a penalty of not less
than a hundred pounds. It would be, I
expected, such a sight as that which the
drunken Helot once presented to the virtuous
Spartan youth.

^ We made our way through a mean and
filthy neighbourhood, by the side of a market
heaped with cabbage-stalks, past houses
where, through the common panes of green
glass set in leaden frames, one might see a

38—2

rush light or a tallow candle feebly glimmering,
for a crew of drunken men to shout songs
and drink beside.

The room into Tvhich I was led opened
off the street, and was of fair proportions,
bat low. In it was a table, at the head of
which, in a vast wooden chair, sat a man who
looked, though perhaps he was not, the biggest
man I had ever seen. Some tall men have
small hands, or narrow shoulders, or small
heads ; Dr. Shovel is great all over, with a
large and red face, a silk cassock, a full and
flowing wig, clean bands, and a flowered
morning-gown very large and comfortable.

^ He seemed struck with some astonishment
on hearing my name, but presently recovered,
and invited me to sit at his right hand. Sir
Miles sat at his left. The room was pretty
full, and we found that the evening had
already begun by the exhaustion of the first
bowl of punch. The guests consisted of
gentlemen who came, like myself, to see and
converse with the famous doctor : and of
prisoners who, like Sir Miles, were living in
the Rules.

As the punch went round, the talk grew

more jovial. That is to say, the talk of the
doctor, because no one else said anything.
He talked continuously ; he talked of everything.
He seemed to know everything, and
to have been everywhere. When he was not
talking he was sinofinof. At intervals he
smoked a pipe of tobacco, which did not
interrupt his talk ; and he never ceased
sending round the punch. I found that the
visitors were expected to provide this part of
the entertainment.

I am sure that the kindest-hearted of
women will believe me when I tell her that
I am no drunkard. Yet there are times
when, owing to the foolish custom of calling
for toasts, no heeltaps, and a brimming glass,
the most careful head may be affected. Nor
can I plead inexperience in the dangers of
the bottle, after three years at St. John's,
Cambridge, where the Fellows of the Society,
and the noblemen and gentlemen commoners
on the Foundation, drank freely at every
college feast of the college port and the
punch sent up from the butteries. I had
been like other young men, but I trust that
your imagination will not picture Lord Chud-

leigh carried away from the combination-room
and put to bed by a couple of the college
gyps. Yet, worse still, I have to present
that spectacle before your eyes, not at a grave
and reverend college feast, but in the dissolute
Liberties of the Fleet.

The atmosphere of the room was close and
hot, with the smell of the tobacco and the
fumes of the punch-bowl. Presently I found
that my eyes were beginning to swim and
my head to reel. I half rose to go, but
the doctor, laying his hand upon me, cried,
with a great oath, that we should not part
yet.

^ By this time Sir Miles was lying with his
head on the table. Some of the guests were
lying on the floor ; some were singing, some
crying ; some kissing each other. It was, in
short, one of those scenes of debauchery
which may be witnessed whenever a party of
men meet too-ether to drink. I sat down : it
vas plain that I could not escape from these
hogs without myself becoming a hog. I sat
still, therefore, while the doctor still talked,
still laughed, still waved his monstrous great
hand in the air as he talked, and the punch

still Aveiit briskly round among the few who
sat upright.

^ In the morning I was awakened by no
other than my host of the preceding evening,
in vv'hose bed I had spent the rest of the
night, unconscious.

He stood over me with grave face, and, in
reproachful accents, asked me how I fared
and for what purpose I had come to him ? I
was still half drunk ; I could not remember
for what purpose. He assisted me to dress ;
and then, because I could not stand, he gave
me a mug of small ale with which to clear
my brain.

^ Being thus partly restored to my senses,
I listened while he answered his own question
and told me why I had come to
him.

'' You came," he said, ^^ to be married."

I stared. He repeated the words :

*^ You came to be married."

*It seems incredible that a man should hear
a statement so utterly false and not cry out
upon the liar. Yet I did not. My brain
vias confused, that is my excuse. Also, this
great man seemed to hold me like a wizard,

while he held up his forefinger and, with
wrinkled brow, shook it in my face.

" You came to be married."

Good heavens ! What did this mean ? I
was drunk, horribly drunk the night before —
I could not remember — so drunk was I —
how I came to the house, with whom, with
what intent.

" She waits below," he told me.

She ? Who %

He gave me his arm to support me down
the stairs. I descended, curious and agitated.
I remember a figure with a hood. While I
looked, this Chaplain of the Devil began the
marriage service, his eyes still fixed on me
while he recited, and seemed to read.

^ When he had finished I was married.

After we had signed a book he gave me
another great mug of ale, which I drank to
the bottom.

Then, I suppose, I rolled over, and was
carried upstairs, for I remember nothing
more until the evening, when I was again
awakened by this rogue and common cheat,
who, sitting by my bedside, congratulated
me calmly on the day's work.

I will not go on to tell you all the things
he said. I discovered that in some way, I
know not how, but can guess, my father had
once done this man an injury. This conspiracy
was his revenge.

Who was my wife 1

He would not tell me.

^ What was her position, her birth, her
name ? Was she some wretched creature
who could be bought off to keep silence
Awhile she lived, although she was a thing to
be ashamed of and to hide ? Was she some
person who would trade on her title, parade
her infamy, and declare herself to the world
as Lady Chudleigh by her lord's marriage in
the Fleet ? A hundred things I asked. He
would give me no reply.

Her name ? I had forgotten it. The
register ? it had been put away. I seemed
to know the name, somehow ; yet it escaped
me. In the night it came back to me in a

o

dream ; yet in the morning it was gone again.
Once,after my first evening with you, the name
came to me once more in a dream ; yet it was
gone when I awoke, and could remember no
other name than yours. It is nearly a year

ago. I know not yet whom I married. She
hath made no sign. Yet kno\v I full well
that the day will come when she will confess
herself and demand acknowledgment.

One hope remains : that the marriage is
not valid. It is a slender hope, for the man
is an ordained clergyman of the Established
Church. I am going to London to see him,
to implore his pity, to humble myself if necessary.


^^ 7k 7iJ * Jii

It is of no avail. I have gone. I have
humbled myself, and then, Hying into the
opposite extreme, I have cursed him. He
enjoyed both the wrath and the humility.

I have no longer any hope ; I have taken
the advice of my lawyers, who tell me that
an Act of Parliament alone can set me free ;
this Act — how can it be got when I do not
know the name of the woman ?

Even if there were any reasonable chance
that so dreadful a place could produce a
woman of virtue and honour, which there is
not, I could never look upon that woman
With any but feelings of loathing and horror.
For not only is her idea black beyond compare,

but my heart is full, and will remain
for ever full, of Kitty PI ey dell.

Strange to say, as I wrote the words, it
seemed as if I had touched at last the chord
of memory. The name was on my lips. No
it was an illusion ; I have forgotten it
again, and can only murmur Kitty Pleydell,
sweet Kitty, divine Kitty, on whom may all
the blessiiio's of Heaven rest for ever !'

HOW NANCY HAD A QUICK TONGUE.

This was at once a sad and yet most joyful
confession. For while the ofirl who read it
was full of shame and terror in thinking of
his righteous wrath and loathing, yet the
tender love which filled the pages and fired
her soul with wonder and rejoicing forbade
her to believe that love was not stronger
than wrath. She was so ignorant and inexperienced,
the girl who joined in this
treacherous deed ; she was so dominated by
the will of that masterful man, her uncle ;
she was so taken by surprise — surely, when
he learned these things, he would forgive the
past.

But should she tell him at once '?

It would be better to tell him than that

lie should find it out. There were many
ways in which he could find it out. Oh,
the shame of being found out, the meanness
of taking all his secrets and giving none !
Roger, the doctor's man, might for a bribe,
were the bribe heavy enough to outweigh his
fear of the doctor, tell the name of the bride ;
the doctor mio'ht think the time come Avhen
he should step forward and reveal the secret ;
even there was danger that his lordship might
remember the name which he had seen but
once, and ask me sternly if there were upon
the earth two Kitty Pleydells, of the same
age, the same height, and the same face.
And what should I say then ?

Stimulated by this thought, as by the
touch of a sharp spur, I procured an inkstand
and paper, and began to write a letter of confession.


*My Lord,'

What to say next ?

'My Lord,'

In what words to clothe a most shameful
story %

We cheat ourselves ; we do one thing and
call it another; we stop the voice of conscience
by misrepresenting our actions ; and whereas
we ought to be weighed down by the burden
of our sins, we carry ourselves confidently,
with light hearts, as if we had done nothing
to be ashamed of. It is only when our
crimes are set forth in plain English that we
know them for the shameful things they are.
What was I to tell my lord ?

A girl, brought up in the fear of God and
His commandments, can be so weak as to
obey a man who ordered her to do a wicked
thing. Could she be, afterwards, so cowardly
as not to tell the man whom she had thus injured,
even when she knew that he loved
her ? A wicked crime and a course of deceit !
How could I frame the words so as to disarm
that righteous wrath ?

'My Lord,

It has been for a long time upon my
conscience to tell you a thing which you
ought to know before you waste one more
thought upon the unworthy person to whom
you addressed a confession. That confession.

indeed, depicted your lordship with such
fidelity as to make me the more ashamed to
unburden my conscience. Know, then,

that '

Here I stopped, With trembling fingers
which refused to move.

'■ Know that ' — what ? That I was his
wicked and unworthy wife, the creature
whom most of all he must hate and despise.

I could not tell him — not then. No ; it
must be told by word of mouth, with such
extenuating phrases and softening of details
as might present themselves to my troubled
mind.

I tore the letter into a thousand fragments.
Was girl ever so bested ? That sacred bond
of union which brings happy lovers together,
the crown of courtship, \h^ end of wooing,
the marriage service itself, was the thing
which kept us asunder.

I would tell him — later on. There would
come an opportunity. I would make the
opportunity, somewhere, at some time. Yes ;
the best way would be to Wait till we vere
alone : it should be in the evening, when my
face and his would be partly veiled by the

night ; then I could whisper the story, and
ask his forgiveness.

But that opportunity never came, as will
be presently seen.

After morning prayers, that day we walked
upon the Terrace, where the company were,
as usual, assembled, and all talking together
below the trees. I held in my hand the
manuscript of my lord's confession. presently
we saw him slowly advancing to meet
us, wearing a grave and melancholy look.
But then he was never one of those who
think that the duties of life are to be met
with a reckless laugh.

Even in laughter,' said the Wise Man,
^ the heart is sorrowful ; and the end of that
mirth is heaviness.'

Dear Miss Pleydell,' whispered Peggy
Baker, as he appeared, ^ can his lordship
have repented already of what he said beneath
the trees last night % The poor young
gentleman wears a heavy countenance this
morning.'

It was best to make no answer to this
raillery. Let her say what she would ; I
cared nothing, and was too heavy myself to

make reply. I would neither help nor
hinder. Then, leaving Mrs. Esther with the
party, I advanced boldly and met my lord,
returning him his manuscript before the eyes
of all.

Everybody stared, wondering what could
be the packet I placed in his hands ; he,
however, received it with a low bow, and
accompanied me to my party, saying nothing
for the moment.

The music was playing its loudest, and as
we walked, my lord beside me, and Mrs.
Esther with Lady Levett — Nancy remaining
behind to exchange insinuations and pert
speeches (in which the saucy damsel took
great delight) with Peggy Baker. I looked
back and saw their heads wagging, while the
bystanders smiled, and presently Peggy
fanned herself, with agitation in her face, by
which it was easy to conclude that Nancy
had said something more than unusually
biting, to which her opponent had, for the
moment, no reply ready.

You have read these papers V asked my
lord, and that in as careless a tone as if they
contained nothing of importance.

VOL. II. 39

Yes I said, ' I have read the sad story.
But I pity the poor woman who was persuaded
to do your lordship this grievous
wrong.'

^ I think she needs and deserves little of
our pity,' he replied. ' And as for persuasion,
it could have Avant but little with a woman
so designing as to join in such a plot.'

A designing woman ! Poor Kitty I

Then I tried, beating about the bush, to
bring his mind round to see the possibility of
a more charitable view.

Remember, my lord, two things. This
Dr. Shovel could not have known of your
coming. The plot, therefore, was swiftly
conceived, and as quickly carried into execution.
You have told me in your paper — I
entreat you, my lord, burn it with all speed
that this man's influence over you was so
great as to coerce you (because your brain
was not in its natural clearness) into doing and
suffering, what, at ordinary times, you would
have rejected with scorn. Bethink you,
then, with charity, that this Dr. Shovel,
this so-called Chaplain of the Fleet, may have
found some poor girl, over whom he had

authority, and in like manner coerced and
forced her to join with him in this most
wicked plot.'

You would make excuses he said, * for
the greatest of sinners. I doubt not that.
But this story is too improbable. I cannot
think that any woman could be so coerced
against her will.'

I sighed.

My lord, I beg you to remember your
promise to me. You will not leave Epsom
without first telling me : you will not seek
out this man, this Dr. Shovel, or quarrel
with him, or do aught to increase his malice.
Meantime, I am feeble, being only a woman,
and bound in obedience and duty to my
guardian and protectress. Yet I bethink me
of an old fable. The lion was one day caught
in the coils of a net, and released by the teeth
of a '

He started.

What does this mean ? Oh, Kitty !
what can you do V

I do not know. Yet, perhaps I may be
able to release you from the coils of this net.
Have patience, my lord.'

39—2

Kitty !'

Let us speak no more about it for the
moment I replied. perhaps, my lord, if
my inquiries lead to the result you desire —
it is Christian to forgive your enemies '

I cannot understand you,' he replied.
How should you — how should anyone —
release me ? Truly, if deliverance came, forgiveness
were a small things to sive

END OF VOL. II.

;^

/3l

PRINTED BY BILLING AND SONS.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 041401065

rs^mm.

AA^A-

«5^^-;^;^a5-

mMm'i.

^^W^

*AAii:t

^^M^^^^^h^f^mi

^^'AA'ii ^'«!'4

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN


B46C

V.3

C>C-*S-*»'X **o^i> ,

Je/U' ^/^/Z

THE -. V

Chaplain of the Fleet

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE

AUTHORS OF

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY,' ' THE MONKS OF THELEMA,' ' READY-money

Mortify,' * BY CELIA's ARBOUR,' ' This SON OF VULCAN,' ' MY LITTLE

Girl,' 'the case of 1\IR. LUCRAFT,' ' WITH HARP AND Crown,"

'when THE SHIP COMES HOME,' ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. in.

E out on

CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY

isti

PART 11.— Continued.

Chapter

XVI. HOW SPED THE MASQUERADE

PAGE


XVII. HOW KITTY PREVENTED A DUEL - - 27

XVIII. HOW HARRY GOT RELEASED - - - 62

XIX. HOW WILL LEVETT WAS DISAPPOINTED - 93

XX. HOW WILL WOULD NOT BE CROSSED - - 130

XXL HOW KITTY WENT TO LONDON - - - 201

XXII. HOW LORD CHUDLEIGH RECEIVED HIS

FREEDOM - 237

CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

PART ll.—Conthmed,

CHAPTER Xii.

HOW SPED THE MASQUERADE.

It was at this time that the company at
Epsom held their masquerade, the greatest
assembly of the season, to which not only the
visitors at the Wells, but also the gentry from
the country around, and many from London,
came ; so that the inns and lodging-houses
overflowed, and some were fain to be content
to find a bed over shops and in the mean
houses of the lower sort. Nay, there were
even many who put up tents on the Downs,
and slept in them like soldiers on a campaign.
VOL. in. 40

At other times my head would have been
full of the coming festivity, but the confession
of my lord and the uncertainty into
which it threw my spirits, prevented my
paying that attention to the subject which
its importance demanded.

^ Kitty,' cried Nancy, ^ I have talked to
you for half an hour, and you have not heard
one word. Oh, how a girl is spoiled the moment
she falls in love ! Don't start, my dear,
nor blush, unless you like, because there is
no one here but ourselves. As for that, all
the place knows that you and Lord Chud-
leigh are in love with each other, though
Peggy Baker will have it that it is mostly
on one side. ''My dear," she said at the
book-shop yesterday, '' the woman shows her
passion in a manner which makes a heart
of sensibility blush for her sex." Don't get
angry, Kitty, because I was there, and set
her down as she deserved. '' Dear me !" I
said, '' we have not all of us the sensibility of
Miss Peggy Baker, who, if all reports are
true, has had time to get over the passion
she once exhibited for the handsome Lord
Chudleigh." Why, my dear, how can anyone

help seeing that the women are monstrous
jealous, and my lord in so deep a
quagmire of love, that nothing but the
marriage-ring (which cures the worst cases)
can pull him out ?'

I had, in verity, been thinking over my
troubles, while Nancy was thinking over her
frocks. Now I roused myself and listened.

'My mother will go as the Queen of Sheba.
She will wear a train over her hoop, a paper
crown, a sceptre, and have two black boys to
walk behind her. That will show who she is.
I am to go as Joan of Arc, with a sword in
my hand, but not to wear it dangling at my
side, lest it cause me to fall down : Peggy
Baker will be Venus, the Goddess of Love.
She will have a golden belt, and a little Cupid
is to follow her with bow and arrows, which
he is to shoot, or pretend to shoot, at the company.
She will sprawl and languish in her
most bewitching manner, the dear creature ;
but since she has failed with Lord Eardisley
there is nobody at Epsom good enough for her.
I hear she goes very shortly to Bath, where no
doubt she will catch a nabob. I hope his liver
and temper will be good. Oh ! and Mr. Stalls



bras will go as a Greek pastoral poet, The,
something — I forget his name — with a lyre in
one hand and a shepherd's crook in the other.
Harry Temple is to go as Vulcan : you will
know him by his limp and by the hammer
upon his shoulder. Sir Miles wants to go as
the God of Cards, but no one seems to know
who that deity was. My father says he shall
go as a plain English country gentleman,
because he sees so few among the company
that the sight may do them good.'

I was going as the Goddess of Night,
because I wanted to have an excuse for
wearing a domino all the evening, most of the
ladies throwing them aside early in the night.
My dress was a long black velvet hood,
covering me from head to foot, without hoops,
and my hair dressed low, so that the hood
could cover the head and be even pulled down
over the face. At first I wanted my lord to
find out by himself the incognita who had
resolved to address him ; but he asked me to
tell him beforehand, and to be sure I could
refuse him nothing.

The splendour of the lights was even
greater than that at Lord Chudleigh's entertainment,

when he lit up the lawn among the
trees with coloured oil lamps. Yet the scene
lacked the awful contrast of the dark and
gloomy wood behind, in which, as one retired
to talk, the music seemed out of place, and the
laughter of the gay throng impertinent. Here
was there no dark wood or shade of venerable
trees to distract the thoughts from the gaiety
of the moment, or sadden by a contrast of the
long-lived forest with the transitory crowd
who danced beneath the branches, as careless
as a cloud of midges on the river-bank, born
to buzz away their little hour, know hope,
fear, and love, feel pain, be cut off prematurely
at their twentieth minute, or wear
on to a green old age and die at the protracted
term of sixty minutes.

The Terrace and the New Parade were
hung with festoons of coloured lamps. There
must have been thousands of them in graceful
arches from branch to branch : the doors of
the Assembly Rooms had columns and arches
of coloured lamps set up beside and over
them : there were porches of coloured lamps :
a temple of coloured lamps beside the watch-house
at the edge of the pond, where horns

were stationed to play while the music rested :
in the Kooms was, of course, to be dancing :
and, which was the greatest attraction, there
were amusements of various kinds, almost as
if one was at a country fair, without the
crowding' of the rustics, the fio^htinof with
quarterstaves, the grinning through horse-collars,
the climbing of greasy poles, and the
shouting. I have always, since that evening,
longed for the impossible, namely, a country
fair without the country people. Why can
we not have, all to ourselves, and away from
a noisy mob of ill-bred and rough people, the
amusements of the fair, the stalls with the
gingerbread, Richardson's Theatre with a
piece addressed to eyes and ears of sensibility,
a wax-work, dancing and riding people, and
clowns ?

Here the presenters of the masquerade had
not, it is true, provided all these amusements
; but there were some : an Italian
came to exhibit dancing puppets, called
fantoccini; a conjurer promised to perform
tricks and swallow red-hot coals, which is
truly a most wonderful feat, and makes one
believe in the power of magic, else how

could the tender throat sustain the violence
of the fire ? a girl was to dance upon the
tight-rope : and a sorcerer or magician or astrologer
was to be seated in a grotto to toll
the fortunes of all who chose to search into
the future.

Nothing could be gayer or more beautiful
than the assemblage gathered together beneath
these lighted lamps or in the Assembly
Rooms in the evening. Mrs. Esther was the
only lady without some disguise ; Sir Robert,
whose dress has been already sufficiently indicated,
gave her his arm for the evening.
All the dresses were as Nancy told me. I
knew Venus by her golden cestus and her
Cupid armed (he was, indeed, the milk-boy) ;
and beneath the domino I could guess, without
having been told, that no other than Peggy
Baker swam and languished. Surely it is
great presumption for a woman to call herself
the Goddess of Beauty. Harry Temple was
fine as Vulcan, though he generally forgot
to go lame : he bore a real blacksmith's
hammer on his shoulder ; but I am certain
that Vulcan never wore so modish a wig with
so gallant a tie behind. And his scowls

meant for me, were not out of keeping with
his character. Nancy Levett was the sweetest
Joan of Arc ever seen, and skipped about to
the admiration of everybody, with a cuirass
and a sword, although the real Joan, who
was, I believe, a village maid, probably wore
a stuff frock instead of Nancy's silk, and I
dare say hoops were not in fashion in her
days. Nor would she have lace mittens or
silk shoes, but bare hands and wooden sandals.
Nor would she powder her hair and dress it up
two feet high, but rather wear it plain, blown
about by the winds, washed by the rain, and
curling as nature pleased. As for Mr. Stal-libras,
it did one good to see him as Theocritus,
nose in air, shepherd's crook on shoulder, lyre
in hand, in a splendid purple coat and wig
newly combed and tied behind, illustrating
the dignity and grandeur of genius. The
Queen of Sheba's black pages (they were a
loan from a lady in London) attracted general
attention. You knew her for a queen by her
crown. There were, however, other queens,
all of whom wore crowns ; and it was difficult
sometimes to know which queen was designed
if you failed to notice the symbol which distinguished

one from the other. Thus Queen
Elizabeth of England, who bore on a little flag
the motto ' Dux semina facti was greatly
indignant when Harry Temple mistook her
for Cleopatra, whose asp was for the moment
hidden. Yet so good a scholar ought to have
known, because Cleopatra ran away at Actium,
and therefore could not carry such a motto,
while Elizabeth conquered in the Channel.
Then it was hard at first sight to distinguish
between Julius Caesar, Hannibal, Timour the
Tartar, Luther, Alfred, and Caractacus, because
they were all dressed very much alike, save
that Luther carried a book, Alfred a sceptre,
Caesar a short sword, Timour a pike, Hannibal
a marshal's hdton, and Caractacus a
bludgeon. The difficulties and mistakes,
however, mattered little, because, when the
first excitement of guessing a character was
over, one forgot about the masquerade and
remembered the ball. Yet it was vexatious
when a man had dressed carefully for, say
Charles the First, to be mistaken for Don
Quixote or Euripides, who wore the same wigs.
I say nothing of the grotesque dresses with
masks and artificial heads, introduced by

some of the young Templarss. They amused,
as such things do, for a while, and until one
became accustomed to them. Then their
pranks ceased to amuse. It is a power
peculiar to man that he can continue to laugh
at horse-play, buffoonery, and low humour for
hours, while a woman is content to laugh for
five minutes, if she laughs at all. I believe
that the admirers of those coarse and unfeeling
books, ' Tom Jones ' and ' Humphrey
Clinker,' are entirely men.

All the ladies began by wearing masks, and
a few of the-men. One of them personated
a shepherd in lamentation for the loss of his
mistress ; that is \b say, he wore ribbons
of black and crimsoi^tied in bows about his
sleeve, and carried a pastoral hook decorated
with the same colours. In this character
some of the company easily recognised Lord
Chudleigh ; and when he led out for the first
minuet a tall, hooded figure, in black velvet,
some thought they recognised Kitty Pleydell.

But why is he in mourning V asked
Peggy Baker, who understood what was
meant. * She cannot have denied him. He
must have another mistress for whom he

has jut on the black ribbons. Poor Kitty !
we are all of us sorry for her. Yet pride
still goes before a falls

No one knew what was meant except
Lord Chudleigh's partner, the figure in black
velvet.

I suppose continued Peggy, alluding to
the absence of my hoops, ' that she wants to
show how a woman would look without the
aid of art. I call it, for my part, odious !'

After the minuet we left the dancers and
walked beneath the lighted lamps on the
Terrace. Presently the music ceased for a
while, and the horns outside began to play.

^ Kitty,' whispered my lord, ' you used
strange words the other night. Were they
anything but a kind hope for the impossible ?
Could they mean anything beyond an attempt
to console a despairing man T

No,' I replied. ' They were more than a
hope. But as yet I cannot say more. Oh,
my lord ! let me enjoy a brief hour of happiness,
if it should die away and come to
nothing.'

T have said that part of the entertainment
was a magician's cave. We found ourselves

opposite the entrance of this place. People
were going in and coming out — or, more
correctly, people were waiting outside for
their turn to go in ; and those who came out
appeared either elated beyond measure with
the prophecies they had heard, or depressed
beyond measure. Some of the girls had
tears in their eyes — they were those to whom
he had denied a lover ; some came out
bounding and leaping with joy — they were
the maidens to whom he had promised a husband
and children dear. Some of the young
men came out with head erect and smiling
lips : I suppose the wizard had told them of
fortune, honour, long life, health and love —
things which every young man must greatly
desire. Some came out with angry frowns
and lips set sternly, as if resolved to meet
adverse fortune with undaunted courage —
which is, of course, the only true method.
But I fear the evening's happiness was destroyed
for these luckless swains and nymphs :
the lamps would grow dim, the music lose its
gladness, the wine its sparkle.

Let us, my lord,' I said, little thinking
of what was to happen within the cave —

Let us, too, consult the oracle, and learn
the future.'

At first he refused, saying, gravely, that
to inquire of wise men or wise women was
the sin of Saul with the witch of Ensor :
that whatever might have happened in olden
time, as in the case of the Delphic oracles or
the High Places, where they came to inquire
of Baal or Moloch, there was now no voice
from the outer world nor any communication
from the stars, or from good spirits or from evil.

Therefore,' he said, * we waste our time,
sweet Kitty, in idly asking questions of this
man, who knows no more than we know ourselves.'


Then,' I asked, ^ let us go in curiosity,
because I have never seen a wizard, and I
know not what he is like. You, I am sure
will keep me safe from harm, whatever
frightful creature he may be.'

So without thinking I led the way to the
Wizard's Cave.

It stood in the Parade, beneath the trees ;
at the door were assembled a crowd of the
masqueraders, either waiting their turn or
discussing the reply of the oracle ; the entrance,

before which was a heavy curtain,
double, was guarded by a negro, armed with
an immense cutlass, which he ever and anon
whirled round his head, the light falling on
the bright steel, so that it seemed like a ring
of fire, behind which gleamed his two eyes,
as bright as a panther's eyes, and his teeth,
as white as polished ivory. The sight of him
made some of the women retreat, and refuse
to go in at all.

The wise man received only one couple at
a time : but when the pair then with him
emerged, the negro stepped, forward and
beckoned to us, though it was not our turn
to enter the cave. I observed that the last
pair came out with downcast eyes. I think
I am as free from superstition as any woman,
yet I needs must remark, in spite of my
lord's disbelief in magic or astrology, that
the unhappy young man whose fortune this
wizard told (an evil fortune, as was apparent
from his face) ran away with the girl who
was with him (an honest city merchant's
daughter), and having got through his whole
stock, took to road, and was presently caught,
tried, sentenced, and hanged in chains on Bag-shot

Heath, where those who please may go
and see him. With such examples before one
it is hard not to believe in the conjurer and
the wise woman, just as a thousand instances
might be alleged from any woman's experience
to prove that it is unlucky to spill salt
(without throwing some over your left
shoulder), or to dream of crying children, or
to cross two knives upon a plate —-with many
other things which are better not learned,
would one wish to live a tranquil life.

What they called the Wizard's Cave was a
little building constructed specially for the
occasion, of rude trunks of trees, laid one
upon the other, the interstices filled up with
moss, to imitate a hermitage or monkish cell ;
a gloomy abode, consecrated to superstition
and horrid rites. The roof seemed to be
made of thatch, but I think that was only an
illusion produced by the red light of an oil-lamp,
which hung in the middle, and gave a
soft and flickering, yet lurid light, around
the hut. There also hung up beside the lamp,
and on the right hand, the skin of a grisly crocodile,
stuffed, the sight of which filled me with
a dreadful apprehension, and made me, ever

after, reflect on the signal advantages possessed
by those who dwell in a land where
such monsters are unknown. A table stood
in the middle, on which, to my horror, were
three grinning skulls in a row ; and in each
they had placed a lamp of different colours,
so that through the eye-holes of one there
came a green, of another a red, and of the
third a blue light, very horrible and diabolical
to behold.

There was also a o^reat book — doubtless
the book of Fate — upon the table. Behind
it sat the Sage himself. He was a man with
a big head covered with grey hair, which
hung down upon his shoulders long and unkempt,
and with a tall mitre, which had
mysterious characters engraved over it, and
between the letters what seemed in the dim
light to be flames and devils — the fit occupant
of this abominable place. He wore
spectacles and a great Turkish beard, frightful
and Saracenic of aspect.

I thought of the witch of Ensor, of those
who practised divinations, and of the idolatrous
practices on High Places and in groves,
and I trembled lest the fate of the Prophets

of Baal might also be that of the profane
mqah^ers. Outside, the music played and the
couples were dancing.

The Wizard looked up as we stood before
him. Behind the blue spectacles and the
great beard, even in the enormous head I
recognised nothing and suspected nothing ;
but when he spoke, and in deep sonorous
tones called my companion by his name :

Lord Chudleigh, what wilt thou inquire
of the oracle V

Then indeed I turned giddy and faint, and
should have fallen, but my lord caught me by
the waist.

Be soothed, Kitty,' he whispered. ' Here
is nothing to fright us but the mummery of a
foolish masquerade or the roguery of a rascal
quack. Calm yourself

Alas ! I feared no more the crocodile, nor
the horrid death's heads, nor the Turkish
beard, nor the mitre painted with devils — if
they were devils. They disquieted me at first
sight, it is true : but now was I in deadly
terror, for I knew and feared the voice. It
was no other than the voice of the Doctor,

VOL. III. 41

the Chaplain of the Fleet. For what trouble,
what mischief, was he here ?

Then I recovered, saying to myself:
Kitty, be firm. Resolve by neither act nor
word to do harm to thy lover. Consent not
to any snare. Be resolute and alert.'

Lord Chudleigh, seeing me thus composed,
stepped forward to the table and said :

Sir Magician, Wizard, Conjurer, or whatever
name best befits you, for you and your
pretended science I care not one jot, nor do
I believe but that it is imposture and falsehood.
Perhaps, however, you are but acting
a part in the masquerade. But the young
lady hath a desire to see what you do, and
to ask you a question or two.'

'Your lordship must own that I know
your name, in spite of your domino.'

Tut, tut ! everybody here knows my name,
whether I wear a domino or take it off. That
is nothing. You are probably one of the
company in disguise.'

You doubt my power % Then, without
your leave, my lord, permit me to tell you a
secret known to me, yourself, and one or two
others only. It is a secret which no one has

yet whispered about ; none of the company
at the Wells know it ; it is a o^reat secret :
an important secret ' — all this time his voice
kept growing deeper and deeper. * It is a
secret of the darkest. Stay — this young
lady, I think, knows it.'

^ For Heaven's sake ' I cried, but was

interrupted by my lord.

^ Tell me your secret,' he said calmly.
Let us know this wonderful secret.'

The Doctor leaned forward over the table
and whispered in his ear a few words. Lord
Chudleigh started back and gazed at him
with dismay.

So r he cried ; ' it is already becoming
town talk, is it ?'

The Magician shook his head.

Not so, my lord. No one knows it yet
except the persons concerned in it. No one
v/ill ever know it if your lordship so pleases.
I tolc^ you but to show the power of the
Black Art.'

I wonder, then, how you know.'

The Wizard, by his Art, learns as much
of the past as he desires to know ; he reads

41—2

the present around him, still by aid of this
great j^ rt ; he can foretell the future, not by
the gift of prophecy, but by studying the
stars.'

Tell me, then,' said Lord Chudleigh, as if
in desperation, ' the future. Yet this is idle
folly and imposture.'

That which is done ' — the Sage opened
the book and turned over the pages, speaking
in low, deep tones — ^ cannot be undone,
whatever your lordship might ignorantly
wish. That which is loved may still beloved.
That which is hoped may yet come
to pass.'

Is that all you have to say to me ?'

Is it not enough, my lord ? Would
any king's counsel or learned Serjeant give
you greater comfort ? Good-night. Leave,
now, this young lady with me, alone.'

First read me the oracle of her future, as
you have told me mine ; though still, I say,
this is folly and imposture.'

The Magician gravely turned over his
pages, without resenting this imputation, and
read, or seemed to read :

Love shall arise from ashes of buried scorn :
Joy from a hate in a summer morning born :
When heart with heart and pulse with pulse shall beat,
Farewell to the pain of the storm and the fear of the
Fleet.'

Good heavens !' cried Lord Chudleigh,
pressing his hand to his forehead. 'Am I
dreaming ? Are we mad ?

Now, my lord said the pretended wizard,
go to the door ; leave this young lady with
me. I have more to tell her for her own
ears. She is quite safe. She is not the
least afraid. At the smallest fright she will
cry aloud for your help. You will remain
without the door, within earshot.'

Yes I murmured, terrified, yet resolute.
Leave me a few moments alone. Let me
hear what he has to say to me.'

Then my lord left me alone with the
Doctor.

When the heavy curtain fell before the
door, the Wizard took off the great mitre and
laughed silently and long, though I felt no
cause for merriment.

'Confess, child,' he said, 'that I am an
oracle of Dodona, a sacred oak. Lord Chud-
leigh is well and properly deceived. But we

have little time for speech. I came here,
Kitty, to see you, and no one else. By
special messengers and information gained
from letters, I learned, as I wrote to you (to
my great joy), that this young lord is deeply
enamoured. You are already, it is true, in
some sort — nay, in reality, his bride, though
he knows it not. Yet I might waive my
own dignity in the matter, for the sake of thy
happiness ; and, if you like to wed him, why,
nothing is easier than to let him know that
his Fleet wife is dead. They die of drink
daily. Roger, my man, will swear what I
tell him to swear. This I have the less compunction
in persuading him to do, because, inconsequence
of his horrid thieving, robbing,
fighting, and blaspheming, his soul is already
irretrievably lost, his conscience seared with
a hot iron, and his heart impenitent as the
nether millstone. Also the evidence of the
marriage, the register, is in my hands, and
may be kept or destroyed, as I please. Therefore
it matters nothing what this rogue may
swear. I think, child, the best thing would
be to accept my Lord's proposals ; to let
him know, through me, that his former wife,

whose name he knows not, is dead ; he maybe
told, so that he may remain ashamed of
himself, and anxious to bury the thing in
silence, that she died of gin. He would
then be free to marry you ; and, should he
not redeem his promise and give you honourable
marriage, it will be time to reduce him
to submission — with the register.'

Shall I confess that, at the first blush, this
proposal was welcome to me ? It seemed so
easy a relief from all our troubles. The supposed
death of his wife, the destruction of the
register — what could be better %

Be under no fear continued the Doctor,
^ of my fellow Koger. He dares not speak.
By Heaven ! I have plenty to hang him
with a dozen times over, if I wished. He
would murder me, if he dared, and would carry
me up to Holborn Bridge, where I could be
safely dropped into the Fleet Ditch ; but
he dares not try. Why, if he proclaimed
this marriage on Fleet Bridge (but that he
dares not do), no one would believe it on
his word, such a reputation has he, while I
have the register safely locked up. Whereas,
did they come forward to give evidence forme,

at my bidding, so clear is my case, and so
abundant my proofs, that no counsel could
shake them.'

This speech afforded me a little space
wherein to collect my thoughts. Love makes
a woman strong. Time was when I should
have trembled before the Doctor's eyes, and
obeyed him in the least particular. But now
I had to consider another beside myself.

What I thought was this. Suppose the
plot carried out, and myself married to my
lord again. There would be this dreadful
story on my mind. I should not dare to own
my relationship with this famous Doctor ; I
should be afraid lest my husband should find
it out. I should be afraid of his getting on
the scent, as children say ; therefore I
should be obliged to hide all that part of
my life which was spent in the Fleet.
Yet there were many persons — Mrs. Esther,
Sir Miles, Solomon Stallabras, beside my
uncle — who knew all of it, except that one
story. Why, any day, any moment, a chance
word, an idle recollection, might make my
husband suspicious and jealous. Then farewell
to all my happiness ! Better none at all,

than to have it snatched from me in that
way.

There is a second plan he went on. ' We
may tell him exactly who and what you are.'

Oh, sir !' T cried, ' do nothing yet. Leave
it all with me for a little — I beg, I implore
you ! I love him, and he loves me. Should
I harm him, therefore, by deceiving him and
marrying him, while I hid the shameful story
of the past ? You cannot ask me to do that.
I will not do it. And should you, against
my will, acquaint him with what has happened,
I swear that, out of the love I bear
him, I will refuse and deny all your allegations
— yea, the very fact itself, with the
register and the evidence of those two rogues.
Sir, which would the court believe ? the
daughter of the Rev. Lawrence Pleydell, or
the rascal runner of a — of yourself V

He said nothing. He looked surprised.

No,' I went on ; 'I will have no more
deception. Every day I suffer remorse from
my sin. There shall be no more. My mind,
sir, is made up. I will confess to him everything.
Not to-night ; I cannot, to-night.
And then, if he sends me away with hatred,

I will never — never — stand in his way ; I
will be as one dead.'

This,' said the Doctor, ' it is to be young
and to be in love. I was once like that
myself. Go, child ; thou shalt hear from me
again.'

He put on his mitre and beckoned me to
the door. I went out without another word.
Without stood a crowd, including Peggy
Baker.

Oh !' she cried. ' She looks frightened,
yet exulting. Dear Miss Pleydell, I hope
he prophesied great things for you ! A title
perhaps, an estate in the country, a young
and handsome lover, as generous as he is
constant. But we know the course of truelove
never '

Here my lord took my hand and led me
away from the throng. Another pair went
in, and the great negro before the door began
again to flash his cutlass in the lights, to show
his white teeth, and to turn those white eyes
about which looked so fierce and terrible.

HOW KITTY PREVENTED A DUEL.

The agitation of spirits into which I was
thrown by this interview With the doctor,
banded me for the moment to the fact that
Harry Temple, of whose pretensions I thought
I had disposed, was still an angry and
rejected suitor. Indeed, for a few days he
had ceased to persecute me. But to-night
he manifested a jealousy which was inexcusable,
after all I had said to him. No one, as
I had gone so far as almost to explain to him,
had a better right to give me his hand for the
evening than my lord ; yet this young man,
as jealous as the blacksmith god whom he
personated, must needs cross our steps at
every turn, throwing angry glances both
upon me and my partner. He danced with

no one ; lie threw away his hammer, left off
limping, consorted with none of the gay
company, but nursed his wrath in silence.

Now the last dance of the evening, which
took place at two o'clock in the morning, was
to be one in which all the ladies threw their
fans upon the table, and the gentlemen
danced each with her whose fan he picked
from the pile. My lord whispered to me that
I was first to let him see my fan, whereupon,
when the fans lay upon the table, he deliberately
chose my own and brought it to me.

I took off my domino, which was now
useless, because all the company knew the
disguise. Everybody laughed, and we took
our places to lead off the country-dance.

It was three o'clock when we finished
dancing and prepared to go home.

Harry Temple here came up to me and
asked if he might have the honour of escorting
me to my lodgings. I answered that I
had already promised that favour to Lord
Chudleigh.

^ Every dance, the whole evening : the
supper, the promenade : all given to this
happy gentleman ! Surely, Kitty, the Queen

of the Wells might dispense her favours more
generously.'

The Queen,' said Lord Chudleigh, ' is the
fountain of honour. We have only to accept
and be grateful.'

I laughed and bade Harry good-night,
and offered him my hand, which he refused
sullenly ; and murmuring something about
pride and old friends, turned aside and let us
go.

Everybody, it seems, noticed the black
looks of Harry Temple all the evening, and
expected, though in my happiness I thought
not of such a thing, that high words would
pass between this sulky young gentleman
and his favoured rival, to whom he was so
rude and unmannerly. Now, by the laws of
the Wells, as laid down strictly in the rules
of the great Mr. Nash for Tunbridge Wells
and Bath, and adopted at all watering-places,
the gentlemen wore no swords on the Parade
and in the card-rooms ; yet was it impossible
to prevent altogether the quarrels of hot-blooded
men, and the green grass of the
Downs had been stained with the blood of
more than one poor fellow, run through as

the consequence of a foolish brawl. When
will men cease to fight duels, and seek to kill
each other for a trifling disagreement, or a
quarrel ?

Generally, it takes two to make a quarrel,
and few men are so perverse as deliberately
to force a duel upon another against his will.
Yet this was what Harry Temple, my old
schoolfellow, my old friend, of whom I once
held so high an opinion, so great a respect,
actually did with Lord Chudleigh. He
forced the quarrel upon him. My lord was
always a gentleman of singular patience, forbearance,
and sweetness, and one who would
take, unprovoked, a great deal of provocation,
never showing the usual sign of resentment
or anger, although he might be forced to
take up the quarrel. He held, indeed, the
maxim that a man should always think so
well of himself as to make an insult impossible,
unless it be deliberate, open, and clearly
intended. As for his courage, he went on to
say that it was a matter of self-respect : if a
man's own conscience approve (which is the
ultimate judge for all but those whose consciences
are deadened by an evil life), let

him fear not what men say, knowing full
well that if they dare say more than the
customs of the polite world allow, it is easy
for every man to prove that he is no coward.

Lord Chudleigh, then, having led us to
the door of our own lodging, unfortunately
returned to the Assembly Rooms, where — and
outside upon the Terrace — some of the gentlemen
yet lingered. I say unfortunately, because,
as for what followed, I cannot believe
but that poor Harry, whose disposition was
not naturally quarrelsome, might have been
inflamed by drinking wine with them when
he ought to have gone to bed. Now wine, to
one who is jealous, is like oil upon fire. And
had my lord, for his part, retired to Durdans
-^as he might very properly have done,
seeing the lateness of the hour — the morning's
reflection would, I am sure, have persuaded
Harry that he had been a fool, and
had no reasonable ground for quarrel with
his lordship or with me.

The sun was already rising, for it was
nearly four o'clock in the morning ; the
ladies were all gone off to bed ; those who
lay about the benches yawned and stretched

themselves ; some were for bed, some for
another bottle ; some were talking of an
early gallop on the Downs ; the lamps yet
glimmered in their sockets ; the Terrace
looked, with its oil lamps still burning in the
brightness of the morning sunshine, with the
odds and ends of finery, the tattered bravery
of torn dresses, gold and silver lace, tinfoil,
broken paper crowns and helmets, as sad asa
theatre the morning after a performance ;
the stalls of the Wizard, the Italian performers,
and the dancing girl, were empty and
open ; their hangings were already torn
down, the stand for the horses beside the
pond was broken in parts.

When Lord Chudleigh came back he found
waiting for him, among the latest of the revellers,
Harry Temple, his face pale, his lips
set, his manner agitated, as of one who contemplates
a rash act.

My lord threw himself upon a bench under
the trees, his head upon his hand, pensive,
thinking to calm the agitation of his spirits
by the freshness of the morning air. Harry
began walking up and down in front of him,
casting angry glances at him, but as yet

ZZ

speaking not. Now, within the deserted
card-room when the Hghts had all burned
out, and the windows were wide open, sat all
by himself Sir Miles Lackington, turning
over a pack of cards at one of the empty
tables, and thinking over the last nio^ht's
play, at which he had won some money, and
regretted to have been stopped just when he
was in luck. There were now only a few
gentlemen left, and these were one by one
dropping off.

Presently, with an effort, Harry Temple
stopped in front of his lordship and spoke to
him.

I declare that up to this time poor Harry
had always been the most peaceful of creatures,
though strong, and well accustomed
to hold bouts with Will, in which he proved
almost equal to that stalwart competitor, at
wrestling, candlestick, quarterstaff, or boxing.
Also, as was proved by the affray of the
Saturday evening, already related, not unready
on occasion. But a bookish youth,
and'not one who sought to fix quarrels upon
any man, or to commit murder in the name of
honour. And this shows how dangerous a

VOL. III. 42

passion is thwarted love, which can produce
in a peaceful man's bosom jealousy, hatred,
rage, and forgetfulness of that most sacred
commandment which enjoins us not to slay.

I trust, my lord,' he said, laughing and
blushing, as if uncertain of himself, ' that
your lordship hath passed a pleasant evening
with the Queen of the Wells.'

Lord Chudleigh looked up surprised.
Then he rose, for there was a look in
Harry's eyes which meant mischief. The
unlucky love-sick swain went on :

Lord Chudleigh and Miss Kitty Pleydell.
The very names seem made for one another ;
no doubt his lordship is as fine a gentleman
as the lady is beautiful.'

Sir r said Lord Chudleigh, quietly, ^ you
have perhaps been drinking. This is the
only excuse for such an association of my
name with that young lady's in a public
assembly.'

Oh !' he said, ' I want no excuse for addressing
your lordship. The Temples were
gentlefolk before the Chudleighs were
heard of.'

Well, Mr. Temple, so be it. Enjoy that

superiority. Shall we close this discussion
?'

No, my lord ; there is more to be said.'

He spoke hotly, and with an anger which
ought surely to have been simulated, such,
small provocation as he had received.

Then, sir, in Heaven's name let us say
it and have done with it

You have offended me, my lord — you best
know how.'

I believe I know, Mr. Temple. You
also know what grounds you have for believing
that to be an offence.'

I say, my lord,' his voice rose and his
eyes flashed, 'that you have offended me.'

Had I done so wittingly returned Lord
Chudleigh, ' I should Willingly ask pardon
But I deny your right to take offence.'

You have offended me highly,' he repeated,
' and that in a manner which makes
an apology only a deeper insult. You have
offended me in a manner which only one
thing can satisfy.'

Before we go any farther, Mr. Temple,'
said my lord, sitting down again calmly and
without heat, ' I would know exactly the

42—2

nature of my offence, and your reasonable
right to regard it as such.'

It needs not, my lord. You know well
enough what I mean.'

I know that, of course. I would wish to
know, as well, your right to be offended.'
I say, my lord, that it is enough.'
Harry, being in the wrong, spoke still
more loudly, and those who were left drew
near to see the quarrel.

You need not raise your voice, sir,' said
Lord Chudleigh ; ' I like any altercation in
which I may be unhappily engaged to be
conducted like the rest of my business in life,
namely, with the decorum and quietness
which become gentlemen like the Temples,
and those of that younger family the Chud-
weighs. You have, I believe, travelled. You
have therefore, without doubt, had opportunities
of observing the well-bred and
charming quietness with which gentlemen in
France arrange these little matters, particularly
when, as now, the dispute threatens to
involve the name of a lady. Now, sir, that
we understand each other, I must inform
you that unless I know the exact nature of

my offence to you, which I have the right to
demand, this affair will proceed no farther.
I would as soon accept a quarrel from a
mad Malay running amuck at all he
meets

My lord !' cried Harry, with red face and
trembling fingers.

Of course I do not pretend to be unable
to form a guess,' Lord Chudleigh went on
gravely ; ' but I must beg you to instruct me
exactly what you mean. You will observe,
sir, thp;t I am here, as a visitor, previously
unknown to yourself It is therefore strange
to learn that one has offended a gentleman
towards whom my behaviour has been
neither less nor more guarded than towards
others.'

'My lord, you 'have offended me by the
attentions you have paid to a young lady.'

Indeed, sir I So I believed. But permit
me to ask if the young lady is connected
with you or with your house by any ties of
relationship or otherwise ?'

She is not, my lord.'

Further : have you any right of guardianship
over this young lady V

'None, my lord. But yet you have
offended me.'

The young lady is free to accept the
attention of any man she may prefer ; to
show her preference as openly as she considers
proper. I conclude this to be the
case. And, if so, I am unable to perceive
in what way I can wilfully have offended
you.'

'Your lordship said Harry Temple, enraged
by his adversary's calmness, but yet
with sufficient self-command to speak in
lower tones, ' has offended me in this : that
if you had not paid those attentions to Miss
Pleydell, she might have accepted those
courtesies which T was prepared to offer her.'

Indeed, sir ! that is a circumstance with
which I am wholly unconcerned. No doubt
the same thing might be said by other gentlemen
in this company.'

I knew that young lady, my lord, long
before you did. It was my deliberate purpose,
long ago, to make her my wife when
the opportunity arrived '

The time has come,' resumed Lord Chud-
leigh, ' but not the man '

I say, it was my fixed intention to marry
Miss Pleydell. I did not, my lord, form
these resolutions lightly, nor abandon them
without sufficient reason. It is still my resolution.
I say that you shall not stand
between me and my future wife !'

Indeed ! But suppose Miss Pleydell refuses
to give her consent to this arrangement
% Surely such a resolve, however
laudable, demands the consent of the other
party.'

Miss Pleydell will not refuse my hand
when you have left her. Abandon a field,
my lord, which never belonged to yourself
'

Tut, tut !' said Lord Chudleigh. ' This,
sir, is idle talk. You cannot seriously
imagine '

I seriously imagine that, if necessary, I
will make my way to that young lady over
your lordship's body, if you stand in my
way.'

Lord Chudleigh took off his hat and bowed
low.

Then, sir, the sooner you take the first
step in the pursuance of your resolution the

better. I will bar your way upon the Downs
at any time you may appoint.'

Harry returned the obeisance.

'I wait your lordship's convenience he said.

My convenience shall be yours, Mr.
Temple. For it is you who desire to run
me through, not I you. Have your own way.'

It is late to-nights said Harry, now quite
calm, though with a hot flush upon his cheek.
Your lordship would like to rest. Perhaps
tomorrow, after breakfast, while the ladies
are at morning prayer.'

Oh, the bloodthirsty wretch !

Lord Chudleigh bowed again.

That time, Mr. Temple, will I dare say
suit the convenience of my second.'

The code of honour, be it observed, does
not allow the exhibition of any emotion of
horror, remorse, or repugnance, when you
arrange to commit that private murder which
gentlemen call a duel.

Lord Chudleigh bowed once more, and left
his adversary. He walked across the terrace
to the card-room, where Sir Miles was alone
with the scattered packs of cards. When he
came out, he bowed a third time, and walked

slowly away. I hope that, in his own
chamber, he reflected on the wickedness of
the appointment he had made, and on its
possible consequences.

Sir Miles threw away the cards, and came
out rubbing his eyes.

Gods my life, sir !' he said, addressing
Harry Temple, who, now that the mischief
was done, looked somewhat sheepish, though
dignified.

The few gentlemen who were left drew
nearer, anxious to lose nothing of what might
happen. English people of all ranks love
above all things to watch a quarrel or a
fight, whatever be the weapons.

Gods my life, sir 1' repeated Sir Miles.
This is a pretty kettle of fish ! Here we
have all spent a pleasant night — dancing,
playing, and making love, everyone happy,
even though some gentlemen did lose their
mistresses or their money, and here you spoil
sport by quarrelling at the end of it. What
the Devil, sir, does it concern you whether
my lord talks gallantry with one young lady
or another V

That, Sir Miles, allow me to tell you, is

my business. If you are his lordship's
second, let us arrange accordingly. If a
principal, let us fight afterwards.'

No, sir,' replied the baronet. ' It is everybody's
business. It concerns the cheerfulness,
the security, the happiness of all this
honourable company. What ! if I amuse myself,
and a young lady too, by writing poems
on her dainty fingers, must I needs go out and
measure swords with every young hot-head
who would fain be doing the same ? Seconds
and principals ? Have we nothing to do but
to fight duels % Mr. Temple, I thought
better things from a gentleman of your rank
and family. What ! any jackanapes lawyer
any pert young haberdasher — might think
it fine thus to insult and challenge a harmless
nobleman of great name and excellent
qualities ! But for you, Mr. Temple ! you, sir,
a gentleman of your county, and of an ancient
and most honourable stock Fie, sir, fie !'

^ I think. Sir Miles,' said Harry, who
wished now to have the preliminaries settled
without more ado, ^ that things having sofar
advanced, these reproaches may be spared
Let us proceed to business.'

A girl can choose, I suppose Sir Miles
went on, ' without the interference or the
objection of a man who is neither her father,
her guardian, her brother, nor her cousin ?
Why, as for this young lady, whose name, I
say, it is not respectful to name in this business
— I myself, sir, I myself paid her attentions
till she bade me go about my business.
What, sir I do you think I should have suffered
any man to question my right to make
a Lady Lackington where I chose, and where
I could ! She laughed in my face. Mighty
pretty laughing lips she has, and teeth as
white as pearls ; and a roguish eye when she
chooses, for all she goes so grave. Did I,
then, go snivelling in the dumps % Did I
take it ill that she showed a liking for Lord
Chudleigh, who is worth ten of me, and a
dozen of you ? Did I hang my chops and
wipe my eyes ? Did I, therefore, insult his
lordship, and call him out X

sall this. Sir Miles,' Harry replied impatiently,
' has nothing to do with the question
which lies between Lord Chudleigh and
myself

What 1 argued, for my own comfort,

when sweet Kitty said me nay, was this: that
the marriage condition hath many drawbacks,
as is abundantly evident from history and
poetry, while freedom hath many sweets —
that a man may tire of a Beauty and a Toast
in a month, but he never tires of liberty —
that children often come after matrimony, and
they are expensive — that, as for the lady's
good looks, why, as many pretty women are
in the sea as ever came out of it. Aud as for
my wounded feelings, why, what is it but so
much vanity ? Granted that she is the Toast
this year: prithee who will be the Toast
next ? Last year, they tell me, it was Peggy
Baker — and a monstrous pretty woman, too,
though not to compare with Kitty. Now
her nose is out of joint. Who next ? Some
little miss now getting rapped over the
knuckles in the nursery, Mr. Temple ; and
she will be, in her turn, quite as fine a
woman as we shall live to see. That is to
say, as I shall live to see, because you, of
course, will be no more. At eleven o'clock
upon the Downs you will get your quietus ;
when my lord's sword has once made daylight
through your fine waistcoat. 'Tis pity,

but yet what help ? Mighty Httle looking
after pretty women Avhere you are going to,
Mr. Temple. I advise you to consider your
earthly concerns before you go out. Well,
'tis a shame, it is, a well-set-up man like you,
with a likely face and pretty fortune, to
throw all away because a woman says nay :

" Shall I, wasting in despair,
Die because a woman's fair V

Tilly wally ! A pretty reason why two tall
fellows should stick swords into each other.
I have a great mind, sir, not to allow my
principal to go out on such a provocation.'

I can easily give him more, Sir Miles,'
said Harry, hotly, ' or you either, as soon as
you have finished your sermon.'

Oh, sir !' Sir Miles laughed and bowed.
'•' Pray do not think that I desire to fight on
that or any other provocation. We gentlemen
of Norfolk sometimes try conclusions
with the cudgel before the rapier comes into
play. Therefore, sir, having given you my
mind on the matter, and havens nothing
more to say at this moment, you may as
well refer me at once to your friend.'

Harry turned to the group of lookers-on.

Gentlemen,' he said, ' an unhappy difference,
as some of you have witnessed, has
arisen between the Lord Chudleigh and
myself. May I request the good offices of
one among you in this affair ?'

One of them, an officer in the king's scarlet,
stepped forward and offered his services.
Harry thanked him, briefly told him where
he lodged, introduced him formally to Sir
Miles, and walked away. A few minutes'
whispered consultations between Sir Miles
and this officer concluded the affair. The
principals were to fight on the Downs at
eleven o'clock, when there are generally,
unless a match is going on, but few people
up there. This arranged. Sir Miles walked
away to tell Lord Chudleigh ; and Harry,
with his second, left the Terrace.

Thus the affair, as gentlemen call an
engagement in. which their own lives and
the happiness of helpless women are concerned,
was quietly arranged on the well-known
laws of honour,' just as if it were
nothing more than the purchase of a horse,
a carriage, or a house ; we at home sleeping

meanwhile without suspicion, dreaming, very

Hkely, of love and joy, even when death was

threatening those dearest to us. Sometimes

when 1 think of this uncertain life, how it is

surrounded by nature with unknown dangers

how thoughtless and wicked men may ina

moment destroy all that most we love —

how in a moment the strongest fortune is

overthrown — how our plans may be frustrated

how the houses of cards (which we have

thought so stable) tumble down without a

warning, and all our happiness with them —

when, I say, I think of these things I wonder

how anyone can laugh and be merry, save

the insensate wretches whose whole thought

is of their own enjoyment for the moment.

Yet the Lord, our Father, is above all ; in

whose hand is the ordering of the smallest

thing — the meanest life. Moreover, He hath

purposed that youth should be a time of joy,

and so hath wisely hidden away the sources

of evil.

Cicely Crump was stirring betimes in the
morning, and before six was in the market
buying the provisions for the day. And as

she passed the door of the Assembly Kooms,
she looked in to see the dipper, a friend of
hers, who sat at the distribution of the
water, though but few of the visitors took it
regularly. This good woman, Phoebe Game
by name, had kept the secret for more than an
hour having heard it, under promise of strictest
secrecy, from one of the late revellers when
she took her place among the glasses at five
o'clock in the mornings. She was a p^ood
woman and discreet according to her lights ;
but this dreadful secret was too much for
her, and if she had not told it to Cicely,
must have told it to some one else. At sight
of her visitor, therefore, discretion abandoned
this good woman, and she babbled all she
knew. Yet not in a hurry, but little by
little, as becomes a woman with such a piece
of intelligence, the parting of which is as the
parting with power.

Cicely,' she said, shaking her forefinger
in an awful and threatening way, * I have
heard this very morning — ah ! only an hour
or so since — news which would make your
poor young lady jump out of her pretty shoes
for fright. I have — I have.'

Goodness !' cried Cicely. ' Oh, Phoebe !
whatever in the world is it V

I dare not tell she replied. ' It is as
much as my place is worth to tell. We
dippers are not like common folk. We must
have no ears to hear and no tongue to speak.
We must listen and make no sign. The
quality says what they like and they doe
what they like. It isn't for a humble dipper
to speak, nor to tell, nor to spoil sport — even
if it is murder.'

Oh, tell me I' cried Cicely. ' Why,
Phoebe, your tongue can run twenty to the
dozen if you like. And if I knew, why,
there isn't a mouse in all Epsom can be
muter, or a guinea-pig dumber. Only you
tell me.'

Thus appealed to, Mrs. Game proceeded
(as she had from the first intended) to transfer
her secret to Cicely, with many interjections,
reflections, sighs, prayers, and injunctions to
tell no one, but to go home and pray on her
bended knees that Lord Chudleigh's hand
might be strengthened and his eye directed,
so that this meddlesome young gentleman
might be run through in some vital part.

VOL. in. 43

Cicely received the intelligence with dismay.
The good girl had more of my confidence
than most ladies give to maids ; but
she was above the common run and quick of
apprehension. Besides, she loved me.

'■ What use,' she asked bitterly, ^ for Mr.
Nash to prohibit the gentlemen from wearing
their swords when they have got them at
home ready for using when they want %
Mr. Temple, indeed ! To think that my
young lady would look at him when my lord
is about !'

^ Well — go, child,' said the dipper. * You
and me, being two poor women with little
but our characters, which are, thank the
Lord, good so far as we have got, cannot
meddle nor make in this pie. I am glad I
told you, though. I felt before you came as if
the top of my head was being lifted off with
the force of it like a loaf with the yeast.
Oh, the wickedness of gentlefolk !'

Cicely walked slowly back, thinking what
she had best do — whether to keep the secret,
or to tell me. Finally she resolved on telling
me.

Accordingly she woke me up, for I was

still asleep, and communicated the dreadful
intelligence. There could be no doubt of its
truth. Sir Miles, she told me, had expostulated
with Harry Temple, who would hear
no reason. They would meet to kill each
other at eleven o'clock, when the ladies were
at prayers, on the Downs behind Durdans.

I thanked her, and told her to leave me
while I dressed ; but not to awaken Mrs.
Pimpernel, who Avould be the better for a
long sleep after her late night, while I
thought over what was to be done.

.First of all I was in a mighty great rage
with Harry ; the rage I was in prevented me
from doings what I ouo^ht to have done — viz.,
had I been in my right mind, I should have
gone to. him instantly, and then and there I
should have ordered him to withdraw from
the Wells. Should he refuse, I would have
gone to Sir Robert, a Justice of the Peace,
and caused the duel to be prevented.

I could find no excuse for Harry. Even
supposing that his passion was so violent
(which is a thing one ought to be ashamed
of rather than to make a boast of it), was that
any reason why my happiness was to be

43—2

LIBRARY

destroyed ? Men, I believe, would like to
carry off their wives as the Romans carried
off the Sabine Avoient, and no marriage feast
would be more acceptable to their barbarous
hearts than the one in which these rude
soldiers celebrated this enforced union.

Cicely and I looked at each other. It was
seven o'clock. The duel was to take place at
eleven. Could I seek out Lord Chudleigh ?
No ; his honour was concerned. Or Sir
Miles ? But the honest baronet looked on
a duel as a necessity of life, which might
happen at any time to a gentleman, though
he himself preferred a bout with cudgels.

Presently Cicely spoke.

I once heard,' she said, ' a story.'

Child, this is no time for telling stories.'

Let me tell it first, Miss Kitty. Nay, it
is not a silly story. A gentleman once had
planned to carry off a great heiress.'

What has that to do with Lord Chud-
leigh % He does not want to carry me off.'

The gentleman was a wicked man and an
adventurer. He only wanted the lady's
money. One of her friends, a woman it
was found out the plot. She wanted to

prevent it without bloodshed, or murder, or
duelling, which would have happened if it
had been prevented by any stupid interference

of clumsy men '

^ Oh, Cicely ! get on with the story.'

She did prevent it. And how do you
think ?'

How r

Cicely ran and shut the door which was
ajar. Then she looked all about the room
and under the bed.

It was a most dreadful wicked thing todo.
Yet to save a friend or a lover, I would
even do it.'

What was it, Cicely V
I must whisper.'

Quick ! give me my hood, child.'

She put it on and tied it with trembling

fingers, because we were really going to do a

most desperate thing.

^ Is the house on the road, Cicely % Cannot

he go by another way X

No ; he cannot go by any other way.'

^ Say not a word. Cicely. Let not madam
think or suspect anything.'

On the road which leads from the town by
a gentle ascent to the Downs, there stood (on
the left-hand side going up) a large square
house in red brick, surrounded by a high
wall on which were iron spikes. The door
of the wall opened into a sort of small lodge,
and the great gates were strong, high, and
also protected by iron spikes. I had often
observed this house ; but being full of my
own thoughts, and not a curious person
always wanting to discover the business of
others, I had not inquired into the reason of
these fortifications. Yet I knew that the
house was the residence of a certain learned
physician. Dr. Jonathan Powlett by name,
who daily walked upon the terrace dressed in
black, With a great gold-headed cane and an
immense full periwig. He had a room in
one of the houses of the Terrace in which he
received his patients, and he made it his
business to accost every stranger on his arrival
with the view of getting his custom. Thus
he would, after inquiring after the stranger's
health, branch off upon a dissertation on the
merits of the Epsom waters and an account
of the various diseases, with their symptoms

(so that timid men often fancied they had
contracted these disorders, and ran to the
doctor in terror), which the waters would
cure. Mrs. Esther was pleased to converse
with him, and I believe spent several guineas
in consultations on the state of her health,,
now excellent.

I had never spoken to him except once
when he saluted me With a finely pompous
compliment about youth and beauty, the
twin stars of such a company as was gathered
together at Epsom. ' Yet,' he said, ' while
even the physician cannot arrest the first of
these, the second may be long preserved by
yearly visits to this invigorating spot, not
foro^ettino^ consultations with scientific and
medical men, provided they are properly
qualified and hold the license of the College
of Physicians, without which a so-called
doctor is but a common apothecary,
chirurgeon, or leech, fit only to blister and
to bleed.'

I made my way to his house, hoping to
catch him before he sallied forth in the
morning. The place was, as I have said,
hidden by high brick walls, and the gate was

guarded by a lodge in which, after ringing a
great bell, I found a man of rough and strong
appearance, who asked me rudely what was
my business.

I told him my business was with his
master.

After a little demur, he bade me wait in
the lodge while he went away, and presently
returned with the doctor.

My dear young lady,' he cried. ^ 1 trust
there is nothing wrong with that most
estimable lady, Mrs. Pimpernel ?'

'Indeed, doctor,' I replied, *I come on
quite a different errand. And my business
is for your ear alone.'

Upon this he bade the fellow retire, and
we were left alone in the little room of the
lodge.

Then I exposed my business.

He looked very serious when he quite
understood what I wanted him to do.

It is very dangerous,' he said.

I then told him how it might be so
managed as that there should be no cano-er
in it at all. He thought for a little, and then
he laughed to himself.

'But, madam lie said, 'suppose I do this
for you safely and snugly. What reward am
I to have for my trouble and risk ?'

What do you think the business is worth V

He looked curiously in my face as if
wondering how much he could safely say.
Then he replied :

I believe it is worth exactly twenty
guineas.'

I can spare no more than ten,' I replied.

Well,' he said, ' ten guineas is a trifle
indeed for so great a risk and so great a
service. Still, if no more is to be had, and
to oblige so sweet a young lady '

Here he held out a fat white hand, the
fingers of which Avere curled as if from long
habit in clutching guineas.

I gave him five, as an instalment, promising
him the other ^^^q when the job was done.

All being safely in train, I returned home
to breakfast ; but after breakfast I returned
to the physician's house, and sat down in the
lodge, so placed that I could see without
being seen, and looked down the road.

After the bell for morning prayers had
stopped, I began to expect my friends. Sure

enough the first who came into sight were
my lord and Sir Miles, the former looking
grave and earnest. A little while after them
came a gentleman whom I knew to be one of
the company at Epsom. He was alone. Now
this was the most fortunate accident because
had the gentleman, who was none other than
Harry's second, accompanied his principal,
my plot had failed. But fortunately (as I
learned afterwards) they missed each other
in the town, and so set off alone. This, at
the time, I knew not, being ignorant of the
laws of the duello. And last there came
along Harry himself, walking quickly as if
afraid of being late.

I gave a signal which had been agreed
upon, and as he approached the house, the
great gates were thrown open, and two
strapping tall fellows, stepping quickly into
the road, caught poor Harry (the would-be
murderer) by the arms, ran a thick rope
round him before he had time to cry out, and
dragged him into the gates, so quickly, so
strongly, and so resolutely, that he had not
the least chance of making any resistance.
Indeed, it was done in so workmanlike a

fashion that it seemed as if the rogues had
done the same thing dozens of times before.

Heavens ! To think that a man brought
up so virtuously as Harry Temple, a young
man of such excellent promise, so great a
scholar and one who had actually studied
Theology, and attended the lectures of a
Lady Margaret Professor, should, under any
circumstances of life, abandon himself to
language so wicked and a rage so overwhelming.
Nothing ever surprised me so
much as to hear that gentle scholar use such
dreadful language, as bad as any that I had
ever heard in the Fleet Market.

Caught up in this unexpected way, with
his arms tied to his sides, carried by two stout
ruffians, Harry had, to be sure, some excuse
for wrath. His wig had fallen to the ground,
his face was red and distorted by passion so
that even I hardly knew him, when Doctor
Powlett came out of his house and slowly
advanced to meet him.

*Ay, ay, ay?' he asked slowly, wagging
his head and stroking his long chin deliberately,
in the manner of a physician who
considered what best treatment to recommend.

* So this is the unfortunate young
gentleman, is it % Ay, he looks very far
gone. Nothing less, I fear, than Dementia
acute cum rahie violent. Resolute treatment
in such cases is the best kindness.
You will take him, keepers, to the blue-room,
and chain him carefully. Your
promptitude in making the capture shall be
rewarded. As for you, sir' — he shook his
forefinger at the unlucky Harry as if he
was a schoolmaster admonishing a boy — ' as
for you, sir, it is lucky, indeed, that you
have been caught. You were traced to this
town where, I suppose, you arrived early
this morning. Ha ! 1 leave known madmen
to be run through their vitals by some
gentlemen whom they have accosted ; or
smothered between mattresses — a reprehensible
custom, because it deprives the physician
of his dues — or brained with a cudgel. You
are fortunate, sir. But have a care : this
house is remarkable for its kindness to the
victims of mania : but have a care.'

Here Harry burst into a fit of imprecations
most dreadful to listen to.

anybody,' said the doctor, may swear in

this house : a good many do : that often
relieves a congested brain, and does no harm
to me and my attendants. But disobedience
or violence is punished by cold-water baths,
by being held under the pump, by bread and
Vater, and by other methods with which I
hope you will not make yourself better
acquainted. Now, keepers !'

For the truth is that the doctor kept a
house for the reception of madmen and
unhappy lunatics, and I had persuaded him
to kidnap Harry — by mistake. In four-and-twenty.
hours, I thought, he would have time
to repent. It was sad, however, to see a
man of breeding and learning so easily give
way to profane swearing, and it shows the
necessity of praying against temptation.
Women, fortunately, do not how how to
swear. It was, I confess, impossible to pity
him. Why, he was going up the hill and onto
the. Downs with no other object than to
kill my lover !

HOW HARRY GOT RELEASED.

'He is now said Dv. Powlett, returning
to the lodge where T awaited him, ' safely
chained up in a strait-waistcoat. A strong
young gentleman, indeed, and took four of
my fellows to reduce him. Almost a pity,'
he went on, thinking of the case from a
professional point of view, ' that so valiant a
fellow is in his right mind.'

Doctor, what may that mean V
'Ney, I was but thinking — a physician
must needs consider these things — that a
county gentleman, with so great an estate,
would be indeed a windfall in such an establishment
as mine.'

'Why, doctor, would you have all the
world mad V

They are already he replied ; * as mad as
March hares — all of them. I would only
have them in establishments, with strait-waistcoats
on, and an experienced and humane
physician to reduce them by means of — those
measures which are never known to fail.'

I hope,' I said seriously, because I began
to fear that some violence might have been
used, * that my poor friend has been treated
gently.'

'We never replied the doctor, Great
them otherwise than gently. My fellows
understand that this — ahem ! — unfortunate
escaped sufferer from lunacy or dementia
(because I have not yet had time to diagnose
his case with precision) is to be treated with
singular forbearance. One or two cuffs on
the head, an admonition by means of a
keeper's boot, he hath doubtless received.
These things are absolutely necessary : but
no collar-bones put out, or ribs broken. In
the case^of violent patients, ribs, as a rule,
do get broken, and give trouble in the setting.
Your friend, young lady, has all his bones
whole. No discipline, so far, has been administered
beyond a few buckets of water,

which it was absolutely necessary to pour
over his head, out of common humanity, and
in order to cahii the excessive rage into which
the poor gentleman fell. He is quite calm
now, and has neither been put under the
pump nor in the tank. I have expressly
ordered that there is to be no cudgelling.
And I have promised my fellows half-a-guinea
apiece ' — here he looked at me with a
meaning smile — ' if they are gentle with him.
I have told them that there is a young lady
interested in his welfare. My keepers, I
assure you, madam, have rough work to do,
but they are the most tender-hearted of men.
Otherwise, they would be sent packing.
And at the sight of half a-guinea, their
hearts yearn with affection towards the
patients.'

I smiled, and promised the half guineas on
the liberation of the prisoner. Cuffs and
kicks ! a few buckets of cold water I a strait-waistcoat
! My poor Harry ! surely this
would be enough to cure any man of his
passion. And what a fitting end to a journey
commenced with the intention of killing and
murdering your old playfellow's lover ! Yet,

to be sure, it was a wicked thing I had done,
and I resolved to lose no time (as soon as
there was no longer any fear of a duel) in
beginning to repent.

All this accomplished, which was, after all,
only a beginning, I left the house and walked
up the hill, intending to find the three gentlemen
Avaiting for their duel. These meetings
generally took place, I knew, on the way to
the old well. I left Durdans on the riofht,
and struck across the turf to the left. Presently
I saw before me a group of three
gentlemen, standing together and talking.
That is to say, two were talking, and one.
Lord Chudleigh, was standing apart. They
saw me presently, and I heard Sir Miles, in
his loud and hearty voice, crying out :
Gad so ! It is pretty Kitty herself
You look, gentlemen,' I said, ' as if you
were expecting quite another person. But
pray. Sir Miles, why on the Downs so early %
There is no race to-day, nor any bull-baiting.
The card-room is open, and I believe the inns
are not shut.'

'We are here he replied unblushingly,
VOL. III. 4to

take the air. It is bracing : it is good
for the complexion : it expands the chest and
opens the breathing-pipes : it is as good as a
draught of the waters : it is as stimulating asa
bottle of port.'

Indeed ! Then I am surprised you do
not use the fresh air oftener. For surely it
is cheaper than drinking wine.'

In future he said, ' I intend to do so.'
But why these swords, Sir Miles % You
know the rule of the Wells.'

They wanted sharpening,' he replied.
^ The air of the Downs is so keen, that it sets
an edge on sword-blades.'

You looked — fie, gentlemen ! — for Mr.
Temple to help sharpen the blades, as a
butcher sharpens his knife, by putting steel
to steel. Sir Miles, you are a wicked and
bloodthirsty man.'

He laughed, and so did the officer. Lord
Chudleigh changed colour.

Gentlemen,' I went on, ' I have to tell
you — I have come here to tell you — that an
accident has happened to Mr. Temple, which
will prevent his keeping the appointment
made for him at this hour. I am sure, if he

knew that I was coming here, he would ask
me to express his great regret at keeping you
waiting. Now, however, you may all go
home again, and put off killing each other
for another day.'

They looked at each other astonished.

'• My lord,' I said, ' I am sure you will let
me ask you what injury my poor friend Harry
Temple has done you that you desire to compass
his death.'

^ Nay,' he replied, ' I desire not to compass
any man's death. I am here against my
will. I have no quarrel with him.'

^ What do you say, Sir Miles V I asked.
^ Are you determined that blood should be

spilt r

^ Not I,' he replied. ^ But as the affair
concerns the honour of two gentlemen, I
think, with respect to so fair a lady, that it
had better be left in .the hands of gentlemen.'


'But,' I said, 'it concerns me too now,
partly because I have brought you the reason
of Mr. Temple's absence, and partly because
he is one of my oldest friends and a gen tit
man for whom I have a very groat regard.

44—2

And methinks, Sir Miles, with submission,
because a woman cannot understand the
laws of the duello or the scruples of what
gentlemen call honour — that honour which
allows a man to drink and gamble, but not
to take a hasty word, that if I can persuade
Lord Chudleigh that Mr. Temple does not
desire the duel, and is unfeignedly ashamed
of himself, and if I can assure Mr. Temple
that Lord Chudleigh would not be any the
happier for killing Mr. Temple, why then
this dreadful encounter need not take place,
and we may all go home again in peace.'

Upon this they looked at each other
doubtfully, and Sir Miles burst out laughing.
When Sir Miles laughed I thought it would
all end well at once. But then Harry's
second spoke up gravely, and threatened to
trouble the waters.

I represent Mr. Temple in this affair. I
cannot allow my principal to leave the field
without satisfaction. We have been insulted.
We demand reparation to our honour. We
cannot be set aside in this unbecoming
manner by a young lady.'

'Pray, sir,' I asked, 'does your scarlet

coat and your commission'— I have said he
was an officer — ' enjoin you to set folks by the
ears, and to promote that private method of
murder which men cal dueUini^^ ? What advantage
will it be to you, provided these two
gentlemen fight and kill each other ?'

Why, as for advantage — none,' he stud.
But who ever heard '

^ Then, sir, as it will be of infinite advantage
to many of their friends, and a subject
of great joy and thankfulness that they
should not fight, be pleased not to embroil
matters further. And, indeed, sir, I am
quite sure that you have breathed the bracing
air of the Downs quite long enough, and had
better leave us here, and go back to the
town. You may else want me to fight in the
place of Mr. Temple. That would be a fine
way of getting reparation to your wounded
honour.'

At this he became very red in the face,
and spoke more about honour, laws among
gentlemen, and fooling away his time among
people who, it seemed, either did not know
their own minds, or contrived accidents to
happen in the nick of time.

•J lark yo, brother,' said Sir files \\\><y\\
this, ' the Yoiino- lady is rig-ht in lor way,
because, say what we will, our men were going
out 0(1 a tool's errand. Why, in the devil's
iiaine, should they tight \ What occasion has
INIr. Temple to quarrel with my lord ^

If Mr. Temple likes . . .' said his second,
shruo'tvino- his shoulders. * After all it is his
business, not mine. If, in the army, a man
pulls another man's nose, why — '

Will you please to understand, sir,' I
broke in, ' that jMr. Temple is really delayed
by an accident — it happened to him on his
way here, and was entirely unforeseen by
him, and was one which he could neither prevent
nor expect \ If a woman had any
honour, in your sense, I would give you my
word of honour that this is so.'

Under these circumstances,' the gallant
officer said, * I do not see whvwe are waiting
JMr. Temple will, of course, tell his
own story in his own way, and unless the
light takes place on the original quarrel, why,
he may find another second. Such a lame
ending I never experienced.'

And that,' interposed Sir Miles, who

surely was the most crowd-natured of men,
that reminds me, my good sir, that in this
matter, unless we would make bad worse, we
all of us had better make up our minds to tell
no story at all, but leave it to Mr. Temple.
Wherefore, if it please you, I will walk to
the town in your corapan}^ there to contradict
any idle gossip we may hear, and to lays
upon the back of the rightful person, either
with cudgels or rapiers, any calumny which
maybe attached to Mr. Temple's name. But,
no doubt, he is strong enough to defend himselfe


Really, Sir Miles,' said the officer with a
sneer, ' I wonder you do not fight for him
yourself Here is your principal. Lord
Chudleigh, ready for you.'

Sir, he is not my friend, but the friend of
Miss Pleydell. He is, as I believe you or
any other person who may quarrel with him
would find, perfectly well able to fight his
own battles. Meantime I am ready to fight
my own, as is already pretty well known.'

With that they both walked off" the field,
not too-ether, but near each other, the officer
in a great hurt* and Sir Miles rolling along

beside him, big and good-tempered, yet, like
a bull-dog, an ugly dog to tackle.

Lord Chudleigb. and I were left alone upon
the Downs,

Kitty,' he cried, ' what does this mean X

That there is to be no fighting between
you and Harry Temple. That is what it
means, my lord. Oh, the wickedness of
men !'

But where is he ? what is the accident ?
What does your presence mean '? Did he
send you ?'

I laughed, but could not tell him. Then I
reflected that the errand on which he had
come was no laughing matter, and I became
grave again.

My lord,' I said, ' is it well to tell a girl
one day that you love her, and the next to
come out to fight with swords about a trifle ?
Do you think nothing of a broken heart X

My dear,' he replied, 'it was forced upon
me, believe me. A man must fioiit if he is
insulted openly. There is no help for it till
customs change.'

^ Oh !' I cried ; * can that man be in hiss
senses who hopes to win a woman's heart by

insulting and trying to kill — ■ her — her
lover V

'Yes, Kitty.' He caught my hand and
kissed it. ' Your lover — your most unhappy
lover ! who can do no more than say he loves
you, and yet can never hope to marry sou.
How did I dare to open my heart to you, my
dear, with such a shameful story to tell V

My lord,' I said, ' promise me, if you sincerely
love me, which I cannot doubt, not to
fight with this hot-headed young man.'

I promise,' he replied, ' to do all that a
man of honour may, in order to avoid a duel
with him.'

Then, my lord, I promise, once . more in
return — if you would care to have such a
promise from so poor a creature as myself '

Kitty ! Divine angel 1'

I swear, even though you never wed me,
to remain single for your sake. And ; even
should you change your mind, and bestow
your affections upon another woman, and
scorn and loathe me, never to think upon
another man.'

He seized me in his arms, though we were
on the open Downs (only there was not a soul

within sight, so far as I could see around),
and kissed me on the cheeks and hips.

My love !' he murmured ; ' my sweet and
gracious lady !'

Next, I had to consider what best to do
about my prisoner. I begged my lord to go
home through the Durdans, while I returned
by the road. On the way I resolved to liberate
Harry at once, but to make conditions
with him. I therefore returned to the
doctor s, and asked that I might be allowed
to see the prisoner.

Dr. Powlett was at first very unwilling.
He pointed out, with some justice, that there
had not, as yet, been time enough to allow of
a colourable pretence at discovering the supposed
mistake ; a few days, say a fortnight,
should elapse, during which the search might
be supposed to be a-making ; in that interval
Harry was to sit chained in his cell, with a
strait waistcoat on.

And believe me,' said this kind physician,
^ he will learn from his imprisonment to admire
the many kindnesses and great humanity
shown to unhappy persons who are afflicted

with the loss of their wits. Besides this
he will have an opportunity of discovering
for what moderate charges such persons are
received, entertained, and treated with the
highest medical skill, at Epsom, by the
learned physician, Jonathan Powlett, Medicine
Doctor. He will swallow my pills,
drink my potions (which are sovereign in all
diseases of the brain), be nourished on my
gruel (compounded scientifically with the
Epsom water), Avill be tenderly handled by
my keepers, and all for the low charge of
four guineas a week, paid in advance, including
servants. And he will, when cured (if
Providence assist), come out — ■ — '
■ ' Twice as mad as he went in. No, doctor ;
that, if you please, was not what I intended.
The mischief is averted for the present, and,
if you will conduct me to your prisoner,
I think I can manage to avert it altogether.'


Well, finding that there was nothing more
to be got out of the case — I am quite sure
that he was ready to treat poor Harry as
really mad, and to keep him there as long as
any money could be got out of him — the

doctor gave way, and led me to the room in
which lay prisoner Harry.

It was a room apart from the great common
rooms in which idiots and imbecile persons
are chained at regular intervals to the wall,
never leaving their places, night or day, until
they die. I was thus spared the pain of
seeing what I am told is one of the most
truly awful and terrifying spectacles in the
world. The doctor, who measured his kindness
by the guineas which he could extract
from his patients' friends, kept certain private
chambers, where, if the poor creatures were
chained, they were not exposed to the sights
and sounds of the common rooms.

In one of these, therefore, he had bestowed
Harry.

Let me,' I said, ' go in first, and speak
with him. Do you come presently.'

I think if I had known, beforehand, what
they were going to do, I might have relented
but no : anything was better than that
those two men should stand, sword in hand,
face to face, trying to kill each other for the
sake of an unworthy girl.

Yet the poor lad, whom I had ever loved

like a brother, looked in piteous case ; for
they had put the strait-waistcoat over him,
which pinned his arms to his sides, and a
chain about his waist which was fastened to
the wall behind him ; his wig was lying on
the floor ; he seemed wet through, which was
the natural effect of those savage keepers'
buckets ; his face wore a look of rage and
despair sad to behold : his eyes glared like
the eyes of a bull at a baiting.

'You here, Kitty?' he cried. 'You?
What is the meaning of you in this house ?'

Harry, there has been, it seems, a very
terrible blunder committed* by Dr, Pow-lett's
servants ; they were told you were a
certain escaped madman, and they arrested
you in the discharge of their duty. It is
most fortunate that the fact has been brought
to my ears, because I could hasten — • — '

Then quick, Kitty, quick !' he cried. * Go,
call the doctor, and set me free. It may not
yet be too late. Quick, Kitty ! They are
waiting for me.'

He forgot, I suppose, what this ' waiting '
might mean to me.

Who are waiting, Harry ?'

He did not reply.

'■ What were you going to do on the Downs
this morning, Harry, when they made a prisoner
of you ?'

That is nothing to do with you,' he replied.
' Go, call the rascally doctor, whose
ribs I will break, and his men, whom I will
murder, for this job.'

Nothing to do with me, Harry % Are
you quite sure ?'

You look, Kitty, as if you knew. Did

Lord Chad No ; he would not. Did

Sir Miles go sneaking to you with the news ?
Gad ! I feel inclined to try conclusions with
the Norfolk baronet with his cudgel about
which he makes such a coil.'

Never mind who told me. I know the
whole wicked, disgraceful, murderous story !'

Disgraceful ! You talk like a woman.
Shall a man sit down idly, and see his wife
snatched out of his arms X

^ What wife ? Oh, Harry ! you have gone
mad about this business. Cannot you understand
that I was never engaged to marry
you — that I never thought of such a thing ?
I could never have been your wife, whether

there were any rival or no. And did you
think that you would make me think the
more kindly of you, should you kill the man
who, as you foolishly think, had supplanted
you ? Or was it out of revenge, and in the
hope of making me miserable, that you designed
to fight this duel V

He was silent at this. When a man is ina
strait waistcoat, and chained to a wall, it is
difficult to look dignified. But Harry's look
of shame and confusion, under the circumstances
of having no arms, was truly pitiful.

You can talk about that afterwards,' he
said, doggedly. ' Go, call the scoundrel
doctor.'

Presently. I want to tell you, first, what
I think about it. Was it kind to the woman
you pretended to love to bring upon her the
risk of this great unhappiness ? E.em ember,
Harry, I told you all. I told you what I
could not have told even to Nancy, in the
hope of breaking you of this mad passion. I
trusted that you were good and true of heart ;
and this is the return.'

It is done now,' he replied, gloomily.
'Do not reproach me, Kitty. Let Lord

Chudleigh Tun me through the body, and so
an end. Now, fetch the doctor fellow and
his men.'

That would have been indeed an end I
said. ' But, Harry, I have done better than
that for you. I have stayed the duel altogether.
You will not have to fight.'

With that I told him how I had gone to
the Downs, and what I had said to the gentlemen.
Only, be sure that I left out what
passed in the road between his lordship and
myself

Well, Master Harry flew into a mighty
rage upon hearing this, and, being still in the
strait-waistcoat and in chains, his wrath was
increased because he could not move ; he
talked wildly about his injured honour, swore
that he would go and offer Lord Chudleigh
first, and Sir Miles later, such an open and
public affront as must be washed out with
the blood of one ; declared that I might have
destroyed his reputation for courage for good,
but that he was resolved the world should
judge to the contrary. As for the company at
the Wells, he would challenge every man at
Epsom, if necessary, if he should dare to

asperse his bravery. More he said to the
same effect, but I interrupted him.

First, I promised to go with him upon the
Terrace, there to meet the people and give
him such countenance as a woman could.
Next I promised him that Lord Chudleigh
should meet him in a friendly spirit ; that Sir
Miles should be the first to proclaim Mr.
Temple's courage. I assured him that he
might be quite certain of finding many other
opportunities of proving his valiancy, should
he continue in the present bloodthirsty frame
of mind. I congratulated him on his Christian
readiness to throw away a life, which had
hitherto been surrounded by so many blessings.
Lastly, I advised him to consider how
far his present attitude and sentiments corresponded
with the divine philosophy of the
ancients, whom he had once been so fond of
quoting.

He refused to make any promise whatever.


Then I bade him remember — first, where
he was ; second, under what circumstances
he came there ; third, that he was surrounded
by raving madmen, chained to the wail as one

VOL. III. 45

of them, put in a strait-waistcoat like one of
them, and about to be reduced to a diet of
bread and water ; that no one knew where he
was except myself and Dr. Powlett ; that
neither of us would tell anything about him ;
and that, in point of fact, unless he promised
what T asked, he might remain where he was
until all danger was past.

And that, Harry, may be I know not
when. For be very well assured that, as I
have obtained from Lord Chudleigh a promise
to seek no quarrel with you, I will not let
you go from this place until I am assured
that you will seek no quarrel with him, either
on my account or under any other pretext
whatever. You are in great misery (which
you richly deserve for your wicked and murderous
design) ; you are wet and hungry : if
I go away without your promise, you will
continue in greater misery until I return.
Bethink thee, Harry.'

Still he was obdurate. Strangle that a
man will face almost anything rather than
possible ridicule.

What, after long persuasion, made him
give way was a plain threat that if he would

not promise what I required I would release
him at once, but tell his story to all the town,
so that, for very ridicule's sake, it would be
impossible for the duel to take place.

It will tell very prettily, Harry,' I said.
^ Nanc}^ will dress ifc up for me, and wull relate
it in her best and liveliest way ; how you tried
to get a little country girl of sixteen to engage
herself to you; how, when you found her a
year later turned into a lady, you thought that
you could terrify her into accepting your
proposals, on the plea that she had already
promised ; how you turned sulky ; how you
quarrelled with Lord Chudleigh, and made
him accept your duel ; how you were taken
prisoner by mistake, and kicked, cuffed '

I was not kicked !' he cried.

You were. Dr. Powlett's patients are
always kicked. Then you had buckets of cold
water thrown over you ; you were put into a
strait-waistcoat and chained to the wall : while
I came and asked you whether you preferred
remaining in the madhouse or promising to
behave like an honourable gentleman, and
abstain from insulting persons who have done
no harm to you or yours.'

45—2

I believe he said, ' that it is none other
than yourself who has had me captured and
treated in this manner. Semina furent /'

A mere mistake, Harry,' I replied, ' of
this good physician's zealous servants. Why,
it might have happened in any such establishment.
But for me to order it — oh ! impossible
— though, when one comes to think
of it, there are few things a woxxiduw— semina
furent, the English of which. Master Harry,
I know — would not do to save two friends
from hacking and slashing each other.'

Upon this he gave way.

I must,' he said, ' get away from this
place with what speed I may, even if I have
to pink half the men in Epsom to prove I am
no coward. Kitty, call the doctor. I believe,
mad nymph, thou hast a devil !'

Nay, Harry, all this was planned but to
lay the devil, believe me. But promise
first.'

Well, then. It is a hard pill to swallow,
Kitty.'

^ Promise.'

I promise.'

Not to pick any quarrel, or to revive any

old quarrel, with Lord Chudleigh or Sir
Miles Lackington.'

He repeated the words after me.

And to remain good friends with Kitty
Pleydell and all who are her friends and followers.'


He repeated these words as well, though
with some appearance of swallowing distasteful
food.

I cannot shake hands with you, Harry,
because, poor boy, your hands are hidden
away beneath that strait-waistcoat. But I
know you to be an honourable gentleman, as
becomes a man of your birth and so great a
scholar, and I accept your word. Wherefore,
my dear old friend and schoolfellow, seeing
that there is to be no more pretence of love
between us, but only of friendship and good
wishes, I will — call Dr. Powlett.'

That good man was waiting in the corridor
or passage while Harry and I held this long
conversation. He came as soon as I called him.

Sir,' said I, as soon as he came in (I
noticed that he looked anxiously behind him
to see that his four varlet were at hand,
ready to defend him if necessary) — ^ Sir,

here is a most grievous mischance indeed.
For this gentleman is no other than Mr.
Harry Temple, Justice of the Peace, Bachelor
of Arts of the University of Cambridge,
Fellow Commoner of his College Member, of
the Honourable Society of Lincoln's Inn,
and a country gentleman, with a great estate,
of East Kent. He is, in truth, doctor, no
more mad than you or I, or anyone else in
the world.'

The doctor affected the greatest surprise
and indignation. First he expressed his inability
to believe my statement, although it
pained him deeply to differ from a lady ;
then he called upon one of his men to bring
him the Hue and Cry, and read out a description
of a runaway madman which so perfectly
answered the appearance of Harry,
that it would deceive anyone, except myself,
because I was sure he had himself written it
after the capture. He then asked me,
solemnly and gravely, if I did not think,
having heard the description, that the men
were justified in their action.

I replied that the paper so exactly tallied
with Harry's appearance that such a mistake

was most easy to account for, and must at
once, when explained, command forgiveness.
Nevertheless, Harry's face looked far from
forgiving.

Varlet,' said Dr. Powlett, who in
some respects reminded me of a certain
Doctor of Divinity, because his voice was
deep and his manner stately, ' go, instantly,
every man Jack, upon his bended knees and
ask the pardon of Mr. Temple for an offence
committed by pure inadvertence and excess
of honourable zeal in the extirpation — I
mean the comfortable and kindly confinement
of the lunatic, insane, and persons demented.'


They all four fell upon their knees and
asked forgiveness.

Harry replied briefly, that as for pardoning
them, he would wait until he was free, when
he would break all their ribs and wring their
necks.

Sir,' said the doctor, ' you are doubtless in
the right, and are naturally, for the moment,
annoyed at this little misadventure, at which
you will laugh when you consider it at leisure.
It will perhaps be of use to you as showing

you on what humane, kindly, and gentle a
system such establishments as ours are conducted.
As regards the pardon which you
will extend to these honest fellows, time is
no object to them. They would as soon receive
their pardon tomorrow, or a week
hence, or a year, or twenty years hence, as
to-day, because their consciences are at rest,
having done their duty ; therefore, good sir,
they will wait to release you until you are
ready with their pardon.'

Harry, after thinking for a few moments
over this statement, said, that so far as he was
concerned, the four men might go to the
devil, and that he pardoned them.

There remains only,' said the doctor, ' one
person who infinitely regrets the temporary
annoyance your honour has been subjected to.
It is myself. I have to ask of you, for the
sake of my establishment and my reputation,
two or three conditions. The first of themis
your forgiveness, without which I feel that
my self-respect as a true Christian and man
nf science would suffer ; the second, absolute
secrecy as regards these proceedings, a
knowledge of which might be prejudicial tome

; and the third ' here he hesitated and

glanced sideways at me. ' The third is, of
course ' — he plucked up courage and spoke
confidently — 'a reimbursement of the expenses
I have been put to, as, for instance' — here he
drew out a long roll, and read from it — * services
of four men in watching for the escaped
lunatic for five hours, at five shillings an hour
for each man, five pounds ; to the capture of
the same, being done in expeditious and
workmanlike fashion, without confusion,
scandal, cracking crowns or breaking of
ribs, two guineas ; to bringing him in, and
receiving many cutis, blows, kicks, etc., on
the way, three guineas ; to use of private
room for one month at one guinea a week (we
never let our private and comfortable
chambers for less than one month), four
guineas ; to wear and tear of bucket, strait-waistcoat,
and chain, used in confining and
bringing to reason the prisoner, two guineas ;
to board and lodging of the patient for one
month at two guineas a week (we never receive
a patient for less than one month),
eight guineas ; to attendants' fees for the same
time, two guineas for entrance and three

guineas for departure ; to my own professional
attendance at two guineas a week (I
never undertake a case for less than one
month certain), eight guineas. The total,
good sir, I find to amount to a mere trifle of
thirty-eight pounds twelve shillings.'

Heavens ! did one ever hear of such an extortionate
charge ? And all for two hours ina
strait waistcoat !

Harry stormed and swore. But the most
he could get was a reduction of the bill by
which certain items, inciting the three
guineas for giving and receiving kicks and
cuffs, and the two guineas for wear and tear
of the bucket which had been emptied over
him, were to be remitted. Finally he accepted
the conditions, with the promise to pay thirty
guineas in full discharge. And really I think
that Dr. Powlett had done a good morning's
work, having taken ten guineas out of
me and thirty out of Harry. But then, ashe
said, it was a delicate and dangerous
business, and might, in less skilful hands
(meaning perhaps mine, perhaps his own),
have led to very awkward results.

The Terrace was full of people, for it was
now half-past twelve. As Harry and I made
our way slowly under the trees they parted for
us left and right, staring at us as we passed
them with curious eyes. For the rumour had
spread abroad that there was to have been
a duel that morning between Lord Chudleigh
and Mr. Temple, and that it was stopped —
no one knew how — by some accident which
prevented Mr. Temple from keeping his appointment.
Now at the other end of the
Terrace we met Lord Chudleigh himself, who
after saluting me, held out his hand before
all the world to Harry, who took it with a
bow and a blush.

There was a great sigh of disappointment.
No duel, then, would be fought at all, and the
two gentlemen who were to have fought it
were shaking hands like ordinary mortals,
and the lady for whom they were going to
fight was walking between them, and all
three were smiling and talking together like
excellent friends.

Thus, then, did I heal up the quarrel
between Harry Temple and my lord. It
would have grieved me sore had poor Harry,

almost my brother, been wounded or killed ;
but what would have been my lot had my
lover fallen ?

Three suitors had I rejected in a month,
and a lover had I gained, who was also,
though this I never ventured to confess, my
husband. But there was one man whom I
had forgotten quite, and he was destined to
be the cause of the greatest trouble of all.
Who would have believed that Will Levett
would have dared to call himself my accepted
lover \ Who would have believed that this
sot, this stable and kennel haunter, would
have remembered me for a whole year, and
would have come to Epsom in the full confidence
that he was coming to claim a
bride ?

HOW WILL LEYETT WAS DISAPPOINTED.

Thus was Harry Temple at last pacified and
brought to reason. In the course of a short
time he was so far recovered from his passion
as to declare his love for another woman,
whom he married. This shows how fickle
and fleeting are the affections of most men
compared with those of women ; for I am
truly of opinion that no woman can love
more than one man in her life, while a man
appears capable of loving as many as he
pleases all at once or in turn, as the fancy
seizes him. Could Solomon have loved in
very truth the whole seven hundred ?

When I was no longer harassed by Harry's
gloomy face and jealous reproaches, I
thought that the time was come when I

ought to consider how I should impart to
my lord a knowledge of the truth, and I said
to myself, day after day : ^ To-morrow morning
I will do it ;' and in the morning I said :
Nav, but in the evening.' And sometimes
I thought to write it, and sometimes to tell
it him by word of mouth. Yet the days
passed and I did not tell him, being a coward,
and rejoicing in the sunshine of his love and
kindness, which I could not bear to lose or
put in any danger.

And now you shall hear how this delay
was the cause of a most dreadful accident,
which had well-nigh ruined and lost us
altogether.

1 could not but remember, when Harry
Temple reproached me with falsehood and
faithlessness, that Will Levett had made use
of nearly the same Avords, making allowance
for Will's rusticity. The suspicion did
certainly cross my mind, more than once,
that Will may have meant (though I understood
him not) the same thing as Harry.
And I remembered how he pulled a sixpence
out of his pocket and gave me the half which
I threw upon the table unheeding, though

every girl knows that a broken sixpence is a
pledge of betrothal. But I was in such great
trouble and anxiety, that I thought nothing
of it and remembered nothing: for honos afterwards.
Yet if Harry came to claim a supposed
promise at my hands, why should not
Will ? which would be a thing much worse to
meet, because Harry was now amenable to
reason, and by means of the strait waistcoat
and bucket of cold water, with a little talk,
I had persuaded him to adopt a wiser course.
But no reason ever availed anything with
Will, save the reason of desire or the opposition
of superior force, As a boy, he took
everything he wanted, unless he could be
prevented by a hearty flogging ; and he
bullied every other boy save those who
could by superior strength compel him to
behave properly. I have already shown how
he treated us when we were children and
when we had grown up to be great girls.
So that, with this suspicion, and remembering
Will's dreadful temper and his masterfulness,
I felt uneasy indeed when Nancy told
me that her brother was coming to Epsom.
We shall be horribly ashamed of him,'

she said, laughing, though vexed. ' Indeed
I doubt if we shall be able to show our faces
on the Terrace, after Will has been here a
day or two. Because, my dear, he will
thrash the men-servants, kiss the girls, insult
the company, some of whom will certainly
run him through the body, while some he
will beat with his cudgel, get drunk in the
taverns, and run an Indian muck through
the dance at the Assembly Rooms. I have
told my father that the best thing for him todo
is to pretend that Will is no relation of
ours at all, only a rustic from our parish
bearing the same name ; or perhaps we
might go on a visit to London for a fortnight
so as to get out of his way ; and that, I
think, would be the best. Kitty ! think of
Will marching up and down the Terrace, a
dozen dogs after him, his wig uncombed, his
hunting-coat stained with mud, halloing and
bawling as he goes, carrying an enormous club
like Hercules — he certainly is very much like
Hercules — his mouth full of countrified oaths.
However, he does not like fine folks, and
will not often show among us. And while
we are dancing in the rooms, he will be

sitting at the door of a tavern mostly,
smoking a pipe of tobacco and taking a mug
of October with any who will sit beside him
and hear his tales of badgers, ferrets, and
dogs. Well, fortunately, no one can deny
the good blood of the Levetts, which will,
we hope, come out again in Will's children ;
and my father is a baronet of James the
First's creation, otherwise it would go hard
with our gentility.'

When do you expect him to come ?'
He sends word that he may come tonight
or tomorrow, bringing with him a
horse which he proposes to match upon the
Downs with any horse at Epsom for thirty
guineas a side. One match has been already
fixed, and will be run the next day, provided
both horses are fresh. I hope Will will not
cheat, as he T\^as accused of doing at Maidstone.
I suppose we shall all have to go to
the Downs to see. Why do men like horse-racing,
I wonder % Crack goes the whip, the
horses rush past, the people shout, the race
is over. Give me enjoyment which lasts a
little longer, such as a good country dance,
VOL. III. 46

or a few words with Peggy Baker on the
Terrace.'

Does Will know that I am here '?' I
asked.

1 suppose not,' she replied. ' Why, my
dear, how is Will to know anything ? My
father laid out large sums upon his education.
Yet the end of all is that he never
reads anything, not even books on Farriery.
As for letters, he is well known not to read
those which my mother sometimes sends
him ; and as for sending any himself, I
believe he has forgotten the art of writing.
He does everything by word of mouth, like
the savages. Perhaps he remembers how to
read, because he cannot forget his sufferings
over the criss-cross-row and horn - book.
Will, Kitty, is an early Briton ; he should
be dressed in wool and painted with woad ;
he lives by preference in a stable or a
kennel ; he ought to have the body and tail
and legs of a horse, then he could stay in the
stable altogether and be happy.'

Perhaps, I thought, he would not know
me again. But in this I was deceived, as
shall be presently shown.

Well, then, knowing that Nancy would
help me in this possible trouble, I told her
exactly what had happened between Will
and myself, just as I had told her about
Harry, and asked her advice.

It might be that Will had clean forgotten
his words, or it might be that he had changed
his mind ; he might have fallen in love with
some girl of the village, or he might find
me changed and no longer care for pressing
his suit.

Nancy looked grave.

My brother Will,' she said, ' is as obstinate
as he is pigheaded. I am afraid he
will expect you to fulfil the engagement
which he may think he has made. Never
mind, my dear ; do not think of it to distress
yourself If he is obstinate, so are you.
He cannot marry you against your will.'

He came the next morning, riding into
town followed by two servants, one of whom
led the famous horse which was to ride the
race.

There,' whispered Nancy, ' is my brother
Will.'

We were standing in the church porch

46—2

after morning prayers, when he came clattering
down the street. He was really a handsome
man for those who like a man to belike
Hercules for strength, to have full rosy
cheeks which later in life become fat and
purple, a resolute eye and a strong, straight
chin which means obstinacy.

^ Oh, how strong he is !' said Nancy, looking
after him. ' He could crush together
half a-dozen of our beaux and fribbles between
his fingers, and break all their ribs with a
single flourish of his cudgel. Well, Will !'
she added, as her brother rode out of sight,
we shall meet at dinner, I dare say. Do
you remember, Kitty, how he would tease
and torment us, and make us cry ? There
ought to be no brothers and sisters at all —
the girls should grow up in one house, and
the boys in another — they should never meet
till they are old enough to be lovers, and
never be together when they are too old to
be lovers. Fancy the stupidity of philosophers
in putting men and women under
the same name and calling us all humanity,
or mankind, as their impudent way is of
putting it. What have they in common ?

Man drinks, and gambles, and fights — woman
sits at home and loves peace and moderation :
man wastes — woman saves : man loves to
admire — we love to be admired. What single
quality have we in common except a desire to be
amiable and seem pleasing to the other sex ?'

Very likely,' I replied, thinking of something
else. * No doubt he has long since
forgotten the sixpence. No doubt he thinks
no more of me or the sixpence either.'

I saw nothing of him that day, because he
had so much to do with his stable, and so much
to attend to in the matter of his race, that
he did not appear upon the Terrace or at the
Assembly Room. Harry Temple shrugged
his shoulders when I asked him if he had
seen Will.

I saw him,' he said, ^ engaged in his usual
occupations. He had just cudgelled a stableboy,
was swearing at a groom, rubbing down
his racehorse with his own hands, and
superintending the preparation of a warm
mash for his hack. He seems perfectly
happy.'

It was agreed, in spite of my fears, that
we should make a party to see this race the

next morning. Nowadays it is no longer the
mode to seek health at Epsom Wells and on
Banstead Downs. The votaries of fashion
go to Bath and Tunbridge ; the old Wells are
deserted, I hear that the Assembly Booms
have fallen into decay, and there are no
longer the Monday public breakfast, the card-table,
the music, the dancing, which made
the place a little heaven for the young in
those times when I myself was young. Butin
one respect Epsom has grown more
frequented and more renowned every year :

On Epsom Downs, when racing does begin,
Large companies from ever^^ part come in.'

The spring races were in April, and the
summer races in June ; but there was a constant
racing all the year round with the
horses of country gentlemen. They would
bring them to make matches with all comers,
at such stakes as they could afford to venture
on the horses ; and in the morning the company
would crowd upon the Downs in goodly
numbers to bet upon the race, and shout to
the winner. Sometimes ladies would 2^0
too ; not out of any love for the sport, or

interest in horses, but to please their lovers —
a desire which is the cause of many a pretty
maid's sudden liking for some manly sport.
I have known them even show an interest
in such rough sports as badger-drawing and
otter-hunting : they have been seen to ride
after hounds in the midst of the halls and
horns of the hunters : they have even gone
with the gentlemen on shooting-parties. Thus
there were plenty of girls at Epsom ready to
please their gallants by standing about on
the Downs (where the wind plays havoc with
powder and paint, and destroys irretrievably
the fabric of a head), while the panting
horses were spurred over the long course
by the jockeys, and the backers cried and
shouted. •

Lord Chudleigh took little joy in this kind
of sport, which, perhaps, is a reason why I
also disliked the sight. Nancy, also, as well
as myself, cared but little to see this famous
Epsom sport ; nor, indeed, did any of the
ladies who formed part of our more intimate
company. But on this occasion, as Will was
to run a three-year-old of his own training,
and as he was going to ride the horse himself,

and had staked thirty guineas (besides
bets) upon the event, it was judged a duty
owed to him by the family that all should
go. Mrs. Esther went out of respect to Lady
Levett ; Mr. Stallabras, because he remembered
how Pindar had sung of the Olympian
Games, and was suddenly fired with the
desire of writing a Pindaric Ode upon the
Epsom contests. Now, it behoves a poet
who sings of a horse-race, first to witness
one. Therefore he came to see how it would
lend itself to modern metaphor. Sir Miles
came because he could get the chance of a few
bets upon the race, and because, when there
were no cards to the fore, he liked, he said, to
hear me talk. Harry Temple came, grumbling
and protesting that for men of learning
and fashion nothing was more barbarous and
tedious than this sport. Could we have had
chariot racing, with athletic games after the
manner of the ancients, he would have been
pleased. As it was, he hoped that Will
would win, but feared that a clown and his
money were soon parted ; with other remarks
equally good-natured.

The race was to be run at half-past eleven.

We had chairs for such as preferred being
carried, but the younger ladies walked. We
made a gallant procession as we came upon
the course, all the ladies wearing Will's
colours, which were red and blue. They had
railed off a piece of ground where the better
sort could stand without being molested by
the crowd which always congregates when a
great race is to be run. Indeed, on this
occasion it seemed as if all the idle fellows for
twenty miles round had gathered together
on the Downs with one consent, and with
them half the rustics of the villages, the tradesmen
and workmen of Epsom, Leatherhead and
Dorking, and the greater part of the company
at the Wells. There were gipsies to
tell our fortunes or steal our poultry — but I,
for one, had had enough already of fortunetelling
from the tent of the pretended Wizard
of the masquerade: there were Italians leading
a bear : there were a couple of rough
men with a bull which was presently to be
baited : a canvas enclosure was run up on
poles, within which the Cornish giant would
wrestle all comers at sixpence a throw :
another, where a prize-fight would be held,

lulmittnni'o ohio shilliii;^'. with twctpein'o marli
for \\w tU^toatoil man : a |ni|>|H^t play was
slunvn tor a |HMiny : tor twojHMioo viii inio'ht
soo a rari^ pii\'o ot' art. tho siibjoi't ot' which
1 know not : and in wax. trio histories of
Fair Kosamoml anil Susanna. Other anuiso-
nuMits thoro woo. 1. at first. took all in
honour ot' Will and his roo. bnt presently
loarnoJ that a tair Nul boon hold at Loathor-
lioail "tho day hot"oro. and that tlu^so pooplo.
lioarin^- ot' what was forward, oanio over to
foot what oonld ho piokod np. And. as no
tool niakos many, tho knowlod^-o ot' their
coniino-. with tho r:u'o tor an excuse, brought
out all tho ootmtry people, mouth a^-ape, as is
their wont.

The horses presently rode out yy'i the paddock
— a ']^laee where they wei^'h, dress, put
on the saddles, and adjust the preliminaries.
Will, in his heap pulled over his ears like a
iiio-lueap ^^beeause a jockey wears no wig), and
in silk jacket, striped with blue and red, ridings
it'he was part ot' the animal he sat, looked
in his true place. Ever after I have thought
of the gallant show he made, while with
let's hand holding the whip, he bridled the

bc'aiitj'ful creature, Avhicli Vit for Iji.s control
woviJd Ijavo booij l^oiiurlin^^ and galloping over
t,])0 plairj. But they exjj]?iiijod to uh that
racehorses krjow when racing is meant, and
behave accordingly, save that they cannot
always be refrained from starting before the
time.

A\'i]]'.s iiv;i] ;ajd competitor, whose name I
forget (but I ]jM.r,] never seen liiru before), was
a man of slighter figure, who rode equally
Avc-]], but did not at the same time appear to
.such advantage on horseback. Lord Chud-
leigh explained to us that while Will rode
naturally, sitting his horse as if be understood
what the creature wished to do, and where
he Avant to go ; the other man sat him by
ride of thumb, as if the horse was to understand
Its master and not the master his horse.
I have ridden a erreat deal since then, and
I know, now, trio justice of ijjv lord's remarks,
though I own that this perfect understanding
between Ijorse and rider is not commonly
found ; and for my own part I remember but
one horse, three parts Arabian, with which I
ever arrived at a complete understanding.
Even with him the understanding was onesided,

and ended in his always going whithersoever
he pleased.

The adversary's colours were white and
green ; pretty colours, though bad for the
complexion of women ; so that I was glad
Will's were suited to the roses of our cheeks.

They began by riding up and down for a
quarter of an hour. Will looking mighty important,
stroking his horse, patting his neck,
talking to him, checking him when he broke
into a canter or a gallop. The other man (hein
white and green) had trouble to keep his
horse from fairly bolting with him, which he
did for a little distance more than once.

Then the starters took their places, and
the judge his, in front of the winning-post,
and the horses started.

White and green led for a quarter of a
mile ; but Will was close behind : it was
pretty to see the eagerness of the horses —
how they pressed forward with straining
necks.

Will is holdings back,' cried Harry, with
flashing eyes. ' Wait till they are over the
hill.'

I feel like Pindar cried Mr. Stallabras.

Would that Mr. Levett was Hero of Syracuse
r

Will !' exclaimed Nancy, as if he could
hear. ' Spur up your horse ! If you lose
the race, I will never forgive you.'

We all stood with parted lips and beating
hearts. Yes ; we understood the joy of
horse-racing : the uncertainty of the struggle :
the ambition of the noble creatures : the
eagerness of the riders : their skill : their
coolness : the shouts of the people — ah !
the race is over.

Just before the finish, say two hundred
yards the other side of the winning-posts
Will rose in his saddle, plied whip, and cried
to his horse. It answered with a rush, as if
struck by a sudden determination to be first :
the other horse, a little tired perhaps, bounded
onwards as well ; but Will took the lead and
kept it. In a moment the race was finished,
and Will rode gallantly past us, ahead by a
whole length, amid the cheers and applause
of the people.

When the race was finished the visitors
ran backwards and forwards, congratulating
or condoling with each other. Many a long

face was pulled as the bets were paid : many
a jolly face broadened and became more jolly
as the money went into pocket. And then
I saw what is meant by the old saying about
money made over the devil's back. For those
who lost, lost outright, which cannot be denied
: but those who won immediately took
their friends to the booths where beer and
wine and rum were sold, and straightway got
rid of a portion of their winnings. No doubt
the rest went in the course of the day in
debauchery. So that the money won upon
the race benefited no one except the people
who sold drink. And they, to my mind, are
the last persons whom one would wish to
benefit, considering what a dreadful thing in
this country is the curse of drink.

If "Will looked a gallant rider on horseback,
he cut but a sorry figure among the
gentlemen when he came forth from the
paddock, having taken ofi* his jacket and put
on again his wig, coat, and waistcoat. For
he walked heavily, rolling in his gait (as a
ploughboy, not a sailor), and his clothes were
muddy and disordered, while his wig was
awry. Lady Levett beckoned to him, and

he came towards us sheepishly bold, as is the
way with rustic gentlemen.

^ So, Will,' shouted his father, heartily,
< thou hast won the match. Well rode, my
boy!'

Well rode !' cried all. ' Well rode !'

He received our congratulations with a
grin of satisfaction, saluting the company with
a grin, and his knuckles to his forehead like
a jockey. On recovering, he examined us
all leisurely.

Ay,' he said. ' There you are, Harry,
talking to the women about books and poetry
and stuff. What good is that when a race is
on ? Might as well have stayed at Cambridge.
Well, Nancy — oh! I warrant you, so
fine as no one in the country would know you.

Fine feathers make fine birds, and ' here

he saw me, and stared hard with his mouth
open. ' Gad so ! — it's Kitty ! Hoop !
Hollo !' Upon this he put both hands to
his mouth and raised such a shout that we
all stopped our ears, and the dogs barked and
ran about furiously, as if in search of a fox.
Found again ! Kitty, I am right glad to
see thee. Did I ride well % Were you 23roud

to see me coming in by a neck ? Thinks I,
^'I don't care who's looking on, but I'll show
them Will Levett knows how to ride." If I'd
known it was you I would have landed the
stakes by three clear lengths, I would. Let
me look at thee, Kitty. Now, gentlemen, by
your leave.' He shoved aside Lord Chud-
leigh, and Harry, and pushed between them.
Let me look at thee well — ay ! more fine
feathers — but ' — here he swore great oaths —
there never was anything beneath them but
the finest of birds ever hatched.'

^ Thank you, Will, for the compliment,' I
began.

Why, if anyone should compliment you,
Kitty, who but I r

I thought of the broken sixpence, and
trembled.

A most pretty speech indeed,' said Peggy
Baker. another of Miss Pleydell's swains,
I suppose ?'

My brother,' said Nancy, ' has been
Kitty's swain since he was old enough to
walk ; that is, about the time when Kitty
was borD. He is as old a swain as Mr.
Temple here.'

I don't know naught about swains,' said
Will, ' but I'm Kitty's sweetheart. And if
any man says nay to that, why let him step
to the front, and we'll have that business
settled on the grass, and no time wasted.'

Brother,' cried Nancy, greatly incensed
by a remark of such low breeding, ' remember
that you are here among gentlemen, who do
not fight with cudgels and fists for the favours
of ladies.'

Nay, dear Miss Levett,' said Peggy,
laughing ; 'I find Mr. William vastly
amusing. No doubt we mioiit have a
contest, a tournament after the manner of
the ancients, with Miss Pleydell as the
Queen of Beauty, to give her favours to the
conquering knight. I believe we can often
witness a battle with swords and pistols, if
we get up early enough, in Hyde Park ; buta
duel with fists and cudgels would be much
more entertaining.'

Thank you, miss,' said Will. ^ I should
like to see the man who would stand up
against me.'

I think,' Lord Chudleigh interposed,
'that as no one is likely to gratify this
VOL. III. 47

gentleman's strange invitation, we may return
to the town. Miss Pleydell, we wait
your orders.'

Will was about to say something rude,
dien his sister seized him by the arm and
whispered in his ear.

Lord ! a lord !' he cried. ' I beg your
lordship's pardon. There, that is just like
you, Nancy, not to tell me at the beginning.
Well, Kitty, I am going to look after the
horse. Then I will come to see thee.'

^ Your admirer is a bucolic of an order not
often found among the sons of such country
gentlemen as Sir Robert Levett,' said Lord
Chudleigh, presently.

He is addicted to horses and dogs, and
he seems to consider that he may claim — or
show — some sort of equal attachment to me,'
I answered.

Then I told him the story of the broken
sixpence, and how I became engaged, without
knowing it, to both Harry Temple and Will
Levett on the same day.

My lord laughed, and then became grave.

I do not wonder,' he said, ' that all classes
of men have fallen in love with the sweetest

and most charming of her sex. That does
not surprise me. Still, though we have
disposed of Mr. Temple, who is, I am bound
to say, a gentleman open to reason, there maybe
more trouble with this headstrong country
lad, who is evidently in sober earnest, as I
saw from his eyes. What shall we do Kitty 'i'

My lord,' I whispered, ' let me advise for
your safety. Withdraw yourself for a while
from Epsom. Give up Durdans and go to
London. I could not bear to see you
embroiled with this rude and boisterous
clown. Oh, how could such a woman as
Lady Levett have such a son ? Leave me
to deal with him as best I can.'

But he laughed at this. To be sure, fear
had no part in the composition of this noble,
this incomparable man.

Should I run away because a rustic says
he loves my Kitty V But then his forehead
clouded again. ' Yet, alas ! for my folly and
my crime, I may not call her my Kitty'

Oh yes, my lord ! Call me always thine.
Indeed, I am all thine own, if only I could
think myself worthy.'

We were walking together, the others a

47—2

little distance behind us, and he could do no
more than touch my fingers with his own.
Alas ! the very touch of his fingers caused a
delightful tremor to run through my veins —
so helplessly, so deeply was I in love with him.
Thus we walked, not hand-in-hand, yet
from time to time our hands met : and thus
we talked, not as betrothed lovers, yet as
lovers : thus my lord spoke to me, confiding
to me his most secret affairs, his projects,
and his ambitions, as no man can tell them
save to a woman whom he loves. Truly, it
was a sweet and delicious time. I fondly turn
to it now, after so many years, not, heaven
knows ! with regret, any more than September,
rich in golden harvest and laden orchards,
regrets the sweet and tender April, when all
the gardens were white and pink with the
blossoms of plum and pear and apple, and
the fields were green with the springing
barley, oats, and wheat. Yet a dear, delightful
time, only spoiled by that skeleton
in the cupboard, that consciousness that the
only person who stood between my lord and
his happiness was — the woman he loved.
Heard man ever so strange, so pitiful a case %

At the foot of the hill Lord Chudleig^h
left us, and turned in the direction of Dur-dans,
where he remained all that day, coming
not to the Assembly in the evening. Mrs.
Esther and I went home together to dinner,
and I know not who was the better pleased
with the sport and the gaiety of the morning,
my kind madam or Cicely, the maid,
who had been upon the Downs and had her
fortune told by the gipsies, and it was a
good one.

^ But, my dear,' said Mrs. Esther, ' it is
strange indeed that so loutish and countrified
a bumpkin should be the son of parents
so weil-bred as Sir Robert and Lady Levett.'

Yet,' I said, ' the loutish bumpkin would
have me marry him. Dear lady, would you
wish your Kitty to be the wife of a man who
loves the stable first, the kennel next, and
his wife after his horses and his dogs X

After dinner, as I expected. Will Levett
called in person. He had been drinking
strong ale with his dinner, and his speech
was thick.

your servant, madam,' he said to Mrs.
Esther. ' I want speech, if I may have it,

with Miss Kitty, alone by herself, for all
she sits with her finger in her mouth
yonder, as if she was not jumping with joy
to see me again.'

^ Sir !' I cried.

Oh ! I know your ways and tricks. No
use pretending with me. Yet I like them to
be skittish. It is their nature to. For all
your fine frocks, you're none of you any
better than Molly the blacksmith's girl, or
Sukey at the Mill. Never mind, my girl.
Be as fresh and frolic as you please. I like
you the better for it — before wee are married.'


Kitty dear,' cried Mrs. Esther, in alarm,
what does this gentleman mean ?'

I do not know, dear madam. Pray, Will,
if you can, explain what you mean.'

Explain % explain % Why ' here he

swore again, but I will not write down his
profane and wicked language. Suffice it to
say that he called heaven and earth to witness
his astonishment. ^ Why, you mean to look
me in the face and tell me you don't
know ?'

We are old friends, Will,' I said, '■ and I

should like, for Nancy's sake, and because
Lady Levett has been almost a mother tome,
out of her extreme kindness, that we
should remain friends. But when a gentleman
salutes me before a company of gentlemen
and ladies as his sweetheart, when he talks
of fighting other gentlemen — like a rustic on
a village green '

Wouldst have me fight with swords and
likely as not get killed, then ?' he asked.

When he assumes these rights over me, I
can ask, I think, for an explanation.'

'Certainly,' said Mrs. Esther. 'We are
grieved, sir, to have even a moment's disagreement
with the son of so honourable a
gentleman and so gracious a lady as your
respected father and worthy mother, but you
will acknowledge that your behaviour on the
Downs was startling to a young woman of
such strict propriety as my dear Kitty.'

He looked from one to the other as if in a
dream.

Then he put his hand into his pocket and
dragged out the half sixpence.

What's that 1' he asked me, furiously.

A broken sixpence. Will,' I replied.

'Where is the other half?'
Perhaps where it was left, on the table in
the parlour of the Vicarage

What !' he cried ; ' do you mean to say
that you didn't break the sixpence with me '?'

Do you mean to say, Will, that I did \
As for your breaking it, I do not deny that :
I remember that you snapped it between
your fingers without asking me anything
about it ; but to say that I broke it, or
assented to your breaking it, or carried away
the other half— Fie, Will, fie !'

^ This wench,' he said, ' is enough to drive
a man mad. Yet, for all your fine clothes
and your paint and powder, Mistress Kitty,
I've promised to marry you. And marry
you I will. Put that in your pipe, now.'

Marry me against my consent. Will ?
That can hardly be.'

Is it possible,' cried Mrs. Esther, seriously
displeased, ' that we have in this rude and
discourteous person a son of Sir Robert
Levett r

^ I never was crossed by woman or man or
puppy yet,' cried Will doggedly, and taking
no notice whatever of Mrs. Esther's rebuke ;

and I never will be ! Why, for a whole
year and more I've been making preparations
for it. I've broke in the colt out of Rosamond
by Samson and called him Kit, for
you to ride. I've told the people round,
so as anybody knows there's no pride in
me, that I'm going to marry a parson's
girl, without a garden, thos a baronet to
be '

Will easily dropped into rustic language,
where I do not always follow him.

Oh, thank you, Will. That is kind indeed.
But I would rather see you show the
pride due to your rank and birth. You
ought to refuse to marry a parson's girl.
Or, if you are resolved to cast away your
pride, there's many a farmer's girl — there's
Jenny of the Mill, or the blacksmith's Sue :
more proper persons for you, I am sure, and
more congenial to your tastes than the parson's
girl.'

I don't mind your sneering — not a whit,
I don't,' he replied. ' Wait till we're married,
and I warrant you shall see who's got the
upper hand ! There'll be mighty little sneering
then, I promise you.'

This brutal and barbarous speech made
me angry.

Now, Will,' I said, ' get up and go away.
We have had enough of your rustic insolence.
Why, sir, it is a disgrace that a gentleman
should be such a clown. Go away from
Epsom : leave a company for which your
rudeness and ill-temper do not fit you : go
back to your mug-house, your pipe, your
stables, and your kennels. If you think of
marrying, wed with one of your own rank.
Do you hear, sir ? one of your own rank !
Gentle born though you are, clown and churl
is your nature. As for me, I was never
promised to you ; and if 1 had been, the
spectacle of this amazing insolence would
break a thousand promises.'

He answered by an oath. But his eyes
were full of dogged determination which I
knevz of old ; and I was terrified, wondering
what he would do.

^ I remember, when you were a boy, your
self-will and heedlessness of your sister and
myself. But we are grown up now, sir, as
well as yourself, and you shall find that weare

no longer your servants. What ! am I
to marry this clown '

You shall pay for this !' said Will. ' Wait
a bit ; you shall pay !'

Am I to obey the command of this rude
barbarian, and become his wife ; not to cross
him, but to obey him in all his moods, because
he wills it ? Are you, pray, the great
Bashaw T

'Mr. Levett/ said Mrs. Esther, 'I think
you had better go. The Kitty you knew
was a young and tender child ; she is now a
grown woman, with, I am happy to say, a
resolution of her own. Nor is she the penniless
girl that you suppose, but my heiress ;
though not a Pimpernel by blood, yet a
member of as good and honourable a house
as yourself

He swore again in his clumsy country
fashion that he never yet was baulked by
woman, and would yet have his way ;
whereas, so far as he was a prophet (I am
translating his rustic language into polite
English) those who attempted to say him
nay would in the long-run find reason to
repent with bitterness their own mistaken

action. All his friends, he said, knew Will
Levett. No white-handed, slobbering, tea-drinking
hanger-on to petticoats was he ; not
so : he was very well known to entertain
that contempt for women which is due to a
man who values his self-respect and scorns
lies, finery, and make-believe fine speeches.
And it was also very well known to all the
country-side that, give him but a fleer and a
flout, he was ready with a cuff" side o' the
head ; and if more was wanted, with a yard
of tough ash, or a fist that weighed more
than most. As for drink, he could toss it
ofl* with the best, and carry as much ; as for
racing, we had seen what he could do and
how gallant a rider he was ; and for hunting,
shooting, badger-baiting, bull-baiting, dog-fighting,
and cocking, there was not, he was
ready to assure us, his match in all the
country. Why, then, should a man, of
whom his country was proud — no mealy-mouthed,
Frenchified, fine gentleman, of
whom he would fight a dozen at once, so
great was his courage — be sent about his
business by a couple of women \ He would
let us know ! He pitied our want of discernment,

and was sorry for the sufferings which
it would bring upon one of us, meaning
Kitty ; of which sufferings he was himself to
be the instrument.

When he had finished this harangue he
banged out of the room furiously, and Ave
heard him swearing on the stairs and in the
passage, insomuch that Cicely and her mother
came up from the kitchen, and the former
threatened to bring up her mop if he did not
instantly withdraw or cease from terrifying
the ladies by such dreadful words.

My dear,' said Mrs. Esther, ' we have
heard, alas ! so many oaths that we do not
greatly fear them. Yet this young man is
violent, and I will to Lady Levett, there to
complain about her son.'

She put on her hat, and instantly walked
to Sir Robert's lodgings, when, before the
baronet, Lady Levett, and Nancy she laid
her tale.

I know not,' said Lady Levett, weeping,
^ what hath made our son so self-willed and
so rustical. From a child he has chosen the
kennel rather than the hall, and stable-boys
for companions rather than gentlemen

'Will is rough said his father, 'but I
cannot believe that he would do any hurt to
Kitty, whom he hath known (and perhaps
in his way loved) for so long.'

Will is obstinate,' said Nancy, ' and he is
proud and revengeful. He has told all his
friends that he was about to marry Kitty.
When he goes home assail he will have to
confess that he has been sent away.'

Yet it would be a great match for Kitty,'
said Will's mother.

No, madam, with submission,' said Mrs.
Esther. ' The disparity of rank is not great,
as your ladyship will own, arid Kitty will
have all my money. The real disparity is
incompatibility of sentiment.'

Father,' said Nancy, ' you must talk to
Will. And Mrs. Pimpernel, take care that
Kitty be well guarded.'

Sir Robert remonstrated with his son.
He pointed out, in plain terms, that the language
he had used and the threats he had
made were such as to show him entirely unfitted
to be the husband of any gentlewoman :
that Kitty was, he had reason to believe,
promised to another man : that it was absurd

of him to suppose that a claim could be
founded on words addressed to a child overcome
with grief at the death of her father.
He spoke gravely and seriously, but he
might have preached to the pigs for all the
good he did.

Will replied that he meant to marry Kitty,
and he would marry her : that he would
brain any man who stood in his way : that
he never yet was crossed by a woman, and
he never would ; with more to the same
effect, forgetting the respect due to his
father.

Sir Robert, not losing his patience, as he
would have been perfectly justified in doing,
went on to remonstrate with his son upon
the position which he was born to illustrate,
and the duties which that involved. Foremost
among these, he said, were respect and
deference to the weaker sex. Savages and
barbarous men he reminded him, use women
with as little consideration as they use slaves ;
indeed, because women are weak, they are,
among wild tribes, slaves by birth. ' But,' he
said, * for a gentleman in this age of politeness
to speak of forcing a lady to marry

him against her will is a thing unheard
of.'

^ Why, lad,' he continued, ' when I was at
thy years, I would have scorned to think of
a woman whose affections were otherwise
bestowed. It would have been a thing due
to my own dignity, if not to the laws of
society, to leave her and look elsewhere.
And what hath poor Kitty done, I pray %
Mistaken an offer of marriage (being then a
mere child and chit of sixteen) for an offer of
friendship. Will, Will, turn thy heart to a
better mood.'

Will said that it was no use talking, because
his mind was made up : that he was
a true Englishman, and a British bulldog".
Holdfast was his name : when he
made up his mind that he was going to get
anything, that thing he would have : that,
as for Kitty, he could no more show himself
back upon the village-green, or in the village
inn, or at any cock-fighting, bull-baiting,
badger-drawing, or horse-race in the countryside,
unless he had brought home Kitty as
his wife. Wherefore, he wanted no more
ado, but let the girl come to her right mind,

and follow to heel, when she would find him
(give him his own way, and no cursed contrariness)
the best husband in the world.
But, if not,

Then Sir Robert spoke to other purpose.
If, he told his son, he molested Kitty in anyway
whatever, he would, in his capacity as
justice of the peace, have him instantly turned
out of the town ; if he offered her any insult,
or showed the least violence to her friends,
he promised him, upon his honour, to disinherit
him.

You may drink and smoke tobacco with
your grooms and stable-boys at home,' he
said. ' I have long been resigned to that.
But if you disgrace your name in this place,
as sure as you bear that name, you shall no
longer be heir to aught but a barren title.'

Will answered not, but walked away with
dogged looks.

VOL. III. 48

HOW WILL WOULD NOT BE CROSSED.

I KNOW not what Will proposed to himself
when his father at first admonished him ;
perhaps, one knows not, he even tried to set
before himself the reasonableness of his
father's rebuke ; perhaps, as the sequel seems
to show, he kept silence, resolving to have
his own way somehow.

However that might be. Will ceased to
molest me for the time, and I was even in
hopes that he had seen the hopelessness of
his desires. Our days went on without any
other visits from him, and he did not seek
me out upon the Terrace or in the Assembly
Rooms.

Poor Nancy's predictions were, however,
entirely fulfilled. For Will could not, by any

persuasions hers,be induced at first to abstain
from showing himself in public. To be sure,
he did not ' run an Indian muck ' among the
dancers, but he became the terror of the
whole company for a rough boorishness which
was certainly unknown before in any polite
assembly. He did not try to be even
decently polite ; he was boorish, not like a
boor, but like a Czar of Russia, with a proud
sense of his own position ; he behaved as if
he were, at Epsom Wells, the young squire
among the villagers who looked up to him as
their hero and natural king. If he walked upon
the Terrace he pushed and elbowed the men,
he jolted the ladies, he stepped upon trains,
pushed aside dangling canes and deranged
wigs, as if nobody was to be considered when
he was present. Sometimes he went into
the card-room and took a hand ; then, if he
was tempted to give his antagonist the Fie
direct, he gave it ; or if he lost, he said rude
things about honesty ; and he was so strong,
and carried so big a cudgel, that for a time
nobody dared to check him. Because, you
see, by Nash's orders, the gentlemen wore no
swords. Now, although it is possible to

48—2

challenge a man and run him through, what
are you to do with one who perhaps would
refuse a challenge, yet would, on provocation,
being horribly strong, cudgel his adversary
on the spot % Of course, this kind of thing
could not last ; it went on just as long as the
forbearance of the gentlemen allowed, and
then was brought to an end. As for Will,
during the first few days he had not the least
consideration for anyone ; all was to give
way to his caprice.

I have already remarked upon the very
singular love which young men of all ranks
seem to have for chucking under the chin
young women of the lower classes. It was
very well known at Epsom Wells that many
gentlemen rose early in the morning in order
to enjoy this pastime upon the chins of the
jugglers who brought the fruit, eggs, fowls,
and vegetables from the farmhouses. From
six to nine chin chucking, not actually upon
the Parade and the Terrace, but close by,
among the trees, on the steps of houses,
beside the pond, was an amusement in full
flow. Many of the jugglers were comely red-cheeked
damsels who thouof-ht it fine thus to

be noticed by the quality, and I suppose no
harm came of it all, save a little pampering
of the conceit and vanity of young girls, so
that they might dream of gentlemen instead
of yeomen, and aspire beyond their rank
instead of remembering the words of the
Catechism to ' learn and labour to do their
duty in their own station of life.' To attract
the attention of a dozen young fellows : to
have them folio win: one about, even though
one carried a basket full of eggs for sale : to
listen to their compliments : to endure that
chin-chucking — I suppose these things were
to the taste of the girls, because, as Cicely
told me, there was great competition among
them who should carry the basket to the
Wells. Now Master Will was quite at
home, from his village experiences, with this
pastime, and speedily fell in with it, to the
annoyance and discomfiture of the London
beaux and fribbles. For, still acting upon
the principles that Epsom was his own
parish, the village where he was Sultan,
Great Bashaw, Heyduc, or Grand Seigneur,
he at once took upon himself the right of
paying these attentions to any or all of the

damsels, without reference to previous preferences.
This, which exasperated the fair
jugglers, drove the beaux nearly mad. Yet,
because he was so strong and his cudgel was
so thick, none durst interfere.

I have since tliouofht, in reflection over
poor Will's history, that there are very few
positions in life more dangerous to a young
man than that of the only son of a country
squire, to have no tastes for learning and polite
society, and to live constantly on the estate.
For among the rough farmers and labourers
there can be no opposition or public feeling
upon the conduct, however foolish and ungoverned,
of such a young man ; the rustics
and clowns are his very humble servants,
nay, almost his slaves ; they tremble at his
frown ; if he lifts his stick they expect a
cudgelling ; as for the women and girls of
the village, the poor things are simply
honoured by a nod and a word ; the estate
will be his, the fields will be his, the cottages
his ; the hares, rabbits, partridges, pheasants
will be his ; even the very men and women
will be his, nay, are his already. Wherever
he goes he is saluted ; even in the church,

the people rise to do him reverence ; hats
are doffed and reverence paid if he walks
the fields, or rides upon the roads ; every day,
supposing he is so unhappy as to remain
always upon his own estate, he is made to feel
his greatness until he comes to believe, like
King Louis XV. himself, that there is no
one in the world but must bow to his order,
nothing that he desires but he must have.
And, speaking with the respect due to my
benefactors, I think that Sir Robert, a man
himself of singular good feeling" and hitch
breeding, was greatly to blame in not sending
his son to travel, or in some way to make
him mix with his equals and superiors. For
such a character as Will's is formed insensibly.
A man does not become selfish and boorish
all at once. Therefore, his parents did not
notice, until it was forced upon them, what
all the world deplored — the self-will and
boorishness of their only son. To the last
I think that Lady Levett lookedvupon him
as a young man of excellent heart, though
stubborn.

You shall marry me,' he had said.
Therefore it was war to the death, because,

as you all know, I could not possibly marry
him.

It was no secret at Epsom that this young
autocrat had said those Avords ; in fact, he
used them in public, insulting Harry Temple
upon the very Terrace before all the company.


I warn you,' he said, ^ keep away from
Kitty. She's going to be my wife. I've
told her so. Therefore, hands off.'

Why, Will,' Harry replied good-naturedly,
what if she refuses ?'

She shan't refuse. I've said she shall
marry me, and she shall,' he replied. ' Refuse
'{ It's only her whimsical tricks. All
fillies are alike. Hands off, Master Harry.'

Why,' cried Peggy Baker, * what a
pretty, genteel speech, to be sure ! Oh,
Mr. Levett, happy is the woman who will be
your wife ! Such kindness of disposition !
such sweetness ! such gallantry ! such sensibility
!'

I know what you mean,' said Will, swearing
a big oath ; ' and I don't value your
words nor your opinion — no — not a brass
garden, no more than I value your powder.

and your paint, and your patches. You're
all alike ; blacksmith's Sue is worth a hundred
of ye

Peggy burst out laughing, and Will strode
away. He did not like to be laughed at, yet
could not help being intolerably rude.

When I found that Will, although he made
himself the laughing-stock — and the terror
of the place ceased to molest me, 1 was
more easy in my mind ; certainly, it would
not have been pleasant to walk on the
Terrace, or even to go to the Assembly, if
one had feared to meet this rough and bearish
inamorato, who might have insulted one, ora
gentleman with one, in the most intolerable
manner. However, the evening was generally
a safe time, because then he loved to sit
in a tavern playing all-fours over a pipe and
a tankard with any country parson, or even
any town tradesman, who would share his
beer and be complaisant with his moods.

This was worse than the case of Harry
Temple, because, as 1 have said before, I
could not hope, whatever I did, to bring him
to reason. Sometimes I thought, but wildly,
of Dr. Powlett's establishment. Suppose

that the whole force of the house had succeeded
in putting him into chains and a
strait-waistcoat, which was certainly doubtful
— besides, so wicked a thing could not be
done twice — what assurance had I of good
behaviour on release \ He would promise —
Will was always ready to promise, having no
more regard to truth than an orang-outang ;
but when he was free, with his cudgel in his
hand, what would he not do ?

I have said that he was prodigiously strong,
besides being fierce and masterful of aspect.
This made men give way to him ; also he got
a reputation for being stronger than perhaps he
really was. For when, as continually happened,
booths were put on the Downs for wrestling,
candlestick, quarterstaff, boxing, and other
trials of skill and strength, Will would
always go, sit out the whole games, and then
challenge the victor, whom he always conquered,
coming off the hero of the day. To
be sure, it was whispered that the contest
was generally arranged — by promise of half-a-crown
— to be decided in favour of Will. It
seems strange, but I suppose there* are men
who, for half-a-crown, will not only sell a

fight — on which bets have been made — but
also take a sound drubbing as well.

And if he had a dispute with a gentleman
it was impossible for him to exchange two
words without causing a dispute — he would
immediately propose to settle the affair with
cudgels or fists. Now a gentleman should
be ready to fight a street bully or a light
porter in London with any weapons, if necessary
; but what sort of society would that be
in which the gentlemen would take off coat
and wigs and eno^asre with fists or clubs on the
smallest quarrel ?

He was so rude and overbearing that the
company began to be positively afraid of going,
to the Terrace or the Assembly Kooms, and
indeed I think he would have driven the
whole of the visitors away in a body but for
the timely interference of Lord Chudleigh
and Sir Miles Lackington. It was the day
after his open insult to Harry Temple, who
could not call out the son of his former
guardian and his old playfellow. Therefore
these two resolved that there should be an
end of this behaviour.

It was bruited abroad that some steps of a

serious nature were going to be taken ;
there had been found a man, it was said, to
bell the cat ; it was even whispered that a
prize-fighter of stupendous strength, dexterity,
and resolution had been brought down
expressly from London in order to insult
Will Levett, receive a challenge for single-stick,
or fists, or quarter-staff, instantly accept
it, and thereupon give the village bantam-cock
so mighty a drubbing that he would not
dare again to show his face among the company.
Indeed, I think that was the best
thing which could have been done, and I
sincerely wish they had done it.

But Lord Chudleigh and Sir Miles would
not treat a gentleman, even so great a cub
and clown, with other than the treatment
due to a gentleman. Therefore, they resolved
upon an open and public expostulation and
admonition. And, mindful of the big cudgel,
they broke the laws of the Wells, and put
on their swords before they came together to
the Terrace, looking grave and stern, as becomes
those who have duties of a disagreeable
kind to perform. But to see the excitement
of the company. They expected, I believe,

nothing short of a battle between Lord
Chudleiofh and Sir Miles on the one hand,
armed with swords, and Will on the other,
grasping his trusty cudgel. The cudgel, in
his hands, against an}^ two combatants,
would have been a mighty awkward weapon,
but, fortunately, gentlemen of Will's kind
entertain a healthy repugnance to cold steel.

It was about twelve o'clock in the forenoon
when Will the Masterful, forcing his
way, shoulders first, among the crowd, found
himself brought up short by these two gentlemen.
Round them were gathered a circle of
bystanders, which increased rapidly till it
was twenty or thirty deep.

Now then,' he cried, ' what is the meaning
of this ? Let's pass, will ye, Lord or no
Lord V

As Lord Chudleigh made no reply, Will,
growling that a freeborn Englishman was as
good as a lord or a baronet in the public way,
tried to pass through them. Then he was
seized by the coat-collar by Sir Miles, whose
arm was as strong as his own.

^ Hark ye,' said the baronet. ' We want a
few words with you, young cub !'

Will lifted his head in amazement. Here
was a man quite as strong as himself who
dared to address him as a cub.

We find that you go about the Wells,'
continued the baronet, ' which is a place of
entertainment for ladies and gentlemen, insulting,
pushing, and behaving with no more
courtesy than if you were in your own stable-yard.
Now, sirrah, were it not for the
respect we have for your father we should
make short work of you.'

^ Make short work of me !' cried Will, red
in the face, and brandishing his cudgel. ^ Make
short work of me !'

Certainly. Do not think we shall fight
you with sticks ; and if you make the least
gesture with that club of yours, I shall have
the pleasure of running you through with my
sword.' Contrariety the rules of the Wells,
both gentlemen, as I have said, wore their
swords on this occasion, and here Sir Miles
touched his sword-hilt. ' And now, sir, take
a word of advice. Try to behave like a
gentleman, or, upon my word of honour, you
shall be driven out of the Wells with a horsewhip

by the hands of the common grooms of
the place, your proper companions.'

Will swore prodigiously, but he refrained
from using his cudgel. Indeed, the prospect
of cold steel mightily cooled his courage.

And a word from me, sir said Lord
Chudleigh, speaking low. ' You have dared
to make public use of a certain young lady's
name. I assure you, upon the honour of a
peer, that if you presume to repeat this
offence, or if you in any way assert a claim
to that lady's favour, I will make you meet
me as one gentleman should meet another.'

Will looked from one to the other. Both
men showed that they meant what they
promised. Sir Miles, with a careless smile,
had in his eye a look of determination.
Lord Chudleigh, with grave face and set
lips, seemed a man quite certain to carry out
his promise. Will had nothing to say : he
was like one dumb foundered : therefore, he
swore. This is the common refuge of many
men for all kinds of difficulties, doubts, and
dangers. Some rogues go swearing to the
gallows. Men call them insensible and callous,
whereas I believe that these wretches are

simply incapable of expressing emotion in
any other way. Swearing, with them, stands
for every emotion. The divine gift of speech,
by which it was designed that men should
express their thoughts, and so continually lead
upwards their fellow-creatures, becomes in
their case a vehicle for profane ejaculation, so
that they are little better than the monkeys
on the branches.

Will, therefore, swore vehemently. This
made no impression upon his assailants. He
therefore swore again. He then asked what
sort of treatment this was for a gentleman to
receive. Sir Miles reminded him that he had
offended against the good manners expected of
gentlemen at a watering-place, and that he
could no longer fairly be treated as belonging
to the polite class.

Indeed,' he explained, * we have gravely
considered the matter, my lord and myself,
and have come to the conclusion that
although, for the sake of your most worthy
father, we were ready to admonish as a
gentleman (though in this open and public
manner, as the offence required), 3^0 1 we
cannot consider your case to be deserving of

any better treatment than that of a common,
unruly porter, carter, or labouring man, who
must be brought to his senses by reason of
blows, cuffs, and kicks. Know, then, that
although this Terrace is open to all who
comport themselves with civility, decency,
and consideration for others, it is no place
for brawlers, strikers, and disturbers of the
peace. Wherefore, four stout men, or if
that is not enough, six, will be told off to
drive you from the Terrace whenever you
appear again upon it armed with that great
stick, or upon the least offer to fight any
gentleman of the company. I believe, sir,
that you are no fool, and that you perfectly
understand what we mean, and that we do
mean it. Wherefore, be advised in time, and
if you do not retreat altogether from the
Wells, be persuaded to study the customs of
polite society.'

This was a long speech for Sir Miles, but it
was delivered with an authority and dignity
which made me regret that such good
abilities should have been thrown away at
the gaming-table.

Will swore again at this. Then, observed.
III. 49

ing that many of the bystanders were
laughing, he brandished his cudgel, and talked
of knocking out brains, breaking of necks,
and so forth, until he was again reminded
by Sir Miles, who significantly tapped the
hilt of his sword, that Signer Stick was not
to be allowed to reign at the Wells. Then
he hunch his head and swore assail.

It will be best, sir,' said Lord Chudleigh,
that you come no more to the Terrace or the
Assembly Kooms, with or without your cudgel.
The Downs are wide and open; there you will
doubtless find room for walking, and an audience
in the birds for these profane oaths, to
which our ladies are by no means accustomed.'

Let me go, then,' he said sulkily. ^ Od rot
it — get out of my way, some of you !'

He walked straight down the Terrace, the
people making way for him on either hand,
with furious looks and angry gestures. He
went straight to his stable, where he thrashed
a groom for some imaginary offence. Thence
he went to the King's Head, where he called
for a tankard and offered to fight the best
man in the company or for ten miles round,
for fifty pounds a side, with quarterstaff,

single-stick, or fists. Then he drank more
beer ; sat down and called for a pipe : smoked
tobacco all the afternoon ; and got drunk
early in the evening.

But he came no more to the Terrace.

And now,' said Peggy Baker, ^ I hope
that we shall see Miss Nancy back again.
Doubtless, my lord, the return of that lady,
and the more frequent appearance of Miss
Pleydell with her, will bring your lordship
oftener from Durdans.'

I have already mentioned our poets at
Epsom, and their biting epigrams. Here is
another, which was sent to me at this
time :

^ Kitty, a nymph who fain would climb,
But yet may tumble down,
Her charms she tries with voice and eyes
First on a rustic clown,

But bumpkin squire won't serve her turn

"When gentle Harry woos her.
So farewell Will, for Kitty still
Will laugh, although you lose her.

Yet higher still than Hal or Will

Her thoughts, ambitious, soar'd :
"Go, Will and Hal : my promise shall
Be transferred to my Lord"'

49—2

I suppose the verses were written at the
request of Peggy Baker ; but after all they
did me very little harm, and, indeed, nothing
could do me any more good or harm at
Epsom any more, because my visit was
brought to a sudden close by an event which,
as will be seen, might have been most disastrous
for us all.

The selfishness and boorish behaviour of
Will Levett not only kept us from walking
on the Terrace in the afternoon, but also kept
poor Nancy at home altogether. She would
either come to our lodgings and sit with me
lamenting over her bumpkin brother, or she
would sit at home when Sir Robert was testy
and her ladyship querulous, throwing the
blame of her son's rudeness sometimes upon
her husband, who, she said, had never whipped
the boy as he ought to have been whipped, in
accordance with express Scripture orders
strictly laid down; or upon Nancy, whose
pert tongue and saucy ways had driven him
from the Hall to the kennel ; or upon myself,
who was so ungrateful, after all that had been
done for me, as to refuse her son in spite of
all his protestations of affection. It was hard

upon poor Nancy, the ordinary butt and victim
of her brother's ill-temper, that she
should be taunted with being the cause of
it ; and one could not but think that had
madam been more severe with her son at
the beginning, things might have gone better.
When a mother allows her son from the very
beginning to have all his own way, it is weak
in the father to suffer it : but she must not
then turn round when the mischief is done,
and reproach her daughter, who took no part
in the first mischief, with beinor the cause of
it ; nor should she call a girl ungrateful for
refusing to marry a man whose vices are so
prominent and conspicuous that they actually
prevent his virtues from being discerned.
Beneath that smock-frock, so to speak, that
village rusticity, behind that blunt speech
and rough manner, there may have been the
sound kind heart of a gentleman, but the girl
could not take that for granted. The sequel
proved indeed that she was right in refusing,
even had she been free ; for Will died, ashe
lived, a profligate and a drunkard of
the village kind. So that even his poor
mother was at last fain to acknowledge that

he was a bad and wicked man, and but for
some hope derived from his death-bed, would
have gone in sorrow to her dying day.

I must say, Kitty said Lady Levett tome,
' that I think a little kindness from you
might work wonders with our Will. And he
a boy of such a good heart !'

He wants so much of me, madam,' I replied.
' With all respect, I cannot give him
what he asks, because I cannot love him.'

He says, child, that you promised him.*

Indeed, madam, I did not. I was in
sorrow and lamentation over my father's
death and my departure from kind friends,
when first Harry and then Will came, and
one after the other said words of which I
took no heed. Yet when I saw them assail,
they both declared that I was promised to
them. Now, madam, could a girl promise
to two men within half an hour ?'

I know not. Girls will do anything said
Lady Levett, bitterly. ^ Yet it passes my
understanding to know how the two boys
could be so mistaken. And yet you will
take neither. What ! would nothing serve
you short of a coronet ?'

I made no reply.

Tell me then, girl, will Lord Chudleigh
marry thee ? It is a great condescension of
him, and a great thing for a penniless young
woman.'

^ He will marry me, madam,' I replied,
blushing, and thinking of what I had first to
tell him.

She sighed.

Well, I would he had cast his eyes on
Nancy ! Yet I say not, Kitty, that a coronet
will be too heavy for thy head to wear.
Some women are born to be great ladies.
My Nancy must content herself with some
simple gentleman. Go, my dear. I must
try to persuade this headstrong boy to
reason.'

Persuade him if you can, madam,' I said,
to leave Epsom and go home. He will
come to harm in this place. Two or three
of the gentlemen have declared that they
will follow the example of Lord Chudleigh
and Sir Miles Lackington, and wear swords,
although that is against the rules of the Wells,
in order to punish him for his rudeness should
he venture again to shake his cudgel in the

faces of the visitors, which he has done already
to their great discomfiture.'

I know not if his mother tried to persuade
him, but T do know that he did not leave
Epsom, and that the evil thing which I had
prophesied, not knowing how true my words
might be, did actually fall upon him. This
shows how careful one should be in foretelling:
disasters, even if they seem imminent. And
indeed, having before one the experiences of
maturity, it seems as if it would be well did
a new order of prophets and prophetesses
arise with a message of joy and comfort,
instead of disaster and misery such as the
message which poor Cassandra had to deliver.


Now, when my lord had given poor Will
the warning of which I have told, he retired
ashamed and angry, but impenitent, to those
obscure haunts where tobacco is continually
offered as incense to the gods of rusticity.
Here he continued to sit, smoked pipes, drank
beer, and cudgelled stable-boys to his heart's
content ; while we, being happily quit of him,
came forth again without fear.

Nancy, however, assured me that something

would happen before her brother,
whose stubbornness and masterful disposition
were well known to her, relinquished his
pursuit and persecution of the woman on
whom he had set his heart.

My dear,' she said, ' I know AVill, as you
do, of old. Was there ever a single thing
which he desired that he did not obtain ?
Why, when he was a child and cried for the
moon they brought him a piece of green cheese,
which they told him was cut from the moon
on purpose for him to eat. Was he ever
crossed in anything ? Has there ever been a
single occasion on which he gave up any enjoyment
or desire out of consideration for
another person ? Rather, when he has gone
among his equals has he not become an object
of scorn and hatred ? He made no
friends at school, nor any at Cambridge,
from which place of learning he was, as you
know, disgracefully expelled ; the gentlemen
of the county will not associate with him
except on the hunting-field — you know all
this, Kitty. Think, then, since he has made
up his mind to marry a girl ; since he has
bragged about his condescension, as he considers

it ; since he has promised his pot-companion
to bring home a wife, how great must
be his rage and disappointment. He will do
something, Kitty. He is desperate.'

What, however, could he do % He came
not near our lodging's ; he made no sign of
any evil intention ; but he did not go away.

He is desperate,' repeated Nancy. ' He
cares little about you, but he thinks of his
own reputation. And, my dear, do not
think because Will, poor boy, is a sot and a
clown that he does not think of his reputation.
His hobby is to be thought a man
who can and will have his own way. He
has openly bragged about the country, and
even among his boozing companions at Epsom,
that he weill marry you. Therefore,
oh ! my dear, be careful. Go not forth
alone, or without a gentleman or two, after
dark. For I believe that Will would do
anything, anything, for the sake of what he
calls his honour. For, Kitty, to be laughed
at would be the death-blow to his vanity.
He knows that he is ignorant and boorish,
but he consoles himself with the thought
that he is strong.'

What, I repeated, being uneasy more thana
little, could he do ?

At first I thought of asking Harry Temple
quietly to watch over Will and bring me
news if anything was in the wind ; but that
would not do either, because one could not
ask Harry to act the part of a spy. Next,
I thought that I had only to ask for a bodyguard
of the young men at the Wells to get
a troop for my protection; but what a presumption
would this be ! Finally, I spoke
my fears to Sir Robert, begging him not to
tell madam what I had said.

Courage, Kitty !' said Sir Robert Levett.
Will is a clown, for which we have to thank
our own indulgence. Better had it been to
break a thousand good ash-saplings over his
back, than to see him as he is. Well, the
wise man says : '' The father of a fool hath
no joy." Yet Will is of gentle blood, and I
cannot doubt that he will presently yield and
go away patiently.'

^ Have you asked him, sir V

Child, I ask him daily, for his mother's
sake and for Nancy's, to go away and leave
us in peace. But I have no control over

him. He doth but swear and call for more
ale. His mother also daily visits him, and
gets small comfort thereby. His heart is
hard and against us all.'

Then, sir, if Mrs. Esther will consent,
one cause of his discontent shall be removed,
for we will go away to London where he
will not be able to find us.'

eyes, Kitty,' he replied. 'That will be
best. Yet who would ever have thought I
could wish our sweet tall Kitty to go away
from us !'

The sweet tall Kitty could not but burst
out crying at such tenderness from her old
friend and protector.

Forgive me, sir,' T said, while he kissed
me and patted my cheek as if I was a child
again. ' Forgive me, sir, that I cannot
marry Will, as he would wish.'

Child I' he exclaimed, starting to his feet
in a paroxysm of passion. * God forgive me
for saying so, but I would rather see a girl
I loved in her grave than married to my
son !'

We then held a consultation, Lord Chud-
leigh being of the party ; and it was resolved

that we should return to London without
delay and without acquainting any at the
Wells with our intention, which was to be
carried into effect as soon as we could get
our things put together ; in fact, in two days'
time.

So secret were our preparations that we
did not even tell Nancy, and were most
careful to let no suspicion enter the head of
Cicely Crump, a town crier of the busiest and
loudest, who was, besides, continually beset
by the young gallants, seeking through her,
to convey letters, poems, and little gifts tome.
Yet so faithful was the girl, as I afterwards
found out, and so fond of me, that I
might safely have trusted her. with any secret.

(Soon after the events which I am now to
relate, I took Cicely into my service as stillroom
maid. She remained with me for four
years, being ever the same merry, faithful,
and talkative wench. She then, by my
advice, married the curate of the parish, to
whom she made as good a wife as she had
been a servant, and brought up eleven
children, four of them being twins, in the fear
of God and the love of duty.)

We were to depart on Friday, the evening
being chosen so that Master Will should
not be able to see us go. Lord Chudleigh
and Sir Miles promised to ride with our
coach all the way to London for protection.
I have often remembered since that Friday is
ever an unlucky day to begin upon. Had
we made the day Thursday, for instance, we
should have gotten safely away without the
thing which happened.

On Thursday afternoon we repaired to the
Terrace as usual, I rather sad at thinking
that my reign as Queen of the Wells would
soon be over, and wondering whether the
future could have any days in store for me
so happy as those which a kind Providence
had already bestowed upon me. There was to
be a dance at six, and a tea at five. About four
of the clock, Nancy and I, accompanied only
by Mr. Stallabras, sauntered away from the
Terrace and took the road leading to the
Downs. Nancy afterwards told me that she
had noticed a carriage with four horses waiting
under the trees between the Terrace and
the King's Head, which, on our leaving the
crowd, slowly followed us along the road;

bat she thought nothing of this at the
time.

Mr. Stallabras, with gallant and consequential
air, ambled beside us, his hat under
his arm, his snuff-box in his left hand, and
his cane dangling from his right wrist. He
was, as usual, occupied with his own poetry,
which, indeed, through the interest of the
brewer's widow (whom he subsequently
married), seemed about to become the fashion.
I thought, then, that it was splendid poetry,
but I fear, now, that it must have been what
Dr. Johnson once called a certain man's writing,
' terrible simple stable stuff ;' in other
words, poor Solomon Stallabras had the power
of imitation, and would run you off rhymes
as glibly as monkey can peel cocoa-nuts (according
to the reports of travellers), quite
in the style of Pope. Yet the curious might
look in vain for any thought above the common,
or any image which had not been used
again and again. Such poets, though they
hand down the lamp, do not, I suppose,
greatly increase the poetic reputation of their
country.

^ It seems a pity, ]\[r. Stallabras,' I was

saying, ^ that you, who are so fond of singing
about the purHng stream and the turtles
cooing in the grove, do not ivuow more about
the familiar objects of the country. Here is
this little flower' — only a humble cranes-bill,
yet a beautiful flower — * you do not, I engage,
know its name ?'

He did not.

Observe, again, the spreading leaves of
yonder great tree. You do not, I suppose,
know its name ?'

He did not. A common beech it was, yet
as stately as any of those which may be seen
near Farnham Royal, or in Windsor Forest.

And listen ! there is a bird whose note,
I dare swear, you do not know ?'

He did not. Would you believe that it
was actually the voice of the very turtle-dove
of which he was so fond ?

The Poet he explained, not at all
abashed by the display of so much ignorance
' the Poet should not fetter his mind with
the little details of nature : he dwells in his
thought remote from their consideration : a
flower is to him a flower, which is associated
with the grove and the purling stream : a

shepherd gathers a posy of flowers for his
nymph : a tree is a tree which stands beside
the stream to shelter the swain and his goddess
: the song of one bird is as good as the
song of another, provided it melodiously
echoes the sighs of the shepherd. As
for '

Here we were interrupted. The post-chaise
drove rapidly up the road and overtook
us. As we turned to look, it stopped, and
two men jumped out of it, armed with cudgels.
Nancy seized my arm : ' Kitty ! Will is in
the carriage !' I will do Solomon Stallabras
justice. He showed himself, though small of
stature and puny of limb, as courageous as a
lion. He was armed with nothing but his
cane, but with this he flew upon the russians
who rushed to seize me, and beat, struck,
clung, and kicked in my defence. Nancy threw
herself upon me and shrieked, crying, that if
they carried me away, they should drag her
too. While we struggled, I saw the evil face
of Will looking out of the carriage : it was
distorted by every evil passion : he cried to
the men to murder Solomon : he threatened
his sister to kill her unless she let go : he

VOL. III. 50

called to me that it would be worse for me
unless I came quiet. Then he sprang from
the carriage himself, having originally purposed,
I suppose, to take no part in the fray,
and with his cudgel dealt Solomon such a
blow upon his head that he fell senseless in
the road. After this he seized Nancy, his
own sister, dragged her from me, swore at
the men for being cowardly lubbers, and,
while they threw me into the carriage, he
hurled his sister shrieking and crying on the
prostrate form of the door poet, and sprang
into the carriage after me.

^ Run !' he cried to the two men ; ^ off with
you both, different ways. If you get caught,
it will be the worse for you.'

We were half way up the hill which leads
from the town to the Downs ; in fact, we
Avere not very far above the Doctor's house,
but there was a wind in the road, so that had
his men been looking out of his doors they
could not have seen what was being done,
though they might have heard almost on the
Terrace the cries, the dreadful imprecations,
and the shrieks of Nancy and myself

They had thrown me upon the seat with

such violence that I was breathless for a few-moments,
as well as sick and giddy with the
dreadful scene — it lasted but half a minute —
which I had witnessed. Yet as Will leaped
in after me and gave the word to drive on,
I saw lying in the dust of the road the prostrate
and insensible form of poor Solomon
and my faithful, tender Nancy, who had so
fought and wrestled with the villains, not
with any hope that she could beat them off,
but in order to gain time, \jm^ half over the
body of the Poet, half on the ogden road.
Alas ! the road at this time was generally
deserted ; there was no one to rescue, though
beyond the tall elms upon our right lay the
gardens and park of Dardan, where my lord
was walking at that moment, perhaps, meditating
upon his wretched Kitty.

As for my companion, his face resembled
that of some angry devil, moved by every
evil passion at once. If I were asked to depict
the worst face I ever saw, I should try
to draw the visage of this poor boy. He
could not speak for passion. He was in
such a rage that his tongue clave to the
roof of his mouth. He could not even swear.

50—2

He could only splutter. For a while he sat
beside me ejaculating at intervals disjointed
words, while his angry eyes glared about the
coach, and his red cheeks flamed with
wrath.

The Downs were quite deserted : not even
a shepherd was in sight. We drove along a
road which I knew well, a mere track across
the grass : the smooth turf was easy for the
horses, and we were travelling at such a pace
that it seemed impossible for anyone to
overtake us.

My heart sank, yet I bade myself keep up
courage. With this wild beast at my side it
behoved me to show no sign of terror.

Every woman has got two weapons, one
provided by Nature, the other by Art. The
first is the one which King Solomon had ever
in his mind when he wrote the Book of
Proverbs (which should be the guide and
companion of every young man). Certainly
he had so many wives that he had more
opportunities than fall to the lot of most
husbands (who have only the experience of
one) of knowing the power of a woman's
tongue. He says he would rather dwell in

the wilderness than with an angry woman :
in the corner of the house-top than with a
drawing woman. (Yet the last chapter of
the book is in praise of the wise woman.) I
had, therefore, my tongue. Next I had a
pair of scissors's, so that if my fine gentleman
attempted the least liberty, I could, and
would, give him such a stab with the sharp
points as would admonish him to good
purpose. But mostly I relied upon my
tongue, knowing of old that with this season
Will was easily discomfited.

Presently, the cool air of the Downs blowing
upon his cheeks, Will became somewhat
soothed, and his ejaculations became less like
angry words used as interjections. I sat
silent, taking no notice of what he said, and
answering nothing to any of his wild speeches.
But be sure that I kept one eye upon the
window, ready to shriek if any passer-by appeared.


The angry interjections settled down into
sentences, and Will at last became able to
put some of his thoughts into words.

He began a strange, wild, rambling speech,
during which I felt somewhat sorry for him.

It was such a speech as an Indian savage
might have made when roused to wrath by
the loss of his squaw.

He bade me remember that he had known
me from infancy, that he had always been
brought up with me. I had therefore a first
duty to perform in the shape of gratitude to
him (for being a child with him in the same
village). Next he informed me that having
made up his mind to marry me, nothing
should stop him, because nothing ever did
stop him in anything he proposed to do, and
if anyone tried to stop him he always knocked
down that man first, and when he had left
him for dead, he then went and did the thing.
This, he said, was well known. Very well,
then. Did I dare, then, he asked, knowing
as I did full well this character of his for
resolution, to fly in the face of that knowledge
and throw him over ? What made the
matter, he argued, a case of the blackest ingratitude
was that I had thrown him over fora
lord: a poor, chicken-hearted, painted lord,
whom he, for his own part, could knock down
at a single blow. He would now, therefore,
show me what my new friends were worth.

Here I was, boxed up in the carriage with
lira, safe and sound, not a soul within hail,
being driven merrily across country to a place
he knew of, where I should find a house, a
parson, and a prayer-book. With these before
me I might, if I pleased, yelp and cry for my
lord and his precious friend. Sir Miles Lackington.
They would be far enough away,
with their swords and their mincing ways.
When I was married they might come and
what was I laughing at ?

I laughed, in fact, because I remembered
another weapon. As a last resource I could
proclaim to the clergyman that I was already
a wife, the wife of Lord Chudleigh. I knew
enough of the clergy to be certain that although
a man might bo here and there found among
them capable of marrying a woman against her
will, just as men are found among them who,
to please their patrons, will drink with them,
go cock-fighting with them, and in every other
way forget the sacred duties of their calling,
yet not one among them all, however bad,
would dare to marry again a woman already
married. Therefore I laughed.

A London profligate would, perhaps, have

got a man to personate a clergyman ; but this
wickedness, I was sure, would not enter into
the head of simple Will Levett. It was as
much as he could devise — and that was surely
a good deal — to bribe some wretched country
curate to be waiting for us at our journey's
end, to marry us on the spot. When I understood
this I laughed again, thinking what a
fool Will would look when he was thwarted
again.

'Zounds, madam I I see no cause for
laughing.'

I laugh, Will,' I said, ' because you are
such a fool. As for you, unless you order
your horses' heads to be turned round, and
drive me instantly back to Epsom, you will
not laugh, but cry.'

To this he made no reply, but whistled.
Now to whistle when a person gives you
serious advice, is in Kent considered a contemptuous
reply.

Ah !' he went on, ' sly as you were, I have
been too many for you. It was you who set
the two bullies, your great lord and your
baronet, on me with their swords — made all
the people laugh at me. You shall pay for

it all. It was you set Nancy crying and
scolding upon me enough to give a man a fit ;
it was you, I know, set my father on to me.
Says if he cannot cut me off with a shilling,
he will sell the timber, ruin the estate, and
let me starve so long as he lives. Let 'un I
let 'un ! let un, I say ! All of you do your
worst. Honest Will Levett will do what he
likes, and have what he likes. Bull-dog Will !
Hold-fast Will! Tear-rem Will! By the
Lord ! there isn't a man in the country can
get the better of him. Oh, I know your ways !
Wait till I've married you. Then butter
won't melt in your mouth. Then it will be,
'' Dear Wil ! kind Will ! sweet Will ! best
of husbands and of men !" — oh ! I know
what you are well enough. Why — after
all — what is one woman that she should
set herself above other women ? Take off
your powder and your patches and your
hoops, how are you better than Blacksmith's
Sue ? Answer me that. And why do I take
all this trouble about you, to anger my father
and spite my mother, when Blacksmith's
Sue would make as good a wife — ay ! a
thousand times better — because she can bake
and brew, and shoe a horse and mend a

cracked crown, and fight a game-cock, and
teach a ferret, and train a tarrier or a bull-pup,
whereas you — what are you good for,
but to sit about and look grand, and come
over the fellows with your make-pretence,
false, lying, whimsy-flimsy ways, your smiling'
looks when a lord is at your heels, and your
^' Oh, fie ! Will," if it's only an old friend.
Why, I say ? Because I've told my friends
that I'm going to bring you home my wife,
and my honour's at stake. Because I am
one as will have his will, spite of 'em all.
Because I don't love you, not one bit, since
I found you out for what you are, a false,
jilting' jade ; and I value the little finger of
Sue more than your whole body, tall as you
are, and fine as you think yourself. Oh ! by

the Lord '

I am sorry I cannot give the whole of his
speech, which was too coarse and profane to
be written down for polite eyes to read.
Suffice it to say that it included every form
of wicked word or speech known to the
rustics of Kent, and that he threatened mein
the course of it, with every kind of cruelty
that he could think of, counting as nothing a

horsewhipping every day until I became
cheerful. Now, to horsewhip your wife
every day, in order to make her cheerful,
seems like starving your horse in order to
make him more spirited ; or to flog an ignorant
boy in order to make him learned ; or to
kick your dog in order to make him love you.
Perhaps he did not mean quite all that he
said ; but one cannot tell, because his friends
where chiefly in that rank of life where it is considered
a rio^ht and honourable thins to beat
a wife, cuff a son, and kick a daughter, and
even the coarsest boor of a village will
have obedience from the wretched woman at
his beck and call. I think that Will would
have belaboured his wife with the greatest
contentment, and as a pious duty, in order to
make her satisfied with her lot, cheerful over
her duties, and merry at heart at the contemplation
of so good a husband. ^ A wife,
a dog, and a walnut-tree, the harder you
flog them, the better they be.' There are
plenty of Solomon's Proverbs in favour of
flogging a child, but none, that I know of,
which recommend the flogging of a wife.
Blacksmith Sam, Will said, in his own

village, the father of the incomparable Sue,
used this method to tame his wife, with
satisfactory results, and Pharaoh, his own
keeper, was at that very time engaged upon
a similar course of discipline with his partner.
What, he explained, is good for such as
those women is good for all. * Beat 'em and
thrash 'em till they follow to heel like a well-bred
retriever. Keep the stick over 'em
till such times as they become as meek as
an old cow, and as obedient as a sheep-dog.'

While he was still pouring forth these
maxims for my information and encouragement
my heart began to beat violently, because
I heard (distantly at first) the hoofs of
horses behind us. Will went on, hearing and
suspecting nothing, growing louder and louder
in his denunciation of women, and the proper
treatment of them.

The hoofs drew nearer. Presently they
came alongside. I looked out. One on each
side of our carriage, there rode Lord Chud-
leigh and Sir Miles Lackington.

But I laughed no longer, for I saw before
me the advent of some terrible thing, and a
dreadful trembling seized me. My lord's

face was stern, and Sir Miles, for the first
time in my recollection, was grave and
serious, as one who hath a hard duty to
perform. So mad was poor headstrong Will
that he neither heard them nor, for a while,
saw them, but continued his swearing; and
raving.

They called aloud to the postilions to stop
the horses. This it was that roused Will, and
he sprang to his feet with a yell of rage, and
thrusting his head out of the window, bawled
to the boys to drive faster, faster ! They
whipped and spurred their horses. My lord
said nothing, but rode on, keeping up with
the carriage.

Stop !' cried Sir Miles.

Go on !' cried Will.

Sir Miles drew a pistol and deliberately
cocked it.

If you will not stop,' he cried, holding
his pistol to the postboy's head, '■ I will
fire r

Go on !' cried Will. ' Go on ; he dares
not fire.'

The fellow — I knew him for a stable-boy
whose life at the Hall had been one long

series of kicks, cuffs, abuse, and horse-whipping
at the hands of his young master —
ducked his head between his shoulders, and
put up his elbows, as if that which had so
often protected him when Will was enforcing
discipline by the help of Father Stick, would
avail him against a pistol-shot. But he
obeyed his master, mostly from force of habit,
and spurred his horse.

Sir Miles changed the direction of the
pistol, and leaning forward, discharged the
contents in the head of the horse which the
boy was riding. The poor creature bounded
forward and fell dead.

There was a moment of confusion ; the
flying horses stumbled and fell, the boys
were thrown from their saddles : the carriage
was stopped suddenly.

Then, what followed happened all in a
moment. Yet it is a moment which to me
is longer than any day of my life, because
the terror of it has never left me, and because
in dreams it comes back to me. Ah !
what a prophetess was Nancy when she said
that some dreadful thing would happen before
all was over, unless Will went away !

Sir Miles and my lord sprang to their
feet. Will, with a terrible oath, leaped forth
from the carriage. For a moment he stood
glaring from one to the other like a wild
beast brought to bay. He was a wild beast.
Then he raised his great cudgel and rushed
at my lord.

You !' he cried ; ' you are the cause of it.
I will beat out your brains !'

Lord Chudleigh leaped lightly aside, and
avoided the blow which would have killed
him had it struck his head. Then I saw the
bright blade in his hand glisten for a moment
in the sunlight, and then Will fell backwards
with a cry. and lay lifeless on the green turf,
while my lord stood above him, drops of red
blood trickling down his sword.

I fear, my lord,' said Sir Miles, ' that you
have killed him. Fortunately, I am witness
that it was in self-defence.'

You have killed him ! You have killed
my master !' cried the stable-boy, whose left
arm, which was broken by his fall from the
horse, hung helpless at his side. * You have
killed the best master in all the world ! Lord
or no lord, you shall hang !'

He rushed with his one hand to seize the
slayer of his master, this poor faithful slave,
whose affections had only grown firmer with
every beating. Sir Miles caught him by the
coat collar and dragged him back.

Quiet, fool ! Attend to your master.
He is not dead — yet.'

He looked dead. The rage was gone oat
of his eyes, which were closed, and the blood
had left the cheeks, which were pallid. Poor
Will never looked so handsome as when he
lay, to all seeming, dead.

Lord Chudleigh looked on his prostrate
form with a kind of stern sadness. The
taking of life, even in such a cause and in
self-defence, is a dreadful thing. Like
Lamech (who also might have been defending
his own life), he had slain a man to his wounding,
and a young man to his hurt.

'■ Kitty,' he said, in a low voice, taking my
hand, ^ this is a grievous day's work. Yet I
regret it not, since I have saved your
honour !'

My lord,' I replied, ' I had the saving of
that in my own hands. But you have rescued
me from a wild beast, whose end I grieve

over because I knew him when he was yet an
innocent boy.'

Come,' said Sir Miles, ^ we must take measures.
Here, fellows ! come, lift sour master.'

The two boys, with his help, lifted Will,
who, as they moved him, groaned heavily,
into the carriage.

o

Now,' said Sir Miles, ^ one of you get
inside. Lift his head. If — but that is impossible
— you come across water, pour a little
into his mouth. The other mount, and drive
home as quickly as you can.'

I bethought me of my friend the mad
doctor, and bade them take their master to his
house, which was, ass T have said, on the road
between the town and the Downs, so that
he might be carried there quietly, without
causing an immediate scandal in the town.

The fellows were now quite obedient and
subdued. Sir Miles, who seemed to know what
Alas to be done, made some sort of splint with
a piece of poor Will's cudgel, for the broken
arm, which he tied up roughly, and bade the
boy be careful to get attended to as soon as
his master was served. In that class of life,
as is well known, wounds, broken bones and

VOL. III. 51

even the most cruel surgical operations, are
often endured with patience which would
equal the most heroic courage, if it were not
due to a stupid insensibility. The most sensitive
of men are often the most courageous,
because they know what it is they are about
to suffer.

However, they did as they were told, and
presently drove back, the third horse following
with a rope.

Then we were left alone, with the blood
upon the grass and the dead horse lying
beside us.

Sir Miles took my lord's sword from him,
wiped it on the turf, and restored it to him.

Come,' he said, ' we must consider what
to do.'

There is nothing to do,' said Lord Chud-
leigh, * except to take Miss Pleydell home
again.'

Pardon me, my lord,' Sir Miles interposed ;
if ever I saw mischief written on any man's
face, it was written on the face of that boy.
A brave lad, too, and would have driven to
the death at his master's command.'

How can he do harm ?' I asked. ' Why,

Sir Miles, you are witness ; you saw Will
Levett with his cudgel rush upon his lordship,
who but drew in self-defence. I am
another witness. I hope the simple words of
such as you and I would be believed before
the oath of a stable-lad.'

I suppose they would,' he replied. ^ Meantime,
there is the fact, known to all the
company at the Wells, that both you and I,
Lord Chudleigh, had publicly informed this
unhappy young man, that, under certain circumstances,
we would run him through. The
circumstances have happened, and we have
run him through. This complication may be
unfortunate as regards the minds of that pigheaded
institution, a coroner's inquest.'

Sir !' cried my lord, ' do you suppose —
would you have me believe — that this affair
might be construed into anything but an act
of self-defence ?'

I do indeed he replied, gravely ; ' and
so deeply do I feel it, that I would counsel a
retreat into some place where we shall not be
suspected, for such a time as may be necessary.
If the worst happens, and the man
dies, your lordship may surrender yourself —

51—2

but in London — not to a country bench. If
the man recovers, well and good : you can go
abroad ao^ain.'

At first my lord would hear nothing of
such a plan. Why should he run away ?
Was it becoming for a man to fly from the
laws of his country ? Then I put in a word,
pointing out that it was one thing for a case
to be tried before a jury of ignorant, prejudiced
men upon an inquest, and another thing
altogether for the case to be tried by a dispassionate
and unprejudiced jury. I said,
too, that away from this place, the circumstances
of the case, the brutal assault upon
Solomon Stallabras, whose ribs, it appeared,
were broken, as well as his collar-bone, the
ferocious treatment of Nancy by her own
brother, and my forcible abduction in open
daylight, would certainly be considered provocation
enough for anything, and a justification
(combined with the other circumstances) of
the homicide, if unhappily Will should die.

This moved my lord somewhat.

Where, he asked, could he go, so as to lie
perdu for a few days, or a few weeks, if
necessary ?

I have thought upon that replied Sir
Miles, looking at me with a meaning eye
(but I blushed and turned pale, and reddened
again). ' I have just now thought of a plan.
Your lordship has been there once already ; I
mean the Rules of the Fleet. Here will I
find you lodgings, where no one will look for
you ; where, if you please to lie hidden for
awhile, you may do so in perfect safety ;
where you may have any society you please,
from a baronet out at elbows to a baker in
rags, or no society at all, if you please to lie
quiet.'

I like not the place,' said his lordship. ^ I
have been there it is true once, and it was
once too often. Find me another place.'

I know no other,' Sir Miles replied. ' You
must be in London ; you must be in some
place where no one will suspect you. As forme,
I will stay near you, but not with you.
There will be some noise over this affair ; it
will be well for us to be separated, yet not sofar
but that I can work for you. Come, my
lord, be reasonable. The place is dirty and
noisy ; but what signify dirt and noise when
safety is concerned V

He wavered. The recollection of the place
was odious to him. Yet the case was pressing.

He gave way.

Have it he said, ' your own way. Kitty,'
he took my hand, ' hopeless as is my case,
desperate as is my condition, I am happy in
having rescued you, no matter at what co.'

Your lordship's case is not so hopeless as
mine,' said Sir Miles ; ^ yet I, too, am happy
in having helped to rescue this, the noblest
creature in the world.'

The tears were in my eyes as these two men
spoke of me in such terms. How could I
deserve this worship % By what act, or
thought, or prayer, could I raise myself to
the level where my lord's imagination had
planted me ? O Love divine, since it makes
men and women long to be angels !

I mean,' Sir Miles continued, bluntly,
^ that since your lordship has found favour in
her eyes, your case cannot be hopeless.'

Lord Chudleigh raised my hand to his lips,
with a sadness in his eyes of which I alone
could discern the cause.

Gentlemen,' I cried, * we waste the time
in idle components. Mount and ride off as

quickly as you may. As for me, it is but
three miles across the Downs. I have no
fear. I shall meet no one. Mount, I say,
and ride to London without more ado.'

They obeyed ; they left me standing alone.
As my eyes turned from following them, they
lighted on the pool of blood — Will's blood,
which reddened the turf — and upon the poor
dead horse. Then I hastened back across
the Downs.

It was a clear, bright evening, the sun yet
pretty high. The time was about half-past
five : before honos the minuets would be beginning
in the Assembly Kooms ; yet Lady
Levett would know — I hoped that she already
knew — the dreadful wickedness of her
son. Would not, indeed, all the company
know it ? Would not the assault on Mr.
Stallabras and on Nancy be noised abroad ?

Indeed, the news had already sped abroad.

Long before I reached the edge of the
Downs, I became aware of a crowd of people.
They consisted of the whole company, all the
visitors at Epsom, who came forth, leaving
the public tea and the dance, to meet the
girl who had been thus carried away by force.

Harry Temple came forward as soon as I
was in sight to meet me. He was very
grave.

^ Kitty he said, ^ this is a bad day's work.'

How is Will ? You have seen Will X

I fear he is already dead. The doctor to
whom you sent him declares that he is dying
fast. His mother is with him.'

^ Oh, Harry !' I sighed ; ' I gave him no
encouragement. There was not the least
encouragement to believe that I would marry
him.'

No one thinks you did, Kitty ; not even
his mother. Yet others have been carried
away by admiration of your charms to
think '

Oh ! my charms, my charms ! Harry,
with poor Will at death's door, let us at least
be spared the language of compliment.'

By this time we had reached the stream of
people. Among them, I am happy to say,
was not Peggy Baker. She, at least, did
not come out to gaze upon her unhappy rival,
for whose sake one gallant gentleman lay
bleeding to death, and two others were
riding away to hide themselves until the first

storm should be blown over. The rest parted,
right and left, and made a lane through which
we passed in silence. As I went through, I
heard voices whispering : ' Where is Lord
Chudleigh % where is Sir Miles ? How pale
she looks !' and so forth ; comments of the
crowd which has no heart, no pity, qo sympathy.
It came out to-day to look upon a
woman to whom a great insult had been
offered with as little pity as tomorrow it
would go to see a criminal flogged from Newgate
to Tyburn, or a woman whipped at
Bridewell, or a wretched thief beaten before
the Alderman, or a batch of rogues hanged.
They came to be amused. Amusement, to
most people, is the contemplation of other
folks' sufferings. If tortures were to be introduced
again, if, as happened, we are told, in
the time of Nero, Christians could be wrapped
in pitch and then set fire to, thus becoming
living candles, I verily believe the crowd
would rush to see, and would enjoy the spectacle
the more, the longer the sufferings of
the poor creatures were prolonged.

Solomon Stallabras, Harry told me, was
comfortably put into bed, his ribs being set

and his collar-bone properly put in place :
there was no doubt that he would do well.
Nancy, too, was in bed, sick with the fright
she had received, but not otherwise much hurt.
Mrs. Esther was wringing her hands and
crying at home with Cicely to look after her.
Sir Robert and Lady Levett were at the
doctor's. It was, I have said, the same
doctor who had undertaken the temporary
charge of Harry Temple. As we drew near
the house — I observed that most of the
people remained behind upon the Downs in
hopes of seeing the return of Lord Chudleigh,
in which hope they were disappointed —
Harry became silent.

come, Harry,' I said, reading his thoughts,
you must forgive me for saving your life, or
from preventing you from killing Lord Chud-
leigh. Be reasonable, dear Harry.'

He smiled.

I have forgiven you long since,' he replied.
' You acted like a woman ; that is,
you did just what you thought best at the
moment. But I cannot, and will not, forgive
the man with his impudent smile and
his buckets of water.'

Nay, Harry I said, ^ he acted according
to his profession. Come with me to the
house. I cannot even go to Mrs. Esther
until I have seen or heard about poor
Will'

The doctor was coming from the sick man's
chamber when we came to the house. They
had placed Will in one of the private rooms,
away from the dreadful gallery where the
madmen were chained to the wall. With
him were Lady Levett and Sir Robert.

The doctor coughed in his most important
manner.

Your obedient servant, Miss Pleydell.
Sir, your most obedient, humble servant.
You are come, no doubt, to inquire after the
victim of this most unhappy affair. Poor
Mr. William Levett, I grieve to say, is in a
most precarious condition — a most precarious
condition.'

Can nothing save him ? Oh, doctor !'

'Nothing can save him, young lady,' he
replied, ' but a miracle. That miracle — I
call it nothing short — is sometimes granted
by beneficent Providence to youth and
strength only when— I say only when — their

possession is aided by the very highest
medical skill that the country can produce.
I say the very highest ; no mere pretender
will avail.'

Indeed, doctor, we have that skill, I
doubt not, in yourself.'

I say nothing,' — he bowed and spread his
hands — ' I say nothing. It is not for me to
speak.'

And, sir,' said Harry, 'you are doubtless
aware that Sir Robert is a gentleman of a considerable
estate, and that — in fact — you may
expect '

Sir Robert,' he replied, with a smile which
speedily, in spite of all his efforts, broadened
into a grin of satisfaction, '■ has already
promised that no expense shall be spared, no
honorarium be considered too large if I give
him back his son. Yet we can but do our
best. Science is strong, but a poke of cold
steel in the inwards is, if you please, stronger
still.'

Will you let me see Sir Robert V I
asked.

The doctor stole back to the room, and
presently Sir Robert came forth.

He kissed me on the forehead while his
tears fell upon my head.

My dear he said, ^ I ask your pardon in
the name of my headstrong son. We have
held an honoured name for five hundred years
and more : in all that time no deed so dastardly
has been attempted by any one of our
house. Yet the poor wretch hath paid dearly
for his wickedness.'

Oh, sir !' I cried, ' there is no reason why
yon should speak of forgiveness, who have
ever been so kind to me. Poor Will will
repent and be very good when he recovers.'

I think,' said his father, sadly, 'that he
will not recover. Go, child. Ask not to seethe
boy's mother, because women are unreasonable
in their grief, and she might perchance
say things of which she would afterwards
be ashamed. Go to Mrs. Pimpernel,
and tell her of thy safety.'

This was, indeed, all that could be done.
Yet, after allaying the terrors and soothing
the agitated spirits of Mrs. Esther, whose
imagination had conjured up, already, the
fate of Clarissa, and who saw in headstrong
Will another Lovelace, without, to be sure.

the graces and attractions of that dreadful
monster, I went to inquire after my gallant
little Poet.

He was lying on his bed, with orders not
to move, and wrapped up like a baby.

I thanked him for his brave defence, which
I said would have been certainly efficacious,
had it not been for the cowardly blow on the
back of his head. I further added, that no
man in the world could have behaved more
resolutely, or with greater courage.

This day,' he said, ' has been the reward
for a Poet's devotion. In those bowers. Miss
Kitty, when first we met ' — the bower was
the Fleet Market, ^ beside that stream' — the
Fleet Ditch — ^ where the woodland choir was
held ' — the clack of the poultry about to be
killed — ' and the playful lambs frisked ' — on
their way to the butchers of Newgate Street,
' I dared to love a goddess who was as
much too high for me as ever Beatrice was
for her Italian worshipper. I refer not to
the disparity of birth, because (though brought
up in a hosier's shop) the Muse, you have acknowledged,
confers nobility. An attorney
is by right of his calling styled a gentleman ;

but a Poet, by right of his genius, is equal of
ay, even of Lord Chudleigh.'

Surely, dear sir,' I replied, ' no one can
refuse the highest title of distinction to a
gentleman of your merit and genius.'

'But I think,' he went on, * of that disparity
which consists in virtue and goodness. That
can never be removed. How happy, therefore,
ought I to be in feeling that I have
helped to preserve an angel from the hands
of those barbarous monsters who would have
violated such a sanctuary. What are these
wounds ! — a broken rib — a cracked collarbone
— a bump on the back of the head ? I
wish they had been broken legs and arms
in your service.'

1 laughed — but this devotion, more than
half of it being real, touched my heart. The
little poet, conceited, vain, sometimes foolish,
was ennobled, not by his genius, of which he
thought so much, but by his great belief in
goodness and virtue. Women should be
humble when they remember, that if a goodman
loves them it is not, in very truth, the
woman (who is a poor creature full of imperfections)
that they love, but the soul — the

no^ole, pure, exalted soul, as high as their own
grandest conception of goodness and piety,
which they believe to be in her. How can
wee rise to so great a height ? How can we,
without abasement, pretend to such virtue ?
How can we be so wicked and so cruel as,
after marriage, to betray to our husbands the
real littleness of our souls ? As my lord believed
me to be, so might I (then I prayed)
rise to heaven in very truth, and even soar to
higher flights. -

Now, when I reached home, a happy
thought came to me. I knew the name of
Solomon's latest patron, the brewer's widow.
I sat down and wrote her a letter. I said
that 1 thought it my simple duty to inform
her, although I had not the honour of her
friendship, that the Poet whom she had distinguished
with her especial favour and
patronage, was not in a position to pay her
his respects, either by letter, or by verse, orin
person, being at that time ill in bed with
ribs and other bones broken in defence of a
lady. And to this I added, so that she
might not grow jealous, which one must
always guard against in dealing with women,

that he was walking with two ladies, not one,
and that the gallantry he showed in defence
of her who was attacked was so great that
not even a lover could have displayed more
courage for his mistress than he did for this
lady (myself), who was promised to another
gentleman. Nor was it, I added, until he
was laid senseless on the field that the
ravishers were able to carry off the lady,
who was immediately afterwards rescued by
two friends of the Poet, Lord Chudleigh and
Sir Miles Lackinofton.

This crafty letter, which was all true, and
yet designedly exaggerated, as when I called
my lord Solomon's friend, produced more than
the effect which I desired. For the widow,
who was in London, came down to Epsom
the next day, in a carriage and four, to seethe
hero. Now, she was still young, and
comely as well as rich. Therefore, when
she declared to him that no woman could
resist such a combination of genius and heroic
courage, Solomon could only reply that he
would rush into her arms with all a lover's
rapture, as soon as his ribs permitted an
embrace. In short, within a month they

VOL. III. 52

were married at Epsom Church, and Solomon,
though he wrote less poetry in after
years than his friends desired, lived in great
comfort and happiness, having a wife of sweet
temper, who thought him the noblest and most
richly endowed of men, and a brewery whose
vats produced him an income far beyond his
wants though these expanded as time went
on.

As for Nancy, she was little hurt, save for
the fright and the shame of it. Yet her
brother, the cause of all, was lying dangerously
wounded, and she could not for very
pity speak her mind upon his wickedness.

The company, I learned from Cicely, were
greatly moved about it : the public Tea had
been broken up in confusion, while all sallied
forth to the scene of outrage ; nor was the
assembly resumed when it was discovered
that Will Levett had been run through the
body by Lord Chudleigh, and was now lying
at the point of death.

In the morning Cicely went early to inquire
at the doctor's. Alas ! Will was in a
high fever ; Lady Levett had been sitting
with him all night ; it was not thought that

he would live through the day. I put on
my hood and went to see Nancy.

Oh my dear, dear Kitty 1' she cried ; * sure
we shall all go distracted. You have heard
what they say ? Poor Will is in a bad way
indeed ; the fever is so high that the doctor
declares his life to be in hourly danger. He
is delirious, and in his dreams he knows not
what he says, so that you would fancy him
among his dogs or in his stables — where,,
indeed, it hath been his chief delight to
dwell — or with the rustics with whom he
would drink. It is terrible, my father says,.
that one so near his end, who must shortly
appear before his Maker, should thus blaspheme
and swear such horrid oaths. If we
could only ensure him half an hour of sense,
even with pain, so that the clergyman might
exhort him. Alas I our Will hath led so
shocking a life — my dear, I know more of
his ways than he thinks — that I doubt his
conscience and his heart are hardened. Ohy,
Kitty ! to think that yesterday we were happy,,
and that this evil thing had not befallen us 1
And now I can never go abroad again without
thinking that the folk are saying : '' There

52—2

goes the sister of the man who was killed while
trying to carry off the beautiful Miss Pley-
dell"'

No comfort can be found for one who sits
expectant of a brother's death. I bade poor
Nancy keep up her heart and hope for the
best.

The fever increased during the day, we
heard, and the delirium. We stirred not out
of the house save for morning prayers, sending
Cicely from time to time to ask the news.
And all the company gathered together on
the Terrace, not to talk scandal or tell idle
stories of each other, but to whisper that
Will Levett was certainly dying, and that it
would go hard with Lord Chudleigh, who
would without doubt be tried for murder,
the two grooms protesting stoutly that their
master had not struck a blow.

In the evening Sir Robert Levett came to
our lodging. He was heavily afflicted with
the prospect of losing his only son, albeit
not a son of whom a parent could be proud.
Yet a child cannot be replaced, and the line
of the Levetts would be extinguished.

^ My dear,' he said, ' I come to say a thing

which has been greatly on my mind. My
son was run through by Lord Chudleigh.
Tell me, first, what there is between you and
my lord ? Doth he propose to marry you 1'

Dear sir I replied, * Lord Chudleigh has
offered me his hand.'

And you have taken it f

^ Unworthy as I am, dear sir, I have
promised, should certain obstacles be removed,
to marry him.'

^ His sword has caused my Will's death.
Yet the act was done in defence of the
woman he loved, the woman whom Will designed
to ruin '

And in self-defence as well. Had he not
drawn. Will would have beaten out his
brains.'

Tell him, from Will's father, my dear,
that I forgive him. Let not such a homicide
dwell upon his conscience. Where is he X

He has gone away with Sir Miles Lackington
to await the finding of an inquest,
if '

Tell him that I will not sanction any
proceedings, and if there is to be an inquest
my evidence shall be, though it bring my

grey hairs with sorrow to the grave, that my
lord is innocent, and drew his sword to defend
his own life.'

He left me — poor man ! — to return to the
sick bedside.

He had been gone but a short time when
a post-boy rode to the door, blowing a horn.
It was a special messenger, who had ridden
from Temple Bar with a letter from Sir
Miles.

^ Sweet Kitty,' wrote the baronet, ' I write
this to tell thee that we have taken up
quarters in London. I have bestowed my
lord in certain lodgings, which you know,
above the room where once I lay.' Heavens !
my lord was in my own old lodging beside the
Fleet Market. ' He is coldhearted, thinking
of the life he has taken. I tell him that
he should think no more of running through
such a madman in defence of his own life
than of killing a pig. Pig, and worse than
pig was the creature who dared to carry off
the lovely Kitty. To think that such a
rustic clown should be brother of pretty
Nancy ! I have sent to my lord's lodging an

agreeable dinner and a bottle of good wine,
with which I hope my lord will comfort his
heart. Meantime, they know not, in the
house, the rank and quality of their guest.
I suppose the fellow is dead by this time.
If there is an inquest I shall attend to give
my evidence, and the verdict can be none
other than justifiable homicide or Yen felo-dense,
for if ever man rushed upon his death
it was Will Levett. I have also sent him
paper and pens with which to Avrite to you,
and some books, and a pack of cards. Here
is enough to make a lonely man happy. If
he wants more he can look out of the window
and see the porters and fishwives of the market
fight, which was a spectacle daily delighted me
for two years and more. The Doctor is well.
I have informed him privately of the circumstances
of the case, and Lord Chudleigh's
arrival. He seemed pleased, but I took the
liberty of warning him against betraying to
my lord a relationship, the knowledge of
which might be prejudicial to your interests.'

Prejudicial to my interests !

Sir Miles was in league, with me, to hide

this thing from a man who believed, like
Solomon Stallabras, that I was all truth
and goodness.

I had borne so much from this wicked
concealment that I was resolved to bear it no
longer. I said to myself, almost in the words
of the Prayer-book : ' I will arise and go unto
my lord. I will say, forgive me, for thus
and thus have I done, and so am I
guilty.'

Oh, my noble lord ! Oh, great heart and
true ! what am I, wicked and deceitful
woman, that I should hope to keep thy love?
Let it go ; tell me that you can never love
again one who has played this wicked part ;
let hatred and loathing take the place of
love ; let all go, and leave me a despairing
wretch — so that I have confessed my sin and
humbled myself even to the ground before
him whom I have so deeply wronged.

HOW KITTY WENT TO LONDON.

Oppressed with this determination, which
left no room for any other thought, I urged
upon Mrs. Esther the necessity of going to
London at once, as we had resolved to do
before the accident. I pointed out to her*
that, after the dreadful calamity which had
befallen us — for which most certainly no one
could blame us — we could take no more
pleasure in the gaieties of Epsom ; that we
could enjoy no longer the light talk, the
music, and the dancing ; that the shadow of
Death had fallen over the place, so far as we
were concerned ; that we could not laugh
while Nancy was weeping ; and that — in
short, my lord was in London and I must
needs go too.

There are a hundred good reasons said
Mrs. Esther, ' why we should go away at
once ; and you have named the very best of
alL But, dear child, I would not seem to be
pursuing his lordship.'

' Indeed,' I replied, ' there will be no pursuing
of him. Oh, dear madam, I should
be ' — and here I burst into tears — ' the
happiest of women if I were not the most
anxious.'

She thought I meant that I was anxious
about Will's recovery ; but this was no longer
the foremost thing in my thoughts, much as
I hoped that he would get better — which
seemed now hopeless.

^ Let us go, dear madam, and at once.
Let us leave this place, which will always be
remembered by me as the scene of so much
delight as well as so much pain. I must see
my lord as soon as I can. For oh I there
are obstacles in the way which I must try to
remove, or be a wretched woman for ever.'

Child,' said Mrs. Esther, severely, ' we
must not stake all our happiness on one
thing.'

^ But I have so staked it,' I replied.

Dear madam, you do not understand. If I
get not Lord Cliudleigh for my husband,
I will never have any man. If I cannot be
his slave, then will I be no man's queen.
For oh ! I love the ground he walks upon, the
place where he lodges is my palace, his kind
looks are my paradise ; I want no heaven
unless I can hold his hand in mine.'

I refrain from setting down all I said, because
I think I was like a mad thing, having
in my mind at once my overweening love, my
repentance and shame, and my terror in
thinking of what my lord Avould say when he
heard the truth.

Had my case been that of more happy
women, who have nothing to conceal or to
confess, such a fit of passion would have been
without excuse, but I set it down here, though
with some shame, yet no self-reproach, because
the events of the last day or two had been
more than I could bear, and I must needs
weep and cry, even though my tears and
lamentations went to the heart of my gentle
lady, who could not bear to see me suffer.
For consider, the son of my kindest friends,
to be lying, like to die, run through the body

by my lover : I could not be suffered to see
his mother, who had been almost mv own
mother : I could never more bear to meet
my pretty Nancy without thinking how,
unwittingly, I had enchanted this poor boy,
and so lured him to his death : that merry,
saucy girl would be merry no more : all our
ways of kindly mirth and innocent happiness
were gone, never to return : even if Will
recovered, how could there, any more, be
friendship between him and me ? For the
memory of his villainous attempt could never
be effaced. There are some things which we
forgive, because we forget : but this thing,
though I might forgive, none of us would
ever forget. And at the back of all this
trouble was my secret, which I was now, in
some words, I knew not what, to confess to
my lord.

Poor Mrs. Esther gave way to all I
wanted. She would leave Epsom on Monday
: indeed, her boxes should be packed ina
couple of hours. She kissed and soothed
me, while 1 wept and exclaimed, in terms
which she could not understand, upon
woman's perfidy and men's fond trust.

When I was recovered from this fit, which
surely deserved no other name, in which
passion got the better of reason, and reason
and modesty were abandoned for the time (if
Solomon Stallabras had seen me then, how
would he have been ashamed for his blind
infatuation), we were able calmly to begin
our preparation.

First we told Cicely to go order us a post-chaise
for Monday morning, for we must goto
London without delay ; then I folded and
packed away Mrs. Esther's things, and laid
her down to rest awhile, for her spirits had
been greatly agitated by my unreasonable behaviour.
Then Cicely came to my room to
help me, and presently I saw her tears falling
upon the linen which she folded and
laid in the trunk.

Foolish Cicely !' I said, thinking of my
own foolishness, ' why do you cry ?'

Oh, Miss Kitty she sobbed, ' who would
not cry to see you going away, never to come
back again '? For I know you never, never
could come here any more after that dreadful
carrying away, enough to frighten a maid
into her grave. And besides, they say that

Epsom is goings to be given up, and the
Assembly Kooms pulled down ; and we
should not have had this gay season unless
it had been for my lord and his party at the
Durdans. And what we shall do, mother
and me, I can't even think.'

Why, here was another trouble.

Miss Kitty ' — this silly girl threw herself
on her knees to me and caught my hand —
take me into your service when you marry
my lord.'

How do you know I am to marry my
lord. Cicely \ There are many things which
may happen to prevent it.'

Oh, I know you will, because you are so
beautiful and so good.' I snatched my hand
away. ' I haven't offended you, Miss Kitty,
have I ? All the world cries out that you
are as good as you are beautiful ; and
haven't I seen you, for near two months,
always considerate, and never out of temper
with anybody, not even with me, or your
hairdresser, or your dressmaker ? Whereas,
Miss Peggy Baker slaps her maid, and sticks
pins into her milliner.'

That is enough, Cicely,' I said. * I have

no power to take anybody into my service,
being as penniless as yourself. But if — if —
that event should 'h2i^])evi. which you hope for
why — then — I do not — say '

It ivill happen. Oh, I know that it will
happen. I have dreamed of it three times
running, and always before midnight. I
threw a piece of apple-peel yesterday, and
called it to name your husband. It first
made a G., which is Geoffrey, and then a
C, which is Chudleigh. And mother says
that everything in the house points to a wedding
as true as she can read the signs. Oh !
Miss Kitty, may I be in your service V

I laughed and cried, I know not which, for
the tears were very near my eyes all that
time.

But oh ! that thing did happen which she
prophesied and I longed for — I will quickly
tell you how. And, as I have said before,
I took Cicely into my service, and a good
and faithful maid she proved, and married
the curate. I forgot to say that when young
Lord Eardesley heard the story of his father's
elopement with Jenny Medlicott, he laughed,
because his mother, Jenny's friend and far-off

cousin, had taken her away to Virginia with
her, where, after (I hope) the death of Joshua
Crump, she had married again. Jenny, it
appeared, was the daughter of the same
alderman whose fall in 1720 ruined my poor
ladies. And it was for this reason that his
lordship afterwards, when Cicely had a
houseful of babies, took a fancy to them,
and would have them, when they were big
enough, out to Virginia. Here he made
them overseers, and, in course of time,
settled them on estates of their own, where
some of them prospered, and some, as
happens in all large families, wasted their
substance and fell into poverty.

The next day, being Sunday, we spent
chiefly over our devotions. It was moving
to hear the congregation invited to pray for
one in grievous danger — meaning poor Will,
who would have been better at this moment
had he sometimes prayed for himself Nancy
sat beside me in our pew, and caught my
hand at the words. One could not choose
but weep, poor child ! for there was no
improvement in Will's fever : all night long
the doctor had sat beside his bed, while the

lad, in his delirium, fancied himself riding
races, wrestling, boxing, and drinking with
his boon companions. A pitiful contrast !
The pleasures of the world in his mind, and
eternity in prospect. Yet, for a man in
delirium, allowance must be made. The
fever was now, in fact, at its height, and four
men were necessary to hold him down in his
ravines.

o

We spent a gloomy Sunday indeed, Mrs.
Esther being so saddened by the anxieties of
our friends that she resumed her reading of
Drelincourt on Death a book she had laid
aside since we left the Kules. And we
observed a fast, not so much from religious
motives, as because, in the words of Mrs.
Esther, roast veal and stuffing is certain to
disagree when a heart of sensibility is moved
by the woes of those we love. In the evening
we had it cold, when Nancy came to sit with
us, her eyes red with her weeping, and we
were fain to own that we were hungry after
crying together all day long.

'Hot meat,' said Mrs. Esther, 'at such a
juncture, would have choked us.'

Nancy said, that after what had happened,

VOL. III. 53

it would certainly be impossible for us to
stay longer at Epsom, and that for herself,
all she hoped and expected now was shame
and disgrace for the rest of her life. She
wished that there were convents in the
country to which she could repair for the
rest of her days ; go with her hair cut short,
get up in the middle of the night for service,
and eat nothing but bread and water, ^ For
she said, ' I shall never cease to think that
my own brother tried to do such a wicked
thing.'

Nancy as a nun made us all laugh, and so,
with spirits raised a little, we kissed, and said
farewell. Nancy promised to let me know
every other day by post, whatever the
letter should cost, how things went. It
seemed to me, indeed, as if, seeing that
Will had not died in the first twenty -
four hours, the chance was somewhat in
favour of his recovery. And he was so
.strong a man, and so young. I sent a
message of duty and respect to Sir Robert —
I dared not ask to have my name so much as
mentioned to Will's mother — and left Nancy
in her trouble, full of mine own.

Before we started next morning, Cicely
went for news, but there was no improvement.
The stable-boy, she told me, was
going about the town, his arm bandaged up,
saying that if ever a man was murdered in
cold blood it was his master, because he had
never a sword, and only a stick to defend
himself with. Also, it was reported that
among the lower classes, the servants,
grooms, footmen, and such, the feeling was
strong that the poor gentleman had met with
foul play. Asked whether they understood
rightly what Mr. Will Levett was doing,
Cicely replied that they knew very well, and
that they considered he was doing a fine
and gallant thing, one which would confer as
much honour upon the lady as upon himself,
which shows that in this world there is no
opinion too monstrous to be held by rough
and uneducated people : wherefore we ought
the more carefully to guard the constitution
and prevent the rabble from having any
share in public business, or the control of
affairs.

Our carriage took us to London in three
hours, the road being tolerably good, and so

53—2

well frequented, after the first three miles,
that there was little fear of highway robbers
or footpads. And so we came back to our
lodgings in Red Lion Street, after such a two
months as I believe never before fell to the
lot of any girl.

Kemember that I was a wife, yet a maiden;
married to a man whom I had never seen
except for a brief quarter of an hour, who
knew not my name, and had never seen meat
all — making allowance for the state of
drunkenness in which he was married ; that
I knew this man's name, but he knew not
mine ; that I met him at Epsom, and that
he had fallen in love with me, and I, God
help me 1 with him. Yet that there was noway
out of it, no escape but that before he
could marry me (again) I must needs confess
the deceit of which I had been guilty. No
Heaven, say the Roman Catholics, without
Purgatory. Yet suppose, after going through
Purgatory, one were to miss one's Heaven !

How could I best go to my lord and tell
him %

He was in hiding, in the Rules of the
Fleet, and in our old lodging looking over

the Fleet Market bv one window, and over
Fleet Lane by the other — a pleasant lodging
for so great a lord. Could I go down to him,
in hoops and satin, to tell him in that squalid
place the whole truth ? Yet go I must.

Now, while we drove rapidly along the road,
which is smooth and even between Epsom, or
at least between Streatham and London, a
thought came into my mind which wanted,
after a little, nothing but the consent of Mrs.
Esther. A dozen times was I upon the point
of telling her all, and as many times did I refrain,
because I reflected that, although she
knew all about the carrying away of girls from
the romances which she read, a secret marriage
in the Fleet, although she had lived so
long in the Kules, and even knew my uncle
and thought him the greatest of men, was a
thing outside her experience, and would
therefore only terrify her and confuse her.
Therefore I resolved to tell her no more than
I was obliged.

But then my plans made it necessary that
I should leave her for a while — two or three
days, perhaps, or even more.

So soon, therefore, as we had unpacked

our trunks, and Mrs. Esther was seated in
an arm-chair to rest after the fatigues of the
rapid journey, I began upon the subject of
getting away from her, hypocritically pleading
my duty towards the Doctor, my uncle.
I said that I thought I ought to pay him a
visit, and that after my return to London
he would certainly take it unkindly if I did
not ; that, considering the character of the
place in which he unhappily resided, it was
not to be thought that a person of Mrs.
Esther's sensibility could be exposed to its
rudeness ; and that, with her permission, I
would the next day take a coach, and, unless
the Doctor detained me, I would return in
the afternoon.

We had so firmly maintained our resolution
to forget the past, that Mrs. Esther
only smiled when I spoke of the rudeness of
the market, and said that no doubt it was
desirable for a gentlewoman to keep away
from rude and unpolished people, so that
the elevation of her mind might not be disturbed
by unpleasant or harassing scenes.
At the same time, she added, there were
reasons, doubtless, why I should from time

to time seek out that great and good man
(now in misfortune) to whom we all owed a
debt of gratitude which never could be repaid.
She therefore gave me permission to
go there, it being understood that I was to
be conveyed thither, and back again, in a
coach.

In the morning, after breakfast, I dressed
myself for the journey, and, because I
thought it likely that I might remain for one
night at least, and perhaps more, I took with
me a bag containing my oldest and poorest
clothes, those, namely, in which I was dressed
while in the market. Then I wrapped myself
in a hood which I could pull, if necessary,
over my face, and, so disguised, I stole
down the stairs.

London streets are safe for a young woman
in the morning, when the throng of people to
and fro keeps rogues honest. I walked through
Fetter Lane, remembering that here Solomon
Stallabras was born — indeed, I passed a
little shop over which the name was painted
on a swinging sign of the Silver Garter, so
that one of his relatives still carried on the
business. Then I walked along Fleet Street,

crowded with chairs, carriages, waggons, and
porters. The Templarss were lounging about
the gates of their Inns ; the windows of the
many vintners' houses were wide open, and
within them were gentlemen drinking wine,
early as it was ; the coffee-houses were full of
tradesmen who would have been better at
home behind their counters ; ladies were
crowding into the shops, having things
turned over for them ; 'prentices jostled each
other behind the posts ; grave gentlemen
walked slowly along, carrying their canes
before them, like wands of office ; swaggering
young fellows took the wall of everyone,
except of each other ; the street was full of
the shouting, noise, and quarrelling which I
remembered so Avell. At the end was the
bridge with its quacks bawling their wares
which they warranted to cure everything,
and its women selling hot surety, oysters,
and fish. Beyond the bridge rose before me
the old gate of Lud, which has since been
pulled down, and on the left was the Fleet
Market, at sight of which, as of an old friend,
I could have burst into tears.

The toutes and runners for the Fleet

parsons were driving their trade as merrily
as ever. Among them T recognised my old
friend Roger, who did not see me. By the
blackness of one eye, and the brown paper
sticking to his forehead, one could guess that
competition among the brethren of his craft
had been more than usually severe of late.

Prosperity, I thought to myself, works
speedy changes with us. Was it really possible
that I had spent six long months and
more in this stinking, noisy, and intolerable
place ? Why, could I have had one moment
of happiness when not only was I surrounded
by infamy in every shape, but I had no hope
or prospect of being rescued ? In eight short
months these things had frown to seem impossible.
Death itself, I thought, would be
preferable to living among such people and
in the midst of such scenes.

I recognised them all : it gave me pain to
feel how familiar they were : the mean,
scowling faces, stamped With the seal of
wicked lives and wicked thoughts — such faces

o

must those souls wear who are lost beyond redemption
: and the deformed men and boys who
seemed to select this market as their favourite

haunt. There are many more deformed among
the poor than with the better sort, by reason
of the accidents which befall their neglected
children and maim them for life. That
would account for the presence of many of
these monsters, but not of all ; I suppose some
of them come to the market because the labour
of handling and carrying the fruit and vegetables
is light, though poorly paid.

There were hunchbacks in great plenty ;
those whose feet were clubbed, whose legs were
knock-kneed, whose feet were turned inward,
whose eyes squinted. I looked about me for
but did not see — a certain dreadful woman
^vhom I remembered, who sold shell-fish at
a stall and had fingers webbed like a duck ;
but there was the other dreadful woman still in
her place, whose upper lip was horrid to look
at for hair ; there was the cobbler who refused
to shave because he said it was unscriptural,
and so sat like one of the ancients with a long
white beard ; there were, alas ! the little
children, pale, hungry-looking, with eager,
sharp eyes, in training for the whip, the
gallows, or the plantation. They ran about
among the baskets ; they sat or stood among

the stalls waiting for odd jobs, messages and
parcels to carry ; they prowled about looking
for a chance to steal : it was all as I remembered
it, yet had forgotten so quickly. On
the right the long wall of the Fleet Prison ;
beyond that, the doctor's house, his name
painted on the door. I pulled my hood
closer over my face and passed it by, because
before paying my respects to my uncle I was
going to make inquiries about the man I
loved.

He was, as I knew, in our old lodgings. He
slept, unconscious, in my room ; he sat where
I had so often sat ; the place ought to have
reminded him of me. But he knew nothing ;
the name of Kitty Pleydell was not yet
associated in his mind with the Rules of the
Fleet.

When we went away, one of those who
bade us God-speed and shed tears over our
departure was Mrs. Duiiquerque, who, as I
have told, lived above us with her husband,
Captain Dunquerque, and her two little girls.
The captain, who was not a good man or a
kind man, drank and gambled when he got
any money, and left his poor wife and

children to starve. It was to her that I
meant to go. She was a kind-hearted
woman, and fond of me for certain favours
I had been able to show her little girls. I
was sure to find her in the same lodgings,
because in the Rules no one ever changes.

I came to the house : I pulled the hood so
close about my face that had my lord met me
he would not have known me. The door was
standing wide open, as usual. I entered and
mounted the stairs. The door of the room
our old room, on the first-floor — was half
open. Within — oh, my heart ! — I saw my
lord sitting at the table, with paper before
him, pen in hand. I dared not wait, lest he
might discover me, but hastened upstairs to
Mrs. Dunquerque's room.

I was fortunate enough to find her at home.
The captain was gone abroad, and had taken
the children with him for a morning's walk.
She sat at home, as usual, darning, mending,
and making. But oh ! the cry of pleasure
and surprise when she saw me, and the kisses
she gave me, and the praise at my appearance,
and the questions after Mrs. Esther !
I told her of all, including Sir Miles Lackington

and Solomon Stallabras's good fortune.
Then she began to tell me of herself They
were as poor as when we went away ; but
their circumstances had improved in one important
particular; for though the captain
was no more considerate (as I guessed from a
word she dropped), and drank and gambled
whenever he could, they had a friend who
sent them without fail what was more useful
to them than money — food and clothes for the
children and their mother. She did not know
who the friend was, but the supplies never
failed, being as regular as those brought by
the prophet's ravens.

I did not need to be told the name of this
friend, for, in truth, I had myself begged the
doctor to extend his charity to this poor
family, and asked him to send them beef and
pudding, which the children could eat, rather
than money, which the captain would drink.
This he promised to do. Truly, charity, in
his case, ought to have covered a multitude
of sins, for he had a hand ever open to give,
and a heart to pity ; moreover, he gave in
secret, and never did his right hand know
what his left hand was doings

I opened my business to Mrs.
Dunquerque, but only partially.

I told her that on the first-floor, in the
rooms formerly occupied by ourselves, there
was now a young gentleman, well known to
Sir Miles Lackington, who had reason to be
out of sight for a short time ; that he was
also known to myself — here I blushed, and
my friend nodded and laughed, being interested,
as all women are, in the discovery
of a love secret ; that I was anxious for his
welfare ; that I had made the excuse of
paying a visit to the Doctor in order to be
near him : that, in fact, 1 would be about
him, wait upon him, and watch over him,
without his knowledge of my presence.

'But he will most certainly know thee,
child,' she cried. ' Tell me, my dear, is he in
love with thee V

He says so,' I replied. ' Perhaps he tells
the truth.'

And you ? Oh, Kitty, to think of you
only a year ago !'

There is no doubt about me I said ;
for, oh ! dear Mrs. Dunquerque, I am head
over ears in love with him. Yet I will so

contrive that he shall not know me, if you
will help.'

'■ And what can I do f

^ Make his acquaintance ; go and see him ;
tell him that he must want some one to do
for him ; offer to send him your maid Phoebe
yes, Phoebe. Then I will go, and, if he
speaks to me, which is not likely, I will
answer in a feigned voice. Go, now, Mrs.
Dunquerque. I will dress for Phoebe.'

She laughed and went away.

My lord lifted his head as she knocked at
the door.

I ask your pardon, sir,' she said, ' for this
intrusion. I live above you, upon the second-floor,
with my husband and children. I
suppose, sir, that, like the rest of us in this
place, you come here because you cannot help
^ it, and a pity it is to find so young a gentleman
thus early shipwrecked.'

I thank you, madam,' said my lord,
bowing, 'for this goodwill'

The will is nothing, sir, because people in
misfortune ought to help each other when
they can. Therefore, sir, and because I perceive
that your room is not what a gentleman

s should be, being inch thick with dust,
I will, with your permission, send down my
maid when you go out, who may make you
clean and tidy.'

I shall not go out,' replied my lord ; ' but
I thank you for the offer of the girl. I daresay
the place might be cleaner.'

She is a girl, sir,' replied Mrs. Dunquerque,
who will not disturb you by any idle chatter.
Phoebe !' Here she stepped out upon the
stairs. ' Phoebe ! Come downstairs this
minute, and bring a duster.'

When Phoebe came, she was a girl whose
hair was pulled over her eyes, and she had
the corner of her apron in her mouth ; she
wore a brown stuff frock, not down to her
ankles ; her hands were whiter than is generally
found in a servant ; her apron was of
the kind which servant-maids use to protect
their frocks, and she wore a great cap tied
under the chin and awry, as happens to maids
in the course of their work ; in one respect,
beside her hands, Phoebe was different from
the ordinary run of maidservants — her shoes
and stockings were so tine that she feared
his lordship would notice them.

But he noticed her not at all — neither
shoes, nor hands, nor cap, nor apron, which,
though it was foolish, made this servant-girl
feel a little pained.

Phoebe,' said Mrs. Dunquerque, 'you
will wait upon this gentleman, and fetch him
what he wants. And now do but look at the
dust everywhere. Saw one ever such untidiness
? Quick, girl, with the duster, and
make things clean. Dear me ! to think of
this poor gentleman sitting up to his eyes,
as one may say, in a peck of dust T

She stood in the room, with her work in
her hand, rattling on about the furniture and
the fineness of the day, and the brightness of
the room, which had two windows, and the
noise of the market, which, she said, the
young gentleman Avould mind, more than
nothing at all, after a while. As for the
dreadful language of the porters and fishwives,
that, she said, was not pleasant at
first, but after a little one got, so to say,
used to it, and you no more expected that
one of these wretches should speak without
breaking the third commandment and shocking
ears used to words of purity and piety,

VOL. III. 54

than you would expect this Grace the Archbishop
of Canterbury himself to use the language
of the market. She advised the young
gentleman, further, for his own good, not to
sit alone and mope, but to go abroad and
ruffle it with the rest, to keep a stout heart,
to remember that Fortune frowns one day
and smiles the next, being a deity quite
capricious and untrustworthy ; therefore that it
behoved a young man to have hope ; and she
exhorted him in this end to seek out cheerful
company, such as that of the great Doctor
Shovel, the only Chaplain of the Fleet, as
learned as a bishop and as merry as a monk :
or even to repair to the prison and play tennis
and racquets with the gentlemen therein confined
: but, above all, not to sit alone and
brood. Why, had he never a sweetheart to
whom he could write and send sweet words
of love, whereby the heart of the poor
thing would be lightened and her affections
fixed ?

So she rattled on, while I, nothing loth,
plied duster, and cleaned up furniture with a
zeal surpassing that of any housemaid. Yet,
because men never observe what is under

their eyes, he observed nothing of all this
activity. If I had crawled as slowly as possible
over the work, it would have been all
one to him.

Presently I came to the table at which he
was sitting. This, too, was covered with
dust. (It had been our table formerly, and
had grown old in the service of the Pimpernel
ladies.) I brushed away the dust with great
care, and, in so doing, I saw that he had a
letter before him, just begun. It commenced
with these enchanting words :

^ Love of my soul ! My goddess Kitty '

Oh that I could have fallen at his feet,
then and there, and told him all ! But I
could not ; I was afraid.

He had, as yet, written nothing more.
But on a piece of paper beside the letter he
had traced the outlines of a woman's head.
Whose head should it be, I ask you, but
Kitty's ?

I was amazed at the sight. My colour
came and went.

^ Phoebe,' cried Mrs. Dunquerque, warningly,
' be careful how you touch the papers !
There, sir, we have your room straight for

54—2

you. It looks a little cleaner than it did
awhile since.'

'Surely,' he replied, without looking around.
Yes, I am truly obliged to you, madam.
As for this girl ' — still he would not look at
me — ^ perhaps '

He placed a whole crownpiece in my hand.
A crown-piece for such a simple piece of
work ! Enouoii to make the best of housemaids
grasping ! This is how men spoil
servants.

Can I get you anything, sir X I asked, ina
feigned voice.

Nothing, child, nothing. Stay — yes. One
must eat a little, sometimes. Get me some
dinner by-and-by.'

This was all for that time. We went away,
and we spent the rest of the morning in
making him such a little dinner as we thought
must please him. First we got from the
market a breast of veal, which we roasted
with a little stuffing, and dished with a slice
or two of bacon, nicely broiled, some melted
butter made with care, and a lemon. This, to
my mind, forms a dish fit for a prince. We
added to this some haricot beans, with butter

and sweet herbs, and a dish of young potatoes.
Then we made a little fruit pudding and a
custard, nicely browned, and, at two o'clock,
put all upon a tray, and I carried it downstairs,
still with my hair over my eyes, my cap
still awry, and the corner of the apron still in
my teeth.

I set the food before him and waited to
serve him. But he would not let me.

Ah ! had he known how I lon^j^ed to do
something for him, and what a happiness it
was simply to make his dinner, to prepare
his vegetables for him, and to boil his pudding
1 But how should he guess ?

I found Sir Miles's bottle of wine untouched
in the cupboard, and placed it on the
table. Then I left him to his meal. When
I returned, I found he had eaten next to
nothing. One could have cried with vexation.


^ Lord, sir I said, still in my feigned
voice, ' if you do not eat you will be ill. Is
there never a body that loves you V
He started, but hardly looked at me.
'A trick of voice,' he said. 'Yet it reminded
me — Is there anybody who loves

me, child ? I think there is. To be sure,
there is some one whom I love.'

Then, sir, you ought to eat, if only to
please her, by keeping well and strong.'

"Well, well ! I dare say I shall be hungry
tomorrow. You can take away the things,
Phoebe, if that is what they call you.'

I could say no more, but was fain to obey.
Then, as I could do no more for him, I took
up the tray and resolved to go and see the
Doctor, with whom I had much to say.
Therefore I put off my servant's garb, with
the apron and cap, and drew the hood over
my face again.

The Doctor's busy time was in the morning.
In the afternoon, after dinner, he mostly
slept in his arm-chair, over a pipe of tobacco.
I found him alone thus enjoying himself. I
know not whether he slept or meditated for
the tobacco was still burning, though his eyes
were closed.

There is this peculiarity about noise in
London, that people who live in it and sleep
in it, do not notice it. Thus while there was
a horrible altercation outside his very windows
— a thing which happened every day,

and all day long — the Doctor regarded it not
at all. Yet he heard me open and shut the
door, and was awake instantly.

^ Kitty !' he cried. ' Why, child, what dost
thou here V

' I hope, sir I said, ' that I find you in
good health and spirits.'

Reasonable good, Kitty. A man of my
years, be he never so temperate and regular
in his habits, finds the slow tooth of time
gnawing upon him. Let me look at thy face.
Humph ! one would say that the air of Epsom
is good for young maids' cheeks. But why
in Fleet Market, child V

Partly, sir, I came to see you, and
partly '

To see some one else, of whose lodo^ino- in
the Kules I have been told by Sir Miles
Lackington. Tell me — the young man whom
he wounded, is he dead V

'Nay, sir, not dead, but grievously wounded,
and in a high fever.'

So. A man in early manhood, who has
been wounded by a sword running through
his vitals, who four days after the event is
still living", though in a high fever — that man,

methinks, is likely to recover, unless his physician,
as is generally the case, is an ass. For,
my dear, there are as many incompetent
physicians as there are incapable preachers.
Their name is Legion. Well, Kitty, you came
about Lord Chudleigh. Have you seen him ?'

Yes ; but, sir, he does not know that I
am here. I saw him ' — here I blushed
again — 'in disguise as a housemaid.'

'Ho! ho! ho!' laughed the Doctor. *Why,
girl, thou hast more spirit than I gave thee
credit for. Thou deserves him, and shalt
have him, too. The time is come.' He rose
and folded his gown about him, and put on
his wig, which for coolness' sake he had laid
aside. ' I will go to him and say, " My lord,
the person to whom you were married is no
other than " '

Oh ! no, sir. I pray you do not speak to
him in such fashion. Pray hear me first.'

Well — well. Let us hear this little baggage.'
The Doctor was in very good spirits,
and eager to unfold his tale. He sat down
again, however, and took up his pipe. * Goon,
then, Kitty; go on — I am listening.'

This was, indeed, a very critical moment of

my life. For on this moment depended, I
foresaw all my happiness. I therefore hesitated
a little, thinking what to say and how
to say it. Then I began.

I reminded my uncle that, when I first
came under his protection, I was a young
girl fresh from the country, who knew but
little evil, suspected none, and in all things
had been taught to respect and fear my betters.
I then reminded him how, while in this discipline
of mind, I was one morning called
away by him, and ordered to go through a
certain form which (granting that I well
knew it to be the English form of marriage
service) I could not really believe to mean
that I was married. And though my uncle
assured me afterwards that such was the
case, I so little comprehended that it could
be possible, that I had almost forgotten the
whole event. Then, I said, we had gone
away from the Rules of the Fleet, and found
ourselves under happier circumstances, where
new duties made me still more forget this
strange thing. Presently we went to Epsom,
whither, in the strangest way, repaired the
very man I had married.

After this, I told him, the most wonderful
thing in the world happened to me. For not
only did my lord fall in love with me, his legal
wife, but he gave me to understand that the
only obstacle to his marrying me was that
business in the Fleet, of which he informed
me at length.

'- Very good,' said the Doctor. ^ Things
could not go better. If the man has fallen
in love with the girl, he ought to be pleased
that she is his wife.'

Nay : that would not do either ; for here
another thing of which the Doctor had no
experience, being a man. For when a
woman falls in love with a man she must
needs make herself as virtuous and pure in
mind as she is brave in her dress, in order
the more to please him and fix his affection.
And what sort of love would that be where a
woman should glory, as i*t were, in deception
%

Why, his love would be changed, if not
into loathing, then into a lower kind of love,
in which admiration of a woman's beauty
forms the whole part. Now, if beauty is
everything, even Helen of Troy would be a

miserable woman, a month after marriage,
when her husband would grow tired of her.

^ Alas !' I cried, ' I love him. If you tell
him, as he must now be told, that I was the
woman who took a part in that shameful
business — yes, sir, even to your face I must
needs call it shameful — you may tell him at
once that I release him so far as I can. I will
not acknowledge the marriage. I will go
into no court of law, nor will I give any
evidence to establish my rights '

Whom God hath joined asunder ' the

Doctor began.

^ Oh ! I know — I know. And you are a
clergyman of the Church, with power and
authority by laying on of hands. Yet I
cannot think, I cannot feel that any blessing
of heaven could rest upon a union performed
in such a place. Is this room, nightly desecrated
by revellers, a church ? Is your
profligate wretch Koger a clerk % Where
were the banns put up ? What bells were
rung ?'

Banns are no longer fashionable,' he replied.
' But let me think.' He was not
angry with my plainness of speech, but rather

the contrary. ' Let me think.' He went to
his cupboard, took out his great register, and
turned over the leaves. Ay ! here it is,
having a page to itself: Geoffrey Lord
Chudleigh to Catherine Pleydell. Your
ladyship is as truly Lady Chudleigh as his
mother was before him. But if you i'll
give up that title and dignity ' — here he
smiled and tore out the page, but carefully —
^ I will not baulk thee, child. Here is the
register, and here the certificate of the wedding.'
He put both together, and laid them
carefully aside. * Come to me tomorrow,
and I will then go with you to his lordship
and give him these papers to deal with as he
pleases.'

HOW LORD CHUDLEIGH RECEIVED HIS FREEDOM.

I RETURNED to my lodging, there to await the
event of the next morning. My lord would
learn that he was free — so far good. Bat
with his freedom would come the news that
the woman who restored it to him was the
same who had taken it away, and the same
whom he had professed to love. Alas ! poor
Kitty I

Now was I like unto a man sentenced to
death, yet allowed to choose the form of his
execution, whether he would be hanged,
poisoned, beheaded, stabbed, shot, drowned,
or pushed violently and suddenly out of life
in some other manner which he might prefer.
As the time approaches, his anxiety grows
the greater until the fatal moment arrives

when he must choose at once ; then, in
trouble and confusion, he very Hkely chooses
that very method which is most painful in
the contemplation and the endurance. So
with me. I might choose the manner of
telling my lover all, but tell him I must.
Pray Heaven,' I said, ' to direct me into the
best way.' In the afternoon I became once
more Phoebe.

Phoebe carried a dish of tea ; would the
gentleman choose to taste it ? He took it
from Phoebe's hand, drank it, and returned to
his writing, which was, I believe, a continuation
of that letter, the commencement of
which I had seen.

In the evening Sir Miles paid him a visit
of consolation. He drank up what was left
of the bottle, and, after staying an hour or
so, went away, noisily promising himself a
jovial night with the Doctor.

At eight o'clock Phoebe brought a tray
with cold meat upon it, but my lord would
take none, only bidding her to set it down
and leave him.

Can I do nothing more for you, sir X asked
the maid.

He started again.

'Your voice, child,' he said (although I
had disguised my voice), ' reminds of one
whose voice '

La, sir !' she asked. ' Is it the voice of
your sweetheart ?'

He only sighed and sat down again.
Phoebe lingered as long as she could, and
then she went away.

Then we all went to bed. Captain Dun-quelque
had by this time brought home the
little girls and gone to the Doctor's, wherewith
Sir Miles and the rest, he was makino^a
night of it.

It was a hot night ; the window was open ;
the noise of the brawling and fighting below
was intolerable ; the smell from the market
was worse than anything I remembered, and
the bed was a strange one. Added to all
this, my cares were so great that I could not
sleep. Presently I arose and looked out,
just as I had done a year before when first
I came to my uncle for protection. Everything
was the same ; there was light enough
to see the groups of those who talked and
the forms of those who slept. I remembered

the old and the young, as I had seen them
in the bright Hight of a July dawn : poor
wretches, destined from their birth to be
soldiers of the devil ; elected for disgrace and
shame ; born for Newgate and Bridewell ;
brought into the world for the whipping-post,
the cart-tail, and the gallows. Just
the same ; and I alone changed. For beneath
me, all unconscious, was one whom I might
call my husband. Then my thoughts went
wholly out to him ; then I could neither sit
nor rest, nor stand still with thinking of the
next day, and what I had to say and how to
say it. Oh, my love — my dear — could I
bear to give him up ? could I bear to see
him turn away those eyes which had never
looked upon me save with kindness and
affection ? Could I endure to think that his
love was gone from me altogether ? Death
was batter, if death would come.

Then, crazed, I think, with trouble, I crept
slowly from the room, and went down the
stair till I reached the door of the room
where my lord was lying. And here I went
on like a mad thing, having just enough
sense to keep silence, yet weeping without

restraint, wringing my hands, praying, offering
to Heaven the sacrifice of my life, if only
my lover would not harden his heart to me,
and kissing the while the very senseless wood
of the door.

Within the room he was sleeping unconscious
; without I was silently crying and
weeping, full of shame and anxiety, not daring
to hope, yet knowing full well his noble heart.
Why, had I, weeks before, dared to tell him
all, forgiveness would have been mine ; I
knew it well. Yet now, in such a place,
when he was reminded of the companions, or
at least the creatures, who had surrounded
her, would he not harden his heart and refuse
to believe that any virtue, any purity could
survive ?

All this was of no avail. When I was
calmed a little I returned to my own room
and sat upon the bed, wondering whether any
woman was so miserable in her shame as
myself.

The long minutes crept on slowly : the
daylight was dawning : the night had passed
away : Captain Dunquerque had rolled up
the stairs noisily, singing a drunken song : the

VOL. III. 55

revellers below were quiet, but the morning
carts had begun when I fell asleep for weariness,
and when I awoke the sun was high. So
I arose, dressed, and hastened downstairs,
hoping to see the Doctor before he sallied
forth.

There had been, Roger told me with a
smile, a great night. He meant that the
Doctor's guests had been many, and their
calls for punch numerous. Sir Miles had
been carried away to some place in the neighbourhood.
The Doctor was still abed.

While we talked he appeared, no whit the
worse for his night's potations. Yet I
thought his face was of a deeper purple than
of old, and his neck thicker. That was very
likely an idle fancy, because a few months
could make but little difference in a man of
his fixed habits.

^ Well, Kitty ' — lie was in good humour,
and apparently satisfied with the position of
things — ^ I have thought over thy discourse
of yesterday, which, I confess, greatly moved
me : first, because I did not know thee to bea
girl of such spirit, courage, and dignity;
and second, because I now perceive that the

marriage, performed in thy interest, was
perhaps, as things have now turned out
(which is surely providential), a mistake.
Yet was it done for the best, and I repent
me not. Come, then, to my lord, and let me
talk to him.'

^ First, sir,' I begged, ' tell him not my
name.'

He promised this ; though, as he said, the
name was on the register ; and it was agreed
between us that he should speak to my lord
privately, and then that he was to call me,
when I should play my part as best I could.

The Doctor led the way. When he entered
the room I ran upstairs, and with trembling
hands made myself as fine as I could ; that
is, I was but in morning dishabille, but I
dressed my hair, and put those little touches
to my frock and ribbons which every woman
understands. And then I put on my hood,
which I pulled quite over my face, and waited.

My lord rose angrily when he saw the
Doctor.

Sir,' he said, ' this visit is an intrusion.
I have no business with you ; I do not desire
to see you. Leave the room immediately !'

55—2

First,' said Dr. Shovel, ^ I have business
with your lordship.'

I can have no business with you,' replied
Lord Chudleigh. ^ I have already had too
much business with you. Go, sir : your intrusion
is an insult.'

^ Dear, dear !' the Doctor replied. * This
it is to be young and hot-headed and to jump
at conclusions. Whereas, did the young
gentleman know the things I have to say, he
would welcome me with open arms.'

^ You come, I suppose, to remind me of a
thing of which you ought to be truly ashamed,
so wicked was it.'

Nay, nay ; not so wicked as your lordship
thinks.' The Doctor would not be put out
of temper. ' What a benefactor is he who
makes young people happy, with the blessing
of the Church !'

I cannot, I suppose, use violence to this
man,' said the other. ' He is a clergyman,
and, for the sake of his cloth, must be tolerated.
Would you kindly, sir, proceed at
once to the business you have in hand and
then begone ? If you come to laugh over
the misfortune caused by yourself, laugh and

go your way. If 3^011 come for money for
the wretched accomplice in your conspiracy,
ask it and go. In any case, sir, make
haste.'

My lord,' the Doctor replied, ' I am a
messenger — from one who conceives that she
hath done you grievous wrong, is very sorry
for the past, which she alone can undo, and
begs your forgiveness.'

Who is that person, then ?' His curiosity
was roused, and he waited in patience to hear
what the Doctor might have to say.

It is, my lord, the lady who may, if she
chooses, call herself your wife.'

My lord stood confused.

^ Does she wish to see me '?'

She wishes to place in your hands ' — here
the Doctors voice became deeper and more
musical, like the low notes of a great organ
' the proofs of her marriage with you. Does
your lordship comprehend % She will stand
before you, bringing with her the only papers
which exist to prove the fact. She will put
them in your own hands, if you wish ; she
will destroy them before your eyes if you wish;
and she will then retire from your presence,

and you shall never know, unless you wish it,
the name of the woman you married

But . . . This is wonderful. . . . How
shall I know that the papers are the only
proof of the ceremony '?'

Your lordship has my word — my word of
a Christian priest. I break the laws of God
and of man daily. 1 am, however, a sinner
who still guards those rags and tatters of a
conscience which most sinners hasten to
throw away — wherefore must my repentance
be some day greater. Yet, my lord, my
word I never brake, nor ever looked to
hear it questioned. You shall have all the
proofs. You shall be free, if you please, from
this moment. You shall never be molested,
reproached, threatened, or reminded of the
past.'

Free !' my lord repeated, looking the
Doctor in the face. ' I cannot but believe
sir, what you solemnly aver to be the truth.
Yet what am I to think of this generosity?
how interpret it ? By what acts have I deserved
it ? What am I to do in return % Is
there any pitfall or snare for me ?'

^ In return, you will grant her your forgiveness.

That is a pitfall, if you please.
You will also expect a surprise.'

Strange !' said Lord Chudleigli. ' Kitty
asked me, too, to forgive this woman. My
forgiveness ! Does she ask for no money X
■ ' My lord, you are utterly deceived in your
belief as to this woman and her conduct.
By your leave I will tell you the exact truth.

you know, because I told you, that the
wrong inflicted upon me by your father was
my justification, from a worldly point of
view, for the advantage which I took of your
condition. You think, I suppose, that some
miserable drab was brought in from the
market to play the part of dummy-wife, and
threaten you and persecute you for money.
You are wrong.

There was living in this place at the
time, with a lady of ruined fortunes, a young-woman
of gentle birth (by her father's side),
though penniless. She was beautiful exceedingly,
well educated, a God-fearing damsel,
and a good girl. By her mother's side she
was my niece, that branch of her family
being of obscure origin. On the death of her
father she became for a time my ward, which

was the reason why she lived here — no fit
place for a girl of good reputation, I own,
though at the time I could do no better for
her. She was not only all that I have described
her in appearance, carriage, and virtues,
but she was, as well, very much afraid
of me, her guardian. She had been brought
up to obey without questioning her spiritual
pastors and masters and all who might be
placed in authority over her. This girl it
was whom you married.'

The Doctor paused, to let his words have
due effect.

When I designed the treachery, you
being then sound asleep, it first seemed tome
that the fitting person for such a revenge
as I at first proposed to myself would be one
of those women who are confined to the
Fleet for life, unless by hook or crook
they can get them a husband. Such a one I
sent for. I did not disclose the name of the
man I proposed, because I found her only too
eager to marry anyone upon whom she could
saddle her debts, and so make him either pay
them or change places With her. But while
I talked with the woman I thought how

cruel a thing it would be for your lordship to
be mated with such a wife, and I resolved, if
I did give sou a wife against your knowledge,
that she should be worthy to bear
your name. Accordingly I despatched this
person, who is still, I suppose, languishing
in the prison hard by, and sent for the young
lady.

She came unsuspiciously. I told her,
with a frown which made her tremble, that
she was to obey me in all that I ordered her
to do ; and I bade her, then, take her place
at the table, and repeat such words as I
should command. She obeyed. Your lordship
knows the rest.'

^ But she knew — she must have known —
that she was actually married ?'

She could not understand. She had seen
marriages performed ; but then it was in a
church, with regular forms. She did not
know until I told her. Besides I ordered
her ; and, had my command been to throw
herself from a high tower, she would have
obeyed. She was not yet seventeen ; she
was country-bred, and she was innocence
itself.'

Poor child !' said my lord.

She has left the Kules of the Fleet for
some time. She knows that at any time she
might claim the name and the honours of
your wife but she has refrained, though she
has had hundreds of opportunities. Now,
however, she declares that she will be no
longer a party to the conspiracy, and she is
desirous of restoring, into your own hands,
the papers of the marriage. Will your lordship,
first, forgive her X

Tell her,' said my lord, ' that I forgive
her freely. Where is she f

She waits without.'

Then he called me, but not by name.

My knees trembled and shook beneath meas
I rose, pulled the hood tighter over my
face, and followed the Doctor into the room.
In my hand I held the papers.

^ This,' said the Doctor, ' is the young
gentlewoman of whom we spoke. The papers
are in her hands. Child, give his lordship
the papers.'

I held them out, and he took them. All
this time he never ceased gazing at me ; but
he could see nothing, not even my eyes.

Are we playing a comedy ?' he asked.
Dr. Shovel, are we dreaming, all of
us 1'

^ Everything, my lord, is real. You hold
in your hands the certificate of marriage and
the register. Not copies — the actual documents.
Before you read the papers and learn
the lady's name, tell her, in my hearing, that
you forgive her. She bids me tell you, for
her, that since she learned the thing that she
had done, what it meant, and whose happiness
it threatened, she has had no happy

day.'

Forgiveness !' said my lord, in a voice
strangely moved, while his eyes softened.
^ Forgiveness, madam, is a poor word to
express what I feel in return for this most
generous deed. It is a thing for which I can
find no words sufficient to let you know how
great is my gratitude. Learn, madam, that
my heart is bestowed upon a woman whose
perfections, to my mind, are such that no man
is worthy of her ; but she hath graciously
been pleased to accept and even to return my
affection. Now by this act, because I cannot
think that we are bound together in the eyes

of the Church by that form of marriage

service

It is a question said the Doctor, * which
it would task the learning of the whole
country to decide. By ecclesiastical law —
But let us leave this question unconsidered.
Nothing need ever be said about the matter.
Your lordship is free.'

Then ' — he still held the papers in his
hand, and seemed in no way anxious to satisfy
his curiosity as to the name of the woman
who had caused so much anxiety — ' before we
part, perhaps never to meet again, may I ask
to be allowed to see the face of the lady who
has performed this wonderful act of generosity
V

I trembled, but made no answer.

Stay a moment,' he said. ' Hem ember
that you have given up a goodly estate, with
a large fortune and an ancient name — things
which all women rightly prize. These things
you have given away. Do you repent ?'

I shook my head.

'Then let me never know' — he tore the
papers into a thousand fragments — ' let me
never know the name of the woman to whom

I owe this gift. Let me think of her as of
an angel !'

The Doctor took me by the arm as if to
lead me away.

^ Since you do not want to know her name,
my lord, I do not see any reason why you
should. Let us go, child.'

'■ May I only see her face ?' he asked.

Come, child urged the Doctor ; ' come
away. There is no need, my lord.'

But those words about myself, his nobleness,
had touched me to the heart. I could
deceive hin no looser. I threw back the
hood, put up my hands to my face, and fell
at his feet, crying and sobbing.

It is I, my lord ! It was Kitty Pleydell
herself — the woman whom you thought so
good. Oh, forgive me ! forgive me ! Have
pity !'

Now I seem to have no words to tell how
he raised me in his strong arms, how he held
me by the waist and kissed me, crying that
indeed there was nothing in his heart towards
me but love and tenderness.

Would it not be a sin to write down those
words of love and endearment with which.

when the Doctor left us alone, he consoled
and soothed me % I hid nothing from him.
I told him how I had well-nigh forgotten the
dreadful thing I had done until I saw him
again at the Assembly ; how from day to day
my conscience smote me more and more, and
yet I dared not tell him all — for fear of losing
his respect.

Let us pass this over.

The story of Kitty is nearly told.

We forgot all about poor Will and the
reason why my lord should for a while lie
close. We agreed that we would be married,
quietly, in due form, and of course at church,
as soon as arrangements could be made.
And then nothing would do but my lord
must carry me to Mrs. Esther, and formally
ask her permission to the engagement.

You may think how happy was I to step
into the coach which brought me back to my
dear lady, with such a companion.

He led me into her presence with a stately
bow.

Madam,' he said, ' I have the honour to
ask your permission to take the hand of your
ward, Miss Kitty, who hath been pleased to

lend a favourable ear to my proposals. Be
assured, dear madam, that we have seriously
weighed and considered the gravity of the
step which we propose to take, and the inclination
of our hearts. And I beg you, madam,
to believe that my whole life, whether
it be honos or short, shall be devoted to
making this dear girl as happy as it is in
the power of one human creature to make
another.'

Mrs. Esther was perfectly equal to the
proper ceremonies demanded for the occasion,
although, as she confessed, she was a great
deal surprised at the suddenness of the thing,
which, notwithstanding that she had expected
it for many weeks, came upon her with a shock.
She said that his lordship's proposal was one
which the world would no doubt consider a
great condescension, seeing that her dear
Kitty, though of good family, had no other
prospects than the inheritance of the few
hundreds which made her own income : but,
for her own part, knowing this child as she
did — and here she spoke in terms of unmerited
praise of beauty and goodness and

such qualities as I could lay but small
claim to possess, yet resolved to aim at
them.

Finally, she held out her own hand to his
lordship, saying :

Therefore, my lord, as I consider Kitty
my daughter, so henceforth will I consider
you my son. And may God keep and bless
you both, and give you all that the heart of
a good man may desire, with children good
and dutiful, long and peaceful lives, and in
the end, to sit together for ever in happy
heaven.'

Whereupon she wept, falling on my neck.

Now, while we were thus weeping and
crying, came Sir Miles, who immediately
guessed the cause, and wished my lord joy,
shaking him by the hand. Thus he must
needs kiss my hand.

^ The Doctor,' he explained, ^ told me where
I should most likely find you. The Doctor's
knowledge of the human heart is most extensive.
I would I had the Doctor's head for
punch. My lord, this is a lucky day. Will
Levett is out of his fever, and hath signed a

written confession that your sword was drawn
in self-defence, and that had he not been run
through, his cudgel would have beaten out
your brains. Therefore there is no more to
keep us in hiding, and we may go about
joyfully and in the open, as gentlemen should.
And as for Will, he may die or live, as seemeth
him best.'

'Nay, Sir Miles; I said. 'Pray that the
poor lad live and lead a better life.'

This is the story of Kitty Pleydell : how
she came to London, and lived in the Rules
of the Fleet: how she was made to go through
the form of a marriage : how she left the
dreadful noisy, Wicked place : how she went
to Epsom : how Lord Chudleigh fell in love
with her, to her unspeakable happiness ; and
how she told him her great secret The
rest, which is the history of a great and nobleman
married to a wife whose weakness was
guided and led by him in the paths of
virtue, discretion and godliness, cannot be
told.

I have told what befell some of the actors
VOL. III. .50

in this story — Solomon Stallabras, I have
explained, married the brewer's widow :
Will Levett recovered and did not repent,
but lived a worse life after his narrow escape
than before. As for the rest, Mrs. Esther
remained with us, either at Chudleigh Court
or our town house : Harry Temple was wise
enough to give up pining after what he could
not get, and married Nancy, so that she, too,
had her heart's desire : Sir Miles went on
alternately gaming and drinking, till he died
of an apoplexy at forty.

There remains to be told the fate of the
Chaplain of the Fleet. When they passed
the Marriage Act of 1753, the Fleet weddings
were suddenly stopped. They had been a
scandal to the town for more than forty
years, so that it was high time they should
be ended. But when the end actually came,
the Doctor, who had saved no money, was
penniless. Nor could he earn money in anyway
whatever, nor had he any friends, although
there were hundreds of grateful
hearts among the poor creatures around

him, who could contribute to his support
except ourselves.

Mrs. Esther, on learning his sad condition,
instantly wrote to offer him half her income.
My husband, for his part, sent a lawyer
among his creditors, found out for what sum
he could effect a release, paid this money,
which was no great amount, and sent him
his discharge. Then, because the Doctor
would have been unhappy out of London, he
made him a weekly allowance of five guineas,
reckoning that he would live on one guinea,
drink two guineas, and give away two. He
lived to enjoy this allowance for ten year
more, going every night to a coffee-house,
where he met his friends, drank punch, told
stories, sang songs, and was the oracle of the
company He took great pride in the position
which he had once occupied in the
Kules of the Fleet, and was never tired of
boasting how many couples he had made into
man and wife.

I know that his life was disreputable and
his pleasures coarse, yet when I think of the
Dolbor and his many acts of kindness and

56—2

charity, I renieinber certain texts, and I
think we have reasonable ground for a
Christian's hope as regards his deathbed repentance,
which was as sincere as it was
edifying.

THE END.

9^'

Printed BY BILLING AND SONS.

/ i
