OF THL

University

or Ill Noise


B5Gsu

Via

STORY 01' TIIIuSI-: TIM US.

WILLIAM BLACK.

AITIIOR OF "a Princess CT TllUI.r," "a DAICIITF.K 01" IIITI
Macleod PF DARU," ETC.

/.\' TIIREK VOLUMES.
VOL. r.

LONDON:
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, Searle; c^^: KIVLNCTON,

CROWN i;lim>in(;s, iSS, I ili.t STKi:r.T.
isti.

(All riifitt reset tvif.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

A FIRST INTERVIEW.

One chilly afternoon in February, while all
London was busy coming and going, an open
barouche was being rapidly driven along Piccadilly
in the direction of Coventry Street ; the two occupants
of which, despite the dull roar of vehicles
around them, seemed to be engaged in eager conversation.
One of these two was a tall, handsome,
muscular-looking man of about thirty, with
a sun-tanned complexion, piercing grey eyes, and
a reddish-brown beard cropped in the foreign
fashion ; the other, half hidden among the voluminous
furs of the carriage, was a pale, humpbacked
lad, with a fine, expressive, intellectual face, and
large, animated, almost woman-like eyes. The

I. B

former was George Brand, of Hill Beeches,
Bucks., a bachelor unattached, and a person of no
particular occupation, except that he had tumbled
about the world a good deal, surveying mankind
with more or less of interest or indifference. His
companion and friend, the bright-eyed, beautiful-faced,
humpbacked lad, was Ernest Francis
D'D'Agincourt, thirteenth Baron Evelyn.

The discussion was warm ; though the elder of
the two friends spoke deprecatingly, at times even
scornfully.

I know what is behind all that," he said.
They are making a dupe of you, Evelyn. A
parcel of miserable Leicester Square conspirators,
plundering the working man of all countries of
his small savings, and humbugging him with
promises of twopenny-halfpenny revolutions !
That is not the sort of thing for you to mix in.
It is not English, all that dagger and dark-lantern
business — even if it were real ; but when it is only
theatrical — when they are only stage daggers —
when the wretched creatures who mouthe about
assassination and revolution are only swaggering
for half-pence — bah ! What part do you propose
to play ? "

I tell you it has nothing to do with daggers
and dark lanterns," said the other, almost
angrily. " Why will you run your head against
a windmill ? Why must you see further into
a milestone than anybody else ? I wonder, withall
your travelling, you have not got rid of some
of that detestable English prejudice and suspicion.
I tell you that when I am allowed, even
as an outsider, to see something of this vast
organization for the defence of the oppressed, for
the protection of the weak, the vindication of the
injured, in every country throughout the globe —
when I see the splendid possibilities before it —
when I find that even a useless fellow like myself
may do some little thing to lessen the mighty
mass of injustice and wrong in the world — well, I
am not going to stop to see that every one of my
associates is of pure English birth, with a brother-in-law
on the Bench, and an uncle in the House
of Lords. I am glad enough to have something
to do that is worth doing ; something to believe
in ; something to hope for. You— what do you
believe in ? What is there in heaven or earth
that you believe in ? "

Suppose I say that I believe in you, Evelyn ? "

said his friend, quite good-naturedly ; " and some
day, when you can convince me that your newly
discovered faith is all right, you may find me
becoming your meek disciple, and even your
apostle. But I shall want something more than
Union speeches, you know."

By this time the carriage had passed along
Coventry Street, turned into Prince's Street, and
been pulled up opposite a commonplace-looking
house in that somewhat dingy thoroughfare. Lisle
Street, Soho.

Not quite Leicester Square, but near enough
to serve," said Brand, with a contemptuous laugh,
as he got out of the barouche, and then, with the
greatest of care and gentleness, assisted his companion
to alight.

They crossed the pavement, and rang a bell.
Almost instantly the door was opened by a
stout, yellow-haired, blear-eyed old man, who
wore a huge overcoat adorned with masses of
shabby fur, and who carried a small lamp in his
hand, for the afternoon had grown to dusk. The
two visitors were evidently expected. Having
given the younger of them a deeply respectful
greeting in German, the fur-coated old gentleman

shut the door after them, and proceeded to
show the way up a flight of narrow and not
particularly clean wooden stairs.

Conspiracy doesn't seem to pay," remarked
George Brand, half to himself.

On the landing they were confronted by a
number of doors, one of which the old German
threw open. They entered a large, plainly furnished,
well-lit room, looking pretty much like
a lawyer's office, though the walls were mostly
hung with maps and plans of foreign cities.
Brand looked round with a supercilious air. All
his pleasant and friendly manner had gone. He
was evidently determined to make himself as
desperately disagreeable as an Englishman can
make himself when introduced to a foreigner
whom he suspects. But even he would have
had to confess that there was no suggestion of
trap-doors or sliding panels in this ordinary,
business-like room ; and not a trace of a dagger
or a dark lantern anywhere.

Presently, from a door opposite, an elderly man,
of middle height and spare and sinewy frame,
walked briskly in, shook hands with Lord Evelyn,
was introduced to the tall, red-bearded Englishman

(who still stood, hat in hand, and with a
portentous stiffness in his demeanour), begged
his two guests to be seated, and himself sat
down at an open bureau, which was plentifully
littered with papers.

I am pleased to meet you, Mr. Brand," he
said, speaking carefully, and with a considerable
foreign accent. " Lord Evelyn has several times
promised me the honour of making your acquaintance."


Mr. Brand merely bowed : he was intent on
making out what manner of man this suspected
foreigner might be ; and he was puzzled. At
first sight Ferdinand Lind appeared to be about
fifty or fifty five years of age ; his closely cropped
hair was grey ; and his face, in repose, somewhat
careworn. But then when he spoke there
was an almost youthful vivacity in his look ; his
dark eyes were keen, quick, sympathetic ; and
there was even a certain careless ease about his
dress — about the turned-down collar and French-looking
neck-tie, for example — that had more of
the air of the student than of the pedant about it.
All this at the first glance. It was only afterwards
you came to perceive what was denoted

by those heavy, seamed brows, the firm, strong
mouth, and the square Hne of the jaw. These
told you of the presence of an indomitable and
inflexible will. Here was a man born to think
and control and command.

With that prospect before me," he continued,
apparently taking no notice of the Englishman's
close scrutiny, 'T must ask you, Mr. Brand
well, you know, it is merely a matter of form
but I must ask you to be so very kind as to
give me your word of honour that you will not
disclose anything you may see or learn here.
Have you any objection } "

Brand stared, then said coldly —

Oh dear, no. I will give you that pledge, if
you wish it."

It is so easy to deal with Englishmen," said
Mr. Lind, politely. " A word, and it is done.
But I suppose Lord Evelyn has told you that
we have no very desperate secrets. Secrecy, you
know, one must use sometimes ; it is an inducement
to many ; most people are fond of a little
mystery. And it is harmless ? "

Brand said nothing ; Lord Evelyn thought he
might have been at least civil. But when an

Englishman is determined on being stiff, his stiffness
is gigantic.

If I were to show you some of the tricks of
this very room," said this grizzled old foreigner
with the boyish neck-tie, " you might call me a
charlatan ; but would that be fair ? We have to
make use of various means for what we consider
a good end, a noble end ; and there are many
people who love mystery and secrecy. With you
English it is different — you must have everything
above-board."

The pale, fine face of the sensitive lad sitting
there became clouded over with disappointment.
He had brought this old friend of his with some
vague hope that he might become a convert, or
at least be sufficiently interested to make inquiries ;
but Brand sat silent, with a cold indifference that
was only the outward sign of an inward suspicion.
Sometimes, it is true," continued Mr. Lind, in
nowise disconcerted, " we stumble on the secrets
of others. Our association has innumerable
feelers ; and we make it our business to know
what we can of everything that is going on. For
example, I could tell you of an odd little incident
that occurred last year in Constantinople. A

party of four gentlemen were playing cards therein
a private room."

Brand started. The man who was speaking
took no notice.

There were two Austrian officers, a Rou-marian
Count, and an Englishman," he continued,
in the most matter-of-fact way. "It was in a
private room, as I said. The Englishman was,
after a time, convinced that the Romania was
cheating ; he caught his wrist — showed the false
cards ; then he managed to ward off the blow of
a dagger which the Romania aimed at him, and
by main force carried him to the door and threw
him downstairs. It was cleverly done, but the
Englishman was very big and strong. Afterwards
the two Austrian officers, who knew the
\'erdt family, begged the Englishman never to
reveal what had occurred ; and the three promised
secrecy. Was not that so ? "

The man looked up carelessly. The Englishman's
apathy was no longer visible.

Y-yes," he stammered.

"Would you like to know what became of
Count Verdt ? " he asked, with an ;iir of indifference.


Yes, certainly," said the other.

Ah ! Of course you know the Castello dell'
Ovo ? "

At Naples ? Yes."

You remember that out at the point, beside
the bridge that leads from the shore to the
fortress, there are many big rocks, and the waves
roll about among them. Three weeks after you
caught Count Verdt cheating at cards, his dead
body was found floating there."

"Gracious Heavens!" Brand exclaimed, with
his face grown pale. And then he added breathlessly,
" Suicide ? "

Mr. Lind smiled.

No. Reassure yourself. When they picked
out the body from the water, they found the mouth
gagged, and the hands tied behind the back."

Brand stared at this man.

"Then you .'*" He dared not complete

the question.

I ? Oh, I had nothing to with it, any more
than yourself. It was a Camorra affair."

He had been speaking quite indifferently ; but
now a singular change came over his manner.

And if I had had something to do with it ? "

he said, vehemently ; and the dark eyes were
burning with a quick anger under the heavy
brows. Then he spoke more slowly, but with a
firm emphasis in his speech. " I will tell you a
little story ; it will not detain you, sir. Suppose
that you have a prison so overstocked with
political prisoners that you must keep sixty or
seventy in the open yard adjoining the outer wall.
You have little to fear ; they are harmless poor
wretches ; there are several old men, two women.
Ah ! but what are the poor devils to do in those
honos nights that are so dark and so cold ? However
they may huddle together, they freeze ; if
they keep not moving, they die ; you find them
dead in the morning. If you are a Czar you are
glad of that, for your prisons are choked ; it is
very, very convenient. Now suppose you have
a clever fellow who finds out a narrow passage
between the implement-house and the wall ; and
he says, ' There, you can work all night at
digging a passage out ; and who in the morning
will suspect ? ' Is not that a fine discovery, when
one must keep moving in the dark, to prevent
one's self stiffening into a corpse ? Oh, yes ; then
you find the poor devils in their madness begin

to tear the ground up ; what tools have they
but their fingers, when the implement-house is
locked ? The poor devils ! — old men, too, and
women ; and how they take their turn at the
slow work, hour after hour, week after week, all
through the long, still nights ! Inch by inch it
is ; and the poor devils become like rabbits, burrowing
for a hole to reach the outer air ; and do
you know that, after a time, the first wounds heal,

and your fingers become like stumps of iron "

He held out his two hands; the ends of the
fingers were seamed and corrugated, as if they had
been violently scalded. But he could not hold them
steady — they were shaking with the suppressed
passion that made his whole frame tremble.

Relay after relay, night after night, week
after week, month after month, until those poor
creatures of rabbits had actually burrowed a
passage out into the freedom of God's world again.
And some said the Czar himself had heard of it,
and would not interfere, for the prisons were
choked ; and some said the wife of the governor
was Polish, and had a kind heart ; but what did
it matter when the time was drawing near ? And
always this clever fellow — do you know, sir, his

name was Verdt too ? — encouraging, helping,
goading these poor people on. Then the last
night — how the miserable rabbits of creatures
kept huddled together, shivering in the dark, till
the hour arrived ! and then the death-like stillness
they found outside ; and the wild wonder and
the fear of it ; and the old men and the women
crying like children to find themselves in the free
air again. Marie Falevitch — that was my sister-in-law
— she kissed me, and was laughing when
she whispered, 'Elje?i a hasaf I think she was a
little off her head with the long, sleepless nights."

He stopped for a second ; his throat seemed
choked.

Did I tell you they had all got out } — the
poor devils all wondering there, and scarcely
knowing where to go. And now suppose, sir —
ah ! you don't know anything about these things,
you happy English people — suppose you found
the black night around you all at once turned to
a blaze of fire — a red hell opened on all sides of
you, and the bullets ploughing your comrades
down ; the old men crying for mercy, the young
ones falling only with a groan, the women — my
God ! Did you ever hear a woman shriek when

she was struck through the heart with a bullet ?
Marie Falevitch fell at my feet, but I could not
raise her — I was struck down too. It was a week
after that I came to my senses. I was in the
prison, but the prison was not quite so full.
Czars and governors have a fine way of thinning
prisons when they get too crowded ! "

These last words were spoken in a calm,
contemptuous way ; the man was evidently trying
hard to control the fierce passion that these
memories had stirred up. He had clenched one
hand, and put it firmly on the desk before him,
so that it should not tremble.

"Well, now, Mr. Brand," he continued, slowly,
"let us suppose that when you come to yourself
again, you hear the rumours that are about : you
hear, for example, that Count Verdt — that exceedingly
clever man — has been graciously pardoned
by the Czar for revealing the villainous conspiracy
of his fellow-prisoners ; and that he has gone off
to the south with a bag of money. Do you not
think that you would remember the name of that
clever person ? Do you not think you would
say to yourself, ' Well, it may not be to-day, or
tomorrow, or the next day; but some day?"

Again the dark eyes glowed ; but he had a
wonderful self-control.

You would remember the name, would you
not, if you had your sister-in-law, and your only
brother, and six or seven of your old friends and
comrades all shot on the one night ? '

"This was the same Count Verdt?" Brand
asked, eagerly.

Yes," said the other, after a considerable
pause. Then he added, with an involuntary sigh,
I had been following his movements for a longtime
; but the Camorra stepped in. They are
foolish people, those Camorristi — foolish and ignorant.
They are numerous, and powerful ; but
ill-governed and foolish ; remarkably so. They
punish for trifling offences, and they do not make
sufficient warning of their punishments. Then
I assure you they are quite imbecile in the way
they attempt to regulate labour."

He was now talking in quite a matter-of-fact
way. The clenched hand was relaxed.

Besides," continued Ferdinand Lind, with
the cool air of a critic, "their conduct is too
scandalous. The outer world believes they arc
nothing but an association of thieves and cutthroats

; that is because they do not discountenance
vulgar and useless crime ; because there is
not enough authority nor any proper selection of
members. In the affairs of the world, one has
sometimes to make use of doubtful agents — that is
admitted ; and you cannot have any large body
of people without finding a few scoundrels among
them. I suppose one might even say that about
your very respectable Church of England. But
you only bring an association into disrepute —
you rob it of much usefulness — you put the law
and society against it, when you make it the
refuge of common murderers and thieves."

I should hope so," remarked George Brand.
If this suspected foreigner had resumed his
ordinary manner, so had he : he was again the
haughty, reserved, distrustful Englishman.

Lord Evelyn looked sadly distressed. These
two men were so obviously antipathetic that it
seemed altogether hopeless to think of their ever
coming together.

"Well," said Mr. Lind, in his ordinary polished
and easy manner, " I must not seek to detain
you ; for it is a cold night to keep horses waiting.
But, Mr. Brand, Lord Evelyn dines with us

tomorrow evening; if you have nothing better
to do will you join our little party ? My
daughter, I am sure, will be most pleased to
make your acquaintance."

Do, Brand, there's a good fellow," struck in
his friend. " I haven't seen anything of you
for such a long time."

I shall be very happy indeed," said the tall
Englishman, wondering whether he was likely
to meet a goodly assemblage of sedition-mongers
at this foreign person's table.

We dine at a quarter to eight. The address
is No. — , Curzon Street ; but perhaps you had
better take this card."

So they left ; and were conducted down the
staircase by the stout old German ; and scrambled
up into the furs of the barouche.

So he has a daughter ? " said Brand, as
the two friends together drove down to Buckingham
Street, where they were to dine at his rooms.

Oh yes ; his daughter Natalie," said Lord
Evelyn, eagerly. " I am so glad you will see
her tomorrow night."

"And they live in Curzon Street," said the other,
reflectively. " Hem ! Conspiracies earthen ? "

CHAPTER II.

PLEADINGS.

•* Brother Senior Warden, your place in the
lodge ? " said Mr. Brand, looking at the small
dinner-table.

You forget," his companion said. " I am
only in the nursery as yet — an Illuminates Minor,
as it were. However, I don't think I can do
better than sit where Waters has put me ; I can
have a glimpse of the lights on the river. But
what an extraordinary place for yoii to come to
for rooms ! "

They had driven down through the glare
of the great city to this silent and dark little
thoroughfare, dismissed the carriage at the foot,
climbed up an old-fashioned oak staircase, and
found themselves at last received by an elderly
person, who looked a good deal more like a
bronzed old veteran than an ordinary English
butler.

Halloa, Waters," said Lord Evelyn. " How
are you ? I don't think I have seen you since
you threatened to murder the landlord at Cairo."

No, my lord," said Mr. Waters, who seemed
vastly pleased by this reminiscence, and who
instantly disappeared to summon dinner for the
two young men.

Extraordinary ? " said Brand, when they had
got seated at table. " Oh no. You know my
craving for air, space, light, and quiet. Here
I have all these. Beneath are the Embankment
gardens ; beyond that, you see, the river — those
lights are the steamers at anchor. As for quiet,
the lower floors are occupied by a charitable
society ; so I fancied there would not be much
traffic on the stairs."

The jibe passed unheeded; Lord Evelyn had
long ago become familiar with his friend's way of
speaking about men and things.

And so, Evelyn, you have become a pupil
of the revolutionaries," George Brand continued,
when Waters had put some things before them
and retired —" a student of the fine art of stabbing
people unawares ? What an astute fellow that
Lind must be ! I will swear it never occurred

to one of the lot before. To get an English
milord into their ranks ! A stroke of genius !
It could only have been projected by a great
mind. And then look at the effect throughout
Europe if an English milord were to be found
with a parcel of Orsini bombs in his possession ;
every ragamuffin from Naples to St. Petersburg
would rejoice ; the army of cut-throats would
march with a new swagger."

His companion said nothing ; but there was
a vexed and impatient look on his face.

And our little daughter — is she pretty ?
Does she coax the young men to play with
daggers } — the innocent little thing ! And when
you start with your dynamite to break open a
gaol, she blows you a kiss ? — the charming little
fairy ! What is it she has embroidered on the
ribbon round her neck ? — ' Mo7't aux rois ? ' ' Sic
semper tyr minis f No, I saw a much prettier
one somewhere the other day : ' Ne si pace di
french ruggiade, ma di langue di membra di re'
Isn't it charming ? It sounds quite idyllic, even
in English : ' Not for you the nourishment of
freshening dews, but the blood of the limbs of
kings!' The pretty little stabber — is she fierce ?"

Brand, you are too bad ! " said the other,
throwing down his knife and fork, and getting
up from the table. " You believe in neither
man, woman, God, nor devil ! "

Would you mind handing over that claret

Why," he said, turning passionately towards
him, " it is men like you, who have neither faith
nor hope nor regret, who are wandering aimlessly
in a nightmare of apathy and indolence and indifference,
who ought to be the first to welcome any
new light breaking in the sky. What is life worth
to you '^ You have nothing to hope for — nothing
to look forward to — nothing you can kill the
aimless days with. Why should you desire tomorrow
? To-morrow will bring you nothing
different from yesterday ; you will do as you did
yesterday, and the day before yesterday. It is
the life of a horse or an ox — not the life of a
human being, with the sympathies and needs and
aspirations of a man. What is the object of your
living at all ? "

I really don't know," said the other, simply.

But this pale, humpbacked lad, with the fine
nostrils, the sensitive mouth, the large forehead,

and the beautiful eyes, was terribly in earnest.
He forgot about his place at table. He kept
walking up and down, occasionally addressing his
friend directly, at other times glancing out at the
dark river and the golden lines of lamps. And
he was an eloquent speaker, too. Debarred from
most forms of physical exercise, he had been
brought up in a world of ideas. When he went
to Oxford, it was with some vague notion of subsequently
entering the Church ; but at Oxford
he became speedily convinced that there was no
Church left for him to enter. Then he fell back
on asceticism — worshipped Carpaccio, adored
Chopin, and turned his rooms at Merton into a
museum of Persian embroidery, Flemish metal-work,
and Venetian glass. Then he dabbled a
little in Comitis ; but very soon he threw aside
that gigantic make-believe at believing. Nevertheless,
whatever was his whim of the moment, it
was for him no whim at all, but a burning reality.
And in this enthusiasm of his there was no room
left for shyness. In fact, these two companions
had been accustomed to talk frankly ; they had
long ago abandoned that self-consciousness which
ordinarily restricts the conversation of young

Englishmen to monosyllables. Brand was a
good listener, and his friend an eager, impetuous,
enthusiastic speaker. The one could even recite
verses to the other : what greater proof of confidence
?

And on this occasion all this prayer of his
was earnest and pathetic enough. He begged
this old chum of his to throw aside his insular
prejudices and judge for himself. What object
had he in living at all, if life were merely a routine
of food and sleep ? In this selfish isolation, his
living was only a process of going to the grave —
only that each day would become more tedious
and burdensome as he grew older. Why should
he not examine and inquire and believe — if that
were possible ? The Avorld was perishing for
want of a new faith : the new faith was here.

At this phrase George Brand quickly raised
his head. He was accustomed to these enthusiasms
of his friend ; but he had not yet seen
him in the character of an apostle.

"You know it as well as I. Brand; the last
great wave of religion has spent itself; and I
suppose Matthew Arnold would have us wait for
the mysterious East, the mother of religions.

to send us another. Do you remember ' Hermann
' ? —

In his cool hall, with haggard eyes,

The Roman noble lay ;
He drove abroad, in furious guise,
Along the Appian Way ;

He made a feast, drank fierce and fast,
And crowned his head with flowers —
No easier nor no quicker passed
The impracticable hours.

The brooding East with awe beheld

Her impious younger world.
The Roman tempest swelled and swelled,
And on her head was hurled.

The East bowed low before the blast.
In patient, deep disdain ;
She let the legions thunder past.
And plunged in thought again.' "

The lad had a sympathetic voice ; and there
was a curious pathetic thrill in the tones of it ashe
went on to describe the result of that awful
musing — the new-born joy awakening in the East
the victorious West veiling her eagles and
snapping her sword before this strange new
worship of the Child —

And centuries came, and ran their course,
And, unspent all that time,
Still, still went forth that Child's dear force.
And still was at its prime."

But now — in these later days around us ? —

Now He is dead ! Far hence He lies
In the lorn Syrian town ;
And on His grave, with shining eyes,
The Syrian stars look down."

The great divine wave had spent itself. But
were we to sit supinely by — this was what he
asked, though not precisely in these consecutive
words, for sometimes he walked to and fro in
his eagerness, and sometimes he ate a bit of
bread, or sat down opposite his friend for the
purpose of better confronting him — to wait for
that distant and mysterious East to send us
another revelation ? Not so. Let the proud-spirited
and courageous West, that had learned
the teachings of Christianity but never yet applied
them — let the powerful West establish a faith of
her own : a faith in the future of humanity itself,
with justice and pity and peace its crowned kings
a faith in a future of recompense and atonement
to the vast multitudes of mankind who had
toiled so long and so grievously — a faith demanding
instant action and endeavour and self-sacrifice
fr(3m those who would be its first apostles.

The complaining millions of men
Darken in labour and pain."

And why should not this Christianity, that had
so long been used to gild the thrones of tyrants
and glorify the ceremonies of priests — that had
so long been monopolized by the rich and the
great and the strong, whom its Founder despised
and denounced — why should it not at length
come to the help of those myriads of the poor
and the weak and the suffering, whose cry for
help had been for so many centuries disregarded ?
Here was work for the idle, hope for the hopeless,
a faith for them who were perishing for
want of a faith.

You say all this is vague — a vision — a sentiment
? " he said, talking in the same eager way.
Then that is my fault. I cannot explain it all to
you in a few words. But do not run away with
the notion that it is mere words — a St. Ionian
dream of perfectibility, or anything like that. It
is practical ; it exists ; it is within reach of you. It
is a definite and immense organization ; it may be
young as yet, but it has courage and splendid
aims ; and now, with a great work before it, it
is eager for aid. You yourself, when you see a
child run over, or a woman starving of hunger,
or a blind man wanting to cross a street, are you

not ready with your help — the help of your hands
or of your purse ? Multiply these by millions,
and think of the cry for help that comes from all
parts of the world. If you but knew, you could
not resist. I as yet know little — I only hear the
echo of the cry ; but my veins are burning ; I
shall have the gladness of answering ' Yes,' however
little I can do. And after all, is not that
something ? For a man to live only for himself
is death — worse than death, for death at least
is not contemptible."

But you see, Evelyn," said his friend,
though he did not quite know what to answer
to all this outburst, "you must be more cautious.
Those benevolent schemes are very noble and
very captivating ; but sometimes they are in the
hands of rather queer people. And besides, do
you quite know the limits of this big society ?
I thought you said something about vindicating
the oppressed. Does it include politics ? "

I do not question ; I am content to obey."
said Lord Evelyn.

That is not English ; unreasoning and blind
obedience is mere folly."

Perhaps so," said the other, somewhat absently

; " but I suppose a man accepts whatever
satisfies the craving of his own heart. And —
and I should not Hke to go alone on this new
thing, Brand. Will you not come some little way
with me ? If you think I am mistaken, you may
turn back ; as for me — well, if it were only a
dream, I think I would rather go with the Pilgrims
on their hopeless quest than stay with the people
who come out to wonder at them as they go by.
You remember —

Who is your lady of love, O ye that pass
Singing ? And is it for sorrow of that which was
That ye sing sadly, or dream of what shall be ?
For gladly at once and sadly it seems ye sing.
Our lady of love by you is beholden ;
For hands she hath none, nor eyes, nor lips, nor golden
Treasure of hair, nor face nor form ; but we

That love, we know her more fair than anything.' "

Yes ; he had certainly a pathetic thrill in his
voice ; but now there was something else — something
strange — in the slow and monotonous cadence
that caught the acute ear of his friend. And
again he went on, but absently, almost as if he
were himself listening —

— Is she a queen, having great gifts to give ?
Yea, these : that whoso hath seen her shall not live

Except he serve her sorrowing, with strange pain,
Travail and bloodshedding and bitterer tears ;
And when she bids die he shall surely die.
And he shall leave all things under the sky,
And go forth naked under sun and rain

And work and wait and watch out all this years."

Evelyn," said George Brand, suddenly, fixing-his
keen eyes on his friend's face. " where have
you heard that ? Who has taught you ? You
are not speaking with your own voice."

With whose, then ? " and a smile came over

the pale, calm, beautiful face, as if he had

awakened out of a dream.

That," said Brand, still req-ardincx him, " was
'00'

the voice of Natalie Lind."

CHAPTER III.

IN A HOUSE IN CURZON STREET.

Armed with a defiant scepticism, and yet conscious
of an unusual interest and expectation,
George Brand drove up to Curzon Street on
the following evening. As he jumped out of
his hansom, he inadvertently glanced at the
house.

Conspiracy has not quite built us a palace
as yet," he said to himself.

The door was opened by a little German
maidservant, as neat and round and rosy as a
Dresden china shepherdess, who conducted him
upstairs, and announced him at the drawing-room.
It was not a large room ; but there was more
of colour and gilding in it than accords with the
severity of modern English taste ; and it was lit
irregularly with a number of candles, each with a
little green or rose red shade. Mr. Lind met him

at the door. As they shook hands, Brand caught
a glimpse of another figure in the room — apparently
that of a tall woman dressed all in
cream white, with a bunch of scarlet geraniums
in her bosom, and another in her raven-black
hair.

Not the gay lite adventuress, then ? "
was his instant and internal comment. " Better
contrived still. The inspired prophetess. Obviously
not the daughter of this man at all.
Hired."

But when Natalie Lind came forward to receive
him. he was more than surprised ; he was almost
abashed. During a second or two of wonder and
involuntary admiration, he was startled out of his
critical attitude altogether. For this tall and
striking figure was in reality that of a young girl
of eighteen or nineteen, who had the beautifully
formed bust, the slender waist, and the noble carriage
that even young Hungarian girls frequently
have. Perhaps the face, with its intellectual forehead
and the proud and firmly cut mouth, was
a trille too calm and self-reliant for a young girl ;
but all the softness of expression that was wanted,
all the gentle and gracious timidity that we associate

with maidenhood, lay in the large and dark
and lustrous eyes. When, by accident, she turned
aside, and he saw the outline of that clear, olive-complexion
face, only broken by the outward
curve of the long black lashes, he had to confess
to himself that, adventuress or no adventuress,
prophetess or no prophetess, Natalie Lind was
possessed of about the most beautiful profile he
had ever beheld, while she had the air and the
bearing of a queen.

Her father and he talked of the various trifling
things of the moment ; but what he was chiefly
thinking of was the singular calm and self-possession
of this young girl. When she spoke, her
dark, soft eyes regarded him without fear. Her
manner was simple and natural to the last degree ;
perhaps with the least touch added of maidenly
reserve. He was forced even to admire the
simplicity of her dress — cream or canary white
it was, with a bit of white fur round the neck,
and round the tight wrists. The only strong
colour was that of the scarlet geraniums which
she wore in her bosom and in the black
masses of her hair ; and the vertical sharp line
of scarlet of her closed fan.

Once only, during this interval of waiting,
did he find that calm serenity of hers disturbed
happened to observe the photograph of a
very handsome woman near him on the table.
She told him she had had a parcel of photographs
of friends of hers just sent over from
Vienna ; some of them very pretty. She went
to another table, and brought over a handful.
He glanced at them only for a second or two.

I see they are mostly from Vienna ; are
they Austrian ladies } " he asked.

They live in Austria, but they are not
Austrians," she answered. And then she added,
with a touch of scorn about the beautiful mouth,
Our friends and we don't belong to the women-lodgers
! "

"Natahe!" her father said; but he smiled
all the same.

I will tell you one of my earliest recollections."
she said. " I remember it very well.
Kossuth was carrying me round the room on
his shoulder. I suppose I had been listening to
the talk of the gentlemen ; for I said to him.
When they burned my papa in effigy at Perth,
why was I not allowed to go and see ? ' Ant
I. n

he said — I remember the sound of his voice
even now — ' Little child, you were not born then.
But if you had been able to go, do you know
what they would have done to you ? They would
have flogged you. Do you not know that the
Austrians flog women ? When you grow up,
little child, your papa will tell you the story of
Madame von Maderspach.' " Then she added,
That is one of my valued recollections, that
when I was a child I was carried on Kossuth's
shoulders."

You have no similar reminiscence of Gorge,
I suppose ? " Brand said, with a smile.

He had spoken quite inadvertently, without
the slightest thought in the world of wounding her
feelings. For one thing, he did not know but
that she might consider Gorge a deeply injured
person. But he was surprised and shocked by
the extraordinary effect which this chance remark
produced on the tall and beautiful girl standing
there. For an instant she paused, as if not
knowing what to say. Then she said proudly —
and she turned away as she did so —

Perhaps you are not aware that there are
some names you should not mention in the presence
of a Hungarian woman."

What was there in the tone of the voice that
made him rapidly glance at her eyes, as she turned
away, pretending to carry back the photographs ?
He was not deceived. Those large dark eyes
were full of sudden indignant tears ; she had not
turned quite quickly enough to conceal them.

Of course, he instantly and amply apologized
for his ignorance and stupidity ; but what he said
to himself was. "' That child is not acting. She
may be Lind's daughter after all. Poor thing !
she is too beautiful and generous and noble to
be made the decoy of a revolutionary adventurer."

At this moment, Lord Evelyn arrived, throwing
a quick glance of enquiry towards his friend,
to see what impression so far had been produced.
But the tall, red-bearded Englishman maintained,
as the diplomatists say, an attitude of the
strictest reserve. The keen grey eyes were
respectful, attentive, courteous — especially when
they were turned to Miss Lind ; beyond that,
nothing.

Now they had not been seated at the dinner-table
more than a few minutes before George
Brand began to ask himself whether it was really
Curzon Street he was dining in. The oddly

furnished room was adorned with curiosities to
which every capital in Europe would seem to
have contributed. The servants, exclusively
women, were foreign ; the table glass and decorations
were all foreign ; the unostentatious little
banquet was distinctly foreign. Why, the very
bell that had summoned them down, — what was
there in the soft sound of it that had reminded
him of something far away ? It was a haunting
sound, and he kept puzzling over the vague associations
it seemed to call up. At last he frankly
mentioned the matter to Miss Lind, who seemed
greatly pleased.

"Ah, did you like the sound?" she said, in
that low and harmonious voice of hers. "The
bell was an invention of my own ; shall I show
it to you ? "

The Dresden shepherdess, by name Anneli,
being despatched into the hall, presently returned
with an object somewhat resembling in shape a
Cheshire cheese, but round at the top, formed
of roughly filed metal of a lustrous yellow-grey.
Round the rude square handle surmounting it
was carelessly twisted a bit of old orange silk ;
other decoration there was none.

Do you see what it is now ? " she said.
Only one of the ij^reat bells the people use for
the cattle on the Campagna. Where did I get it ?
Oh, you know the Piazza Montenara, in Rome,
of course ? There is a place there where they
sell such things to the country people. You
could get one without difficulty, if you are not
afraid of being laughed at as a mad Englishman.
That bit of embroidered ribbon, though, I got
in an old shop in Florence."

Indeed, what struck him further was, not only
the foreign look of the little room and its belongings,
but also the extraordinary familiarity with
foreign cities shown by both Lind and his
daughter. As the rambling conversation went
on (the sonorous cattle-bell had been removed
by the rosy-cheeked Anneli), they appeared to
be just as much at home in Madrid, in Munich,
in Turin, or Genoa, as in London. And it was
no vague and general tourist's knowledge that
these two cosmopolitan showed ; it was rather
the knowledge of a resident — an intimate acquaintance
with persons, streets, shops, and
houses. George Brand was a bit of a globe-trotter
himself, and was entirely interested in

this talk about places and things that he knew.
He got to be quite at home with those people
whose own home seemed to be Europe. Reminiscences,
anecdotes, flowed freely on ; the dinner
passed with unconscious rapidity. Lord Evelyn
was delighted, and pleased beyond measure to
observe the more than courteous attention that
his friend paid to Natalie Lind.

But all this while what mention was thereof
the great and wonderful organization — a mere
far-off glimpse of which had so captured Lord
Evelyn's fervent imagination ? Not a word.
The sceptic who had come among them could
find nothing either to justify or allay his suspicions.
But it might safely be said that, for the
moment at least, his suspicions as regarded one
of those two were dormant. It was difficult to
associate trickery and conspiracy and cowardly
stabbing with this beautiful young Hungarian
girl, whose calm, dark eyes were so fearless. It
is true that she appeared very proud-spirited
and generous and enthusiastic ; and you could
cause her cheek to pale whenever you spoke of
injury done to the weak or the suffering or the
poor. But that was different from the secret
sharpening of poniards.

Once only was reference made to the various
secret associations that are slowly but eagerly
working under the apparent social and political
surface of Europe. Some one mentioned the
Nihilists. Thereupon Ferdinand Lind, in a quiet
and matter-of-fact way, without appearing to know
anything ol the personnel of the societe', and
while expressing strong disapproval of its aims.
took occasion to speak of the extraordinary devotion
of those people.

■■ There has been nothing like it," said hein
all the history of what men have done fora
political cause. You may southey are fanatics,
madmen, murderers ; that they onl)- provoke
further tyranny and oppression ; that their efforts
are wholly and solely mischievous. It may be
so ; I believe it to be so. But I speak of the
individual and what he is ready to do. The
sacrifice of one's own life is taken almost as a
matter of course. Each man knows that for him
the end will almost certainly be Siberia or a
public execution ; and he accepts it. You will
find young men, well-born, well-educated, who go
away from their friends and their native place,
who go into a remote village, and offer to work

at the commonest trade, at apprentices' wages.
They settle there ; they marry ; they preach
nothing but the value of honest work and extreme
sobriety and respect for superiors. Then, after
some years, when they are regarded as beyond
all suspicion, they begin, cautiously and slowly,
to spread abroad their propaganda — to teach
respect rather for human liberty, for justice, for
self sacrifice, for those passions that prompt a
nation to adventure everything for its freedom.
All this is excellent, if they would stop there ;
but then they go on into mere folly. To renovate
society, you must destroy it; and 'you must begin
by killing kings, and especially governors of
gaols. In the midst of this absurdity, the Nihilist
teacher is arrested, and banished or executed ;
but the association remains. The Russians at
this moment have no notion how widespread
and pernicious it is."

The head-quarters, are they in Russia itself? "
asked Brand, on the watch for any admission.

Who knows ? " said the other, absently.
Perhaps there are none."

None ? Surely there must be some power
to say what is to be done, to enforce obedience ? "

"What if each man finds that in himself?"
said Lind. with something of the air of a dreamer
coming over the firm and thoughtful and rugged
face. " It may be a brotherhood. All associations
do not need to be controlled by kings and
priests and standing armies."

And the end of all this devotion, you say. is
Siberia or death ? "

For the man, perhaps ; for his work, not.
It is not personal gain or personal safety that a
man must have in view if he goes to do battle.
in however mistaken and foolish a way, against
the oppression that has crushed the world
for centuries and centuries. Do you not remember
the answer given to the Czar by Michael
Bestoujif when he was condemned ? It was only
the saying of a peasant ; but it is one of the
noblest ever heard in the world. • I have the
power to pardon you,' said the Czar to him,
and I would do so if I thought you would
become a faithful subject.' What was the answer ?
'Sire,' said Michael Bestoujif, 'that is our great
misfortune, that the Emperor can do everything,
and that there is no law." "

Ah. the brave man ! " said Natalie Lind,

quickly and passionately, with a flash of pride in
her eyes. " The brave man ! If I had a brother,
I would ask him, ' When will you show the
courage of Michael Bestoujif ? ' "

Lord Evelyn glanced at her with a strange,
admiring, proud look. "If she had a brother!"
What else, even with all his admiration and affection
for her, could he hope to be ?

Presently they wandered back into other and
lighter subjects ; and Brand, at least, did not
notice how the time was flying. When Natalie
Lind rose, and asked her father whether he
would have coffee sent into the smoking-room,
or have tea in the drawing-room. Brand was
quite astonished and disappointed to find it so
late. He proposed that they should at once
go up to the drawing-room ; and this was
done.

They had been speaking of musical instruments
at dinner; and their host now brought
them some venerable lutes to examine — curiosities
only, for most of the metal strings were broken.
Beautiful objects, however, they were, in inlaid
ivory or tortoiseshell and ebony ; made, as the
various inscriptions revealed, at Bologna or Padua

or Venice ; and elating, some of them, as far
back as 1474- But in the midst of all this.
Brand espied another instrument on one of the
small tables.

Miss Lind," said he, with some surprise,
do you play the either ? "

Oh yes, Natalie will play you something."
her father said, carelessly ; and forthwith the
girl sat down to the small table.

George Brand retired into a corner of the
room. He was passionately fond of either music.
He thought no more about that examination of
the lutes.

Do you know one who cadi play the either
wells says the proverb. '' 1/ so, rejoice, for there
are not two in the luorld!' However that might be,
Natalie Lind could play the either, as one eager
listener soon discovered. He, in that far corner,
could only see the profile of the girl (just touched
with a faint red from the shade of the nearest
candle, as she leaned over the instrument), and
the shapely wrists and fingers as they moved
on the metallic strings. But was that what he
really did see when the first low tremulous notes
struck the prelude to one of the old pathetic

Volkslieder that many a time he had heard in
the morning, when the fresh wind blew in from
the pines ; that many a time he had heard in the
evening, when the little blue-eyed Kathchen and
her mother sang together as they sat and knitted
on the bench in front of the inn ? Suddenly the
air changes. What is this louder tramp ? Is it
not the joyous chorus of the home-returning
huntsmen ; the lads with the slain roe-deer slung
round their necks ; that stalwart Bavarian keeper
hauling at his mighty black hound ; old father
Leibnitz, with his three beagles and his ancient
breech-loader, hurrying forwards to get the first
cool, vast, splendid draught of the clear white
wine ? How the young fellows come swinging
along through the dust, their faces ablaze
against the sunset ! Listen to the far, hoarse
chorus ! —

Date kerr' ici von der Hide,
Sur hduslich stilkn Frncde,

Ein former Jdger smart !

Ein frontier Jdgersmann !
Hall, hallo / Imllt, hallo /

Ein fro7n?ner Jdgersmann !

White wine now, and likewise the richer red !
for there is a great hand-shaking because of

the Mr. Englishman's good fortune, in having
shot three bucks ; and the little Kathchen's eyes
grow full, because they have brought home a
gentle-faced doe, likewise cruelly slain. And
Kathchen's mother has whisked inside ; and here
are the tall chopped on the table ; and speedily
the long, low room is filled with the tobacco-smoke.
What ! another song, you thirsty old
Leibnitz, with the (quavering voice ? But there is
a lusty chorus to that too ; and a great clinking
of glasses ; and the Englishman laughs and does
his part too, and he has called for six more
chopped of red. . . . But hush ! now. Have
we come out from the din and the smoke, to the
cool evening air ? What is that one hears afar in
the garden ? Surely it is the little Kathchen and
her mother, singing together, in beautiful harmony,
the old. familiar, tender Corelli .^ The either is a
strange instrument-it speaks. And when Natalii-
Lind, coming to this air, sang in a low contralto
voice an only half-suggested second, it seemed to
those in the room that two women were singing
the one with a voice low and rich and penetrating,
the other voice clear and sweet like; the
singing of a-young girl. Pic Lust list kiihl uiui

es unfelt, unci ruhig fliesset der Rhein. Was it,
indeed, Kathchen and her mother ? Were they
far away in the beautiful pine-land, with the quiet
evening shining red over the green woods, and
darkness coming over the pale streams in the
hollows ? When Natalie Lind ceased, the elder
of the two guests murmured to himself, " Wonderful
! wonderful ! " The other did not speak

at all.

She rested her hands for a moment on the

table.

Natalushka," said her father, " is that all ? "
You must not call me Natalushka any longer,
papa," said she ; but again she bent her hands
over the silver strings.

And these brighter and gayer airs now — surely
they are from the laughing and light-hearted
south ? Have we not heard them under the cool
shade of the olive trees ; with the hot s\m blazing
on the garden paths of the Villa Realee ; and the
children playing ; and the band busy with its
dancing cannon ; the gay notes drowning the
murmur and plash of the fountains near .^ Look
now ! — far beneath the grey shadow of the olive
boughs — the deep blue band of the sea ; and there

the double-sailed barca, like a yellow butterfly,

hovering on the water ; and there the larger

martin gallo, bound for the cloud-like island on the

horizon. Are they singing, then, as they speed

over the glancing waves } . . . O dolce Napoli !

O sol cato / . . . for what can they sing at allas

they leave us if they do not sing the pretty,

tender, tinkling " Santa Lucia " ?

Venite air agile
Marietta mia !
Santa Lucia !
Santa Lucia !

. . The notes grow fainter and fainter. Are

the tall maidens of Capri already looking out for

the swarthy sailors that these turn no longer to

the shores they are leaving ? . . . O dolce

Napoli! O sitol beat / . . . Fainter and fainter

grow the notes on the trembling string, so that

you can scarcely tell them from the cool plashing

of the fountains . . . Santa Lucia / . . . Santa

Lucia I . . .

Natalushka," said her father, laughing, " you
must take us to Venice now."

The young Hungarian girl rose, and put the
either aside.

It is an amusement for children," she said.

She went to the piano, which was open, and
took down a piece of music — it was Kucken's
Maid of Judah." Now, hitherto, George Brand
had only heard her murmur a low, harmonious
second to one or other of the airs she had been
playing ; and he was quite unprepared for the
passion and fervour which her deep, resonant,
contralto voice threw into this wail of indignation
and despair. This was the voice of a
woman, not of a girl ; and it was with the proud
passion of a woman that she seemed to send this
cry to heaven for reparation and justice and
revenge. And surely it was not only of the
sorrows of the land of Judah she was thinking ?
it was a wider cry — the cry of the oppressed
and the suffering and heart-broken in every
clime —

O blest native land ! O fatherland mine !
How lo?igfor thy refuge in vain shall I pine ?

He could have believed there were tears in her
eyes just then ; but there were none, he knew,
when she came to the fierce and piteous appeal
that followed —

Where, where are thy proud sons, so lordly in might ?
All mown down and fallen in blood-welling fight I

Thy cities are ruin, thy valleys lie caste,
Their summer enchantment the foe hath erased.
O blest native land I hmu long shall decline i
IVhen, ivhen will the Lord cry " Revenge, it is Mise ! "

The either speaks ; but there is a speech
beyond that of the either. The penetration vibration
of this rich and pathetic voice was a thinij^
not easily to be forgotten. When the two friends
left the house, they found themselves in the chill
darkness of an English night in February. Surely
it must have seemed to them that they had been
dwelling for a period in warmer climes, with gay
colours and warmth and sweet sounds around
them ? They walked for some time in silence.

Well." said Lord Evelyn, at last, " what do
you think of them ? "

I don't know." said the other, after a pause.
I am puzzled. How did you come to know
them ? "

I came to know Lind through a newspaper
reporter called O'Halloran. I should like to
introduce you to him too."

George Brand soon afterwards parted from
his friend, and walked away down to his silent
rooms over the river. The streets were dark and
I. E

deserted, and the air was still ; yet there seemed
somehow to be a tremulous, passionate, distant
sound in the night. It was no tinkling " Santa
Lucia" dying away over the blue seas in the
south. It was no dull, sonorous bell, suggesting
memories of the far Campagna. Was it not rather
the quick, responsive echo that had instantly
arisen in his own heart, when he heard the
thrilling voice of Natalie Lind pour forth that
proud and indignant appeal —

When, whefi will the Lord cry * Revenge, it is Mine ./'"

CHAPTER IV.

A STRANGER.

Ferdinand Lind was in his study, busy with his
morning letters. It was a nondescript little den,
which he also used as library and smoking-room ;
its chief feature being a collection of portraits —
a most heterogeneous assortment of engravings,
photographs, woodcuts, and terra-cotta busts.
Wherever the book-shelves ceased, these began ;
and as there were a great number of them, and as
the room was small. Mr. Lind's friends or historical
heroes sometimes came into odd juxtaposition.
In any case, they formed a strange assemblage —
Arndt and Corner ; Stein ; Silvio Pellicle and Karl
Sand cheek by jowl ; Festal. Comte, Cromwell,
Garibaldi, Marx, Mazzini, Ben, Kossuth, Lassalle.
and many another writer and fighter. A fine
engraving of Napoleon as First Consul was hung
over the mantelpiece, a pipe-rack intervening

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

between it and a fac-simile of the warrant for the
execution of Charles I.

Something in his correspondence had obviously-annoyed
the occupant of this little study. His
brows were bent down, and he kept his foot
nervously and impatiently tapping on the floor.
When some one knocked, he said, " Come in ! "
almost angrily, though he must have known who
was his visitor.

"Good morning, papa!" said the tall Hungarian
girl, coming into the room with a light step
and a smile of welcome on her face.

Good morning, Natalie ! " said he, without
looking up. " I am busy this morning."

Oh, but, papa," said she, going over, and
stooping down and kissing him, "you must let
me come and thank you for the flowers. They
are more beautiful than ever this time."

What flowers ? " said he, impatiently.

Why," she said, with a look of astonishment,
have you forgotten already ? The flowers you
always send for my birthday morning."

But instantly she changed her tone.

Ah ! I see. Good little children must not
ask where the fairy gifts come from. There, I
will not disturb you, papa."

She touched his shoulder caressingly as she
passed.

But thank you again, papa Santa Claus."

At breakfast. Ferdinand Lind seemed to have
entirely recovered his good humour.

I had forgotten for the moment it was your
birthday, Natalie," said he. " You are quite a
grown woman now."

Nothing, however, was said about the flowers,
though the beautiful basket stood on a side-table,
filling the room with its perfume. After breakfast,
Mr. Lind left for his office, his daughter
setting about her domestic duties.

At twelve o'clock she was ready to go out
for her accustomed morning walk. The pretty
little Anneli, her companion on these excursions,
was also ready ; and together they set forth.
They chatted frankly together in German — the
ordinary relations between mistress and servant
never having been properly established in this
case. For one thing, they had been left to
depend on each other's society during many a
long evening in foreign towns, when Mr. Lind
was away on his own business. For another,
Natalie Lind had, somehow or other, and quite

unaided, arrived at the daring conclusion that
servants were human beings ; and she had been
taught to regard human beings as her brothers
and sisters, some more fortunate than others, no
doubt, but the least fortunate having the greatest
claim on her,

Fraulein," said the little Saxon maid, " it
was I myself who took in the beautiful flowers
that came for you this morning."

"Yes?"

Yes, indeed ; and I thought it was very
strange for a lady to be out so early in the
morning."

A lady ! " said Natalie Lind, with a quick
surprise. " Not dressed all in black ? "

"Yes, indeed, she was dressed all in black."

The girl was silent for a second or two.
Then she said, with a smile —

"It is not right for my father to send mea
black messenger on my birthday — it is. nota
good omen. And it was the same last year
when we were in Paris ; the concierge told me.
Birthday gifts should come with a white fairy,
you know, Anneli — all silver and bells."

Fraulein," said the little German girl, gravely.

I do not think the lady who came this morning
would bring you any ill fortune, for she spoke
with such gentleness when she asked about you.'

When she asked about me ? What was she
like, then, this black messenger ? "

"How could I see, Fraulein? — her veil was
so thick. But her hair was grey ; I could see
that. And she had a beautiful figure — not quite
as tall as you, Fraulein ; I watched her as she
went away."

I am not sure that it is safe, Anneli, to
watch the people whom Santa Claus sends," the
young mistress said, lightly. " However, )'ou
have not told me what the strange lady said
to you."

That will I now tell you, Fraulein," said the
other, with an air of importance. " Well, when I
heard the knock at the door, I went instantly ; I
thought it was strange to hear a knock so earls
of the bell. Then there was the lady ;
and she did not ask who lived there, but she said,
Miss Lind is not up yet ? ' But then, Fraulein,
you must understand, she did not speak like that ;
for it was in English, and she spoke very slowly
if it was with difficult would have said.

Will the adige Frau be pleased to speak
German ? ' but I was afraid it might be impertinent
for a maidservant to address a lady so.
Besides, Fraulein, she might have been a French
lady, and not able to understand our German."

Quite so, Anneli. Well ? "

Then I told her I believed you were still in
your room. Then she said, still speaking very
slowly, as if it was all learned, ' Will you be so
kind as to put those flowers just outside her room,
so that she will get them when she comes out ? '
And I said I would do that. Then she said, ' I
hope Miss Lind is very well ; ' and I said, ' Oh
yes.' She stood for a moment just then, Fraulein,
as if not knowing whether to go away or
not ; and then she asked again if you were quite
well and strong and cheerful, and again I said,
Oh yes ; ' and no sooner had I said that than
she put something into my hand and went away.
Would you believe it, Fraulein ? it was a sovereign
an English golden sovereign. And so I ran
after her, and said, ' Lady, this is a mistake,' and
I offered her the sovereign. That was right, was
it not, Fraulein ? "

Certainly."

"Well, she did not speak to me at all this
time. I think the poor lady had less English
even than I myself; but she closed my hand over
the sovereign, and then patted me on the arm,
and went away. It was then that I looked after
her. I said to myself, ' Well, there is only one
lady that I know who has a more beautiful fi^un*
than that — that is my mistress.' But she was
not so tall as you, Fraulein."

Natalie Lind paid no attention to this adroit
piece of flattery on the part of her little Saxon
maid.

It is very extraordinary, Anneli," she said,
after a while ; then she added, " I hope the
piece of gold you have will not turn to dust
and ashes."

■' Look at it. Fraulein," said Anneli, t<U<ing
out her purse and producing a sound and solid
English coin, about which there appeared to be
no demoniacal or witchcraft whatsoever.

They had by this time got into Park Lane ;
and here the young mistress's speculations about
the mysterious messenger of Santa Claus were
suddenly cut short, by something more immediate
and more practical. There was a small boy of

about ten engaged In pulling a wheelbarrow which
was heavily laden with large baskets — probably
containing washing ; and he was toiling manfully
with a somewhat hopeless task. How he had
got so far it was impossible to say ; but now that
his strength was exhausted, he was trying all sorts
of ineffectual dodges — even tilting up the barrow
and endeavouring to haul it by the legs— to get
the thing along.

If I were a man," said Natalie Lind, " I
would help that boy."

Then she stepped from the pavement.

Little boy," she said, " where are you taking
that barrow ? "

The London gamin, always on the watch for
sarcasm, stopped and stared at her. Then he
took off his cap and wiped his forehead ; it was
warm work, though this was a chill February
morning. Finally he said —

Well, I'm again' to Warrington Crescent,
Maid Vale. But if it's when I am likely to git
there — bust me if I know."

She looked about. There was a good,
sturdy specimen of the London loafer over at
the Park railings, with both hands up at his

mouth, trying to light his pipe. She went across
to him.

I will give you half a crown if you will pull
that barrow to Warrington Crescent, Maid Vale."
There was no hesitation in her manner ; she
looked the loafer fair in the face.

He instantly took the pipe from his mouth,
and made some slouching attempt at touching
his cap.

Thank ye, miss. Thank ye kindly "--and
away the barrow went, with the small boy manfully
pushing behind.

The tall, black-eyed Hungarian girl and her
rosy-cheeked attendant now turned into the Park.
There were a good many people riding by —
fathers with their daughters, elderly gentlemen
very correctly dressed, smart young men with
a little tawny moustache, clear blue eyes, and
square shoulders.

Many of those Englishmen are very handsome,"
said the young mistress, by chance.

Not like the Austrians, Fraulein." said
Anneli.

The Austrians "^ What do you know about
the Austrians ? " said the other, sharply.

When my uncle was ill at Prague, Fraulein,"
the girl said, " my mother took me there to see
him. We used to go out to the river, and go
half-way over the tall bridge, and then down to
the ' Sohen-Insel.' Ah, the beautiful place! —
with the music, and the walks under the trees ;
and there we used to see the Austrian officers.
These were handsome, with their beautiful uniforms,
and waists like a girl ; and the beautiful
gloves they wore, too ! — even when they were
smoking cigarettes."

Natalie Lind was apparently thinking of other
things. She neither rebuked nor approved Anneli's
speech ; though it was hard that the little Saxon
maid should have preferred to the sturdy, white-haired,
fair-skinned warriors of her native land
the elegant young gentlemen of Francis Joseph's
army.

They are handsome, those Englishmen''
Natalie Lincl was saying, almost to herself, "and
very rich and brave ; but they have no sympathy.
All their fighting for their own liberty is over and
gone ; they cannot believe there is any oppression
now anywhere ; and they think that those who
wish to help the sufferers of the world are only

discontented and fanatic -a trouble an annum -
ance. And they are hard with the pour people
and the weak ; they think it is wrong" — that
you have done wrong— if you are not well off
and strong like themselves. I wonder if that was
really an English lady who wrote the ' Cry of iliac
Children.' "

I beg your pardon, Fraulein ? "

Nothing, Anneli. I was wondering why so
rich a nation as the English should have so man)
poor people amongst them — and such miserable;
poor people ; there is nothing like it in the
world."

They were walking along the broad road leading
to the Marble Arch, between the leafless
trees. Suddenly the little Saxon girl exclaimed,
in an excited whisper —

Fraulein ! Fraulein ! "

"What is it, Anneli ?"

The lady — the lady who came with the flowers
she is behind us. Yes ; I am sure."

The girl's mistress glanced (|uickl)- round.
Some distance behind them there was certainly a
lady dressed altogether in black, who, the moment
she perceived that these two were regarding her.

turned aside, and pretended to pick up something
from the grass.

Fraulein, Fraulein' said AnneHH, eagerly ;
let us sit down on this seat. Do not look at
her. She will pass."

The sudden presence of this stranger, about
whom she had been thinking so much, had somewhat
unnerved her ; she obeyed this suggestion
almost mechanically ; and waited with her heart
throbbing. For an instant or two it seemed as if
that dark figure along by the trees were inclined
to turn and leave ; but presently Natalie Lind
knew rather than saw that this slender and graceful
woman with the black dress and the deep veil
was approaching her. She came nearer; for a
second she came closer ; some little white thing
was dropped into the girl's lap, and the stranger
passed quickly on.

Anneli, Anneli," the young mistress said,
the lady has dropped her locket ! Run with it
quick ! "

"No, Fraulein," said the other, quite as
breathlessly, " she meant it for you. Oh, look,
Fraulein ! — look at the poor lady — she is
crying."

The sharp eyes of the younger girl were riglu.
Surely that slender figure was being shaken with
sobs as it hurried away and was lost among the:
groups coming through the Marble Arch ? Natalie
Lind sat there as one stupefied — breathless, silent,
trembling. She had not looked at the locket
at all.

Anneli," she said, in a low voice, " was that
the same lady ? Are you sure ? "

Certain, Fraulein," said her companion,
eagerly.

She must be very unhappy," said the girl.
I think, too. she; was crying."

Then she looked at the trinket that the
stranger had dropped into her lap. It was an
old-fashioned silver locket, formed in the shape
of a heart, and ornamented with the most
delicate disagree work ; in the centre of it was
the letter N in old German text. When
Natalie Lind opened it, she found inside only
a small piece of paper, on which was written,
in foreign-looking characters. " From N^atalic to
Natahishkay

Anneli. she knows my name ! " the girl
exclaimed.

"Would you not like to speak to the poor
lady, Fraulein ? " said the little German maid,
who was very much excited also. " And do you
not think she is sure to come this way again—
tomorrow, next day, some other day ? Perhaps
she is ill or suffering, or she may have lost
some one whom you resemble — how can one
tell?"

CHAPTER V.

rioters.

Before sitting down to breakfast on this dim and
dreary morning in February, George Brand went
to one of the windows of his sitting-room and
looked abroad on the busy world without. Busy
indeed it seemed to be — the steamers hurrying
up and down the river, hansoms whirling along
the Embankment, heavily laden omnibuses chasing
each other across Waterloo Bridge, the
underground railway from time to time rumbling
beneath those wintry-looking gardens, and always
and everywhere the ceaseless murmur of a great
city. In the midst of all this eager activity, he
was only a spectator. Busy enough the world
around him seemed to be ; he alone was idle.

Well, what had he to look forward to on this
dull day, when once he had finished his breakfast
and his newspapers? It had already began

II. V

to drizzle ; there was to be no saunter up to
the Park. He would stroll along to his club,
and say " Good morning " to one or tv/o acquaintances.
Perhaps he would glance at some more
newspapers. Perhaps, tired of reading news
that did not interest, and forming opinions never
to be translated into action, he would take refuge
in the library. Somehow, anyhow, he would
desperately tide over the morning till lunch-time.

Luncheon would be a break ; but after ?

He had not been long enough in England to
become familiar with the whist-set ; similarly, he
had been too long abroad to be proficient in
English billiards, even if he had been willing
make either whist or pool the pursuit of his
life. As for afternoon calls and tea-drinking,
that may be an interesting occupation for young
gentlemen in search of a wife, but it is too ghastly
a business for one who has no such views.
What, then ? More newspapers ? More tedious
lounging in the hushed library ? Or how were
the "impracticable hours" to be disposed of
before came night and sleep ?

George Brand did not stay to consider that,
when a man in the prime of health and vigour,

possessed of an ample fortune, unfettered by
anybody's will but his own, and burdened by
neither remorse nor regret, nevertheless begins
to find life a thing too tedious to be borne, there
must be a cause for it. On the contrary, instead
of asking himself any questions, he set about
getting through his daily programme with an
Englishman's determination to be prepared for
the worst. He walked up to his club, the Walden
in Pall Mall. In the morning room there
were only two or three old gentlemen, seated in
easy-chairs near the fire, and grumbling in a loud
voice — for apparently one or two were rather
deaf — about the weather. Brand glanced at a
few more newspapers. Then a happy idea
occurred to him ; he would go up to the smoking-room
and smoke a cigarette.

In this vast hall of a place there were only
two persons — one standing with his back to the
fire, the other lying back in an easy-chair. The
one was a florid, elderly gentleman, who was
first cousin to a junior Lord of the Treasury, and
therefore claimed to be a profound authority on
politics, home and foreign. He was a harmless
poor devil enough, from whom a merciful Providence

had concealed the fact that his brain-power
was of the smallest. His companion, reclining in
the easy-chair, was a youthful Fine Art Professor ;
an epicene creature ; a bundle of languid affectations,
with the added and fluttering self-consciousness
of a school-miss. He was absently assenting
to the propositions of the florid gentleman ; but
it is probable that his soul was elsewhere.

These propositions were to the effect that
leading articles in a newspaper were a mere impertinence;
that he himself never read such things ;
that the business of a newspaper was to supply
news ; and that an intelligent Englishman was
better capable of forming a judgment on public
affairs than the hacks of a newspaper-office. This
intelligent Englishman then proceeded to deliver
his own judgment on the question of the day,
which turned out to be — to Mr. Brand's great
surprise — nothing more nor less than a blundering
and inaccurate rc'sttme of the opinions expressed
in a leading article in that morning's
Times. At length this one-sided conversation
between a jackass and a jackanapes became too
intolerable for Brand, who threw away his
cigarette, and descended once more into the hall.

A gentleman wishes to see you, sir," said a
boy ; and at the same moment he caught sight
of Lord Evelyn,

Thank God ! " he exclaimed, hurrying forward
to shake his friend by the hand. " Come,
Evelyn, what are you up to ? I can't stand
England any longer ; will you take a run with
me ? — Algiers, Egypt, anywhere you like. Let
us drop down to Dover in the afternoon, and
settle it there. Or what do you say to the
Riviera "^ we should be sure to run against some
people at one or other of the towns. Upon my
life, if you had not turned up, I think I should
have cut my throat before lunch-time."

I have got something better for you to do
than that," said the other ; *' I want you to see
O'Halloran. Come along; I have a hansom here.
We shall just catch him at Atkinson's, the bookshop,
you know."

'* Very well ; all right," Brand said, briskly :
this seemed to be rather a more cheerful business
than cutting one's throat.

He's at his telegraph-wire all night," Lord
Evelyn said, in the hansom. " Then he lies
down for a few hours' sleep on a sofa. Then he

76 SUNRISE.

goes along to his rooms in Publico for breakfast ;
but at Atkinson's he generally stops for a while
on his way, to have his morning drink."

Oh, is that the sort of person ? "

Don't make any mistake. O'Halloran maybe
eccentric in his ways of living, but he is one
of the most remarkable men I have ever run
against. His knowledge, his reading — politics,
philosophy, everything, in short — the brilliancy
of his talking when he gets excited, even the
extraordinary variety of his personal acquaintance,
why, there is nothing going on that he does
not know about."

But why has this Hibernian genius done
nothing at all ? "

Why ? You might as well try to build a
house with a flash of lightning. He has more
political knowledge and more power of brilliant
writing than half the editors in London put
together ; but he would ruin any paper in twenty-four
hours. His first object would probably be to
frighten his readers out of their wits by some
monstrous paradox ; his next to show them what
fools they had been. I don't know how he has
been kept on so long where he is, unless it be that

he deals with news only. I believe he had to he
withdrawn from the Gallery of the House; he
was very impatient over the prosy members, and
his remarks about them began to reach the
Speaker's ear too frequently."

'* I gather, then, that he is merely a clever,
idle, Irish vagabond, who drinks."

"He does not drink. And as for his Irish
name, I suppose he must be Irish either by
descent or birth ; but he is continually abusing
Ireland and the Irish. Probably, however, he
would not let an body else do so."

Mr. Atkinson's book-shop in the Strand was
a somewhat dingy-looking place, filled with publications
mostly of an exceedingly advanced
character. Mr. Atkinson himself claimed to bea
bit of a reformer ; and had indeed brought
himself on one or two occasions within reach of
the law by issuing pamphlets of a somewhat too
fearless aim. On this occasion he was not in
the shop ; so the two friends passed through,
ascended a dark little stair, and entered a room
which smelt strongly of tobacco-smoke.

The sole occupant of this chamber, to
whom Brand was immediately introduced, was

a man of about fifty, carelessly if not even
shabbily dressed, with large masses of unkempt
hair, and eyes, dark grey, deep-set, that had
very markedly the look of the eyes of a lion.
The face was worn and pallid ; but when lit up
with excitement, it was capable of much expression
; and Mr. O'Halloran, when he did
become excited, got very much excited indeed.
He had laid aside his pipe, and was just finishing
his orin and soda-water, taken from Mr.
Atkinson's private store.

However, the lion so seldom roars when it is
expected to roar. Instead of the extraordinary
creature whom Lord Evelyn had been describing.
Brand found merely an Irish newspaper reporter,
who was either tired, or indifferent, or sleepy.
They talked about some current topic of the
hour for a few minutes ; and then Mr. O'Hallo-
ran, with a yawn, rose and said he must go
home for breakfast.

Stay a bit, O'Halloran," Lord Evelyn said,
in despair ; " I — I wanted — the fact is, Mr. Brand

has been asking me about Ferdinand Lind "

Oh," said the bushy-headed man, with a
quick glance of scrutiny at the tall Englishman.

No, no," he added, with a smile, addressing
himself directly to Brand. " It is no use your
touching' anything of that kind. You would want
to know too much. You would want to have
the earth dug away from over the catacombs,
before you went below to follow a solitary guide
with a bit of candle. You could never be brought
to understand that the cardinal principle of all
secret societies has been that obedience is an end
and aim in itself, and faith the chiefs of all the
virtues. You wouldn't take anything on trust ;
you have the pure English temperament."

Brand laughed, and said nothing. But
O'Halloran sat down again ; and began to talk
in an idle haphazard sort of fashion of the various
secret societies, religious, social, political, that had
become known to the world ; and of their aims,
and their working, and how they had so often
fallen away into the mere preservation of mum-series,
or declared themselves only by the
commission of useless deeds of revenge.

"Ah," said Brand, promptly, "that is precisely
what I have been urging on Lord Evelyn. How
can you know in joining such an association that
you are not becoming the accomplices of men

who are merely planning assassination ? And
what good can come of that ? How are you
likely to gain anything by the dagger ? The
great social and political changes of the world
come in tides ; you can neither retard them nor
help them by sticking pins In the sand."

I am not so sure," said the other, doubtfully.
A little wholesome terrorism has sometimes
played its part. The 1868 amnesty to the Poles
in Siberia was not so long after — not more thana
year after, I think — that little business of .
Faith, what a chance that man had ! "

Who ? "

Berezowski," said he, with an air of contemplation.
" Two Emperors in one carriage ;
and he had two shots at them ! Well, well,
Orsini succeeded better."

Succeeded ? " said George Brand, in simple
amazement. " Do you call that success ? He had
the reward that he richly merited, at all events."

You do not think he was successful ? " the
other said, calmly. "Then you forget how the
kingdom of Italy came by its liberty. Who do
you think was the founder of that kingdom of
Italy — which God preserve till it become something"

better than a kingdom ! Not Cavour, with
all his wiliness ; not your Galantuonio, the warrior
who wrote up Aspromonte in the face of all the
world as the synon)'ni for thei gratitude of kings ;
not Garibaldi, who, in spite of Aspromonte, has.
become now merely the concierge to the House of
Savoy. The founder of the kingdom of Italy
was Felix Orsini ! — and whether heaven or hell
contains him, I drink his health."

He suited the action to the word. Brand
looked on, not much impressed by what he considered
a mere piece of bravado.

"That is all nonsense, O'Halloran," Lord
Evelyn said, bluntly

I tell you," O'Halloran said, with some vehemence,
"that the 14th of January, 1S5S, kept Louis
Napoleon in such a state of tremor, that he would
have done a good deal more than lend his arni)- to-sardinia
to sweep the Austrians out rather than
abandon himself to the fate that Cavour plain)'
and distinctly indicated. But for the threat of
another dose of Orsini pills, do you think you
would ever have heard of Magenta and Solferino .'*"

He seemed to rouse himself a bit now.

No," he said, " I do not approve of assassination

as a political weapon. It seldom answers.
But it has always been the policy of absolute
governments, and of their allies the priests and
the police, to attribute any murders that might
occur to the secret societies, and so to terrify
stupid people. It is one of the commonest slanders
in history. Why, everybody knows how
Douche humbugged the First Napoleon ; and
got up vague plots to prove that he, and he alone,
knew what was going on. When Karl Sand
killed Kotzebue —-oh, of course, that was a fine
excuse for the German kings and princes to
have another raid against free speech, though
Sand declared he had nothing in the world todo
with either the Tugendbund or any such
society. Who now believes that Young Italy
killed Count Rossi ? Rossi was murdered by
the agents of the clericals ; it was distinctly
proved. But any stick is good enough to beat
a dog with. No matter what the slander is, so
long as you can get up a charge, either for the
imprisoning of a dangerous enemy or for terrifying
the public mind. You yourself, Mr. Brand —
I can see that your only notion of the various
secret societies now in Europe is that they will

probably assassinate people. That's what they
said about the Carbonari, too. The objects of the
Carbonari were plain as plain could be ; but no
sooner had General Pope kicked out Ferdinand
and put in a constitutional monarch, than Austria
must needs attribute every murder that was
committed to those detestable Carbonari, so that
she could call upon Prussia and Russia to join
her in strangling the infant liberties of Europe.
Vou see, wee can't get at those Royal slanderers.
We can get at a man like Sir James Graham,
when we force him to apologize in the House of
Commons for having said that Mazzini instigated
the assassination of the spies Emiliani and Lazy


But, good heavens," exclaimed Brand, " does
anybody doubt that that was a political double
murder .^ "

O'Halloran shrugged his shoulders, and smiled.

You may call it murder if )ou like ; others
might call it a fitting punishment. But all I was
asking you to do was to remove from your mind
that bugbear that the autocratic governments of
Europe have created for their own uses. No
secret society — if you except those Nihilists, who

appear to have gone mad altogether — I say, no
secret society of the present day recognizes
political assassination as a normal or desirable
weapon ; though it may have to be resorted to
in extreme cases. You, as an individual, might,
in certain circumstances, lawfully kill a man ; but
that is neither the custom, nor the object, nor
the chief thought of your life."

." And there are many of these societies ? "
Brand asked.

O'Halloran had carelessly lit himself another
pipe.

More than some people suspect. They
are growing in secret as rapidly as some kindred
societies are growing In the open. Look
at the German socialists — In 1871, they polled
only 120,000 votes; in 1874, they polled
340,000 : I imagine that Herr First von Bismarck
will hind some difficulty in suppressing that
Frankenstein monster he coquetted so long with.
Then the Knights of Labour in America : you
will hear something of them by-and-by, or I am
mistaken. In secret and in the open alike there
is a vast power growing and growing, Increasing
in volume and bulk from hour to hour, from year

to year ; God only knows in what fashion it will
reveal itself. But you may compend on it that
when the spark docs spring out of the cloud —
when the clearance of the atmosphere is due —
people will lookback on island 1798, and 1848
as mere playthings. The Great Revolution is still
to come ; it nay be nearer than some imagine."

lie had grown more earnest, both in his
manner and his speech.

"Well," George Brand said, "timid people
may reassure themselves. Where there are so
many societies, there will be as many different
aims. Some, like the wilder German socialists,
will want a general participation of property ;
others a demolition of the churches and crucifixion
of the priests ; others the establishment
of a Universal Republic. There may be a great
deal of powder stored up, but it will all go off indifferent
directions, in little fireworks."

A quick light gleamed in those deep-set, lion-like
eyes.

Very well said ! " was the scornful comment.
The Czar himself could not have expressed his
belief, or at least his hope, more concisely. But
let me tell you, sir, that the masses of mankind

are not such hopeless idiots as are some of
the orators and writers who speak for them ;
and that you will appeal to them in vain if
you do not appeal to their sense of justice, and
their belief in right, and in the eternal laws
of God. You may have a particular crowd go
mad, or a particular city go mad ; but the heart
of the people beats true ; and if you desire a great
political change, you must appeal to their love of
fair and honest dealing as between man and man.
And even if the aims of these societies are
diverse, what then ? What would you think,
now, if it were possible to construct a common
platform, where certain aims at least could be
accepted by all, and become bonds to unite those
who are hoping for better things all over the
earth ? What would you think if it were possible,
out of such co-operation, to form a great and
powerful organization for the compelling of peace,
the teaching of the first principles of freedom, and
co-operation, and public justice, the giving the
poorer of the earth at last a chance of reaping
the reward of their own labour ? That did not
occur to you as a possible thing, perhaps ? You
have only studied the ways of kings and governments

; each one for himself. ' Come over my
boLindar)-. and I will cleave your head ; or
rather, I will send my common people to doit,
for a little blood-letting from time to time
is good for that vile and ignorant body.' But
the vile and ignorant body may begin to tire of
that recurrent blood-letting, and might perhaps
even say, ' Brother across the boundary, I have
no quarrel with you. You are poor and ignorant
like myself; the travail of the earth lies hard on
)ou ; I would rather give you my hand. If I
have any quarrel, surely it is with the tyrants of
the earth, who have kept both you and me
enslaved ; who have taken away our children
from us ; who have left us scarcely bread. How
long. O Lord, how long ? We are tired of the
reign of Cccsar ; we are beaten down with it ; who
will help us now to establish the reign of Christ ?'"'

He rose. Despite the unkempt hair, this man
looked quite handsome now, while this serious
look was in his face. Brand began to perceive
whence his friend Evelyn had derived at least
some of his inspiration.

Meanwhile," O'l alcoran said, with a light,
scornful laugh, " Christianity has been of excellent
11. G

service to Caesar ; it has been the big policeman
of Europe. Do you think these poor wretches
would have been so patient if they had not
believed there was some compensation reserved
for them beyond the grave ? They would have
had Caesar by the throat by this time."

Then that scheme of co-operation you
mentioned," Brand said — somewhat hastily, for
he saw that O'Halloran was about to leave —
that is what Ferdinand Lind is working at ? "

The other started.

I cannot give you any information on that
point," said O'Halloran, gravely. " And I do
not think you are likely to get much anywhere
if you are only moved by curiosity, however
sympathetic and well-wishing."

He took up his hat and stick.

"Good-bye, Mr. Brand," said he; and he
looked at him with a kindly look. "As far as
I can judge you are now in the position of a man
at a partly opened door, half afraid to enter, and
too curious to draw back. Well, my advice to
you is — Draw back. Or at least remember
this : that before you enter that room you must
be without doubt — and zvitJioiit fcai-y

CHAPTER VI.

150N VOYAGE !

Fear he hath none. His life was not so valuable
to him that he would have hesitated about
throwing; himself into any forlorn hope, provided
that he was satisfied of the justice of the cause.
He had dabbled a little in philosophy, and not
only believed that the ordinary altruistic instincts
of mankind could be traced to a purely utilitarian
origin, but also that, on the same theory, the
highest form of personal gratification might be
found in the severest form of self-sacrifice. He
did not pity a martyr ; he envied him. But before
the martyr's joy must come the martyr's faith.
Without that enthusiastic belief in the necessity
and nobleness and value of the sacrifice, what
could there be but physical pain and the despair
of a useless death .'*

But if he had no fear, he had a superabundance
of doubt. He had not at all the
pliable, receptive, imaginative nature of his friend,
Lord Evelyn. He had more than the ordinary
Englishman's distrust of secrecy. He was not
to be won over by the visions of any St. Simon,
the eloquence of any Fourier, the epigrams of any
Proudhon : these were to him but intellectual
playthings, of no practical value. It was, doubtless,
a novelty for a young man brought up as
Lord Evelyn had been to associate with a gin-drinking
Irish reporter, and to regard him as the
mysterious apostle of a new creed ; Brand only
saw in O'Halloran a light-headed, speculative,
talkative person, as safe to trust to for guidance
as a will-o'-the-wisp. It is true that for the time
being he had been thrilled by the passionate
fervour of Natalie Lind's singing ; and many a
time since he could have fancied that he heard
in the stillness of the night that pathetic and
vibrating appeal —

When, when will the Lord cry ' Revenge it is Mine f ' "
But he dissociated her from her father's schemes
altogether. No doubt she was moved by the
generous enthusiasm of a young girl. She had

a warm, human, sympathetic heart ; the cry of the
poor and the suffering appealed to her ; and she
was confident in the success of projects of which
she had been prudently kept ignorant. This was
George Brand's reading. He would not have
Natalie Lind associated with Leicester Square
and a lot of garlic-eating revolutionaries.

But who is this man Lind } " he asked,
impatiently, of Lord Evelyn : he had driven upto
his friend's house in Clarges Street ; had had
luncheon with him ; and they were now smoking
a cigarette in the library.

"You mean his nationality?" said his friend,
laughing. " That has puzzled me, too. He
seems, at all events, to have had his finger ina
good many pies. He escaped into Turkey
with Ben, I know ; and he has been imprisoned
in Russia ; and once or twice I have heard him
refer to the amnesty that was proclaimed when
Louis Napoleon was presented with an heir.
But whether he is Pole, or Jew, or Slav, there
is no doubt about his daughter being a thorough
Hungarian."

Not the least," said Brand, with decision.
I have seen lots of women of that type in Pcsth.

And in Vienna too — if you are walking in the
Prater you can always tell the Hungarian women
as they drive past. But you rarely see one as
beautiful as she is."

After a while Lord Evelyn said —
This is Natalie's birthday. By-and-by I am
going along to Bond Street to buy some little
thing for her."

Then she allows you to make her presents ? "
Brand said, somewhat coldly.

She and I are like brother and sister now,"
said the pale, deformed lad, without hesitation.
If I were ill, I think she would be glad to come
and look after me."

You have already plenty of sisters who
would do that."

*' By the way, they are coming to town next
week, with my mother. You must come and
dine with us some night, if you are not afraid to
face the chatter of such a lot of girls."

Have they seen Miss Lind ? "

No ; not yet."

"And how will you explain your latest craze
to them, Evelyn ? They are very nice girls
indeed, you know ; but — but — when they set full

cry on you I suppose some day I shall

have to send them a cope of a newspaper from
abroad, with this kind of thing in it : ' CoDipccrcd
yesterday before the Correctional Tribunal, Ernest
Francis Agincourt, Baron Evelyn, charged zuith
Having in elis possession two canisters of an explosive
compound and fourteen empty missiles. Further,
among the correspondence of the accused was
found ' "

' .-7 letter from an Englishman named
Brand,' " continued Lord Evelyn, as he rose and
went to the window, " * apparently written under
the influence of nightmare' Come, Brand, I seethe
carriage is below. Will )0u drive with me
to the jeweller's ? "

"Certainly," said his friend; and at this
moment the carriage was announced. " I suppose
it wouldn't do for me to buy the thing .'* You
know I have more money to spend on trinkets
than you have."

They were very intimate friends indeed.
Lord Evelyn only said, with a smile —

I am afraid Natalie wouldn't like it."

But this choosing of a birthday present was
a terrible business. The jeweller was as other

jewellers ; his designs were mostly limited to
the representation of two objects — a butterfly fora
woman, and a horse-shoe for a man. At last
Brand, who had been walking about from time
to time, espied, in a distant case, an object which
instantly attracted his attention. It was a flat
piece of wood or board, covered with blue velvet ;
and on this had been twined an unknown number
of yards of the beautiful thread-like gold chain,
common to the jewellers' shop-windows in Venice.

Here you are, Evelyn," Brand said at once.
"Why not buy a lot of this thin chain, and let
her make it into any sort of decoration that she
chooses ? "

It is an ignominious way out of the difficulty,"
said the other : but he consented ; and yard after
yard of the thread-like chain was unrolled.
When allowed to drop together, it seemed to
go into no compass at all.

They went outside.

'* What are you going to do now. Brand ? "

The other was looking cheerless enough.

I ? " he said, with the slightest possible
shrug. " I suppose I must go down to the club,
and yawn away the time till dinner."

Then why not come with me ? I have a
commission or two from my sisters — one as far
out as Nothing Hill ; but after that we can drive
back through the Park and call on the Lines.
I dare say Lind will be home by that time."

Lord Evelyn's friend was more than delighted.
As they drove from place to place, he was a good
deal more talkative than was his wont ; and
among other things confessed his belief that
Ferdinand Lind seemed much too hard-headed
a man to be engaged in mere visionary enterprises.
But somehow the conversation generally
came round to Mr. Lind's daughter; and Brand
seemed very anxious to find out to what degree
she was cognizant of her father's schemes. On
this point Lord Evelyn knew nothing.

At last they arrived at the house in Curzon
Street, and found Mr. Lind just on the point of
entering. He stayed to receive them ; went
upstairs with them to the drawing-room ; and then
begged them to excuse him for a few minutes.
Presently Natalie Lind appeared.

How this man envied his friend Evelyn the
frank, sister-like way in which she took the little
present, and thanked him for that and his kind
wishes !

Ah, do you know," she said, " what a strange
birthday gift I had given me this morning ! See !"

She brought over the old-fashioned silver
locket, and told them the whole story.

Is it not strange ? " she said. " ' From Natalie
to NataliLshka! That is, from myself to myself:
what can it mean ? "

Have you not asked your father, then, about
his mysterious messenger ? " Brand said ; he was
always glad to ask this girl a question, for she
looked him so straight in the face with her soft
dark eyes, as she answered.

"He has only now come home. I will
direct."

"But why does your father call you ,
Natalie ? " asked Lord Evelyn.

There was the slightest blush on the pale,
clear face.

"It was a nickname they gave me, I am
told, when I was a child. They used to make
me angry."

And now, if one were to call you 
? "

My anger would be too terrible," she said,
with a smile. " Papa alone dares to do that."

Presently her father came into the room.

"Oh, papa," said she, " I have discovered who
the lady is whom you got to bring me the flowers.
And see ! she has given me this strange little
locket. Look at the inscription — ' Frovi Natalie
to Nataluslika! "

Lind only glanced at the locket. His eyes
were fixed on the girl.

Where did you see the — the lady ? " he asked,
coldly.

In the Park. But she did not stay a
moment, or speak ; she hurried on, and Anneli
thought she was crying. I almost think so too.
Who was it, papa ? May I speak to her if I see
her again ? "

Mr. Lind turned aside for a moment. Brand,
who was narrowly watching him, was convinced
that the man was in a passion of rage. But when
he turned again he w-as outwardly calm.

You will do nothing of the kind, Natalie," he
said, in measured tones. " I have Marked you
before against making indiscriminate acquaintances
; and Anneli, if she is constantly getting
such stupidities into her head, must be sent about
her business. I do not wish to hear anything more

about it. Will you ring and ask why tea has
not been sent up ? "

The girl silently obeyed. Her father had
never spoken to her in this cold, austere tone
before. She sat down at a small table, apart.

Mr. Lind talked for a minute or two with his
guests ; then he said —

Natalie, you have the either there ; why do
you not play us something ? "

She turned to the small instrument, and, after
a second or two, played a few notes. That was
all. She rose and said, *' I don't think I can play
this afternoon, papa ; " and then she left the
room.

Mr. Lind pretended to converse with his guests
as before ; and tea came in ; but presently he
begged to be excused for a moment, and left the
room. George Brand rose, and took a turn or
two up and down.

"It would take very little," he muttered — for
his teeth were set — " to make me throw that
fellow out of the window."

"What do you mean?" Lord Evelyn said, in
great surprise.

Didn't you see } She left the room to keep



from crying. That miserable Polish cut-throat —
I should like to kick him downstairs ! "

But at this moment the door opened ; and
father and daughter entered, arm-in-arm. Natalie's
face was a little bit flushed ; but she was very
gentle and affectionate ; they had made up
that brief misunderstanding, obviously'. And
she had brought in her hand a mob-cap of black
satin ; would Lord Evelyn allow her to try the
effect of twisting those beautiful golden threads
through it }

Natalushka," said her father, with great good
humour, "it is your birthday. Do you think
you could persuade Lord Evelyn and Isle. Brand
to come to your dinner-party } "

It was then explained to the two gentlemen
that on this great anniversary it was the custom
of Mr. Lind, when in London, to take his
daughter to dine at some Iw-ench or Italian restaurant
in Regent Street or thereabouts. In
fact, she liked to play at being abroad for an hour
or two ; to see around her foreign faces, and hear
foreign tongues.

I am afraid you will say that it is ver' easy to
remind yourself of the Continent," said Mr. Lime,

smiling — "that you have only to go to a place
where they give you oily food and bad wine."

On the contrary," said Brand, " I should
think it very difficult in London to imagine yourself
in a foreign town ; for London is drained.
However, I accept the invitation with pleasure."

And I," said Lord Evelyn. " Now must
WQ. be off to dress ? "

Not at all," said Natalie. " Do you not
understand that you are abroad, and walking into
a restaurant to dine ? And now I will play you
a little invitation — not to dinner ; for you must
suppose you have dined — and you come out on
the stairs of the hotel, and step into the black
gondola."

She went along to the small table, and sat
down to the either. There were a few notes of
prelude ; and then they heard the beautiful low
voice added to the soft tinkling sounds. What
did they vaguely make out from that melodious
murmur of Italian ?

Behold the beautiful night — the 7vind sleeps drowsily — the
silent shores slumber in the dark :

Sul placid elements
Vien vico a napier !

The soft 7C'I/id moves — as it stirs among the haves — // moves
iiiid dies — among the murmur of the 7i<ater :
Fascia Pamieo tetto
Vice meo a navigate !

Noir on the spacious mantle — of the already darkening
heavens — See, O the shining wonder — how the white stars
tremble:

Ai raggi della luna
Vien meet a navigate !

Where were they ? Surely they have passed

out from the darkness of the narrow canal ; and

are away on the broad bosom of the lagoon. The

Place of St. Mark is all aglow with its golden

points of fire ; the yellow radiance spreads out

into the night. And that other wandering mass

of gold — the gondola hung round with lamps,

and followed by a dark procession through the

silence of the waters : does not the music come

from thence ? Listen, now ! —

Sul Monde addormentate
Vien meet a navigate !

Can they hear the distant chorus, in there at

the shore, where the people are walking about in

the golden glare of the lamps ?

Vien meo a navigate !
Vien meo a navigate !

Or can come faint echo be carried away out

to yonder island, where the pale blue-white
radiance of the moonlight is beginning to touch
the tall dome of San Giorgio ?

a navigate /

a navigate!

"It seems to me," said Lord Evelyn, when
the girl rose, with a smile on her face, " that you
do not need to go into Regent Street when you
want to imagine yourself abroad."

Natalie looked at her watch.

"If you will excuse me, I will go and get
ready now."

Well, they went to the big foreign restaurant ;
and had a small table all to themselves, in the
midst of the glare, and the heat, and the indiscriminate
Babel of tongues. And under the
guidance of Mr. Brand, they adventured upon
numerous articles of food which were more varied
in their names than in their flavour ; and they
tasted some of the compounds, reeking of orris-root,
that the Neapolitans call wine, until they fell
back on a flask of Chianti, and were content ; and
they regarded their neighbours, and were regarded
in turn. In the midst of it all, Mr. Lind, who
had been somewhat preoccupied, said suddenly —

Natalie, can you start with mc for Leipsic
tomorrow afternoon ? "

She was as prompt as a soldier.

Yes, papa. Shall I take Anneli, or not ? "

You may if you like."

After that George Brand seemed to take very
lite interest in this heterogeneous banquet; he
stared absently at the foreign-looking people, at
the hurrying waiters, at the stout lady behind the
bar. Even when Mr. Lind told his daughter
that her black satin mob-cap, with its wonderful
intermitting of Venetian chain, looked very
striking in a mirror opposite, and when Lord
Evelyn eagerly gave his friend the credit of
having selected that birthday gift, he did not
seem to pay much heed. When, after all was
over, and he had wished Natalie " Bon voyage "
at the door of the brougham, Lord Evelyn said
to him —

Come along to Clarges Street now and smoke
a cigar."

No, thanks," he said. " I think I will stroll
down to my rooms now."

What is the matter with you, Brand } You
have been looking very glum."

II. H

"Well, I have been thinking that London is
a depressing sort of place for a man to live in
who does not know many people. It is very big ;
and very empty. I don't think I shall be able to
stand it much longer. "

CHAPTER VII.

IN SOLITUDE.

A BLUSTERING, cold coming fn March ; the
skies lowering ; the wind increasing ; and heavy
showers being driven up from time to time from
the black and threatening south-west. This was
strange weather to make a man think of going
to the sea-side ; and of all places at the sea-side.
to Dover ; and of all places in Dover, to the
Lord Warden Hotel, which was sure to be filled
with fear-stricken foreigners, waiting for the seato
calm. Waters, as he packed the small portmanteau,
could not at all understand this freak
on the part of his master.

If Lord Evelyn calls, sir," he said at the
station, *' when shall I say you will be back ? "
In a few days, perhaps. I don't know."
He had a compartment to himself; and wa)'
the train went through the wet and (ocr<:ry

country, with the rain pouring down the panes
of the carriage. The dismal prospect outside,
however, did not matter much to this solitary
traveller. He turned his back to the window,,
and read all the way down.

At Dover the outlook was still more dismal
A dirty, yellow-brown sea was rolling heavily in,
springing white along the Admiralty Pier ; gusts
rain were sweeping along the thoroughfare
between the station and the hotel ; in the hotel
itself the rooms were occupied by a miscellaneous
collection of dissatisfied folk, who aimlessly read
the advertisements in Bradshaw, or stared
through the dripping windows at the yellow
waves outside. This was the condition of affairs
when George Brand took up his residence there.
He was quite alone ; but he had a sufficiency of
books with him ; and so deeply engaged was he
with these, that he let the ordinary coffee-room
discussions about the weather pass absolutely
unheeded.

On the second morning a number of the
travellers plucked up heart of grace, and embarked,
though the weather was still squally
George Brand was not in the least interested

as to the speculations of those who remained
about the possibilities of the passage. He drew
his chair towards the fire, and relapsed into his
reading.

This day, however, was varied by his making
the acquaintance of a little old French lady, which
he did by means of her two granddaughters,
Josephine and Veronique. Veronique, having
been pushed by Josephine, stumbled against Mr.
Brand's knee, and would inevitably have fallen
into the fireplace had he not caught her. Thereupon
the little old lady, hurrying across the
room, and looking very much inclined to box
the ears of both Josephine and Veronique, most
profusely apologized, in French, to Monsieur.
Monsieur, replying in that tongue, said it was
of no consequence whatever. Then Madame,
greatly delighted at finding some one, not a
waiter, to whom she could speak in her own
language, continued the conversation, and very
speedily made Monsieur the confidant of all her
hopes and fears about that terrible business the
Channel passage. No doubt, Monsieur was also
waiting for this dreadful storm to abate ?

Monsieur quickly perceived that so long as

this voluble little old lady — who was as yellow asa
frog, and had beady black eyes, but whose
manner was exceedingly charming — chose to
attach herself to him, his pursuit of knowledge
was not likely to be attended with much success,
so he shut the book on his finger, and pleasantly
said to her —

Oh no, Madame. I am only waiting here
for some friends."

Madame was greatly alarmed : surely they
would not cross in such frightful weather .^
Monsieur ventured to think it was not so very
bad. Then the little French lady glanced out
at the window, and threw up her hands, and
said with a shudder —

"Frightful! Truly frightful! What should
I do with those two little ones ill, and myself ill ^
The sea might sweep them away."

Mr. Brand, having observed something of the
manners of Josephine and Veronique, was inwardly
of opinion that the sea might be worse employed ;
but what he said was —

You could take a deck-cabin, Madame."

Madame again shuddered.

"Your friends are English, no doubt, Monsieur

: the English arc not so much afraid of
storms."

No, Madame, they are not English ; but
I do not think they would let such a day as
this, for example, hinder them. They are not
likely, however, to be on their way back for a
day or two. To-morrow I may run over to
Calais just on the chance of crossing with them
again."

Here was a mad Englishman, to be sure !
When people, driven by dire necessity had their
heart in their mouth at the very notion of
encountering that rough sea, here was a person
who thought of crossing and returning for no
reason on earth — a trifling compliment to his
friends — a pleasure excursion — a break in the
monotony of the day !

And I shall be pleased to look after the
little ones, Madame," said he, politely, " if you are
"■oinq; over."

Madame thanked him very profusely ; but
assured him that so long as the weather looked
so stormy she could not think of entrusting
Josephine and Vt^ronique to the mercy of the
waves.

Now, if George Brand had little hope of
meeting his friends that day, he acted pretty
much as if he were expecting some one. First
of all, he had secured a saloon-carriage in the
afternoon mail-train to London — an unnecessary
luxury for a bachelor well accustomed to the
hardships of travel. Then he had managed
to procure a handsome bouquet of freshly cut
flowers. Finally there was some mysterious
arrangement by which fruit, cakes, tea, and wine
were to be ready at a moment's notice in the
event of that saloon-carriage being required.

Then, as soon as the rumour went through
the hotel that the vessel was in sight, away he
went down the pier, with his coat-collar tightly
buttoned, and his hat jammed down. What a
toy-looking thing the steamer was, away out therein
the mists of the rain, with the brown line of
smoke stretching back to the horizon ! She was
tossing and rolling a good deal among the brown
waves ; he almost hoped his friends were not onboard.
And he wished that all the more when
he at length saw the people clamber up the
gangway — a miserable procession of half-drowned
folk, some of them scarcely able to walk. No ;

his friends were not there. He returned to the
hotel, and to his books.

But the attentions of Josephine and Veronique
had become too pressing ; so he retired from the
reading; room, and took refuse in his own room
upstairs. It fronted the sea. He could hear
the long, monotonous, continuous wash of the
waves ; from time to time the windows rattled
with the wind.

He took from his portmanteau another
volume from that he had been reading, and sat
down by the window. But he had only read a
line or two when he turned and looked absently
out on the sea. Was he trying to recall, amid all
that confused and murmuring noise, some other
sound that seemed to haunt him .^ —

Alio is your lady of love, O ye that pass
Singing .? "

Was he trying to recall that pathetic thrill in
his friend Evelyn's voice which he knew was but
the echo of another voice ? He had never heard
Natalie Lind read ; but he knew that that was
how she had read, when Evelyn's sensitive nature
had heard and been permeated by the strange
tremor. And now, as he opened the book again,

whose voice was it he seemed to hear, in the

silence of the small room, amid the low and

constant murmur of the waves ?

— And ye shall die before your thrones be wo7i.
Yea, and the changed world and the liberal sun
Shall move and shine without us, and we lie
Dead ; but if she too move on earth and live,
But if the old 7vorld zvith all the old irons rent
Laugh and give thanks, shall we be not content?
Nay, we shall rather live, we shall not die.
Life being so little and death so good to give.
******
— But ye that might be clothed with all things pleasant,
Ye aj-e foolish tJiat put off the fair soft present,
That clothe yourselves with the cold future air ;

When mother and father aid tender sister and brother
And the old live love that was shall be as ye,
Dust, and no fruit of loving life shall be.

She shall be yet who is more than all these were,
Than sister or wife or father ufito us or mothers''

He turned again to the window, to the driven

yellow sea, and the gusts of rain. Surely there

Alas no voice to be heard from other and farther

shores ?

— Is this zuorth life, is this, to win for wages ?
Lo, the dead mouths of the awful grey-grown ages,
Tie venerable, in the past that is their prison,
Ln the outer darkness, in the opening grave,
Laugh, knowing how many as ye not say have said,
How 7Jiany, aid all are fallen, are fallen and dead:
Shall ye dead rise, and these dead have not risen ?
Not we but she, who is tender and swift to save.

— Are ye not weary and faint not by the ii>ay,
Seeing night by night devoured of day by day.
Seeing hour by hour consumed in sleepless fire ?
Sleepless : and ye too, when shall ye too sleep ?
We aj'e weary in heart aid head, in hands and feet.
And surely tore than all things sleep were sweet.
Than all things save the inexorable desire

Which whoso knoweth shall neither faint nor creep."

He rose, and walked up and down for a time.
What would one not give for a faith like that ?

— Is this so sweet that one were fain to follow ?
Is this so sure where all wis hopes are hollow,
• Even this your dream, that by much tribulation

Ye shall ?narc 7uhole flawed hearts, and bowed necks
straight?
Nay, though our life lucre blind, 07ir death ^uere fruitless,
Not therefore were the whole world's high hope rootless ;
But ?nan to man, nation wottld turn to nation.

And the old life live, and the old great world be great."

With such a faith — with that " inexorable
desire " burning in the heart and the brain —
surely one could find the answer easy enough to
the last question of the poor creatures who wonder
at the way-worn pilgrims —

— Pass on then and pass by us and let us be.
For what light think ye after life to see ?
And if the world fare better 7vill ye know ?

And if man triumph who shall seek you and say ? "

That he could answer for himself, at any rate

He was not one to put much store by the fair
soft present ; and if he were to enter upon any
undertaking such as that he had had but a gHmpse
■of, neither personal reward nor the hope of any
immediate success would be the lure. He would
be satisfied to know that his labour or his life
had been well spent. But whence was to come
that belief? whence the torch to kindle the
sacred fire ?

The more he read, during these days of
waiting, of the books and pamphlets he had
brought with him, the less clear seemed the way
before him. He was struck with admiration when
he read of those who had forfeited life or liberty
in this or the other cause ; and too often with
despair when he came to analyze their aims.
Once or twice, indeed, he was so moved by the
passionate eloquence of some socialist writer that
he was ready to say, " Well, the poor devils have
toiled honos enough ; drive them their turn, let the
revolution cost what it may ! " And then immediately
afterwards : " What } Stir up the unhappy
wretches to throw themselves on the bayonets of
the standing armies of Europe ? There is no
emancipation for them that way."

But when he turned from the declamation and
the impracticable designs of this impassioned
literature to the vast scheme of co-operation
that had been suggested rather than described
to him, there seemed more hope. If all these
various forces that were at work could be directed
into one channel, what might they not accomplish
? Weed out the visionary, the impracticable,
the anarchical from their aims ; and then what
might not be done by this convergence of all these
eager social movements ? Lind, he argued with
himself, was not at all a man likely to devote himself
to optimistic dreams. Further than that —
and here he was answering a suspicion that again
and again recurred to him — what if, in such a
great social movement, men were to be found who
were only playing for their own hand ? That
was the case in every such combination. But
false or self-seeking agents neither destroyed the
nobleness of the work nor could defeat it in the
end if it were worthy to live. They might try to
make for themselves what use they could of the
current ; but they too were swept onwards to
the sea.

So he argued, and communed, and doubted.

and tried to believe. And all through it — whether
he paced up and down by the sea in the blustering
weather ; or strolled away through the town and
up the face of the tall white cliff; or lay awake in
the dark niorht, listening to the rush and moan of
the waves — all through these doubts and questionings
there was another and sweeter and clearer
sound that seemed to come from afar —

She shall be yd who is more than all these were,
Than sister or wife or father tinto us or mother."

However loud the sea was at night, that was
the sound he heard, clear and sweet : the sound
of a girl's voice, that had joy in it, and faith in
the future, and that spoke to him of what was
to be.

Well, the days passed ; and still his friends did
not come. He had many trips across, to while
away the time ; and had become great friends
with the stout, black-haired French captain. He
had conveyed Josephine and Veronique and their
little grandmother safely over, and had made
them as comfortable as was possible under trying
circumstances. And always and every day there
were freshly cut flowers and renewed fruit, and

a re-engaged saloon-carriage waiting for those
strangers who did not come ; until both hotel
people and railway people began to think Mr.
Brand as mad as the little French lady assured
herself he was, when he said he meant to cross
the Channel twice for nothing.

At last — at last ! He had strolled up to the
Calais station, and was standing on the platform
when the train came in. But there was no need
for him to glance eagerly up and down at the now
opening doors ; for who was this calmly regarding
him — or rather regarding him with a smile of surprise
? Despite the big furred cloak and the
hood, he knew at once ; he darted forward, lifted
the lower latch, and opened the door, and gave
her his hand.

Oh, how do you do, Mr. Brand } " said she,
with a pleasant look of welcome. " Who could
have expected to meet you here ^ "

lie was confused, embarrassed, bewildered.
This voice so strangely recalled those sounds that
had been haunting him for days. He could only
stammer out —

I — I happened to be at Dover, and thought

I would run over here for a little bit. How
lucky you are — it is such a beautiful day for
crossing."

That is good news ; I must tell papa," said
Natalie, cheerfully, as she turned again to the
open door.

CHAPTER VI IL

A DISCOVERY.

And you are going over too ? And to London
also ? Oh, that will be very nice."

It seemed so strange to hear this voice, that
had for days sounded to him as if it were faraway,
now quite close, and talking in this friendly
and familiar fashion. Then she had brought the
first of the Spring with her. The air had grown
quite mild ; the day was clear and shining ; even
the little harbour there seemed bright and picturesque
in the sun. He had never before
considered Calais a very beautiful place.

And as for her; well, she appeared pleased
to have met with this unexpected companion ;
and she was very cheerful and talkative as they
went down to the quay, these two together. And
whether it was that she was glad to be relieved
from the cramped position of the carriage, or
II. I

whether it was that his being: taller than she
gave countenance to her height, or whether it
was merely that she rejoiced in the sweet air
and the exhilaration of the sunlight, she seemed
to walk with even more than her usual proudness
of gait. This circumstance did not escape the
eye of her father, who was immediately behind.

Natalie," said he, peevishly, '' you are walking
as if you wore a sword by sour side."

She did not seem sorely hurt.

' Du Schwerin an meaner Linen ! ' " she said,
with a laugh. "It is my military cloak that
makes you think so, papa."

Why, even this cockle-shell of a steamer
looked quite inviting on so pleasant a morning.
And there before them stretched the blue expanse
of the sea, with every wave, and every ripple on
every wave, flashing a line of silver in the sunlight.
No sooner were they out of the yellow-green
waters of the harbour than Mr. Brand had his
companions conducted on to the bridge between
the paddle-boxes ; and the little crop-haired
French boy brought them camp-stools, and their
faces were turned towards England.

Ah ! " said Natalie, " many a poor wretch

has breathed more freely when at last he found
himself looking out for the English shore. V)(y
you remember old Anton Pepczinski and his
solemn toast, papa ? ''

She turned to George Brand.

"He was an old Polish gentleman who used
to come to our house in the evening, he and
a few others of his countrymen, to smoke and
play chess. But always, sometime during the
evening, he would say, * Gentlemen, a Pole is
never ungrateful. I call on you to drink this
toast : To the n'hitc chalk line beyond the sea /'"
And then she added, quickly, " If I were English,
how proud I should be of England I "

But why ? " he said.

•' Because she has kept liberty alive in
Europe," said the girl, proudly. " Because she
offers an exile to the oppressed, no matter from
whence they come ; because she says to the
tyrant, ' No, you cannot follow.' W h)-, when
even your beer-men, your draymen, know how
to treat a Hanau, what must the spirit of the
country be ? If only those fine fellows could
have caught Windischgnitz too ! ''

1 Icr father laus-lied at lur vehemence ; Brand

did not. That strange vibration in the girl's
voice penetrated him to the heart.

*' But then," said he, after a second or two,
I have been amusing myself for some days
back by reading a good deal of political writing,
mostly by foreigners ; and if I were to believe what
they say, I should take it that England was the
most superstitious, corrupt, enslaved nation on
the face of the earth. What with its reverence
for rank, its worship of the priesthood — oh, I
cannot tell you what a frightful country it is ! "
"Who were the writers ?" Mr. Lind asked.
Brand named two or three, and instantly the
attention of the other seemed arrested.

Oh, that is the sort of literature you have
been reading ? " he said, with a quick glance.
I have had some days' idleness."
Excuse me," said the other, with a smile ;
"but I think you might have spent it better.
That kind of literature only leads to disorder and
anarchy. It may have been useful at one time ;
it is useful no longer. Enough of ploughing has
been done ; we want sowing done now — we want
writers who will build up instead of pulling down.
Those Nihilists," he added, almost with a sigh,

are ^ becoming more and more impracticable.
They aim at scarcely anything beyond destruction."


Here Natahe changed the conversation. This
was too bright and beautiful a day to permit of
despondency.

I suppose you love the sea, Mr. Brand ? "
she said. '• All Englishmen do. And yachting —
I suppose you go yachting ? "

I have tried it ; but it is too tedious for me,"
said Brand. " The sort of yachting I like is in a
vessel of five thousand tons, going three hundred
and eighty miles a day. With half a gale of wind
in your teeth in the ' rolling Forties,' then there
is some fun."

I must go over to the States very soon,"
Mr. Lind said.

Papa ! "

The worst of it is," her father said, without
heeding that exclamation of protest, " that I have
so much to do that can only be done by word of
mouth."

I wish I could take the message for you,"
Brand said, lightly. "When the weather looks
decent, I very often take a run across to New

York, put up for a few days at the Brevoort
House, and take the next ship home. It is very
enjoyable, especially if you know the officers.
Then the bagman — I have acquired a positive
love for the bagman."

The what ? " said Natalie.

The bagman. The ' comme ' his friends call
him. The commercial traveller, don't you know ?
He is a most capital fellow ! — full of life and fun,,
desperately facetious, delighting in practical jokes :
altogether a wonderful creature. You begin tO'
think you are in another generation — before
England became melancholy — the generation, for
example, that roared over the adventures of Tom
and Jerry."

Natalie did not know who Tom and Jerry
were ; but that was of little consequence ; for at
this moment they began to descry "the white
chalk line beyond the sea " — the white line of the
English coast. And they went on chatting cheerfully
; and the sunlight flashed its diamonds on the
blue waters around them; and the white chalk
cliffs became more distinct.

And yet it seems so heartless for one to
be going back to idleness," Natalie Lind said.

absently. " Papa works as hard in England as
anywhere else ; but what can I do ? To think of
one going back to peaceful days, and comfort, and
pleasant friends, when others have to go through
such misery and to fight against such persecution.
When Marie Herzen offered me her hand "

She stopped abruptly, with a quick, frightened
look, first at George Brand, then at her father.

You need not hesitate, Natalie," her father
said, calmly. " ]Mr. Brand has given me his word
of honour he will reveal nothing he may hear
from us."

I do not think you need be afraid," said
Brand ; but all the same he was conscious of a
keen pang of mortification. He, too. had noticed
that quick look of fright and distrust. What did
it mean, then ? " Pott arc beside tis, soit are near
to lis ; but you are not of us, soit are not unto usT

He was silent, and she was silent too. She
seemed ashamed of her indiscretion, and would
say nothing further about Marie Herzen.

Don't imagine, Mr. Brand," said her father,
to break this awkward silence, "that what Natalie
says is true. She is not going to be so idle as
all that. No ; she has plenty of hard work before

her — at least, I think it hard work — translating
from the German into Russian."

I wish I could help," Brand said, in a low
voice. " I do not know a word of Russian."

You help ? " she said, regarding him with
the beautiful dark eyes, that had a sudden wonder
in them. " Would you, if you knew Russian } "

He met that straight, fearless glance without
flinching; and he said "Yes," while they still
looked at each other. Then her eyes fell ; and
perhaps there was the slightest flush of embarrassment,
or pleasure, on the pale, handsome face.

But how quickly her spirits rose ! There was
no more talk of politics as they neared England,
He described the successive ships to her ; he
called her attention to the strings of wild-duck
flying up Channel ; he named the various headlands
to her. Then, as they got nearer and
nearer, the little Anneli had to be sought out,
and the various travelling impedimenta got
together. It did not occur to Mr. Lind or his
daughter as strange that George Brand should
be travelling without any luggage whatever.

But surely it must have occurred to them as
remarkable that a bachelor should have had a

saloon-carriage reserved for himself — unless, indeed,
they reflected that a rich Englishman was
capable of any whimsical extravagance. Then, no
sooner had Miss Lind entered this carriage, than
it seemed as though everything she could think of
was being brought for her. Such flowers did not
\^row in railway-stations — especially in the month
of March ? Had the fruit dropped from the
telegraph-poles ? Cakes, wine, tea, magazines,
and newspapers appeared to come without being-asked
for.

"Mr. Brand," said Natalie, "you must be an
English Monte Crista : do you clap your hands,
and the things appear ? "

But a Monte Crista should never explain.
The conjuror who reveals his mechanism is no
longer a conjuror. George Brand only laughed,
and said he hoped Miss Lind would always find
people ready to welcome her when she reached
English shores.

As they rattled along through those shining-valleys
— the woods and fields and homesteads all
glowing in the afternoon sun — she had put aside
her travelling cloak and hood, for the air was
quite mild. Was it the drawing off of th(' hood,

or the stir of wind on board the steamer, that had
somewhat disarranged her hair ? — at all events,
here and there about her small ear or the shapely
neck there was an escaped curl of raven-black.
she had taken off her gloves, too : her hands,
somewhat large, were of a beautiful shape, and
transparently white. The magazines and newspapers
received not much attention — except from
Mr. Lind, who said that at last he should see
some news neither a week old nor fictitious. As
for these other two, they seemed to find a wonderful
lot to talk about, and all of a profoundly
interesting character. With a sudden shock of
disappointment George Brand found that they
were almost into London.

His hand-bag was at once passed by the
customs-house people ; and he had nothing todo
but say good-bye. His face was not over
cheerful.

"Well, it was a lucky meeting," Mr. Lind
said. " Natalie ought to thank you for being so
kind to her."

Yes ; but not here," said the girl, and she
turned to him. " Mr. - Brand, people who have
travelled so far together should not part so

qiiickl)-. It is miserable. Will )Oii not come
and spend the evcninL;- with us ? "

Natalie will give his something in the way
of an early dinner," said Mr. Lind, "and then
you can make her play the either for you."

Well, there was not much hesitation about
his accepting. That drawing-room, with its rose
and green shaded candles, was not as other
drawing-rooms in the evening. In that room
you could hear the fountains plashing in the
Ella Realee ; and the Capri fishermen singing afar ;
and the cattle-bells chiming on the Campagna ',
and the gondolas sending their soft chorus across
the lagoon. When Brand left his bag in the
cloak-room at the station, he gave the porter half
a crown for carrying it thither ; which was surely
unnecessary. Nor was there any hopeless apathy
on his face as he drove away with these two
friends through the darkening afternoon, in the
little hired brougham. When they arrived in
Curzon Street, he was even good enough to
assist the timid little Anneli to descend from the
box ; but this was in order that he might slip a
tip into the hand of the coachman. The coachman
scarcely said "Thank you." It was not

until afterwards that he discovered he had put
half a sovereign into his breeches-pocket as if
it were an ordinary sixpence.

Natalie Lind came down to dinner in a dress
of black velvet, with a mob-cap of rose-red silk.
Round her neck she wore a band of Venetian
silver-work, from the centre of which was suspended
the little old-fashioned locket she had
received in Hyde Park. George Brand remembered
the story ; and perhaps was a trifle surprised
that she should wear so conspicuously
the ofift of a stranger.

She was very friendly, and very cheerful.
She did not seem at all fatigued with her travelling
; on the contrary, it was probably the sea-air
and the sunlight that had lent to her cheek a
faint flush of colour. But at the end of dinner
her father said —

Natalushka, if we go into the drawing-room,
and listen to music, after so long a day, we shall
all go to sleep. You must come into the smoking
room with us."

Very well, papa."

But, Miss Lind," the other gentleman remonstrated,
"a velvet dress — tobacco-smoke "

My dresses must take their chance," said
Miss Lind. " I wear them to please my friends,
not to please chance acquaintances who may call
during the day."

And so they retired to the little den at the
end of the passage ; and Natalie handed Mr.
Brand a box of cigars to choose from, and cot
down from the rack her father's long-stemmed,
red-bowled pipe. Then she took a seat in the
corner, by the fire ; and listened.

The talk was all about that anarchical literature
that Brand had been devouring down at
Dover ; and he was surprised to find how little
sympathy Lind had with writing of that kind,
though he had to confess that certain of the
writers were personal friends of his own. Natalie
sat silent, listening intently, and staring into
the fire.

At last Brand said —

Of course, I had other books. For example,
one I see on your shelves there." He rose,
and took down a green-covered volume. "Miss
Lind," he said, " I am afraid )ou will laugh at
me ; but I have been haunted with the notion
that you have been teaching Lord Evelyn how to

read poetry, or that he has been unconsciously-imitating
you. I heard him repeat some passages
from ' The Pilgrims,' and I was convinced he was
reproducing something he had heard from you,
Well — I am almost ashamed to ask you — —"

A touch of embarrassment appeared on the
girl's face ; and she glanced at her father.

Yes, certainly, Natalie : why not ? "

Well," she said, lightly, " I cannot read if I
am stared at. You must remain as you are."

She took the book from him, and passed to
the other side of the room ; so that she was
behind them both. There was silence for an
instant or two as she turned over the leaves.

Then the silence was broken ; and if Brand
was instantly assured that his surmise was correct,
he also knew that here was a more pathetic
cadence — a prouder ring — than any that Lord
Evelyn had thrown into the lines. She read at
random — a passage here, a passage there — but
always it seemed to him that the voice was the
voice of a herald proclaiming the new awakening
of the world — the evil terrors of the night departing
— the sunrise of liberty and right and justice
beginning to shine over the sea. And these
appeals to England ! —

•" O thou, clothed round-with raiment of white waves.
Thy brave brows lightening through the grey 7C'et air,
Thou, lulled with sea-sounds of a thousand caves,

And lit 7vith sea-shine to thine inland lair.
Whose freedom clothed the naked souls of slaves
And stripped the muffled souls of tyrants bare,
O, by the centuries of thy glorious graves,

By the live light of the earth that was thy care.
Live, thou must fit be dead,
Live ; let thy armed head
Lift itself up to sunward and the fair
Daylight of time and man.
Thine head republican,
With the same splendour on thine helm less hair
That in his eyes kept up a light
Who on thy glory gazed away their sacred sights''

The cry there was In this voice ! Surely his
heart answered.

'• Milton's land, what ails thee to be dead ! "

Was it in this very room, he wondered, that
the old Polish refugee was used to lift up his
trembling hand and bid his compatriots drink to
"the white chalk line beyond the sea"? How-could
he forget, as he and she had sat together that
morning and gazed across the blue waters to the
far and sunlit line of coast, the light that shone
on her face as she said, "If I were English,
hoA' proud I should be of l^lngland!*' And this
I-^ngland of her veneration and her love— did it

not contain some, at least, who would answer
to her appeal ?

Presently Natalie Lind shut the book, and
gently laid it down, and stole out of the room.
She was gone only for a few seconds. When
she returned, she had in her hand a volume
of sketches, of which she had been speaking
during dinner.

He did not open this volume at once. On
the contrary, he was silent for a little while ;
and then he looked up, and addressed Natalie,
with a strange grave smile on his face.

I was about to tell your father. Miss Lind,
when you came In, that if I could not translate
for you, or carry a message across the Atlantic
for him, he might at least find something else
that I can do. At all events, may I say that I
am willing to join you, if I can be of any help
at all ? "

Ferdinand Lind regarded him for a second,
and said quite calmly —

It is unnecessary. You have already
joined us''

CHAPTER IX.

A NIGHT IN VENICE.

The solitary occupant of this railway-carriage was
apparently reading; but all the same he looked
oftener at his watch than at his book. At length
he definitely shut the volume, and placed it in his
travelling-bag. Then he let down the carriage-window,
and looked out into the night.

The heavens were clear and calm ; the newly
risen moon was but a thin crescent of silver ; in
the south a large planet was shining. All around
him, as it seemed, stretched a vast plain of water,
as dark and silent and serene as the overarchlng
sk)'. Then, far ahead, he could catch a glimpse
of a pale line stretching across the watery plain— -
a curve of the many-arched viaduct along which
the train was thundering ; and beyond that again,
and low down at the horizon, two or three minute
iir. K

and dusky points of orange. These lights were
the Hghts of Venice.

This traveller was not much hampered with
luggage. When finally the train was driven into
the glare of the station, and the usual roar and
confusion beo-an, he took his small basin his hand
and rapidly made his way through the crowd.
Then out and down the broad stone steps ; and
into a gondola. In a couple of minutes he was
completely away from all that glare and bustle
and noise ; nothing around him but darkness and
an absolute silence.

The city seemed as the City of the Dead.
The tall and sombre buildings on each side of the
water-highway were masses of black — blackest of
all where they showed against the stars. The
ear sought in vain for any sound of human life ;
there was nothing but the lapping of the water
along the side of the boat, and the slow, monotonous
plash of the oar.

Further and further into the silence and the
darkness ; and now here and there a window,
close down to the water, and heavily barred
with rectangular bars of Iron, shows a dull red
light ; but there is no sound, nor any passing

shadow within. The man who is standing by
the hearse-like cabin of the gondola observes
and thinks. These black buildings ; the narrow
and secret canals ; the stillness of the night : are
they not suggestive enough — of revenge, a quick
blow, and the silence of the grave ? And now,
as the gondola still glides on, there is heard a
slow and distant tolling of bells. The deed is
done, then ? — no longer will the piteous hands be
thrust out of the barred window — no longer will
the wild cry for help startle the passer-by in the
niHit-timc. And now again, as the gondola c^oes
on its way, another sound — still more muffled and
indistinct — the sound of a church organ, with the
solemn chanting of voices. Are they praying for
the soul of the dead ? The sound becomes more
and more distant ; the gondola goes on its way.

The new-comer has no further time for these
idle fancies. At the Rialto bridge he stops the
gondola, pays the man, and goes ashore. Then,
rapidly ascending the steps, he crosses the bridge,
descends the other side, and again jumps into a
gondola. All this the work of a few seconds.

But it was obvious he had been expected.
He gave no instructions to the two men in this

second gondola. They instantly went to work,
and with a rapid and powerful stroke sent the
boat along — with an occasional warning cry as
they swept by the entrance to one or other of the
smaller canals. Finally they abruptly left the
Grand Canal, close by the Cortes d'Appello, and
shot into a narrow opening that seemed little more
than a slit between the buildings.

Here they had to go more cautiously ; the
orange light of their lamp shining as they passed
on the empty archways, and on the iron-barred
windows, and the slimy steps. And always this
strange silence in the dead or sleeping city, and
the monotonous plash of the oars, and the deep
low cry of " Asia primi ! " or " Asia stale ! " to give
warning of their approach. But, indeed, that
warning was unnecessary ; they were absolutely
alone in this labyrinth of gloomy water-ways.

At length they shot beneath a low bridge, and
stopped at some steps immediately beyond. Here
one of the men, getting out, proceeded to act as
guide to the stranger. They had not far to go.
They passed first of all into a long, low, and
foul-smelling archway, in the middle of which
was a narrow aperture protected by an iron gate.

TIic man lit a candle, opened the irate, and
preceded his companion along a passage and up
a stone staircase. The atmosphere of the place
was damp and sickly ; the staircase was not more
than three feet in width ; the feeble glimmer of
the candle did but lite to dispel the darkness.
Even that was withdrawn ; for the guide, having
knocked thrice at a door, blew out the candle,
and retreated downstairs.

The nio/il is dark, BrotJicr!'

The daii.ni is near!'

Instantly the door was thrown open ; the dark
figure of a man was seen against the light ; he
said, " Come in ! come in ! " and his hand was
outstretched. The stranger seemed greatly surprised.


What, you, Clarissa ! " he exclaimed.
"Your time has not expired!"

What, no ? My faith, I have made it
expire ! " said the other, airily', and introducing
a rather badly pronounced french word or two
into his Italian. " But come in — come in ! Take
a seat : you are early ; you may have to wait. "

He was an odd-looking person, this tall, thin,
elderly man, with the flowing )fellow-while hair

and the albino eyes. There was a semi-military
look about his braided coat ; but on the other
hand he wore the cap of a German student — of
purple velvet, with a narrow leather peak. He
seemed to be proud of his appearance. He had
a gay manner.

Yes, I am escaped. Ah, how fine it is !
You walk about all day, as you please ; you
smoke cigarettes ; you have your coffee ; you goto
look at the young English ladies who come
to feed the pigeons in the Place."

He raised two fingers to his lips ; and blew
a kiss to all the world.

Such complexions ! A wild rose in every
cheek ! But listen, now : this is not about an
English young lady. I go up to the Church of
St. Mark — beside the bronze horses. I am
enjoying the air when I hear a sound ; I turn ;
over there I see open windows ; ah ! the figure
in the white dressing-gown ! It is the diva
herself. They play the Bai^biere to-night ; and
she is practising as she dusts her room. Una
voce poco fa — it trills all through the square.
She puts the ornaments on the mantelpiece
straight. Lo o-iurai, la vinccro ! — she goes to

the mirror and makes the most beautiful attitude.
Ah, what a spectacle — the black hair all
down — the white dressing-gown — lo sono docile'*
and ao;ain he kissed his two fmij^ers. Then he
said —

But now, you. You do not look one day
older. And how is Natalie ? "

Natalie is well, I believe," said the other,
gravely.

You are a strange man. You have nota
soft heart for the pretty creatures of the
world ; you are implacable. The little ,
then : how is she ? "

The little Natalushka is grown big, now ;
she is quite a woman."

A woman ! She will marry an Englishman,
and become very rich : is not that so ? "

"Natalie — I mean, Natalushka weill not
marry," said the other, coldly. "She knows she
is very useful to me. She knows I have no
other."

Maintenant : the business— how goes that ? "

Elsewhere, well ; in England, not quite so
well," said Ferdinand Lind. " But what can you
expect ? The English think they ha e no need

of co-operation, except to get their groceries
cheap. Why, everything is done in the open
air there. If a scoundrel gets a lash too many
in prison, you have it before Parliament next
week. If a schoolboy is kicked by his master,
you have all the newspapers in the country
ablaze. The newspapers govern England. A
penny journal has more power than the ."


Then why do you remain in England ? "
It is the safest for me, personally. Then
there is most to be done there. Again, it is
the headquarters of money. Do you see, Clarissa
? One must have money, or one cannot
work."

The albino-Iookinor man lit a cigarette.

o o

You despair, then, of England ? No, you
never despair."

There is a prospect. The southern
Englishman is apathetic ; he is interested only,
as I said, in getting his tea and sugar cheap.
But the northern Englishman is vigorous. The
trades' associations in the north are vast, powerful,
wealthy but they are suspicious of anything
foreign. Members join us ; the associations will

not. But what do you think of this, Calabrcssa :
if one were to have the assistance of an
Englishman whose father was one of the great
ironmasters ; whose name is well-known in the
north ; who has a large fortune, and a strong will ? "

You have got such a man ? "

Not yet. He is only a Friend. But if
I do not misjudge him, he will be a Companion
soon. He is a man after my own heart : once
with us, all the powers of the earth will not
turn him back."

And his fortune ? "

He will help us with that also, no doubt."

But how did it occur to Providence to
furnish you with an assistant so admirably
equipped ? "

Do you mean how did I chance to find
him .^ Through a young English lord — an
amiable youth, who is a great friend of Natalie's
of Natalushka's. Why, he has joined us,
too "

"An English milord!"

Yes ; but it is merely front poetical sympathy.
He is pleasant, and warm-hearted ; but
to us not valuable. And he is poor."

At this moment a bell rang, apparently in
an adjoining apartment. Clarissa jumped
from his chair, and hastened to a door on his
left, which he opened. A portiere prevented
anything being seen in the chamber beyond.

"Has the summons been answered?" a
voice asked, from the other side.

"Yes, sir," said Clarissa. "Brother Lind
is here."

That is well."

The door was again shut ; and Clarissa
resumed his seat.

Brother Lind," said he, in a low voice, though
he leaned back in his chair, and still preserved
that gay manner, " I suppose you do not know
why you have been summoned ? "

"Not I."

Bien. But suppose one were to guess ?
Suppose there is a gentleman somewhere about
who has been carrying his outraging of one's
common notions of decency just a little too far ?
Suppose it is necessary to make an example ?
You may be noble, and have great wealth, and
honour, and smiles from beautiful women ; but
if some night you find a little bit of steel getting

into your heart, or if some morning you Hnd your
coffee as you drink it burn all the way down until
you can feel it burn no more — what then ? You
must bid good-bye to your mistresses, and to your
gold plate and feasts, and your fountains spouting
perfumes, and all your titles : is not that so ? "

** But who is it ? " said Lind, suddenly bending
forward.

The other regarded him for a moment, playfully.


What if I were to mention the ' Siarz'i no-cardinal'
? "

Zaccatelli ! " exclaimed Lind, with a ghastly
pallor appearing for a moment in the powerful
iron-grey face.

Clarissa only laughed.

Oh yes, it is beautiful to have all these fine
things. And the unhappy devils who are forced
to pawn their last sticks of furniture at the Monte
di Pieta, rather than have their children starve
when bread is dear : how it must gratify them
to think of his Eminence seizing the funds of that
flourishing institution to buy up the whole of the
grain in the Papal States ! What an admirable
speculation ! How kind to the poor, on the part

of the friend and colleague of the Vicar of Christ I
What ? — do you think because I am a Cardinal I
am not to make a profit in corn ? I tell you those
people have no business to be miserable ; they
have no business to go and pawn their things ;
if I am allowed to speculate with the funds, why
not ? Allan done I — it is a devilish fine world,
merry gentlemen ! "

But — but why have they summoned me ? "
Lind said, in the same low voice.

"Who knows?" said the other, lightly. "I
do not. Come, tell me more about the little
Natalushka. Ah, do I not remember the little
minx, when she came In after dinner among all
those men, with her * Eljcjt a Jiaza ! ' What has
she grown to ? what has she become ? "

Natalie is a good girl," said her father ; but
he was thinking of other things.

Beautiful ? "

Some would say so."

But not like the English young ladies ? "

Not at all."

I thought not. I remember the black-eyed
little one — with her pride in Batthyany, and her
hatred of Gorge, and all the rest of it. The

little Empress ! — with her proud eyes, and her
black eyelashes. Do you remember at Dunkirk,
when old Anton Pepczinski met her for the first
time ? 'Little Natalushka, if I wait for you, ivill
you marry inc luhcn you grow up / ' Then the
quick answer, ' / a)u not to be called any longer by
my nursery name; but if you will fight for my
country, I ivill marry you zvhen I groin hip' "

Light-hearted as this man Clarissa was,
having escaped from prison, and eagerly inclined
for chatter, after so long a spell of enforced silence,
he could not fail to perceive that his companion
was hardly listening to him.

Mais, mon frcre, a quoi bon le regarded ? "
he said, peevishly. "If it must come, it will come.
Or is it the poor Cardinal you pity } That was
a good name they invented for him, any way —
il cardinale defamatory!'

Again the bell rang, and Ferdinand Lind
started. When he turned to the door, it was with
a look on his face of some anxiety and apprehension
— a look but rarely seen there. Then the
portiere was drawn aside to let some one come
through : at the same moment Lind caught a brief
glimpse of a number of men sitting round a small
table.

The person who now appeared, and whom
Lind saluted with great respect, was a Httle,
sallow-coniplexioned man, with an intensely blackbeard
and moustache, and a worn expression of
face. He returned Lind's salutation gravely, and
said —

Brother, the Council thank you for your
prompt answer to the summons. Meanwhile,
nothing is decided. You v/ill attend here tomorrow
night."

At what hour. Brother Granaglia .'* "

Ten. You will now be conveyed back to
the Rialto steps ; from thence you can get to your
hotel."

Lind bowed acquiescence ; and the stranger
passed again through the po?'tiere and disappeared.


CHAPTER X.

VACILLATION.

Evelyn, I distrust that man Lind."

The speaker was George Brand, who kept
impatiently pacing up and down those rooms of
his, while his friend, with a dreamy look on the
pale and fine face, lay back in an easy-chair, and
gazed out of the clear panes before him. It
was night ; the blinds had not been drav»-n ; and
the row of windows, framed by their scarlet
curtains, seemed a scries of dark-blue pictures,
all throbbing with points of golden fire.

Is there any one you do not distrust ?" said
Lord Evelyn, absently.

I hope so. But with regard to Lind : I
had distinct to let him know that he must not
assume that I am mixed up in any of his schemes
imlil I definitely say so. When, in answer to
my vague proposal, he told me I had already

pledged myself, I confess I was startled for a
moment. Of course it was all very well for him
afterwards to speak of my declared sympathy',
and of my promise to reveal nothing, as being
quite enough, at least for the earlier stage. If
that is so, you may easily acquire adherents.
But either I join with a definite pledge, or not
at all."

I am inclined to think you had better not
join," said Lord Evelyn, calmly.

After that there was silence ; and Brand's
companion lay and looked on the picture outside,
that was so dark, and solemn, and still. In
the midst of all that blaze of various and trembling
lights, was the unseen river — unseen but for
the myriad reflections that showed the ripples
of the water ; then the far-reaching rows of
golden stars, spanning the bridges, and marking
out the long Embankment sweep beyond St.
Thomas's Hospital. On the other side black
masses of houses — all their commonplace detail
lost in the mysterious shadow ; and over them
the silver crescent of the moon, just strong
enough to give an edo^e of white to a tall shot-tower.
Then far away in the east, in the clear

dark sky. the dim grey ghost of a dome : scarcely
visible, and yet revealing its presence ; the great
dome of St. Paul's.

This beautiful, still scene — the silence was so
intense that the footfall of a cab-horse crossing
Waterloo Bridge could be faintly heard, as the
eye followed the light slowly moving between
the two rows of golden stars — seemed to possess
but little interest for the owner of these rooms.
For the moment he had lost altogether his
habitual air of proud reserve.

Evelyn," he said abruptly, " was it not in
these very rooms you insisted that, if the work
was good, one need not be too scrupulous about
one's associates ? "

*' I believe so," said the other, indifferently :
he had almost lost hope of ever overcoming his
friend's inveterate suspicion.

Well," Brand said, " there is something in
that. I believe in the work that Lind is ensnared
in, if I am doubtful about him. And if it pleases
you or him to say that I have joined you merely
because I express sympathy, and promise to say
nothing, well and good. But you : you arc more
than that .^ "

III. L

The question somewhat startled Lord Evelyn;
and his pale face flushed a little.

Oh yes," he said ; " of course. I — I cannot
precisely explain to you."

I understand. But, if I did really join, I
should at least have you for a companion."
Lord Evelyn turned and regarded him.
"If you were to join, it might be that you
and I should never see each other again in this'
world. Have I not told you ? Your first pledge
is that of absolute obedience ; you have no longer
a right to your own life ; you become a slave, that
others may be free."

And you would have me place myself in the
power of a man like Lind ! " Brand exclaimed.

"If it were necessary," said Lord Evelyn,
I should hold myself absolutely at the bidding
of Lind ; for I am convinced he is an honest
man, as he is a man of great ability and unconquerable
energy and will. But you would
no more put yourself in Lind's power than in
mine. Lind is a servant, like the rest of us.
It is true he has in some ways a sort of quasi-independent
position, which I don't quite understand
; but as regards the Society that I have

joined, and that you would join, he is a servant,
as you would be a servant. I)Ut what is the use
of talking ? Your temperament isn't fitted for
this kind of work."

*' I want to see my way clear," Brand said,
almost to himself.

Ah, that is just it. Whereas, you must go
blindfold."

Thereafter again silence. The moon had risen
higher now ; and the paths in the Embankment
gardens just below them had grown grey in the
clearer light. Lord Evelyn lay and watched
the light of a hansom that was rattling along, by
the side of the river.

Do you remember," said Brand, with a
smile, " your repeating some verses here one
night ; and my suspecting you had borrowed the
inspiration somewhere ? jMy boy, I have found
you out. Wliat I guessed was true. I made
bold to ask ?^Iiss Lindto read, that evening I
came up with them from Dover."

I know it," said Lord Evelyn, quietly.

"You have seen her, then?" was the quick
question.

No ; she wrote to me."

Oh, she writes to you ? " the other said.

Well, you see, I did not know her father had
gone abroad ; and I called. As a rule, she sees
no one while her father is away ; on the other
hand, she will not say she is not at home if she is
at home. So she wrote me a note of apology
for refusing to see me; and in it she told me you
had been very kind to them, and how she had
tried to read, and had read very badly, because
she feared your criticism "

I never heard anything like it ! " Brand said ;
and then he corrected himself. "Well, yes, I
have ; I have heard you, Evelyn. You have
been an admirable pupil."

Now when I think of it," said his friend,
putting his hand in his breast-pocket, "this letter
is mostly about you, Brand. Let me see if there
is anything in it you may not see. No ; it is all
very nice and friendly."

He was about to hand over the letter, when
he stopped.

I do believe," he said, looking at Brand,
"that you are capable of thinking Natalie wrote
this letter on purpose you should see it."

Then you do me a great injustice," Brand

said, without anger. " And you do her a great
injustice. I do not think it needs any profound
judge of character to see what that girl is."

For that is one thing I could never forgive
^•ou, Brand."

What } "

If you were to suspect NataHe Lind."

This was no private and confidential communication
that passed into Brand's hand, but a
frank, gossipping, sisterly note, stretching out
beyond its initial purpose. And there was no
doubt at all that it was mostly about Brand himself;
and the reader drew red as he went on.
He had been so kind to them at Dover ; and so
interested in her papa's work ; and so anxious to
be of service and in sympathy with them. And
then she spoke as if he were definitely pledged to
them ; and how proud she was to have another
added to the list of her friends. George Brand's
face was as red as his beard when he folded up
the letter. He did not immediately return it.

What a wonderful woman that is ! " said he.
after a time. '' I did not think it would be left
for a foreigner to teach me to believe in England."

Lord Evelyn looked up.

Oh," Brand said, instantly, " I know Avhat
you would ask. What is my belief worth ?
How much do I sympathize ? ' Well, I can give
sou a plain answer : a shilling in the pound
income-tax. If England is this stronghold of the
liberties of Europe — if it is her business to bethe
lamp-bearer of freedom — if she must keep
her shores inviolate as the refuge of those who
are oppressed and persecuted, well, then, I would
pay a shilling income-tax, or double that, or treble
that, to give her a navy that would sweep the
seas. For a big army there is neither population,
nor sustenance, nor room ; but I would give her
such a navy as would let her put the world io
defiance."

I wish Natalie would teach you to believe ina
few other things, while she is about it," said his
friend, with a slight and rather sad smile.
"For example ? "

In human nature, a little bit, for example.
In the possibility of a woman being something
else than a drawing-room peacock, or Averse. Do
you think she could make you believe that it is
possible for a woman to be noble-minded, unselfish,
truth-speaking, modest, and loyal-hearted ?"

I presume you arc describing Natalie Lincl
herself."

Oh," said his friend, with a quick surprise,
then you admit there may be an exception, after
all ? You do not condemn the whole race of
them now, as being incapable' of even understanding
what frank dealing is, or honour, or
justice, or anything beyond their own vain and
selfish caprices ? "

George Brand went to the window,

Perhaps," said he, "my experience of women
has been unfortunate, unusual. I have not had
much chance, especially of late years, of studying
them in their quiet domestic spheres. But otherwise
I suppose my experience is not unusual.
Every man begins his life, in his salad days, by
believing the world to be a very fine thing, and
women particularly to be very wonderful creatures
angels, in short, of goodness, and mercy, and
truth, and all the' rest of it. Then, judging by
what I have seen and heard, I should say that
about nineteen men out of twenty get a regular
facer — just at the most sensitive period of their
life; and then they suddenly believe that women
are devils, and the world a delusion. It is bad

logic ; but they are not in a mood for reason. By-and-by
the process of recovery begins ; with some
short, with others long. But the spring-time of
belief, and hope, and rejoicing — I doubt whether
that ever comes back."

He spoke without any bitterness. If the
facts of the world were so, they had to be
accepted.

I swallowed my dose of experience a good
many years ago," he continued, " but I haven't
got it out of my blood yet. However, I will
admit to you the possibility of there being a few
women like Natalie Lind."

"Well, this is better, at all events!" Lord
Evelyn said, cheerfully.

Beauty, of course, is a dazzling and dangerous
thing," Brand said ; " for a man always
wants to believe that fine eyes and a sweet voice
have a sweet soul behind them. And very often
he finds behind them something in the shape of
a soul that a dog or a cat would be ashamed to
own. But as for Natalie Lind; I don't think one
can be deceived. She shows too much. She
vibrates too quickly — too inadvertently — to little
chance touches. I did suspect her, I will confess.

I thought she was hired to play the part of decoy.
But I had not seen her for ten minutes before
I was convinced she was playing no part
at all."

But goodness gracious, Brand, what are we
coming to ? " Lord Evelyn said, with a laugh.
•" What ? We already believe in England, and
patriotism, and the love of freedom ? And we are
prepared to admit that there is one woman —
positively, in the world, one woman — who is nota
cheat and a selfish coquette .^ W hy, where arc
we to end ? "

I don't think I said only one woman," Brand
replied, quite good-naturedly ; and then he added,
with a smile, " You ask where we are to end.
Suppose I were to accept your new religion,
Evelyn ? Would that please you ? And would
it please her, too ? "

Ah," said his companion, looking up with a
quick glance of pleasure. But he would argue
no more.

'* Perhaps I have been too suspicious. It is
a habit; I have had to look after myself pretty
much through the world ; and I don't ov(jrvalue
the honesty of people I don't know. But when I

once set my hand to the work, I am not Hkcly to-draw
back."

You could be of so much more value to them
than I can." said Lord Evelyn, wistfully. " I
don't suppose you spend more than half of your
income."

"Oh, as to that," said Brand, at once, "that is.
a very different matter. If they like to take
myself and what I can do, well and good ; money
is a very different thing."

His companion raised himself in his chair ;
and there was surprise on his face.

How can you help them so well as With your
money ? " he cried. " Why, it is the very thing
they want most."

Oh, indeed," said Brand, coldly. " You see,
Evelyn, my father was a business man ; and I
may have inherited a commercial way of looking
at things. If I were to give away a lot of money,,
to unknown people, for unknown purposes, I
should say that I was being duped, and that they
were putting the money in their own pocket."

My dear fellow ! " Lord Evelyn protested.
The need of money is most urgent. There 
to be kept going ; agents to be

paid ; police-spies to be bribed — there is an
enormous work to be done, and money must be
spent."

All the same," said Brand, who was invariably
most resolved when he was most quiet
in his manner, " I shall prefer not running the
chance of being duped in that direction. Besides,
I am bound in honour not to do anything of the
kind. I can fling myself away — that is mown
look-out ; and my life, or the way I spend it, is
not of great consequence to me. But my father's
property, if anything happens to me, ought to go
intact to my sister's boys, to whom, indeed, I
have left it by will. I will say to Lind, ' Is it
myself or my money that is wanted : you must
choose.' "

The question would be an insult."

Oh, do you think so ? Very well ; I will not
ask it. But that is the understanding." Then
he added, more lightly, " Wliy, would }'ou have
the Pilgrim start with his pocket full of sovereigns
? His staff and his wallet are all he is
entitled to. And when one is going to make a
big plunge, shouldn't one strip ? "

There was no answer ; for Lord Evelyn's

quick ear had caught the sound of wheels in the
adjacent street.

There is my trap," he said, looking at his
watch as he rose.

Waters brought the young man his coat, and
then went out to light him downstairs.

"Good night, Brand. Glad to see you are
getting into a wholesome frame of mind. I shall
tell Natalie you are now prepared to admit that
there is in the world at least one woman who is
not a cheat."

I hope you will not utter a word to Miss
Lind of any of the nonsense we have been
talking," said Brand, hastily, and with his face
grown red.

All right. By the way, when are you
coming up to see the girls ? "

To-morrow afternoon : will that do ? " .

Very well ; I shall wait in."

Let me see if I remember the order aright,"
said Brand, holding up his fingers and counting.
Rosalys, Blanche, Ermentrude, Agnes, Jane,
Frances, Geraldine : correct ? "

Quite. I think their mother must forget at
times. Well, good nio^ht."

Good night — good night ! "

Brand returned to the empty room, and threw
wide open one of the windows. The air was
singularly mild for a night in Inarch ; but he had
been careful of his friend. Then he dropped
into an easy-chair, and opened a letter.

It was the letter from Natalie Lind, which he
had held in his hand ever since, eagerly hoping
that Evelyn would forget it — as, in fact, he had
done. And now with what a strange interest he
read and re-read it ; and weighed all its phrases ;
and tried to picture her as she wrote these lines ;
and studied even the peculiarities of the handwriting.
There was a quaint foreign look here
and there — the capital B, for example, was written
in German fashion ; and that letter occurred a
good many times. It was Mr. Brand, and Mr.
Brand, over and over again — in this friendly and
frank gossip, which had all the brightness of a
chat over a new acquaintance who interests one.
He turned to the signature. " Yi-nir friend,
Naialicy

Then he walked up and down, slowly)' and
thoughtfully ; but ever and again he would turn
to the letter to see that he had quite accurately

what she had said about the delight
of the sail from Calais, and the beautiful flowers
at Dover, and her gladness at the prospect of
their having this new associate and friend. Then
the handwriting again. The second stroke of
the N in her name had a little notch at the top —
German fashion. It looked a pretty name, as
she wrote it.

Then he went to the window, and leaned on
the brass bar, and looked out on the dark and
sleeping world, with its countless golden points
of fire. He remained there a long time, thinking
; of the past, in which he had fancied his life
was buried ; of the present, with its bewildering
uncertainties ; of the future, with its fascinating
dreams. There might be a future for him, then,
after all ; and hope ; and the joy of companionship
? Surely that letter meant at least so
much.

But then the boundlessness, the eager impatience,
of human wishes ! Further and further,
as he leaned and looked out, w- without seeing much
of the wonderful spectacle before him, went his
thoughts and eager hopes and desires. Companionship
: but with whom ? And might not

the sprlng-tlmc of life come Jack again, as it
was now coming back to the world in the sweet
new air that had begun to blow from the south ?
And what message did the soft night-wind Spring
him but the name of Natalie ? And Natalie was
written in the clear and shining heavens, in
letters of fire and joy ; and the river spoke of
Natalie ; and the darkness murmured Natalie.

But his heart, whispering to him — there, in
the silence of the night, in the time when dreams
abound, and visions of what may be — his heart,
whispering to him, said — " Natalushka ! "

CHAPTER XL

A COMMISSION.

When Ferdinand Lind looked out next day from
the window of his hotel, It was not at all the
Venice of chromo-lithography that lay before
him. The morning was wild, grey, and gloomy,
with a blustering wind blowing down from the
north ; the broad expanse of green water ruffled
and lashed by continual squalls ; the sea-gulls
wheeling and dipping over the driven waves ;
the dingy masses of shipping huddled along the
wet and deserted quays ; the long spur of the
Lido a thin black line between the green sea
and the purple sky ; and the domed churches
over there, and the rows of tall and narrow and
crumbling palaces overlooking the canals nearer
at hand, all alike dismal and bedraggled and
dark.

When he went outside he shivered ; but at all

events these cold damp odours of the sea and the
rainy wind were more grateful than the mustiness
of the hotel But the deserted look of the place !
The gondolas, with their hearse-like coverings
on, lay empty and untended by the steps, as if
waiting for a funeral procession. The men had
taken shelter below the archways, where they
formed groups, silent, uncomfortable, sulky.
The few passers-by on the wet quays hurried
along with their voluminous black cloaks wrapped
round their shoulders, and hiding most of the
mahogany-coloured faces. Even the plague of
beggars had been dispersed ; they had slunk
away shivering into the foul-smelling nooks and
crannies. There was not a soul to give a
handful of maize to the pigeons in the Place of
St. Mark.

But when Lind had got round into the Place,
what was his surprise to find Clarissa having
his breakfast in the open air at a small table in
front of a card. He was quite alone there ; but
he seemed much content. In fact, he was laughing
heartily, all to himself, at something he had
been reading in the newspaper open before
him.

III. M

Well," said Lind, when they had exchanged
salutations, " this is a pleasant sort of morning
for one to have one's breakfast outside."

My faith," said Clarissa, " if you had
taken as many breakfasts as I have shut up ina
hole, you would be glad to get the chance of
a mouthful of fresh air. Sit down, my friend."

Lind glanced round, and then sat down.

My good friend Clarissa," he said presently,
" for one connected as you are with certain
persons, do you not think now that your costume
is a little conspicuous ? And then your sitting
out here — in broad daylight "

My friend Lind," said he, with a laugh,
I am as safe here as if I were in Naples, which
I believe to be the safest place in the world
for one not in good odour with the authorities.
And if there was a risk, would I not run it to
hear my little nightingale over there, when she
opens the casements ? Ah ! she is the most
charming Rosin in the world."

Yes, yes," said Lind. " I am not speaking
of you. But — the others. The police must
guess you are not here for nothing."

Oh, the others ? Rest assured. The police

might as well try to put their fin^^^cr on a globule
of quicksilver. It is but three days since they
left the Piazza del I\)i)olo, Torre del Greco.
To-morrow, if their business is finished to-niii^-ht.
they will vanish again ; and I shall be dismissed."


If their business is finished ? " repeated Lint.
absently. " Yes ; but I should like to know whether
have summoned me all the way from
England. They cannot mean "

My dear friend Lind," said Clarissa.
•• you must not look so grave. Nothing that
is going to happen is worth one's troubling oneself
about. It is the present moment that is
of consequence ; and at the present moment
I have a joke for you. You know Armfeldt.
who is now at Berne : they had tried him only
four times in Berlin ; and there was only a little
matter of nine years' sentence against him.
Listen."

He took up the Osscrvaton\ and read out
a paragraph, stating that Dr. Julius Armfeldt
had again been tried in contuniaciavi, and
sentenced to a further term of two years' imprisonment,
for seditious writing, Further. the

publisher of his latest pamphlet, a citizen of
Berne, had likewise been sentenced in his absence
to twelve months' imprisonment.

Do they think Armfeldt will live to be a
centenarian, that they keep heaping up those
sentences against him ? Or is it as another
inducement for him to go back to his native
country and give himself up ? It is a great
joke, this childish proceeding ; but a Government
should not declare itself impotent. It is
like the Austrians when they hanged you and
the others in effigy. Now I remember, the
little Natalushka was grieved that she was not
born then ; for she wished to see the spectacle,
and to have killed the people who insulted her
father."

I am afraid it is no joke at all," Lind said,
gloomily. " Those Swiss people are craven.
What can you expect from a nation of hotel-waiters
? They cringe before every bully in
Europe ; you will find that, if Bismarck insists,
the Federal Council will expel Armfeldt from
Switzerland directly. No ; the only safe refuge
now-a-days for the reformers, the protestants,
the pioneers of Europe, is England ; and the

English do not know it. They do not think of
it. They are so accustomed to freedom trial
they believe that is the only possible condition,
and that other nations must necessarily enjoy it.
When you talk to them of tyranny, of political
persecution, they laugh. They cannot understand
such a thing existing. They fancy it
ceased when Bomba's dungeons were opened."

For my part," said Clarissa, lighting a
cigarette, and calling for a small glass of cognac,
1 am content with Naples."

And the protection of pickpockets."

My friend," said the other, coolly, " if you
refer to the most honourable the association of
the Camorristi I would advise you not to speak
too loud."

Clarissa rose, having settled his score
with the waiter.

Allons ! " said he. " What are you going
to do to-day ? "

I don't know," said Lind. discontentedly.
May the evil ll)- away with this town of
Venice : I never come here but it is either
Freezing or suffocating."

You are in an evil humour io-da\-, friend

Lind ; you have caught the English spleen.
Come, I have a little business to do over at
Murano ; the breeze will do you good. And
I will tell you the story of my escape."

The time had to be passed somehow. Lind
walked with his companion along to the steps,
descended and jumped into a gondola, and
presently they were shooting out into the turbulent
green water that the wind drove against
the side of the boat in a succession of sharp
shocks. Seated in the little funereal compartment,
they could talk without much fear of being
heard by either of the men ; and Clarissa
began his tale. It was not romantic. It was
simply a case of bribery ; the money to effect
which had certainly not come out of Clarissa's
shallow pockets. In the midst of the story—
or, at least, before the end of it — Lind said, ina
low voice —

Clarissa, have you any sure grounds for
what you said about Zaccatelli ? "

His companion glanced quickly outside.
"It is you are now indiscreet," he said, in
an equally low voice. " But yes ; I think that
is the business. However," he added, in a

gayer tone, " what matter ? To day is not tomorrow
; tomorrow will shift for itself." And
therewith he continued his story, though his
listener seemed singularly preoccupied and
thoughtful.

They arrived at the island ; got out ; and
walked into the courtyard of one of the smaller
glass-works. There were one or two of the
workmen passing ; and here something occurred
that seemed to arrest Lind's attention.

*' What, here also ? " said he, in a low
voice.

Every one ; the master included. It is
with him I have to do this lite piece of business.
Now you will be so good as to wait fora
short time, will you not ? — and it is warm in
there ; I will be with you soon."

Lind walked into the large workshop, where
there were a number of people at work, all
round the large, circular, covered caldron, the
various apertures into which sent out fierce rays
of light and heat. He walked about, seemingly
at his ease ; looking at the apprentices experimenting
; chatting to the workmen. And at
last he asked one of these to make for him

a little vase In opalescent glass, that he could
take to his daughter in England ; and could he
put the letter N on it somewhere ? It was at
least some occupation watching the quick and
dexterous handling under which the little vase
grew into form, and had its decoration cleverly
pinched out, and its tiny bits of colour added.
The letter N was not very successful ; but
then Natalie would know that her father had
been thinking of her at Venice.

This excursion at all events tided over the
forenoon ; and when the two companions returned
to the wet and disconsolate city, Clarissa was
easily persuaded to join his friend in some sort of
mid-day meal. After that, the long-haired albino-looking
person took his leave, having arranged
how Lind was to keep the assignation for that
evening.

The afternoon cleared up somewhat ; but
Ferdinand Lind seemed to find it dull enough.
He went out for an aimless stroll through some
of the narrow back streets, slowly making his
way amongst the crowd that poured along these
various ways. Then he returned to his hotel, and
wrote some letters. Then he dined early ; but

still the time did not seem to pass. He resolved
on g-ettino- through an hour or so at the theatre.

A gondola swiftly took him away through the
labyrinth of small and gloomy canals, until at
length the wan orange glare shining out into the
night showed him that he was drawing near one
of the entrances to the Fenice. If he had been
less preoccupied — less eager to think of nothing
but how to get the slow hours over — he might
have noticed the strangeness of the scene before
him : the successive gondolas stealing silently uj)
through the gloom to the palely lit stone steps ;
the black coffins appearing to open ; and then
figures in white and scarlet opera-cloaks getting
out into the dim light to ascend into the brilliant
gkire of the theatre staircase. He, too, followed,
and got into the place assigned to him. I)ut this
spectacular display failed to interest him. He
turned to the bill to remind him what he had
to see. The blaze of colour on the stage-the
various combinations of movement — the resounding
music — all seemed part of a dream ; and it
annoyed him somehow. He rose and left.

The intervening time he spent chiefly in a
cafe close by the theatre, where he smoked

cigarettes and appeared to read the newspapers.
Then he wandered away to the spot appointed
for him to meet a particular gondola, and arrived
there half an hour too soon. But the gondola
was there also. He jumped in, and was carried
away through the silence of the night.

When he arrived at the door, which was
opened to him by Clarissa, he had contrived
to throw off, by a strong effort of will, any appearance
of anxiety. He entered and sat down,
saying only —

"Wells What news?"

Clarissa laughed slightly ; and went to a
cupboard, and brought forth a bottle and two
small glasses.

If you were Zaccatelli," he said, " I would say
to you, ' My Lord,' or ' Your Excellency,' or whatever
they call those flamingoes with the bullet
heads, ' I would advise you to take a little drop of
this very excellent cognac, for you are about to
hear something, and you will need steady nerves.'
Meanwhile, Brother Lind, it is not forbidden to
you and me to have a glass. The Council provide
excellent liquor."

Thank you, I have no need of it," said Lind,.
coldly'. " What do you mean about Zaccatelli ? "

This," said the other, filHn^ himscU' out a
glass of the brandy, and then proceedings to
prepare a cigarette. "If the moral sense of the
country, too long outraged, should determine to
punish the Starving Cardinal, I believe he will
get a good year's notice to prepare for his doom.
You perceive ? Wliat harm does sudden death
to a man ? It is nothing, A moment of pain ;
and you have all the happiness of sleep), indifference,
forgetfulness. That is no punishment at
all : do you perceive ? "

Clarissa continued airily —

People are proud when they say they do not
fear death. The fools ! What has any one to
fear in death ? To the poor it means no more
hunger, no more imprisonment, no more cold and
sickness, no more watching of your children when
they are suffering and you cannot help ; to the
rich it means no more triumph of rivals and envy
and jealousy, no more sleepless nights and ennui
of days, no more gout, and gravel, and the despair
of growing old. Death ! It is the great
emancipation. And people talk of the punishing;
of death ! "

He gave a long whistle of contempt.

But," said he, with a smile, " it is a little bit
different if you have to look forward to your
death on a certain fixed day. Then you begin
to overvalue things — a since hour of life becomes
something."

He added, in a tone of affected condolence —

Then one wouldn't wish to cause any poor
creature to say his last adieux without some
preparation. And in the case of a cardinal, is
a year too little for repentance ? Oh, he will
put it to excellent use."

Very well, very well," said Ferdinand Lind,
with an impatient frown gathering over the
shaggy eyebrows. " But I want to know what
I have to do with all this."

Brother Lind," said the other, mildly, " if
the Secretary Granaglia, knowing that I am a
friend of yours, is so kind as to give me some
hints of what is under discussion, I listen, but
I ask no questions. And you — I presume you
are here not to protest, but to obey."

Understand me, Clarissa : it was only to
you as a friend that I spoke," said Lind, gravely.
And then he added, " The Council will not find,
at all events, that I am recusant."

A few minutes afterwards the bell rang ; and
Clarissa jumped to his feet ; while Lind, in
spite of himself, started. Presently the portiere
was drawn aside, and the little 
man whom he had seen on the previous
evening, entered the room. On this
occasion, however, Clarissa was motioned to
withdraw, and immediately did so. Lind and
the stranger were left together.

I need scarcely inform you, Brother Lind,"
said he, in a slow and matter-of-fact way, " that
I am the authorized spokesman of the Council."

As he said this, for a moment he rested his
hand on the table. There was on the forefinger
a large ring, with a red stone in it, engraved.
Lind bowed acquiescence.

Clarissa has no doubt informed you of
the matter before the Council. That is now
decided ; the decree has been signed. Zaccatelli
dies within a year from this day. The motives
which have led to this decision may hereafter be
explained to you, even if they have not already)'
occurred to you ; they are motives of police', as
regards ourselves and the progress of our work,
as well as of justice."

Ferdinand Lind listened, without response.

"It has further been decided that the 
struck from England."

England !" was the involuntary exclamation.

Yes," said the other, calmly. " To give full
effect to such a warnings it must be clear to the

o

world that it has nothing to do with any private
revenge or low intrigue. Assassination has been
too frequent in Italy of late. The doubting
throughout the world must be convinced that
we have agents everywhere ; and that we are
no mere local society for the revenging of private
wrongs."

Lind again bowed assent.

Further," said the other, reo^ardins^ him,
the Council charge you with the execution of
the decree."

Lind had almost expected this ; he did not
flinch.

After twelve months' grace granted, you
will be prepared with a sure and competent
agent who will give effect to the decree of the
Council ; failing such an one, the duty will
devolve on your own shoulders."

On mine ! " he was forced to exclaim.
Surely "

Do you forget," said the other, calmly, " that
sixteen years ago your life was forfeited, and
given back to you by the Council ? "

"So I understood," said Lind. "But it Alas
not my life that was given me, then ? — only the
lease of it till the Council should claim it again ?
However ! "

He drew himself up ; and the powerful face
was full of decision.

It is well," said he. " I do not complain.
If I exact obedience from others, I, too, obey.
The Council shall be served."

Further instructions shall be given you.
Meanwhile, the Council once more thank }-ou
for your attendance. Farewell, Brother ! "

Farewell, Brother ! "

When he had prone, and the bell af^ain runcr,
Clarissa reappeared. Lind was too proud a
man to betray any concern.

It is as you told me, Clarissa," said he,
carelessly, as his friend proceeded to light him
down the narrow staircase. " And I am charged
with the execution of their vengeance. Well ;
I wish I had been present at their deliberations,
that is all. This deed may answer so far as the

continental countries are concerned ; but, so far
as England is concerned, it will undo the work
of years."

What ! England ! " exclaimed Clarissa,
lightly — " where they blow up a man's house with
gunpowder, or dash vitriol in his face, if he works
for a shilling a day less wages ? — where they
shoot landlords from behind hedges if the rent
is raised ? — where they murder policemen in the
open street, to release political prisoners ? No,
no, friend Lind ; I cannot believe that."

However, that is not my business, Clarissa.
The Council shall be obeyed. I am
glad to know you are again at liberty ; when
you come to England you will see how your
little friend Natalie has grown."

Give a kiss from me to the little ,"
said he, cheerfully ; and then the two
parted.

CHAPTER XII.

JACTA EST Ale.

"Natalie," said her father, entering the breakfast-room,
" I have news for you to-day. This
evening Mr. Brand is to be initiated."

The beautiful, cain face betrayed no surprise.

That is always the way," she answered,
almost absently. " One after the other, they go
in ; and I only am left out, alone."

What," he said, patting her shoulder as he
passed, " are you still dreaming of reviving
the Giai'dinicrc ? Well, it was a pretty idea to
call each sister in the lodge by the name of a
lower. But now-a-days, and in England especially,
if women intermeddled in such things, do
you know what they would be called "^ Patrol
discs ! "

Names do not hurt," said the girl, proudly.

No, no. Rest content, Natalie. You are

III. N

initiated far enough. You know all that needs
to be known ; and you can work with us and
associate with us like the rest. But about Brand :
are you not pleased ? "

I am indeed pleased, papa."

And I am more than pleased," said Lind,
thoughtfully. " He will be the most important
accession we have had for many a day. Ah,
you women have sharp eyes ; but there are some
things you cannot see — there are some men whose
character you cannot read."

Natalie glanced up quickly ; and her father
noticed that surprised look.

Well," said he, with a smile, " what now is
your opinion of Mr. Brand ? "

Instantly the soft eyes were cast down
again, and a faint tinge of colour appeared in
her face.

Oh, my opinion, papa ? " said she, as if to
gain time to choose her words. " Well, I should
call him manl)^, straightforward — and — and very
kind — and — and very English "

I understand you perfectly, Natalie," her
father said, with a laugh. " You and Lord Evelyn
are quite in accord. Yes, and you are both

thoroughly mistaken. Vou mean by his being
so English that he is cold, critical, unsympathetic :
is it not so ? You resent his being cautious
about joining us. You think he will be but a
lukewarm associate — suspecting everything — fearful
about going too far^a half-and-half ally. My
dear Natalie, that is because neither Lord Evelyn
nor you know anything at all about that man."

The faint colour in the girl's cheeks had
deepened ; and she remained silent, with her
fiice downcast.

The pliable ones," her father continued,
the people who are moved by fine talking, who
are full of amiable sentiments, and who take to
work like ours as an additional sentiment — you
may initiate a thousand of them, and not gain
an atom of strength. It is a hard head that I
want, and a strong will ; a man determined to
have no illusions at the outset ; a man who, once
[pledged, will not despair or give up, in the face
of failure, difficulty, or disappointment, or anything
else. Brand is such a man. If I were to
])e disabled tomorrow, I would rather leave my
work in his hands than in the hands of any man
I have seen in this country."

Was it to hide the deepening colour in her
face that the girl went round to her father, and
stood rather behind him, and put her hand on
his shoulder, and stooped down to his ear.

Papa," said she, " I — I hope you don't think
I have been saying anything against Mr. Brand.
Oh no. How could I do that — when he has
been so kind to us — and — and just now especially,
when he is about to become one of us? You
must forget what I said about his being English,
papa ; after all, it is not for us to say that being
English is anything else than being kind and
generous and hospitable. And I am exceedingly
pleased that you have got another associate, and
that we have got another good friend, in England."


Alors, as Clarissa would say, you can
show that you are pleased, Natalie," her father
said, lightly, " by going and writing a pretty little
note, asking your new friend Mr. Brand to dine
with us to-night, after the initiation is over. And
I will ask Evelyn if I see him."

But this proposal in nowise seemed to lessen
the girl's embarrassment. She still clung about
the back of her father's chair.

I would rather not do that, papa," said lie,
after a second.

- Why ? Why ? " said he.

"Would it not look less formal for you to
ask him, papa ? You see, it is once or twice that
we have asked him to dine with us without

giving him proper notice "

"Oh, that is nothing— nothing at all. A
bachelor with an evening disengaged is glad
enough to fill it up anyhow. Well, if )'ou would
rather not write, Natalie, I will ask him myself."

Thank )'ou, papa," said she, apparently
much relieved ; and therewith she went back to
her seat ; and her father turned to his newspaper.


The day passed, and the evening came. As
six o'clock was striking George Brand presented
himself at the little door in Lisle Street, Soho,
and was admitted. Lind had already assured
him that, as far as England was concerned, no
idle mummers were associated with the ceremony
of initiation ; to which Brand had calmly
replied, that if mummers were considered
necessary, he was as ready as any one to do his
part of the business. Only he added that methought

the unknown powers had acted wisely — -
so far as England was concerned — in discarding
such things.

When he entered the room his first glance
round was reassuring. There were six persons
present, besides Lind ; and they did not at all suggest
the typical Leicester Square foreigner. On
the contrary, he guessed that four out of the six
were either English or Irish ; and two of them
he recognized, though they were unknown to him
personally. The one was a Home Rule M.P.,
ferocious enough in the House of Commons, but
celebrated as the most brilliant, and amiable, and
fascinating of diners-out ; the other was an Oxford
don, of large fortune and wildly Radical
views, who wrote a good deal in the papers.
There was a murmur of conversation oroinCT on,
which ceased as Lind briefly introduced the newcomer.


The ceremony, if ceremony it could be called,
was simple enough. The candidate for admission
was required to sign a printed document, solemnly
pledging himself to devote his life and the labour
of his hands and brain to the work of the association
; to implicitly obey an)' command reaching

him from the Council, or communicated through
an officer of the first degree ; and to preserve
inviolable secrecy. Brand read this paper
through twice ; and signed it. It was then
signed by the seven witnesses. He was further
required to inscribe his signature in a large
\ volume, which contained a list of menibcrs of a
particular section. That done, the six strangers
present shook him by the hand, and left.

lie looked round, surprised. Had he been
dreaming during these brief five minutes .'^ Yet
he could hear the noise of their going downstairs.

Well," said Mr. Liiul, with a smile. " It
is not a very terrible ceremony, is it? Did you
expect prostrations at the altar ; and blindfold
groping, and the blessing of the dagger ? When
you come to know a little more of our organization,
of its extent and its power, you will understand
how we can afford to dispense with all
those theatrical ways of frightening [people into
obedience and secrecy."

I expected to find Evelyn here," said George
remand. 1 b: was in truth, just a little bit bewildered
as yet. lie had been assured that there
would Ije no foolish mummers or fantastic rites

of initiation ; but all the same he had been much
occupied with this step he was about to take ;
he had been thinking of it much ; he had been
looking forward to something unknown ; and
he had been nerving himself to encounter whatever
might come before him. But that five
minutes of silence ; the quick reading and
signing of a paper ; the sudden dispersion of
the small assemblage : he could scarcely believe
it was all real.

No," Lind said, " Lord Evelyn is not yet an
officer. He is only a Companion in the third
degree, like yourself."

A what ? "

A Companion in the third degree. Surely
you read the document that you signed ? "

It was still lying on the table before him.
He took it up ; yes, he certainly was so designated
there. Yet he could not remember seeing the
phrase, though he had before signing read every
word twice over.

And now, Mr. Brand," his companion said,
seating himself at the other side of the table.
when you have got over your surprise that
there should be no ceremony, it will become my

duty to give you some idea — some rough idea — -
of the mechanism and aims of our association, and
to show you in what measure we are ached wiili
other societies. The details you will become
acquainted with by-and-by ; that will be a labour
of time. And you know, of course, or you have
guessed, that there are no mysteries to be revealed
to you, no profound religious truths to be communicated,
no dogmas to be accepted, I am
afraid we are very degenerate descendants of the
Mystics and the Illuminati and all the rest of
them ; we have become prosaic ; our wants are
sadly material. And )ret we have oiu' dreams
and aspirations too ; and the virtues that we exact
obedience, temperance, faith, self-sacrifice — are
not ignoble. Meanwhile, to begin. I think you
may prepare yourself to be astonished."

But astonishment was no word for the
emotion experienced by the newly admitted
member when Ferdinand Lind proceeded to
give him, with careful facts and sober computations,
some rough outline of the extent and
power of this intricate and far-reaching organization.
Hitherto the word "International" had
with him been associated wide the ridiculous

fiasco at Geneva ; but here was something, not
calling itself International, which aimed at nothing
less than knitting together the multitudes of
the nations, not only in Europe but in the
English and French and German speaking
territories beyond the seas, in a solemn league —
a league for self-protection and mutual understanding,
for the preservation of international
peace, the spread of knowledge, the outbraving
of tyranny, the defiance of religious intolerance,
the relief of the oppressed, the help of the
poor and the sick and the weak. This was no
cut-throat conspiracy or wild scheme of confiscation
and plunder ; but a design for the
establishment of wide and beneficent law, a law
which should protect, not the ambition of kings,,
not the pride of armies, not the revenues of
priests, but the rights and the liberties of those
who were " darkening in labour and pain."
And this message that could qto forth alike to
the Camorristi and the Nihilists ; to the Free
Masons and the Good Templar ; to the Trades-unionists
and the Knights of Labour — to all
those masses of men moved by the spirit of
co-operation — " See, Brothers, what we have to

show you. Sonic of )ou arc aiiniai;- at chaos
and perdition ; others putting" wages as their
god and sovereign ; others content with a vague
philanthropy ahiiost barren of results. This is.
all the help we want of you — to pledge yourselves
to associate with us, to accept our modest
programme of actual needs, to give help to those
who are in want or trouble, to promise that you
will stand by us in the time to come. And
when the time does come ; when we are combined
; when knowledge is abroad, and mutual
trust; who will say ' Ives ' if the voice of the
people in every nation murmurs ' No ' ? What
priest will repose the Inquisition on us ;
what king drive us to shed blood that his robes
may have the richer dee ; what policeman in
high places endeavour to stamp out our God-given
right of free speech ? It is so little for
you to grant ; it is so much, for you and for us.

to gain ! "

These were not the words he uttered ; for
Lind spoke English slowly and carefull)' ; but
they were the spirit of his words. And as he
went on describing to this new mc-mbcr what
had already been dcjiic, what was being done.

and the great possibilities of the future, Brand
began to wonder whether all this gigantic
scheme, with its simple, bold, and practical outlines,
were the work of this one man. He ventured
by-and-by to hint at some such question.

Mine ? " Lind said, frankly. " Ah, no.
Not the inspiration of it. I am only the
mechanic putting brick and brick together ;
the design is not mine, nor that of any one
man. It is an aggregate project — a speculation
occupying many a long hour of imprisonment —
a scheme to be handed from one to the other,
with alterations and suggestions."

But even your share of it — how can one
man control so much ? " Brand said ; for he
easily perceived what a mass of detail had to
pass through this man's hands.

I will tell you," said the other. " Because
every stone added to the building is placed
there for good. There is no looking back.
There are no pacifications of revolt. No questions
; but absolute obedience. You see, we
exact so little : why should any one rebel }
However, you will learn more and more, as you
go on ; and soon your work will be appointed
you. Meanwhile, I thank you. Brother."

Lincl rose, and shook his hand.

Now," said he, " that is enough of business.
It occurred to me this morning' that, if you had
nothing else to do this evening, )ou might come
and dine with us, and give Natahe the chance of
meeting you in your new character."

I shall be most pleased," said Brand — and
his face flushed.

I telegraphed to Evelyn. If he is in town,
perhaps he will join us. Shall we walk home .^ "

"If you like."

So they went out together, into the glare and
clamour of the streets. George Brand's heart
was very full, with various emotions ; but. not
to lose altogether his English character, he preserved
a somewhat critical tone as he talked.

Well, Mr. Lind," he said, " so far as I can
see and hear, your scheme has been framed not
only with great ability but also with a studied
moderation and wisdom. The only point I would
urge is this — that, in England, as little as possible
should be said about kings and priests. A great
deal of what you said would scarcely be understood
here. You see in England it is not the
Crown now-a-days which instigates or insists on

war ; it is Parliament and the people. Dynastic
ambitions do not trouble us. There is no reason
whatever why we here should hate kings, when
they are harmless."

You are right ; the case is different," Lind
admitted. " But that makes adhesion to our
programme all the easier."

I was only speaking of the policy of mentioning
things which might alarm timid people. Then
as for the priests ; it may be the interest of the
priests in Ireland to keep the peasantry ignorant ;
but it is certainly not so in England. The Church
of England fosters education "

Are not your clergymen the bitterest enemies
of the School Board schools ? "

Well, they may dislike seeing education
dissociated from religion — that is natural, considering
what they believe ; but they are not
necessary enemies of education. Perhaps I ama
very young member to think of making such
a suggestion. But the truth is, that when an
ordinary Englishman hears anything said against
kings and priests, he merely thinks of kings and
priests as he knows them — and as being mostly
harmless creatures now-a-days — and concludes

that you are a Communist wanting to overturn
society altogether."

Precisely so. I told Natalie this morning
that if she were to be allowed to join our association
her English friends would imagine her to be
<\ pctrolcusd'

Miss Lind is not in the association V Brand
said, quickly.

*' As yet no women have been admitted. It
is a difficulty. For in some societies with which
we are partly in alliance women are members.
Ah, such noble creatures many of them are, too !
However, the question may come forward b)'-
and-by. In the mean time, Natalie, without
being made aware of what we are actually doing
that, of course, is forbidden — knows something
of what our work must be, and is warm in her
sympathy. .She is a good help, too : she is the
quickest translator we have grot."

Do you think," Brand said, somewhat timidly,
but with a frown on his face, " that it is fair to put
such tedious labour on the shoulders of a )young
girl ? .Surely there are enough of mien to do the
w(3rk ? "

You shall propose that to her yourself," Lind
said, laughing.

Well, they arrived at the house in Curzon
Street, and when they went upstairs to the ,
they found Lord Evelyn there. NataHe
Lind came forward — with less than usual of her
graciously self-possessed manner — and shook
hands with him briefly', and said with averted
look —

I am glad to see you, Mr. Brand."

Now, as her eyes were cast down, it was
impossible that she could have noticed the quick
expression of disappointment that crossed his face.
Was it that she herself was instantly conscious of
the coldness of her greeting, and anxious to atone
for that ? Was it that she plucked up heart of
grace ? At all events, she suddenly offered him
both her hands with a frank courage ; she looked
him in the face with the soft, tender, serious eyes ;
and then, before she turned away, the low voice
said — ■

"Brother, I welcome you."

CHAPTER XIII.

SOUTHWARD.

After a cold and gloomy spring, a glimpse of
early summer shone over the land ; and after a
long period of anxious travail — in wet and dismal
towns — in comfortless inns — with associates not
always to his liking — George Brand was hurrying
to the south. Ah, the thought of it, as
the train whirled along on this sunlit morning !
After the darkness, the light ; after fighting,
peace ; after the hard task-work, a look, a smile
of reward ! No more than that was his ho^oe ;
but it was a hope that had kept his heart glad
on many a lonely night.

During all this time he had never even
thought of dissociating Natalie Lind from the
work in which he was now so earnestly engaged.
He did not stay to estimate the value of a divided
allegiance ; nor was he troubled by any doubts as

IV. o

to the disinterestedness of his zeal. Sometimes,
it is true, he was seized with a sense of personal
gratitude to Lord Evelyn for having introduced
him to this occupation, with its countless immediate
activities, and its future that widened out
into illimitable and ever-fascinating possibilities.
But always his faith in the justice and usefulness
of what he had undertaken went side by side with
the hope that Natalie would approve. He would
not have admitted that it was only for her sake
that he had joined this association ; but always,
acknowledged or unacknowledged, there was this
secret consciousness that she would be proud of
the way in which he had answered her indirect
appeal. As the train thundered on through the
awakening country, there seemed to him a sort of
rhythmical roar in the noise. He was like a
schoolboy released from school.

At length his companion, who had slept
steadily on since ever they had entered the compartment
at Carlisle at about one in the morning,
awoke, rubbed his eyes, and glanced at the
"window.

We are going to have a fine day at last,
Humphreys," said Brand, cheerfully.

They have been liaviiiL,^ better weatlK.T in
the south, sir."

The man looked hkc a well-clrcsseci mechanic,
lie had an intelligent face, keen and hard. He
spoke with the Newcastle burr.

I wish you would not call me 'sir'" Brand
said.

"It comes natural, somehow, sir," said the
other, with great simplicity. '' There is not a
man in impart of the country but would say
sir ' to one of the Brands of Darlington. When
Mr. Lind telegraphed to me )ou were coming
down, I telegraphed back, ' Is \\(\ one of the
Brands of Darlington ; ' and when I got his
answer I said to myself, ' Here is the man to goto
the Political Committee of the Trades' Union
Congress : they won't fight shy of him.' "

Well, we have no great cause to grumble at
what has been done in that direction ; but that
wretched I>itcniatioualc is doing a deal of mischief.
There is not a trades-unionist in the country who
does not know what is cfoincr on in I*' ranee. A
handful of irresponsible madmen trying to tack
themselves on to the workmen's association — well,
surely the men will have more sense than to listen.

The congres ouvrier to change its name, and to
become the congrh 7'dvohitionnaire ! When I
first went to Jackson, Molyneux, and the others,
I found they had a sort of suspicion that we
wanted to make Communists of them and tear
society to pieces."

You have done more in a couple of months,
sir, than we all have done in the last ten years,"
his companion said.

That is impossible. Look at "

He named some names, certain of them well
known enough.

The other shook his head.

'* Where we have been they don't believe in
London professors, and speech-makers, and chaps
like that. They know that the north is the backbone
and the brain of England, and in the north
they want to be spoken to by a north-countryman."


*' I am a Buckinghamshire man."

That may be where you live, sir ; but you
are one of the Brands of Darlington," said the
other, doggedly.

By-and-by they entered the huge, resounding
station.

*what are you going to do to-night, Humphreys
? Come and have some dinner with me,
and we will look in afterwards at the Century."

Humphreys seemed embarrassed for a moment.

I was thinking of going to the Cover's Hall,
sir," said he, hitting upon an excuse. " I have
heard some good speaking there."

Mostly bunkum, isn't it ? "

No, sir."

All right. Then I shall see you tomorrow
morning in Lisle Street. Good-bye."

He jumped into a hansom, and was presently
rattling away through the busy streets. How
sweet and fresh was the air, even here in the
midst of the misty and golden city ! The early
summer was abroad ; there was a flush of green
on the trees in the squares. When he got down
to the Embankment, he was quite surprised by
the beauty of the gardens ; there were not many
gardens in the towns he had chiefly been living in.

He dashed up the narrow wooden stairs.

Look alive now, Waters : get my bath ready."

It is ready, sir."

"And breakfast."

Whenever you please, sir."

He took off his dust-smothered travelling-coat,
flung it on the couch, and then passed into his
dressing-room.

After bath and breakfast there was an
enormous pile of correspondence awaiting him ;
for not a single letter referring to his own affairs
had been forwarded to him for over two months.
He had thrown his entire time and care into his
work in the north. And now that these arrears
had to be cleared off, he attacked the business
with an obvious impatience. Formerly he had
been used to dawdle over his letters, o-ettino-
through a good portion of the forenoon with them
and conversations with Waters about Buckinghamshire
news. Now, even with that omniscient
factotum by his side, his progress was slow,
simply because he was hurried. He made dives
here and there, without system, without settlement.
At last, looking at his watch, he jumped
up : it was half-past eleven.

Some other time. Waters ; some other time ;
the man must wait," he said to the astonished but
patient person beside him. " If Lord Evelyn calls,,
tell him I shall look in at the Century to-night."

Yes, sir."

Some half-hour thereafter he was standi hl;- in
Park Lane, his heart beating somewhat quickly,
his eyes fixed eagerly on two figures that were
crossing the thoroughfare lower down, to one of
the gates leading into Hyde Park. These were
Natalie Lind and the little Anneli. He had
known that he would see her thus ; he had
imagined the scene a thousand times ; he had
pictured to himself every detail — the trees, the
tall railings, the spring flowers in the plots, and
the little rosy-cheeked German girl walking by
her mistress's side ; and yet now that this familiar
thing had come true, he trembled to behold it ;
he breathed quickly ; he could not go forward to
her and hold out his hand. Slowly, for they were
walking slowly, he went along to the gate and
entered after them ; cautiously, lest she should
turn suddenly and confront him with her eyes ;
drawn, and yet fearing, to follow. She was
talking with some animation to her companion ;
though even in this profound silence he could not
hear the sound of her voice. But he could seethe
beautiful oval of her face ; and sometimes,
when she turned with a laugh to the little Anneli,
he caught a glimpse of the black eyes and eyelashes,

the smiling lips and brilliant teeth ; and
once or twice she put out the palm of her right •
hand with a little gesture which, despite her
English dress, would have told a stranger that
she was of foreign ways. But the look of welcome,
the smile of reward that he had been
looking forward to ?

Well, Mr. Lind was in America ; and during
his absence his daughter saw but few visitors.
There was no particular reason why, supposing
that George Brand met Natalie in the street, he
should not go up and shake hands with her ; and
many a time in these mental pictures of his of her
morning walk with the rosy-cheeked Anneli, he
imagined himself confronting her under the shadow
of the trees, and perhaps walking some way with
her, to listen once more to the clear, low vibrations
of her musical voice. But no sooner had
he seen her come into Park Lane — the vision
become real — than he felt he could not go up
and speak to her. If he had met her by accident,
perhaps he might ; but to watch her, to entrap
her, to break in on her wished-for isolation under
false pretences — all that he suddenly felt to be
impossible. He could follow her with his heart;

but the sound of her voice, the touch of her hand,
the smile of the calm, beautiful, dark eyes, were
as remote for him as if she, too, Averse beyond the
broad Atlantic.

He was not much given to introspection and
analysis ; during the past two months more especially
he had been far too busy to be perpetually
asking " Why ? why ? "■ — the vice of indolence.
It was enough that, in the cold and the wet, there
was a fire in his heart that kept him glad with
thinking of the fair days to come ; and that, in
the foggy afternoons or the lonely nights when
he was alone, and perhaps despondent or impatient
over the stupidity or contumacy he had had to
encounter, there came to him the soft murmur of
a voice from far away, proud, sad, and yet full
of consolation and hope :

But ye that might be clothed ivith all things pleasant,
Ye are foolish that put off the fair soft present,
That clothe yourselves unto the cold future air;

When mother and father and tender sister and brother.
And the old live love that was shall be as ye.
Dust, and no fruit of loving life shall be.

She shall be yet who is more than all these were.
Than sister or 7i>ife or father unto us or mother.

He could hear her voice ; he could see the beautiful

face grow pale with its proud fervour ; he
could feel the soft touch of her hand when she
came forward and said, " Brother, I welcome
you ! "

And now that she was there before him, the
gladness in his heart at the mere sight of her was
troubled with a trembling fear and pain. She
was but a stone's throw in front of him ; but she
seemed far away. The world was young around
her ; and she belonged to the time of youth and
of hope ; life, that he had been ready to give upas
a useless and aimless thing, was only opening
out before her, full' of a thousand beauties and
wonders and possibilities. If only he could have
taken her hand, and looked into her eyes, and
claimed that smile of welcome, he would have
been nearer to her. Surely in one thing at least
they were in sympathy. There was a bond between
them. If the past had divided them, the
future would bring them more together. Did not
the Pilgrims go by in bands, until death struck
down its victims here and there ?

Natalie knew nothing of all this vague longing,
and doubt, and pain in the breast of one who
was so near her. She was in a gay mood. The

morning was beautiful ; the soft wind after the
rain brought whiffs of scent from the distant rose-red
hawthorn. Though she was here under
shadow of the trees, the sun beyond shone on
the fresh and moist grass ; and at the end of the
glades there were glimpses of brilliant colour in
the foliage — the golden glow of the laburnum, the
lilac blaze of the rhododendron bushes. And how
still the place was ! Far off there was a dull roar
of carriages in Piccadilly ; but here there was
nothing but the bleating of the sheep, the chirp
of the young birds, the stir of the wind among the
elms. Sometimes he could now catch the sound
of her voice.

She was in a gay humour. When she got to
the Serpentine — the north bank was her favourite
promenade : she could see on the other side, just
below the line of leaves, the people passing and
repassing on horseback, but she was not of them —
she found a number of small and ragged urchins
wading. They had no boat ; but the)' had the
bung of a barrel which served ; and that they
were pushing through the water with twigs and
sticks ; their shapeless boots the)- had left on the
bank. Now, as it seemed to Brand, who was

watching from a distance, she planned a scheme.
AnneHH was seen to go ahead of the boys, and
speak to them. Their attention being thus distracted,
the young mistress stepped rapidly down
to the tattered boots, and dropped something in
each. Then she withdrew, and was rejoined by
her maid ; they walked away without waiting to
see the result of their machinations. But George
Brand, following by-and-by, heard one of the
urchins call out with wonder that he had found
a penny in his shoe ; and this extraordinary piece
of news brought back his comrades, who rather
mechanically began to examine their foot-gear too.
And then the amazement ! — and the looks around !
and the examination of the pence, lest that
treasure should vanish away ! Brand went upto
them.

Look here, you young stupid — don't you
see that tall lady away along there — by the boathouse
— why don't you go and thank her ? "

But they were either too shy or too incredulous
; so he left them. He did not forget the
incident.

Perhaps it was that the heavens had grown
dark in the south-west, threatening a shower ; but

at all events Natalie soon turned and set out on
her homeward way, giving this unknown spy some
trouble to escape observation. But when she had
passed, he again followed, now with even greater
unrest at his heart. For would not she soon
disappear ; and the outer world grow empty ;
and the dull hours have to be faced ? He had
come to London with such hope and gladness ;
now the very sunlight was to be taken out of his
life by the shutting of a door in Curzon Street.

Fate, however, was kinder to him than he
had dared to hope. As Natalie was returning
home, he ventured to draw a little nearer to her ;
but still with the greatest caution, for he would
have been overcome with shame if she had detected
him dogging her footsteps in this aimless
if innocent manner. And now that she had got
close to her own door, he had drawn nearer still
on the other side of the street; he so longed
to catch one more glimpse of the dark eyes
smiling and the mobile proud mouth. But just
as the door was being opened from within, a man
who had evidently been watching his chance
thrust himself before the two women, barring
their way, and proceeded to address Natalie ina

vehement gesticulating fashion, with much
clenching of his fists and throwing out of his
arms. AnneHH had shrunk back a step, for the
man was uncouth and unkempt; but her young
mistress stood erect and firm, confronting the
beggar, or madman, or whoever he was, without
the slightest sign of fear.

This was enough for George Brand. He was
not thrusting himself unfairly on her seclusion
if he interposed to protect her from menace.
Instantly he crossed the road.

Who are you ? What do you want ? "
This was what he said ; but what he did was
to drive the man back a couple of yards.

A hand was laid on his arm, quickly.

He is in trouble," Natalie said, calmly. " He
wants to see papa ; he has come a long way ;
he does not understand that papa is in America.

If you could only convince him But you do

not talk Russian."

I can talk English," said Brand, regarding:
the maniac-looking person before him with angry
brows. " Will you go indoors. Miss Lind, and
leave him to me. I will talk an English to him
that he will understand."

"Is that the way you answer an appeal for
help ? " said she, with gentle reproof. " The man
is in trouble. If I persuade him to go with you.
will you take him to papa's chambers ? Either
Beratinsky or Heinrich Rcltzci will be there."

Reitzei is there."

"He will hear what this man has to say.
Will you be so kind ? "

I will do anything to rid you of this fellow,
who looks more like a madman than a beggar."

She stepped forward and spoke to the man
again — her voice sounded gentle and persuasive
to Brand, in this tongue which he could not
understand. When she had finished, the uncouth
person in the tattered garments dropped on both
knees on the pavement, and took her hand in
his, and kissed it in passionate gratitude. Then
he rose, and stood with his cap in his hand.

He will go with you. I am so sorry to
trouble you, Mr. Brand ; and I have not even
said, ' How do you do .'' ' "

To hear this beautiful voice, after so long
a silence ; to find those calm, dark, friendly eyes
rc'Mrdin'j^ him — bewildered him, or-save him

courage : he knew not which. He said to her.
with a quick flush on his forehead —

May I come back to tell you how I
succeed ? "

She only hesitated for a second.

"If you have time. If you care to take the
trouble."

He carried away with him the look of her
face — that filled his heart with sunlight. In the
Hansom, into which he bundled his unkempt
companion, if only he had known enough
Russian, he would have expressed gratitude to
him. Beggar or maniac, or whatever he was,
had he not been the means of procuring for
George Brand that long-coveted, long-dreamed
smile of welcome ?

CHAPTER Xii.

A RUSSIAN EPISODE.

"Is that the way you answer an appeal for
help ? " — with that gentle protest still lingering
in his ear, he was not inclined to be hard on this
unfortunate wretch who was in the cab with him ;
and )et at the same time he was resolved to
prevent any repetition of the scene he had just
witnessed. And at last he discovered that the
man had picked up in his wanderings a little
German. His own German was not first-rate; it
was fluent, forcible, and accurate enough so far
as hotels and railway stations were concerned ;
elsewhere it had a tendency to halt, blunder,
and double back on itself. But, at all events, he
managed to convey to his companion the distinct
intimation that any further troubling of that young
lady would only procure for him a broken head.
The dull, stupid, savage-looking face betrayed

no sign of intelligence. He repeated the warning
again and again ; and at last, at the phrase " that
young lady," the dazed, small eyes lit up somewhat
; and the man clasped his hands.

Ein Engel!" he said, apparently to himself.
Ein Enofel — ein Eno^el ! Each Got — wie scion
wie gemllthlich ! "

Yes, yes, yes," Brand said, " that is all very
well ; but one is not permitted to annoy angels —
to trouble them in the street ? Do you understand
that that means punishment — one must be
punished — if one returns to the house of that
young lady ? Do you understand ? "

The man regarded him, with the small, deep-set
eyes again sunk into apathy.

Ir Dinner, Herr," said he, submissively.

You understand you are not to go back to
the house of the young lady ? "

Ir Dinner, Herr."

There was nothing to be got out of him, or
into him ; so Brand waited until he should get
the help of Heinrich Reitzei, Lind's locum tenens.

Reitzei was in the chambers — at Lind's table,
in fact. He was a man of about twenty-eight or
thirty, slim and dark, with a perfectly pallid face,

a small black moustache, carefully waxed, and an
affectedly courteous smile. He wore a pincc-ncz ;
was fond of slang, to show his familiarity with
English ; and aimed at an English manner, too.
He seemed bored. He regarded this man whom
Brand introduced to him without surprise, with
indifference.

Hear what this fellow has to say," Brand
said, "will you? And give him distinctly to
understand that if he tries again to see Miss
Lind, I will break his head for him. What
idiot could have given him Lind's private
address ? "

The man was standing near the door, stolid
apparently, but with his small eyes keenly
watching. Reitzei said a word or two to him.
Instantly he went — he almost sprung — forward ;
and this movement was so unexpected that the
equanimity of the pallid young man received a
visible shock, and he hastily drew out a drawer
a few inches. Brand caught sight of the handle
of a revolver.

But the man was only eager to tell his story ;
and presently Reitzei had resumed his air of
indifference. As he proceeded to translate for

Brand's benefit — in interjections phrases — what
this man with the trembling hands and the
burning eyes was saying, it was strange to mark
the contrast between the two men.

His name Kirski," the younger man was
saying, as he eyed with a cool and critical air
the wild look in the other's face. " A carver in
wood, but cannot work now, for his hands
tremble, through hunger and fatigue — through
drink, I should say — native of small village in
Kiev — had his share of the Communal land — but
got permission from the Commune to spend part
of the year in Kiev itself — sent back all his taxes
duly, and money too, because — oh, this is it ? —
daughter of village Elder — young, beautiful, of
course — left an orphan, with three brothers —
and their share of the land too much for them.
Ah, this is the story, then, my friend ? Married
too — young, beautiful, good — yes, yes, we know
all that "

There were tears running down the face of
the other man. But these he shook away ; and a
wilder light than ever came into his eyes.

He goes to Kiev as usual — foolish fellow ;
now I see what all the row is about. When he

returns three months after, he goes to his house.
Empty. The neighbours will not speak. At last
one says something about Pavel Michaicloff, the
great proprietor, whose house and farm are some
verses away — my good fellow, you have got the
palsy — or is it drink ? — he goes and seeks out the
house of Pavel — yes, yes, the story is not new —
Pavel is at the open window, smoking — he goes
up to the window — there is a woman inside — when
she sees him she utters a loud scream, and rushes
for protection to the man Michaieloff — then all
the fat is in the fire naturally "

The Russian choked and gasped ; drops of
perspiration stood on his forehead ; he looked
wildly round.

Water ? " said Reitzei. *' Poor devil, you
need some water to cool down your excitement.
You are making as much fuss as if that kind of
thing had never happened in the world before."

But he rose and got him some water, which
the man drained eagerly ; then he continued his
story with the same fierce and angry vehemence.

"Well, yes, he had something to complain of,
certainly," Reitzei said, translating all that into
hercnt passion into cool little phrases. " Not a

fair fight. Pavel summons his men from the
courtyard — men with whips — dogs too — he is
lashed and driven alone the roads, and the does
tear at him — oh yes, my good friend, you have
been badly used ; but you have come a long way
to tell your story. I must ask him how the
mischief he got here at all."

Butcher Reitzel paused and stared. Something
the man said — in an eager, low voice, with
his sunken small eyes all afire — startled him out
of his critical air.

Oh, that is it, is it ? " he said, eyeing him.
He will do anything for us — he will commit a
murder — ten murders — if only we give him money,
a knife, and help to kill the man Michaieloff.
Well, he is a lively sort of person to let loose on
society."

The man is clearly mad," Brand said.

The man was madder who sent him to us,"
Reitzei answered. " I should not like to be in
his shoes if Lind hears that this maniac was
allowed to see his daughter."

The wretched creature standing there Glanced
eagerly from one to the other, with the eyes of a
wild animal, seeking to gather something from

their look ; then he went forward to the table,
and stooped down, and spoke to Reitzei still
further, in the same low, fierce voice, his whole
frame meanwhile shaking with his excitement.
Reitzei said something to him in reply; and
motioned him back. He retired a step or two ;
and then kept watching the faces of the two men.

"What are you going to do with him? " Brand
said.

Reitzei shrugged his shoulders.

I know what I should like to do with him
if I dared," he said, with a graceful smile.
There is a friend of mine not a hundred miles
away from that very Kiev who wants a little
admonition. Her name is Petrovna ; she is the
gaol-matron of a female penitentiary ; she is justa
little too fierce at times. Murderers, thieves,
prostitutes : oh yes, she can be civil enough to
them ; but let a political prisoner come near her
one of her own sex, mind — and she becomes
a devil, a tigress, a vampire. Ah, Madame
Petrovna and I may have a little reckoning some
day, I have asked Lind again and again to
petition for a decree against her ; but no, he will
not move; he is becoming AnMicized, effeminate."

A decree ? " Brand said.

The other smiled, with an affectation of calm
superiority.

You will learn by-and-by. Meanwhile, if I
dared, what I should like to do would be to give
our friend here plenty of money, and not one but
two knives ; saying to him, ' My good friend,
here is one knife for Michaieloff, if you like ; but
first of all here is this knife for that angel in
disguise, Madame Petrovna, of the Female Penitentiary,
in Novolevsk. Strike sure and hard ! ' "

For one instant his affectation forsook him ;
and there was a gleam in his eyes. This was
but a momentary relapse from his professed indifference.


"Well, Mr. Brand, I suppose I must take
over this madman from you. You may tell Miss
Lind she need not be frightened."

I should not think Miss Lind was in the
habit of being frightened," said Brand, coldly.

Ah, no ; doubtless not. Well, I shall see
that this fellow does not trouble her again. What
fine tidings we had of your work in the north !
You have been a power ; you have moved
mountains."

I have moved John Molyneux," said Brand,
with a laugh. " And in these days that is a more
difficult business."

Fine news from Spain too," said Reitzei,
glancing at some letters. " From Valladolid,
Barcelona, Ferrol, Saragossa — all the same story :
coalition, coalition. Calmer will be in London
next week."

But you have not told me what you are
going to do with this man yet : you must stow
the combustible piece of goods somewhere. Poor
devil, his sufferings have made a pitiable object
of him."

My dear friend," said Reitzei, " you don't
suppose that a Russian peasant would feel so
deeply a beating with whips, or the worrying of
dogs, or even the loss of his wife } Of course,
comines all together, it was something of a hard
grind. He must have been constitutionally
insane ; and that woke the whole thing up."

"Then he should be confined. He is a
lunatic at large."

I don't think he would harm anybody
said, regarding the man as if he were a
strange animal. " I would not shut up a dog ina

lunatic asylum ; I would rather put a bullet
through his head. And this fellow — if we could
humbug him a little, and get him to his work
again — I know a man in Ardour Street who
would do that for me — and see what effect the
amassing of a little English money might have
on him. Better a miser than a wild beast. And
he seems a submissive sort of creature. Leave
him to me, Mr. Brand."

Brand began to think a little better of Reitzei,
whom hitherto he had rather disliked. He
handed him five pounds, to get some clothes and
tools for the man, who, when he was told of this
generosity, turned to Brand and said something
to him in Russian, which set Reitzei laughing.

What is it he says ? "

"He said, ' Little Father, you are worthy to
become the husband of the angel : may the day
come soon ! ' I suppose the angel is Miss Lind :
she must have been very kind to the man."

"She only spoke to him; but her voice can
be kind," said Brand — rather absently ; and then
he left.

Away went the Hansom back to Curzon
Street. He said to himself that it was not for

nothing that this unfortunate wretch Kirski had
wandered all the way from the Dnieper to the
Thames. He would look after this man. He
would do something for him. Five pounds only ?
And he had been the means of securing this
interview — if only for three or four minutes ;
after the long period of labour and hope and
waiting he might have gone without a word at all
but for this over-troubled poor devil.

And now — now he might even see her alone,
for a couple of minutes, in the hushed little
drawing-room ; and she might say if she had
heard about what had been done in the north ;
and about his eagerness to return to the work.
One look of thanks : that was enough. Sometimes,
by himself up there in the solitary inns, the
old fit had come over him ; and he had laughed
at himself; and wondered at this new fire of
occupation and interest that was blazing through
his life ; and asked himself, as of old, to what end
to what end ? But when he heard Natalie
Lind's voice, there was a quick good-bye to all
questioning. One look at the calm, earnest eyes ;
and he drank deep of faith, courage, devotion.
And surely this story of the man Kirski — what he

could tell her of it — would be sufficient to fill up
five minutes, eight minutes, ten minutes, while all
the time he should be able to dwell on her eyes,
whether they were downcast or turned to his with
their frank, soft glance. He should be in the
perfume of the small drawing-room. He would
see the Roman necklace Mazzini had given her
gleam on her bosom "as she breathed.

He did not know what Natalie Lind had been
about during his absence.

Anneli, Anneli, hither, child ! " she called in
German. " Run up to Madame Potecki, and ask
her to come and spend the afternoon with me.
She must come at once ; to lunch with me ; I will
wait."

Yes, Fraulein. What music, Fraulein ? "

None ; never mind any music. But she
must come at once."

Scion, Fraulein," said the little Anneli, about
to depart.

Her young mistress called her back ; and
paused, with a little hesitation.

You may tell Elizabeth," said she, with an
indifferent air, " that it is possible — it is quite
possible — it is at least possible — I may have two

friends to lunch with nie ; and she must send at
once if she wants anything more. And you could
bring me back some fresh flowers, Anneli ? "

Why not, Friiulein ? "

Go quick, then, Anneli — fly like a young
roe — dutch Walt una aiif der Haidc ! "

And so it came about that when George Brand
was ushered into the scented little drawing-room
so anxious to make the most of the invaluable
minutes — he found himself introduced first of all
to Madame Potecki, a voluble, energetic little
Polish gentlewoman, whose husband had been
killed in the Warsaw disturbances of '61, and who
now supported herself in London by teaching
music. She was eager to know all about the
man Kirski ; and hoped that he was not wholly
a maniac ; and trusted that INIr. Brand would see
that her dear child — her adopted daughter, she
might say — was not terrified again by the madman.


My dear Madame," said Brand, " you must
not imagine that it was from terror that Miss
Lind handed over the man to me — it was from
kindness. That is more natural to her than
terror."

"Ah, I know the dear child has the courage of
an army," said the little old lady, tapping her
adopted daughter on the shoulder with the fan.
But she must take care of herself while her papa
is away in America."

Natalie rose ; and of course Brand rose also —
with a sudden qualm of disappointment, for he
took that as the signal of his dismissal ; and he
had scarcely spoken a word to her.

]mr. Brand," said she, with some little trifle
of embarrassment, " I know I must have deprived
you of your luncheon. It was so kind of you to
go at once with the poor man. Would it save
you time — if you are not going anywhere — I
thought perhaps you might come and have something
with ]Madame and myself You must be
dying of hunger."

He did not refuse the invitation. And behold !
when he went downstairs, the table was already
laid for three : had he been expected, he asked
himself ? Those flowers there, too : he knew it
was no maidservant's fingers that had arranged
and distributed them so skilfully.

How he blessed this little Polish lady ; and
her volubility ; and her extravagant, subtle, honest

flatterers her dear adopted daughter! It gave
him libertas to steep himself in the ride consciousness
of Natalie's presence; he could listen in
silence for the sound of her voice — he could
covertly watch the beauty of her shape)' hands —
without being considered preoccupied or morose.
All he had to do was to say, '" Yes, Madame," or
'' Indeed, Madame," the while he knew that
Natalie Lind was breathing the same air with
him, that at any moment the large, lustrous, dark
eyes might look up and meet his. And she ^x^
little, too ; and had scarcely her usual frank sdf-
confidence : perhaps a chance reference of Madame
Potecki to the fact that her adopted daughter had
been brought up without a mother had somewhat
saddened her.

The room was shaded in a measure ; for the
French silk blinds were down; but dire was a
soft golden glow pre-ailing all the same. For
many a day George Brand remembered that little
luncheon-parts : the dull bronze glow of the room ;
the flowers ; the soft, downcast e)-es opposite him ;
the bright, pleasant garrulity of the little Polish
lady; and always — ah. the delight of it.' — that
strange, trembling, sweet consciousness that

Natalie Lind was listening as he listened, that
almost he could have heard the beating of her
heart.

And a hundred and a hundred times he swore
that, whoever throughout the labouring and
suffering world might regret that day, the man
Kirski should not.

NEW FRIENDS.

Ir was a Sunday afternoon in Hyde Park, in
this pleasantly opcnini^- summer ; and there was
a fair show of "the quality" come out for their
accustomed promenade, despite the few thunder-showers
that had swept across from the south.
These, in fact, had but served to lay the dust
and to brini,^ out the scent of the hawthorns and
lilacs, so that the air was sweet with perfume ;
while the massive clouds, banking up in the
north, formed a purple background to show up
the young green foliage of the trees, all wet with
rain, and shimmering tremulously in the sunlight.
George Brand and his friend Evelyn sat in
the back row of chairs, watching the people
pass and re-pass. It was a sombre procession
but that here and there appeared a young English
girl in her pale spring costume — paler than the

IV. y

fresh glow of youth and health on her face, and
that here and there the sunlight, wandering down
through the branches, touched a scarlet sunshade
— just then coming into fashion — until that
shone like a beautiful spacious flower among the
mass of green.

When they had been silently watching the
people for some little time. Brand said, almost
to himself —

How very unlike those women she is ! "
"Who? Oh, Natalie Lind," said the other,
who had been speaking of her some minutes
before. " Well, that is natural ; and I don't say
it to their disadvantage. I believe most girls are
well-intentioned enough ; but of course they grow
up in a particular social atmosphere, and it depends
on that what they become. If it is rather fast,
the girl sees nothing objectionable in being fast
too. If it is religious, the god of her idolatry
is a Bishop. If it is sporting, she thinks mostly
about horses. Natalie is exceptional because
she has been brought up in exceptional circumstances.
For one thing, she has been a good
deal alone ; and she has formed all sorts of
beautiful idealism and aspirations "

The conversation dropped here ; for at the
moment Lord Evelyn espied two of his sisters
coming along in the slow procession.

Here come two of the girls," he said to his
friend. " How precious demure they look ! "

Brand at once rose, and went out from the
shadow of the trees, to pay his respects to the
two young ladies.

How do you do, Miss D'D'Agincourt ? 
you do, Miss Frances ? "

Certainly no one would have suspected these
two very graceful and pleasant-looking girls of
being madcap creatures at home. The elder
was a tall and slightly built blonde, with large
grey eyes set wide apart ; the younger a gentle
little thing, with brownish eyes, freckles, and a
pretty mouth.

Mamma ? " said the eldest daughter, in
answer to his inquiries. " Oh, she is behind,
bringing up the rear, as it were. We have to go
in. detachments, or else the police would come
and read the riot act against us. Francie and I
are the vanguard ; and she feels such a good
little girl, marching along two and two. just as if
she were back at Brighton."

The clear grey eyes — quite demure — glanced
in toward the shadows of the trees.

I see you have got Evelyn there, Mr. Brand.
Who is the extraordinary person he is always
talking about now — the Maid of Saragossa, or
Joan of Arc, or something like that? Do you
know her ? "

I suppose you mean Miss Lind."

I know he has persuaded mamma to go and
call on her, and get her to dine with us, if she
will come. Now, I call that kind."

If she accepts, you mean ? "

"No, I mean nothing of the sort. Good-bye.
If we stay another minute, we shall have the
middle detachments overlapping the vanguard.
En avant, Francie ! Forwards ! "

She bowed to him and passed on in her grave
and stately manner : more calmly observant, more
innocent eyes were not in the Park.

He ran the gauntlet of the whole family, and
at last encountered the mamma, who brought up
the rear with the youngest of her daughters.
Lady Evelyn was a tall, somewhat good-looking,
elderly lady; who wore her silver-white hair in
old-fashioned curls. She was an amiable but

Lady Evelyn, who was vaguely aware that
Brand knew the Lines, repeated her daughter's
information about the proposed visit ; and said
that if Miss Lind would come and spend the
evening with them, she hoped Mr. Brand would
come too.

These girls do tease dreadfully'. I know,"
said their mamma ; " but perhaps they will behave
a little better before a stranger."

Mr. Brand replied that he hoped Miss Lind
would accept the invitation — for during her
father's absence she must be somewhat dull — but
that even without the protection of her presence
he was not afraid to face those formidable young
ladies. Whereupon Miss Geraldine — who was
generally called the Baby, though she was turned
thirteen — glanced at him with a look which said,
Won't you catch it for that ! " and the mamma
then bade him good-bye. sa) ing that Rosalys

would write to him as soon as the evening was
arranged.

He had not long to wait for that expected
note. The very next night he received it. Miss
Lind was coming on Thursday: would that suit
him ? A quarter to eight.

He was there punctual to the moment. The
presence of the whole rabble of girls in the
drawing-room told him that this was to be a
quite private and domestic dinner-party ; on other
occasions only two or three of the phalanx — as
Miss D'D'Agincourt described herself and her sisters
were chosen to appear. And, on this especial
occasion, there was a fine hubbub of questions
and raillery going on — which Brand vainly
endeavoured to meet all at once — when he was
suddenly rescued. The door was opened, and
Miss Lind was announced. The clamour ceased.

She was dressed in black, with a red camellia
in her bosom, and another in the magnificent
black hair. Brand thought he had never seen
her look so beautiful, and at once so graciously
proud and gentle. Lady Evelyn went forward
to meet her, and received her very kindly indeed.
She was introduced to one or two of the girls.

She shook hands with Mr. Brand, and gave him
a pleasant smile of greeting. Lady Evelyn had
to apologize for her son's absence ; he had only
gone to write a note.

The tall, beautiful Hungarian girl seemed not
in the least embarrassed by all these curious
eyes, that occasionally and covertly regarded her
while pretending not to do so. Two of the
young ladies there were older than she was ; yet
she seemed more of a woman than any of them.
Her self-possession was perfect. She sat down
by Lady Evelyn, and submitted to be questioned.
The girls afterwards told their brother they believed
she was an actress, because of the clever
manner in which she managed her train.

But at this moment Lord Evelyn made his
appearance — in great excitement, and with profuse
apologies.

But the fact is," said he, producing an
evening paper, " the fact is — just listen to this,
Natalie : it is the report of a police case."

At his thus addressing her by her Christian
name, the mother started somewhat, and the
demure eyes of the girls were turned t(j the floor,
lest they should meet any conscious glance.

Here is a fellow brought before the Hammersmith
magistrate for indulging in a new form
of amusement. Oh, very pretty! very nice!
He had only got hold of a small dog ; and he was
taking it by the two fore legs, and trying how far
he could heave it. Very well; he is brought
before the magistrates. He had only heaved the
dog two or three times : nothing at all, you
know. You think he will get off with a forty
shillings' fine, or something like that. Not
altogether ! Two months' hard labour — Izao solid
months hard labour' ; and if I had my will of the
brute," he continued, savagely, " I would give him
ten years' hard labour, and bury him alive when
he came out ! However, two months' hard labour
is something. I glory in that magistrate : I have
just been upstairs writing a note asking him to
dine with me. I believe I was introduced to him
once."

Evelyn quite goes beside himself," his
mother said to her guest, with half an air of
apology, " when he reads about cruelty like that."

Surely it is better than being callous," said
Natalie, speaking very gently.

They went in to dinner ; and the young ladies

were very well behaved indeed. They did not at
all resent the fashion in which the whole attention
of the dinner-table was given to the stranger.

And so you like living in England ? " said
Lady Evelyn to her.

I cannot breathe elsewhere," was the simple
answer.

Why," said the matter-of-fact, silver-haired
lady, " if this country is notorious for anything,
it is for its foggy atmosphere ! "

I think it is famous for something more than
that," said the girl, with just a touch of colour
in the beautiful face ; for she was not accustomed
to speak before so many people. "Is it not more
famous for its freedom ? It is that that makes
the air so sweet to breathe."

Well, at all events, you don't find it very
picturesque as compared with other countries.
Evelyn tells me you have travelled a great deal."

Perhaps I am not very fond of picturesqueness,"
Natalie said, modestly. "■ When I am
travelling through a country, I would rather sec
plenty of small farms thriving and prosperous
than splendid ruins that tell only of oppression
.nd extravagance and the cruelty of war."

No one spoke ; so she made bold to continue
but she addressed Lady Evelyn only.

No doubt it is very picturesque, as you
go up the Rhine, or across the See Reis,
or through the Lombard plains, to see every
height crowned with its castle. Yes, one cannot
help admiring. They are like beautiful flowers
that have blossomed up from the valleys and the
plains below. But who tilled the land that these
should grow there on every height ? Are you
not forced to think of the toiling wretches who
laboured and laboured to carry stone by stone
up to the crest of the hill ? They did not get
much enjoyment out of the grandeur and picturesqueness
of the castles."

But they gave that labour for their own
protection," Lady Evelyn said, with a smile.
The great lords and barons were their protectors."


The great lords and barons said so, at least,"
said the girl, without any smile at all, *rand I
suppose the peasantry believed them ; and were
quite willing to leave their vineyards and go and
shed their blood whenever the great lords and
barons quarrelled amongst themselves."

"Well said! — well said!" Brand exclaimed
quickly ; though, indeed, this calm, gentle-eyed,
self-possessed girl was in no need of any
champion.

"I am afraid you are a great Radical, Miss
Lind," said Lady Evelyn.

Perhaps it is your English air, Lad)' Evelyn,"
said the girl, with a smile.

Lord Evelyn's mother, notwithstanding her
impassive, unimaginative nature, soon began to
betray a decided interest in this new guest ; and
even something more. She was attracted, to
begin with, by the singular beauty of the young
Hungarian lad)-, which was foreign-looking, unusual,
picturesque. She was struck b)- her perfect
self-possession, and by the ease and grace of her
manner, which was rather that of a mature
woman than of a girl of nineteen. But most
of all she was interested in her odd talk and
opinions, which she expressed with such absolute
simplicity and frankness. Was it — Lady l'l\elyn
asked herself — that the girl had been brought
up so much in the society of men — that she had
neither mother nor sisters — that she spoke of
politics and such matters as if it was the most

natural thing in the world for women, of whatever
age, to consider them as of first importance ?

But one chance remark that Natalie made,
on the impulse of the moment, did for the briefest
possible time break down that charming self-confidence
of hers and show her — to the wonder
of the English girls — the prey of an alarmed embarrassment.
George Brand had been talking
of patriotism, and of the scorn that must naturally
be felt for the man who would say of his country,
Well, it will last my time. Let me enjoy myself
when I can. What do I care about the future
of other people ? " And then he went on to talk
of the larger patriotism, that concerned itself not
merely with one's fellow-countrymen, but with
one's fellow-mortals ; and how the stimulus and
enthusiasm of that wider patriotism should be
proportionately stronger ; and how it might seek
to break down artificial barriers of political
systems and religious creeds. Patriotism was
a beautiful flame — a star ; but here was a sun.
Ordinarily, to tell the truth. Brand was but an
indifferent speaker — he had all an Englishman's
self-consciousness ; but now he spoke for Natalie
alone, and minded the others but lite. Presently
Lady Evelyn said, with a smile —

"You, too, Miss Lind, are a reformer, are you
not ? Evelyn is very mysterious, and I can't
quite make out what he means ; but at all events
it is very kind of you to spare us an evening,
when you must be so deeply engaged.'

"I ?" said Natalie. "Oh no, it is very little
that I can do. The work is too difficult and
arduous for women, perhaps. But there is one
thing that women can do — they can love and
honour those who are working for them."

It was spoken impulsive)' — probably the girl
was thinking only of her father. But at the
moment she happened to look up ; and there
were Rosalys D'D'Agincourt's calmly observant
eyes fixed on her. Then some vague echo of
what she had said rushed in upon her ; she
was bewildered by the possible interpretation
others might put on the words ; and the quick,
sensitive blood mounted to her forehead. But
fortunately Lady Evelyn, who had missed the
whole thing, happened at this very instant to
begin talking of orchids ; and Natalie struck in
with great relief. So that little episode went by.

And, as dinner went on, Brand became more
and more convinced that this family was the most

delightful family in England. Just so much
restraint had left their manner as to render those
madcap girls exceedingly frank and good-natured
in the courtesy they showed to their guest, and
to admit her as a confidante into their ways of
bantering each other. And one would herself
come round to shift the fire-screen behind Miss
Lind to precisely the proper place ; and another
said that Miss Lind drank water because Evelyn
had been so monstrously stupid as not to have
any Hungarian wine for her ; and another asked
if she might call on Miss Lind the following
afternoon to take her to some place where some
marvellous Japanese curiosities were on view.
Then, when they left for the drawing-room, the
eldest Miss D'D'Agincourt put her arm within the
arm of their guest, and said —

Now, dear Miss Lind, please understand
that if there was any stranger here at all we
should not dream of asking you to sing. Ermen-
truce and I take all that on our shoulders; we
squawk for the whole of the family. But Evelyn
has told us so much about your singing "

Oh, I will sing for you if you wish it," said
Natalie, without hesitation.

NEW FRIENDS. 239

Some little time thereafter, Brand was walking
up and down the room below, slowly and
thoughtfully : he was not much of a wine-drinker.

Evelyn," he said, suddenly, " I shall soon
be able to tell you whether I owe you a life-long
gratitude. I owe-ou much already. Through
you I have got some work to do in the world ;
I am busy, and content. But there is a greater
prize."

I think I can guess what you mean," his
companion said, calmly.

You do ? " said the other, with a quick look.
And you do not think I am mad ? To go
and ask her to be my wife, before she has
given me a single word of hope?"

She has spoken to others about you : I
know what she thinks of you," said Lord Evelyn.
Then the fine, pale face was slightly Hushed.
■' To tell you the truth, Brand, I thought of this
before you ever saw her."

Thought of what ? " said the other, with a
stare of surprise.

That you would be the right sort of man
to make a husband for her : she might be left
alone in the world at any moment, without a
single relation and scarcely a friend."

Women don't marry for these reasons," said
the other, somewhat absently. " And yet — if she
were to think of it — it would not be as if I were
withdrawing her from everything she takes an
interest in. We should be together. I am eager
to go forward, even by myself; but with her fora
companion — think of that ! "

I have thought of it," said Lord Evelyn,
with something of a sad smile. " Often. And
there is no man in England more heartily wishes
you success than I do. Come, let us go up to
the drawing-room."

They went out into the hall. Some one was
playing a noisy piece upstairs ; it was safe to
speak. And then he said —

Shall I tell you something, Brand ? Something
that will keep you awake all this night,
and not with the saddest of thinking ? If I am
not mistaken, I fancy you have already 'stole
bonny Glenlyon away.' "

Chapter Xvi

A LETTER

Black night lay over the city, and silence ; the
river towed unseen through the darkness ; buta
thousand golden points of fire mapped out the
lines of the Embankment and the long curves of
the distant bridges. The infrequent sounds that
could be heard were strangely distinct, even when
they were faint and remote. There was a slight
rustling of wind in the trees below the window.

But the night and the silence brought him
neither repose nor counsel. A multitude of
bewildering audacious hopes and distracting fears
strove for mastery in his mind, upsetting altogether
the calm and cool judgment on which he prided
himself. His was not a nature to harbour illusions
; he had a hard way of looking at things ;
and yet — and yet — might not this chance speech
of Lord I"2velyn have been something more than

IV. R

a bit cf good-humoured raillery ? Lord Evelyn
was Natalie's intimate friend ; he knew all her
surroundings ; he was a quick observer ; he was
likely to know if this thing were possible. But,
on the other hand, how was it possible that so
beautiful a creature, in the perfect flower of her
youth, should be without a lover ? He forced
himself to remember that she and her father
seemed to see but little society. Perhaps she
was too useful to him, and he would not have
her entangle herself with many friends. Perhaps
they had led too nomadic a life. But even in
hotels abroad, how could she have avoided the
admiration she was sure to evoke ? And in
Florence, mayhap, or Mentone, or Madrid — and
here he began to conjure up a host of possible
rivals, all foreigners, of course, and all equally
detestable ; and to draw pictures for him of tables
d'hote, with always the one beautiful figure there,
unconscious, gentle, silent, but drawing to her
all men's eyes.

There was but the one way of putting an end
to this maddening uncertainty. He dared not
claim an interview with her ; she might be afraid
of implying too much by granting it; various

considerations might dictate a refusal. But he
could write ; and, in point of fact, writing-materials
were on the table. Again and again
he had sat down, and taken the pen in his
hand, only to get up as often and go and stare
out into the yellow glare of the night. For an
instant his shadow would fall on the foliage of
the trees below and then pass away again like
a ghost.

At two and twenty love is reckless, and glib
of speech ; it takes little heed of the future ; the
light straw-flame, for however short a period, leaps
up merrily enough. But at two and thirty it is
more alive to consequences ; it is not the present
moment, but the duration of life, that it regards ;
it seeks to proceed with a sure foot. And at this
crisis, in the midst of all this irresolution that
was unspeakably vexatious to a man of his firm
nature. Brand demanded of himself his utmost
power of self-control. He would not imperil
the happiness of his life by a hasty, importunate
appeal. When at length he sat down, determined
not to rise until he had sent her this message, he
forced himself to write — at the beginning, at least
in a roundabout and indifferent fashion, so

that she should not be alarmed. He began by
excusing his writing to her, saying he had
scarcely ever had a chance of talking to her,
and that he wished to tell her something of what
had happened to him since the memorable
evening on which he had first met her at her
father's house. And he went on to speak to her
of a friend of his, who used to amuse himself with
the notion that he would like to enter himself
at a public school and go through his school-life
all over again. There he had spent the happiest
of his days ; why should he not repeat them ? If
only the boys would agree to treat him as one
of themselves, why should he not be 
with them ; and once more enjoy the
fun of uproarious pillow-battles ; and have
smuggled tarts and lemonade at night ; and
tame rabbits where no rabbits should be ; and
a profound hero-worship for the captain of the
school Eleven ; and excursions out of bounds,
when his excess of pocket-money would enable
him to stand treat all round ? " Why not } " this
friend of his used to say. "Was it so very
impossible for one to get back the cares and
interests, the ambitions, the amusements, the high

spirits of one's boyhood ? " And if he, now,
were to tell her that a far greater miracle had
happened to himself ? That at an age when he
had fancied he had done and seen most things
worth doing and seeing ; when the past seemed
to contain everything worth having, and there
was nothing left but to try how the tedious hours
could be got over ; when a listless cnmii was
eating his very heart out — that he should be
presented as it were with a new lease of life,
with stirring hopes and active interests, with a new
and beautiful faith, with a work that was a joy
in itself, whether any reward was to be or no ?
And surely he could not fail to express to Lord
Evelyn and to herself his gratitude for this
strange thing.

These are but the harsh outlines of what,
so far, he wrote ; but there was a feeling in it —
a touch of gladness and of pathos here and there
that had never before been in any of his
writing, and of which he was himself unconscious.

But at this point he paused, and his breathing
grew quick. It was so difficult to write in these
measured terms. When he resumed, he wrote
more rapidly.

What wonder, he made bold to ask her, if
amid all this bewildering"] change, some still
stranger dream of what might^be possible in the
future should have taken possession of him ? She
and he were leagued in sympathy as regarded
the chief object of their lives ; it was her voice
that had inspired him ; might he not hope that
they should go forward together, in close friendship
at least, if there could be nothing more ?
And as to that something more, was there no
hope ? He could give himself no grounds for
any such hope ; and yet — so much had happened
to him, and mostly through her, that he could set
no limit to the possibilities of happiness that lay
in her generous hands. When he saw her
amongst others,'^^he despaired ; when he thought
of her alone, and of the gentleness of her heart,
he dared to hope. And if this declaration of his
was distressing to her, how easy it was for her to
dismiss and forget it. If he had dared too much,
he had himself to blame. In any case she need
not fear that her refusal should have the effect
of dissociating them in those wider interests and
sympathies to which he had pledged himself.
He would not relinquish what he had undertaken.

And if lie had alarmed or offended her, he
appealed to her charity — to that great kindness
which she seemed eager to extend to all living
creatures. How could such a vision of possible
happiness have arisen in his mind without his
making one effort, however desperate, to realize
it ? At the worst, she would forgive.

This was in brief the substance of what he
wrote ; but when, after many an anxious re-reading,
he put the letter in an envelope, he was
miserably conscious how little it conveyed of all
the hope and desire that had hold of his heart.
But then, he argued with himself, if she inclined
her ear so far, surely he would have other and
better opportunities of pleading with her ; whereas,
if he had been dreaming of impossibilities,
then he and she would meet the more easily in
the future that he had not given too vehement an
expression to all the love and admiration he felt
for her. He could not sacrifice her friendship
also— her society — the chances of listening from
lime to time to the musical, low, soft voice.

Carrying this fateful letter in his hand, he
went downstairs and out into the cool night air.
And now he was haunted by a hundred doubts.

Again and again he was on the point of turning
back to add something, to alter something, to find
some phrase that would appeal more closely to
her heart. And then all of a sudden he convinced
himself that he should not have written
at all. Why not have gone to see her — at any
risk — to plead with herself ? But then he would
have had to write to beg for a tete-astute interview ;
and would not that be more distinctly alarming
than this roundabout epistle, which was meant to
convey so much indirectly ? Finally, he arrived
at the pillar letter-box ; and this indisputable fact
brought an end to his cogitations. If he had gone
walking onwards, he would have wasted the night
in fruitless counsel. He would have repeated
again and again the sentences he had used ;
striven to picture her as she read ; wondered if
he ought not still to go back and strengthen his
prayer. But now it was to be yes or no. Well,
he posted the letter ; and then he breathed more
freely. The die was cast, for good or ill.

And, indeed, no sooner was the thing done
than his spirits rose considerably ; and he walked
on with a lighter heart. This solitary London,
all lamp-lit and silent, was a beautiful city.

ScJdaf sclig und sf/ss," the soft stirring of the
night-wind seemed to say : let her not dread the
message the morning would bring ! He thought
of the other cities she must have visited ; and if —
ah, the dream of it ! — if he and she were to go
away together to behold the glories of the moonlight
on the lagoon, and the wonders of the sunrise
among the hills ! He had seen in Rome,
he remembered, a wonderful coronet of rubies :
would not that do for the beautiful black masses
of hair ? Or pearls ? She did not appear to
have much jewellery. Or rather — seeing that
such things are possible between husband and
wife — would she not accept the value, and far
more than the value, of any jewellery she could
desire, to be given away in acts of kindness ?
That would be more like Natalie.

He walked on, his heart full of an audacious
joy. For now this was the picture before him — a
Buckinghamshire hill ; a red and white house
among the beeches ; and a spacious lawn looking
out on the far and wooded plain, with its villages,
and spires, and tiny curls of smoke. And this
foreign young lady become an English house-mistress
; proud of her nectarines and pine-apples ;

proud of her Hungarian horses ; proud of the
quiet and comfort of the home she can offer to her
friends, when they come for a space to rest from
their labours. ." Schlaf selim und suss ! " the
night-wind seemed to say : " The white morning
is bringing with it a message ! "

To him the mornings brought an end to all
those golden dreams of the night. The reaction
had set in. His old misgivings returned with
redoubled force. For one thing, there was a letter
from Reitzei, saying that the man Kirski had at
length consented to begin to work at his trade,
and that Miss Lind need fear no further annoyance
; and somehow he did not like to see her
name written in this foreign way of writing. She
belonged to these foreigners ; her cares and interests
were not those of one who would feel at
home in that Buckinghamshire house ; she was
remote. And, of course, in her manifold wanderings
— in those hotels in which she had to pass
the day, when 'her father was absent at his secret
interviews — how could she avoid making acquaintances
? Even among those numerous friends of
her father's, there must have been some one here
or there to accompany her in her drives in the

Prater, in her evenings at La Scala, in her morning
walk along the Chiaja. He remembered how
seldom he had seen her; she might have many
more friends in London than he had dreamed of.
Who could see her, and remain blind to her
beauty ? Who could know her, and remain insensible
to the fascination of her enthusiasm, her
faith in the right, her courage, her hope, her frank
friendship with those who would help ?

He was impatient with the veteran Waters this
morning ; and Waters was himself fractious, and
inclined to resent sarcasm. He had just heard
from Buckinghamshire that his substitute had, for
some reason or other, entrusted the keys of the
wine-cellar to one of the housemaids; and that that
industrious person had seized the opportunity to
tilt up all the port-wine she could lay her hands
on in order to polish the bottles with a duster.

"Well," said his master, with calm cynicism, " I
suppose she collected the cobwebs and sold thcni
to a wine-merchant : they would be invaluable."

Waters said nothing ; but resolved to have a
word with the young woman when he went down.

The morning was fmc ; in any case Brand could
not have borne the distress of waiting' in all devon

the chance of her reply coming. He had to
be moving. He walked up to Lisle Street, and
saw Reitzei, on the pretext of talking about
Kirski.

Lind will be back in a week," said the pallid-faced
smart young man, "He writes with great
satisfaction, which always means something in his
case. I should not wonder if he and his daughter
went to live in the States."

Oh, indeed," said Brand ; but the words
made his heart tremble.

Yes, And if you would only go through
the remaining degrees, you might take his place
who knows ? "

Who knows, indeed ? " said Brand. " But
I don't covet the honour."

There was something in his tone which made
the other look up.

I mean the responsibility," he said, quickly.

You see," observed Reitzei, leaning back in
his chair, "one must admit you are having rather
hard lines. Your work is invaluable to us — Lind
is most proud of it — but it is tedious and difficult,
eh ? Now if they were to give you something
like the Syrian business "

What is that ? "

Oh, only one of the many duties the Society
has undertaken," said Reitzei, carelessly. " Not
that I approve because the people are Christians ;
it is because they are numerically weak ; and the
Mahometan treat them shamefully. There is
no one knows about it ; no one to make a row
about it ; and the Government won't let the poor
wretches import arms to defend themselves. Very
well : very well, messieurs ! But your Government
allow the importation of guns for sport.
Ha! and then, if one can find money, and an
ingenious English firm to make rifle barrels to fit
into the sporting-gun stock, can you conceive any
greater fun than smuo-f>"lin<> these barrels into
the country ? My dear fellow, it is glorious : we
could have five hundred volunteers ! But at the
same time I say your work is more valuable tous.
No one but an Englishman could do it.
Every one knows of your success."

Brand thanked Reitzei for his good opinion ;
and rather absently took up his hat, and left.
Instinctively he made his way westward. He
was sure to see her, at a distance, taking this
morning stroll of hers : merit he not crucis something

from her face as to what her reply would
be ? She could not have written so soon ; she
would take time to consider ; even a refusal would,
he knew, be gently worded.

In any case, he would see her; and if her
answer gave no hope, it would be the last time
on which he would follow that graceful figure from
afar with his eyes, and wonder to himself what
the low and musical voice was saying to Anneli.
And as he walked on, he grew more and more
down-hearted. It was a certainty that out of all
those friends of her father's, some one must have
dreamed of possessing this beautiful prize for his
own.

When, after not much waiting, he saw Natalie
and Anneli come into the Park, he had so reasoned
himself into despair that he was not surprised —
at least, he tried to convince himself that he was
not surprised — to perceive that the former was
accompanied by a stranger, the little German
maidservant walking not quite with them and yet
not altogether behind them. He could almost
have expected this ; and yet his eyes seemed hot ;
and he had some difficulty in trying to make out
who this miofht be. And at this ercat distance

he could only gather that he was foreign in appearance,
and that he wore a peaked cap in place
of a hat.

He dared not follow them now ; and he was
about to turn away when he saw Natalie's new
companion motion to her to sit down on one of
the seats. He sat down, too ; and he took her
hand, and held it in his. What, then ?

This man looking on from a distance, and with
a bitter heart, had no thought against her. Was
it not natural for so beautiful a girl to have a
lover ? But that this fellow — this foreigner —
should degrade her by treating her as if she were
a nursery-maid flirting with one of the soldiers
from the barracks down there, this filled him with
bitterness and hatred. He turned and walked
away, with a firm step. He had no ill thoughts
of her, whatever message she might send him.
At the worst, she had been generous to him ; she
had filled his life with love and hope ; she had
given him a future. If this dream were shattered,
at least he could turn elsewhere, and says Labour
be thou my good."

Meanwhile, of this stranger ? He had indeed
taken Natalie Lind's hand in his. and Natalie let
it remain there, without hesitation.

My little daughter," said he to her, in
Italian, " I could have recognized you by your
hands. You have the hands of your mother : no
one in the world had more beautiful hands than
she had. And now I will tell you about her, if
you promise not to cry any more."

It was Clarissa who spoke.

Chapter XVII

CAI.AItRKSSA.

WiiKN Calabrcssa called at the house In Chiron
Street lie was at once admitted ; Natalie rccog-
niziiii^- the name as that of one of her father's
old friends. Calabrcssa had y^ot himself up very
smart)' to produce an impression on the little
Natalushka whom he expected to see. His
military-looking coat was ti<,ditl)' buttoned ; he
had burnished up the gold braid of his cap ; and
as he now ascended the stairs he Feathered the
ends of his moustache out of his )yellow-white".
beard and curled them round and round his
fmf^crs and pulled them out straight. lie hail
already assumed a pleasant smile.

lUit when he entered the shaded drawing-room,
and beheld this figure before him, all the
dancing-master's manner instantly fled from him.
He seemed thunderstruck; he shrank back a

little ; his cap fell to the floor ; he could not utter
a word.

Excuse me — excuse me, mademoiselle," he
gasped out at length, in his odd French. " Ah,
it is like a ghost — like other years come back "

He stared at her.

I am very pleased to see you, sir," said she
to him gently, in Italian.

"Her voice also — her voice also!" he exclaimed,
almost to himself, in the same tongue.
SIgnorina, you will forgive me — but — when one
sees an old friend — you are so like — ah, so
like "

You are speaking of my mother ? " the girl
said, with her eyes cast down. " I have been
told that I was like her. You knew her,
signore ? "

Clarissa pulled himself together somewhat.
He picked up his cap ; he assumed a more
business-like air.

Oh yes, signorina, I knew her," he said,
with an apparent carelessness, but he was regarding
her all the same. " Yes, I knew her well.
We were friends long before she married. What,
are you surprised that I am so old ? Do you

know that I can rcnicnibcr you wlicn )ou were a
very little thing — at Dunkirk it was — and what a
valiant young lady you were, and you would goto
fight the Russians all by yourself! And you — •
you do not remember your mother ? "

I cannot tell," she said, sadly. " They say
it is impossible, and yet — I seem to remember
one who loved me — and my grief when I asked
for her and found she would never come back —
or else that is only my recollection of what I was
told by others. But what of that ? I know
where she is now : she is my constant companion.
I know she loved me ; I know she is always
regarding me ; I talk to her so that I am never
quite alone ; at night I pray to her — as if she
were a saint "

She turned aside somewhat ; her eyes were
full of tears. Clarissa said quickly —

Ah, signorina, why recall what is so sad ?
It is so useless. Allan done ! shall I tell you of
my surprise when I saw you first ? A ghost —
that is nothing! It is true, your father warned
me. He said, ' The little Natalushka is a woman
now.' Ikit how could one believe it .'* "

She had recovered her composure ; she begged
him to be seated.

Bien ! One forgets. Then my old mother
my dear young lady, even I, old as I am, have a
mother — v/hat does she do but draw a prize in the
Austria Hungarian lottery — a huge prize — enough
to demoralize one for life — five thousand florins.
More remarkable still, the money is paid. Not
so remarkable, my good mother declares she will
give half of it to an undutiful son, who has never
done very vv-ell with money in this world. We
come to the ddnozmnent quickly. ' What,' said I,
'shall I do with my new-found liberty and my
new-found money ? To the devil with banks ! I
will be off and away to the land of fogs, to see my
little friend Natalushka and ask her what she
thinks of the Russians now. And the result ?
My little daughter, you have given me such a
fright that I can feel my hands still trembling."

I am very sorry," said she, with a smile.
This gay manner of his had driven away her sad
memories. It seemed quite natural to her that
he should address her as " My little daughter."

But where are the fogs ? It is a Paradise
that I have reached — the air clear and soft — the
gardens beautiful. This morning I said to myself,.
I will go early. Perhaps the lite Natalushka

will be going out for a walk ; perhaps we will go
together.' No, signorina," said he, with a mock-heroic
bow, "it was not with the intention of
buying you toys. But was I not right ? Do I not
perceive by your costume that you were about to
go out ? "

"That is nothing, signore," said she. "It
would be very strange if I could not give up
my morning walk for an old friend of my
father's."

'' suc contraire, you shall not give up your
walk," said he, with great courtesy. "We will
go together. And then you will tell me about
your father."

She accepted this invitation without the
slightest scruple. It did not occur to her — as
it would naturally have occurred to most English
girls — that she would rather not go walking in
Hyde Park with a person who looked remarkable
the leader of a German band.

But Clarissa had known her mother.

Ah, signore." said she, when they had got
into the outer air, " I shall be so grateful to you
if you will tell me about my mother. My father
will not speak of her ; I dare not awaken his

grief again ; he must have suffered much. You
will tell me about her."

My little daughter, your father is wise. Why
awaken old sorrows } You must not spoil your
eyes with more crying."

And then he went on to speak of all sorts of
things, in his rapid, interjectional fashion — of his
escape from prison mostly ; until he perceived
that she was rather silent and sad.

Come then," said he, " we will sit down on
this seat. Give me your hand."

She placed her hand in his without hesitation ;
and he patted it gently ; and said how like it was
to the hand of her mother.

You are a little taller than she was," said he ;
a little, not much. Ah, how beautiful she was !
She had many sweethearts."

He was silent for a minute or two.

Some of them richer, some of them of nobler
birth, than your father ; and one of them her own
cousin, whom all her family wanted her to marry.
But you know, little daughter, your father is a
very determined man "

But she loved him the best ? " said the girl,
quickly.

"All, no doubt, no doubt," said Calabrcssa.
He is very kind to you, is he not ? "

Oh yes. Who could be kinder ? But about
my mother, signore ? "

Clarissa seemed somewhat embarrassed.
To say the truth, little daughter, how am I
to tell you ? I scarcely ever saw her after she
married. Before then, )ou must imagine yourself
as you are now to think of her picture ; and she
was very much beloved ; and very fond of horses.
Is not that enough to tell ? Ah, yes, another
thing : she was very brave when there was endanger
; and you know all the family were strong
patriots ; and one or two got into sad trouble.
When her father — that is your grandfather, little
daughter — when he failed to escape into Turks)
after the assassination "

Here Clarissa stopped, and then gave a
slight wave of his hand.

These are matters not interesting to you.
But when her father had to seek a hiding-place
she went with him in despite of everybody. I
do not suppose he would be alive now but for
her devotion."

Is mother father alive ?" the girl sail.
with e)cs wide open.

I believe so ; but the less said about it the
better, little daughter."

Why has my father never told me ? '" she
asked, with the same almost incredulous stare,

Have I not hinted ? The less said the
better. There are some things no government
will amnesty. Your grandfather was a good
patriot, little daughter."

Thereafter for some minutes silence. Slight
as was the information Clarissa had given her,
it was of interest interest to her. There was
much for her to think over. Her mother, whom
she had been accustomed to regard as a beautiful
saint, placed far above the common was of earth,
was suddenly presented to her in a new light.
She thought of her young, handsome, surrounded
with lovers, proud-spirited and patriotic, a devoted
daughter, a brave woman.

You also loved her ? " she said to Clarissa.

The man started. She had spoken quite innocently
— almost absently : she Mas thinking that
he, too, must have loved the brave young Hungarian
girl as all the world loved her.

I ? " said Clarissa. " Oh yes : I was a
friend of hers for many }-ears. I taught her

Italian; she corrected my Ma^^^yar. Dncc lier
horse ran away; I was walking, and saw her
conning ; there was a watson and oxen, and I
shouted to the man ; he drew the oxen right
across the roatl, and barred the wa\-. Ah, how
angry lie used to be — she pretended to be — when
they told her 1 had saved her life. She was a
bold rider."

Presently Clarissa said, wiili a lighter air —

•• C(jme, let us talk of something else of you.
par c.\\})iplc. How do you like the luiglish ?
\'ou have many sweethearts among them, of
course."

Xo. signore, I have no sweethearts," said
Natalie, without any trace of embarrassment.

"What? Is it possible ? When I saw )our
father in Venice, and he told me the little 
had grown to be a woman, I said to him,
Then she will marry an Englishman.' "

"And what did he say ?" the girl askcil, with
a startled look on her face.

Oh, little, very little. If ihirc was no possibility.
why should he say much .^ "

I have no sweethearts," said Natalie, simply ;
"but I have a friend— who wishes to be more

than a friend. And it is now, when I have to
answer him, it is now that I know what a sad
thing it is to have no mother."

The pathetic vibration that Brand had noticed
was in her voice ; her eyes were downcast ; her
hands clasped. For a second or two Clarissa
was silent.

I am not idly curious, my little daughter,"
he said at length and very gently ; " but if you
knew how long your mother and I were friends,
you would understand the interest I feel in you,
and why I came all this way to see the little
Natalushka. So, one question, dear little one.
Does your father approve ? "

Ah, how can I tell ? "

He took her hand, and his face was grave.

Listen now," said he ; " I am going to give
you advice. If your mother could speak to you,
this is what she would say. Whatever happens —
whatever happens — do not thwart your father's
wishes."

She wished to withdraw her hand, but he still
held it.

I do not understand you," she said. " Papa's
wishes will always be for my happiness : why
should I think of thwarting them } "

\\1iy, indeed ? And again, wliy ? It is nips
to you, my little daughter. Whether you
think your father's wishes arc for your happiness
or not-because, )'ou know, sometimes fathers and
daughters have different ideas — do not go against
his will."

The hot blood mounted to Natalie's forehead
for the first time during this interview.

"Are )'0u predicting strife, signore ? I owe
obedience to my father, I know it ; but I am nota
child. I am a woman, and have m}' own wishes.
My papa would not think of thwarting them."

Natalushka, you must not be angry with me."

I am not angry', signore ; but you must not
suppose that I am quite a child."

Pardieu, non ! " said Calabrcssa. " I expected
to find Natalushka ; I find Natalie — ah, heaven !
that is the wonder and the sadness of it to me ! I
think I ani talking to your mother: these are her
hands. I listen to her voice : it seems twenty
ago. And you have a proud spirit as she
had : again I say — do not thwart )our father's
wishes, Natalie — rather, Natalushka!"

He spoke with such an obvious kindness and
earnestness that she could not feel offended.

And if you want any one to help you at anytime,
my little daughter — for who knows the ways
of the world, and what may happen ? — if your
father is sent away, and you are alone, and you
want some one to do something for you, then this
is what you will say to yourself: 'There is that
old fool Clarissa who has nothing in the world
to do but smoke cigarettes and twirl his moustache
: I will send for Clarissa.' And this I
promise, little one, that Clarissa will very soon
be at your feet."

I thank you, signore."

'* It is true, I may be away on duty, as your
father might be ; but I have friends at headquarters
; I have done some service. And if I
were to say, ' Clarissa wishes to be relieved
from duty ; it is the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi
who demands his presence,' I know the answer :
Clarissa will proceed at once to obey the commands
of the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi.' "

But who ? "

No, my little daughter, you must not ask
that. I will tell you only that they are all-powerful
; that they will protect you — with Clarissa
as their agent ; and before I leave this city I will

give you my address, or rather I will give you an
address where you will find some one who will
guide you to me. May Heaven grant that there
be no need. Why should harm come to one who
is so beautiful and so gentle ? "

"My mother : was she happy ? " she said,
quickly

daughter," said he, sharply, and he
threw away her hand, " if you ask me any more
questions about your mother, )ou will make ni)"
heart bleed. Do you not understand so simple a
thing as that, you who claim to be a woman ^
You have been stabbing me. Come, come :
aliens! — let us talk of something else — of your
friend who wishes to be more than friend — you.
wicked little one, who have no sweetheart ! And
what are those fools of English about ? Wliat ?
But tell me — is he one of us ? "

Oh yes, signore," said she ; and instead of
showing any shamefacedness, she turned towards
him and regarded him with the fearless, soft, dark
eyes. "How could you think otherwise ? And
he is so brave and noble : he is not afraid cjI
sacrificing those things that the English put such
store by "

English ? " said Clarissa.

Yes," said Natalie ; and now she looked
down.

And what does your heart say ? "

She spoke very gently in reply.

Signore, I have not answered him yet ; you
cannot expect me to answer you."

"A la bonne here ! Little traitress, to say
she has no sweethearts ! Happy Englishman !
What, then, do I distress you ? It is not so
simple ? It is an embarrassment, this proposal
that he has made to you ? But I will not trouble
you further with my questions, little daughter :
how can an old gaol-bird like myself understand a
young linnet-thing that has always been flying
and fluttering about in happiness and the free air ?
Enjoin, let us go ! I perceive your little maid is
tired of standing and staring ; perhaps it Is time
for you to go back."

She rose, and the three of them slowly proceeded
along the gravelled path.

Your father does not return until next week :
must I wait a whole week in this desert of a town
before seeing you again, petite ? "

Oh no," said Natalie, smiling ; " that is not

ncccssar)'. If my papa were here now he would
certainly ask you to dine with us to-nltj^ht : may
I do so in his place ? You will not find much
amusement : but Madame Potecki — you knew
her husband perhaps ? "

Potecki the Pole, who was killed ? "
Yes. She will play a little music for you.
But there are so many amusements in London ;
perhaps you would rather not spend your evening
with two poor solitary creatures like us."

My little daughter, to hear you speak, that
is all I want. It takes twenty years away from
my life ; I do not know whether to laugh or to
cry. But courage / we will put a good face on
our little "reefs. This evening; — this evening's
will pretend to myself something — I am going to
live my old life over again — for an hour; I will
blow a horn as soon as I have crossed the Erlau,
and they will hear it up at the big house among
the pines, where the lights are shining through
the dark, and they will send a servant down to
open the gates. And you will appear at the hall-door,
and say, ' Signor Clarissa, why do you
make such a noise to awaken the dogs .-* ' And
I will say, ' Dear Miss Berezolyi, the pine-woods

are frightfully dark ; ma}- I not scare away the
ghosts ? ' "

"It was my mother who received 3^011 ? " the
girl said, in a low voice.

It was Natalie then ; to-night it will be
Natalushka."

He spoke lightly, so as not to make these
reminiscences too serious. But the conjunction
of the two names seemed suddenly to startle the
girl. She stopped, and looked him in the face.

"It was you, then," she said, "who sent me
the locket."

What locket ? " he said, with surprise.

The locket the lady dropped into my lap —
'From N'atalic to Natahishka! "

I declare to you, little daughter, I never
heard of it."

The girl looked bewildered.

Ah, how stupid I am ! " she exclaimed. " I
could not understand. But if they always called
her Natalie, and me Natalushka "

She paused for a moment, to collect her
thoughts.

Signor Clarissa, what does it mean ? " she
said, almost wildly. "If one sends me a locket —

From Natalie to Nataliishka ' — was It in)-
mother's ? Did she intend it for me ? Did she
leave it for me with some one, long ago ? How
could it come into the hands of a stranger ? "

Clarissa himself seemed rather bewildered
almost alarmed.

My little daughter, you have no doubt
guessed right," he said, soothingly. " Your
mother may have meant it for you — and — and
perhaps it was lost — and just recovered "

"Signor Clarissa," said she — and he could
have fancied it was her mother who was speaking
in that low, earnest, almost sad voice, " you said
you would do me an act of friendship, if I asked
you. I cannot ask my father : he seems too
grieved to Speak of my mother at any time. But
do you think you could find out who the lady was
who brought that locket to me ? That would be
kind of you, if you could do that."

CHAPTER XVIII.

HER ANSWER.

Humphreys, the delegate from the north, and
O'Halloran, the Irish reporter, had been invited
by George Brand to dine with him on this
evening — Humphreys having to start for Wolverhampton
next day ; and the three were just sitting
down when Lord Evelyn called in, uninvited, and
asked if he might have a plate placed for him.
Humphreys was anxious that their host should
set out with him for the north in the morning ;
but Brand would not promise. He was obviously
thinking of other things. He was at once restless,
preoccupied, and silent.

I hope, my lord, you have come to put our
friend here in better sjDlrits," said Humphreys ;
blushing a little as he ventured to call one of the
Brands of Darlington his friend.

What is the matter "i "

At this moment Waters appeared at the door,
with a letter in his hand. Brand instantly rose,
went forward to him and took the letter, and
retired into an adjoining room, A\'ithout looking,
he knew from whom it had come.

His hand was shaking as he opened the
envelope ; but the words that met his eyes were
calm.

"My dear Friend,

Your letter has given me joy and pain.
Joy that you still adhere to your noble resolve;
that you have found gladness in your life ; that
you will work on to the end, whatever the fruit
of the work may be. But this other thought of
yours — that only distresses me ; it clouds the
future with uncertainty and doubt, where there
should only be clear faith. My dear friend, I
must ask you to put away that thought Let the
feu sacred of the regenerator, the liberator, have
full possession of you ; how I should blame myself
if I were to distract you from the aims to which
you have devoted your life. I have no one to
advise me ; but this I know is right. You will,
I think, not misunderstand me — you \\'}\ not think

it maidenly of me — if I confess to you that I
have written these words with some pain, some
touch of regret that all is not possible to you that
you may desire. But for one soul one devotion.
Do I express myself clearly ? — you know English
is not my native tongue. If we may not go
through life together, in the sense that you mean,
we need not be far apart ; and you will know, as
you go forward in the path of a noble duty, that
there is not any one who regards you and the
work you will do with a greater pride and affection
than your friend,

Natalie."

What could it all mean ? he asked himself.
This was not the letter of a woman who loved
another man ; she would have been more explicit ;
she would have given sufficient reason for her
refusal. He read again, with a beating heart,
with a wild hope, that veiled and subtle expression
of regret. Was it not that she was prepared
to sacrifice for ever those dreams of a secure and
happy and loving life, that come naturally to a
young girl, lest they should interfere with what
she regarded as the higher dut3^ the more imperative

devotion ? In that case, it was for a firmer
nature than her own to take this matter in hand.
She was but a child ; knowing; nothing of the
sorrows of the work, of the necessity of protection,
of the chances the years mii^ht bring.
Scarcely conscious of what he did — so eagerly
was his mind engaged — he opened a drawer and
locked the letter in. Then he went hastily into
the other room.

Evelyn," said he, " will you take my place,
like a good fellow? I shall be back as soon as I
can. Waters will get you everything you want."

But about Wolverhampton, Mr. Brand .'* "
shouted Humphreys after him.

There was no answer ; he was half-way down
the stairs.

When the Hansom arrived in Curzon Street
a hurried o-lance showed him that the diningroom
was lit u^). She was at home, then : that
was enough. Tor the rest he was not going to
trouble himself with formalities when so beautiful
a prize might still be within his reach.

He knocked at the door ; the Little Anncli
appeared.

Anneli," said he, "I want to sec Miss Lind

for a moment — say I shall not detain her — if
there is any one with her "

They are in the dining-room, sir ; Madame
Potecki, and a strange gentleman "

Ask your mistress to let me see her for one
moment : don't you understand ? "

They are just finishing dinner, sir : if you
will step up to the drawing-room they will be
there in a minute or two."

But at last he got the little German maid to
understand that he wished to see Miss Lind
alone, for the briefest possible time ; and that
she was to carry this message in an undertone
to her mistress. By himself he made his way
upstairs to the drawing-room ; the lamps were lit.

He lifted books, photographs, and what not,
with trembling fingers ; and put them down
again, without knowing it. He was thinking,
not looking. And he was trying to force himself
into a masterful mood. She was only a child,
he kept repeating to himself — only a child, who
wanted guidance, instruction, a protecting hand.
It was not her fancies, however generous and
noble, that should shape the destinies of two
lives. A beautiful child, ignorant of the world

and its evil : full of dreams of impossible and
unnecessary self-sacrifice, she was not one to
ordain ; surely her way in life was to be led, and
cherished, and loved, trusting to the stronger
hand for guidance and safety.

There was a slight rustle outside, and presently
Natalie entered the room. She was pale — perhaps
she looked all the paler that she wore the
long, sweeping black dress she had worn at Lady
Evelyn's. In silence she gave him her hand ; he
took it in both his.

"Natalie!"

It was a cry of entreaty ; almost of pain ; for
this fond vision of his of her being only a child,
to be mastered and guided, had fled the moment
he caught sight of this tall and beautiful woman,
whose self-command, despite that paleness and
a certain apprehension in the dark eyes, was far
greater than his own.

Natalie, you must give me a clearer answer."

He tried to read the answer in her eyes ; but
she lowered them as she spoke.

Was not my answer clear ? " she said, gently.
"I wished not to give )OU pain."

But was all your answer there ? " he said,

quickly. " Were there no other reasons ?
Natahe ! — don't you know that if you regretted
your decision ever so little — if you thought twice
about it — if even now you can give me leave to
hope that one day you will be my wife — there
were no reasons at all in your letter for your
refusing — none at all ? If you love me even so

little that you regret "

I must not listen to you," she said, hurriedly.
No, no. My answer was best for us both. I
am sorry if it pains you ; but you have other
things to think of; we have our separate duties
in the world — duties that are of first importance.

My dear friend," she continued, with an air of
appeal, " don't you see how I am situated .'* I
have no one to advise, me — not even my father,

though I can guess what he would say— I know

what he would say. And my heart tells me that

I have done right."

One word," said he. " This you must

answer me frankly. Is there no other reason for

your refusal ? Is your heart free to choose ? "
She looked up and met his eyes lor a moment ;

only for a moment.

I understand you," she said, with some slight

colour mounting to the pale clear olive of her
brow. " No, there is not any reason like that."

A quick, proud light leapt into his eyes.

Then," said he, " I refuse to accept your
refusal. Natalie, you will be my wife ! "

Oh, do not say that — do not think of it.
I have done wrong even to listen, to let you
speak "

But what I say is true. I claim you, as
surely as I now hold your hand "

Hush ! "

There were two people coming into the room ;
he did not care if there were a regiment. He
relinquished her hand, it is true ; but there was
a proud and grateful look on his face ; he did
not even turn to regard the new-comers.

These were Madame Potecki and Clarissa.
The little Polish lady had misconstrued Natalie's
parting words to mean that some visitors had
arrived, and that she and Clarissa were to
follow when they pleased. Now that they had
appeared in the drawing-room, they could not
fail to perceive how matters stood, and, in fact,
the little gentlewoman was on the point of retiring.
But Natalie was (suite mistress of the situation.

She reminded Madame Poteckl that she had
met Mr. Brand before. She introduced Clarissa
to the stranger, saying that he was a
friend of her father's.

"It is opportune — it is a felicitous circumstance,"
said Clarissa, in his nasal French.
Mademoiselle, behold the truth. If I do not
have a cigarette after my food, I die — veritably
I die. Now your friend, the friend of the house,
surely he will take compassion on me ; and
we will have a cigarette together in some apartment."


Here he touched Brand's elbow, having sidled
up to him. On any other occasion, Brand would
have resented the touch, the invitation, the mere
presence, of this theatrical-looking albino. But
he was not in a captious mood. How could he
refuse when he heard Natalie say, in the soft
low voice —

Will you be so kind, Mr. Brand ? Anneli
will light up papa's little smoking-room."

Directly afterwards he found himself in the
small study, alone with this odd-looking person,
whom he easily recognized as the stranger who
had been walking in the Park with Natalie in

the morning;. Closer inspection rendered liii
less afraid of this rival.

Clarissa rolled a cigarette between his
fingers, and lit it.

I ask your pardon, monsieur. I ask your
pardon beforehand. I am about to be impertinent
; it is necessaria you will tell me
some things, I will tell you some things, which
it may be better for you to know. First, then,
I assume that you wish to marry that dear child,
that beautiful young lady upstairs."

My good friend, you are a little bit too
outrageous," said Brand.

Ah ? Then I must begin ? You know,
perhaps, that the mother of this young lady is
alive } "'

"Alive!"

I perceive }-ou do not know," said Clarissa,
coolly. " I thought you would know — I thought
you would guess. A child might guess. She
told me you had seen the locket — Natalie to
Nataljishka — was not that enough .'* "

'• If Miss kind herself did not guess that her
mother was alive, how should I ?"

"If you have been brought u[) for sixteen

or eighteen years to mourn one as dead, you do
not quickly imagine that he or she is not dead :
you perceive ? "

Well, it is extraordinary enough," said Brand,
thoughtfully. "With such a daughter, if she has
the heart of a mother at all, how could she
remain away from her for sixteen years ? "

A thought struck him ; and his forehead
coloured quickly.

There was no disgrace ^ "

At this word Clarissa started ; and the
small eyes flashed fire.

I tell you, monsieur, that it is not in my
presence that any one must mention the word
disgrace and also the name of Natalie Berezolyi.
No ; I will answer — I myself— I will answer for
the good name of Natalie Berezolyi, by the bounty
of Heaven ! "

He shrugged his shoulders.

You are ignorant — you made a mistake. And
I — well, you perceive, monsieur, that I am not
ashamed to confess — I loved her ; she was the
radiant light, the star of my life ! "

La bLviicre rayonnante, rdoile dc ma vie ! "
the phrases sounded ridiculous enough when

uttered by this histrionic person ; but even his
self-conscious gesticulation did not offend Brand.
This man, at all events, had loved the mother of
Natalie.

Then it was some very powerful motive that
kept mother and daughter apart," said he.

Yes, I cannot explain it all to you, if I quite
know it all. But every year the mother comes
with a birthday present of flowers for the child ;
and watches to see her once or twice ; and then
away back she goes, to the retreat of her father.
Ah, the devotion of that beautiful saint ! If there
is a Heaven at all, Natalie Berezolyi will be
among the angels."

Then you have come to tell Natalie that her
mother is alive. I envy you. How grateful the
girl will be to you ! "

I ? What, I ? No, truly, I dare not. And
that is why I wish to speak to you : I thought
perhaps you would guess, or find out : then I say,
do not utter a word ! Why do I give you this
secret ? Why have I sought to speak with you,
monsieur ? Well, if you will not speak, I will.
Something the little Natalushka said — to me she
must always be the little Natalushka in name,

though she is so handsome a woman now — something
she said to me revealed a Httle secret. Then
I said, ' Perhaps Natalushka will have a happier
life than Natalie has had, only her husband must
be discreet.' Now, monsieur, listen to me.
What I said to Natalushka, I say to you : do
not thwart her father's wishes. He is a determined
man, and angry when he is opposed."

My good sir, other people may have an ounce
or two of determination also. You mean that I
must never let Natalie know that her mother is
alive, for fear of Lind ? Is that what you mean ?
Come, then ! "

He strode to the door, and had his hand
on the handle, when Clarissa jumped up and
caught him and interposed.

For Heaven's sake — for Heaven's sake,
monsieur, why be so inconsiderate, so rash ? "

Has the dread of this man Lind frightened
you out of your wits ? "

"He is invulnerable — and implacable," said
Clarissa. *' But he is a good friend, when he
has his own way. Why not be friends ? You
will have to ask him for his daughter. Consider,
monsieur : that is something."

Well, there is reason in that," Brand said,
reflectively. " And I am inclined to be friendly
with every one to-night, Signor Clarissa. It
may be that Lind has his reasons ; and he is the
natural guardian of his daughter — at present.
But she might have another guardian, Signor
Clarissa ? "

The wicked one ! — she has promised herself
to you ? And she told me she had no sweethearts,
the rogue ! "

No, she has not promised. But what may
not one dare to hope for, when one sees her
so generous and kind ? She is like her mother,
is she not ? Now I am going to slip away, Signor
Clarissa ; when-ou have had another cigarette,
will you go upstairs and explain to the two ladies
that I have three friends who are now dining
at my house, and I must get back to them ? "

Clarissa rose, and took the taller man's hand
in his.

I think our little Natalushka is right intrusting
herself to you ; I think you will be
kind to her ; I know you will be brave enough
to protect her. All very well. But-ou English
are so headstrong. Why not a little caution, a

little prudence, to smooth the way through
life ? "

Brand laughed ; but he had taken a liking
to this odd-looking man.

Now, good night, Signor Clarissa. You
have done me a great service. And if Natalie's
mother wishes to see her daughter — well, I think
the opportunity will come. In the mean time, I
will be quite cautious and prudent, and compromise
nobody ; even if I cannot wholly promise
to tremble at the name of the Invulnerable and
the Implacable."

Ah, monsieur," said Clarissa, with a sigh —
his gay gesticulation having quite left him — " I
hope I have done no mischief. It was all for the
little Natalushka. It will be so much better for
you and for her to be on good terms with
Ferdinand Lind."

We will see," Brand said, lightly. " The
people in this part of the world generally do
as they're done by."

CHAPTER XIX.

AT THE CULTURVEREIN.

On calm reflection Clarissa gave himself the
benefit of his own approval ; and on the whole
was rather proud of his diplomacy. He had
revealed enough, and not too much ; he had
given the headstrong Englishman prudent warnings
and judicious counsel ; he had done what
he could for the future of the little Natalushka,
who was the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi. But
there was something more.

He went upstairs.

My dear little one," he said, in his queer
French, " behold me — I come alone. Your English
friend sends a thousand apologies — he has
to return to his guests : is it an English custom
to leave guests in such a manner ? Ah, Madame
Potecki, there is a time in one's life when one
does strange things, is there not ? When a farewell

before strangers is hateful — impossible ; when
you rather go away silently than come before
strangers and shake hands and all the rest.
What, wicked little one, you look alarmed ? Is
it a secret, then ? Does not Madame guess anything
? "

I entreat you, Signor Clarissa, not to speak
in riddles," said Natalie, hastily. " See, here is
a telegram from papa. He will be back in London
on Monday next week. You can stay to see
him, can you not ? "

Mademoiselle, do you not understand that
I am not my own master for two moments in
succession ? For this present moment I am ; the
next I may be under orders. But if my freedom,
my holiday, lasts — yes, I shall be glad to see
your father, and I will wait. In the mean time,
I must use up my present moment. Can you
give me the address of Vincent Beratinsky ? "

She wrote it down for him ; it was a number
in Oxford Street.

"Now I will add my excuses to those of the
tall Englishman," said he, rising. " Good night,
Madame. Good night. Mademoiselle — truly, it
is a folly to call you the little Natalushka, who

are taller than your beautiful mother. But it was
the little Natalushka I was thinkiiiL^ about for
many a year. Good niglu, wicked little one, with
your secrets ! "

He kissed her hand, bowed once more to the
little Polish lady, and left.

When, after considerable difficulty — for he was
exceedingly near-sighted — he made out the number
in Oxford Street, he found another caller just
leaving. This stranger glanced at him ; and instantly
said, in a low voice —

The night is dark, brother."

Clarissa started ; but the other gave one
or two signs that reassured him.

I knew you were in London, signore ; and
I recognized you — we have your photograph in
Lisle Street. My name is Reitzci "

*' Ah ! " Clarissa exclaimed, with a new
interest, as he looked at the pallid-faced young-man.


And if you wish to sec Beratinsk)-, I will
take you to him. I fid he is at the Culturverein :
I was going there myself." So Clarissa suffered
himself to be led away.

At this time the Culturverein used to meet

in a large hall in a narrow lane off Oxford Street.
It was an association of persons, mostly German,
connected in some way or other with art, music,
or letters — a merry-hearted, free-and-easy little
band of people, who met every evening to laugh
and talk and joke and generally forget the world
and all its cares. The evening usually began with
Bavarian beer, sonatas, and comic lectures ; then
Rhine wines began to appear, and of course these
brought with them songs of love, and friendship,
and patriotism ; occasionally, when the older and
wiser folk had gone, sweet champagne and a wild
frolic prevailed until daylight came to drive the
revellers out. Beratinsky belonged to the Herein
by reason of his having, at one time, betaken
himself to water-colour drawing, in order to keep
himself alive.

When Clarissa entered the large, long hall,
the walls of which were plentifully hung with
sketches in colour and cartoons in black and
white, the fertig ! — los ! period had not arrived.
On the contrary, the meeting was exceedingly
demure, almost dull ; for a German music-professor,
seated at the piano on the platform, was
playing one of his own compositions, which, however

beautiful, was of considerable length ; and
his audience had relapsed into half-hushed conversation,
over their light cigars and tall glasses
of Bairisch.

Beratinsky had to come along to the entrance -
hall to enter the names of his visitors in a book.
He was a little man, somewhat corpulent, with
bushy black eyebrows, intensely black eyes, and
black closely cropped beard. The head was
rather handsome ; the figure not.

Ah, Clarissa, you have come alive acfain,"

'J o '

he said, speaking in pretty fair Italian. "We
heard you where in London. What is it .-^ "

The last phrase was uttered in a low voice,
though there was no bystander. But Clarissa
with a lofty gesture, replied —

My friend, we are not always on commissions.
Sometimes we have a little liberty — a
little money — a notion in our head. And if one
cannot exactly travel en prince, iiwip07'tc! we
have our little excursion. And if one has one's
sweetheart to see ? Do you know, friend Berar
that I have been dining with Natalie — the
little Natalushka, as she used to be called ? "

Beratinsky glanced quickly at him, with the
black, piercing eyes.

Ah, the beautiful child ! the beautiful child ! "
Clarissa exclaimed, as if he were addressing-some
one not present. " The mouth sweet,
pathetic, like that in Titian's Assumption : you
have seen the picture in the Venice Academy ?
But she is darker than Titian's Virgin ; she is
of the black, handsome Magyar breed, like her
mother. You never saw her mother, Beratinsky ? "
No," said the other, rather surlily. " Come,,
sit down, and have a cigar."

A cigarette — a cigarette and a little cognac,
if you please," said Clarissa, when the three
companions had gone along to the middle of the
hall and taken their seats. " Ah, it was such a
surprise to me : the sight of her grown to bea
woman — and the perfect, beautiful image of her
mother — the very voice too — I could have thought
it was a dream."

Did you come here to talk of nothing but
Lind's daughter ? " said Beratinsky, with scant
courtesy.

Precisely," remarked Clarissa, in absolute
good humour. " But before that, a word."

He glanced round this assemblage of foreign-looking
persons, no doubt guessing at the various

nationalities indicated b)' physique and complexion
— Prussian, Pole, Philander, Swiss, and
what not. If the company, in English eyes,
might have looked Bohemian, that is to say, unconventional
in manner and costume, the Bohemianism
at all events was of a well-to-do, cheerful,
good-humoured character. There was a good
deal of talking besides the music.

These gentlemen," said Clarissa, in a
low voice, "are they Friends — are they with us .-* "

Only one or two," said Beratinsk)-.

You do not come here to proselytize, then ? ''

One must amuse oneself, sometimes," said
the little, fat, black - haired Pole, somewhat
grufli)-.

Then one must take care what one says ? "

I presume that is generally the case, friend
Clarissa."

But Clarissa was not offended. He was
interested in what was going on.

Par exemple," he said, in his fairway "que
vient faire la le drove ? "

The music had come to an cx\^, and the
spectacled professor had retired ariel a thunder of
applause. His successor, who had attracted Clarissa's

attention, was a gentleman who had
mounted on a high easel an immense portfolio
of cartoons roughly executed in crayon ; and ashe
exhibited them one by one, he pointed out
their characteristics with a long stick, after the
manner of a showman. His demeanour was
serious ; his face was grave ; his tone was simple
and business-like. But as he unfolded these rude
drawings, Clarissa, who understood but little
German, was more and more astonished to find
the guttural laughter around him increase and
increase until the whole place resounded with
roars, while some of the old Herren held their
sides in pain, as the tears of this gigantic mirth
streamed down their cheeks. Those who were
able hammered loud applause on the table before
them ; others rolled in their chairs ; many could
only lie back and send their merriment up to
the reverberating roof in shrill shrieks and yells.

"In the name of Heaven, what is it all about?"

said Clarissa. " Have the people gone mad ? "

Illustrations of German proverbs," said Berar

who, despite his surly manner, was himself

forced to smile.

Well, Clarissa had indeed come here to

talk about Lind's daughter ; but it was impossible
amid] this wild surging to and fro of Olympian
laughter. At last, however, the showman came
to an] end of his cartoons, and solemnly made his
bow, and amid tumultuous cheering resumed
his place among his companions.

There was a pause, given over to chatter and
joking ; and Clarissa quickly embraced this
opportunity.

You are a friend of the little Natalushka —
of the beautiful Natalie, I should say, perhaps ? "

Lind's daughter does not choose to have
many friends," said Beratinsky, curtly.

This was not promising ; and, indeed, the
corpulent little Pole showed great disinclination
to talk about the young lady who had so laid hold
of Calabrcssa's heart. But Calabrcssa was not
to be denied, when it was the welfare of the
daughter of Natalie Berezolyi that was concerned.

Yes, yes, friend Beratinsky, of course she
is very much alone. It is rather a sad thing
for a young girl to be so much alone."

And if she chooses to be alone ? " said Berar
with a sharpness that resembled the snarl
of a terrier.

Perhaps it was to get rid of the topic that
Beratinsky here joined in a clamorous call for
Nageli ! " " Nageli ! " Presently a fresh-coloured
young Switzer, laughing and blushing
tremendously, went up to the platform and took
his seat at the piano, and struck a few noisy
chords. It was a Tyrolese song he sung, with
a model refrain of his own invention :

Hai eine)' cin Sc/iiitzcrl,

So hleibt er dacier

nivimt sie sum Weber,

Und lieut sie refit treat.

Damn fdngt man die JVirt/isc/iaff,

Gemei?7sc/iaftlich an,

Und lieut socii, und herat sicJi

So scJir a Is man ann !

Great cheering followed the skilfully executed
model. In the midst of it one of the numbers
rose and said in German —

Mine Herren ! You know our good friend
Nageli is going to leave us ; perhaps we shall not
see him again for many years. I challenge you
to drink this toast : ' Nageli, and his quick return! '
I say to him what some of the shopkeepers in our
Fatherland say to their customers : ' Kommen Sie
bald wider ! ' "

Here there was a great shouting of " Niigeli !

Nageli ! " until one started the chorus, which was

immediately and sonorously sung by the whole

assemblage —

Loch soil er Icbcn !
Loch soil cr lehcn /

Decimal loch !

Another pause, clichy devoted to the ordering
of Hochheimer and the lighting of fresh cigars.
The souls of the sons of the Fatherland were
beginning to warm.

Friend Beratinsky," said the anxious-hearted
albino, "perhaps )ou know that man)- )rears aga
I knew the mother of Natalie Lind — she was
a neighbour— a companion — of mine ; and I am
interested in the little one. A young girl sometimes
has need of friends. Now, you are in a
position "

Friend Clarissa, }-ou massive your
breath," said the other, coldly. " The young lady
might have had my friendship if she had chosen.
She did not choose. I suppose she is old enough
and proud enough — to choose her own friends.
Yes, yes, friend Clarissa, I have heard. lUit
we will say nothing more : now listen to historical
fellow."

Clarissa was not thinking of the young
Englishman who now sat down to the piano ; a
strange suspicion was beginning to fill his mind.
Was it possible, he began inwardly to ask, that
Vincent Beratinsky had himself aspired to marry
the beautiful Hungarian girl ?

This good-looking young English fellow, with
a gravity equal to that of the sham showman,
explained to his audience that he was composing
an operetta, of which he would give them a few
passages. He was a skilful pianist. He explained,
as his fingers ran up and down the keys,
that the scene was in Radcliffe Highway. A
tavern : a hornpipe. Jack ashore. Unseemly
squabbles — here there were harsh discords and
shrill screams. Drunkenness ; the music getting
very helpless. Then the daylight comes — the
chirping of sparrows — Jack wanders out — the
breath of the morning stirs his memories — he
thinks of other days. Then comes in Jack's
song, which neither Clarissa nor any one else
present could say was meant to be comic, or
pathetic, or a demoniac mixture of both. The
accompaniment which the handsome young English
fellow played was at once rhythmical, and
low, and sad, like the wash of waves : —

O the days were long,

And the summers were lojig,
\VJien Jane and I went courting' ;

The hills were blue beyond the sky ;

The heather was soft where ive did lie ;

We kissed our fill, did Jane and I,
When Jane and I went court in

Wienjane and I went courting' ,

O the days were long,

And the summers were long !

We walked by tight beyond the quay ;

Aboi'e, the stars ; beloio, the sea ;

A fid I kissed Jane, and Jane kissed me,
IVlien Jane and I went courting'.

But Jane she married the lodger-chap ;

An end to me and my courting'.

And I took ship, and here I am ;

Aid where I go, I care riot a damn —

Rio, Jamaica, Seringapatam —
Good-bye to Jane and the courting' I

This second professor of gravity was abundantly
cheered too, when he rose from the piano ;
for the music was quaint and original, with a sort
of unholy, grotesque pathos running through it.
Calabr(issa resumed :

My good Beratinsky, what is it that you
have heard ? "

No matter. Natalie Lind has no need of

your good offices, Clarissa. She can make
friends for herself, and quickly enough, too."

Clarissa's eyes were not keen, but his ears
were ; he detected easily the personal rancour in
the man's tone.

You are speaking of some one : the Englishman
? "

Beratinsky burst out laughing.

Listen, Reitzei ! Even my good friend 
perceives. He, too, has encountered the
Englishman. Oh yes, we must all give way to
him ; else he will stamp on our toes with his
thick English boots. You, Reitzei : how long is
he to allow you to retain your office ? "

Better for him if he does not interfere with
me," said the younger man. " I was always
against the English being allowed to become
officers. They are too arrogant ; they want
everything under their direction. Take their
money, but keep them outside : that would have
been my rule."

And this Englishman," said Beratinsky, with
a smile, though there was the light of malice in
his eye, " this Englishman is not content with
wanting to have the mastery of poor devils like

"A girl must marry," said Clarissa.

I thought she was too proud to think of such
things," said the other, scornfully. " However, I
entreat you to say no more. What concern have
I with Natalie Lind ? I tell you — let her make
more new friends."

Clarissa sat silent, his heart as heavy as
lead. He had come with some notion that he
would secure one other — powerful and in all of
Lind's secrets — on whom Natalie could rely,
should any emergency occur in which she needed
help. But these jealous and envious taunts, these
malignant prophecies, only too clearly showed
him in what relation Vincent Beratinsky stood
with regard to the daughter of Natalie Bcrezolyi
and the Englishman, her lover.

Clarissa sat silent. When some one began
to play the either, he was thinking not of the
Culturverein in London, but of the dark pine-woods
above the Erlau, and of the house there,
and of Natalie Berezolyi as she played in the
evening. He would ask Natalushka if she, too,
played the either.

CHAPTER XX.

Fidelia.

George Brand walked away from the house in
Curzon Street in a sort of bewilderment of hope
and happiness and gratitude. He would even
try to accept Clarissa's well-meant counsel :
why should he not be friends with everybody ?
The world had grown very beautiful ; there was
to be no more quarrelling in it, or envy, or malice.

In the dark he almost ran against a ragged
little child who was selling (lowers.

Will you buy a rosebud, sir ? " said she.

"What?" he said, severely, 'selling flowers
at this time of night ? Get away home with you,
and get your supper, and go to bed " — but he
spoiled the effect of his sharp admonition by giving
the girl all the silver he had in his pocket.

He found the little dinner-party in a most
loquacious mood. O'llalloran in especial was in

y. X

full swing. The Internal economy of England
was to be readjusted. The capital must be transferred
to the centre of the real wealth and brain-dower
of the country that is to say, somewhere
about Leeds or Manchester. This proposition
greatly pleased Humphreys, the man from the
north, who was quite willing to let the Royal
Academy, the South Kensington and National
Galleries, and the British Museum remain in
London, so long as the seat of government was
transferred to Huddersfield or thereabouts. But
O'Halloran drew such a harrowing picture of the
effect produced on the south of England intellect
by its notorious and intense devotion to the arts,
that Humphreys was almost convicted of cruelty.
However, if these graceless people thought to
humbug the hard-headed man from the north, he
succeeded on one occasion in completely silencing
his chief enemy, O'Halloran. That lover of
paradox and idle speculation was tracing the
decline of superstition to the introduction of the
use of steam, and was showing how, wherever
railways went in India, ghosts disappeared ;
whereupon the Darlington man calmly retorted
that, as far as he could see, the railways in this

country were engaged in making as many ghosts
as they could possibly disperse in India. This
flank attack completely surprised and silenced
the light skirmishes, who sought safety in lighting
another cigar.

jNIore serious matters, however, were also talked
about; and Humphreys was eager that Brand
should go down to Wolverhampton with him next
morning. Brand pleaded but for one day's delay.
Humphreys reminded him that certain members of
the Political Committee of the Trades Union
Congress would be at Wolverhampton, and that
he had promised to see them. After that, silence.

At last, as Humphreys and O'Halloran were
leaving, Brand said, with an effort —

No, it is no use, Humphreys. I must remain
in London one more day. You go down tomorrow
; I shall come by the first train next
morning. Molyneux and the others won't be
leaving for some days."

Very well, sir ; good night, sir."

Brand returned into the room, and threw
himself into an easy-chair ; his only companion
now was his old friend Evelyn.
The younger man regarded him.

I can tell the whole story, Brand ; I have
been reading it in your face. You were troubled
and perplexed before you got that letter. It gave
you some hope. Off you went to see Natalie ;
you came back with something in your manner
that told me you had seen her and had been
received favourably. Now it is only one more
day of happiness you hunger for, before going upto
the hard work of the north. Well, I don't
wonder. But, at the same time, you look a little
too restless and anxious for a man who has just
won such a beautiful sweetheart."

*' I am not so lucky as that, Evelyn," said he,
absently.

What : you did not see her ? "

"Oh yes, I saw her. And I hope. But of
course one craves for some full assurance, when
such a prize is within reach. And^and I suppose
one's nerves are a little excited, so that you
imagine possibilities and dangers "

He rose and took a turn up and down the
room.

*' It is the old story, Evelyn. I distrust Lind."

What has that to do with it ? "

•' As you say, what has that to do with it ? If

I had Natalie's full promise, I should care for
nodding. She is a woman ; she is not a schoolgirl,
to be frightened. If I had only that, I
should start off for the north with a light heart."

"Why not secure it, then ?"

Perhaps it is scarcely fair to force myself on
her at present, until her father returns. Then
she will be more her own mistress. But the
doubt — I don't know when I may be back from

the north " At last he stopped short. "Yes,

I will see her tomorrow at all hazards."

By-and-by he began to tell his friend of the
gay-hearted old albino he had encountered at
Lind's house ; though in the mean time he reserved
to himself the secret of Natalie's mother
being alive.

Lind must have an extraordinary faculty,"
he said at length, " of inspiring fear, and of getting
people to obey him."

He does not look a ferocious person," Lord
Evelyn said, with a smile. " I have always found
him very courteous and pleasant — frank, amiable,
and all the rest of it."

And yet here is this man Clarissa, an old
friend of his ; and he talks of Lind with a sort of

mysterious awe. He is not a man whom )'ou
must think of thwarting. He is the Invulnerable,
the Implacable. The fact is, I was inclined
to laugh at my good friend Clarissa ; but all
the same, it was quite apparent that the effect
Lind had produced on his mind was real
enough."

Well, you know," said Lord Evelyn, " Lind
has a great organization to control, and he must
be a strict disciplinarian. It is the object of his
life ; everything else is of minor importance.
Even you confess that you admire his tremendous
power of work."

Yes, I do. I admire his administrative
capacity ; it is wonderful. But I don't believe
for a moment that it was his mind that projected
this big scheme. That must have been
the work of an idealist — perhaps of a dozen of
them all adding and helping. I think he almost
said as much to me one night. His business is
to keep the machinery in working order ; and
he does it to perfection."

There is one thing about him : he never
forgets, and he never forgives. You remember
the story of Count Verdt ? "

I have cause to remember it. I thought
for a moment the wretch had committed suicide
because I caught him cheating."

I have been told that Lind pla)cd with that
fellow like a cat with a mouse. Yerdt got hints
from time to time that his punishment as a traitor
was overtaking him ; and yet he was allowed to
live on, in constant fear. And it was the Camorra,
and not Lind, or any of Lind's friends, who finished
him after all."

Well, that was implacable enough, to be
sure ; to have death dogging the poor wretch's
heels, and yet refusing to strike."

"For myself, I don't pit)- him much," said
Lord Evelyn, as he rose and buttoned his coat.
Me was a fool, to think he could play such a
trick and escape the consequences. Now, Brand,
how am I to hear from you tomorrow ? You
know, I ani in a measure responsible."

However it ends, I am grateful to you.
Evelyn ; you may be sure of that. I will write
to you from Wolverhampton, and let you know
the worst, or the best."

The best, then : we will have no worsts."

He said good-bye, and went whistling cheerfully

down the narrow oak staircase. He at least
was not very apprehensive about the results of
the next day's interview.

But how brief was this one day, with its
rapidly passing opportunities ; and then the stern
necessity for departure and absence. He spent
half the night in devising how best he could get
speech of her, in a roundabout fashion, without
the dread of the interference of friends. And
at last he hit upon a plan, which might or might
not answer ; but he could think of nothing else.

He went in the morning and secured a box

o

at Covent Garden for that evening. Then he
called at Lisle Street, and got Clarissa's
address. He found Clarissa in his lodgings,
shivering and miserable, for the day was wet,
misty, and cold.

You can escape from the gloom of our
climate, Signor Clarissa," said he. "What do
you say to going to the opera to-night ? "

Your opera ? " said he, with a gesture indicative
of still deeper despair. "You forget
I come from the home, the nursery of opera."

"Yes," said Brand, good-naturedly. "Great
singers train in your country, but they sing here ;

that is the difference. Do not be afraid ; you will
not be disappointed. See, I have brought you
a box ; and if you want companions, why not ask
INIiss Lind and Madame Potecki to go with you
and show you the ways of our English opera-houses
? "

Ah, the little Natalushka ! " said Clarissa,
eagerly. " Will she go ? Do you think she will
go ? J fa foi, it is not often I have the chance
of taking such a beautiful creature to the opera,
if lie will '^o. What must I do ? "

You will have to go and beg her to be kind
to )ou. Say you have the box — you need not
mention how : ask if she will escort you, she and
iNIadame Potecki. Say it is a kindness : she
cannot help doing a kindness."

There you are right, monsieur : do not I see
it in her eyes ; can I not hear it in her voice ? "

Well, that you must do at once, before she
goes out for her walk at noon."

To go out walking, on a day like this ?"

She will go out, nevertheless ; and you must
go and intercept her, and pray her to do you
this kindness."

"You must come to me again, and we will
get an English evening costume for you somehow.
Then, two bouquets ; I will get those for you, and
send them to the box to await you."

But you yourself, monsieur ; will you not
be of the party ? "

Perhaps you had better say nothing about
me, signore ; for one Is so busy now-a-days. But
If I come Into the stalls ; If I see you and the
ladles In the box, then I shall permit myself to
call upon you ; do you understand ? "

Parfaltement," said Clarissa, gravely.
Then he laughed slightly. "Ah, monsieur,
you English are not good diplomatists. I perceive
that you wish to say more ; that you are
afraid to say more ; that you are anxious and
a lite bit demure, like a girl. What you wish
is this, is it not : if I say to Madame Potecki,
Madame, I am a stranger : will you show me the
promenade, that I behold the costumes of the
beautiful English ladles ? ' Madame answers,
'Willingly.' We go to see the costumes of the
beautiful English ladies. Why should you come ?
You would not leave the young lady all alone
in the box ? "

Clarissa," he said, fninkl)-, " I am Loins
tomorrow morning; : do you understand
that ? "

Clarissa bowed gravely

comprehend that is easy. Allons, let us
play out the lite plot, for die amusement of that
rogue of a Natalushka. And if she does not
thank me — eh, bien ! perhaps her papa will : who
knows ? "

Before the overture began that evening-brand
was in his seat in the stalls ; and he had
scarcely sat down when he knew, rather than
saw, that certain fissures were comines into the
box which he had been covertly watching. The
opera was Fidelia — that beautiful story of a wife's
devotion and courage and reward. As he sat
and listened, he knew she was listening too ; and
he could almost have believed it was her own
voice that was pleading so eloquently with the
jailer to let the poor prisoners see the light of
day for a few minutes in the garden. Would
not that have been her prayer too, in similar
circumstances ? Then Leonora, disguised as a
youth, is forced to assist in the digging of
her own husband's grave. Pizarro enters ; the

unhappy prisoners are driven back to their cells
and chains ; and Leonora can only call down the
vengeance of Heaven on the head of the tyrant.

At the end of the act Brand went up to the
box and tapped outside. It was opened from
within ; and he entered. Natalie turned to receive
him ; she was a little pale, he thought ;
he took a seat immediately behind her; and
there was some general talk until the opening
of the second act restored silence.

For him it was a strange silence, that the
music outside did not disturb. Sitting behind
her, he could study the beautiful profile and
the outward curve of her dark eyelashes ; he
could see where here and there a delicate curl
of the raven-black hair, escaping from the mob-cap
of rose-red silk, lay about the small ear or
wandered down to the shapely white neck ; he
could almost, despite the music, fancy he heard
her breathe, as the black gossamer and scarlet
flowers of an Indian shawl stirred over the
shining satin dress. Her fan and handkerchief
were perfumed with white-rose.

And tomorrow he would be in Wolverhampton,
amid grimy streets and dirty houses

in a leaden-huctl atmosphere laden with damp
and the fumes of chimneys, practically alone,
with days of monotonous work before him, and
solitary evenings to be spent in cheerless inns.
What wonder if this seemed some brief vision
of Paradise — the golden light and glowing colour,
the soft strains of music, the scent of white-rose ?

Doubtless Natalie had seen this opera of
Fidelio many a time before ; but she was always
intently interested in music ; and she had more
than once expressed in Brand's hearing her opinion
of the conduct of the ladies and gentlemen who
make an opera or a concert or a play a mere
adjunct to their own foolish laughter and tittletattle.
She recognized the serious aims of a
great artist ; she listened with deep attention
and respect ; she could talk idly elsewhere and at
other times. And so there was scarcely a word
said — except of involuntary admiration — as the
opera proceeded. But in the scene where the disguised
wife discovers her husband in the prison —
where, as Pizarro is about to stab him, she flings
herself between them to protect him — Brand could
see that Natalie Lind was fist losing her manner
of calm and critical attention, and yielding to

a profounder emotion. When Leonora reveals
herself to her husband, and swears that she will "
save him even at such a juncture from his vindictive
enemy —

Si, s), vii dolce agricola
tria Plethora ti salve ret ;
Affront il sua furor T^

the girl gave a slight, convulsive sob, and her
hands were involuntarily clasped. Then, as everyone
knows, Leonora draws a pistol from her
bosom and confronts the tyrant ; a trumpet is
heard in the distance ; relief is near ; and the
act winds up with the joyful duet between the
released husband and the courageous wife —
Destin, destin ormai felice ! "

Here it was that Clarissa proposed he
should escort Madame Potecki to the cooler
air of the large saloon ; and Madame, who had
been young herself, and guessed that the lovers
might like to be alone for a few minutes,
instantly and graciously acquiesced. But Natalie
rose also — a little quickly — and said that Madame
Potecki and herself would be glad to have some
coffee ; and could that be got in the saloon ?

INIadame Potecki and her companion led the

Away ; but then Brand put his hand on the arm
of NataHe and detained her.

NataHe ! " he said, in a low and hurried
voice, " I am going away tomorrow, I don't
know when I shall see you again. Surely you
will give me some assurance — some promise ;
something I can repeat to myself. Natalie, I
know the value of what I am asking ; you will
give yourself to me ? "

She stood by the half-shut door, pale, irresolute,
and yet outwardly calm. Her eyes were
cast down ; she held her fan firmly with both
hands.

Natalie, are you afraid to answer ? "

Then the young Hungarian girl raised her
eyes, and bravely regarded him, though her face
was still pale and apprehensive.

No," she said, in a low voice. " But how
can I answer you more than this — that if I am
not to give myself to you I will give myself to
no other ? I will be your wife, or the wife of
no one. Dear friend, I can say no more."

It is enough."

.She went quickly to the front of the box ;
in both bouquets there were forget-me-nots. She

hurriedly selected some, and returned, and gave
them to him.

Whatever happens, you will remember that
there was one who at least wished to be worthy
of your love."

Then they followed their friends into the
saloon, and sat down at a small table, though
Natalie's hands were trembling so that she could
scarcely undo her gloves. And George Brand
said nothing ; but once or twice he looked into
his wife's eyes.

END OF VOL. I.

-^.N

LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

3 0112 041407401

• • ;i^-«»'

y

•j». /v .-^t-;M/f-^

OF THE

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS



B5(osa

IQ8I
v.S

A STORY OF THESE TIMES.

WILLIAM BLACK,

AUTHOR OF "a Princess OF THULE," "a DAl'GHTUK OF IIKTH,
MACLEOD OF Dare," ETC.

JX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE & RIVIKGTON,

CROWN r.l'II.DINGS, i88, lI.EET STREET.

1 88 1.

[All n's^'/s reset Vfd.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. IT.

PACK
I








8r

■• 97

H3

129

MS
161


• '93


225


•• =57

= 73





CHAPTER I.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

When Ferdinand Lind told Clarissa that
Natalie had grown to be a woman, he no doubt
meant what he said : but he himself had not the
least notion what the phrase implied. He could
see, of course, that she had now a woman's years,
stature, self-possession ; but for all that she was
still to him only a child — only the dark-eyed,
gentle, obedient little Natalushka, who used to
be so proud when she was praised for her music,
and whose only show of resolution was when she
set to work on the grammar of a new lanofuaee.
Indeed, it is the commonest thing in the world
for a son, or a daughter, or a friend to grow in
years without those nearest them being aware of

2.— VI. n

the fact, until some chance circumstance, some
crisis, causes a revelation, and we are astounded
at the change that time has insidiously made.

Such a discovery was now about to confront
Ferdinand Lind. He was to learn, not only that
his daughter had left the days of her childhood
behind her, but also that the womanhood to
which she had attained was of a fine and firm
character, a womanhood that rang true when
tried. And this is how the discovery was forced
on him.

On his arrival in London, Mr. Lind drove
first to Lisle Street, to pick up letters on his way
home. Beratinsky was in the place. Beratinsky
had little news about business matters to impart ;
but instead he began — as Lind was looking at
some of the envelopes — to drop hints about Brand.
It was easy to see now, he said, why the rich
Englishman was so eager to join them, and give
up his life in that way. It was not for nothing.
Mr. Lind would doubtless hear more at home.
And so forth.

INIr. Lind was thinking of other things, but
when he came to understand what these innuendoes
meant, he was neither angry nor impatient. He

had much toleration for human weakness ; and he
took it that Beratinsky was only a little off his
head with jealousy. He was aware that it had
been Beratinsky's ambition to become his son-in-law
: a project that swiftly came to an end,
through the perfect unanimity of father and
daughter on that point.

'* You are a fool, Beratinsky," he said, as he
tied the bundle of letters together. " At your
time of life you should not imagine that everyone's
head is full of philandering nonsense. Mr.
Brand has something else to think of. Besides,
he has been in the midland counties all this time."

Has he } Who, then, was taking your
daughter to dinner-parties, to theatres — I don't
know what ? "

Lind dealt gently with this madness.

'• Who told you ? "

I have eyes, and ears."

Put them to a better use, Beratinsky."

Then he left, and the Hansom carried him
aloof to Curzon Street. Natalie herself flew to
the door when she heard the cab drive up : there
she was to receive him — smiling a welcome — and
so like her mother that he was almost startled.

She caught his face in her two hands, and kissed
him.

Ah, papa, why did you not let me come to
meet you at Liverpool ? "

There were too many with me, Natalie.
I was busy. Now get Anneli to open my
portmanteau, and you can find out for yourself
all the things I have brought for you."

I do not care for them, papa; I like to have
you yourself back."

I suppose you were rather dull, Natalushka,
being all by yourself ? "

*' Sometimes. But I will tell you all that has
happened when you are having breakfast."

I have had breakfast, child. Now I shall
get through my letters, and you can tell me all
that has happened afterwards."

This was equivalent to a dismissal ; so Natalie
went upstairs, leaving her father to go into the
small study, where lay another bundle of letters
for him.

Almost the first that he opened was from
George Brand ; and to his amazement he found,
not details about progress in the north, but a
simple, straightforward, respectful demand to be

permitted to claim the hand of Natahe in marriage.
He did not conceal the fact that this
proposal had already been made to Natalie
herself; he ventured to hope that it was not
distasteful to her ; he would also hope that her
father had no objections to urge. It was surely
better that the future of a young girl in her
position should be provided for. As regarded
himself, Mr. Lind's acquaintance with him was
no doubt but recent and comparatively slight ;
but if he wished any further, and natural, inquiry
into the character of the man to whom he was
asked to entrust his daughter, Lord Evelyn might
be consulted as his closest friend. And a speedy
answer was requested.

This letter was on the whole rather a calm
and business-like performance. Brand could
appeal to Natalie, and that earnestly and honestly
enough ; he felt he could not bring himself to
make any such appeal to her father. Indeed,
any third person reading this letter would have
taken it to be more of the nature of a formal
demand, or something required by the conventionalities
; a request the answer to which was not
of tremendous importance, seeing that the two

persons most interested had already come to an
understanding.

But Mr. Lind did not look at it in that light
at all. He was at first surprised; then vexed and
impatient, rather than angry ; then determined to
put an end to this nonsense at once. If he had
deemed the matter more serious, he would have
sat down and considered it with his customary
forethought. But he was merely irritated.

Beratinsky was not so mad as I took him to
be, after all," he said to himself. " Fortunately,
the affair has not gone too far."

He carried the open letter upstairs, and
found Natalie in the drawing-room, dusting some
pieces of Venetian glass.

Natalie," he said, with an abruptness that
startled her — and in a tone of anger which was
just a little bit affected — " Natalie, what is the
meaning of this folly ? "

She turned, and regarded him. He held the
open letter in his hand. She said, calmly —

I do not understand you."

This only vexed him the more.

I ask you what you have been doing in my
absence ? " he said, angrily. " What have you

been doing to entitle any man to write me such
a letter as this ? His affection! your future! — has
lie not something else to think of? And you —
)ou seem not to have been quite so dull when I
was away, after all ! Well, it is time to have
an end of it. Whatever nonsense may have
been going on, I hope you have both of you
come to your senses. Let me hear no more
of it ! "

Now she saw clearly what the letter must
contain ; what had stirred her father to such an
unusual exhibition of wrath. She was a little
pale ; but not afraid. There was no tremor in
her voice as she spoke.

I am sorry, papa, you should speak to me
like that. I think you forget that I am no longer
a child. I have done nothing that I am ashamed
of; and if Mr. Brand has written to you, I am
willing to share the responsibility of anything he
says. You must remember, papa, that I am a
woman ; and that I ought to have a voice in anything
that concerns my own happiness."

He looked at her, almost with wonder, as if
he did not quite recognize her. Was this the
gentle-natured little Natalushka, whose eyes would

fill with tears if she was scolded even in fun ? —
this tall, self-possessed girl, with the pale face,
and the firm and even tones ?

Do you mean to tell me, Natalie, that it is
with your consent Brand has written to me ? "
her father asked, with frowning brows.

I did not know he would write. I expected
he would."

Perhaps," said he, with an ironical smile —
"perhaps you have taken time by the forelock,
and already promised to be his wife ? "

The answer was given with the same proud
composure.

I have not. But I have promised, if I am
not his wife, never to be the wife of any other
man."

It was now that Lind began to perceive how
serious this matter was. This was no school-ofirl
to be frightened out of a passing fancy. He
must appeal to the reason of a woman ; and the
truth is, that if he had known he had this to
undertake, he would not so hastily have gone into
that drawing-room, with the open letter in his
hand.

Sit down, Natalie," he said, quite gently.

*' I want to talk to you. I spoke hastily ; I was
surprised and angry. Now let us see calmly how
matters stand ; I dare say no great harm has been
done yet."

She took a seat opposite him ; there was not
the least sign of any girlish breaking down, even
when he spoke to her in this kind way.

I have no doubt you acted quite rightly and
prudently when I was away ; and as for I\Ir.
Brand, well, any one can see that you have grown
to be a good-looking )young woman, and of course
he would like to have a good-looking young wife
to show off among the country people and to go
riding to hounds with him. Let us see what is
involved in your becoming his wife, supposing
that were ever seriously to be thought of. You
give up all your old sympathies and friends, your
interest in the work we have on hand, and you get
transferred to a Buckinghamshire country-house to
take the place of the old housekeeper. If you do
not hear anything of what is going on — of our
struggles — of your friends all over Europe : what
of that ? You will have the kitchen-garden to
look after, and poultry to feed ; and your
neighbours will talk to you at dinner about foxes

and clogs and horses, and the clergyman's
charities. It will be a healthy life, Natalie ;
perhaps you will get stout and rosy like an
English matron. But your old friends-you will
have forgotten them."

Never ! — never ! " she said, vehemently ; and
despite herself her eyes filled with tears.

Then we will take Mr. Brand. The Buckinghamshire
house is open again. An Englishman's
house is his castle ; there is a great deal
of work in superintending it, its entertainments,
its dependents. Perhaps he has a pack of foxhounds;
no doubt he is a Justice of the Peace, and
the terror of poachers. But in the midst of all
this hunting, and giving of dinner-parties, and
shooting of pheasants, do you think he has much
time or thought for the future of the millions of
poor wretches all over Europe who once claimed
his care ? Not much ! That was in his days of
irresponsible bachelorhood. Now he is settled
down. He is a country gentleman. The world
can set itself right without him. He is anxious
about the price of wheat."

"Ah, how you mistake him, papa!" said she,
proudly. And there was a proud light on her

face too as she rose and quickly went to a small
escritoire close by. A few seconds sufficed her
to write a short note, which she brought back to
her father.

There," said she, '' I will abide by that test.
If he says 'yes,' I will never see hint again —
never speak one word to him again*'

Her father took the note and read it. It was
as follows —

*•' My dear friend, — / am anxious about the
future, for both of lis. If you will promise me,,
noir', and at one, to give up the zuork you are
engaged in, I lull be your wife, when and where
you will. — Natalie y

Send it ! " she said, proudly. " I am not
afraid. If he says 'yes.' I will never see him
again."

The challenge was not accepted. He tore the-note
in two, and flung it into the grate.

It is time to put an end to this folly," he
said, impatiently. " I have shown you what
persistence in it would bring on yourself You
would be estranged from everything and everyone
you have hitherto been interested in ; you
would have to begin a new life, for which you are

not fitted ; you would be the means of doing our
cause an irreparable injury. Yes, I say so frankly.
The withdrawal of this man Brand, which would
certainly follow, sooner or later, on his marriage,
would be a ofreat blow to us. We have need of
his work ; we have still more need of his money.
And it is you, you of all people in the world, who
would be the means of taking him away from us."

But it is not so, papa," she said, in great
distress. " Surely you do not think that I am
begging to be allowed to become his wife ? That
is for him to decide ; I will follow his wishes, as
far as I can, as far as you will allow me, papa.
But this I know, that so far from that interfering
with the work he has undertaken, it would only
spur him on. Should I have thought of it, otherwise
? Ah, surely you know — you have said so
to me yourself — he is not one to go back."

He is an Englishman ; you do not understand
Englishmen," her father said ; and then he added,
firmly, " You are not to be deterred by what may
happen to yourself. Well, consider what may
happen to him. I tell you, I will not have this
risk run. George Brand is too valuable to us.
If you or he persist in this folly, it will be

necessary to provide against all contingencies by
procuring his banishment."

Banishment ! " she exclaimed, with a quick
and frightened look.

That may not sound much to you," said her
father, calmly, " for you have scarcely what maybe
called a native country. You have lived
anywhere, everywhere. It is different with an
Englishman, who has his birthplace, his family
estate, his friends in England."

What do you mean, papa ? " said she, in a
low voice. She had not been frightened by the
fancy picture he had drawn of her own future ;
but this ominous threat about her lover seemed
full of menace.

I say that at all hazards," Lind continued,
looking at her from under the bushy eyebrows,
this folly must be brought to an end. It is not
expedient that a marriage between you and Mr.
Brand should even be thought of. You have
both got other duties, inexorable duties. It is
my business to see that nothing comes in the way
of their fulfilment. Do you understand ? "

She sat dumb now, with a vague fear about
the future of her lover; for herself she had no
fear.

"Some one must be sent to Philadelphia, to
remain there probably for his lifetime. Do not
drive me to send George Brand."

"Papa!" It was a cry of appeal; but he
paid no heed. This matter he was determined
to settle at once.

"Understand, this idle notion must be dropped;
otherwise George Brand goes to the States forthwith,
and remains there. Fortunately, I don't
suppose the matter has gone far enough to
cause either of you any deep misery. This is
not what one would call a madly impassioned
letter."

She scarcely perceived the sneer ; some great
calamity had befallen her, of which she as yet
scarcely knew the extent ; she sat mute and
bewildered — too bewildered to ask why all this
thing should be.

That may not seem much to you," he said, in
the same cold, implacable ways " But banishment
for life from his native country, his home, his
friends, is something to an Englishman. And
if we are likely to lose his work in this country,
through a piece of sentimental folly, we shall take
care not to lose it in America."

She rose.

Is that all, papa?"

She seemed too stunned to say any more.

He rose also, and took her hand.

"It is better to have a clear understanding,
Natalie. Some might say that I object to your
marrying because you are a help to me, and
your going away would leave the house empt*.
Perhaps you may have some kind friend put that
notion into your head. But that is not the reason
why I speak firmly to you, why I show you you
must dismiss this fancy of the moment — if you
have entertained it as v/ell as he — as impossible.
I have larger interests at stake ; I am bound to
sacrifice every personal feeling to my duty. And
I have shown you what would be the certain
result of such a marriage : therefore, I say, such
a marriage is not to be thought of. Come, now,
Natalie, you claim to be a woman : be a woman !
Something higher is wanted from you. What
would all our friends think of you if you were
to sink into a position like that — the housekeeper
of a country squire ? "

She said nothing ; but she went away to her
own room, and sat down, her face pale, her heart

like lead. And all her thought was of this
possible doom hanging over him if he persisted ;.
and she guessed, knowing something of him,
whether he was likely to be dissuaded by a threat.

Then, for a second or so, a wild, despairing
fancy crossed her mind ; and her fingers tightened
; and the proud mouth grew firm. If it
was through her that this penalty of banishment
overtook him — why should she not do as others
had done ?

But no — that was impossible. She had not
the courage to make such an offer. She could
only sit and think ; and the picture before her
imagination was that of her lover sailing away
from his native land. She saw the ship getting
further and further away from English shores,
until it disappeared altogether in a mist of rain —
and tears.

CHAPTER II.

EVASIONS.

It was in Manchester, whither he had gone to
meet the famous John Molyneux, that George
Brand awoke on this dull and drizzly morning.
The hotel was almost full. He had been sent
to the top floor; and now the outlook from the
window was dismal enough — some slated roofs,
a red chimney or two, and further off the higher
floors of a lofty warehouse, in which the first
signs of life were becoming visible. Early as it
was, there was a dull roar of traffic in the distance ;
occasionally there was the scream of a railway
whistle.

Neither the morning nor the prospect was
conducive to a cheerful view of life ; and perhaps
that was why, when he took in his boots and
found in one of them a letter, deposited thereby
the chambermaid, which he at once saw was
2. — vr. c

in Ferdinand Lind s handwriting, that he instantly
assumed, mentally, an attitude of defiance. He
did not open the letter just then. He took time
to let his opposition harden. He knew there
would be something or somebody to fight. It
was too much to expect that everything should
go smoothly. If there was such a thing as a law
of compensation, that beautiful dream-like evening
at the opera — the light, the colour, the softened
music; the scent of white-rose; the dark, soft eyes,
and the last pressure of the hand ; the forget-me-nots
he carried away with him — would have to
be paid for somehow. And he had always
distrusted Ferdinand Lind. His instinct assured
him that this letter, which he had been looking
for and yet dreading, contained a distinct refusal.

His instinct was completely at fault. The
letter was exceedingly kind and suave. Mr.
Lind might try to arouse his daughter from this
idle day-dream by sharp words and an ominous
threat ; he knew that it was otherwise he must
deal with Mr, George Brand.

My dear Mr. Brand," he wrote, " as you may
imagine, your letter has surprised me not a little,
and pleased me too ; for a father naturally is

proud to see his daughter thought well of; and
your proposal is very Battering. Especially, I
may add, as you have seen so little of Natalie.
Ycu arc very kind — and bold, and unlike English
nature — to take her and her family on trust, as
it were ; for are not your countrymen very particular
as to the relatives of those they would
marry with ? and of Natalie's relatives and friends
how many have you seen ? Excuse me if I do
not quite explain myself, for writing in English
is not as familiar to me as to Natalie, who is quite
an Englishwoman now. Very well ; I think it
is kind of you to think so highly of my daughter
as to offer her to make her your wife, }-ou
knowing so little of her. But there you do not
mistake ; she is worthy to be the wife of any one.
If she ever marries, I hope she will be as good a
wife as she has been a daughter."

If she ever marries : " this phrase sounded
somewhat ominous ; and yet, if he meant to say
No," why not say it at once } Brand hastily
glanced over the letter, to find something definite ;
but he found that would not do. Me began again,
and read with deliberation. The letter had
obviously been written with care.

I have also to thank you, besides for the
very flattering proposal, for your care to put this
matter before me at an early time. Regarding
how little Natalie and you have seen each other,
it is impossible that either her or your affection
can be so serious that it is not fair to look on
your proposal with some views as to expediency ;
and at an early time one can easily control one's
wishes. I can answer for my daughter that she
has always acted as I thought best for her
happiness ; and I am sure that now, or at any time,
in whatever emergency, she would far prefer to
have the decision rest with me, rather than take
the responsibility on herself."

When George Brand came to this passage he
read it over again ; and his comment was, " My
good friend, don't be too sure of that. It is
possible that }^ou have lived nineteen years with
your daughter to very little purpose, so far as
your knowledge of her character is concerned."

Well, then, my dear sir," the letter proceeded,
"all this being in such a way, might I ask you
to reflect again over your proposal ; and examine
it from the view of expediency ? You and I are
not free agents, just to please ourselves when

we like. Perhaps I was wrong in my first
objection to your very flattering proposal ; I
believed you might in marrying her withdraw
from the work we are all engaged in ; I feared
this as a great calamity ; an injury done to many
to gratify the fancy of one. But Natalie, I will
confess, scorned me for that doubt ; and, indeed,
was so foolish as to propose a little hoax, to prove
to me that even if she promised to marry you asa
reward she could not get you to abandon our
cause. * No, no,' she said. ' That is not to be
feared. He is not one to go back.' "

When George Brand read these words, his
breath came and went a little quickly. She should
not find her faith in him misplaced.

That is \'ery well, very satisfactory, I said to
her. We cannot afford to lose you, whatever
happens. To return ; there are more questions
of expediency. For example, how can one tell
what may be demanded of one ? Would it be
wise for you to be hampered with a wife, when
you know not where you may have to go ? Again,
would not the cares of a household seriously
interfere with your true devotion to )our labours ?
You are so happily placed ! You are free from

SUNRISE.

responsibilities : why increase them ? At present
Natahe is in a natural and comfortable position ;
lie has grown accustomed to it ; she is proud to
know that she can be of assistance to us ; her life
is not an unhappy one. But consider — a young
wife, separated from her husband, perhaps by the
Atlantic ; in a new home, with new duties ;
anxious, terrified with apprehensions : surely that
is not the change you would wish to see ? "

For a second Brand was almost frightened by
this picture ; and a pang of remorse flashed
through his heart. But then his common sense
reasserted itself Why the Atlantic ? Why
should they be separated ? Why should she be
terrified with apprehensions ?

As regards her future," her father continued.
I am not an old man ; and if anything were to
happen to me, she has friends. Nor will I say
to you a word about myself, or my claim on her
society and help ; for parents have not the right
to sacrifice the happiness of their children to
their own convenience ; it is so fortunate when
they find, however, that there is no disposition on
the part of the young to break those ties that
have been formed by the companionship of many

years. It is this, my dear friend and colleague,
that makes me thank you for having spoken so
early ; that I can ask )ou to reconsider, and that
I can advise my daughter, without the fear that
I am acting in a tyrannical manner or thwarting
any serious affection on her part. You will
perceive I do not dictate. I ask you to think
over whether it is wise for your own happiness —
whether it would improve Natalie's probabilities
of happiness — whether it would interfere in some
measure with the work you have undertaken — if
you continue to cherish this fancy, and let it grow
on you. Surely it is better for a man to have
but one purpose in life. Nevertheless, I am
open to conviction.

That reminds me that there is another
matter on which I should like to say a few words
to you when there is the chance. If there is a
break in the current of-our present negotiations,
shall you have time to run up to London ? One"
this : you will, I trust, not seek to see Natalie
or to write to her until we have come to an understanding.
Again I thank you for having spoken
to me so early, before any mischief can have
been done. Think over what I have said, nn'

dear friend ; and remember above all things where
your chief duty Thes.

Yours sincerely,

Ferdinand Lind."

He read this letter over two or three times,
and the more he read it the more he was
impressed with the vexatious conviction that it
would be an uncommonly difficult thing to answer
it. It was so reasonable, so sensible, so plausible.
Then his old suspicions returned. Why was this
man Lind so plausible ? If he objected, why did
he not say so outright ? All these specious arguments
: how was one to turn and twist, evading
some, meeting others ; and all the time taking it
for granted that the happiness of two people's
lives was to be dependent on such logic-chopping
as could be put down on a sheet of jDaper ?

Then he grew impatient. He would not
answer the letter at all. Lind did not understand.
The matter had got far ahead of this clever argumentation
; he would appeal to Natalie herself ;
it was her " Yes " or " No " that would be final ;
not any contest and balancing of words. There
were other words he could recall, of more importance

to him. He could almost hear ihcm
now, in the trembling, low voice : '' I till be your
zui/e, or the loifc of no one. Dear friend, I can say
no more." And again, when she gave him the
forget-me-nots : " Whatever happens, you loll remember
that there tuas one julio at least finished to be
ZL'07'thy of your love." He could remember the
proud, brave look ; again he felt the trembling of
the hand that timidly sought his for an instant ; he
could almost scent the white-rose again, and hear
the murmur of the people in the corridor. And
this was the woman, into whose eyes he had
looked as if they were the eyes of his wife, who
was to be taken away from him by means of a
couple of sheets of note-paper all covered over
with little specious suggestions.

He thrust the letter into a pocket, and
hurriedly proceeded with his dressing ; for he
had a breakfast-appointment. Indeed, before he
was ready, the porter came up and said that a
gentleman had called for him, and was waiting for
him in the coffee-room.

Ask him what he will have for breakfast ;
and let him go on. I shall be down presently

Brand did at length go down, he found

that his visitor had frankly accepted this permission,
and had before him a large plate of corned
beef, with a goodly tankard of beer. Mr. John
Molyneux, although he was a great authority
among English workmen generally, and especially
among the trades-unionists of the north, had little
about him of the appearance of the sleek-haired
demagogue as that person Is usually represented
to us. He was a stout, yeoman-looking man, with
a frosty-red face and short silver white whiskers ;
he had keen, shrewd blue eyes ; and a hand that
gave a firm grip. The fact is, that Molyneux had
in early life been a farmer, and a well-to-do
farmer. But he had got smitten with the writings
of Cobbett ; and he began to write too. Then
he took to lecturing — on the land laws, on Robert
Owens, on the Church of England, but more
especially on co-operation. Finding, however,
that all this pamphleteers and lecturing was
playing ducks and drakes with his farming, and
being In many respects a shrewd and sensible
person, he resolved on selling out of his farm and
investing the proceeds in the government stock
of America, the country of his deepest admiration.
In the end he found that he had about

^150 a year; on which he could hive vei')- comfortably;
while giving up all his time and attention
to his energetic propagandism. This was
the person who now gave Brand a heart)' greet
inland then took a lone*- draught at the tankard
of ale,

You see, Mr. Brand," said he, looking cautiously
around, and then giving a sly wink, " I
thought we might have a chat by ourselves in
this corner."

Brand nodded ; there was no one near them.

Now I have been considering about what
you told me ; and last night I called on Professor

of Owen's College, ye know, and I had

some further talk with him. Well, sir, it's a grand
scheme — splendid ; and I don't wonder you've
made such progress as I hear of And when
all the lads are going in for it, what would they
saps if old John Molyneux kept out — eh ? "

\Vh)-, they would say he had lost some of
his old pluck ; that's about what they would sa',
isn't it ? " said Brand ; though the fact was that
he was thinking a crowd deal more about the letter
in his pocket.

"There was one point, though, Mr. Brand,

that I did not put before either Professor

or yourself ; and it is important. The point is
dibs."

I beg your pardon," said Brand, absently ;
he was, in truth, recalling the various phrases and
sentences in that letter of Ferdinand Lind.

Dibs, sir — dibs," said the farmer-agitator,
energetically. " You know what makes the mare
to go. And you know these are not the best
of times ; and some of the lads will be thinking
they pay enough into their own Union. That's
what I want to know, Mr. Brand, before I can
advise any one. You need money ; how do you
get it ? What's the damage on joining, and
after ? "

Brand pulled himself together.

Oh, money ? " said he. " That need not
trouble you. We exact nothing. How could we
ask people to buy a pig in a poke ^ There's nota
working-man in the country but should put us
down as having invented an ingenious scheme for
living on other people's earnings. It is not money
we want ; it is men."

Yes, yes," said IMolyneux, looking rather
puzzled. " But when you've got the machine,

you want oil, q\\ ? The basis of everything, sir,
is dibs : what can yc do without it ? "

We want money, certainly," Brand said.
But we do not touch a farthing that is not
volunteered. There are no compulsory subscriptions.
We take it that the more a man sees of
what we are doing, and of what has to be done,
the more he will be willing to give, according
to his means. And so far there has been no
disappointment."

"Hem!" said Molyneux, doubtfully. "I
reckon you won't get much from our chaps."

You don't know. It is wonderful what a
touch of enthusiasm will do — and emulation between
the local centres. Besides, we are always
having accessions of richer folk ; and these are
expected to make up all deficiencies."

Ah ? " said the other. " I see more daylight
that way. Now you, Mr. Brand, must have been
a good fat prize for them, eh ? "

The shrewd inquiring glance that accompanied
this remark set George Brand laughing.

I see, Mr. Molyneux, you want to get at
the ' dibs ' of everything. Well, I can't enlighten
you any further until )ou join us : you have not
said whether you will or not."

I will ! " said the other, bringing his fist
clown on the table — though he still spoke in a
loud whisper. " I'm your man ! In for a penny,
in for a pound ! "

I beg your pardon," said Brand, politely,
but you are in for neither, unless you like. You
may be in for a good deal of work, though. You
must bring us men ; and you will be let off both
the penny and the pound. Now, could you run
up with me to London to-night, and be admitted
tomorrow, and get to know something of what
we are doing ? "

*' Is it necessary ? "

In your case, yes. We want to make you
a person of importance."

So at last Molyneux agreed ; and they started
for London in the evening; the big, shrewd,
farmer-looking man being as pleased as a child to
have certain signs and passwords confided to
him. Brand made light of these things — and, in
fact, they were only such as were used among the
outsiders ; but Molyneux was keenly interested,
and already pictured himself going through
Europe and holding this subtle conversation withall
the unknown companions whom chance might
throw in his way.

But long ere he reached London, the motion
of the train had sent him to sleep ; and George
Brand had plenty of time to think over that letter
and to guess at what possible intention might lie
under its plausible phrases. He had leisure to
think of other things, too. The question of money,
for example — about which Molyneux had been
so curious — with regard to this association, was
one on which he himself was but slightly informed ;
the treasury department being altogether outside
his sphere. He did not even know whether Lind
had private means ; or was enabled to li\-e as he
did by the association, for its own ends. He
knew that the Society had numerous paid agents ;
no doubt he himself could have claimed a salary,
had it been worth his while. But the truth is
that "dibs" concerned him very little. He had
never been extravagant ; he had always lived
well within his income ; and his chief satisfaction
in being possessed of a liberal fortune lay in the
fact that he had not to bother his head about
money. There was one worry the less in life.

But then George Brand had been a good deal
about the world, and had seen something of
human life, and knew very well the power the

possession of money gives. Why, this very indifference,
this happy carelessness about pecuniary
details, was but the consequence of his having" a
large fund in the background that he could draw
on at will. If he did not overvalue his fortune,
on the other hand he did not undervalue it ; and
he was about the last man in the world who
could reasonably have been expected to part
with it.

A TALISMAN.

Natalie Lind was busy writing at the window
of the drawing-room in Chiron Street, when
Clarissa entered, unannounced. He had outstripped
the little Anneli ; perhaps he was afraid
of being refused. He was much excited.

Forgive me, signorina, if I startle you," he
said rapidly, in his native tongue ; " forgive me,
lite daughter. We go away to-night, I and the
nan Kirski, whom you saved from madness : weare
ordered wa)' ; it is possible I may never see
)-ou again. Now listen."

He took a seat beside her ; in his hurry and
eagerness he had for the moment abandoned his
airy manner.

When I came here I expected to see you
a school-girl — some one in safe keeping; with no
troubles to think of You are a woman ; you

2. — VI. I'

may have trouble ; and It Is I, Clarissa, who
would then cut off my right hand to help you.
I said I would leave you my address ; I cannot.
I dare not tell any one even where I am going.
What of that ? Look well at this card."

He placed before her a small bit of pasteboard,
with some lines marked on It.

Now we will Imagine that some day you are
*in great trouble ; you know not what to do ; and
you suddenly bethink yourself, * Now It Is Clarissa
and the friends of Clarissa who must

help me ' "

"■ Pardon me, signore," said Natalie, gently.
To whom should I go but to my father, If I
were in trouble ? And why should one anticipate
trouble ? If It were to come, perhaps one might
be able to brave it ? "

My little daughter, you vex me. You must
listen. If no trouble comes, well! If It does,
are you any the worse for knowing that there are
many on whom you can rely ? Very well ; look !
This Is the Via Roma in Naples."

I know It," said Natalie : why should she
not humour the good-natured old albino, who had
been a friend of her mother's ?

"You go along it until you come to this little
lane ; it is the \'ico Carlo ; you ascend the lane —
here is the first turning — you go round, and
behold ! the entrance to a court. The court is
dark; but there is a lamp burning all day; go
further in, there arc wine-vaults. You enter the
wine-vaults, and say, * Bartolotti.' You do not say,
Is Signor Bartolotti at home ? ' or, ' Can I seethe
illustrious Signor Bartolotti;' but 'Bartolotti,'
clear and short. You understand ? "

You give yourself too much trouble, signore."

I hope so, little daughter. I hope you will
never have to search for these wine-vaults ; but
who knows ? Alors, one comes to you ; and says,
'What is your pleasure, signorina ? ' Then you
ask, ' Where is Clarissa ? ' The answer to that ?
It may be, 'We do not know,' or it may be, 'Clarissa
is in prison again ; ' or it may be, ' Clarissa
is dead.' Never mind. When Clarissa
dies no one will care less than Clarissa himself"

Some one would care, signore ; you have a
mother."

He took her hand.

"And a daughter, too," he said lightly, " if the
wicked little minx would only listen. Then you

know what you must say to the man whom you
will see at the wine-vaults ; you must say this,
Brother, I come with a message from Clarissa :
it is the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi who demands
your help.' Then do you know what will
happen ? From the next morning you will be
under the protection of the greatest power in
Europe ; a power unknown but invincible ; a
power that no one dares to disobey. Ah, little
one, you will find out what the friends of Clarissa
can do for you when you appeal to them ! "
He smiled proudly

Allons ! Put this card away in a secret place.
Do not show it to any one ; let no one know the
name I confided to you. Can you remember
it, little daughter ? "
Bartolotti."

"Good. Now that is one point settled ; here
is the next. You do not seem to have any
portrait of your mother, my little one ? "

Ah, no ! " she exclaimed, quickly ; for she
was more interested now. " I suppose my father
could not bear to be reminded of his loss : if
there is any portrait, I have not seen it; and
how could I ask him ? .

He regarded her for a moment ; and then
he spoke, more slowly than hitherto —

Little Natalushka, I told you I am going
away ; and who knows what may happen to me ?
I have no money or land to leave to any one ;
if I had a wife and children the only name T
could leave them would be the name of a jailbird.
If I were to leave a will behind me it
would read, ' My heart to my beloved Italia ;

my curse to Austria; and my ' Ah, yes,

after all I have something to leave to the little
Natalushka."

He put his hand, which trembled somewhat,
into the breast of his coat, and brought out a
small leather case.

I am about to give you my greatest treasure,
little one ; my only treasure. I think you will
value it."

He opened the case and handed it to her ;
inside there was a miniature, painted on ivory ;
it might have been a portrait of Natalie herself.
For some time the girl did not say a word ;
but her eyes slowly filled with tears.

She was very beautiful, signore," she
murmured.

Ah, little daughter," he said, cheerfully, *' I am
glad to see the portrait in safe keeping at last.
Many a risk I have run with it ; many a time
I have had to hide it. And you must hide it
too ; let no one see it but yourself. But now
you will give me one of your own in exchange,
my little one ; and so the bargain is
complete."

She went to the small table adjoining to hunt
among the photographs.

And lastly, one more point, Signorina ,"
said Clarissa, with the air of one who
had eot through some difficult work. *' You
asked me once to find out for you who was
the lady from whom you received the little silver
locket. Well, you see, that is now out of my
power. I am going away. If you are still
curious, you must ask some one else ; but is it
not natural to suppose that the locket may have
been stolen a great many years ago and at last
the thief resolves to restore it ? No matter ;
it is only a locket."

She returned with a few photographs for him
to choose from. He picked out two.

There is one for me ; there is one for my

old mother. I will say to her, ' Do you remember
the young Hungarian lady who came to see you
at Spezia ? Put on your spectacles now, and
see whether that Is not the same young lad)-.
Ah, good old mother ; can you see no better than
that ? — that is not Natalie Berezolyi at all ; that
is her daughter, who lives in England. Ikit she
has not got the English way ; she is not content
when she herself is comfortable ; she thinks of
others ; she has an ear for voices afar off.' That
is what I shall say to the old mother."

He put the photographs in his pocket.

"In the mean time, my little daughter," said
he, " now that our pressing business is over, one
nay speak at leisure ; and what of you, now ?
My sight is not very good ; but even m)- eyes
can see that you are not looking cheerful enough.
You are troubled, Natalushka ; or you would
not have forgotten to thank me for giving-ou
the only treasure I have in the world."

The girl's pale face flushed ; and she said
quickly —

There are some theirs that are not to be
expressed in words, Signor Clarissa. I cannot
tell you what I think of your kindness to me."

Silence — silence ! do you not understand my
joking ? Eh, bien ; let us understand each other.
Your father has spoken to me — a little, not much.
He would rather have an end to the love-affair,
lies ce pas f"

There are some other things that are not
to be spoken of," the girl said, in a low voice,
but somewhat proudly.

Natalushka, I will not have you answer me
like that. It is not right. If you knew all my
history, perhaps you would understand why I
ask you questions — why I interfere — why you
think me impertinent "

Oh no, signore ; how can I think that ? "

She had her mother's portrait in her hand ;
she was gazing into the face that was so strangely
like her own.

Then why not answer me ? "

She looked up with a quick, almost despairing
look.

Because I try not to think about it," she
said, hurriedly. " Because I try to think only of
my work. And now, Signor Clarissa, you have
given me something else to think about ; something
to be my companion when I am alone ; and
from my heart I thank you ! "

But you speak as if you were in-great
grief, my little one. It is not all over between
you and your lover ? "

"How can I tell? What can I say?" she
exclaimed ; and for a moment her eyes looked
up, with the appealing look of a child. " lie does
not write to me. I may not write to him. I
must not see him."

But then there may be reasons for delay and
consideration, little Natalushka ; your father may
have reasons. And your father did not speak
to me as if it were altogether impossible. What
he said was, in effect, 'We will see — we will see.'
However, let us return to the important point ; it
is my advice to you — you cannot have forgotten
it — that whatever happens, whatever )sou may
think, do not, little one, seek to go against your
father's wishes. You will promise me that ? "

I have not forgotten, signore ; but do-ou
not remember my answer ? I am no longer a
child. If I am to obey, I must have reasons
for obeying."

What ? " said he, smiling. " And you know-that
one of our chief principles is that obedience
is a virtue in itself? "

I do not belong to your association, Signor
Clarissa."

The little rebel ! "

No, no, signore ; do not drive me into a
a false position. I cannot understand my father,
who has always been so kind to me ; it is better
not to speak of It ; some day, when you come
back, Signor Clarissa, you will find it all a
forgotten story. Some people forget so readily ;
do they not ? "

The trace of pathetic bitterness in her speech
did not escape him.

"My child," said he, "you are suffering. I
perceive it. But it may soon be over ; and your
joy will be all the greater. If not, if the future
has trouble for you, remember what I have told
you. A lions done ! Keep up a brave heart —
but I need not say that to the child of the
Berezolyis."

He rose ; and at the same moment a bell was
heard below.

You are not going, Signor Clarissa ? That
must be my father."

Your father ! " he exclaimed ; and he seemed
confused. Then he added, quickly, " Ah, very

well. I will sec him as I go clown. Our business,
little one, is finished ; is it not ? Now repeat tome
the name I mentioned to you."

Bartolotti ?"

"Excellent, excellent. And you will keep the
portrait from every one's eyes but your own.
Now, farewell ! "

He took her two hands in his.

'' My beautiful child," said he, in rather a
trembling voice, " may Heaven keep you as true
and brave as )our mother was — and send )0U
more happiness. I may not see England again —
no, it is not likely ; but in after years you may
sometimes think of old Clarissa, and remember
that he loved you, almost as he once loved another
of your name."

Surely she must have understood. He hurriedly
kissed her on the forehead ; and said,
Adieu, litdc daughter," and left. And when
he had gone she sank into the chair again ; and
clasped both her hands round her mother's portrait,
and burst into tears.

Clarissa made his way downstairs, and, at
the foot, ran against Ferdinand Lind.

Ah, amico mio," said he, in his gay manner.

See now, we have been bidding our adieux to
the little Natal ushka — the rogue ! — to pretend tome
she had no sweetheart ! Shall we have a glass
of wine, lion capitaine, before we embark ? "

Yes, yes," said Lind, though without any
great cordiality. " Come into my little room."

He led him into the small study ; and presently
there was wine upon the table. Clarissa
was exceedingly vivacious ; and a little difficult
to follow, especially in his French. But Lind
allowed him to rattle on, until by accident he
referred to some meeting that was shortly to take
place at Posilipo.

Well, now, Clarissa," said Lind, with apparent
carelessness, as he broke off a bit of biscuit
and poured out a glass of wine for himself, " I
suppose you know more about the opinions of the
Council now than any one not absolutely within
itself."

"■ I am a humble servant only, friend Lind,"
he remarked, as he thrust his fingers into the
breast of his military-looking coat: "a humble
servant of my most noble masters. But sometimes
one hears — one guesses — mais a quel propos
cette question, monsieur mon camarade ? "

LInd regarded him ; and said, slowly —

You know, Clarissa, that some seventeen
years ago I was on the point of being elected a
member of the Council."

I know it," said the other, with a little embarrassment.


You know why — though you do not know
the right or the wrong of it — all that became impossible."


Clarissa nodded. It was delicate ground,
and he was afraid to speak.

Well," said Lind, " I ask you boldly — do you
not think I have done enough in these sixteen or
seventeen years to reinstate myself ? Who else
has done a tithe of the work I have done ? "

Friend Lind, I think that is well understood
at head-quarters."

Very well, then, Clarissa, what do you
think ? Consider what I have done ; consider
what I have now to do ; what I ma)' ^^et do.
There is this Zaccatelli business. I do not approve
of it myself. I think it is a mistake, as far
as England is concerned. The English will not
hear of assassination — even though it is such a
criminal as the cardinale aff'aiuatorc who is lobe

punished. But though I do not approve, I
obey. Some one from the English section will
fulfil that duty : it is something to be considered.
Then money; think of the money I have contributed.
Without English money what would
have been done ?— when there is any new levy
wanted it is to England— to me— they apply first ;
and at the present moment their cry for money
is more urgent than ever. Very well, then, my
Clarissa ; what do you think of all this ? "

Clarissa seemed somewhat embarrassed.

Friend Lind, I am not so far into their secrets
as that. Being in prison so long, one loses terms
of familiarity with many of one's old associates,
you perceive ? But your claims are undoubted,
my friend ; yes, yes, undoubted."

But what do you think, Clarissa ? " he
said — and that affectation of carelessness had now
gone : there was an eager look in the deep-set
eyes under the bushy eyebrows. " What do you
yourself think of my chance ? It ought to be no
chance ; it ought to be a certainty. It is my due.
I claim it as the reward of my sixteen years' work,
to say nothing of what went before."

Ah, naturellement, sans doute, tu as raison,

mon camarade," said the politic Clarissa, endeavouring
to get out of the difficulty with a
shrug" of his shoulders. " But —-but— the more
one knows of the Council the more one fears
prying into its secrets. No, no ; I do what I am
told ; for the rest my ears are closed."

If I were on the Council, Clarissa," said
Lind, slowly, " you would be treated with more
consideration. You have earned as much."

A thousand thanks, friend Lind," said the
other ; " but I have no more ambitions now. The
time for that is past. Let them make what they
can out of old Clarissa — a stick to beat a dog
with ; as long as I have my liberty and a cigarette,
I am content."

Ah, well," said Lind, resuming his careless
air, " you must not imagine I am seriously troubled
because the Council have not as yet seen fit to
think of what I have done for them. I am their
obedient servant, like yourself. Some day, perhaps,
I may be summoned."

A la bonne heure ! " said Clarissa, rising,
no more wine. Your port-wine here is
glorious — it is a wine for the gods ; but a very
little is enough for a man. So, farewell, my good

friend LInd. Be kind to the beautiful Natalushka,
if that other thing that I spoke of is impossible.
If the bounty of Heaven had only given me such
a daughter ! "

Kirski will meet you at the station," said
Lind. " Charing Cross, you remember ; eight
sharp. The train is 8.25."
I will be there."

They shook hands and parted ; the door was
shut. Then, in the street outside, Clarissa
glanced up at the drawing-room windows just fora
second.

Ah, little daughter," he said to himself as he
turned away, "you do not know the power of
the talisman I have given you. But you will not
use it. You will be happy ; you will marry the
Englishman ; you will have little children round
your knee ; and you will lead so busy and glad a
life, year after year, that you will never have a
minute to sit down and think of old Clarissa,
or of the stupid little map of Naples he left with
you.

CHAPTER IV.

AN Alternative.

Once again the same great city held these two.
When George Brand looked out in the morning
on the broad river, and the bridges, and the
hLirr}-ing cabs and trains and steamers, he knew
that this flood of dusky sunshine was falling also
on the quieter ways of Hyde Park and the semi-silent
thoroughfares adjoining. They were in the
same city, but they were far apart. An invisible
barrier separated them. It was not to Curzon
Street that he directed his steps when he went
out into the still, close air and the misty sunlight.

It was to Lisle Street that he walked ; and
all the way he was persuading himself to follow
Clarissa's advice. He would betray no impatience,
however specious Lind might be. He
would shut down that distrust of Natalie's father
that was continually springing up in his mind.

2. — VI. E

He would be considerate to the difficulties of his
position, ready to admit the reasonableness of his
arguments, mindful of the higher duties demanded
of himself. But then — but then — he bethought
him of that evening at the theatre ; he remembered
what she had said ; how she had looked.
He was not going to give up his beautiful, proud-natured
sweetheart as a mere matter of expediency,
as the conclusion of a clever bit of argument.

When he entered Mr. Lind's room he found
Heinrich Reitzei its sole occupant. Lind had
not yet arrived ; the pallid-faced young man with
th.Q. pijicc-iic.z was in possession of his chair. And
no sooner had George Brand made his appearance
than Reitzei rose, and, with a significant smile,
motioned the new-comer to take the vacant seat
he had just quitted.

"What do you mean?" Brand said, naturally
taking another chair, which was much nearer him.

"Will you not soon be occupying this seat
en permanence f " Reitzei said, with affected nonchalance.


Lind has abdicated, then, I presume," said
Brand, coldly : this young man's manner had
never been very grateful to him.

Rcitzel sank into the scat again, and twirled
at this little black waxed moustache.

"Abdicated? No; not yet," he said, with an
air of indifference. " But if one were to be translated
to a higher sphere ? There is a vacancy
in the Council."

Then he would have to live abroad," said
Brand, quickly.

The younger man did not fail to observe this
eagerness, and no doubt attributed it to a wrong-cause.
It was no sudden hope of succeeding to
Lind's position that prompted the exclamation ;
it was the possibility of Natalie being carried
wa)' from England.

"He would have to live in the place called
nowhere," said Reitzei, with a calm smile. "He
would have to live in the dark — in the middle
of the night — everywhere and nowhere at the
same moment."

Brand was on the point of asking what would
then become of Natalie, but he forbore. He
-changed the subject altogether.

How is that mad Russian fellow getting on
Kirski ? Still working?"

Yes ; at another kind of work. Calabrcssa

LIBRARY

uwivERsmr of ituNor

has undertaken to turn his vehemence into a
proper channel — to let off the steam, as it were,
in another direction."

Clarissa ? "

*' Kirski has become the humble disciple of
Clarissa, and has gone to Genoa with him."

"What folly is this!" Brand said. "Have
you admitted that maniac ? "

Certainly ; such force vas not to be wasted."

A pretty disciple ! How much Russian does
Clarissa know ? "

Gathorne Edwards is with them ; it is some
special business. Both Clarissa and Kirkwall
be capital linguists before it is over."

But how has Edwards o-ot leave again from
the British Museum?"

Reitzei shruQfp^ed his shoulders.

I believe Lincl wants to buy him over
altogether. We could pay him more than the
British Museum."

At this moment there was a sound outside
of some one ascending the stair, and directly
afterwards Mr. Lind entered the room. As he
came in, Reitzei left.

"How do you do, Mr. Brand?" Lind said

shaking his visitor's hand with great warmth.
Very glad to see you looking so well ; hardwork
docs not hurt you, clearly. I hope I have
not incommoded you in asking you to run up to
London ? "

*• Not at all," Brand said. " Molyneux came
up with me last night."

Ah ! You have gained him over ? "

Quite."

Again I congratulate you. Well, now, since
we have begun upon business, let us continue
upon business."

He settled himself in his chair, as if for some
serious talk. Brand could not help being struck
by the brisk, vivacious, energetic look of this
man; and on this morning he was even more than
usually smart dressed. Was it his daughter
who had put that flower in his button-hole ?

I will speak frankly to you, and as clear as
I can in my poor English. You must let me say,
without flattery, that we are all very indebted
to you — very proud of you ; we are. glad to have
you with us. And now that you see further and
further about our work, I trust you are not disappointed.
You understand at the outset you
must take so much on trust. '

I am not in the least disappointed ; quite the
reverse," Brand said — and he remembered Clarissa,
and spoke in as friendly a way as possible.
Indeed, many a time I am sorry one cannot
explain more fully to those who are only inquiring.
If they could only see at once all that
is going on, they would have no more doubt. And
it is slow work with some of them."

Yes, certainly ; no doubt. Well, to return,
if you please : it is a satisfaction you are not
disappointed ; that you believe we are doing a
good work ; that you go with us. Very well.
You have advanced grade by grade ; you see
nothing to repent of; why not take the final
step ? "

I don't quite understand you," he said, doubtfully.


I \\\\\ explain. You have given yourself tous
— your time, your labour, your future ; but the
final step of self-sacrifice — is it so very difficult ?
In many cases it is merely a challenge: we say,
Show that you can trust us even for your very
livelihood. Become absolutely dependent on us,
even for your food, your drink, your clothes.' In
your case, I admit, it is something more : it is

an invitation to a very considerable self-sacrifice.
All the more proof that poli are not afraid."

I do not think I am afraid," said Brand,
slowly ; " but "

'* One moment. The affair is simple. The
officers of our society — those who govern— those
from whom are chosen the members of the Council
• — that Council that is more powerful than an'
government in Europe — those officers, I say,
are required first of all to surrender ever)-
farthing of personal property, so that the)- shall
become absolutely dependent on the Society
itself "

Brand looked a trifle bewildered : more than
that, resentful and indignant. as if his commonsense
had received a shock.

It is a necessary condition," Lind continued,
without eagerness — rather as if he were merely'
enunciating a theory. " It ensures absolute
equality; it is a proof of faith. And you may
perceive that, as I am alive, the)' do not allow
one to starve."

The slight smile that accompanied this remark
was meant to be reassuring. Certainly INIr. Lind
did not starve ; if the Societies which he was

a member enabled him to live as he did in Curzon
Street, he had little to complain of.

You mean," said George Brand, " that before
I enter this highest grade, next to the Council, I
must absolutely surrender my entire fortune to
you ? "

To the common fund of the Society — yes,"
was the reply ; uttered as a matter of course.
But there is no compulsion ? "
Certainly not. On this point every one is
free. You may remain in your present grade, if
you please."

** Then I confess to you I don't see why I
should change," Brand said, frankly. *' Cannot
I work as well for you just as I am ? "

Perhaps ; perhaps not," said the other, easily.
But you perceive, further, that the fact of our
not exacting subscriptions from the poorer members
of our association makes it all the more necessary
that we should have voluntary gifts from the
richer. And as regards a surplus of wealth, of
what use is that to any one ? Am I not granted
as much money as one need reasonably want ?
And just now there is more than ever a need
of money for the general purposes of the Society :

Lord Evelyn gave us a thousand pounds last
week."

Brand flushed red.

I wish you had told me," he said ; " I would
rather have given you five thousand. You knowe
cannot afford it."

The greater the merit of the sacrifice," said
his companion, calmly

This proposal was so audacious that George
Brand was still a little bewildered ; but the fact
was that, while listening very respectfully to
Mr. Lind, he had been thinking more about
Natalie ; and it was the most natural thing in
the world that some thought of her should now
intervene.

Another thing, Mr. Lind," said he, though
he was rather embarrassed. " Even if I were
to make such a sacrifice, as fu' as I am concerned
; if I where to run the risk for myself
alone, that might be all very well ; but supposing
that I were to marry, do )0U think I should
like my wife to run such a risk — do you think
I should be justified in allowing her ? And
surely yoii ought not to ask ))u\ It is )your
own daughter "

Excuse me, Mr. Brand," said the other,
blandly but firmly. " We will restrict ourselves
to business at the present moment, If you will be
so kind. I wrote to you all that occurred to me
when I had to consider your very flattering proposal
with regard to my daughter ; I may now
add that if any thought of her interfered with
your decision in this matter, I should still further
regret that you had ever met."

You do not take the view a father would
naturally take about the future of his own
daughter," said Brand, bluntly'.

Lind was not In the least moved by this taunt.

I should allow neither the interests of my
daughter nor my own interests to Interfere with
my sense of duty," said he. " Do you know me
so little ? Do you know her so little ? Ah, then
you have much to learn of her ! "

Lind looked at him for a second or two, and
added, with a slight smile —

If you decide to say no, be sure I will not
say a word of it to her. No : I will still leave
the child her hero in her Imagination. For when
I said to her, ' Natalie, an Englishman will doa
good deal for the good of the people — he will

give you his sympathy, his advice, his time, his
labour — but he will not i)ut his hand In his
pocket ; ' then she said, ' Ah, but you do not
understand JNIr. Brand yet, papa ; he Is with us ;
he Is not one to go back.' "

*' But this abandonment of one's property Is
so disproportionate In different cases "

The greater the sacrifice, the greater the
merit," returned the other : then he immediately
added, " But do not imagine I am seeking to
persuade you. I place before you the condition
on which )'ou may go forward and attain the
highest rank, ultimately perhaps the greatest
power, in this organization. Ah, you do not
understand what that is as yet. If you knew,
you would not hesitate very long, I think."

But — but suppose I have no great ambition,"
Brand remonstrated. " Suppose I am quite content
to go on doing what I can In represent
sphere ? "

You have already sworn to do-our utmost,
in every direction. On this one point of money
however, the various Councils have never departed
front the principle that there must be no compulsion.
On any other [point the Council orders ;

you obey. On this point the voluntary sacrifice
has, as I say, all the more merit ; and It Is not
forgotten. For what are you doing ? You are
yielding up a superabundance that you cannot use,
so that thousands and thousands of the poor
throughout the world may not be called on to
contribute their pence. You are giving the final
proof of your devotion. You are taking the vow
of poverty and dependence, which many of the
noblest brotherhoods the world has seen have
exacted from their members at the very outset ;
but in your case with the difference that you can
absolutely trust to the resources of an immense
association — ■ — "

Yes, as far as I am concerned," Brand said,
quickly. " But I ask you whether I should be
justified in throwing away this power to protect
others. May I appeal to Natalie herself.-^ May
I ask her } "

I am afraid, Mr. Brand," said the other, with
the same mild firmness, " I must request you in
the mean time to leave Natalie out of consideration
altogether. This is a question of duty, of
principle ; it must regulate our future relations
with each other ; pray let it stand by itself"

Brand sat silent for a time. There were many
things to think over. lie recalled, for examples
though vaguely, a conversation he had once had
with Lord Evelyn, in which this \er)- (question of
money was discussed ; and in which he had said
that he would above all things make sure he was
not being duped. Moreover, he had intended
that his property', in the event of his doing unmarried,
should go to his nephews. lUit it was
not his sister's boys who were now uppermost
in his mind.

He rose.

Vou cannot expect me to give you a definite
answer at once, " he said, almost absently.

But before you go, let me add this,"
said the other, regarding his companion with a
watchful look. " The Council are not onl)' in
urgent need of liberal funds just now, but also,
in several directions, of diligent and exceptional
service. The money contribution which the)'
demand from England I shall be able to meet
somehow, no doubt ; hitherto I have not failed
them. The claim for service shall not find us-wanting
either, I hope ; and it has been represented
to me that perhaps )ou ought to l)c transferred

to Philadelphia, where there is much to be
done at the present moment."

This suggestion effectually woke Brand from
his day-dream,

Philadelphia ?" he exclaimed.

Yes," said the other, speaking very slowly,
as if anxious that every word should have weight.
My visit, short as it was, enabled me to see how
well one might employ one's whole lifetime there —
with such results as would astonish our good friends
at head-quarters, I am sure of that. True, the
parting from one's country might be a little painful
at first ; but that is not the greatest of the sacrifices
that one should be prepared to submit to. However,"
he added, rather more lightly, " this is still
to be decided on ; meanwhile I hope, and I am
sure you hope too, Mr. Brand, that I shall be able
to satisfy the Council that the English section does
not draw back when called on for its services."

"No doubt — no doubt," Brand said ; but the
pointed way in which his companion had spoken
did not escape him, and promised to afford him
still further food for reflection.

But if this was a threat, he would show no
fear.

Molyneux wishes to get back north as soon
as possible," he said, in a matter-of-fact way, just
as if they had been talking of commonplace affairs
the whole time. " I suppose his initiation could
take place tomorrow night ? "

Certainly," said Mr. Lind, following his visitor
to the door. " And you must allow me to thank
you once more, my dear Mr. Brand, for )sour
service in securing to us such an ally. I should
like to have talked with you about your experiences
in the north ; but )OU agree with me that
the suggestion I have made demands your serious
consideration first — is it not so ? "

Brand nodded.

I will let you know tomorrow," said he.
*' Good morning ! "

"Good morning!" said Mr. Lind, pleasantly ;
and then the door was shut.

He was attended downstairs by the stout old
(german, who, on reaching the front door, drew
forth a letter from his pocket, and handed it to
him with much pretence of mystery. He was
thinking of other things, to tell the truth ; and
as he walked along he regarded the outside of
the envelope with but little curiosity It was

addressed, 'air Egregious Signore, II Signor
G. Brandy

"No doubt a begging letter from some Leicester
Square fellow," he thought.

Presently, however, he opened the letter, and

read the following message, which was also in

Italian : —

Tic beautiful caged little bird sighs and

weeps, because she thinks she is forgotten. A ivory

of remembrance would be kind, if her friend is

discreet and secret. Above all, no open strife.

This from one zi'ho departs. Farewell !''

CHAPTER V.

A friend's advice.

Tins must be said for George Brand, that while
he was hard and unsympathetic in the presence
of those whom he dished or distrusted, in the
society of those whom he did Hke and did trust
he was docile and acquiescent as a child, easily
led and easily persuaded. When he went from
Lind's chamber, which had been to him full of
an atmosphere of impatience and antagonism, to
Lord Evelyn's study, and found his friend sitting
reading there, his whole attitude changed. And
his first duty was to utter a series of remonstrances
about the thousand pounds.

"You can't afford it, Evelyn. Why didn't
you come to me ? I would have given it to you
a dozen times over rather than you should have
paid it."

2. — VII. F

"No doubt you would," said the pale lad.
That is why I did not come to you."

I wish you could get it back."

I would not take it back. It is little enough
I can do ; why not let me give such help as I
can ? If only those girls would begin to marry
off, I might do more. But there is such a band
of them that men are afraid to come near
them."

I think it would be a pity to spoil the
group," said Brand. "■ The country should subscribe
to keep them as they are — the perfect
picture of an English family. However, to return
: you must promise me not to commit any
of these extravagances again. If any appeal is
made to you, come to me."

But here a thought seemed to strike him.

"Ah," he said, " I have something to tell
you. Lind is trying to get me to enter the
same grade of officership with himself. And do
you know what the first qualification is ? — that
you give up every penny you possess in the
world."

Well } "

Well ! "

The two friends stared at each other — the
one calmly inquisitive, the other astounded.

I thought you would have burst out laughing!"
Brand exclaimed.

Why } " said the other. " You have already
done more for them — for us — than that : why
should )'ou not do all in your power ? Why
should you not do all that you can, and while
you can ? Look ! "

They were standing at the window. On the
other side of the street, far below them, were
some funeral carriages ; at this precise moment
the coffin was being carried across the pavement.


That is the end of it. I say why shouldn't
you do all that you can, and while you can ? "

Do you want reasons ? Well, one has
occurred to me since I came into this room. A
minute ago I said to you that you must not
repeat that extravagance ; and I said if you were
appealed to again you could come to me. But
what if I had already surrendered every penny
in the world ? I wish to retain in my own hands
at least the power to help my friends."

That is only another form of selfishness,"

said Lord Evelyn, laughing. " I fear you areas
yet of weak faith, Brand."

He turned from the light and went and sank
into the shadow of a great arm-chair.

Now I know what you are going to do,
Evelyn," said his friend. " You are going to
talk me out of my common-sense. And I will
not have it. I want to show you why it is
impossible I should agree to this demand."

If you feel it to be impossible, it is impossible."


My dear fellow, is it reasonable ? "

I dislike things that are reasonable."

There is but one way of getting at you.
Have you thought of Natalie ? "

Ah ! " said the other, quickly raising himself
into an expectant attitude.

You will listen now, I suppose, to reason,
to common-sense. Do you think it likely that,
with the possibility of her becoming my wife, I
am going to throw away this certainty and leave
her to all the chances of the world ? Lind says
that the Society amply provides for its officers.
Very well ; that is quite probable. I tell him
that I am not afraid for myself; if I had to

think of myself alone, there is no saying Avhat
I might not do, even if I were to laugh at m)seir
for doing it. But how about Natalie ? Lind
might die. I might be sent away to the ends
of the earth. Do you think I am going to leave
her at the mercy of a lot of people whom she
never saw ! *'

Lord Evelyn was silent

Besides, there is more than that," his friend
continued, warmly. '* You may call it selfishness,
if you like, but if )ou love a woman and
she gives her life into your hands — well, she
has the first claim on you. I will put it to yon :
do you think I am going to sell the Beeches —
when — when she might live there ? "

Lord Evelyn did not answer.

Of course I am willing to subscribe
largely," his friend continued ; " and Natalie herself
would say yes to that. But I am not
ambitious. I don't want to enter that grade.
I don't want to sit in Lind's chair, when he gets
elected to the Council, as has been suggested
to me. I am not qualified for it ; I don't care
about it ; I can best do my own work in my
own way. '

At last Lord Evelyn spoke ; but it was Ina
meditative fashion ; and not very much to the
point. He lay back in his easy-chair, his hands
clasped behind his head, and talked ; and his
talk was not at all about the selling of Hill
Beeches in Buckinghamshire, but of much more
abstract matters. He spoke of the divine wrath
of the reformer — what a curious thing it was,
that fiery impatience with what was wrong In the
world ; how it cropped up here and there from
time to time ; and how one abuse after another
had been burned up by it and swept away for ever.
Give the man possessed of this holy rage all
the beauty and wealth and ease in the world, and
he Is not satisfied ; there Is something within
him that vibrates to the call of humanity without
; others can pass by what does not affect
themselves with a laugh or a shrug of Indifference
; he only must stay and labour till the
wrong thing is put right. And how often had
he been jeered at by the vulgar of his time ;
how Common-Sense had pointed the finger of
scorn at him ; how Respectability had called him
crazed ! John Brown at Harper's Ferry Is only
a ridiculous old fool ; his effort is absurd ; even

gentlemen in the North feel an " intellectual
satisfaction " that he is hanged, because of his
preposterous miscalculation of possibilities."
Yes ; no doubt ; you hang him, and there is an
end; but "his soul goes marching on;" and the
slaves are freed ! You want to abolish the Corn
Laws ? — all good society shrieks at you at first :
you are a Radical, a regicide, a Judas Iscariot ;
but in time the nation listens ; and the poor
have cheap bread. " Mazzini is mad!" the
world cries : " why this useless bloodshed ? It is
only political murder." Mazzini is mad, no doubt;
but in time the beautiful dream of Italy — of
Italia, the world's wonder, the world's care " —
comes true. And what matter to the reformer,
the agitator, the dreamer, though you stone him
to death, or throw him to the lions, or clap
him into a nineteenth-century prison and shut
his mouth that way ? He has handed on the
sacred fire. Others will bear the torch ; and
he who is unencumbered will outstrip his fellows.
The wrong must be put right.

And so forth ; and so forth. Brant sat and
listened ; recognizing here and there a proud,
pathetic phrase of Natalie's, and knowing well

whence the inspiration came ; and as he listened
he almost felt as though that beautiful old place in
Buckinghamshire was slipping through his fingers.
The sacrifice seemed to be becoming less and less
of a sacrifice ; it took more and more the form of
a duty : would Natalie's eyes smile approval ?

Brand jumped up ; and took a rapid turn or
two up and down the room.

I won't listen to you, Evelyn. You don't
know anything about money matters. You care
for nothing but ideas. Now, I come of a commercial
stock ; and I want to know what guarantee
I have that this money, if I were to give it up,
would be properly applied. Lind's assurances
are all very well "

Oh yes, of course ; you have got back to
Lind," said Lord Evelyn, waking up from his
reveries. " Do you know, my dear fellow, that
your distrust of Lind is rapidly developing into
a sharp and profound hatred ? "

I take men as I find them. Perhaps you
can explain to me how Lind should care so
little for the future of his daughter as to propose
with the possibility of our marrying — that
she should be left penniless } "

** I can explain it to myself; but not to you ;
you are too thorough an Englishman."

Are you a foreigner ? "

I try to understand those who are not
English. Now, an Englishman's theory is that
he himself, and his wife, and children — his
domestic circle, in fact — are the centre of
creation ; and that the fate of empires, as he
finds that going one way or the other in the
telegrams of the morning paper, is a very small
matter compared with the necessity of Tom's
croinor to Eton, or Dick's marrvinof and settling
down as the bailiff of the Worcestershire farm.
That is all very well ; but other people maybe
of a different habit of mind. Lind's heart
and soul are in his present work ; he would
sacrifice himself, his daughter, you, or anybody
else, to it, and consider himself amply justified.
He does not care about money, or horses, or
the luxury of a big establishment ; I suppose
he has had to live on simple fare many a time
whether he liked it or not ; and can put up
with whatever happens. If you imagine that you
may be cheated by a portion of your money —
supposing you were; to adopt his proposal — going

into his pocket as commission you do him a
wrong."

No, I don't think that," Brand said, rather
unwillingly. " I don't take him to be a common
and vulgar swindler. And I can very well believe
that he does not care very much for money or
luxury or that kind of thing so far as he himself
is concerned. Still you would think that the
ordinary instinct of a father would prevent his
doing an injury to the future of his daughter "

Would he consider it an injury ? Would
she?"

Well," Brand said, " she is very enthusiastic,
and noble, and generous ; and does not know
what dependence or poverty means. But he is
a man of the world ; and you would think he
would look after his own kith and kin."

Yes, that is a wholesome conservative English
sentiment ; but it does not rule the actions of
everybody."

But common-sense "

Oh, bother common-sense ! Common-sense
is only a grocer, that hasn't got an idea beyond
ham and eggs."

Well, if I am only a grocer," Brand said.

quite submissively, " Don't )ou think the grocer,
if he were asked to pay off the National Debt,
ought to say, ' Gentlemen, that is a praiseworthy
object. But in the mean time wouldn't it be advisable
for me to make sure that my wife mayn't
have to go on the parish ? ' "

Thereafter there was silence for a time ; and
when Brand next spoke it was in a certain precise,
hard fashion, as if he wished to make his
meaning very clear.

Suppose, Evelyn," he said, " I were to tell
)Ou what has occurred to me as the probable
explanation of Lind's indifference about the future
of his daughter : would you be surprised ? "

I expect it will be wrong ; for you cannot
do justice to that man. But I should like to
hear it."

I must tell )'ou he wrote me a letter, a
shilly-shallying sort of letter, filled with arguments
to prove that a marriage between Natalie
and myself would not be expedient, and all the
rest of it. Not absolutely refusing his consent,
you understand ; but postponing the matter ; and
hoping that on further reflection — etcetera,
etcetera. Well, do you know what my conclusion

is ? — that he is definitely resolved I shall
not marry his daughter ; and that he is playing
with me, humbugging me with the possibility of
marrying her, until he induces me to hand him
over my fortune for the use of the Society. Stare
away as you like ; that is what I believe to be
true."

He rose and walked to the window, and
looked out.

"Well, Evelyn, whatever happens, I have to
thank you for many things. It has been all like
my boyhood come back again ; but much more
wonderful and beautiful. If I have to go to
America, I shall take with me at least the
memory of one night at Covent Garden. She
was there — and Madame Potecki — and old Clarissa.
It was Fidelia they were playing. She
gave me some forget-me-nots."

What do you mean by going to America ? "
Lord Evelyn said.

Brand remained at the window for a minute
or two, silent ; and then he returned to his chair.

You will say I am unjust again. But unless
I am incapable of understanding English — such
English as he speaks — this is his ultimatum : that

unless I give my property, every cent of it, over
to the Society am to go to America. It is a
distinct and positive threat."

How can you say so ! " the other remonstrated.
" lie has just been to America himself,
without any compulsion whatever."

He has been to America for a certain
number of weeks. I am to go for life — and, ashe
imagines, alone."

His face had been growing darker and darker ;
the brows lowering ominously over the eyes.

Now, Brand," his friend said, "-ou arc
letting your distrust of this man Lind become a
madness. W'liat if he were to say tomorrow that
you might marry Natalie the day after?"

The other looked up, almost bewildered.

I would say he was serving some purpose of
Ills own. But he will not say that. He means
to keep his daughter to himself; and he means to
have my money."

Why, you admitted a minute ago that even
you could not suspect him of that ! "

Not for himself. No. Probably he does
not care for money. lUit he cares for ambition —
for power ; and there is a vacancy in the Council.

Don't you see ? This would be a tremendous
large sum in the eyes of a lot of foreigners : they
would be grateful, would they not ? And Natalie
once transferred to Italy, I could console myself
with the honour and dignity of Lind's chair in
Lisle Street : don't you perceive ? "

I perceive this — that you misjudge Lind
altogether. I am sure of it. I have seen it
from the beginning — from the moment you set
your foot in his house. And you tried to blind
yourself to the fact because of Natalie. Now
that you imagine he means to take Natalie from
you, all your pent-up antagonism breaks loose.
Meanwhile, what does Natalie herself say ? "

What does she say ? " he repeated, mechanically.
He also was lying back in his chair ;
his eyes gazing aimlessly at the window. But
whenever any one spoke of Natalie, or whenever
he himself had to speak of her, a quite
new expression came into his face. The brows
lifted ; the eyes were gentle. " What does she
say ? Why, nothing. Lind requested me neither
to see her nor to write to her ; and I thought
that reasonable until I should have heard what
he had to say to me. There is a message I
got half an hour ago — not from her."

He handed to Lord Evelyn the anonymous
scroll that he had received from the old German.

Poor old Clarissa ! " he said. " Those
Italians are always very fond of little mysteries.
But how he must have loved that woman ! "

Natalie's mother ? "

Yes," said the other, absently. " I wonder
he has never gone to see his sweetheart of former
years."

What do you mean ? "

Brand started. It was not necessary that
Lord Evelyn should in the mean time be entrusted
with that secret.

He told me that when he saw Natalie it
was to him like a vision from the dead ; she was
so like her mother. But I must be off, Evelyn ;
I have to meet Molyneux at two. So that is
your advice," he said, as he went to the door —
that I should comply with Lind's demand ; or
to put it another way — succumb to his threat ^ "

It is not my advice at all. Quite the contrary.
I say, if you have any doubt or distrust
if you cannot make the sacrifice without perfect
faith and satisfaction to yourself — do not
think of it."

And go to America ? "

I cannot believe that any such compulsory-alternative
exists. But about Natalie : surely
you will send her a message : Lind cannot object
to that ? "

I will send her no message ; I will go to
her," the other said, firmly. " I believe Lind
wishes me not to see her. Within the duties
demanded of me by the Society, his wishes are
to me commands ; elsewhere and otherwise
neither his wishes nor his commands do I value
more than a lucifer-match. Is that plain enough,
Evelyn ? "

And so he went away, forgetting all the sage
counsel Clarissa had given him ; thinking
rather of the kindly, thoughtful, mysterious little
message the old man had left behind him, and
of the beautiful caged bird that sighed and wept
because she thought she was forgotten. She
should not think that long !

CHAPTER YI.

A PROMISE.

Tins was a dark time indeed for Natalie Lind —
left entirely by herself, ignorant of what was happening
around her, and haunted by vague alarms.
But the girl was too proud to show to any one
how much she suffered. On the contrary, she
reasoned and remonstrated with herself; and
forced herself to assume an attitude of something
more than resignation, of resolution. If it was
necessary that her father should be obeyed ;
that her lover should maintain this cruel silence ;
even that he and she should have the wide
AllcUitic separate them for ever, she would not
repine. It was not for her, who had so often
appealed to others, to shrink from sacrifice herself.
And if this strange new hope that had
filled her heart for a time had to be finally
abandoned, what of that ? What mattered a

2. — VII. c

single life ? She had the larger hope ; there
was another and greater future for her to think
about ; and she could cherish the thought that
she at least had done nothing to imperil or
diminish the work to which so many of her friends
had given their lives.

But silence is hard to bear. Ever since the
scene with her father, a certain undeclared
estrangement had prevailed between these two ;
and no reference whatsoever had been made to
George Brand. Her lover had sent her no
message ; no word of encouragement, of assurance,
or sympathy. Even Clarissa had gone.
There remained to her only the portrait that
Clarissa had given her ; and in the solitude
of her own room many a time she sat and
gazed at the beautiful face with some dim,
wondering belief that she was looking at her
other self, and that she could read into the
features some portion of her own experiences,
her own joys and sorrows. For surely those
soft, dark, liquid eyes must have loved and been
beloved ? And had they too filled with gladness
when a certain step had been heard coming
near; and had they looked up with trust and

pride and tenderness ; and filled with tears again
in absence, when only the memory of loving
words remained ? She recalled many a time
what Clarissa had said to her — " My child,
may Heaven keep you as true and brave as
your mother was ; and send you more happiness."
Her mother, then, had not been happy ? But
she was brave, Clarissa had said : when she
loved a man, would she not show herself worthy
of her love ?

This was all very well ; but in spite of her
reasoning and her forced courage, and her self-possession
in the presence of others, Natalie
had got into the habit of crying in the quietude
of her own room, to the great distress of the
little Anncli who had surprised her once or twice.
And the rosy-cheeked German maid guessed
pretty accurately what had happened ; and wondered
ver' much at the conduct of English lovers,
who allowed their sweethearts to pine and fret in
solitude without sending them letters or coming
to see them. But on this particular afternoon
Anneli opened the door in answer to a summons ;
and found outside a club commissionaire whom
she had seen once or twice before ; and when

he gave her a letter — addressed in a handwriting
which she recognized — and asked for an answer
she was as much agitated as if it had come
from her own sweetheart in GorHtz. She snatched
it from the man, as if she feared he would take
it back. She flew with it upstairs, breathless.
She forgot to knock at the door.

Oh, Fraulein, it is a letter," said she,
in £great excitement, " and there is to be an

answer

Then she hesitated. But the good sense of
the child told her she ought to go.

I will wait outside, Fraulein. Will you ring
when you have written the answer ? "

When Natalie opened the letter she was
outwardly quite calm — a little pale, perhaps : but
as she read it, her heart beat fast. And it washer
heart that instantly dictated the answer to
this brief and simple appeal —

"My Natalie,

It is your father's wish that I should
not see you. Is it your wish also ? There is
something I would like to say to you."

It was her heart that answered. She rose

directly. She never tlioui;ht twice, or even once,-
about any wish, or menace, or possible consequence.
She went straight to her desk, and
with a shaking hand wrote these lines —
"Mv Own,

Come to me, now, at any time — when

you please. Am I not }-ours ?

Natalie."

Despite herself, she had to pause, to steady
her hand — and because her heart was beating
so fast that she felt choked — before she could
properly address the envelope. Then she carried
the letter to Anneli, who she knew was waiting
outside. That done, she shut herself in again,
to give herself time to think, though in truth
she could scarcely think at all. For all sorts of
emotions were struggling for the mastery of
her — joy and a proud resolve distinctly predominant.
It was done; and she would abide
by it. She was not given to fear.

But she tried hard to think. At last her
lover was coming to her ; he would ask her
what she was prepared to do : what would she
answer ?

Then again the joy of the thought that she

was about to see him drove every other consideration
out of her mind. How soon might hebe
here ? Hurriedly she went to a jar of flowers
on the table ; chose some scarlet geraniums ; and
turned to a mirror. Her haste did not avail
much ; for her fingers were still trembling. But
that was the colour he had said on one occasion
suited her best. She had not been wearing
flowers in her hair of late.

From time to time, for a second or so, some
thought of her father intervened. But then her
father had only enjoined her to dismiss for ever
the hope of her marrying the man to whom she
had given her heart and her life : that could not
prevent her loving him, and seeing him, and
telling him that her love was his. She wished
the geraniums were less rose-red and more scarlet
in hue. It was the scarlet he had approved of
that evening that he and she and the little
Polish lady had dined together.

She had not long to wait. With a quick,
intense consciousness she heard the Hansom
drive up, and the rapid knock that followed ; her
heart throbbed through the seconds of silence ;
then she knew that he was ascending the stair ;

then it seemed to her as if the life would go out
of her altogether. But when he flung the door
open and came towards her ; when he caught
her two hands in his — one hand in each hand —
and held them tight ; when, in a silence that
neither cared to break, he gazed into her rapidly-moistening
eyes, then the full tide of joy and
courage returned to her heart ; and she was
proud that she had sent him that answer. For
some seconds — to be remembered during a lifetime
— they regarded each other in silence ; then
he released her hands, and began to put back
the hair from her forehead as if he would see
more clearly into the troubled deeps of her eyes ;
and then, somehow — perhaps to hide her crying —
she buried her face in his breast, and his arms
were around her, and she was sobbing out all the
story' of her waiting and her despair.

What ! " said he, cheerfully, to calm and reassure
her, " the brave Natalie, to be frightened
like that ! "

I was alone," she murmured. " I had no
one to speak to ; and 1 could not understand.
Oh. my love, my love, you do not know what you
are to me ! "

He kissed her ; her cheeks were wet.

Natalie," said he, in a low voice, "don't
forget this : we may be separated — that is possible
I don't know. But if we live fifty years apart
from each other — if you never hear one word more
from me or of me — be sure of this, that I am
thinking of you, always, and loving you, as I doat
this moment when my arms are around you.
Will you remember that : will you believe that —
always ? "

I could not think otherwise," she answered.
But now that you are with me — that I can hear

you speak to me " And at this point her voice

failed her altogether ; and he could only draw
her closer to him, and soothe and caress her, and
stroke the raven-black hair, that had never before
thrilled his fingers with its soft, strange touch.

Perhaps," she said at last, in a broken and
hesitating voice, " you will blame me for having
said what I have said. I have had no Sfirl-com-
pinions ; scarcely any woman to tell me what I
should do and say. But — but — I thought you
were going to America — I thought I should never
see you again — I was lonely and miserable — and
when I saw you again — how could I help saying

I was glad ? How could I help saying that, and
more ? — for I never knew it till now : oh, niy love,
do you know that-ou have become the whole
world to me ? \\'hcn you are away from me, I
would rather die than live."

'• Natalie, my life !"

I must say that to you — once — that )'ou may
understand — if we should never see each other
aofain. And now "

She gently released herself from his embrace ;
and went and sat down by the table. He took
a chair near her, and held her hand. She would
not look up ; for her eyes were still wet with
tears.

And now," she said, making a great effort to
regain her self-control, " you must tell me about
yourself. A woman may have her feelings and
fancies ; and cry over them when she is afraid or
alone ; that is nothing ; it is the way of the world.
It is a man's fate that is of importance."

You must not talk like that, Natalie," said
he, gravely. " Our fate is one. Without you, I
don't value my life more than this bit of geranium-leaf
; with you, life would be worth having."

And you must not talk like that either,"

she said. " Your life is valuable to others. Ah,
my dear friend, that is what I have been trying
to console myself with of late. I said, 'Well,
if he goes away and does not see me again, will
he not be freer ? He has a great work to do ;
he may have to go away from England for many
years ; why should he be encumbered with a
wife ? "

'' It was your father, I presume, who made
those suggestions to you ? " said Brand, regarding
her.

Yes ; papa said something like that," she
answered, quite innocently. '' That is what
would naturally occur to him ; his work has
always the first place in his thoughts. And with
you, too ; is it not so ? "

'' No."

She looked up quickly.

I will be quite frank with you, Natalie.
You have the first place in my thoughts ; I hope
sou ever will have, while I am a living man.
But cannot I give the Society all the work that
is in me equally well, whether I love you or
whether I don't, whether you become my wife
or whether you do not ? I have no doubt your

father has been talking to you as he has been
talking to me."

She placed her disengaged hand on the top
of his, and said gently —

My father perhaps does not quite understand
you ; perhaps he is too anxious. I, for one,
am not anxious — about that. Do you know how
I trust you, my dearest of friends ? Sometimes
I have said to myself, ' I will ask him for a
pledge. I will say to him that he must promise,
that he must swear to me, that whatever happens
as between him and me, nothing, nothing, nothing
in all the world will induce him to give up
what he has undertaken ; ' but then again I have
said to myself, ' No, I can trust him for that' "

I think you may, Natalie," said he, rather
absently. " And yet what could have led me to
join such a movement but your own noble spirit
the glamour of your voice — the thanks of your
eyes ? You put madness into my blood with
your singing."

Do you call it madness ? " she said, with a
faint flush in the pale olive face. " Is it not rather
kindness — is it not justice to others — the desire
to help — something that the angels in heaven

must feel when they look down and see what a
great misery there is in the world ? "

I think you are an angel yourself, Natalie,"
said he, quite simply, " and that you have comedown
and got among a lot of people who don't
treat you too well. However, we must come to
the present moment. You spoke of America :
now, what do you know about that ? "

The abrupt question startled her. She had
been so overjoyed to see him — her whole soul
was so buoyant and radiant with happiness — that
she had quite forgotten or dismissed the vasfue

J. o o

fears that had been of late besetting her. But
she proceeded to tell him, with a little hesitation
here and there, and with a considerable smoothing
down of phrases, what her father had said
to her. She tried to make it appear quite
reasonable. And all she prayed for was that,
if he were sent away to America, if they had to
part for many years, or for ever, she should be
permitted to say good-bye to him.

We are not parted yet," said Brand, briefly.

The fact was he had just got a new key to
the situation. So that threat about America
could serve a double purpose ? He was now

more than ever convinced that Ferdinand Lind
was merely playing off and on with him until
this money question should be settled ; and that
he had been resolved all the time that his
daughter should not marre lie was beginning
to understand.

Natalie," said he, slowly, " I told you I had
something to say to you. You know your father
wrote to me in the North, asking me neither to
see you nor to write to you until some matter
between him and me was settled. Well, I respected
his wish until I should know what the
thing was. Now that I do know, it seems tome
that )0U are as much concerned as any one ;
and that it is not reasonable, it is not possible,
I should refrain from seeing you and consulting
you.

No one shall prevent your seeing mc, when
it is your wish," said the girl, in a low voice.

This, then, is the point : you know enough
about the Society to understand ; and there is
no particular secret. Your father wishes me to
enter the higher grade of officers, under the
Council ; and the first condition is that one surrenders
up every farthing of one's property."

Yes ? "

He stared at her. Her "Yes?" — with its
affectionate interest, and its absolute absence of
surprise — was almost the exact equivalent of
Lord Evelyn's "Well?"

Perhaps you would advise me to consent ? "
he said, almost in the way of a challenge.

"Ah, no," she said, with a smile. " It is not
for me to advise on such things. What you
decide for yourself, that will be right."

But you don't understand, my darling.
Supposing I were ambitious of getting higher
office, which I am not ; supposing I were myself
willing to sell my property to swell the funds of
the Society — and I don't think I should be
willing in any case ; do you think I would part
with what ought to belong to my wife — to you,
Natalie ? Do you think I would have you
marry a beggar — one dependent on the indulgence
of people unknown to him ? "

And now there was a look of real alarm on
the girl's face.

"Ah!" she said, quickly. "Is not that what
my father feared ? You are thinking of me
when you should think of others. Already

I — I — interfere with your duty — I tempt
you "

My darling, be calm, be reasonable. There
is no duty in the matter ; )our father acknowledges
that himself. It is a proposal I am free
to accept or reject, as I please ; and now I promise
you that, as you won't give me any advice,
I shall decide without thinking of you at all.
Will that satisfy you ? "

She remained silent for a second or two ;
and then she said, thoughtfully —

Perhaps you could decide just as if there
were no possibility of my ever being your
wife ? "

To please you, I will assume that, too."

Then she said, after a bit —

One word more, dearest ; you must grant
me this — that I may always be able to think of
it when I am alone and far from ^-ou ; and be
able to reassure myself. It is the promise I
thought I could do so well without. Now you
will give it me ? "

What promise ? "

That whatever happens to you or to mc,
whatever my father demands of me, and wherever

you may have to go, you will never withdraw
from what you have undertaken ? "

He met the earnest pleading look of those
beautiful eyes without flinching. His heart was
light enough so far as such a promise was concerned.
Heavier oaths than that lay on him.

That is simple enough, Natalie," said he.
I promise you distinctly that nothing shall
cause me to swerve from my allegiance to the
Society ; I will give absolute and implicit obedience
; and the best of such work as I can do.
But they must not ask me to forget my Natalie."

She rose — still holding his hand — and stood
by him, so that he could not quite see her face.
Then she said, in a very low voice indeed —

Dearest, may I give you a ring ? — you do
not wear one at all "

But surely, Natalie, it is for me to choose
a ring for you ? "

Ah, it is not that I mean," she said, quickly ;
and with her face fiushinsf. " It is a rinsf that
will remind you of the promise you have given
me to-day — when we may not be able to see
each other."

CHAPTER VII.

KIRSKI.

To this pale student from the Reading Room
of the British Museum, as he stands on a bridge
crossing one of the smaller canals, surely the
scene around him must seem one fitted to
gladden the heart. For it is Venice at mid-day,
in glowing sunlight : the warm cream-white
fronts of the marble palaces and casement
houses, the tall campanili with their golden tips,
the vast and glittering domes of the churches,
all rising fair and dream-like into the intense
dark blue of a cloudless sky. How the hot
sunlight brings out all the beautiful colour of the
place — the richly laden fruit-stalls in the Riva
dei Schiavoni ; the russet and saffron sails of the
vessels ; the canal-boats coming in to the steps
with huge open turns of [purple wine to be ladled
out with copper buckets ; and then all around

2. — VII. H

the shining twinkling plain of the green-hued
sea, catching here and there a reflection from the
softly red walls of San Giorgio and the steel-grey
gleaming domes of Santa Maria della
Salute.

Then the passers-by : these are not like the
dusky ghosts that wander through the pale-blue
mists of Bloomsbury. Here comes a buxom
water-carrier, in her orange petticoat and sage-green
shawl, who has the two copper cans at
the end of the long piece of wood poised on her
shoulders pretty nearly filled to the brim. Then
a couple of the gayer gondoliers in white and
blue, with fancy waist-belts, and rings in their
ears. A procession of black-garbed monks wends
slowly along ; they have come from the silence
of the Armenian convent over there at the
horizon. Some wandering minstrels shoot their
gondola into the mouth of the canal ; and strike
up a gay waltz ; while they watch the shaded
balconies above. Here is a lascar ashore from
the big steamer that is to start for Alexandria
on the morrow. A company of soldiers, with
blue coats, canvas trousers, and white gaiters, half
march and half trot along to the quick crackling

music of the buglers. A swarthy-visaged maiden,
with the calm brow of a Madonna, appears in the
twilight of a balcony, with a packet of maize in
her hand, and in a minute or two she is surrounded
with a cloud of pigeons. Then this
beggar — a child of eight or ten — red-haired and
blue-eject : surely she has stepped out of one of
Titian's pictures ? She whines and whimpers
her prayer to him ; but there is something in
her look that he has seen elsewhere. It belongs
to another century.

From these reveries Mr. Gathorne Edwards
was aroused by some one tapping him on the
shoulder. It was Clarissa.

My dear Monsieur Edouarts," said he, ina
low voice — for the red-haired little beggar was
still standing there expectant — " he has gone over
to the shipping-place. We must follow later on.
Meanwhile, regard this letter that has just been
forwarded to me. Ah, you English do not forget
your promises."

Edwards threw a piece of money to the child,
who passed on. Then he took the letter ; and
read it. It was in I'Vench.

Dear Clarissa,

I want you to tell me what you have
done with Yakov Kirski. They seem unwilling
to say here ; and I do not choose to inquire
further. But I undertook to look after him ;
and I understood he was getting on very well ;
and now you have carried him off. I hope it
is with no intention of allowing him to go back
to Russia, where he will simply make an attempt
at murder, and fall into the hands of the police.
Do not let the poor devil go and make a fool
of himself If you want money to send him back
to England, show this letter or forward it to

Messrs. , who will give you what you want.

Your friend,

George Brand.

Pes. — I have seen your beautiful caged little
bird. I can say no more at present ; but that
she shall not suffer through any neglect of mine."

What is that about the caged bird ? " said
Edwards.

Ah, the caged bird ? " said Clarissa,
The caged bird ? — do you see, that is a
metaphor. It is nothing; one makes one's little

joke. But I was sayings my dear friend, that
you English do not promise, and then forget.
No ; he says, ' I will befriend this poor devil
of a Kirski ; ' and here he comes enquiring after
him. Now I must answer the letter ; you will
accompany me, Monsieur Edouarts ? Ten
minutes in my little room ; and it is done."

So the two walked away together. This
Edwards who now accompanied Clarissa was
a man of about thirty, who looked younger ; tall,
fair, with a slight stoop, a large forehead, and
blue eyes that stared near-sigh teddy through
spectacles. The ordinary expression of his face
was grave even to melancholy ; but his occasional
smile was humorous ; and when he laughed the
laugh was soft and light like that of a child.
His knowledge of modern languages was considered
to be almost unrivalled ; though he had
travelled but lite.

When, in this little room, Clarissa had at
length famished his letter, and dusted it over
with sand, he was not at all loth to show it to
this master of modern speech. Clarissa was
proud of his French ; and if he would himself
have acknowledged that it was perhaps here and

there of doubtful idiom and of phonetic spelling,
would he not have claimed for it that it was
fluent, incisive, and ornate ?

My valued friend, it is not permitted me to
answer your questions in precise terms ; but he
to whom you have had the goodness to extend
your bountiful protection is well and safe, and
under my own care. No ; he goes not back to
Russia. His thoughts are different ; his madness
travels in other directions ; it is no longer
revenge, it is adoration and gratitude that his
heart holds. And you, can you not guess who
has worked the miracle ? Think of this : you
have a poor wretch who is distracted by injuries
and suffering ; he goes away alone into Europe ;
he is buffeted about with the winds of hunger
and thirst and cold ; he cannot speak ; he is like
a dog — a wild beast that people drive away from
their door. And all at once some one addresses
him in gentle tones : it is the voice of an angel
to him ! You plough and harrow the poor
wretch's heart with suffering and contempt and
hopelessness ; until it is a desert, a wilderness ;
but some one, by accident one day, drops a seed
of kindness into it, and behold ! the beautiful

flower of love springing up, and all the man's
life going into it ! Can you understand — you
who ought to understand ? Were you not
present, when the bewildered, starved, hunted
creature heard that gentle voice of pity, like
an angel speaking from heaven ? And if the
beautiful girl, who will be the idol of my thoughts
through my remaining years, if she does not
know that she has rescued a human soul from
despair, you will tell her — tell her from me, from
Clarissa. What would not Kirski do for her,
you might well ask. The patient regards the
physician who has cured him with gratitude :
this is more than gratitude ; it is worship. What
she has preserved she owns ; he Would give his
life to her, to you, to any one whom she regards
with affection. For myself I do not say such
things ; but she may count on me also, while one
has yet life.

I am yours, and hers,

Clarissa."

The letter was handed to Gathorne Edwards,
with a proud air ; and he read it, and handed it
back.

This man KirskI is not so much of a savage
as you imagine," he said. "He learns quickly ;
and forgets nothing. He can repeat all the
articles of membership ; but it is No. 5 that he
is particularly fond of. You have not heard him
go over it, Clarissa ? "

I ? No. He does not waste my time that
way."

"His pronunciation," continued the younger
man, with a smile, " is rather like the cracking of
dry twigs. * Article 5. Whatever punishment maybe
decreed against any Officer, Companion, or
Friend of the Society may be vicariously borne by
any other Officer, Companion, or Friend who of
his own full and free consent acts as substitute ; the
original offender becoming thereby redeemed, acquitted,
and released! And then he invariably
adds : ' Why not make me of some use ? To
myself my life is nothing.' "

At this moment there was a tapping at the
door.

It is himself," said Edwards.

Enter ! " Clarissa called out.

The man who now came into the room was a
very different-looking person from the wild unkempt

creature who had confronted Natalie Lind
in Curzon Street. The voluminous red beard
and moustache had been cropped ; he wore the
clothes of a decent workman, with a forei»j;n
touch here and there ; he was submissive and
docile in look.

Well, where have you been, my friend ^
Clarissa said to him, in Italian.

Kirski glanced at Gathornc Edwards ; and
begun to speak to him in Russian.

Will you explain for me, little father ? I
have been to many churches."

"The police will not suspect him if he goes
there," said Clarissa, laughing.

And to the shops in the Piazza San Marco
where the pictures are of the saints."

Well ? "

Lite father, I can fid no one of the saints
so beautiful as that one in England that the
master Clarissa knows."

Clarissa laughed again.

Aliens, mon grand enfant ! Tell him that if
it is only a likeness he is hunting for, I can show
him one."

With that he took out from his breast-pocket

a small pocket-book ; opened it ; found a certain
photograph ; and put it on the table — shoving it
over towards Kirski. The dim-eyed Russian did
not dare to touch it ; but he stooped over it ;
and he put one trembling hand on each side of it,
as if he would concentrate the light ; and gazed
at this portrait of Natalie Lind until he could see
nothing at all for the tears that came into his
eyes. Then he rose abruptly; and said something
rapidly to Edwards.

"He says, ' Take it away, or you will make
me a thief. It is worth more than all the diamonds
in the world. ' "

Clarissa did not lausfh this time. He
regarded the man with a look in which there was
quite as much pity as curiosity.

The poor devil ! " he said. " Tell him I will
ask the beautiful saint whom he worships so to
send him a portrait of herself with her own
hands. I will. She will do as much as that for
her friend Clarissa."

This had scarcely been translated to Kirski
when in his sudden gratitude he caught Clarissa's
hand and kissed it.

Tell him, also," Clarissa said good-naturedly,

" that if he is hungry before dinner-time
there is sausage and bread and beer in the
cupboard. But he must not stir out till we come
back. Aliens, mon bon camarade ! "

Clarissa lit another cigarette, and the two
companions sallied forth. They stepped into a
gondola ; and presently they were being borne
swiftly over the plain of light green water. By-and-by
they plunged into a varied and picturesque
mass of shipping, and touched land again
in front of a series of stores. The gondola was
ordered to await their return.

Clarissa passed without question through
the lower floor of this particular building, where
the people were busy with barrels of flour ; and
led the way upstairs until he stopped at a certain
door. He knocked thrice, and entered. There
was a small, dark man seated at a table, apparently
engaged with some bills of lading.

You are punctual, Brother Clarissa."

Your time is valuable, Brother Granaglia.
Let me present to you comrade Signer
Edouarts, of whom I wrote to you."

The sallow-faced little man with the tired look
bowed courteously ; begged his guests to be

seated ; and pushed towards them a box of
cigarettes.

Now, my Clarissa," said he, " to the
point. As you guess, I am pressed for time.
Seven days hence will find me in Moscow."

In Moscow ! " exclaimed Clarissa. " You
dare not ! "

Granaglia waved his hand a couple of inches.

Do not protest. It may be your turn tomorrow.
And my good friend Clarissa would
find Moscow just about as dangerous for him
as for me."

Monsieur le Secretaire, I have no wish to
try. But to the point, as you say. May one
ask how it stands with Zaccatelli ? "

Granaglia glanced at the Englishman.

Of course he knows everything," Clarissa
explained instantly. " How otherwise should I
have brought him with me ? "

Well, Zaccatelli has received his warning."

Who carried it ? "

u J "

You ? You are the devil ! You thrust
your head into the lion's den ? "

The black-eyed, worn-faced little man seemed

pleased. An odd dry smile appeared about the
thin lips.

"It needed no courage at all, friend Clarissa.
His Eminence knows who we are, no one
better. The courage was his. It is not a pleasant
thing when you are told that within a certain
given time you will be a dead man ; but Zacca-
telli did not blanch ; no, he was very polite tome.
He paid us compliments. We were not like
the others, Clarissa. We were good citizens
and Christians ; even his Holiness might be induced
to lend an ear ; why should not the Church
and we be friends ? "

Clarissa burst out laughing.

Surely evil days have fallen on the Pope,
Brother Granaglia, when one of his own Cardinals
proposes that he should at last countenance a
secret society. But his Eminence was mad with
fear, was it not so ? He wanted to win you
over with promises, eh ? Idle words, and no
more. He feeds you on wind; and sends you
away ; and returns to his mistresses and his
wines and his fountains of perfume ? "

Not quite so," said the other, with the same
dry smile. "His Eminence, as T say to you,

knows as well as any one in Europe who and
what we are, and what is our power. The
day after I called on him with my little message,
what does he do — of his own free will, mind
you — but send back the daughter of old De
Bedros to her home ; with a pledge to her
father that she shall have a dowry of ten thousand
lire when she marries. The father is pleased ;
the daughter is not. She sits and cries. She
talks of herself getting at him with a stiletto."

He took a cigarette ; and accepted a light
from Clarissa.

"Further," he continued, "his Eminence is
so kind as to propose to give the Council an
annual subsidy from his own purse of thirty
thousand lire."

Thirty thousand lire ! " Clarissa exclaimed.

But at this point even Granaglia began to
laugh.

"Yes, yes, my friend," he said, apparently
apostrophizing the absent Cardinal. " You know,
then, who we are ; and you do not wish to give
up all your pleasures. No ; we are to become
the good boy among secret societies ; we are to
have the blessing of the Pope ; we are to fight

Prince Bismarck for you. Prince Bismarck has
all his knights and his castles on the hoard ; but
what are they against an anc^^elic host of bishops,
and some millions of common pawns ? Prince
Bismarck wishes to plunge Europe again into
war. The Church, with this tremendous engine
within reach, says, No. Do you wish to fmtl
eight men — eight men. at the least — out of every
company of every regiment in all )our corps
(VarmL'c throw down their rifle at the first onset
of battle ? You will shoot them for mutiny ?
My dear fellow, you cannot ; the enemy is upon
you. With eight men out of each company
throwing down their weapons and determined
either to desert or die, how on earth can you
fight at all ? Well, then, good Bismarck, you
had better make your peace with the Church,
and rescind those I-'alk laws. What do you
think of that scheme, Clarissa ? It was ingenious,
was it not, to have come into the head
of a man under sentence of death ? "

I)Ut the thirty thousand lire, Brother Ganglia.
It is a tremendous bribe."

The Council docs not accept bribes. Brother
Clarissa," said the other, coldly.

"It Is decided, then, that the decree remains
to be executed ? "

I know of nothing to the contrary. But
if you wish to know for certain, you must seek
the Council. They are at Naples."

He pulled an ink-bottle before him ; and
made a motion with his fore-finger.

You understand ? "

Yes, yes," Clarissa answered. " And I
will go on to Naples, Brother Granaglia. For I
have with me one who I think will carry out
the wishes of the Council effectively so far as
his Eminence the Cardinal is concerned."

"Who is he?" said the other; but with no
great interest.

Yakov Kirski. He is a Russian."

CHAPTER Via

CLIMAX.

It was a momentous decision that George Brand
Iliad to arrive at ; and yet he scarcely seemed to
be aware of it. The man lead cleansed so much
during" these past six; months.

Do you know, Evelyn," he was saying to
his friend, on the very evening on which this
answer was to be given to Ferdinand Lind, " I
am beginning to look on that notion of my going
to America with anything but dislike. Rather
the opposite, indeed. I should like to get rid
of a lot of old associations ; and start in a new
and wider field. With another life to lead, don't
you want another sort of world to live it in ?"

Lord Evelyn regarded him. Xo one had
observed with a closer interest the gradual
change that had come over this old friend of
2. — vn. 1

his. And he Vas proud of it, too ; for had it
not been partly of his doing ?

One does not breathe free air here," Brand
continued, rather absently — as if his mental vision
Alas fixed on the greater spaces beyond the seas.
With a new sort of life beginning, wouldn't it
be better to start it under new conditions — feeling
yourself unhampered — with nothing around
you to disturb even the foolishness of your
dreams and hopes ? Then you could work away
at your best, leaving the result to time."

I know perfectly what all that means," Lord
Evelyn said. " You are anxious to get away
from Lind. You believe in your work ; but you
don't like to be associated with him."

Perhaps I know a little more than you,
Evelyn," said Brand, gently, '' of Lind's relation
to the Society. He does not represent it to meat
all. He is only one of its servants, like ourselves.
But don't let us talk about him."

You vi2isi talk about him," Lord Evelyn
said, as he pulled out his watch, "It is now
seven. At eight you go to the initiation of
Molyneux ; and you have promised to give Lind
his answer to-night. Well ? "

Brand was playing iJI)- with a pocket-pencil.
After a minute or two he said —

I promised Natalie to consider this think,'
without any reference to her whatever — thai I
would decide just as if there was no possibility
of her becoming my wife. I promised that ; but
it is hard to (So, Evelyn, I have tried to imagine
my never having seen her ; and that I had Ix-cn
led into this affair solely through you. Then
I do think that if you had come to me and said
that my giving up every penny I possess would
forward a good work — would do indirect benefit
to a large number of people — and so forth — I
do think I could have said, ' All right, Evelyn ;
take it.' I never cared much for money ; I fancy
I could get on pretty well on a sovereign a week.
I saps that if you had come to me with this
request "

Precisely," Lord Even said, quickly. " Vou
would have said yes, if I had come to you. Hut
because it is Lind, whom you distrust, you fall
away from the height of self-sacrifice; and regard
the proposal from the point of view of the Palsgrave
Club. Mind you, I am not counselling
you one way or the other. I am only pointing

out to you that it is your dislike of Lincl that
prevents your doing what you otherwise would
have done."

Very well," said the other, boldly. " Have
I not reason to distrust him ? How can I explain
his conduct, and his implied threats, except
on the supposition that he has been merely
playing with me, as far as his daughter is concerned
; and that, as soon as I had handed over
this property, I should find it out ? Oh, it is a
very pretty scheme altogether. This heap of
English money transferred to the treasury ; Lind
at length achieving his ambition of being put on
the Council ; Natalie carried off to Italy ; and
myself granted the honour of stepping into Lind's
shoes in Lisle Street. On the other hand : * Refuse,
and we pack you off to America.' Now,
you know, Evelyn, one does not like to be
threatened into anything."

Then you have decided to say no ? "

He did not answer for a second or two ; when
he did, his manner was quite changed.

I rather think I know what both you and
Natalie would have me do ; although you won't
say so explicitly. And if you and she had come

to me with this proposal, do you think there
would have been any difficulty ? I should have
been satisfied if she had put her hand in mine,
and said, ' Thank you.' Then I should have
reminded her that she was sacrificing something
too.

He relapsed into silence again ; Lord Evelyn
was vaguely conscious that the minutes were
passing by ; and that his friend seemed as far
off as ever from any decision.

You remember the old-fashioned rose-garden,
Evelyn ? "

At the Beeches ? Yes."

Don't you think Natalie would like the
view from that side of the house ? And if she
chose that side, I was thinking of having a conservatory
built all the length of the rooms, with
steps opening out into the rose-garden. She
could go out there for a stroll of a morning."

So these had been his dreams ?

"If I go to America," he said presently,
I should expect you to look after the old place
a little bit. You might take your sisters there
occasionally, and turn them loose ; it wants a
woman's hand here and there. Mrs. Allen

would put you up all right ; and of course I
should send Waters down ; and give up those
rooms in Buckingham Street."

But I cannot imagine your going to
America, somehow," Lord Evelyn said. " Surely
there is plenty for you to do here."

I will say this of Lind, that he is not an
idle talker. What he says he means. Besides,
Molyneux can take up my work in the north ;
he is the very man."

Again silence. It was now half-past seven.

I wish, though, it had been something more
exciting," Brand said. " I should not have
minded having a turn at the Syrian business ;
I am not much afraid of risking my neck.
There is not much danger in Philadelphia."

But look here, Brand," said Lord Evelyn,
regarding him attentively. " You are speaking
with great equanimity about your going to
America ; possibly you might like the change
well enough. But do I understand you that you
are prepared to go alone ? "

Brand looked up ; he understood what was
meant.

If I am ordered : yes."

He held out his rii^ht hand ; on the third
finger there was a massive gold ring — a plain
hoop, without any motto or design whatever.

"There," said he, "is the first ring I ever
wore. It was given to me this afternoon ; to
remind me of a promise. And that promise is
to fine more binding than a hundred oaths."

He rose, with a sigh.

Ah, well, Evelyn, whatever happens we will
not complain. There have been compensations."

But you have not toil me what answer you
mean to give to Lind."

Suppose I wait until I see him before
deciding ?

Then you will say no. You have allowed
your distrust of him to become a sort of mania ;
and the moment )ou see him the mere sight
of him will drive you into antagonism."

I tell you what I wish I could do, Evelyn,"
said the other, laughing. " I wish I could turnover
everything I have got to you ; and escape
scot-free to America and start my own life free
and unencumbered."

.anil alone ?"

His face grew grave again.

There is nothing possible else ? " said he.

It was nearly eight o'clock when he left. Ashe
walked along Piccadilly a clear and golden
twilight was shining over the trees in the Green
Park. All around him was the roar of the
London streets ; but it was not that that he
heard. Was it not rather the sound of a soft,
low voice, and the silvery notes of the either ?
His memory acted as a sea-shell ; and brought
him an echo from other days and other climes.

Behold the bcmdiful night — the wind sleeps drowsily — the
silent shores slumber in the dark :

Sul placid eleiiiento
Vien meo a navigate !

The soft wind moves — as it stirs among the leaves — // 7noves
and dies — among the murmur of the water :

Fascia Amico tetto,
Vien meo a navigate !

Now on the spacious mantle — of the already darkening
heavens — See O the shining wonder — hot the white stars
tremble :

Sid Monde addormentate
Vien meo a navigate I

This was the voice that he heard amid the
roar of the London streets. Would he hear it
far away on the wide Atlantic, with the shores
of England hidden behind the mists of rain ?

To-night was to decide whit the future of this
life was to be.

If NataHe had appeared at this moment and
said to him, " Dearest, let it be as my father
wishes ; " or if Lord Evelyn had frankly declared
to him that it was his duty to surrender his
possessions to this Society to which he had
devoted his life, there would have been not a
moment's hesitation. But now he was going to
see a man whom he suspected, and was inclined
to hate; and his nature began to harden, h
would be a question between one man of the
world and another. Sentiment would be put
aside. He would no longer be played with.
A man should be master of his own affairs.

This was what he said to himself But he
had quite forgotten his determination to consider
this matter as if no Natalie existed ; and his
resolve to exclude sentiment altogether did not
interfere with the fact that always, if unconsciously,
there remained in his mind a certain
picture he had been dreaming a good deal about
of late. It was a picture of an old fash ionctl
rose-garden, in the light of an English summer
morning ; with a young wife walking there,

herself taller and fairer than any flower. Would
she sing in her gladness — the songs of other
lands — to charm the sweet English air ? There
was that one about O dolce Napoli ! — o siiol
beat !

When he got to Lisle Street every one had
arrived, except Molyneux himself Mr. Lind
was gravely polite to him. Of course no mention
could then be made about private affairs ;
the talk going on was all about the East and
how certain populations were faring.

Presently the pink-faced farmer-agitator was
ushered in, looking a little bit alarmed. But this
frightened look speedily disappeared, and gave
place to one of mild astonishment, as he appeared
to recognize the faces of one or two of those
in the room. The business of the evening, sofar
as the brief formalities were concerned, was
speedily got over ; and five of the members of
the small assembly immediately left.

Now, Mr. Molyneux," said Ferdinand Lind,
pleasantly, " Mr. Brand and I have some small
private matters to talk over: will you excuse
us if we leave you for a few minutes ? Here
are some articles of our association which you

may look over in the mean time. May I trouble
you to follow mc, Mr. l-jrand ?"

Brand followed him into an inner and smaller
room ; and sat down.

You said )ou would have your mind made up
to-day with regard to the proposal I put before
you," Mr. Lind observed, with a matter-of-fact
air, as he drew in his chair to the small table.

Brand simply nodded, and said '\\s.' He
was measuring his man. He thought his manner
was a good deal too suave.

"But allow me to sammy dear Mr. Brant.
that as far as I am concerned, there is no hurry'.
Have you given yourself time ? It is a matter
of moment ; one should consider."

I have considered."

His tone was firm. One woultl have thought
he had never had any hesitation at all. But his
decision had not been definitely arrived at until,
some quarter of an hour before, he had met
Ferdinand Lind face to face.

•* I may say at once that I [prefer to remain
in my present grade."

He was watching Lind as he spoke. There
was a slight, scarcely perceptible movement of

the eyebrows ; that was all. The quiet courtesy
of his manner remained undisturbed.

That is your decision, then," he said, just
as if some trifling matter had been arranged.

Perhaps I need not bother you with my
reasons," Brand continued, speaking slowly and
with precision, " but there are several."

I have no doubt you have given the subject
serious consideration," said Mr. Lind, without
expressing any further interest or curiosity.

Now this was not at all what George Brand
wanted. He wanted to have his suspicions
allayed or confirmed. He wanted to let this
man know how he read the situation.

One reason I may as well name to you,
Mr. Lind," said he — being forced to speak more
plainly. " If I were to marry, I should like to
give my wife a proper home. I should not like
her to marry a pauper — one dependent on the
complaisance of other people. And really it has
seemed to me strange that you, with your
daughter's future, your daughter's interests to
think of, should have made this proposal "

Lind interrupted him with a slight deprecatory
motion of the hand.

Pardon me." said he " Let us confine
ourselves to business, if you please."

I presume it is a man's business to provide
for the future of his wife," said Brand, somewhat
hotly ; his pride beginning to kick against this
patronizing graciousness of manner,

I must beg of you, my dear sir," saith Mr.
Lind, with the same calm courtesy, " to keep
private interests and projects entirely outside
of this matter, which relates to the Society
alone, and your rutland the wishes of those
with whom you are associated. You have decided
? — very well. I am sorry ; but you arc
within your right."

How can you talk like that ? " said Brand,
bluntly. " Sorry ? that your daughter is not to
marry a beggar ? "

I must decline to have Natalie introduced
into this subject in any way whatever," said
:mr. Lind.

Let us drop the subject, then," saith Brand,
in a friendly way, for he was determined to
have some further enlightenment. " Now, about
Natalie. May I ask you plainly if you have any
objection to a marriage between her and myself?"

The answer was prompt and emphatic.

I have every objection. I have said before
that it would be Inexpedient In many ways.
It Is not to be thought of."

Brand was not surprised by this refusal ; he
had expected It ; he had put the question as a
matter of form,

Now one other question, Mr. Lind, and
I shall be satisfied," said he, watching the face
of the man opposite him with a keen scrutiny.
Was It ever your Intention, at any time, to give
your consent to our marriage, In any circumstances
whatever ? "

Ferdinand Lind was an admirable actor.

Is it worth w^hlle discussing Imaginary
things — possibilities only ? " he said, carelessly.

Because, you see," continued Brand, who
was not to be driven from his point, '' any
plain and ordinary person, looking from the
outside at the whole affair, might Imagine that
you had been merely temporizing with me,
neither giving nor refusing your consent, until
I had handed over this money ; and that, as
you had never intended to let your daughter
marry, that was the reason why you did not care

whether I retained a penny of my own pro[)crl)
or not."

Lind did not flinch for an instant ; nor was
there the slightest trace of surprise, or annoyance.
or resentment in his look. He rose, and pushed
back his chair.

Suppose we let outsiders think what they
please, Mr. Brand," said he, with absolute composure.
" We have more serious matters to
attend to."

Brand rose also. He guessed what was
coming ; and he had nerved himself to face it.
The whole course of this man's action was now
as clear to him as noonday.

I have been considering further the suggestion
I mentioned to you the other day, that
you should go over to some of the big American
cities," said Mr. Lind, almost with an indifferent
air, as he turned over some papers. " We arc
strong there ; you will find plenty of friends ; but
what is wanted is cohesion, arrangement, cooperation.
Now you say yourself this Mr.
Molyneux would be an admirable successor to
you in the north ? "

None better," said Brand. This sentence

of banishment had been foreseen ; he knew how
to encounter it when it came.

I think, on the whole, it would be advisable
then. When could you go ? "

I could start to-night," he said. But then
despite himself, a blush of embarrassment
mounted to his forehead, and he added, quickly,
No. Not to-night. The day after tomorrow."


There is no need for any such great hurry,'
said Mr. Lind, with his complaisant smile.
You will want much direction, many letters.
Come, shall we join your friend in the other
room :

The two men, apparently on the best of
terms, went back to Molyneux ; and the talk
became general. George Brand, as he sat
there, kept his right hand shut tight ; that so
he could press the ring that Natalie had given
him ; and when he thought of America, it was
almost with a sense of relief. She would approve
; he would not betray his promise to her.
But if only that one moment were over, in
which he should have to bid her farewell !

CHAPTER IX.

A GOOD-NIC. I IT MESSAGE.

Brand had nerved himself for that interview ; he
had determined to betray neither surprise nor
concern ; he was prepared for the worst. When
it was intimated to him that henceforth his life
was to be lived out beyond the seas, he had
appeared to take it as a matter of course. Face
to face with this enemy, lie would utter no protest.
Then, had he not solemnly promised to Natalie
that nothing in the world should tempt him from
his allegiance Why should he shrink from going
to America, or prefer London to Philadelphia ?
He had entered into a service that took no heed
of such things.

Put when he had parted from Lind and
Molyneux, and got out into the sombre glare of
the night world of London ; and when there was

no further need for that forced composure, he

2. — vnr. K

began more clearly to recognize his position ; and
his heart grew heavy. This, then, was the end
of those visions of loving companionship and constant
and sustaining sympathy with which he had
dared to fill the future ? He had thought little of
anything that might be demanded from him so
long as he could anticipate Natalie's approval, and
be rewarded with a single glance of gratitude from
the proud, dark, beautiful eyes. What mattered
it to him what became of himself, what circumstances
surrounded them, so long as he and she
were together ? But now a more terrible sacrifice
than any he had dreamed of had to be made.
The lady of love whom the Pilgrims had sworn
to serve was proving herself inexorable indeed :

Is she a queen, having great gifts to give ?
Yea, these ; that whoso hath seen he?- shall not live
Except to serve her sorrowing, with strange pai/i,
Travail and hloodshedding and bitterer tears ;
And when she bids die he shall surely die.
Acid he shall leave all things under the sky.
And go forth naked under sun and rain

And work and avait and snatch out all his years.

When Lord Evelyn had asked him whether
he was prepared to go to America, alojic, he had
clasped the ring that Natalie had given him, and

answered " Yes." But that was as a matter of
theory. It was what he niiyht do, in certain
possible circumstances. Now that he had to face
the reality, and bethink him of the necessity of
taking Natalie's hand for the last time, his heart
sank within him.

He walked on blindly through the busy streets,
seeing nothing around him. His memory was
going over the most trivial incidents connected
with Natalie, as if every look of hers, every word
she had uttered, was now become something inexpressibly
precious. Were there not many
things he could carry away with him to the land
beyond the seas ? No distance or time could rob
him of the remembrance of that night at the
opera — the scent of white rose — her look as she
gave him the forget-me-nots. Then the beautiful
shining day as they drew near to Dover ; and her
pride about England ; and the loosened curls of
hair that blew about her neck. Or the very first
evening on which he had seen her — she sitting at
the table and bending over the either — her profile
touched by the rose-tinted light from the shade of
the candle — the low, rich voice, only half heard,
singing the old, familiar, tender Lordci. He felt

the very touch of her fingers on his arm when
she turned to him with reproving eyes : "Is that
the way you answer an appeal for help ? " That
poor devil of a Kirski : what had become of him ?
He would find out from Reitzei ; and, before
leaving England, would take care that something
should be done for the luckless outcast. He
should have cause to remember all his life loner
that Natalie Lind had interfered in his behalf.

Without knowing well how he got there,
Brand found himself in Curzon Street. He
walked on, perhaps with some vague notion that he
might meet Natalie herself, until he arrived at the
house. It was quite dark ; there was no light in
any of the windows ; Anneli had not even lit the
gas-jet in the narrow hall. He turned away from
the door that he felt was now barred against him
for ever ; and walked back to Clarges Street.

Lord Evelyn was out ; the man did not know
when he would be home again. So Brand
turned away from that door also ; and resumed
his aimless wanderings, busy with those pictures
of the past. At length he got down to Buckingham
Street ; and almost mechanically made his
way towards his own rooms.

He had not reached his door, however, when
he heard some one speaking within.

I might have known," he said to himself.
That is so like Evelyn."

It was indeed Lord Evelyn, who was chatting
familiarly with old Waters. But the moment
Brand entered, he ceased ; and a look of anxiety,
and even alarm, appeared instantly on the fine,
sensitive, expressive face.

What is the matter, Brand ? Are you ill ? "

No," said the other, dropping into a chair ;
only tired — and worried, perhaps. Waters, get
me a biscuit and a glass of sherry, Now, when
think of it, I ought to feel tired — I have eaten
nothing" since ei£»"ht o'clock this morning."

Lord Evelyn jumped to his feet.

Come off at once, Brand. We will go up to
the Strand, and get you something to eat. Gracious
goodness, it is nearly ten o'clock ! "

No, no, never mind. I have something to
talk to you about, Evelyn."

But why on earth had Waters no dinner
waiting for you ? "

I did not tell him. I forgot. Never mind ;
I will have some supper by-and-by. I called on

you,' Evelyn, about half an hour ago ; I might
have known you would be here."

Lord Evelyn paused for a second or two,
while Waters came in and went out again. Then
he said —

I can tell by your face. Brand, that something
has happened."

Nothing that I had not foreseen."

Did sou consent or refuse ? "

I refused."

Well ? "

Then, as I knew he would, he suggested
that I might as well get ready to start for
America as soon as possible."

Brand was speaking in a light and scornful
way; but his face was careworn; and his eyes kept
turning to the windows and the dark night outside,
as if they were looking at something far away.

About Natalie ? " Lord Evelyn asked.

Oh, he was frank enough. He dropped all
those roundabout phrases about the great honour
and so forth. He was quite plain. ' Not to be
thought of.' "

Lord Evelyn remained silent for some time.

*' I am very sorry, Brand," he said, at length ;

and then he continued with some hesitation — "Do
you know — I have been thinking — that — that
though it is a very extreme thing for a man to
give up his fortune — a very extreme thing — I can
quite understand how the proposal looked to you
very monstrous at first — still, if you put that in
the balance as against a man's giving up his
native country and the woman whom he is in
love with — don't you see — the happiness of two
people is of so much more importance than a sum
of money, however large "

My dear fellow," said Brand, interrupting
him, "there is no such alternative— there never was
any such alternative. Do you not think I would
rather give up twenty fortunes than have to go
and bid good-bye to Natalie ? It is not a question
of monc)-, I suspected before — I know now
that Lind never meant to let his daughter
marry. He would not definitely say no to me,
while he thought I could be persuaded about this
money business ; as soon as I refused that, he
was frank and explicit enough. I see the whole
thing clearly enough now. Well, he has not
altogether succeeded."

His eye happened to light on the ring on his

finger ; and the frown on his face lifted somewhat.


If I could only forget Lind ; if I could forget
why it was that I had to go to America, I should
think far less of the pain of separation. If I
could go to Natalie, and say, ' Look at what we
must do, for the sake of something greater than
our own wishes and dreams,' then I think I could
bid her good-bye without much faltering ; but
when you know that it is unnecessary — that you
are being made the victim of a piece of personal
revenge — how can you look forward with any
great enthusiasm to the new life that lies before
you ? That is what troubles me, Evelyn."

I cannot argue the matter with you," his
friend said, looking down, and evidently much
troubled himself " I cannot help remembering
that it was I let you in for all this -"

Don't say that, Evelyn," Brand broke in,
quickly. " Do you think I would have it otherwise
? Once in America, I shall no doubt forget
how I came to ^o there. I shall have something
to do."

I — I was going to say that — that perhaps you
are not quite fair to Lind. You impute motives
that may not exist."

Lord Evelyn flushed a lite ; It was almost as
if he were excuslnof or defending: one he had no
particular wish to defend ; but all the same, with
some hesitation, he continued —

Consider Lind's position. Mind, your
reading of his conduct is only pure assumption.
It is quite possible that he would be really and
extremely surprised if he knew that you fancied
he had been allowing personal feelings to sway
his decision. But suppose this — suppose he is
honestly convinced that you would be of great
service in America. He has seen what you
can do in the way of patient persuading of
people. I know he has plenty around him who
can do the risky business — men who have been
adventurous all their lives — who would like
nothing better than to be commissioned to setup
a secret printing-press next door to the
Commissary of Police in St. Petersburg. I say
he has plenty of people like that ; but very few
who have persistence and patience enough todo
what you have been doing in the north of
England. He told me so himself. \^cry well.
Suppose he thinks that what you have been doing
this man-\Iolyncux can carry on ? Suppose, in

short, that if he had no daughter at all, he would
be anxious to send you to the States ? "

Brand nodded. There was no harm in letting
friend have his theory.

Very well. Now suppose that, having this
daughter, he would rather not have her marry.
He says she is of great service to him ; and his
wish to have her with him always would probably
exaggerate that service, unconsciously to himself,
if it were proposed to take her away. That is
only natural ? "'

Brand again assented.

Very well. He discovers that you and she
are attached to each other. Probably he does
not consider it a very serious affair, so far ; but he
knows that, if you remain in London, it would
probably become so. Now, Natalie is a girl of
firm character ; she is very gentle, but she is nota
fool. If you remained in London, she would
probably marry you, whether her father liked it or
not, if she thought it was right. He knows that ;
he knows that the girl is capable of acting on her
own judgment. Now, put the two things together.
Here is this opportune service on which
you can be sent. That, according to his view,

will be a good thing in itself; it will also effectually
prevent a marriage which he thinks would
be inexpedient. Don't you see that there maybe
no personal revenge or malice in the whole
affair ? He may consider he is acting quite
rightly', with regard to the best interests of everybody
concerned,"

I am sick of him, Evelyn — of hearing of
him — of thinking of him," Brand said, impatiently.
Come, let us talk of something else. I wish the
whole business of starting for America where over ;
and I had only the future to think about."

That is not likely," said Lord Evelyn, gently.
You cannot cut yourself away from everything
like that. There will be some memories."

Waters here appeared with a tray ; and
speedily placed on the table a lobster, some
oysters, and a bottle of Chablis.

There you are, Evelyn ; have some supper."

Not unless you have some."

By-and-by "

No, now."

So the two friends drew in their chairs.

I have been thinking," said Lord Evelyn —
with a sli'dit Hush, for he was telling a lie — •" I

have been thinking for some time back I should
like to go to America for a year or two. There
are some political phases I should like to study."

Brand looked at him.

You never thought of it before to-night.
But it is like you to think of it now."

Oh, I assure you," said the other, hastily,
there are points of great interest in the political
life of America that one could only properly study
on the spot — hearing the various opinions, don't
you know — and seeing how the things practically
work. I should have gone long before now, but
that I dreaded the passage across. When do
you go ? "

It is not settled yet."

What line shall you go by ? "

I don't know."

Lord Evelyn paused for a moment ; then he
said —

I'll go with you, Brand."

Well, he had not the heart even to protest ;
for he thoroughly understood the generous friendship
that had prompted such an offer. He might
remonstrate afterwards ; now he would not. On
the contrary, he began to speak of his experience

of the various lines ; of the delight of the voyage
to any one not abnormally sensitive to seasickness
; of the humours of the bagmen ; of
the occupations and amusements on board ; of
dolphins, fog-horns, icebergs, rope-quoits, ,
and the chances of poker. It was all a
holiday excursion, then ? The two friends lit
their cigars, and went back to their armchairs.
The tired and haggard look on George Brand's
face had for the moment been banished.

But by-and-by he said, rather absently —

I suppose, hereafter, Natalie and you will
have many a talk over what has happened. And
you will go there just as usual, and spend the
evening, and hear her read, or listen to her
sino^inof with the either. It seems strange. Perhaps
she will be able to forget altogether ; to cut
this unhappy episode out of her life, as it were."
Then he added, as if speaking to himself: " No,
she is not likely to forget."

Lord Evelyn looked up.

In the mean time, does she know about your
going ? "

I presume not — not yet. But I must see
her, and tell her. Unless, indeed, Lind should

try to prevent that too. He might lay injunctions
on her that she was not to see me aofain."

That is true," his friend said. " He might
command. But the question is whether she
would obey. I have known Natalie Lind longer
than you have. She is capable of thinking and
acting for herself."

Nothing further was said on this point ; they
proceeded to talk of other matters. It was
perhaps a quarter of an hour afterwards — close
on eleven o'clock — that Waters knocked at the
door and then came into the room.

A letter for you, sir."

A quick glance at the envelope startled him.

How did you get it ? " he said, instantly.

A girl brought it, sir, in a cab. She is gone
again. There was no answer, she said."

Waters withdrew. Brand hastily opened the
letter, and read the following lines, written in
pencil, apparently with a trembling hand : —

Dearest,

/ sj)c?it this evening zvith Madame Potecki.
My father came for me ; and on the lay home has
told me something of zuhat has occurred. It was

for the piD'Posc of telling me that you and I must

not meet again — never, never. iMy oivn, I cannot

allow you to pass a single night, or a single hour,

thinking such a thing possible. Have I not

promised to you ? JVhen it is your zvish to see me,

some to me : I am yours. Good night ; and

Heaven giia^'d you I

''Natalie:'

George Brand turned to his friend.

This," said he — but his hp trembled, and lie
stopped for a second. Then he continued : " This
Is a message from her, Evelyn. And I know
what poor old Clarissa would say of It, if he
were here. He would say : ' That is what might
have been expected from the daughter of Natalie
Berezolyi ! '"

She knows, then ? "

Yes," said he, still looking at the hastily
written lines in pencil. " And It is as you
Imagined. Mer father has told her we must
not see each other again ; and she has refused to
be bound by any such injunction. I rather fancy
she thinks he must have conveyed the same
Intimation to me ; at all events she has written
at once to assure me that she will not break her

promise to me. It was kindly meant : was it not ?
I wish Anneli had waited for a second."

He folded up the letter, and put it in his
pocket-book ; it was one more treasure he should
carry with him to America. But when, later on.
Evelyn had left, he took it out again, and re-read
again and again the irregular, hurried, pencilled
lines ; and thought of the proud, quick, generous
spirit that had prompted them. And was she
still awake, and thinking ? And could her heart
hear, through the silence of the night, the message
of love and gratitude that he sent her ?
Good night ; and Heaven guard yoti r' It had
been a troubled and harassing day for him ; but
this tender good-night message came in at the
close of it, like a strain of sweet music, that he
would carry with him into the land of dreams.

CHAPTER X.

SOME TREASURES.

The next morning Natalie was sittings alone in
the little dining-room, dressed ready to go out.
Perhaps she had been crying a little by herself ;
but at all events, when she heard the sound of
some one being admitted at the front door, and
coming into the passage, she rose with a flush of
pleasure and relief appearing on her pale and
saddened face. It was Madame Potecki.

Ah, it is so good of you to come early," said
Natalie to her friend, with a kind of forced cheerfulness.
" Shall we start at once ? I have been
thinking and thinking myself into a state of
misery ; and what is the use of that ? "

Let me look at you," said the prompt little
music-mistress, taking both her hands, and regarding
her with her clear, shrewd blue eyes.
2, — vni. L

"No; you are not looking well. The walk will
do you good, my dear. Come away, then."

But Natalie paused in the passage, with some
appearance of embarrassment. Anneli was standing
by the door.

Remember this, Anneli : if any one calls and
wishes to see me — and particularly wishes to seeme
— you will not say, ' My mistress is gone out.'
You will say, ' My mistress is gone to the South
Kensington Museum, with Madame Potecki.'
Do you understand that, Anneli ? "

Yes, Fraulein ; certainly." .

Then they left, going by way of the Park.
And the morning was fresh and bright ; the
energetic little Polish lady was more talkative and
cheerful than ever ; the girl with her had only to
listen, with as much appearance of interest as was
possible, considering that her thoughts were so
apt to wander away elsewhither.

My dear, what a lovely morning for us to go
and look at my treasures ! The other day I was
saying to myself, ' There is my adopted daughter
Natalie ; and I have not a farthing to leave her.
What is the use of adopting a child if you have
nothing to leave her ? ' Then I said to myself,

Never mind : I will teach her my theory of
living ; that will make her richer than a hundred
legacies will do.' Dear, dear, that was all the
legacy my poor husband left to me."
She passed her hand over her eyes.
Don't you ever marry a man who has anything
to do with politics, my child. Many a time
my poor Potecki used to say to me, ' ]\Iy angel,
cultivate contentment ; you may have to live on it
some day'"

"And you have taken his advice, madame ;
3'ou are very content."

Why ? Because I have my theory. They
think that I am poor. It is poor Madame Potecki,
who earns her solitary supper by ' One, two,
three, four ; One, two, three, four ; ' dio has not a
treasure in the world — except a young Hungarian
lady, who is almost a daughter to her. Well, well;
but you know my way of thinking, my dear : }-ou
laugh at it ; I know you do. You saps ' That
mad little Madame Potecki.' But some day I
will convince you."

I am willing to be taught now, madame —
seriously. Is it not wise to be content ?"

I am more than content, my dear ; I am

proud ; I am vain. When I think of all the
treasures that belong to the public, and to meas
one of the public — the Turner landscapes in
the National Gallery ; the books and statues in
the British Museum ; the bronzes and china and
jewellery at South Kensington — do you not think,
my dear, that I am thankful I have no paltry
little collection in my own house, that I should be
ashamed of ? Then look at the care that is taken
of them. I have no risk. I am not disheartened
for a day because a servant has broken my best
piece of Nankin blue. I have no trouble and no
thought ; it is only when I have a little holiday
that I say to myself, * Well, shall T go and see my
Rembrandt ? Or shall I look over my cases of
Etruscan rings ? Or shall I go and feast my
eyes on the bleu de roi of a piece of jewelled
Sevres ? ' Oh, my love ! "

She clasped her hands in ecstacy. Her volubility
had outrun itself, and got choked.

I will show you three vases," said she,
presently, in almost a solemn way ; " I will show
you three vases, in white and brown crackle, that
put all the colour in the whole of my collection to
shame. My dear, I have never seen in the world

anything so lovely — the soft cream-white ground,
the rich brown decoration — the beautiful, bold,
graceful shape; and they only cost ^60! — £60 for

the three ; and they worth a kingdom ! Why

But really, my dear Natalie, you walk too fast.
I feel as if I were behoof marched off to
prison ! "

"Oh, I beg your pardon!" said the girl,
laughing. " I am always forgetting ; and papa
scolds me often enough for it."

Have you heard what I told you about those
priceless vases in the South Kensington ? "

I am most anxious to see them, I assure
you."

My blue and white," Madame Potecki continued,
seriously, " I am afraid is not always of
the best. There are plenty of good pieces, it is
true ; but they are not the finest feature of the
collection. Oh ! the Benares brocades — I had
forgotten them. Ah, my dear, these will make
you open your eyes ! "

But don't you get bewildered, madame, with
having to think of so many possessions 'i " said
Natalie, respectfully.

No," said the other, in a matter-of-fact wa)-.

I take them one by one. I pay a morning call
here, a morning call there, when I have no
appointments, just to see that everything is going
on well."

Presently she said —

Ah, well, my clear, we are poor, weak creatures.
Here and there In my wanderings I have
met things that I almost coveted ; but see, what
an Impossible, monstrous collection they would
make ! Let me think, now. The Raphael at
Dresden ; two Titian portraits in the Louvre ;
the Venus of MIlo — not the Medici one at all ; I
would not take It ; I swear I would not accept
it, that trivial little creature with the yellow
skin ! "

My dear friend, the heavens will fall on
you ! " her companion exclaimed.

Wait a moment," said the little music-mistress,
reflectively. " I have not completed my
collection. There is a Holy Family of Botti'celirs
I forget where I saw it. And the bust of the
Empress Messalina In the UffiizI : did you ever
notice it, Natalie ? "

No."

*' Do not forget it when you are in Florence

again. You won't believe any of the stories
about her when you see the beautiful refined face :
only don't forget to remark how flat the top of
her head is. Well, where are we, my dear } The
bronze head of the goddess in the Castellani
collection : I would have that ; and the fighting
Temeraire. Will these do 1 But then, my dear,
even if one had all these things, see what a
monstrous collection they would make. What
should I do with them in my lodgings, even if
I had room ? Xo ; I must be content with what
I have."

By this time they had got down into South
Kensington, and were drawing near one of
Madame Potecki's great treasure-houses.

'' Then, you see, my dear Natalie," she continued,
" my ownership of these beautiful things
we are oroinof to see is not selfish. It can be
multiplied indefinitely. You may have it too ;
any one may have it, and all without the least
anxiety ! "

That is very pleasant also," said the girl,
who was paying less heed now. The forced
cheerfulness that had marked her manner at
starting; had in irreat measure left her. Her look

was absent ; she blindly followed her guide
through the little wicket, and into the hushed
large hall.

The silence was grateful to her ; there was
scarcely any one in the place. While Madame
Potecki busied herself with some catalogue or
other, the girl turned aside into a recess, to look
at a cast of the effigy on the tomb of Queen
Eleanor of Castile. A tombstone stills the air
around it. Even this gilt plaster figure was
impressive ; it had the repose of the dead.

But she had not been standing there for a
couple of seconds when she heard a well-known
voice behind her.

Natalie ! "

She knew. There was neither surprise nor
shamefacedness in her look when she turned and
saw George Brand before her. Her eyes were as
fearless as ever when they met his ; and they
were glad, too, with a sudden joy ; and she said
quickly —

"Ah, I thought you would come. I told
Annalist

was kind of you — and brave — to let me
come to see you."

Kind ? " she said. '' How could I do otherwise
r

But you are looking tired, Natalie."

I did not sleep much last night. I was
thinking."

The tears started to her eyes ; she impatiently
brushed them aside.

I know what you were thinking. That is
why I came so early to see you. You were
blaming yourself for what has happened. That
is not right. You are not to blame at all. Do
you think I gave you that promise for nothing ? "

You were always like that," she said, in a
low voice. " Very generous, and unselfish. Yes,
I — I — was miserable — I thought if you had never
known me "

If I had never known you! You think
that would be a desirable things for me ! "

But at this moment the hurried, anxious, half-whispered
conversation had to cease ; for Madame
Potecki came up. Nor was she surprised to find
]mr. Brand there. On the contrary, she said that
her time was limited ; and that she could not
expect other people to care for old porcelain as
much as she did ; and if Mr. Brand would take

her dear daughter NataHe to see some pictures
in the rooms upstairs, she would come and find
her out by-and-by.

Not at all, dear madame," said Natalie, with
some slight flush. "No. We will go with you
to see the three wonderful vases."

So they went, and saw the three crackle vases,
and many another piece of porcelain and enamel
and bronze ; but always the clever little Polish
woman took care that she should be at some
other case, so that she could not overhear what
these two had to say to each other. And they
had plenty to say.

Why, Natalie, where is your courage ?
What is the going to America ? It cannot befor
ever and ever."

But even then ? " she said, in a low, hesitating
voice. " If you were never to see me
again, you would blame me for it all. You would
regret."

How can I regret that my life was made
beautiful to me, if only for a time ? It was worth
nothing to me before. And you are forgetting all
about the ring, and my promise to you."

This light way of talking did not at all deceive

her. What had been torturlniTf her all the night
long was the flinty, the suspicion, that her father
was sending her lover to America, not solely with
a view to the work he should have to undertake
there, but to ensure a permanent separation between
herself and him. That was the cruel bit
of it. And she more than ever admired the manliness
of this man, because he would make no
complaint to her. He had uttered no word of
protest, for fear of wounding her. He did not
mention her father to her at all ; but merely
treated this project of going to America as if it
were a part of his duty, that had to be cheerfully
accepted.

After I have once said good-bye to you,
Natalie," said he, " it will not be so bad for me.
I shall have my work."

When do you go ? " she asked, with rather
a white face.

I don't know yet. It may be a matter ot
days. You will let me see you again, my darling
soon ? "

I shall be here every morning, if )ou wish
it," she answered.

To-morrow, then ? "

"To-morrow, at eleven. Anneli will come
with me. I should have waited in on the hope of
seeing you this morning ; but it was an old engagement
with Madame Potecki. Ah, how good
she is ! Do you see how she pretends to be
interested in those things ? "

I will send her a present of some old china
before I leave England," said Brand.

No, no," said Natalie, with a faint smile
appearing on the sad face. "It would destroy
her theory. She does not care for anything at
home, so long as she possesses these public treasures.
She is very content. Indeed, she earns
enough to be charitable. She has many poor
dependants."

By-and-by Madame Potecki, with great evident
reluctance, confessed that she had to return,
as one of her pupils would be at her house by
half-past twelve. But would not Mr. Brand take
her dear adopted child to see some of the pictures
? It was a pity that she should be dragged
away ; and so forth.

But Natalie promptly put an end to these suggestions
by saying that she would prefer to return
with Madame Potecki ; and, it being now past

twelve, as soon as they got outside, she engaged
a cab. George Brand saw them off; and then
returned into the building. He wished to look
again at the objects she had looked at ; to recollect
every word she had uttered ; to recall the
very tones in which she had spoken. And this
place was so hushed and quiet.

Meanwhile, as the occupants of the cab were
journeying northward, Natalie took occasion to
say to her companion, with something of a
heightened colour —

You must not imagine, dear madame, that I
expected to see Mr. Brand at the Museum when
I promised to go with you."

But what if you had expected, my child ? "
said the good-natured music-mistress. "What
harm is there ? "

But this morning I did expect him to come ;
and that is why I left the message with Anneli,"
continued the girl. " Because, do you know,
madame, he is going to America ; and when
he goes, I may not see him again for many
years."

My child ! " the demonstrative little woman
exclaimed, catching hold of the earl's hand.

But Natalie was not inclined to be sympathetic
at this moment.

Now I wish yon, dear Madame Potecki,"
she continued, in a firm voice, "to do me a favour.
I would rather not speak to my father about Mr.
Brand. I wish you to tell him for me that, so
long as Mr. Brand remains in England, I shall
continue to see him ; and that, as I do not choose
he should come to my father's house, I shall see
him as I saw him this morning."

My love, my love, what a frightful duty! Is
it necessary ? "

'rit is necessary that my father should know,
certainly."

But what a responsibility ! "

You have no responsibility whatever. Anneli
will go with me. All that I ask of you, dear
Madame Potecki, is to take the message to my
father. You will ; will you not ? "

More than that I will do for you," said the
little woman, boldly. " I see there is unhappiness
; you are suffering, my child. Well, I will
plunge into it ; I will see your father ; this cannot
be allowed. It is a dangerous thincj to interfere
who knows better than I ? But to sit near you

is to be inspired ; to touch your hand is to gain
the courage of a giant. Yes, I will speak to your
father ; all shall be put right."

The girl scarcely heard her.

There is another thing I would ask of you,"
she said, slowly and wistfully, " but not here.
May I come to you when the lesson is over ? "

At two : yes."

So it was that Natalie called on her friend
shortly after two o'clock ; and was shown into the
little parlour. She was rather pale. She sat
down at one side of the table.

I wished to ask your advice, dear Madame
Potecki," she said, in a low voice, and with her
eyes down. " Now you must suppose a case.
You must suppose that — that two people love
each other — better — better than anything else in
the world ; and that they are ready to sacrifice a
great deal for each other. Well, the man is
ordered away ; it is a banishment from his own
country, perhaps for ever ; and he is very brave
about it ; and will not complain. Now, you must
suppose that the girl is very miserable about his
going away; and blames herself ; and perhaps —
perhaps wishes — to do something to show she

understands his nobleness — his devotion ; and she
would do anything in the world — anything in
the world, Madame Potecki — to prove her love
to him "

But child, child, why do you tremble so ? "

I wish you to tell me, Madame Potecki — I
wish you to tell me — whether — you would consider
it unwomanly — maidenly — for her to go
and say to him, ' You are too brave and unselfish
to ask me to go with you. Now I offer myself to
you. If you must go, why not I — your wife ? ' "

Madame Potecki started up in great alarm.

Natalie, what do you mean ? "

I only — wished to — to ask — what you would
think."

She was very pale, and her lips were tremulous
; but she did not break down. Madame
Potecki was apparently far more agitated than she
was.

*' My child, my child, I am afraid you are on
the brink of some wild thing ! "

"Is that that I have repeated to you what a
girl ought to do ? " Natalie said, almost calmly.
Do you think it Is what my mother would have
done, Madame Potecki ? They have told me she
was a brave woman."



CHAPTER XI.

IN A GARDEN AT POSILIPO.

Petits mon occur, vie dit-dlc,
Oui, mat's d la cradle,
Sois mon petit . . . i
Plait-il
Ton petit 1
Sois mon petit mari !

It was Clarissa who was gaily humming to
himself; and it was well that he could amuse
himself with his chansons and his cigarettes ; for
his friend Edwards was proving anything but an
attentive companion. The tall, near-sighted,
blond-faced man from the British Museum was
far too much engrossed by the scene around him.
They were walking along the quays at Naples ;
and it so happened that at this moment all the picturesque
squalor and lazy life of the place were lit
up by the glare reflected from a wild and stormy
sunset. The tall, pink-fronted houses ; the mules

2. — VIII. M

and oxen with their brazen yokes and tinkling
bells ; the fruit-sellers, and fish-sellers, and water-carriers,
in costumes of many hues ; the mendicant
friars with their cloak and hood of russet-brown ;
the priests black and clean-shaven ; the groups of
women, swarthy of face, with head-dresses of red
or yellow, clustered round the stalls ; the children,
in rags of brown, and scarlet, and olive-green,
lying about the pavement as if artists had posed
them there ; — all these formed a picture which was
almost bewildering in its richness of colour ; and
was no doubt rendered all the more brilliant
because of the powerful contrast with the dark
and driven sea. For the waters out there were
racing in before a stiff breeze, and springing high
on the fortresses and rocks ; and the clouds
overhead were seething and twisting, with
many a sudden flash of orange ; and then,
far away beyond all this colour and motion
and change, rose the vast and gloomy bulk
of Vesuvius, overshadowed and thunderous, as
if the mountain were charged with a coming
storm.

Clarissa grew impatient ; despite his careless
song.

'* — Meserastufidck
-^Co/nine line tourtcnlh'.
Eh bie/i, fa ra . . . .
Ca va f
Ca vie va !
Com me (a, fa me va !

Diable, Monsieur Edouarts ! You are very
silent. You do not know where we are coiner,
perhaps ? "

Edwards started, as if he were waking from a
reverie.

Oh yes, Signor Clarissa," said he, " I am
not Hkely to forget that. Perhaps I think more
seriously about it than you. To you it is nothing.
But I cannot forget, you see, that you and I are
practically conniving at a murder."

*' Hush, hush, my dear friend ! " said Clarissa,
glancing round. ''Be discreet! And
what a foolish phrase, too ! You ? You whose
business is merely to translate ; to preach ; to
educate a poor devil of a Russian. What have
you to do with it ? And to speak of murder !
Bah ! You do not understand the difference, then,
between killing a man as an act of [private anger
and revenge, and executing a man for crimes
against society ? My good^friend Edouarts, you

have lived all your life among books ; but you
have not learned any logic — no ! "

Edwards was not inclined to go into any
abstract argument.

I will do what I have been appointed to do,"
he said, curtly. '' But that cannot prevent my
wishing that it had not to be done at all."

And who knows ? " said Clarissa, lightly.
Perhaps, if you are so fearful about your small
share — your very little share — it is no more than
that of the jargon who helps one on with his coat —
is he accessory, too, if a rogue has to be punished ?
is he responsible for the sentence, also, if he
brushes the boots of the judge ? — or the servant
of the court, vv^ho sweeps out the room, is he
guilty if there is a miscarriage of justice ? No,
no ; my dear friend Edouarts, do not alarm yourself.
Then, I was saying, perhaps it may not
be necessary, after all. You perceived, my friend,,
that when the proposal of his Eminence the
Cardinal was mentioned, the Secretary Granaglia
smiled, and I, thoughtless, laughed. You perceived
it, did you not ? "

By this time they were in the Chiaja, beyond
the Villa Realee ; and there were fewer people

about. Clarissa stopped ; and confronted his
companion. For the purposes of greater emphasis,
he rested his right elbow in the pahii of
his left hand, while his fore-finger was at the
point of his nose.

"What.'*" said he, in this striking attitude,
^' what if we were both fools — he ? The Secretary
Granaglia and myself — what if we were
both fools ? "

Clarissa abandoned his pose, linked his
arm within that of his companion, and walked on
with him.

Come, I will implant something in your
mind. I will throw out a fancy ; it may take root
and flourish : if not, who is the worse ? Now, if
the Council were really to entertain that proposal
of Zaccatelli ? "

He regarded his friend Edouarts.

*' You observed, I say, that Granaglia smiled :
to him it was ludicrous. I laughed : to me it
was farcical — the chatter of a bavard. The Pope
become the patron of a secret society ! The
priests become our friends and allies ! Very well,
my friend ; but listen. The little minds see what
is absurd ; the great minds arc serious. Granaglia

is a little devil of courage ; but he is narrow ; he
is practical ; he has no imagination. I ? What
am I ? — careless, useless, also a bavard, if you
will. But it occurred to me, after all, when I
began to think — what a great man, a great mind,
might say to this proposal. Take a man like
Lind : see what he could make of it ! ' Do not
laugh at it any more, Clarissa,' said I to myself ;
until you hear the opinion of wiser men than
yourself.' "

He gripped Edwards's arm tight.

Listen. To become the allies of the priests,,
it is not necessary to believe everything the priests
say. On the other hand, they need not approve
all that we are doing, if only they withdraw their
opposition. Do you perceive the possibility now ?
Do you think of the force of that combination ?
The multitudes of the Catholics encouraged to
join ! — the Vatican the friend and ally of the
Council of the Seven Stars ! "

He spoke the last words in a low voice ; but
he wore a proud look.

And if this proposaljwere entertained," said
Edwards, meditatively, " of course, they would
abandon this other business."

]\Iy good friend," said Clarissa, confidentially.
" I know that Lind, who sees things
with a large vision, is against it. He consents —
as you consent to do your little outside part —
against his own opinion. More ; if he had been
on the Council, the decree would never have been
granted, though De Bedros and a dozen of his
daughters had demanded it. ' Clarissa,' he
said to me, ' it will do great mischief in England,
if it is known that we are connected with it.'
Well, you see, all this would be avoided if they
closed with the Cardinal's often"

"You are sanguine, Signor Clarissa," said
the other.

Besides, the thirty thousand lire ! " said Clarissa,
eagerly. '' Do-ou know what that is ?
Ah, you English have always too much money ! "

No doubt," said Edwards, with a smile.
We are all up to the neck in gold."

Thirty thousand lire a year, and the favour
of the Vatican ; what fools Granaglia and I were
to laugh ! But perhaps we will fid that the
Council were wiser."

They had now got out to Posilipo ; and the
stormy sunset had waned, leaving the sky overclouded

and dusk. Clarissa, having first looked
up and down the road, stopped by the side of a
high wall, over which projected a number of the
broken, grey-green, spiny leaves of the cactus —
a hedge at the foot of the terrace above.

'' Peste /'' said he. " How the devil is one to
find it out in the dark ? "

Find what out ? "

My good friend," said he, in a whisper, "you
are not able by chance to see a bit of thread — a
bit of red thread — tied round one of those big
leaves ? "

Edwards glanced up.

"Not I."

Ah, well, we must run the risk. Perhaps by
accident there may be a meeting."

They walked on for some time, Clarissa
becoming more and more watchful. They paused
to let a man driving a waggon and a pair of oxen
go by ; and then Clarissa, enjoining his companion
to remain where he was, went on alone.

The changing sky had opened somewhat overhead
; and there was a wan twilight shining
through the parted clouds. Edwards, looking
after Clarissa, could have fancied that the dark

figure had disappeared like a ghost ; but the old
albino had merely crossed the road, opened the
one-half of a huge gate, and entered a garden.

It was precisely like the gardens of the other
villas along the highway — cut in terraces along
the steep side of the hill, with winding pathways,
and marble lions here and there, and little groves
of orange and olive and fig trees ; while on one
side the sheer descent was guarded by an enormous
cactus hedge. The ground was very
unequal ; on one small plateau a fountain was
playing — the trickling of the water the only
sound audible in the silence.

Clarissa took out his pocket-book, and tore
a leaf from it.

The devil ! " he muttered to himself. " How
is one to write in the dark ? "

But he managed to scrawl the word " Barsanti;"
then he wrapped the paper round a small pebble ;
and approached the fountain. By putting one
foot on the edge of the stone basin beneath, he
could reach over to the curved top ; and there he
managed to drop the missive into some aperture
concealed under the lip. He stepped back ; dried
his hand with his handkerchief; and then went

clown one of the pathways to a lower level of the
garden.

Here he easily found the entrance to an
ordinary sort of grotto — a narrow cave winding
inwards and ending in a piece of fancy clockwork
down which the water was heard to trickle. But
he did not go to the end. He stopped about
half-way ; and listened. There was no sound
whatever in the dark, except the plash of the
tiny waterfall.

Then there was a heavy grating noise ; and in
the black wall before him appeared a vertical line
of orange light. This sudden gleam was so bewildering
to the eyes that Clarissa could not
see who it was that came out to him ; he only
knew that the stranger waited for him to pass on
into the outer air.

"It is cooler here. To your business, friend
Clarissa."

The moment Clarissa recognized this tall,
military-looking man, with the closely cropped
bullet-head and long, silver-white moustache, he
whipped off his cap, and said, anxiously —

A thousand pardons, Excellency ! a thousand
pardons ! Do I interrupt ? May not I see
Fossa ? "

"It Is unnecessary'. There is much business
to-nifrht. One must breathe the air sometimes."

Clarissa for once had completely lost his
sang-froid. He could not speak for stammering.

I assure you, your Excellency, it is death tome
to think that I interrupt you."

But ^vhy did you come, then, my friend ?
To the point."

Zaccatelli," the other managed to get out.

"Well?"

There was a proposal. Some days ago I
saw Granaglia."

Well ? "

Pardon me, Excellency. If I had known,
not for worlds would I have called you "

Come, come, my Clarissa," said the other,
good-naturedly. " No more apologies. What is
it you have to say ? The proposal made by the
Cardinal ? Yes ; we know about that."

And it has not been accepted ? The decree
remains ? "

You waste your breath, my friend. The
decree remains, certainly. We are not children :
we do not play. What more, my Clarissa } "

But Clarissa had to collect his thoughts.
Then he said, slowly —

"It occurred to me, when I was in England —
there was a poor devil there who would have
thrown away his life in a useless act of revenge —
well "

Well, you brought him over here," said the
other, interrupting him. '* Your object ? Ah,
Lind and you being old comrades ; and Lind
appearing to you to be in a difficulty ? But did
Lind approve ? "

Not quite," said Clarissa, still hesitating.
■" He allowed us to try. He was doubtful himself."


"I should have thought so," said the other,
ironically. " No, good Clarissa ; we cannot
accept the services of a maniac. The night has
got dark ; I cannot see whether you are surprised.
How do we know ? The man Kirski has been
twice examined — once in Venice, once this
morning, when you went down to the L^nsa ; the
reports the same. What ? To have a maniac
blundering about the gates; attracting every one's
notice by his gibberish ; then he is arrested with
a pistol or a knife in his hand ; he talks nonsense
about some Madonna ; he is frightened into a
confession ; and we become the laughing-stock

of Europe ! Impossible — Impossible, my Clarissa
: where were your wits ? No wonder

Lind was doubtful "

The man is capable of being taught,"
said Clarissa, humbly.

We need not waste more breath, my friend.
To-night Lind will be reminded why it was
necessary that the execution of this decree was
entrusted to the English section : he must not
send any Russian madman to compromise us."

Then I must take him back, your Excellency?"


No ; send him back — with the English
scholar. You will remain in Naples, Clarissa.
There is something stirring that will interest you."
I am at your service, Excellency."
Good night, my friend."
The figure beside him had disappeared almost
before he had time to return the salutation ; and
he was left to find his way down to the gate —
taking care not to run unawares on one of the
long cactus spines. He discovered Edwards precisely
where he had left him.

Ah, Monsieur Edouarts, now you may clap
your hands— now you may shout an English

Hurrah ! ' For you at all events there is good
news."

That project has been abandoned, then ? "
said Edwards, eagerly.

No, no, no," said Clarissa, loftily ; as if
he had never entertained such a possibility. " Do
you think the Council is to be played with, is
to be bribed by so many and so many lire ? No,
no. Its decree is inviolable."

"Well, then?"

Well, then ; some stupidities of our Russian
friend have saved you ; they know everything,
these wonderful people ; they say ' No ; we will
not trust the affair to a madman.' Do you perceive
? What you have to do now is to take
Kirski back to England."

And I am not wanted any longer ? " said the
other, with the same eagerness.

I presume not. I am. I remain in Naples.
For you, you are free — away to England ! I give
you my blessing ; and to-night — to-night you will
give me a bottle of wine."

But presently he added, as they still walked
on —

Friend Edouarts, do you think I should be

humiliated because my little plan has been refused
? No. It was born of idleness. My
freedom was new to me ; over in England I had
nothing to do. And when Lind objected, I
talked him over. Pcsic, if those fellows of the
Society had not got at the Russian, all might
have been well."

You will forgive my pointing out," said
Edwards, in quite a facetious way, " that all would
not have been so well with me, for one. I am
very glad to be able to wash my hands of it.
You shall have not only one but two bottles of
wine with supper, if you please."

Well, friend Edouarts, I bring you the good
news ; but I am not the author of it. No ; I
must confess. I would rather have had my plan
carried out. But what matters ? One does one's
best from time to time — the hours go by — at the
end comes sleep ; and no one can torment you
more."

They walked on for a time in silence. And
now before them lay the wonderful sight of
Naples ablaze with a dusky yellow radiance in
the dark ; and far away beyond the most distant
golden points, high up in the black deeps of the

sky, the constant, motionless, crimson glow of
Vesuvius told them where the peaks of the mountain,
themselves unseen, towered above the sea.

By-and-by they plunged into the great, murmuring
city.

You are going back to England, Monsieur
Edouarts. You will take Kirski to Mr. Brand;
he will be reinstated in his work ; Englishmen do
not forget their promises. Then I have another
little commission for you."

He went into one of the small jeweller's shops;
and, after a great deal of haggling — for his purse
was not heavy, and he knew the ways of his
countrymen — he bought a necklace of pink coral.
It was carefully wrapped in wool and put into
a box. Then they went outside again.

You will give this little present, my good
friend Edouarts, you will take it, with my compliments,
to my beautiful, noble child Natalie ; and
you will tell her that it did not cost much, but
it is only a message — to show that Clarissa
still thinks of her, and loves her, always."

CHAPTER Xir.

FRIEND AND SWEETHEART.

Madame Potecki was a useful enough adviser in
the small and ordinary affairs of everyday life ;
but face to face with a great emergency she
became terrified and helpless.

My dear, my dear," she kept repeating, in a
flurried sort of way, " you must not do anything
rash. You must not do anything wild. Oh,
my dear, take care : it is so wicked for children to
disobey their parents."

I am no longer a child, Madame Potecki. I
am a woman ; I know what seems to me just and
unjust. And I only wish to do right." She was
now quite calm. She had mastered that involuntary
tremulousness of the lips. It was the little
Polish lady who was agitated.

My dear Natalie, I will go to your father.
I said I would go — even with )our mcssa^'-e —
2. — vni. M

though it is a frio-htful task. But how can I tels
him that you have this other project in your
mind ? Oh, my dear, be cautious ; don't do anything
you will have to repent of in after years ! "

"You need not tell him, dear Madame Potecki^
if you are alarmed," said the girl. " I will tell him
myself, when I have come to a decision. So you
cannot say what one ought to do in such circumstances
? You cannot tell me what my mother,,
for example, would have done in such a case ? "

Oh, I can ; I can, my dear," said the other

eagerly. " At least I can tell ydu what is best

and safest. Is it not for a girl to go by her

father's advice — her father's wishes ? Then she

is safe. Anything else is wild, dangerous. My

dear, you are far too impulsive. You do not

think of consequences. It is all the affair of the

moment with you ; and how you can do some one

you love a kindness at the instant. Your heart is

warm, and you are quick to act. All the more

reason, I say, that you should go by some one

else's judgment ; and who can guide you better

than your own father ? "

I know already what my father wishes," said
Natalie.

Then why not go by that, my clear ? Be
sure it is the safest. Do you think I would take
it on me to say otherwise ? Ah, my dear child,
romance is very beautiful at your age ; but one
may sacrifice too much for it."

It is not a question of romance at all," said
Natalie, looking down. " It is a question of
what it is right that a girl should do, in faithfulness
to one whom she loves. But perhaps it is
better not to argue it ; for one sees so differently
at different ages. And I am very grateful to you,
dear Madame Potecki, for agreeing to take that
message to my father ; but I will tell him myself."

She rose. The little woman came instantly
and caught her by both hands.

"Is my child going to quarrel with me, because
I am old and unsympathetic ? "

Oh no, do not think that ! " said Natalie,
quickly.

What you say is quite true, my dear ; different
ages see differently ; when I was at your
age perhaps I was as liable as any one to let my
heart get the better of my head. And do I regret
it ? " The little woman sighed. " Many a time
they warned me against marring one who did

not stand well with the authorities. But I — I
had my opinions too ; I was a patriot, like the
rest. We were all mad with enthusiasm — ah, the
secret meetings in Warsaw ! — the pride of them !
we girls would not marry one who was not a
patriot. But that is all over now ; and here am
I an old woman ; with nothing left but my old
masters, and my china, and my ' One, two, three,
four ; one, two, three, four.' "

Here a knock outside warned Natalie that
she must leave, another pupil no doubt having
arrived ; and so she bade good-bye to her friend,
not much enlightened or comforted by her counsel.

That evening Mr. Lind brought Beratinsky
home with him to dinner — an unusual circumstance,
for at one time Beratinsky had wished
to become a suitor for Natalie's hand, and had
had that project very promptly knocked on the
head by Lind himself. Thereafter he had come
but seldom to the house ; and never without a
distinct invitation. On this evening the two men
talked almost exclusively between themselves ;
and Natalie was not sorry to be allowed to remain
an inattentive listener. She was thinking of other
things.

When Beratinsky had gone, Lind turned to his
daughter, and said to her pleasantly —

"Well, Natalie, what have you been about
to-day ? "

First of all," said she, regarding her father
with those fearless eyes of hers, " I went. to the
South Kensington Museum with Madame Potecki.
Mr. Brand was there."

His manner changed instantly.

By appointment ? " he said, sharply.

No," she answered. " I thought he would
call here ; and I told Anneli where we had gone."

Lind betrayed no expression of annoyance.
He only said coldly —

Last night I told you it was my wish that he
and you should have no further communication
with each other."

Yes ; but is it reasonable, is it fair, is It possible,
papa ? " she said, forgetting for a moment
her forced composure. " Do you think I can
forget why he is going away ? "

"Apparently you do not know why he is going
away," her father said. " He is going to America
because his duty commands that he should. . Because
he has work to do there of more importance

than sentimental entanglements in this country.
He understands himself the necessity of his
going."

The girl's cheeks burned red ; and she sat
silent. How could she accuse her own father of
prevarication ? But the crisis was a momentous
one.

You forget, papa," she said, at length, in a
low voice, " that when you returned from abroad,
and got Mr. Brand's letter, you came to me. You
said that if there was any further question of a —
a marriage — between Mr. Brand and myself, you
would have to send him to America. I was to bethe
cause of his banishment."

I spoke hastily— in anger," her father said,
with some impatience. " Quite apart from any
such question, Mr. Brand knows that it is of
great importance some one like himself should goto
Philadelphia ; and at the moment I don't see
any one who could do as well. Have you anything
further to say ? "

No, papa — except good night." She kissed
him on the forehead ; and went away to her own
room.

That was a night of wild unrest for Natalie

Lind. It was her father himself who had represented
to her all that banishment from his native
country meant to an Englishman ; and in her
heart of hearts she believed that it was through
her this doom had befallen George Brand. She
knew he would not complain. He professed to
her that it was only in the discharge of an ordinary
duty he was leaving England ; others had
suffered more for less reason ; it was nothing ;
why should she blame herself ? But all the same
through this long, restless, agonizing night —
she accused herself of having driven him frown
his country and his friends, of having made an
exile of him. And again and again she put before
herself the case she had submitted to Madame
Potecki ; and again and again she asked herself
what her own mother would have done, with her
lover going away to a strange land.

In the morning, long before It was light, and
while as yet she had not slept for a second, she
rose, threw a dressing-gown round her, lit the
gas, and went to the little escritoire that stood by
the window. Her h.uid was trembling when she
sat down to write ; but it was not with the cold.
There was a proud look on her face.

This was what she wrote: ''My lover and
husband, — You are going azvay from your oivn
country, perhaps for ever ; and I think it is partly
through me that all this has happened. What can
I do ? Only this ; that I offer to go with you, if
you. will take me. I ant your zuife : why should soit
go alone ? "

There was no signature. She folded the paper,
and placed it in an envelope, and carefully locked
it up. Then she put out the light, and went
back to bed again, and fell into a sound, happy,
contented sleep — the untroubled sleep of a child.

Then in the morning — how bright and lighthearted
she was !

Anneli could not understand this change that
had suddenly come over her young mistress.
She said little ; but there was a happy light on
her face ; she sang, " Du Schwerin an meaner
Linen," in snatches, as she was dressing her hair.
And she presented Anneli with a necklace of
Turkish silver coins.

She was down at the South Kensington
Museum considerably before eleven o'clock. She
idly walked Anneli through the various rooms,
pointing out to her this and that ; and as the

little Dresden maid had not been in the Museum
before, her eyes were wide open at the sight of
such beautiful things. She was shown masses
of rich tapestry, and cases of Japanese lacquer-work
; she was shown collections of ancient
jewellery and glass ; she went by sunny English
landscapes ; and was told the story of solemn
cartoons. In the midst of it all George Brand
appeared ; and the little German girl, of her own
accord, and quite as deftly as Madame Potecki,
devoted herself to the study of some screens of
water-colours, just as if she were one of the
Royal Academy pupils.

"\\'"e have been looking over Madame 's
treasures once more," said Natalie : he was
struck by the happy brightness of her face.

Ah, indeed," said he ; and he went and
brought a couple of chairs, that together they
might regard, if they were so minded, one of
those vast cartoons. "Well, I have good news,
Natalie. I do not start until a clear week hence.
So we shall have six mornings here — six mornings
all to ourselves. Do you know what that means
to me ? "

She took the chair he offered her. She did

not look appalled by this intelligence of his early
departure.

"It means six more days of happiness ; and
do you not think I shall look back on them with
gratitude ? And there is not to be a word said
about my going. No ; it is understood that we
cut off the past and the future for these six days.
We are here ; we can speak to each other ; that
is enough."

But how can one help thinking of the
future ? " said she, with a mock mournfulness.
You are going away, alone."

'' No, not quite alone."

She looked up quickly.

"Why, you know what Evelyn is — the best-hearted
of friends," he said to her. " He insists
on going over to America with me ; and even
talks of remaining a year or two. He pretends
to be anxious to study American politics."

He could not understand why she laughed —
though It was a short, quick, hysterical laugh,
very near to tears.

You remind me of one of Mr. Browning's
poems," she said, half in apology. "It is about
a man who has a friend and a sweetheart. You
don't remember it, perhaps ? "

He thought for a moment.

The fact is," he said, " that when I think of
Browning's poems, all along the line of them,
there are some of them seem to burn like fire, and
I cannot see the others."

This is a very modest little one," said she.
It is a poor poet starving in a garret ; and he
tells you he has a friend beyond the sea ; and he
knows that if he were to fall ill, and to wake up
out of his sickness, he would find his friend there,
tending him like the gentlest of nurses, even
though he got nothing but grumbling about his
noisy boots. And the — the poor fellow "

She paused for a second.

— He goes on to tell about his sweetheart —
who has ruined him — to whom he has sacrificed
his life and his peace and fame — and what would
she do ? He says —

'She
I'll tell you, — calmly would decree
That I should roast at a slow fire,
If that would compass her desire
And make her one whom they invite
To the famous ball tomorrow night'

That is — the difference — between a friend and
a sweetheart "

He did not notice that she spoke rather uncertainly
; and that her eyes were wet.

What do you mean, NataHe ? "

That it is a good thing for you that you
have a friend. There is one, at all events —
who will — who will not let you go away alone."

My darling ! " he said, " what new notion is
this you have got into your head ? You do not
blame yourself for that, too ? Why, you see, it is
a very simple thing for Lord Evelyn, who is an
idle man, and has no particular ties binding him,
to spend a few months in the States ; and when
he once finds out that the voyage across is one of
the pleasantness holidays a man can take, I have
no doubt I shall see him often enough. Now,
don't let us talk any more about that — except this
one point. Have you promised your father that
you will not write to me ? "

Oh no ; how could I ? "

And I may write to you ? "

I shall live from week to week expecting
your letters," she said simply.

Then we shall not say another word about
it," said he, lightly. "We have six days to be
together : no one can rob us of them. Come,

shall wc go and have a look at the English porcelain
that is on this floor ? We have whole heaps
of old Chelsea and Crown Derby and that kind of
thing at the Beeches : I think I must try and run
down there before I go, and send you some.
What use is it to me ? "

Oh no, I hope you won't do that," she said,
quickly, as she rose.

"You don't care about it, perhaps ? "

She seemed embarrassed for a moment.

For old china ? " she said, after a moment.
Oh, yes, I do. But — but — I think you may find
something happen that would make it unnecessary
— I mean it is very kind of you — but I hope
you will not think of sending me any."

What do you mean ? What is about to
happen ? "

It is all a mystery and a secret as yet," she
said, with a smile. She seemed so much more
light-hearted than she had been the day before.

Then, as they walked by those cases, and
admired this or that, she would recur to this
forthcoming departure of his, despite of him. And
she was not at all sad about it. She was curious ;
that was all. Was there any difficulty in getting

a cabin at short notice ? It was from Liverpool
the big steamers sailed, was it not ? And it was
a very different thing, she understood, travelling
in one of those huge vessels, and crossing the
Channel in a little cockle-shell. He would no
doubt make many friends on board. Did single
ladies ever make the voyage ? Could a single
lady and her maid get a cabin to themselves ? It
would not be so very tedious, if one could get
plenty of books ? And so forth ; and so forth.
She did not study the Chelsea shepherdesses very
closely.

I'll tell you what I wish you would do,
Natalie," said he.

I will do it," she answered.

"When Lord Evelyn comes back — some day
I wish you would take Anneli with you for a
holiday — and Evelyn would take you down to
have a look over the Beeches. You "could be
back the same night. I should like you to see
my mother's portrait."

She did not answer.

Will you do that ? "

You will know before long," she said, in a
low voice " why I need not promise that to you.

But that, or anything else, I am willing to do, if
you wish it."

The precious moments sped quickly. And as
they walked through the almost empty rooms —
how silent these were, with the occasional footfalls
on the tiled floors, and once or twice the
distant sounding of a bell outside ! — aq-ain and
again he protested against her saying another
word about his going away. What did it matter ?
Once the pain of parting was over, what then ?
He had a glad work before him. She must not
for a moment think she had anything to do with
it. And could he regret that he had ever met
her, when he would have these six mornings of
happy inter-communion to think over, when the
wide seas separated them ?

Natalie," said he, reproachfully, " do you
forget the night you and I heard Fidelio together ?
And you think I shall regret ever having seen
you."

She smiled to herself. Her hand clasped a
certain envelope that he could not see.

Then the time came for their seeking out
Anneli. But as they were going through the
twilight of a corridor, she stopped him ; and her

usually frank eyes were downcast. She took out
that envelope.

Dearest," said she, almost inaudibly, " this is
something I wish you to read after Anneli and I
are gone. I think you will — you will not misunderstand
me. If you think — it is — it is too
bold, you will remember that I have no mother
to advise me ; and— and you will be kind ; and
not answer. Then I shall know."

Ten minutes thereafter, he was standing alone,
in the broad daylight outside, reading the lines
she had written early that morning ; and in
every one of them he read the firm and noble
character of the woman he loved. He was almost
bewildered by the proud-spirited frankness of her
message to him ; and involuntarily he thought of
the poor devil of a poet in the garret who spoke
•of his faithful friend and his worthless mistress.

One is fortunate indeed to have a friend like
Evelyn," he said to himself " But when one has,
besides that, the love of a woman like this — then
the earth holds something worth living for."

He looked at the brief, proud, pathetic message
again — " / an your wife : zuky should you
go alone It was Natalie herself speaking in
every word.

CHAPTER XIII.

INTERVENTION.

The more that Madame Potecki thought over
the communication made to her by Natalie the
more alarmed she became. Her pupils received
but a very mechanical sort of guidance that afternoon.
All through the " One, two, three, four ;
one, two, three, four" she was haunted by an
uneasy consciousness that her protests had not
been nearly strong enough. The girl had not
seemed in the least impressed by her counsel.
And suppose this wild project were indeed carried
out, might not she, that is, Madame Potecki, be
regarded as an accomplice if she remained silent
and did not intervene ?

On the other hand, although she and Ferdinand
Lind were friends of many years' standing,
she had never quite got over a certain fear of
him. She guessed pretty well what underlay that

2. IX. O

pleasant, plausible exterior of his. And she was
not at all sure that, if she went to Mr. Lind and
told him that in such and such circumstances his
daughter meant to go to America as the wife of
George Brand, the first outburst of his anger
might not fall on herself. She was an intermeddler.
What concern of hers was it ? He might even
accuse her of having connived at the whole affair,
especially during his absence in Philadelphia.

But after all the little Polish lady was exceedingly
fond of this girl ; and she resolved to go at
all hazards and see whether something could not
be done to put matters straight. She would call
at the chambers in Lisle Street and make sure of
seeing Mr. Lind alone. She would venture to
remind him that his daughter was grown-up, a
woman, not to be treated as a child. As she had
been altogether on the father's side in arguing
with Natalie, so she would be altogether on the
daughter's side in making these representations
to Mr. Lind. Perhaps some happy compromise
would result.

She was, however, exceedingly nervous when,
on the following afternoon, she called at Lisle
Street and was preceded upstairs by the stout

old German. In the room into which she was
shown Reitzei was seated. Reitzei received her
very graciously; they were old friends. But
although INIadame Potecki on ordinary occasions
was fond of listening to the sound of her own
voice, she seemed now quite incapable of saying
anything. Reitzei had been fortunate enough to
hear the new baritone sing at a private house on
the previous evening ; she did not even ask what
impression had been produced.

Then ]Mr. Lind came into the room ; and
Reitzei left.

How do you do, madame Potecki ? "' said
he, somewhat curtly.

She took it that he was offended because she
had come on merely private affairs to his place of
business ; and this did not tend to lessen her
embarrassment. However, she made a brave
plunge.

You are surprised," she said, " to find me
calling upon you here, are you not ? Yes ; but I
will explain. You see, my dear friend, I wished
to see you alone "

*' Yes, yes, Madame Potecki. I understand.
What is your news ? "

"It is — about Natalie," she managed to
say ; and then all the methods of beginning that
she had studied went clean out of her mind ; and
she was reduced to an absolute silence.

He did not seem in the least impatient.

Yes ; about Natalie ? " he repeated, taking
up a paper-knife, and beginning to write imaginary
letters on the leather of the desk before him.

You will say to me, ' Why do you interfere ? ' "
the little woman managed to say at last. " Meddlers
do harm ; they are not thanked. But then,
my dear friend, Natalie is like my own child tome
; for her what would I not do ? "

Mr. Lind could not fail to see that his visitor
was very nervous and agitated : perhaps it was to
give her time to compose herself that he said
leisurely —

Yes, Madame Potecki ; I know that you and
she are great friends. And it is a good thing
that the child should have some one to keep her
company ; perhaps she is a little too much alone.
Well, what do you wish to say about her ? You
run no risk with me. You will not be misunderstood.
I know you are not likely to say anything
unkind about Natalie."

'* Unkind ! " she exclaimed ; and now she had
recovered herself somewhat. " Who could do
that ? Oh no, my dear friend. Oh no."

Here there was another awkward pause.

My dear Madame Potecki," said Mr. Lind,
with a smile, " shall I speak for you ? You do
not like to say what you have come to say.
Shall I speak for you ? This is it ; is it not ?
You have become aware of that entanglement
that Natalie has got into. Very well. Perhaps
she has told you. Perhaps she has told you also
that I have forbidden her to have any communication
with — well, let us speak frankly, Mr. Brand.
Very well ; you go with her to the South
Kensington Museum ; you meet Mr. Brand there.
Naturally you think if that comes to my ears I
shall suspect you of having planned the meeting ;
and you would rather come and assure me that
you had nothing to do with it. Is it so ?"

My dear friend," said Madame Potecki,
quickly, " I did not come to you about myself at
all ! What am I ? What matters what happens
to an old woman like me ? It is not about
myself — it is about Natalie — that I have come to
you. Ah, the dear, beautiful child ! — how can one

see her unhappy, and not try to do something ?
Why should she be unhappy ? She is young,
beautiful, loving ; my dear friend, do you wonder
that she has a sweetheart ? And one who is so
worthy of her, too : one who is not selfish, who
has courage, who will be kind to her. Then I
said to myself, ' Ah, what a pity to have father
and daughter opposed to each other.' Why
might not one step in and say, ' Come and befriends.
You love each other : do not have this
coldness that makes a young heart so miserable ! ' "
She had talked quickly and eagerly at last ;
she was trembling with excitement : she had her
eyes fixed on his face to catch the first symptom
of acquiescence.

But, on the contrary, Mr. LInd remained quite
impassive ; and he said coldly —

This is a different matter altogether, Madame
Potecki. I do not blame you for interfering ; but
I must tell you at once that your interference is
not likely to be of much use. You see, there are
reasons, which I cannot explain to you, but which
are very serious, why any proposal of marriage
between Mr. Brand and Natalie is not to be
entertained for a moment. The thing is quite

impossible. Very well. She knows this ; she
knows that I wish all communication between
them to cease ; nevertheless she says she will see
him every clay until he goes. How can you
wonder that she is unhappy ? Is it not her own
cooing ? "

"If she was in reality my child, that is not the
way I would speak," said the little woman, boldly.

Unfortunately, my dear Madame Potecki,"
said Mr. Lind, blandly, " I cannot, as I say,
explain to you the reasons which make such a
marriage impossible ; or you yourself would say
it was impossible. Very well, then. If )ou wish
to do a service to your friend Natalie — if you
wish to see her less unhappy — you know what
advice to give her. A girl who perseveres in
wilful disobedience is not likely to be very contented
in her mind."

Madame Potecki sat silent and perplexed.
This man seemed so firm, so reasonable, so
assured ; it was apparently hopeless to expect
any concession from him. And yet what was the
use of her going away merely to repeat the advice
she had already given ?

"And in any case," he continued lightly, "it

is n3t an affair for you to be deeply troubled
about, my dear Madame Potecki. On the contrary,
it is a circumstance of little moment. If
Natalie chooses to indulge this sentiment — well,
the fate of empires does not hang on it ; and ina
little while it will be all right. Youth soon
recovers from small disappointments ; the girl
is not morbid or melancholy. Moreover, she has
plenty to occupy her mind with : do not fear
that she will be permanently unhappy."

All this grave Natalie's friend but scant consolation.
She knew something of the girl ; she
knew it was not a light matter that had made
her resolve to share banishment with her lover
rather than that he should depart alone.

Yes, she is acting contrary to my wishes,"
continued Mr. Lind, who saw that his visitor was
anxious and chagrined. " But why should you
vex yourself with that, my dear madame ? Why,
indeed ? It is only for a few days. When Mr.
Brand leaves for America, then she will settle
down to her old ways. This episode of sentiment
will soon be forgotten. Do not fear for your
friend Natalie ; she has a healthy constitution ;
she is not likely to sigh away her life."

"But you do not understand, Mr. lind ! "
Madame Potecki exclaimed suddenly. " You do
not understand. When he leaves for America,
there is to be an end } No ! You are not aware,
then, that if he goes to America, Natalie will go
also ? "

She had spoken quickly, breathlessly ; not
taking much notice of her words. But she was
appalled by the effect they produced. Lind
started, as if he had been struck ; and for a
second, as he regarded her, the eyes set under the
heavy brows burned like coals ; and she noticed
a curious paleness in his face, especially in the
lips. But this lasted only for an instant. When
he spoke, he was quite calm ; and was apparently
considering each word.

Are you authorized to bring me this message
? " he said, slowly.

Oh no ! oh no ! " the little woman exclaimed.
I assure you, my dear friend, I came to )'ou
because I thought something was about to
happen — something that might be prevented.
Ah, you don't know how I love that darling child
and to see her unhappy — and resolved perhaps
to make some great mistake in her life —
how could I help interfering ? "

So," continued Lind, apparent weighing
every word, " diis is what she is bent on ? If
Brand goes to America, she will go with him ? "

I — I — am afraid so," stammered Madame
Potecki. " That is what I gathered from her —
though it was only an imaginary case she spoke
of. But she was pale — and trembling — and how
could I stand by and not do something ? "

He did not answer; his lips were firm set.
Unconsciously he was pressing the point of the
paper-knife into the leather ; it snapped in two.
He threw the pieces aside ; and said, with a
sudden lightness of manner —

*' Ah, well, my dear madam e, you know
young people are sometimes very headstrong,
and difficult to manage. We must see what can
be done in this case. You have not told Natalie
you were coming to me ? "

No. She asked me at first ; then she said she
would tell you herself."

He regarded her for a second.

There is no reason why you should say you
have been here ? "

Perhaps not, perhaps not," Madame Potecki
said, doubtfully. " No ; there is no necessity.

But if one were sure that the dear child were
to be made any happier "

She did not complete the sentence.

I think )ou may leave the whole affair in
my hands, my dear Madame Potecki," said Lind.
in his usual courteous fashion. He spoke, indeed,
as if it were a matter of the most trifling importance.
" I think I can promise you that Natalie
shall not be allowed to imperil the happiness of
her life by taking any rash step. In the meantime,
I am your debtor that you have come and
told me. It was considerate of you, Madame
Potecki ; I am obliged to you."

The little woman was practically dismissed.
She rose — still doubtful — and hesitated. But
what more could she say ?

I am not to tell her, then ? " she said.

If-ou please, not."

When he had graciously bowed her out, he
returned to his seat at the desk ; and then the
forced courtesy of his manner was abandoned.
His brows gathered down; his lips were again
firm set ; he bent one of the pieces of the paperknife
until that snapped too. And when someone
knocked at the door, he answered sharply in
German.

It was Gathorne Edwards who entered.

Well, you have got back ? " he said, with
but scant civility. " Where is Clarissa ? "

The tall, pale, stooping man looked round
with some caution.

There is no one — no one but Reitzei," said
Lind, impatiently.

Clarissa is detained in Naples — the
General's orders," said the other, in rather a low
voice. " I did not write — I thought it was not
safe to put anything on paper. More especially
as we discovered that Kirski was being watched."

No wonder," said Lind, scornfully. " A fool
of a madman being taken about by a fool of a
mountebank ! "

Edwards stared at him. Surely this man,
who was usually the most composed, and impenetrable,
and suave of men, must have been
considerably annoyed thus to give way to a
petulant temper.

But the result, Edwards : well ? "

Refused."

Lind laughed, sardonically.

Who could have doubted ? Of course the
Council do not think that I approved of that mad
scheme ? "

At all events, sir," said Edwards, submissively,
" you permitted it."

Permitted it ! Yes ; to please old Clarissa,
who imagines himself a diplomatist. But who
could have doubted what the end would be ?
Well — what further ? "

I understand that a message is on its way
to you from the Council," said the other, speaking
in still lower tones, " giving further instructions.
They consider it of great importance that — it —
should be done by one of the English section ;
so that no one may imagine it arises from a
private revenge."

Lind was toying with one of the pieces of the
broken paper-knife.

Zaccatelli has had the warning," Edwards
continued. " Granaglia took it. 71ic Cardinal
is mad with fright — will do anything."

Lind seemed to rouse himself with an effort.

I beg your pardon, friend Edwards. I did
not hear. What were you saying ? "

I was saying that the Cardinal had had the
decree announced to him ; and is mad with fear ;
and he will do anything. He offers thirty thousand
lire a year ; not only that, but he will try to get his

Holiness to give his countenance to the Society.
Fancy, as Clarissa says, what the world would
say to an alliance between the Vatican and the
Society of the Seven Stars ! "

Lind seemed incapable of paying attention
to this new visitor ; so absorbed was he in his
own thoughts. He had again to rouse himself
forcibly.

"Yes," he said, "you were saying, friend
Edwards, that the Starving Cardinal had become
aware of the decree. Yes ; well, then ? "

Did you not hear, sir ? He thinks there
should be an alliance between the Vatican and
the Society."

His Eminence is jocular, considering how
near he is to the end of his life," said Lind,
absently.

Further," Edwards continued, " he has sent
back the daughter of old De Bedros, who it seems
first claimed the decree against him. And he is
to give her a dowry of ten thousand lire when
she marries. But all these promises and proposals
do not seem to have weighed much with the
Council."

Here Edwards stopped. He perceived plainly

that Lind — who sit with his brows drawn down,
and a sombre look on his face — was not listening
to him at all. Presently Lind rose, and said —

My good Edwards, I have some business of
serious importance to attend to at once. Now
you will give me the report of your journey some
other time. To-night ? At nine o'clock ? "

Yes, sir ; if that will suit you."

Can )ou come to my house in Curzon Street,
at nine ? "

Yes, certainly."

Very well. I am your debtor. But stay a
moment. Of course I understand from you that
nothing that has happened interferes with the
decree against our excellent friend the Cardinal ? "

"So it appears."

The Council arc not to be bought over by
idle promises ? "

Apparently not."

Very well. Then you will come to-night at
nine ; in my little study there will be no interruption
; you can give me all the details of your
holiday. Ha, my friend Edwards," he added,
more pleasantly, as he opened the door for his
visitor, " would it not be better for )ou to give up

that Museum altogether, and come over to us ?
Then you would have many a pleasant little
• trip."

I suspect the Museum is most likely to give
me up," said Edwards, with a laugh, as he descended
the narrow twilit stairs.

Then Lind returned to his desk, and sat
down. A quarter of an hour afterwards, when
Reitzei came into the room, he found him still
sitting there, without any papers whatsoever
before him. The angry glance that Lind directed
to him as he entered told him that the master
did not wish to be disturbed ; so he picked up
a book of reference by way of excuse, and retreated
into the further room, leaving Lind once
more alone.

CHAPTER XIV.

AN ENCOUNTER.

This was an October morning, in the waning of
the year ; and yet so bright and clear and fresh
was it, even in the middle of London, that one
could have imagined the Spring had returned.
The world was full of a soft diffused light, from
the pale clouds sailing across the blue to the
sheets of silver widening out on the broad bosom
of the Thames ; but here and there the sun caught
some shining surface — the lip of a marble fountain,
the glass of a lamp on the Embankment, or
the harness of some merchant-prince's horses
prancing in to town — and these were sharp jewel-like
Means amid the vasfue general radiance.
The air was sweet and clear ; the white steam
blown from the engines on Hungered Bridge
showed that the wind was westerly. Two lovers
walked below, in the Embankment gardens, probably
listening but little to the murmur of the great

2. IX. p

city around them. Surely the Spring had come
again ; and youth and love and hope ? The
solitary occupant of this chamber that overlooked
the gardens and the shining river did not stay to
ask why his heart should be so full of gladness —
why this beautiful morning should yield him so
much delight. He was thinking chiefly that
on such a morning Natalie would be abroad
soon ; she loved the sunlight and the sweet air.

It was far too fine a morning, indeed, to spend
in a Museum, even with all Madame Potecki's
treasures spread out before one. So, instead of
going to South Kensington, he went straight upto
Curzon Street. Early as he was, he was not
too early, for he was leisurely walking along the
pavement when, ahead of him, he saw Natalie
and her little maid come forth and set out westward.
He allowed them to reach the Park gates ;
then he overtook them. Anneli fell a little way
behind.

Now, whether it was that the brightness of
the morning had raised her spirits, or that she
had been reasoning herself into a more courageous
frame of mind, it was soon very clear that Natalie
was not at all so anxious and embarrassed as

she had shown herself the day before when they
parted.

There was no letter from you this morning,"
she said, with a smile — though she did not lookup
into his face. " Then I have offered myself to
you ; and am refused ? "

How could I write ? " he said. " I tried
once or twice ; and then I saw I must wait until
I could tell you face to face all that I think of
your bravery and your goodness. And now that
I see you, Natalie, it is not a bit better : I can't
tell you : I am so happy to be near you, to be
beside you, and hear your voice, that I don't think
I can say anything at all."

I am refused, then ? " said she, shyly.

Refused ! " he exclaimed. " There are some
t?liin2:s one cannot refuse — like the sunshine.
But do you know what a terrible sacrifice you
are making ? '

It is you, then, who are making no sacrifice
at all," she said, reproachfully. "What do I
sacrifice more than every girl must sacrifice when
she marries ? England is not my home as it is
your home ; we have lived everywhere ; I have no
childhood's friends to leave, as many a girl has."

Your father ? "

After a little while my father will scarcely
miss me ; he is too busy."

But presently she added —

If you had remained in England, I should
never have been your wife."

Why ? " he said, with some surprise.

I should never have married against my
father's wishes," she said, thoughtfully. " No.
My promise to you was that I would be your
wife or the wife of no one. I would have kept
that promise. But as long as we could have seen
each other, and been with each other from time to
time, I don't think I could have married against
my father's wish. Now it is quite different. Your
going to America has changed it all. Ah, my
dear friend, you don't know what I suffered one
or two nights before I could decide what was
right for me to do."

I can guess," he said in a low voice, in
answer to that brief sigh of hers.

Then she grew more cheerful in manner.

But that is all over. And now am I accepted .-*
I think you are like Naomi : it was only when
she saw that Ruth was very determined to go with

her that she left off protesting. And I am to
consider America as my future home ? Well, at
all events, one will be able to breathe freely there.
It is not a country weighed down with standing
armies and conscriptions and fortifications. How
could one live in a town like Cobden, or Metz, or
Brest ? The poor wretches marching this way
and marching that — you watch them from your
hotel window — the young men and the middle-aged
men — and you know that they would rather be
away at their farms, or in their factories, or saw-pits
or engine-houses, working for their wives and
children "

Natalie," said he, with a smile, " you are
only half a woman : you don't care about military
glory."

It is the most mean, the most cruel and contemptible
thing under the sun ! " she said, passionately.
" What is the quality that makes a great
hero — a great general — now-a-days ? Courage ?
Not a bit. It is callousness ! — an absolute indifference
to the slaughtering of human lives. You
sit in your tent — you sit on horseback — miles away
from the fighting ; and if the poor wretches are
being destroyed here or there in too great quantities

— if they are ridden down by the horses and
torn to pieces by the mitrailleuses — ' Oh, clap on
another thousand or two : the place must be taken
at all risks.' Yes ; indeed ; but not much risk to
you ! For if you fail, if all the thousands of men
have been hurled against the stone and lead only
to be thrown back crushed and murdered — why,
you have fought with great courage — yo2i, the great
general, sitting in your saddle miles away, it is
yozc who have shown extraordinary courage ! — but
numbers were against sou ; and if you win, you
have shown still greater courage ; and the audacity
of the movement was so-and-so ; and your dogged
persistence was so-and-so ; and you get another
star for your breast ; and all the world sings your
praises. And who is to court-martial a great hero
for reckless waste of human life ? Who is to tell
him that he is a cruel-hearted coward ? Who is
to take him to the fields he has saturated with
blood, and compel him to count the corpses ;
or take him to the homesteads he has ruined
throughout the land, and ask the women and the
sons and the daughters what they think of his
marvellous courage } Oh no ; he is away back at
the capital — there is a triumphal procession ; all

we want now is another war-tax — for the peasant
must pay with his money as well as with his blood —
and another levy of the young men to be taken
away and killed ! "

This was always a sore point with Natalie ;
and he did not seek to check her enthusiasm with
any commonplace and obvious criticisms. When
she got into one of these moods of proud indignation
— which was not seldom — he loved her all the
more. There was something in the rin<j of her
voice that touched him to the heart. Such noble,
quick, generous sympathy seemed to him far too
beautiful and rare a thing to be met by argument
and analysis. When he heard that pathetic
tremulousness in her voice, he was ready to
believe anything. When he looked at the proud
lips and the moistened eyes, what cause that had
won such eloquent advocacy would he not have
espoused ?

Ah, well, Natalie," said he, "some day the
mass of the people of the earth will be brought to
see that all that can be put a stop to, if they so
choose. They have the power : Zahlcn rcgiereii
die Welt. And how can one be better employed
than in spreading abroad knowledge and showing

the poorer people of the earth how the world
might be governed if they would only ally themselves
together ? It would be more easy to
persuade them if we had all of us your voice
and your enthusiasm."

Mine ?" she said. "A woman's talking is
not likely to be of much use. But," she added
rather hesitatingly — " at least — she can give her
sympathy — and her love — to those who are doing
the real work."

And I am going to earn yours, Natalie,"
said he, cheerfully, " to such a degree as you have
never dreamt of, when you and I together are
away in the New World. And that reminds me :
now you must not be frightened ; but there is a
little difficulty. Of course you thought of nothing —
when you wrote those lines — but of doing a kindness
; that was like you ; your heart speaks
quickly. Well "

He himself seemed somewhat embarrassed.

"You see, Natalie, there would be no difficulty
at all if you and I could get married within the
next few days."

Her eyes were cast down ; and she was
silent.

You don't think it possible you could get
your father to consent ? " he said ; but without
much hope.

Oh no ; I think not ; I fear not," she said, ina
low voice.

Then, you see, Natalie," he continued — and
he spoke quite lightly, as if it was merely an affair
of a moment — " there would be this little awkwardness
: you are not of age — unless you get your
fathers consent, you cannot marry until you are
twenty-one. It is not a long time "'

I did not think of it," she said, very hurriedly,
and even breathlessly. " I only thought it — it
seemed hard you should go away alone — and I
considered myself already your wife — and I said,
What ought I to do ? ' And now — now you wall
tell me what to do. I do not know — I have no
one to ask."

Do you think," said he, after a pause, " that
you would forget me, if you were to remain two
years in England while I was in America ? "

She regarded him for a moment with those
large, true eyes of hers ; and she did not answer
in words.

There is another way ; but — it is asking too
much," he said.

"What Is it ? " she said, calmly.

I was thinking," he said, with some hesitation,
'that if I could bribe Madame Potecki to leave
her music-lessons — sand take charge of you — and
bring you to America — and you and she might
live there until you Vv^ere twenty-one — but I see it
is impossible. It Is too selfish. I should not have
thought of it. What are two years, Natalie ? "

The o"Irl answered nothlno;- ; she was thinking
deeply. When she next spoke, it was about Lord
Evelyn, and of the probability of his crossing to
the States, and remaining there for a year or two.
And she vv^anted to know more about the great
country beyond the seas. And what was Philadelphia
like ?

Well, it was not to be expected that these two,
so busy with their own affairs, were likely to
notice much that was passing around them, as
the forenoon sped rapidly away, and Natalie had
to think of sfettlno^ home acjaln. But the little
German maidservant vas not so engrossed. She
was letting her clear observant blue eyes stray
from the pretty young ladies riding in the Row,
to the people walking under the trees, and from
them again to the banks of the Serpentine, where

the dogs were barking at the ducks. In doing so
she happened to look a little bit behind her ; then
suddenly she started ; and said to herself, ' Herr
Jc ! ' But the little maid had her wits about her.
She pretended to have seen nothing. Gradually,
however, she lessened the distance between herself
and her young mistress ; then, when she was
quite up to her, and walking abreast with her,
she said in a low quick voice —

Fraulein ! Fraulein ! "

What is it, Anneli ? "

George Brand was listening too. He wondered
that the girl seemed so excited, and yet
spoke low, and kept her eyes fixed on the ground.

"Ah, do not look round, Fraulein!" said she,
in the same hurried way. " Do not look round !
But it is the lady — who gave you the locket. She
is walking by the lake. She is watching you."

Natalie did not look round. She turned to
her companion, and said, without any agitation
whatever —

Do you remember, dearest ? I showed you
the locket ; and told you about my mysterious
visitor. Now Anneli says she is walking by
the side of the lake. I may go and speak to her.

may I not ? Because it was so wicked of Clarissa
to say some one had stolen the locket, and
wished to restore it after many years. I never
had any such locket."

She was talking quite carelessly ; it was Brand
himself who was most perturbed. He knew well
who that stranger must be, if Anneli's sharp eyes
had not deceived her.

No, Natalie," he said, quickly, " you must
not go and speak to her. And do not look
round, either. Perhaps she does not wish to be
seen. Perhaps she would go away. Leave it
to me, my darling ; I will find out all about her
for you."

But it is very strange," said the girl. " I
shall begin to be afraid of this emissary of Santa
Claus if she continues to be so mysterious. And
I do not like mystery : I think, dearest, I must
go and speak to her. She cannot mean me any
harm. She has brought me flowers again and
again on my birthday — if it is the same. She
gave me the little locket I showed you. Why
may not I stop and speak to her ? "

Not now, my darling," he said, putting his
hand on her arm. " Let me find out about her
first."

"And how are you going to do that? In a
few minutes, perhaps, she goes away ; and when
will you see her again ? It is many months since
Anneli saw her last ; and Anneli sees everything
and everybody."

We will cross the bridge," said he, in a low
voice — for he knew not how near the stranger
might be — "and walk on to Park Lane. Annalist
tell us how far she follows. If she turns
aside anywhere, I will bid you good-bye and see
where she goes. Do you understand, Natalie ?"

She certainly did not understand why he should
speak so seriously about it.

And I am to be marched like a prisoner ? I
may not turn my head '^ "

She began to be amused. He scarcely knew
what to say to her. At last he said, earnestly —

Natalie, it is of great importance to you that
I should see this lady — that I should try to see
her. Do as I bid you, my dearest."

Then you know who she is?" said Natalie,
promptly.

I have a suspicion, at all events. And —
and — something may happen — that you will be
clad of"

What, more mysterious presents ? " the girl
said, Lightly. " More messages from Santa Claus ?"

He could not answer her. The consciousness
that this might be indeed Natalie's mother who
was so near to them — the fear of the possible
consequences of any sudden disclosure — the
thought that this opportunity might escape him,
and he leaving in a few days for America — all
these things whirled through his brain in rapid
and painful succession. But there was soon to
be an end of them. Natalie, still obediently
following his instructions, and yet inclined to
make light of the whole thing, and himself
arrived at the gates of the Park ; Anneli, as
formerly, being somewhat behind. Receiving no
intimation from her, they crossed the road, to the
corner of Great Stanhope Street. But they had
not proceeded far when Anneli said —

Ah, Fraulein, the lady has gone. You may
look after her now. See ! "

That was enough for George Brand. He
had no difficulty in making out the dark figure
that Anneli indicated ; and he was in no great
hurry, for he feared the stranger might discover
that she was being followed. But he breathed

more freely when he lead bidden good-bye to
Natalie, and seen her set out home.

He leisurely walked up Park Lane, keeping
an eye from time to time on the figure In black,
but not paying too strict attention, lest she should
turn suddenly and observe him. In this way he
followed her up to Oxford Street ; and there, in
the more crowded thoroughfare, he lessened the
distance between them considerably. He also
watched more closely now, and with a strange
interest. From the graceful carriage, the beautiful
figure, he was almost . convinced that that
indeed was Natalie's mother ; and he began to
wonder what he would say to her — how he would
justify his interference.

The stranger stopped at a door next a shop
in the Edward Road ; knocked, waited, and was
admitted. Then the door was shut acraln.

O

It was obviously a private lodging-house. He
took a half-crown in his hand, to bribe the maidservant
; and walked boldly up to the door, and
knocked. It was not a maidservant who answered,
however, ; it was a man who looked
something like an English butler ; and yet there
was a foreign touch about his dress : probably.

Brand thought, the landlord. Brand pulled out
a card-case, and pretended to have some difficulty
in getting a card from it.

The lady who came in just now " he

said, still looking at the cards.

Madame Berezolyi ? Yes, sir ? "

His heart jumped. But he calmly took out
a pencil, and wrote on one of the cards, in
French — ' One who hows your daughter should
like to sec you!

Will you be so kind as to take up that card
to Madame Berezolyi ? I think she will see me.
I will wait here till you come down."

The man returned in a couple of minutes.

"Madame Berezolyi will be pleased to see
you, sir : will you step this way ? "

CHAPTER XV.

THE MOTHER.

This beautiful, pale, trembling mother : she stood
there, dark against the light of the window ; but
even in the shadow how singularly like she was
to Natalie, in the tall, slender, elegant figure, the
proud set of the head, the calm, intellectual brows,
and the large, tender, dark eyes, as soft and
pathetic as those of a doe. Only this woman's
face was worn and sad ; and her hair was silver-grey.


She was greatly agitated, and for a second or

two incapable of speech. But when he began
in French, to apologize for his intrusion, she
eagerly interrupted him,

"Ah, no, no," she said, in the same tongue.
Do not waste words in apology. You have come
to tell me about my child, my Natalie : Heaven
will bless you for it ; it is a great kindness. To

2.— IX. Q

day I saw you walking with her — listening to her
voice — ah, how I envied you ! And once or twice
I thought of going to her, and taking her hand,
and saying only one word — ' Natalushka ! ' "

That would have been a great imprudence,"
said he, gravely. "If you wish to speak to your
daughter "

"If I wish to speak to her! — if I wish to
speak to her ! " she exclaimed ; and there were
tears in her voice, if there were none in the sad
eyes.

You forget, madame, that your daughter has
been brought up in the belief that you died when
she was a mere infant. Consider the effect of any
sudden disclosure."

But has she never suspected ? I have passed
her ; she has seen me. I gave her a locket : what
did she think ? "

She was puzzled, yes ; but how could it
occur to the girl that any one would be so cruel
as to conceal from her all those years the fact that
her mother was alive ? "

Then you yourself, monsieur ? "

I knew from Clarissa."

Ah, my old friend Clarissa ! And he

was here — In London — and he saw my Natahe.
Perhaps "

She paused for a second.

Perhaps it was he who sent me the message.
I heard — it was only a word or two — that my
daughter had found a lover."

She regarded him. She had the same calm
fearlessness of look that dwelt in Natalie's eyes.

You will pardon me, monsieur. Do I guess
right ? It is to you that my child has given her
love ? "

That is my happiness," said he. " I wish I
were better worthy of it."

She still regarded him, very earnestly, and in
silence.

When I heard," she said, at length, in a low-voice,
" that my Natalie had given her love to a
stranger, my heart sank. I said, ' More than ever
is she away from me now.' And I wondered
what the stranger might be like ; and whether
he would be kind to her. Now that I, see you.
I am not so sad. There is something in your
voice — in your look — that tells me to have confidence
in you : you will be kind to Natalie."

She seemed to be thinking aloud. And yet

he was not embarrassed by this confession, nor
yet by her earnest look ; he perceived how all
her thoughts were really concentrated on her
daughter.

Her father approves ? " said this sad-faced,
grey-haired woman.

Oh no ; quite the contrary."

But he is kind to her ? " she said, quickly
and anxiously.

Oh yes," he answered. " No doubt. He is
kind to her. Who could be otherwise ? "

She had been so agitated at the beginning of
this interview that she had allowed her visitor
to remain standing. She now asked him to be
seated ; and took a chair opposite to him. Her
nervousness had in a great measure disappeared ;
though at times she clasped the fingers of both
hands together, as if to force herself to be composed.


You will tell me all about it, monsieur ; that
I may know what to say, when I speak to my
child at last. Ah, heavens, if you could understand
how full my heart is : sixteen years of
silence ! Think what a mother has to say to her
only child after that time. It was cruel — cruel —
cruel ! "

A little convulsive sob was the only sign of
her emotion ; and the fingers were clasped
together.

Pardon me, madame," said he, with some
hesitation. " But, you see, I do not know the
circumstances "

You do not know why I dared not speak
to my own daughter ? " she said, looking up in
surprise. " Clarissa did not tell you ? "

No. There were some hints. I did not
understand."

Nor of the reasons that forced me to complies
such an inhuman demand ? Alas, these
reasons exist no longer. I have done my duty
to one whose life was sacred to me ; now his
death has released me from fear ; I come to m)'
daughter now. Ah, when I fold her to my heart,
what shall I say to her — what but this ? — ' ,
if your mother has remained away from
you all these years, it was not because she did not
love you.' "

He drew his chair nearer, and took her
hand.

I perceive that you have suffered, and deeply.
But your daughter will make amends to you. She

loves you now ; you are a saint to her ; your
portrait is her dearest possession "

My portrait ? " she said, looking rather bewildered.
"Her father has not forbidden her
that, then ? "

"It was Clarissa who gave it to her, quite
recently."

She gently withdrew her hand ; and glanced
at the table, on which two books lay ; and sighed.

The English tongue is so difficult ! " she
said. " And I have so much — so much — to say !
I have written out many things that I wish to tell
her ; and have repeated them, and repeated them ;
but the sound is not right — the sound is not like
what my heart wishes to say to her."

Reassure yourself, madame, on that point,"
said he, cheerfully. " I should imagine there is
scarcely any language in Europe that your
daughter does not know something of. You
will not have to speak English to her at all."

She looked up, with a bright eagerness in her
eyes.

But not Magyar ? "

I do not know for certain," he said, " for I
don't know Magyar myself; but I am almost

convinced she must know it. She lias told me
so much about her countrymen that used to come
about the house ; yes, surely they would speak
Magyar."

A strange, happy light came into the woman's
face ; she was communing with herself — perhaps
going over mentally some tender phrases full of
the soft vowel-sounds of the Magyar tongue.

That," said she, presently, and in a low voice,
'' would be my crowning joy. I have thought of
what I should say to her, in many languages ; but
always ' My daughter, I love you,' did not have
the right sound. In our own tongue, it goes to
the heart. I am no longer afraid : my girl will
understand me."

I should think," said he, " you will not
have to speak much, to assure her of your love."

She seemed to become a great deal more
cheerful ; this matter had evidently been weighing
on her mind.

Meanwhile," she said, " you promised to tell
me all about Natalie and yourself. Her father
does not approve of your marrying. Well, his

reasons ? "

''If he has any, he is careful to keep them to

himself," he said. " But I can guess at some of
them. No doubt he would rather not have
Natalie marry ; it would deprive him of an
excellent housekeeper. Then again — and this is
the only reason he does give — he seems to consider
it would be inexpedient as regards the work
we are all engaged in "

You ? " she said, with a sudden start. " Are
you in the Society also ? "

Certainly, madame."

What grade ? "

He told her.

Then you are helpless, if he forbids your
marriage."

On the contrary, madame. My marriage
or non-marriage has nothing whatever to do with
my obedience to the Society."

He has control over Natalie."

Until she is twenty-one," he answered,
promptly.

But," she said, regarding him with some
apprehension in her eyes, " you do not say — you
do not suggest — that the child is opposed to her
father — that she thinks of marrying you, when she
may legally do so, against his wish ? "

My dear madame," said he, '' it will be
difficult for you to understand how all this affair
rests until you get to know something more about
Natalie herself. She is not like other girls. She
has courage ; she has opinions of her own : when
she thinks that such and such a things is ritrht, she
Is not afraid to do it, whatever it may be. Now,
she believes her father's opposition to be unjust ;
and — and perhaps there is something else that has
influenced her — well, the fact is, I am ordered off
to America — and, and the girl has a quick and
generous nature ; and she at once offered to share
what she calls my banishment."

To leeive her father's house ! " said the
mother, with increasing alarm.

Brand looked at her. He could not understand
this expression of anxious concern. If, ashe
was beginning to assure himself, Lind was the
cause of that long and cruel separation between
mother and daughter, why should this woman be
aghast at the notion of Natalie leaving such a
guardian ? Or was it merely a superstitious fear
of him, similar to that which seemed to possess
Clarissa ?

In dealing with your daughter, madame," he

continued, " one has to be careful not to take
advantage of her forgetfulness of herself. She is
too willing to sacrifice herself for others. Now
to-day we were talking — as she is not free to
marry until she is twenty-one — about her perhaps
going over to America under the guardianship of
Madame Potecki ■"

Madame Potecki ? "

She is a friend of your daughter's ; almost
a mother to her. And I am not sure but that
Natalie would willingly do that — more especially
under your guardianship, in preference to that of
Madame Potecki— — "

Oh no, no," she exclaimed instantly. " She
must not dare her father like that. Oh, it
would be terrible. I hope you will not allow
her ! "

"It is not a question of daring : the girl has
courage enough for anything," he said, coolly.
The things is that it would involve too p-reat a
sacrifice on her part ; and I was exceedingly
selfish to think of it for a moment. No ; let her
remain in her father's house until she is free to
act as her own mistress ; then, if she will come
to me, I shall take care that a proper home is

provided for her. She must not be a wanderer
and a stranger."

O

But even then — when she Is free to act — you
will not ask her to disobey her father ? Oh, it
will be too terrible ! "

Again he regarded her with amazement.

What do you mean, madame ? What is
terrible ? Or is it that you are afraid of him ^
Clarissa spoke like that."

You do not know of what he is capable," she
said, with a sigh.

All the more reason," he said, directly, " why
she should be removed from his guardianship.
But permit me to say, madame, that I do not
quite share your apprehensions. I have seen
nothing of the bogey kind about your husband.
Of course, he is a man of strong will ; and he does
not like to be thwarted : without that strength of
character he could not have done what he has
done. But he also knows that his daughter is no
longer a child ; and when the proper time comes
you will find that his common sense will lead him
to withdraw an opposition which would otherwise
be futile. Do I explain myself clearly ? My
dear madame, have no anxiety about the future

of your daughter. When you see herself, when
you speak to her, you will find that she is one
who is not given to fear."

For the moment the apprehensive look left
her face. She remained silent ; a happier light
coming into her eyes.

She is not sad and sorrowful, then ? " she
said, presently.

Oh no ; she is too brave."

What beautiful hair she has ! " said this worn-faced
woman with the sad eyes. " Ah, many a
time I have said to myself that when I take her
to my heart, I will feel the beautiful soft hair ; I
will stroke it ; her head will lie on my bosom.
And I will gather courage from her eyes ; when
she laughs my heart will rejoice. I have lived
many years in solitude — in secret ; with many
apprehensions ; perhaps I have grown timid and
fearful ; once I was not so. But I have been
troubling myself with fears ; I have said, ' Ah,
if she looks coldly on me — if she turns away
from me — then my heart will break.' "

"I do not think you have much to fear,"
said he, regarding the beautiful, sad face.

I have tried to catch the sound of her voice,"

she continued, absently, and her eyes were filled

with tears, " but I could not do that. But I have

watched her, and followed her, and wondered.

She does not seem jDroud and cold."

"She will not be proud or cold to you,"

he said, " when she is kindness and gentleness

to all the world."

And — and when shall you see her again ? "

she asked, timidly.

Now," he said. "If you will permit me, I

will go to her at once. I will bring her to you."
Oh no ! " she exclaimed, hastily drying her

eyes. " Oh no ! She must not find a sad mother,
who has been crying. She will be repelled. She
will think, ' I have enough of sadness.' Oh no,
you must let me collect myself ; I must be very
brave and cheerful when my Natalie comes tome.
I must make her laugh ; not cry."

Madame," said he, gravely, " I may have buta
few days longer in England : do you think it is
wise to put off the opportunity ? You see, she
must be prepared ; it would be a terrible shock if
she were to know suddenly. And how can one
tell what may happen tomorrow or next day .^
At the present moment I know she is at home ;
I could bring her to you directly."

"Just nov ? " she said; and she began to
tremble again. She rose and went to a mirror.

She could not recognize herself in me. She
would not believe me. And I should frighten
her, with my mourning, and my sadness."

I do not think you need fear, madame."

She turned to him eagerly.

Perhaps you would explain to her ? Ah,
would you be so kind ! Tell her I have seen
much trouble of late. My father has just died,
after years of illness ; and we were kept in
perpetual terror. You will tell her why I
dared not go to her before — oh no ! not that —
not that ! "

"You forget, madame, that I myself do not
know."

It is better she should not know — better she
should not know ! " she said, rapidly. " No, let
the earl have confidence in her father, while she
remains in his house. Perhaps some time she
may know ; perhaps some one who is a fairer
judge than I will tell her the story and make
excuses : it must be that there is some excuse."

She will not want to know ; she will only
want to come to you."

But half an hour : give me half an hour
she said, and she glanced round the room. "It
is so poor a chamber ! "^

She win not think of the chamber."

*' And the hide girl with her — she will remain
downstairs, will she not? I wish to be alone,
quite alone, with my child." Her breath came
and went quickly; and she clasped her fingers
tight. *' Oh, monsieur, my heart will break if my
child is cold to me ! "'

That is the last thing j-ou have to fear," said
he ; and he rose. " Now calm yourself, madame.
Recollect, you must not frighten your daughter.
And it will be more than half an hour before I
bring her to 3-ou ; it will take more than that fcH-
me to break it to her.*^

She rose also ; but she was obviously so
excited that she did not know well what she was
doing. All her thoughts were about the forthcoming
interview.

*• You are sure she understands the AIag\-ar ? "^
she said again.

•* No, I do not know. But why not speak in
French to her ? "

"It does not sound the same — it tioc^ not

sound the same : and a mother — can only — talk
to her child "

You must calm yourself, dear madame. Do
you know that your daughter believes you to
have been a miracle of courage and self-reliance ?
What Clarissa used to say to her was this :
Natalushka, when you are in trouble you will be
brave ; you will show yourself the daughter of
Natalie Berezolyi.'"

Yes, yes," she said, quickly, as she again
dried her eyes, and drew herself up. " I beg
you to pardon me. I have thought so much of
this meeting, through all these years, that my
heart beats too quickly now. But I will have no
fear. She will come to me ; I am not afraid ;
she will not turn away from me. And how am
I to thank you for your great kindness ? " she
added, as he moved to the door.

By being kind to Natalie when I am away
in America," said he. " You will not find it a
difficult task."

CHAPTER XVI.

THE VELVET GLOVE.

Ferdinand Lind sat alone, after Gathorne
Edwards had gone, apparently deep buried in
thought. He leaned forward over his desk, his
head resting on his left hand, while in his right
hand he held a pencil, with which he was mechanically
printing letters on a sheet of blotting-paper
before him. These letters, again and again repeated,
formed but one phrase : The Velvet
Glove. It was as if he were perpetually reminding
himself, during the turnings and twisting of
his sombre speculations, of the necessity of being
prudent and courteous and suave. It was as if
he were determined to imprint the caution on his
brain — drilling it into himself — so that in no possible
emergency could it be forgotten. Hut as
his thoughts went farther afield, he began to play
with the letters, as a child might. They began
to assume decorations. The Velvet Glove

2. — IX. R

appeared surrounded with stars ; again furnished
with duplicate lines ; again breaking out into
rays. At length he rose, tore up the sheet of
blotting-paper, and rang a hand-bell twice.

Reitzei appeared.

Where will Beratinsky be this evening ? "

At the Culturverein. He sups there."

You and he must be here at ten. There is
business of importance."

He walked across the room, and took up his
hat and stick. Perhaps at this moment the
caution he had been drilling into himself suggested
some further word. He turned to Reitzei, who
had advanced to take his place at the desk.

I mean if that is quite convenient to you
both," he said, courteously. " Eleven o'clock, if
you please ; or twelve ? "

Ten will be quite convenient," Reitzei said.

The business will not take long."

Then we can return to the Culterverein : it
is an Exhibition-night : one would not like to be
altogether absent."

These sombre musings had consumed sometime.
When Lind went out, he found it had
grown dark ; the lamps were lit ; the stream of

life was flowing westward. But he seemed in no
great hurry. He chose unfrequented streets ; he
walked slowly ; there was less of the customary
spring and jauntiness of his gait. In about half
an hour he had reached the door of Madame
Potecki's house.

He stood for some seconds there, without
ringing. Then, as some one approached, he
seemed to waken out of a trance. He rang
sharply ; and the summons was almost immediately
answered.

Madame Potecki was at home, he learned, but
she was dining.

Never mind," said he, abruptly. " She will
see me. Go and ask her."

A couple of minutes thereafter he was shown
into the small parlour, where Madame Potecki
had just risen to receive him ; and by this time a
singular change had come over his manner.

I beg your pardon — I beg a thousand
pardons, my dear Madame Potecki," said he, in
the kindest way, " for having interrupted you.
Pray continue. I shall make sure you forgive
me only if you continue. Ah, that is well. Now
I will take a chair also."

Madame Potecki had again seated herself,
certainly ; but she was far too much agitated by
this unexpected visit to be able to go on with her
repast. She was alarmed about Natalie.

You are surprised, no doubt, at my coming
to see you," said he, cheerfully and carelessly, " so
soon after you were kind enough to call on me.
But it is only about a trifle — I assure you, my
dear Madame Potecki, it is only about a trifle ;
and I must therefore insist on your not allowing
your dinner to get cold."

But if it is about Natalie "

My dear madame, Natalie is very well.
There is nothing to alarm you. Now you will
go on with your dinner, and I will go on with my
talking."

Thus constrained, Madame again addressed
herself to the small banquet spread out before
her, which consisted of a couple of sausages, some
pickled endive, a piece of Camembert cheese, and
a tiny bottle of Erlauer. Mr. Lind turned his
chair to the fire, put his feet on the fender, and
lay back. He was rather smartly dressed this
evening ; and he was pleasant in manner.

Natalie ought to be grateful to you, madame,"

said he, lightly, " for your solicitude about her. It
is not often one finds that in one ^vho is not
related by blood."

I have no one now left in the world to love
but herself," said madame. " And then, you see,
my dear friend Lind, her position appeals to one :
it is sad that she has no mother."

Yes, yes," said Lind, with a trifle of impatience.
" Now, you were good enough to come
and tell me this afternoon, madame, about that
foolish little romance that Natalie has got into
her head. It was kind of you ; it was well-intentioned.
And after all, although that wish of hers
to go to America can scarcely be serious, it is but
natural that romantic ideas should get into the
head of a young girl "

Did not I say that to her ? " exclaimed
Madame Potecki, eagerly. " And almost in these
words too. And did not I say to her, ' Ah, my
child, you must take care ;-ou must take care ! ' "

That also was good advice," said Lind,
courteously. " And no doubt Natalie laid it to
heart. No ; I am not afraid of her doing anything
very wild or reckless. She is sensible ; she
thinks ; she has not been brought up in an atmosphere

of sentiment. One may say this or that,
on the spur of the moment, when one is excited ;
but when it comes to action, one reasons, one sees
what one's duty is. Natahe may have said something
to you, madame, about going to America ;
but not with any serious intention, believe me."

Perhaps not," said Madame Potecki, with
considerable hesitation.

Very well, then," said Mr. Lind, as he rose,
and stood before the chimney-piece mirror, and
arranged the ends of his gracefully tied neckerchief.
"We come to another point. It was very
kind of you, my dear madame, to bring me the
news — to tell me something; of that sort had been
said. But you know what ill-natured people
will remark. You get no appreciation. They
call you tale-bearer."

Madame coloured slightly.

"It is ungenerous ; it is not a fair requital
of kindness; but that is what is said," he continued.
" Now, I should not like any friend of
Natalie's to incur such a charge on her account,
do you perceive, madame ? And, in these circumstances,
do you not think that it would be
better for both you and me to consider that you

did not visit mc this afternoon ; that I know
nothing of what idle foolishness Natahe has been
talking ? Would not that be better ? As for me,
I am dumb."

Oh, very well, my dear friend," said Madame,
(quickly. " I would not for the world have Natalie
or any one think that I was a mischief-maker
— oh no ! And did I not promise to you
that I should say nothing of my having calledon
you to-day ? It is already a promise."

He turned round and regarded her.

Precisely so," he said. " You did promise ;
it was kind of you. And for myself, you may
rely on my discretion. Your calling on me —
what you repeated to me — all that is obliterated :
you understand ? "

Madame Potecki understood that very w-ell ;
but she could not quite make out why he should
have come to her this evening, apparently with
no object beyond that of reminding her of her
promise to say nothing of her visit to Lisle
Street.

He lifted his hat from an adjacent chair.

Now I will leave you to finish your dinner
in quiet. You forgive me for interrupting you :

tho you not ? And you will remember, I am sure,
not to mention to any one about your having
called on me to-day ? As for me. It is all wiped
out : I know nothing. Adieu ; and thanks ! "

He shook hands with her In a very friendly
manner ; and then left, saying he could open the
outer door for himself.

He got home In time for dinner ; he and
Natalie dined together. And he was particularly
kind to her ; he talked In Magyar, which was
his custom when he wished to be friendly and
affectionate ; he made no reference to George
Brand whatsoever.

Natalie," said he, casually, " It was not fair
that you were deprived of a holiday this year.
You know the reason — there were too many important
things going forward. But It Is not yet
too late. You must think about It — think where
you would like to go for two or three weeks."

She did not answer. It was on that morning
that she had placed her written offer in her lover's
hands ; so far there had been no reply from him.

"And Madame Poteckl," her father continued.
"She Is not very rich; she has but little change.
Why not take her with you instead of Anneli }"

I should like to take her away for a time,"
said the girl, in a low voice. " She lives a
monotonous life. But she has always her pupils."

Some arrangement could be made with them,
surely," her father said, lightly. And then he
added, " Paris is always the safest place to goto,
when one is in doubt. There you are independent
of the weather. There are so mantling
to see and to do, if it rains. Will you think
of it, Natalushka ? "

Yes, papa," she said, though she felt rather
guilty. But she was so grateful to have her
father talk to her in this friendly way again, after
the days of estrangement that had passed, that
she could not but pretend to fall in with his
schemes.

"And I will tell you another thing," said Mr.
Lind. '' I intend to buy }'ou some furs, Natalie,
for the winter. These we will jet in Paris."

I am too much of an expense to you already,
papa."

You forget," said he, with mock gravity,
that you give me your invaluable services as
housekeeper, and that so far you have received
no salary."

There was a knock at the outer door.

Is it nine o'clock already ? " he said, in an
altered tone.

Whom do you expect, papa ? "

Gathorne Edwards."

Then I will send you in coffee to the study."

But presently Anneli came into the room.

Pardon, Fraulein, but the gentleman wishes
to see you for one minute."

Let him come in here, then."

Edwards came in, and shook hands with
Natalie in an embarrassed manner. Then he
produced a little packet.

I have a commission. Miss Lind. It is from
Signor Clarissa. He sends you this necklace,
and says I am to tell you that he thinks of you
always."

The message had been in reality that Clarissa
" thought of her, and loved her, always,"
But Edwards was a shy person, and did not like
to pronounce the word " love " to this beautiful
girl, who regarded him with such proud, frank
eyes.

He has not returned with you, then ? "

*' No."

But you can send him a mcssag'c ? "
I will, when I hear of his address."
Then you will tell him — will you be so kind ?
that the little Natalushka — that is myself," she
said, smiling — "you will tell him that the little
Natalushka thanks him, and is not likely' to forget
him."

The interview between the new visitor and
Mr. Lind was speedily got over. Lind excused
himself for jj-ivinir Edwards the trouble of this
second appointment by sapling he had been much
engrossed with serious business during the day.
There was, indeed, little new to be communicated
about the Kirski and Clarissa escapade ;
though Edwards repeated the details as minutely
as possible. He accepted a cigar, and left.

Then Lind got his overcoat and hat and went
out of the house. A Hansom took him alone to
Lisle Street ; he arrived there just as ten was
striking.

There were two men at the door ; they were
Beratinsky and Reitzei. All three entered and
went up the narrow stair in the dark, for the old
German had iron. There was some fumbling
for matches on the landin-j- ; then a light was

procured ; and the gas lit in the central room.
Mr. Lind sat down at his desk ; the other two
drew in chairs. The whole house was profoundly
silent.

I am sorry to take you away from your
amusements," said he, civilly enough ; " but you
will soon be able to return to them. The matter
is of importance. Edwards has returned."

Both men nodded ; Reitzei had, in fact, informed
his companion.

"As I anticipated, Clarissa's absurd proposal
has been rejected — if not even scoffed at.
Now, this affair must not be played with any
longer. The Council has charged us, the English
section, with a certain duty ; we must set about
having it performed at once."

"There is a year's grace " Beratinsky

observed ; but Lind interrupted him curtly.

There may be a year's grace or less allowed
to the infamous priest ; there is none allowed tous.
We must have our agent ready. Why, man,
do you think a thing like that can be done offhand,
without long and elaborate planning ? "
Beratinsky was silenced.
Are we to have the Council think that we are

playing with them ? And that was not the only
thins: in connection with the Clarissa scheme —
which you, Reitzei, were the first to advocate.
Every additional person whom you let into the
secret is a possible weak point in the carrying
out of the design : do you perceive that ? And
you had to let this man Edwards into it."

But he is safe."

Lind laughed.

Safe ? Yes ; because he knows his own life
would not be worth a half franc piece if he betrayed
a Council secret. However, that is over.
Xo more about it. We must show the Council
that we can act, and promptly."

There was silence for a second or two.

I have no need to wait for the further
instructions of the Council," Lind resumed. "I
know what they intend. They intend to make
it clear to all Europe that this is not a Camorra
act of vengeance. The Starving Cardinal has
thousands of enemies ; the people curse and groan
at him; if he were stabbed by an Italian — 'Oh,
another of those Camorristi wretches ! ' would bethe
cry. The agent must come from england
and, if he is taken red-handed, then let him say if

he likes that he is connected with an association
which knows how to punish evil-doers who are
beyond the ordinary reach of the law ; but let him
make it clear that it is no Camorra affair. You
understand ? "

Yes yes," said both men.

Now you know what the Council have
ordained, " continued Lind, calmly, — " that no
agent shall be appointed to undertake any service
involving immediate peril to life without a ballot
among at least four persons. It was absurd of
Clarissa to imagine that they would abrogate
their own decree, merely because that Russian
madman was ready for anything. Well, it is not
expedient that this secret should be confided to
many. It is known to four persons in this
country. We are three of the four."

The two men started.

Yes," he said, boldly ; and he regarded each
of them in turn. "That is my proposal : that we
ourselves form three of the ballot of four. The
fourth must be an Englishman."

Edwards ? " said Beratinsky : Reitzei was
thinking too much of his own position to speak.

No, " said Lind, calmly playing vrith his

■33

pencil, " Edwards is a man ol books — not of
action. I have been thinking that the fourth
ouirht to be — George Brand."

He watched them both. Reitzei was still preoccupied.
But the small black eyes of Bcratinsky
twinkled eagerly.

Yes, yes, yes ! Very good ! There we have
our four. For myself, I am not afraid ; not I ! "

And you, Reitzei ; are you satisfied } " said
Lind, merely as a matter of form.

The younger man started.

Oh yes ; the Council must be obeyed, " said
he, absently.

Gentlemen," said Lind, rising, " the business
is concluded. Now you may return to your
Culturverein."

But when the others had risen, he said, in a
laughing way —

There is only one thing I will add ; you may
think about it at your leisure. The chances are
three to one ; and we all run the same risk. But
I confess I should not be sorry to see the
Englishman chosen ; for, you perceive, that would
make the matter clear enough. They would not
accuse an Englishman of complicity with the

Camorra; would they, Reitzei ? If the lot fell to
the Englishman, I should not be disappointed :
would you, Beratinsky ? "

Beratinsky, who was about to leave, turned
sharply, and the coal-black eyes were fixed intently
on Lind's face.

I ? " he said. " Not I ! We will talk again
about it, Brother Lind."

Reitzei opened the door ; Lind turned out
the gas ; and then the three men descended
the wooden staircase, their footsteps sounding
through the silent house.

CHAPTER Xvii.

SANTA CLAUS.

To save time Brand jumped into a Hansom and
drove down to Curzon Street, He was too much
pre-occupied to remember that Natalie had
wished him not to come to the house. AnneHH
admitted him, and showed him upstairs into the
drawing-room. In a couple of seconds or so
Natalie herself appeared.

"Well," said she, lightly, "you have come to
tell me about Santa Claus ? You have discovered
the mysterious messenger ? "

She shut the door, and went forward to him.

What is the matter ? " she said, quickly :
there was something in his look that alarmed her.

He caught both her hands in his, and held
them tight.

Nothing to frighten you, at all events," said
he. " No, Natalie — I have good news for you.
Only — only — you must be brave.

2. — X. s

It was he who was afraid. He did not know
how to begin.

"That locket there," said he, regarding the
Httle silver trinket. " Have you ever thought
about it ? Why do you wear it ? "

Why do I wear it ? " she said, simply.
Because one day that Clarissa was talking tome
it occurred to me that the locket might have
belonged to my mother, and that some one had
wished to give it to me. He did not say that
was impossible. It was his talking of Natalie
and Natalushka that put it in my head ; perhaps
it was a stupid fancy."

'' Natalie, the locket did belong to your
mother."

Ah, you know, then ? " she said, quickly ;
but with nothing beyond a bright and eager
interest. " You have seen that lady ? Well,
what does she say ? Was she angry that you
followed her ? Did you thank her for me for all
those presents of flowers ? "

Natalie," said he, almost in despair, " have
you never thought about it — about the locket ?
Have you never thought of what 'might be
possible ? "

I do not understand you," she said, with a
bewildered air. " What is it ? Why do you not
speak ? "

Because I am afraid. Sec, I hold your
hands tight because I am afraid. And yet it is
good news — your heart will be filled with joy ;
your life will be quite different from to-day ever
after. Natalie, cannot you imagine for yourself —
something beautiful happening to you — something
you may have dreamed of "

She became a little pale ; but she maintained
her calmness.

Dearest," said she, " why are you afraid to
tell me. You hold my hands : do they tremble ? "

But, Natalie, think ! " he said. " Think of
the locket ; it was given you by one who loved
you — who has loved you all these years — and
been kept away from you — and now she is waiting
for you."

He studied her face intently : there was
nothing there but a vague bewilderment. He
grew more and more to fear the effect of the
shock.

Yes, yes. Can ^-ou not think, now, if it
were possible that one whom you have always

thought to be dead — whom you have loved all
through your life — if it were she herself "

She withdrew her hands from his, and caught
the back of a chair. She was ghastly pale. Fora
second she did not speak.

You will kill me — if it is not true," she said,
in a low voice, and still staring at him with
frightened, bewildered eyes.

Natalie, it is true," said he, stepping forward
to catch her by the arm, for he thought she was
going to fall.

She sank into the chair, and covered her face
with her hands — not to cry, but to think. She
had to reverse the belief of a lifetime, in a
second.

But suddenly she started up, her face still
white, her lips firm.

Take me to her. I must see her. I will goat
once."

You shall not," he said, promptly — but he
himself was beginning to breathe more freely.
I will not allow you to see her until you are
perfectly calm."

He put his hand on her arm gently.

Natalie," said he, " you must calm yourself —

for her sake. She has been suffering ; she is
weak ; any will scene woukl do her harm. You
must cain yourself, my charing ; you must bethe
braver of the two ; you must show yourself
very strong — for lier sake."

I am quite calm," she said, with the pale
lips. She put her left hand over her heart. "It
is only my heart that beats so."

"Well, in a lite while "

Now — now ! " she pleaded, almost wildly.
I must see her. When I try to think of it, it
is like to drive me mad. I cannot think at all.
Let us go ! "

You must think," he said, firmly ; " you must
think of what you are going to say. And your
dress, too. Natalie, you must take that piece of
scarlet ribbon away : one who is nearly related
to you has just died."

She tore it off instantly.

And you know Magyar, don't you, Natalie .'* "

Oh yes, yes. "

Because your mother has been learning
English in order to be able to speak to you."

Again she placed her hand over her heart ;
and there was a look of pain on her face.

My dearest, let us go ! I can bear no more :
my heart will break. See, am I not calm
enough ? Do I tremble ? "

No, you are very courageous, ' he said,
looking at her doubtfully.

Let us go !— let us go ! "

Her entreaties overcame his scruples. The
things she had thrown aside on coming in from
her morning walk still lay there ; she hastily
put them on ; and she herself led the way
downstairs. He put her into the Hansom, and
followed ; the man drove off. She held her
lover's hand tight ; as a sign of her gratitude.

Mind, I depend on you, Natalie," he said.

Oh, do not fear," she said — rather wildly'.
•'Why should one fear .^ It seems to me all a
strange sort of dream ; and I shall waken out of
it by-and-by, and go back to the house. Why
should I be surprised to see her, when she is inconstant
companion ? And do you think I shall
not know what to say .^ — I have talked to her all
my life ! "

But when they had reached the house and
were admitted, this half-hysterical courage had
fled.

One moment, dearest ; give me one moment,"
she said at the foot of the stairs, as if her
breath failed her, and she i)iit her hand on his
arm.

*' Now, NataHe," he whispered, " you must
think of your mother as an invalid — not to be
excited, you understand. There is to be no
scene."

"Yes, yes," she said, but she scarcely heard
him.

Now, go," he said, "and I will wait here."

"No, I wish you to come," she said.

You ought to be alone with her,"

I wish you to come," she repeated ; and she
took his hand.

They went upstairs ; the door was wide open ;
a figure stood in the middle of the room. Natalie
entered first ; she was very white ; that was
all. It was the other woman who was trembling
trembling with anxious fears, and forgetful of
every one of the English phrases she had learned.

The girl at the door hesitated but for a
a moment. Breathless, wondering, she beheld
this vision — worn as the face was, she recognized
in it the features she had learned to love ;

and there were the dark and tender eyes she
had so often held commune with, when she was
alone. It was only because she was so startled
that she thus hesitated ; the next instant she
was in her mother's arms, held tight there, her
head against her bosom.

Then the mother began, in her despair —
My — my daughter — you — do — know me ? "
But the girl, not looking up, murmured some
few words in a language Brand did not understand
; and at the sound of them, the mother
uttered a wild cry of joy, and drew her daughter
closer to her, and laid her streaming, worn, sad
face on the beautiful hair. They spoke together
in that tongue ; the sounds were soft and tender
to the ear ; perhaps it was the yearning of love
that made them so.

Then Natalie remembered her promise. She
gently released herself ; she led her mother to
a sofa, and made her sit down ; she threw herself
on her knees beside her, and kissed her hand ;
then she buried her head in her mother's lap.
She sobbed once or twice ; she was determined
not to give way to tears. And the mother
stroked the soft hair of the girl, which she

could hardly see, for her eyes were full ; and
from time to time she spoke to her, in those
gentle, trembling tones, bending over her and
speaking close to her ear. The girl was silent ;
perhaps afraid to awake from a dream.

Natalie," said George Brand.

She sprang to her feet.

"Oh, I beg your pardon — I beg your pardon !"
she said, hurriedly. " I had forgotten "

No, you have not forgotten," he said, with
an approving smile. " You have remembered.
You have behaved well. Now that I have seen
you through it, I am going. You ought to be
by yourselves."

Oh no ! " she said, in a bewildered way.
Without you I am useless : I cannot think. I
should go on talking and talking to my mother,
all day, all night — because — because my heart is
full. But — but one must do something Whv
is she here ? She will come home with me —

now

?"

Natalie," said he, gravely, " you must not
even mention such a thing to her : it would
pain her. Can you not sec that there are sufficient
reasons why she should not go, when she

has not been under your father's roof for sixteen
years ? "

And why has my father never told me ? "
the girl said, breathlessly.

I cannot say."

She thought for a moment ; but she was too
excited to follow out any train of thinking.

Ah," she said, " what matter ? I have found
a great treasure. And you, you shall not go :
it will be we three together now. Come ! "

She took his hand ; she turned to her mother ;
her face flushed with shyness. She said something,
her eyes turned to the ground, in that
soft, musical lanor-uaQ^e he did not understand.

I know, my child," the mother answered,
in French, and she laughed lightly despite her
wet eyes. " Do you think one cannot see ? And
I have been following you like a spy ! "

Ah, then," said the girl, in the same tongue,
"do you see what lies they tell. They say when
the mother comes near her child, the heart of the
child knows and recognizes her. It is not true ;
it is not true ! — or perhaps one has a colder heart
than the others. You have been near to me,
mother ; I have watched you, as you went away

•

crying ; and all I said was, ' Ah, the poor lady,
I am sorry for her.' I had no more pity for you
than Anneli had. Anneli used to say, ' Perhaps,
Fraulein, she has lost some one who resembled
you.

I had lost you — I had lost you," the mother
said, drawing the girl towards her again. " But
now I have found you again, Natalushka. I
thank God for His goodness to me. I said to
myself, * If my child turns away from me, I will
die,' And I thought that if-ou had any portrait
of me, it would be taken when I was young ; and
you would not care for an old woman grown
haggard and plain "

Oh, do you think it is for smooth portraits
that I care ! ' the girl said, impetuously. She
drew out from some concealed pocket a small
case ; and opened it. " Do you think it is for
smooth faces one cares ? There — I will never
look at it again !"

She threw it on to the table, with a proud
gesture.

But you had it next your heart, ,"
said her mother, smiling.

But I have you in heart mother : what
do I want with a portrait .-* " said the girl.

She drew her daughter down to her again,
and put her arm once more round her neck.

I once had hair like yours, Natalushka, but
not so beautiful as yours, I think. And you wear
the locket, too ? Did not that make you guess ?
Had you no suspicion ?"

"How could I — how could I ?" she asked.
Even when I showed it to Clarissa "

Here she stopped suddenly.

Did he know, mother ? "

Oh yes."

Then why did he not tell me ? Oh, it was
cruel ! " she said, indignantly.

"He told me, Natalie," George Brand said.

You knew ? " the girl said, turning to him
with wide eyes.

Yes ; and Clarissa, when he told me, implored
me never to tell you. Well, perhaps he
thought it would give you needless pain. But I
was thinking, within the last few days, that I
ought to tell you before I left for America."

Do you hear, mother ?" the girl said, in a
low voice. " He is going away to America —
and alone. I wished to go ; he refuses."

Now I am going away much more contented,

Natalie, since you will have a constant
companion with you. I presume, madame, you
will remain in England ?"

The elder woman looked up with rather a
frightened air.

Alas, monsieur, I do not know. When at
last I found myself free — when I knew I could
come and speak to my child — that was all I
thought of."

But you wish to remain in England : is it
not so ? "

"What have I in the world now but this
beautiful child, this child whose heart is not cold,
though her mother comes so late to claim her ? "

Then be satisfied, madame. It is simple.
No one can interfere with you. But I will provide
you, if }'0u will allow me, with better lodgings
than these. I have a few days' idleness still
before me."

That is his way, mother," Natalie said, in a
still lower voice. " It is always about others he
is thinking — how to do one a kindness."

I presume," he said, in quite a matter-of-fact
way, " that you do not wish your being in London
to become known ? "

She looked up timidly — but in truth she could
hardly take her attention away from this newly
found daughter of hers for a single second. She
still continued stroklnof the soft hair and rounded
cheek as she said

If that Is possible."

It would not be long possible, In an open
thoroughfare like this," he said. " But I think
I could find you a small old-fashioned house down
about BromjDton — with a garden and a hlorh wall.
I have passed such places occasionally. There
Natalie could come to see you, and walk with
you. There is another thing," he said in a
matter-of-fact way, taking out his watch. "It is
now nearly two o'clock. Now, dear madame,
Natalie Is In the habit of having luncheon at one.
You would not like to see your child starve
before your eyes ? "

The elder woman rose Instantly. Then she
coloured somewhat.

No doubt you did not expect visitors,"
George Brand said, quickly. "Well, what do
you say to this ? Let us get Into a four-wheeled
cab, and drive down to my chambers. I have
an indefatigable fellow, who could get something
for us in the desert of Sahara."

What do you say, child ? "

Natahe had risen too : she was regarding her
mother with earnest eyes, and not thinking much
about hmcheon.

I will do whatever you wish," slice was
saying ; but suddenly she cried, " Oh, I am
indeed so happy ! " and Ihmg her arms round
her mother's neck, and burst into a flood of
tears — for the first time. She had struggled
long ; but she had broken down at last.

Natalie," said George Brand, pretending to
be wary anxious about the time, " could you get
your mother's things for her ? I think we shall
be down there by a quarter past two."

She turned to him, with her streaming eyes.

Yes, we will go with you. Do not let us be
separated."

Then look sharp," said he, severely.

Natalie took her mother into the adjoining
room. Brand, standing at the window, succeeded
in catching the eye of a cabman, whom he signalled
to come to the door below. Present the two
women appeared.

Now," he said, " Miss Natalie, there is to be
no more crying."

Oh no ! " she said, smiling quite radiantly.
And I am so anxious to see the rooms — I have
heard so much of them from Lord Evelyn."

She said nothing further then, for she was
passing before him on her way out. In doing so,
she managed unseen to pick up the miniature she
had thrown on the table. She had made believe
to despise that portrait very much ; but all the
same, as they went down the dark staircase, she
conveyed it back to the secret little pocket she
had made for it — next her heart.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A SUMMONS.

Mother," said the girl, in the soft-sounding
Magyar, as these two were together going downstairs,
"give me your hand. Let me hold it
tight — to make sure. All the where I kept
terrifying myself by thinking it must be a dream ;
that I should wake, and find the world empty
without you, just as before. But now — now with
your hand in mine, I ani sure."

Natalushka, you can hear me speak also.
Ghosts do not speak like this, do they ? "

Brand had preceded them, to open the door.
As Natalie was passing him she paused for a
second, and regarded him with the beautiful,
tender, dark eyes.

I am not likely to forget what I owe to you,"
she said in English.

He followed them into the cab.

"What you owe to me.-*" he said, lightly.

2. — X. T

You owe me nothing at all. But if you wish
to do me a good turn, you may pretend to be
pleased with whatever old Waters can get
together for you. The poor old fellow will be
in a dreadful state. To entertain two ladies, and
not a moment of warning ! However, we will
show you the river, and the boats and things ;
and give him a few minutes' grace."

Indeed, it was entirely as a sort of harmless
frolic that he chose to regard this present excursion
of theirs. He was afraid of the effect of
excessive emotion on this worn woman ; and he
was anxious that she should see her daughter
cheerful and happy. He would not have them
think of any future ; above all he would have nothing
said about himself or America ; it was all an
affair of the moment — the joyous reunion of mother
and daughter — a pleasant morning with London
all busy and astir — the only serious thing in the
whole world the possible anxieties and struggles of
the venerable major-domo in Buckingham Street.

He had net much difficulty in entertaining
these two guests of his on their way down.
They professed to be greatly interested in the
history and antiquities of the old-fashioned little

thoroughfare over the river ; arrived there, they
regarded with much apparent curiosity the houses
pointed out to them as having l^een the abode of
illustrious personages ; they examined the old
water-gate ; and in ascending the oak staircase,
they heard of painted ceilings and what not with
a deep and respectful attention. But always
these two had each other's hand clasped tight ;
and occasionally Natalie murmured a little snatch
of IMagyar. It was only to make sure, she
explained.

Before they reached the topmost storey they
heard a considerable noise overhead. It was a
one-sided altercation ; broken and piteous on the
one hand, voluble and angry on the other,

It sounds as if Waters were having: a prov.'
with the man in possession," Brand said.

They drew nearer.

"Why, Natalie, it is your friend Kirski !"

Brand was following his two guests upstairs ;
and so could not interfere between the two com -
patents before they arrived. But the moment
that Natalie appeared on the landing, there was
a dead silence. Kirski shrank back with a slight
exclamation ; and stood looking from one to the

other with a frightened air. She advanced to
him and asked him what was the matter, in his
native tongue. He shrank farther back. The
man could not or would not speak. He murmured
something to himself ; and stared at her as
if she were a spectre.

He has got a letter for you, sir," Waters
said ; " I have seen the address ; and he will
neither leave it nor take it. And as for what he
has been trying to say, Lord Almighty knows
what it is. I don't."

Very well — all right," Brand said. " You
leave him to us. Cut away and get us some
luncheon — whatever you can find — at once."

But Natalie had gone nearer to the Russian,
and was talking to him, in that fearless, gentle
way of hers. By-and-by he spoke — in an uncertain,
almost gasping voice. Then he showed hera
letter ; and, in obedience to something she said,
went timidly forward, and placed it in Brand's hand.

''A Mo7isietir,

M. George Brand, Esq.,
Loiidresy

this was the superscription ; and Brand recognized
the handwriting easily enough.

Kirski had recovered himself somewhat, and
was speaking eagerly to her, in a timid, anxious,
imploring fashion. She listened in silence ; but
she was clearly somewhat embarrassed ; and
when she turned to her lover, there was some
flush of colour on her face.

He talks some wild things," she said, "and
some foolish things ; but he means no harm. I
am sorry for the poor man. He is afraid you are
angry with him ; he says he promised never to
try to see me ; that he would not have come if
he had known. I have told him you are not
angry ; that it is not his fault ; that you will show
you are not angry."

But first of all Brand ushered his priests into
the long low-roofed chamber ; and drew the
porters across the middle, so that \\ waters might
have an apartment for his luncheon preparations.
Then he opened the letter. Kirski remained at
the door, with his cap in his hand.

My much esteemed friend," Clarissa
wrote, in his ornate, ungrammatical, and phonetic

French, " the poor devil who is the bearer of this
letter is known to you, and yet not altogether
known to you. You know something of his conversion
from a wild beast into a man ; from the
tiger into a devotee ; but you do not, my friend,
perhaps entirely know how his life has become
absorbed in one worship, one aspiration, one desire.
The means of the conversion, the instrument,
you know ; have I not myself before described it
to you } The harassed and bleeding heart,
crushed with scorn and filled with despair — how
can a man live with that in his bosom ? He
wishes to die. The world has been too cruel to
him. But all at once an angel appears ; into the
ruins of the wasted life a seed of kindness is
dropped ; and then behold ! the beautiful flower
of love springing uphove that becomes a worship,
a religion ! Yes, I have said so much before
to you ; now I say more ; now I entreat you not
to check this beautiful worship — it is sacred,'
This man goes round the churches ; he stands
before the pictures of the saints ; he wanders on
unsatisfied ; he says there is no saint like the
beautiful one in England, who healed him with
her soft words when he was sick to death. But

now, my dear monsieur Brand, I hear you say to
yourself, 'What is my friend Clarissa after
now ? Has he taken to the writing of pious
sermons ? Is he about to shave his head and
put a rope round his waist ? My faith, that is
not Hke that fellow Clarissa ! ' You are right,
my friend. I describe the creation of the devotee ;
it is a piece of poetry, as one might say. But
your devotee must have his amulet ; is it not so ?
This is the meaning and prayer of my letter to
you. The bearer of it was willing to do us a
great service ; perhaps — if one must confess it —
he believed it was on behalf of the beautiful
Natalushka and her father that he was to undertake
the duty that now devolves on some other.
One must practise a little finesse sometimes ;
what harm is there ? Very well ; do you know
what he seeks by way of reward — what he considers
the most valuable their in the world ? It
is a portrait of his saint, you understand ? That
is the amulet the devotee would have. And I do
not further wish to write to her ; no, because she
would say, 'What, that is a lite matter to do for
my friend Clarissa.' No: I write to you; I
write to one who has knovv-ledire of affairs ; and

I say to myself, 'If he considers it prudent, then
he will ask the beautiful child to give her portrait
to this one who will worship it.' I have declared
to him that I will make the request ; I make it.
Do not consider it a trifling matter ; it is not to
him ; it is the crown of his existence. And if he
says, ' Do you see, this is what I am ready to do
for her — I will give my life if she or her friends
wish it;' then I say, I, Clarissa, that a portrait,
at one shilling, two shillings, ten shillings, is
not so very much in return. Now, my dear
friend, you will consider the prudence of granting
his request and mine. I believe in his faithfulness.
If you say to him, ' The beautiful lady
who was kind to you wishes you to do this, or do
that ; or wishes you never to part with this portrait
; or wishes you to keep silence on this or on
that,' you may depend on him. I say so. Adieu !
Say to the little one that there is some one who
does not forget her. Perhaps you will never
hear from Clarissa again ; remember him not
as a madcap, but as one who wished you well.
To-morrow I start for Cyprus ; then farther —
with a light heart. Adieu !

Clarissa."

He handed the letter to Natahe's mother.
The elder woman read the letter carefully. She
laughed quietly ; but there were tears in her eyes.

"It is like my old friend Clarissa," she
said. " Natalushka, they want you to give your
portrait to this poor creature who adores you.
Why not ? Clarissa says he will do whatever
you tell him. Tell him, then, not to part with
it ; not to show it to anyone ; and not to say
to any one he has seen either you or me here.
Is not that simple ? Tell him to come here tomorrow
or next day ; you can send the photograph
to Mr. Brand."

The girl went to the door ; and said a few
words to Kirski. He said nothing in reply ; but
sank on his knees, as he had done in Curzon
Street, and took her hand and kissed it ; then he
rose, and bowed respectively' to the others, and
left.

Presently Waters came in and announced that
luncheon was on the table ; the porters were
drawn aside ; they passed into the further end
of the apartment ; and sat down. The banquet
was not a sumptuous one ; and there were no
flowers on the table ; but it was ever) thing that

any human being could have done in fifteen
minutes ; and these were bachelors' rooms.
Natalie took care to make a pretty speech in the
hearing of Mr. Waters.

Yes, but you eat nothing," the host said, in
English. " Do you think your mother will have
anything if she sees you indifferent ? "

Presently the mother, who seemed to be
much amused with something or other, said in
French —

"Ah, my friend, I did not think my child
would be so deceitful. I did not think she would
deceive you."

The girl stared with wide eyes.

She pretended to tell you what this poor
man said to her," said the mother, with a quiet
smile. " She forgot that some one else than
herself might know Russian."

Natalie flushed red.

Mother ! " she remonstrated. " I said he had
spoken a lot of foolish things."

After all," said the mother, " he said no more
than what Clarissa says, in the letter. You
have been kind to him ; he regards you as an
angel ; he will give you his life ; you, or any one

Avhom you love. The poor man ! Did you see
how he trembled ? "

Natalie turned to George Brand.

He said something more than that," said
she. " He said he had undertaken some duty,
some service, that was expected to have cost him
his life. He did not know what it was : do
you .■'

I do not," said he, answering frankly the
honest look of her eyes. '' I can scarcely believe
any one was foolish enough to think of entrusting
any serious duty to a man like that. But still
Clarissa hints as much ; and I know he left
England with Clarissa."

Natalushka/' the mother said, cautiously,
and yet with an anxious scrutiny, " I have often
wondered — whether you knew much — much about
the Society ? "

*' Oh no, mother ! I am allowed to translate ;
and sometimes I hear that help is to be given
here or there ; but I am in no secrets at all.
That is my misfortune."

The mother seemed much relieved.

It is no misfortune, child. You are happier
as you are, I think. Then," she added, with a

quick glance, "you have never heard of one —
Bartolotti ? "

No," she answered ; but directly afterwards
she exclaimed — " Oh yes, yes ! Bartolotti — that
is the name Clarissa save me. He said if
ever I was in very serious trouble, I was to goto
Naples ; and that was the pass-word. But I
thought to myself, 'If I am in trouble, why
should I not go to my own father ? ' "

The mother rose and went to the girl, and
put her arm round her daughter's neck, and
stooped down.

'' Natalushka," said she, earnestly, " you are
wiser than Clarissa. If you are in trouble, do
not seek any help that way. Go to your father."

And to you, mother," said she, drawing
down the worn, beautiful face and kissing it.
Why not to you also ? Why not to you both ? "

The mother smiled, and patted the girls head,
and then returned to the other side of the table.
Waters brought in some fruit — fresh from Covent
Garden.

He also brought in a letter, which he put
beside his masters plate. Brand did not even
look at it ; he pushed it aside, to give him more

room. But in pushln<^ it aside, lie turned it
somewhat ; and Natalie's eye happening to fall
on the address, she perceived at once that it was
in the handwriting of her father,

Dearest,' said she, in a low voice, and
rather breathlessly, " the letter is front papa."

From your father ? " said he, without any
great concern. Then he turned to Natalie's
mother. " Will you excuse me ? sly friends
are determined to remind me of their existence
to-day."

But this letter was much shorter than Clarissa's
; though it was friendly enough.

]\Iy dear mr. Brand," it ran, " I ani glad to
hear that you have acted with so much promptitude
that your preparations for departure are nearly
complete. You are soldier-like. I have less
scruple, therefore, in asking you to be so kind as
to give me up tomorrow evening, from half-past
nine onwards, for the consideration of a very
serious order that has been transmitted to us from
the Council. You will perceive that this claims
precedence over any of our local arrangements ;
and as it may even involve the abandonment of
your voyage to America, it will be advisable to

give it immediate consideration. I trust the hour
of half-past nine will not interfere with any
engagement.

Your colleague and friend,

Ferdinand Lind."

This was all that an ordinary reader would
have seen in the letter ; but Brand observed also,
down at the left-hand corner, a small mark in
green colour. That tiny arrow, with the two
dots — the whole almost invisible — changed the
letter from an invitation into a command. It
signified " On business of the Council."

He laid down the letter, and said lightly to
Natalie —

Now I have some news for you. I may not
have to go to America after all."

You are not going to America ? " she said ina
bewildered way. " Oh, if it were possible — if it
were possible ! " she murmured. " I would say I
was too happy — God is too good to me — to have
them both given back to me in one day — both
of them — in one day "

Natalie," said he, gently, " it is only a possibility,
you know."

But it is possible ! " she said ; and there was
a quick, strange, happy hight in her face. " It is
possible, is it not ? "

Then she glanced at her mother; and her face,
that had been somewhat pale, was pale no longer ;
the blood mounted to her forehead ; her eyes were
downcast.

"It would please you, would it not?" she
said to him, somewhat formally, and in a low and
timid voice. The mother, unobserved, smiled.

Oh yes," he said, cheerfully But even if
I go to America, what then ? In a couple of
years — it is not a long time — I should expect
your mother and you to be arriving at Sands
; and I should have a small steamer thereto
meet you ; and we could sail up the Altogether."


Luncheon over, they went to the window,
and greatly admired the view of the gardens
below and the wide river beyond ; and they went
round the room, examining the water-colours,
and bits of embroidery, and nick-nacks brought
from many lands ; and they were much interested
in one or two portraits. Altogether they were
charmed with the place, though the elder lady

said, in her pretty, careful French, that it was
clear no woman's hand was about, otherwise
there would have been white curtains at the
windows besides those heavy straight folds of red.
Brand said he preferred to have plenty of light in
the room ; and in fact at this moment the sunlight
was painting squares of beautiful colour on the
faded old Turkey carpet. All this time Natalie
had shown much reserve.

When the mother and daughter were in the cab
together o^oino- to Edsfware Road — George Brand
was off by himself to Crompton — the mother
said —

Natalushka, why was your manner so much
changed to Mr. Brand after you heard he might
not be going to America ? "

The girl hesitated for a moment ; and her eyes
were lowered.

You see, mother," she said, with some
embarrassment, " when one is in great trouble and
difficulty — and when you wish to show sympathy
then perhaps you speak too plainly. You do
not think of choosing very prudent words ; your
heart speaks for you ; and one may say things
that a girl should not be too ready to confess.

That Is when there is great trouble ; and you are
arrived for some one. But — but — when the
trouble goes away — when it is all likely to
come right — one remembers "

The explanation was rather stammering and
confused.

"But at least, mother," she added, with her
eyes still downcast, " at least I can be frank with
you. There is no harm in my telling you that I
love you."

The mother pressed the hand that she held
in hers.

And if you tell me often enough, Natalushka,
perhaps I shall begin to believe you."

— X.

CHAPTER XIX.

A NEW HOME.

George Brand set out house-hunting with two
exceptional circumstances in his favour ; he knew
precisely what he wanted, and he was prepared
to pay for it. Moreover, he undertook the task
willingly and cheerfully. It was something to do.
It would fill in a portion of that period of suspense.
It would prevent his harassing himself
with speculations as to his own future — speculations
' which were obviously useless until he
should learn what was required of him by the
Council.

But none the less was he doomed to the
house-hunter's inevitable disappointment. He
found, in the course of his devious wanderings
through all sorts of out-of-the-way thoroughfares
within a certain radius from Crompton Church,
that the houses which came nearest to his ideal

cottage In a walled garden were either too faraway
from Hyde Park, or they were not to be
let, or they were to be let unfurnished. So, like
a prudent person, he moderated his desires, and
began to cast about for any furnished house of
fairly cheerful aspect, with a garden behind. But
here again he found that the larcrc furnished
houses were out of the question, because they
were unnecessarily expensive, and that the smaller
ones were mostly to be found in slimy streets ;
while in both cases there was a difficulty about
servants. The end of it was that he took the
first floor of an old-fashioned house in Hans
Place, being induced to do so partly because the
landlady was a bright, pleasant-looking little
Frenchwoman, and partly because the rooms
were furnished and decorated in a fashion not
common to lodging-houses.

Then came the question of terms, references,
and what not ; and on all of these points Mr.
Brand showed himself remarkably complaisant.
But when all this was done, he sat down, and
said —

Now I wish you to understand me clearly,
madame. This lady I have told you about has

come through much trouble ; you are to be kind
to her ; and I will see you do not lose by it.
Her daughter will come to see her frequently —
perhaps every day ; I suppose the young lady's
maid can remain downstairs somewhere."

Oh yes, sir."

"Very well. Now if you will be so good
as to get me pen and ink, I will give you a
cheque for fifty-two pounds — that is a pound a
week for a year. You see, there are a number
of little kindnesses you could show this poor
lady that would be all the more appreciated if
they were not put down in a book and charged
for : you understand ? You could find out,
perhaps, from time to time some little delicacy
she is fond of. Then flowers : there is a good
florist's shop in Sloane Street, is there not ? "

Oh yes, sir."

She brought the ink ; and he drew out the
cheque.

Then when the young lady comes to see her
mother, you will be very attentive and kind to
her too. You must not wait for them to ask for
this or that ; you must come up to the door and
say, 'Will not the young lady have a cup of chocolate'

— or whatever you can suggest — fruit, biscuits,
wine, or what not. And as these little extra
tidings will cost you something, I cannot allow you
to be out of pocket ; so here is a fund for you to
draw from ; and of course not a word to either of
the ladies. I think )ou understand ? "

Perfectly, sir," said madame.

Then if I hear that you have been very kind
and obliging, I suppose one might be allowed from
time to time to send you a little present — something
to beautify your house with ? You have
pretty rooms. You have shown great taste in
decorating them."

Oh, not I, sir," said the little Frenchwoman,
I took the house as it stands from ]mr. ."

The architect ? " said Brand. " Ah, that explains.
Put I am surprised he should have used
gas.

That was my doing," said the landlady, with
some pride. "It is a great improvement. It is so
convenient, Is it not ? "

My dear madame," said Brand, seriously, " It
cannot be convenient to have one's lungs poisoned
with the smoke of London ores. You must

o

on no account allow this lady who Is coming to

sour house to sit through the long evenings with
gas blazing over her head all the time ; why,
she would have continual headache. No, no, you
must get a couple of lamps — one for the piano
there, and a smaller reading-one for this little
table by the fire. Then these sconces, you will
get candles for them, of course ; red ones look
pretty — not pink, but red."

The French landlady seemed rather dismayed.
She had been all smiles and courtesy so far ; but
now the bargain did not promise to be so profitable
if this was the way she was to begin. But
Brand pulled out his watch.

If you will allow me," said he, " I will
go and get a few things to make the room
look homely. You see this lady must be made
as comfortable as possible, for she will see no one
but her daughter, and all the evenings she will
be alone. Now will you be so good as to have
the fire lit ? And these little things that I am
about to get for you, of course they will become
your property ; only you need not say who
presented them to you, you perceive ? "

The little woman's face grew happy again ;
and she assured him fervently and repeatedly that

he might trust to her to do her best for this lady
about whom he seemed so anxious.

It was almost dusk when he went out ; most
of the shops in Sloane Street had their windows
ht. He set about this further task of his with an
eater dehcrht. For akhou''h it was ostensibly
for Natalie's mother that he was buying this and
buying that, there was an underlying consciousness
that Natalie herself would be pleased, that
many and many a time she would occupy that
pretty little sitting-room, that perhaps she might
guess who it was who had been so thoughtful
about her mother and herself. Fortunately
Sloane Street is an excellent shopping thoroughfare
; he got everything he wanted — even wax
candles of the proper tint of red. He first of all
vent to the florist's and got fruit and flowers
enough to decorate a hall. Then from shop to
shop he wandered, buying books here, a couple
of lamps there, a low, softly cushioned easy-chair,
a fire-screen, pastilles, tins of sweet biscuits, a
dozen or two of Hungarian wine, a tea-making
apparatus, a box of various games, some white-rose
scent, and he was very nearly adding a
sewing-machine, but thought he would wait to

see whether she understood the use of that
Instrument. All these and many other articles
were purchased on the explicit condition that they
were to be delivered in Hans Place within the
following half-hour.

Then he went back to the lodging-house,
carrying in his hand the red candles. These he
placed himself In the sconces, and lit them ; the
effect was good, now that the fire was blazing
cheerfully. One by one the things arrived ; and
gradually the lodging-house sitting-room grew
more and more like a home. He put the flowers
here and there about the place, the little Frenchwoman
having brought him such small jars and
vases as were in her possession — these fortunately
including a couple of bits of modern Venetian
glass. The reading-lamp was lit and put on the
small table. The newly imported easy-chair was
drawn to the fire ; some books and the evening
papers scattered about. He lit one of the
pastilles ; put the fire-screen in its place ; and had
a last look round.

Then he got into a Hansom and drove up to
the house in the Edward Road. He was immediately
admitted and shown upstairs. Natalie's

mother rose to receive him ; he fancied she had
been crying.

I am come to take you to your new rooms,"
he said, cheerfully. " They are a little better
than these."

"Ah, that is kind of you," she said, also
speaking in French ; " but in truth what do I care
where I am ? My heart is full of joy. It is
enough for me to sit quiet and say to myself,
My child loves me. She has not turned away
from me. She is more beautiful even than I had
believed ; and she has a good heart. I have no
longer any fear.' "

Yes, madame," said he, " but you must not
sit quiet and think like that, or you will become
ill, and then how are you to go out walking with
Natalie ? You have many things to do ; and
many things to decide on. For example, you
will have to explain to her how it is you may
not go to her father's house. At this moment
what other thing than that do you imagine she
is thinking about ? She will ask you."

I would rather not tell her, " saith the mother,
absently. " It is better she should not know."

He hesitated for a second or two.

'* Then it is impossible that a reconciliation
between your husband and yourself "

*' Oh no, no," she said, somewhat sadly. "That
is impossible, now."

"And you are anxious he should not know
that you and your daughter see each other."

I am not so anxious," she said. " I have
faith in Natalushka : I can perceive her courage.
But perhaps it would be better."

Very well. Then come to these other
rooms I have got for you ; they are in a more
secluded neighbourhood."

Very well, monsieur. I have but few things
with me. I will be ready soon."

In less than half an hour after that, the French
landlady was receiving her new guest ; and so
eager was she to show to the English gentleman
her gratitude for his substantial presents, that
her officious kindness was almost burdensome.

I thank you," said the new-comer, with a
smile, as the landlady brought her a cushion for
her back the moment she sat down in the easy-chair,
" but I am not yet an invalid."

Then would Madame have some tea ? Or
perhaps Madame had not dined } There was

little in the house ; but something could be
prepared at once ; from tomorrow morning
Madame's instructions would be fulfilled to the
letter. To get rid of her, Brand informed her
that Madame had not dined ; and would be glad
to have anything that happened to be in the house.
Then she left ; and he was about to leave also.

No." said the beautiful mother to him, with
a smile on the pale face. " Sit down. I have
something to say to you."

He sat down ; his hat still in his hand.

I have not thanked you," she said. " I see
who has done all this : do }'0u think a stranger
would know to have the white-rose scent forme,
that Natalie uses ? She was right : you are
kind — you think of others."

It is nothing — it is nothing," he said, hastily,
and with all an Englishman's embarrassment.

My dear friend," said his companion, with
a grave kindness in her tone, and a look of
affectionate interest in her eyes, " I am going to
prove my gratitude to you. I am going to prevent
— what do you call it ? — a lovers* quarrel."

He started.

"Yesterday," she continued, still regarding

him in that kindly way, " before we left your
rooms, Natalushka was very reserved towards
you ; was it not so ? I perceived it. And you ? "

I — I thought she was tired," he stammered.

To-morrow you are to fetch her here. And
what if you find her still more reserved — even
cold towards you ? You will be pained — perhaps
alarmed. Ah, my dear friend, life is made very
bitter sometimes by mistakes ; so it is that I must
tell you the reason. The child loves you ; be
sure of that. Yes ; but she thinks that she has
been too frank in saying so — in time of trouble
and anxiety ; and now — now that you are perhaps
not going to America — now that perhaps all the
trouble is over — now she is beginning to think
she ought to be a little more discreet, as other
young ladies are. The child means no harm ;
but you and she must not quarrel."

He took her hand, to bid her good-bye.

Natalie and I are not likely to quarrel," said
he, cheerfully. " Now I am going away. If I
stayed, you would do nothing but talk about her ;
whereas it is necessary that you should have some
dinner, then read one of these books for an hour
or so, then go to bed and have a long, sound

night's rest. You must be looking your brightest
when she comes to see you tomorrow."

And indeed, as it turned out subsequently,
this warning of the mother's was not wholly unnecessary
Next day at eleven o'clock, as had
previously been arranged, Brand met Natalie at
the corner of Great Stanhope Street to escort
her to the house to which her mother had removed.
He had not even jot into the Park
with her when he perceived that her manner was
distinctly reserved. Anneli was with her; and
she kept talking from time to time to the little
maid, who was thus obliged, greatly against her
will, to walk close to her mistress. At last Brand
said —

Natalie, have I offended you ? "

Oh no ! " she said, in a hurried, low voice.

Natalie," said he, very gently, " I once heard
of a wicked creature who was determined to play
the hypocrite, and might have done a great deal
of mischief, only she had a most amiable mother,
who stepped in and gave somebody else a warning.
Did you ever hear of such a wicked person ? "

The blood mounted to her face. By this time
Anneli had taken leave to fall behind.

Then," said the girl, with some hesitation,
and yet with firmness, " you will not misunderstand
me. If all the circumstances are to be
altered — then — then you must forget what I have
said to you in moments of trouble. I have a right
to ask it. You must forget the past altogether."

But it is impossible ! "

It is necessary."

For some minutes they walked on in silence.
Then he felt a timid touch on his arm ; her hand
had been laid there, deprecatingly, for a moment.

Are you angry with me ? "

No, I am not," said he, frankly, " for the
very reason that what you ask is impossible,
unnecessary, absurd. You might as well ask
me to forget that I am alive. In any case, isn't
it rather too soon ? Are you so sure that all
the trouble is past. Wait till the storm is well
over, and we are going into port ; then we will
put on our Sunday manners to go ashore."

I am afraid you are angry with me," she said
again, timidly.

You could not make me, if you tried," he
said, simply. " But I am proud of you, Natalie
proud of the courage and clearness and frankness

of your character ; and I don't like to see
you fall away from that, and bcij^in to consider
what a schoolmistress would think of
you."

It is not what any one may think of me that
I consider ; it is what I think of myself," she
answered, in the same low voice.

They reached Hans Place. The mother was
at the door of the room to welcome them. She
took her daughter by the hand, and led her in.

Look round, Natalushka," she said. " Can
you guess who has arranged all this for me —
for me and for you ?"

The girl almost instantly turned — her eyes
cast down — and took her lover's hand, and kissed
it, in silence. That was all.

Then said he, lightly, as he shoved the low
easy-chair nearer the fire —

Come, madame, and sit down here. And
you, Natalushka, here is a stool for you, that you
will be able to lean your head on your mother's
knee. There ; it is a very pretty group : do you
know why I make you into a picture .^ Well,
you see, these are troubled times ; and one has
one's work to do ; and who can tell what may

happen ? But don't you see that whatever may
happen, I can carry away with me this picture ;
and always, wherever I may be, I can say to
myself that Natalie and her mother are together
in the quiet little room, and that they are happy.
Now I must bid you good-bye ; I have a great
deal of business to-day with my solicitor. And
the landlady, madame: how does she serve you?"

She overwhelms me with kindness."

That is excellent," said he, as he shook hands
with them and — against both their protests — took
his leave.

He carried away that picture in his mind.
He had left these two together ; and they were
happy. What mattered it to him what became of
himself ?

It was on the evening of that day that
he had to obey the summons of the Council.

CHAPTER XX.

A CONCLAVE.

Punctual to the moment George Brand arrived
in Lisle Street. He was shown into an inner
room, where he found Lind seated at a desk, and
Reitzei and Beratinsky standing by the fireplace.
On an adjacent table were four cups of black
coffee, four small glasses, a bottle of brandy, and
a box of cigarettes.

Lind rose to receive him, and was very
courteous indeed — apologizing for having had to
break in on his preparations for leaving, and
offering him coffee, cigarettes, and what not.
When the new-comer had declined these, Lind
resumed his place and begged the others to be
seated.

We will proceed to business at once, gentlemen,"
said he, speaking in quite an ordinary and
matter-of-fact way, " although, I will confess to

2.— X. X

you, it is not business entirely to my liking.
Perhaps I should not say so. This paper, you
see, contains my authorization from the Council to
summon you and to explain the service they
: perhaps I should merely obey, and sa'
nothing. But we are friends ; we can speak in
confidence."

Here Reitzei, who was even more pallid than
usual, and whose fingers seemed somewhat shaky,
filled one of the small glasses of brandy, and
drank it off.

I do not say that I hesitate," continued
Lind — " that I am reluctant — because the service
that is required from us — from one of us four — is
dangerous— is exceedingly dangerous. No," he
said, with a brief smile, *' as far as I am myself
concerned, I have carried my life in my hands
too often to think much about that. And you,
gentlemen, considering the obligations you have
accepted, I take it that the question of possible
harm to yourselves is not likely to interfere with
your obedience to the commands of the Council."

"As for me," said Reitzei, eagerly and
nervously, " I tell you this, I should like to have
something exciting now — I do not care what. I

am tired of this work in London — it is slow,
regular, like the ticking of a clock. I ani for
something to stir the blood a little. I say that I
am ready for anything."

As for me," said Beratinsky, curtly, '' no one
has ever yet called me a coward."

Brand said nothing ; but he perceived that
this was something unusually serious ; and almost
unconsciously he closed his right hand, that he
might feel the clasp of Natalie's ring. There
was no need to appeal to his oaths of allegiance.

Lind proceeded, in a graver fashion —

Yes, I confess that personally I am for avoiding
violence, for proceeding according to law.
But then the Council would say perhaps, ' Are
there not injuries for which the law gives no
redress ? Are there not those who are beyond
the power of the law } And we, who have given
our lives to the redressing of wrongs, to the protection
of the poor, to the establishment of the
ricrht. are we to stand bv and see the moral sense
of the community outraged bv those in hiofh
places, and say no word, and lift no hand ? ' "

He took up a book that was lying on the
table, and opened it at a marked page.

Yes," he said, " there are occasions on which
a man may justly take the law into his own
hands ; may break the law, and go beyond it, and
punish those whom the law has failed to punish ;
and the moral sense of the world will say, 'Well
done ! ' Did you ever happen to read, Mr. Brand,
the letter written by Madame von Maderspach ?"

Brand started at the mention of the name : it
recalled the first evening on which he had seen
Natalie. What strange things had happened
since then ! He answered that he did not know
of Madame von Maderspach's letter.

By chance I came across it to-day," said
Lind, looking at the book. " Listen : '/ zaas torn
from the arms of my husband, from the circle of
my children, from the hallozvcd sanctuary of my
home, charged with no offence, allowed no hearing,
arraigned before no judge. I, a zuoman, zvife, and
mother, was in my own native town, befoi'-e the
people accustomed to treat me zvith respect, dragged
into a square of soldiers, and there scourged with
rods. Look, I can write this without dropping
dead. But my husband killed himself. Robbed of
all other weapons, he shot himself with a pocket-pistol.
The people rose and wotdd have killed those

who instigated these horrors, but their lives were
saved by the interference of the military! \'cr)'
well : Von INIaderspach took his own way ; he
shot himself. But if, instead of doing that, he
had taken the law into his own hands, and killed
the author of such an outrage, do you think there
is a human being in the world who would have
blamed him ? "

He appealed directly to Brand. Brand
answered calmly — but with his face grown rather
white — " I think — if such a things were done toto
my wife — I would have a shot at somebody."

Perhaps Lind thought that it was the recital
of the wrongs of Madame von IMaderspach that
had made this man's face arrow white and seven
him that look about the mouth ; but at all events
he continued — " Exactly so. I was only seeking
to show )ou that there are occasions on which a
man might justly take the law into his own hands.
Well, then, some would argue — I don't say so
myself — but some would say that what a man
may do justly an association may do justly.
What would the quick-spreading civilization of
America have done but for the Lynch tribunals .'*
The respectable people said to themselves, * It

is a question of life or death. We have to attack
those scoundrels at once ; or society will be
destroyed. We cannot wait for the law : it is
powerless.' And so, when the president had
given his decision, out they went and caught the
scoundrels, and strung them up to the nearest
tree. You do not call them murderers. John
Lynch ought to have a statue in every western
State in America."

Certainly — certainly ! " exclaimed Reitzei,
reaching over and filling out another glass of
brandy with an unsteady hand. He was usually
an exceedingly temperate person. " We are all
agreed. Justice must be done, whether the law
allows or not. I say the quicker the better "

Lind paid no heed to him, but proceeded
quietly — "Now I will come more directly to what
is required of us by the Council ; I have been
trying to guess at their view of the question ; perhaps
I am altogether wrong ; but no matter. And
I will ask you to imagine yourselves not here in
this free country of England — where the law is
strong ; and not only that, but you have a public
opinion that is stronger still ; and where it is not
possible that a great Churchman should be a man

living in open iniquity and an oppressor and a
scoundrel — I will ask you to imagine yourselves
living in Italy — let one say, in the Papal Territory
itself, where the reign of Christ should be, and
where the poor should be cared for, if there is
Christianity still on the earth. And you arc
poor, let us say ; hardly knowing how to scrape;
together a handful of food sometimes ; and your
children ragged and hungry ; and you forced
from time to time to go to the Monte di Pieta
to pawn your small belongings, or else you will
die, or you will see your children die, before your
eyes."

Ah, yes, yes ! " exclaimed Reitzei. " That
is the worst of it — to see one's children die !
That is worse than one's own hunger."

And you," continued Lind, quietly, but still
with a little more distinctness of emphasis, " you,
you poor devils, you see a great dignitary the
Church, a great Prince among priests, living in
shameless luxury, in violation of every law human
and divine, with the children of his mistresses setup
in palaces, himself living on the fat of the land.
What law does he not break, this libertine, this
usurer ? What makes the corn dear, so that you

cannot get it for your starving children ? — what
but this plunderer, this robber, seizing the funds
that extremity has dragged from the poor in order
to buy up the grain of the States. A pretty
speculation ! No wonder that you murmur and
complain ; that you curse him under your breath ;
that you call him il cardinale defamatory. And
no wonder, if you happen to belong to a great
association that has promised to see justice done,
no wonder you come to that association and say,
Masters, why cannot justice be done now ? It
is too long to wait for the Millennium. Remove
this oppressor from the face of the earth : down
with the Starving Cardinal ! ' "

Yes, yes, yes ! " cried Reitzei, excitedly.
Beratinsky sat silent and sullen. Brand, with
some strange foreboding of what was coming, still
sat with his hand tight, closed on Natalie's ring.

More," continued Lind — and now, if he was
acting, it was a rare piece of acting, for wrath
and indignation gathered on his brow, and increased
the emphasis of his voice. " It is not
only your purses, it is not only your poor starved
homesteadings that are attacked ; it is the honour
of your women. Whose sister or daughter is

safe ? Mr. BiandL €«ie of - ~
made the poor ciy to tifce r r. —

'Omrammmtju

But idbat if some da' — .

Vol OIS Ilium* — his d.^

not a peasant; but a

Mel iJif ]f Oils Weil OOBC'.

tint I have mrmino^

hands, ' My Bnnfacfs

svoni to protect the

cured: what k yom* :

he me now ? My :

has been taken le

finn n^ sUe; sir. .

bleeding iafio the

who is blood die 'lex - s::^ J^j^^

who b the law! Bat yoo — yo isr.^ :j^

aveii^ets. Too loi has ths wMiMfStPi oner

the name of Chit; and insisted die IbriKL

of his feUow-crealmcs : my Bratheis^ miss e

I demand from your hath — I dr iiiuiiiiil bar

SOOETT OF THE Seven SlTAXS 1 *^""">«^

}xm, the Council — I demand, nsy Brothers
companions — a decree of ^^^j*!?" ^^
m on ste r ZaccatdE!^^

Yes, yes, yes, the decree ! " shouted Reitzei,
all trembling. " Who could refuse It ? Or I
myself "

Gentlemen," said LInd, calmly, " the decree
has been granted. Here Is my authority. Read
It.

He held out the paper first of all to Brand,
who took It In both his hands, and forced himself
to go over It. But he could not read it very
carefully ; his heart was beating quickly ; he was
thinking of a great many things all at once — of
Lord Evelyn, of Natalie, of his oaths to the
Society, even of his Buckinghamshire home and
the beech-woods. He handed on the paper to
Reitzei, who was far too much excited to read it
at all. Beratlnsky merely glanced at it, carelessly ;
and put it back on the table.

"Gentlemen," LInd continued, returning to
his unemotional manner, " personally, I consider
It just that this man, whom the law cannot or
does not choose to reach, should be punished for
his long career of cruelty, oppression, and crime,
and punished with death ; but, as I confessed to
you before, I could have wished that that punishment
had not been delivered by our hands. We

have made great progress in Englaiul ; and we
have been preaching nothing but peace and goodwill,
and the use of lawful means of amelioration.
If this deed is traced to our Society, as it almost
certainly will be, it will do us a vast amount of
injury here ; for the English people will not bt;
able to understand that such a state of affairs as
I have described can exist, or that this is the
only remedy'. As I said to you before, it is with
great reluctance that I summoned you here tonight
"

"Why so. Brother Lind?" Rcitzei broke in,
and aofain he reached over for the bottle. '' \V<'
are not cowards, then ? "

Beratinsky took the bottle from him and put
it back on the table.

Reitzei did not resent this interference ; he
only tried to roll up a cigarette ; and did not
succeed very well with his trembling fingers.

You will have seen," said Lind, continuing
as if there had been no interruption, " why the
Council have demanded this duty of the English
section. The lesson would be thrown away
altogether — a valuable life belonging to th<-
Society would be lost — if it were supposed thai

this was an act of private revenge. No ; the
death of Cardinal Zaccatelll will be a warning that
Europe will take to heart. At least," he added,
thoughtfully, " I hope it will prove to be so ; and
I hope it will be unnecessary to repeat the
warnings."

You are exceedingly tender-hearted, Brother
LInd," said Reitzel. " Do you pity this man
then ? Do you think he should flourish his
crimes In the face of the world for another twenty,
thirty years ? "

It is unnecessary to say what I think,"
observed Lind, in the same quiet fashion. " It is
enough for us that we know our duty. The
Council have commanded ; we obey."

Yes ; but let us come to the point, Brother
Lind," said Beratinsky, in a somewhat surly
fashion. " I do not much care what happens tome
: yet one wishes to know."

Gentlemen," said Lind, composedly, " you
know that among the ordinances of the Society
is one to the effect that no member shall be sent
on any duty Involving peril to his life without
a ballot among at least four persons. As this
particular service is one demanding great secrecy

and circumspection I have considered it right to
limit the ballot to four — to ourselves, in fact."

There was not a word said.

That the duty involves peril to life is
obvious ; it will be a miracle if he who undertakes
this affair should escape. As for myself, you will
perceive by the paper you have read that I am
commissioned by the Council to form the ballot ;
but not instructed to include myself I could
avoid doing so if I chose ; but when I ask my
friends to run a risk, I am willing to take the
same risk. For the rest, I have been in as
dangerous enterprises before."

He leant over and pulled towards him a sheet
of paper. Then he took a pair of scissors and
cut the sheet into four pieces : these he proceeded
to fold up until they were about the size of a
shilling, and identically alike. All the time he
was talking.

Yes, it will be a dangerous business," he
said, slowly ; " and one requiring great forethought
and caution. Then I do not say it is altogether
impossible one might escape ; though then the
warning, the lesson of this act of punishment
might not be so effective : they might mistake

it for a Camorra affair, though the Cardinal
himself already knows otherwise."

He opened a bottle of red ink that stood b)^

The simplest means are sufficient," said he.
This is how we used to settle affairs in '48."

He opened one of the pieces of paper, and put
a cross in red on it, which he dried on the .
Then he folded it up again ; threw
the four pieces into a pasteboard box ; put down
the lid ; and shook the box lightly.

Whoever draws the red cross," he said.
almost indifferently, " carries out the command
of the Council. Have you anything to say,
gentlemen — to suo;-orest ? "

Yes," said Reitzei, boldly.

Lind regarded him.

What is the use of the ballot ? " said the
pallid-faced young man. " What if one volunteers
? I should myself like to settle the business
of the scoundrelly Cardinal."

Lind shook his head.

Impossible. Clarissa thought of a volunteer
; he was mad ; there must be a ballot.
Come ; shall we proceed ? "

He opened the box and put it before Berar

Beratlnsky took out one of the papers,
opened it, glanced at it, crumpled it up, and threw
it into the fire.

It isn't I, at all events," he said.

It was Reitzei next. When he glanced at the
paper he had drawn, he crushed it together with
an oath, and dashed it on the floor.

Of course, of course," he exclaimed, "just
when I was eager for a bit of active service. Soit
is either you, Brother Lind, or our friend Brand
who is to settle the business of the Starving
Cardinal."

Calmly, almost as a matter of course, Lind
handed the box to George Brand ; and he, being
a proud man, and in the presence of foreigners,
was resolved to show no sign of emotion whatever.
When he took out the paper, and opened it,
and saw his fate there in the red cross, he laid it
on the table before him without a word. Then
he shut his hand on Natalie's ring.

"Well," said Lind, rather sadly, as he took
out the remaining paper without looking at it,
and threw aside the box, " I almost regret it,
as between you and me. I have less of life to
look forward to."

320 SUNRISE.

I would like to ask one question," said
Brand, rising : he was perfectly firm.

Yes ? "

The orders of the Council must be obeyed.
I only wished to know whether — when — when
this thing comes to be done — I must declare my
own name."

Not at all — not at all ! " Lind said, quickly.
You may use any name you like."

I am glad of that," he said. Then, with the
same proud, impassive firmness, he made an
appointment for the next day ; got his hat and
coat ; bade his companions good-night ; and went
blindly out into the cold night-air. He could not
realize as yet all that had happened ; but his
first quick, instinctive thought had been — •

Ah, not that — not the name that my mother
bore ! "

END OF VOL. II.

LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM Clowns AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

y'* '' . ' ' ^ ' ?' ^'^-r^' ^ '* r?** *** ^ ■> C\ "*»r>

•^»P^t

'^vf.

il

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS



B56sc»

188/
V.3

I

A STORY OF THESE TIMES

WILLIAM BLACK.

Author; OF "a 1K:KCESS Of THULE," "A DAL CHI KR OF Lieth,
MACLEOD OF Pare," ETC.

LV THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

London:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE & Livingston,

CROWN Building?, i8S, FLEET STREET.

ism,

(Ml lights >fseiv,;f.)

I



























= 57




CHAPTER I.

IN THE DEEPS.

The sudden shock of the cold night-air Alas a
relief to his burning brain ; and so also, as he
passed into the crowded streets, was the low,
continuous thunder all around him. The theatres
were coming out ; cabs, omnibuses, carriages
added to the muffled roar; the pavements were
thronged with people talking, laughing, jostling,
calling out one to the other. He was glad to lose
himself in this seething multitude ; he was glad
to be hidden by the darkness ; he would try to
think.

But his thoughts were too rapid and terrible
to be very clear. He only vaguely knew — it was
a consciousness that seemed to possess both heart

3. — XI. 15

and brain like a consuming fire — that the beautiful
dreams he had been dreaming of a future beyond
the wide Atlantic, with Natalie living and working
by his side, her proud spirit cheering him on and
refusing to be daunted — these dreams had been
suddenly snatched away from him ; and in their
stead, right before him, stood this pitiless, inexorable
fate. He could not quite tell how it had all
occurred ; but there at least was the horrible
certainty, staring him right in the face. He could
not avoid it ; he could not shut his eyes to it, nor
draw back from it ; there was no escape. Then
some wild desire to have the thine done at once
possessed him. At once — at once — and then the
grave would cover over his remorse and despair.
Natalie would forget ; she had her mother now to
console her. Evelyn would say, " Poor devil, he
was not the first who got into mischief by meddling
in schemes without knowing how far he
might have to go," Then amid all this confused
din of the London streets, what was the phrase
that kept ringing in his ears ? — " And when she
bids die he shall surely die." But he no longer
heard the pathetic vibration of Natalie LInd's
voice ; the words sounded to him solemn, and

distant, and hopeless, like a knell. But only if it
were over — that was acjain his wild desire. In
the grave was forgetfulness and peace.

Presently a curious fancy seized him. At the
corner of Windmill Street a ragged youth was
bawling out the name of a French journal. Brand
bought a copy of the journal, passed on, and
walked into an adjacent cafe, and took a seat atone
of the small tables. A waiter came to him ;
and he mechanically ordered coffee. He began
to search this newspaper for the reports usually
headed Gazette des Tribiinaiix.

At last, in a corner of the newspaper, he found
that heading, though under it there was nothing
of any importance or interest. But it was the
heading itself that had a strange fascination for
him. He kept his eyes fixed on it. Then he
began to see detached phrases and sentences — or
perhaps it was only in his brain that he saw
them : The Assassination of Cardinal Zaccatelli. —
The aeciised, an Englishman, zvho refuses to declare
his name — admits that he had no personal enmity
commanded to execute this horrible crime — a
punishment decreed by a Society which he zvill not
name — confesses his guilt — is anxious to be sentenced

at once and to die as soon as the law permits.
. . This morning the assassin of Cardinal Zacca-
telli — who has declaimed his name to be Edward
Bernard — was executed

He hurriedly folded up the paper, just as If he
were afraid of some one overlooking and reading
these words, and glanced around. No one was
regarding him. The cafe was nearly full ; and
there was plenty of laughing and talking amid the
glare of the gas. He slunk out of the place,
leaving his coffee untasted.

But when he had got outside, he straitened
himself up, and his face assumed a firmer expression.
He walked quickly along to Clarges Street.
The Evelyn' house was dark from top to bottom;
apparently the family had retired for the night.
Perhaps he is at the Century," Brand said
to himself, as he started off again. But just ashe
got to the corner of the street, a Hansom
drove up, and the driver, taking the corner too
quickly, sent the wheel on to the kerb.

"Why don't you look where you're going
to ? " a voice called out from the inside of the
cab.

Is that you, Evelyn ? " Brand cried.

Yes, it is ! " was the reply ; and the Hansom
was stopped, and Lord Evelyn descended. " I
am happy to say that I can still answer for myself.
I thought we were in for a smash."
Can you spare me five minutes ? "
Five hours if you like."

The man was paid ; the two friends walked
along the pavement together.

I am glad to have found you after all,
Evelyn," Brand said. " The fact is, my nerves
have had a bad shake."

I never knew you had any. I always
fancied you could drive a fire-brigade engine full-gallop
along the Strand, on a wet night, with the
theatres coming out."

A few minutes' talk with you will help me to
pull myself together again. Need we go into the
house ? "

"We shan't wake anybody."
They noiselessly went into the house, and
passed along the hall, until they reached a small
room behind the dining-room. The gas was lit,
burning low. There were biscuits, seltzer-water,
and spirits on the table.

Lord Evelyn was in the act of turning the gas

higher, when he happened to catch sight of his
friend. He uttered a quick exclamation. Brand,
who had sat down on a chair, was crying, with
his hands over his face, like a woman.

Great heavens, what is it, Brand ! "

That confession of weakness did not last long.
Brand rose to his feet, impatiently, and took a turn
or two up and down the small room.

What is it ? Well, I have received my
sentence to-night, Evelyn. But it isn't that —
it is the thought of those I shall leave behind —
Natalie — and those boys of my sister's — If people
were to find out after all that they were related
to me "

He was looking at the things that presented
themselves to his own mind ; he forgot that
Evelyn could not understand ; he almost forgot
that he was speaking aloud. But by-andrby he
got himself better under control. He sat down
again. He forced himself to speak calmly : the
only sign of emotion was that his face was rather
pale and his eyes looked tired and harassed.

Yes, I told you my nervous system had got
a shock, Evelyn. But I think I have got over
it. It won't do for one in my position to abandon
one's self to sentiment."

I wish you would tell me what you mean."

Brand regarded him.

I cannot tell you the whole thing ; but this
will be enough. The Council have decreed the
death of a certain person ; and I am appointed
his executioner."

You are ravings mad ! "

Perhaps it would be better if I where," he
said, with a sigh. " However, such is the fact.
The ballot was taken to-night ; the lot fell to me.
I have no one to blame — except myself."

Lord Evelyn was too horrified to speak. The
calm manner of his companion ought to have
carried conviction with it ; and yet — and yet —
how could such a thing be possible ?

"Yes, I blame myself," Brand said, "for not
having made certain reservations when pledging
myself to the Society. But how was one to
think of such things ? When Lind used to denounce
the outrages of the Nihilists and talk
with indignation of the useless crimes of the
Camorra — how could one have thought it possible
that assassination should be demanded of
you as a duty ? "

But Lind ! " Lord Evelyn exclaimed.

Surely LInd does not approve of such a
thing!"

No, he does not," Brand answered. " He
says it will prove a misfortune "

Then why does he not protest ? "

Protest against a decree of the Council ! "
the other exclaimed. " You don't know as much
as I do, Evelyn, about that Council. No, I have
sworn obedience, and I will obey."

He had recovered his firmness ; he seemed
resigned — even resolved. It was his friend who
was excited.

I tell you all the oaths in the world cannot
compel a man to commit murder," Evelyn said
hotly.

Oh, they don't call it murder," Brand replied,
without any bitterness whatever ; " they call it a
punishment, a warning to the evil-doers of Europe.
And no doubt this man is a great scoundrel ; and
cannot be reached by the law ; and then besides
one of the members of the Society, who is poor
and old and who has suffered grievous wrong
from this man, has appealed to the Council to
avenge him. No; I can see their position. I
have no doubt they believe they are acting
justly."

But you yourself do not think so ! "

My dear fellow, it is not for the private
soldier to ask whether his sovereign has ijone
to war justly or unjustly. It is his business to
obey commands — to kill, if need be — according
to his oath."

Why, you are taking the thing as a matter
of course ! " Lord Evelyn cried, indignantly. " I
cannot believe it possible yet ! And — and if it
were possible — consider how I should upbraid
myself: it was I who led you into this affair,
Brand."

Oh no," said the other, absently.

He was staring into the smouldering fire ;
and for a second or two he sat in silence. Then
he said, slowly and thoughtfully —

I am afraid I have led a very selfish life.
Natalie would not say so ; she is generous. But
it is true. Well, this will make some atonement.
She will know that I kept my word to her. She
gave me that ring, Evelyn."

He held out his hand for a moment.

It was a pledge that I should never drawback
from my allegiance to the Society. Well,
neither she nor I then fancied this thinii could

happen ; but now I am not going to turn coward.
You saw me show the white feather, Evelyn, fora
minute or two : I don't think it was about
myself; it was about her — and — and one or two
others. You see our talkiuQ^ together has sent
off all that nervous excitement ; now we can
speak about business "

I will not — I will not!" Evelyn said, who
was greatly moved. " I will go to Lind himself.
I will tell him that no duty of this kind was ever
contemplated by any one joining here. It maybe
all very well for Naples or Sicily ; it won't
do for the people on this side the Channel : it
will ruin his work : he must appeal — I will drive
him to it ! "

"My dear fellow," Brand said, quietly, " I
told you Lind has accepted the execution of this
affair with reluctance. He knows it will do our
work — well, my share in it will be soon over —
no good. But in this business there is no appeal.
You are only a Companion ; you don't know
what stringent vows you have to undertake when
you get into the other grades. Moreover, I must
tell you this thing to his credit. He is not
bound to take the risk of the ballot himself; but

he did, to-night. It is all over and settled,
Evelyn. What is one man's life, more or less ?
People go to throw away hundreds of thousands
of lives ' with a lio^ht heart' And even if this
affair should give a slight shock to some of our
friends here, the effect will not be permanent.
The organization is too big, too strong, too eager,
to be really injured by such a trifle. I want to
talk about business matters now."

I won't hear you — I will not allow this "

Lord Evelyn protested, trembling with excitement.


You must hear me ; the time is short,"
Brand said, with decision. " When this thing
has to be done I don't know ; I shall probably
hear tomorrow ; but I must at once take steps
to prevent shame falling on the few relatives
I have. I shall pretend to set out on some
hunting expedition or other — Africa is a good
big place for one to lose one's self in — and if I
do not return, what then ? I shall leave you
my executor, Evelyn ; or rather it will be safer
to do the whole thing by deed of gift. I shall
give my sister's eldest son the Buckinghamshire
place ; then I must leave the other one something.

Five hundred pounds at four per cent,
would pay that poor devil Kirski's rent for him,
and help him on a bit. Then I am going to
make you a present, Evelyn ; so you see you
shall benefit too. Then as for Natalie — or rather,
her mother "

Her mother ! " Evelyn stared at him.

Natalie's mother is in London : you will
learn her story from herself," Brand continued,
briefly. " In the mean time, do not tell Lind,
until she permits you. I have taken rooms for
her in Hans Place ; and Natalie will no doubt
go to see her each day ; but I am afraid the poor
lady is not very well off; for the family has
always been in political troubles. Well, you see,
Evelyn, I could leave you a certain sum, the
interest of which you could manage to convey
to her in some roundabout and delicate way that
would not hurt her pride. You could do this,
of course "

But you are talking as if your death was
certain ! " Lord Evelyn exclaimed, rather wildly.
Even if it is all true, you might escape •"

Brand turned away his head as he spoke.

Do you think, then," he said, slowly, " that.

even if that were possible, I should care to live
red-handed ? The Council cannot demand that
of me too. If there is one bullet for him, the
next one will be for myself; and if I miss the
first shot I shall make sure about the second.
There will be no examination of the prisoner,
as far as I am concerned. I shall leave a paper
stating the object and cause of my attempt ; but
I shall go into it nameless ; and the happiest
thing I can hope for is that forgetfulness will
gather round it and me as speedily as may be."

Lord Evelyn was deeply distressed. He
could no longer refuse to believe. And inadvertently
he bethought himself of the time when
he had besought and entreated this old friend
of his to join the great movement that was to
regenerate Europe. Was this the end, then —
a vulgar crime ? The strong, manly, generous
life to be thrown away ; and Natalie left brokenhearted
?

What about her ? " he asked, timidly.

About Natalie, do you mean } " said Brand,
starting somewhat. " Curiously enough, I was
thinking about her also. I was wondering
whether it could be concealed from her — whether

it would not be better to let her imagine with the
others that I had got drowned or killed somewhere.
But I could not do that. The uncertainty
would hang over her for years. Better the
sharp pain at once — of parting ; then her mother
must take charge of her and console her and be
kind to her. What I fear most is that she may
blame herself — she may fancy that she is somehow
responsible "

It is I, surely, who must take that blame on
myself," said Lord Evelyn, sadly. " But for me,
how could you have been led into joining the
Society ? "

Neither she nor you have anything to
reproach yourselves with. What was my life
worth to me when I joined ? Then for a time
I saw a vision of what may yet be in the world —
of what will be, please God ; and what does it
matter if one here or one there falls out of the
ranks ? — the great army is moving on. And fora
time there were other visions — poor Natalie ! —
I am glad her mother has come to her at last."

He rose.

I wish I could offer you a bed here," Lord
Evelyn said.

I have a great many things to arrange
to-night," he answered, simply. " Perhaps I may
not be able to get to bed at all."

Lord Evelyn hesitated.

When can I sec you tomorrow } " he said at
length. " You know I am oroino;- to Lind the first
thing in the morning "

Brand stopped abruptly.

I must absolutely forbid your doing anything
of the kind," said he, firmly. " This is a matter
of the greatest secrecy ; there is to be no talking
about it ; I have given you some hint, and the
same I shall give to Natalie ; and there an end."
He added, "Your interference would be quite
useless, Evelyn. The matter is not in Lind's
hands."

He bade his friend Qfood-nieht.

Thank you for letting me bore you so long.
You see, I expected talking over the thing would
drive off that first shock of nervousness. Now
I am going to play the part of Karl Sand with
indifference. When you hear of me, you will
think I must have been brought up b)' the
Tugendbund or the Carbonari or some of those
Societies."

Evelyn, still quite aghast, would have detained
him ; but he refused to stay. He forced his
friend to shake hands with him ; and then again
went out into the black night. When he reached
his chambers in Buckingham Street there was a
small parcel awaiting him. He opened it, and
found a box with, inside, a tiny nosegay of
sweet-smelling flowers. These were not half as
splendid as those he had got the previous afternoon
for the rooms in Hans Place ; but there was
something accompanying them that gave them
sufficient value. It was a strip of paper ; and
on it was written — 'from Natalie and from
Nataluskka, with noise than thanks!'

I will carry them with me," he thought to
himself, "until the day of my death. Perhaps
they may not have quite withered by then."

CHAPTER II.

A COMMUNICATION.

Now, he said to himself, he would think no more ;
he would act. The long talk with Lord Evelyn
had enabled him to pull himself together ; there
would be no repetition of that half-hysterical
collapse. More than one of his officer-friends
had confessed to him that they had spent the
night before their first battle in abject terror ;
but that that had all gone off as soon as they
were called into action. And as for himself, he
had many things to arrange before starting on
this hunting expedition, which was to serve asa
cloak for another enterprise. He would have
to write at once, for example, to his sister — an
invalid widow, who passed her life alternately on
the Riviera and in Switzerland — informing her of
his intended travels. He would have to see that
a sufficient sum were left for Natalie's mother,

3.— XI. c

and put into discreet hands. The money for the
man Kirski would have to be properly tied up,
lest it should prove a temptation. Why, those
two pieces of Italian embroidery lying there : he
had bought them months ago, intending to present
them to Natalie ; but from time to time the
opportunity had been missed. And so forth ;
and so forth.

But despite all this fortitude, and these commonplace
and practical considerations, his eyes
would wander to that little handful of flowers
lying on the table ; and his thoughts would wander
farther still. As he pictured to himself his going
to the young Hungarian girl, and taking her
hand, and telling her that now it was no longer
a parting for a couple of years, but a parting forever,
his heart grew cold and sick. He thought
of her terrified eyes ; of her self-reproaches ; of
her entreaties, perhaps.

I wish Evelyn would tell her," he murmured
aloud, and he went to the window. "Surely
it would be better if I were never to see her
again."

It was a long and agonizing night, despite all
his resolutions. The grey morning, appearing

palely over the river and the bridges, found him
still pacing up and down there, with nothing
settled at all, no letter written, no memoranda
made. All that the nii^fht had done was to increase
a hundredfold his dread of meeting Natalie.
And now the daylight only told him that that
interview was coming nearer. It had become a
question of hours.

At last, worn out with fatigue and despair,
he threw himself on a couch hard by, and presently
sank into a broken and troubled sleep.
For now the mind, emancipated from the control
of the will, ran riot ; and the quick-changing
pictures that were presented to him were full of
fearful things that shook his very life with terror.
Awake, he could force himself to think of this or
that ; asleep, he was at the mercy of this lurid
imagination that seemed to dye each successive
scene in the hue of blood. First of all he was
in a great cathedral, sombre and vast, and by the
dim liMit of the candles he saw that some solemn
ceremony was going forward. Priests, mitred
and robed, sat in a semi-circle in front of the
altar ; on the altar-steps were three figures ;
behind the altar a space of gloom, from whence

issued the soft, clear singing of the choristers.
Then, suddenly, into that clear sweet singing
broke a loud blare of trumpets ; a man bounded
on to the altar-steps ; there was the flash of a
blade — a shriek — -a fall ; then the roar of a crowd,
sullen, and distant, and awful. It is the cry of
a great city ; and this poor crouching fugitive,
who hides behind the fountain in the Place, is
watching for his chance to dart away into some
place of safety. But the crowd have let him
pass ; they are merciful ; they are glad of the
death of their enemy ; it is only the police he
has to fear. What lane is dark enough ? What
ruins must he haunt, like a dog, in the nighttime
? But the night is full of fire ; and the
stars overhead are red ; and everywhere there is
a roar and a murmur — the assassination of the
Cardinal !

Well, it is quieter in this dungeon ; and soon
there will be an end ; and peace. But for the
letters of fire that burn one's brain, the place
would be as black as night ; and it is still as
nisfht ; one can sit and listen. And now that dull
throbbing sound — and a strain of music — is it the
young wife who, all unknowing, is digging her

husband's grave ? How sad she is — she pities the
poor prisoner, whoever he may be. She would
not dig this grave if she knew ; she calls herself
Fidelio : she is faithful to her love. But now —
but now — though this hole is black as night, and
silent, and the waters are lapping outside, cannot
one know what is passing there ? There are
some who are born to be happy. Ah, look at
the faithful wife now — as she strikes off her
husband's fetters — listen to the glad music, destin
ormaifelicef — they take each other's hand — they go
away proudly into the glad daylight — husband and
wife together for evermore. This poor prisoner
listens, though his heart will break. The happy
music grows more and more faint — the husband
and wife are together now — the beautiful white
day is around them — the poor prisoner is left
alone : there is no one even comines to bid him
farewell.

The sleeper moaned in his sleep ; and
stretched out his hand as if he would seek some
other hand.

"No one — not even a word of good-bye ! " he
murmured.

But then the dream changed. And now it

was a wild and windy day in the blowing month
of March ; and the streams in this Buckinghamshire
valley were swollen ; and the woods were
bare. Who are these two who come into the
small and bleak churchyard ? They are a mother
and daughter ; they are all in black ; and the face
of the daughter is pale ; and her eyes filled with
tears. Her face is white ; and the flowers she
carries are white ; and that is a white tombstone
there in the corner — apart from the others.
See how she kneels down at the foot of the grave ;
and puts the flowers lightly on the grass ; and
clasps her trembling hands ; and prays.

Natalie — my wife ! " he calls in his sleep.

And behold ! the white tombstone has letters
ot fire written on it ; and the white flowers are
changed to drops of blood ; and the two black
figures have hurried away and disappeared. How
the wind tears down this wide valley, in which
there is no sien of life! It is so sad to be left
alone.

Well, it was about eight o'clock when he
was awakened by the entrance of Waters. He
jumped up, and looked around, haggard and bewildered.
Then his first thought was —

A few more nights like this, and ZaccatelH
will have little to fear."

He had his bath and breakfast ; all the time
he was forcing himself into an indignant self-contempt.
He held out his hand before him,
expecting to see it tremble. But no. This
reassured him somewhat.

A little before eleven he was at the house in
Hans Place. He was immediately shown upstairs.
Natalie's mother was there to receive
him ; she did not notice he looked tired.

Natalie is coming to you this morning ? " he
said.

Oh }-es ; why not ? It gives her pleasure ;
it gives me joy. But I will not keep the child
always in the house ; no, she must have her walk.
Yesterday, after you had left, we went to a very
secluded place — a church not far from here — and
a cemetery behind."

Oh yes, I know." he said. " But you might
have chosen a more cheerful place for your
walk."

Any place is cheerful enough for me when
my daughter is with me," said she, simply. "And
it is quiet."

George Brand sat with his hands clenched.
Every moment he thought he should hear Natalie
knock at the door below.

Madame," he said, with some little hesitation,
"something has happened of serious importance
— I mean, of a little importance. When

Natalie comes I must tell her ■ "

And you wish to see her alone, perhaps ? "
said the mother, lightly. " Why not ? And
listen — it is she herself, I believe ! "

A minute afterwards the door was opened,
and Natalie entered, radiant, happy, with glad
eyes. Then she started when she saw George
Brand there ; but there was no fear in her look.
On the contrary, she embraced her mother ; then
she went to him, and said, with a pleased flush in
her face —

I had no message this morning. You did
not care, then, for our little bunch of flowers ? "
He took her hand, and held it for a second.
I thought I should see you to-day, Natalie.
I have something to tell you."
Her face grew graver.
"Is it something serious ? "
Well," said he, to gain time, for the mother

was still in the room, " it is serious or not serious,
as you like to take it. It docs not involve the
fate of a nation, for example."

It is mysterious, at all events ? "

At this moment the elder woman took occasion
to slip noiselessly from the room.

Natalie," said he, " sit down, here by me."

She put the footstool on which she was
accustomed to sit at her mother's side close to
his chair, and seated herself He took her hand,
and held it tight.

'* Natalie," said he, in a low voice — and he
was himself rather pale — " I am going to tell you
something that may perhaps startle you — and
even grieve you ; but you must keep command
over yourself; or you will alarm your mother "

You are not in danger } " she cried, quickly,
but in a low voice : there was something in his
tone that alarmed her.

The thing is simple enough," he said, with
a forced composure. '' You know that when one
has joined a certain Society, and especially when
one has accepted the responsibilities I have, there
is nothing that may not be demanded. Look at
this ring, Natalie."

Yes, yes," she said, breathlessly.
That is a sufficient pledge, even if there
were no others. I have sworn allegiance to
the Society, at all hazards. I cannot retreat
now."

But is it so very terrible ? " she said, hurriedly.
" Dearest, I will come over to you in
America ! I have told my mother — she will take
me to you "

I am not going to America, Natalie."

She looked up bewildered.

'T have been commissioned to perform another
duty — more immediate, more definite. And I
must tell you now, Natalie — all that I dare tell
you ; you must be prepared ; it is a duty which
will cost me my life."

"Your life?" she repeated, in a bewildered,
wild way, and she hastily drew her hand away
from his. " Your life ? "

"Hush, Natalie!"

You are to die ? " she exclaimed ; and she
gazed with terror-stricken eyes into his face.
She forgot all about his allegiance to the
Society ; she forgot all about her theories of self-sacrifice
; she only heard that the man she

loved was doomed ; and she said in a low,
hoarse voice — "And it is I, then, who have
murdered you ! "

NataHe ! " he cried ; and he would have
taken her hand again ; but she withdrew from
him, shuddering. She clasped her hands over
her face.

Oh, do not touch me," she said, " do not
come near me. I have murdered you : it is I
who have murdered you !"

For Heaven's sake, Natalie, be calm ! " he
said to her, in a low, earnest voice. " Think of
your mother : do not alarm her. You knew we
might be parted for years — well, this parting is
a little worse to bear, that is all — and you, who
gave me this ring, you are not going to say
a word of regret. No, no, Natalushka, many
thousands and thousands of people in the world
have gone through what stands before us now ;
and wives have parted from their husbands without
a single tear, so proud were they "

She looked up quickly ; her face was white.

I have no tears," she said, " none ! But some
wives have crone with their husbands into the
danger, and have died too — ah, how happy that

were for any one ! — and I, why may not I go ? I
am not afraid to die."

He laid his hand gently on the dark hair.

My child, it is impossible," he said; and then
he added, rather sadly, " It is not an enterprise
that any one is likely to gain any honour by ; it is
far from that. But it has to be undertaken ; that
is enough. As for you — you have your mother
to care for now. Will not that fill your life with
gladness ? "

How soon — do~you go away ? " she asked,
in a low voice.

Almost immediately," he said, watching her.
She had not shed a single tear ; but there was a
strange look on her face. " Nothing is to be said
about it. I shall be supposed to have started on
a travelling expedition, that is all."

And you go — for ever ? "

'' Yes."

She rose.

We shall see you yet before you go ? "

Natalie," he said, in despair, " I had come to
try to say good-bye to you. But I cannot, my
darling, I cannot ! I must see you again."

I do not understand why you should wish to

see again one like me," she said, slowly ; and the
voice did not sound like her own voice. " I have
given you over to death ; and, more than that, to
a death that is not honourable ; and yet I cannot
even tell you that I am grieved. But there is
pain here." She put her hand over her heart ;
she staggered back a little bit ; he caught her.
Natalie— Natalie ! "
It is a pain that kills," she said, wildly.
Natalie, where is your courage ? I give my
life without question ; you must bear your part
too."

She still held her hand over her bosom.
Yes," she said, as if she had not heard
him, " that is what they say ; it kills, this pain
in the heart. Why not — if one does not wish to
live?"

At this moment the door was opened, and
the mother came into the room.

"Madame," said Brand, quickly, "come and
speak to your daughter. I have had to tell her
something that has upset her, perhaps, for a
moment ; but you will console her ; she is brave."
Child, how you tremble, and how cold your
hands are ! " the mother cried.

It does not matter, mother. From every
pain there is a release, is there not ? "

I do not understand you, Natalushka ! "

"And I — and I, mother "

She was on the point of breaking down ; but
she held firm.

Then she released herself from her mother's
hold, and went forward and took her lover's hand,
and regarded him with the sad, tearless, beautiful
eyes.

I have been selfish," she said ; " I have been
thinking of myself, when that is needless. Forme,
there will be a release — quickly enough : I
shall pray for it. Now tell me what I must do :
I will obey you."

First, then," said he, speaking in a low voice,
and in English, so that her mother should not
understand, "you must make light of this affair,
or you will distress your mother greatly, and she
is not able to bear distress. Some day, if you
think it right, you may tell her; you know
nothing that could put the enterprise in peril ;
she will be as discreet and silent as yourself,
Natalie. Then you must jut it out of your
mind, my darling, that you have any share in

what has occurred. What have I to regret ?
My life was worthless to me ; you made it
beautiful for a time ; perhaps, who knows, it
may after all turn out to have been of some
service ; and then there can be no regret at
all. They think so ; and it is not for me to
question."

May I not tell my mother now ? " she said,
imploringly. *' Dearest, how can I speak to her,
and be thinking of you far away ? "

As you please, Natalie. The little I have
told you or Evelyn can do no harm, so long
as you keep it amongst yourselves."

But I shall see you again ? " It was her
heart that cried to him.

Oh yes, Natalie," he said, gravely. " I may
not have to leave England for a week or two.
I will see you as often as I can until I go, my
darling — though it may only be torture to you."

Torture ? " she said, sadly. " That will
come after — until there is an end of the pain."

Hush, you must not talk like that. You
have now one with you whom it is your duty
to support and console. She has not had a very
happy life either, Natalie."

He was glad now that he was able to leave
this terror-stricken girl in such tender hands.
And as for himself, he found, when he had left,
that somehow the strengthening of another had
strengthened himself. He had less dread of
the future ; his face was firm ; the time for vain
regrets was over.

A QUARREL.

Meanwhile, almost Immediately after George
Brand had left the house in Lisle Street, Reitzei
and Beratinsky left also. On shutting the street-door
behind them, Beratinsky bade a curt goodnight
to his companion, and turned to go ; but
Reitzei, who seemed to be in very high spirits
stayed him.

No, no, friend Beratinsky ; after such a fine
night's work, I say we must have a glass of wine
together. We will walk up to the Ctdtui'verein!'

"It is late," said the other, somewhat ungraciously.


Never mind. An hour, three-quarters of an
hour, half an hour, what matter ? Come," said he,
laying hold of his arm and taking him away
unwillingly, " it is not polite of you to force me to
invite myself. I do not suppose it is the cost of

3. — XI. D

the wine you are thinking of. Mark my words,
when I am elected a member, I shall not be
stingy."

Beratinsky suffered himself to be led away ;
and together the two walked up towards Oxford
Street. Beratinsky was silent, and even surly ;
Reitzei garrulous and self-satisfied.

Yes, I repeat it ; a good night's work. For
the thing had to be done ; there were the
Council's orders ; and who so appropriate as the
Englishman ? Had it been you or I, Beratinsky,
or Lind, how could any one of us have been
spared ? No doubt the Englishman would have
been glad to have Lind's place — yes, and Lind's
daughter, too : however, that is all settled now ;
and very well done. I say it was very well done,
on the part of Lind. And what did you think of
my part, friend Beratinsky ? "

I think you made a fool of yourself, friend
Reitzei," said the other, abruptly.

Reitzei was a vain young man ; and he had
been fishing for praise.

I don't know what you mean," he said,
angrily.

What I mean I say," replied the other, with

something very like cool contempt. " I say you
made a fool of yourself. When a man is drunk
he does his best to appear sober ; you, being
sober, tried to appear drunk — and made a fool of
yourself."

My friend Beratinsky," said the younger man,
hotly, " you have a right to your own opinion —
every man has that. But you should take care
not to make an ass of yourself by expressing it.
I )o not speak of things you know nothing about
that is my advice to you."

Beratinsky did not answer ; and the two
walked on in silence until they reached the Vcrcin
and entered the long, resounding hall, which was
nearly empty. But the few members who
remained were making up for their paucity of
numbers by their mirth and noise. As Beratinsky
and his companion took their seats at the upper
end of the table, the chairman struck his hammer
violently, and commanded silence.*

Silentium, mine Herren ! " he thundered out.
I have a secret to communicate. A irreat
honour has been done one of our members ; ami
even his overwhelming modesty permits it to be
known at last. Our good friend Josef Hempel

has been appointed Hof-Maler to the Grand

Duke of . I call on you to drink his health

and the Grand Duke's too ! "

Then there was a quick filling of glasses ; a
general uprising ; cries of " Hempel ! " " Hempel ! "
The Duke ! " followed by a resounding chorus —

'■'■ Loch so lien sie Lichen I
Loch sullen sie leben I
Drciinal loch ! — "

that echoed away down the empty hall. Then
the tumult subsided ; and the president, rising,
said gravely —

I now call on our good friend Hempel to
reply to the toast ; and to give us a few remarks
on the condition of art in the Grand Duchy of

with some observations and reflections on

the altered position of the Duchy since the unification
of our Fatherland."

In answer to this summons there rose to his
feet a short, stoiit old gentleman, with a remarkably
fresh complexion, silvery-white hair, and
merry blue eyes that peered through gold-rimmed
spectacles. He was all smiles and blushes ; and
the longer they cheered, the more did he smile
and blush.

Gentlemen," he said ; and this was the signal
for further cheering. " Gentlemen," said the
blushing orator, at length, "our friend is at his
old tricks. I cannot make a speech to you —
except this : I ask you to drink a glass of champagne
with me. Kneller — Champagne ! "

And he incontinently dropped into his seat
again, having forgotten altogether to acknowledge
the compliment paid to himself and the Grand
Duke.

However, this was like the letting in of water.
For no sooner had the two or three bottles ordered
by Herr Hempel been exhausted than one after
another of his companions seemed to consider it
was their turn now ; and loud-shouted orders
were continually being administered to the busy
waiter. Wine flowed and sparkled ; cigars were
freely exchanged ; the volume of conversation
rose in tone, for all were speaking at once ; the
din became fast and furious.

In the midst of all this Reitzei alone sat apart
and silent. Ever since coming into the room the
attention of Beratinsky had been monopolized by
his neighbour, who had just come back from a
great artistic fete in some German town, and who,

dressed as the Emperor Barbarossa, and followed
by his knights, had ridden up the big staircase
into the town-hall. The festivities had lasted fora
fortnight; the Staatsweinkeller had furnished
liberal supplies ; the Princess Adelheld had been
present at the crowning ceremony. Then he had
brought with him sketches of the various costumes,
and so forth : perhaps it was inadvertently
that Beratinsky so grossly neglected his

guest.

The susceptible vanity of Reitzei had been
deeply wounded before he entered ; but now the
cup of his wrath was filled to overflowing. The
more champagne he drank — and there was plenty
coming and going — the more sullen he became.
For the rest, he had forgotten the circumstance
that he had already drank two glasses of brandy
before his arrival, and that he had eaten nothing
since mid-day.

At length Beratinsky turned to him.

Will you have a cigar, Reitzei ? "

Reitzei's first impulse was to refuse to speak.
But his wrongs forced him. He said, coldly —

No, thanks. I have already been offered
a cigar, by the gentleman next me. Perhaps you

will kindly tell me how one, being sober, had
any need to pretend to be sober ? "

Beratinsky stared at him.

Oh. you are thinking about that yet, are
you ? " he said, indifferently ; and, at this moment,
as his neighbour called his attention to some
further sketches, he again turned away.

But now the souls of the sons of the Fatherland,
warmed with wine, began to think of home,
and love, and patriotism ; and longed for some
more melodious utterances than this continuous
guttural clatter. Silence was commanded. A
handsome young fellow, slim and dark, clearly a
Jew, ascended the platform, and sat down at the
piano ; the bashful Hempel, still blushing and
laughing, was induced to follow ; together the)"
sang, amid comparative silence, a duet of Mendelssohn's,
set for tenor and baritone ; and sang
it very well indeed. There was great applause ;
but Hempel insisted on retiring. Left to himself,
the young man with the handsome profile and
the finely set head played a few bars of prelude,
and then, in a remarkably clear and resonant
voice, sang Braga's mystical and tender Serenade
the "' Ldgcndc Valaquc'^ — amid a silence now

quite secured. But what was this one voice or that
to all the passion of music demanding utterance ?
Soon there was a call to the young gentleman to
play an accompaniment ; and a huge, black-advised
Hessian, still sitting at the table, held up
his brimming glass, and began, in a voice like a
hundred kettle-drums :

Ici nehm' mein Glaschen in die Hand : "

Then came the universal shout of the chorus,
ringing to the roof :

*' Vive la Compagneia /"
Again the raucous voice bawled aloud —

'' Und fahr' damit in's Underhand : "

And again the thunder of the chorus, this time
prolonged ; with much beating of time on the
table, and jangling of wine-glasses.

Vive la Compagneia /
Vive la, vive la, vive la, va ! vive la, vive la, hopsasa !
Vive la Compagneia T^

And so on to the end, the chorus becoming
stormier and more thunderous than ever. Then,
when peace had been restored, there was a
general rising ; though here and there a final

glass was drunk with " stosst an ! sctzt an ! fcrtig !
los ! " and its attendant ceremonies. The meeting
had broken up by common consent. There was a
shuffling of footsteps and some disjointed talking
and calling down the empty hall, where the lights
were already being put out.

Reitzei had sat silent during all this chorus-singing
; though ordinarily, being an excitable
person, and indeed rather proud of his voice, he
was ready to roar with any one. And in silence,
too, he walked away with Beratinsky, who either
was or appeared to be quite unconscious of his
companion's state of mind. At length Reitzei
stopped short — oxford Street at this time of the
morning was perfectly silent — and said —

Beratinsky, I have a word to say to you."

Very well," said the other ; though he seemed
surprised.

I may tell you your manners are none of the
best."

Beratinsky looked at him.

"Nor your temper," said he, "one would
think. Do you still go back to what I said
about your piece of acting ? You arc a child,
Reitzei."

I do not care about that," said Reitzei, contemptuously
— though he was not speaking the
truth : his self-satisfaction had been grievously
hurt. " You put too great a value on your
opinion, Beratinsky. It is not everything that
you know about : we will let that pass. But
when one goes into a society as a guest, one
expects to be treated as a guest. No matter.
I was among my own countrymen ; I was well
enough entertained."

"It appears so!" said Beratinsky, with a

sneer. " I should say too well. My dear friend
Reitzei, I am afraid you have been having a little

too much champagne."

"It was none that you paid for, at all events,"

was the quick retort. "No matter. I was among

my own countrymen ; they are civil ; they are not

niggardly."

They can afford to spend," said the other,

laughing sardonically, " out of the plunder they

take from others."

They have fought for what they have," the

other said, hotly. " Your countrymen : what have

they ever done ? Have they fought ? No : they

have conspired ; and then run away

Beratinsky was much too cool-blooded a
man to get into a quarrel of this kind. Besides,
he noticed that Reitzei's speech was occasionally
a little thick.

I would advise you to go home and get to
bed, friend Reitzei," said he.

Not until I have said something to you,
Mr. Beratinsky," said the other, with mock politeness.
*' I have this to say, that your ways of late
have been a little too uncivil. You have been
just rather too insolent, my good friend. Now
I tell you frankly it does not do for one in your
position to be uncivil and to make enemies."

For one in my position ! " Beratinsky repeated,
in a tone of raillery.

You think it is a joke, then, what happened
to-night ? ■'

Oh, that is what-ou mean ! But if that
is my position, what other is yours, friend
Reitzei ? "

You pretend not to know ? I will tell you.
That was got up between you and Lind. I had
nothing to do with it."
"Ho! ho!"
You may laugh ; but take care you do not

laugh the other way," said the younger man, who
had worked himself into a fury, and was all the
madder on account of the cynical Indifference of
his antagonist. " I tell you I had nothing to do
with it. It was your scheme, and Lind's. I did
as I was bid. I tell you I could make this very
plain if "

He hesitated.

Well — if what ? " Beratinsky said, calmly,

You know very well. I say you are not
in a position to insult people and make enemies.
You are a very clever man, In your own estimation,
my friend Beratinsky ; but I would give you
the advice to be a little more civil."

Beratinsky regarded him for a second in silence.

I scarcely know whether it Is worth while to
point out certain things to you, friend Seltzer, or
whether to leave you to go home and sleep off
your anger."

"My anger, as you call It, Is not a thing of the
moment. Oh, I assure you J It has nothing todo
with the champagne I have just drank, and
which was not paid for by you, thank God ! No ;
my anger — my wish to have you alter your
manner a little — has been growing for some time ;

but it is of late, my clear Beratinsky, that }-ou havre
become more unbearable than ever,"

Don't make a fool of yourself, Reitzei. I at
least am not going' to stand in the streets talking
nonsense at two in the morning. Good-night ! "

He stepped from the pavement on to the
street, to cross.

Stop ! " said Reitzei, seizing his arm with
both hands.

Beratinsky shook him off violently ; and
turned. There might have been a blow ; but
Reitzei, who was a coward, shrank back.

Beratinsky advanced.
Look here, Reitzei," he said, in a low voice.
I think you are sober enough to understand this.
You were throwing out vague threats about what
you might do or might not do. That means that
you think you could go and tell something about
the proceedings of to-night. You are a fool."

Very well — very well."

Perhaps you do not remember, for example,
Clause I. — the very first clause — in the Obligations
binding on Officers of the Second Degree. You
do not remember that, perhaps ? " He was now
talking in a quietly contemptuous way ; the little

spasm of anger that had disturbed him when
Reitzei put his hands on his arm had immediately
passed away. "The punishment for any one
revealing, for any reason or purpose whatever,
what has been done or is about to be done by
orders of the Council or by any one acting under
these orders — you remember the rest, my friend ?
The punishment is death. My good Reitzei, do
not deprive me of the pleasure of your companionship.
And do not imagine that you can
force people to be polite to you by threats ; that
is not the way at all. Go home and sleep away
your anger ; and do not imagine that you have
any advantage in your position ; or that you are
less responsible for what has been done than anyone."


I am not so sure about that," said Reitzei,
sullenly.

"In the morning you will be sure," said the
other, compassionately, as if he were talking to a
child.

He held out his hand.

Come, friend Reitzei," said he, with a sort of
pitying kindness, " you will find in the morning
it will be all right. What happened to-night was

well arranged, and well executed ; everybody
must be satisfied. And if you were a little too
exuberant in your protestations, a little too
anxious to accept the work yourself, and rather
too demonstrative with your trembling and your
professions of courage and your clutching at the
bottle : what then ? Every one is not a born
actor. Every one must make a mistake sometimes.
But you won't take my hand ? "

Oh, JNIr. Beratinsky," said the other, with
profound sarcasm, '' how could you expect it ?
Take the hand of one so wise as you, so great as
you, such a logician as you are } It would be too
much honour. But if you will allow me I will bid
you good-night."

He turned abruptly, and left. Beratinsky stood
for a moment or so, looking after him ; then he
burst into a fit of laughter, that sounded along the
empty street. Reitzei heard the laughing, behind
him.

CHAPTER IV.

A Twice-told TALE.

When the door had closed on George Brand,
Natalie stood for a second or two uncertain,
to collect her bewildered thoughts. She heard
his footsteps growing fainter and fainter ; the
world seemed to sway around her ; life itself to
be slipping away. Then suddenly she turned ;
and seized her mother by both her hands.

Child, child, what is the matter ? " the
mother cried, terrified by the piteous eyes and
white lips.

Ah, you could not have guessed ! " the girl
said, wildly. " You could not have guessed, from
his manner, what he has told me, could you ?
He is not one to say much. He is not one to
complain. But he is about to lose his life,
mother — to lose his life ! And it is I who have
led him to this ; it is I who have killed him ! "

''Natalie!" the mother exclaimed, turning
rather pale. " You don't know what )ou are
saying ! "

But it is true ! Do not you understand,
mother ? " the girl said, despairingly. " The
Society has given him some duty to do— now.
at once ; and it will cost him his life. Oh, do
you think he complains ? — no, he is not one to
complain ! He says it is nothing ; he has pledged
himself ; he will obey ; and what is the value of
his one single life ? That is the way he talks,
mother! And the parting between him and
me — that is so near, so near now — what is that,
when there are thousands and thousands of such
every time that war is declared ? I am to make
light of it, mother ; I am to think it is nothing at
all — that he should be going away to die ! "

She had been talking quite wildly, almost
incoherently ; she had not observed that her
mother had grown paler than ever. Nor had she
heard the half-murmured exclamation of the elder
woman —

No, no — not the story twice told ! He could
not do that ! "

Then, with an unusual firmness and decision.

^.— XI. E

she led her daughter to the easy-chair, and made
her sit down.

NataHe," she said, in earnest and grave
tones, without any excitement whatever, 'you
have told me your father was very much against
your marrying Mr. Brand."

There was no answer. The girl sitting there
could only think of that terrible thing facing her
in the immediate future.

Natalie," said her mother, firmly. " I wish
you to listen. You said your father was opposed
to your marriage — that he would not hear of it.
And you remember telling me how Mr. Brand
had refused to hand over his property to the
Society } And you talked of going to America,
if Mr. Brand were sent. Natalie, this is your
father's doing."

She looked up quickly, not understanding.
The elder woman flushed slightly, but continued
in clear and even tones.

Perhaps I am wrong, Natalushka ; perhaps
I should not teach you to suspect your father.
But that is how I see it : this is what I believe —
that Mr. Brand, if what you say is true, is to be
sacrificed, not in the interests of the Society, but

because your father is determined to get him out
of the way."

Oh, mother, it is impossible ! How could
any one be so cruel !"

It would be strange if the story were to be
twice told," the mother said, absently. Then she
took a stool beside her daughter ; and sat down
beside her ; and took one of her hands in both
hers. It was a reversal of their ordinary positions.

Listen, Natalie ; I am going to tell you a
story," she said, with a curious resignation and
sadness in her voice. " I had thought it might
be unnecessary to tell it to you ; when Mr. Brand
spoke of it, I said no. But you will judge for
yourself ; and it will distract your mind for a
little. You must think of a young girl something-like
yourself, Natalushka ; not so handsome as
you are ; but a little pretty ; and with many
friends. Oh yes, many friends; for at that time
the family were in very brilliant society and had
large estates — alas ! the estates were soon all lost
in politics ; and all that remained to the family
was their name and some tales of what they
had done. Well, this young lady, amongst all
her friends, had one or two sweethearts, as

Library

"NIVFRSmr OF IlLINOB

was natural ; for there was a great coming and
going then, before the troubles broke out ; and
many visitors at the house. Only every one
thought she ought to marry her cousin Konrad ;
for they had been brought up together ; and
this cousin Konrad was a good-looking young
man, and amiable, and her parents would have
approved. Are you sure you are listening to my
story, Natalushka ? "

Oh yes, mother," she said, in a low voice.
I think I understand."

"Well," continued the mother, with rather a
sad smile, " you know that a girl does not
always choose the one whom her friends choose
for her. Among the two or three sweethearts —
that is, those who wished to be sweethearts, do
you understand, Natalushka — there was one who
was more audacious, perhaps, more persistent,
than the others ; and then he was a man of great
ambition, and of strong political views ; and the
young lady I was telling you about, Natalushka,
had been brought up in a political atmosphere,
and had opinions also. She believed this man
was capable of doing great things ; and her
friends not objecting, she, after a few years of

waiting, owing to the troubles of political matters,
married him ! "

She was silent for a moment or two.

Yes, they were married," she continued, with
a sigh. " And for a time everything was happy ;
though the political affairs were so untoward, and
cost much suffering and danger. The young
wife only admired her husband's determined will,
his audacity, his ambition after leadership and
power. But in the midst of all this, as time went
on, he began to grow jealous of the cousin
Konrad ; and Konrad, though he was a lighthearted
young fellow, and meaning no harm
whatever, resented being forbidden to see his
cousin. He refused to cease visiting the house ;
though the young wife begged him to do so.
He was very proud, and self-willed, you must
know, Natalushka. Well, the husband did not
say much ; but he was morose ; and once or
twice he said to his wife, ' It is not your fault
that your cousin is impertinent ; but let him take
care.' Then, one day, an old friend of the wife's
father came to her and said : ' Do you know \\ hat
has happened ? You are not likely to see your
cousin Konrad again. The Russian General

whom we bribed with twenty-four thousand

roubles to give us ten passports for crossing the
frontier, now refuses to give them ; and Konrad
has been sent to kill him, as a warning to the
others. He will be taken, and hanged ! I forgot
to tell you, Natalushka, that the girl I am speaking
of was in all the secrets of the association
which had been started. You are more fortunate ;
you know nothing."

The interest of the listener had now been
thoroughly aroused. She had turned towards
her mother ; and had put her remaining handover
hers.

Well, this friend hinted something more.
He hinted that it was the husband of this young
wife who had sent Konrad on this mission ; and
that the means employed had not been quite fair."

"Mother! What do you mean!" Natalie
said, breathlessly.

I am telling you a story that really happened,
Natalushka," said the mother, calmly, and with
the same pathetic touch in her voice. " Then
the young wife, without consideration, so anxious
was she to save the life of her cousin, went
straight to the highest authorities of the association,

and appealed to them. The influence of lier
family aided her. She was Hastened to ; there
was an examination ; what the friend had hinted
was found to be true ; the commission was
annulled ; Konrad was given his liberty."

Yes, yes ! " said Natalie, eagerly.

*' But listen, Natalushka ; I said I would tell
you the whole story ; it has been kept from-ou
for many a year. When it was found that the
husband had made use of the machinery of the
association for his own ends — which, it appears,
was a great crime in their eyes — he was degraded ;
and forbidden all hope of joining the Council, the
ruling bod'. He was in a terrible rage ; for he
was mad with ambition. He drove the wife
from his house ; rather, he left the house himself ;
and he took away with him their only child,
a little girl, scarcely two years old ; and he
threatened the mother with the most terrible
penalties if ever again she should speak to her
own child. Natalushka — do you understand me .'*
do you wonder that my face is worn with grief ?
For sixteen years that mother, who loved her
daughter better than anything in the world, was
not permitted to speak to her — could only regard

her from a distance, and not tell her how she
loved her."

The girl uttered a cry of compassion ; and
wound her arms round her mother's neck.

Oh, the cruelty of it ! — the cruelty of it,
mother ! But why did you not come to me ?
Do you think I would not have left everything
to go with you — you, alone and suffering ? "

For a time the mother could not answer ; so
deep were her sobs.

Natalushka," she said, at length, in a broken
voice, " no fear of any danger threatening myself
would have kept me from you ; be sure of that.
But there was something else. My father had
become compromised — the Austrians said it was
assassination — it was not ! " For a second some
hot blood mounted to her cheeks. " I say it was
a fair duel ; and your grandfather himself was
nearly killed ; but he escaped, and got into
hiding, among some faithful friends, poor people,
who had known our family in better times. The
Government did what they could to arrest him ;
he was expressly exempted from the amnesty —
this old man, who was wounded, who was incapable
of movement almost, whom every one

expected to die from day to day ; and a word
would have betrayed him and destroyed lily.
Can you wonder, Natalushka, with that threat
hanging over me — that menace that the moment
I spoke to you meant that my father would be
delivered to his enemies — that I said, No, not
yet will I speak to my little daughter. I cannot
sacrifice my father's life even to the affection of
a mother. But soon, when I have given him
such care and solace as he has the right to demand
from me, then I will set out to see my
beautiful child — not with baskets of flowers,
haunting the door-steps — not with a little trinket,
to drop in her lap, and perhaps set her mind
thinking — no, but with open arms and open heart
to see if she is not afraid to call me mother."

Poor mother, how )'ou must have suffered ! "
the girl murmured, holding her close to her
bosom. " But with your powerful friends — those
to whom you appealed before — why did you not
go to them, and get safety from the terrible threat
hanging over you ? Could not they protect him,
my grandfather, as they saved your cousin
Konrad } "

Alas ! child, your grandfather never belonged

to the association : of what use was he
to them — a sufferer expecting each day to be
his last, and not daring to move beyond the door
of the peasant's cottage that sheltered him ?
Many a time he used to say to me : ' Natalie,
go to your child. I am already dead ; what
matters it whether they take me or not ? You
have watched the old tree fade leaf by leaf; it
is only the stump that cumbers the ground. Goto
your child ; if they try to drag me from here,
the first mile will be the end ; and what better can
one wish for ? ' But no ; I could not do that ! "

Natalie had been thinking deeply. She raised
her head ; and regarded her mother with a calm,
strange look.

Mother," she said, slowly, " I do not think
I will ever enter my father's house again."

The elder woman heard this declaration without
either surprise or joy. She said, simply —

Do not judge rashly, or harshly, Natalushka.
Why have I refrained until now from telling you
the story but that I thought it better — I thought
you would be happier — if you continued to respect
and love your father. Then consider what
excuses may be made for him "

None ! " the girl said, vehemently. " To
keep you, suffering, for sixteen years away from
your only child ; and with the knowledge that
at any moment a word on his part might lead
out your father to a cruel death — oh, mother,
mother, you may ask me to forgive, but not to
excuse ! "

Ambition — the desire for influence and
leadership — is his very life," the mother said,
calmly. "He cares more for that than anything
in the world — wife, child, anything, he would
sacrifice to it. But now, child," she said, with
a concerned look, "can you understand why I
have told you the story ? "

Natalie looked up bewildered. For a time
the interest of this story, intense as it had been
to her, had distracted her mind from her own
troubles ; though all through she had been conscious
of some impending gloom, that seemed to
darken the life around her.

"It was not merely to tell you of my sufferings,
Natalushka," the mother said at once, gently and
anxiously. " They are over. I am happy to be
beside you ; if you are happy. But when a little
time ago you told me of Vir. Brand being ordered

away to this duty, and of the fate likely to befall
him, I said to myself, 'Ah, no ; surely it cannot bethe
story told twice over. He would not dare todo
that again.' "

The girl turned deadly pale.

My child, that is why I asked you. Mr.
Brand disappointed your father, I can see, about
the money affair. Then, when he might have
been got out of the way by being sent to
America, you make matters worse than ever by
threatening to go with him."

The girl did not speak ; but her eyes were
terrified.

"Natalie," the mother said, gently, "have I
done wrong to put these suspicions into your
mind ? Have I done wrong to put you into
antagonism with your father ? My child, I cannot
see you suffer without revealing to you what I
imagine may be the cause — even if it is impossible
to fight against it — even if one can only shudder
at the cruelty of which some are capable. We
can pray God to give us resignation "

Natalie Lind was not listening at all. Her
face was white ; her lips firm ; her eyes fixed.

Mother," she said at length, in a low voice.

and speaking as if she were weighing each word,
if you think the story is being told again, wliy
should it not be carried out ? You appealed, to
save the life of one who loved you. And I — wh\-
may not I also ? "

"Oh, child, child!" the mother cried, in terror,
laying hold of her arm. " Do not think of it !
Anything but that ! You do not know how
terrible your father is wlicn his anger is aroused :
look at what I have suffered ; Natalushka, I will
not have you lead the life that I have led ; you
must not — you dare not — interfere ! "

The girl put her hand aside, and sprang to her
feet. No looser was she white of face. The
blood of the Berezolyis was in her cheeks ; her
eyes were dilated ; her voice was proud and
indignant.

"And I," she said, — "if this is true — if this is
possible — oh, do you think I am going to see
a brave man sent to his death, shamelessly,
cruelly, and not do what I can to save him } It
is not for you, mother, it is not for one who bears
the name that you bear, to tell me to be afraid.
What have I to fear ? What I did fear was to
live — with him dead. Now "

The mother had risen quickly to her feet also ;
and sought to hold her daughter's hands.

"For the sake of Heaven, Natalushka!" she
pleaded. "You are running Into a terrible danger
"

Do I care, mother ? Do I look as if I
cared ? " she said, proudly.

"And for no purpose, Natalushka. You will
only bring down on yourself the fury of your
father ; and he will make your life as miserable ashe
has made mine. And what can you do, child ?
What can you do but bring ruin on yourself ?
You are powerless. You have no influence with
those in authority, as I at one time had. You do
not know them : how can you reach them ? "

You forget, mother," the girl said, triumphantly.
"Was it not you yourself who asked
me if I had ever heard of one Bartolotti ? "

The mother uttered a slight cry of alarm.

No, no, Natalushka, I beg of you "

The ofirl took her mother in her arms and
kissed her. There was a strange joy in her face.
The eyes were no longer haggard ; but full of
light and hope.

You dear mother," she said, as she gently

compelled her to be seated again, " that is the
place for you. You will remain here, quiet, undisturbed
by any fears ; no one shall molest you ;
and when you have quite recovered from all )our
sufferings, and when your courage has returned to
you, then I will come back and tell you my story'.
It is story for story, is it not ? "

She rang the bell.

Pardon me, dear mother ; there is no time
to be lost. For once I return to my father's
house — yes, there is a card there that I must
have "

But afterwards, child — where do you go ? "
the mother said, though she could scarcely find
utterance.

Why, to Naples, mother ! I am an experienced
traveller. I shall need no courier."

The blood had mounted into both cheek and
forehead ; her eyes were full of life and pride ;
even at such a moment the anxious, frightened
mother was forced to think she had never seen
her daughter look so beautiful.

The door opened.

Madame, be so good as to tell Anneli that I
am ready."

She turned to her mother.

Now, mother, it is good-bye for I do not
know how long."

Oh no, it is not, child," said the other,
trembling, and yet smiling in spite of all her fears.
"If you are going to travel, you must have a
courier. I will be your courier, Natalushka."

You will come with me, mother ? " she
cried, with a happy surprise leaping to her face.
Come, then ! We will give courage to each
other, you and I, shall we not ? Ah, dear mother,
you have told me your story only in time ; but
we will go quickly now — you and I together ! "

CHAPTER V.

SOUTHWARDS.

After so much violent emotion the rapid and
eager preparations for travel proved a useful distraction.
There was no time to lose ; and Natalie
very speedily found that it was she herself who
must undertake the duties of courier, her mother
beings far too anxious and alarmed. Once or
twice, indeed, the girl, regarding the worn, sad
face, almost repented of having accepted that
impulsive offer, and would have proposed to start
alone. But she knew that, left in solitude, the
poor, distressed mother Avould only torture herself
with imaginary fears. As for herself, she had
no fear. Her heart was too full to have any
room for fear.

And yet her hand trembled a little as she sat
down to write these two messages of farewell.
The first ran thus : —
3.— xn. r

My Father,

To-day, for the first time, I have heard
my mother's story — from herself. I have looked
into her eyes ; I know she speaks the truth. You
will not wonder then that I leave your house ;
that I go with her — there must be some one to try
to console her for all she has suffered ; and I am
her daughter. I thank you for many years of
kindness ; and pray God to bless you.

Natalie."

The next was easier to write.

Dearest,

My mother and I leave England
to-night ; do not ask why we go, or why I have
not sent for you to come and say good-bye. We
shall be away perhaps only a few days ; in any
case you must not go until we return. Do not
forget that I must see you again.

Natalie."

She felt happier when she had written these
two notes. She rose from the table and went
over to her mother.

Now, mother, tell me how much money you
have," she said, with a highly practical air.

"Wba^ have I startled yon, poor lite mother?
I bdieve jour head is laDof all kinds of sUauge
focidxidiags; and yet their used to sap that the
Beiezalyis were aD of them very ooac^eoosL"

HafahrJika, joa do not know idiot dangci
you are mshb^ into"" the mother said, alw*^iily

I again a^ yoo, mother, a single question :
how nmcfa nones have you ? "

"I ? I hare thirty pounds or thereabouts;
Xatalie : that is mj rai^ita^ as it were ; hot next
imxith my cousins will send wit ^

Nearer mind about next wmwtli, another dear.
Yoo most let me rob yon of all }: -
pounds And post to make sm^ ~
bono ten pounds more finom Madame '.
Madame is not so Ter poor; she has r
she would give me every farthing if I as
.end do yon think, lite mother, if we oc
i ;;;.: . — i :— drink there will be i . :
dilfiknh^ bgdb the inn to ]

Potecfci?"

She was quite gay, to give her mother
oouia^e. And she lefiised to leave her alone,
a prey to these a^kxmy ferdbodai^s. She caned
her off with her in a cab, ta Congo Street; and

left her in the cab while she entered the house
with Anneli. Anneli cried a little when she was
receiving her mistress's last instructions.

Am I never to see you again, Fraulein ? "
she sobbed. " Are you never coming back to the
house any more ? "

Of course you will see me again, you foolish
girl, even if I do not come back here. Now you
will be careful, Anneli, to have the wine a little
warmed, before dinner ; and see that your
master's slippers are in the study, by the fire ;
and the coffee — you must make the coffee yourself,
Anneli "

Oh yes, indeed, Fraulein, I will make the
coffee," said Anneli, with a fresh flowing of tears.
But — but may not I go with you, Fraulein ? —
if you are not coming back here any more, why
may I not go with you ? I am not anxious for
wages, Fraulein — I do not want any wages at all
but if you will take me with you "

Now, do not be foolish, Anneli. Have you
not a whole house to look after ? There, take
these keys. You will have to show that you can
be a good house-mistress ; and sensible ; and not
childish."

At the door she shook hands with the sobbing
maid, and bade her a cheerful good-bye. Then
she got into the cab and drove away to Madame
Potecki's lodgings. Finally, by dexterous management,
she succeeded in getting her mother and
herself to Charing Cross Station in time to catch
the afternoon express to Dover.

It is probable that, now the first excitement
of setting out was over, and the two women-folk
left to themselves in the solitude of a compartment,
Natalie might have begun to reflect with
some tremor of the heart on the very vagueness
of the task she had undertaken. But she was not
permitted to do so. The necessity of driving
away her mother's forebodings prevented her
indulging in any of her own. She was forced to
be careless, cheerful, matter-of-fact.

Natalushka," the mother said, holding her
daughter's hand, " you have been brought up in
ignorance. You know only the romantic, the
beautiful side of what is going on ; you do not
know what these men are ready to do — what has
been done — to secure the success of their schemes.
And for you, a girl, to interfere — it is madness
Natalushka. They will laugh at you, perhaps ;

perhaps it may be worse — they may resent your

interference, and ask who has betrayed their

secrets."

Are they so very terrible, then ? " said the

girl, with a smile, "when Lord Evelyn — ah,
you do not know him yet, mother ; but he is as
gentle as a woman — when he is their friend ; and
when Mr. Brand is full of admiration for what
they are doing ; and when Clarissa — now,
mother, is Clarissa likely to harm any one ?
And it was Clarissa himself who said to me,
Little daughter, if ever you are in great trouble,
go to Naples. You will find friends there.' No,
mother, it is no use your trying to frighten me.
No ; let us talk about something sensible. For
example, which way is the wind ? "
How can I tell, Natalushka ? "
The girl laughed — rather a forced laugh,
perhaps ; she could not altogether shake off the
consciousness of the peril that surrounded her
lover.

Why, mother, you are a pretty courier !
You are about to cross the Channel ; and you do
not know which way the wind is ; or whether the
sea is rough ; or anything. Now I will tell you ; it

is I who am the courier. The wind is north-east ;
the sea was quite smooth yesterday evenings ; I
think we shall have a comfortable passage. And
do you know wh)- I have brouL,dit you awa)- by
this train ? Don't you know that I shall get you
down to Dover in time to give you something
nice for dinner ; then, if the sea is quite smooth,
we go on board before the people come ; then we
cross over to Calais, and go to a hotel there ; then
you get a good, long, sound sleep, you little
mother, and the next day — that is tomorrow —
about noon, I think, we go easily on to Paris.
What do you think of that, now ? "

Whatever you do will be right, Natalushka.
You know I have never before had a daughter to
look after me."

Natalie's programme was fulfilled to the letter,
and with good fortune. They dined in the hotel ;
had some tea ; and then went down through the
dark clear night to the packet. The sea was
like a mill-pond ; there was just sufficient motion
of the water to make the reflections of the stars
quiver in the dark. The two women sat together
on deck ; and as the steamer gradually took them
away from the lights of the English coast, Natalie

hummed to her mother, in a low voice, some
verses of an old Magyar song, which were scarcely
audible amid the rush of water and the throbbing
of the paddles.

Next day the long and tedious railway journey
began ; and here again Natalie acted as the most
indefatigable and accomplished of couriers.

How do you manage it, Natalushka ? " said
the mother, as she got into the coup, to this tall and
handsome young lady who was standing outside,
and on whom everybody seemed to wait. "' You
get everything you want ; and without trouble."

It is only practice, with a little patience," she
said, simply, as she opened her flask of white-rose
scent and handed it up to her mother.

Necessarily it was rail all the way for these
two travellers. Not for them the joyous assembling
on the Mediterranean shore, where Nice
lies basking in the sun like a pink surf thrown
up by the waves. Not for them the packing of
the great carriage ; and the swinging away of-the
four horses with their jingling bells ; and the slow
climbing of the Cornice, the road twisting up the
face of the grey mountains, through perpetual
lemon-groves, with far below the ribbed blue sea.

Not for them the leisurely trotting all clay long
through the luxuriant beauty of the Riviera — the
sun hot on the ruddy cliffs of granite, and on the
terraces of figs and vines and spreading palms ;
nor the rattling through the narrow streets of the
old walled towns, with the scarlet-capped men
and swarthy-visaged women shrinking into the
doorways as the horses clatter by ; nor the quiet
evenings in the hotel garden, with the moon
rising over the murmuring sea, and the air sweet
with the perfumes of the south. No. They
climbed a mountain, it is true ; but it was behind
an engine : they beheld the Mont Cenis snows ;
but it was from the window of a railway-carriage.
Then they passed through the black, resounding
tunnel, with, after a time, its sudden glares of
light ; finally the world seemed to open around
them : they looked down upon Italy.

Many a one has died for you — and been
glad," said the girl, almost to herself, as she
gazed abroad on the great valleys, with here and
there a peak crowned with a castle or a convent,
with the vinc-terraccd hills showing now and
again a few white dots of houses, and beyond and
above all these the far blue mountains with their
sharp line of snow.

Then they descended and passed through the
luxuriant yellow plains — the sunset blazing on
the rows of willows and on the square farmhouses
with their gaudy picture over the arched
gateway ; while always in the background rose
the dark masses of the mountains, solemn and
distant, beyond the golden glow of the fields.
They reached Turin at dusk, both of them very
tired.

So far scarcely anything had been said about
the object of their journey, though they could
have talked in safety even in railway-carriages,
as they spoke to each other in Magyar. But
Natalie refused to listen to any dissuading counsel;
when her mother began, she would say, " Dear
little mother, will you have some white rose for
your forehead and your fingers ? "

From Turin they had to start again early in
the morning. They had by this time grown
quite accustomed to the plod, plodding of the
train ; it seemed almost one of the normal and
necessary conditions of life. They went down by
Genoa, Spezia, Pisa, and Rome ; making the
shortest possible pauses.

One night the windows of a sitting-room ina
hotel at the western end of Naples were
opened ; and a young girl stepped out on to the
high balcony, a light shawl thrown over her head
and shoulders. It was a beautiful night ; the air
sweet and still ; the moonlight shining over the
scarcely stirring waters of the bay. Before her
rose the vast bulk of the Castello dell' Ovo ; a
huge mass of black shadow against the silvery
sea and the lambent sky ; then far away throbbed
the dull orange lights of the city ; and beyond
these assail Vesuvius towered into the clear
darkness, with a line of sharp, intense crimson
marking its summit. Through the perfect silence
she could hear the sound of the oars of a boat,
itself unseen ; and over the whispering waters
came some faint and distant refrain — '' Actio ! —
actio ! " At length even these sounds ceased ;
and she was alone in the still, murmuring, beautiful
night.

She looked across to the great cit)-. Who
were her unknown friends there } What mighty
power was she about to invoke on the narrow ?
There was no need for her to consult the card
that Clarissa had given her ; again and again,

in the night-time, when her mother lay asleep,
she had studied it, and wondered whether it
would prove the talisman the giver had called
it. She looked at this great city beside the sea ;
and only knew that it was beautiful in the moonlight;
she had no fear of anything that it contained.
And then she thought of another city,
far away in the colder north ; and she wondered
if a certain window were open there, overlooking
the river and the gas-lamps and the bridges ; and
whether there was one there thinking of her.
Could not the night-wind carry the speech and
desire of her heart i* — " Good night, good night
. . Love knows no fear . . . Not yet is our
life for ever broken for usT

CHAPTER VI.

THE BEECHES.

On the same night Lord Evelyn was in Brand's
rooms, arguing, expostulating, entreating, all to
no purpose. He was astounded at the calmness
with which this man appeared to accept the
terrible task imposed on him, and at the stoical
indifference with which he looked forward to the
almost certain sacrifice of his own life.

You have become a fanatic of fanatics ! " he
exclaimed, indignantly.

George Brand was staring out of the windows
into the dark night, somewhat absently.

I suppose," he answered, " all the great
things that have been done in the world have
been founded in fanaticism. All that I can hope
for now is that this particular act of the Council
may have the good effect they anticipate.
They ought to know. They see the sort of
people with whom they have to deal. I should

have thought, with Lind, that it was unwise —
that it would shock, or even terrify ; but my
opinion is neither here nor there. Further talking
is of no use, Evelyn ; the thing is settled ;
what I have to consider now, as regards myself, is
how I can best benefit a few people whom I am
interested in ; and you can help me in that."

But I appeal to yourself — to your conscience
! " Lord Evelyn cried, almost in despair.
You cannot shift the responsibility to them.
You are answerable for your own actions. I say
you are sacrificing your conscience to your pride.
You are saying to yourself, ' Do these foreigners
think that I am afraid ? ' "

I am not thinking of myself at all," said
Brand, simply. " That is all over. When I
swore to give myself to this Society — to obey the
commands of the Council — then my responsibility
ceased. What I have to do is to be faithful to
my oath — and to the promise I have made."
Almost unconsciously he glanced at the ring that
Natalie had given him. "You would not have
me skulk back, like a coward ? You would not
have me ' play and not pay ' } What I have
undertaken to do, I will do."

Presently he added —

There is something you could do, Evelyn.
Don't let us talk further of myself: I said before,
if a single man drops out of the ranks, what
matter ? — the army marches on. And what has
been concerning me of late is the effect that this
act of the Council may have on our thousands of
friends throughout this country. Now, Evelyn,
when — when the affair comes off — I think you
would do a great deal of good by pointing out
in the papers what a scoundrel this man Zaccatelli
was ; how he had merited his punishment ; and
how it might seem justifiable to the people over
there that one should take the law into one's
own hands in such an exceptional case. You
might do that, Evelyn, for the sake of the Society.
The people over here don't know what a ruffian
he is ; and how he is beyond the ordinary reach
of the law ; or how the poor people have groaned
under his iniquities. Don't seek to justify me ;
I shall be beyond the reach of excuse, or execration,
by that time ; but you might break the
shock, don't you see .'* — you might explain a little
■ — you might intimate to our friends who have
joined us here that they had not joined any

kind of Camorra association. That troubles
me more than anything. I confess to you that
I have got quite reconciled to the affair, as far
as any sacrifice on my own part is concerned.
That bitterness is over. I can even think of
Natalie."

The last words were spoken slowly, and in a
low voice ; his eyes were fixed on the night-world
outside. What could his friend say ? They
talked late into the night ; but all his remonstrances
and prayers were of no avail as against
this clear resolve.

What is the use of discussion ? " was the
placid answer. " What would you have me do ?
Break my oaths — put aside my sacred promise
made to Natalie — and give up the Society altogether
? My good fellow, let us talk of something
less impossible."

And indeed, though he deprecated discussion
on this point, he was anxious to talk. The fact
was that of late he had come to fear sleep — as
the look of his eyes testified. In the daytime, or
as long as he could sit up with a companion, he
could force himself to think only of the immediate
and practical demands of the hour; vain regrets

over what might have been — and even occasional
uneasy searchings of conscience — he could by an
effort of will ignore. He had accepted his fate ;
he had schooled himself to look forward to it
without fear ; henceforth there was to be no
indecision, no murmur of complaint. But in
the night-time — in dreams — the natural craving
for life asserted itself: it seemed so sad to bid
good-bye for ever to those whom he had known
and loved ; and mostly always it was Natalie herself
who stood there, regarding him with streaming
eyes, and wringing her hands, and sobbing to
him farewell. The morning light, or the first
calls in the thoroughfare below, or the shrieking
of some rail way whistle on Hungered Bridge,
brought an inexpressible relief by banishing these
aQfonizinof visions. No matter how soon Waters
was astir, he found his master up before him —
dressed, and walking up and down the room, or
reading some evening newspaper of the previous
day. Sometimes Brand occupied himself in
getting ready his own breakfast; but he had to
explain to Waters that this was not meant as a
rebuke ; it was merely that, being awake early,
he wished for some occupation.

.^.— XII. G

Early on the morning after this last despairing
protest on the part of Lord Evelyn, Brand drove
up to Haddington Station, on his way to pay a
hurried visit to his Buckinghamshire home.
Nearly all his affairs had been settled in town ;
there remained some arrangements to be made
in the country. Lord Evelyn was to have joined
him in this excursion ; but at the last moment
had not put in an appearance ; so Brand jumped
in just as the train was starting ; and found
himself alone in the carriage.

The bundle of newspapers he had with him
did not seem to interest him much. He was
more than ever puzzled to account for the continued
silence of Natalie. Each morning he had
been confidently expecting to hear from her — to
have some explanation of her sudden departure ;
but as the days went by, and no message of any
sort arrived, his wonder became merged in
anxiety. It seemed so strange that she should
thus absent herself, when she had been counting
on each day on which she might see him as if it
were some gracious gift from Heaven.

All that he was certain of in the matter was
that Lind knew no more than himself as to

where Natalie had iron. One afternoon, croinjj:
out from his rooms into Buckingham Street, he
caught sight of Beratinsky loitering about further
up the little thoroughfare, about the corner of
John Street. Beratinsky's back was turned to him;
and so he took advantage of the moment to open
the gate, for which he had a private key, leading
down to the old York Gate. From thence he
made his way round by Villiers Street, whence he
could get a better view of the little black-advised
Pole's proceedings.

He speedily convinced himself that Beratinsky,
though occasionally he walked along in the
direction of Adam Street, and though sometimes
he would leisurely stroll up to the Strand, was in
reality keeping an eye on Buckingham Street ;
and he had not the least doubt that he himself
was the object of this surveillance. He laughed
to himself Had these wise people in Lisle Street,
then, discovering that Natalie's mother was in
London, arrived at the conclusion that she and her
daughter had taken refuge in so very open a
place of shelter ? When Beratinsky was least
expecting any such encounter, Brand went up
and tapped him on the shoulder.

How do you do, Mr. Beratinsky ?" said he,
when the other had wheeled round. " This is
not the most agreeable place for a stroll. Why
do you not go down to the Embankment
Gardens ? "

Beratinsky was angry and confused ; but did
not quite lose his self-command.

I am waiting for some one," he said, curtly.

Or to find out about some one ? Well, I
will save you some trouble. Lind wishes to
know where his wife and daughter are, I
imagine."

"Is that unnatural ? "

I suppose not. I heard he had been down
to Hans Place, where Madame Lind was staying."

You knew, then ? " the other said, quickly.

Oh yes, I knew. Now, if you will be frank
with me, I may be of some assistance to you.
Lind does not know where his wife and daughter
are :

You know he does not."

And you — perhaps you fancied that one or
other might be sending a message to me — might
call, perhaps — or even that I might have got
them rooms for the time being ? "

The Englishman's penetrating grey eyes were
difficult to avoid.

You appear to know a good deal, Mr.
Brand," Beratinsky said, somewhat sulkily, " Perhaps
you can tell me where they are now."

I can tell you where they are not — and that
is in London."

The other looked surprised— then suspicious.

Oh, believe me or not as you please. I only
wish to save you trouble. I tell you that, to the
best of my belief, Miss Lind and her mother are
not in London — nor in this country even."

How do you know } "

Pardon me — you are going too far. I only
tell you what I believe. In return, as I have
saved you some trouble, I shall expect you tolet
me know if you hear anything about them.
Is that too much to ask ? "

Then you really don't know where they
are ^ ' Beratinsky said, with a (quick glance.

"I do not. But they have left London — that
I do know."

I am very much obliged to you," said the
other, more humbly. " I wish you good evening,
Mr. Brand."

Stay a moment. Can you tell me what
Yacov Kirski's address is ? I have something to
arrange with him before I leave England."

He took out his note-book, and put down
the address that Beratinsky gave him. Then the
latter moved away, taking off his hat politely, but
not shaking hands.

Brand was amused rather than surprised at
this little adventure ; but when day after day
passed, and no tidings came from Natalie, he
grew alarmed. Each morning he was certain
there would be a letter ; each morning the postman
rang the bell below, and Waters would
tumble down the stairs at break-neck speed, but
not a word came from Natalie or her mother.

At the little Buckinghamshire station at which
he stopped he found a dog-cart waiting to convey
him to Hill Beeches ; and speedily he was driving
away through the country he knew so well — now
somewhat desolate in the faded tints of the waning
of the year. And perhaps, as he drew near to
the red and white house on the side of the hill,
he began to reproach himself that he had not
made the place more his home. Though the
grounds and shrubberies were neat and trim

enough, there was a neglected look about the
house itself. When he entered, his footsteps
rang hollow on uncarpeted floors. Chintz covered
the furniture ; muslin smothered the chandeliers ;
everything seemed to be locked up and put away.
ind this comely woman of sixty or so who came
forward to meet him — a smiling, gracious dame,
with silvery-white hair, and peach-like cheeks,
and the most winning little laugh : was not her
first word some hint to the young master that
he had been a long time away, and how the
neighbours were many a time asking her when
a young mistress was coming to the Beeches,
to keep the place as it used to be kept in the
olden days ?

Ah, well, sir, you know how the people do
talk," she said, with an apologetic smile. " And
there was Mrs. Diggles, sir, that is at the
Chequers, sir, and she was speaking only the
other day as it might be about the old oak
cupboard that you remember, sir, and she was
saying, 'Well, I wouldn't give that cupboard to
Master Brand, though he offered me twenty
pound for it years ago — twenty pound, not a
farthing less. My rather he gave me that cupboard

when I was married ; and ten shillings was
what he paid for it ; and then there was twenty-five
shillings paid for putting that cupboard to
rights. And then the wet day that Maister Brand
was out shooting ; and the Chequers that crowded
that I had to ask him and the other gentlemen
to go into my own room ; and what does he say
but, " Mrs. Diggles, I will give you twenty pound
for that cupboard of your, once you knock off
the feet and the curly bit on the top." Law,
how the gentle-folk do know about sech things :
that was exactly what my rather he paid the
twenty-five shillings for. But how could I give
him my cupboard for twenty pound, when I had
promised it to my nephew ? When I'm taken,
that cupboard my nephew shall have.' Well,
sir, the people do say that Mrs. Diggles and her
nephew have had a quarrel ; and this was what
she was saying to me, begging your pardon, sir,
only the other day as it might be, says she,
Mrs. Alleyne, this is w^^hat I will do : when your
young maister brings home a wife to the Beeches,
I will make his lady a wedding-present of that
cupboard of mine — that I will, if so be as she
is not too proud to accept it from one in my

'humble station. It will be a wedding-present ;
and the sooner the better,' says she, begging of
your pardon, sir."

It is very kind of her, Mrs. Alleyne. Now
let me have the keys, if you please. I have one
or two things to see to ; and I will not detain
you now."

She handed him the keys and accepted her
dismissal gratefully, for she was anxious to get
off and see about luncheon. Then Brand proceeded
to stroll quietly, and perhaps even sadly,
through the empty and resounding rooms, that
had for him many memories.

It was a rambling, old-fashioned, oddly built
house, that had been added on to by successive
generations according to their needs,
without much reference to the original design.
It had come into the possession of the Brands
of Darlington by marriage ; George Brand's
grandfather having married a certain Lady Mary
Seaton, the last representative of an old and
famous family. And these lonely rooms that he
now walked through — remarking here and there
what prominence had been given by his mother
to the many trophies of the chase that he himself

had sent home from various parts of the world —
were hung chiefly with portraits, whose costumes
ranged from the stiff frill and peaked waist of
Elizabeth to the low neck and ringleted hair of
Victoria. But there was in an inner room which
he entered another collection of portraits that
seemed to have a peculiar fascination for him —
a series of miniatures of various members of the
Seaton and Brand families, reaching down even
to himself, for the last that was added had been
one taken when he was a lad, to send to his
mother, then lying dangerously ill at Cannes.
There was her own portrait, too — that of a
delicate-looking woman, with large, lustrous, soft
eyes, and wean cheeks, who had that peculiar
tenderness and sweetness of expression that
frequently accompanies consumption. He sat
looking at these various portraits a long time,
wondering now and again what this or that one
may have suffered or rejoiced in ; but more than
all he lingered over the last — as if to bid those
beautiful, tender eyes a final farewell.

He was startled by the sound of some vehicle
rattling over the gravel outside ; then he heard
some one come walking through the echoing

rooms. Instantly — he scarcely knew why — he
shut down the lid of the case in front of him.

Missed the train by just a second," Lord
Evelyn said, coming into the room. " I am
awfully sorry."

It doesn't matter," Brand answered. " But
I am old you have come. I have everything
squared up in London, I think ; there only remains
to settle a few things down here."

He spoke in quite a matter-of-fact way — so
much so that his friend forgot to utter any further
and unavailing protest.

You know I am supposed to be going away
abroad for a long time," he continued. " You
must take my place, Evelyn, in a sort of way ;
and I will introduce you to-day to the people you
must look after. There is a grandson of m)'
mother's nurse, for example ; I promised to do
something for him when he completed his apprenticeship.
And two old ladies who have seen
better diis : they are not supposed to accept an)-
help ; but you can make wonderful discoveries
about the value of their old china, and carry it
off to I>ond Street. I will leave you plenty of
funds ; before my nephew comes into the; place

there will be sufficient for him and to spare. But
as for yourself, Evelyn, I want you to take some
little souvenir — how about this ? ''

He went and fetched a curious old silver
drinking-cup, set round the lip and down the
handle with uncut rubies and sapphires.

I don't like the notion of the thing at all,"
Lord Evelyn said, rather gloomily ; but it was
not the cup that he was refusing thus ungraciously.


After a time people will give me up for lost ;
and I have left you ample power to give any one
you can think of some little present, don't you
know, as a memento — whatever strikes your own
fancy. I want Natalie to have that Louis XV.
table over there — people rather admire the inlaid
work on it, and the devices inside are endless.
However, we will make out a list of these things
afterwards. Will you drive with me down to
the village now ? I want you to see my pensioners."


All right — if you like," Lord Evelyn said ;
though his heart was not in the work.

He walked out of this little room and made
his way to the front door, fancying that Brand

would immediately follow. But Brand returned
to that room ; and opened the case of miniatures.
Then he took from his pocket a little parcel, and
unrolled it ; it was a portrait of Natalie — a photograph
on porcelain, most delicately coloured, and
surrounded with an antique silver frame. He
gazed for a minute or two at the beautiful face ;
and somehow the eyes seemed sad to him. Then
he placed the little portrait — which itself looked
like a miniature — next the miniature of his
mother ; and shut the case and locked it.

I beg your pardon, Evelyn, for keeping you
waiting," he said, at the front door. "Will you
particularly remember this — that none of the
portraits here are to be disturbed, on any account
whatever } "

CHAPTER VII.

AT Portico.

Natalie slept far from soundly the first night after
her arrival in Naples ; she was glad when the
slow, anxious hours, with all their bewildering uncertainties
and forebodings, were over. She rose
early, and dressed quickly ; she threw open the
tall French windows to let in the soft silken air
from the sea ; then she stepped out on to the
balcony to marvel once more — she who knew
Naples well enough — at the shining beauty around
her.

It was a morning to give courage to any one ;
the air was fresh and sweet ; she drank deep of
the abundant gladness and brightness of the world.
The great plain of waters before her shimmered
and sparkled in millions of diamonds ; with here
and there long splashes of sunny green, and here
and there long splashes of purple where the seaweed

showed through. The waves sprang white
on the projecting walls of the Castello dell' Ovo ;
and washed in on the shore with a soft continuous
murmur ; the brown-sailed fishing-boats went by,
showing black or red as they happened to be in
sunshine or shadow. Then far away beyond the
shining sea the island of Capri lay like a blue
cloud on the horizon ; and far away beyond the
now awakening city near her rose Vesuvius, the
twin peaks dark under some swathes of cloud,
the sunlight touching the lower slopes into a
yellowish green, and shining on the pink fringe
of villas along the shore. On so fair and bright
a morning hope came as natural to her as singing
to a bird. The fears of the night were over ;
she could not be afraid of what such a day should
bring forth.

And yet — and yet — from time to time — and
just for a second or so — her heart seemed to
stand still. And she was so silent and preoccupied
at breakfast, that her mother remarked
it ; and Natalie had to excuse herself by saying
that she was a little tired with the travelling.
After breakfast, she led her mother into the
reading-room, and said, in rather an excited way —

Now, mother, here is a treat for you. You
will get all the English papers here ; and all the
news."

"You forget, Natalie," said her mother, smiling,
that English papers are not of much use to
me"'

"Ah, well, the foreign papers," she said,
quickly. " You see, mother, I want to go along
to a chemist's to get some white-rose."

You should not throw it about the railway
carriages so much, Natalushka," the unsuspecting
mother said, reprovingly. " You are extravagant."


She did not heed.

Perhaps they will have it in Naples. Wait
until I come back, mother ; I shall not be long."

But it was not any white-rose scent that was
in her mind as she went rapidly away and got
ready to go out ; and it was not in search of any
chemist's shop that she made her way to the Via
Roma. Why, she had asked herself that morning,
as she stood on the balcony, and drank in
the sunlight and the sweet air, should she take
the poor tired mother with her on this adventure ?
If there was danger, she would brave it by herself.

She walked quickly — perhaps anxious to make
the first plunge.

She had no difficulty in finding the Vico Carlo
though it was one of the narrowest and steepest
of the small, narrow, and steep lanes leading off
the main thoroughfare into the masses of tall and
closely built houses on the side of the hill. But
when she looked up and recognized the little plate
bearing the name at the corner, she turned a little
pale : something — she knew not what — was now
so near.

And as she turned into this narrow and squalid
little alley, it seemed as if her eyes, through some
excitement or other, observed the objects around
her with a strange intensity. She could remember
each and every one of them afterwards — the
fruit-sellers bawling, and the sellers of acidulated
drinks out-roaring them ; the shoemakers already
at work at their open stalls ; mules laden with
vegetables ; a negro monk with his black woolly
head above the brown hood ; a venerable letter-writer
at a small table, spectacles on nose and pen
in hand, with two women whispering to him what
he was to write for them. She made her way up
the steep lane, through the busy, motley, male.—

XII. H

odorous crowd, until she reached the corner pointed
out to her by Clarissa.

But he had not told her which way to turn ;
and for a second or two she stood in the middle
of the crossing, uncertain and bewildered. A
brawny-looking fellow, apparently a butcher, addressed
her ; she murmured some thanks, and
hastily turned away, taking to the right. She
had not gone but a few yards when she saw the
entrance to a court which, at least, was certainly
as dark as that described by Clarissa. She
was half afraid that the man who had spoken
to her was following her ; and so, without further
hesitation, she plunged into this gloomy courtyard,
Which was apparently quite deserted.

She was alone ; and she looked around. A
second convinced her that she had hit upon the
place, as it were by accident. Over her head
swung an oil-lamp, that threw but the scantiest
orange light into the vague shadows of the place ;
and in front of her where the open door and
windows of what was apparently a wine-shop.
She did not stay to reflect. Perhaps with some
little tightening of the mouth — unknown to herself
— she walked forward and entered the vaults.

Here, again, no one was visible. There were
rows of turns, certainly, and a musty odour in the
jDlace ; but no sign of any trade or business being
carried on. Suddenly, out of the darkness, appeared
a figure — so suddenly indeed as to startle
her. Had this man been seen in ordinary daylight,
he would no doubt have looked nothing
worse than a familiar type of the fat, black-advised
Italian — not a very comely person, it is true, but
not in any way horrible. But now these dusky
shadows lent something" orhoulish-lookinof to his
bushy head and greasy face and sparkling black
eyes.

What is the pleasure of the young lady ? "
he said, curtly.

Natalie had been startled.

I wished to enquire — I wished to mention,"
she stammered — "one Bartolotti."

But at the same time she was conscious of a
strange sinking of the heart. Was this the sort of
creature who was expected to save the life of her
lover ? — this the sort of man to pit against Ferdinand
Lind ? Poor old Clarissa — she thought
he meant w'cll ; but he boasted— he was foolish.

This heavy-faced and heavy-bodied man in

the dusk did not reply at once. He turned aside,
saying —

Excuse me, signorina, it is dark here. They
have neglected to light the lamps as yet."

Then, with much composure, he got a lamp,
struck a match, and lit it. The light was not
great; but he placed it deliberately so that it
shone on Natalie ; and then he calmly investigated
her appearance.

"Yes, signorina, you mentioned one Bartlett,"
he remarked, in a more respectful tone.

Natalie hesitated. According to Clarissa's
account, the mere mention of the name was to act
as a talisman which would work wonders for her.
This obese person merely stood there, awaiting
what she should say.

Perhaps," she said, in great embarrassment,
you know one Clarissa ? "

Ah, Clarissa ? " he said, and the dull face
lighted up with a little more intelligence. " Yes,
of course. One knows Clarissa."

He is a friend of mine," she said. " Perhaps,

if I could see him — he would explain to you "

But Clarissa is not here. He is not even
in this country, perhaps."

Then silence. A sort of terror seized her.
Was this the end of all her hopes ? Was she to
<jo away — thus ? Then came a sudden cry, wrun*j^
from her despair.

Oh, sir, you must tell me if there is no one
who can help me ! I havre come to save one who
is in trouble, in danger, Clarissa said to me,
Go to Naples ; go to such and such a place ; the
mere word Bartolotti will give you powerful
friends; count on them ; they will not fail one
who belongs to the Berezolyis.' And now "

Your pardon, signorina ; have the complaisance
to repeat the name."

Berezolyi," she answered, quickly ; "he said
it would be known."

I for my own part do not know it ; but that
is of no consequence," said the man. " I begin to
perceive what it is that you demand. It is
serious ; I hope my friend Clarissa is justified.
I have but to do my duty."

Then he glanced again at the young lady — or
rather, at her costume.

The assistance you demand for some one,
signorina : is it a sum of money — is it a reasonable,
ordinary sum of money that would be in the
question perhaps ? "

Oh no, signore ; not at all ! "

Very well. Then have the kindness to
write your name and your address for me : I will
convey your appeal."

He brought her writing materials ; after a
moment's consideration she wrote — " Natalie
Lind, the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi. Hotel
." She handed him the paper.

A thousand thanks, signorina. To-day, perhaps
tomorrow, you will hear from the friends of
Clarissa. You will be ready to go where they
ask you to go ? "

Oh yes, yes, sir ! " she exclaimed. " How
can I thank you ? "

"It is unnecessary," he said, taking the lamp
to show her the way more clearly. " I have the
honour to wish you good morning, signorina."
And again he bowed respectfully. " Your most
humble servant, signorina."

She returned to the hotel ; and found that her
mother had gone upstairs to her own room.

Natalushka, you have been away trying to
find some one."

Yes, mother," the girl said, rather sadly.

Why did you go alone ? "

I thought I would not tire you, dear mother."
Then she described all the circumstances of
her morning's visit.

But why should you be so sad, Natalushka ?"
the mother said, taking her daughter's hand.
Don't you know that fine palaces may have
rusty keys .^ Oh, I can reassure you on that
point. You will not have to deal with persons
like your friend the wine-merchant — not at all.
I know at least as much as that, child. But, you
see. they have to guard themselves."

Natalie would not leave the hotel for a
moment. She pretended to read ; but every
person who came into the reading-room caused
her to look up with a start of apprehensive
enquiry. At last there came a note to her. She
broke open the envelope hurriedly, and found a
plain white card, with these words written on it —
Be at tic Villa OdelschalcJii, Portici, at four
this afternoon''

Joy leapt to her face again.
"Mother, look!" she cried, eagerly. "After
all, we may hope ? "

This time you shall not go alone, ."


Why not, mother ? I am not afraid."

I may be of use to you, child. There maybe
friends of mine there — who knows ? I am
going with you."

In course of time they hired a carriage, and
drove away through the crowded and gaily coloured
city in the glow of the afternoon. But they had
sufficient prudence, before reaching Portici, to
descend from the carriage, and proceed on foot.
They walked quietly along, apparently not much
interested in what was around them. Presently
Natalie pressed her mother's arm ; they were
opposite the Villa Odelschalchi— there was the
name on the flat pillars by the gate.

This great plain building, which might have
been called a palazzo rather then a villa, seemed,
on the side fronting the street, to be entirely
closed ; all the casements of the windows being
shut. But when they crossed to the gate, and
pulled the big iron handle that set a bell ringing,
a porter appeared — a big, indolent-looking man,
who regarded them calmly, to see which would
speak first.

Natalie simply produced the card that had
been sent to her.

This is the Villi Odelschalchi, I perceive,"
she said.

Oh, it is you, then, signorina ? " the porter
said, with great respect. " Yes, there was one
lad)- to come here at four o'clock "

But the signora is my mother," said Natalie,
perhaps with a trifle of impatience.

The man hesitated for a moment ; but by this
time Natalie, accompanied by her mother, had
passed through the cool grey archway into the
spacious tesselated court from which rose on each
hand a wide marble staircase.

Will the signorina and the signora her
mother condescend to follow me ? " the porter
said, leading the way up one of the staircases, the
l^ig iron ke)-s still in his hand.

They were shown into an ante-chamber, but
scantily furnished ; and the porter disappeared.
In a minute or two there came into the room a
small, sallow-complexioned man — who was no
other than the Secretary Granaglia. He bowed ;
and as he did so glanced from the one to the other
of the visitors with scrutiny.

"It is no doubt correct, signorina," said he,
addressing himself to Natalie, " that you have

brought the signora your mother with you. We
had thought you were alone — from the message
we received. No matter; only" — and here he
turned to Natalie's mother — " only, signora, you
will renew your acquaintance with one who wishes
to be known by the name of Von Zoesch. I
have no doubt the signora understands."

Oh, perfectly, perfectly," said the elder
woman ; she had been familiar with these prudent
changes of name all her life.

The Secretary Granaglia bowed and retired.

It is some one who knows you, mother ? "
Natalie said, breathlessly.

Oh, I hope so ! " the other answered. She
was a little pale, and her fingers were tightly
clasped.

Then a heavier step was heard in the empty
corridors outside. The door was opened ; there
appeared a tall and soldierly-looking man, about
six feet three in height and perfectly erect, with
closely cropped white hair, a long white moustache,
a reddish face, and clear, piercing, light-blue eyes.
The moment the elder woman saw him, she
uttered a slight cry — of joy, it seemed, and surprise
— and sprang to her feet.

Stefan ! "

Natalie ! " he exclaimed in turn, with an
almost boyish laugh of pleasure ; and he came
forward to her with both hands outstretched, and
took hers. " Why, what good wind has brought
you to this country ? But I beg a thousand
pardons "

He turned and glanced at Natalie.

My child," she said. " let me present you to
my old friend, General "

Von Zoesch," he interrupted ; and he took
Xatalie's hand at the same time. " What, you
are the young lady, then, who bearded the lion in
his den this morning ? And you were not afraid ?
Xo ; I can see you are a Berezolyi ; if )ou were
a man you would be for ever getting yourself and
your friends into scrapes, and risking your neck
to get them out again. A Berezolyi, truly !
The more beautiful daughter of a beautiful
mother ;' but the little scamp knew his insulting
iambics were only fit to be thrown into the fire,
when he made that unjust comparison. Ah, you
young people have fresh complexions and bright
eyes on your side ; but we old people prefer our
old friends."

I hope so, sir," said Natalie, with her eyes
bent down.

And had your father no other messenger
that he must employ you ? " said this erect, white-haired
giant, who regarded her in a kindly way.
Or is it that feather-brained fellow Clarissa who
has got you to intercede Tor him ? Rest assured.
Clarissa will soon be in imminent peril of being
laid by the heels ; and he is therefore supremely
happy."

Before the girl could speak he had turned to
the mother.

Come, my old friend, shall we go out into
the garden ? I am sorry the reception-rooms in
the Villa are all dismantled ; in truth, we are only
temporary lodgers. And I have a great many
questions to ask you about old friends — particularly
your father."

Stefan, can you not understand why I have
permitted myself to leave Hungary ? "
He glanced at her deep mourning.
Ah, is that so ? Well, no one ever lived a
braver life. And how he kept up the old
Hungarian traditions .'—the house a hotel from
month's end to month's end : no questions asked,

but ' Are you a stranger ? Then my house is
yours.

He led the way down the stairs, chatting to
this old friend of his. And though Natalie was
burning with impatience, she forced herself to be
silent. Was it not all in her favour that this
member of the mysterious Council should recur
to these former days and remind himself of his
intimacy with her family ? She followed them
in silence. He seemed to have foro-often her

O

existence.

They passed through the courtyard, and down
some broad steps. The true front of the building
was on this seaward side — a huge mass of pink,
with green casements. From the broad stone
steps, a series of terraces, prettily laid out, descended
to a lawn ; but instead of passing down
that way, the tall, soldierly-looking man led his
companion by a side flight of steps, which enabled
them to enter an alec cut through a mass of
olives and orange and lemon trees. There were
fig-trees along the wall by the side of this path ;
a fountain plashed coolly out there on the lawn ;
and beyond the opening showed the deep blue of
the sea, with the clear waves breaking whitely on
the shores.

They sat down on a garden-seat ; and Natalie,
sitting next her mother, waited patiently and
breathlessly, scarcely hearing all this talk about
old companions and friends.

At last the General said —

Now about the business that brought you
here : is it serious ? "

Oh yes, very," the mother said, with some
colour of excitement appearing in her worn face.
It is a friend of ours in England ; he has been
charged by the Society with some duty that will
cost him his life ; we have come to intercede for
him — to ask you to save him. For the sake of
old times, Stefan "

Wait a moment," said the other, looking
grave. " Do you mean the Englishman ? "

Yes, yes ; the same ! "

And who has told you what it is purposed
to have done ? " he asked, with quite a change in
his manner.

"No one," she answered, eagerly. "We
ofuess that it is something of seat danger."

And if that is so, are you unfamiliar with
persons having to incur danger ? Why not an
Englishman as well as another ? This is an

extraordinary freak of yours, Natalie ; I cannot
understand it. And to have come so far when
any one in England — any one of us, I mean —
could have told you it was useless ! "

But why useless, if you are inclined to
interfere ? " she said, boldly. " And I think my
father's family have some title to consideration."

My old friend," said he, in a kindly way,
what is there in the world I would not do for
you, if it were within my power ? But this is
not. What you ask is, to put the matter shortly,
impossible — impossible ! "

In the brief silence that followed, the mother
heard a slight sigh ; she turned instantly and saw
her daughter, as white as death, about to fall.
She caught her in her arms, with a slight cry of
alarm.

Here, Stefan ! Take my handkerchief — dip
it in the water — quick ! "

The huge bullet-headed man strode across the
lawn to the fountain. As he returned, and saw
before iii the white-lipped unconscious girl who
was supported in her mother's arms, he said to
himself, " Now I understand."

CHAPTER VIII.

AN APPEAL.

This sudden and involuntary confession of alarm
and despair no doubt told her story more clearly
than anything else could have done. General
von Zoesch, as he chose to call himself, was excessively
concerned ; he held her hand till he
saw the life returning to the pale, beautiful face ;
he was profuse and earnest in his apologies.

My dear young lady, I beg a thousand
pardons ! — I had no idea of alarming you ; I had
no idea you were so deeply interested ; come,
take my arm and we will walk down into the
open where the sea-air is cool. I beg a thousand
pardons ! "

She had pulled herself together with a
desperate effort of will.

You spoke abruptly, signore. You used the

word possible. I had imagined it was unknown
to you."

Her lips were rather pale ; but there was a
flush of colour returning to her face ; and her
voice had something of the old proud and pathetic
rinof in it.

"Yes," she continued, standing before him,
with her eyes downcast, " I was told that when
great trouble came upon me or mine I was to
come here — to Naples — and I should find myself
under the protection of the greatest power in
Europe. My name — my mother's name — was to
be enough. And this is the result — that a brave
man, who is our friend and dear to us, is
threatened with a dishonourable death ; and the
very power that imposed it on him — the power
that was said to be invincible, and wise, and
generous — is unable, or unwilling, to stir hand
or foot!"

A dishonourable death, signorina ? "

Oh, signore," she said, with a proud indignation,
" do not speak to me as if I were a child !
Cannot one see what is behind all this secrecy ?
Cannot one see that you know well what has
been done in England, by your friends and
3.— xir. 1

colleagues ? You put this man, who is too
proud, too noble, to withdraw from his word, on
a service that involves the certain sacrifice of his
life. And there is no honour attached to this
sacrifice — so he himself has admitted. What
does that mean ? What can it mean — but assassination
! "

He drew back his head a little bit, as if
startled, and stared at her.

"My dear young lady ! "

But her courage had not returned to her for
nothing. She raised the beautiful, dark, pathetic
eyes ; and regarded him with an indignant fearlessness.


That is what any one might guess," she
said. " But there is more. Signore, you and
your friends meditate the assassination of the
King of Italy ! And you call on an Englishman
an Englishman who has no love of secret and
blood-stained ways "

*' Stefan ! " the mother cried, quickly, and she
placed her hand on the General's arm. " Do not
be angry. Do not heed her — she is a child —
she is quick to speak. Believe me, there are
other reasons for our coming to you."

Yes, yes, my friend Natalie ; all in y^ood
time. But I am most anxious to put myself
right with the signorina your daughter first of
all. Now, my dear young lady," he said, taking
her hand, and putting it on his arm, and gently
compelling her to walk with him towards the
opener space where the sea-air was cool, " I
again apologize to you for having spoken unwittingly
"

Oh, signore, do not trouble about that ! It
is not a matter of courtesy or politeness that is in
the question : it is the life of one of one's dearest
friends. There are other times for politeness ! "

Stefan ! " the mother interposed, anxiously,
"do not heed her — she is agitated."

My dear Natalie,'*' said the General, smiling,
I admire a brave woman as I admire a brave
man. Do not I recognize another of you
Berezolyis : the moment you think one of your
friends is being wronged, fire and water won't
prevent you from speaking out. No, no, my dear
young lady," he said, turning to the daughter, "you
cannot offend me by being loyal and outspoken."

He patted her hand, just as Clarissa had
done.

But I must ask you to listen for a moment,
to remove one or two misconceptions. It is true
I know something of the service which your
English friend has undertaken to perform. Believe
me, it has nothing to do with the assassination
of the King of Italy — nothing in the world."

She lifted her dark eyes for a second, and
regarded him steadily.

"I perceive," said he, "that you pay me the
compliment of asking me if I lie. I do not.
Reassure yourself; there are no people in this
country more loyal to the present dynasty than
my friends and myself. We have no time for wild
Republican projects."

She looked somewhat bewildered. This
speculation as to the possible nature of the service
demanded of George Brand had been the outcome
of many a night's anxious self-communing ;
and she had indulged in the wild hope that this
man, when abruptly challenged, might have been
startled into some avowal. For then, would not
her course have been clear enough ? But now she
was thrown back on her former perplexity ; with
only the one certainty present to her mind — the
certainty of the danger that confronted her lover.

My dear young lady," he said, "it is useless
for you to ask what that service is ; for I shall
refuse to answer you. But I assure you that you
have my deepest sympathy ; and I have seen a
good deal of suffering from similar causes. I do
not seek to break into your confidence ; but I
think I understand your position ; you will believe
me that it is with no light heart that I must repeat
the word impossible. Need I reason with you ?
Need I point out to you that there is scarcely anyone
in the world whom we might select for a
dangerous duty who would not have some one
who would suffer on his account ? Who is without
some tie of affection, that must be cut asunder —
no matter with what pain — when the necessity for
the sacrifice arises ? You are one of the unhappy
ones : you must be brave : you must try to
forget your suffering as thousands of wives and
sweethearts and daughters have had to forget in
thinking that their relatives and friends died in a
good cause."

Her heart was proud and indignant no longer.
It had grown numbed. The air from the sea felt
cold.

I am helpless, signore," she murmured. " I

do not know what that cause is. I do not know
what justification you have for taking this man's
life."

He did not answer that. He said —

Perhaps, indeed, it is not those who are
called on to sacrifice their life for the general
good who suffer most. They can console themselves
with thinking the results. It is their
friends — those dearest to them — who suffer ; and
who many a time would no doubt be glad to
become their substitutes. It is true that we —
that is, that many associations — recognize the
principle of the vicarious performance of duties
and punishments ; but not any one yet has permitted
a woman to become substitute for a man."

What made you think of that, signore ? " she
asked, regarding him.

I have known some cases," he said, evasively,
*' where such an offer, I think, would have been
made."

"It could not be accepted ? "

"Oh no!"

Not even by the power that is the greatest
in Europe ?" she said, bitterly — "that is invincible,
and all-generous ? Oh, signore, you are too modest

in your pretensions ! And the Berezolyis — they
have done nothing, then, in former days to entitle
them to consideration ; they are but as anybody
in the crowd, who might come forward and intercede
for a friend ; they have no old associates,
then, and companions in this Society, that they
cannot have this one thing granted them — that
they cannot get this one man's life spared to him !
Signore, your representatives mistake your powers ;
more than that, they mistake the strength of your
memory — and your friendship ! "

The red face of the bullet-headed General grew
redder still ; but not with anger.

Signorina," he said, evidently greatly embarrassed,
" you humiliate me. You — you do not
know what you ask "

He had led her back to the garden-seat ;
they had both sat down ; he did not notice how
her bosom was struggling with emotion.

You ask me to interfere — to commit an act
of injustice "

*' Oh, signore, signore, this is what I ask ! "
she cried, quite overcome ; and she fell at his feet,
and put her clasped hands on his knees, and
broke into a wild fit of crying. " This is what I

ask of you, signore — this is what I beg from you
on my knees — I ask you to give to me the Hfe of
of my betrothed ! "

She buried her face in her hands ; her frame
was shaken with her sobs.

Little daughter," said he, greatly agitated.
"Rise. Come, remain here for a few moments. I
wish to sneak to your mother — alone. Natalie ! "

The elder woman accompanied him a short
distance across the lawn ; they stood by the
fountain.

By Heaven, I would do anything for the
child," he said, rapidly. " But you see, dear friend,
how it is impossible. Look at the injustice of it.
If we transferred this duty to another person, what
possible excuse could we make to him whom we
might choose ? "

He was looking back at the girl.

"It will kill her, Stefan," the mother said.

Others have suffered also."

The elder woman seemed to collect herself a
lite.

But I told you we had not said everything
to you. The poor child is in despair ; she has
not thought of all the reasons that induced us to

come to you. Stefan, you remember my cousin
Konrad ? "

Oh yes, I remember Konrad well enough,"
said the General, absently ; fur he was still regarding
the younger Natalie, who sat on the bench,
her hands clasped, her head bent down. " Poor
fellow, he came to a sad end at last. But he
always carried his life in his hands ; and with a
gay heart, too."

But )ou remember, do you not, something
before that } " the mother said, with some colour
coming into her face. " You remember how my
husband had him chosen — and I myself appealed
and you, Stefan, you were among the first to
say that the Society must enquire "

Ah, but that was different, Natalie. You
know why it was that that commission had to be
reversed."

Do I know ? Yes. What else have I had
to think about these sixteen or seventeen years
since my child was separated from me .'* " she said,
sadly. " And perhaps I have grown suspicious,
perhaps I have grown mad, to think that what
has happened once might happen again."

What ?" he said, turning his clear blue eyes
suddenly on her.

She did not flinch.

Consider the circumstances, Stefan ; and
say whether one has no reason to suspect. The
Englishman, this Mr. Brand, loves Natahe ; she
loves him in return ; my husband refuses his consent
to the marriage ; and yet they meet in opposition
to his wishes. Then there is another thing
that I cannot so well explain ; but it is something
about a request on my husband's part that Mr.
Brand, who is a man of wealth, should accept a
certain office, and give over his property to the
funds of the Society."

I understand perfectly," her companion said,
calmly. "Well?"

"Well, Mr. Brand, thinking of Natalie's future,
refuses. But consider this, Stefan, that it had
been hinted to him before that, in case of his
refusal, he might be sent to America to remain
there for life."

I perceive, my old friend, that you are reading
in your own interpretations into an ordinary
matter of business. However."

But his refusal was immediately followed by
that arrangement. He was ordered to so to
America. My husband no doubt considered

that that would effectually separate him and
Natalie "

"Again you are putting in your own interpretation."


One moment, Stefan. My child is brave.
She thought an injustice was being done. She
thought it was for her sake that her lover was
being sent away ; and then she spoke frankly : she
said she would go with him."

** Yes." He was now listening with more
interest.

You perceive, then, my dear friend ? My
husband was thwarted in every way. Then it
was, and quite suddenly, that he reversed this
arrangement about America ; and there fell on
Mr. Brand this terrible thing. Knowing what I
know, do you not think I had fair cause for sus •
picton ? And when Natalie said, ' Oh, there are
those abroad who will remove this cjreat trouble
from us,' then I said to myself, * At all events, the
Society does not countenance injustice. It will
see that right has been done.' "

The face of this man had grown very grave ;
and for some time he did not speak.

I see what you suggest, Natalie," he said at

length. " It is a serious matter. I should have
said your suspicions were idle — that the thing was
impossible — but for the fact that it has occurred

before. Strange, now, if old , whose wisdom

and foresight the world is beginning to recognize
now, should be proved to be wise on this point
too, as on so many others. He used always to
say to us : ' When once you find a man unfaithful,
never trust him after. When once a man has
allowed himself to put his personal advantage
before his duty to such a Society as yours, it
shows that somewhere or other there is in him
the leaven of a self-seeker, which is fatal to all
Societies. Impose the heaviest penalties on such
an offence ; cast him out when you have the
opportunity.' It would be strange, indeed ; it
would be like fate ; It would appear as though
the thing were in the blood, and must come out,
no matter what warning the man may have had
before. You know, Natalie, what your husband
had to endure for his former lapse ? "

She nodded her head.

For some time he was again silent ; and there
was a deeper air of reflection on his face than
almost seemed natural to it ; for he looked more
of a soldier than a thinker.

"If there were any informality," he said
ahiiost to himself, " in the proceedings, one might
have just cause to intervene. But your husband,
my Natalie," he continued, addressing her directly,
is well trusted by us. Me has done us long and
faithful service We should be slow to put any
slight on him, especially that of suspicion."

That, Stefan," said Natalie's mother, with
courage, " is a small matter, surely, compared with
the possibility of your letting this man go to his
death unjustly. You would countenance, then,
an act of private revenge ? That is the use you
would let the powers of your Society be put to ?
That is not what Jiinecki, what Rausch, what
Falevitch looked forward to ! "

The taunt was quite lost on him ; he was
calmly regarding Natalie. She had not stirred.
After that one outburst of despairing appeal, there
was no more for her to say or to do. She could
wait, mutely, and hear what the fate of her lover
was to be.

Unfortunately," said the General, turning and
looking up at the vast pink frontage of the villa,
there are no papers here that one can appeal to.
I only secured the temporary use of the villa, as

being a more fitting place than some to receive
the signorina your daughter. But it is possible
the Secretary may remember something ; he hasa
good memory. Will you excuse me, Natalie,
for a few moments ? "

He strode away towards the house. The
mother went over to her daughter ; and put a
hand on her shoulder.

Courage, Natalushka ! You must not despair
yet. Ah, my old friend Stefan has a kind heart ;
there were tears in his eyes when he turned away
from your appeal to him. He does not forget old
associates."

Von Zoesch almost immediately returned, still
looking pre-occupied. He drew Natalie's mother
aside a few steps and said —

** This much I may tell you, Natalie ; in the
proceedings four were concerned — your husband,
Mr. Brand, Beratinsky, Reitzei. What do you
know of these last two ? "

I ? Alas, Stefan, I know nothing of them."

And we here little. They are of your
husband's appointment. I may also tell you.
Natalie, that the Secretary is also of my opinion,
that it is very unlikely your husband would be so

audacious as to repeat his offence of former years,
by conspiring to fix this duty on this man to
serve his own interests. It would be too audacious
-unless his temper had outrun his reason
altogether."

But you must remember, Stefan," she said,
eagerly, " that there was no one in England who
knew that former story. He could not imagine
that I was to be, unhappily, set free to go to my
daughter — that I should be at her side when this
trouble fell on her "

Nevertheless," said he, gently interrupting
her, " you have appealed to us ; we will enquire.
It will be a delicate affair. If there has been any
complicity, any unfairness, to summon these men
hither would be to make firmer confederates of
them than ever. If one could get at them separately,
individually "

He kept pressing his white moustache into his
teeth with his forefinger.

"If Clarissa were not such a talker," he
said, absently. " But he has ingenuity, the feather-brained
devil."

Stefan, I could trust everything to Clarissa
! " she said.

In the mean time," he said, " I will not
detain you. If you remain at the same hotel we
shall be able to communicate with you. I presume
your carriage is outside ? "

It is waiting for us a little way off."

He accompanied them into the tesselated
courtyard ; but not to the gate. He bade goodbye
to his elder friend ; then he took the younger
lady's hand, and held it and regarded her.

Figliuola mia," he said, with a kindly glance,
I pity you if you have to suffer. We will hope
for better things ; if it is impossible, you have a
brave heart."

When they had left he went up the marble
staircase and along the empty corridor until he
reached a certain room.

Granaglia, can you tell me where our friend
Clarissa may happen to be at this precise
moment ? "

At Brindisi, I believe, Excellence."

At Brindisi still. The devil of a fellow is
not so impatient as I had expected. Ah, well.
Have the goodness to send for him, friend
Granaglia ; and bid him come with speed."

Most Willingly, Excellence."

CHAPTER IX.

AN EMISSARY.

OxE warm, still afternoon Clarissa was walking'
quickly along the crowded quays of Naples, when
he was beset by a more than usually importunate
beggar — a youth of about twelve, almost naked.

Something for bread, signore — for the love
of God — my father taken to heaven — my mother
starving — bread, signore "

To the devil with you ! " said Clarissa.

May you burst ! " replied the polite youth ;
and he tried to kick Clarissa's legs and make
off at the same time.

This feat he failed in ; so that as he was
departing Clarissa hit him a cuff on the side
of the head which sent him rolling. Then there
was a howl ; and presently a universal tumult of
women, calling out. " Ah, the German ! ah, the
foreigner!" and so forth, and drawing threatens.—

XIII. K

ingle near. Clarissa sought In his pockets fora
handful of small copper coins ; turned ; threw
them high in the air ; and did not stay to watch
the effect of the shower on the heads of the
women, but walked quietly away.

However, in thus suddenly turning, he had
caught sight — even with his near-sighted eyes —
of an unwholesome-looking young man, pale,
clean-shaven, with bushy black hair, whom he
recognized. He appeared to pay no attention ;
but walked quickly on.

Taking one or two unnecessary turnings, he
became convinced that the young man, as he had
suspected, was following him. Then, without
more ado, and even without looking behind him,
he set out for his destination, which was Position
due course of time he began to ascend the
wooded hill with its villas and walls and cactus-hedges.
At a certain turning, where he could
not be observed by any one behind him, he
turned sharp off to the left, and stood behind a
wooden gate. A couple of minutes afterwards
the young man came along — more rapidly now —
for he no doubt fancied that Clarissa had disappeared
ahead.

Clarissa stepped out from his hiding-place,
went after him, and tapped him on the shoulder.
He turned, stared, and endeavoured to appear
angry and astonished.

Oh yes, to be sure," said Clarissa, with
calm sarcasm. " At )our disposition, signore !
So we were not satisfied with selling photographs
and pebbles to the English on board the steamer ;
we want to get a little Judas money ; we sell ourselves
to the weasels, the worms, the vermin "

Oh, I assure you, signore " the shaven-faced
youth exclaimed, much more humbly.

"Oh, I assure you too, signore!" Clarissa
continued, facetiously. " And you, you poor
innocent, you have not been with the weasels
six weeks when you think you will try your nose
in tracking me. Body of Bacchus, it is too
Insolent ! "

I assure you, signore "

Now, behold this, my friend. We must
give children like you a warning. If you had
been a little older, and not quite so foolish, I
should have had you put on the Black List of
my friends the Camorrlsti — you understand ?
But you — we will cure )0U otherwise. Viii

know the Englishman's yacht that has come into
the Great Harbour "

Signore, I beg of you "

Beg of the devil ! " said Clarissa, calmly.
Between the Englishman's yacht and the Little
Mole you will find a schooner moored — her name
Fla Svezia. Do not forget — La Svezia. Tomorrow
you will go on board of her ; ask for
the captain ; go down below ; and beg him to
be so kind as to give you twelve stripes "

Signore ! "

"Another word, moucJiard, and I make it
twenty. He will give you a receipt, which you
will sign, and bring to me : otherwise, down goes
your name on the List. Which do you prefer ?
Oh, we will teach some of you young weasels a
lesson ! I have the honour to wish you a good
morning."

Clarissa touched his hat politely, and
walked on, leaving the young man petrified with
rage and fear.

By-and-by he began to walk more leisurely
and with more circumspection, keeping a sharp
look-out, as well as his near-sighted eyes allowed,
on any passer-by or vehicle he happened to meet.

At length, and with the same precautions he had
used on a former occasion, he entered the grounds
of the villa he had sought out in the company
of Gathorne Edwards ; and made his way up to
the fountain on the little plateau. But now his
message had been previously prepared ; he
dropped it into the receptacle concealed beneath
the lip of the fountain ; and then descended the
steep little terraces until he got round to the
entrance of the grotto.

Instead of passing in by this cleft in the ,
however, he found awaiting him there the
person who had summoned him — the so-called
General von Zoesch. Clarissa was somewhat
startled ; but he said, " Your humble servant,
Excellenza ! " and removed his cap.

Keep your hat on your head, friend Clarissa,"
said the other good-naturedly, " you areas
old as I am."

He seated himself on a projecting ledge of
the rock-work ; and motioned to Clarissa todo
likewise on the other side of the entrance.
They were completely screened from observation
by a mass of olive and fig trees, to say nothing of
the far-stretching orange shrubbery beyond.

The Council have paid you a high compliment,
my Clarissa," the General said, plunging
at once into the matter. " They have resolved
to entrust you with a very difficult mission."

'* It is a great honour."

You won't have to risk your neck, which
will no doubt disappoint you ; but you will have
to show us whether there is the stuff of a diplomatist
in you."

Oh, as for that, Excellenza," Clarissa said,
confidently, " one can be a bavard at times, for
amusement, for nonsense ; and one can at times
be silent, when there is necessity."

You know of the affair of Zaccatelli. The
agent has been found — as we desired, in England.
I understand you know him ; his name is Brand."

Clarissa uttered an exclamation.

Excellenza, do you know what you have
said ! You pierce my heart. Why he of all
those in England ? He is the betrothed of
Natalie's daughter — the Natalie Berezolyi, Excellenza,
who married Ferdinand Lind "

I know it," said the other, calmly. " I have
seen the young lady. She is a beautiful child."

She is more than that — she is a beautiful-souled

child ! " said Clarissa, in great agitation.
And she has a tender heart. I tell you it will
kill her, Excellenza — oh, it is infamous ! — it is
not to be thought of!" He jumped to his feet
and spoke in a rapid, excited way. " I say it is
not to be thought of. I appeal, I, Clarissa,
to the honourable the members of the Council
I say that I am ready to be his substitute —
they cannot deny me — I appeal to the laws of
the Society "

Calm yourself — calm yourself," said the
General ; but Clarissa would not be calm.

I will not have m)' beautiful child have this
grief put upon her! — you, Excellenza, will help
my appeal to the Council — they cannot refuse me
what use am I to anybody or myself? I say,
that the daughter of my old friend Natalie shall
not have her lover taken from her — it is I, Clarissa,
who claim to be his substitute ! "

Friend Clarissa, I desire you to sit down,
and listen. The story is brief that I have to tell
you. This man Brand is chosen by the usual
ballot. The young lady does not know for what
duty, of course ; but believes it will cost him his
life. She is in trouble; she recollects your giving

her some instructions ; what does she do but start
off at once for Naples, to put her head right into
the den of the black bear Tommaso ! "

Ah, the brave little one ! She did not forget
Clarissa, and the little map, then ? "

I have seen her, and her mother."

Her mother, also ? Here, in Naples, now ? "

Yes."

Great Heaven ! What a fool I was — to
come through Naples, and not to know — but I
was thinking of that little viper."

You will now be good enough to listen, my
Clarissa."

I beg your Excellency's pardon a thousand
times."

"It appears that both mother and daughter
are beset with the suspicion that this duty has
been put upon their English friend by unfair
means. At first I said to myself these suspicions
were foolish ; they now appear to me more
reasonable. You, at all events, are acquainted
with the old story against Ferdinand Lind ; you
know how he forfeited his life to the Society ;
how it was given back to him. You would think
it impossible he would risk such another adventure.

Well, perhaps I wrong him ; but there
is a possibility ; there are powerful reasons, I can
gather, why he should wish to get rid of this
Englishman''

Clarissa said nothing now ; but he was
greatly excited.

'ewe had been urging him about money,
Clarissa mio — that I will explain to you. It
has been coming in slowest of all from England —
the richest of the countries — and just when we
had so much need. Then again, there is a
vacancy in the Council ; and Lind has a wish
that wa'. What happens ? He tries to induce the
Englishman to take an ofticership and give us his
fortune ; the Englishman refuses ; he says then,
Part from my daughter, and go to America.'
The daughter says, 'If he goes, I follow.' You
perceive, my friend, that if this story is true, and
it is consecutive and minute as I received it, there
was a reason for our colleague Lind to be angry
and to be desirous of making it certain that this
Englishman who had opposed him should not
have his daughter. "

I perceive it well, Excellenza. Meanwhile .■* "

Meanwhile, that is all ! Onl\-, when an old

friend — when one who has such claims on our
Society as a Berezolyi naturally has — comes and
tells you such a story, you listen, with attention
and respect. You may believe, or you may not
believe ; one prefers not to believe, when the
matter touches upon the faith of a colleague who
has been trustworthy for many years. But at
the same time, if the Council, being appealed to,
and being anxious above all things that no wrong
should be done, were to find an agent, prudent,
silent, cautious, who might be armed with plenary
powers of pardon, for example, supposing there
were an accomplice to be bribed — if the Council
were to commission such an one as you, my
Clarissa, to institute enquiries, and perhaps to
satisfy those two appellants that no injustice has
been done, you would undertake the task with
diligence, with a sense of responsibility, would you
not?"

With joy — with a full heart, Excellenza ! "
Clarissa exclaimed.

Oh no, not at all — with prudence, and disinterestedness
; with calmness and no prejudice.
And above all with a resolution to conceal from
our friend and colleague Lind that any slight of
suspicion is being put upon him."

Oh, you can trust me, Excellenza ! " Clarissa
said, eagerly. " Let me do this — for the
sake of the sweetheart of my old age — that is
that beautiful-souled little one. And if I cannot
bring her peace and security one way — mind, I
go without prejudice — I swear to you I go without
bias — I will harm no one even in intention —
but this I say. that if I fail that way. there is
another."

You have seen the two men, Beratinsky and
Reitzei, who were of the ballot along with Lind
and the Englishman. To me they are but names.
Describe them."

Beratinsky," said Clarissa, promptly, " a
bear, surly, pig-headed ; Reitzei, a fop, sinuous,
petted."

Which would be the more easily startled, for
example } " the tall man said, with a smile.

Oh. your Excellency, leave that to me,"
Clarissa answered. " Give me no definite
instructions : am I not a volunteer ? can I not
do as I please, always with the risk that one
may knock me over the head if I am impertinent
? "

"Well, then, if we leave it to your discretion.

friend Clarissa, to your ingenuity, and your
desire to have justice without bias ? Have you
money ? "

Not at all, Excellenza."

The Secretary Granaglia will communicate
with you this evening. You can start at once ? "

By the direct train tomorrow morning at
seven, Excellenza." Then he added, " Oh, the
devil!"

What, now ? "

There was a young fellow, Excellenza, committed
the imprudence of dogging my footsteps
this afternoon. I know him. I stopped him
and referred him to the captain of the schooner
La Svezia: he was to bring me the receipt tomorrow."


Never mind," said the General, laughing ;
we will look after him when he goes on board.
Now do you understand, friend Clarissa, the
great delicacy of the mission the Council have
entrusted to you ? You must be patient, sure,
unbiased; and if, as I imagine, Lind and you
were not the best of friends at one time in your
life, you must forget all that. You are not going
as the avenger of his daughter ; you are going as

the minister of justice. Onl)-, )ou have power
behind you ; that you can allow to be known,
indirectly. Do you understand ? "

It is as clear as the noonday skies. Confide
in me, Excellenza."

The other rose.

Use speed, my Clarissa. Farewell ! "

One word, Excellenza. If it is not too great
a favour: the hotel where my beautiful 
and her mother are staying } "

The other gave him the name of the hotel ;
and Clarissa, saluting him respectfully, departed,
making his way down through the
vines and fruit trees, under the clear twilight
skies.

Clarissa walked back to Naples, and to the
hotel indicated, which was near the Castello delF
Ovo. No sooner had the hotel-porter opened for
him the big swinging doors than he recollected
that he did not know for whom he ouo-ht to ask ;
but at this moment Natalie came aloncf the
corridor, dressed and ready to go out.

My little daughter ! " he exclaimed, taking
her by both hands. "Did not I say you would
soon find me, when there was need ? "

"Will you come upstairs and see my mother,
Signor Clarissa ? " said she. " You know why
she and I are together now ? — my grandfather
is dead."

Yes, I will go and see your mother," said he,
after a second ; she did not notice the strange
expression of his face during that brief hesitation.


There was a small sitting-room between the
two bedrooms ; Natalie conducted him into it ;
and went into the adjoining chamber for her
mother, A minute after these two friends and
companions of former days met.

They held each other's hand, in silence, for a
brief time.

My hair was not so grey when you last saw
me," the worn-faced woman said, at length, with
a smile.

Clarissa could not speak at all.

Mother," the girl said, to break in on this
painful embarrassment, " you have not seen
Signor Clarissa for so long a time. Will he
not stay and dine with us ? the table-d'hote is at
half-past six."

Not the table-dliote, my little daughter,"

Clarissa said, quickly. " But if one were permitted
to remain here, for example ? "

"■ Oh yes, certainly."

There are many things I wish to speak
about ; and so little time. To-morrow morning
I start for England."

"For England?"

Most certainly, little daughter. And you
have a message, perhaps, for me to carry ? Oh,
you may let it be cheerful," he said, with his usual
gay optimism. " I tell you, I myself, and I do not
boast, let it be cheerful ! What did I say to you ?
You are in trouble ; I said to you — Count upon
having friends ! "

Clarissa did stay ; and they had a kind of
meal in this room ; and there was a great deal to
talk over between the two old friends. But on
all matters referring to the moment, he preserved
a resolute silence. He was not going to talk, at
the very outset. He was going to England —
that was all.

But as he was bidding good-bye to Natalie, he
drew her a step or two into the passage.

Lite child," said lu, in a low voice, " your
mother is suffering because of your sorrow. It is

needless. I assure you, all will be well : have I
spoken in vain before ? It is not for one bearing
the name that you have to despair."

"Good-bye, then, Signor Clarissa."
Au revoir, child : is not that better ? "

CHAPTER X.

A WEAK BROTHER.

George Brand was sitting alone in these rooms
of his, the lamps lit, the table near him covered
with papers. He had just parted with two
visitors — Molyneux and a certain learned gentleman
attached to Owen's College — who had come
to receive his final plans and hints as to what
still lay before them in the north. On leaving,
the fresh-coloured, brisk-voiced Molyneux had
said to him —

Well, Mr. Brand, seeing you so eager
about what has to be done up there, one might
wonder at your leaving us and going off pleasuring.
But no matter. A man must have his
holiday ; so I wish you a pleasant journey ; and
we'll do our best till you come back."

So that also was settled. In fact, he had
brought all his affairs up to a point that would

3.— XMI. L

enable him to start at any moment. But about
Natalie ? He had not heard from her through
any channel whatever. He had not the least
idea whither she had gone. Moreover, he
gathered from Reitzei that her father — who, in
Reitzei's opinion, could at once have discovered
where she was — refused to trouble himself in the
matter, and indeed would not permit her name to
be mentioned in his presence.

He leant back in his chair, with a sigh. Of
what value to him now were these carefully
calculated suggestions about districts, centres,
congeners, and what not ? And yet he had
appeared deeply interested while his two visitors
were present. For the time being the old eagerness
had stirred him ; the pride he had taken in
his own work. But now that was passed from
him ; he had relinquished his stewardship ; and ashe
absently gazed out into the black night before
him, his thoughts drifted far away.

He was startled from his reverie by someone
knocking at the door. Immediately after
Gathorne Edwards entered.

"Waters said I should find you alone," said
the tall, pale, blue-eyed student. " I have come
to you about Kirski."

Sit down. Well ? "

It's a bad business," he said, taking a chair,
and looking rather gloomy and uncomfortable.
He has taken to drink — badly. I have been to
him ; talked to him ; but I have no influence over
him, apparently. I thought perhaps you might
do something with him."

Why, I cannot even speak to him ! "

Oh, he is accustomed to make much out of
a few words. And I would go with you."

But what is the occasion of all this ? Plow
can he have taken to drink in so short a time ? "

A man can drink himself into a pretty queer
state in a very short time, when he sets his mind
to it," Edwards said. "He has given up his
work altogether, and is steadily loosing away the
little savings he had made. He has gone back to
his blood and killing, too ; wants some one to go
with him to murder that fellow out in Russia who
first of all took his wife and then beat him and set
the dogs on him. The fact is, Clarissa's cure
has gone all to bits."

It is a pity. The unfortunate wretch has
had cnouofh trouble. But what is the cause
of it ? "

It Is rather difficult to explain," said Edwards
with some embarrassment. " One can only guess
for his brain Is muddled, and he maunders.
You know Clarissa's flowery, poetical interpretation.
It was — Miss LInd, In fact — who had
worked a miracle. Well, there was something in
it. She was kind to him, after he had been
cuffed about Europe, and a sort of passion of
gratitude took possession of him. Then he was
led to believe at that time that — that he might be
of service to her or her friends — and he gave up
his projects of revenge altogether — he was ready
for any sacrifice — and, in fact, there was a project
"

Edwards glanced at his companion ; but
Brand happened at that moment to be looking
out of the window.

'* Well, you see, all that fell through ; and he
had to come back to England, disappointed ; then
there was no Clarissa to keep him up to his
resolutions ; besides that, he found out — how, I
do not know — that Miss Lind had left London."

Oh, he found that out ? "

"Apparently. And he says he is of no
further use to anybody ; and all he wants Is to

kill the man Michaieloff, and then make an end
of himself."

Brand rose at once.

"We must go and see the unfortunate devil,
Edwards. His brain never was steady, you
know ; and I suppose even two or three days'
hard drinking has made him wild ao-ain. And
just as I had prepared a little surprise for him ! "

What ? " Edwards asked, as he opened the
door.

I have made him a little bequest, that would
have produced him about twenty pounds a year,
to pay his rent. It will be no kindness to give
it to him, until we see him straight again."

But Edwards pushed the door to again, and
said, in a low voice —

Of course, Mr. Brand, you must know of the
Zaccatelli affair ? "

Brand regarded him, and said, calmly —

I do. There are five men in England who
know of it ; you and I are two of them."

Well," said Edwards, eagerly, " if such a
thing were determined on, wouldn't it have been
better to let this poor wretch do it .'* He would
have gloried in it ; he had the enthusiasm of the

martyr just then; he thought he was to be
allowed to do something that would make Miss
Lind and her friends for ever grateful to him."

'rand who put it into his head that Miss
Lind knew anything about it? — Clarissa, I
suppose."

Edwards coloured slightly.

"Well, yes "

And it was Clarissa who entrusted such
a secret as that to a maniac "

Pardon me, Kirski never knew specifically
what lay before him ; but he was ready for
anything. For my own part, I was heartily
glad when they sent him back to England. I
did not wish to have any hand in such a business,
however indirectly. And, indeed, I hope they
have abandoned the whole project by this time."

It might be wiser, certainly," said Brand,
with an indifferent air.

"If they go on with it, it will make a fearful
noise in Europe," said Edwards, contemplatively.
The assassination of a Cardinal ! Well, his life
has been scandalous enough — but still, his death,
in such a way "

It will horrify people, will it not ? " Brand

i^i

said, calmly. " And his murderer will be execrated
and howled at, throughout Europe, no doubt ? "

Well, yes ; you see, who is to know the
motives "

There won't be a single person to say a single
word for him," said Brand, absently. " It is an
enviable fate, isn't it, for some wretched mortal ?
No matter, Edwards ; we will go and look up
this fellow Kirski now."

They went out into the night — it was cold
and drizzling — and made their way up into Soho.
They knocked at the door of a shabby-looking
house ; and Kirski's landlady made her appearance.
She was very angry when his name was
mentioned ; of course, he was not at home ; they
would find him in some public-house or other —
the animal !

But he pays his rent, doesn't he ? " Brand
remonstrated.

Oh yes, he paid his rent. But she didn't
like a wild beast in the house. It was decent
lodgings she kept ; not a Wombwell's Menagerie.

I am sure he gives you no trouble, ma'am,"
said Edwards, who had seen something of the
meek and submissive way the Russian conducted
himself in his lodcincfs.

This she admitted ; but promptly asked how
she was to know she miijhtn't have her throat
cut some night ? And what was the use of her
talking to him, when he didn't know two words
of a Christian language ?

They gathered from this that the good woman
had been lecturing her docile lodger, and had
been seriously hurt because of his inattention.
However, she at last consented to give them
the name of the particular public-house in which
he was likely to be found ; and they again set
off in quest of him.

They found him easily. He was seated ina
corner of the crowded and reeking bar-room,
by himself, nursing a glass of gin and water with
his two trembling hands. When they entered,
he looked up and regarded them with bleared,
sunken eyes ; evidently recognized them ; and
then turned away, sullenly.

Tell him I am not come to bully him," said
Brand, quickly. " Tell him I am come about
some work. I want a cabinet made, by a first-class
workman like himself."

Edwards went forward, and put his hand on
the man's shoulder and spoke to him for sometime.
Then he turned to Brand.

He says, ' No use ; no use. He cannot
work any more. They won't give him help to
kill Pavel Michaieloff. He wishes to die.' "

"Ask him, then, what the young lady who
gave him her portrait will think of him if she
hears he is in this condition. Ask him how
he has dared to bring her portrait into a place
like this."

When this was conveyed to Kirski, he seemed
to arouse himself somewhat ; he even talked
eagerly for a few seconds ; then he turned away
again, as if he did not wish to be seen.

"He says," Edwards continued, "that he has
not, that he would not, bring that portrait into
any such place. He was afraid it might be
found — it might be taken from him. He made a
small casket, of oak, carved by his own hands,
and lined it with zinc ; he put the photograph
in it ; and hid himself in the trees of St. James's
Park — at least, I imagine that St. James's Park is
what he means — at night. Then he buried it
there. He knows the place. When he has
killed Michaieloff, he will come back, and dig
It up.

The poor devil — his brain is certainly going,

drink or no drink. What is to be done with him,

Edwards ? "

He says the young lady has gone away.

He cares for nothing. He is of no use. He

despairs of getting enough money to take him

back to Russia."

After a great deal of persuasion, however,
they got him to leave the public-house with them,
and return to his lodgings. They got him some
tea and some bread-and-butter; and made him
swallow both. Then Edwards, under his friend's
instructions, proceeded to impress on Kirski that
the young lady was only away from London
for a short time ; that she would be greatly
distressed if she were to hear he had been
misconducting himself; that, if he returned to
his work on the following morning, he would
find that his master would overlook his absence ;
and that finally he was to abandon his foolish
notions about going to Russia, for he would find
no one to assist him, whereas, on the other hand,
if he went about proclaiming that he was about
to commit a crime, he would be taken by the
police and shut up. All this, and a great deal
more, they tried to impress on him ; and Edwards

promised to call the next evening, and see howe
was getting on.

It was late when Brand and Edwards again
issued out into the wet night ; and Edwards,
having promised to post a line to Kirski's
employers, so that they should get it in the
morning, said good-bye, and went off to his own
lodgings. Brand walked slowly home, through
the muddy streets. He preferred the glare and
the noise to the solitude of his own rooms. He
even stood aimlessly to watch a theatre come out ;
the people seemed so careless and joyous — calling
to each other — making feeble jokes — passing
away under their umbrellas into the wet and
shining darkness.

But at length, without any definite intention,
he found himself at the foot of the little thoroughfare
in which he lived ; and he was about to open
the door with his latch-key when, out of the dusk
beyond, there stepped forth a tall figure. He was
startled, it is true, by the apparition of this tall,
white-haired man in the voluminous blue cloak,
the upturned hood of which half concealed his
face; and he turned with a sort of instinct of
anger to face him.

Monsieur mon free, you have arrived at
last ! " said the stranger, and instantly he recognized,
in the pronunciation of the French, the
voice of Clarissa.

What," he said, " Clarissa ? "

The other put a finger on his arm.

Hush ! " he said. "It is a great secret, my
being here ; I confide in you. I would not wait
in your rooms — my faith, no ! — for I said to
myself, 'What if he brings home friends who will
know me, who will ask what the devil Clarissa
is doing in this country.' "

Brand had withdrawn his hand from the lock.

"Clarissa," he said, quickly, "you, if anybody
knows, must know where Natalie and her
mother are. Tell me ! "

I will, directly. But may I point out to you,
my dear Monsieur Brand, that it rains — that we
might go inside ? Oh yes, certainly, I will tell
you, when we can say a word in secret, in comfort.
But this devil of a climate ! Wliat should
I have done if I had not bought myself this cloak
in Paris ? In Paris it was cold and wet enough :
but one had nothing like what you have here.
Sapristi ! my fingers are frozen ! "

Brand hurried him upstairs ; put him into an
easy-chair ; and stirred up the fire.

Now," said he, impatiently, " now, my dear
Clarissa, your news ! "

Clarissa pulled out a letter.

The news ? — voila ! "

Brand tore open the envelope : these were
the contents : —

Dearest,

"This is to adjure you not to leave
England for the present — not till you hear from
me — or until we return. Have patience, and
hope. You are not forgotten. My mother sends
you her blessing.

"Your Betrothed."

But there is no address ! " he exclaimed.
Where are they ? "

"Where are they? It is no secret, do you
see ? They are in Naples."

In Naples ! "

Oh, I assure you, my dear friend, it is a
noble heart, a brave heart, that loves you. Many
a day ago I said to her, ' Little child, when you
are in trouble, go to friends who will welcome

you; say you are the daughter of Natalie
Berezolyi ; say to them that Clarissa sent you.'
And you thought she was in no trouble ! Ah, did
she not tell me of the pretty home you had got
for the poor mother who is my old friend ; did
she not tell me how you thought they were to be
comfortable there, and take no heed of anything
else ! But you were mistaken. You did not
know her. She said, ' My betrothed is in danger :
I will take Clarissa at his word : before anyone
can hinder me, or interfere, I will go and
appeal, in the name of my family, in the name of
myself! ' Ah, the brave child ! "

But appeal to whom ? " said Brand, breathlessly.


To the Council, my friend ! " said Clarissa,
with exultation.

But, gracious heavens ! " Brand cried, with
his hand nervously clutching the arm of his
chair. " Is the secret betrayed, then ? Do they
think I will shelter myself behind a woman ? "

She could betray no secret ! " Clarissa
said, triumphantly, " she herself not knowing it,
do you not perceive ? But she could speak —
bravely ! "

"And the result?"

"Who knows what that may be? In the
mean time this is the result — I am here."

At another moment this assumption of dignity
would have been ludicrous ; but Brand took no
heed of the manner of his companion. His heart
was beating wildly. And even when his reason
forced him to see how little he could expect from
this intervention — when he remembered what a
decree of the Council was, and how irrevocable
the doom he had himself accepted — still the
thought uppermost in his mind was not of his
own safety or danger, but rather of her love and
devotion, her resolve to rescue him, her quick and
generous impulse that knew nothing of fear. He
pictured her to himself, in Naples, calling upon
this nameless and secret power, that every man
around him dreaded, to reverse its decision !
And then the audacity of her bidding him hope !
He could not hope ; he knew more than she did.
But his heart was full of love and of gratitude, ashe
thought of her.

My dear friend," said Clarissa, lowering
his voice, " my errand is one of great secrecy. I
have a commission which I cannot altogether

explain to you. But in the mean time you
will be so good as to give me — in exteitso,
with every particular — the little history of how
you were appointed to — to undertake a certain
duty."

Unfortunately, I cannot," Brand said, calmly.
These are things one is not permitted to talk
about."

But I must insist on it, my dear friend."

"Then I must insist on refusing you."

You are trustworthy. No matter. Here is
something which I think will remove your suspicions,
my good friend — or shall we not rather
say your scruples ? "

He took from his pocket-book a card ; and
placed it somewhat ostentatiously on the table.
Brand examined it ; and then stared at Clarissa
in surprise.

You come with the authority of the
Council ? "

By the goodness of Heaven ! " Clarissa
exclaimed, with a laugh, "you have arrived at the
truth this time ! "

CHAPTER XL

THE CONJUROR.

There was no mistaking the fact that Clarissa
had come armed with ample authority from the
Council ; and yet it was with a strange reluctance
that Brand forced himself to answer the questions
that Clarissa proceeded to put to him. He had
already accepted his doom. The bitterness of it
was over. He would rather have let the past
be forgotten altogether, and himself go forward,
blindly, to the appointed end. Why these needless
explanations and admissions ?

Moreover, Clarissa's questions, which had
been thought over during long railway journeys,
were exceedingly crafty. They touched here and
there on certain small points, as if he were building
up for himself a story. Ikit at last lirand said,
by way of protest —

Look here, Clarissa. I see you are ems.—

XHI. M

powered to ask me any questions you like — and
I am quite willing to answer — about the business
of the Council. But really, don't you see, I would
rather not speak of private matters. What can
the Council want to know about Natalie Lind ?
Leave her out of it, like a good fellow."

Oh yes, my dear Monsieur Brand," said
Clarissa, with a smile, " leave her out of it,
truly, when she has gone to the Council ; when
the Council have said, ' Child, you have not
appealed to us for nothing ; ' when it is through
her that I have travelled all through the cold and
wet, and am now sitting here. Remember this,
my friend, that the beautiful Natalushka is now
a — what do you call it ? — a zvai^d " — Clarissa
put this word in English into the midst of his odd
French — " and a ward of a sufficiently powerful
Court, I can assure you, Monsieur ! Therefore,
I say, I cannot leave the beautiful child out. She
is of importance to me : why am I here otherwise ?
Be considerate, my friend ; it is not impertinence ;
it Is not curiosity."

Then he proceeded with his task ; getting, in a
roundabout, cunning, shrewd way, at a pretty fair
version of what had occurred. And he was exceedingly

circumspect. He endeavoured by all
sorts of circumlocutions to hide from Brand the
real drift of his enquiry. He would betray suspicion
of no one. His manner was calm, patient,
almost indifferent. All this time Brand's thoughts
were far away. He was speaking to Clarissa ;
but he was thinking of Naples.

But when they came to Brand's brief description
of what took place in Lisle Street on the
night of the casting of the lot, Clarissa became
greatly excited ; though he strove to appear perfectly
calm.

You are sure ? " he said, quickly. *' That
was precisely what happened } "

As far as I know," said Brand, carelessly.
"* But why go into it ? If I do not complain,
why should any one else ? "

Did I say that any one complained ? " observed
the astute Clarissa.

Then why should any one wish to interfere ?
I am satisfied. You do not mean to say, Clarissa,
that any one over there thinks that I am anxious
to back out of what I have undertaken — that I
am going down on my knees and begging to
be let off ? Well, at all events, Natalie does not

think that," he added, as if it did not matter much
what any other thought.

Clarissa was silent ; but his eyes were eager
and bright ; and he was quickly tapping the palm
of his left hand with the forefinger of the right.
Then he regarded Brand, with a sharp, inquisitive
look. Then he jumped to his feet.

Good night, my friend," he said, hurriedly.

But Brand rose also ; and sought to detain him.

No, no, my good Clarissa, you are not
going yet ; you have kept me talking for your
amusement ; now it is your turn. You have not
3'et told me about Natalie and her mother."

They are well — they are indeed well, I
assure you," said Clarissa, uneasily. He was
clearly anxious to get away. By this time he had
got hold of his cloak and swung it round his
shoulders.

Clarissa, sit down, and tell me something
about Natalie. What made her undertake
such a journey ? Is she troubled ? Is she sad ?
I thought her life was full of interest now — her
mother being with her."

Clarissa had got his cap, and had opened
the door.

Another time, dear Monsieur Brand, I w ill
sit down and tell you all about the beautiful, brave
child, and my old friend her mother. Yes, yes —
another time — tomorrow — next day. At present
one is overwhelmed with affairs, do you see } "

So saying, he forced Brand to shake hands
with him, and went out, shutting the door behind
him.

But no sooner had he got into the street than
the eager, talkative, impulsive nature of the man,
so long confined, broke loose. He took no heed
that it was raining hard. He walked fast ; he
talked aloud to himself, in his native tongue, in
broken interjectional phrases; occasionally he made
use of violent gestures which were not lessened in
their effect by the swaying cape of his cloak.

Ah, those English — those English," he was
excitedly saying, — "such children! — blue, clear
eyes that see nothing — the devil ! why should
they meddle in such affairs ? To play at such
a game! — fool's mate; scholar's mate; asses'
and idiots' mate ! — they have scarcely got a pawn
out, and they are wondering what they will do,
when whizz ! along comes the queen, and she and
the bishop have finished all the fine combinations

before they were ever begun ! And you, you
others, imps of hell, to play that old, foolish
game again ! But take care, my friends, take
care ; there is one watching you, one waiting for
you, who does not speak ; but who strikes ! Ah,
it is a pretty game ; you, you sullen brute ; you,
you fop and dandy ; but when you are sitting
silent round the board, behold a dagger flashes
down and quivers into the wood ! No wonder
your eyes burn ! you do not know whence it
has come ? But the steel blade quivers ; is ita
warning ? "

He laughed aloud ; but there were still omnibuses
and cabs in the street ; so he was not
heard. Indeed, the people who were on the
pavement were hurrying past to get out of the
rain ; and took no notice of the old albino in
the voluminous cloak.

Natalushka," said he, quite as if he were
addressing some one before him, " do you know
that I am trudging through the mud of this
infernal city, all for you ? And you, little sybarite,
are among the fine ladies in the reading-room
at the hotel ; and listening to music ; and
the air all scented around you. Never mind ;

if only I had a little bird that could fly to you
with a message— ah, would you not have pleasant
dreams to-night ? Did I not tell you to
rely on Clarissa ? He chatters to you ; he
tries to amuse you ; but he is not always Policies
No, not always Policinella ; sometimes
he is silent and cunning ; sometimes — what do
)-ou think ? — he is a conjuror. Oh yes, you are
not seen ; you are not heard ; but when you have
them round the board — whirr ! comes the gleaming
blade, and quivers in the wood ! You look
round ; the guilty one shakes with the palsy ; his
wits go ; his startled tongue confesses. Then
you laugh ; you say, ' That is well done ; ' you
say, 'Were they wrong in giving this affair to
Clarissa ? ' "

Now, whether it was that his rapid walking
helped to relieve him of this over-excitement,
or whether it was that the soaking rain began
to make him uncomfortable, he was much more-staid
in demeanour when he got up to the little
lane off Oxford Street where the Cidiui'vcrciu held
its meetings. Of course, he did not knock and
demand admission. He stopped some way down
the street, on the other side, where he found

shelter from the rain in a doorway, and whence
he could readily observe any one coming out
from the hall of the Herein. Then he succeeded
in lighting a cigarette.

It was a miserable business, this waiting in
the cold, damp night-air ; but sometimes he kept
thinking of how he would approach Reitzei in
the expected interview ; and sometimes he thought
of Natalie ; and again, with his chilled and
dripping fingers, he would manage to light a
cigarette. Again and again the door of the
hall was opened ; and this or the other figure
came out from the glare of the gas into the
dark street ; but so far no Reitzei. It was now
nearly one in the morning.

Finally, about a quarter past one, the last
batch of boon companions came out ; and the
lights within were extinguished. Clarissa
followed this gay company, who were laughing
and joking despite the rain, for a short way ;
but it was clear that neither Beratinsky nor
Reitzei was amonsf them. Then he turned and
made his way to his own lodgings, where he
arrived tired, soaked through, but not, apparently,
disheartened.

Next morning he was up betimes ; and at a
fairly early hour walked alonij^ to Coventry Street,
where he took up his station at the west corner
of Rupert Street, so that he could see any one
going eastward, himself unseen. Here he was
more successful. He had not been there ten
minutes when Reitzei passed. Clarissa hastened
after him ; overtook him ; and tapped him
on the shoulder.

Ah, Clarissa ? " said Reitzei, surprised,
but in no way disconcerted.

I wish to speak with you," said Clarissa,
himself a little agitated, though he did not
show it.

Certainly. Come along. Mr. Lind will
arrive soon."

No, alone. I wish to speak with you alone."

Clarissa looked around. The only place of
shelter he saw was a rather shabby restaurant,
chiefly used as a supper-room, and at this moment
having the appearance of not being yet woke up.
Reitzei was in a compliant mood. He suffered
himself to be conducted into this place, to the
astonishment of one or two unwashed-looking
waiters who were seated and reading the previous

evening's papers. Clarissa and Reitzei sat

down at one of the small tables ; the former

ordered some coffee, the latter a bottle of soda-water.


By this time Clarissa had collected himself
for the part he was about to play.

Well, my friend," said he, cheerfully, " what
news } When is Europe to hear of the fate of
the Cardinal ? "

I don't know ; I know very little about it,"
said Reitzei, glancing at him rather suspiciously.

"It is a terrible business," said Clarissa,.
reflectively, " a decree of the Council. You
would think that one so powerful, so well protected,
would be able to escape, would you not ?
But he himself knows better. He knows he is
as powerless as you might be, for example, or
myself."

Oh, as for that," said Reitzei, boldly, " he
knows he has deserved it : what more ? He
has had his little fling ; now comes the settlement
of the score."

"And I hear that our friend Brand is to bethe
instrument of justice : how strange ! He has
not been so lono;- with us."

That is Mr. Lind's affair : it has nothiiiL;' todo
with me," said Reitzei, shortly.

"Well," said Clarissa, toying with his
coffee-cup, " I hope I shall never be tempted todo
anything that might lead the Council to condemn
me. Fancy such a life ; every moment
expecting some one to step up behind you with
a knife or a pistol ; and the end sure ! I would
take Provana's plan. The poor devil ; as soon
as he heard he had been condemned, he could
not bear living. He never thought of escape :
a few big stones in the pockets of his coat, andover
he slips into the Arno. And Mesentskoff: you
remember him ? His only notion of escape was
to give himself up to the police ; — twenty-five
years in the mines. I think Provana's plan was
better."

Reitzei became a little uneasy, or perhaps
only impatient.

Well, Clarissa," he said, " one must begetting
along to one's affairs "

Oh yes, yes, truK," Clarissa said. " I
only wished to know a little more about the
Cardinal. You see he cannot give himself up
like Mesentskoff; though he might confess to a

hundred worse things than the Russian ever did,
Provana — well, you know, the Society has always
been inexorable with regard to its own officers :
and rightly, too, Reitzei, is it not so ? If one
finds malversation of justice amongst those in a
high grade, should not the punishment be exemplary
? The higher the power, the higher
the responsibility. You, for example, are much
too shrewd a man to risk your life by taking
any advantage of your position as one of the
officers "

I don't understand you, Clarissa," the
other said, somewhat hotly.

I only meant to say," Clarissa observed,
carelessly, 'that the punishment for malversation
of justice on the part of an officer is so terrible,
so swift, and so sure, that no one but a madman
would think of running the risk — ■ — ■ "

Yes, but what has that to do with me ? "
Reitzei said, angrily.

Nothing, my dear friend, nothing," said
Clarissa, soothingly, " But now, about this
selection of Mr. Brand "

Reitzei turned rather pale for a second ; but
said instantly, and with apparent anger —

I tell you that is none of my business.
That is Mr. Lind's business. What have I ta
do with it ? "

Do not be so impatient, my friend," said
Clarissa, looking at his coffee. " We will say
that, as usual, there was a ballot. All quite fair.
No man wishes to avoid his duty ; it is the
simplest thing in the world to mark one of your
pieces of paper with a red mark ; whoever
receives the marked paper undertakes the commission.
All is quite fair, I say. Only, you have
seen, I dare say, the common, the pitiful trick
of the conjuror who throws a pack of cards on
the table, backs up. You take one ; look at it
privately ; return it ; and the cards are shuffled.
Without lifting the cards at all he tells you that
the one )'0u selected was the eight of diamonds :
why ? It is no miracle : all the cards are eights
of diamonds ; though you, you poor innocent, do
not know that. It is a wretched trick," added
Clarissa, coolly.

Reitzei drank off the remainder of his soda-water
at a gulp. He stared at Clarissa, in
silence, afraid to speak.

My dear friend Reitzei," said Clarissa, at

length raising his eyes and fixing them on his
companion, " you could not be so insane as to play
any trick like that ? — having four pieces of paper,
for example, all marked red, the marks under the
paper ? You would not enter Into any such
conspiracy ? For you know, friend Reitzei, that
the punishment is — death ! "

The man had turned a ghastly grey-green
colour. He was apparently choking with thirst,
though he had just finished the soda-water. He
could not speak.

Clarissa calmly waited for him ; but in his
heart he was saying exultingly — ''Ha, the dagger
quivers in the board ; his eyes are standing from
his head ; is it Clarissa or Cagliostro that has
paralyzed him ? "

At length the wretched creature opposite him
gasped out —

Beratinsky "

But he could say no more. He motioned to
a waiter to brine him some more soda-water.

"Yes, Beratinsky?" said Clarissa, calmly
reofardinor the livid face.

has betrayed us ! " he said, with

trembling lips. In fact, there was no fight in

him at all ; no angry repudiation ; he was helpless
with this sudden bewilderment of fear.

'' Not quite," said Clarissa ; and he now
spoke in a low, eager voice. "It is for you to
save yourself by forestalling him. It is your
one chance : otherwise the decree ; and goodbye
to this world for you ! See — look at this
card — I say it is your only chance, friend Reitzei —
for I am empowered by the Council to promise
you, or Beratinsky, or any one, a free pardon
on confession. Oh, I assure you, the truth is
clear : has not one eyes ? You poor devil, you
cannot speak : shall I go to Beratinsky and see
whether he can speak } "

What must I do — what must I do ? " the
other gasped, in abject terror ; Clarissa, regarding
this exhibition of cowardice, could not help
wondering how Lind had allowed such a creature
to associate with him.

Then Clarissa, sure of victory, began to
breathe more freely. He assumed a lofty air.

Trust in me, friend Reitzei. I will instruct
you. If you can persuade the Council of the
truth of your story, I promise you they will
absolve you from the operations of a certain

Clause which you know of. Meanwhile you will
come to my lodgings and write a line to Lind,
excusing yourself for the day. Then this evening
I dare say it will be convenient for you to start
for Naples ? Oh, I assure you, you owe me
thanks : you did not know the danger you were
in ; hereafter you will say, ' Well, it was no other
than Clarissa who pulled me out of that quagmire.'
"

A few minutes thereafter Clarissa was ina
telegraph-office ; and this was the message that
he despatched : —

Colonia, London : to Ba^^tolotti, Vicolo Isotta,
No. 15, Naples. Ridotto will arrive immediately,
colours doivn. Send orders for Ltdgi and
Hassan to follow.

It is a bold stroke," he was saying to himself,
as he left the office, " but I have run some risks
in my time. What is one more or less ?"

CHAPTER XII.

FIAT JUSTITIA.

Tins scheme of Clarissa's had been so rapidly
conceived and put in execution, that he had had
no time to think of its possible or certain consequences,
in the event of his being successful.
His immediate and sole anxiety was to make sure
of his captive. There was always the chance
that a frightened and feeble creature like Reitzei
might double back ; he might fey to Lind and
Beratinsky, and seek security in a new compact ;
for who could prove anything if the three were
to maintain their innocence ? However, as
Clarissa shrewdly perceived, Reitzei was in
the dark as to how much the Council knew
already. Moreover, Reitzei had his suspicions of
Beratinsky. If there was to be a betrayal, he
was clearly resolved to have the benefit of it.

Nevertheless Clarissa did not lose sight
3. — xni. N

of him for a moment. He took him to his,
Clarissa's, lodgings ; kept assuring him that he
ought to be very grateful for being thus allowed
to escape ; got him to write and despatch a note
to Lind, excusing himself for that day and the
next ; and then proceeded to give him instructions
as to what he should do in Naples. These instructions,
by the way, were entirely unnecessary ;
it was no part of Clarissa's plan to allow Reitzei
to arrive in Naples alone.

After a mid-day meal, Clarissa and Reitzei
walked up to the lodgings of the latter, where
he got a few travelling-things put together. By-and-by
they went to the railway station ; Clarissa
suggesting that it was better for Reitzei to get
away from London as soon as possible. The old
albino saw his companion take his seat in the
train for Dover ; and then turned away and
re-entered the busy world of the London streets.

The day was fine after the rain ; the pavements
were white and dry ; he kept in the sunlight
for the sake of the warmth. But he had not
much attention for the sights and sounds around
him. Now that this sudden scheme promised
to be entirely successful, he could consider the

probable consequences of that success ; and, as
usual, his first thought was about Natalie.

Poor child — poor child ! " he said to himself,
rather sadly. " How could she tell how this
would end ? If she saves the life of her lover,
it is at the cost of the life of her father. The
poor child ! — must misfortune meet her whichever
way she turns ? "

And then, too, some touch of compunction or
even remorse entered into his own bosom. He
had been so eager in the pursuit ; he had been
so anxious to acquit himself to the satisfaction of
the Council, that he had scarcely remembered
that his success would almost certainly involve the
sacrifice of one who was at least an old colleague.
Ferdinand Lind and Clarissa had never been
the very best of friends ; during one period,
indeed, they had been rivals ; but that had been
forgotten in the course of years ; and what
Clarissa now remembered was that Lind and
he had at least been companions in the old days.

Seventeen years ago," he was thinking, " he
forfeited his life to the Society ; and they gait
back to him. They will not pardon him this
time. And who is to take the news to Natalie

and the beautiful, brave child ? Ah, what will
she say ? My God, is there no happiness for
any one in this world ! "

He was greatly distressed ; but in his distress
he became desperate. He would not look that
way at all. He boldly justified himself for what
he had done ; and strove to regard it with satisfaction.
What if both Lind and Beratinsky were
to suffer ; had they not merited any punishment
that might befall them ? Had they not compassed
the destruction of an innocent man ? Would it
have been better, then, that George Brand should
have become the victim of an infamous conspiracy ?
Fiat justitia ! — no matter at what cost. Natalie
must face the truth. Better that the guilty should
suffer than the innocent. And he, Clarissa,
for one, was not going to shirk any responsibility
for what might happen. He had obeyed the
orders of the Council. He had done his duty ;
that was enough.

He forced himself not to think of Natalie, and
of the dismay and horror with which she would
learn of one of the consequences of her appeal.
This was a matter between men ; to be settled
by men : if the consciences of women were tender,.

it could not be helped. Clarissa walked faster
and faster, as if he were trying to get away from
something that followed and annoyed him. He
pretended to himself that he was deeply interested
in a shop-window here or there ; occasionally
he whistled ; he sang, " Vade a Napoli in ,"
with forced gaiety ; he twisted his long
white moustache; and then he made his way down
to Brand's rooms.

Here he was also very gay.

Now, my dear Monsieur Brand, to-day I
have idleness ; to-day I will talk to you ; yesterday
I could not."

"Unfortunately," said Brand, "our positions
are reversed now. For here is a letter from
Lind, wanting me to go up to Lisle Street. It
seems Reitzei has had to go off into the country,
leaving a lot of correspondence "

You are, then, on good terms with Lind ? "
Clarissa interposed, quickly.

Yes ; why not ? " said Brand, with a stare.

I, also, I say — Why not ? It is excellent.
Then you have no time for my chatter ? " said
Clarissa, carelessly regarding the open letter.

At least you can tell me something about

Natalie and her mother. Are they well ? What
hotel are they at ? "

Clarissa laughed.

"Yes, yes, my friend Monsieur Brand, you
say, ' Are they well ? ' What you mean is,
What has taken them to Naples ? ' Bien, you
are right to wonder ; you will not have to wonder
long. A little patience ; you will hear something
; do not be surprised. And you have no
message, for example, by way of reply to the
letter I brought you ? "

You are returning to Naples, then ? "

To-night. I will take a message for you ;
if you have no time now, send it to me at
Charing Cross. Meanwhile, I take my leave."

Clarissa rose ; but was persuaded to resume
his seat.

I see," said he, again laughing, " that you
have a little time to hear about the two wanderers.
Oh, they are in a good hotel, I assure
you ; pretty rooms ; you look over to Capri ;
quite near you the Castello dell' Ovo, and
underneath your windows the waves — a charming
view ! And the little Natalushka, she has
not lost her spirits : she says to me, ' Dear

Mr. Cakibressa, will you have the goodness to-become
my champion ? ' I say to her, ' Against
all the world.' ' Oh no.' she answers, * not
quite so much as that. It is a man who sells
coral and lava and such things ; and no matter
when I go out, he will follow me, and thrust
himself before me. Dear Mr. Clarissa, I do
not want coral and trinkets ; and he is more
importunate than all the others put together ;
and the servants of the hotel can do nothing
with him.' Oh, I assure you, it would have
made you laugh — her pretence of gravity ! I said
nothing — not I ; what is the use of making serious
promises over trifles ? But when I went out I
encountered the gentleman with the coral and
lava ornaments. ' Friend,' said I, ' a word with
you. Skip, dance, be off with you to the steps
of some other hotel ; your presence is not agreeable
here.' * Who are you ? ' said he, naturally.
No matter,' said I, ' but do you wish to be
presented with two dozen of the schoolmaster's
sweetmeats ? ' ' Who are you ? ' said he, again.
Then I took him bathe ear ; and whispered
something to him. By the blood of Saint Peter,
Monsieur Brand, you should have heard the

quick snap of his box, and seen the heels of him
as he darted off like an antelope ! I tell you,
the grave-faced minx, that mocking Natalushka,
who makes fun of old people like me — well, she
shall not any more be troubled with necklaces
and pebbles ! "

Then she is quite cheerful and happy ? "
said Brand, somewhat wondering.

Sometimes," Clarissa said, more gravely.
*' One cannot always be anxious ; one has
glimpses of hope ; then the spirit rises ; the
eyes laugh. You, for example, you do not seem
much cast down ? "

Brand avoided his inquisitive look ; and
merely said —

One must take things as one finds them.
There is no use repining over what happens."

Clarissa now rose, and took his cap. Then
he laid it down on the table aofain.

"One moment before I go, my dear Monsieur
Brand. I told you to expect news ; perhaps
you will not understand. Shall I show
you something to help } Regard this : it is
only a little trick ; but it may help you to understand
when the news comes to you."

He took from his pocket li piece of white
paper, square, and with apparently nothing on
it. He laid it on the table ; and produced a red
pencil.

May I trouble you for a small pair of
scissors, my dear friend ? "

Brand stepped aside to a writing-desk, and
brought him the scissors ; he was scarcely thinking
of Clarissa at all ; he was thinking of the
message he would send to Naples.

Clarissa slowly and carefully cut the piece
of paper into four squares ; and proceeded to fold
these up. Brand looked on, it is true ; but with
little interest ; and he certainly did not perceive
that his companion had folded three of these pieces
with the under side inwards, the fourth with
the upper side inwards, while this last had the
rough edges turned in a different direction from
the other three.

Now, Mr. Brand," said Clarissa, calmly,
*' if one were drawing lots, for example, what
more simple than this .-* I take one of these
pieces — you see, there is nothing on it — I print
a red cross with my pencil ; there, it is folded
again, and they all go into my cap."

Enough, Clarissa," Brand said, impatiently.
You show me that you have questioned me
closely enough. There is enough said about it."

I ask your pardon, my dear friend, there
is not," said Clarissa, politely. " For this is
what I have to say now. Draw one of the pieces
of paper."

Brand turned away.

"It is not a thing to be gone over again,
I tell you ; I have had enough of it ; let it rest."

It must not rest. I beg of you — my friend,
I insist "

He pressed the cap on him ; Brand, to get rid
of him, drew one of the papers, and tossed it
on to the table. Clarissa took it up, opened
it, and showed him the red cross.

Yes, you are again unfortunate, my dear
Monsieur Brand. Fate pursues you, does it not ?
But wait one moment. Will you open the other
three papers ? "

As Brand seemed impatient, Clarissa himself
took them out and opened them singly before
him. On each and all was the same red mark.

But now Brand was indifferent no longer.

What do you mean, Clarissa ? " he said,
quickly.

"I mean," said Clarissa, regarding him,
that one might prepare a trick by which you
would not have much chance of escape''

Brand caught Iii by the arm.

Do you mean that these others " He

could not complete the sentence ; his brain was
in a whirl : was this why Natalie had sent him
that strange message of hope ?

Clarissa released himself, and took his cap,
and said —

I can tell you nothing, my dear friend —
nothing. My lips are sealed, for the present.
But surely one is permitted to show you a common
little trick with bits of paper ? "

But you mist tell me what you mean," said
Brand, breathlessly, and with his face still somewhat
pale. " You suggest there has been a trick.
That is why you have come from Naples ? What
do you know ? What is about to happen ? For
God's sake, Clarissa, don't have any mystification
about it : what is it that you know — that
)ou suspect — that you have heard } "

My dear friend," said Clarissa, with some
anxiety, " perhaps I have been indiscreet. I
know nothing : what can I know ? But I show

you a trick — if only to prepare you for any news
and you think it is very serious. Oh no ; do
not be too hopeful — do not think it is serious
think it was a foolish trick "

And so, notwithstanding all that Brand could
do to force some definite explanation from him,
Clarissa succeeded in getting away, promising
to carry to Natalie any message Brand might send
in the evening ; and as for Brand himself, it was
now time for him to go up to Lisle Street, so
that he had something else to think of than
idle mystifications.

For this was how he took it in the end.
Clarissa was whimsical, fantastic, mysterious ;
he had been playing with the notion that Brand
had been entrapped into this service ; he had
succeeded in showing himself how it might have
been done. The worst of it was— had he been
putting vain hopes into the mind of Natalie ?
Was this the cause of her message ? In the
midst of all this bewildering uncertainty, Brand
set himself to the work left unfinished by Reitzei ;
and found Ferdinand Lind as pleasant and friendly
a colleague as ever.

But a few days after he was startled by being

summoned back to Lisle Street, after he had
gone home in the afternoon. He found Ferdinand
Lind as cain and collected as usual,
though he spoke in a hard, dr)- voice. He was
then informed that Lind himself and Beratinsky
were about to leave London for a time ; that
the Council wished Brand to conduct the business
at Lisle Street as best he might in their
absence ; and that he was to summon to his aid
such of the officers of the Society as he chose.
He asked no explanations ; and Lind vouchsafed
none. There was something unusual in
the expression of the man's face.

Well, Brand installed himself in Lisle Street ;
and got along as best he could, with the assistance
of Gathorne Edwards and one or two
others. But not one of them any more than
himself knew what had happened or was happening.
No word or message of an)' kind came
from Clarissa, or Lind, or the Society, or anyone.
Day after day, Brand got through his work
with patience, but without interest ; only, for the
time being, these necessities of the hour beguiled
him from thinking of the hideous, inevitable thing
that lay ahead in his life.

When news did come, it was sudden and
terrible. One night he and Edwards were-alone
in the rooms in Lisle Street when a letter, sent
through a roundabout channel, was put into his
hands. He opened it carelessly ; glanced at the
beginning of it ; then he uttered an exclamation ;
then, as he read on, Edwards noticed that his
companion's face was ghastly pale, even to his
lips.

"Gracious Heavens! — Edwards — read it!"
he said, quite breathlessly. He dropped the
letter on the table. There was no wild joy
at his own deliverance in this man's face ; there
was terror rather ; it was not of himself at
all he was thinking, but of the death-agony of
Natalie Lind when she should hear of her father's
doom.

Why, this is very good news. Brand,"
Edwards cried, wondering. "You are released
from that affair "

But then he read further ; and he, too, became
agitated.

"What? What does it mean? Lind, Berar
Reitzei, accused of conspiracy — misusing
the powers entrusted to them as officers of the

Society — Reitzei acquitted on giving evidence —
Lind and Beratinsky, condemned ! "

Edwards looked at his companion, aghast, and
said —

You know what the penalty is, Brand."

The other nodded. Edwards returned to
the letter, reading aloud, in detached scraps, his
voice ijivinor evidence of his astonishment and
dismay.

Beratinsky allowed the option of undertaking
the duty from which you are released —
accepts — it is his only chance, I suppose — poor
devil ! what chance is it, after all ? " He put
the letter back on the table. *' What is all this
that has happened, Brand ? "

Brand did not answer. He had risen to his
feet ; he stood like one bound with chains ; there
was suffering and an infinite pity in the haggard
face.

Why is not Natalie here ? " he said ; and
it was strange that two men so different from
each other as Brand and Clarissa should in
such a crisis have had the same instinctive
thought. The lives and fates of men were
nothing ; it was the heart of a girl that concerned

them. " They will tell her — some of
them over there — they will tell her, suddenly,
that her father is condemned to die. Why is she
amongst — amongst strangers ? "

He pulled out his watch hastily ; but long
ago the night-mail had left for Dover. At this
moment the bell rang below ; and he started ;
it was unusual for them to have a visitor at such
an hour.

It is only that drunken fool, Kirski,"
Edwards said. " I asked him to come here tonight."


CHAPTER XIII.

THE TRIAL.

It was a dark, wet, and cold night when
Clarissa felt his way down the gangway
leading from the Admiralty Pier into the small
Channel steamer that lay slightly rolling at her
moorings. Most of the passengers who were
already on board had got to leeward of the
deck-cabins ; and sat huddled up there, undistinguishable
bundles of rugs. For a time he
almost despaired of finding out Reitzei ; but at
last he was successful ; and he had to explain
to this particular bundle of rugs that he had
changed his mind, and would himself travel with
him to Naples.

It was a dirty night in crossing, and both
suffered considerably ; the difference being that,
as soon as they got into the smooth waters of
Calais harbour, Clarissa recovered himself

3. — XIV. o

directly, whereas Reitzel remained an almost
inanimate heap of wrappings, and had to be
assisted or shoved up the steep gangway into
the glare of the officials' lamps. Then, as soon
as he had got into a compartment of the railway
carriage, he rolled himself up in a corner, and
sought to forget his sufferings in sleep.

Clarissa was walking up and down on the
platform. At length the horn sounded, and he
was about to step into the compartment, when
he found himself preceded by a lady.

I beg your pardon, madame," said he,
politely, " but it is a carriage for smokers."

And if one wishes to smoke, one is
permitted — is it not so ? " said the stranger,
cheerfully.

Clarissa at once held open the door for
her ; and then followed. These three had the
compartment to themselves.

She was a young lady, good-looking, tall,
fresh-complexioned, with brown eyes that had
plenty of fire in them, and a humorous smile that
showed brilliant teeth. Clarissa, sitting opposite
her, judged that she was an Austrian, from
the number of bags and nick-nacks she had, all

in red Russia leather, and from the number of
trinkets she wore, mostly of polished steel or
silver. She opened a little tortoiseshell cigarette-case,
took out a cigarette, and gracefully accepted
the light that Clarissa offered her.
By this time the train had started ; and was
thundering through the night.

The young lady was very frank and affable ;
she talked to her companion opposite — Reitzei
being fast asleep — about a great many things ;
she lit cigarette after cigarette. She spoke of
her husband, moreover ; and complained that
he should have to go and fight in some one
else's quarrel. Why could not ladies who went
to the tables at Monte Carlo keep their temper,
that a perfectly neutral third person should be
summoned to fight a duel on behalf of one of
them ?

You are going to rejoin him, then,
madame ? " said Clarissa.

Not at all," she said, laughing. " I have my
own affairs."

After some time, she said, with an amused
smile —

"My dear sir, I] hope I do not keep you

from sleeping. But you are puzzled about me.
You think you have seen me before ; but cannot
tell where."

There you are perfectly right, madame."

Think of the day before yesterday. You
were crossing in the steamer. You were so
good as to suggest to a lady on board that
nearer the centre of the vessel would be safer
for her "

He stared at her again. Could this be the
same lady who, on the day that he crossed, was
seated right at the stern of the steamer, her
brown hair flying about with the wind, her white
teeth flashing as she laughed and joked with the
sailors, her eyes full of life and merriment as she
pitched up and down ? Clarissa, before the
paroxysms of his woe overtook him, had had
the bravery to go and remonstrate with this
young lady, and to tell her she would be more
comfortable nearer the middle of the boat ; but
she had laughingly told him she was a sailor's
daughter ; and was not afraid of the sea. Well,
this handsome young lady opposite certainly
laughed like that other — but still ?

Oh," she said, " do I puzzle you with such

a simple thing ? My hair was brown the day
before yesterday ; it is black to-day ; is that a
sufficient disguise ? Pardieu, when I went to
a music-hall in London that same night, to see
some stupid nonsense — bah ! such stupid nonsense
I have never seen in the world — I went
dressed as a man. Only for exercise, you perceive
: one does not need disguises in London."

Clarissa was becoming more and more
mystified ; and she saw it ; and her amusement
increased.

Come, my friend," she said, "■ you cannot
deny that you also are political .-* "

"I, madame?" said Clarissa, with earnest
innocence.

Oh yes. And you are not on the side of
the big battalions, eh ? "

I declare to you, madame "

She glanced at Reitzei.

Your friend sleeps sound. Come, shall
I tell you something ? You did not say a word,
for example, when you stepped on shore, to a
gentleman in a big cloak who had a lantern "

Madame, I beg of you ! " he exclaimed ina
low voice, also glancing at Reitzei.

** What ? " she said, laughing. " Then you
have the honour of the acquaintance of my
old friend Board ? The rogue, to take a post
like that ! Oh, I think my husband could speak
more frankly with you ; I can only guess."

You are somewhat indiscreet, madame," said
Clarissa, coldly.

I ? indiscreet ? " she said, flicking off the
ash of her cigarette with a finger of the small
gloved hand. Then she said, with mock-seriousness
: " How can one be indiscreet with
a friend of the good-man Board ? Come, I will
give you a lesson in sincerity. My husband is
gone to fight a duel, I told you ; yes, but his
enemy is a St. Petersburg General, who belonged
to the Third Section. They should not
let Russians play at Monte Carlo ; it is so easy
to pick a quarrel with them. And now about
myself; you want to know what I am, what
I am about. Ah, I perceive it, monsieur.
Well, this time, on the other hand, I shall be
discreet. But if you hear of something within
a few weeks — if the whole of the world begins
to chatter about it — and you say, ' Well, that
woman had pluck — then you can think of our

little conversation during the night. We must
be getting near Amiens, is it not so ? "

She took from her traveling-bag a small
apparatus for showering eau-de-cologne in
spray, and with this sprinkled her forehead ;
afterwards removing the drops with a soft white
sponge, and smoothing her rebellious black hair.
Then she took out a tiny flask and cup of silver.

Permit me, monsieur, to give you a little
cognac, after so many cigarettes. I fear you have
only been smoking to keep me company "

"A thousand thanks, madame," said Clarissa,
who certainly did not refuse. She took
none herself; indeed, she had just time to put
her bars in order acfain when the train slowed
into Amiens Station ; and she, bidding her
bewildered and bewitched companion a most
courteous farewell, got out and departed.

Clarissa himself soon fell asleep ; and did
not wake until they were near Paris. By this
time the bundle of rugs in the corner had begun
to show signs of animation.

Well, friend Reitzei, you have had a good
sleep," said Clarissa, yawning and stretching
his arms.

I have slept a little."

You have slept all night — what more ?
What do you know, for example, of the young
lady who was in the carriage ? "

I saw her come in," Reitzei said, indifferently.
" And I heard you talking once or
twice. What was she ? "

There you ask me a pretty question. My
belief is that she was either one of those
Nihilist mad-women, or else the devil himself Ina
new shape. At any rate she had some good
cognac."

I should like some coffee now, Signor
Clarissa ; and you ? "

I would not refuse it."

Indeed, during all this journey to Naples,
Clarissa and his companion talked much more
of the commonplace incidents and wants of
travel than of the graver matters that lay before
them. Clarissa was especially resolute in
doing so. He did not like to look ahead. He
kept reminding himself that he was simply the
agent of the Council ; he was carrying out their
behests ; the consequences were for others to
deal with. He had fulfilled his commission ; he

had procured sufficient proof of the suspected
conspiracy ; if evil-doers were to be punished,
was he responsible ? Fiat jiistiiia ! — he kept
repeating to himself. He was answerable to the
Council alone. He had done his duty.

But from time to time — and especially when
they were travelling at night, and he was
awake — a haunting dread possessed him. How
should he appear before these two women in
Naples ? His old friend Natalie Berezolyi had
been grievously wronged ; she had suffered
through long years ; but a wife forgets much
when her husband is about to die. And a
daughter ? Lind had been an affectionate father
enough to this girl ; these two had been companions
all her lifetime ; recent incidents would
surely be forgotten in her terror over the fact
that it was her own appeal to the Council that
had wrought her father's death. And then he,
Clarissa, what could he say ? It was through
him she had invoked these unknown powers.
It was his counsel that had taken her to Naples,
And he was the immediate instrument that
would produce this tragic end.

He would not think of it. At the various

places where they stopped he worried about
food and drink ; and angrily haggled about
hotel-bills. He read innumerable stupid little
newspapers from morning till night. He
smoked Reitzei nearly blind. At last they
reached Naples.

Within an hour after their arrival Clarissa,
alone, was in Tommaso's wine-vaults,
talking to the ghoul-like occupant. A bell rang,
faint and muffled, in the distance ; he passed to
the back of the vaults, and lit a candle that
Tommaso handed him ; then he followed what
seemed, from the rumble overhead, some kind
of subterranean corridor. But at the end of
this long subway he began to ascend ; then he
reached some steps ; finally, he was on an
ordinary staircase, with daylight around him,
and above him a landing with two doors, both
shut.

Opening one of these doors, after having
knocked thrice, he entered a large, bare chamber
which was occupied by three men, all seated at
a table which was covered with papers. One
of them, Von Zoesch, rose.

That is good ; that is very well settled," he

said to the other two. "It is a f^^ood piece of
work. Now here is this English business ; and
the report of our wily friend, Clarissa. What
is it, Clarissa ? We had your telegram ; we
have sent for Lind and Beratinsky ; what
more :

Excellency, I have fulfilled your commission,
I hope with judgment," Clarissa said, his cap
in his hand. " I believe it is clear that the
Englishman had that duty put upon him by
fraudulent means."

"It is a pity, if it be so ; it will cost us some
further trouble ; and we have other things to
think about at present." Then he added,
lightly, " But it will please your young lady
friend, Clarissa. Well ? "

Excellency, you forget it may not quite so
well please her if it is found that her father was
in the conspiracy," said Clarissa, submissively.

Why not ? " answered the bluff, tall soldier.
However, to the point, Clarissa. What have
you discovered ? And your proofs ? "

I have none, your Excellences I have
brought with me one of the four in the ballot,
who is willing to confess. Why is he willing to

confess ? " said Clarissa, with a little triumphant
smile. " Because he thinks the gentlemen
of the Council know already''

And you have frightened the poor devil, no
doubt," said Von Zoesch, laughing.

I have, on the contrary, assured him of
pardon," said Clarissa, gravely. " It is within
the powers you gave me, Excellency. I have
pledged my honour "

Oh yes, yes ; very well. But do you mean
to tell us, my good Clarissa," said this tall
man, speaking more seriously, " that you have
proof of these three, Lind, Beratinsky, Reiterating
combined to impose on the Englishman
? Not Lind, surely ? Perhaps the other
two ? "

Your Excellency, it is for you to investigate
further and determine. I will tell you how I
proceeded. I went to the Englishman ; and
got minute particulars of what occurred. I
formed my own little story, my guess, my theory.
I eot hold of Reitzei ; and hinted that it was all
known — on my faith, he never thought of denying
anything, he was so frightened ! But regard
this, Excellency ; I know nothing. I can give

you the Englishman's account ; then, if you
get that of Reitzei, and the two correspond, it is
a good proof that Reitzei is not lying in his
confession ? It is for you to examine him,
Excellency."

No, it is not for me," the ruddy-faced
soldier-looking man said ; and then he turned to
his two companions. The one was the Secretary
Granaglia ; the other was a broad-shouldered,
elderly man, with strikingly handsome features
of the modern Greek type, a pallid, wax-like
complexion, and thoughtful, impenetrable eyes.
Brother Conventz, I withdraw from this affair.
I leave it in the hands of the Council ; one of
the accused was in former days my friend ; it
is not right that I should interfere."

And I also. Excellency," said Clarissa,
eagerly. " I have fulfilled my commission ; may
not I retire now also ? "

Brother Granaglia will take down your
report in writing ; then you are free, my Clarissa.
But you will take the summons of the
Council to your friend Reitzei ; I suppose he
will have to be examined before the others
arrive."

And so it came about that neither the General
von Zoesch nor Clarissa was present when the
trial, if trial it could be called, took place. There
were no formalities. In this same big bare room,
seven members of the Council sat at the table.
Brother Conventz presiding, the Secretary
Granaglia at the foot, with writing materials
before him. Ferdinand Lind and Beratinsky
stood between them and the side-wall, apparently
impassive. Reitzei was nearer the window,
pallid, uneasy, his eyes wandering about the
room, but avoiding the place where his former
colleagues stood.

The President briefly stated the accusation
against them, and read Reitzei's account of his
share in what had taken place. He asked if they
had anything to deny or explain.
Beratinsky was the first to speak.
*' Illustrious Brethren of the Council," he
began, as if with some set speech ; but his colour
suddenly forsook him ; and he halted and looked
helplessly round. Then he said wildly — " I
declare that I am innocent — I say that I am
innocent ! I never should have thought of it,
gentlemen. It was Lind's suggestion ; he wished

to get rid of the man ; I declare I had nothiiii^
to gain. Gentlemen, judge for yourselves : what
had I to gain ? "

He looked from one to the other ; the grave
faces there were mostly regarding Granaglia, who
was slowly and carefully putting the words down.

Then Lind spoke, clearly and coldly.

I have nothing to deny. What I did was
done in the interests of the Society. My reward,
for my long services, is that I am haled here like
a pickpocket. It is the second time ; it will bethe
last. I have done, now, with the labour of
my life. You can reap the fruits of it. Do with
me what you please,"

The President rose.

The gentlemen may now retire ; the decision
of the Council will be communicated to them
hereafter."

A bell was rung ; Tommaso appeared ; Lind
and Beratinsky where conducted down the stairs
and through the dark corridor. In a few seconds
Tommaso returned, and performed a like office
for Reitzei.

The deliberations of the Council were but of
short duration. The guilt of the accused was

clear ; and clear and positive was the penalty
prescribed by the articles of the Society. Butin
consideration of the fact that Beratinsky had
been led into this affair by Lind, it was resolved
to offer him the alternative of his taking over
the service from which Brand was released.
This afforded but a poor chance of escape, but
Beratinsky was in a desperate position. That
same evening he accepted ; and the Secretary
Granaglia was forthwith ordered to report the
result of these proceedings to England, and give
certain instructions as to the further conduct of
business there.

The Secretary Granaglia performed this task
with his usual equanimity. He was merely a
machine registering the decrees of the Council ;
it was no affair of his to be concerned about the
fate of Ferdinand Lind ; he had even forgotten
the existence of the two women who had been
patiently waiting day after day at that hotel,
alternately hoping and fearing to learn what
had occurred.

CHAPTER XIV.

rUT TO THE PROOF.

It was not at all likely that, at such a crisis, Georgic
Brand should pay much attention to the man
Kirski, who was now ushered into the room.
He left Edwards to deal with him. In any castle
could not have understood a word they were
saying, except through the interpretation of
Edwards, and that was a tedious process. He
had other things to think of.

Edwards was in a somewhat nervous and
excited condition, after hearing this strange news,
and he grew both impatient and angry when
he saw that Kirski was again half-dazed with
drink.

Yes, I thought so ! " he exclaimed, looking
fierce as the mild student-face permitted
This is why you were not at the shop when
I called to-day. What do you mean by it ? What
has become of your promises ? "

3.— XIV. p

Little father, I have great trouble," said the
man, humbly.

You ? — you in trouble ? " said Edwards,
angrily. " You do not know what trouble is.
You have everything in the world you could wish
for. You have good friends ; as much employment
as you can want ; fair wages ; and a comfortable
home. If your wife ran away from you,
isn't it a good riddance ? And then instead of
setting about your work like a good citizen, you
think of nothing but murdering a man who is as
far away from you as the man in the moon,
and then you take to drinking, and become a
nuisance to every one''

Little father, I have many troubles — and I
wish to forget."

Your troubles ! " said Edwards — though his
anger was a little bit assumed : he wished to
frighten the man into better ways. " What are
your troubles ! Think of that beautiful lady you
are always talking about — who interested herself
in you, the bigger fool she ! — think of her trouble
Ashen she knows that her father is to die. And
for what ? Because he was not obedient to the
laws of the Society. And he is punished with

death ; and you, have you Ijccn obedient ? What
has become of your promises to me ? "

The man before him seemed at this moment
to arouse himself. He answered nothing to the
reproaches hurled at him ; but said, with a glance
of eager interest in the sunken eyes —

Is she in great trouble, little father ? "

This orleans of intelligence rather startled
Edwards. He had been merely scolding a half-drunken
poor devil ; and had been incautious as
to what he said. He continued, with greater
discretion —

Would she have her troubles made any the
less if she knew how you were behaving ? She
was interested in you ; many a time she asked
about you "

Yes, yes," the man said, slowly ; and he was
twisting about the cap that he held in his hand.

And she gave you her portrait. Well, I am
glad you knew you were not fit to retain such
a gift. A young lady like that does not give
her portrait to be taken into public-houses "

No more — do not say any more, little father,"
Kirski said, though in the same humble way.
■" It is useless."

Useless ! "

I will not go back to any public-house —
never."

So you said to me four days ago ! " Edwards
answered.

This time it is true," he said, though he did
not lift his bleared eyes. " To-morrow I will
take back the portrait, little father ; it shall
remain with me ; in my room. I do not go back
to any public-house ; I shall be no more trouble."
Then he said, timidly raising his eyes : " Does
she weep — that beautiful one ? "

Yes, no doubt," said Edwards, hastily and
in some confusion. "Is it not natural } But you
must not say a word about it ; it is a secret ;
think of it, and what one has to suffer in this
world ; and then ask yourself if you will add
to the trouble of one who has been so kind to you.
Now do I understand you aright ? Is it a definite
promise this time."

This time, yes, little father. You will have
no more need to complain of me. I will not add
to any one's trouble. To-morrow — no, to-night,
I take back the portrait ; it is sacred ; I will not
add to any one's trouble."

There was something strange about the man's
manner ; but Edwards put it down to the effects
of drink ; and was chiefly concerned in impression
on the dazed intelligence before him the
responsibility of the promises he had given.

To-morrow, then, at nine you are at the
shop."

Assuredly, if you wish it, Httle father."

Remember, it is the last chance your master
will give you. He is very kind to give you this
chance. To-morrow you begin a new course of
conduct ; and when the young lady comes back, I
will tell her of it."

I will not add to her troubles, little father ;
you may be sure of it this time."

When he had gone, Brand turned to his
companion. He still held that letter in his hands.
His face, that had grown somewhat haggard of
late, was even paler than usual.

I suppose I ought to feel very glad,
Edwards," he said. " This is a reprieve, don't
)ou see, so far as I am concerned. And yet I
can't realize it ; I don't seem to care about it ;
all the bitterness was over "

You are too bewildered yet, Brand — no
wonder."

"If only the girl and her mother were over
here," he said ; and then he added, with a quick
instinct of fear : " What will she say to me ?
When she appealed to the Council, surely she
could not have imagined that the result would be
her father's death. But now that she finds it so
when she finds that, in order to rescue me, she
has sacrificed him "

He could not complete the sentence.

"But he has richly deserved it," said Edwards.

That is not what she will look to," he said.
Edwards," he added, presently, " I am going
home now. This place stifles me. I hate the
look of it. That table is where they played their
little slight-of-hand business ; and oh ! the
bravery of the one, and the indifference of the
other, and Lind's solemn exposition of duty and
obedience and all the rest of it ! Well, what will
be the result when this pretty story becomes
known ? Rascality among the very foremost
officers of the Society : what are all those people
who have recently joined us, who are thinking
of joining us, likely to say ? Are these your
High Priests ? Are these the apostles of self-sacrifice,
and all the virtues ? "

It is bad enough ; but not irreparable, " said
Edwards, calmly. " If a member here or there
falls out, the association remains ; if one of its
high officers betrays his trust, you see how swift
and terrible the punishment is."

I do not," said Brand. " I see that the
paper decree is swift enough ; but what about
the execution of it. Have the Council a body
of executioners ? "

I don't know about that," said Edwards,
simply. " But I know that when I was in
Naples with Clarissa, I heard of the fate of
several against whom decrees had been pronounced.
And I know that in every instance
they anticipated their own fate ; the horror of
being continually on the watch was too much for
them. You may depend on it, that is what Lind
will do. He is a proud man. He will not go
slinking about, afraid at every street-corner of the
knife of the Little Chaffinch or some other of
those Camorra fellows "

Edwards," said Brand, hastily, " there is a
taint of blood — of treachery — about this whole
affair that sickens me. It terrifies me when I
think of what lies ahead. I — I think I have

already tasted death ; and the taste is still bitter
in the mouth. I must get into the fresh air."

Edwards got his coat and hat and followed.
He saw that his companion was strangely excited.

"If all this work — if all we have been looking
forward to — were to turn out to be a delusion,"
Brand said, hurriedly, when they had got into
the dark clear night outside, "that would be
worse than the suicide of Ferdinand Lind or
the disappearance of Beratinsky. If this is to
be the end — if these are our companions "

But how can you suggest such a thing ? "
Edwards protested. " Your imagination is filled
with blackness, Brand. You are disturbed ;
shocked ; afraid. Why, who are your colleagues }

What do you think of " Here he mentioned

a whole string of names, some of them those of
well-known Englishmen. " Do you accuse them
of treachery ? Have you not perfect confidence
in them ? Have they not perfect confidence in
the work we are all pledged to ? "

But he could not shake off this horrible feeling.
He wished to be alone, to fight with it ; he did
not even think of going to Lord Evelyn ; perhaps
it was now too late. Shortly afterwards he

bade Edwards good night ; and made his way to
his rooms at the foot of Buckingham Street,

Waters had left the lights low ; he did not
turn them up. Outside lay the black night-world
of London, hushed and silent, with its
thousand golden points of fire. He was glad to
be alone.

And yet an unknown feeling of dread was
upon him. It seemed as if now for the first time
he realized what a terrible destiny had nearly
been his ; and that his escape, so far from rendering
him joyful, had left him still trembling and
horrified. Hitherto his pride had conquered.
Even as he had undertaken that duty, it was his
pride that had kept him outwardly calm and
indifferent. He would not show fear, he would
not even show repugnance, before these men.
And it was pride, too, that had taught him at
length and successfully to crush down certain
vague rebellions of conscience. He would not
go back from his oath. He would not go back
from the promise to which Natalie's ring bound
him. He would go through with this thing, and
bid farewell to life ; further than that no one
could have demands on him.

But the sudden release from this dire pressure
of will left his nerves somewhat unstrung. For
the mere sake of companionship he would like to
have taken Natalie's hand, to have heard her
voice ; that would have assured him, and given
him courage. He knew not what dangers encompassed
her ; what agony she might not be
suffering. And the night did not answer these
sudden, wavering, confused questionings ; the
darkness outside was as silent as the grave.

Then a deeper gloom, almost touching despair,
fell upon him. He saw in all those companions
of his only so many dupes ; the great
hope of his life left him ; the future became
blank. He began to persuade himself that he
had only toyed with that new-found faith ; that it
was the desperation of ennui, not a true hope,
that had drawn him into this work ; that henceforth
he would have no right to call upon others
to join in a vain undertaking. If such things as
had just occurred were possible in this organization
with all its lofty aims and professions — if
there was to be a background of assassination and
conspiracy — why, this dream must go as others
had done. Then what remained to him in life }

He almost wished he had been allowed to go
forward to this climax unknowing; to have gone
with his heart still filled with faith ; to be assured
until the last moment that Natalie would remember
how he had fulfilled his promise to her.

It was a dark night for him, within and without.
But as he sat there at the window, or
walked up and down, wrestling with these
demons of doubt and despair, a dull blue light
gradually filled the sky outside ; the orange stars
on the bridges grew less intense ; the broad river
became visible in the dusk. Then, by-and-by,
the dull blue cleared into a pale steely-grey;
and the forms of the boats could be made out,
anchored in the stream there ; these were the
first indications of the coming dawn.

Somehow or other he ceased these restless
pacing of his, and was attracted to the window,
though he gazed but absently on the slow change
taking place outside — the world-old wonder of the
new day rising in the east. Up into that steely-grey
glides a soft and luminous saffron-brown ; it
spreads and widens ; against it the far dome of
St. Paul's becomes a beautiful velvet-purple. A
planet, that had been golden when it was in

the dusk near the horizon, has now sailed up
into the higher heaven, and shines a clear silver
point. And now — listen! — the hushed and
muffled sounds in the silence — the great city is
awakening from its sleep — there is the bark of a
dog — the rumble of a cart is heard. And still
that saffron-red spreads and kindles in the east ;
and the dome of St. Paul's is richer in hue than
ever ; the river, between the black-grey bridges,
.shines now with a cold light ; and the gas-lamps
have grown pale. And then the final flood of
glory wells up in the eastern skies ; and all
around him the higher buildings catch here and
there a swift golden orleans : the sunrise iso

o

declared ; there is a new day born for the sons
and the daughters of men.

The night had fled ; and with it the hideous
phantoms of the night. It seemed to him that
he had escaped from the grave ; and that he
was only now shaking off the horror of it.
Look at the beautiful, clear colours without ;
listen to the hum of the city awakening to all
its cheerful activities ; the new day has brought
with it new desires, new hopes. He threw open
the windows ; the morning air was cold and

sweet. The sparrows were beginning to chirp
in the garden-plots below. Surely that black
night was over and gone.

If only he could see Natalie — for one moment
to assure her that he had succumbed, but once,
and for the last time, to despair. It was a confession
he was bound to make ; it would not
lessen her trust in him. For now all through
his soul a sweet clear voice was crinoline ; it
was the song the sunrise had brought him :
it was the voice of Natalie herself, with all its
proud pathos and fervour, as he had heard it in
the olden days :

A Utile time we gain from time
To set our seasons in some chime,

For harsh or sweet or loud or low,

With seasons played out long ago
And souls that in their time and prime

Took part tooth summer or 7c>ith snow,
Lived abject lives out or sublime,

And had their chance of seed to sow
For service or disservice done
To those days dead and this their son.

A little time that 7C'c may fill
Or with such good works or such ill
As loose the bonds or make them strong
Wherein all manhood suffers wrong.
By rose-hung river and light foot rill
There are ivho rest not ; who think long

Till they discern as from a hill

At the Sin's hour of morning song,
Known of souls only, and those souls free,
The sacred spaces of the sea."

Surely it was still for him and her together to
stand on some such height, hand in hand, and
watch the sunrise come over the sea and the
awakening world. They would forget the phantoms
of the night ; and the traitors gone down
to Erebus ; perhaps, for this new life together,
they might seek a new clime. There was work
for them still ; and faith, and hope, and the
constant assurance of love ; the future might
perchance be all the more beautiful because of
these dark perils of the past.

As he lay thus communing with himself, the
light shining in on his haggard face. Waters came
into the room, and was greatly concerned to
find that, not only had his master not been
to bed, but that the supper left out for him the
night before had not been touched. Brand rose,
without betraying any impatience over his
attendant's pertinacious enquiries and remonstrances.
He went and got writing materials,
and wrote as follows : —

Dear Evelyn,

"If you could go over to Naples forme
— at once — I would take it as a great
favour. I cannot go myself. Whether or not,
come to see me at Lisle Street, to-day, by
twelve. Yours,

"G. B."

"Take this to Lord Evelyn, Waters; and
if he is up get an answer."

But your breakfast, sir. God bless me "

Never mind breakfast. I am oroinq- to lie
down for an hour or two now ; I have had some
business to think over. Let me have some
breakfast about eleven — when I ring."

Very well, sir."

That was his phrase — he had had some
business to think over. But it seemed to him,
as he went into the adjacent room, that that
night he had passed through worse than the
bitterness of death.

CHAPTER XV.

CONGRATULATIONS.

The Secretary Granaglia, the business of the
Council being over, carried the news to Von
Zoesch. It was almost dark when he made his
way up the steep little terraces in the garden of
the villa at Posilipo. He found the tall General
seated at the entrance to the grotto-like retreat,
smoking a cigar in the dusk.

You are late, Granaglia," he said.

I had some difficulty in coming here," said
the little man with the sallow face and the tired
eyes. " The police are busy ; or pretending to
be. The Commendator tells me that Zaccatelli
has been stirring them up."

Zaccatelli ! " said Von Zoesch, with a little
laugh. " It will soon be time now for Zaccatelli
to come down from his perch. Well, now, what
is the result ? "

Granaglia briefly recounted what had occurred :
the other manifested no surprise.

So this is the end of the Lind episode," he
said, thoughtfully. "It is a pity that so able a
man should be thrown away. He has worked
well ; I know of no one who will fill his place ;
but that must be seen to at once, Granaglia.
How long have they given him ? "

A month, your Excellency. He wishes to
go back to England, to put his affairs in order.
He has a firm nerve."

He was a good-looking man when he was
young," said Von Zoesch, apparently to himself.
Then he added : " This Beratinsky, to whom the
Zaccatelli affair has been transferred : what do
you think of him ? There must be no bungling,
Granaglia. What do you think of him : is he to
be trusted ? "

Your Excellency, if I were to give you my
own impression, I should say not in the least.
He accepts this service — why ? Because he is
otherwise lost for certain ; and here is a chance.
It is perhaps better than nothing. But he does not
go forward with any conviction of dut)- : what is
he thinking but of his chance of running away ? ''

3.— XIV. (J

And perhaps running away beforehand, for
example ? "

Oh no, your Excellency ; at least, that has
been provided for. Caprone and the brother of
Caprone will wait upon him until the thing is
over ; and what is more he will receive a hint
that these two humble attendants of his are keeping
an eye on him."

Caprone dare not go to Rome ? "

He is ready to go anywhere. They might
as well try to lay hands on a ghost."

Von Zoesch rose, and stretched his huge
frame, and yawned.

So this is the end of the episode Lind," he
said, idly. " It is a pity. But if a man plays a
risky game, and loses, he must pay. Perhaps
the warning will be wholesome, Granaglia. Our
friends must understand that our laws are not
laid down for nothing ; and that we are not afraid
to punish offenders even if these be among ourselves.
I suppose there is nothing further to be
done to-night ? "

I would ask your Excellency to remain here
for a little time yet," said the Secretary.

Are they coming so near ? We must get

Calabrcssa to procure some of them a dozen or

two on board the schooner. However "

He sat down again, and Ht another cigar.
We must pay Clarissa a compliment,
Granada ; it was well done ; very clever ; it has
all turned out just as he imagined ; it is not the
first time he has done us good service, with all his
volubility. Oh yes ; the rascal knows when to
hold his tongue. At this moment, for example,
he refuses to open his lips."

Pardon, your Excellency ; but I do not
understand you."

The General laughed a little, and continued
talking — it was one way of passing the time.

"It is a good joke enough. The wily old
Clarissa saw pretty clearly what the decision
of the Council would be ; and so he comes to me
and entreats me to be the bearer of the news to
Madame Lind and her daughter. Oh yes ; it is
good news, this deliverance of the Englishman ;
INTadame Lind is an old friend of mine ; she and
her daughter will be grateful. But you perceive,
Granaglia, that what the cunning old dog was
determined to avoid was the reporting to Madame
Lind that her husband had been sentenced.

That was no part of the original programme.
And now Clarissa holds his mouth shut ; he
keeps out of the way ; it is left for me to go and
Inform the mother and daughter."
His voice became more serious.
The devil take it, it is no pleasant task at
all. One is never sure how the brain of a woman
will work : you start the engine ; but it may
plunge back the wrong way, and strike you.
Clarissa is afraid. The fox is hiding in some
hole until it is all over."

Cannot I be of service, your Excellency ? "
the Secretary said.

No, no ; but I thank you, friend Granaglia.
It is a delicate matter; it must be approached
with circumspection ; and I, as an old acquaintance
of Madame Lind, ought not to shirk the
duty."

Apparently, it was not Clarissa only who

had some dread of the difficulties of news-bearer.

It is impossible for your Excellency to go

near the hotel, at present," said the Secretary,

promptly.

But his chief refused to accept this offered
means of escape.

That is true ; but it is not a difficulty. Tonight,
friend Granada, you will send a message
to the hotel, bidding them be at the Villa
Odelscalchi tomorrow morning at eleven ; you
understand ? "

Certainly, your Excellency."

Then I will meet them ; and take the risk.
Everything must be settled off at once ; we have
wasted too much time over this affair, Granaglia.
When does the Genoa Council meet } "

On the seventh."

To-morrow you must issue the summonses.
Come, Granaglia, let us be stirring ; it is cold.
Where does Brother Conventz sleep to-night } "

On board the schooner, your Excellency."

I also. To-morrow, at eleven, you will beat
Portici ; to-nisfht you will send the message
to the two ladies at the hotel ; and also, if you
can, find out where that rogue Clarissa is
hiding."

That was the last of their talking. There
was some locking up inside ; then they passed
down through the dark garden, and out into the
road. There was no one visible. They walked
on in silence.

Punctually at eleven the next morning, Natalie
and her mother appeared at the iron gates of
the Villa Odelscalchi ; and rang the bell. The
porter appeared, admitted them, and then turned
to the great white staircase, which Granaglia was
at that moment seen to be descending.

Will the ladies have the goodness to step
into the garden ? " said the Secretary, with grave
courtesy. " General von Zoesch will be with
them directly."

He accompanied them as far as the top of the
terrace ; and then bowed, and withdrew.

If Natalie Lind was agitated now, it was not
with fear. There was a fresh animation of colour
in her cheek ; her eyes were brilliant and excited ;
she spoke in low, eager whispers.

Oh, I know what he is coming to tell us,
mother — you need not be afraid — I shall see it
in his face before he comes near — I think I shall
be able to hear it in the sound of his steps.
Have courage, mother: why do you tremble
so ? Remember what Clarissa said. They
are so powerful; they can do everything; and
you and the General von Zoesch old friends too.
Look at this, mother : do you see what I have
brought with me ? "

She opened her purse — her fingers were
certainly a little nervous — and showed her mother
a folded-up telegraph-form.

I am going to telegraph to him, mother ;
surely it is from me he should hear the news
first ? And then he might come here, mother, to
go back with us ; you will rest a few days after
so much anxiety."

*' I hope, my darling, it will all turn out well,"
said the mother, turning quickly as she heard
footsteps.

The next second Von Zoesch appeared ; his
face red with embarrassment; but still Natalie
with her first swift glance saw that his eyes were
smiling and friendly, and her heart leapt up with
a bound.

My dear young lady," said he, taking her
hand, " forgive me for making such a peremptory
appointment "

"But you bring good news," she said, breathlessly.
*' Oh, sir, I can see that you have succeeded
— yes, yes — the danger is removed — you

have saved him "

My dear young lady," said he, smiling, but
still greatly embarrassed, " it is my good fortune

to be able to congratulate you. Ah, I thought
that would bring some brightness to your
eyes "

She raised his hand, and kissed it twice,
passionately.

Mother," she said, in a wild, joyful way,
will you not thank him for me ? I do not know
what I am saying — and then "

The General had turned to her mother.
Natalie quickly took out the telegraph-form,
unfolded it, knelt down and put it on the garden-seat,
and with trembling fingers wrote her
message. " You are saved. Come to ns at once ;
my netherland I wait here for yon. " — that was
the substance of it. Then she rose ; and for a
second or two stood irresolute, silent, and shamefaced.
Happily no one had noticed her. These
two had gone forward ; and were talking together
in a low voice. She did not join them ; she could
not have spoken then, her heart was throbbing so
violently with its newly found joy.

"Stefan," said the mother, and there was a
pleasant light in her sad eyes too, " I shall never
forget the gratitude we owe you. I have nothing
else to regard now but my child's happiness.
You have saved her life to her."

"Yes, yes," he said, in stammering haste,
"I am glad the child is happy'. It would be a
pity, at her time of life, and such a beautiful,
brave young lady — yes, it would be a pity if she
were to suffer — I am very glad. But there is
another side to the question, Natalie. It refers
to you. I have not such good news for you
that is, it depends on how you take it — but
it is not good news — it will trouble you — only,
it was inevitable "

*• What do-ou mean ? " she said, calmly.

Your husband " he said, regarding her

somewhat anxiously.

Yes ? " she said, without betraying animation.


Well, )0U understand, we had not the power
to release your English friend unless there had
been injustice — or worse — in his being appointed.
There was. More than that, it was very nearly
a repetition of the old story. Your husband
was again implicated."

She merely looked at him, waiting for him
to continue.

And the Council," he said, more embarrassed
than ever, " had to tr)' him for his complicity.
He was tried — and — condemned."

To what ? " she said, quite calmly,

You must know, Natalie. He loses his
life."

She turned very pale.

"It was not so before " she managed to

say, though her breath came and went quickly.

It was. But then he was pardoned. This
time there is no hope."

She stood silent for a second or two ; then
she said, regarding him with a sad look —

You think me heartless, Stefan. You think
I ought to be overwhelmed with grief. But —
but I have been kept from my child for seventeen
years. I have lived with the threat of the
betrayal of my father hanging over me. The
affection of a wife cannot endure everything.
Still, I am — sorry "

Her eyes were cast down ; and they slowly
filled with tears. Von Zoesch breathed more
freely. He was eagerly explaining to her how
this result had become inevitable ; how he himself
had had no participation in it ; and so forth —
when Natalie Lind stepped quickly up to them,
looking from the one to the other. She saw
something was wrong.

Mother, what is it ? " she said, in vai^uc
fear. She turned to Von Zoesch. " Oh, sir,
if there is something' you have not told me — if
there is trouble — why was it not to me that you
spoke ? "

She took hold of her mother's hand.

Mother, what is it .'*

My dear young lady," said Von Zoesch,
interposing, " you know that life is made up
of both bitter and sweet "

I wish to know, signore," she said, proudly,
wdiat it is you have told my mother. If there
is trouble, it is for her daughter to share it."

Well, then, dear young lady, I will tell you,"
he said, " though it will grieve you also. I must
explain to you. You cannot suppose that the
happy news I delivered to you was the result
of the will of any one man, or number of men.
No. It was the result of the application of law
and justice. Your — sweetheart, shall I call him ?
was entrusted with a grave duty, which would
most probably have cost him his life. In the
ordinary way, no one could have released him
from it, however much certain friends of yours
here might have been interested in )ou, and

grieved to see you unhappy. But there was
this possibility — it was even a probability — that
he had been selected for this service unfairly.
Then, no doubt, if that could be proved, he
ought to be released."

Yes — yes," she said, impatiently.

That was proved. Unfortunately, I have
to tell you that among those convicted of this
conspiracy was your father. Well, the laws of
our association are strict — they are even terrible
where a delinquent is in a position of high
responsibility. My dear young lady, I must
tell you the truth ; your father has been adjudged
guilty — and — and the punishment is —
death."

She uttered a quick, short cry of alarm ; and
turned, with frightened eyes, to her mother.

Mother, is it true ? — is it true ? "

The mother did not answer ; she had clasped
her trembling hands. Then the girl turned ;
there was a proud passion in her voice.

Oh, sir, what tiger is there amongst you
that is so athirst for blood ! You save one man's
life — after intercession and prayer, you save one
man's life, only to seize on that of another. And

it is to mc, it is to me, his daughter, that you
come — with congratulations ! I am only a child ;
I am to be pleased ; you speak of a sweetheart ;
but you do not tell me that you are about to
murder my father ! You give me my lover ;
in exchange you take my father's life : is there
a woman in all the world so despicable as to
accept her happiness at such a cost ? "

Involuntarily she crushed up the telegram she
held in her hand ; and threw it away from her.

It is not I, at all events," she exclaimed,
Oh, signore, you should not have mocked me
with your congratulations. That is not the
happiness you should offer to a daughter. But
)ou have not killed him yet ; there is time ; let
things be as they were — that is what my sweetheart,
as you call him, will say ; he and I are not
afraid to suffer. Surely rather that than that he
should marry a girl so heartless and cowardly as
to purchase her happiness at the cost of her
father's life ! "

"My dear young lady," he said, with a great
pity and concern in his face, " I can assure you
what you think of is impossible. What is done
cannot be undone."

Her proud indignation now g-ave way to
terror.

Oh no, signore, you cannot mean that ! I
cannot believe it. You have saved one man —
oh, signore, for the love of Heaven, this other
also ! Have pity ! How can I live, if I know
that I have killed my father ! "

He took both her hands in his, and strove to
soothe down her wild terror and dismay. He
declared to her she had nothing to do with it ; no
more than himself ; that her father had been tried
by his colleagues ; that, if he had not been, a
fearful act of treachery would have been committed.
She listened, or appeared to listen ; but
her lips were pale ; her eyes had a strange lookin
them ; she was breathless.

Clarissa said they were all-powerful," she
Interrupted suddenly. " But they are all-powerful
to slay only ? Oh no, I cannot believe it !
I will go to them ; it cannot be too late ; I will
say to them that I would rather have died than
have appealed to them, if I had known that this
was to be the terrible result. And Clarissa —
why did he riot warn me ? Or is he one of the
bloodthirsty ones also — one of the tigers that

crouch in the dark ? Oh, signore, if they are all-powerful,
they are all-powerful to pardon — may I
not go to themselves ? "

It would be useless, my dear signorina," said
Von Zoesch, with deep compassion in his voice.
I am sorry to grieve you ; but justice has been
done ; and the decision is past recall. And do
not blame poor old Clarissa "

At this moment the bell of the outer gate
rang, echoing through the empty house, and he
started somewhat.

"Come, child," said her mother. " We have
taken up too much of your time, Stefan. I wish
there had been no drawback to your good news."

At the present moment," he said, glancing
somewhat anxiously towards the building, " I
cannot ask you to stay, Natalie. But on some
other occasion, and as soon as you please, I will
give you any information you may wish. Remember,
you have good friends here."

Natalie suffered herself to be led away. She
seemed too horror-stricken to be able to speak.
Von Zoesch accompanied them only to the
terrace ; and there bade them good-bye. Ganglia
was waiting to show them to the gate. A

few moments afterwards they were in their carriage,
returning to Naples.

They sat silent for some time ; the mother
regarding her daughter anxiously.

Natalushka, what are you thinking of ? "

The girl started : her eyes were filled with a
haunting fear, as if she had just seen some
terrible thing. And yet she spoke slowly, and
sadly, and wistfully :

I was thinking, mother, that perhaps it was
not so hard to be condemned to die ; for then
there would come an end to one's suffering. And
I was wondering whether there had been many
women in the world who had to accuse themselves
of taking a part in bringing about their
own father's death. Oh, I hope not — I hope
not ! "

A second afterwards she added, with more
than the bitterness of tears in her trembling
voice, " And — and I was thinking of General
Von Zoesch's congratulations, mother,"

CHAPTER XVI.

A COMMISSION.

Lord Evelyn obeyed his friend's summons inconsiderable
anxiety, if not even alarm ; for he
made no doubt that it had some connection with
that mysterious undertaking to which Brand was
pledged. But when he reached Lisle Street,
and was shown into the larger room, no very
serious business seemed going forward. Two
or three of the best-known to him among the
English members of the Society were present,
grouped round a certain Irish M.P., who, with
twinkling eyes but otherwise grave face, was
describing the makeshifts of some provincial
manager or other who could not pay his company
their weekly salary. To the further surprise of
the new-comer, also, Mr. Lind was absent; his
chair was occupied by Gathorne Edwards.

.^.— XIV. R

He was asked to go into an inner room ; and
there he found Brand, looking much more Hke
himself than he had done for some time back,

It is awfully kind of you, Evelyn, to come at
once. I heard you had returned to town yesterday.
Well, what of the old people down in
Wiltshire ? "

Lord Evelyn was quite thrown off his guard
by this frank cheerfulness. He forgot the uneasy
forebodings with which he had left his house.

Oh, capital old people ! " he said, putting his
hat and umbrella on the table. "Excellent. But
you see. Brand, it becomes a serious question if I
have to bury myself in the country, and drink
port-wine after dinner, and listen to full-blown,
full-fed glorious old Tories, every time a sister
of mine gets engaged to be married. And now
that Rosalys has begun it, they'll all take toit
; one after the other, like sheep jumping a
ditch."

They say Milbanke is a very nice young
fellow," said Brand.

Petted, a little. But then, an only son, and
heaps of money : perhaps it's natural. I know
he is a ghastly hypocrite," added Lord Evelyn,

who seemed to have some little grudge against
his brother-in-law in prospect. "It was too bad
of him to cfo ecTirinsf on those old me</atheria to
talk politics, until they were red in the face,
denouncing Free Trade, and abusing the Ballot,
and foretelling the ruin of the farmer as soon as
the Education Act began to work. Then he pretended
to be on their side "

What did you do ? "

I sat quiet. I was afraid I might be eaten.
I relapsed into contemplation ; and began to
compose a volume on * Tory Types : Some Survivals
in English Politics. For the Information
of Town Readers.' "

Well, now you have done your duty, and
cemented the alliance between the two families —
by drinking port-wine, I suppose — what do you
say to a little pleasure-trip ? "

Oh, is that all } " he said, looking up quickly.
"Is that what your note meant ? "

The fact is, Evelyn," he said, with a trille of
embarrassment, " Natalie and her mother are in
Naples — and I don't know precisely in what circumstances.
I am a little anxious about them —
I should like to know more of their surroundings

why, for one thing, I don't know whether
they have any money even. I would go over
myself, Evelyn; but the truth Is, I cannot — not
very well. At least, I ought not to go ; and I
thought, if you had time — being an old friend of
Natalie's — you would like to see that she was all

right "

Where is Lind } " said Lord Evelyn, suddenly.


Lind is in Italy also," said Brand, evasively.


Not with them ? "
Oh no."

There was rather an awkward silence. At
length Brand said —

*' Something very serious has happened,
Evelyn ; and the question is whether, in the
interests of the Society, it should not be kept a
secret, if it is possible."

I do not wish to know any secret," Lord
Evelyn said, simply. " I am willing to go over to
Naples at once, if I can be of any service."

It is very kind of you ; I thought you would
say as much," Brand said — still hesitating. " But
then I doubt whether you could be of much

service unless you understood the whole situation

of affairs. At present only two over here know

what has occurred — Edwards and myself. . . .

Yes ; I think you must know also. Read this

letter ; it came only last night."

He unlocked a drawer ; took out a letter,

and gave it to Lord Evelyn, who read it slowly.

When he had finished, he put it on the table,

without a word.

'' You understand ? " Brand said, calmly.
That means that Lind is to be punished with
death, for treachery. Don't think about me ; Fvc
had a narrow escape ; but I have escaped —
thanks to Natalie's courage and decision. What
I am concerned about is the effect that such a
disclosure might have on the fortunes of the
Society. Would it not provoke a widespread
feeling of distrust ? Wouldn't there always be a

suspicion } "

But you yourself, Brand ! " Evelyn exclaimed,
in amazement. "Why, you — I thought
you would have been the first to resign — after

such an escape "

I have fought all through that, Evelyn," he
said, absently. " It was my first impulse — I confess

it. The thought of being associated with
such men sickened me ; I despaired ; I wished
they had never been found out ; and that I had
been let blindly go on to the end. Well, I got
over the fit — with a struggle. It was not reasonable,
after all. Surely one's belief in the future of
the Society ought to be all the firmer that these
black sheep have been thrust out ? As for
myself, at all events, I ought to have more hope,
not less. I never did trust Lind, as you know ;
I believed in his work, in the usefulness of it, and
the prospects of its success ; but I never was at
ease in his presence ; I was glad to get away to
my own work in the north. And now, with the
way clearer, why should one think of giving up ?
To tell you the truth, Evelyn, I would give anything
to be in America at the present moment, if
only Natalie and her mother were in safety.
There is a chance for us there bigger than anything
Lind ever dreamed about. You know the
Granges — the associations of the ' Patrons of
Husbandry,' that were founded by the Scotchman
Saunders ? It is an immense social organization ;
the success of it has been quite unprecedented ;
they have an immense power in their hands

And it isn't only agriculture they deal with ; they
touch on politics here and there ; they control
elections ; and the men they choose are invariably
men of integrity. Well, now, don't you see this
splendid instrument ready made ? From what I
hear from Philadelphia "

Lord Evelyn's thoughts were elsewhere than
in Philadelphia.

You must tell me about yourself, Brand ! " he
exclaimed. " Your life is no longer in danger,
then ? How has it happened ? "

Oh," said Brand, somewhat carelessly, " I
don't know all the particulars as yet. What
I do know is that Natalie and her mother disappeared
from London ; I had no idea whither
they had gone. Then Clarissa turned up ; and
I heard that Natalie had appealed to the Council
fancy, she, a young girl, had the courage
to go and appeal to the Council ! Then Clarissa
suspected something — I saw by his questions
; then Lind, Beratinsky, and Reitzei appear
to have been summoned to Naples. The result
is in that letter ; that is about all I know."

And these others in there .'* " said Lord
Evelyn, glancing to the door.

They know nothing at all. That is what
I am uncertain about. Whether to leave the disappearance
of Lind unaccounted for — merely
saying he had been summoned away by the
Council ; or to let everybody who may hear of it
understand that, powerful as he was, he had to
succumb to the laws of the Society, and accept
the penalty for his error. I am quite uncertain ;
I have no instructions. You might find out forme
in Naples, Evelyn, if you went over there —
you might find out what they consider advisable."
You are in Lind's place, then ? "
Not at all," said he, quickly, and with a
slight flush. " Edwards and I are merely keeping
the thing going, until matters are settled.
Did you notice whether Molyneux was in the
next room when you came through } "
Yes ; he was."

Then excuse me for a minute or two. I
want to speak to you further about Naples."

Brand was gone some time ; and Lord Evelyn
was left to ponder over these strange tidings.
To him they were very joyful tidings ; for ever
since that communication was made to him of the

danger that threatened his friend's life, he had
been haunted by the recollection that, but for
him, Brand would in all probability have never
heard of this association. It was with an infinite
sense of personal relief that he now knew this
danger was past. Already he saw himself on his
way to Naples, to find out the noble girl who had
taken so bold a step to save her lover. Not yet
had darkness fallen over these two lives.

Brand returned ; carefully shut the door after
him ; and seated himself on a corner of the
table.

You see, Evelyn," he said, quite in his old
matter-of-fact way, " I can't pretend to have very
much regret over what has happened to Lind.
He tried to do me an ill turn ; and he has got
the worst of it ; that is all. On the other hand,
I bear him no malice ; you don't want to hurt a
man when he is down ; I can guess that it isn't
the death-penalty that he is thinking most of now.
I can even make some excuse for him — now that
I see the story plain. The temptation was great ;
always on the understanding that he was against
my marrying his daughter ; and that I had been

sure of for some time. To punish me for not
giving up my property ; to keep Natalie to himself;
and to get this difficult duty securely undertaken,
all at once : it was worth while trying for.
But his way of going about it was shabby. It
was a mean trick. Well, there is nothing more
to be said on that point : he has played — played
a foul game — and lost."

He added, directly afterwards —
So you think you can go to Naples ? "
Certainly," said Evelyn, with promptness.
"You don't know how glad I am about this,
Brand. If you had come to grief over your
relations with this Society, it would have been
like a millstone hanging on my conscience all my
life. And I shall be delighted to go to Italy for
you. I should like to see the look on Natalie's
face."

You will probably find her in great trouble,"
Brand said, gravely.
In trouble ? "

Naturally. Don't you see, Evelyn, she
could not have foreseen that the result of her
appeal would involve the destruction of her father.

It is impossible to believe that she could have
foreseen that. I know her ; she would not have
stirred hand or foot. And now that this has been
discovered, it is not her father's guilt she will bethinking
of ; it is his fate, brought about indirectly
by herself. You may be sure, Evelyn, she will
not be overjoyed at the present moment. All
the more reason Why one who knows her should
be near her ; I have no idea what sort of people
are about her ; I should be more satisfied if I
knew you were there."

I am ready to go ; I am ready to start this
afternoon, as I say," Evelyn repeated ; but then
he added with some hesitation : " But I am not
going to play the part of a hypocrite, Brand.
I could not pretend to sympathize with her, if
that is the cause of her trouble. I should tell
her it served her father right."

You could not be so brutal, if you tried,
Evelyn," Brand said. " You might think so.
You could not tell her so. But I have no fear.
You will be discreet enough, and delicate enough,
when you see her."

And what am I to say from you } "

From me ? " he said. " Oh, you can say I
thank her for having saved my Hfe. That will
be enough, I think. She will understand the rest."

I mean, what you advise her to do ? Ought
they to return to England ? "

I think so, certainly. Most likely she will
be waiting there, trying to get the Council to
reverse the sentence. Havens been successful
in the one case, the poor child may think she
ought to succeed in the other. I fear that is too
much to expect. However, if she is anxious, she
may try. I should like to know there was somebody
near her she could rely on — don't you
understand, Evelyn ? — to see that she is situated
and treated as you would like one of your own
sisters to be "

I see what it is. Brand," Lord Evelyn said,
laughing, " you are jealous of the foreigners.
You think they will be using toothpick in her
presence, and that kind of thing "

I wish to know that she and her mother
are in a good hotel," said Brand, simply,
with proper rooms, and attendance, and — and a
carriage — women can't go walking through those

beastly streets of Naples. The long;' and the short
of it is, Evelyn," he added, with some embarrassment,
as he took out from his pocketbook
two blank cheques, and sat down at the
table and signed them, " I want you to play
the part of big brother to them, don't you know ?
And you will have to exercise skill as well as
force. Don't you see, Clarissa is the best of
fellows ; but he would think nothing of taking
them to stay in some vile restaurant, if the proprietor
were politically inclined "

Yes, yes ; I see : garlic ; cigarettes during
breakfast, right opposite the ladies ; wine-glasses
used as finger-glasses : well, you are a thorough
Englishman, Brand ! "

I suppose when your sisters go abroad, you
see that they are directed to a proper hotel } "
said Brand, somewhat angrily.

I know this," said Evelyn, laughing, " that
my sisters, and you, and Clarissa, and myself,
all boiled together, wouldn't make half as good
a traveller as Natalie Lind is. Don't you believe
she has been led away into any slimy place,
for the sake of politics or anything else. I will

bet she knows the best hotels in Naples as well
as you do the Landgrave Club."

At any rate, you've got to play the big
brother, Evelyn ; and it is my affair, of course ;
I will not allow you to be out of pocket by it.
Here are two cheques ; you can fill them in over

there when you see how matters stand ; , at

Rome, will cash them."

Do you mean to say I have to pay their
hotel-bills ? "

If they have plenty of money, certainly not.
But you must find out. You must take the bull
by the horns. It is far more likely that they
have so little money that they may be becoming
anxious. Then you must use a firm hand — I
mean with Natalie. Her mother will acquiesce.
And you can tell Natalie that if she would buy
something — some dress, or something — for the
mother of old Clarissa, who is still living ; at
Spezia, I think — she would make the old chap
glad. And that would be a mark of my gratitude
also ; you see, I have never had even the chance
of thanking him as yet."

Lord Evelyn rose.

"Very well," said he, "I will send you a
report of my mission. How am I to find
them ?"

You must find them through Clarissa,"
he said, " for I have not got their address. So
you can start this evening ?"

Yes, certainly."

Then I will telegraph at once to Clarissa
to let them know you are coming. I\lind you,
I am very grateful to you, Evelyn ; though I
wish I was going in your stead."

Lord Evelyn got some further instructions as
to how he was to discover Clarissa on his
arrival in Naples ; and that evening he began
his journey to the south. He set out, indeed,
with a liofht heart. He knew that Natalie would
be glad to have a message from England.

At Genoa he had to break the journey fora
day, having some commission to perform on
behalf of the Society : this was a parting bequest
from Gathorne Edwards. Then on again ; and
in due time he entered Naples.

He scarcely noticed as he entered the vehicle
and drove away to his hotel what certain barefooted

lads outside the station were bawling, as

they offered the afternoon papers to the newly

arrived passengers. What interest had he in

Zaccatelli ?

But what the news-vendors were calling aloud
was this :

The death of the Cardinal Zaccatelli —

death of Zaccatelli — the death of the Cardinal

Zaccatelli I "

CHAPTER XVII.

FAREWELL !

Natalusiika," said the tender and anxious
mother, laying her hand on the girl's head. " )oii
must bestir yourself. If you let grief eat into
your heart like that, you will become ill ; and
what shall we do then, in a strange hotel ? You
must bestir yourself; and put wa)' those sad
thoughts of yours. I can only tell you again and
again that it was none of )your doing. It was the
act of the Council ; how could you help it ? And
how can you help it now ? My old friend Stefan
says it is beyond recall. Come, Natalushka, you
must not blame yourself; it is the Council, not
you, who have done this ; and no doubt they
think they acted justly."

Natalie did not answer. She sirs-hed slicrhtlv.
Her eyes were turned towards the blue waters
beyond the Castello dell' Ovo.

-?.— XV. s

Child," the mother continued, " we must
leave Naples "

Leave Naples ! " the girl cried, with a sudden
look of alarm. " Having done nothing — having
tried nothing ? " Then she added, in a lower
voice, "Well, yes, mother, I suppose it is true
what they say, that one can do nothing by remaining.
Perhaps — perhaps we ought to go.
And yet it is terrible "

She shivered slightly as she spoke.

You see, Natalushka," her mother said, determined
to distract her attention somehow, " this
is an expensive hotel ; we must be thinking of
what money we have left to take us back. We
have been here some time ; and it is a costly
journey, all the way to England."

Oh, but not to England — not to England,
mother ! " Natalie exclaimed, quickly.

Why not to England, then ? "

"Anywhere else, mother," the daughter
pleaded. "If you wish it, we will go away ;
no doubt General von Zoesch knows best ; there
is no hope. We will go away from Naples,
mother ; and — and you know I shall not be much
of a tax on you. We will live very cheaply

somewhere ; and perhaps I could help a Httle by
teaching music, as Madame Potecki does. Whenever
you wish it, I am ready to go."

But why not to England, Natalushka } "

I cannot tell you, mother."

She rose quickly ; and passed into her own
room ; and shut the door.

There she stood for a second or two, irresolute
and breathless, like one who had just escaped into
a place of refuge. Then her eye fell on her
writing-desk, which was on a side-table, and open.
Slowly, and with a strange, pained expression
about her mouth, she went and sat down, and
took out some writing materials, and absently and
mechanically arranged them before her. Her
eyes were tearless, but once or twice she sighed
deeply. After a time she began to write, with
an unsteady hand.

My dearest,

You must let me send you a few lines
of farewell ; for it would be hard if, in saying
good-bye, one were not permitted to say a kind
word or two that could be remembered afterwards.
And your heart will have already told

you why it is not for you and me now to look

forward to the happiness that once seemed to

he before us. You know what a terrible result

has followed from my rashness ; but then you are

free — that is something ; for the rest, perhaps it

is less misery to die, than to live and know that

you have caused another's death. You remember

the night they played Fidelia ; I told you I should

always try to remain worthy of your love ; and

how could I keep that promise if I permitted

myself to think of enjoying a happiness that was

made possible at the cost of my father's life ?

You could not marry a woman so unnatural, so

horrible ; a marriage purchased at such a price

would be foredoomed ; there would be a guilty

consciousness, a life-long remorse. But why do

I speak ? Your heart tells you the same thing.

There only remains for us to say good-bye ; and

to thank God for the gleam of happiness that

shone on us for a little time.

And you, my dearest of friends, you will
send me also a little message, that I can treasure
as a remembrance of bygone days. And you
must tell me also whether what has occurred has
deterred you from going further, or whether you

-Still remain hoping for better things in the world,
and resolved to do what you can to bring them
about. That would be a great consolation to me,
to know that your life still had a noble object.
Then the world would not be quite blank, cither
for you or for me ; you with your work. I with
this poor, kind mother of mine, who needs all the
affection I can give her. Then I hope to hear
of you from time to time. But my mother and
myself do not return to England.

"And now what am I to say, being so faraway
from you, that will sound pleasant to you,
and that you will remember after with kindness ?
I look back now over the time since J. have known
you ; and it appears a beautiful dream — anxious
sometimes, and troubled, but always with a golden
future before it that almost bewildered the eyes.
And what am I to say of your goodness, so
unvarying and constant ; and your thoughtfulness ;
and your great unselfishness, and outspokenness ?
When was there the least misunderstanding
between us } I could read your heart like my
own. Only once, you remember, was there a
chance of a shadow coming between us — through
my own folly ; and yet perhaps it was only natural

for a girl, fancying that everything was going to
be smooth and happy in her Hfe, to look back
on what she had said in times of trouble, and to
be afraid of having spoken with too little reserve.
But then you refused to have even the slightest
lovers' quarrel ; you laughed away my folly : do
you wonder if I was more than ever glad that
I had given my life into your wise and generous
guidance ? And it is not now, when I am
speaking to you for the last time, that I can regret
having let you know what my feelings were
towards you. Oh, my darling, you must not
imagine, because these words that I am writing
are cold and formal, that my heart beats any the
less quickly when I think of you and the days
we were together. I said to you that I loved
you ; I say to you now that I love you, with
my whole heart ; and I have no feeling of shame.
If you were here, I would look into your face,
and repeat it — I think without a blush ; I would
kiss you ; I would tell you that I honour you ;
that I had looked forward to giving you all the
trust and affection and devotion of a wife. That
is because I have faith in you ; my soul is open
and clear to you ; read, and if you can find there

anything but admiration for your nobleness of
heart, and earnest hopes for your happiness, and
gratitude to you for all your kindness, then, and
not otherwise, shall I have cause for shame.

Now I have to send you ni)' last word of
good-bye "

She had borne up so far ; but now she put the
pen aside, and bent her head down on to her
hands, and her frame was shaken with her sobbing.
When she resumed, she could scarcely see for the
bitter tears that kept welling to her eyes.

and you will think, looking at these cold

Avoids on the paper, that it was easy for me todo
so. It has not been so easy. I pray God
to bless you ; and to keep you brave and true and
unselfish ; and give you happiness in the success
of your work. And I ask a line from )ou in reply
not sad, but something that I may look at from
time to time, and that will make me believe you
have plenty of interests and hopes in the world,
and that you do not altogether regret that )round
I met, and Averse friends, for a time.

Natalie."

This was a strange think'" : she took another

sheet of paper, and slowly and with a trembling
hand wrote on it these words — " Yo7tr IVife!'
That was all ; no doubt it was the signature she
had hoped one day to use. She regarded it
long, and earnestly, and sadly ; until, indeed,
she could not see it for the tears that rose
afresh into her eyes. Then she tore up the
piece of paper hastily ; folded her letter and
addressed it, without sealing the envelope ; and
carried it into the other room.

Read it, mother," she said ; and she turned
to the window to conceal her tear-stained face.

The mother opened the letter, and glanced
at it.

You forget, child," she said, " I know so
little English. Tell me what it is you have
written."

So she was forced to turn. And apparently,
as she spoke, she was quite calm ; but there was
a darkness underneath her eyes ; and there was in
her look something of the worn, sad expression
of her mother's face. Briefly and simply she
repeated the substance of the letter, giving no
reasons, or justifications. She seemed to take
it for granted that her decision was unavoidable,
and would be seen to be so b}^ every one.

Natalushka," the mother said, looking-anxiously
at the troubled face, "do you know
what you are about to do ? It is an act of expiation
— for something' you have not committed."

Could I do otherwise ? " she said, " You,
mother: would you have me think of a marriage
procured through my father's death ? It is too
horrible."

The mother went to her, and took her two
hands,

My poor child, are you to have no happier
life than I have had, after all .^ When I used
to see you, I used to say to myself, ' Ah ! my little
Natalushka will never know what has befallen
me. She will have a happy life.' I could see
you laughing as you walked in the gardens there.
You looked so pleased, so content, so bright and
cheerful. And now you also are to have a life
of disappointment and sad memories "

Oh, you must not talk like that, mother," the
girl said, hastily, in a low voice. " Have I not
you with me ? We shall always be together, shall
we not .■* And you know we shall not have time
for brooding over what is past; we shall have
much to do ; we must make a pleasant small home

somewhere. Oh, there are many, many people
far worse off in the world than we are. So you
must think of getting away from Naples, mother ;
and think of where you would like to live ; and
where I should be most likely to be able to earn
a little. The years will teach us to forget —

and— and And now you know why I do not

wish to go back to England."

Her eyes were cast down ; but she was forcing
herself to speak quite cheerfully.

You see, mother, my knowing English is a
great advantage. If we were to go to one of the
towns on the Riviera, like Nice, or Mentone,
where so many English families are, one might
get pupils who would want to learn English songs
as well as Italian and German "

Yes, yes, Natalushka ; but I am not going
to have you slave for me. The little allowance
that my cousins send me will do very well for us
two, though you will not get so fine dresses.
Then, you see, Natalushka, Mentone or Nice
would be a dear place to live in."

Very well, mother," said the girl, with the
same apparent cheerfulness, " I will go down and
post my letter, and at the same time get the loan

of a guide-book. Then \vc shall studs the maps
and pick out a nice, quiet, remote little place,
where we can live — and forget."

The last two words were uttered to herself,
as she opened the door, and went out. She
sighed a little as she went down the staircase —
that was all ; she was thinking of things very far
awa)-. She passed into the hall ; and went to the
bureau for some postage-stamps. As she stood
there, some one, unperceived, came up to her. It
was Clarissa.

Little daughter " said he, in a trembling

voice.

She uttered a slight cr)% and shrank back.

Little daughter " said he, holding out

his hand.

But some strange instinct possessed her. She
could not avoid touching his hand — or the tips
of his fingers, rather — for one brief second ; then
lie turned away from him with an involuntary
shudder ; and went back through the hall, her
head bent down. Clarissa stood looking after
her for a moment or two ; then he turned and left
the hotel.

He walked quickly ; there were tears running

down his face. He looked neither to the right
nor to the left ; he was talking in a broken voice
to himself; he repeated again and again, "No;
she shall not turn away from me. She will be
sorry for that soon. She will say she should not
have crushed the heart of her old friend Clarissa."


He walked out to Posilipo. Near the villa
where he had formerly sought the representatives
of the Council, he passed an old woman who was
selling fruit by the roadside. She glanced up at
him, and said—

The door is closed, signore."

"the door must be opened, good mother,"
said he, scarcely regarding her as he hurried on.

Arrived in the garden of the villa, his summons
brought out to the entrance of the grotto the
Secretary Granaglia, who somewhat impatiently
told him that it was quite impossible that any
member of the Council should see him.

And no doubt it is about that Lind affair ? "

Indirectly only," Clarissa said. " No, it
concerns myself mostly."

Quite enough time, the Council think, has
been given to the Lind affair. I can tell you, my

friend, there are more important matters stirring".
Now, farewell; I am wanted within."

However, by dint of much persuasion, Clarissa
got Granaglia to take in a message to Von
Zoesch. And, sure enough, his anticipations were
correct ; the good-natured, bluff old soldier made
his appearance ; and seemed glad to get a breath
of fresh air for a minute or two.

Well, well, Clarissa, what is it now '^ Are
not you all satisfied ? — even to that scoundrel of
a Cardinal, who cheated us and died peacefully
in his bed, after all ! Then the young lady has
oft her sweetheart : is it not enough ? You
rogue ! you guessed pretty rightly ; to tell them
the news was no light matter ; but by-and-by she
will become reconciled. Her lover is to be
envied ; she is a beautiful child, and she has
courage. Well, are they not satisfied ? "

I crave your pardon, Excellence', for intruding
upon you," Clarissa said, in a sort of
constrained voice. "It is my own affair that
brings me here. I shall not waste your time.
Your Excellency, I claim to be substitute for
Ferdinand Lind."

The tall soldier burst out laucihin^r.

"What the devil is the matter with you,
Clarissa : have you gone mad ? "

For a second Clarissa stood silent ; his eyes
downcast ; his fingers working nervously with the
cap he held in his hands.

"Your Excellency," he said, as if struggling
to repress some emotion, "it is a simple matter.
I have been to see the beautiful child you speak
of; I addressed her, in the hall of the hotel; she
turned away from me, shuddering, as if I were
a murderer — from me, who love her more than I
love my life. Oh, your Excellency, do not smile
at it ; it is not a girlish caprice ; she has a noble
heart ; it is not a little thing that would make her
cruel. I know what she thinks — that I have been
the means of procuring her father's death. Be
it so. I will give her father his life again. Take
mine — what do I care ? "

Nonsense, nonsense, my Clarissa. The
girl has bewitched you. One must talk to her.
Take your life in exchange for that of Lind ?
Pooh ! We cannot send good men after bad ; you
are too valuable to us ; whereas he, if he were released,
could be of no more use at all. It is a
generous notion on your part, friend Clarissa ;
but it is Quixotic. Moreover, impossible."

'• You forget, Excellency, that I can claim it,"
said Clarissa, firmly. " Under Article Five I
can claim to be the substitute of Ferdinand Lind.
Your Excellency yourself has not the power to
refuse me. I call upon you to release Lind from
the death-penalty ; tomorrow I will take his
place ; then you can send a message to — to Natalie
Berezolyi's daughter, that, if I have wronged
her, I have made amends."

Von Zoesch grew more serious ; he eyed
Clarissa curiously. The elder man stood there
trembling a little with nervous excitement ; but
with a firm look on his face : there was no doubt
about his resolve.

Friend Clarissa," said Von Zoesch, in a
kindly way, " it seems as if you had transferred
your old love for Natalie Berezolyi to Natalie's
daughter, only with double intensity. But, you
see, we must not allow you to sacrifice yourself
merely because a girl turns her heel on you. It
is not to be thought of. We cannot afford to lose
you ; besides, it is monstrous that the innocent
should suffer, and the guilty go free "

The articles of the Society, your Excellency
"

"That particular article, m}- Clarissa, was
framed with a view to encourage self-sacrifice and
generosity doubt ; but not with a view, surely,
to any such extreme madness as this. No. The
fact is. I had no time to explain the circumstances
of the case to the young lady, or I could easily
have shown her how you were no more involved
than herself in procuring the decree against her
father. To-day I cannot ; tomorrow I cannot ;
the day after tomorrow, I solemnly assure }"ou, I
will see her, and reason with her, and convince
her that you have acted throughout as her best
friend only could have done. You are too sensitive,
my Clarissa : ah, is it not the old romance
recalled that is making you so .■* But this I
promise you, that she shall beg your pardon for
having turned awa\- from-sou."

Then," said Clarissa, with a little touch of
indignant pride, " then your Excellency imagines
that it is my vanity' that has been wounded ? "

Xo. It is your heart. And she will be sorry'
for having pained a true friend ; is not that as it
should be ? Why, your proposal ; if she agreed
to it, what would be the result ? You Avould stab
her with remorse. For this momentary slight you

moon say, Se I lizwe
oovr dat Cahlxessa. loved roche
Toy Hfce leven^^e, ix Ci
ougliL not to iJhiidL of 11
dai^lue i- of Xatafie Ber -

"YonrExcdkncy " C^

to protest; bolt be W3s strcorrf.

to-mofFO^

vfaile: no mcwe tLi 1. . ^ i i^^^-i&f

\- — rr.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A SACRIFICE.

It would be difficult to say whether Clarissa
was altogether sincere in claiming to become the
substitute for Ferdinand Lind ; or whether he
was not practising a little self-deception, and
pacifying his wounded pride and affection by this
outburst of generosity, while secretly conscious
that his offer would not be accepted. However,
what Clarissa had declared himself ready todo,
in a fit of wild sentimentalism, another had
already done, in terrible earnest. A useless life
had suddenly become ennobled by a tragic and
self-sacrificing death.

Two days after Lord Evelyn had left for
Naples, Brand and Gathorne Edwards were as
usual in the chambers in Lisle Street ; and, the
business of the morning being mostly over, they
were chatting together. There was a brighter

look on George Brand's face than had been therefor
many a day.

What an indefatigable fellow that Molyneux
is ! " Edwards was saying.

It is a good elinor some one can do something,"
Brand answered. " As for me, I can't
settle down to anything. I feel as if I had been
living on laughing-gas these last two days. I
feel as if I had come alive again into another
world, and was a little bit bewildered just as yet.
However, I suppose we shall get shaken into our
new positions by-and-by ; and the sooner they
let us know their final arrangements the better."

As for me," said Edwards, carelessly, " now
that I have left the Museum I don't care where
I may have to go."

At this moment a note was brought in by the
old German, and handed to Edwards. He glanced
at the straggling, almost illegible, address in pencil
on the dirty envelope.

Well, this is too bad," he said, impatiently.

"What is it?"

That fellow Kirski. He is off again, I can
see by his writing. He never was very good at
it ; but this is the handwriting of delirium
tremens."

He opened the letter ; and glanced at the first
page.

Oh yes," he said, in disgust, '' he's off again,
clearly."

What does he say ? "

The usual rigmarole — only not quite so
legible — the beautiful angel who was kind to him
he has taken her portrait from its hiding-place
it is sacred now — no more public-house — well,.

it looks rather as if he had been to several "

At this point, however, Edwards's pale, high
forehead flushed a little.

I wish I had not told him, but he speaks of
Miss Lind being in trouble — and he says God
never meant one so beautiful and kind as she to

be in trouble — and if her father "

His face grew grave.
What is this ? "

He turned the leaf suddenly ; and glanced at
the remainder of the letter.

Good God, what does the man mean ?
What has he done ? " he exclaimed.

His face was quite pale. The letter dropped
from his hands. Then he jumped to his feet.

Come, Brand — quick — quick ! " he said,
hurriedly. " You must come with me "

"But what is the matter?" Brand said, following
him in amazement.

I don't know," said Edwards, almost incoherently.
"He may be raving — it may only be
drunkenness — but he says he is about to kill himself
in place of Lind — the young lady shall not
be troubled — she was kind to him, and he is
grateful — I am to send her a mcssairc "

By this time the two friends were hurrying to
the dingy little thoroughfare in which Kirski had
his lodgings.

Don't alarm yourself, Edwards," said Brand ;
'' he has broken out again, that is all."

I am not so sure. He was at his work
yesterday, and sober enough."

His brain may have given way, then ; it was
never very strong. But these continual ravings
about murder or suicide are dangerous ; they will
develop into homicidal mania, most likely ; and
if he cannot get at his enemy Michaieloff he may
do a mischief to somebody else."

I hope he has not done a mischief to himself
already," said Edwards, who had had more opportunities
than his companion of studying the
workings of Kirski's disordered brain.

They reached the house, and knocked at the
door. The landlady made her appearance.

Is Kirski in the house ? " Edwards asked
eagerly.

No, he ain't," she said, with but scant
courtesy.

Thank God ! " he exclaimed, in great relief.
You are sure ? He went out to his work as
usual ? "

How should I know ? " said the woman, who
was evidently not on good terms with her lodger.

He had his breakfast as usual ? "

"His breakfast!" she said, scornfully. " No,
he hadn't. He may pick up his breakfast about
the streets, like a cat ; but he don't have any
'ere. And a cat he is, sneaking up and down the
stairs ; how do I know whether he is in the house
or whether he ain't ? "

At this Edwards turned pale again with a
sudden fear. Brand interposed.

You don't know ? Then show us his room ;
we will see for ourselves."

He passed the woman, leaving her to shut the
door, and went into the small dark passage,
waiting for her at the foot of the stairs. Grumbling

to herself she came along to show them the
way. It did not pay her to waste her time like
this, she said, for a lodger who took no food in
the house, and spent his earnings in the gin-shop.
She should not be surprised if they were to find
him asleep at that time of the day. He had ways
like a cat.

The landing they reached was as dark as the
staircase ; so that when she turned a handle and
flung a door open there was a sudden glare of
light. At the same moment she uttered a shrill
scream, and retreated backward. She had caught
a glimpse of some horrible thing — she hardly
knew what. It was the body of the man Kirski
lying prone on the uncarpeted floor, his hands
clenched. There was a dark pool of blood beside
him.

Edwards sank shuddering into a chair, sick
and faint. He could neither move nor speak ; he
dared hardly look at the object lying there in the
wan light. But Brand went quickly forward ; and
took hold of one of these clenched hands. It
was quite cold. He tried to turn over the body ;
but relinquished that effort. The cause of death
was obvious enough. Kirski had stabbed himself

with one of the tools used in his trade ; either
he had deliberately lain down on the floor to
make sure of driving the weapon home, or he
had accidentally fallen so after dealing himself
the fatal blow. Apparently he had been dead
for some hours.

Brand rose. The landlady at the door was
alternately screaming and sobbing ; declaring that
she was ruined ; that not another lodger would
come to her house.

Be quiet, woman ; and send to the police-station,
at once," Brand said. " Wait a moment :
when did you last see this man ? "

This morning, sir — early this morning, sir,"
said she, in a profusion of tears over her prospective
loss. "He came downstairs with a
letter in his hand ; and there was twopence for
my little boy to take it when he came home from
school. How should I know he had gone back,
sir, to make away with himself like that, and ruina

poor widow woman, sir "

Have you a servant in the house ? "
"No, sir ; no one but myself — and me dependent
"

Then go at once to the police-station, and tell

the inspector on duty what has happened. You
can do that ; can't you ? You will do no good by
standing crying there, or getting the neighbours
in. I will stop here till you come back."

She went away, leaving Brand and his
paralyzed companion with this ghastly object lying
prone on the floor.

Poor devil ! " Brand said ; " his troubles are
at an end now. I wonder whether I should lift
him on to the bed or-wait until they come."

Then another thought struck him ; and he
turned quickly to his companion, who sat there,
horrified and helpless.

Edwards," said he, " you must pull yourself
together. The police will ask you what you
know about this affair. Then you will have to
give evidence before the coroner s inquest. There
is nothing material for you to conceal ; but still,
no mention must be made of Lisle Street, do
you understand ? "

Edwards nodded. His face was still of a
ghastly white. Then he rose and said —

Let us go somewhere else. Brand."

His companion took him downstairs into the
landlady's parlour ; and got him a glass of water.

Apparently there was not a human being in the
house but themselves.

Do you understand, Edwards ? Give your
private address — not Lisle Street. Then you can
tell the story simply enough. That unfortunate
fellow come all the way from Russia — virtually
a maniac — you can tell them his story if you
like. Or shall I. >"

Yes, yes. It has been too much for me,
Brand. You see, I had no business to tell him
about Lind "

The poor wretch would have ended his days
miserably anyhow ; no doubt, in a madhouse ;
and probably after killing some quite innocent
person. By the way, they will ask you how you
came to suspect. Where is that letter ? "

Edwards took it from his pocket.

"Tear it up."

He did so; but Brand took the fragments
and put them in his own pocket.

You can tell them he wrote to you ; and
from the madness of the letter you thought something
was wrong. You destroyed the letter.
But where is Natalie's portrait ? — that must not
fall into their hands."

He instantly went upstairs again ; leavings his
companion alone. There was something strange
in his entering this room where the corpse lay :
it seemed necessary for hin to walk on tiptoe;
he uncovered his head. A glance round the
almost empty room speedily showed him what
he wanted ; there was a small wooden casket in a
dusky corner by the window ; and that, he made
no doubt, was the box which the unhappy Kirski
had made to contain Natalie's portrait and which
he had quite recently dug out from its place of
concealment. Brand was surprised, however, to
find the casket empty. Then he glanced at the
fireplace ; there was a little black dust there, as
of burned cardboard. Then he made sure that
Kirski himself had taken steps to prevent the
portrait falling into alien hands.

Beside the box, however, lay a piece of paper,
written over in pencil. He took it up and made
out that it was chiefly ill-spelt Italian : " Whatever
punishment may be decreed against any Officer,
Companion, or Friend of the Society — may be
vicariously borne by any other Officer, Companion,
or Friend — ludo, of his own full and free consent,
acts as substitute — the original offender becoming

thereby redeemed, acquitted, and released." Then
followed some words which he could not make
out at all.

He carried the paper downstairs.

"He appears to have burned the photograph,
Edwards. But he has left this — see."

Edwards glanced at the trembling scrawl,
with a slight shiver ; the handwriting was the
same as that he had received half an hour before.

"It is only Article V.," he said. " The poor
fellow used to keep repeating that, after Clarissa
and I taught him in Venice."

But what is written below ? "

Edwards forced himself to take the paper
in his hands, and to scan more carefully its
contents.

It is Russian," he said, "but so badly written.
My life is not endurable longer — but I shall die
happy in being of service to the beautiful angel
who was kind to nne — tell her she need not be hit
trouble any more. — / forgive Pavel Michaielvff,
as my masters desire. I do not wish my wife or
my neighbours to knoiv zuhat I have done! "

This we have no right to meddle with,"
Brand said, thoughtfully. " I will put it back

where I got it. But, you sec, Edwards, you will
have to admit that you were aware this poor
wretch was in communication with some secret
society or other. Further than that you need
say nothing. The cause of his suicide is clear
enough. The man was mad when he came to
England with that wild craving for revenge in
his brain."

Brand carried the paper upstairs again, and
placed it where he had found it. At the same
moment there was a sound of footsteps below ;
and presently the police-officers, accompanied by
the landlady and by Gathorne Edwards, who had
somewhat recovered his composure, entered to
hold their preliminary investigation. The notes
that the inspector took down in his pocket-book
were brief enough, and were mostly answers to-questions
addressed to Brand, regarding what
he knew of the deceased man's circumstances.
Edwards translated for the inspector the writing
on the paper found lying there ; and said he believed
Kirski had some connection with a secret
society ; but that it was obvious he had destroyed
himself from despair ; and that, indeed, the unhappy
man had never been [properly right in his

mind since ever he had known him, though they
had hoped, by getting him to do steady work and
sure wages, to wean him away from brooding over
the wrongs that had driven him from his native
country. Edwards gave the officer his address,
Brand saying that he had to leave England that
same night and would not be available for any
further enquiry, but that his friend knew precisely
as much about the case as himself. Then he and
his companion left.

Edwards breathed more freely when he got
out of the house, even into the murky atmosphere
of Soho.

It is a tragic end," he said, " but perhaps
it is the best that could have befallen him. I
called yesterday at the shop ; and found he was
there, and sober, though I did not see him. I
was surprised to find he had gone back."

I thought he had solemnly promised you
not to drink any more," Brand said.

"He had made the same promises before.
He took to drink merely to forget ; to drown this
thing that was working in his brain. If he had
lived, it would have been the old story over
ao-ain. He would have buried the portrait in

St. James's Park, as he did before ; gone back
to the gin-shop ; and in course of time drank
himself to death. This end is terrible enough :
but there is a touch of something fine about it ;
it redeems much. What a worship the poor
fellow had for Miss Lind, to be sure ; because she
was kind to him when he was half mad with his
wrongs. I remember he used to go about the
churches in Venice, to see if any of the saints in
the pictures were like her ; but none satisfied
him. You will send her a message of what he
has done to repay her at last } "

I will take it myself," said Brand, hastily.

I must go, Edwards. You must get or

to come to these chambers ; any one you may
think of. I must go myself, and at once."

To-night, then ? "

Yes, to-night. It is a pity I troubled Evelyn
to go."

"He would stay a day, perhaps two days, in
Genoa. It is just possible you might overtake
him by going straight through."

Yes," said Brand, with a strange smile on
his face — as if he were looking at something faraway
— and it was scarcely to his companion that

he spoke — " I think I will go straight through.
I should not like any one but myself to take
Natalie this news."

They walked back to the chambers ; and
Brand began to put things in order for his going.

It is rather a shame," he said, during this
business, "for one to be glad that this poor wretch
has come to such an end. But what better could
have happened to him, as you say .^ You will see
about a decent funeral, Edwards ; and I will leave
you something to stop the mouth of that caterwauling
landlady. You can tell them at the
inquest that he has no relations in this country."

By-and-by he said —

"If there are any debts, I will pay them. And
if no one has any objection I should like to have
that casket, to show to — to Miss Lind. Did you
see the carving on it ? "

I looked at it."

He must have spent many a night working
at that. Poor wretch, I wish I had looked after
him more ; and done more for him. One always
feels that when people are dead and it is too
late."

I don't see how you could have done more

for him," Edwards said, honestly cnouL;li ; though
indeed it was he himself who had been Kirski's
chief protector of late.

Before evening' came Brand had put affairs
in proper trim for his departure ; and he left
London with a lighter heart than had been his
for a long time. But ever and anon, as he
journeyed to the South, with a wonderful picture
of joy and happiness before him, his mind would
wander away back to the little room in Soho, and
he could see the unhappy Russian lying dead,
with the message left behind for the beautiful
anofcl who had been kind to him. And he could
not but think that Kirski would have died happier
if he had known that Natalie herself would come
some day, and put flowers, tenderly and perhaps
even with tears, on his grave. Who that knew
her could doubt but that that would be her first
act on returning to England ? At least, Brand
thought so.

-XV.

CHAPTER XIX.

NATALIE SPEAKS.

It was about five in the morning, and as yet dark,
when George Brand arrived in Naples. He wrote
a note asking Clarissa to call on him, and left
it to be despatched by the porter of the hotel ;
then he lay down for an hour or two, without
undressing, for he was somewhat fatigued with
his continuous travelling.

On oroinof down to breakfast he trot Clarissa's
answer, saying he was very sorry he
could not obey the commands of his dear friend
Monsieur Brand, because he was on duty ; but
that he could be found if Monsieur Brand would
have the goodness to seek out the wine-vaults of
one Tommaso in the Vicolo Isotta. There, also,
Monsieur Brand would see some others.

Accordingly, after breakfast, Brand set out,
leisurely and observantly, for he did not think

there was any great hurry. It was a beautiful
brisk, breezy morning; though occasionally a
squall of rain swept across the roughened sea,
blotting out Capri altogether. There were crisp
gleams of white on the far plain ; and there was
a dazzling mist of sunlight and sea-foam where
the waves sprung high on the rocks of the citadel ;
and even here in the busy streets there was a
fresh sea-odour as the gusts of the damp wind
blew along. Naples was alive and busy : but
Brand regarded this swarming population with
but little interest. He knew that none of his
friends would be out and abroad so early.

In due time he found out the gloomy little
court and the wine-vaults. Moreover, he had no
trouble with the ghoul-like Tommaso, who had
apparently received his instructions. No sooner
had Brand enquired for Clarissa, than he was
invited to follow his guide, who waddled along,
candle in hand, like some overgrown orang-outang.
At length they reached the staircase, where there
was a little more light ; and here he found Clarissa
waiting to receive him. Clarissa seemed
overjoyed.

Yes, yes, my dear Monsieur Brand, you have

arrived opportunely. You also will remonstrate
with that beautiful child for having fallen out with
her old friend Clarissa. Think of it ! — one who
would wear his knees out to serve her ; and when
I go to the hotel "

One word, Clarissa," said Brand, as he
followed him into a small, empty room. " Tell
me, is Lind in Naples ? "

Assuredly. He has petitioned for a year's
grace — he wishes to join the Montenegrins."

"He will have more than a year's grace," said
Brand, gravely. " Something has happened. You
remember the man Kirski ? Well, he has killed
himself to release Lind."

*' Just Heaven ! " Clarissa exclaimed ; but
the exclamation was one of astonishment, not in
the least of regret. On the contrary, he began to
speak in tones of exultation.

Ah, let us hear now what the beautiful child
will say ! For who was it who reclaimed that
savage animal ; and taught him the beautifulness
of self-sacrifice ; and showed him how the most
useless life could be made serviceable and noble ?
Who but I .^ He was my pupil ; I first watched
the light of virtue beginning to radiate through

his savage nature. That is what I will ask the
beautiful Natalushka when I see her ; perhaps she
will not again turn away from an old friend "

You seem to forget, Clarissa, that your
teaching has brought this man to his death,"
Brand said.

Why not ? " said Clarissa, with a perfectly
honest stare. " Why not ? Was it not well done ?
Was it not a fitting end ? Wh)-, I, even I, who
watched him long, did not expect to see that : his
savagery falling away from him bit by bit ; himself
risings to this errand height — that he should
give his life to save another : I tell you, it is a
beautiful thing ; he has understood what I taught
him ; he has seen clear."

Clarissa was much excited ; and very proud.
It seemed to him that he had saved a soul — ashe
remarked in his ornate French.

Perhaps it has all happened for the best,"
Brand said ; " perhaps it was the best that could
have befallen that poor devil too. But you are
mistaken, Clarissa, about his reasons for giving
up his life like that. It was not for the sake
of a theory at all — admirable as your teachings
may have been. It was for the sake of Natalie

Lind. He heard she was in trouble ; and he
learned the cause of it. It was gratitude to her
■ — it was love for her — that made him do this."
Clarissa changed his ground in an instant.
Assuredly — assuredly, my dear friend : do
you think I fail to understand that — I, who
perceived that he worshipped that beautiful child
as if she were a saint, and more than all the
saints ? Do you think I cannot mark that — the
sentiment of love, the fervour of worship, growing
brighter and purer day by day until it bursts into
the beautiful flame of self-sacrifice ? My faith,
this must be told at once. Remain here a few
moments, my dear Mr. Brand. This is news
indeed."

Wait a bit, Clarissa. I came to you to get
the name of Natalie's hotel. And where is Lord
Evelyn?"

'' One moment — one moment," said the old
albino, as he went out and shut the door behind
him.

When Clarissa ceased to talk in French,
he also ceased to use roundabout literary-sentimental
metaphors ; and his report delivered in
the next room would appear to have been brief

enough ; for almost immediately he returned,
accompanied by Von Zoesch, to whom Brand was
introduced.

I am honoured in making your acquaintance,"
the tall soldier said, in a pleasant way. " I have
heard much of you ; you are a good worker ;
likewise you do not flinch when a duty is demanded
of you. Perhaps if you would only condescend
to reinforce the treasury sometimes, the
Council would be still further grateful to you.
However, we are not to become beggars at a
first interview — and that a short one, necessarily ;
for to-day we start for Genoa."

I am sorry for that," Brand said, simply.
There were some representations I wished to
lay before the Council — some very serious representations."


Perhaps some other time, then. In the
mean while, our hands are full. And that reminds
me that the news you bring makes one of my
tasks to-day a pleasant one. Yes, I remember
something of that maniac-fellow babbling about
a saint and an angel — I heard of it. So it was
your beautiful Miss Lind who was the saint and
the angel } Well, do you know that I was about

to give that young lady a very good scolding
to-day ? "

Brand flushed quickly. The authority of the
Council had no terrors for him where Natalie
was concerned.

I beg to remind you," he said, respectfully
but firmly, 'that the fact of Miss Lind's father
being connected with the Society gives no one
the right to intermeddle in her private affairs "

Oh, but, my dear sir," said Von Zoesch,
laughing, " I have ample right. Her mother
Natalie and I are very old friends indeed. You
have not seen the charming young lady, then,
since your arrival } "

No."

Excellent — excellent. You shall come and
hear the scolding I have to give her. Oh, I assure
you it will not harm her much. Clarissa will
bring you along to the Villa Odelschalchi, eleven
sharp. We must not keep a lady — two ladies,
indeed — waiting, after making an appointment."

He rose from the plain wooden chair on which
he had been sitting ; and his visitor had to rise
also. But Brand stood reluctant to go ; and his
brows were drawn down.

"I beg" your pardon," said he, "but if you
are so busy, why not depute some friend of the
young lady to carry her a message ? A girl is
easily frightened."

No, no, my dear sir ; having made an appointment,
must we not keep it ? Come, I shall
expect you to make one of the party ; it will
be a pleasant little comedy before we go to more
serious matters. Aurcvoir!''' He bowed slightly,
and withdrew.

Some little time afterwards Brand, Evelyn,
and Clarissa were driving along the rough
streets in an open carriage. The presence of
Lord Evelyn had been a last concession obtained
from General von Zoesch by Clarissa.

Why not ? " Von Zoesch had said, good-naturedly,
" he is one of us. Besides, there is
nothing of importance at Portici. It is a little
family party ; it is a little comedy before we goto
Genoa."

As they rattled along. Lord l*^vel)'n was very
talkative and joyous. He had seen Natalie the
evening before ; within an hour after his arrival.
He was laup-hincj at Brand for fearing she might
have been induced to go to some wretched inn.

I myself; did I not say to you It was a
beautiful hotel ? " said Clarissa, with a hurt
air. " The most beautiful view in Naples ! "

I think, after what she will hear to-day,"
said Evelyn, " she ought to ask us to dine there.
That would be an English way of finishing up
all her trials and troubles." But he turned to
Clarissa with a graver look. "What about
Lind ? Will they reinstate him now ? Will they
send him back to England ? "

Reinstate him in office ? " said Clarissa,
with a scornful smile. " My faith, no ! Neither
him nor Beratinsky. They will give them letters
to Montenegro : isn't it enough ? "

"Well, I think so. And Reitzei ?"

Reitzei has been stationed at Brindisi ; one
of our moral police ; and lucky for him also."

When they arrived at the Villa Odelschalchi
they were shown into a little ante-room where
they found Granaglia ; and he was introduced to
the two strangers.

Who have come ? " Clarissa said, in a
low voice.

The little sallow-faced Secretary smiled.

Several Brothers of the Council," he said.

They wish to see this young lady, who has turned
so many heads. You, for example, my Clarissa,
are mad with regard to her. Well, they pay
her a compliment. It is the first time any woman
has been in the presence of the Council."

At this moment Von Zoesch came in, and
hastily threes aside his travelling-cloak.

Come, my friends," said he ; and he took
them with him ; leaving Granaglia to receive
the ladies when they should arrive.

The lofty and spacious apartment they now
entered, on the other side of the corridor, was
apparently one of a suite of rooms, facing the sea.
Its walls were decorated in Pompeii fashion, with
simulated trellis-work, and plenty of birds, beasts,
and fishes about ; but the massive curtains and
spreading chandeliers were all covered over as
if the house had not been inhabited for sometime.
All that was displayed of the furniture
of the chamber were some chairs of blue satin,
with white and gold backs and legs ; and these
looked strange enough, seeing that tlicy were
placed irregularly round an oblong, rough deal
table, which looked as if it had just come front
the workshop of some neighbouring carpenter.

At or near this table several men, nearly all
elderly, were sitting, talking carelessly to each
other ; one of them, indeed, at the furthermost
corner, was a venerable patriarch, who wore a
large soft wide awake over his snow-white hair.
At the head of the table sat the handsome, pale-faced,
Greek-looking man, who has been mentioned
as one Conventz. He was writing a
letter ; but stopped when Brand and Evelyn
were introduced to him. Then Clarissa drew
in some more of the gilt and blue chairs, and
they sat down close by.

Brand kept anxiously looking towards the
door. He had not Ions: to wait. When it
opened, Granaglia appeared, conducting into the
room two figures dressed in black. These dark
figures looked impressive in the great, white,
empty room.

For a second Natalie stood bewildered and
irresolute, seeing all these faces turned to her ;
and when her eyes fell on her lover, she turned
deadly pale. But she went forward, along with
her mother, to the two chairs brought for them by
Granaglia ; and they sat down. The mother
was veiled. Natalie glanced at her lover again ;

there was a strange look in his face — but not of
pain or fear.

My dear young lady," said Von Zocsch, in
his pleasantness wa', " we have nothing but good
news to communicate to you, so you must not be
alarmed. You are among friends. We are going
away to-day ; we all wish to say good-bye to you ;
and wish you a happy journey back to England ;
that is all. But I will tell you that my first object
in asking you to come here was to give you a
good rating ; when you and I should have been
alone together I would have asked you if you had
no consideration for old friends, that you should
have turned away from my colleague, Clarissa,
and wounded him grievously. I would have
reminded you that it was not he, but you yourself,
who put the machinery in motion which secured
your father's righteous conviction."

I ask you to spare me, signore," the girl
said, in a low and trembling voice.

"Oh, I am not now going to scold you, my
dear young lady. I intended to have done so.
I intended to have shown you that )'ou were
wrong, and exceedingly ungrateful ; and that you
ought to ask pardon of my friend Clarissa.

However, it is all changed. You need not fear
him any more ; you need not turn away from him.
Your father is pardoned ; and free."

She looked up, uncertain, as if she had not
heard aright.

I repeat : your father is pardoned ; and free.
You shall learn how and why afterwards. Meanwhile
you have nothing before you, as I take it,
but to reap the reward of your bravery."

She did not hear this last sentence. She had
turned quickly to her mother.

Mother, do you hear ? " she said, in a whisper.

Yes, yes, child : thank God ! "

Now, you see, my dear young lady," Von
Zoesch continued, " it is not a scolding, but good
news I have given to you ; and nothing remains
but that you should bid us good-bye, and say you
are not sorry you appealed to us when you were
in trouble, according to the advice of your good
friend Clarissa. See. I have brought here with
me a gentleman whom you know, and who will
see you safe back to Naples, and to England ; and
another, his companion, who is also, I understand,
an old friend of yours ; you will have a pleasant
party. Your father will be sent to join in a good

cause, where he may retrieve his name if ho
chooses ; you and your friends go back to England.
So I may say that all your wishes are
gratified at last ; and we have nothing now but
to say good-bye."

The girl had been glancing timidly and nervously
at the figures grouped round the table ; and
her breast was heaving. She rose ; perhaps it was
to enable herself to speak more freely ; perhaps
it was only out of deference to those seated there.

No," she said, in a low voice, but it was heard
clearly enough in the silence. " I — I would say a
word to you — whom I may not see again. Yes, I
thank you — from my heart ; you have taken a
great trouble away from my life ; I — I thank
you. But there is something I would say."

She paused for a second. She was very pale.
She seemed to be nerving herself for some effort ;
and, strangely enough, her mother's hand, unseen,
was stretched up to her, and she clasped it and
held it tight. It gave her courage.

"It is true, I am only a girl ; you arc my
elders ; and you are men ; but I have known
good and brave men who were not ashamed to
listen to what a woman thought was ricrht. And

it is as a woman that I speak to you," she said,
and her voice, low and timid as it was, had a
strange pathetic vibration in it, that went to the
heart. " I have suffered much of late. I hope no
other woman will ever suffer in the same way."

Again she hesitated ; but for the last time.

Oh, gentlemen, you who are so powerful, you
who profess to seek only mercy and justice and
peace, why should you, also, follow the old bad
cruel ways, and stain yourselves with blood ?
Surely it is not for you, the friends of the poor,
the champions of the weak, the teachers of the
people, to rely on the weapon of the assassin !
When you go to the world, and seek for help and
labour, surely you should go with clean hands ; so
that the wives and the sisters and the daughters
of those who may join you may not have their
lives made terrible to them. It is not a reign of
terror you would establish on the earth ! For the
sake of those who have already joined you — for
the sake of the far greater numbers who may yet
be your associates — I implore you to abandon these
secret and dreadful means. Surely, gentlemen,
the blessing of Heaven is more likely to follow
}Gu and crown your work if you can say to every

man whom you ask to join you, ' You have womenfolk
around you. They have tender consciences,
perhaps. But we will ask of you nothing that
your sister or your wife or your daughter would
not approve.' Then good men will not be afraid
of you ; then brave men will not have to stile
their conscience in serving you ; and whether you
succeed or do not succeed, you will have walked
in clear ways."

Her mother felt that she was trembling ;
but her voice did not tremble — beyond that
pathetic thrill in it which was always there when
she was deeply moved.

I have to beg your pardon, sir," she said,
addressing herself more particularly to Von Zoesch,
but scarcely daring to lift her eyes. " But — but
do not think that when you have made everything
smooth for a woman's happiness, she can then
think only of herself She also may think a little
about others ; and even with those who are nearest
and dearest to her, how can she bear to know
that perhaps they may be engaged in something
and hidden, something terrible, not because
it involves danger, but because it involves shame ?
Gentlemen, if you choose, you can do this. I

3— XV. X

appeal to you. I implore you. If you do not
seek the co-operation of women— well, that is a
light matter; you have our sympathy and love
and gratitude — at least you can pursue ways and
means of which women can approve — ways and
means of which no one, man or woman, needs be
ashamed. How otherwise are you what you profess
to be — the lovers of what is just, and true,
and merciful ? "

She sat down, still all trembling. She held
her mother's hand. There was a murmur of
sympathy and admiration.

Brand turned to Von Zoesch, and said in a
low voice —

You hear, sir ? These are the representations
I had wished to lay before the Council. I
have not a word to add."

"We will consider by-and-by," said Von
Zoesch, rising. "It is not a great matter.
Come to me in Genoa as you pass through."

But the tall old gentleman with the long white
hair had already risen and gone round to where
the girl sat ; and put his hand on her shoulder.

My noble child, you have spoken well," said
he, in a quavering, feeble voice. " Forgive me

that I come so near ; my eyes are very weak
now ; and you — you do not recognize me anymore
? "

Anton ! " said the mother.

"Child," said he, still addressing Natalie, "it
is old Anton Pepczinski who is speaking to you.
But you are disturbed ; and I have greatly
changed, no doubt. No matter. I have travelled
a long way to bring you my blessing ; and I give
it to you now : I shall not see you again in this
world. You were always brave and good ; be
that to the end : God has given you a noble
soul."

She looked up ; and something in her face
told him that she had recognized him, despite
the changes time had made.

Yes, yes," he said, in great delight. " You
remember now that you used to bring me tobacco
for my pipe ; and ask if I would fight for your
country ? I can see it in your eyes, my child :
you remember, then, the old Anton Pepczinski
who used to bring you sweet things ? Now
come and take me to the English gentleman ; I
wish to speak to him. Tell me, does he love you
docs he understand you ? "

She was silent, and embarrassed.

No ? you will not speak ? " the old man said
laughing ; " you cast your eyes down again ?
See, now, how one changes ! For in former days
you made love openly enough — oh yes ! — to me,,
to me myself — oh, my dear, I can remember. I
can remember very well. I am not so old that I
cannot remember."

Brand rose when he saw them coming. She
regarded him earnestly, for a brief second or two ;
and said something to him, in English, in an
undertone — not understood by those standing
round.

CHAPTER XX.

NEW SHORES.

The moonlight lay on the moving Atlantic ; and
filled the hollow world with a radiance soft and
grey and vague. But it struck sharp and white
on the polished rails and spars of this great
steamer ; and shone on the long and shapely
decks ; and on the broad track of foam that went
away back and back and back until it was lost in
the horizon. It was late ; and nearly all the
passengers had gone below. In the silence there
was only heard the monotonous sound of the
engines, and the continuous rush and seething
of the waters as the huge vessel clove its way
onward.

Out there by the rail, in the white light,
Natalie Lind lay back in her chair, all wrapped
up in furs ; and her lover was by her side, on a
rug on the deck, his hand placed over her hand.

'' To-morrow, then, Natalie," he was saying,
you will g-et your first glimpse of America."

So you see I have procured your banishment
after all," she said, with a smile.

Not you," was the answer. " I had thought
of it often. For a new life, a new world ; and
it is a new life you and I are beginning together."

Here the bell in the steering room struck
the half-hour ; it was repeated by the look-out
forward ; the sound was strange in the silence.

Do you know," he said, after a while, " after
we have done a fair share of work, we might
think ourselves entitled to rest ; and what better
could we do than go back to England for a time
and go down to the old place in Buckinghamshire ?
Then Mrs. Alleyne would be satisfied at last.
How proud the old dame was when she recognized
you from your portrait ; she thought all
her dreams had come true ; and that there was
nothing left but to go down to the Chequers and
carry off that old cabinet as a wedding-present.

Natalie," he said, presently, " how is it that
you always manage to do the right thing at the
right time ? When Mrs. Alleyne took your
mother and you in to the Chequers ; and old Mrs.

Diggles led you Into lier parlour ; and dusted the
table with her apron, what made you think of
asking her for a piece of cake and a cup of tea ? "

My dearest, I saw the cake in the bar ! " she
exclaimed.

I believe the old woman was ready to faint
with delight when you praised her currant wine,
and asked how she made it. You have a wonderful
way of getting round people — whether by
fair means or otherwise I don't know. Do you
think if it had been anybody else but you who
went to Von Zoesch in Genoa, he would have let
Clarissa come with us to America ? "

Poor old Clarissa," she said, laughing, " he
is very brave now about the sea. But he was
terribly frightened that bad night we had after
leavings Oueenstown."

Here some one appeared in the dusky recess
at the top of the companion-stairs, and stepped
out into the open.

Are you people never coming below at all ? "
he said. " I have to inform you, Miss Natalie,
with your mamma's compliments, that she can't
o-et on with her EnMish verbs because of that fat
girl playing Strauss ; and that she is going to her
cabin ; and wants to know when you are coming."

Now, at once," said Natalie, getting up out
of her chair. " But wait a moment, Evelyn : I
cannot go without bidding good night to Clarissa.
Where is Clarissa ? "

Clarissa ? Oh, in the smoking-room,
betting like mad, and going in for all the mock-auctions.
I expect some of them will sit up all
night to feet their first sight of the land. The
pilot expects that will be shortly after daybreak."

You will be up in time for that, Natalie,
won't you ? " Brand asked.

Oh yes. Good night, Evelyn ! " and she
gave him her hand.

Brand went with her down the companion-stairs,
carrying her rugs and shawls. In the
corridor she turned to bid him good night also.

Dearest," she said, in a low voice, " do you
know what I have been trying all day — to get
you to say one word, the smallest word, of
"

But if I have no regret whatever, how can I

regret

express any ? "
Sure ? "

He laughed, and kissed her.
Good night, my darling ! "

Good night ; God bless you ! "

Then he made his way along the gloomy
corridor again ; and up the broad zinc steps ;
and out into the moonlight. Evelyn was there ;
leaning with his arms on the hand-rail ; and idly
Watching, far below, the gleams of light on the
grey-black waves.

It is too fine a night to go below," he said.
*' What do you say, Brand : shall we wait up for
the daylight and the first glimpse of America ? "

"If you like," said Brand, taking out his
cigar-case, and hauling along the chair in which
Natalie had been sitting.

They had the whole of this upper deck to
themselves, except when one or other of the
officers passed on his rounds ; they could talk
Without risk of being overheard ; and they had
plenty to talk about — of all that had happened
of late, of all that might happen to them in this
new country they were nearing.

Well," he said, " Evelyn, that settlement
in Genoa clinched everything, as far as I am
concerned. I have no longer any doubt, any
hesitation ; there is nothing to be concealed now ;
nothing"" to be withheld, even from those who arc

content to remain merely as our friends. One
might have gone on as before ; for, after all,
these death-penalties only attached to the officers ;
and the great mass of the members, not being
touched by them, need have known nothing
about them. But it is better now."

It was Natalie's appeal that settled that,"
Lord Evelyn said, as he still Watched the shining
waves.

The influence of that girl is extraordinary.
One could imagine that some magnetism radiated
from her. Or perhaps it is her voice ; and her
clear faith ; and her enthusiasm : when she said
something to old Anton Pepczinski, on bidding
him good-bye — not about herself, or about him —
but about what some of us were hoping for, he
was crying like a child. In other times, she
might have done great things. She might have
led armies."

By-and-by he said —

As for those decrees, what use were they ?
From all I could learn, only ten have been issued
since the Society was in existence ; and eight
of those were for the punishment of officers, who
ought merely to have been expelled. Of course,

you will get people like Clarissa, with a touch
of theatrical-mindedness, who have a love for the
terrorism such a thing can produce. But what
use is it ? It is not by striking down an
individual here or there that you can help on any
wide movement. And this great organization
that I can see in the future will have other things
to do than take heed of personal delinquencies —
except in so far as to purge out from itself unworthy
members. Its action will affect continents,
not persons."

You can see that : you believe that, Brand ? "
Lord Evelyn said, turning and regarding him.

Yes, I think so," he answered, without enthusiasm,
but with simple sincerity. Presently he
said : " You remember, Evelyn, the morning we
turned out of the little inn on the top of the
N lessen, to see the sun rise over the Bernese
Alps?"

I remember it was precious cold," said Lord
Evelyn, almost with a shiver.

You remember, when we got to the highest
point, we looked down into the great valleys,
where the lakes and the villages were ; and there
it was still night under the head)' clouds. But

before us, where the peaks of the Jungfrau, and
the Wetterhorn, and the rest of them rose into the
clear sky, there was a curious faint Hight that
showed the day was coming. And we waited and
watched ; and the Hight grew stronger ; and all
sorts of colours began to show along the peaks.
That was the sunrise. But down in the valleys
everything was misty and dark and cold ; everything
asleep ; the people there could see nothing
of the new day we were looking at. And so I
suppose it is with us now. We are looking ahead.
We see, or fancy we see, the light before the
others ; but sooner or later they will see it also.
For the sunrise is bound to come."

They continued talking ; and they paced up
and down the decks ; while the half-hours and
hours were struck by the bells. The moon was
declining to the horizon. Long ago the last of
the revellers had left the smoking-room ; and
there was nothing to interrupt the stillness but
the surge of the waters.

Then again —

Have you noticed Natalie's mother of late ?
It is a pleasure to watch the poor woman's face ;
she seems to drink in happiness by merely looking

at her daughter ; every time that Natalie laughs
you can see her mother's eyes brighten."

I have noticed a great change in Natalie
herself," Evelyn said. " She is looking younger ;
she has lost that strange, half-apprehensive expression
of the eyes ; and she seems to be in
excellent spirits. Clarissa is more devotedly
her slave than ever."

You should have seen him when Von Zoesch
told him to pack up and be off to America."

By-and-by he said —

You know, Evelyn, if you can't stay in
America with us altogether — and that would be
too much to expect — don't say anything as yet
to Natalie about your going back. She has the
notion that our little colony is to be founded as a
permanency."

Oh, I am in no hurry," said Evelyn, carelessly.
" Things will get along at home well
enough without me. Didn't I tell you that once
those girls began to go they would go like lightning
? It is rough on Blanche, though, that
Truda should come next. By the way, in any
case, Brand, I must remain in America for your
wedding."

Oh, you will, will you ? " said Brand. " Then
that settles one point. You won't be going back
very soon."

"Why?"

Of course, Natalie and I won't marry until
she is of age ; that is a good year and a half yet.
Did you hear of Clarissa's mad proposal : that
he should extort from Lind his consent to our
marriage as the price of the good news that he,
Clarissa, had to reveal ? Like him, wasn't it .'*
an ingenious scheme."

What did you say ? "

Why, what could I say ! I would not be
put under any obligation to Lind on any account
whatever. We can wait ; it is not a long time."

The moonlight waned ; and there was another
light slowly declaring itself in the east. The
two friends continued talking ; and did not notice
how that the cold blue light beyond the sea was
gradually yielding to a silver-grey. The pilot
and first mate, who were on the bridge, had
just been joined by the captain.

The silver-grey in its turn gave place to a
clear yellow ; and high up one or two flakes of
cloud became of a saffron-red. Then the burning

edge of the sun appeared over the waves ; the
world lightened ; the masts and funnels of the
steamer caught the glory streaming over from
the east. The ship seemed to waken also ; one
or two stragglers came tumbling up from below,
rubbing their eyes, and staring strangely around
them ; but as yet no land was in sight.

The sunrise now flooded the sky and the
sea ; the numbers of those on deck increased ;
and at last there was an eager passing round
of circulars ; and a murmur of eager interest.
Those with sharp eyes enough could make outright
ahead, in the midst of the pale glow of
the morning, a thin blue line of coast.

The great steamer surged on through the
sunlit waters. And now even those who were
without glasses could distinguish, here and there
along that line of pale-blue land, a touch of
yellowish-white ; and they guessed that the new
world there was already shining with the light
of the new day. Brand felt a timid, small hand
glide into his. Natalie was standing beside him,
her beautiful black hair a trifle dishevelled,
perhaps ; and her eyes still bearing traces of her
having been in the realm of dreams. But those

eyes were full of tenderness, nevertheless, as she
met his look. He asked her if she could make
out that strip of coast beyond the shining waters.

Can you see, Natalie ? It is our future
home."

Oh yes, I can see it," she said. " And the
sunrise is there before us : it is a happy sign."
*****

There remains to be added only this — that
about the last thing Natalie Lind did before
leaving England was to go and plant some
flowers, carefully and tenderly, on Kirski's grave ;
and that about the first thing she did on landing
in America was to write to Madame Potecki,
asking her to look after the little Anneli, and
sending many loving messages. For this girl —
or rather, this beautiful child, as Clarissa would
persist in calling her — had a large heart, that
could hold many affections, and many memories ;
and that was not capable of forgetting any one
who had been kind to her.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, iSS, Fleet Street, London,
January, isle

.i^clfrtion from tl)e Si'^t of ISooke;

PUBLISHED EV

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

A CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of Works 
wished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,

revised and corrected to Christmas, 1879, 5^
About Some Fellows. By an Eton Bov, Author of "A Day

of my Life." Cloth limp), square l6mo, 2s. 6J.
Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations

1000 years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, jj. 6>/. ; plainer binding, ^s.
Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with

117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parker

Gilmore. Post Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, 7^. 6</.
Afghan Knife the). A Novel. By Robert Armytage

Sterndale, Author of " Seonee." Small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
After Sundown ; or, The Palette and the Pen. By \^ . \V. Fern,

Author of "Blind-Man's Holiday," &c. With Portrait of Author.

2 vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 24/.
Albania: A Narrative of Recent Travel. By E. F. Knight.

With some very good Illustrations specially made lor the work.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, I2j. (nl.
Alcott louisa M.) Jimmy's Cruise in the " Pinafore'' With 9

Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post Svo, cloth gilt, p. dJ.

Aunt Jds Scrap-Bag. Square i6nio, 2s. td.

(Rose Library, \s.)
Little Men : Life at Plumfield tcith Jds Boys. Small

post Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3J. 6./. (Rose Library, Double vol. 2J.)

Little Women, i vol., cloth, gilt edges, is. Gd. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Alcott louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3^-. 6d. (Rose Library, 2s. )

Work and Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

I vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Several Illustrations. (Rose
Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

S/ia7C'l Straps. Small post Svo, cloth extra, gilt-^s. dd.

Eight Cousins ; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post Svo,

with Illustrations, ■^s. 6d.

The Rose in Bloom. Small post Svo, cloth extra,

Silver Pitchers. Small post Svo, cloth extra, 35'. (yd.

Under the Lilacs. Small post Svo, cloth extra, ^s.

Jack and yUl. Small post Svo, cloth extra, 55.

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour . . .
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the ' Eight Cousins"—
Athenaeum.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or, Rock and Snoiu Sketches.
By H. ScHiJTZ Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by
Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown Svo, ioj-. 6^'. 2nd Edition.

Andersen {Ha/is Christian') Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in
Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 251.

Architecture ( The Twenty Styles of) . By Dr. W. Wood, Author
of " The Hundred Greatest Men." Imperial Svo, with 52 Plates.

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books."

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, Ea., F.S.A., credited
by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. Richmond, R. A, i vol.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, i Ss.

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Edited by the late J. Plain Friswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Stylo as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Tallies.

Price 2S. td. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt ed^cs,
iviih silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.

By I\I. De Servile.
De Joinville's St. Louis, King of

France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or, The Four Leaves.
By Edward Laboullaye.

The Bayard Series continued) :■

T.ible-Talk and Opinions of Napoleon
]buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
By William beckford.

The King and the Commons. A
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan
Sonjijs. Edited by Professor
Morley.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and
Opinions of the Great Duke.

Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
.Sir Thomas Browne, Kent,

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Cluistabel, and other
A C (lie containing \i Volumes, price 31X.

Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de
Ste.-Beuvc, of the French Academy.


Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballads


My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his
Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgerald.


Reflections; or. Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la Roche-focal.


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Lcvien.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

6rf. ; or the Case separately, price y. (ni.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours. \2s. 61/.

Begin's Fortune the): A Nec Story. By Jules Verne.
Translated by W. If. G. Kingston. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, ^s. cii. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^.

Ben Hur : A Tale of the Christ. By L. Wallace. Crown

Svo, 6j.
Deniers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at ^d. each.

Biart lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
My Rambles in the New World," "The Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage. "

Bickersteth^s Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from \d. to 2\s. Price
List and Prospectus quill be fonuardcd on application.

Bickersteth {Ra\ E. H., La.) The Lief, and other Parables.

I vol., square Svo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, is. 6d.
The Clergyman in his LLome. Small post Svo, \s.

The Master's LLomc-Call ; or, Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, \s.

The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, dd. ; cloth gilt, \s.
A 2

Bickersteth rev. E. H., M.A.) The Shadow of the Rock. A
Selection of Religious Poetry, imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond, myth

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, ^s.
Biographies of the Great Artists illustrated). Each of the
following Volumes is illustrated with from twelve to twenty full-page
Engravings, printed in the best manner, and bound in ornamental
cloth cover, 3J-. 6d. Library Edition, bound in a superior style,
and handsomely ornamented, with gilt top ; six Volumes, enclosed
in a cloth case, with lid, £i lis. 6d. each case.
Hogarth. Pra Bartolommeo. Sir David Wilkie.

Turner. Giotto. Van Eyck.

Rubens. Raphael. Fig-ure Painters of

Holbein. Van Dyckand Hals. Holland.

Tintoretto. Titian. Michel Angelo.

Little Masters of Rembrandt. Delarocheand Vernet.

Germany. Leonardo da Vinci. Landseer.

Pra Angelico and Gainsborough and Reynolds.
Masaccio. Constable.

Few things in the W3y of small books upon great subjects, avowedly cheap and
necessarily brief, have been hitherto so well done as these biographies of the Great
Masters in painting." — Times.

A deserving series." — Edi7ih7troh Review.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edited." — Spectator.

Black ( Wm. ) Thj-ee Feathers. Small pest 8vo, cloth extra, ds.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart, and other Stories, i vol.,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Kidney : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, ds.

In Silk Attire. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, ds.

A Daughter of Heth. nth Edition, small post 8vo, ds.

• Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, \s. each.

Blackmore {R. D.) Lorna Done. loth Edition, cr. 8vo, 6s.

Alice Lorraine, i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, ds,

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, Q>s.

Crack Powell. New Edition, 6s.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Mary Ancrley. New Edition, 6s.

Erema ; or, My Fathers Sin. With 1 2 Illustrations,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons for Children. By
the Rev. C. Banquet. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Blue Mariner the); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial l6mo, cloth, gilt edges,
7^. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Boy's Froissart the), is.dd. ^<r " Froissart."

Boy's King Arthur the). With very fine Illustrations.

Square crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt etlges, Ts. 6</. Edited by Sidney

Lanier, Editor of " The Boy's Froissart."
Brazil : the Amazons, and the Coast. By Herbert H. Smith.

With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy Svo, 650 pp., 2i.r.
Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P.

KiDDKR. 9th Edition, Illustrated, Svo, 21s.
Breton Folk : An Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry

Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," " Normandy Picturesque,"

eVc. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.

Imperial Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2\s.

Bricks-without Strain. By the Author of " A Fool's Errand."
Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations, 7^. 6J.

British Goblins : IVelsh Folk-Lore, Fairy Mythology, Legends,
and Traditions. By Wirt Sykics, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. H. Thomas. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to II.R. II. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. Svo, lar.

Buckle henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of. By Alfred

Henry IIuth. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy Svo.
Burney capt.) See "On Horseback."

Burnham Beeches sheath, F. G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3?. df. Second Edition.

Butler {IF. F.) The Great Lone Land; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1S69-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, "js. cii.

The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter four ney

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy Svo, cloth, with,
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, iSj. Cr. Svo, "js. 6</.

Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth

2ik1 E(.lilion, i6j. Also, in crown Svo, ']s. 6 J.

r*ADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience.
^ Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, 12s. 6</.

Caldecott {R.). See " Breton Folk.'

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. See Verne.

Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.

Child of the Cavern the) ; or. Strange Doings Underground.
By Jules Verne. Translated by W. II. G. Kinusto.v. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. Svo, gilt edges, "js. (hI. ; cl., plain edges, 5/.

Child's Play, with 1 6 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed

on thick paper, with tints, "js. 6d.

New. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

A New and Cheap Edition of the two above, containing
48 Illustrations by E. V. 13., printed in tint, handsomely
bound, Tes. 6c/.

Children's Lives and How to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lomax, M.D. Crown 8vo, cloth, choice

Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir,
Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works area glorious beatification for a poet." — Aihencenm.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6^.
Cobbett ( William). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols., crown 8vo, 25^.
Confessions of a Frivolous Girl the) : A Novel of Fashionable

Life. Edited by Robert Grant. Crown Svo, 6s.
Cradle Land of Arts and Creeds ; or, Nothing New under the

Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law, and late Advocate,

thigh Courts, Bombay. Svo, pp. 420, cloth, I4J-.
Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6^. See Blackmore,
Cruise of H.M.S. " Challenger" (The). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy 8vo, cloth,

iSs. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, some of the Illustrations, 7.f. 6d.
Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest

Candle. Translated by N. Dangers. With numerous fine

Illustrations. Crown Svo, gilt, 'js. 6d. ; plain binding and edges, Sj.

T^ANA {R. H.) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty-four
-^-^ years After. Revised Edition, with Notes, imo, ds.
Daughter (A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown Svo, ds.
Day of My Life (A) ; or. Every Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some Fellows." imo, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, ds.

Dick Cheveley : his Fortunes and Misfortunes. By W. H. G.

Kingston. 350 pp., square l6mo, and 22 full-page Illustrations.

Cloth, gilt edges, 7^. dd. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^.

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly icx3 Illustrations, cloth, gilt, los. ()d. ; plain binding and plain
edges, 5^.

Dictionary general) of Archaeology and Antiquities. From
the French of E. Bos. Crown Svo, with nearly 200 Illustrations,
icxr. (yd.

Dodge {ATrs. M.) Bans Brinker: or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^. ; Text only, paper, \s.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-book in Black and White.
Containing drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, in wrapper, 6j. S</.

'piGHT Cousins. See Alcott.

Eighteenth Century Studies. Essays by F. Henchman.

Demy Svo, supplementary
Education in Saxony. By J. L. Ashford, M.A ,

Trin. Coll., Camb. For Masters and Mistresses of Elementary

Schools. Sewn, is.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, ds.

Embroidery handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marten Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
iS;c. Crown Svo, 5^.

English Philosophers. Edited by I wan Muller, ^LA., New
College, Oxon. A Series of Volumes containing short biographies
the most celebrated English Philosophers, to each of whom is
assigned a separate volume, giving as comprehensive and detailed a
statement of his views and contributions to Philosophy as possible,
explanatory rather than critical, opening with a brief biographical
sketch, and concluding with a short general summary, and a bibliographical
appendix. The Volumes will be issued at brief intervals, ri.
square l6mo, 3^. 6(/., containing about 200 pp. each.

The following are in the press : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. H. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophy,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.

[A'- .;</)'.
J. S. Mill. Helen Taylor, Editor of "The Works of Buckle," &c.

English Philosophers [continued) : —

Manse. Rev. J. H. Huckin, Dad., Head Master of Repton.
Adam Smith. J. A. Farmer, M.A., Author of "Primitive

Manners and Customs." ready.

Hobbes. A. H. Cosset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. G. E. Buckle, M.A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Harry Johnson, B.A., late Scholar of Queen's College,

Oxford.
Hartley. ") E. S. Bowen, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill, j Oxford. ready.

Hutchison' ] Professor Fowler.
Arrangements are in progress for volumes on Locke, Hume, Pale, Reid, Ss'c.

Episodes of French History. Edited, with Notes, Genealogical,
Historical, and other Tables, by Gustave I^Iasson, B. A.

1. Charlemagne and the Carloving-ians.

2. Louis XI. and the Crusades.

3. Francis I. and Charles V.

4. Francis I. and the Renaissance.

The above Series is based upon M. Guizot's "History of France."
Each volume is choicely Illustrated, with Maps, 2s. 6d.

Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. See Blackmore.

Etcher the). Containing 36 Examples of the Original
Etched-work of Celebrated Artists, amongst others: Birket Foster,
J. E. Hodgson, R.A., Colin Hunter, J. P. Heseltine, Robert
W. Macbeth, R. S. Charnock, H. R. Robertson, &c., &c.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 12s. 6d.

Eto7i. See " Day of my Life," " Out of School," " About Some
Fellows."

Evans (C) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C. Evans.
One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, loj-. 6d.

A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, cleve

of Saint Ag?ies the). By John Keats. Illustrated with
Nineteen Etchings by Charles O. Murray. Folio, cloth extra, 215.
An Edition de Luxe on large paper, containing proof impressions, has
been printed, and specially bound, 3/. 3^-.

T^ARM Ballads. By Will Carleton. Boards, i^. ; cloth,
■*■ gilt edges, I J. 6d.

Fern Paradise the): A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By
F. G. Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with
Eighteen full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of
Ferns and Four Photographs, large post Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d.
.Sixth Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn, is. each.

Fern World the). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Relates, giving comjilcte Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, I2.f. Gd.

Mr. Hkatii has really given us good, well-written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — At/u-ii(tuiit.

Ju-7c> {A) Hints on Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, is.
First Steps in Conversational French Granular. By F. Julien.

Being an Introduction to " Petites Lemons de Conversation et de

Grammaire," by the same Author. Fcaji. 8vo, 128 pp., is.
Flooding 0/ the Sahara the). See Mckenzie.
Food for the People ; or, Lentils and other Vegetable Cookery.

By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand. Small post Svo, boards, u.
Fools Errand {A). By One of the Fools. Author of Bricks

without Straw. Crown Svo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,

%s. (xt.
Footsteps of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land {A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.
Numerous Illustrations ana Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra, 2i.r.

Four Lectures on Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 187S-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, 3^.

Foreign Countries and the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
The volumes average I So crown Svo pages each, contain 2 Maps
and Illustrations, crown 8vo, 3^'. 6d.

The folknoitig is a List of the Volumes : —
Denmark and Iceland. By E. C. Motte, Author of " Scandinavian

History," &c.
Greece. Pay L. Sergeant, B.A., Knight of the Hellenic Order

of the Saviour, Author of " New Greece."
Switzerland. By W. A. P. Cooling, M.A., Fellow of

Magdalen College, Editor of The Alpine Journal .
Austria. By D. Kav, F.R.G.S.
Russia. By W. R. MoKKiLL, M.A., Oriel College, Oxford,

Lecturer on the Rochester Foundation, <S:c.
Persia. By Major-Gen. Sir F.J. Goldsmith, K.C.S.I., Author of

Telegraph and Travel," i!v:c.
Japan. By S. Moss.M.w, Author of " New Japan," &c.
Peru. By Clements H. Markham, M.A., Cab.
Canada. Bey W. Phase Rae, Author of "Westward by

Kail," &c.

Foreign Countries continued) : —

Sweden and Norway. By the Rev. F. H. Woods, M.A., Fellow
of St. John's College, Oxford.

The West Indies. By C. H. Eden, F.R.G.S., Author of " Frozen
Asia," &c.

New Zealand.

Prance. By Miss M. Roberts, Author of " The Atelier du Lys,"
"Mille. Mori," &c.

Egypt. By S. Lane Poole, B.A., Author of "The Life of Edward
Lane," &c.

Spain. By the Rev. Wentworth Webster, M A., Chaplain at
St. Jean de Lus.

Turkey-in-Asia. By J. C. McCoAN, M.P.

Australia. By J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald, late Premier of New
South Wales.

Holland. By R. L. Poole.
Franc maude Jane). The following form one Series, small

post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges: —

Emily Choice, ^s.

Hall's Vineyard. 45.

John's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 45.

Marian ; or, the Light of Some One's Home. ^s.

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters, ^s.

Vermont Vale. k^s.

Minnie's Mission, ^s.

Little Mercy, ces.

Beatrice Shelton's Discipline, des.

Froissart the Boy's). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume is

fully Illustrated, and uniform with ' ' The Boy's King Arthur." Crown

8vo, cloth, 7^-. bd.

r^ AMES of Patience. »Sd?(? Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, icy. dd.
THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6.r. each ; or in calf extra, price vos. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of " Familiar Words " and "Other
People's Windows ") has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.
The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 21st Edition.

Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house." —
Chambers' journal.

Tic Gentle Life Series (continued) : —

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some handy idea"— .1/t>r«-
in Post.

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
De Imitation Christi." and Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — lUuslratai London News.

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 4th and
enlarged Edition, ds. %

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Notes and
Queries.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Times.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." "js. dJ.
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

"There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in some
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily S'civs.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess 'The Gentle Life' should own this volume." — Standard.

Half-length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.
By J. Hain Friswell.

Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of
Students in English Literature.

"To all who have neglected to read and study their native literature we would
certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction." — Examiner.

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition.

"The chapters are so lively in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot lall to be
amused." — Morning Post.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in

German. By NL T. Pktu. 2s. 6d.
Getting On in the IVorld ; or. Hints on Success in Life. By

\V. Mathews, LL.D. Small post Svo, cloth, 2s. 6</. ; gilt edges, p. 6J.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World," iZf. Cil. In 6 monthly parts, 2s, each.

Gordon {J. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
" Physical Treatise on Electricity," &c.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse GouFFfi, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. ici Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, 10s. 6d.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has ever been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Great Artists. See "Biographies."

Great Historic Galleries of England the). Edited by Lord

Ronald GOWER, F.S.A., Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery.
Illustrated by 24 large and carefully-executed /«-wa«t'«/ Photographs
of some of the most celebrated Pictures by the Great Masters. Imperial
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 36i-.

Great Musicians the). A Series of Biographies of the Great
Musicians. Edited by F Suffer.

5. Rossini, and the JNIodern Italian

School. By H. Sutherland
Edwards.

6. Marcello. By Arrigo Boito.

7. Purcell. By H. W. Cummings.

1. "Wag-ner. By the Editor.

2. Weber. By Sir JULIUS

Benedict.

3. Mendelssohn. By Joseph

Bennett.

4. Schubert. By H.F. Frost.
*^* Dr. Hiller and other distinguished writers, both English and

Foreign, have promised contributions. Each Volume is complete in
itself. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 3^.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.
Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols. , cloth extra, gilt, each 24J.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Times.

Masons School Edition. , The

History of Prance from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M.A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor Gustave Mason, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, vos. ct.

Guizot History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24J. each.

For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Titles.

Giiyon {Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Handbook to the Charities of London. Sa Low's.

of Embroidery ; jvhich see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

Half-hours of Blind Mans Holiday ; or. Summer and Winter
Sketches in Hack and White. ByW. W. Penn, Author of "After
Sundown," &C. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 2^.

Hall {IV. IV.) Hm to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. 'iJy W. W. Half,, A.M., M.D.

Small post Svo, cloth, 2s. Second Edition.
Hans Brinker ; or, the Silver Shales. .Scv Dodge.
Harper's Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages,

fully Illustrated. \s. With two Serial Novels by celebrated Authors.
■' ' Harper's Magazine ' is thickly sown with excellent illustrations that's count

them would be a worth of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings

illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of uur choicest editions deluge." —

St. yamet's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so bi, and so cheap. . . , An extraordinary shillings worth —

160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more titian three limes as

many illustrations," — Edinburgh Daily A'e-T'/rtf.

An amazing shiUingsworth . . . combining choice literature of both nations." —

KoiuoHjitrtnist.

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the
Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 186S to 187 1. By Dr.
George Scmweinfukth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 15^.

Heath francis George). See " Fern World," " Fern Paradise,"
"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns," "Gilpin's Forest
"Scenery," " Burnham Leeches," " Sylvan Spring," &c.

Heber's (Bishop) Illustrated Edition of Hymns. \Vith upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, js. 6J.
Morocco, iSj. bJ. and 21s. An entirely New Edition.

Heir of Kilfnnan the). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston
Author of " Snow Shoes and Canoes," iS:c. With Illustrations. Cloth,
gilt edges, ^s. bd. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^,

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the
French of Gaston TlsSANDiER. Edited by J. Thomson. Imi)cri.-il
l6mo, over 300 jxiges, 70 Woodcuts, and .Si)ecinicns of Prints by the
best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by
the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6j.

History of a Crime ( The) ; Deposition of an Eye-7c>itness. Py
Victor HU(;o. 4 vols., crown Svo, 42J. Cheap Edition, i vol., 6s.

Ancient Art. Translated from the German of John

WiNCKELMANN, by JoHN LoDGE, M.D. With very numerous
Plates and Illustrations. 2 vols., Svo, 36/.

England. See GuizoT.

/■ ranee. See (jUIZOt.

History of Russia. See Rambled.
Merchant Shipping. See Lindsay.

United States. 6'^^ Bryant.

History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power. With
several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal Svo,
cloth extra, i/. 5^. Second Edition.

How I Crossed Af?-ica : from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean,
Through Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi
Affluents, &c.— Vol. I., The King's Rifle. Vol. II., The Collar
Family. By Major Sera PiNTO. With 24 full-page and 118 half-page
and smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and i large one.
2 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 42^-.

How to Live Long. See Hall.

How to get Strong and hora to Stay so. By William Bailie.
A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.
With Illustrations, small post Svo, 5^.

Hugo victor) "ninety-three'" Illustrated. Crown Svo, cis

of the Sea. Crown Svo. Illustrated, 6s. ; fancy

boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. ; On large paper with all the original
Illustrations, 10s. 6ti.

See "History of a Crime."

Hundred Greatest Men the). S portfolios, 21s. each, or 4
vols., half morocco, gilt edges, 12 guineas, containing 15 to 20
Portraits each. See below.

"Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. are about to issue an important ' International'
work, entitled, 'THE HUNDRED GREATEST MEN;' being the Livest
Portraits of the lOo Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Clash
to form a Monthly Quarto Volume. The Introductions to the volumes are to be
written by recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
being Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Fronde, and Professor Max
MtJLLER: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz ; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel Engravings." — Academy.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.

Buck, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2
royal Svo vols., cloth, pne guinea each.
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See

BiCKERSTETH.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
■*■ Edward J. Pointer, R.A. Each Volume contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for the use of Students, price 5^. The
Volumes now ready are : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. By Percy
R. Head. With 50 Illustrations,
5^-

German, Flemish, and Dutch.
French and Spanish.
English and American.

Illustrated Text-Books continued) : —

ARCHITECTURE.
Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger SMITH. With 50 Illustrations,
5 J.

SCULI'TIT.K.
Antique : Egyptian and Greek. | Renaissance and lyCodcrn.

Ornament.

Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson',
F. K.G.S. Four Volumes, imperial 410, each 3/. 3^.

/// my Indian Garden. I'y Phil Romxsox, Author of " Under
the Punkah." With a Preface by Ldwi.n Arnold, M.A., C.S.I., ic
Crown Svo, limp cloth, 3^. 61/.

Involuntary Voyage fan). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World. Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
Svo, cloth extra, 'js. (3d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5.?.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
O'Flanag.w, Barrister-at-law. Crown Svo, \2s. Second Edition.

Irish Land Question and English Public Opinion the). A\'ith
a Supplement on Griffith's Valuation. By K. Bakuy O'Brien.
Author of " The Parliamentary History of the Lisle Land Question."
Fcap. Svo, cloth, 2s.

Irving washington). Complete library Edition of his Works

in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called tiic " Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square Svo, on superfine laid paper, and each volume, of
about 500 pages, will be fully Illustrated. 12s. 6./. per vol. Scr also
Little Britain."

<>^ACK and y ill. By Miss Alcott. Small post Svo, cloth,
^ gilt edges, 5/. With numerous Illustrations.
John Wordsworth, Chief Mate. By W. Clarke Russell,
Author of "Wreck of the Grosvenor." Crown Svo, ds.

Kingston {W. H. G.). See "Snow-shoes," 'child of

the Cavern," "Two Supercargoes," "With Axe and Rills,"

"Begum's Fortune," " Ilcirof Kiliinnan," "Dick Clievclcy." Each

vol., with very numerous Illustrations. square crown l6mo, gilt edges,

7j. 61/.; plainer binding, plain edges, 51.

T A DY Silverdak's Sweetheart. 6x, ^^^ Black.

Lenten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.
By the Rev. Claude Banquet, Author of "Blossoms from the
King's Garden." imo, cloth, First Series, ls.6d. ; Second Series, 2s.

Library of Religious Poetry. A Collection of the Best Poems
of all Ages and Tongues. With Biographical and Literary Notes.
Edited by Philip Chaff, Dad., LL.D., and Arthur Oilman,
M.A. Royal 8vo, pp. 1036, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2ij.

Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Sumner the).
2 vols., royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36j'.

Lindsay ( IV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient
Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols.,
deiciy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols, i and 2, 21^-. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24?. each.

Little Britain ; together with The Spectre Bridegroom, and A
Legend of Sleepy Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely
New Edition de luxe, specially suitable for Presentation. Illustrated
by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr. J. D. Cooper.
Designed by Mr. Charles O. Murray. Square crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, vos. 6d.

Little King ; 07% the Taming of a Young Russian Count. By

S. Bland. 64 Illustrations. Crown Svo, gilt edges, yj. dd. ; plainer

binding, 5^.
Little Mercy ; or, For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne

Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c., &c. Small

post Svo, cloth extra, second Edition.
Lost Sir Massinger. New Edition, crown Svo, boards, coloured

wrapper, 2s.
Loud German Series —

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of German for all beginners. I^.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.
Small post Svo, cloth, is. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post Svo,
cloth, is. 6d.

4. The Second German Header. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.

Small post Svo, cloth, is. 6d.

Buchheini's Deutsche Prosa. Two Volumes, sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim.
Small post Svo, 2s. 6d.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim. Small
post Svo, 3^'. bd.

Low's International Scries of Toy Boo is. 6 J. each ; or
Mounted on Linen, if.

1. Little Fred and his Fidils, from Asbjomsen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

4. The Little Match Girl, from II. C. Andersen's "Danish

Fairy Tales."

5. The Emperor's New Clothes, ditto.

6. The Gallant Tin Soldier, ditto.

The above in i vol., cloth extra, gilt edges, with the whole 36
Coloured Illustrations, 5^.

Zinc's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price 7r. 6(/.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. BUTLER, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Livingstone. By II. M. STANLEY.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Region. By C. R. Mark*

HAM. (4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, 10/. S/.)

5. A Whaling Cruise to Baflln's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

I'.y .\. II. Markham.

6. Campaigning: on the Otus. By J. A. MacGahan.

7. Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. By Major W. F.

BlTLEK, Cab.
S. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With

Illustrations.
9. Cruise of the Challenger. By \V. J. J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., 15J.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley. I vol.,

12 U.

Low's Standard Awes. Crown Svo, 6s. each, cloth extra.

My Lady Greensleevos. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
Cochin' through the Rye," '* Cherry Ripe," &c.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

A Daughter of Heth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With
Frontispiece by F. Walker, .\. R.A.

Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. I'.y W. Bi.ACK.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime : The Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor
Hlco.

Loud Standard Novels continued) ; —

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore,

Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight Illustrations.

"Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. Illustrations.
See also Rose Library.

The Afghan Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of "Seonee."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the Author of
"One Only," " Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My "Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

John Holds-worth (Chief Mate). By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dry den. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Pog-annc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

A Story of the Dragonnades ; or, Asylum Christi. By the Rev.
E. William, M.A.

Lords Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, F.S.S., Editor of "A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. Paper, \s. ; cloth, is. 6d.

l^^ACGAHAN {/. A.) Campaigning on the Oxiis, and the
•*■-'■ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition,
small post 8vo, cloth extra, "js. 6d.

Macgregor john) ^^ Rob Hoy" on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,
small post Svo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 35. dd.

A Thousand Miles in the "Rob Roy'" Canoe, uti

Edition, small post Svo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.

Description of the " Rob Roy" Canoe, with Plans,

&c, is.

Time Voyage Alone in the Yaivl "Rob Roy." New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post Svo, Ss. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mckenzie (-D.) The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
Mckenzie. Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, los. 6J.

Macquoid{Mrs.) Elinor Dryden. Crown Svo, cloth, ds.

Diane. Crown Svo, ds.

Magazine. See Harper.

Markham (C-ff.) The Threshold of the Unknaivn Region.
Crown Svo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, los. dd.

Maury commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Mcteoroloi,^. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown Svo, 6s.

Memoirs of Count Riot de Merito. 2 vols., demy Svo, 365.

Memoirs of Madame de Remusat, 1S02 — sos, By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Rkmusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Castel
Holy and Mr. John Lii.i.ie. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This
was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. Svo, 2 vols. , 32^.

Menus (366, one for each day of the year). Translated from the
French of Count Brisse, by Mrs. Matthew Clarke. Crown
Svo, los. 6 J.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price IJ-. Gd. monthly. Vols. I., II., III., IV., and V., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 25^. each.

Mendelssohn Family [The). Translated from the German of
E. Bock. Demy Svo, 16s. «

Michael Strogoff. 10^. 6^. and 5^. 6V6' Verne.

Milford miss). See " Our Village."

Military Maxims. By Captain B. Telling. Medium imo,

in roan case, with pencil for the pocket, los. d/.
Mountain and Prairie : a Journey from Victoria to Winnipeg,

vi Peace River Pass. By the Rev. Daniel M. Gordon, Bed.,

Ottawa. Small post Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, cloth extra,

8j. dd.

Music. See *' Great Musicians."

My Lady Grcenslea<es. By Helen Matters, Authoress of

"Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," <S:c. I vol. edition.

crown Svo, cloth, 6s.

Mysterious Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial imo.

150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 3^. 6d. each; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, "js. 6d. each. Cheap Edition, with some of the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2s. ; paper, is. each.

National Musk of the World. By the late Henry F.
■^ ^ Chorley. Edited by H. G. Hewlett. Crown 8vo, cloth, 8^. M.

Naval Brigade in South Afnca the). By Henry F. Nor-bury,
Cab., Ren. Crown Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

New Child's Flay {A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, 12s. dd.

New Guinea {A Few Months in). By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth, Is.

What I did and what I saw. By L. M. Albertus,

Officer of the Order of the Crown of Italy, Honorary Member and
Gold Medallist of the I.R.G.S., C.M.Z.S., &c., &c. In 2 vols.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, with Maps, Coloured Plates, and numerous
very fine Woodcut Illustrations, 42^-.

New Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy Svo, 30^-. Cheaper Edition, I vol., crown Svo, Ss. 6d.

New Novels. Crown Svo, cloth, vos. 6d. per vol. : —

Mary Marston. By George MacDonald. 3 vols. Third Edition.

Sarah de Bering-er. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.

Don John. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.

Sunrise : A Story of these Times. By William Black. 3 vols.

A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell, Author of "The

Wreck of the Grosvenor," "John Wordsworth," &c. 3' vols.
Lisa Lena. By Edward Jenkins, Author of "Gin's Baby."

2 vols.

A Plot of the Present Day. By Kate Hoi'E. 3 vols.

Black Abbey. By M. Crommelin, Author of "Queene," &c.

3 vols.

Flower o' the Broom. By the Author of "Rare Pale Margaret,"

3 vols.
The Grenadiers : A Tale of Berlin. Translated from the German

by Captain Wm. Savile. 3 vols.
Errant : A Life Story of Latter-day Chivalry. By Percy Greg,

Author of "Across the Zodiac," &c. 3 vols.
Fancy Free. By C. Gibbon. 3 vols.
The Saltwater Tragedy. By J. B. Aldrich.
Prince Fortune and Prince Fatal. By Mrs. Carrington,

Author of " My Cousin Maurice," &c. 3 vols.

Nei.0 Novels continued) : —

An English Squire. l>y C. 15. Coleridge, Author of "Lady

r>clty," '' Danbury Wills," &c. 3 vols.
Christowell. By R. D. Blackmore. 3 vols.
Mr. Carol. By .Miss Seguin. 3 vols.
David Broome, Artist. By Miss Reilly. 3 vols.
Braes of Yarrow. By Clas. GiBBON. 3 vols.

Nice and Her Neighbours. By the Rev. Canon Hole, Author
of "A Book about Roses," " A Little Tour in Ireland," &c. Small
4to, with numerous choice Illustrations, 12s. 6J.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds. From the French of E. Muller.
Containing many Full-page Illustrations by Piiilipi'OTEAU.X. Square
imperial imo, cloth e-vtra, "js. dd. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^.

North American Re-cieiu {T/ie). Monthly, price 2s. dd.

Nothing to Wear ; and Two Millions. By W. A. Butler.
New Edition. Small post 8vo, in stiff coloured wrapper, \s.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, ds.

QBERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See "Art in the
^^ Mountains."

O'Brien. See " Parliamentary History " and " Irish Land
Question."

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt, Fred Burney,
Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
8vo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38J. ;
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, vos. cour

Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Reddens.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Ravenous. Fcap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, 5^.

Our Village. By Mary Russell Milford. Illustrated with
Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 2\s.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large jjost Svo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with " Fern World " and " Fern Paradise,"
by the same Author. S Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edge?, \2s. 6./. Third
Edition.

pAINTERS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other
•*■ Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 25^-. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 31J. 6d.

Painting (A Short History of the British School of). By
Geo. H. Shepherd. Post 8vo, cloth, 3^. 6d.

Palliser pals. ) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs, i vol., Svo, i/. \s.

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. Svo, \l. \s.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition.
with Additions. Small post Svo, limp cloth, parliamentary

History of the Irish Land Question the). From
1S29 to 1869, and the Origin and Results of the Ulster Custom. By
R. Barry O'Brien, Barrister-at-law, Author of "The Irish Land
Question and English Public Opinion." 3rd Edition, corrected and
revised, with additional matter. Post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P., in a Letter to the Author, says:—
"I thank you for kindly sending me your work, and I hope that the sad and discreditable
story which you have told so well in your narrative of the Irish Land
Question may be useful at a period when we have more than ever of reason to desire
that it should be thoroughly understood."

Pathways of Palestine : a Descriptive Tour through the Holy
Land. By the Rev. Canon Tristan. Illustrated with 44 permanent
Photographs. (The Photographs are large, and most perfect
.Specimens of the Art.) Published in 22 Monthly Parts, 4to, in
Wrapper, 2s. 6d. each.

. The Photographs which illustrate these pages may justly claim, as works
of art, to be the most admirably executed views which have been produced. . . .

"As the writer is on the point of making a fourth visit of exploration to the
country, any new discoveries which come under observation will be at onCe incorporated
in this work."

Peasant Life in the West of England. By Francis George
Heath, Author of "Sylvan Spring," "The Fern World." Crown
Svo, about 350 pp., 10^. (id.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire : Oral and
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. JuLiEN, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," "First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips {L.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. Svo,
i/. I \s. 6d.

Photography history and Handbook of). See Islander.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. W)- J. E. H.
Gordon, B.A. With about 200 coloured, full-pas^c, aiiJ other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Strix by Spoltis-
wood, De la Rue, Moulton, &c., an account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches ; full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory ; full accounts of
all the modern work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). In respect to
the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work is quite unique.
2 vols., Svo, 36j-.

Pinto major Sera). See " How I Crossed Africa."

Plutarch Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., Svo, 2/, lOr. ; half-morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in I voL, royal Svo, 800 pp., cloth extra, iSj. ;
half-bound, 2lJ.

Poems of the Inner Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post Svo, cloth, 5^.

Polemic People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown Svo, cloth, 6j.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, M.\cG.\h.\n,
and Nares.

Pointer edward J., R.a). See '• Illustrated Text-books."

Practical (A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England.
By C. E. 1'ascoe. New Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 31. bJ.

Prejevalshy {N. J/) From Kiilja, across the Tian Shan to Lob-nor.
Translated by E. Delia Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy Svo,
with a Map. iGs.

Primitive Folk Moots ; or, Open Air Assemblies in Britain.
By George Lawrence Go.mmi:, F.S.A., Honorary Secretary to the
Folk-Lore Society, Author of " Index of Municipal Offices." i vol.,
crown Svo, cloth, \2s.

This work deals with an earlier phase of the history of English
Institutions than has yet been attempted.

Publishers' Circular ( The), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 31/.

Pyrenees the). By Henry Blackburn. With 100 Illustrations
by Gustave Dure, a New Map of Routes, and Information for
Travellers, corrected to 1S81. ^Vi•.h a description of Lords in Ipso.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ts. 6J.

'DAMBA UD alfred). History of Russia, from its Origin
-' *■ to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. B.
1 ^ T .2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 38^.

Recollections of Writers. By Charles and Mary Bowden
Clarke. Authors of "The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Bowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, lOs. bd.

Remusat {Madajne de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson phil). See " In my Indian Garden," " Under the
Punkah."

Rochefoucauld'' s Reflections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d.

Rogers {S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of
Choice Books." 2s. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. See Alcott.

The Rose Library, Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, IS. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —

1. Sea Gull Rock. By JULES Sanded. Illustrated.

2. Little "Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to "Little Women."

4. The House on Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, y. 6d.

6. The Old-fastened Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3^. 6d.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland.

8. Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young People, Sing-le and

Married.

9. Undine, and the Tvyo Captains. By Baron De La Motte

F0UQU6. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxe

Holm.

11. The Four Gold Pieces. By Madame Gourd. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beginning: Again. Being a Continuation of "Work." By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations.

The Rose Library continued) : —

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Basis.

Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

19. The Minister's "Wooing.

Betty's Bright Idea.

21. The Ghost in the Mill.

22. Captain Kidd's Money.

23. We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. My Wife and I. Docile vol., zs. ; cloth, gilt, 3/. (jJ.

25. Kans Brinker ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Lowell's My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Angel.

2S. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden.

29. Hitherto. I'.y the .\iitlior of "The G.iywortliy.s." 2 vols., I/, each.

30. Helen's Babies. I'.y their Latest Victim.

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies."

32. Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., zs. ; cloth,

gilt, is. 6</.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

35. Nothing: to Wear, and Two Millions.

36. Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton.

Russell ( W. Clarke). See " A Sailor's Sweetheart," 3 vols.,
31/. 6./. ; "Wreck of the Grosvenor," 6;^. ; "John Ellsworth (Chief
Mate," 6s.

Russell {JF. H., LL.D.) The Tour 0/ the Prince of Wales in
India. By W. II. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M \. Super-royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 5Zf . 6</. ;
Large Paper Edition, Sr.

Sancta Christina: a Story of the First Century. Ey
•^ Eleanor E.'Orlebar. With a Preface by the Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 55.

Sconce : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central India, and in
the Valley of the Neri)u<lda. By K. A. Stkkndale, F.K.G.S. 8vo,
with numerous Illustrations, 21s.

Sci'cn Years in South Africa : Crawls, Researches, and Hunting
Adventures between the Diamond-Fields and the Zambesi (1S72 —
1S79). By Dr. Emil Holih. With over 100 Original Illustrations
and 4 Maps. In 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 42J.

Serpent Charmer (The) : a Tale of the Indian Mummy. By
Louis Roussklet, Author of "India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. ct. ;
plainer binding, ^s. '

Shakespeare (The Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell.

Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price 2s. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents : — Vol I., Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. II., As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet — Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, grf.

Shakespeare Key ( The). Forming a Companion to " The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charles and Mary
Bowden Clarke. Demy Svo, 800 pp., 21^.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Purpose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A., Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour ( The). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon jules), Sec " Government of M. Tiers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. imo, boards, \s.

Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations arid Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
Svo, 6th Edition, \%s.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities. British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy Svo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, i6j-.

An entirely New Edition, completely revised and rewritten
by the Rev. Professor Sauce, Queen's College, Oxford.
Demy Svo, iSj.

Snoiu-Shoes and Canoes ; or, the Adventures of a Fur-Hunter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, ^s. 6</. ; plainer binding, 5^-. ,

So/i^Sfi and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.

Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 25J.

South African Campaign, 1S79 the). Compiled by J. P.
MACKINNON (formerly 72nd Highlanders), and S. II. SHADiioLT ;
and dedicated, by permission, to Field-marshal H. K. 1 1. The Duke
of Cambridge. 4to, handsomely bound in cloth extra, 2/. los.

South Kensington Museum. Published, with the sanction of
the Science and Art Department, in Monthly Parts, each containing
S Plates, price \s. Volume I., containing 12 numbers, handsomely
bound, i6j-.

Stanley [H. M.) Stow I Found Livingstone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7^. 6</. ; large Paper Edition, loaf. 6J.

"J/y Kalulu" Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown Svo, about 430 pp., with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, 7^. 6./.

Cooniassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, i6j.
Through the Dark Continent, which see.

Story of a Mountain {T/ie). By E. Reclus. Translated by
Bertha Ness. Svo, with Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges,
Js. 6d.

Story of a Soldiers Life ( The) ; or, Peace, War, and Mutiny.
By Lieut-general John Alexander Ewakt, Cab., Aide-de-camp
to the Queen from 1859 to 1S72. 2 vols., demy Svo, with Illustrations.


Story of the Zulu Campaign the). By Major Ashe (late
King's Dragoon Guards), and Captain the Hon. E. V. Watts
(late 17th Lancers, killed at Ulundi). Dedicated by special
permission to Her Imperial Highness the Empress Eugenia. Svo, \6s.

Story without an End. From the German of Carov«f, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Facsimile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, 7/. 6J.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Hervey. 2s. Gd.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Died. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, y. (xi.

cloth, 2s. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and English. Paper, is. Gd. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

2s. 6d.
New Testament. Cloth, 2S. ; gilt, 2s. 6d.

Taylor bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Through America ; or, Nine Months in the United States. By
W. G. Marshall, M.A. With nearly loo Woodcuts of Views of
Utah country and the famous Yosemite Valley ; The Giant Trees,
New York, Niagara, San Francisco, &c. ; containing a full account
of Mormon Life, as noted by the Author during his visits to Salt Lake
City in 1878 and 1879. In i vol., demy Svo, 2\s.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile ; A?-ound
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy Svo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and lO Maps, 42^. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
1 vol., Is. 6d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. See Russell.

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath, Crown Svo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3^-. 6d.

Two Erie?ids. By Lucien Biart, Author of " Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," «S:c. Small
post Svo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, 7j. 6d. ; plainer binding, ^s.

Two Supercargoes the) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 'js. bd. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Tender the Punkah. By Phil Robinson, Author of "In
^-^ my Indian Garden." Crown Svo, limp cloth, uniform with the
above, 3^. dd.

Up and Down ; or, Fifty Years' Experiences i?i Australia,
California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.
Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.
With several Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, Sj-. 6d.

LlBCB Cbowx 8vo.

Work.

Containing 360 to 600 pp.

final from 50 to 100 j

fuU-pii^'o illustrations. '

In very

handsome

cloth binding,

Kilt

edges.

Twenty Thousand Leagues

under the Sea. Part I.

Ditto. Part II.

Hector Scrvadac . . .

The Fur Country . . .

From the Earth to the
Moon and a Trip round
it

Michael StrogofiF, the
Courier of the Czar . .

Dick Sands, the Boy
Captain

Five Weeks in a Balloon .

Adventures of Three Englishmen
and Three
Russians

Around the World in
Eighty Days

A Floating City

The Blockade llunnera

Dr. Ox's Experiment . .

Master Zacharias . . .

A Drama in the Air

A Winter amid the Ice

The Survivors of the
Chancellor " . . . .

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island,
3 vols. :—

Vol. I. Dropped from the
Clouds

Vol. II. Abandoned . .

Vol. III. Secret of the Island


The Child of the Cavern .

The Begum's Fortune . .

The Tribulations of a
Chinaman

The Steam Houses vols.: —

Vol. I. The Demon of Cawnpore


Volet. Tigers and Traitors

s. d.
10 6

10 6
10 6

^ 10 6

} 10 6

} 10 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

22 6

7 6

7 6

7 G

7 6

7 6

7 6



7 6

In

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.

s, d.













3 G

3 6

3 G

3 6

3 6

3 6

10 6

3 6

3 6

3 G

3 6

Containing the whole of the
text with Bono illustrations.

In cloth

binding, gilt

edges,

smaller

type.

8. d.
3 6

3 G

2 vols., 2s.
each.

2



2

f 2

I 2

2

I 2

'.20

> 2

6







Coloured Boards.

2 vols., l5. each.

2 vols., l5. each.
2 vols Is. each.

*. d.














2 vols. l.<!. each.











CiLiDB4Tr.D Travels ajtd Travellers. 3 vols. Demy 8vo, Good pp., upwards Of 100
Tall-page illiiKinitionR, 12». Od. ; wilt i-lt'i-n, !*». each :—

(1) The Kii-lobatiox or tub Would.

(2) Tar. CJ«r.»T Navigators o» tub EioHTirxTB CfXTrsT.

(3) TbB GbCAT £xrLOBBBS or TUE NlXETEE.tTU C'E.tTl'BT.

JJ/ALLER rev. C. H.) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,
^^ and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M. A. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, bs.

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. n. Waller, M. A. Part I., The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6J.

Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Back-log Studies. Boards, i.f. dd. ; cloth, 2S.

/;/ the Wilderness. Rose Library, is.

Mummies and Moslems. 8vo, cloth, 125.

Weaving. See " History and Principles."

Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance.
By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp, \s.

With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W. H. G.
Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Wolsey (C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International
Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical
Studies. 5th Edition, demy 8vo, swords

of Wellington: Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and
Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,
and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell, Author of
John Wordsworth, Chief Mate," " A Sailor's Sweetheart," &c, ts.
Third and Cheaper Edition.

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS, i83, FLEET STREET, Eg.
