

illiarri Blacks)

II My

'<l

/

BY

WILLIAM BLACK,

AUTHOR OF
A PRINCESS OF THULE," "MACLEOD OF DARE," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

SECOND EDITION.

LONDON :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

LIMITED,

§^i. dunstan's lions,

Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, E.C.

1888.

[All rights reserved



THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A HOUSE-boat.
Fourth Edition. Three vols. Crown 8vo. 315. 6d.

It is pleasantly told with a plentiful seasoning of descriptions
of scenery . a wholesome fragrant book." — Saturday Review.

In small post Svo., uniform ; cloth extra,
price bs. each.

A DAUGHTER OF HETH. Nineteenth Edition.

THREE FEATHERS.

Ailment.

IN SILK ATTIRE.

LADY SILVERDALE's SWEETHEART.

SUNRISE.

LONDON :

Sampson Low, Marston, Searle & Rivington, Limited,

St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane, Eg.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

«^

CHAPTER I.

IN FETTERS.

Kirk o' Shields, a small town in Lanark-shire,
that all the week long was a roaring
pandemonium of noise and fire and steam
engines shrieking, boiler-works hammering,
blasts and furnaces belching forth red
flame into the heavy, smoke-laden atmosphere
— sank of a Sunday into a sudden
and unnatural quiet, that seemed to deepen
and deepen as the slow hours of the afternoon
dragged by and darkness and the
night came down. And nowhere was the

VOL. I. B

silence more marked and impressive than

in the Minister's parlour, whence all worldly

thoughts and cares and interests were

supposed to be scrupulously banished, and

the evening, after the active services of

the day, given over to silent reading and

meditation. On this particular Sabbath

night there were three persons in the

hushed little room, all of them absorbed

in their pious task ; and not a sound was

audible beyond the occasional turning over

of a leaf, or perhaps (for human nature is

frail, and the time passed slowly) a bit

of a half-concealed sigh from one of the

girls. The Minister himself sat in the

big easy-chair by the fire-place, the family

Bible spread open on his knees, his head

slightly inclined forward, his two hands

partly supporting the ponderous volume.

He was rather a small man, of pronounced

and stern features ; his forehead deeply

lined ; his dark gray eyes, set under bushy

eyebrows, usually expressing a profound
and habitual melancholy, though at times
they were capable of flashing forth a fire
of resentment or indignation. Suffering
had left its traces on this worn and furrowed
face, but the resignation of the Christian
was there as well. If the heavy brows,
the keen nostrils, the strong upper lip and
still stronger under lip, showed determination,
not to say doggedness, of will, the
deep-set, unutterably sad gray eyes were
those of a man who had come through
much tribulation, and had brought himself
to accept these trials as the discipline of
an all-wise and all-merciful Father.

Of the two daughters who were seated
at the table, both with books before them,
the elder, Alison by name, was a young
woman of eighteen or nineteen, of pale
complexion, clear gray eyes with dark eyelashes,
and smoothly braided dark brown
hair. A calm intelligence and a sufficient

self-possession were visible in her shapely
forehead and well-cut mouth ; but at this
moment the ordinary bright and friendly
scrutiny of her eyes had given way to an
absent look as she leaned forward over
her reading. Perhaps she saw but little
of the printed page before her. In church
that morning, after the introductory psalm
had been sung, the Minister had advanced
to the front of the pulpit and made the
brief announcement : " The prayers of this
congregation are requested for a young
woman about to enter upon a long journey
; " and the protracted and earnest and
curiously personal appeal that followed
for Divine protection and loving-kindness
and guardianship was known by all the
people present to be made on behalf of
the Minister's own daughter, Alison Blair.
And now, despite the strict exclusion of
all worldly things from the meditations of
the Sabbath evening, perhaps there were

visions before those mild, clear, calm gray
eyes. On the morrow Alison Blair was
going away into an unknown country.

The younger sister, Agnes, was of the
same complexion as Alison, but there was
less decision of character in her refined
and gentle face. Her large eyes were
wistful, the mouth sensitive even to sadness,
and her delicate features looked all
the more ethereal that they were set about
by faintly straw-coloured hair that even
sunlight could hardly have made to shimmer
into gold. And if in this noiseless small
room there were visions also before her
eyes, they were visions of no earthly
country or earthly pilgrimage. Her
favourite reading was the Book of Revelation,
and she did not tire of it ; for
where was the limit to her far-reaching
dreams of the new heaven and the new
earth, the Holy City, the New Jerusalem,
prepared as a bride adorned for her

husband ? Nay, in this profound stillness
could she not hear some distant murmur,
as coming from the wide and wonderful
spaces that were visible to her mental
eyes ? On these Sabbath evenings Kirk
o' Shields lay silent in the darkness, as if
stricken by the hand of death. But in the
mystical and shining far regions that she
beheld, were there no sounds that could
come faintly towards an intently listening
ear, across the starlit deeps of the sky ?
*' And I heard as it were the voice of a
great multitude, and as the voice of many
waters, and as the voice of mighty thundering,
saying, Alleluia : for the Lord God
Omnipotent reigned. Let us be glad and
rejoice, and give honour to him : for the
marriage of the Lamb is come, and his
wife hath made herself ready. And to her
was granted that she should be arrayed
in fine linen, clean and white : for the fine
linen is the righteousness of saints." Kirk

o' Shields, and all its squalor and din and
wretchedness, were forgotten in these
entranced dreams ; she beheld a great
multitude, arrayed in shining robes, and
singing, as it were, a new song. " And
they sung as it were a new song before
the throne, and before the four beasts, and
the elders : and no man could learn that
song but the hundred and forty and four
thousand, which were redeemed from the
earth." And in her fanciful way she
listened, and still listened, and seemed to
hear, as the hushed half-hours went by.

'alison," said the Minister, happening
to look up, " what book is that ye're
reading ? "

The sudden breaking of the deep silence
startled the girl, but she answered the
question, naming a well-known Sunday
magazine, a bound volume of which lay
before her on the table.

'' I thought as much," said the Minister,

with a brief sigh of resignation, and he
returned to his Bible.

But the next moment he had looked up
again, and in the deep-set gray eyes there
was an angry glow of indignation.

And a fine thing it is," he said, with a
resentment that was none the less bitter
that it was uttered in slow and measured
tones — " a fine thing it Is to bring novels
and romances Into a God-fearing family
under the guise of reading fitted for the
Sabbath-day — ay, and ministers of the
Gospel not ashamed to lend their names to
such a practice. But the Enemy of Mankind
has Insidious ways and means ; he'll
take servants where he can get them, even
if they're just come down from the pulpit ;
and little does the Reverend This or the
Reverend That think whose work he Is
about when he Is passing pernicious and
soul-destroying literature into honest
households. It's not enough that the

frivolous and idle and worldly should steep
their minds in that poison ; the remnant
of Israel, that have been trying to keep
the Lord's Day pure and sanctified to His
name, they must be induced to drink also,
and by his own appointed servants. His
servants ? the Devil's servants I call them :
purveyors of lying, what else can they be ?
The worship of lying — that is a strange
worship to be seen among men. And
look at the altars the poor, blind, deluded
creatures are proud to raise ! Look at the
monument in Prince's Street of Edinburgh,
and the monument in George's Square in
Glasgow, to the Great Liar ! Grand
monuments they are — braw monuments
they are — raising their tall columns into the
skies, and saying to every one that passes
by, ' This is the man the nation delighteth
to honour ! ' Honour for the Greatest Liar
that is the new worship on the face of
God's earth. But of one thing, lass, you

may be sure — that when the Lord's persecuted
people were being driven from moor
to moss, and from glen to hill-side, scattered
here and hewn down there by the
bloody dragoons — scarcely daring to lift
up their voices in prayer and supplication
lest their pursuers should overtake and
overwhelm them— they little thought or
cared whether they should be made a byword
and a jest for the amusement of the
Edinburgh lawyers and their fine eddies
and misses. They knew that the flame in
their hearts was of the Lord's kindling ;
they knew that their blood, spilt on the
heather, would not be spilt in vain. The
Scotland of this day is a degenerate
country surely if she doesna bethink her
of what she owes to the martyrs of the
Covenant." He paused for a second or
two ; his eyes lost their fire and resumed
their ordinary expression of profound and
resigned sadness. 'rand yet I wonder,"

he said, slowly, " what old Adam Blair of
Moss-end would have thought if he could
have foreseen the time when preachers of
the Gospel, ordained ministers of the Church
of Christ, would connive at making novel-reading
a pastime in believing families —
ay, and what he would have thought could
he have foreseen one of his own name and
lineage busy with such work on a Sabbath
evenings."

I was not reading the story, father,"
Alison said gently; '' but I will go and get
another book,"

Softly she stole away to her own little
room upstairs. She had no need of any
light ; a dull red glow — a pulsating red
glow, waxing and waning in fitful flushes
shone through the brown blind of the
solitary window. In former years every
house-window in Kirk o' Shields, as inmost
other Scotch towns, had its blind
thus drawn down all day long on the

Sabbath, as a matter of ordinary decorum ;
but this observance has now almost entirely
disappeared ; only here and there a respecter
of other days — a minister, or elder,
or church officer, or the like — tenaciously
clings to the old custom. And of course
the Rev. Ebenezer Blair was among these.
He belonged to the famous family of the
Blairs of Moss-end, who had borne their
testimony in troublous times, and had
achieved great honour in these parts ; and
in all things, even in the smallest, Ebenezer
Blair was content to walk in the footsteps
of his forefathers, whatever might be the
changing fashion of his neighbours or
friends.

alison easily found the volume that she
sought ; but before returning to the room
below, she went to the window, and put
the blind aside a few inches, and looked
out. Those red flames of the iron-works,
now flashing up into the darkness of

the nlo^ht, and sending a swift crimson
glow along the chimneys and slates of the
opposite houses, had always had for hera
singular fascination. Perhaps it was that
they formed the one beautiful thing, the one
beautiful piece of colour, visible in the
murky atmosphere that hung over Kirk
o' Shields from week's end to week's end.
In the daytime the flames were of an
orange hue — lambent tiger-lilies she
thought they were, shining afar amid that
melancholy waste of gray ; but at night
they changed to crimson, and she could
imagine them to be the fires of great
altars, fed from unknown depths, and
leaping with their sudden, resplendent
stag-horns of light into the black skies
overhead. Silent and beautiful they were ;
not fierce in any way ; the quick rose-flush
that lit up the slates and the chimneys
seemed a friendly thing ; the night was
made less lonely. Was this a farewell

look, then ? To-morrow she would be
leaving those giant, silent, beautiful altar-flames
far behind.

At random — for what few books were in
the room were all of a religious cast — she
had taken a volume from the top of a
chest of drawers, and it was not until she
returned to her place in the parlour below
that she discovered what she had done.
She had unwittingly brought with her the
book of all the books in the house that she
most dreaded — to wit, Paley's " Evidences
of Christianity." There was a Free Library
in Kirk o' Shields ; Alison Blair had the
curiosity naturally accompanying a mind at
once acute and intrepid ; little did her
friends and acquaintances, still less her
own immediate relatives, imagine how
familiar she was with, and how eagerly
she followed, the new speculations,
problems, theories of these later times.
Darwin, Huxley, Spencer were to her

more than mere names and echoes of
names. But even to her all this modern
intellectual movement was in a manner a
distant thing ; it seemed to be happening
in some other planet ; it had no relation to
the actual facts of her own life. She could
read an article on the Mosaic account of
creation without seriously feeling that the
authority of Scripture was being impugned.
It was something that interested her in a
vague kind of way, this discussion going
on in that distant realm ; in nowise did it
seem to affect the assured and abiding
faith in revelation that she held in common
with the people among whom she dwelt.
To them this certain faith was all in all ; it
was their one possession — a heavenly as
well as an earthly possession ; holding fast
by that, the poorest of them were richer
than princes or kings ; death had no sting
for them, hell no terrors ; an everlasting
crown was before them ; washed in the

blood of the Lamb, and made white as
snow, they would pass Into the joy of their
Lord. In works (as they were never tired
of insisting to each other) there was no
virtue ; works were carnal, and a snare to
the soul ; In faith alone was saving grace ;
and how, Alison might have asked herself,
could these poor people around her, whose
austere piety had something pathetic in it,
even when they had 'got assurance," as
the phrase was — how could they or this
priceless belief of theirs be affected by
what scientific men, and literary men, and
statesmen, and others, were writing in
magazines and reviews in the far-away
city of London ?

And then there came a time — a chance
phrase in an article had struck an unexpected
chord — when her heart seemed to
stand still for a moment. Was the Christian
religion, then, but a passing phenomenon
— similar to other phenomena that

had appeared in the world before and
since — and with no higher sanction than
its own lofty morality and purity of aim ?
The question was a startling one, but it
did not terrify her. She had been brought
up in an atmosphere of conviction. She
had been accustomed to regard these
writings and speculations as something
quite apart from the present facts and conditions
of life. Still, just by way of
curiosity, perhaps, or to comfort herself by
making assurance doubly sure, she thought
she would make a patient study of Paley's
'' Evidences," which she had not read since
she was a child of twelve.

Alas ! this book did terrify her —-for a
time. Doubts that she had never dreamed
of before — for her childish reading had
been entirely perfunctory — were now presented
to her mind ; and they seemed to
have a far more startling significance than
the elaborate arguments which were meant

o
VOL. I. C

^O

to resolve them. Why, on the very first
page she read these strange words : " Suppose,
nevertheless, almost the whole race,
either by the imperfection of their faculties,
the misfortune of their situation, or by the
loss of some prior revelation, to want this
knowledge, and not to be likely, without
the aid of a new revelation, to attain
it. . . ." Was, then, the history of God's
dealings with mankind so much a matter
of conjecture — was that portion of it
included in the Christian revelation so
small and temporary and fragmentary a
thing — that one had to guess at some
previous revelation rather than believe
that countless generations of the sons of
men had lived and died in ignorance and
ozone to their doom ? This was but the
beginning ; her imagination, with a rapidity
she could not control, would persist in
asking further and further questions, and
the only answer was a shuddering dread.

For she was quite alone. There was no
one to whom she could eo for guidance
and help. Between her father and herself
there was doubtless a measure, perhaps a
considerable measure, of affection : he on
his part regarding her with the natural
instinct of protection and care ; she on her
part moved to deep admiration by his stern
integrity of character. But that affection
took no visible sign. An expression of it
would have been regarded as more than a
weakness, as something culpable, as putting
the creature before the Creator : for was
not all the love and gratitude of the human
heart due to the Divine Father ? And as
between the minister and his children
there was no expression of affection, so
there was no confidence. When Alison,
in her first bewilderment and alarm,
thought of her going to her father with
these doubts, and perplexities, she could
see his eyes afire with astonishment and

anger. No pity there but wrath : what
devil had entered Into her ? — why had
she not striven and wrestled to cast him
out forthwith ? Was the Evil Spirit still
vexing her ? To her knees, then ! in her
own chamber — with prayer and fasting
and supplication — till she could come to
say she was restored and In her right
mind. *

There was Agnes, It Is true ; and
between the two girls there was a devoted
affection— though betraying Itself In deeds
more than In words — and a close confidence
as well. But how was she to darken
that fair young mind with her own morbid,
and probably foolish, Imaginings ? Not
even In her loneliest hours, when her soul
In Its agony seemed crying aloud for a
single word of sympathy, could she go to
her sister. Her sister? — who knew that
their mother, dead these many years,
sometimes came to see them In the mid

hours of the night, in the Httle room where
they slept together. Again and again (so
the younger girl averred, with eyes grown
mystical and strange) she had seen the
pale figure, gentle and smiling, who stood
by the side of the bed and regarded her
two children. Nay, she had heard her.

'' I don't know how it is, Ailie," she
would say, as the two sisters sat before
the fire by themselves of a winter evening,
but I seem to hear her when she comes
into the room. I cannot make out what
the noise is, or whether it is a noise, but
it is something I hear and know. It wakes
me ; and when I open my eyes I find her
standing at the foot of the bed, and sometimes
at the side, and quite near. And
I'm not in the least afraid, she looks so
kind ; just the old way, Ailie, you remember,
when she would meet us coming
home from school ? And some night I
am going to say to her, ' Mother, will ye

no waken Aille too ? for she hardly believes
you come to see her'"

*' Hush, hush Aggie!" the elder sister
would say; 'you should not speak of such
things, for they pass understanding ; and I
doubt whether father would not be angry
if he were to hear."

'" Some night you will see for yourself,"
the younger sister would say, and then
fall into silence and reverie.

However, the paroxysm of alarm and
uncertainty caused by Paley's " Evidences
of Christianity " was not of long duration.
Alison put the book aside and would not
open it again. These doubts were all too
terrible ; she shrank back from the appalling
loneliness in which she found herself Nay,
she strove to convince herself that she had
been properly punished for wandering
away from the fold and following her own
poor reason. Who was she, to set up her
individual judgment against the authority

of the preachers and teachers in Israel ?
Paley himself was but a human being like
any other ; surely it was a perilous thing,
in a matter of such supreme moment, to
follow a fallible guide ! Womanlike, she
clung to the majority ; and the majority —
not to say the entire community — of those
around her were possessed by a faith
which, however sombre it mio^ht be, was
at least unwavering and questionless.
Paley's '' Evidences " lay on the top of the
chest of drawers in her room, and remained
there untouched.

But it was not for long that on this
evening she had to practise the harmless
hypocrisy of holding the book open before
her, while she would not allow herself to
read a single disquieting word.

'alison," said the Minister, presently,
as he transferred the bio Bible from his
knees to the table, and drew in his chair,
ye may call in the weemen now."

Agnes went and got '' the books ; " and
directly afterwards, the two women-servants
of the household, summoned by Alison,
came into the room. The younger of
these was a stout, red-haired, freckled,
black-eyed wench, whose apathetic manner
seemed to suggest that she would be glad
enough when this ordeal was over.

Dod, but our Minister dings a' ! " this
buxom lass was used to say in confidence
to her gossips. " He doesna gie the Lord
a minute's peace. It's ask-asking and beg-begging
frae morning till night. I'm sure
I hope it'll no be like my brother Jock at
hame. When he gangs fishing on the
Lerwick — so the lads say — he keeps
whipping' and whipping' — the water is never
at rest for a second — and deil a sea-trout
or a grilse does he e'er bring hame wi'
him. Look at the Sabbath, Kirsty, woman,
that they ca' a day o' rest. A day o' rest !
There's family worship at nine, when a

body has scarcely got their breakfast
swallowed ; then the Minister he's off to
the Young Men's Christian Association —
that's at ten o'clock in the hall. Then
there's the kirk itself' at half-past eleven ;
and the folk have hardly time to come out
and look about them when it's in again at
twa o'clock for another couple o' hours.
Then there's the Minister's Bible class at
six, and family worship again at nine.
Dod, I never saw the like ! Weel, I
suppose the Minister kens best. Sometimes
the wean that keeps whining and
singeing * gets what it greets for. And
sometimes," she would add, snappishly,
*' it gets a scud o' the side o' the head."

But the elder servant — a tall woman
she was, dark-complexioned, and meagre
of face — came into the room with a kind
of furtive fear in her eyes. This woman —
the solitary exception in this community —
The child that keeps whispering and whimpering.

was possessed by the dreadful conviction
that she was not of the elect ; she was an
outcast, consigned to everlasting punishment
; the scheme of salvation had no
place for her ; and whatever portion of the
Scripture might be read, the denunciations
of the wicked could hardly be less terrible
to her than descriptions of the eternal joys
and glories from which she was hopelessly
and for ever shut out. She was wholly
reticent about this conviction of hers ; but
It was well known. More than once Alison
had unwittingly come upon the poor wretch
when she was on her knees, appealing
with passionate tears and sobs, not that
she might be forgiven, and allowed to take
the lowest place among the ransomed, but
that she might be enabled to lift up her
heart to the Lord In gratitude for all His
goodness to her. She did not complain
of her awful fate, or seek In any way to
escape from It. It was the Lord's will ;

let Him be praised. And when Alison,
shuddering to think of any human being
going through life with this fearful doom
continually before her, would say, " But,
Margaret, what is the sin against the Holy
Ghost ? What is the unforeivable sin ?
You do not even know what it is ! " she
would shake her head in silence, or answer
with her favourite text: ** Though He
slay me, yet will I trust in Him."

We will praise God by singing the
eightieth Psalm," the Minister bean ; and
when they had found their places, he himself
started the tune — the old, familiar "Martyrdom
" it was — which was at once taken up
by the fresh, clear voices of the girls —

Hear, Israel's Shepherd ! Like a flock

Thou that dost Joseph guide :
Shine forth, O thou that dost between

The cherubim abide !
In Ephraim's and Benjamin's,

And in ]manasseh's sight,
O come for our salvation :

Stir up thy strength and might.

Turn us again, O Lord our God,

And upon us vouchsafe
To make thy countenance to shine

And so we shall be safe.
O Lord of hosts, almighty God,

How long shall kindled be
Thy wrath against the prayer made

By thine own folk to thee ? "

The singing over, he opened the large
Bible and proceeded to read the second
chapter of the Book of Ruth — no doubt
choosing the story of the young Moabitess
who left her own country and went to live
among an unknown people as having some
reference to Alison and her departure on
the morrow. And finally, when they all
knelt down, and he engaged in prayer, his
fervent appeal for Divine protection for
this child of his who was going away into
a strange land was even more personal
and immediate than that he had preferred
in open church. Not only so, but it was
full of urgent and earnest admonition and
exhortation addressed to herself They

were no common and worldly dangers she
was to dread ; these things were of little
account ; in this transitory space of time
called life, sickness and sorrow, trouble
and disease and death itself, were but
trivial accidents. It was the far more
deadly peril that the Christian soul might
have to encounter that was to be feared —
the insidious attacks of Satan — pride of
heart, the allurements of the eye, frivolity,
forgetfulness that every moment of time
was of value In preparing for the Judgment-day
of the Lord. And then he spoke of
her going forth alone — and yet not alone ;
and his last words were words of consolation
: *' Behold he that keeper Israel shall
neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy
keeper : the Lord is thy shade upon thy
right hand. The sun shall not smite thee
by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord
shall preserve thee from all evil : he shall
preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve

thy going out and thy coming In from
this time forth, and even for evermore."

Worship concluded, the women went
their several ways, leaving the Minister to
finish up his reading and put out the lights.
And soon silence and sleep had fallen over
the whole household — bringing to the poor
creature Margaret, it is to be hoped, some
temporary and blessed forgetfulness of the
awful doom for ever before her waking
eyes ; and to Agnes Blair, perhaps, the
mystic vision of a gentle and smiling
mother, standing by her bedside and regarding
her with a wistful affection ; while
as for Alison, It Is to be Imagined that her
dreams were most likely to be of the far
country she was about to enter, when she
had left behind her the turmoil and din and
lowering skies, the rigid observances, the
monotonous duties, the incessant and morbid
Introspection, the cramped and fettered
life of Kirk o' Shields.

THE BIT LADY.

League upon league of glassy calm, save
where some wandering puff of wind stirred
the still sea into a deeper blue ; the long
green island of Lismore basking in the
sun, and tapering away to its southernmost
point, where the small white light-house
stands ; the hills of Morven, in hues of
faint rose-gray and lilac, grown distant in
the heat ; close by, the winding shores of
the main-land, with wooded knolls, and
crags, and bays where the shallow water
showed the sand below : this was the
picture that Alison saw all around her as
the great steamer thundered and throbbed

away northward through the fair, summer-like
day. Surely here was a new heaven
and a new earth — after Kirk o' Shields.
And brilliant and beautiful as it was, it
was all so restful. On board the steamer,
it is true, the sunlight burned hot on the
white deck, and on the scarlet funnels, and
on the crimson velvet cushions beside her ;
but she could turn her bewildered eyes
away from this overpowering blaze, and
let them dwell gratefully on the wide blue
spaces of the sea, and on the hills that had
grown almost ethereal in the haze produced
by fine weather, and on a sky that down at
the horizon-line in the south had scarcely
any colour in it at all. A day of pale
azure and silver it was ; calm and shining
and clear ; there was not anywhere overhead
a single fleecy flake to throw a patch
of purple shadow on the far-stretching and
resplendent plain.

By the air around her suddenly becoming

warmer, she guessed that the
steamer was lessening its speed ; and presently,
when the great paddles had been
stopped and then reversed, driving a mass
of white, seething foam down into the clear
bottle-green water, she found they were
alongside Port Appin pier. With a natural
curiosity, for she was a stranger in a
strange land, she was scanning the small
group of people assembled to meet their
friends or their packages (and perhaps she
was contrasting the fresh complexions and
trim and trig adornment of one or two of
the Highland lasses there with the too-familiar
appearance of the bareheaded,
tartan-shawled, worn faced women who
made up the bulk of the female population
of Kirk o' Shields), when her eye happened
to light on a new-comer, who was hastening
down to the boat. He was a young
man, and not over middle height ; but
there was something effective and pic-vol.

I. D

burlesque in the set of his strongly built
frame, in the carriage of his head, and
even in the long and easy and careless
stride with which he came down the quay.
He was none too soon ; indeed the hawsers
had been cast off and the gangway withdrawn
when he stepped, or leaped, on to
the paddle-box. He turned for a moment
to wave his hand to one or two companions
who had come as far as the head
of the pier with him ; then he entered
into conversation with the captain, the
two of them being apparently very good
friends.

She was sitting here alone and observant
; and she seemed to perceive a
peculiar sunniness (so to speak) and cheerfulness
in this young man's look and bearing.
Also she was aware that he had
singularly clear eyes ; for once or twice
they were turned in her direction, and
instantly she had to drop her own. For

the rest, his costume was novel to her.
Sportsmen have no occasion to ^o wandering
along the grimy streets of Kirk o'
Shields. She had never seen anybody in
knickerbockers ; and the simple and serviceable
garb — laced boots and Highland
hose, a homespun shooting-jacket, a Tam
o' Shanter drawn forward over his brow, a
bit of red silk tie showing under his flannel
shirt-collar — seemed somehow to suit the
easy self-possession of his manner. Then
he had the complexion of one familiar with
the sun and sea-air ; fair as he was, his
skin was a trifle darker than his short,
twisted yellow moustache. Dandified ? —
perhaps a little. And yet there was a
manly look about the breadth of his
shoulders ; he had a flat back, a well-knit
calf, and small ankle ; and always there
was a kind of pride in the poise of his
head. He was laughing and talking with
the captain, but he was looking around at

the same time ; more than once she had to
swiftly lower her eyes.

It was about a couple of minutes thereafter
— and to her astonishment and dismay
that she found this young man approaching
her. She knew, rather than saw, that
he touched his cap.

I beg your pardon, but may I ask if
you are Miss Blair ? "

She ought to have been still further
startled ; but the sound of his voice was
pleasant to the ear.

Y — yes," she said, glancing timidly
upward.

'' I know your friends in Fort William,"
said he, 'rand they asked me to look after
you, and get your luggage ashore for you.
Of course they will be down at the quay ;
but I will see your things got ready, if you
will let me, so that you won't have any
trouble."

*' Oh, thank you," said she, hardly
knowing what to say.

I understand you have not been in the
Highlands before," he continued; and with
the greatest coolness he sat down beside
her on the velvet cushion, and laid his arm
on the gunwale of the steamer.

No," she answered ; but all the time
she was asking herself what had enabled
him to identify her. Was there some
Kirk o' Shields peculiarity in her dress or
appearance ?

You are lucky in having such a beautiful
day for your first glimpse of them," he
went on to say, with much placid assurance.
'rit isn't always like this. Those
hills over there — Kingairloch that is — and
those away up yonder, by Inversanda and
Ardgour — they are not nearly so far away
as they seem to be ; it is the haze of the
settled weather that makes them appear
distant. That is Shun island : do you
see the old castle ? Why, there's a seal —
look!"

She turned her eyes in the direction
indicated, and could make out a round
dark object on the pale, blue-white plain.

'' I shouldn't wonder if that is the old
fellow that goes backward and forward
after the ferry-boat between Port Appin
and Lismore. He is a friendly old chap ;
I dare say he has followed us so far just
for the sake of company. There — he's
down — off again, I suppose, for Appin."

Presently he said — perhaps casting back
a lite—

** I hope you will pardon my bluntness
in addressing you, but, you see, I had
made pretty sure. I had a good look
round, though I fixed on you from the
first. You seem surprised ? Well, I had
heard you described so often, you know.
Your Aunt Gilchrist is never done talking
about you, and she told me again and
again how I should recognize you. ' And
when you see her ' — this was her last

message when I was coming away — ' tell
'the bit lady " that I am just wearying for
her.' That is what she always calls you —
the bit lady.' "

It was a childish nickname," Alison
said quickly, with her pale face and
forehead showing some brief colour of
embarrassment.

Oh, I know," said he, with a careless
good-humour ; *' I know quite well. I
have had the minutest descriptions of you
at a very early age indeed. I have heard
a good deal about ' the bit lady,' who was
so prim, and precise, and accurate in her
speech, and dignified in her manner. Oh
yes, and very fierce she was in correcting
rude boys, I understand. I have heard, too,
of her remonstrating with the servants about
their grammar; and of her repetition of
Fetual Calling ' ; and of her tame sparrow
that was scolded because it wouldn't
speak."

Alison grew more and more embarrassed
; it was so strange to find a
perfectly unknown person so intimately
acquainted with her early years, and on
such familiar speaking-terms with herself.
She managed to interrupt him by asking
how her Aunt Gilchrist was.

'' Oh, very well indeed. Last night she
was in the highest of spirits. I suppose
she was rid for the time of her rheumatism,
or whatever the mysterious ailment is that
she makes such fun of when it isn't there ;
and she made the old Doctor suffer. But
he doesn't mind much. For all their
quarrelling, I never knew two sweethearts
half so fond of each other as the Doctor
and his sister are. If he scolds her the
one moment he is petting her the next.
And I am sure that both he and his wife,
and all the family indeed, are remarkably
good-natured so far as you are concerned ;
for your Aunt Gilchrist makes not the

slightest secret that she is going to leave
her money to you — or the most of it ; and
yet they don't seem jealous ; they tease
her about it quite openly ; and I think you
will find they will make you as welcome
as the old lady herself. You haven't seen
much of them ? "

Of my uncle's family ? " said Alison —
and now she was growing less embarrassed,
for this young man seemed so pleasant,
and natural, and unaffected in manner ;
and moreover he appeared to know all
about her kinsfolk. " No, not very much ;
only when they came once or twice to see
my Aunt Gilchrist in Edinburgh." And
then she added, glancing up at him for a
second, " Is Flora as pretty as ever ?"

Miss Flora," said he, " is quite the
belle of Fort William, as she lets all of us
know. And as light-hearted as ever, I
need not tell you that. By the way, I
suppose you know what she calls you ?

Haven't you heard ? She calls you Miss
Dimity Puritan."

For the first time a bit of a smile
hovered round Alison's mouth, though her
eyes were as usual downcast.

'' I seem to have various names in Fort
William," she remarked.

But they are all given to you in kindness,
any way," he answered. " Oh, I
assure you that your coming is considered
to be a very great affair ; and I look on
myself as very fortunate in being your
escort even this little bit of the way."

He could not say any more at present,
for the steamer was slowing into Balla-churlish
pier ; and Alison was much interested
in watching the people land and
set out by coach for Glencoe. She had
risen now from her seat, and when she
addressed remarks or questions to the
young man who-was by her side, it never
occurred to Miss Dimity Puritan that she

was talking to a person whose very name
she did not know. He seemed to belong
to that family in Fort William — to her
uncle s family. Then he was not obtrusive
in his attentions ; he was at her command
no more ; and besides, his voice was soft
and musical and pleasant to listen to. He
tried to get her to say Balla-churlish, but
she only laughed a little and declined.

Presently they set out northward again ;
and he told her the names of the various
mountains — those giant masses whose
sterile altitudes, rising far above the
sparsely wooded slopes and precipices,
seemed to recede away from human ken ;
although along their base, here and there,
was some narrow strip of cultivation — a
field with the hay gathered into cocks (for,
summer-like as the day was, they were
now at the end of August), or a patch of
yellowing corn just over the deep sapphire
of the sea. Then, when they had got

through the Narrows of Corran, they came
in sight of the mighty bulk of Ben Nevis,
towering high above the lower hills of
bracken and heather, its vast shoulders of
granite seamed with rose-pink scars, that
caught a warm glow from the now westering
sun. A brisk breeze had sprung up
by this time from the north or north-west,
driving the sea around them into a vivid
blue ; and far away beyond these lapping
waters, on the shore, amid some soft green
foliage, were two or three white dots of
houses : these were the outskirts of Fort
William.

While as yet they were a long way from
the quay, he said —

'' Your cousins have come down."

'' Can you make them out at so great a
distance ? " she said, in some wonderment.

Oh, well," he made answer, apologetically,
" there are things that help you. I
can see Miss Flora's sailor hat and dark

dress. Then the tall lad by her side must
be Hugh. Then the boy with the wheelbarrow
— that, of course, is Johnny."

But who is Johnny ? " she asked, for
she had no cousin of that name.

Oh, you don't know Johnny ? Johnny
works in the garden, and sails the boat,
and does anything else he is driven to do.
Besides that, he is a person of the keenest
sense of humour. I know what he is
thinking of at this moment. He is looking
at this steamer, and wishing she might goon
the rocks."

But why ? " said Alison, with open
eyes.

That he might have the fun of seeing
us all struggling in the water," her companion
remarked, calmly. " He is really
a very humorous lad. But I am afraid
I shall have to make a horsewhip curl
round Master Johnny's legs if he doesn't
put some restraint on his passion for setting

living things, no matter what, to fight each
other. He is too anxious to get at the
survival of the fittest all at once. Nature
works by slow methods ; Johnny is far too
impatient. And then he has a habit of
destroying the survivor — which is exceedingly
unfair, and unphilosophical too."

What an inhuman young wretch ! " she
said.

''Oh no. It's only his playful humour.
He lives such a monotonous life — grubbing
up weeds, sitting at the tiller, baiting
night-lines, and so on. It is very hard.
Here he has been several years in Fort
William, and constantly in sight of the
quay, and never once has a steamer burst
her boilers and blown herself into the air.
Well, now, will you come and show me
your luggage? We shall be there directly."

Indeed there was little luggage to look
after ; and when Johnny came on board
(Alison regarded this stout, heavy-shouldered

lump of a boy, with his broad,
grinning face, and small, twinkling eyes,
and wondered whether he was thinking
it would be an excellent joke to drop her
portmanteau into the sea) her few things
were speedily transferred ashore and put
on the barrow. At the same time Alison,
followed by the young man whose acquaintance
she had made, passed along the
gangway ; and no sooner had she stepped
on to the quay than she was caught hold
of by her cousin (a handsome and strapping
young lady this was, fresh-complexioned,
with dark blue eyes and black hair ; her
costume of serge, with a straw hat showing
a band of red ribbon) and heartily kissed
on both cheeks and made welcome. It
was a form of embrace unknown, or at
least not practised, in Kirk o' Shields ;
Alison was blushing a little as she released
herself, and turned to her other cousin — a
tall young lad of eighteen or twenty, who

eyed her somewhat askance — and offered
him her hand.

"I'm glad you got a good day for the
sail," he said, rather bashfully. " I suppose
you win go right on to the house
now with Flora. Ludovick," he added,
addressing the young man with the twisted
yellow moustache and clear light eyes,
will you come along to the building-shed
? I want you to look at the belaying-plans
; I think Campbell has got them all
wrong."

'* Indeed no," said Miss Flora, promptly.
Ludovick is coming with us : aren't you,
Ludovick ? And — and this is my cousin,
Alison "

"We formed a little acquaintanceship
on board the steamer," said he, pleasantly.
"And I know Miss Blair's name ; but I'm
afraid she doesn't know mine."

"Alison," said Miss Flora at once, "let
me Introduce to you Captain Macdonald

a great friend of ours ; that is why we
asked him to look after you and see about
your luggage, when we knew he was
going down to Appin. Come, let us be
off home ; Aunt Gilchrist will be weaiyiftg
for you, as she says. Look at Hugh ! "
the young lady continued, sending a farewell
glance after her brother as they left
the quay. '' Isn't he glad to be rid of us !
He thought I would insist on marching
him back to tea ; and of course he couldn't
refuse, with his cousin just come ashore.
But now he's off to stand about among
damp shavings, and gaze and gaze at the
wonderful boat that is all of his own
designing. And precious glad he is to be
rid of us girls, I know ; oh, you'll find out
soon enough, Alison, what he thinks of us
all. Useless creatures, every one. We
can't do anything right. We can't throw
a stone straight ; we can't sharpen a pencil,
or shut a door, or do anything as it ought

VOL. I. E

to be done ; when we jump from a wall wee
light on our heels ; we can't trim a boat
when she's sailing — goodness gracious ! he
shifts us about just as if we were ballast,
and an ounce one way or another is all our
fault ; and we'd run away from a cow if it
wasn't for shame. If you only knew the
contempt he has for us ! I wonder what
he is thinking of you, Ludovick : you
might be standing gazing at that marvellous
boat instead of going home to drink tea
with a lot of women."

'' He'll pay for all this," Ludovick
Macdonell observed, shrewdly. "He will
sing another tune some day. All at once
an angel will appear on earth — not from
the clouds, but out of a finishing-school,
most likely, and everything will be transformed
and transfigured. And then to
walk along the beach with her, her long
yellow hair blown about by the sea-wind —
.just think of the magic of it ; and the

dreams of doing extraordinary things for
her sake — becoming a great poet, or taking
the Queen's prize at Wimbledon, or something
of that kind. There will be no more
contempt then — not at all ; rather an
indiscriminate affection and esteem for anyone
so privileged as to belong to the
same sex as the wonderful and adorable

creature "

No, no, no, Ludovick," said Miss
Flora, shaking her head ; '' you will never
find Hugh transmogrified like that. Ask
his opinion of any girl, no matter who she
is. If you say she has pretty fair hair, he
says, ' Look at her piggy eyelashes.' If
you say she sings . well, he says, ' Yes,
when by chance she hits the key.' If you
praise her figure, he says, ' I hate draggle-tails
; can t she use a needle and thread
instead of fixing up her dress with a pin ? '
Fancy a boy noticing a thing like that !
What business has he with pins 

OF ILLINOflT

iiaRARy

needles and thread, and sarcastic comments
about mirrors and making-up ? No, there
is no beauty in us that he should desire
us," she continued, with a careless — and
probably inadvertent — use of Scriptural
phraseology that considerably startled Alison.
'' We'll have to set my cousin hereto
see if she can do anything with him ;
it is the quiet ones who do the most
mischief."

By this time they had passed along the
straggling street of the little town — with
its whitewashed cottages, and small general
stores, and banks, and inns, and churches
and were out in the southern suburbs,
where a number of detached villas, set
among pretty gardens, overlooked the
beach. It was all a fairy-land to the
wistful-eyed stranger from Kirk o' Shields
that beautiful panorama of sea, and
wooded slopes, and far-reaching mountains
; while here, close at hand, everything

seemed so fresh and clean and bright
in the sunlight, and the air was sweet with
the scent blown from the gardens. Atone
of the small gates her companions
stopped, and she was invited to enter.
She passed in by a little gray-pebbled
path, and found herself in a wilderness — ina
very trim wilderness, it is true — of old-fashioned
flowers : nasturtiums, dahlias,
pansies, marigolds, all set in plots and
borders ; while, as she glanced towards the
house, she perceived that the front wall of
it was hanging with white roses and the
pendulous crimson bells of the tree-fuchsia.
But she had not much time to examine
the villa itself — which was exceedingly
smart, none the less, with its facings of
brown stone, and its gables, and its green
Venetian blinds ; for in the porch, and
smiling a blithe welcome, was the imperious
little dame who had summoned her thither.
When Alison went forward, she found

herself seized by both hands, and held at
arm's-length, by this bright-complexioned,
silver-haired, pleasant-eyed small person,
who subjected her to a keen and yet not
unkindly scrutiny.

'' And how's the bit lady ? — let's see
how she's looking ? " the old dame said, in
accents that were more familiar to Alison
than the gently modulated Highland
speech ; for Mrs. Gilchrist had lived many
of the years of her life in Edinburgh.
'' Oh, none so ill, to have come out o' that
awful' town — none so ill. I wonder ye
can live in it at all ; I never see it but I
think o' the bad place. I'm sure if the
bad place is any worse than Kirk o'
Shields, I piety the poor folk that are to
be sent there. And how's my brother-in-law
the Minister, Alison ? — and that frail-looking
young lassie, your sister ? "

'' They're very well indeed. Aunt Gilchrist,"
Alison said. '' And I am sure

they thought it very kind of you to ask
me to come and stay with you for a while."

Yes ; but did they say the Hke ? " she
said, with a laugh. " Na, na, they're dour
folk in Kirk o' Shields ; they cinna speak
what's in their mind. And there you are,
just as ever, you bigoted wee Puritan, with
your stubborn gray eyes ; and nothing in
the wide world would induce you to say
they sent me a friendly word or a message
though ye might tell a bit o' a white lee
just for the sake o' civility."

I am sure they thought it very kind of
you all the same, Aunt Gilchrist," said
Miss Dimity Puritan, "even if they didn't
send you any formal message."

Well, well, come indoors, or your
Aunt Munro will be jealous. I think she
has* gone upstairs to see your things put
right. Flora will show you the way — and
there's to be tea in the back garden
directly, as I hear."

'' And I've brought you the illustrated
papers, Mrs. Gilchrist," said the young
militia captain, coming forward dutifully.

Uncut, I suppose," said she, glancing
at the bundle. '' Well, Captain Ludovick,
you and I will go away and take our
places at the table ; and then you can get
a knife and cut the edges for me, for I'm a
poor old woman, and hate trouble."

They passed through the house and into
the back garden, where there was a round
table covered with a white cloth, and amply
bespread. All kinds of cake were there,
and soda-scones, short-bread, marmalade,
black-currant jam, and the like : the Fenton
haddocks and the tea had not yet been
summoned. This enclosed space behind
the house sloped abruptly upward ; and
there was a winding path to the summit of
the grassy knoll, where the afternoon sunburned
in golden light ; but down here
there was a cool and pleasant shadow, and

quietude for the eyes. However, Mrs.
Gilchrist did not occupy herself with the
illustrated papers when he had cut the
edges for her.

So you managed to make her out onboard
the steamer ? " said she to the young
man, who had laid aside his Tam o'
Shanter — revealing thereby how light his
complexion was ; for there was a well-marked
division between the clear hue of
the upper portion of his forehead and that
of the rest of his face, which was browned
by the sun.

"Within two minutes of our leaving
Appin pier," answered Captain Ludovick.
I recognized her the moment I saw her."

'* And what do you think of her ? "

'' I think she is extremely pretty,"
said he.

No, d'ye really think that ! " said Aunt
Gilchrist, with affected surprise ; but the
kind old dame's face had involuntarily lit

up with pleasure at this praise of her
provide, " D'ye really think that now ?
For I should have thought it was her
good looks that would have recommended
her to folk. She's got her mother's eyes,
it is true ; and there wasna a bonnier lass
than my sister Ailie in a the length and
breadth o' Stirlingshire. And the bit
creature has pretty hair too, if she wasna
so prim about it. Flora will have to pull it
about for her, and put her in the fashion.
Maybe it's living in that bottomless pit o'
a place that has kept her so pale ; but ita
natural complexion too — mind that ; it's
no ill health — not a bit."

*' I know this," said he, with some
decision ; " you may say what you please
about her features, or her complexion, or
the colour of her hair, but one thing is
certain, you would never pass her by
unnoticed. There is something particularly
distinguished about her — something unusual

something that tells you in a moment
she is not like the other strangers who
may be around her, on board a steamer or
anywhere else. Perhaps it is the self-possession
of her manner — a kind of
dignity, and simplicity as well."

Ay, do ye say that now ? — do ye say
that ? " said the bright little dame, with
much obvious pleasure. " Well, here she
comes for herself Here's my bit lady!
Come away, you Lancashire lassie, and
let's see whether the Highland air has
made you hungry. Here, take this chair
next me : that's where you're to sit whenever
you and I are at the same table.
And if your Aunt Munro is jealous, you
must just tell her that Highland kinship
is stronger than Scotch, and that you've
Highland blood in your veins, for all you
were born in that weary' hole o' fire and
smoke."

I'm sure, Jane," said Aunt Munro,

who was a tall, bland, well-featured, Scotch-looking
woman, with mild eyes, and an
expression of great gentleness — " I'm sure,
Jane, none of us will quarrel with you for
being kind to Alison."

And very kind, indeed, they all of them
were to her ; and a very merry little party
this was, assembled down here in the
grateful shade, while the afternoon light
shone yellow on the crest of the knoll
above them. The old lady was in
especially gay spirits. Perhaps she was
pleased that \\^x p7'otdgee had won the high
approval of the only stranger who had as
yet seen her ; perhaps she was looking
forward with much content to having this
constant companion to pet and tyrannize
over ; at all events, she was very cheerful
and merry, and full of quips and jests and
good-humoured raillery. And most of all
did her gibes fall on the absent Doctor.

'' Oh, they're fine fellows, they doctors,

with their long words that they hide themselves
behind. That's how they escape ;
when you've got them in a corner, and
bade them declare their ignorance, they
just jump through a big door and shut it
in your face — a big door of three or four
syllables, in Latin or Greek, and there
you're left helpless. Look at me, Alison
Blair. How big am I ? I couldn't take a
prize at a show of dolls ! But bless ye,
this braw doctor of an uncle o' yours
would make ye believe I had a whole
pharmacopoeia of ailments in my wee body.
I have a bit twinge in my toes sometimes,
or along my fingers — just nothing it is —
but you should hear the Doctor ! It's
peripheral neuralgia one day ; it's neuritis
the next ; and rheumatic gout the next ;
and I'm not to take this and I'm not to
take that — especially sugar. Alison, reach
me the bowl."

Alison passed the sugar-bowl to the old

lady, who forthwith took out a goodly
piece, and with a determined air plumped
it into the large cup of tea before her.

'' That's for periphery ! " she said.

She took out another piece and plumped
it in.

'' And ^/la^'s for neuritis ! " she said.

She took a third piece and plumped
it in.

'' And ^/mfs for rheumatic gout — and my
compliments to the whole three o' them ! "

'well, Aunt Gilchrist," said Flora's
mother, with a good-natured smile, " I
don't think it's the sugar the Doctor
objects to as much as the port-wine. But
ye may say what ye like of him, for if he
is my husband, he is your brother."

Oh, he's an honest man, the Doctor —
as far as a doctor can be," said Aunt
Gilchrist. "And I'm thinking, Alison,
you and I will be for taking him away
from his patients for a day or two now and

again — to give the poor creatures a chance
of getting better. There's many a fine
drive about here, and Mr. Carmichael hasa
most comfortable waggonette ; and we
must take ye down Glenfinnan, and show
ye where Prince Charge first met the
clans ; and out to Spean Bridge too, and
up Glen Nevis. It's a grand place. Fort
William, for being in the middle of things.
And then some day we must have a sail
up the Caledonian Canal to Inverness ;
and there I'll get ye a brooch of Scotch
pebbles, or cairngorms, or something of
that kind, for your neck. Black and
white's very trim and neat — oh yes, I find
no fault ; very prim and trim and nice ye
look ; but it's not enough for a young
lassie. Flora will come with us, and we'll
get you some pretty ribbons and necker-chiefs
and things to busk ye up a bit."

Indeed she was just full of all kinds of
generous schemes and projects ; and

though Alison was the chief figure in
them, the old lady had a thought for her
other relations as well. Flora was to have
this and that ; she would bring Hugh a
book of salmon-flies ; she even meant to
surprise the Doctor with a present of a
silver-headed walking-stick, with a snuffbox
in the head ; and finally she bade the
young folk go away and amuse themselves,
warning Alison to come back with a good
appetite for the nine-o'clock supper, for
the Doctor would be present with his
severely scrutinizing eye.

*' And now, Ludovick," said Flora, when
the three younger people (Hugh had gone
off to his studies) passed through the house,
and were in the front garden, '' what are
we to do ? "

'' We can't go sailing, that is very certain,"
said he, looking away across the still
sea-loch towards Stroncreggan and Conan


Certain enough it was ; for the afternoon
had settled down into an absolute calm,
and the water was like glass. The various
features of the hills and mountains opposite
were all repeated on the flawless mirror ;
and in the midst of this inverted world
floated motionless a schooner-yacht, a
brown-sailed smack, and a steam-launch —
the yellow masts of the schooner and the
white funnel of the launch sending honos
reflections down until they almost touched
the shore. Sailing was out of the question.

Then let us show Alison Fort
William," said Flora. '' She ought to
begin at the beginning. She hasn't seen
half the place yet." So the three of them
stepped down into the road and set out for
the town ; the golden afternoon shining all
around them ; the still air warm, and sweet
with the fragrance of these suburban
gardens.

Peace reigns in Fort William now.

VOL. I. F

Lochiel has no trouble with his clansmen ;
the Government have no trouble with
Lochiel ; the garrison buildings have been
turned into private dwellings ; women sit
on the grassy bastions of the fort and knit
stockings, sheltering themselves from the
sun with an old umbrella ; in the square
are wooden benches for looklno^ on at the
tossing of the saber, putting the stone,
and other Highland games ; in the fosse Is
grown an excellent crop of potatoes and
cabbages ; and just outside there Is a trimly
kept bowling-green, in which the club-members
practise the gentle art of reaching
the tee when the waning afternoon
releases them from their desk or counter.
Indeed it is possible that Alison, who had
visited Edinburgh once or twice, and had
passed the lofty crags and castle walls of
Stirling, may have been disappointed to
find a place of fair historic fame with so
little to show for itself; but if Fort William

Is not in itself picturesque, it is in the very
midst of wonderfully picturesque surroundings.
When they took her along to " the
Craigs," and ascended the mound there,
she was struck dumb by the singular and
varied and luminous beauty of the vast
panorama extending away in every direction.
The wild hills of Lochaber were
all aflame in the sunset light ; dark amid
trees stood the ruins of Inverlochy Castle ;
the shallow waters before her stretched
away up to Corpach, where a flood of
golden radiance came pouring out of
Loch Eil ; while all along the west, and
as far south as Ardgour, the mountains
were deepening and deepening in shadow,
making the glow in the sky overhead all
the more dazzlingly brilliant. Alison,
standing somewhat apart from her companions,
and wholly silent and absent, was
wistfully wishing that her younger sister
could be here for but an hour, for but a

moment. Would It not enrich those pale
visions of hers which formed so large a
portion of her life ? Perhaps her imagination
was starved in so cold and colourless
a place as Kirk o' Shields ? And might
there not be in heaven hlo^h hills like
these, flame-smitten with rose and gold,
and placid lakes reflecting their awful and
silent splendour ? The Lord had made
man in His own Image ; was it not possible
that in fashioning the earth He had given
us glimpses of that distant and mystic
region which to poor Agnes seemed so
white and wan ? Why should It be white
and wan ? The Lord was the King of
glory. " Lift up your heads, O ye gates ;
and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors ;
and the King of glory shall come in.
Who Is this King of glory ? The Lord
strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in
battle." Some strange kind of exaltation
filled her heart, and flooded her eyes with

I

tears. Those roseate summits seemed sofar
away ; they were hardly of this earth ;
they were God's footstool, removed beyond
the habitations and the knowledge of men.
*' Who shall ascend into the hill of the
Lord?" When her cousin Flora came
quickly forward in alarm, for she had
happened to see the tears running down
the girl's face, she found Alison all
trembling, and quite unable to speak.

'* Why, what is the matter ? " said she,
and she put her arm within Alison's arm ;
and perhaps she guessed a little. " Come,
come," said she kindly, " you must not let
a pretty evening in the Highlands bewilder
you. I'm sure I beg your pardon for
leaving you to yourself for a minute or
two : Ludovick and I are so deeply
interested about our new tennis-court.
Come away, and we will show you the
river Nevis ; and then we shall have to be
back in good time for supper, you know,

or else both papa and Aunt Gilchrist will
be for tearing us in pieces." And so she
led Alison away, and talked to her unceasingly,
with plenty of help from Captain
Macdonell ; so that long before they had
returned to the house the girl had quite
recovered her ordinary serenity, and was
listening with an equal amount of amusement
and of horror to a recital of some of
the doings of the boy John.

But, as it happened, they had lingered
so long by the banks of the clear-running
Nevis, that when they reached home again
they were no less than ten minutes late ;
and the reception they got — not from the
mild-eyed and soft-mannered Mrs. Munro,
nor yet from the little, prim, gray-whiskered
Doctor, but from Aunt Gilchrist herself —
was of the sharpest. She who had been
all milk-anthony in the afternoon was
now a fiery little scorpion ; and no one
was safe from her grumbling and muttering

and biting innuendoes. It was not
only the real culprits who suffered, as they
all sat down at table ; there was a thrust
here and a thrust there ; nothing, indeed,
in the town of Fort William was
right ; there were not even two clocks
in the place that kept the same time.
For a while the little Doctor fretted and
fumed in silence ; at length he said, petulance
—

I wish, Jane, you would pay some
heed to what one tells you, and get rid of
that neuritis ; for as long as it keeps
hanging about ye, ye do nothing but
grumble at the whole mortal world."

Get rid of it ! " she said, with bitter
scorn. '' Yes, if you can tell me what it
is, and what brought it there, and what's
going to cure it ! The more o' that poison
o' yours I take — your iodides and saline
and stuff — the worse it gets ; and then ye
jink round the corner and call it by another

name. I wonder," she went on contemptuously,
*' ye haven tried conjuring,
or spirit-rapping, or reading a verse of the
Bible backward ! What kind o' tune is it
they whistle to make serpents dance ?
Could ye no try that, Duncan, my man,
when your bits o' bottles three times a day
minna help ? "

'' If you'd take your medicine," said he,
with some acerbity, " and leave alone that
port-wine negus and cinnamon and sugar,
you'd have a better chance of getting well
ay, and of improving your temper besides,
Aunt Gilchrist, let me tell you."

And if I have found out the only thing
that gives me a little relief, I'm sure it was
no doctor who made the discovery forme
! " she retorted.

'' I should think not ! " he said, with
glooming brows. '' He that will to Cupar
maun to Cupar. And the relief you get at
the time, or fancy you get, d'you no think

you'll have to pay for that ? What are
you laying up for yourself ? "

*' What am I laying up for myself ? " she
answered snappishly. " 'Deed, man, ye
talk as if I was going to live for another
half century ! Laying up for myself ? I
cinna care what I'm laying up for myself,
so that I can get an occasional five minutes'
peace and quiet ; and that I have never
got from any of your precious tablespoonfuls
three times a day. Laying up for myself ?
Would ye talk like that if ye felt the whole
o' your ten toes on fire, and more fire
shooting across your ankles ? I'm thinking,
Duncan, my lad, we'd be just as quick
as any one to take whatever would still
the pain ; and we'd not be so anxious about
squeezing in another miserable year or two
between yourself and your coffin. And ye
speak about my temper ! My temper !
Why, if ye get a bit twinge o' the toothache,
it's like bringing the heavens and the
earth to an end ! "

She relapsed into silence and sulked.
He also relapsed into silence and sulked ;
and what conversation ensued was carried
on between Captain Macdonell and Flora
and Hugh. Alison observed that her
Aunt Munro, so far from betraying any
embarrassment over this quarrelling, seemed
rather to be amused, In her quiet way, and
did not seek to interfere.

Now the nine-o'clock supper was the
chief meal of the household — the Doctor
being away most of the day, and uncertain
as to his movements — and on the table
there was a decanter of claret and also one
of whiskey, while there was a jug of beer
brought in for the two young men. When
the question of drinking came along, Mrs.
Munro pressed her sister-inlaw to have
some claret ; but the offer was coldly, yet
firmly, declined. Aunt Gilchrist would
take a little water, please. The Doctor
pretended to neither see nor hear.

Duncan," said his wife, '' it has been a
long and a hot day for you ; would you
like some soda-water with your whiskey ? "

He did not answer. He got up and
rang the bell. A maid-servant appeared
at the door.

'' Catherine, bring some hot water —
some boiling water — and some Ground
cinnamon, and a lemon."

Then he went to the sideboard and
brought out a toddy-tumbler, a wineglass,
and a dark bottle. x\unt Gilchrist would
take no notice of his proceedings. Mrs.
Munro was talking to Alison ; Flora was
talking to Ludovick Macdonell. And meanwhile,
the servant having returned, the
little Doctor standing at the sideboard was
brewing a large beaker of port-wine negus.

Presently he brought the steaming
tumbler, and the small silver ladle, and
the wineglass round the table and put
them before his sister.

'' I will not take it ! " she said shortly.

'' Ye wi// take it ! " said he.

'' I tell ye, I will nol take it ! " she maintained
fiercely.

And I tell ye, ye will take it ! " he
insisted, with equal vehemence.

I will nol take it, not a drop, while I
am in this house ; and ^/la^ will not belong
! " said she, in a very high and mighty
manner.

Alison left her seat, and came round and
put her hand on her aunt's shoulder. The
old dame shook her off.

Go away ! "

'aunt Gilchrist!" said Alison.

The girl had a soft and winning voice.
Aunt Gilchrist looked up for a moment
and patted Alison's hand.

"Well, well, what is it .> What does
the bit lady want ? "

I want you to take the negus, Aunt
Gilchrist," Alison said.

Aunt Gilchrist stared defiantly at her
brother.

He has put no sugar in it," said she.

The doctor went and fetched the sugar,
and dropped one piece into the rose-coloured
fluid.

That's only for periphery," said she,
discontentedly.

*' Oh, well, you stiff-necked woman !
there's another for deficient circulation, and
here's another for muscular rheumatism :
will that do for ye ? " said he, with a constrained
laugh ; and when he had plumped
the two pieces into the hot negus he went
back to his place.

They Highland folk ! " said Mrs.
Munro, with a quiet smile, to Alison.
Their temper is just like a pickle tow
brought near a candle. Decent Scotch
bodies like you and me, Alison, try to
keep some reasonable control over themselves."


Now, whether it was that this yielding
on the part of her brother had pleased
her, or whether it was that the stimulus of
the hot negus did really afford her some
assuao^ement of her wandering nerve-twinges,
the old lady's mood was almost
instantly changed. She grew most complacent
and merry ; she declared she would
soon teach the Doctor how to cure nervous
inflammation, so that neuritis and peripheral
neuralgia and all the rest of the
crew would simply fly at his approach —
especially if he came with a tumbler of
port-wine negus in his hand ; she returned
to the bold and generous undertakings
and projects of the afternoon ; and she
challenged her brother to show his faith in
his assistant by leaving him in full charge
of the patients for a few days. When
the supper-things were removed she insisted
on Ludovick Macdonell lio-htino- his
pipe — which he was very loath to do, for

no one smoked except himself; but she
declared that the odour of tobacco in the
evening was sweeter to her than the scent
of roses, for it reminded her of happy
days long gone by. And then (just as
Alison was expecting to see '' the books "
brought in for family worship) Aunt Gilchrist
announced in her tyrannical way
that they must have a comfortable little
game of " catch-threaten."

Aunt Gilchrist ! " said Flora, with a
laugh, by way of protest.
'' Well, then ? "
What will Miss Dimity Puritan say to

our playing cards ? " Flora asked, with a

look at her cousin.

The bit lady ? Indeed I forgot ! "

said the old dame, glancing doubtfully

across the table. " But never mind ;

we'll not ask her to play. Alison will

come and sit by me, and I'll show her the

game."

And so It was that Alison (though with
some compunction, for she had been taught
to regard " the devil's books " as one of
Satan's most dangerous and deadly devices)
found herself looking on at this game,
which, after a little preliminary instruction
as to the names and values of the cards,
she managed to understand in a fashion.
And not only was there no apparent
wickedness, but she found herself equally
amused and interested. In the very firsthand
it fell to her aunt's lot to hold the
ten of trumps ; and the various efforts
made by the other players to seize this
treasure Alison was sharp enough to guess
at. What she did not know was that
Ludovick Macdonell, who had a suspicion
as to where the Ten lay, intentionally and
good-naturedly sacrificed his chance of
capturing it by prematurely throwing away
his Jack — to Aunt Gilchrist's exuberant
joy and triumph — for ultimately she won

the game. This evening Alison kept out
pleading her ignorance ; but she was a
reasonable and even a clear-headed kind
of creature, when she was withdrawn from
certain surroundings and influences ; and
she could not, for the life of her, make
out wherein lay the harm of this simple
pastime. For the rest, a great cheerfulness
and frankness and good-humour prevailed
in the little circle ; it was astonishing
how quickly the time went by ; she was
quite startled and sorry when Captain
Ludovick, at the end of a game, rose and
said he must really bid them good night
and be off to his hotel. Indeed she Alas
disappointed : he seemed to belong to this
household ; she would rather he could
have remained until the family party finally
broke up.

As he was saying good-bye, and when
he came to her, he took her hand for a
second.

VOL. I. G

I hope you will be pleased with your
stay in Lochaber," he said.

'' Ludovick," Miss Flora interposed,
you are not going back to Oyre just
yet ? "

Oh no," he said, *' not for a few days.
I have some business that will keep me in
the town."

'' That's all right," said she at once, '' for
you can neglect your business, and come
and help me to show Alison some of the
places about. Hugh won't be bothered
with us girls, so we shall have, to depend
on you."

'' I'm sure I shall be delighted," said the
young man ; and then he bade them a
general farewell ao^aln, and went out into
the night — which was all throbbing with
stars, above the black shadows of the hills.

IN A CALDRON OF THE HILLS.

Alison did not sleep much that night ; she
lay awake thinking of these kind people
among whom she had come, of their frank
and pleasant ways, their good-natured
banter of each other, their affection, and
their obvious desire that she should feel
herself at home among them. And as for
the only one of them who was a stranger
to her — Captain Macdonell — she was resolved
to place herself on very friendly
terms with him, if he also was willing.
From the " Ludovick " and '^ Flora" of
their mode of address, and from his general
footing in the house, it was clear to her

that Captain Macdonell was her cousin's
accepted lover ; so that she — that is, Arson
could extend towards him a kind of
sisterly familiarity without fear ; and,
besides, Flora would be pleased to find
that her choice was thought much of and
approved. That was one point. Then
again she bethought her as to how she
could manage to convince her aunt that it
was not any hope of inheriting money that
had brought her away from Kirk o' Shields,
or induced her to obey similar previous
summonses. That she was to inherit
Aunt Gilchrist's money was quite freely
spoken of, by the old lady among the rest ;
and indeed Alison was not thinking much
of herself in the matter ; she was mostly
anxious that none of them should imagine
that her father had any mercenary end in
view in consenting to these visits. But
how was she to show her own independence,
or his indifference ? If Aunt gilchrist

had been a purse-proud, overbearing
woman, Alison could have faced her in
battle-royal, and cut and slashed in scorn,
and gone proudly home. But to face
Aunt Gilchrist ! She was the most
whimsical of odd little tyrants. When
she lashed, it was with a laugh. Her
deadliest quarrels — with her brother — had
only the tormenting of him for their aim.
And as regards Alison herself, her treatment
of " the bit lady " (except for an
occasional snap when a sharper twinge
than usual shot through her ankles) was
just goodness itself. No, she could find
no pretext for fighting Aunt Gilchrist ;
but the reflection was not a painful one ;
and it was with a pleased and dazed sense
that under this roof there reigned a great
good-will and content, and mutual and
general kindness, that at last she fell
asleep.

In her dreams she was back again in

Kirk o' Shields. It seemed to her that
she was lying awake in her own small
room. Black night was all around, save
for the lurid flames that shot up into the
startled sky. She hardly dared stir or
breathe, for might not her sister be listening
for that strange visitant — the pale
mother — who would come and stand by
the bedside — smiling and benignant — seen
and yet unsubstantial, heard and yet voiceless
and noiseless ? Was that a moan or
wail coming from the room close by in
which the servants slept ? and was the
poor creature Margaret, unable to close
her eyes, torturing herself with thoughts of
her eternal doom ? This seemed to be a
terrible night, so long, so sombre, so hopeless.
For what was there to look forward
to ? The morning would but bring her the
sight of a thousand chimneys vomiting
smoke and fire into the surcharged and
heavy air ; bedraggled women, tired of

face, and with shawls sheltering their head
from the rain, would be trudging silent to
their work ; poor little brats, barefooted,
would be making their way along the miry
streets to school. Then all day long the
clash and din and thud of engines ; the air
becoming thicker and thicker with poisonous
fumes ; the dusk coming on prematurely,
and the flames of the furnaces showing
redder and redder through the gathering
darkness. Is it time for the books now ?
It is enough to make one's heart bleed to
hear this poor woman praising the Lord
for all His goodness to her, and to know
that she is looking forward to an eternity
of punishment. But soon she will have
retired for the night ; and may a merciful
Heaven grant her some brief spell of
forgetfulness — this poor Margaret, with
the saddened eyes ! Or is it only His
beloved to whom He giveth sleep ? For
those others — the hapless lost ones — for

them the worm that diet not, and the fire
that shall not be quenched.

Alison awoke with a cry. But what
was this ? Black nio^ht was no looser
around her, with lowering skies and lurid
flames ; Kirk o' Shields had vanished ; the
solitary window of this neat, small room
had grown to be of a beautiful, pale,
bluish-gray. The dawn had come, silent
and mystical. A flood of joy and peace
and gratitude filled her heart ; the day
before her had no further dread for her ;
the fair world would once more be shining
all around her, a gladness and a wonder to
her eyes. Nay, even now, before any in
the house were up, might she not make
assurance doubly sure that all these visions
and terrors were fled, and the new, calm
day arrived, with its beneficent beauty and
stillness ? She stealthily rose, and got
hold of a light travelling cloak, which she
flunof- round her shoulders ; then she went

to the window and removed the small
muslin sash, and drew a chair into the
embrasure, and sat down there. She
seemed to hold her breath as she looked
forth. The night was gone, but the day
was not yet here ; all things looked ghostly
and pale and strange ; the motionless
waters of the lake, the wooded hills, the
wan heavens themselves were as if they
slept — as if they had slept, even as they
were now, since creation's morn. Nothing
stirred ; there was not a sound. On the
calm bosom of the water the dark-green
fir-woods of the opposite shore and the
pale lilac heights above them were faithfully
reflected — except where some long
and shallow banks showed in orange seaweed
above the surface. A small scarlet
object far away floated double on this
liquid plain ; she guessed that it might bea
buoy to mark the steamers' course. A
faint mist that huno- about the woods

appeared to be lessening — that was the
only sign of change, and of the slow progress
of the hours.

But as she sat there alone, and more
than content, a transformation was taking
place that at first she did not perceive.
There was no archangel's trump to declare
the daybreak ; it came all so silently ; the
hill-tops had been touched by the rosy
light ere she was aware. And then she
looked up. Above the dark-green woods,
above the purple slopes and shoulders, the
far-receding summits were bathed in a
faint ethereal crimson, and the heavens
overhead were of gold. The whole world
seemed to grow warmer. There were
intermingling colours on the wide waters
of the lake. What was this sudden cry,
too, starting the silence ? A sea-swallow
had struck down upon that glassy plain,
emerging with its prey in its beak ; its
companions came screaming and dipping

and flashing around it. The new day
broadened and descended from the hills ;
the sunlight fell upon the fir-woods opposite
; far away in the north a small red
object, leaving a brown trail behind it,
began to move slowly along : was that the
great steamer, with its scarlet funnels,
coming south ? She heard sounds below ;
the household was* stirring. And then she
stole quickly back to bed again, lest her
cousin Flora should come to seek her ; but
her closed eyes still beheld the beauty and
the majesty and the wistfulness of that
silent dawn, that seemed to have belonged
to herself alone.

And it was Flora, as it chanced, who
first came to call her ; the young lady
appearing at the door of the room with a
telegram in her hand.

Look at this now, Alison ; was there
ever anything so unfortunate ! " said she
(and it was only when she was excited or

unusually emphatic that a trace of Highland
accent was heard in her speech : she
said, *' Was there offer anything so unfortunate
! ").

Then it turned out that certain friends
from the south had telegraphed that they
would reach Ballachulish that afternoon,
on their way to Tyndrum next day ; and
that they hoped Flora and Hugh would
come down and spend the evening with
them. They were almost bound to go,
Flora explained ; but how could she leave
her cousin just as she had arrived ? Alison
assured her that she need have no scruple.
What was a single day ? Besides, it washer
— Alison's — place to remain with her
aunt, and try to amuse her a little ; she
would have plenty of occupation till the
two cousins returned from Ballachulish.

But Aunt Gilchrist was of a different
mind, when, the brother and sister being
ready to start for the steamer, Alison proposed

to remain in the house and help her
aunt with her sewing, or read to her, or
otherwise wait on her.

'' Read to me ! " exclaimed the old lady,
who had been peevishly grumbling all
through breakfast-time. *' Do ye want
your head snapped off? If they fools o'
doctors cannot get this wretched thing out
o' my old bones — or nerves, or muscles, or
whatever it is — why should you suffer, you
stupid creature ? Do ye want to be torn
in bits ? "

'i'm not afraid. Aunt Gilchrist," said
Alison, with a smile — and when she smiled
she showed she had exceedingly pretty
teeth, as Flora noticed.

'' Go away ! " continued the old lady,
with a sour face. " Go down to the quay
with Hugh and Flora, and see them leave ;
then be off by yourself, and keep out o' my
reach till the afternoon : I've not taken a
drop o' their poisonous iodides this morning,

SO I may be better by then, and we'll
ego for a drive. Now be off with ye, and
not another word."

Alison did as she was bid ; and having
seen her cousins leave by the steamer, she
returned to the main street of the little
town, and idly passed along that, looking
at the small shop-windows and their modest
displays. She had no definite idea of
where she was going, but she naturally
followed the route with which she was
already familiar. She passed the fort.
She left the last of the villas behind, and
went away along the dusty road until she
reached the banks of the river Nevis ; and
here she lingered and loitered from time to
time as an opening among the thick foliage
of overhanging ash and alder and sycamore
enabled her to look down into the clear-running
stream. It was with an inexpressible
wonder and delight that she
regarded the loveliness of these banks,

and listened to the soft, continuous murmur
of the river. The only waters she knew
in Kirk o' Shields were, first of all, the
canal — which seemed merely an intensification
of all the surrounding squalor ; and,
secondly, a little burn which ran through
a deep chasm some five or six miles away :
the chasm itself was picturesque enough,
but all its foliage was blighted and blackened,
and the sluggish burn at the foot was
of the colour of mud as it wound its way
out into the grimy and melancholy fields.
But look at this stream here — where the
sunlight found an opening through the
trees, and flashed a million diamonds upon
the laughing ■ ripples. The water was of
the clearest golden-brown ; she could
see the colour of every red and olive-green
pebble at the bottom. The overhanging
branches, too, that trembled in the warm
sunlight were of a bright and beautiful,
sometimes of a translucent, green. And

this pleasant, murmuring music had no
kind of sadness in it ; it was cheerful —
as the sunlight, and the fresh colours,
and the sweet air all around her were :
she wished that Agnes Vere here, if
only for one brief minute, to see and to
hear.

She was wandering along idly enough,
at peace with all the world, and well content
with the solitariness, and the sunlight,
and the placid murmur of the river, when
she became aware that some one was
behind her and overtaking her.
'good morning, Miss Blair!"
She recognized the voice at once, and
she turned forthwith to give Captain
Macdonell a friendly welcome. She was
not in the least confused. He was a companionable
kind of person — simple, offhand,
good-natured in his manner, and
there was a bright confidence in his look
that commended him ; besides, for Flora's

sake, she wanted to be specially kind to
Captain Ludovlck.

I saw you from the window of my
hotel," he said without more ado ; '' and
as soon as I could get rid of the man with
whom I was engaged I followed you. Do
you want a guide ? Are you going up the
Ben ? I heard that Flora and Hush had
gone South, and I was coming along to
offer my services, if I had not seen you
go by."

She told him she had no Idea of eolne
up Ben Nevis ; she had only come out fora
bit of a stroll.

Yes, of course," said he. 'you mustn't
attempt Ben Nevis until you get a little
used to hill climbing. I'll tell you what
we'll do ; we'll get a couple of ponies some
evening, if this fine weather lasts, and you
and Flora will ride to the top, and Hugh
and I will go with you, and Johnny to
bring the ponies down. Then you'll stay

VOL. I. H

the night at the little wooden caravanserai,
to get up in the morning to see the sunrise
out of the German Ocean. How will
that do ? "

'' I never was on horseback in my life,"
said she, somewhat aghast.

''Oh, but that's all right," said he.
You'll hold on ; you've merely to lean
well forward at the steep places. Well,
now, where are you going at present ?
Would you like to try a bit of the hill
by way of experiment ? Suppose we go
along, and I will show you the old track
for ascending the hill before they cut the
pony-track."

So these two went on together, she
accepting his escort quite naturally ; and
she was resolved on the first opportunity to
say something very pretty about Flora, so
as to please him. But she did not get the
chance — at least, not then. He was in a
very gay and talkative mood, and was

doing his best to interest and amuse her,
and to instruct her too.

*' Oh yes," he was saying, in answer to
some chance remark of hers, " all this is
very pretty — very beautiful, if you like.
But it isn't Lochaber at all. Lochaber is
wild. These hills just now are like the
hills you see from the Nile— pale chromolithographs
; that isn't Lochaber. You
want to see this neighbourhood after a
couple of days of Atlantic squalls — with
heavy purple clouds and brilliant lights
flashing about. You should get Hugh to
talk to you about that "

She glanced up with a little surprise.

"Ah, you don't know Hugh yet, I
should imagine," said he. " He is a little
shy. But he is a very extraordinary lad ;
he has all the Celtic sensitiveness to what
is fine in music and painting and poetry ;
he seems to know by instinct what is
right ; and Flora has a good deal of the

same quality too. It Isn't that they themselves
try to do much ; but their appreciation
of what Is most beautiful, of what Is
best in all the arts, seem to be so
marvellous ; it seems to be some kind of
sixth sense ; I don't understand It myself,
but I can see how true and fine their
judgment Is "

*' But you are Highland too, are you
not ? " Alison said gently.

Oh, I am a duffer," said he quite
simply, as they walked along ; " and It's a
good, wholesome thing, when you are a
duffer, to know It. But that fellow Hugh
why, he does all sorts of things by a
kind of instinct. You wouldn't think he
was a bundle of nerves, would you ? — he's
as strong as a young colt. But If you're
driving with him, he's the first to tell If
anything goes wrong with the springs, and
he's the first to notice If the horse goes a
bit lame. I declare to you he can sail a

boat better than I can, and I've been at it
all my life, and he has spent half his time
in Edinburgh at his classes. It's some
nicety of touch he's got — all the way
round ; you should see him throw a cast
of trout-flies on to smooth water, or screw
a ball over a tennis-net. And his sister
has a great deal of the same faculty,
though of course she has not tried her
hand at so many different things. You
wouldn't think she was very sensitive to
impressions, would you ? You might
even," he added, rather turning to his
companion and regarding her — " you might
even say she was a trifle careless — and —
and robust — even mannish — in her ways ? "
'' But surely," said Alison, with the
blood mantling in her cheeks (for now washer
chance) — " surely that very frankness
comes from her honesty, and her good-nature,
and her kind intention towards
you ? Surely that is so ! "

'' Yes, I think it is," he said, but not so
warmly as AHson could have wished ; " I
think she always means well, and knows
it, and is not very particular about people's
opinion of her. However, she seems to
have quite the same instinctive appreciation
that he has of what is fine in music,
or in poetry, or in the colour of a bit of
silk, for the matter of that. Neither the
one nor the other professes to sing, you
know ; you couldn't persuade them to try
a song indoors, before strangers at least ;
but if you are out in a boat with them in
the evening and one or the other begins
with some of the old Gaelic airs, then
you never heard two voices in your life
that went together with such a singular
harmony. There is no effort ; they don't
seem to care ; sometimes he sings second
to her, sometimes she sings second to
him ; and it is a fragmentary kind of thing
a line of a verse, or merely the humming

of the tune. Sometimes I think he should
have been trained as a musician."

'* And yet he is going to be an architect
? " said she.

He noticed the touch of surprise, perhaps
of disappointment, in her tone.

Oh, but you must get Hugh in a
confidential mood, and then he will show
to you that architecture is the noblest of all
the arts ; and not only so, but that it combines
all the others. However, it isn't to
everybody he confides his ambitions. For
my part, I believe there are the makings
of a very great man in that lad, though he
is just now entirely occupied in building a
jib and mainsail sailing-boat. Yes ; I'm
looking forward to the time when I shall
be a broken-down old Highland laird, with
a snuff-box and an old collie as my chief
companions, and Hugh Munro will be
away in the South, one of the great men
of the world, building monuments that will

preserve his name for centuries. You
don't see much in Hugh, perhaps ? — he's
shy ; but I know I am right."

By this time they were crossing a wide
stretch of undulating moorland, by a path
marked here and there by a bit of smooth-worn
rock, and here and there by a few
scattered stones among the tufts of coarse
grass and heather. Far above them
towered the mighty bulk of the Ben —
what they could see of it, that is — the
massive shoulders seamed with deep scars,
the lilac-gray rocks wet in places and
glittering In the sun. He was walking at
a studiously moderate pace, to encourage
her ; every now and again he would stop
for half a second, that they might go on
together.

'' You must tell me," said he, " not when
you are tired, but when you think you are
beelnnlne to be tired — then we will turn."

But I am a very good walker," she

made answer. " At Kirk o' Shields, if
you want to see a few green leaves and
bushes — and they are not very green, poor
things — or if you want to hunt for a primrose
in the spring-time, you've got to walk
away out to Kirtle Burn, nearly six miles
off. That is a good walk, there and
back."

'you ought to drive there and back,
and have all your time at the place :
wouldn't that be more sensible ? " he suggested.


"At Kirk o' Shields no one ever drives,
except to a funeral," said Alison quite
simply, and without being in the least
aware of the grimness of her answer.

They were now ascending the lower
slopes of the mountain, and she was doing
excellently well under his careful encouragement
and supervision.

I shouldn't wonder if we got as far as
the tarn", said he cheerfully, "and I

should consider that a very creditable
performance for a first attempt."

''If I can get up so far," said she,
laughing, but pausing to take breath all
the same, " that will be all right ; for we're
bound to get down somehow."

"Well, you've done enough for the
present ; you must rest for a few minutes
now," said he ; and he chose out a dry
hillock where she could have a comfortable
seat.

He sat down beside her. They were
now at a considerable height, and there
was a spacious view before them, across
the wide, undulating country to the long
ranges of hills in the north. And truly
there was not much of wild Lochaber
about the still, beautiful, soft-tinted picture :
those far hills of faint rose-purple were
about as pale in hue and as ethereal as the
sky immediately over their summits.

I hope you will get a day like this,"

said he, " if your Aunt Gilchrist should
think of driving you over to Oyre."

-To "

To Oyre — that is my father's place,"
he explained. " And I hope you will pay
us a little visit. I should like you to see
my father ; why, you cannot go away from
the Highlands without having seen the
last of the old Highland gentlemen."

She looked up, a little astonished, and
he smiled.

*' That is what Hugh and Flora call
him ; but I think it would be better to say
the last of the old-fashioned Highland
gentlemen. Yes, he is of the old school
entirely ; and so is the house, and so are
all his belongings. He won't part with
anybody who has been years in his service ;
no, nor with any horse or dog that has
done good work for him : it's a rare
hospital for incurables that we have at
Oyre. And, as you may imagine, the old

gentleman is greatly given to praising past
times, and magnifying the joy that used to
exist then. You see, he remembers the
Ceiling. The Ceilidh^' he continued — and
he was carelessly pulling a twig of heather
now and again, and she was contentedly
listening, for his voice was pleasant to
hear, and that was a beautiful, distant
panorama spread out all before her, and
the very solitude was a grateful kind of
thing — " well, that is only the Gaelic word
for a visit ; but it used to be the custom
for the young girls of a village to meet at
a particular house in the evening, and take
their work with them, and then the young
men would come in, naturally, and there
would be songs and stories, and often a
little dancing, to the sound of the pipes.
It was all very harmless and innocent ;
and if a young man could compose a good
song about his sweetheart, there was his
chance ; and if one could play the pipes

well, or tell a thrilling ghost story, there
was the chance too. But nowadays, where
is all that gone ? My father will tell you
that it is the Free Church that has taken
the heart and soul out of the life of the
Highlanders."

She started as he spoke, but he did not
notice.

No more music, no more sinorinor no
more dancing, no rational enjoyment whatever
— that's the programme," he went on,
all unwittingly. " If a visit is paid to anyone
in the village, it is to talk about
saving grace and the carnality of works —
that's the Ceiling nowadays ! Why, some
of the militia lads, who come over from
the outlying islands, are just like to go
mad when they hear the pipes. The
pipes are forbidden in nearly all the islands
now : the Free Kirk ministers will have
nothing more wildly hilarious than the
Jews-harp, if the young folks must have

music. Really one loses patience to see
a simple and generous and naturally lighthearted
people tyrannized over by a set of
men who are Ignorant, Ill-educated, narrow-minded,
without any knowledge of the
world whatever, and with no more understanding
of human nature than a cow has
of algebra "

But here he laughed at his own
vehemence.

'' You will think I have put on my
father's mantle," said he; "and yet I confess
It does make me feel a little wild to
see one of those Illiterate, ill-conditioned
boors become the spiritual master of a
whole community of Highlanders — who
are at heart gentlemen. Sometimes," he
continued (and he was far too much engaged
with those twigs of heather to notice
the expression of his companion's face),
I am extremely happy to say, one of
them gets hoist with his own petard. I

know of a parish where the crofters were
not so badly off, as things go ; but this
fellow came among them, sowing ill-will,
talking about tyranny and slavery and all
the rest ; and at last he got what he
wanted — they chose him to be their
minister ; and there he was installed as
the champion of the rights of the people.
But his popularity did not last very long.
He was so inconsistent as to complain to
the policeman that somebody had stolen
his gooseberries, and also that some other
person had actually opened his gate and
driven a cart across his field by way of a
short cut ; whereupon he was immediately
and angrily denounced by his congregation
as an aristocrat, a land-owner, and an
enemy of the poor ; and when the Sustentation
Fund collectors went round, they
came back with empty books — nobody
would subscribe a blessed farthing. Oh
yes, they're a set of nice, pleasant, peacemaking,

considerate, gentlemanly fellows,
those Free Kirk ministers ! " said this
young man. " I suppose your father
doesn't come much In contact with them,
Miss Blair ? He is a clergyman, is he
not ? "

My father Is a Free Church minister,"
Alison said quietly.

Then young Macdonell leaped to his feet
as though he had been shot through the
heart ; and his handsome face, that ordinarily
shone with a sunny good-humour
and gaiety, was hot and red with bitter
mortification.

*' It's true what they say," he exclaimed,
as if he were gnashing the words between
his teeth, 'that the sons of the Highlanders
are not as their fathers were. My father
would have made no such mistake. He
would have found out before uttering a
word. Miss Blair, how am I to ask your
pardon ? "

His distress — his humiliation — his abject
self-abasement — was quite painful to witness
; and Alison, looking up for a moment
with her honest, clear gray eyes, was all
anxiety to say a few reassuring words to
him.

'' But why should you think you have
offended me ? " she asked, in her gentle
way — and she was looking down again
now. " I don't know anything about the
Free Church ministers in the Highlands.
Perhaps what you say of them is true ;
and if it is true, why should it not be said
and known ? "

*' But I had no Idea your father was a
Free Church minister ! " he exclaimed.

Of course I knew that," said she, in
the most friendly fashion possible. " And
I am sure of this too, that If you knew my
father you would not include him among
the stirrers-up of ill-will and dissension.
He Is strict In his Ideas of what the con-vol.

I. I

duct of a professed Christian should be ;
yes, and a little old-fashioned, too, perhaps,
about many observances ; but I think if
you knew him you would respect and
honour him for the very way in which he
clings to the customs of his forefathers. I
suppose you never heard of the Blairs of
Moss-end ? "

She looked up with a quiet smile.

'' N — no, I'm afraid not," he admitted.

Nor of Adam Blair, the famous
Seceder ? " she continued ; and there was
some amusement In her eyes as she thus
proclaimed her' pride of ancestry. " I
suppose not. But our family are descendants
of his ; and, of course, noblesse oblige :
we have to maintain our own principles
and practice, whatever our neighbours may
do."

Indeed she was obviously bent on
removing the chagrin that was still visible
in the young man's face ; and when they

again set forth to breast the steep iodine,
she proceeded to tell him some stones of
those Blairs of former days, which seemed
to suggest that, however austere in piety
they may have been, they could also
exhibit a grim sort of humour on occasion.
But the memory of his grievous blunder
was not yet gone from him. He was
rather silent. She had to do nearly the
whole of the talking — which was grossly
unfair, for she needed all the breath she
could get for her climbing ; while he
stepped from tuft to tuft, or from stone to
stone, with the greatest possible ease.
When she subsequently asked Hugh
Munro what would have happened if her
walking powers had given out, and she
had had to succumb, he said —

"What — and Ludovick with you! Did
you ever look at his shoulders ? Did you
ever see him catch hold of an anchor-chain,
and give a haul with those arms of his ?

He could have carried you all the way
up, and carried you all the way down, and
thought nothing at all about it ! "

At length, after what seemed to her a
good deal of laborious work — although he
lent her a helping hand whenever there
was any excuse for doing so — they reached
the level and marshy plateau in which lies
the solitary little lake already referred to ;
and then he asked her whether she thought
she could hold out if they crossed the
mountain and struck down the other side,
getting home by Glen Nevis.

'' Couldn't we get to the top first ? " said
she boldly, glancing up to the far-receding
heights overhead.

He laughed, but he seemed to approve
her courage all the same.

*' No, no," said he; 'you are not anywhere
near the top yet ; and it becomes
very steep after you leave the tarn. We
shall do very well if we get back by Glen

Nevis. Besides," he added, looking all
around, 'there's something queer — don't
you notice how dark it is getting ? "

Yes ; it is dark," said she.

There's something gathering overhead,
though where it can have come from I
can't imagine ; there was not a cloud in
the sky when we started. Well, let us get
along'

So they set out once more — he usually
taking the lead, especially in the marshy
places, and finding for her a safe and solid
track ; and she watching where he put his
foot, and sometimes taking his hand to
help her in a bit of a jump. All this time,
however, the mysterious darkness around
them was increasing. The lonely tarn
over there seemed almost black. There
was a sultry feeling in the air, and a
sensation as though one could hear a
great distance, though the silence was
absolute.

All of a sudden she was startled b}^ a
short, sharp crack behind her, as though a
pistol had been fired close to the back of
her head ; and as she wheeled round in
dismay — to find nothing before her but
this intensifying gloom — she could hear a
thunderous rumbling go rolling and reverberating
through the unknown deeps of
the air, and dying away in lessening and
ever-lessening echoes.

'that was pretty close by, though I did
not see the flash," he said, with much
composure. " We'd better push on quickly.
If we can strike the path down to Glen
Nevis before the rain begins, I know
where there is a small wooden bridge
where you will get shelter."

He had hardly spoken when a blinding
glare of light shone all around them — a
glare that showed them nothing but itself,
for it blotted out the whole of the world
from their bewildered eyes. Then came a

Startling rattle overhead — a quick succession
of snaps and cracks, as if rocks were
beinor rent and hurled against each other
immediately above them ; it was not until
these appalling explosions had ceased that
the muffled echoes, repeated and repeated,
boomed and rolled away through the awestricken
silence. He regarded his companion.
Her face was pale ; but not paler
than usual, he thought. Nay, the instant
she noticed that he was looking her way
she brightened up.

Is this the wild Lochaber, then, that
you wanted ? "

'' A thunder-storm is a thunder-storm
anywhere," said he, 'rand I wish it had
not caught you so far from home."

For the first heavy drops had begun to
fall, and the darkness around them grew
more intense. He stopped for a moment,
and whipped off his jacket of rough homespun.


You must put this round your
shoulders," said he, approaching her.

Indeed I will not," she said emphatically.
" Why should you get wet any more
than I ? "

'' But you will— you must. Now don't
argue like your Aunt Gilchrist and the
Doctor, but be reasonable," he said ; and
he had never spoken to her like this
before — exercising a kind of brotherly-authority
over her, as it were. Indeed he
took possession of her. He slipped her
arm into one of the sleeves, pulled on the
coat, drew it round her, slipped in the
other arm, and securely fastened the buttons
in front, even to the upturned collar, which
came round the lower part of her face.
It was none too soon. The water was now
coming down in sheets — a straight, resistless
downpour, which seemed to spread a
smoking vapour all around. He took her
hand and led her onward, for the rain

drowned her eyes. She followed him
blindly, not caring now whether she
reached dry footing or not, so long as she
could keep up with him.

Then something happened that caused
them both to stand stock-still, as if they
had been paralyzed. There was another
wild glare all around them, but in the
midst of it there was a ball of fire — a ball
of white fire that appeared to be hurled
down to the ground just in front of them —
and instantly there was a sudden, terrific,
ear-splitting rattle of sounds that seemed
to shake the earth to its very foundations.
Alison felt him let go her hand, and at the
same moment perceived that he had
dropped his stick on the heather, and was
standing there uncertain. Then he beofan
to press his arm, from the wrist up to the
shoulder.

What is it ? " she cried in quick
terror.

'' Only a bit of an electric shock ; there's
no harm done," he said, as he picked up
his stick again. " I suppose this was the
conductor "

Then why not throw it away ? " she
said instantly.

''I can't do that," he said; "my father
gave it me more than a dozen years ago —
on the day after I caught my first salmon.
Come along ; we must get out of this
hollow cup as soon as we can."

So he caught hold of her hand again, and
they set off. But the rain was now worse
than ever, and seemed to press down the
clouds and mist upon the ground so that
she at least could make nothing of their
whereabouts. He appeared to be leading
her across a marshy and trackless and
interminable waste, through white vapours
surrounding them and shutting out all the
rest of the universe. Fortunately they
did not encounter any more fire-balls ;

their trouble now was merely those blinding
sheets of water that seemed to cause
the earth to smoke around them. As for
their route, she was happily ignorant of
any danger ; she had never heard of
people being lost on Ben Nevis ; she took
it for granted that her companion was
familiar with every slope and corrie of
these Lochaber hills, and trusted herself
implicitly in his hands.

And yet she was glad enough to feel
that they where at last beginning to descend
from these solitary heights ; and when
eventually they struck a rude little path
consisting of chipped rocks and stones, and
when he told her that this would lead
them down to Glen Nevis, it was pleasant
to know that there was a link connecting
them with the world far below. Moreover,
the rain was lessening now ; the
clouds were lifting ; a warm glow as of
sunshine was appearing through the

''smurr;" finally a flood of golden light
fell all around them, on the wet path, on
the shining grass, on the silver-gray rocks.
He took the soaking coat from off her
shoulders and slung it over his arm. He
was talking very cheerfully to her now, for
this encounter with a thunder-storm in a
caldron of the hills had driven his unhappy
blunder of the morning out of his mind.
And Miss Dimity Puritan was very
cheerful too, smiling and showing the
pretty dimple In her cheek ; and declaring
that her be-drenched and flaccid garments
(which he studiously forbore from noticing)
would be perfectly dry and comfortable
long before they should get back to Fort
William.

As they got farther and farther down
into the lower world (and Alison found
this descent over broken stones a far more
trying operation than the previous climbing)
the sunlight became hotter and hotter,

until she rather envied her companion the
coolness of his flannel sleeves. And where
was there any sign of the storm through
which they had passed ? When at length
they were descending Into the beautiful
valley of Glen Nevis — a sunny flash here
and there upward through the overhanging
foliage told her where the river wound Its
way down to the sea — he suddenly asked
her to pause and listen. What was this
sound, as yet distant and faint ? Why,
surely there was a reaping-machine at
work somewhere In those fertile fields In
the hollow of the glen ?

'they've had no rain at all down here,"
said he.

Then," said she, demurely regarding
her drooping skirts, " they'll think I must
have fallen Into the river."

However, she was not to challenge the
curiosity of the Fort William folk In any
such manner ; for they were still outside

the town when a friend of Captain Macdonell's
came driving by in a dog-cart, and
he was delighted to have Miss Blair take
the seat beside him, where the apron in
front afforded her all the concealment she
wanted. In this wise she was driven
home, and immediately retired to her own
room, thoroughly tired out and aching considerably
about the ankles, and yet glad
enough to have met with this adventure
now that it was all over.

For she had seen a good deal to-day of
this young man, who was naturally an
object of great interest to her, as likely to
become a relative of hers. And in thinking
back over all the things that had
turned up in their conversation, what
struck her as most peculiar was that he
had been far more ready to speak about
Hugh than about Flora, and that he expressed
a much more enthusiastic appreciation
of the brother than of the sister.

Was It his modesty, then ? She had
always understood that a young man
engaged to be married was for ever anxious

o o

to talk about his future bride, and to
expatiate upon her various perfections and
virtues and celestial attributes so long as
there was left in the world one patient ear
to listen. But perhaps (Alison finally said
to herself) Captain Ludovick knew that
Flora, who was an independent, proud-spirited,
wilful kind of creature, would
resent being made the subject of any
such foolish and infatuated discourse ; and
perhaps it was really out of respect for
her, and for her wishes, that he remained
mostly silent.

CHAPTER IV.

JOHN.

Next morning, Aunt Gilchrist being still
confined to her room by the super-sensitiveness
of her toes and fingers, and Hugh
and Flora not having yet returned from
the South, Alison was again left to her
own resources ; and thus it was that she
came to make the acquaintance of the boy
John. The boy John, whose sole aim in
life was to sneak out of the way and do
absolutely nothing, was rather glad to
have his idleness publicly recognized and
condoned. He went about with Alison
very willingly ; and as he immediately discovered
that she knew next to nothing of

country life, he was soon engaged in
imparting information to her about many
other things besides the plants and flowers
in the garden, of which he himself, by the
way, was pretty ignorant. Alison listened
in amazement, and with a little fear, to this
lumbering lad, whose small, twinkling,
shrewd eyes seemed to suggest that he
was not quite such a fool as he looked.
And yet she came to the conclusion that
John's conception of the universe, and of
his own position in it, was perfectly sincere.
He appeared to take it for granted that
all nature, animate and inanimate, was ina
conspiracy to maim, injure, and destroy
him, John ; and that he, John, was therefore
justified in taking his revenge beforehand,
whenever he got the chance. Of course
there was more than that. Sometimes,
instead of merely killing them, you could
outwit those malevolent creatures by which
you were surrounded. Ill-luck they meant

VOL. I. K

you ; but good-luck you might extort from
them by the exercise of a superior cunning.
Here, for example, as Alison and he were
strolling about the back garden, they came
upon a big black snail that had strayed onto
the foot-path.

Now, mem, now uss your chance ! "
John whispered eagerly, and he put his
hand on her arm. " Quick, now — the
little duffle he does not see us — his horns
are out — quick, now, mem, grip him up by
the horns and throw him over your left
shoulder — oh, that will bring you plenty of
money and good-luck ! — plenty, plenty ! "

I would not touch the horrid beast for
anything ! " she exclaimed, with a shiver of
disgust.

Seeing that, Johnny advanced by himself,

knelt down, extended his hand warily —

warily — and then made a sudden grab.

But the horns were instantly gone. He

got up, sullen and scowling.

The little duffle ! " he grumbled. " He
was only pretending not to see us. If I
could feet a bie stone now, I would bash
his head for him ! "

'' You will do nothing of the kind ! " said
Alison angrily.

And then Johnny grinned. He did not
look further for a stone ; he stooped and
picked up the snail in his hand, and crept
across the garden to the wall. On the
other side, tethered In a bit of pasture,
was a large she-goat, with magnificent
horns and beard ; and when this heavy-shouldered,
broad-faced, lubberly gnome
had reached the wall, he raised his head to
the top, peeped over, flung the snail withall
his might at old Nanny, and then came
crouching back to Alison.

Mebbe she'll eat the snail," said he. In
great glee, 'rand It will kill her. Cosh,
that would be fine ! "

Why, what harm has the poor old
creature done you ? " Alison demanded.

He looked at her ; then he glanced at
the stone wall, so as to make sure the old
Nanny-goat should not overhear.

Mebbe you'll not know," said he, pretending
to whisper mysteriously, but his
eyes were twinkling : she never knew but
that he was making fun of her ignorance.
Do you not know where them beasts chef
to go, once in effery year ? They hef to
go to the big Duffle himself, to get their
beards combed ; ay, that's a truth, now ;
effery year they hef to go, and the Duffle
ores their beards combed for them. And
who knows what they will bring back, and
what they are thinking about, and what
harm they can do to you, if you anger
them ? There's wild ones in Ardgour ;
and no one will go near the rocks where
they are after dark ; for they'll come behind
you, and push you, and push you, down
into the sea. Ay, and it's not any use
firing at them either, even in the daytime ;

for the big Duffle he lass put something over
them, and nothing will touch them Cosh,
I wonder if she lass eaten the snail ! "

He was for sneaking back to the stonewall,
but Alison impatiently called him
away ; and so he came and humbly accompanied
her as before, only pausing now
and again, when he managed to discover
some pugnacious insect that he could worry
into a display of its fierceness.

But Alison must have produced a most
favourable impression upon Johnny's ingenuous
mind, for it was entirely of his
own accord that he asked her whether she
would not go for a sail. Miss Flora and
Mr. Hugh, he had heard, were coming
back by the midday steamer ; would the
young lady not like to go in the boat to
meet them ? There was a nice breeze.
Maybe they would get as far down as
Corran ? And, if not, they would have a
sail whatever.

Alison (who rather wondered that Captain
Macdonell had not come along to say
whether his arm had quite recovered from
the electric shock of the previous day) at
once assented ; and Johnny led the way
down to the shore, where he was not lone
In launching a small rowing-boat that was

o o

lying there. Moreover, the tide being a
little way out, he generously offered, if she
would but wait a minute or so, to hunt out
two spartans (by which he meant crabs), so
that she might witness a combat between
them ; but she declined that amiable proposal
; so he asked her to get Into the
stern of this rickety small craft, and he
would pull her out to the sailing-boat,
which was lying at her moorings. A few
minutes thereafter Alison was on board,
and securely seated in the little cockpit ;
while Johnny, forward on the deck, was
hoisting the gaff of the main-sail with a
vigour which showed that his constitutional

aversion from work was not due to any
want of muscle.

Now Alison was absolutely ignorant of
everything connected with boats and sailing
; while Johnny, on the other hand,
took it for granted that she knew as much
as any of the young people about, any one
of whom, in going out for a sail, would
naturally take the tiller, while he, Johnny,
looked after the jib-sheets. Accordingly,
when he had fastened the small boat to
the moorings, and was ready to let the
larger one go, he turned to see if she was
ready. She was quietly regarding him.

"Will ye tek the tiller, mem?" he
suggested.

'' Oh yes," said she, with cheerful alacrity,
if you will show me what to do."

Oh, well," said he, not at all suspecting
her real ignorance, " I would keep her
pretty close up : there's sometimes bad
squalls on this loch."

Forthwith he let sHp the moorings ; then
he turned round to see what his fellow-voyager
was doing. She was doing nothing-the
main-sail was flapping and rattling in
the wind, and the young lady was merely
concerned in ducking her head under the
swaying boom. Did she not understand,
then, that the moorings had been cast off ?
He went down beside her, put the helm
up a bit, slacked out the main-sheet, gave
it one hitch round the pin, and handed it
to her ; then he surrendered the tiller.

'' Ay, just keep her about that," said he ;
and then he went and stood on the deck
by the side of the mast, which was his
accustomed place when either Miss Flora
or Mr. Huofh was sailing the boat.

And at first things went very well indeed ;
and no doubt Johnny was assured that the
young lady could sail a boat just like anyone
else — probably better than himself, for
he was not much of a hand at it. The

brisk breeze that was blowing came almost
straight up the loch ; they had a long
stretch before having to go about ; and it
was with great surprise and delight that
Alison found this bounding and living
thing so completely under her control,
obeying the smallest touch of the rudder,
and yet ever cleaving an onward way and
throwing sparkling white foam from the
rising and dipping bows. She was not in
the least afraid ; she suspected no danger ;
she was exultant, rather, with this newfound
joy of speeding through a world of
dazzling sea and sunlight, herself the
mistress of the mysterious power that was
bearing her so swiftly along. She was
more excited than she knew. When the
wind struck down in a heavier gust than
usual, the sudden '' swish " of water all
along: the side of the boat was like music
in her ears. And Master Johnny no doubt
considered that they were doing splendidly,

and making a very brave display, If anybody
happened to be watching them from
the distant shore.

But Master Johnny's serene confidence
in his companion's seamanship was destined
to be rudely shaken when it was time to
go about.

'* You may put her round now," said he,
from his post by the mast.

'' Yes ?" said Alison inquiringly

'* Ay, you may put her about now,"
Johnny repeated.

But what am I to do ? " she called to
him.

He turned and stared.

"Put the helm down," said he; "we'll
about "

ofo about now.

And still she sat helpless, awaiting
Instructions, so that even Johnny must at
last have perceived her appalling ignorance.

'' Put the tiller awe from you ! " he
called to her.

Poor Alison was all bewildered. She
vaguely knew that something had gone
wrong — that something was happening —
and then that Johnny was down here in
the cockpit, working quickly at the ropes
that the boom was over on the other
side, and she holdings the tiller with her
other hand — and that presently they were
sailing along, apparently with as much ease
and comfort as before. As for Johnny,
he could now make fast his lee jib sheet ;
but it had been forcibly impressed on his
youthful mind that his sole companion for
the time being knew as much about sailing
as he did of Greek.

And perhaps it was this discovery,
coupled with the knowledge that he himself
was but an indifferent hand, and was
never allowed to q-q out in this boat unless
there was some capable person on board,
that served to unnerve him, just when
coolness and self-command were most

necessary. For the wind had freshened
up considerably ; and when they got
farther and farther out into the middle of
the loch it began to come along in swirling
gusts that were extremely disconcerting.
There was no plain sailing, no exultant
joy, for Alison now. She could only sit
clinging to the main-sheet, and watching
the motion of Johnny's hand as he directed
her how to keep the tiller : the fact being
that, although by this time he was quite
aware of her absolute ignorance, he preferred
not to take over the responsibility
on to his own shoulders. And as his
chief notion of safety, when those gusts
came along, was to keep the boat close up,
under Alison's inexperienced guidance she
was continually staggering into the wind,
and then being blown down on the other
side, with a terrific rattle of the loose oars
and spars on deck. He was in the cockpit
by this time, attending to the main-sheet

as occasion demanded ; but he would not
touch the tiller ; that was the young lady's
lookout : the truth is, he had lost his head
altogether, and could only mutter to himself
again and again, '' That duffle of a
wind!" He scowled as he looked down
the loch. His malignant enemy was too
strong for him ; he could but bear those
furious buffets, and wonder when they
would cease. And sometimes he would
try to escape. Taking advantage of a lull,
he would let her head away a little ; the
shivering sails would instantly fill, and she
would shoot forward willingly enough ;
then would come another tearing squall,
driving the gunwale down into the seething
water, and threatening to send the small
craft and all its contents to the bottom.
He had forgotten about the shore now,
and about possible spectators. He was at
the mercy of this v/ind-demon that struck
and struck and was trying to send them

over ; and he could not strike In return,
nor yet run away and hide : his enemy
was his master now, and he was helpless.

He happened to look back, and towards
the land.

There's a boat coming out — is she
making for us, do you think ? " he said.

But how could Alison tell ? Besides,
she was too much eno-ao^ed in cllnorlnor to
her place, and also in doing what she
could to prevent the wind from getting a
grip of the flapping and cracking sails.
But John kept his eye upon that small
cockle-shell in the distance ; and at last he
said, with an awe-stricken air —

'' Cosh, it's Macdonell himself; and he'll
be for giving me an ahfu' licking ! "

Alison turned quickly She could seethe
small boat and its tiny white sail, and
also a figure seated In the stern, but she
could not make out who he was.

Is that Captain Macdonell's boat,

John?" she asked of him, amid this bewildering
din of tumbling oars, and swinging
spars, and creaking cordage.

Tus," said Johnny, in gloomy assent.
And then he added (still bent on keeping
her responsible), "Will I tek down the
main-sail now, and wait for him ? "

I don't know ; how should I know ? "
said Alison, who was rather bewildered.
Wait for him, did you say ? Oh yes,
certainly ! If that is Captain Macdonell,
certainly wait for him ! "

I'll tek down the main-sail whatever,"
said Johnny ; and he went forward and
loosed the halyards, and rattled down the
main-sail and gaff upon the deck.

That small blue boat, with the tiny
white lug-sail, was coming along in beautiful
fashion, seeming to skim the crests of
the waves like a sea-gull ; and long before
he was near, Alison had recognized — and
recognized with heartfelt gratitude, and with

a curious sense of trustfulness and security
that It was Ludovick Macdonell who
was the solitary figure there. When he
ran the Httle craft alongside he got to his
feet, threw a line to Johnny, ballet up
the sail, and leaped on board.

Good mornlnor, Miss Blair." said he
very coolly. " I saw you were In a fix,
and I thought I'd run out and lend you a
hand. And you," he said, turning to the
cowering Johnny, who regarded him with
a furtive eye — " you've been making a
nice exhibition of yourself, young shaver !
What were you doing ? Did you want to
send the boat to the bottom ? "

'the wind was blowing so hard," said
Johnny sulkily ; he guessed that the
belabouring of his shoulders was but a
question of a couple of minutes.

Why didn't you take in a couple of reefs,
then ? " said Macdonell, who was eettino-
his own small boat fastened securely astern.

'' I could not reef the sail all by myself
in them squalls," answered the youthful
mariner, still plunged in apprehensive
gloom.

*' Then what prevented your hauling up
the tack, and running away back to the
quay ? "

'' She wanted to go on," said Johnny, at
a venture ; and " she," being thus in a
measure appealed to, thought she ought to
interfere.

'' Indeed the whole fault is mine. Captain
Macdonell," Alison said. " I have no
doubt Johnny imagined I could help in
sailing the boat — and I don't know anything
about it — and since it came on to
blow so hard I am sure he has done
everything he could think of."

But what brought you out here ?
Where were you going ? " he asked in
amazement.

We thought we might go down and

VOL. I. L

meet Flora and Hugh," she said. '' But it
was only a fancy. Shall we go back ? Is
there any danger ? "

I will take very good care there won't
be any danger now," he made answer,
confidently enough ; '' but once or twice I
thought you were over — I did, indeed. It
was two men on the shore who happened
to catch sight of you ; and when they
called to me, and I saw the trouble you
were in, I bolted through the town, and
put out in the little Blue Bell — none too
soon, as I think. Here, Johnny, you
young idiot, come along and get this sail
reefed."

Johnny, observing with his shrewd, small
eyes that the captain appeared to be in a
very good humour, grew less apprehensive
about his shoulders, and set to work with
a quite unusual alacrity, in hopes of procuring
a remission of his self-imposed
sentence. Instead of looking about for a

Stick or a rope's-end, Captain Macdonell
was laughing and joking with the young
lady the while he was getting the boat
into proper trim ; and at last, when everything
was right, he insisted on her resuming
possession of the tiller and the
main-sheet.

'' That's the thing ! " he said to her, as
the boat shot forward through these rushing
seas. " Don't be afraid— keep her full —
let her have it — never mind the gusts —
that's the way now ! "

This was all very well ; but the small
craft, reefed and all as she was, was now
tearing along at a spanking pace ; and
Alison could not help regarding with
apprehension the surging and hissing
water that came so close up to the rail.

'' Please, I wish you would take these
things ! " she said.

'' Certainly, if you prefer it," he answered
at once ; and she made room for him, so

that he could sit with his left arm on the
tiller and his right hand holding the sheet.

Ah, that is so much more pleasant ! "
said she, with a smile. '' I feel safe now ;
and — and I can thank you for having
come out to our rescue ; for we were in
danger, were we not ? "

He hesitated ; then he laughed.

'' I should like to think I had saved you
from a watery grave. And I should like
you to think it too. But I am afraid I
must tell the truth. Of course, when you
kept staggering into the wind like that,
with every inch of canvas up, a particularly
bad squall might have sent you over ; but
as soon as Johnny had lowered the sail
you were safe enough ; 3'ou would merely
have drifted away up north again — with
the chance of being run down by a steamer
if you didn't get in before nightfall. But
the two men who drew my attention to
you fancied you were in a parlous case ;

and I can tell you John Gilpin didn't
whisk through Edmonton half as fast as
I got down through Fort William to the
quay. But if you want to be very much
indebted to me," he continued, in his usual
frank and good-humoured way, *' you may
take into consideration that I had no time
to reef the sail of the Blue-Bell when I set
out ; I had the sheet once round my wrist,
and took my chance of the puffs."

I am sure I would much rather believe
that you rescued us fi'om very serious
danger," said Alison, with a pleasant smile.

'' This I am going to do for you at any
rate," said he — '' I am going to show you
something of the management of a boat,
so that you yourself may know what to do
if you should get into a difficulty again.
And I don't think there is any use in our
trying to get down to Corran — beating
against a wind like this — before the
steamer comes up from Ballachulish. We

should not be in time. What do you say
shall we run away up to the head of the
loch and get into more sheltered water,
and I will give you your first lessons in
sailing ? "

Very well," said she. " You have
saved our lives ; you can do what you like
with us."

Accordingly Johnny was ordered to haul
up the main-tack ; the steersman rounded
the boat away from the wind, and slacked
out the main-sheet ; and presently they
were spinning along before the brisk
breeze, with the water apparently grown
quite smooth around them. John, foreseeing
a long spell of idleness, proceeded
to make himself comfortable. He stretched
himself flat on the deck, face downward,
put his elbows out at right angles, and
rested his chin on his clasped hands. But
he did not try to sleep ; on the contrary,
his small, twinkling eyes were shrewdly

observant ; and as all fear of a thrashing
was now gone from his mind, he was in a
humorous, cheerful, and communicative
mood. He did not exactly join in the
conversation between Captain Macdonell
and Miss Blair ; but from time to time he
made remarks — which might be listened
to or not listened to. After all, he was ina
position of some importance. He was
the custodian of the boat. He was giving
them this sail. Besides, his observations
were addressed to the sea, and the sky,
and the air ; no one was obliged to listen ;
but the shrewd, twinkling eyes knew pretty
well when he had been overheard.

A large steam-yacht passed them, making
for the north.

Cosh, I would like fine to see her run
into a steamer ! " said this merry lad (talking
to his two hands). " She would chump
and chump in the water before .she went
down head-first ! "

A black-backed gull flew past overhead.

If I had a herring now," Johnny was
heard to mutter, " I would put a hook in
it, and float it out with a piece of string ;
and ferry soon you'd see him come back
and dive for the herring. Ay, and when
he found the hook in his throat, wouldn't
he think he had catched hold of the
Duflle ! "

There was a small cottage perched upon
the wooded heights they were passing
on a plateau, with a bit of clearance
around it : a solitary croft, perhaps, removed
far above the world, or perhaps a
shelter for some keeper or watcher belonging
to Conaglen Forest.

"What a lonely place that must be to
live in ! " Alison said to her companion.

And Johnny must needs raise his eyes
too. He regarded that isolated cottage
for some time.

'' I'm thinking that was the last place

that God made," he observed to himself,
laying his chin once more on the cushion
of his two hands — "ay, the last place that
God made, when He was going awe
horn tired on the Saturday night."

"Johnny," Macdonell said sharply, "getup
and put those oars and boat-hooks
properly together. And slack out the lee
jib-sheet a bit more. What's the use o'
your lying sprawling on the deck there,
like a dead porpoise ? "

Thus admonished, Johnny got up and
began, in a lazy and leisurely fashion, to
put things ship-shape ; but he was grinning
a little ; perhaps the dark cogitations of
his own brain were affording him amusement.


They ran away up to the entrance of
upper Loch Eil, where they got into more
sheltered water ; and here, the reefs being
shaken out, Alison received her first lessons
in the art of sailing a small cutter. It was

an interesting, even an absorbing, task ;
and the first intimation they got that Flora
and Hugh must have returned to Fort
William was the passing by of the great
scarlet-funnelled steamer on her way to
Corpach. But still they continued at their
manoeuvres and evolutions ; for Alison was
eager to learn ; and Captain Macdonell
was grown rather proud of his pupil ; while
to the boy John was administered as sound
and wholesome a dose of work as he had
encountered for many a long day. They
hardly noticed how the time passed. As
the mellow afternoon went by the wind
moderated considerably ; so that they could
run out into the open loch when they
chose, with no thought of reefing. Alison
admitted that she was rather hungry ; but
she was not going to give up for that
reason. Moreover, when he at length
overcame her persistency, and got her
consent to make for home, it was found

that far more time than they had expected
was consumed in getting back, in securing
the boat at her moorings, and so forth ;
and when at last they reached the house,
AHson discovered that there was not much
more than half an hour left for her in
which to write a letter to her sister Agnes
before the general assembling for supper.
So she went to her room with all speed,
for she had promised to write.

She had been there hardly over ten
minutes when the door was brusquely
thrown open, and her cousin Flora appeared
— indignant in mien, and yet amused
in a kind of way.

*' Alison Blair," said this ferocious
termagant, who looked as if she wanted to
fling something, and was inclined to laugh
all the same, " I'm going to have a word
with you. Oh yes, its all very well for
you to look prim and innocent, Miss
Dimity Puritan — open your big gray eyes.

do ! — but this is what I've got to say to
you : you may run away with Aunt Gilchrist's
money, if you Hke, but you shan't
carry off my sweetheart as well — there !
Is that plain talking ? You can't expect
to have everything, surely ! Do you
hear ? "

Flora ! " Alison said in blank amazement.


Oh, I know ! I've heard of your
goings-on. I've heard of your adventures.
Oh yes, and your tremendous courage and
endurance and coolness — lightning-storms
seem to come quite natural to you, for allas
prim and mim as you are ! But what
business have you with my sweetheart ? —
that's what I want to know ! "

Alison had risen ; she was very pale.

Flora, I thought you and Captain
Macdonell were engaged — I made sure of
it — and that is why I wished to be friends
with him."

Look how frightened she is ! " said this
strapping young damsel. " That's what
happens when the guilty are found out.
Oh, I know the ways of you quiet ones.
Well, I'm not going to quarrel," she continued,
with a sudden change of manner.
Take him. Take him, and welcome.
A sweetheart more or less is nothing tome
; I've got plenty of them, poor things ;
wait till you come to the Volunteer Ball,
and you'll see for yourself. But all the
same it was shabby, Alison, the moment
my back was turned ! "

Flora, will you speak reasonably for a
moment ? " Alison pleaded. " Will you
listen ? I made sure you were going to
be married to Captain Macdonell. Isn't
it so?"

Isn't it so ? " repeated the other.
Well, he hasn't asked me, that's to begin
with ; and, secondly, he isn't likely to ; and
a-hundred-and-twenty-fifthly and lady,

dear Miss Dimity, I wouldn't have him.
But none the less I consider it remarkably
cool of you to step in in this way "

'' Flora ! " called out Hugh from below.
'' Flora ! — Alison ! — Aunt Gilchrist wants
you both. Look alive ! Supper's just
coming in."

So Alison had to leave her letter unfinished
; and as she went downstairs to
the dining-room — a little bewildered, perhaps
— she was hurriedly trying to recall all
that had passed between herself and this
young Captain Ludovick, who was not, as
it appeared, her cousin's fiance at all, but,
as one might say, a stranger.

CHAPTER V.

A BOAT-LAUNCH.

But to Alison the astonishing thing about
these good people, now that she saw them
in the familiar intimacy of their own home
and social circle, was the easy and contented
way in which they took their life.
Here was no studied mortification of all
natural enjoyment ; no constant and
anxious introspection ; no dwelling upon
Death and Judgment as the only subjects
worthy of human concern. The ordinary
incidents of the day seemed to be for them
sufficient ; a prevailing cheerfulness and
good-humour attended both their occupations
and their amusements ; and if there

were sharp words at times — especially
when Aunt Gilchrist's peripheral neuralgia
was wandering around — these sharp words
left no morbid sting. Alison felt all this ;
but she did not write to her sister about
it, for it was difficult of explanation. But
she was well aware (and perhaps with a
little twinge of conscience at times) that she
herself was being affected by this freer, this
happier atmosphere. Gladness came with
the first moment of her waking ; whether
there was rain or sunlight outside, there
would be beautiful, clear things to look at ;
and gladness went with her down to the
breakfast-table, where, whatever mischief
and sarcasm might be flying about, there
was always a covert intention of kindness.
Alison, it is to be feared, was becoming
a most worldly and careless and thoughtless
person. She had forgotten all about
Paley's *' Evidences." She was as eager
as any of the younger folk in their various

diversions and busy Idleness ; she walked
down every morning to the building-shed
to see how the new boat was getting on,
and Hugh quite tolerated her society now ;
she made Master Johnny regret the day
that ever he offered to be her servant, for
she kept him rowing and rowing, while she
practised until she got her hands hopelessly
blistered ; she was ready at a moment's
notice to run alone and order the
waggonette, when x^unt Gilchrist, out of the
plentitude of her wealth, would go for a
drive ; and she showed not the slightest
hesitation when, as they pulled up at a
certain hotel, she was bidden to go in and
ask for Captain Macdonell, and Invite him
to join the small excursion. Aunt Gilchrist
had come forth from her chamber in
royal spirits ; somehow or other she had
procured for herself a temporary mitigation
of her neuralgic pains, w^hlle refusing to
have anything to do with the drugs pre-vol.

I. M

scribed by the doctors ; and now she was
waving a flag of triumph over her enemies,
and singing a song of victory. But why,
at such a juncture, she should have thought
fit to include the Fort William ministers in
the hosts she was supposed to have routed,
it would be difficult to determine.

** What ails ye at the ministers, Jane ? "
said her sister-in-law, with a quiet smile.
''If they trouble you as little as ye trouble
them, Fm thinking you have little to complain
of."

The bodies ! The poor bits o' bodies ! "
said Aunt Gilchrist, in the magnificence of
her scorn. '' They're just alike with the
doctors ; they're a' tarred with the same
stick ; if you do not go to them there will
be no mercy for you, in this world, or the
next. Oh yes, the ministers have got their
bits o' bottles too, stoppered and labelled ;
'saving grace' written on the outside ; and
they're the only lawful and licensed dispensers.

They've got their iodides, I
warrant ye, and their fascines, and their
spirits of ammonia ; and a fine stramash
and roar they set up if ye go by and pay
no heed to them. I'm told, Alison, ye
heard a fine whirligig o' denouncing last
Sunday ; and all about what ? — about that
harmless bit of a temperance shanty they
have put on the top of Ben Nevis ; and of
course it's to be torn down and scattered
to the winds because it's a temptation to
the 3^oung lads that leads them past the
church door — the temptation to climb four
thousand four hundred feet of a mountain,
and at the top of it not a single glass of
ale to slake their thirst ! Poor fellows, it's
no often they get a glimpse of the outside
world, what with their work all the week,
and then the chances of a wet day ; and
what harm can there be in going up that
hill, when there's not even a dram to begot
? But no, no ; it's my consulting-room

yere got to come to ; if ye do not use my
bottles and phials and patent mixtures, then
you're doomed. You'd think that no
human creature could get to heaven without
applying to them for a ticket "

'' Aunt Gilchrist," said Alison, with a
smile, '' it wasn't so much the climbing of
Ben Nevis that the minister was angry
about, it was about Sabbath-breaking
generally ; and he said that the college-boys
at Fort Augustus played cricket on
the Sabbath afternoons : now will you
defend that ? "

But Aunt Gilchrist was not to be driven
into a corner.

*' They're Roman Catholics," she
answered, " and I will leave the Roman
Catholics to defend themselves. But what
I say is this : that the Lord made us all,
and you may trust Him to look after us
all — better than these dour-faced pulpit-thunders
imagine. Set them up with

their bells and their bells ! I will say this
for the doctors, poor bodies : they may
haver as much as ye like, and try to get
ye to live on poisons, but they cinna claim
the right to summon the whole population
to their shops wi' a swinging and jangling
of iron hammers. Mercy o' me ! the confusion
of noise there is on a Sabbath
morning, in this wee town of Fort William,
passes everything."

''I thought I was back in Kirk o' Shields,
auntie, when I first heard it," Alison said.
'' But the rest of the Sabbath day is very,
very different from Kirk o' Shields."

How, then ? " said Flora, who had just
come in.

"Oh, well," the young lady continued,
here it is so brisk and cheerful to see the
people come driving in to church in their
dog-carts and waggonettes, and putting up
at the inns ; and in the afternoon there is
a o-ood deal of strolling aloof the seashore,

or up the hills there ; and then, in
the evening, it is so pretty to see the boats
taking the people home across the quiet
loch "

Alison Blair, I am just ashamed to
hear you ! " Flora exclaimed. " Driving,
walking, rowing on the Sabbath day — and
you sit In that chair and describe such
wickedness without wringing your hands !
And do you know this, Aunt Gilchrist ? —
next Sunday she Is coming to the
Established Church with us — yes, indeed ;
she has promised. Just think of that !
Poor thing — lost — lost ! — gone over to
Erastianism — a pervert from the faith of
her forefathers ! "

Indeed, sectarian differences appeared
to bother these good folk very little. If at
all ; while as for the deeper mysteries of
human life, and the possibilities surrounding
it, these were never so much as
mentioned among them. Aunt Gilchrist's

easy-going formula, '' The Lord made us,
and He'll look after us," seemed to be
tacitly adopted by all of them ; and it was
hardly incumbent upon Alison, although
she had been brought up among serious-minded
people, to begin and rebuke them
for their contented optimism. Aunt Gilchrist,
having for the time being cast forth
the neuralgic demons that had been
tormenting her, was determined upon
enjoying her new-found liberty to the full ;
and although the excuse was that Alison
ought to be shown all the neighbourhood
around, the fact was that the old lady
herself was passionately fond of a jaunt
and its excitement. She herself was the
gayest of the gay as the comfortable
waggonette drove them away along the
lonely glens, the sweet air blowing by
them, the sun warm on the heather and
the birches and the silver-gray rocks, the
hills rising far above them into the cloudless

blue. She had got a large luncheon-basket,
most cunningly contrived, that
could carry an abundance of provisions
and render them independent of inns ; and
they would halt at midday and have
.luncheon on some road-side knoll, where
there were a few overhangs trees to
shelter them from the sun. And supposing,
in these still solitudes, that the day should
turn to rain : what did Aunt Gilchrist
care ? With rugs and water-proofs skilfully
disposed, the little party seemed more
snug and merry than ever ; and the old
lady would sing away at her Scotch songs,
which she declared were infinitely more
inspiriting and sensible than their Highland
wails and lamentations. Nay, in
defiance of the Doctor, she usually carried
in the luncheon-basket a bottle of most
excellent sherry ; and a glass of sherry
and a biscuit (especially in these troublous
times of wet) she maintained never harmed
human creature.

Aunt Gilchrist," Alison would say,
laughing, " you're ' working for what you'll
get'"

Oh yes, I know, I know," she would
answer scornfully ; *' yere heard the
Doctor say that, poor body ! Duncan
must aye be grumbling about something ;
the last was the expense of hiring this
waggonette, instead of taking the coach or
the mail-gig. Well, and if it is an expense,
we're rid o' they English tourists ; and we
can stop where we like ; and we've better
fun altogether. Then just consider, Alison :
when this bit of a pleasure-making's over,
I'll be going away for the whole winter
into a Hydropathic, and living in penury
and sackcloth and ashes — ay, and instead
of a biscuit and a glass of sherry in the
forenoon, and a drop o' toddy the last
thing at night, it will be soda-water, and
seltzer-water, and potassa-water, and maybe
some o' their bromides or iodides three

times a day. ' Working for what I'll get ? '
very well, then : / dont care ; now is
that enough for you ? "

'' Quite enough, Aunt Gilchrist. But if
your rheumatism should come back, you
will remember I warned you."

'* Soil — warn me ? — you impertinent
minx ! What do you know about it ?
ind I tell you this, that my pains and
sufferings are not to be called by any such
common and ordinary name as rheumatism.
Rheumatism ? My word ! It's a kind of
rheumatism that has kept the doctors
clashing their empty heads together forever
and ever so long, and they're not a
bit wiser now than when they begun."
And thus would Aunt Gilchrist end the
deadly feud.

Huo^h Munro went with them on certain
of those excursions ; but Ludovick Macdonell
accompanied them always — he
seemed to take it for granted that he was

to be their escort, whether he received a
formal invitation or no. Alison, remembering
her cousin's revelations, had resolved
to treat Captain Macdonell with a certain
reserve ; but in this constant ?association
she found It difficult — nay, impossible ; any
stiffness of demeanour on her part seemed
to be thawed away by the sunny cheerfulness,
the confidence, the imperturbable
o^ood-nature of the voune man himself
He would not allow her to hold him at
arm's length. He looked after her, as he
looked after the others. In a masterful kind
of way ; he made no scruple about fastening
a waterproof cape round her neck, ora
thick rug round her knees ; it was he,
not she, who was judge as to whether she
required another slice of cold lamb at lunch.
And yet Alison instinctively felt that there
was some little difference between his
manner towards her and towards the others.
He was not qznte so masterful with her.

There was a consideration, a kind of
gentleness and courtesy that he particularly-showed
towards her ; and that she attributed
to the fact of her being a stranger. He
seemed to take an especial care of her,
when she was alighting from the waggonette,
or coming along a gangway, or getting into
the rowing-boat of an evening. Whatever
battlement of talk was going on, the
smallest remark that Alison made he was
sure to hear, and to answer. It was
'miss Alison" now; and while Miss
Alison was made to do this and that, all
for her own good, no doubt, his general
supervision and authority over her ; was
always accompanied by a certain gentle
consideration and respect. And who,
indeed, was going to say that Miss Alison
should not have the box-seat on the coach,
and the thickest rug on board the steamer,
and the window-view in the inn parlour,
when she was at once a stranger and a guest ?

Aunt Gilchrist, who was a shrewd and
observant little woman, was by no means
blind to all these pretty little civilities and
all this meek and courteous attention, and
she thought she would address a few
warning words, in a skilful and roundabout
way, to the young laird of Oyre. One
afternoon the four of them — Aunt Gilchrist,
Captain Macdonell, Flora, and Alison —
were over at Corpach. They had driven
down Glenfinnan the previous day ; had
passed the night at Kinloch Aylort ; and
were now on their way back, waiting for
the steamer to take them across to Fort
William. As it chanced, Alison and Flora
were walking up and down the pier together,
talking, or idly looking over to the
picturesque view of Inverlochy Castle and
Ben Nevis that has been so often painted ;
and Captain Ludovick had sat down beside
the old lady to keep her company. Here
was an excellent opportunity.

*' And when are 3^e going back to Oyre,
Captain Macdonell ? " Aunt Gilchrist said.
'' I'm afraid we have led ye Into a great
deal of idleness."

Oh, well," he answered lightly, '' there
has been some business to keep me hanging
about Fort William this last week or
two. We are going to have some alterations
made at Oyre ; and there were the
plans to be overhauled ; and tomorrow I
am to have the estimate. Then there is
the launching of Hugh's boat ; that will bea
great occasion ; of course I must wait
for that. Besides," he added, 'one doesn't
often get the chance of going about with
so pleasant a party — and that's the truth ;
and I'm very much obliged to you for
letting me help in arranging these little
trips, for of course we all want Miss x'\lIson
to see Lochaber to the best advantage."

'' Miss Alison ? " the old dame repeated,
with grave and inscrutable eyes. " Oh

yes, indeed. Miss Alison. Maybe there
Is some little attraction there ? "

She did not look at him.

Don't you think there is a great deal
of attraction ? " said he frankly. " I think
so — and I don't care who knows it ; I think
there ouo^ht to be a Q^reat deal of attraction
for any one ; and it isn't merely her good
looks and her pretty figure — these are
obvious enough ; and it isn't merely her
kindly disposition — for lots of people have
that ; but — but — there's something more.
She has crop her head screwed on stralo^ht,
and that's the fact. At first she was rather
shy and reserved ; but ever since she came
here she seems to have been growing
brighter and merrier every day ; and can't
she hold her own, If there's any kind of
joking and quarrelling going on ! Why, it
has been quite delightful," continued
Captain Ludovick, who seemed to have
found an Interesting subject, " to watch her

become more and more at home, and
happier and brighter every day. I fancy
that Kirk o' Shields must be an awful
place. She has given me some hints
about the kind of life the people live
there, and I think she is rather glad to be
out of it for a time ; though she declares
she has come into a land peopled by
Sadducees. But she has a wonderfully
fair and even and well-balanced mind, and
a clear and quick brain ; and if you show
her that such or such a thing is reasonable
and harmless, and so forth, she accepts it,
no matter what her upbringing has been.
Of course you recollect, Mrs. Gilchrist,
that it was you who taught her ' 
; ' and you see now who is the first to
propose it, when the supper-things have
been removed."

But Aunt Gilchrist was not to be put off
her purpose ; this rambling panegyric was
all very well, but it was not business.

I'm very pleased to hear ye say so,"
she observed, with much deliberation ;
very pleased indeed. For I confess to
a liking for the bit lady ; and I'm glad to
know that in the eyes of other folk she
has attractions — and attractions in her own
right, so that she is not dependent on
what others may do for her. Now, Tm
going to be frank with ye, Captain Macdonell,
and I'll tell ye why I like to hear
my bit lady well spoken of, and for her
own sake alone. When the doctors have
done their worst wi' me, and I must o^o —
and indeed there needna be much regret
about departing for another world if it's a
Hydropathic ye happen to be living in at
the time — there's a little money I've to leave
behind me ; and both my poor husband
and myself were of one mind that it should
go to Alison — or the bulk of it, at least.
But that's just as I choose ; I may leave
it to her, or not leave it to her. Now

VOL. I. N

attend to this : what's the vahie of the
solemn will and testament of a wretched
creature that suffers from neuritis ? Why,
as lone as he or she is alive, not a brass
farthing! Not a single penny, I tell ye!
A twinge goes through your ankle : there's
a flare-up of a quarrel : a new will made
instanter, and the money goes to somebody
else. That's the way of it. If King
David was alive — poor man, he said some
sensible things when he wasna aye groaning
away at his supplications — King David
would say, ' Put not your trust in princes ;
no, nor in anybody that has got peripheral
neuralgia.' So ye understand. Captain
Ludovick, why it is I'm pleased that my
niece Alison is attractive on her own
account, for it is entirely possible that she
will never get a farthing from me."

This intimation — which in the end was
plain and clear enough, notwithstanding
the cunning and roundabout way it had

been introduced — did not seem to disconcert
the vouno^ laird. As Alison and Flora
were coming up at the moment, all he
could say was —

*' I don't think your niece will ever have
to depend on that attraction, Mrs. Gilchrist
; but neither do I think that you
and she are likely to quarrel."

When at length they o:ot over to Fort
William, they found Hugh Munro waiting
for them on the quay (a most unexpected
honour), with the great news that his
sailing-boat was quite finished, and ready
to be launched on the following morning.
As they walked along to the house, he
somewhat shyly suggested to Alison that
she might perform the christening ceremony
; and Alison cheerfully assented —
merely stipulating that she should be told
what to do. But when they would have
him finally declare what he had resolved
to call the new craft, he became evasive.

They would know in the morning, he said.
He wanted to see how the name looked —
in blue letters on the band of white under
the gunwale.

Oho ! " cried Flora. " Then tomorrow
we are to o^et at the grand secret, Alison !
I believe it's that Irish girl who was at
Ballachulish with the Macpherson ; you'll
see the boat will be called ' North,' or
Rosin,' or ' Kathleen ' : do you know, he
was quite civil to her ; he actually stood
by the piano, and turned over her music
for her — I wonder when he would do that
for any of us ! "

However, Hugh would say nothing
further ; and during the rest of the evening,
whenever the morrow's celebration was
spoken of, it was chiefly to assure Alison
that her duties would be extremely simple.
Nor was there to be much of an assemblage:
the Doctor would be away attending to
his professional duties ; Mrs. Munro would

be looking after her household ; Aunt
Gilchrist did not care to walk so far
(periphery forbidding) ; and they certainly
did not mean to take the fiend Johnny
with them on the inaugural trip, and have
him wishing all the time for the joy of
some mighty disaster. Not only that, but
the designer and owner of the craft intimated
to the two girls that, after the
'christening ceremony, they might as well
return home : Ludovick and he meant to
have a serious trial of the boat and her
sails ; and it would be a mistake (as he
hinted) to have useless baggage on board.

The ceremony, as It turned out, was of
the briefest. On this bright, breezy, sunny
morning the four of them walked along to
the building-yard, and found the trim,
shining, newly varnished boat fixed In an
improvised slip, with a gallant bunch of
white heather at her bowsprit. Alison,
with a modest little bottle in her hand,

came forward blithely enough to perform
her part ; but when she got to the stem of
the boat she suddenly paused, and a quick
flush overspread her pale face ; for there,
before her, on the white band, in neat,
small letters of blue, she beheld the name
that had been chosen — The Bit Lady.
Hugh was shy, and hung back ; Flora was
laughing ; but Ludovick Macdonell. who
was by Alison's side, took the bottle from
her, cut the strings, released the cork, and
returned It to her ; whereupon she poured
a little of the wine over the bow, and
managed to say, " Good luck — and — and —
I hope she will be everything that has
been expected of her — and — and good
weather ! " — which, alas ! was all unlike
the neat little speech she had prepared.
Then with a cheer the boat was run down
the slip into the water, and held there ;
the builder's men had a glass of whiskey
apiece, to drink her good-fortune ; and

forthwith, as Macdonell and Hugh got onboard,
and began to haul the sails about,
the two young ladies took their departure.
'' And what do you think of yourself
now ? " demanded Miss Flora of her companion
(who, in truth, was extremely
mortified that she had made such a muddle
of her benediction). " I believe you were
in the secret all the time. Oh, it's you
quiet ones who know how to come outwith
a dramatic effect ! The pretty confusion
— the pretty embarrassment — the
pretty, stammering little speech ! Very
well done — very well done indeed — you
hypocrite and actress ! But there's one
thing perhaps you're not aware of; it
wasn't Hugh who ever thought of calling
the boat after you ; no, it wasn't. Don't
you go and pride yourself. Miss Dimity,
with the notion that you have found favour
in the eyes of my lord the Sultan. What
can you do better than any of us ? Can

you drive a nail in straight ? Are you
ever correct about the direction of the
wind ? Can sou mark a tennis-court, or
fold a newspaper, or, indeed, do anything
right ? Can you strap up a portmanteau
without making a fool of yourself? Well,
now, that is too bad ! " continued Miss
Flora, suddenly shifting her ground. " You
don't know what trouble I take In packing
his portmanteau for him — remembering
twenty things he would be sure to have
forgotten, and putting them all in their
places, and folded and arranged, instead of
shovelling them together, as he would do.
Then, when everything is ready to be sent
downstairs, my lord comes in ; he looks at
the portmanteau ; catches hold of a strap
and of course It's sure to yield a little
if you pull at it with the strength of a
rhinoceros ; he nods his head, as much as
to say, ' I thought so ; this is the way a
girl buckles a strap ; ' then he hauls each

Strap until he has got each buckle three
holes tighter, and goes away with a contemptuous
look. And do you think he
considers you anything more accurate, or
handy, or fit to live than the rest of us ?
I bet you now, if he asked you to guess
the distance over to the other side of the
loch there, you would be at least half a
mile out ; and he wouldn't remonstrate
with you ; he'd only look at you as if to
say, ' I wonder what tempted Providence
to create such a set of helpless idiots as
girls are ! ' So don't you flatter yourself,
Miss Dimity Puritan, that you have won
any favour. You're only a girl — your
pronunciation of Latin is always wrong —
you're frightened of cows — you can't do
anything right. But if you would like to
know who put that idea into his head of

calling the boat after you "

*' Who, then. Flora ? " her companion
asked ; but the big gray eyes were downcast,

and there was a slight flush on the
pale face that seemed to say that Miss
Alison had dressed the answer to her own
question.

'why, Ludovick Macdonell, of course !"
the other said. '' Isn't it as clear as day ? "

CHAPTER VI.

Weber ALLEN GIPFELN.

Well, The Bit Lady was duly launched,
and her sailing powers tested again and
again ; but nevertheless Ludovick Macdonell
seemed to be in no hurry to return
to Oyre. Perhaps the plans and specifications
wanted further amending ; perhaps
the contractor s estimate was excessive ; at
all events. Captain Macdonell remained in
Fort William, and very much at the service
of the Munroes and of Miss ellison their
guest. It was not '' Alison " as yet, but
matters were tending in that direction ; for
the young man carried his good-humoured
straightforwardness to theverge of audacity ;

and these four companions had been much
together. They left Johnny ashore now
when they went away lethe-fishing as the
evening fell. Alison had got on capitally
with her rowing, and she was fond of It ;
and she preferred to ply a lazy oar In
concert with Captain Ludovick, while
Flora and Hugh, In the stern of the boat,
looked after the rods, and the lines, and
the large white flies. Sometimes the fishing
was not heeded much. Sometimes
they merely rowed, and quietly talked and
listened — the hills around them orrowlnor

o o

darker and more dark, but the loch reflecting
a wan and steely gray from the pale
splendour still hanging In the north-western
heavens. The charm of the twilight was
enough for them : the birds all gone to
rest ; an odour of sea-weed In the slumbering
air ; an orange ray, trembling down on
the mystic expanse of the water, telling
of some cottage-window under the black

woods opposite ; a point of red and a
point of green far in the south — the sailing-lights
of a yacht lying there becalmed.
Then the long and idle pull home ; the
first white stars becoming visible in the
transparent heavens ; a string of golden
beads honor the distant shore showing them
the little town for which they were making.
Hugh would now take Alison's place,
sending her to sit side by side, and arm
in arm, with Flora. And when either
brother or sister began to sing one of
those old Gaelic airs, instantly there was
the other voice joining in, softly and with
exquisite harmony, in this silence broken
only by the measured plash of the oars.
These were magical, lambent nights.
When Alison, long afterwards, in Kirk o'
Shields, tried to recall them, it seemed to
her as if they were far too wonderful and
beautiful — as if they never could have
been.

But meanwhile there came alone the

o

long-talked-of night pilgrimage to the
summit of Ben Nevis, with the hope of
witnessing the sun rise over the German
Ocean ; and when the appointed evening
arrived, everything seemed to be propitious.
The weather had been fine for
some days before ; the glass was high and
steady ; the few light airs wandering about
hardly stirred the glassy surface of the
loch. Accordingly, all preparations were
made ; and when they were ready to start,
Johnny was sent on In advance with the
two ponies, and directed as to where he
should wait for the little party outside
the town.

Johnny was a very proud lad as he set
forth ; for although his savage manners
had not been softened by any acquaintance
with the graceful palaestra, he bestrode his
meek-eyed animal with much dignity, leading
the other pony — the sumpter-pony.

which carried the slung water-proofs and
what not — by the bridle-rein, while in his
right hand he bore sceptre-wise a stout
oaken cudgel. Nor was his dignity of
demeanour, as he passed in stately fashion
along the main street of Fort William,
sacrificed to that love of adventure which
was dear to his heart. It is true that
once or twice he tried hard to ride over
and scatter a group of sprawling urchins ;
but this was of no avail, for the small boys
of Fort William knew John, and fled at
his approach as minnows flee from a
marauding pike. Again, when he was
nearly out of the town, he aimed a playful
blow at a mongrel cur that happened to be
wandering there ; but he missed — his stick
being too short ; whereupon the mongrel
replied with a sudden and vicious snarl,
which caused Johnny's pony to swerve so
violently that its rider was very nearly
thrown into the middle of the highway.

John turned In his saddle and regarded
the now departing cur, so as to fix its
appearance firmly in his memory.

"You duffle!" he said. '' I will not
forget you. No, my young boy, I will not
forget you ! I will gif you something
before many days are over — something
that will be ferry good for you."

And then he went on again, erinninof to
himself ; for he knew of many and divers
schemes of vengeance which he could
leisurely pick and choose from before returning
from the top of Ben Nevis to his
own familiar haunts and occupations.

Flora, Alison, Hugh, and Ludovick
Macdonell had by this time started ; and
a very gay and merry little group they
were as they left the town. For one
thing, there was a spice of adventure in
this expedition : even Alison had got to
understand that it was the unexpected
that usually happened in the mysterious

solitudes of Ben Nevis. But at present
everything seemed most promising ; the
evening was clear and golden as they
passed along the highway, crossed the
bridge, and followed the path by the riverbank
; the mellow light was still warm on
the foliage overhanging the stream ; and
a scent of new-mown hay hung in the air,
for there was not a breath of wind. With
reasonable luck they could almost count
on a beautiful morning ; and, what was
also of some small importance, they could
almost make sure of a clear starlit night to
enable Johnny to get the ponies down in
safety, there being no shelter for these
animals at the top.

By the time they had got to the point
at which the rude pathway leaves the wide
valley of Glen Nevis and begins the ascent
of the lower slopes of the mountain, the
golden evening had given place to a silver-clear
twilight, and the slender sickle of the

VOL, I. o

new moon was visible over the sombre
masses of hills in the south. Here Johnny
was waiting ; and when Flora and Alison
had been properly and carefully mounted
on the ponies the procession set forth.
First went Flora, with Hugh as her attendant
; then came Alison, with Captain
Ludovick walking by her pony's head, his
fingers just touching the bridle-rein ;
Johnny was left to lag behind as he chose,
but with the knowledge that present laziness
and comfort would only make his
midnight descent so much the later. At
first the way was not very steep ; the
ponies got along easily enough ; and
Alison was delighted to find, in contradiction
of her fears, that she had no difficulty
at all in holdings on. Then if the nio-ht
seemed closing down on the world, there
was still a clear twilight around them, in
which all the neighbouring objects — the
rocks and knolls and chasms and trickling

Streams — were strangely distinct. Indeed,
it was altogether a joyous setting-out.
The two young ladies were calling to each
other ; Alison in especial was in the highest
spirits, and was so fearless and careless
that her companion had to warn her to
take heed a little when her pony was
making its way across the rough stones in
the bed of some shallow rivulet. She
wanted to know when they were to be
allowed to get down and walk. Would
they go near the tarn where he and she
had been caught in a thunder-storm ?
When should they be able to see the
lights in Fort William ? — or was that not
possible at all ?

But as they got farther and farther up
into the awful solitude of the hills, and as
they seemed to be leaving the world they
had known farther and farther below them,
there was less talking ; and when they
came to a rude little wooden bridge spanning

a burn — and here on the bit of level
they rested the ponies for a breathing-space
— it was in silence they contemplated
their vast and lonely surroundings. There
was still a lambent glow in the northwestern
heavens ; but the world beneath
them seemed to have grown dark ; a gray
mist filled the silent valleys. Alison saw
the crescent moon reflected on some
distant sheet of smooth water, but she did
not know whether that was a solitary little
lake among the hills, or an in-winding arm
of the sea ; and as no one was speaking at
the time she did not ask. Then they
resumed their upward toil, following the
rough path that zigzagged up the mighty
shoulders and slopes ; while the night
came on apace, and the first of the small,
twinkling diamond-points began to show
In the wan sky overhead.

By-and-by Ludovick Macdonell touched
her on the arm to draw her attention.

Then she could hear that Flora and Hugh
were sinorlne some sono or ballad together.
She could hardly make out the words,
though Macdonell knew them well
enough —

The stars are all biirnifig cheerily, cheerily,
Ho ro, Mairii thu, turn to me !
The sea-mei is mourning drearily , drearily,
Ho ro, Mairii thu, town to me I "

but the air was plaintive and tender,
and their intermingling voices, even amid
the clatter of the ponies' hoofs, made a
strangely effective harmony in the silence
and the dark. For dark it had now
become, although the stars overhead were
shining more and more clearly. She could
hardly make out the path .before her, or
above her, rather, but she knew that it
had become exceedingly steep and exceedingly
rough, from the straining and
stumbling of the patient animal that carried
her. And as far as the starlight could

show her anything of her immediate surroundings,
she saw that here no longer
were steep grassy slopes scarred with
water channels, but blocks of sterile rock
heaped upon one another, and apparently
rising perpendicularly into the sky. There
were no more soft, retreating outlines in
the dusk ; these black masses were sharp
and angular ; and sharp, too, were the
turns of the now invisible path. This
upward struggle seemed interminable. The
labouring animals fought gallantly ; but
now there was no little bit of a level
bridge to give them a rest ; there was
nothing but this continuous, indomitable
strain ; the foot-falls on the splintered
stones ; the black rocks all around ; the
white stars overhead.

And then — as it appeared to her — and
still far beyond them and above them — her
startled eyes beheld three squares of
crimson light. She was astonished beyond

measure. She had grown accustomed to
the black solitudes and the silence ; she
had come to think there was nothing
above her but that great vault of stars :
what were these strange illuminations ?
Had they toiled upward from the valleys
of the world, to find before them the
mystic gates of heaven ? And now she
found that the pony was going with less
of an upward strain ; and Macdonell (who
had not spoken to her for some time back,
having to save his breath for the climbing)
was leading the animal carefully forward
over the loose stones ; and at length her
bewildered eyes made out that they were
nearing some dark object, of unknown
dimensions, and that these three squares
of crimson were windows with red blinds.
The next minute a blaze of yellow light
came forth Into the dark ; Flora, she saw,
was getting down from her pony; presently
they were all standing at the open door,

giving one look backward to the clear-throbbing
skies (there Capella was burning;
and the misty Pleiades ; the pale mother
of Andromeda displayed her trembling
jewels ; and Arcturus shone from afar)
before they passed Into the common room
of this remote little caravanserai, where a
pleasant welcome and a blazing fire awaited
them.

And now the long-pent-up flood of talk
broke loose ; for these were new experiences,
and so far the expedition had been
wholly successful ; besides, they were glad
to get Into this warm and friendly shelter
after passing through the bleak and
dark solitudes. Very soon there was a
sumptuous banquet of ham and eggs
smoking on the table before them ; and as
this light-hearted little group of friends sat
round the hospitable board, they fell to
talking about the great masses of population
far away beneath them — the population

of Great Britain, in fact — in dining-rooms
and drawing-rooms, in lecture-rooms
and concert-rooms, sitting in theatres,
dressing for balls, busy with the endless
amusements and occupations of modern
life. And Captain Ludovick not only
claimed for his companions that they constituted
the uppermost circle of all the
social circles in Great Britain, but maintained
that, viewed from their sublime
elevation, all other gradations of rank and
position and dignity were as nothing at all
were as half-invisible lines. They were
not quite sure but that the scientific gentleman
in the observatory might be their
superior by a few feet ; at all events, he
was their only rival as to pride of place in
the three kingdoms. And presently there
came another to share their glory — Johnny,
to wit — who put his head in at the door to
announce his arrival.

Johnny was exceedingly sulky when he

came In, for the last part of the ascent had
been more than he had bargained for, and
he was breathless and tired and beaten ;
but when he was directed to sit down at
a small table, and presented with a lavish
supper — moreover, Captain Ludovick was
so kind as to order for him a bottle of
that delectable beverage, ginger ale, which
Johnny had never before tasted — he got
into a much better humour ; and an occasional
twinkle in his eye showed that he
heard plainly enough what was going on at
the other table.

'well, Johnny," said Flora, turning to
him, 'rand what do you think of Ben Nevis
now r

Well," said he, with his mouth half full,
but with his small eyes alert enough, " I
was thinking all the way up that it was a
ferry stupid thing to make a hull as big as
thus. A ferry foolish thing. It is no use
to any one, except to break your legs.

What is the use of a hull so big as thus ?
But mebbe," he added, as an afterthought
and a pleasing grin suffused his face —
mebbe some day it will fall down on the
top of Fort William. Cosh, there would
be many a one get a sore head that day ! "

How are you going down again,
Johnny ? " she continued. '' Are you going
to ride the one pony and let the other
follow ? "

Not me," said he instantly. '' I do
not wish to go over and break my neck."

'* How wall you get them down, then ? "
she asked.

*' I will put them on the track and drive
them both before me," said he. " They
can see in the dark well enough, them
beasts — better than me, anyway." And
then he glanced at Captain Macdonell, of
whom he was always somewhat afraid.
And a o:ood thiner is thus," he continued,
with a furtive snigger about his

mouth, "that if the Duffle Is wandering
about they will knock against him first.
Cosh, that would be a fine sight, to see
him go head over heels down a gully ! "

As if you could see him in the dark ! "
said she.

Bit why not ?" he remonstrated; and
there was a sort of vindictive joy in his
face. "Wouldn't there be sparks of fire
flying from him, he would be in such a
rage ? "

I'd advise you to hurry up, my young
friend," Captain Ludovick interposed,
*' and get those animals started off while
the night is still clear. And you'd better
play no pranks, mind, Master Johnny ; if
you lame one of those ponies you'll get
something that'll make you wish you never
had come within twenty miles of Lochaber."

Johnny took the hint in quite good part,
for the bountiful supper and the ginger ale
had comforted him exceedingly ; and it was

with a merry allusion to the probability of
his encountering the Duffle on his way
down that he unlettered the ponies, took
the leading one by the bridle, and disappeared
into the silence of the night.

But if he were really to be frightened
on the way down ? " said Alison, when
they had returned to the comfortable little
table near the fire. *' If he were to
imagine he saw something ?"

'' Oh no ; trust the thickness of Johnny's
skull for that," Hugh Munro said, with a
smile. " He'll 2:0 whistling and singing
all the way down to Fort William. That
dark and demoniacal imagination of his
doesn't reach as hio^h as that ; It deals
with little things, and mostly with the
birds and beasts he finds around him in
actual life. When he talks about the hlo-
Duffle It's only to alarm the small boys, or
to make jokes for you — if he thinks
Ludovick won't fllnof something at him ;

what Johnny Is really superstitious about,
what he fears, Is the mischief that may be
done himself by dangerous creatures —
toads, adders, stinging jelly-fish, confers,
and things of that kind ; yes, and cats.
He has an abject fear of cats — they're
witches, he says — and if he can shy a
stone at one when It doesn't see him, that
is delight ; but if it happens to turn its
head, then Johnny drops the stone and
looks at the sky, as innocent as you could
think. But the rascal Is not easily
frightened, as a rule ; no, the mischief with
him, if he Is In a boat, is that he will risk
any danger for the sake of an adventure.
You'll have a steamer blowing and blowing
her whistle, and that fellow will keep on,
trying to clear her, unless you knock him
aside and jam down the helm."

'' That's all very well," said Captain
Ludovick, who, indeed, was not so lenient
towards Johnny's impish freaks and fantasies

as the others. " I don't mind his
risking his own carcase for the enjoyment
of a collision, but I object to his putting
anybody else into danger. And you know
he lost his head entirely that day he took
Alison out in the boat." (It was '' Alison "
now, but perhaps this was a mere inadvertence.)
"Why did he never get a good
sound drubbing for playing that prank ? "

Because I was responsible for the
whole affair," the young lady said promptly ;
'' and if anybody is to be beaten, you must
beat me."

No, I won't beat you," said Captain
Ludovick graciously; "but I'm going to
send you all to bed, for you'll be called
early in the morning, and you must try to
get what sleep you can."

As it turned out, there was to be no
sleep for Alison, or next to none, when she
retired to the small chamber that had been
allotted her. Towards midnight a wind

arose, and gradually it increased, until it
could be heard sweeping across the
mountain-top in long, plaintive sighs and
wails. The firmly fixed little wooden
shanty did not shake, did not even tremble,
but the force of the wind could be gathered
from the shriller and shriller note that
seemed to be the precursor of a storm.
Alison lay and listened to the hopeful
sound ; sometimes she slumbered off a
little ; then this ominous cry would wake
her again, and she would wonder when the
window would begin to show in the dark.
And at last the welcome light appeared ;
there was a small square of faint bluish-gray
in her apartment now ; and she
thought she would not wait to be called.
What was the use of lying here, listening
to the moaning of the wind ? She got up
and dressed very quietly ; then she made
her way into the common room, where the
supper-things of the previous night were

Still on the table ; she went to the door,
lifted the latch, and passed outside.

At first she could see nothing at all. A
cold gray mist was driving by, enveloping
everything, so that she could only make
out a few wet stones at her feet ; and she
dared not move a yard away from the
door. But presently this small horizon
began to widen ; she saw more and more
of the stones ; then a sudden cessation of
them, as if that were the edge of the little
plateau ; and she thought she might venture
along to look into the chasm beyond.
She went cautiously, for these stones were
large and angular ; besides, she was trying
to fix in her brain the whereabouts of the
wooden shanty, so that she might be able
to make her way back in the event of the
fog closing in upon her again. But when
she got along to the edge of the chasm all
was blank. There was nothing before
her but a waste of gray. So she thought

VOL. I. p

«

the others were just as well advised to
remain within-doors ; clearly there was to
be no sunrise.

But nevertheless this mysterious, formless
vacancy kept moving In a singular
manner ; vague phantoms seemed to pass
through it ; a kind of fascination kept her
there, as if she knew that something must
happen. And what happened first of all
was that the heavens seemed to open over
her head ; she quickly looked up, and
behold ! the zenith was of a pale, clear
purple, perfectly cloudless and serene.
The light around her appeared to Increase ;
out of the white gulf before her rose a
sterile crag, silent and awful ; and there
was a bronze hue on the bare, rocky
slopes, as if they faced some unknown
radiance. Then all of a sudden it seemed
as if the plateau on which she stood were
lifted out of these interchanging vapours,
and she was bidden to look abroad on a

newly created universe. Far away to
the east, between her and the horizon,
and almost level with her feet, stretched
an interminable sea of clouds — vast
mountainous masses they were, solid,
slowly moving, their upper ridges touched
with saffron, the intervening spaces of a
shadowy, impenetrable blue. Far away
to the west, again, she caught a glimpse of
some lower region — of darkened hills and
sombre valleys, with the wan waters of
Loch Eil lying still and gray in the strange
twilight. But it was the wonders that
were occurring around her and before her
that claimed all her attention now, startling
her, bewildering her, and eventually paralyzing
her with a blind, dumb sense of
terror. For this seemed a dreadful elinor
this rising of awful shapes out of that
vast witches' caldron — sterile peaks and
scarred precipices that slowly revealed
themselves as if called up by some mighty

magician, and as slowly disappeared again
into the gloom. She seemed to be looking
on at the creation of a world ; but a
phantasmal world ; a world of spectral and
shadowy cliffs and crags ; whereas the
solid and substantial things were the
mountain-masses of cloud that she could
see far below her, slow-rolling one over
the other, and ever advancing, silent and
threatening, until they blotted out of
existence those barren heights and those
lurid gulfs that a moment before had themselves
seemed so terrible. And sometimes,
in their slow advance, those orange-crested,
gigantic billows would rise and rise, as if
they were about to overwhelm her also,
and the bit of rock on which she stood.
Her head grew faint and giddy. The
earth seemed to have no foundation. She
was but a phantom in this world of
phantoms : when should she, too, disappear
into that awful abyss ? The vision

of the prophet Jeremiah was before her :
*' I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was
without form, and void ; and the heavens,
and they had no Hight. I beheld the
mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all
the hills moved lightly. I beheld, and, lo,
there was no man, and all the birds of the
heavens were fled." She seemed to have
no power to go or to stay ; the fascination
of this awful phantasmagoria held her
there ; and yet she knew that her footing
was quite unstable ; all things were as a
dream. And then, without warning, in a
moment, the fate that she had feared befell
her ; she was surrounded, isolated, cut off
from all the rest of the world, nothing
visible to her but the piece of rock on
which she stood. In vain, and with
quickened terror, she turned this way and
that to gain some knowledge of her
position : she was conscious only that close
by her, on which side she knew not, was

that frightful abyss, and that a single step
might launch her into its unknown deeps.
She shrank back from this hideous chaos,
and yet dared not move ; the white mists
seemed to choke her ; her knees would no
longer bear her weight ; and while some
vague, wild cry of *' Alison ! Alison ! " rang
in her ears, she sank to the ground unconscious,
and lay there as if life itself had
fled from her.

When she came to herself, a few minutes
thereafter, she was in her own small room,
whither Ludovick Macdonell had carried
her, and Flora was standing by her bedside.
No sooner did she open her eyes
than she shuddered and drew back, as if
she still thought she was on the verge of
that ghastly precipice ; but Flora was
holding her hand, and gently chafing it.
She was for getting up forthwith, but this
was not to be thought of, Flora insisted ;
it would be some hours before they set out

on the return journey ; Alison must drink
some hot tea, and He still, and if possible
get some sleep.

Why, what a fright you gave us,
Alison ! " Flora said, when she saw that
her cousin was almost recovered. " We
did not know you had gone out. We
thought you might just as well be left
alone in your room, since there was to be
no sunrise ; and then it was Ludovick who
noticed that your door had been left a
little bit open, and he bade me go and see.
I can tell you we got a horrible fright
when we found you had been out all the
time, and by yourself; and just as we set
out to look for you, the mist came over,
and we were more frightened than ever.
Didn't you hear us calling ? Do you
know that when Ludovick found you, you
Vv-ere just at the edge of that terrible
precipice where the snow is ? "

Alison shivered slightly.

Yes, I know. I — I tried to come
away and I couldn't — I was afraid to
move. But I'm all right now, Flora ; and
if we are to be here for some hours yet,
won't you go and lie down ? "

'well, yes, I will, then," her cousin
said. 'rand you'd better get some sleep
too, Alison. Why, the idea of your going
out in a place like this all by yourself, and
at such an hour — no wonder you were
frightened out of your senses ! "

As it chanced, Alison did eventually fall
into a profound, if far from dreamless,
sleep, and they did not choose to disturb
her ; so that it was a little after ten o'clock
before the little party were ready to begin
the descent of the mountain. Their down-going
was not nearly so merry as their
up-coming ; for it was evident to the others
that Captain Macdonell was unusually
grave and preoccupied. He was very
kind to Alison ; bidding her take plenty of

time and not hurry over those loose stones
which offered so insecure a foothold ; and
carrying her water-proof for her, when the
occasional heavy showers were followed by
a burst of hot sunshine. But his customary
light-heartedness was gone ; he seemed to
be thinking back over something or other ;
and he only brightened up a little when at
length they were all down in Glen Nevis,
and Alison safely seated in the waggonette
that he had ordered to meet them there.

It was a day or two after these occurrences
that Flora made a little confession
or revelation, rather — to her cousin.

Do you know, Alison," said she — and
she regarded her companion's face as she
spoke, yet with no inimical scrutiny —
that Ludovick was terribly put about
when he found you lying on the rocks
and brought you in ? I believe he hardly
knew what he was saying ; I fancy he
considered himself responsible for having

advised you to go up there ; and the
possibility of your having come to harm
frightened him terribly. Do you know
what he said when he carried you in ?
He declared that if you had fallen over
the precipice, he would have gone over too
that he would never have come down
to Fort William alive."

And it was remarkable, from that day
henceforth, that even among Flora's wildest
jests and jibes and whimsicalities, never
a word more was heard of her petulant,
half-laughing taunt that Alison had stolen
away her sweetheart from her.

CHAPTER VII.

AT Ore HOUSE.

Alas ! the time was now fast approaching
when AHson would have to leave this
enchanted land (for it was an enchanted
land to her, at all events) ; and Captain
Ludovick, who meanwhile had carried
home his plans and estimates, and come
back to Fort William, was quite distressed
that nothing had been settled about the
long-projected visit to Oyre. Eventually
he went to Flora, and besought her, as a
great kindness to himself, to get Aunt
Gilchrist definitely to fix a day ; and Flora
undertook the task with a light heart.
But this was a most luckless morning ;

for no sooner had the young lady broached
the subject than she found herself suddenly
and furiously attacked, without rhyme or
reason, and overwhelmed with bitter and
angry reproaches. Flora, who instantly
perceived that the demon Neuritis was
wandering around, was for beating an
immediate retreat ; but she was not allowed
to go before she had received some information
regarding herself She was a
thoughtless, inconsiderate, ungrateful minx ;
she had no care or concern for any one
but herself; her elders and their sufferings
and afflictions were of no account with her ;
only her own idle amusements and follies
were uppermost in her empty head. Nay,
more — she was accused of being involved
in a base and vile conspiracy.

'* Oh, ay," said the fierce little dame, '' ye
may think, because I'm old, I'm blind.
I'm not blind, I tell ye ; I can see as well
as any of ye. And I know these Highland

lairds ; they've not a penny to bless
themselves with ; but of course if ye get
that lad Macdonell to marry Alison, then
it's me that will have to pay the piper.
That's your pretty scheme, is it i^ — and
everybody's comfort to be sacrificed to it,
ay, even if your very life should be put in
danger by the shaking and travelling ! I
know fine what he's after ; and I'll be
bound she's willing enough too : haven I
seen the blood jump to her face when she
heard his foot outside on the gravel ? A
pretty pact it is amongst ye all ! — and ye

think I'm blind "

You may say what you like about me,
Aunt Gilchrist," Flora remarked, with
perfect good-nature, " but you need not
say such things about Alison, for you don't
believe them, to begin with. I am pretty
certain that no such idea has ever entered
into her head. No, nor into Ludovick's
head either ; but, if it had, what could be

more natural ? He has birth, and she will
have money "

She will have money ? " Admit Gilchrist
repeated, with a fresh explosion of wrath.
Who said she will have money ? "

'why, you yourself, Aunt Gilchrist!"
said Flora.

'' How dare you stand there, Flora
Munro, and tell such stories ! " the old lady
exclaimed. 'how dare you ! Haven't I
told every one of ye, over and over again,
that she may never have a farthing ?
Haven't I told Macdonell too ? Haven't
I warned him, as plain as any woman
could speak ? "

Well, if he understands that, where is
the harm of his wanting to marry Alison ?
that is, if he does, for I'm sure I don't
know anything about it."

But this cool indifference only seemed
to anger the old lady the more.

I know what your fine arguments are

worth i" she cried. " I know your hypocritical
ways. Brazenness isn't always in
the face, my young madam ; it may be in
the conscience, let me tell you that, miss.
Go away and send Alison to me ! "

Flora was well content to go ; and very
soon she found Alison.

Aunt Gilchrist wants you," she said
cheerfully. '' And you're going to catch it."

'' What for ? " said Alison, wondering.

'* Oh, I don't know. Periphery is
meandering about, I suppose ; and It's too
early to get her to take some port-wine
negus. So off you go, Alison, my loving
dear, and get your whipping."

But it was not at all as a repentant and
frightened child that Miss Dimity Puritan
now entered her aunt's room. For a
young woman, she had acquired a quite
sufficient sense of her own dignity. In
her earlier days she had always been " the
bit lady ; " and, now she was grown up,

she was perhaps a Httle more serious-minded
than many of her years. When
she opened the door and went in, and
closed it behind her, she was perfectly
calm and self-possessed. This was not ar
all the kind of person to fear or to brook
a whipping.

'' What did you send that girl Flora tome
for ? " was the abrupt demand. " You
hadn't the courage to come yourself, I
suppose ? But ye're all in the same pact
all in the same pact — and not one o' ye
caring for anything but your own selfish
ends and enjoyments. Enjoyments ? A
pretty enjoyment for me to go away hating
here and darling there out o'er the country
when I can scarcely put my foot to the
ground to cross the room. But what do
you care about that, you or any one o'
them ? "

*' Indeed, Aunt Gilchrist, I do not want
you to go to Oyre if you would rather

not," Alison said quite simply. 'rand I'm
sure I didn't send Flora to you — I believe
it was Captain Macdonell who asked her.
But I'm certain of this, that not one of us
would wish you to go if it would cost you
any trouble "

* One of us ? '" the old dame repeated
bitterly. " Ay, there ye are ! There's
the cat out o' the bag. A pact among ye
to deceive a poor old woman who'll soon
enough be away from amongst ye. And
then perhaps ye'll be sorry. Selfishness is
a tine thing for the young, but it's no so
fine to look back on when they that should
have been treated different have been
taken away."

Aunt Gilchrist, I don't know what you
mean by talking like that ! " Alison said
somewhat proudly. *' We thought you
would be as pleased to go as any one, and
no one wished you to go against your will.
I don't see where there was any selfishness

VOL. I. Q

or deceit ; and — and it isn't fair to talk
like that, and about so small a thing."

Oh yes, I'm always in the wrong ! "
Aunt Gilchrist exclaimed, with a toss of
her head. '' I'm the tyrant. You are all
poor, suffering victims, and I'm a selfish
monster. Say it ! — oh yes, say it ! I
know ye say it amongst yourselves : I'm
just a monster of selfishness. But what
brought ye here, to Fort William, I want
to know ? Was it to go galivanting about
the country when other folk can scarcely
stir from their chair ? What did ye come
here for ? To go prancing down to the
shore and back from the shore — and
stravayging about the place ? "

Alison had turned a little pale.

I came here, Aunt Gilchrist," she said,
because you were my mother's sister,
and because you asked me to come ; and
and because you had been kind to me
many a time before." For a brief second

her voice was not so firm, but only for a
second ; and she held her head erect.
'' And I was going home in a day or two,
as you know ; but if you do not wish me
here I would rather not stay. I am ready
to go at once."

'' Go if you like, then ! " the other said
snappishly.

Alison hesitated for a moment, but there
was no recalling of the ungracious words.

Good-bye, Aunt Gilchrist ! " she said.

In spite of herself tears rose to her eyes,
and she stood there irresolute, not wishing
to make any advance, and yet waiting for
some small sion of farewell.

Oh, go away if you like," said the
irascible small dame, without looking up.
I don't want you. Your room's better
than your company." And then, suddenly,
a twinge of pain shot across her contracted
forehead. " Here, Alison, come and unbutton
my boots, will ye ? I'd just like to

dino- that man o' a shoemaker — sending
me home a pair o' boots Hke this when
well he knew what state my feet were
in ! ^'

Dutifully Alison went forward, and knelt
down and undid the buttons ; and the next
moment Aunt Gilchrist had snatched the
boots from her, and hurled them, one after
the other, with savage vehemence to the
end of the room. Then she said, in quite
an altered voice —

Now, Ailie, my dear, ye'll find my
cloth slippers over there under the sofa,
and ye'll bring them and tie them on soft,
soft."

Alison went and fetched the slippers,
and proceeded to get them on with the
most careful and assiduous gentleness.
As she was thus engaged, she felt a hand
placed lightly on her head.

How like your hair is to your mother s,
Ailie : every day I see it more and more."

And then both hands were placed on
her shoulders ; and Aunt Gilchrist was
stooping down as if she would speak to
her niece without being; seen ; and the earl
knew that the old woman's cheek was wet
with tears.

Ailie, my lass — Ailie, my dear," she
said, with a sob, " I declare to ye I'm not
fit to live. I'm not fit to live. To say
such things to you — that are just as gentle
and good and patient and unselfish as ever
was seen — and not a word from ye back —
and I was near turning ye out of the
house. But they would not have let ye go
no, no ; the rest of the family have some
sense, if there's an old woman among them
that has no control of herself. But I'll
make it up to ye, Ailie — I'll make it up to
ye, Ailie, my love "

Alison, having finished her task by this
time, rose and put her arms round the old
dame's neck and kissed her.

Why, it's nothing at all, Aunt Gilchrist,"
said she lightly. " The best
friends quarrel sometimes."

*' But I've something in my mind," Aunt
Gilchrist said, with a kind of doggedness.
I've something to see to. I'll not let ye
run any risk in the future, my lass ; there'll
be something come of this morning's work ;
I'll not put ye at the mercy o' burning
nerves and ignorant doctors and idiots o'
shoemakers. I'll take it out o' my own
power to do ye a harm — to do a harm to
j/071, my lamb ! " She was crying a little
in a furtive kind of way. " Things have
come to a pass when that was possible !
But something will come out o' this
morning's work, I'm thinking. There,
now," she said, drying her eyes, "give me
another kiss, Ailie, and go away and tell
the lad John that I'll have a letter ready
for him in a few minutes, and he is to take
it along immediately to Captain Macdonell.

Dear me ! " she said, as she rose and took
one or two preliminary cautious steps,
what a wonderful, wonderful nice thing
it is to be able to walk ! " She went more
confidently, and with much obvious satisfaction,
across the room to the small
writing-table. '' And if ye see Flora," she
added, as Alison was going, *' bid her come
to me ; for I've got to make her hold her
tongue."

Thus it was that the long-talked-of visit
to Oyre, that had been postponed and
postponed, was all of a sudden resolved
upon, as a first act of reparation to Alison
for her aunt's evil treatment of her ; and
right glad was Captain Ludovick to be
informed that the old lady and her valuable
charges would start with him whenever he
pleased. As usual, the Doctor pleaded
professional cares ; Mrs. IVIunro was an
easy-going, placid, amiable creature, who
liked nothing better than looking after her

household ; Hugh did not seem to see the
fun of driving about the country with a
parcel of women, and preferred remaining
at home with his books ; so at last it was
arranged that the four of them should form
the party — that being a convenient number,
besides, for the small waggonette.

On the appointed morning, as the two
girls were getting ready. Flora said, laughingly,
to her cousin —

I declare to you, Alison, I think Ludo-vice
Macdonell is out of his mind."

'why?"

'' Why ? Why, with anxiety about this
wonderful visit. He is anxious that you
should think a great deal of his father ; he
is anxious that the old gentleman should
be highly pleased with you ; he is anxious
about everything ! And I have got my
instructions, I can tell you ; oh yes, he hasa
fine hectoring way with him when his
mind is set on anything ; his lordship must

have everything done to suit. I've got my
orders. I have to prepare you for a little
disappointment with the modern look of
the house ; I have to see that the old
gentleman doesn't bore you with his tiger-shooting
stories ; and I have to take great
pains to let him understand that although
you come from the south country you are
not a low-minded, dangerous, water-drinking
Radical. What else ? I don't know
what else, I'm sure ! "

It's all very well for you, Flora," said
Alison, though she was laughing too,
'' to make a joke of it, but I'm getting
thoroughly frightened. It is like going to
see some fearful Bluebeard in a great
castle. I would much rather you and
Aunt Gilchrist would go and leave me at
home."

And what would his lordship the young
laird say to me if I proposed that to him ?
I should have my head in my hands, I

warrant you ! Oh, he Is a terrible swashbuckler
when his mind Is set on anything."

I don't see how It can be of any
consequence whether I think well of his
father, or his father think well of me," said
Alison ; for she was really beginning to
regard this visit with some apprehension.

Neither do I," said Flora bluntly. '' I
don't see how you can be of any consequence
to anybody. You shouldn't be, by
rights. But it's just you prim ones, that
are all so meek and quiet, that become of
mighty consequence to everybody. There's
Aunt Gilchrist now ; would she ever say
she was sorry for scolding 77ze ? Not a
bit ; she would be more likely to give me
another dose, and say It served me right.
But she is all remorse when It Is you she
has scolded ; and last night she was
worrying my father's life out to tell her
what should be done about her money.
Could it be settled by a deed of gift, with

JD

her getting so much a year ; or was it to
be handed over to trustees — and all the
rest of it. I know what she was after.
Why, you little cat, that money belongs
to me ! "

•' Then you're welcome to it. Flora,"
said Alison cheerfully, '' for anything I
care.

Captain Ludovick was favoured with a
line, bright, and breezy morning for this
excursion on which he had so eagerly set
his heart ; and during the long drive he
did his best to keep his companions entertained.
Aunt Gilchrist, indeed (perhaps
because she was wearing cloth shoes), was
particularly merry ; and Flora conducted
herself with her usual happy and careless
good-humour ; it was Alison alone who
seemed to have something on her mind.
And why, she might have asked herself.
did she feel a sharp and sudden qualm
when the carriage arrived at a great iron

gate that was slowly opened for them by
the aged crone of a lodge-keeper ? The
grounds through which they now drove
were exceedingly pretty ; the sunlight
shone on the sycamores and larches and
firs, and put bars of gold across the winding
road ; there were gleams of blue
between the stems, telling of the sea-loch
that Oyre House overlooked.

*' Miss Alison," Captain Ludovick was
saying, '' do you see that crag there beyond
the meadows ? That's where the old place
used to be — there's only a bit of a ruin
there now ; and when they came to build
the present house I suppose they thought
they would give us better shelter this time,
for they've gone and jammed us down
Into a hollow, as you'll see directly."

Just as he spoke they came In sight of a
large, plain, square building, whitewashed,
but also weather-stained, with an abundance
of small windows, each with Its prim little

blind ; a moderate-sized lawn in front ; the
house itself and its stables surrounded by
a thicket of ash and sycamore and larch,
through which one could catch a glimpse
here and there of the sea. But in spite
of the whitewash and the small, plain
windows, there was an old-fashioned look
about the place ; and of course to any one
brought up in Kirk o' Shields this large
weather-stained building, surrounded by
its own meadows and woods, was quite an
imposing structure. Perhaps, however, it
was not so much of Oyre House as of
the old laird himself that Alison was
thinking.

Well, in a minute or two they had pulled
up at the front door, which was open, and
standing there Alison beheld a very striking
figure — that of an old gentleman not over
middle height, but of remarkably powerful
build (like his son, indeed, in that respect),
and with long white hair and long and

massive beard, also snow-white. From
under his shaggy eyebrows there gleamed
a pair of keen and scrutinizing gray eyes ;
but the aspect of his face was entirely
gentle — grave and gentle at the same time
as he came forward to receive them.
He was dressed in the Highland costume,
of a plain hunting tartan, and almost
without ornament.

Flora he knew well enough, so that his
greeting of her was of a familiar and
friendly character ; but to the two strangers
he was especially gracious, and Alison was
convinced she had never seen any one
with a manner so refined and distinguished
and courteous. He spoke slowly, and
with a marked Highland accent (no trace
of which, by the way, was audible in
Captain Ludovick's way of speaking), and
his voice was persuasive and pleasant to
hear. Of course his chief attention was
devoted to the old lady; but when they

had got into the drawing-room he turned
to AHson.

'' Indeed," said he, in his slow and
gently modulated fashion, *' I am glad to
hear that you hef been pleased with the
Highlands, since it is your first seest ; and
I am glad there has been good weather,
too."

I did not know there was any place
half so beautiful," said she simply.

'* Do you say that now ? " he continued
but he was evidently much gratified.
'' Well, I hef been nearly all over the
world ; but if there were places that might
be considered more beautiful, I was always
glad to come back to the Highlands. The
Highlanders hef a great many faults ; but
they are ferry fond of their own country,
at any rate. And now that it is not likely
I am going away any more, until I am
called away altogether, I am well content
to spend the last of my days where my

forefathers lived before me. It Is a quiet
place ; and when one grows old, one falls
into quiet and settled ways ; and there are
round you the people you hef known a
great many years, so that you live among
friends."

'' And do you know, Miss Alison, how
my father manages to live among friends ? "
Captain Ludovick broke in. " Why, by
ruining an ancient property, that he ought
to be keeping together for his only son —
that's me. It's very easy to live among
friends if you give money right and left
wherever it is wanted ; if you pension old
servants ; and reduce and reduce rents if
times are bad ; and pay premiums forgetting
boys into situations in Greenock
and Glasgow ; and have every old woman
in the neighbourhood looking to you fora
subsistence. Oh yes, you may have
plenty of friends that way ; and, besides
that, you may have It become a byword in

the Highlands that the Macdonells of
Oyre are as poor as a church-mouse."

Well, now, that is a fine thing to say ! "
the old gentleman retorted (though he was
clearly far from being displeased by his
son's ingenuous flattery). '' But what is
one to do if you have for a son an idle,
worthless lad, who is always going away,
and not looking after his own people ?
Some one must look after them, surely ? "
He glanced towards the door. "Well,
now, this is too much talking to serve fora
Highland welcome, and after so long a
journey, too. Ludovick, go and see if
inch is not ready yet."

But before Captain Ludovick could
cross the room, the booming of a gong
in the hall told them that '' inch " had
already been served, whereupon the old
laird, with much ceremony, escorted his
principal guest to the dining-room, leaving
his son to bring in the young ladies. It

VOL. I. R

was not, In truth, a sumptuous banqueting-hall
in which the visitors now found
themselves. There was a certain air of
picturesqueness derived from the tigers'
skins and stags' horns that were the chief
ornament ; but the furniture was of the
clumsy old-fashioned mahogany and horsehair
sort that the modern upholsterer has
happily abandoned. But the hospitality
that prevailed was of an almost too pressing
character ; and if the old laird was
grieved and disappointed that neither
Flora nor Alison would take any of his
claret (of which he gave them an ample
history) he was delighted with the
promptitude with which Aunt Gilchrist
declared that, doctors or no doctors, she
knew what was due to a Highland house,
and would be proud to taste her host's
whiskey.

And I hef seen from my own observation,"
said he, in his slow, gentle fashion,

as he filled her glass from the decanter,
that it is the best drink for both the
body and the mind. I neffer knew a man
yet that was sound in the body and sound
in the mind too — a respectable, religious,
good-tempered man — that was afraid of a
little whiskey. Oh, I know there are
some who cry out against it ; and who are
they ? Why, they are foolish, discontented
people, whose body is altogether wrong,
and their head too — ill-tempered people —
that would hef no government — Radicals,
and people of that kind. But I do not
wish them any harm ; for I take care that
they do not come to Oyre ; and the world
is hier enough to hold them and to hold
me too."

After luncheon, they went into the hall ;
and the " last of the old Highland gentlemen,"
as Hugh Munro was rather fond of
calling him, proceeded to descant on the
spoils and trophies hanging there, as one

after another recalled the various adventures
and expeditions of his earlier years.
This was what young Macdonell had
feared ; but he was only successful in
carrying off Flora and her aunt (coffee was
awaiting them outside, at a little table
round which chairs were placed) ; for
Alison, to whom the old laird happened to
be talking, made bold to remain with him,
and was ready to listen as long as he
pleased. For she was very grateful to
him for all the kindness he had shown hera
mere stranger ; and there was something
peculiarly winning about his manner, and
about the sound of his voice, too, which
was so different from the raucous and
guttural dissonance of Kirk o' Shields.
As for him, he seemed to be greatly
pleased to have for a companion this
pretty, pale-faced, smiling young lady,
whose questions showed what an intelligent
interest she took in these records of foreign

travel and adventure. Nay, he would
himself go and fetch for her inspection
his famous tiger-slayer — an old-fashioned
double-barrelled muzzle-loader of enormous
weight ; and he was immensely tickled
when he found it was all she could do,
with both hands, to raise this ponderous
weapon from the ground. Moreover,
when they all — all except Aunt Gilchrist,
that is to say — set out to climb the bit of
crag adjoining the house in order to visit
the remaining restores of the ancient
habitation of the Macdonells, Alison was
still his companion, Captain Ludovick
following with Flora. What Captain
Ludovick thought of the arrangement can
only be surmised ; though there may have
been some compensation in the assurance
that these two had already become excellent
friends.

And there were amends in store for the
young laird of Oyre. When they returned

to the lawn, Mr. Macdonell would show
them round the greenhouses and so forth ;
and as this was more within the scope of
Aunt Gilchrist's pedestrian powers, she set
out with them on this leisurely perambulation.
Somehow or other Alison got
separated from the old gentleman, who
was leading the way ; Aunt Gilchrist and
Flora went on with him; and 'the bit
lady " thus naturally fell under the charge
of Captain Ludovlck. But what was the
meaning or need of all the apologies and
excuses he now proceeded to make to her ?
Did she not think it a desperately dull
place ? What would she think of any one
leaving the world and coming to live in
such a solitude ? Alison looked up at him
with a smile.

"I think," said she, "it would be no
great hardship to leave the ordinary world
and come and live In a far more beautiful
world that is all your own. If I were you,

I don't think I should ever go as far as
Fort William."

'' Of course," said he hastily, " it isn't
always as empty and forlorn as it looks
at present. We have very often a few
friends in the winter ; for the winter shooting
isn't at all bad. And I should think
that even in the summer, if we had lady
visitors staying with us, they might find
amusement for themselves. Do you see
that opening in the larches over there ?
That leads down to a small creek where
there is a bathing-box ; and the nymphs
and naiads have the sandy little bay all to
themselves. Then there's plenty of boating
and sailing and sea-fishing ; and there
are decent-sized brown trout in the Tussle
the burn you crossed before coming to
the gate "

'* And yet your father says you are
hardly ever here," she interposed.

Oh, well, one must see a bit of the

world, just as he did," the young laird
answered. " It's hardly time for me to
settle down — nor is there any inducement ;
though my father and I are the best of
companions when I happen to be here.
But this I know very well, that I shall
never be like what he Is, though I were to
live to thrice his age. You would have to
understand how poor we are before you
could judge of the amount of good he does
for It's easy enough to be charitable
when you've plenty of money ; but I wish
you could see the tact he shows In dealing
with the people ; they know perfectly well
that what he does for them Is not done out
of a sentimentalism they can Impose on ;
they know quite well, too, that If they
don't do their best to help themselves,
they needn't come to him. And what Is
the consequence ? Instead of despising
him, they respect him ; they do more than
respect him : I wish you could hear them

talk about him. And I wish you knew him
well, Miss Alison ; I wish you knew
him thoroughly : I think you would like
him — or more than like him."

Indeed, I am sure of that," said Alison
quite frankly and cheerfully ; for the old
gentleman, instead of proving an ogre, had
entirely charmed and captivated her by his
old-world courtesy and pleasant voice.

I suppose it sounds absurd for me to
talk of my own father in that way," he
continued, when he could make sure of not
being overheard by those in front; *but
the fact is, we have been chums since ever
I can remember. He never tried to
overawe me ; he has rather been a kind
of brother and companion all the way
through ; and I don't know that he isn't
the younger man of the two — at least, I
know that he has a lighter heart than I
have at this moment."

** You ? " said she, glancing up in surprise

; it was a strange speech for a young
man who had always seemed to her the
very embodiment of high spirits and
audacity and the delight of Hfe.

His anxieties are all over, mine are
only beginning," he said briefly, and then
he changed the subject. " Of course you
know, Miss Alison, that the heir to a
property, however poor and insignificant
it may be, is supposed to look with a
jealous eye on every penny spent by the
owner in possession, unless it's spent on
the property itself. Well, not even on
that point is there the least difference of
opinion between my father and myself.
What he is doing now I would do myself.
If he were to die tomorrow — and there's
not much chance of his dying tomorrow,
thank God ! — if he were to die tomorrow,
and if I were to begin a new way of
treating the place, I should deserve to be
kicked out of it, neck and crop. And if

I were to marry, my wife would have to
be of the same opinion too."

Perhaps he spoke inadvertently, in his
eaofer desire that she should think well
of his father ; but an34iow a sudden flash
of pain shot through her heart. Yes, of
course he would marry. He would no
longer be the gay young bachelor-friend
of the Munroes, and the possible sweetheart
of Flora; Captain Macdonell and his
young wife would be living here at Oyre,
or perhaps away travelling on the Continent
; and there would be some kind
of barrier between him and his former
acquaintances. Young Mrs. Macdonell
would have her own companions and
intimates when she came to Oyre — AHson
could see her clearly, in that brief, sharp
instant of forecast. Then quickly she
asked him a perfectly irrelevant question
about some pheasant-coops they were
passing.

IN FAR LOCHABER.

So the Straggling little group made their
idle and gossiping survey of the surroundings
of this half-modern mansion and
its " policies," though Alison, as her companion
fancied, seemed a little absentminded
now. He asked her when she
was going away to the south ; she said not
the next day, but the day after had been
fixed for her departure. He said he hoped
she would remember the friends she had
made in the Highlands ; she answered,
with downcast eyes, that she was not likely
to forget them. And when was she coming
back ? Well, it would depend on Aunt
Gilchrist if ever she came back. Aunt
Gilchrist might be coming again in the
following summer to see her relatives in
Fort William ; perhaps she might be asked,
too, for a little while, but she could not
say. And he, also, grew somewhat silent
as they were returning to the house.

As they drew near the lawn again —

they were all together now — they had to
cross the end of a short avenue of sycamores
leading down to the shore, and he
said to her —

*' If you will come here for a moment,
I will show you the old garden ; it is
very pretty, I think — it won't take you a
second."

She followed him, or went with him,
rather ; and presently he had opened a
door in a stone wall all covered with ivy,
and allowed her to pass in. It was a
quaint, old-fashioned garden, formed on
terraces overlooking the sea, and surrounded
by this ivy-covered wall that rose,
tier on tier, as the various heights demanded.
But hardly was she within this
enclosure than he put his hand lightly on
her arm, and said —

Alison, you are going away, and this
is the only chance I may have of speaking
to you. Can't you imagine why I have

been so anxious you should come and see
Oyre, and get to know my father ? Do
you think that at some future time — as
far away in the future as you Hke — you
could bring yourself to think of living at
Oyre, dull as it is ? Would it be too dull
and poor and wretched ? Would the old
laird be too terrible a father-in-law to be
faced ? No," he added, quickly, for she
had stepped back a little, quite bewildered,
and with her heart beating so wildly that
it was impossible for her to speak, '' I
don't want you to answer me now ; you
don't know enough about us yet ; but I
know you ; I have been watching all your
goodness and gentleness and straightforwardness
since ever you came among us ;
and in the end, if you say no, then there
will never be a bride brought home to
Oyre. Now, Alison ! don't be frightened
into a refusal ; wait until you know me
better ; I am content to wait until you say

yes ; only — only, well, I couldn't let you
go away without telling you what I was
looking forward to."

What was she to say ? Nay, what
could she say ? In her first alarm and
bewilderment she would have shrunk back
with a trembling refusal ; but he had
anticipated that ; he did not want her
answer now ; it was only a vague dream
of his — a wild and impossible dream, it
seemed to her — that he had put before
her. And then, ere she could speak or
attempt to speak, there came a cry down
the avenue —

*' Alison, where are you ? "

Flora appeared at the gate.

Come along, quick ! — there's the most
beautiful white peacock on the lawn — the
most beautiful creature you ever saw "

Flora stopped suddenly, and a rush of
blood flew to her face ; some suspicion had
crossed her mind ; but the next instant

Alison, though somewhat pale, had put her
hand within her cousin's arm, and calmly
said —

"Come, then."

The two girls walked on together ;
Ludovick Macdonell had to stay for a
moment to shut the heavy door ; then he
rejoined them, but without entering into
any conversation. They went on towards
the lawn, where the white peacock, resplendent
of tail, was proudly stalking
about ; and they found tea waiting for
them there, for they were soon to start
on their homeward drive.

It was now for the first time that the
old laird learned that his son proposed to
return to Fort William with these visitors ;
and in the most gentle way he protested.

Why, you are a ferry idle boy, Ludo-vice,"
said he. " Here are the workmen
coming tomorrow, and who should be
looking after them but yourself ? They

will be building for you, and not forme."



Young Macdonell directed one swift
glance towards Alison : would she understand
that obedience to his father did not
mean indifference to her ?

'' Very well, sir," said he ; " if you think
I should stay, I will. But I do not know
that it is a Highland fashion to let your
guests go home by themselves."

Indeed, Captain Macdonell," said Aunt
Gilchrist promptly, *' if ye think we cannot
look after ourselves on a bit drive back
to Fort William, in the middle of the
afternoon, what do ye take us for ? And
I'm thinking we're already responsible for
having made ye waste far too much of
your time of late."

'• Poor Ludovick is always so extremely
busy ! " said Miss Flora, with much sympathy
; and so that matter was settled ;
and Captain Ludovick attended them no

VOL. I. S

farther than the lodge-gate, where he stood
waving a handkerchief so long as they
were in sio-ht.

Now this drive home, alone the level
shores of the sea-loch, was accompanied
by a most remarkable phenomenon. The
golden sunset light struck so fiercely on
the glassy surface of the water that it was
reflected upward, and threw a shadow of
the carriage and horses quite distinct from
that thrown by the direct rays of the sun ;
and this ghostly equipage, according to the
formation of the ground, would sometimes
appear travelling along the lower slopes
of the adjacent hill, sometimes along the
knolls and crags nearer the road, and
sometimes almost coinciding with the much
darker natural shadow. This phantasmal,
pale-gray Doppelgdnger, now gliding along
those distant golden banks, now coming
startlingly near, was altogether a singular
and puzzling thing ; and it kept both Flora

and Aunt Gilchrist abundantly occupied.
There were discussions as to the cause of
it, and exclamations as it disappeared and
reappeared at various distances — in the
midst of all which Alison was allowed to
sit quite silent and unnoticed. She was
supposed to be watching too ; in reality-she
was thinking of far other matters ; her
memory eagerly recalling every tone and
gesture of his appeal to her in the old
terraced garden ; sometimes her imagination
carrying her forward to all kinds of
wistful possibilities, and suffusing her eyes
with happy tears ; and then again an indefinable
presentiment convincing her that
all this would prove to be a mirage, an
idle dream. But this at least she knew
well — that, whatever else might befall her
after she had gone away from those friends
who had made themselves so dear to her,
and from those beautiful scenes in which
she had sojourned for a while, whatever

else might happen In the harder and
harsher world whither she was returning,
this she knew, that she had left her heart
behind her In Lochaber.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had ofi application.

St. Dunstai^s House, Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, London,
September, 1 888.

a Selection from the ilisJt of roofed

PUBLISHED BY

;empson low, marston, searle, & livingston.

LIMITED.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.
Abbott. C) Poaetquissings Chronicle. \q>s. 6d.

Waste Land Wanderings. Crown 8vo, 7^. 6d.

ibney ( W. de W.) and Cim7iingha?n. Pioneers of the Alps.

With photogravure portraits of guides. Imp. 8vo, gilt top, 21s.
adam {G. Mercer) aid Wetherald. An Algonquin Maiden.

Crown 8vo, 5x.
stains {C K.) Manual of Historical Literature. Cr. 8vo, 12s. 6d.
igassiz {A.) Three Cruises of the Blake. Illustrated. 2 vols.,

8vo, 42i-.
alcott. Works of the late Miss Louisa May Alcott : —

Eight Cousins. Illustrated, 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^-. 6d.

Jack and Jill. Illustrated, 2s.; cloth gilt, 2>s. 6d.

Jo's Boys. 5^.

Jimmy's Cruise in the Pinafore, &c. Illustrated, cloth, 2s. ; gilt edges,
Zs. 6d.

Little Men. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3J. 6d.

Little Women, is. \ i vol., cloth, 2s. ; larger ed., gilt

Little Women Wedded, is. ) edges, 3J. 6d.

Old-fashioned Girl. 2s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^-. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. Cloth, gilt edges, y. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. Illustrated, 2s ; cloth gilt, 5^'.

Work: a Story of Experience, is. ") I vol., cloth, gilt

Its Sequel, " Beginning Again." is. ) edges, 3^-. 6d.

alden ( W. Z.) Adventures ofjimviy Brown, written by himself.

Illustrated. Small crown 8vo, cloth, 2s.
Aldrich {T. B.) Friar Heroine's Beautiful Book, evr. 3i-. 6d.
Afford lady Marian) Needlework as Art. AVith over 100

Woodcuts, Photogravures, &c. Royal Svo, 2\s. ; large paper, S4J.
Amateur Angler's Days in Dove Dale : Three Weeks Holiday

in 1S84. By E. M. is. 6d. ; boards, is. ; large paper, 5^.

A

Andersen. Fairy Tales. An entirely new Translation. With

over 500 Illustrations by Scandinavian Artists. Small 4to, 6s.
Anderson (JV.) Pictorial Ai'ts of Japan. With 80 full-page

and other Plates, 16 of them in Colours, Large imp. 4to, ;^8 sin

four folio parts, £2. is. each; ; Artists' Proofs, £\2. \2s.
Angler's Strange Experiences fan). " By Cotswold Isis. With

numerous Illustrations, 4to, 5j. New Edition, 3^-. 6d.
Angling. See Amateur, "British," "Cutcliffe," "Fennel,"

"Afford," " Hamilton," ** Martin," " Oris," " Penned," " Print,"

"Senior," "Stevens," "Theakston," "Walton," "Wells," and

"Willis-Bund."
Annals of the Life of Shakespeare, front the most recent authorities.

Fancy boards, 2s.
Annesley (C.) Standard Opera Glass. Detailed Plots of Zo

Operas. Small 8vo, sewed, is. 6d.
Antipodean Notes, collected on a Nine Months Tour round the

World. By Wanderer, Author of "Fair Diana." Crown Svo, 'js. 6d.
Appleton. European Guide. 2 Parts, Svo, vos. each.
Armytage thon. Mrs.) Wars of Victoria's Reign, ces.
Art Education. See " Biographies," " Dean vers' "Illustrated

Text Books," "Mollett's Dictionary."
Artistic japan. Illustrated with Coloured Plates. Monthly.

Royal 4to, 2s.
Attiuell prof) The Italian Masters. Crown Svo, 3^. 6^.
Audsley {G. A.) Handbook of the Organ. Top edge gilt, 42s.;

large paper, 84J.

Ornamental Ai'ts of Japaii. 90 Plates, 74 in Colours

and Gold, with General and Descriptive Text. 2 vols., folio, ;i^ 1 5 15^.;
in specially designed leather, ;i^23 2s.

The Art of Chron-Lithography. Coloured Plates

and Text. Folio, 6^.

and Tomlinson. Ivory and Wood Carvings of Japan.

separatists proofs (100), 168^.
Auerbach {B.) Brigitta. (B. Tauchnitz Collection ) 2s.

On the Heights. 3 vols., ds.

Spinoza. 2 vols., imo, 4^.

'nADDELEY {S) Tchay and Chianti. Small Svo, 5^.

Baldwin james) Story of Siegfried. 6s

■ Story of the Golden Age. Illustrated by Howard

Pyle. Crown Svo, 6s.

Baldwin james) Story of Roland. Crown 8vo, ds.

Sanford {A. J.) Turbans and Tails. Sketches in the Unromantic

East. Crown 8vo, 7j. dd.
Barlow alfred) Weaving by Ha?id and by Power. With

several hundred Illustrations. Third Edition, royal 8vo, £i <^s.
Barlow {P. W.) Kaipara^ Experiences of a Settler in N. New

Zealand. Illust., crown 8vo, 6s.
Barrow {J.) Mountain Ascetics in Cumberland and West moreland.

Crown Bvo, ']s. 6d.; new edition, 5j-.
Bassett {F. S.) Legends and Superstitions of the Sea. ^s. 6d.

THE BAYARD SERIES.

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.

Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style.

We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price IS. 6d. each Vohone, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Hfodbands arid Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.

Joinville's St. Louis of France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley.

Abdallah. By Edward Laboullaye.

Napoleon, Table-talk and Opinions.

Words of Wellington.

Johnson's Tassels. With Notes.

HazHtt's Round Table.

The Religio medici, Hydriotaphia,

&c. By Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.
Coleridge's Christened, &c. With

Preface by Algerian C. Swinburne.
Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By

Robert Buchanan.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Essay
by Sainte-veuve.

The King and the Commons. Cavalier
and Puritan Songs.

Vathek. By William Beckford.

Essays in Mosaic. By Ballantyne.

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and
his Friends. By P. Fitzgerald.

Reflections of Rochefoucauld.

Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

A Case containing 12 Volumes, price 31J. dd.; or the Case separately, price 3J. 6d.

Barnes canon) Hy?}ins and other Verses. Crown 8vo, sewed,

Ij.; cloth, IX. dd.
Beaugrand (C.) Walks Abroad of Two Young Naturalists.

By D. Sharp. Illust., 8vo, ^s. 6d.
Beecher {Lf. W.) Ait theistic Biography, and Diary. [preparing
Belike and Broivjie. Child's Voice : its Treatment with regard

to After Development. Small 8vo, y. 6d.
Beyschlag. Fejjiale Costume Figures of various Centuries. 1 2

reproductions of pastel designs in portfolio, imperial. 21s.
Bickers teth bishop E. If.) Clergyman in his Home. is.
Evangelical Churchnianship. \s.

A 2

Bickerslcth bishop E. H.) From Year to Year: Original
Poetical Pieces. Small post Svo, 3^. dd. ; roan, 6s. and ^s.; calf or
morocco, 10^. 6d.

Tie Master's Horne-Call. 20th Thous. 321110, cloth

gilt, \s.

The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached on

the Death of JNIrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, is.

The Reef, and other Parables. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Shadow of the Rock. Select Religious Poetry. 2s. 6d.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond, ^s.

Bigelow {Johii) France and the Confederate Navy. An International

Episode. 7j. 6d.
Biographies of the Great Artists illustrated). Crown Svo,

emblematical binding, 3^. 6d. per volume, except where the price is given.

Claude le Lorrain, by Owen J.Dullea
Correggio, by M. E. Seaton. 2s. 6d.
Delia Robbia and Cellini. 2s. 6d.
Albrecht Diirer, by R. F. Heath.
Figure Painters of Holland.
FraAngelico,Masaccio,andBotticelli.
Fra Bartolommeo, Albertinelli, and

Andrea del Sarto.
Gainsborough and Constable.
Ghiberti and Donatello. 2s. 6d.
Giotto, by Harry Quilter.
Hans Holbein, by Joseph Randall.
Hogarth, by Austin Dobson.
Landseer, by F. G. Stevens.
Lawrence and Romney, by Lord

Ronald Gower. 2s. 6d.
Leonardo da Vinci.

Mantegna and Francis.

Messenger, by J. W. Mollett. 2s. 6d.

Michelangelo Buonarotti,by Clement,

iNIurillo, by Ellen E. Minor. 2s. 6d.

Overbear, by J. B. Atkinson.

Raphael, by N. Dangers.

Rembrandt, by J. W. Mollett.

Reynolds, by F. S. Pulling.

Rubens, by C. W. Rest.

Tintoretto, by W. R. Osier.

Titian, by R. F. Heath.

Turner, by Cosmo Workhouse.

Vandyke and Hals, by P. R.
Head.

Velasquez, by E. Stowe.

Vernet and Delaroche, by J. Rees.

Watteau, by J. W. Mollett. 2s. 6d.
Little Masters of Germany, by W. ' Wilkie, by J. W. Mollett.

B. Scott. I

Bird (F./.) American Practical Dyer's Companion. Svo, 425.

{H. E.) Chess Practice. Svo, 2s. 6d.

Black robert) Horse Racing in France : a History. Svo, 14J.
Black ( Wm.) Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Strange Adventures of a House J) oat. 3 vols., 31^-. 6d.

In Far Lochaber. 3 vols., crown Svo., 3ii-. 6^.

Blackburn charles F.) Hints on Catalogue Titles and Index

Entries, with a Vocabulary of Terms and Abbreviations, chiefly from

Foreign Catalogues. Royal Svo, \\s.

Blackburn henry) Breton Folk. With 171 lust. by Randolph

Caldecott. Imperial Svo, gilt edges, 2 if.; plainer binding, los. ci.

Pyrenees. Illustrated by Gustave Dore, corrected

to 1881. Crown Svo, p. 6d. See also Caldecott.

Blackmore (P. D.) Lorna Doofie. Edition deluge. Crown 4to,
very numerous Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, "sis. 6d.; parchment,
uncut, top gilt, 35^. ; new issue, plainer, dis. ; small post 8vo, 6s.

Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Springhaven. Illust. by Parsons and Barnard. Sq.

8vo, \2s.

Bailie {IVilliavi) How to get Strong and how to Stay so.
Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, &c Exercises. Illust., sm.postSvo, sound
Bodies for our Boys and Girls. imo, 2s. 6d.

Bommck. British Colonies. Asia, i^. ; Africa, is. ; America,

I J. ; Australasia, is. One vol., cloth, 5^.
Banquet rev. C.) Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons

for Children. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jehoshaphat ; or Sunlight and Clouds, is.

Boussenard (Z.) Crusoe of Guiana. Gilt, 2S. 6d. ; gilt ed . 35. 6d.

Gold-seekers. Sequel to the above. Illust. imo, 5^.

Boyesen {F.) Story of Norway. Illustrated, sm. 8vo, 7^. 6d.
Boyesen {H. H.) Modern Vikings : Stories of Life and Sport

in Norland. Cr. Svo, 6s.

Boy's Froissart. King Arthur, Knightly Legends of Wales,

Percy. See Lanier.
Bradshaw (/".) New Zealand of To toy , 1884-87. 8vo.
Brant (JV. T.) Animal and Vegetable Fats and Oils. 244

Illust., Svo, 35^.
Manufacture of Soap and Candles, with 7n any Formulas,

Illust., Svo, 35i-.

Metallic Alloys. Chiefly from the German of Krupp

and Wilberger. Cro\\Ti Svo, 12s. 6d.
Bright {fohn) Public Letters. Crown 8vo, 7.?. 6d.

Brisse {Baroii) Menus (366). A mmu, in French and English,
for every Day in the Yei^i 2nd Edition. Crown Svo, 5^.

British Fisheries Directory. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Brittany. See Blackburn.

Brome {G. Lennox) Voice Use and Stimulants. Sm. 8vo, 3^. 6d,

and Belike remit) Voice, Song, and Speech. N ed,, 5J".

Bryant ( W. C.) and Gay {S. H.) History of the United States.
4 vols., royal Svo, profusely Illustrated, cos.

Bryce rev. Professor) Manitoba. Illust. Crown 8vo, 75. 6^.

Short History of the Canadian People, ys. 6d.

Burnaby capt.) On Horseback through Asia Minor. 2 vols.,
8vo, 38.5-. Cheaper Edition, i vol., crown Svo, los. 6d.

Burnaby mrs. F.) High Alps in Winter ; or Mountaiiieering
in Search of Health. With Illustration?, &c., 14J. See also Main.

Bttniley {/.) History of Wool and Welcoming. Illust. 8vo, 21J.

Burton sir R. F.) Early, Public, aid Private Life. Edited
by F. HiTCHMAN. 2 vols., 8vo, 36^-.

Butler sir W. F.) Campaign of the Cataracts. Illust., 8vo, i8.f.

Invasion of England, told twenty years after. 2s. 6d.

Pet Cloud; or, the Solitary Sioux. Imperial imo,

numerous illustrations, gilt edges, 3^. 6d. ; plainer binding, is. 6d.

The Great Lone Land ; Pet River Expedition. ']s.6d.

The Wild North Laid ; the Story of a Winter Journey

^vith Dogs across Northern North America. 8vo, \Zs. Cr. 8vo, 7j. dd.

sable {G. W.) Bonaventure : A Prose Pastoral of Acadian
^^ Louisiana. Sm. post Svo, ^s.

Cadogan lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience. Twenty-four
Diagrams in Colours, with Text. Fcap. 4to, \2s. 6d.

Nev Games of Patience. Coloured Diagrams, 4to, 1 2s.6d.

Caldecott {Pa?idolph) Memoir. By Henry Blackburn. With

170 Examples of the Artist's Work. 14^-.; large paper, 21s.
California. See Nordhoff.

Callan phi) Wanderings on Wheel and on Foot. Cr. Svo, is.6d.
Campbell lady Colin) Book of the Punning Brook : and of

Still Waters, ^s.
Canadian People: Short History. Crown Svo, 7^. 6d.
Carleton ( Will) Farm Ballads, Farm Festivals, and Farm

Legends. Paper boards, is. each; i vol., small post Svo, 3^-. 6d.

City Ballads. Illustrated, 1 2s. 6d. New Ed. (Rose

Library), imo, is.
Carnegie {A.) American Four-in-LT.vid 171 Britain. Small

4to, Illustrated, los. 6d. Popular Edition, paper, is.

Pound the World. Svo, 10s. 6d.

» Triumphant Democracy. 6s. ; also \s. 6d. and is.

Chairman's Handbook. By R. F. D. Palsgrave. 5th Edit., 2s.
Changed Cross, &'c. Religious Poems. i6rao, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s.
Chaplin {J. G.) Three Principles of Book-keeping. 2s. 6d.
Charities of London. See Low's.
Charnock {P. S.) Practical Notes on Etching. New Ed. Svo,

loi. 6d.
Chess. See Bird (H. E.).

Children's Praises. Hymns for Sunday-schools and Services.
Compiled by Louisa H. H. Tristan. 4^.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each. Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, K.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C . Worsley, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of memory.
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — At/iencenm.

Chreiman miss) Physical Culture of Women. A Lecture at the

Parker Museum. Small 8vo, \s.
Christ in Song. By Philip Chaff. New Ed., gilt edges, 6s.
Chromo Lithography. See Audsley.
Cochran {W.) Pen and Pencil i?i Asia Minor. Illust., 8vo, 21s.

Collingivood harry) Under the Meteor Flag. The Log of a

Midshipman. Illustrated, small post 8vo, gilt, 3^. 6d.; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Voyage of the ^^ Aurora." Gilt, tes. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Cook dutton) Book of the Play. New Edition, i vol., 3^. 6d.

On the Stage: Studies. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 24^.

Cohen jos., M.P.) Life and Speeches. 8vo, 14^'.

Cowper {JV.) Poetical Works : A Concordance. Roy. 8vo, 215-.

Dozens {F.) American Yachts. 27 Plates, 22 x 28 inches.

Proofs, £21 ; Artist's Proofs, ;i^3i io.r.
Crew {B.J.) Practical Treatise on Petroleum. Illust., 8vo, 28^.
Crouch {A. P.) On a Surf-bound Coast. Crown 8vo, 75. dd.
Crown Prince of Germany : a Diary. 2S. 6d.
Cud'd'orth { W.) Life and Correspondence of Abraham Sharp.

Illustrated from Drawings. (To Subscribers, 21s.) 26s.
Cu7nberland{Stuart) Thought Reader' s Thoughts. Cr. 8vo., i os. 6d,
Queen's Highway fro mi Ocea7ito Ocean. in. , 8vo, i8j-. ;

new ed., ^s. 6d.
Randall joseph) Annals of the Life and Work of Shakespeare.

With a List of Early Editions. 3^. 6c/. ; large paper, 5^-.; also 2J.

Remarkable Bindings in the British Museum.

Curtis { IV. E.) Capitals of Spanish A77ierica Illust., roy. 8vo.
Cuslwig {W.) Initials and Pseudo7iy7ns. Large 8vo, 255'.;
second series, large 8vo, 2IJ.

Chester {Eliz. B.) Tenting on the Plains; Gen. Custer in Kansas

and Texas. Royal 8vo, iS^-.
Cutcliffe {H. C.) Trout Fishing in Rapid Streams. Cr. 8 vo, 3^. bd.

Teal Y mrs. Z>.) Digging, Squatting, and Pioneering in

■L-^ Northern South Australia. 8vo, \2.s.

Lancers. Elementary History of Art. New ed., 360 illus.,
cr. 8vo, 2 vols. (5^. each), gilt, 10^. dd.

Elementary History of Music. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Davidson {H C.) Old Adam ; Tale of an Ai'viy Crammer. 3
vols, crown 8vo, 31^. dd.

Davis ( Clement) Modern Whist. ass.

Davis \C. T) Bricks, Tiles, Terra Cotta, &^c. 111. 8vo, 25^-.

Manufacture of Leather. With many Illustrations. 52^.6^.

Manufacture of Paper. 28^.

Davis {G. B.) Outlines of International Law. 8vo. loi". dd.

Dait'idozi'sky. Glue, Gelatine, Isinglass, Cements, c^c. 8 vo, 1 2s. 6d.

Day of My Life at Eton. By an Eton Boy. imo. 2s. 6d.

Day's Collation : an Encyclopaedia of Prose Quotations. Imperial
8vo, cloth, 3 1 J. 6(/.

De Leon {E.) Under the Stars and under the Crescent. N. ed ., ds.

Dethroning Shakspeare. Letters to the Daily Telegraph; arid
Editorial Papers. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Dictionary. See Tolhausen, " Technological."

Dogs in. Disease. By Ashton. Crown 8vo, "js. 6d.

Donnelly ignatius) Atlantis ; or, the Antediluvian World.
7th Edition, crown 8vo, \2s. 6d.

Ragnarok: The Age of Fire and Gravel. Illustrated,

crown 8vo, \2s. 6d.

The Great Cryptogram : Francis Barons Cipher in the

so-called Shakspeare Plays. With facsimiles. 2 vols., 30J-.
Dore gustave) Life and Reminiscences. By Blanche Roosevelt.
Illust. from the Artist's Drawings. Medium 8vo, 24$-.
Dougall james Daniel) Shooting: its Appliances, Practice,
and Purpose. New Edition, revised with additions. Crown 8vo, "js. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." ^G lobe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority oa

shooting." — Daily Nezvs.

Duprl giovanni). By Frieze. With Dialogues on Art. "js.dd.

pDMONDS (C) Poetry of the Anti Jacobin. With Addi-
-'— ' national matter. New ed. Illust., crown 8vo.
Educational List and Directory for 1887-88. 5^.

Educational Works published in Great Britain. A Classified
Catalogue. Third Edition, 8vo, cloth extra, ds.

Edwards (E.) American Steam Engineer. Illust., 12 mo, 12s. 6d,

Eight Months on the Argentine Gran Chaco. 8vo, Zs. 6d.

Elliott {H. W.) An Arctic Province : Alaska and the Seal
Islands. Illustrated from Drawings ; also with Maps. l6s.

Emerson {Dr. P. Hi) Pictures of East Anglian Life. Ordinary
ed., I05J-. ; edit, de luxe, 17 x 132, vellum, morocco back, 147 j.

Naturalistic Photography for Art Students. Crown 8vo.

and Goodly Life and Landscape on the Norfolk

Broads. Plates 12 X 8 inches, 126J.; large paper, 2ioj-.

English Catalogue of Books. Vol. III., 1872 — 1880. Royal
Svo, half-morocco, 42^-. See also " Index."

English Etchings. Published Quarterly, ^s.dd. Vol. VI., 255'.

English Philosophers. Edited by E. B. Ivan Muller, Mea.
Crown Svo volumes of 180 or 200 pp., price 3^-. dd. each.

Shaftesbury and Hutchison.
Adam Smith, by J. A. Farmer.

Francis Bacon, by Thomas Fowler.

Hamilton, by W. H. S. Monck.

Hartley and James Mill.

Esmarch (E) Handbook of Surgery. Translation from the

last German Edition. With 647 new Illustrations. Svo, leather, 24J-.

Etching. See Charnock, and English Etchings.
Etchings {AIode?'?i) of Celebrated Paintings. 4to, 31.^. dd.
Eva?is {E. A.) So?igs of the Birds. Analogies of Spiritual Life.

New Ed. I. lust., 6s.
Evelyn. Life of Mrs. Godolphin. By William Harcourt,

of Dunham. " Steel Portrait. Extra binding, gilt top, 7^. 6^.

rpARINl {G. A.) Through the Kalahari Desert. Svo, 21s.

Farm Ballads, Festivals, and Legends. See Carleton.
Facets edgar) A Gentleman of Leisure. \s.
Fenn ( G. Manville) Off to the Wilds : A Story for Boys.
Profusely Illustrated. Crown Svo, gilt edges, 3J-. dd. ; plainer, 2s. ed.

Silver Caiioft. Illust., gilt ed., 3:?. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Fennel greville) Book of the Roach. New Edition, imo, 2s.
Ferns. See Heath.

Field (H. M.) Greek Islands and Turkey after the War. 2>s. 6d.
Field mrs. Horace) Anchorage. 2 vols., crown Svo, i2^\
Fields (/. T) Yesterdays zuith Authors. New Ed., Svo, lo. 6d.
Fitzgerald {P.) Book Fancier. Cr. Svo. 5^. ; large pap. 12^. 6d,

Fleming (sandford) England and Canada : a Tour. Cr. 8vo, 6^.
Florence. See Yriarte.

Forward {R.,/im.) Plant Lore, Lege sids, and Lyrics. 8vo, i6s,
Forbes {LI. O.) Naturalist in the Eastern Archipelago. 8vo.

Foreign Countries and British Colonies. Cr. 8vo, 3^. dd. each

Australia, by J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald.

Austria, by D. Kay, F.R.G.S.

Denmark and Iceland, by E. Cette.

Egypt, by S. Lane Poole, Bea.

France, by Miss M. Roberts.

Germany, by S. Baring-Gould.

Greece, by L. Sergeant, Bea.
Foreign Etchings. From Paintings by Rembrandt, 6^r., 635'.;

india proofs, 147 J.
Fortunes made in Business. Vols. I., II., III. i6j". each.
Hampton mary') Journal, Letters, and Anecdotes. 8vo, 14,?.
Frantic {Afaud Jeanne). Small post 8vo, uniform, gilt edges : —

Japan, by S. Mossman.
Peru, by Clements R. Markham.
Russia, by W. R. Merrill, Mea.
Spain, by Rev. Wentworth Webster.
Sweden and Norway, by Woods.
West Indies, by C H. Eden,
F.R.G.S.

Emily's Choice. 5i-.
Hall's Vineyard. john's
Wife : A Story of Life in

South Australia. marian
; or. The Light of Some

One's Home. silken
Cords and Iron Fetters. ^.
Into the Light. 4^.

Vermont Vale. 5^.

Minnie's Mission. 4J.

Little Mercy. \s.

Beatrice Melton's Discipline. 4^.

No Longer a Child. golden

Gifts. \s.

Two Sides to Every Question. 4J.

Master of Ralston. 4J.

Also a Cheap Edition, in cloth extra, is. 6d. each.

Franks Ranch ; or. My Holiday in the Rockies. A Contribution
to the Inquiry into What we are to Do with our Boys. freeman

{J.) Lights and Shadows of Melbourne Life. Cr. 8vo.
6s.

French. See Julien and Porcher.

Fresh Woods and Pastures New. By the Author of " An
Amateur Angler's Days." is. 6J.; large paper, 5^-. ; new ed., is.

Froissart. See Lanier.

Fuller edward) Fellow Travellers. 3^. dd.

Dramatic Year 1887-88 in the United States . With the

London Season, by W. Archer. Crown 8vo.

r^ANE {D. N) New South Wales and Victoria in 1885. 55.

Gaspai'in [Countess A. de) Sunny Fields a fid Shady Woods. 6s.
Geary (Grattan) Burma after the Conquest, "js. 6d.
Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, 6s.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6j. each ; or in calf extra, price ioj. dd. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d., except where price is named.

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character.
About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."
Like unto Christ. New Translation of Thomas a Kempis.
Familiar Words. A Quotation Handbook. essays
by Montaigne. Edited by the Author of " The Gentle

Life."
The Gentle Life. 2nd Series.
The Silent Flour : Essays, original and Selected.
JIalf'Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell.
Essays on English Write's, for Students in English Literature.
Other People's Wi^idotas. By J. Hain Friswell. 6;-.
A Alan's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.
The Countess of Pembroke' s Arabia. By Sir Philip Sidney. 6s.

Ge7'7nany. By S. Baring-Gould. Crown 8vo, 3-5-. 6d.
Gibbon (C.) Beyond Compare : a Story. 3 vols., cr. 8vo, 3 i.r. 6d.

Yarmouth Coast.

Gisborne (JV.) Nev Zealand Rulers and Statesmen. With

Portraits. Crown 8vo, ']$. 6d.
Goldsmith. She Stoops to Conquer. Introduction by Austin

DoBSON ; the designs by E. A. Abbey. Imperial 4to, 48^.
Goode {G. Brown) American Fishes. A Popular 7 realise.

Royal Svo, 24s.
Gordon {/. E. H., Bea. Cantab.) Four Lectures on Electric

Induction at the Royal Institution, 1878 9. Illust., square imo, 3^.

Electric Lighting. Illustrated, Svo, iSj-.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. 2nd

Edition, enlarged, with coloured, full-page, &c., Illust. 2 vols., Svo, 425-.
Electricity for Schools. Illustrated. Crown Svo, 55.

Gouffc {fules) Royal Cookery Book. New Edition, with plates

in colours. Woodcuts, &c. , Svo, gilt edges, 42J-.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, 10^. 6d.

Grant {Genej-al, U.S.) Personal Memoirs. 2 vols., Svo, I's.

Illustrations, Maps, &c. 2 vols., Svo, 2Sj-.
Great Artists. See " Biographies."

Great Musicians. Edited by F. Suffer. A Series of

Biographies, crown 8vo, y. each : —
Bach. Mendelssohn. Schubert.

English Church Com Mozart. Schumann.

posers. By Barrett. Purcell. Richard Wagner.

Handel. Rossini. Weber.

Haydn.

Groves {/. Percy) Yarmouth Grange. Gilt, 5^.; plainer, 2s. 6d,
Guizot History of France. Translated by R. Black. In

8 vols., super-royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, each 2\s. In cheaper

binding, 8 vols., at vos. dd. each.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all

students of history." — Titles.

Mason's School Edition. Abridged

from the Translation by Robert Black, with Chronological Index, Historical
and Genealogical Tables, &c. By Professor Gustave Mason,
Bea. With Portraits, Illustrations, &c. I vol., 8vo, 600 pp., 5J-.

Guyon [Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6j.

Stafford {K M.) Floating Flies, and Jiow to Dress them.
■^ -^ Coloured plates. 8vo, 15J. ; large paper, 30j-.

Dfy Fly-fishing in Theory aid Practice, Col. Plates.

Hall (W. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Maxims. 2s.
Hamilton (F.) Recollections of Fly-fishing for Salmon, Trout,

and Grayling. With their Habits, Haunts, and History. lust., 6j.;

large paper, vos. 6d.
Hands {T) Numerical Exercises in Chemistry. Cr. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

and 2s. ; Answers separately, 6d.

Hardy thomas). See Low's Standard Novels.

Hare {/. S. Clark) Law of Contracts. 8vo, 261.

Harley {T.) Southward Fio ! to the State of Georgia, ^s.

Harpers Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages, fully

Illustrated, \s. Vols., half yearly, I. — XVI., super-royal 8vo, 8j. dd.

each.

' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that to count

them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings

illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions de iuxe." —

St. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . An extraordinary shillingsworth—

160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as

many illustrations"— ^(//«^7/r^/i Daily Revisit.

"An amazing shillings worth . . . combining choice literature of both nations"—

Nonconformist.

Harper's Young People. Vols. I.-IV., profusely Illustrated
with woodcuts and coloured plates. Royal 4to, extra binding, each
Ts. 6d. ; gilt edges, 2>s. Published Weekly, in wrapper, id. ; Annual
Subscription, post free, 6s. 6d. ; Monthly, in wrapper, with coloured
plate, 6d. ; Annual Subscription, post free, 7^. 6d.

Harrison mary) Skilful Cook, New edition, crown 8vo, 5^.
Hartshorn {H.) Household Medicine Surgery, c^c. 8vo. 21s.
Hatton frank) North Borneo. Map and Illust., &c. iZs.
Hatto?i joseph) Journalistic London : with Engravings and
Portraits of Distinguished Writers of the Day. Fcap. 4to, \2s. ci.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

Hawthorne nathaniel) Life. By John R. Lowell.

Heath francis George) Fern World With Nature-printed
Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, \2s. bd. Cheap Edition, 6s.

Heath gertrude). Tell us Why ? The Customs and Ceremonies
of the Church of England explained for Children. Cr. Svo, 2s. 6d.

Heldniann {B.) Mutiny of the Ship " Leander." Gilt edges,
2s. 6d.; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Henty. Wimmzg his Spurs. Cr. Svo, 3^-. dd. ; plainer, 2s. 6d,

Cornet of Horse. Cr. Svo, 3^". 6d.; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Jack Archer. Illust. 3^. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Henty richmond) Australian : My Early Life. herrick

robert) Poetry. Preface by Austin Dobson. With
numerous Illustrations by E. A. Abbey. 4to, gilt edges, 42^.

Henley mrs. E.) Native Flowers of New Zealand. Chromic
from Drawings. Three Parts, to Subscribers, 63J.

Hewitt james A ^ Church History in South Africa, 17 95- 1848,
imo, 5x.

Hicks {E. S.) Our Boys : How to Enter the Merchant Service, ^s.

Yachts, Boats and Canoes. Illustrated. Svo, vos. 6d.

Hitch??ian. Public Life of the Earl of Beacon field. tes. 6d.

Hoey mrs. Cashel) See Low's Standard Novels.

Hofmann. Scenes from the Life of our Saviour. 12 mounted

plates, 12X9 inches, 2\s.
Holder {C F) Marvels of Animal Life. Illustrated, ^s.^d.

Ivory King: Elephant and Allies. Illustrated. 8^.6^.

Living Lights : Phosphorescent Animals aid Vegetables.

Illustrated. Svo, 8j. 6d.
Holes {O. W.) Before the Curfew, a^c. Occasional Poems. 55".

Last Leaf : a Holiday Volume. 42s.

Mortal Antipathy, Sj". dd. ; also 2s. ; paper, jour

Hundred Days in Europe. 6s. Large Paper, 15 J.

• Poetical Works. 2 vols., imo, gilt tops, 10s. 6d.

Homer, Iliad L.-XLL., done ifito English Verse. By Arthur

S. Way. odyssey,

done into English Verse. By A. S. Way.

Fcap 4to, 7J-. 6d.

Hopkins manley) Treatise on the Cardinal Numbers. 2S. 6d.
More mrs.) To Lake Tanganyika in a Bath Chair. Cr. 8vo,

7^. U.
Howard blanche JV.) Tony the Maid ; a Novelette, Illust.,

imo, 3J. (yd.
Worth {H. H.) Mammoth and the Flood. 8vo, i8^.
Hiiet {C. B.) Land of Rubens. For Visitors to Belgium. By

Van Dam. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6^.
Hugo {V.) Notre Dame. With coloured etchings and 150

engravings. 2 vol., 8vo, vellum cloth, 30J.
Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 portfolios, 2\s. each, or 4 vols.,

half-morocco, gilt edges, 10 guineas. New Ed., I vol., royal 8vo, i\s.
Hutchinson {T.) Diary and Letters. Vol. I., \()S. ; Vol. II., 16^.
Hygiene and Public Health. Edited by A. H. Buck, M.D.

Illustrated. 2 vols., royal Svo, 42J.
Hymnal Companion to the Book of Common Prayer. By

Bishop Bickersteth. In various styles and bindings from \d. to

3ii-. 6c/. Price List and Prospectus will be fo)'wa7-ded on application.
Hymns and Tines at St. Thomas', New York. Music by G.

W. Farre s". Royal Svo, 5^.

TLL Ultra TED Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
•^ Edward J. Pointer, R.A. Illustrated, and strongly bound, 5^-.
Now ready : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. By Head. I French and Spanish.
German, Flemish, and Dutch. | English and American.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith.

SCULPTURE.

Antique : Eg-egyptian and Greek.
Renaissance and Modern. By Leader Scott.
Jnderwick {F. A. ; Q.C.) Side Lights on the Stuart. Essays.

Illustrated, Svo.
Judex to the English Catalogue, Jan., 1874, to Dec.^ 1880.

Royal Svo, half-morocco, iSj.
Inglis thon. James ; 'maori') Our New Zealand Cousins.

Small post Svo, 6j-.
Tent Life in Tiger Land : Twelve Years a Pioneer

Planter. Col. ]plates, roy. Svo, \Zs.
Irving henry) Impressions of America. 2 vols., 21^.; i vol., ds.
Irving { Washington). Library Edition of his Works in 2 7 vols.,

Copyright, with the Author's Latest Revisions. " Geoffrey Crayon"

Edition, large square Svo. 12s. 6d. per vol. See also "Little Britain."

eames (C) Curiosities of Law aid Lawyers. 8vo, yj. 6d.

Japan. See Anderson, Artistic Audsley, also Morse.
Jefferies richard) Amaryllis at the Fair. Small 8vo, 7^. 6^.
Merton gertrude) Key-hole Country. Illustrated. Crown 8vo,

cloth, 2.S.

Johnston {LI. LL.) River Congo ^ from its Mouth to Lobo,

New Edition, 8vo, i\s.
Johnston {D. Lawson) Land of the Mountain Kingdom,

Illust., crown 8vo.
Jones major) Heroes of Industry. Biographies with Portraits.

7j. 6d.

Emigrants Friend. Guide to the U.S. Need. 2s. 6d,

Julien {F.) English Students French Examiner. imo, 2s.

Conversational French Reader. imo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

French at Llome and at School. Book L, Accidence. 2s,

• First Lessons in Conversational French Granular. \s,

■ Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire. phrases

of Daily Use. Limp cloth, dd.

• " Petites Lemons " and " Phrases " in one. 3^-. dd.

l^ARR {H. W. Setoji) Shores and Alps of Alaska. Svo,
^^ i6j.
Keats, Endymion. Illust. by W. St. John Harper. Imp.

4to, gilt top, 42J.
Kempis thomas a) Daily Text-book. Square imo, 2s. 6^.;

interleaved as a Birthday Book, 3^. dd.
Kens Commentaries : an Abridgment for Students of American

Law. By Eden F. Thompson, ioj. dd.
Kerr {IV. M.) Far Interior : Cape of Good Hope, across //<?

Zambesi, to the Lake Regions. Illustrated from Sketches, 2 vols.

Svo, 32^.
Kershaiu {S. W.) Protestants frown France in their English

Home. Crown Svo, 6j.
King henry) Savage London; Riverside Characters cr'c.

Crown Svo, 6s.
Kingston {W. H. G.) Works. Illustrated, imo, gilt edges,

3^'. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 2s. dd. each.

Captain Mugftrd, or. Our Salt

and Fresh Water Tutors.
Dick Cheveley.
Heir of Kilfinnan,

Snow-shoes and Canoes.
Two Supercargoes.
With Axe and Rifle.

Kingsley prose) Children of Westminster?' Abbey : Studies in

English History, ^s.
Knight {E. /.) Cruise of the '' Falcon." New Ed. Cr. 8vo,

js. 6d.
Knox col.) Boy Traveller's on the Congo. Illus. Cr. 8vo, 7^. dd,
Kujihardt {C. B.) Small Yachts : Design and Construction. 355.
Steam Yachts acid Launches. Illustrated. 4to, its.

r AMB charles) Essays of Elia. Illustrated by C. O.
•'-^ Murray. 6j.

Latimer's IVorks. Illustrated, crown 8vo, gilt edges, ^js. 6d.
each.

Boy's King Arthur.

Boy's Froissart.

Boy's Knightly Legends of Wales.

Boy's Percy: Ballads of Love and
Adventure, selected from the
'reliques."
Lansdell{H.) Through Siberia. 2 vols., Svo, 30J.; i vol., 10s. 6d.

Russia in Central Asia. Illustrated. 2 vols., 425.

Through Central Asia ; Russo Afghan Ero?ilier, <S^'^.

8vo, 12^.
Larder {W.) School Coiwse on Bleat. Second Ed., Illust. ^s,
Laurie andre) Selene Company, Limited. Crown Svo, ']s. 6d.
Layard mrs. Granville) Through the West Ladies. Small

post Svo, 2s. 6d.
Lea {LI. C). History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages.

3 vols., Svo, 42J-.
Lemon {M.) Small House over the Water, and Stories. Illust.

by Cruikshank, &c. Crown Svo, ds.

Leo XIII. : Life. By Bernard Reilly. With Steel
Portrait from Photograph, &c. Large Svo, iSj. ; edit, de luxe, 6t,s.

Leonardo da Viiici's Literary Works. Edited by Dr. Jean
Paul Richter. Containing his Writings on Painting, Sculpture,
and Architecture, his Philosophical Maxims, Humorous Writings, and
Miscellaneous Notes on Personal Events, on his Contemporaries, on
Literature, &c. ; published from Manuscripts. 2 vols., imperial Svo,
containing about 200 Drawings in Autotype Reproductions, and numerous
other Illustrations. Twelve Guineas.

Library of Religious Poetry. Best Poems of all Ages. Edited
by Chaff and Oilman. Royal Svo, 21s.; cheaper binding, los. 6d.

Lindsay {W. S.) History of Merchant Shipping. Over 150
Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra.
Vols. I and 2, impeach vols. 3 and 4, 14.^. each. 4 vols., 50J.

Little archibald J.) Through the Ya?ig-tse Gorges: Trade and
Travel in Western China, New Edition. Svo, vos. bd.

Little Britain, The Spectre Bridegrooms and Legend of Sleepy
Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely New 'Edition de
luxe. Illustrated by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr.
J. D. Cooper. Designed by Mr. Charles O. Murray. Re-issue,
square crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Longfellow. Maidenhood. AVith Coloured Plates. Oblong

4to, 2.S. 6d.; gilt edges, 3^. 6d.

Courtship of Miles Standish. lust. by Boughton,

&c. Imp. 4to, 2\s.
Nuremberg. 28 Photogravures. Ilium, by M. and A.

Comes. 4to, 3 1 J. dd.

Lovell {/. jR.) Vision of Sir Launfal. Illustrated, royal 4to, 63^.

Life of Nathaniel Hawthorne. Small post 8vo,

Loiti's Standard LJbj-ary of Travel and Adventure. Crown Svo,
uniform in cloth extra, "js. 6d., except where price is given.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley. I2j-. 6d.

5. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, los. 6d.)

6. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren,

7. Bxxrnaby's On Horseback through Asia Minor, los. 6d.

8. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., 15^-.

9. Through America. By W. G. Marshall.

10. Through Siberia. II. and unabridged, ioj-.6^z. By H. Lansdell.

11. From Home to Home. By Stavelev' Hill.

12. Cruise of the Falcon. By E.J. Knight.

13. Through Masai Land. By Joseph Thomson.

14. To the Central African Lakes. By Joseph Thomson.

15. Queen's Highway. By Stuart Cumberland.

Liv's Standard Novels. Small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each,
unless otherwise stated.
A Daughter of Heth. By W. Black.
In Silk Attire. By W. Black.
Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.
Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.
Sunrise. By W. Black.
Three Feathers. By WiLLiAM Black.
Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.
Christowell, a Dartmoor Tale. By R. D. Blackmore.
Clara Aug-han. By R. D. Blackmore.
Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.
Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.
Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.
Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 25th Edition.
Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.
Tommy Upmore. By R. D. Blackmore.

Low's Standard Novels — continued.
Bonaventure. By G. W. Cable.
An English Squire. By Miss Coleridge.
Some One Else. By Mrs. B. M. Croaker.
Under the Stars and Stripes. By E. De Leon.
Halfway. By Miss Bentham-Edwards.
A Story of the Drag-invades. By Rev. E. GiLLlAT, M. A,
A Laodicean. By Thomas Hardy.
Far from the Madding Crowd. By THOMAS Hardy.
Mayor of Casterbridg-e. By Thomas Hardy.
Pair of Blue Eyes. By Thomas Hardy.
Return of the Native. By Thomas Hardy.
The Hand of Ethelbert. By Thomas Hardy.
The Trumpet Major. By Thomas Hardy.
Two on a Tower. By Thomas Hardy.
Old House at Sandwich. By Joseph Hattox.
Three Recruits. By Joseph Hatton.
A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey. New Edition.
A Stern Chase. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey.
Out of Court. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey.
Don John. By Jean Angelo.
John Jerome. By Jean Angelo. <,s.
Sarah de Berenger. By Jean Angelo.
Adela Cathcart. By George Mac Donald.
Guild Court. By George Mac Donald.
Mary Marston. By George Mac Donald.

Stephen Archer. New Ed. of " Gifts. " By George Mac DONALD.
The Vicar's Daughter. By George Mac Donald.
Orts. By George Mac Donald.

"Weighed and "Wanting. By GEORGE Mac Donald.
Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.
Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.
My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters.
Spell of Ashtaroth. By Duffield Osborne. alaric
Spenceley. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
Daisies and Buttercups. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
The Senior Partner. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
A Strung-le for Fame. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
Frozen Pirate. By W. Clark Russell.
Jack's Courtship. ByW. Clark Russell.
John Wordsworth. By W. Clark Russell.
A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell.
Sea Queen. By W. Clark Russell.
"Watch Below. By W. Clark Russell.
Strange "Voyage. By W. Clark Russell.
"Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark RusselL.
The Lady Maud. By W. Clark Russell.
Little Loo. By W. Clark Russell.
Bee-man of Born. By Frank R. Stockton.
My "Wife and I. By Mrs. Harriet B. Stowe.

Low's Standard Novels — continued.

The Late Mrs. Null. By Frank R. Stockton.

Hundredth Man. By Frank R. Stockton.

Old Town Folk. By Mrs. Harriet B. Stowe.

We and our Neighbours. By Mrs. Harriet B. Stowe.

Pog-anuc People, their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Stowe.

XJlu: an African Romance. By Joseph Thomson.

Ben Hur : a Tale of the Christ. By Lew. Wallace.

Anne. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.

East Aug-els. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.

For the Major. By Constance Fenimore Wilson. french

Heiress in her own Chateau.

Low's Series of Standard Books for Boys. "With numerous

Illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3^-. 6d. each.
Dick Cheveley. By W. H. G. Kingston.
Heir of Kilfinnan. By W. H. G. Kingston.
Off to the Wilds. By G. Manville Fenn.
The Two Supercarg-oes. By W. H. G. King-ton.
The Silver Canon. By G. Manville Fenn.
Under the Meteor Flag. By Harry Collingwood.
Jack Archer: a Tale of the Crimea. By G. A. Henty
The Mutiny on Board the Ship Leander. By B. Hermann.
With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W. H. G.

Kingston.
Red Cloud, the Solitary Sioux : a Tale of the Great Prairie.

By Col. Sir Wm. Butler, K.C.B.
The Voyage of the Aurora. By Harry Collingwood.
Yarmouth Grange : a Tale of the 17th Century. By J.

Percy Groves.
Snowshoes and Canoes. By W. H. G. Kingston.
The Son of the Constable of France. By Louis Rousselet.
Captain Milford ; or, Our Salt and Fresh Water Tutors.

Edited by W. H. G. Kingston.
The Cornet of Horse, a Tale of Marlborough's Wars. By

G. A. Henty.
The Adventures of Captain Agro. By Leon Cahun.
Noble Words and Noble Needs.
The King of the Tigers. By Rousselet.
Hans Drinker; or, The Silver Skates. By Mrs. Dodge.
The Drummer-boy, a Story of the time of Washington. By

Rousselet.
Adventures in New Guinea : The Narrative of Louis Elegance.
The Crusoe of Guiana. By Boussenard.

The Gold Seekers. A Sequel to the Above. By Boussenard.
Winning His Spurs, a Tale of the Crusades. By G. A. Henty.
The Blue Banner. By Leon Cahun.
Lo2v's Pocket Encyclopaedia : a Compendium of General Knowledge
for Ready Reference. Upwards of 25,000 References, with
Plates. New ed., imp. 32mo, cloth, marbled edges, y. 6d.; roan, 4s. 6d.

Long's Handbook to London Charities. Yearly, cloth, \s. 6d.;
paper, is.

1\/TCC0RMLCK {R.). Voyages in the Arctic and Antarctic
-*■-'■ Seas in Search of Sir John Franklin, &c. With Maps and Thos.
2 vols., royal 8vo, 52J. 6d.

Mac Donald george). See Low's Standard Novels.
Macdonald alex. B.) Curve Pictures of London for the Social

Refiner. \s.
McGoun's Co7?iinercial Correspondence. Crown 8vo, 5 J.
Macgregor john) ''^ Rob Roy'' on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post 8vo, "zs. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.
A Thousand Miles in the 'rob Roy'' Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.

Voyage Alone in the Yaivl " Rob Roy'' New Edition,

nth additions, small post 8vo, 5j. ; 3^-. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
Mackay {C.) Glossary of Obscure Words in Shakespeare. 21s.
Mckenzie sir Morel) Fatal Illness of Frederick the Noble.

Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 2s. 6d.
Mckenzie rev. John) Austral Africa : Losing it or Ruling it?

Illustrations and Maps. 2 vols., 8vo, 32J.
McLellan^s Own Story : The Var for the Union. Illust. \Zs.
McMurdo edward) History of Portugal. 8vo, 21^.
Macquoid{Mrs.). See Low's Standard Novels.
Magazine. See English Etchings, Harper.
Maginn {W.) Miscellanies. Prose and Verse. With Memoir.

2 vols., crown 8vo, 2^s.
Main mrs.; Airs. Fred Burnaby) High Life and Towers of

Silence. Illustrated, square 8vo, ioj-. dd.
Manitoba. See Bryce.
Manning {E. F.) Delightful Thames, Illustrated. 4to, fancy

boards, 5J.
Markham ( Clements R.) The Fighting Veres, Sir F and Sir H.

8vo, 1 8 J.
War between Peru aid Chili, 1879-188 1. Third Ed.

Crown 8vo, with Maps, ioj. 6<:/.

See also "Foreign Countries," Maury, and Veres.

Marshall {W. G.) Through America. New Ed., cr. 8vo, 7^. 6d.

Marston {W.) Eminent Recent Actors, Reminiscences Critical,

&c. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 21s.
Martin {y . W.) Float Fishing and Spin nifig ti the JVottinghafti

Style. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Matthews {J. W., Jlf.D.) Inroads Ya?/ii : Twenty years in

South Africa With many Engravings, royal 8vo, 145.
Maury [Consider) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its

Meteorology. New Edition, with Charts and Diagrams, cr, 8vo, ds.
Life. By his Daughter. Edited by Air. Clements R.

Markham. With portrait of Maury. Svo, \2s. 6 /.
Mei of Mark: Portraits of the most E}ni?ie?it Men of the Day.

Complete in 7 ^'ol5., 4to, handsomely bound, gilt edges, i^s. each.
Mendelssohn Family the), 1729 — 1847. From Letters and

Journals. Translated. New Edition, 2 vols., Svo, 30J-.
Mendelssohn. See also " Great Musicians."
Terrifies Nautical Astronomy. Crown Svo, "js. 6d.
Merrylees {/.) Carlsbad and its Environs, ys. 6d. ; roan, gs.
Milford (P.) Ned Stafford's Experiences in the United States. 5^.
Mills {/.) Alternative Elementary Chemistry. Illust., cr. Svo.

Alternative Course in Physics,

Mitchell (D. G. ; Lk. Marvel) Works. Uniform Edition,

small Svo, 5^. each.

Bound together.
Doctor Johns.
Dream Life.
Out-of-Town Places.

Reveries of a Bachelor.

Seven Stories, Basement and Attic.

Wet Days at Wedgwood.

Milford mary Russell) Our Village. With 12 full-page and 157

smaller Cuts. Cr. 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 2IJ. ; cheaper binding, los.dd.
Moffatt {W.) Land and Work; Depression, Agricultural and

Commercial. Crown Svo, mohammed
Benani: A Story of To-day. Svo, 10s. 6d.
Mollett {/. W.) Illustrated Dictionary of JVords used in Art and

Archaeology. Illustrated, small 4to, I5j-.
Maloney governor) Forestry of West Africa. vos. 6d.
Money (E.) The Truth about America. New Edition. 2s. 6d.
Morlajids, The. A Tale of Anglo-Indian Life. By author of

Sleep y Sketches." Crown Svo, 6s.
Morley henry) English Literature in the Reign of Victoria.

2000th volume of the Tauchnitz Collection of Authors. imo, 2s. 6.7.
Mormojiism. See " Stenhouse."
Morse {E. S.) Japanese Homes and their Surroundings. With

more than 300 Illustrations. Re-issue, vos. 6d.
Morton honor) Sketches of Hospital Life. Cr. Svo, sewed, ij^.
Manhood. Our Gipsies ii City, Tent, and Van. Svo, i's.
Moon { Walter) Pilocereus Senilis. Fcap. Svo, gilt top, 35". 6d.
Muller (E.) Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Illustrated, gilt

edges, 35. dd. ; plainer binding, 2s. 6d.

Murray {E. C. Grenville) Memoirs. By his widow. 2 \-ols.
Mus grave mrs.) Miriam. Crown 8vo.
Artistic. See "Great musicians."

AJAPO LEON and Marie Louise: Memoirs. By Madame

■^ ' Durant. 'JS. dd.

Neihercote (C. B) Pytchley Blunt. New Ed., cr. 8vo, Zs. 6i.

New Zealand. See Bradshaw.

New Zealand Euler's and Statesmen. See Gisborne.

Nlclwlls {J. LL. Kerry) The King Country : Explorations in
New Zealand. Many Illustrations and Map. New Edition, 8vo, lis.

Islet {LLu?ne) Life and Nature Studies. \\''ith Etching by
C. O. Murray. Crown Svo, 6s.

Nordlwff {C.) Calif orjiia, for Health, Pleasure, and Residence.
New Edition, Svo, with INIaps and Illustrations, 125-. 6d.

Norman {C. B.) Corsairs of France. With Portraits. Svo, \Zs.

Notebook Gallery. Edited by Lord Ronald Gower. 36 Permanent
Photographs. Imperial 4to, (>2,^-\ large paper, 105^.

Not major) Wild Animals Photographed and Described. 355.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured Pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

Nursing Record. Yearly, Zs.; half-yearly, 4^. 6^.; quarterly,
2x. 6d ; weekly, 2d.

njBRLEN {R. B.) Fifty Years of Concessions to Ireland,

^ With a Portrait of T. Drummond. Vol. I., i6s., II., i6s.

Orient Line Guide Book. By W. J. Loftier. ^s.

Oris (C. /.'' Fishing with the Fly. Illustrated. Svo, J2S. 6d.

Osborne {Duffield) Spell of Ashtaroth. Crown Svo, cour

Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.

With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. New Edition, ^s.
Giveth douglas) Marine Insurance Notes and Clauses. New

Edition, 14J.

pALLISER mrs.) A History of Lace. New Edition, with

•*■ additional cuts and text. Svo, 21 s.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. Small Svo, $s.

Parkin {/.) Antidotal Treatment of Epidemic Cholera. 3^-. 6d.

Epidemiology in the Animal and Vegetable Kingdom.

Part I., crown Svo, 3^. 6d.', Part II., 3.r. 6d.

Volcanic Origin of Epidemics. Popular Edition,

crown Svo. 2J.

Payne (T. O.) Solomon's Temple and Capitol, Ark of the Flood

and Tabernacle (four sections at 2^.), extra binding, loss.
Penned {H. Cholmondeley) Sporting Fish of Great Britain

15J. ; large paper, 30$-.

Modern Improvements in Fishing-tackle. Crown 8vo, 2s,

Perelaer (J/. T. H.) Ran Away from the Dutch ; Borneo, c^c.

Illustrated, square 8vo, 7j. 6d.
Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. 8vo, 21^.
Pilot {H. J.) Diabetes Mellitus. Crown 8vo, 5^.
Diet System. Tables. I. Diabetes; II. Gouty

III. Dyspepsia ; IV. Corpulence. In case?, \s. each.
Plunkett major G, T,) Pn?ner of Orthographic Projection.

Elementary Solid Geometry. With Problems and Exercises. 2s. 6d.
Poe {E. A.) The Raven. Illus. by Dore. Imperial folio, 63^.
Poefns of the Inner Life. Chiefly Modern. Small Svo, polar
Expeditions. See McCormick.
Porcher {A.) Juvenile French Plays. With Notes and a

Vocabulary. imo, is.
Porter {Ad??iiral David D.) Naval History of Civil War.

Portraits, Plans, &c. 4to, importer
noah) Elements of Moral Science. 10s. 6d.
Portraits of Celebrated Race-horses of the Past and Present

Centuries, with Pedigrees and Performances. 4vols.,4to, 126s.
PozL'les (Z. D.) Land of the Pink Pearl: Life in the Bahamas.

8vo, io.r. 6d.
Pointer edward J., R.a). See " Illustrated Text-books."
Print {T. E.) North Country Flies. Illustrated from the

Author's Drawings. lOi'. 6d.
Publishers' Circular the), aid General Record of British and

Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, yi.
Pyle howard) Otto of the Silver Hand. Illustrated by the

Author. Svo, 8j. 6d.

JDAMBA UD. History of Russia. New Edition, Illustrated.
^^ 3 vols., 8vo, 2\s.
Refer. History of Mediaeval Art. Translated by Clarke.

422 Illustrations and Glossary. Svo,
Redford ( G. ) Ancient Sculpture. New Ed. Crown Svo, i o^. 6d.
Reed sir E. /., M.P.) and Si??ipson. Modern Ships of War,

lust., royal Svo, los. 6d.
Richards ( W.) Aluminium : its History, Occurrence, (5^••<^.

Illustrated, crown Svo, \2s. 6d.

Richter {Dr. Jean Paul) Italian Art in the National Gallery.

4to. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, £,z 2s.; half-morocco, uncut, £2 12s. 6d.

See also Leonardo da Vinci.

Liddell mrs. J. H.) See Low's Standard Novels.
Robertson anne /.) Myself and my Relatives. New Edition,

crown 8vo, ^s.
Robin Hood; Merry Adventures of. Written and illustrated

by Howard Pyle. Imperial Svo, 15^-.
Robinson phil.) In my Indian Garden. New Edition, imo,

limp cloth, 2s.

N'oaKsArk. Unnatural History. Sm. post Svo, 12^. 6^.

Sinner's and Saints : a Tour across the United States of

America, and Round them. Crown Svo, vos. 6d.

Under the Pmikah. New Ed., cr. 8vo, limp cloth, 2s.

Rocksiro {W. S.) History of Music. New Edition. Svo, 145-.

Roland The Story of. Crown Svo, illustrated, ds.

Rolfe eustace Neville) Pompeii, Popular and Practical, Cr.

8vo, 7^. 6^.
Rome and the Environs. With plan?, 3^-.
Rose {y) Complete Practical Machinist. New Ed., 1 imo, 1 2s. 6d.

Key to Engines and Engine-running. Crown Svo, 8^. dd.

Mechanical Di-awing. Illustrated, small 4to, 165-.

Modern Steam Engines. Illustrated. 31^. dd.

Steam Boilers. Boiler Construction and Examination,

Illust., Svo, \2s. 6d.
Rose Library. Each volume, i^. Many are illustrated —

Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to " Little Women.

Little Women and Little Women Wedded. I vol. , cloth gi]t,3i-. 6d.

Little Men. By L. M. Alcott. Double vol., 2s.; cloth gilt, 3x. 6d.

An Old-fashioned Girl. By LouiSA M. Alcott. 2s.', cloth,
3^. 6d.

Work. A Story of Experience. By L. M. Alcott. 3-r. 6d. ; 2 vols.,
is. each.

Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

The Minister's Wooing

and our Neighbours. 2s.; cloth gilt, 6s,

My Wife and I. 2s.

Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates. By Mrs. Dodge. Also 5^-.

My Study Windows. By J. R. Lowell.

The Guardian Angel. By'OLiVER Wendell Holmes.

My Summer in a Garden. By C. D. Warner.

Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^.6^.

City Ballads. New Ed. imo. By Will Carleton.

Rose Library the) — continued.

Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton.

Farm Festivals. By Will Carleton. \ I vol., cl., gilt ed., y. 6d.

Farm Legends. By Will Carleton.

The Rose in Bloom. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6J.

Eight Cousins. By L. M. Alcott. 21. ; cloth gilt, 3^-. 6d.

Tender the Lilacs. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; also 3j-. 6d.

Undiscovered Country. By W. D. Howell.

Clients of Dr. Bernagius. By L. Bart. 2 parts.

Silver Pitchers. By Louisa M. Alcott. Cloth, 3^-. 6d.

Jimmy's Cruise in the "Pinafore," and other Tales. By

Louisa >L Alcott. 2j.; cloth gilt, 3J. ()d.
Jack and Jill. By Louisa ^L Alcott. 2s. ; Illustrated, 5^.
Hitherto. By the Author of the " Gayworthys." 2 vols., li-each;

I vol., cloth gilt, 3J-. 6d.
A Gentleman of Leisure. A Novel. By Edgar Facets. is.

Ross mars) and Stonehenge Cooper. Highlands of Calabria ;

or, Three Days from England. Illustrations and Map, 8vo, 2IJ.
Rothschild, the Financial Rulers of Nations. By John

Reeves. Crown 8vo, 'js. 6d.
Rousselet louis) Son of the Constable of France. Small post

Svo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, 3^. 6^.; plainer, 2s. 6d.
Kitig of the Tigers : a Story of Central hidia. Illustrated.
Small post Svo, gilt, 3!-. 6./. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.
Drummer Boy. Illustrated. Small post Svo, gilt

edges, 35. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6;/.
Russell dora) Stj-ange Message. 3 vols., crown Svo, 313-. dd.
Russell {W. Clark) Jack's Courtship. New Ed., small post

Svo, ds.
English Channel Ports and the Estate of the East

and West India Dock Company. Crown Svo, \s.

Frozen Pirate. New Ed., Illust, small post Svo, ( s.

Sailor's Language. Illustrated. Crown Svo, 3^. dd.

Sea Queen. New Ed., small post Svo, strange

Voyage. New Ed., small post Svo, 6s.

• The Lady Maud. New Ed., small post Svo, 6s.

• Wreck of the Grosvenor. Small post Svo, 6s. 4to,

sewed, 6^.

(saints and their Symbols : A Companion in the Churches
•^ and Picture Galleries of Europe. Illustrated. Royal l6mo, is. 6d.
Samuels capt. /. S.) From Forecastle to Cabin : Autobiography.

Illustrated. Crown Svo, 8j. 6d. ; also with fewer Illustrations, cloth.

2J-. ; paper, is.
Sandbanks {J. P.) Low to Develop Vocal Poster. is.

Saunders {A.) Our Domestic Birds : Poultry in E?tglafid and

New Zealand. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Our Horses : the Best Muscles controlled by the Best

Brains. 6s.
Scherr prof. J^.) History of English Literature. Cr. 8vo, 85-. dd.
Scilly. Rescue of Freely. Maps and Illustrations, 8vo, 1 2s. 6d.

Schuyler hughie) American Diplomacy and the Furtherance of

Commerce. \2s. 6d.

The Life of Peter the Great. 2 vols., 8vo, 32^.

Schweinfurth {Georg) Heart of Africa. 2 vols., crown 8vo, 15^.
Scott pleader) Renaissance of Art in Italy. 4to, 31^-. dd.

Sculpture, Renaissance arid Modern. 55.

Shines {Adm. Raphael) Service Afloat: The ^^ Sumter ^^ and

the "Alabama." Illustrated. Royal 8 vo, 16^.
Senior {W.) Near and Far : aii Angler's Sketches of Home

Sport and Colonial Life. Crown Svo, 6s.

Waterside Sketches. Imp. 321x10, ts. 6d.; boards, shakespeare.

Edited by R. Grant White. 3 vols., crown

Svo, gilt top, 2)^s. ; edition de luxe, 6 vols., Svo, cloth extra, 63^-.

■ See also Randall, Dethroning, Donnelly, Mackay,

and White (R. Grant).
Shakespeare' s Heroines : Studies by Living English Painters.

105^. ; artists' proofs, 630J.
Songs and Sonnets. Illust. by Sir John Gilbert, R. A.

4to, boards, 5^.
Sharpe {R, Boiler) Birds in Nature. 39 coloured plates

and text. 4to, 6y
Sidney sir Philip) Arcadia. New Edition, siegfried,
The Story of Illustrated, crown Svo, cloth, ds.
Si?non. China : its Social Life. Crown 8vo, ds.
Simon {A.) Wilds of Ecuador and Exploration of thePutumayor

River. Crown Svo, Si". 6d.
Sinclair mrs.) Indigenous Flowers of the Hawaiian Islands.

44 Plates in Colour. Imp. folio, extra binding, gilt edges, 31J. 6d.
Sloane. O.) Home Experiments in Scieficefor Old aid Young.

Crown Svo, 6s.
Smith {G.) Assyrian Explorations. Illust. New Ed., Svo, iSs.
The Chaldean Account of Genesis. \Vith many Illustrations.
i6j-. New Ed. By Professor Sauce, Svo, iSj.
Smith {G. Barnet) William /. and the German Empire,

New Ed., Svo, 3^. 6d,
Suit { J. Moor) Wooing of ^t lira. Illustrated. 32mO; i^.

Smith sydney) Life and Times. By Stuart J. Reid. Illustrated.
8vo, 21S.

Smith ( W. P.) Lais concerning Public Health. 8vo, 31^. 6d:

Spies French Dictionary. 29th Edition, remodelled. 2 vols,,
8vo, i8j-.; half bound, 21s.

Spry ( IV././., Pen., PP.G.S.) Cruise of H. M.S.'' Challengers
With Illustrations. Svo, \%s. Cheap Edit., crown Svo, yj. dd.

Spyri ijoh^ Heidi's Early Experiences : a Story for Children
and those who love Children. Illustrated, small post Svo, 4J-. dd.

HeidVs Further Experiences. Illust., sm. post Svo, 45. dd.

Stanley {H. M.) Cofigo, and Founding its Free State. Illustrated,
2 vols., Svo, 42J-. ; re-issue, 2 vols. Svo, 2\s.

How I Found Livings ?ie. Svo, loi". dd. ; cr. Svo, "]$, 6d.

Through the Dark Conti?ie7it. Crown Svo, 1 2s. 6d.

Start {J. W. K.) Junior Mensuration Exercises. Sd.

Stenhouse mrs.) Tyranny of Mormonism. An Englishwoman

in Utah. New cd., cr. Svo, cloth elegant, '^s. 6d.
Starry {/. Ash by) Cucumber Chronicles, ^s.
Stevens {E. IV.) Fly-fishing in Maine Lakes. Zs. 6d.
Stevens {T.) Around the World on a Bicycle. Vol .II. Svo. i ds.
Stockton {F?'ank P.) Rudder Grange. 35-. dd.
Bee-Man of Born, and other Fanciful Tales. Cr. Svo,

The Casting Away of Mrs. Leeks and Mrs. Palestine. is.

The Durante. Sequel to the above. Sewed, \s. ;

this and the preceding book in one volume, cloth, 2s. 6d.

The Hundredth Man. Small post Svo, 6s.

The Late Mrs. Null. Small post Svo, 6s.

The Story of Viteau. Illust. Cr. Svo, 5^.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

Stoker brain) Under the Sunset. Crown Svo, 6s.

Storer professor F. H.) Agriculture in its Relations to

Chemistry. 2 vols., Svo, 25 j.
St07ve{Mrs. Beecher)Dred. Cloth, gilt edges, 35. 6d.\ cloth, 2s.
Flowers and Fruit from her Writings. Sm. post Svo,

y. 6d.

■ Little Foxes. Cheap Ed., i^. ; Library Edition, 4^. 6d.

AJy Wife and /. Cloth 2s.

Stove mrs. Beecher) Old Town Folk. ds.

We and our Neighbours. 2S.

Poganuc People, 6^.

See also Rose Library.

Strachan (/.) Explorations and Adventures in New Guinea,

Illust., ci-own 8vo, 12S.
Stuitfield{Hugh E. M.) El Maghreb : 1200 Miles' Ride through

Morocco. '6s. 6d.
Sullivan {A. M.) Nut shell history of Ireland. Paper boards, (id.

raine {H. A.) " Origines." Translated by John Durant.
I. The Ancient Regime. Demy 8vo, cloth, 16^.
II. The French Revolution. Vol. i. do.

III. Do. do. Vol. 2. do.

IV. Do. do. Vol. 3. do.

Tauchnitz's English Editions of German Authors. Each
volume, cloth flexible, 2.s. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post free.)

Tatcchnitz {B .) German Dictionary. 2s. ] paper, is. 6d.; roan,
2s. 6d.

• French Dictionary. 2s.; paper, ij-. 6d.; roan, 2s. 6d.
Italian Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, is. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d,

Latin Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, i^. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

• — Spanish and English. 2s. ; paper, is. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.
Spanish and French. 2s. \ paper, is. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Taylor {F. Z.) Chemical Analysis Tables, is.

— Chemistry for Beginners. Small 8vo, is. 6d.

Techno- Chemical Receipt Book. With additions by Brant

and Wahl. los. dd.
Technological Dictionary. See Tolhausen.
Teasing prof.) Malt and the Fabrication of Beer. 8vo, 455-.
Theakston {M.) British Angling Flies. Illustrated. Cr. 8vo, 5^.

Thomson (Jos.) Central African Lakes. New edition, 2 vols.

in one, crown 8vo, ']s. 6d.
Though Masai Land. Illust. 2i.f. ; new edition, yj. dd-

and Miss Harris Smith. Ulu : at African Romance.

crown 8vo, bs.

Thomson ( W^ Algebra for Colleges and Schools. With Answers,

5J-. ; without, 4J-. dd. \ Answers separate, \s. 6d.
Tolhausen. Archaeological German, English, and French Dictionary.

Vols. I., II., with Supplement, \2s. 6d. each; III., 9^. j

Supplement, cr. 8vo, 3X. 6d.
Tromholt (S.) Under the Rays of the Aurora Borealis. By

C. Sleepers. Photographs and Portraits. 2 vols., 8vo, 30J.
Tucker ( W.J.) Life and Society in Eastern Europe. i$s.
Tupper (martin Farquhar) My Life as an Author, i/^s.
Turner edward) Studies in Russian Literature. Cr. 8vo, Zs. 6d.

T Upton (^H.) Manual of Practical Dairy Farming. Cr.
^ 8vo, 2S.

Iran DAM. Land of Rubens ; a companion for visitors to

^ Belgium. See Hurt.

Vane {Denzil) From the Dead. A Romance. 2 vols., cr. 8vo,

12s.
Vane sir Harry Young). By Prof. James K. Hosier.

8vo, 1 8 J.
Veres. Biography of Sir Francis Vere and Lord Vere, leading

Generals in the Netherlands. By Clements R. Markham. Svo, i8x.
Victoria queen) Life of . By Grace Greenwood. Illust. 6^.
Vincent mrs. Howard) Forty Thousand Miles over Land and

Water. With Illustrations. New Edit., 3^. dd.
Viollet-le-Duc {E.) Lectures on Architecture. Translated by

Benjamin Bucknall, Architect. 2 vols., super-royal 8vo-}> Z^-

1 J /A KEEL ELD. Aix-les- Bains : Bathing and Attractions.

'^ '^ 2S. 6d.

Walford mrs. L. B.) Her Great Idea, and other Stories. Cr.

8vo, los. 6d.
Wallace (Z.) Ben Hur : A Tale of the Christ. New Edition,

crown 8vo, ds. ; cheaper edition, 2s.
Waller rev. C. H) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,

and other Studies. New Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, y. 6d.
IVords in the Greek Testament. Part I. Grammar.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Labor Ceoww 8vo.

WORKS.

20,000 Leagues under the Sea.

Parts I. and II

Hector Servadac

The Fur Country

The Earth to the Moon and a Trip

round it

Michael Strogoff

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain . .
Five Weeks in a Balloon . . .
Adventures of Three Englishmen

and Three Russians
Round the World in Eighty Days

A Floating City

The Blockade Runners . . .
Dr. Ox's Experiment
A Winter amid the Ice . . .
Survivors of the " Chancellor "

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island, 3 vols. :-
I. Dropped from the Clouds

II. Abandoned

III. Secret of the Island . .
The Child of the Cavern . . .
The Begum's Fortune . . .
The Tribulations of a Chinaman
The Steam House, 2 vols. :—
I. Demon of Cawnpore . .

II. Tigers and Traitors . .
The Giant Raft, 2 vols. : —

I. 800 Leagues on the Amazon

II. The Cryptogram . . . .

The Green Ray

Godfrey Morgan

Keraban the Inflexible: —

I. Captain of the '• Guitar" .

II. Scarpante the Spy . . . .
The Archipelago on Fire. . . .
The Vanished Diamond . . . .

Mathias Sanders

The Lottery Ticket

Clipper of the Clouds

North against South

Adrift in the Pacific

Flight to France

Containing 350 to 600 pp.
and from 50 to 100
full-page illustrations.

In very-handsome

cloth binding,
gilt
edges.

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

22 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6



7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

10 6

In

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.






3 6
3 6
3 6

3 6

10 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

Containing the whole of
text with some illustrate

In cloth

binding, gilt

edges,

smaller

types.

d.
3 6

3 6
3 6

f 2 vols., "^
\2s. ea. 3

3 6

3 6







3 6











Coloured bo

2 vols., Is.

2 vols., Is.
2 vols., Is.

2 vols., Is.

2 vols., Is.
2 vols., Is.
Is. Od








2 vols., Is.
Is.Od














Celebrated Tr.vvbts akd Travellers. 3 vols., 8vo, coop., 100 full-page illustrations, 12»
gilt edges, 14». each:— (1) The Exploration of the Would. (2) The Great Navigators oi

ElGHTtEWTH CBXTtiBT. (3) ThB GbEAT Exf Hobbes OF THE NlKBTEEITTH Century.

Waller{Rev. CH.) Adoption and the Covenant. On Confirmation.
2S. (id.

Silver Sockets ; and other Shadows oj Redemption.

Sermons at Christ Church, Hampstead. Small post 8vo, 6j-.

Walsh {A. S.) Mary, Queen of the House of David. 8vo, 3^. 6d.

Walton (Lz.) Wallet Book, CloIoLXXXV. Crown 8vo, half
vellum, dis. ', large paper, ^2s.

Compleat Angler. Lea and Dove Edition. Ed. by R. B.

Marston. With full-page Photogravures on India paper, and the
Woodcuts on India paper from blocks. 4to, half-morocco, 105^.;
large paper, royal 4to, full dark green morocco, gilt top, 2I0J-.

Walton {T. H.) Coal Lifting. With Illustrations. 4to, 253-.

Wardrobe {0.)Ki?tgdo!n of Georgia, Illust. and map. 8vo. 14^.

Warner (C. D.) My Summer itt a Garden. Boards, u. ;
leatherette, \s. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.

Their Pilgrimage. Illustrated by C. S. Reinhart.

8vo, 7^. dd.

Warren {W. P.) Paradise Found; the North Pole the Cradle
of the Human Race. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, \2s. 6d.

Washington Living's Little Britain. Square crown Svo, ds.

Wells (H. P.) American Salmon Fisherman, ds.

Fly Rods aid Fly Tackle. Illustrated. 10^. Gd,

Wells {/. W.) Three Thousand Miles through Brazil. Illustrated
from Original Sketches. 2 vols. Svo, 32^-.

Weasel (O.) Directory of Chemical Products of the German
Empire. Svo, 25^.

White \R. Grant) England Without and Within. Crown Svo,
\Q>s. 6d.

Every-day English. vos. 6d.

Fate of Mafisfeld Humphreys, &^c. Crown 8vo, 6s.

• Studies in Shakespeare. 10s. 6d.

Words and their Uses. New Edit., crown Svo, 5^.

Whitney (Mrs.) The Other Girls. A Sequel to " We Girls."

New ed. imo, 2s.

We Girls. New Edition. 2s.

Whittier {/. G.) The Kings Missive, and later Poems. imo,

choice parchment cover, 3j-. (id.

St. Gregory's Guest, &'c. Recent Poems. 5^".

Wilcox carrion) Real People. Sm. post Svo, 3^-. 6d.

Senora Violent ; and Gray, an Oldhaven Romance. 2

oh. in on', 6s.

William I. and the German Empire. By G. Barnett Smith.

New Edition, 3J. dd.
Willis-Bund {J.) Salmon Problems. 35'. 6d.; boards, 2s. 6d.
Wills {Dr. C. J. ) Persia as it is. Crown 8vo, Si". 6d.

Wills, A Few Hints on Priming, without Professional Assistance.
By a Probate Court Official. 8th Edition, revised, with Forms
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp, \s.

Wilmot (A.) Poetry of South Africa. Collected and arranged.

8vo, 6s.
Wilson {Dr. Andrew) Health for the People. Cr. 8vo 75. dd,

Windsor justin) Narrative and Critical History of America.

8 vols., 30J-. each ; large paper, per vol., 63^.
Wolsey. Introduction to Ijiteimatiofial Law. 5th Ed., 18^.
Wilson constance F.) See " Low's Standard Novels."
Wright {H.) Friendship of God. Portrait, &c. Crown 8vo, ds.
Wright {T.) Town of Cowper, Olney, &>€, 6s.

Written to Order ; the Journeyings of an Irresponsible Egotist.
By the Author of '* A Day of my Life at Eton." Crown 8vo, 6s.

y^RIARTE charles) Florence: its History. Translated by
*■ C. B. Pitman. Illustrated with 500 Engravings. Large imperial

4to, extra binding, gilt edges, 63^.; or 12 Parts, each

History ; the Medici ; the Humanists ; letters ; arts ; the Renaissance ;

illustrious Florentines; Etruscan art; monuments; sculpture; painting.

HonUou:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston, Ld.,

3t. gunstitn's ^OHse, ^^^

FETTER LANE, FLEET STREET, Eg.

Gilbert and Rivington, Ld., St. John's House, ClerkenweU Road Eg.

V>

si.

\^

.ri*v r -^

S.

William Black)

'^

BY

WILLIAM BLACK,

AUTHOR OF
'a princess of THULE," "MACLEOD OF DARE," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

SECOND EDITION.

LONDON :

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

LIMITED,

&U dunstan's l^ousf,

Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, Eg.

1888.

iA II rights reset vet. ]

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A HOUSE-boat.

Fourth Edition. Three vols. Crown 8vo. 315. 6d.

It is pleasantly told with a plentiful seasoning of descriptions
of scenery . a wholesome fragrant book." — Saturday Review.

Ill sfjiall post 2>vo. , inform ; cloth extra,
price 6 J. each.

A DAUGHTER OF HETH. Nineteenth Edition.

THREE FEATHERS.

Ailment.

IN SILK ATTIRE.

LADY SILVERDALE's SWEETHEART.

SUNRISE.

LONDON :

Sampson Low, Marston, Searle & Rivington, Limited,

St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane, Malcontents

OF VOL. II.

Chapter

CHAPTER I.

FAREWELL TO Chaperon

the afternoon of the day previous to
her departure, AHson was summoned to
her aunt's room.

Now, Alison," said the old dame
severely, *ye're not going to make me
angry with ye just as ye are leaving;
ye're got to put your pride in your pocket
and behave like a sensible young Christian,
as I have no doubt ye are. Oh yes.
Christian enough : I'm thinking they folk
in Kirk o' Shields make a fine inroad on

VOL. II. ^

your bits o' sixpences for their collections,
and subscriptions, and mission societies,
and Dorcas meetings, and the like; and
ye must remember that the people about
here are free-handed in their ways ; and
when ye're going away, ye must do what's
becoming — — "

Alison flushed quickly.

*' Yes, aunt ; but my father gave me
some money before I left "

'eyes, yes," said Aunt Gilchrist somewhat
dryly, '' but the Kirk o' Shields folk
and the Highland folk are different. And
it's my own pride that's at stake ; for you
are my niece — my niece with expectations,
as the saying is ; and I'm not going to
allow you to dip into your little store o'
pocket-money on my account. Well, ye
see, here's a wee bit bag — now, Alison,
ye're not to make me angry ! I dare ye
to quarrel wi' me just as ye're going away !
and yell find half-crowns and shillings

and sixpences in it : that's for any one that
has done ye a civil turn — the men at the
quay, or that rascal John, or the stable lad,
if ye see him ; and then there's the folk
that will help you wi' your luggage tomorrow,
and the like. But as for the
cook, and as for that clever and willing
lass, Maggie, well, I've bought each o'
them a printed cotton gown — the parcel's
lying there — and ye'll just present it to
them in your own name "

Aunt Gilchrist, I could not do that ! "
Alison pleaded.

But I say ye'll have to do that ! "
retorted this imperious small person. " I
want ye to leave a friendly recollection
behind ye ; and I will say for these Highland
creatures — that they have a long
memory for any one that has been civil to
them."

'' But you're Highland yourself, auntie ! "
said Alison, who could hardly help laughing

at Aunt Gilchrist's assumption of a
superior Scotch sagacity and her consequent
patronage of the simple-minded Celts.

*' Never you mind what I am. Empty
that bit bag into your pocket, and take
away the cotton gowns wi' ye ; and just
remember that a friendly word will make
what ye give twenty times more welcome."
As it chanced, the first person to come
in for his share of these wails was the lad
John, whom Alison happened to descry
from her bedroom window. He was down
at the shore ; and as she was rather shy
about this unaccustomed duty, she thought
she would slip out of the house, and tackle
Johnny at once. So she went downstairs,
opened the door, crossed the road, and
adventured forth upon the rough shingle
of the beach.

But what was this that Johnny was
about ? He had got on to one of the big
stones that ran out Into the sea, forming

a kind of slip, and he had possessed himself
of some old basket or hamper, which
he was carefully holding down in the water.
When he heard footsteps on the shingle
behind him, he turned ; and the instant he
saw who it was, his broad face grinned
joyously and eagerly.

Come here, mem ! Come here, mem,
and look at this little duffle ! Ah, he's
catched now ! He'll not be for biting anyone's
thumb now ; no, nor catching you by
the foot in the night-time. Look at him,
mem !

Alison had stepped out on the big
stones ; but she could see nothing through
the rough wicker-work of the basket.

What is in there ? " she demanded,
becoming instantly suspicious of some
demoniac mischief.

A rat, mem ! " said Johnny, with much

glee.

'And what are you doing ? "

'' Oh, well, I am showing him that I am
the master now. If his teeth were In your
hand, then he would be the master ; but
now he knows ferry well Indeed that I am
the master. See this, mem, I can sunk
and sunk the basket ; and up and up he
comes to the top ; but he cannot get his
head through ; and I can sunk him until
there is nothing but his nose above the
water. Look at him, mem ! — look at him !
who is the master now, you little duffle ? "

'' Johnny ! " cried Alison in great anger.
'' It is nothing but horrible and hideous
cruelty ! Stop it at once ! You should be
ashamed of yourself ! "

'' And would there be no cruelty if he
could group ye by the wrist ? — and that's
what the little duffle would like to do,"
said Johnny, with wide-staring eyes.

'' I will tell Captain Macdonell, and he
will give you a good lashing ! " she retorted.

*' And do you think, mem, that Macdonell

likes rats any more as any one
else ? " said Johnny, still surprised by her
interference.

I know he hates cruelty, and that he
will let you know what a horsewhip is ! "
she said somewhat hotly. '' Open that
basket at once, and let the poor beast
out ! "

*' Oh, ferry well, mem — you can let him
out yourself, if you like," said he, with a
grin ; and he drew up the basket from the
water and placed it on the stone before
her.

At this suggestion, Alison shrank back
so that she nearly over-balanced herself
into the sea, whereupon Johnny only
grinned the more.

No, mem, you do not like him either,"
said he. " And if I let him out, where
will he go ? He will go back to the
house ; and some night, when you are
crossing the floor, he will catch you by the

ankle or the toes. Yes, and do you know
this — that these little ruffles have teeth
that cross, and when they shut them on
you, you cannot get them open again ?
That's ferry nice, Is It not ? And if I
drown him it's a good chop too ! "

'' I don't care whether you drown him
or not ; but you shall not torture him — do
you hear ? "

'well, I will gif him a chance for his
life — though it's more than he would gif me
if he had me by the throat," said John ;
and therewith he stooped down and undid
the bit of string fastening the lid. Then
he raised the basket with both hands, and
flung It from him Into the sea. There was
a mighty souse ; the lid got partly opened ;
and presently the escaped rat could be
seen making its way ashore, where it
presently disappeared among the stones.

Johnny," said Alison, as they turned
away, *' why are you such a bad boy ?

And why are you so lazy ? Here's ■\IIss
Flora complaining again that you won't
keep the borders clipped and the paths
tidy "

'* Its Miss Flora's own fault' said John
sulkily. '' She'll no let me kuU the cats.
It's the cats that scratches up the gravel
and the borders, and she'll no let me full
them."

But why should you want to kill
things ? " Alison remonstrated. " Why
should you be so cruel ? Now, look here,
Johnny, I'm going away tomorrow morning
; and I don't know whether I shall
ever be back in Fort William ; but I
should like to think you were behaving
better. And here is a little present for
you ; and a book — it's all about birds and
animals, and if you would only read about
the care and trouble they take in bringing
up their young ones, I am sure you
wouldn't harm them."

Johnny professed to accept the half-crown
with a ofreat deal of shamefaced
reluctance ; but the gleam of satisfaction
on his face entirely belied him. As for
the book, he received that with honest
indifference. And yet he was not ungrateful
; moreover, he liked Alison, who
had been In a measure a kind of chum of
his ; so, in view of her going away, and
with some vague notion of making her a
return for these gifts, he asked her if she
would like to see a witch.

'' A witch ? " she said. '' Of course not !
But what do you know about a witch ? "

'' There's one In the town," said he,
looking round to make sure he was not
overheard. " She llfs in a cellar underneath
one of the houses. Oh, she miss a
fearful woman, that ! But if you tek her
money, she will gif you something that miss
ferry good at night for keeping awe the
ghosts and such things ; oh yes, I hef seen

It ; It Miss a bit of an ash-tree and a bit of a
rowan-tree, and It Miss tied together by a
piece of red thread, and there Miss red wax
on It. You put It on the mantelpiece,
and the ghosts are afralt of It ; they cannot
come Into the room either by the window
or the door. Will you go and see her ? "

I will not ! " said Alison. '' Why, you
should be ashamed of yourself for filling
your head with such nonsense ! Witches
and ghosts ! I can hardly think that you
believe In such stuff."

Cosh, then, there's more than me
believes In them," said Johnny, significantly,
and therewith their talk came to an end ;
for they were now arrived at the house,
and Johnny went away to put his treasures
In a place of safety.

Next morning she was up betimes, and
busily engaged In packing ; but when that
was finished, and as the hour of her
departure came nearer, her cheerful composure

and self-confidence, which she had
striven vacantly to preserve, began to
yield a little ; and more than once she
returned to her own small room, and sat
down at the window there, as if she would
take a long last look at this beautiful place
she was leaving;. All shining it was : the
sea a plain of palest blue crossed by silver
sheets of calm ; the rich October tints of
the hills — of the withered bracken, and the
rowan-trees, and the golden-leaved birch
-softened somewhat by a thin dream-like
haze. But perhaps it was not merely to
impress this scene on her memory that
she thus from time to time, and rather
nervously, sought the solitude of her own
room. The window commanded a view
of the road in front in both directions —
southward along the shores of the loch,
northward to the town and the quay ; and
she could see any stranger approaching at
a considerable distance. And sometimes.

amidst all the down-heartiness of her
going, she experienced a sudden and
joyous elation : it was the very fact of her
departure that made it a certainty that
Ludovick Macdonell would come to see
her ; she could not think it possible that
he would let her leave for the south
without a word or a look of farewell.

In the mean time she had to say goodbye
to her Aunt Gilchrist, who was not
going down to the quay ; and also to the
Doctor, who was setting out on his professional
rounds.

'' Well, now, Alison," her uncle said,
'* since you know the ways of the house, I
hope you will not wait for an invitation
from your Aunt Gilchrist if you should
happen to have a few holidays, and would
care to come and see us again. You will
always be very welcome — you know that.
But I think your Aunt Gilchrist will be for
asking you to go and see her during the

winter — at the Rothesay Hydropathic,
most Hkely; and if you are well-advised
you will go, for I understand she is going
to have some settlement of her property
made. And when she makes you a rich
woman, Alison, then you'll come and
tyrannize over us just as she does, and
we'll all pay court to you, and put up as
best we can with your unreasonableness
and your bad temper."

Well, uncle," Alison said, with a smile,
I don't think it is Aunt Gilchrist's money
that enables her to tyrannize over you ; it
is her peripheral neuralgia ; and she can't
make me a present of ^/lat But I'm sure
I don't want anything from Aunt Gilchrist
except an invitation now and again ;
and I hope the next one I get will bring
me here, if you will have me."

'' Oh yes, we will try to put up with
you," her uncle said good-naturedly.
"you come and see. And now good-bye,

Alison, and take care of yourself; and if
you bring back a sweetheart with you,
we'll make him welcome too."

Then it was Johnny's turn to take leave
of her, in a more secret fashion than was
possible down at the quay. He watched
his chance, and came quickly up.

Here, mem ! I hef got it for you,"
said he, in an undertone ; and he slipped
something into Alison's hand. She looked
at it. It was an oblong tin match-box.

What's this, Johnny ? " she said.

'' I was along to the witch," said he
eagerly. " And I hef got the thing that
will keep the ghosts and all the bad things
awe from you at night ; and it's in that
box ; and no one will know but that it miss
only matches. Oh yes, it miss a fine sure
thing ; you will put it on the mantlepiece
at night, and there's not a ghost or anything
of that kind will come near you."

Alison hardly knew what to do : she .

could hardly refuse a farewell gift, which
was probably the most valuable thing the
young rascal could think of. Then it
occurred to her that perhaps, to obtain it,
he had dipped into that little store of
money she had given him.

Did you pay anything for it, Johnny ? '*
she made bold to ask.

*' Oh no, mem," he said. " She would
not tek money from me, for she comes
from my own part of the country. But
sometimes I gif her a rabbit, or some such
thing ; for it miss always better to keep
friends with them kind of people. Cosh,
that miss a strangle thing to think of — a
hare eating a rabbit ! "

*' What hare ? " Alison asked in amazement.


Do you not know that the witches can
turn themselves into hares when they
like ? " Johnny asked ; but he was
evidently surprised by her extraordinary

ignorance. '' Ay, ay, and that's the time
to catch them, for they cannot do you any
harm then." He grinned from ear to ear.
*' That would be a fine thing now ! — to
catch one in the streets of Fort WilKam,
and to chase her, with a crowd of people
all with sticks and stones "

Suddenly Johnny became silent and
slunk mysteriously away : he had perceived
Miss Flora approaching, and he
knew she was almost certain to put him onto
some perfectly useless task in the
garden ; whereas in an out-house at the
back there was a young puppy-dog of a
collie that he could spend an agreeable
half-hour in tormenting before having to
wheel the lugfofaee down to the steamer.

I suppose you have everything ready,
Alison ? " Flora said, when she came up.

Alison answered that she had.

Isn't it strange that Ludovick hasn't
put in an appearance ? " her cousin con-vol.

II. C

tinned. " I made sure he would come to
say good-bye to you. Those alterations
at Oyre can't be of so much importance ;
though I must say for him that any wish
of his father's is law to him. Never mind,
Hugh is going with us — think of that condescension
! — he is going to see you safe
into the railway-carriage, and come back
in the steamer with me. This is an
assurance of his profound consideration
that I hardly ever knew him bestow on
any one — any girl — before ; and I hope
you are grateful. He told me yesterday
that you had become quite like one of the
family ; and that he didn't see the use of
your going away at all. Think of that.
Miss Dimity ! And if you only heard
what he has been saying about you to
Ludovick "

Alison started somewhat, and looked
apprehensive.

*' Oh, a wonderful lot of discoveries, I

assure you ! — about the expression of your
eyes ; and how you were always the first
to see anything humorous, but you didn't
laugh — it was only a little bit of a smile
that betrayed you ; and what a clear penetration
and judgment you had ; and how
admirable your manner was towards old
people — and — and how elegantly you
walked — goodness gracious, I don't remember
half the pretty things he said ! "

I dare say not," Alison said dryly.
*' And yet it is very kind of you, Flora,
to invent so many."

'' What do you mean ? "

"Why, how could you know what Hugh
said to Captain Macdonell ? "

'' For the simple reason, my dear Miss
Dimity, that Captain Macdonell himself
told me ; and I can tell you he sets great
store by Hugh's opinion, though Hugh is
only a boy compared with him. However,
that is not the question. It was Hugh I

was speaking of; and you ought to be
proud and pleased that he quite approves
of you now. Oh yes, Indeed ; you have
won a small share of my lord's condescending
notice ; you're not half bad to
look at, you know, and you've got a very
tolerable kind of brain — for a woman.
Accordingly, he is going with us on the
steamer."

But it was not of Hugh's approval, nor
yet of his condescension in coming with
them, that Alison was thinking as they
walked along to the quay ; and while they
waited there for the steamer, though she
strove to conceal her ever-increasing
anxiety, she seemed to see in every distant
figure the possibility of its being Ludovick
Macdonell. She talked to Flora, she
talked to Hugh ; but her eyes would go
furtively wandering ; and as the steamer
was now on its way down from Corpach,
every moment she became more anxious

and perturbed. Now and again she would
assure herself that a certain stranger in
the distance must necessarily be he ; and
she would listen to Flora and to Hugh with
a forced attention ; then it became clear
to her that this stranger was only a stranger,
and her heart would sink again with its
bitter disappointment. Then here was
the steamer approaching. Johnny was
getting the luggage ready. A small crowd
of people had congregated at the end of
the quay. The throb of the paddles was
becoming more and more distinct ; the
red funnels were comines nearer and nearer;
Hugh would have her stand well out of
the way of the ropes ; and finally, when
the steamer had stopped, and the passengers
were getting on board, she knew,
as she put her foot on the gangway, that
she was going away without even a parting
word or a glance.

Up to the last moment she had been

In hopes — nay, she had been strenuously-convincing
herself that it was certain — that
he would make his appearance ; but now
the gangways were withdrawn, the hawsers
thrown from the quay, and the big steamer
was throbbing Its onward way to the south.
She looked at the now fast-receding land,
and there was no one there to send hera
last token of farewell. And perhaps it
was only the fact of her leaving that
beautiful neighbourhood — where love had
found her, for a brief moment or two, and
forsaken her — that made her heart ache
so, and caused cruel tears to well into her
eyes. She was ashamed, and tried to hide
her face from Flora ; but her cousin put
her hand within her arm.

'' Alison," said she, in a very kindly
fashion, '' I'm not so sorry that you don't
like leaving Fort William ; but you must just
remember that you are coming back ; and
you are not likely to find the place much

changed, or the people either. And the
sooner you come back the better. Oh
yes, you have made plenty of friends here.
It is a. wonder that Ludovick didn't come
to see you off," she continued, in an inadvertent
sort of way; " but I suppose he is
busy. He did not send you any message,
did he ? "

Alison shook her head slightly ; she
could not trust herself to speak just then.

'' That is not like him," Flora said.
But then young men are so careless.
It's here to-day and gone tomorrow ; and
you're out of their thoughts five minutes
after they've left you. And that's the best
way to treat them, I find," she continued,
no doubt with the most honest intention
of comforting her cousin. '' I've never
seen the man yet that I would break my
heart about ; it's much the better way to
amuse yourself with them, and let them
go, and no harm done. They talk about

women being so heartless and fickle : it's
absolute rubbish. Trust a man for making
love to any woman he meets, and then
going off without remembering her name,
most likely. The best way is to treat
them as they treat you — get what fun you
can out of them, and care no more about
them."

But these friendly counsels fell for the
most part on an unheeding ear ; for Alison,
once the cruel pang of disappointment was
over, was trying, in rather a dull and
hopeless fashion, to find out for herself
what was the probable cause of his staying
away. Long thereafter she could remember,
and with an intense and lurid vividness,
every feature and incident and aspect of
that dark and miserable southward sail.
The day had changed considerably ; the
fair blue calm was gone ; a breeze had
sprung up, and there were heavy masses
of cloud gathering in the sky ; the sea was

a moving, stirring plain of pale purplish-gray,
with here and there a distant white
speck of a yacht. She sat and blankly
looked, heavy-hearted enough. And the
farther and farther they got south, the day
became more sombre, though it was still
beautiful in its deep rich tones. For it
was not altogether gloom. There were
silver gleams among those overhanging
masses of cloud ; and the violet hills had
an occasional streak of greenish-yellow
where the misty sunlight fell on the far
shoulders. She seemed to be encircled by
these hills ; and when, getting away down
by Appin and Lismore, she turned to have
a last glimpse of the pleasant rose-coloured
holiday-land in which she had been living,
behold ! that appeared to be now completely
shut off by a wall of mountains,
dark-hued and forbidding and stern.
Were they enclosing, then, as with an
impassable barrier, that fair rose-tinted

land — that joyous garden, as It had seemed
to her, full of beautiful things and sunlight
and pleasant memories ? Her heart ached
with the throbbing of this steamer that
was bearing her away so pitilessly ; her
eyes were blinded with tears that she could
not repress ; and these varying winds that
came blowing about, if there was any voice
in them at all, seemed to be saying,
*' Lochaber no snore ! Lochaber no more ! "
and to keep repeating and repeating the
old, familiar, and inexpressibly sad refrain.

From this dull lethargy of grief and aimless
conjecture she was soon to be startled
by an unexpected revelation brought about
in the most casual way. Hugh had gone
forward to look after his luggage, for they
were now nearing Oban, and Flora took
the occasion of his absence to say to her
cousin —

•' Do you know, Alison, I have thought
once or twice that there was something

between you and Ludovick ; and I'm
rather glad to imagine now that there
isn't."

Alison, with a quick flush in her face,
looked up ; but what could she say ?
There was no confession for her to make.
How could there be anything between her
and Ludovick Macdonell when he had not
even taken the trouble to come and say
good-bye to her when she was going away
to the south ?

*' I am glad for this reason," Flora continued
in a very matter-of-fact fashion :
*' You see, it wouldn't matter much to me,
or to any girl brought up in a part of
the Highlands where there are plenty of
Catholics of the better class, and used to
meeting them, and not accustomed to put
much store by differences of that kind.
But for you, Alison, the daughter of a
Free Church minister, to marry a
Catholic "

Flora ! " cried Alison, with a sudden
strange look in her eyes — '' Is Captain
Macdonell a Roman Catholic ? "

Why, of course ! Didn't you know ?
You must have known ! " Flora said, but
without noticing the singular expression
that had passed so swiftly over her companion
s face. '* Well, perhaps not. We
don't make much of such differences in
our house ; many of our best friends are
Catholics ; and I suppose It never occurred
to any one to tell you that Ludovick was
a Catholic, like the rest of his family.
However, I'm very glad his liking for
you — and he didn't make much secret of
it, did he? — and his continual talking about
you and praising you, I am glad it did
not lead to anything more serious ; for,
you know, your friends in Kirk o' Shields
are not so tolerant and Sadducees as
some of us up here, and I dare say they
would open their eyes if sou proposed to

marry a Catholic. I say ' a Catholic,'
Miss Dimity Puritan : ' Roman ' Catholic
is hardly civil."

By this time Alison had effectually regained
her composure : outwardly she was
quite calm. She knew that the final knell
of severance had sounded. Those anxious
conjectures as to the cause of his absence
were useless now. Nay, was it not better
that he should so openly have declared his
indifference towards her ? That dream
was over ; and here they were at the quay;
and she had some small packages and
belongings to look after in the cabin.
When they got ashore, she gave Hugh
her purse, insisting on paying for her own
railway-ticket ; she talked pleasantly to
them as they went along the platform with
her ; she smiled a good-bye to them, and
waved her hand as the train moved out of
the station. And then it was, on suddenly
finding herself cut off from these kind

friends, and left absolutely alone, that her
brave self-confidence, which had sustained
her so far, deserted her ; a horror of loneliness
and blackness and despair seemed
to overwhelm her ; she buried her head in
her hands and broke into a passionate fit
of weeping. Yet even then she made a
struggle to believe that this that had happened
was better so. If there was to bea
final renunciation, let it be over and done
with. Life would never again be the same
for her ; certain memories would have to
be locked away for ever ; she would have
to face the remaining years as others had
had to face them. But, as the tears rained
down her hands, she thought he might
have come to say good-bye.

So the train sped on its way, by the
placid shores of Loch Etive, through the
gloomy Pass of Brander, under the mighty
bulk of Ben Cruachan,and along the wooded
banks of Loch Awe ; but it was little

notice she took of the deep purple hills,
the silver-gleaming clouds, the wide rippling
waters of the lake, and the gray ruins of
Kilchuirn. She sat in a corner of the
carriage (fortunately she was the sole
occupant, this being an idle time of the
year) trying to reason herself out of her
childish grief, and resolved to banish this
fond illusion that had possessed her for a
time. These words that he had spoken to
her in the old garden at Oyre ? — well, perhaps
he had believed them at the moment ;
it was a passing fancy ; she had gone, and
he had forgotten them. Flora was right.
There was common sense in what she said.
All this that had happened was but a
dream of beautiful impossibilities ; she
had left that rose-garden of romance ; a
wall of. dark mountains intervened now ;
she should return to Lochaber no more.
Only the measured rattle of this railway-train
was just like the throbbing of the

paddles of the steamer ; it seemed to keep
alive the aching pain at her heart, and she
could get no rest.

Station after station went by ; sometimes
she passively regarded these elderly folk,
and wondered whether they had quite
forgotten now all the sorrows and vain
hopes of their youth. And then, of a
sudden, as the train was slowing into
Tyndrum station, the colour forsook her
face, and her eyes were filled with wonder,
almost with fear. That was but for the
fiftieth part of a second. She sprang to
her feet : '' Ludovick ! Ludovick ! " she
cried ; her trembling hands pulled at the
strap of the window to let it down, and
pulled in vain, for she hardly knew what
she was doing. But the next moment
Ludovick Macdonell was there ; and her
heart leaped up with pride and joy and
gratitude to see how buoyant and confident
and assured he looked ; the door was

opened and he came lightly into the
carriage ; and how was she to prevent her
face from growing rosy red or tears of
gladness from swimming into her eyes ?
Nay, she did not try to conceal her joy —
she could not ; she forgot to ask why or
how he had come ; it was enough that he
was here, and that all the world seemed
suddenly full of radiance and happiness.
As for him, he was coolly shutting the
carriage-door ; and then he took the seat
opposite her, and put his hand on her
hand for a moment, and she did not
withdraw it.

I suppose you wondered why I did not
come to see you away at Fort William ? "
said he (and It was so pleasant to her to
hear his voice again : all dark imaginings
and griefs seemed to flee away : he brought
hope, assurance, confidence with him).

Oh, never mind," she said, rather Incoherently
(for she was terribly conscious

VOL. n. D

of the tell-tale colour In her face, and her
eyes were cast down lest she should reveal
too much of the happy light that was
there). " But — but I am so glad to see
you for a moment before going home.
Yes, I — I expected you to come to say
good-bye, and I was — I was a little disappointed
; but Flora said you would be
busy, and It did not matter."

*' It did not matter?" said he In great
surprise. 'what do you mean, Alison?
I think It mattered a good deal. But I
did not want to say good-bye to you before
all these people ; and I knew that Hugh
and Flora were going back by the steamer ;
so yesterday morning I thought I would
treat myself to a nice little driving-trip —
down Glencoe and across the Black Mount
Forest by Inveroran — and take my chance
of meeting you In the train. I made
pretty sure I should find you."

And did you come all that way," said

she, looking up for a second with something
more than gratitude in her eyes,
merely to — to come and see me ? "

To see you ? — yes, to have a word or
two with you," he answered. " For of
course I could not let you go away home
without some explanation. You see,
Alison," he continued, and he took her
hand again and held It, " I know I can't
make pretty phrases, and perhaps I
shouldn't have blurted out what I said to
you at Oyre ; but now you know — you
know what I hope for, and I'll tell you the
truth : the real reason why I didn't come
to see you this morning at Fort William —
the reason why I took my chance of having
a word with you in the train, or at the end
of the journey, was this, that I wanted to
beg from you some kind of a promise — not
too definite, if that would frighten you, but
still something — something that would
assure me that sooner or later — and I

would not be impatient if that vexed you
merely some kind of assurance that
sooner or later you would be my wife."

And now for the first moment since she
had been bewildered by his sudden appearance,
Alison began to recover her senses.
She had been so overjoyed at seeing him,
after the bitter disappointment of the morning,
that she had thought of nothing else.
But this prayer of his, that she should, in
however vague a fashion, give him some
kind of promise, recalled to her in a
sufficiently startling manner what she had
wholly forgotten — their relative positions,
and Flora's warning. She gently released
her hand

No, I cannot give you that promise,"
said she, in a low voice and with downcast
eyes, '' neither now nor at any future time.
I — I must be frank with you, for you have
been very kind to me. And it is like the
rest of your kindness to have taken all this

trouble to come and say good-bye, and —
and it is to be a last good-bye."

Alison," said he rather breathlessly, " I
won't take that as your last word ! "

It is to be the last word," she said,
with pale lips.

He wanted to seize her hand again, but
she refused.

Alison," he pleaded, '' you must tell me
why. I cannot take it as your last word.
If you do not care enough for me at
present, then that means that I have
spoken too soon, and you will give me a
chance and see what time will do. Or is
there any one else ? "

She shook her head.

Then why, Alison," he said eagerly —
why should it be all over between us ?
No, I won't believe it. What is the
reason ? "

She hesitated for some time ; she would
rather have avoided the pain of explanation

; would It not be better for both that
he should simply go away, and that these
two should see each other no more ? At
length she said, rather sadly —

You never would understand. You
don't know how I have been brought up ;
or how my relations and the people they
live amongst look upon a Roman Catholic.
It seems quite different in my uncle's
family ; none of them ever thought of
telling me you were a Catholic, until Flora
accidentally mentioned it this morning ;
but now "

And is that all ? " he exclaimed quickly.
'' Alison, is that all ? Is that your only
objection ? Did you never hear of
Catholics and Protestants intermarrying ? "

He seemed quite rejoiced to hear that
this was the only obstacle ; and it was only
by slow degrees, as he pleaded and argued
and remonstrated, that he came to perceive
how serious a one it was. Nay, he began

to feel a little remorse : his eagerness to
win her consent seemed to savour of
persecution ; for she listened so patiently,
and yet with such a hopeless silence and
sadness, to all his persuasions and prayers.
At length he said —

Alison, if I were secure of your love, I
should have no fear that any difference of
creed would come between us."
She did not answer.
And then again he said —
"Well, now, I am not going to press
you too hard, Alison, if it is against your
will ; but you will think over what I have
said to you ; and mind, I understand more
than you imagine about the prejudice
against us Catholics that exists among some
of the stricter Protestants. I thought you
knew all along that I was a Catholic ; and
if it was only to-day you were told, ot
course I can understand how you were
surprised, and how there has been no time

for you to get over your first alarm. I
wish you could live in a Catholic district
of the Highlands for a year or two ; you
would find that the Catholics are not a
terrible people at all, that they are just as
well-meaning and as easy to get on with as
any others. But I'm not going to force
you to promise anything against your will,
Alison ; I would rather you would wait
and think ; and I am not despondent about
the result. In the mean time, what am I
to do ? I had intended going on with you
to Kirk o' Shields; I had some vague
notion you might introduce me to your
family and friends. But I see that wouldn't
do at present — that would only embarrass
you, wouldn't it ? We shall be at Dun-blame
in a few minutes ; will you take it ill
if I leave you there ? "

She looked at him with kind eyes : she
understood his forbearance and consideration.


Yes, that would be better," she said.

'' But I am going to write to you,
Alison," said he boldly, "and if I can't
persuade you that way, well, then, I must
come and see you, and confront the whole
clan of your friends, if they are for bidding
you beware of a Catholic. Why, in these
days it is too absurd to think of religious
differences separating human beings who
have a real regard for each other. That's
all gone and past. And especially you of
all people — you, who are so clear-headed
why, if you have acquired any prejudice
of that kind, you must have imbibed it
unawares ; it is something quite foreign to
your whole nature."

The train was entering Dunblane station.

'alison, I will write to you in a few
days. Will you answer my letter ? "

Yes, I will," she said ; and she regarded
him with straightforward and honest eyes,
that yet were gentle and kindly too ; " but

I know what it will be : it will be to ask
you to abandon an idea that would only
lead to misery — I mean to the misery of
many people besides ourselves. That is
what I fear — what I know. We will say
good-bye now, and it will be better for
you to forget that you ever saw me."

Ah, you are faint-hearted at present,"
said he confidently and cheerfully; 'but
wait : wait, and call in your own clear
judgment to aid you. And mind, Alison,
if you can bring your heart to say yes, you
are not going to let it say no because of
the opinions or prejudices of your relatives
and friends : in that case you will have me
coming through to Kirk o' Shields to fight
the whole array of them. Well, good-bye,
Alison, and God bless you ! — it will not be
so long before we meet again ! "

The little country station was all flooded
with the golden light of the afternoon ;
and in the midst of that glow, for sometime

after the train had left, she could still
make out the well-known, firm-set figure,
the sun-browned cheek, and familiar Tam
o' Shanter. And when at length she was
left alone with her own thoughts, her heart
was far less heavy than it had been during
the earlier part of the day. Severance —
the bitterness of renunciation — might be
before her ; nay, she had already faced
that as a certainty, and with a sufficiency
of courage. But however dark and hopeless
the future might be, at least, here and
now, she knew she had not been mistaken
in her friend ; and she was proudly conscious
that, whatever else might be in
store for her, to be slighted and forgotten
by Ludovick Macdonell was the last thing
she had to fear.

CHAPTER II.

THE COWANS OF CORBIESLAW.

On the bleak uplands lying to the east of
Kirk o' Shields stands the farm-house of
Corbieslaw. It is a dismal and lonely
place ; the buildings and byres all of stone
and slate ; not a tree or a bush anywhere
around ; while its considerable acreage of
arable and pasture land is divided, not by
hedges, but by stone walls as grimy and
melancholy-looking as Corbieslaw itself.
No bird sings here in spring or summer.
The fumes and smoke of Kirk o* Shields
keep an almost perpetual grayness in the
skies, save at night, when the dull red

glow of the distant iron-works flushes
across the darkened heavens.

One afternoon, some few days after
Alison's return from the Highlands, Alexander
Cowan of Corbieslaw was standing
at his own front door. He was a man of
about sixty ; a huge, heavy, unwieldy-looking
person, sallow-complexioned, large-eared,
thick-lipped, with nostrils like those
of a monkey, and with small, twinkling
vindictive eyes — eyes that, compared with
the extent of his face, somewhat resembled
those of an elephant, and seemed capable,
like those of an elephant, of preserving a
pretty accurate recollection of any one
who had injured him. Mr. Cowan was
not in his ordinary farmer dress ; he was
clad in a loose, ill-fitting suit of Sunday
black ; he was carefully shaved ; and he
would no doubt have been grave and
solemn of demeanour but that the unaccustomed
stiffness of his shirt-collar seemed

to Irritate him considerably, producing from
time to time (as he was vainly endeavouring
to set matters right) an expression
of anger that ought not to have appeared
on the face of a ruling elder of the Free
Church.

Presently he was joined by his wife — a
little, thin, sharp-looking woman, with a
profusion of shining black bugles about
her dress, and a mass of artificial roses
and fuchsias In her bonnet.

I hae just been thinking, Mysle," said
he, In a slow and oracular fashion, which
would have been more Impressive but that
In speaking he added an '' h " to every's,"
so that the continual '' hish-hlsh "
sounded as If his mouth was full of boiled
turnip ; " I hae just been considering
that the Minister cannot tak' It ill that we
should approach him on this subject, for
there's plenty o' Scriptural precedents for
it ; I could ogle him chapter and verse a

mizzen times over, if it was needed. But
e'en without that he maun see how it will
be a strengthening o' the Lord's Church
through family bonds. Ay, through family
bonds. When ye're putting off your
bonnet, Mysie, or when ye're coming away
at the end o' the evening, ye'll be seeing
the lass by herself' ; and ye can gie hera
bit hint to remember what I hae done
for her father in times past ; and ye can
show her what a bringing thither o' the
two families would be in the future — a
bulwark and a surety, and a warning to
they ill-thrawn folk that would tear the
congregation to pieces wi' their bickering
and wanderings. She's a sensible kind o'
lass ; she'll understand ye, I warrant. As
for the Minister, I'll hae a word wi' him
when ye're out o' the room ; though it's no
the first — no, no — weel he kens what we've
had in our mind, but maybe I'll speak a
bit plainer, ye see. Ay, and I should

wonder if it was borne in on him that this
thing came from the Lord ; as Laban and
Bethel said to Abraham's messenger, that
went on a Hke errand, ' The thing proceeded
from the Lord : we cannot speak
unto thee bad or good.' That's the main
point to remember. I say it would be for
the benefit of the Church at large, and
our own East Street Church in particular ;
and everybody kens what a fecit I've had,
in upholding the Minister through good
report and bad report, for he has his
enemies, poor man, and ill-wishers — they
heedless young fellows, that think nothing
o' the fundamentals o' their faith, but are
aye crying out about the executioners and
poetry-mongers they've heard in Glesca.
Oh ay, the Minister kens what I've done
for him."

I'm sure it would be a very good thing
for James," observed Mrs. Cowan, who
spoke Edinburgh-wise, and with more pretensions

to elegance than her husband.
'' They say that AHson Blair will have
nearly everything her aunt has to leave ;
and it's no concern o' ours whether the
money came frae a distillery or not. It
would be a fine thing for James ; for a
young probationer with a wife that is
known to be well provided for is regarded
wi' favour, and has a better chance of a
call : the responsible members o' the congregation
understand that the young lasses
will no be a setting their caps at him ;
and, besides that, he will be able to keep
up a proper style, and have entertainment
for his friends, and no be aye begging and
begging for an increase o' stipend. Poor
James — look at him now ! Many's the
time my heart is sore to think of the poor
lad slaving away at they sermons, that
nobody ever asks him for. He is just
that diligent ; but what's the use ? Its
a very fine to call the probationers

VOL. II. E

guinea-pigs ' ; I would like to see more
o' the guineas ; but not one has he had ;
and there's Mr. Blair — you would think
he might go away for a single Sabbath,
just to lend his pulpit to the lad, to say
nothing o' the guinea as a kind of encouragement.
But no. And how do they
expect a probationer to become a capable
preacher if they never give him the chance
of a pulpit ? "

Now, during this sympathetic speech the
farmer's face had been growing more and
more morose ; and at last he said sullenly —

He would hae made a chance for himself,
if he hanna been such a poor, feckless,
helpless, spiritless creature."

Then fierce as fire the mother retorted,
in defence of her first-born —

And if he is that, who made him that ?
Ay, well ye ken who made him what
he is ! "

I have brought him up as a child

should be brought up," the farmer said
sternly, " in the fear of the Lord."

In the fear of a whip-lash!" was the
angry rejoinder ; and then she proceeded,
with bitter vehemence : *' Yes, it is well
for you to complain now when yere
crushed and cowed the spirit out o' the
poor lad all his life long ! The fear of
the Lord ? The fear of a whip-lash —
that's what I call it ; and the fear of being
locked up among the rats in an empty
barn, night after night, for just nothing at
all. You may have forgotten, but Lve
not forgotten, the time ye went to fetch
him home frae Garlieston — driving him
before ye wi' a horse-whip — you a great
big man, and him a little white-faced
boy. No wonder the folk turned out and
followed ye, and hooted ye, and threw
stones at ye ! "

The small eyes in the farmer's big,
coarse face had crown darker and darker.

*^'"''^ Of Ilk

'' If I had got my whip round their
legs," he said, between his teeth, '' Yd hae
sent that Irish rabble skein' back to
their ain business. Here, Rob! "he suddenly
roared to a servant-man who chanced
to come along. *' Go round to the yard,
and tell that fellow Chalmers that if I'm
kept waiting here another three minutes
for that dog-cart he'll be out o' my service
the morn's morning, as sure's there's a
sky boon our heads ! "

But just at this moment the dog-cart
opportunely made its appearance ; and at
the same time the sound of the wheels
brought forth from the house the young
man who had been the subject of the
recent altercation. This James Cowan —
the Rev. James Cowan he was called by
courtesy — was rather under middle height,
slight of physique, and stooping a little ;
with a pale complexion, a large, weak,
sensitive mouth, a feeble jaw and chin, no

great height of forehead, and lank fair hair
that he wore honos behind. But what was
chiefly noticeable about him was the
curiously vacuous expression of his face,
coupled with the quick and furtive look
of his eyes. It was not an intelligent
look ; but at least it was alert and observant
— like the apprehensiveness of some
dumb animal that has just been beaten,
and is on the watch for the reappearance
of the stick — and it did something to
relieve the hopeless apathy of his features.
For the rest he also was clad in black ;
but with no touch of the smartness and
neatness natural to a young man ; and
without a word or a sign to any one he
took his place on the back seat of the dogcart,
where he was joined by the farm-servant,
when the farmer and his wife had
got up in front. Then they drove away
in the direction of Kirk o' Shields.

No one spoke during the drive ; and at

length, when they had got near to the
town, the farmer pulled up and called to
his man to come to the horse's head.
Then they all descended and proceeded
on foot.

"Such nonsense!" Mrs. Cowan said
snappishly.

Oh, I ken what ye would be at ! " her
husband retorted (though probably he was
still brooding over the recollection of his
having been hooted through the outskirts
of Garlieston). '' I ken ye would like to
show off before the folk, and gang granting
through the town in your ain machine.
It's little of the proper humility of a
Christian that ye care for. But if I have
to use a dog-cart in the exercise of my
earthly calling, I hope I ken my duty
better than to go clattering through the
streets wit, as if I was one o' they tearing',
svv-earin' officers out o' Molehill barracks."

So it was on foot that they arrived at

the Minister's house, whither they had
been invited to take tea and spend the
evening. Alison, of course, was the young
house-mistress ; and she received her guests
with the respect and attention due to the
farmer's position as an elder — and a very
important elder — in the Church ; she had
also a kind and encouraging word for the
poor lad James, who seemed glad to get
away from her, and to subside into a
corner, where he sat with his eyes mostly
fixed on the floor.

And how did you enjoy your stay in
the Highlands, Miss Blair?" said Mrs.
Cowan, who was extremely polite on such
occasions.

Oh, very, very much ! " Alison said
with a quite unlooked-for enthusiasm.
They are the very nicest and kindest
people I have ever met."

But here the farmer interfered with
portentous severity —

'* I'm sorry to hear ye say that, Miss
Blair — sorry indeed. If ye kenned them
better, ye would be of a different opinion,
I'm thinking; ye would understand that
they are of the same race as the Irish ; and
they're a' tarred wi' the same stick — a
godless, drunken, swearing', dangerous class
o' people, that are the plague of any decent
and respectable community that takes them
in. Wha fills the police-courts ? Ask the
Glesca magistrates ! And here in this
very town our lives are hardly our ain for
they Irish scoundrels frae the pits and the
iron-works, a cursing', drunken, riotous crew,
Roman Catholics every one o' them, and
ready to smash every window in your
house if they see an orange lily in your
garden. Sometimes I think that it's a
dispensation and a trial that the Lord in
His mercy has put upon us — just to remind
us what it would be if they blagyards got
the upper hand, and could bring the Pope

over here, and have us burned at the
stake for reading the Word. And the
Icelanders, as I have heard, are just
the same, root and branch, as the Irish —
a reckless, quarrelsome, idle crew ; and nota
word they say to be believed ; for the
truth is not in them."

Have you ever been in the Highlands,
Mr. Cowan?" Alison asked sharply — but
rather despising herself for caring.

The farmer hesitated, for he had never
been in the Highlands ; but his wife came
to his assistance.

I'm sure what Alexander says is true,"
Mrs. Cowan remarked. " I know that I
had a Highland servant once, Miss Blair ;
and sure I am there never was such another
creature born alive. Not but that the
woman would work — ay, and get up at
any hour ; and the strength of a stot she
had ; but mercy me, her tantrums ! Ye
had but to check her wi' a word, and off

she'd go wi' her head in the air, muttering
and storming to herself in GaeHc, and
making use of language just fit to make
your blood creep "

But how did you know it was bad
language, when you could not understand
it ? " Alison asked — and she dared not
look at her sister Aenes, or she would
have burst out lauQ^hinor.

I am sure it was bad lano^ua^e — I am
confident it was : you could tell it well
enough by the sound if not by the sense,"
said Mrs. Cowan ; and with that oracular
utterance this disquisition on the Highland
character came to an end, for the buxom
and black-eyed wench Katie here opened
the door and announced that tea was
ready.

Now when they had gone into the
dining-room and taken their places, and
when the long grace was ended, the
farmer's wife ran her eye over the table.

'* I hear, Minister," said she complacently,
that in your visiting last week ye included
Mrs. Strachan ? "

The Minister Intimated that he had
called upon Mrs. Strachan.

"And she gave ye blaming f continued
Mrs. Cowan, with a playful smile.

The Minister had not noticed, or failed
to remember.

'' Oh yes, I heard about it," said Mrs.
Cowan, still smiling facetiously. " x^nd
maybe it did not turn out very well ;
maybe it was not very well made ?
Blaming — Mrs. Strachan : I like that !
Mrs. Strachan trying her hand at blaming
and her mother kept a wee bit box o' a
place in a back-wynd in Airdrie, and sealed
apples and ginger-beer ! "

The incongruity between Mrs. Strachan's
origin and her social pretensions seemed
to afford Mrs. Cowan much amusement ;
but her husband tacitly rebuked her for

her frivolity by abruptly changing the
subject, and showed a better appreciation
of the character of the house he was in by
reverting to the Minister's forenoon sermon
on the previous Sunday.

'' I would presume to criticise, Mr.
Blair," said the elder, solemnly and slowly,
'' and the doctrine o' grace irresistible is
not one that any professing Christian would
dispute ; but yet to lose sight o' works
athegither is a sir temptation, Fm feared,
to them that are naturally inclined to backsliding.
Nae coot it is the province o' a
minister o' the Gospel to preach the truth
as it is delivered to him "

Ay, but there's another thing," interposed
the elder's wife eagerly. '' When
our James gets a call, I know he'll put two
duties before him — one to preach the truth,
and the other to help to sweep away that
pernicious stumbling-block, the Established
Church."

The farmer went on without heeding
this unseemly interruption —

'* But I would have the believer
grow slack in well-doing. Ye remember
what Paul says to the Philippians — ' Work
out your own salvation with fear and
trembling.' "

And I am sure you do not forget the
very next verse, Mr. Cowan," the Minister
said, calmly regarding his interlocutor from
under his shaggy eyebrows. '^ ' For it is
God which worketh in you both to will
and to do of his good pleasure.' You
cannot think that mortal man can win such
a great prize as 'eternal salvation by his
own weak endeavour ? "

I would just like to hear our James on
that point," again interposed the fond
mother. '* James is just a wonderful' arguer
when ye give him time. James, tell them
what's your opinion on that point."

James, startled out of his apathetic

reverie, looked round him with frightened
eyes ; but said nothing. His father took
no notice of him whatsoever ; he continued
his discourse, now with an appeal ad rem.

"This is what I'm driving at, Mr. Blair,"
said he, " that if the believer is not reminded
that works are an outward and visible sign
of grace, and demanded of the professing
Christian, then he may grow slack in
conduct, and do just as others do. Now
it's no more than three days since I was
gain by Steel and Dalrymple's boiler-works
; and I happened to keep over the
wa', and there was John Ramsay, just
outside the engine-house where he is
employed. Think ye what he was doing ?
He had a bit cotton-waste in one hand and
an oil-can in the other, and he was putting
drop after drop on to his boots and
polishing' them up. Think o' that ! what's
that but stealing his employers' property '^.
And here's a man that washes his face,

and puts on his Sabbath clothes, and
brings his wife and his twa sons and
doctor into the pew wi' him : yet he
doesna think twice about stealing his
masters' oil to put on his boots. 'Deed, I
was thinking o' going into the office and
telling them what was going on "

I hope you will not do that, Mr.
Cowan," said the Minister, in his grave,
deliberate way. " It's a small matter ;
maybe it is the usual custom in the works ;
and in any case it is too trifling a thing to
make mischief about."

'' Lax — lax," said the elder, shaking his
head mournfully ; " it's the little things that
lead to great things when they're overlooked.
There's the mistress, now : last
Sabbath morning she catched one o' the
lasses singing away at ' Ye banks and
braes ' — on a Sabbath morning ! and only
said ' Be quiet,' or something o' that kind,
without a word o' serious remonstrance.

What then ? Would ye believe it, Mr.
Blair, as I was gain by the kitchen-door
on Wednesday night, I just lookit in, and
there, as sure as I'm levin', were the
three lizzie playing cards — playing
cards ! "

Cards, Minister ! " almost sri-eked
Mrs. Cowan (while the guilty Alison sat
and listened, thinking of those magical
evenings away in the north, with the
scent of roses in the garden, and the twilit
heavens shining silver-clear over the hills).
"Cards! — in a house where there was a
minister o' the Gospel, or one that's soon
to be a minister, ordained and inducted in
proper form. James, what wast ye said
about Satan having penned mass-books as
well as the Pope ? Oh ay, he can give
the Romans a slap when he likes ! What
wast, James ? "

But even with this encouragement James
failed to respond, for the eyes of his father

were upon him for a brief moment. Then
the elder resumed.

'' No, Mr. Blair, I do not hold wi' them
wha say that works are a sinful' endeavour
to defeat the divine power o' grace ; and I
would rather see the professing Christian
declare the faith that is in him by outward
observances. Six days shalt thou labour ;
and as long's I'm master in my own house
there'll be no cloth laid on the Sabbath-day
; them that minna tak' the trouble on
the Saturday can gang without their dinner
on the Sabbath."

'' Look at Alexander himself, Minister,"
said Mrs. Cowan, proudly — she had forgotten
for the moment about Garlieston,
and the horsewhip, and the empty barn.
*' Do ye mind the Sabbath morning he
came into the church wi' only the one side
o' his face shaved ? Little did he heed
the sniggering o' the young lads and
lasses ! I say that a man that is shaving

VOL. n. F

himself on the Saturday night to avoid all
labour on the Sabbath, and has to stop in
the middle when he hears twelve o'clock
striking — a man that is so particular in
small things will cling to the essentials as
well ; and I hope our James here, though
he may rise in the world, and become
famous, and get into a different station
from ordinary folk like us — I hope he'll be
as good a Christian as his father was
before him, and no be ashamed to walk in
his footsteps."

At this point the Minister, perceiving
that tea was over, returned thanks in a
long and earnest appeal for further and
spiritual mercies ; then the table was
cleared, and the small company devoted
itself to improving conversation. And at
last the doting mother had her chance.
Having several times failed to get her son
James to open his mouth, she at length
worried him into declaring what the subject

of his last manuscript sermon was ; then
she appealed to the Minister ; and Mr.
Blair was kind enough to examine the
young man as to the argument he had
followed in that composition, the " heads "
into which he had divided it, and so forth ;
and James was constrained to answer.
Mrs. Cowan was a proud woman as she
sat and admiringly listened. Nearly all
the talking, it is true, was on the side of
the Minister ; but was it not a noble
spectacle to see those two members of the
highest of all professions conversing with
each other, and one of them her own son ?
She would not allow the farmer to interrupt.
When he would have relegated
James to the background and his accustomed
silence, she valiantly interposed and
invoked the aid of the Minister himself.
The subject of the sermon was the duty of
Christians to make manifest the truth one
to another ; there were five '' heads ; " and

the Minister was most considerate and
painstaking in following the line of treatment
and in expressing approval where
that could be awarded.

(And of all this what did Alison hear ?
Why, not one word. Her heart was faraway
in Lochaber. This was not Kirk o'
Shields at all — Kirk o' Shields on a dull
afternoon deepening into dusk, and the
figures in the small parlour become almost
as QT-hosts in the twilight : this is the
Doctor's garden, overlooking the shore, and
she is standing in it quite alone. Everywhere
there is an abundance of motion and
change on this bright and windy morning ;
the far ranges of hills are dappled with
yellow sunlight and purple cloud-shadows ;
torn shreds of white stretch across the pale
blue sky ; a deeper blue stirs and trembles
in the driven water of Loch Linnhe. The
flowers are all nodding and bending before
the breeze ; sometimes a few drops of rain

begin to mark the lilac-gray pebbles at her
feet ; sometimes there is a brief gloom
overhead ; then the bit of a shower drifts
over ; the warm sunshine spreads itself
around ; the petals of the flowers are
glittering now, and the pendulous branches
of the willows rustling ; while the air is
freshened with the scent of rain-wet roses
and sweetbrier. What is this she hears ?
The window of Flora's room above her is
open ; perchance, for it is yet early, her
cousin is combing out her long coal-black
hair as she lightly sings —

O where hae ye been roaming, roaming, roaming,
O where hae ye been roaming, my bonny Mary
Graham ? "

And Ludovick — why does not Ludovick
put in an appearance, coming along from
the town by the white road that skirts the
beach ? They should be going sailing on
so fair a morning. Has she the courage
to cut a rose for him — one of those deep

red ones, with rain diamonds on its closely
folded petals — and to offer it to him as he
comes in at the little gate ? Flora would
laugh, perhaps ; but he would be proud
enough. Ah, no, she has not the courage ;
she must not make confession ; the white
road is empty ; and the day somehow
changes in this wistful dream. There are
dark clouds overhead now ; and there are
hurrying people at the quay ; and a wild
agony of farewell, and streaming eyes, and
an aching heart. " Lochaber no more,'
the restless winds are wailing; "we'll
maybe return to Lochaber no more." The
black wall of mountains comes between ;
the fair and joyous garden-land, with all its
new wonders and gladness of life, withall
its secret hopes and thrills, is lost to her
for ever ; there remains for her but a bewildering
memory, and the hopeless desolation
of Kirk o' Shields. These voices in
the small parlour convey nothing to her.

She is wondering what Flora is doing ;
what Hugh is doing; whether either of
them ever thinks of her. And Ludovick ?
perhaps there is a letter already on its
way to her, with some word of kindness, of
remembrance.)

Late in the evening the Corbieslaw
people rose to go ; and then it was, on her
retiring to put on her bonnet and shawl,
that the farmer s wife had an opportunity
of talking to Alison alone. But Mrs.
Cowan had a wholesome opinion of her
own shrewdness, and considered that she
knew a great deal better than her husband
how to conduct this delicate negotiation.
She had no intention of telling Alison that
she ought to marry James for the greater
good of the Free Church of Scotland, and
in order to strengthen the elder's position
in her fathers congregation. That was
not the kind of lure with which to captivate
the imagination of a young maiden. She

relied rather on the abundant store of
napery at Corbieslaw, of which she kept
an accurate Hst in her mind. But before
coming to that, she had to make some
kind of apology for her vicarious interference.


'' Ye see, Miss Blair," she said, when
she had introduced the subject in a skilful
and diplomatic manner, " a young probationer
is naturally timid when he comes
to a minister s house ; and as for yourself,
you are much looked-up to by the whole
congregation ; and James is a modest lad,
and maybe does not think of himself just
what he might ; so that if I speak for him
ye'll no misunderstand his hanging back a
little."

I think if he was very anxious he
would speak for himself," Alison observed,
with much composure; ''so wouldn't it be
better to say nothing more about it ? "

No, no ; don't put it off like that, and

do the lad an injury because he is modest
and well-behaved," the fond mother pleaded.
'' It's not the glib ones that can talk your
head off that make the best and steadiest
husbands. Of course he'll speak to you
himself; but I thought I would like to
have just a bit chat wi' ye ; for it would
be a great comfort to us to know that
Corbieslaw would be well looked after
when we are gone, even if ye sealed the
lease o' the farm, and only kept the house.
I could bear to think of my store o'
napery being put to the roup and scattered
among other folks' drawers and presses.
Just consider this. Miss Blair "

Here followed an imposing catalogue
to which Alison duly listened — and not
without interest, indeed, for she was a
house-mistress herself.

Ye see, it is not as if ye were being
asked to marry a young man with his way
in the world to make," continued Mrs.

Cowan, '' and nothing to back him. I'm
sure enough in my own mind that James
will take a high position in the Church,
for he is well grounded in the Latin and
Greek, ay, and Hebrew too, and he's just
that convincing when he brings his logic
to bear ; but in the mean time, while he
is waiting, his father and myself will see
that he doesna want. An only son too
I suppose ye hardly remember his
brother Andrew, that was to have had the
farm, poor lad, but was taken away in that
terrible hesitation of diphtheria ? Ay, he
was a bonny boy, my poor Andrew ; but he
never had James's head ; ye'll see what
James will come to some day, Miss Blair:
he'll make folk talk about him, I'm thinking."
I'm sure I hope so, if that is his
ambition," said Alison ; " but really, Mrs.
Cowan, I don't see why I should be expected
to marry Mr. James, or anybody
else."

Your father is an old man, Miss Blair,"
said the farmer's wife, significantly.

'' I trust he may live for many years
yet," Alison said, "but even if anything
were to happen to him, I suppose I could
earn my own living, like other people."

'' How ? Yere been gently brought
up. Miss Blair," her monitress continued.
I would like to see you slaving away
at needlework, or teaching, or whatever a
young lady could turn her hand to."

I'm not afraid," Alison said, simply
enough. "And anyhow I'd rather do that
than marry in order to be well provided
for."

Not if it was your father's wish ? — if
he wanted to see you comfortably settled?"

Alison was perceptibly startled.

Why, who said that ? " she demanded.

And here Mrs. Cowan not only followed,
but considerably bettered, her husband's
instructions, and allowed her fancy a little

range in Interpreting the Minister's hopes
and wishes in this matter. AHson was
surprised ; but she had no reason to dis-behave
; for there was but Httle mutual
confidence between her father and herself ;
and indeed this was about the last subject
that either of them would have mentioned
to the other. Alison was surprised, no
doubt ; but she was not alarmed ; In fact,
when, after some further representations
and persuasions from the farmer's wife,
they both of them returned to the parlour,
Alison could hardly help regarding with a
mild curiosity the young man whom they
all seemed to wish her to marry. She felt
no dislike to him at all ; there was rather
in her breast a kind of wonder ; and when
she shook hands with him at the door, as
they were going away, she glanced at him
ao^ain with not a little interest : was this
her possible husband, then ?

When she got back into her own small

room, to think over this project, she was
rather amused than disconcerted by.it. It
was too ludicrous to be possible. Wandering
about her head was the proud fancy
that if the whole congregation were banded
together in a conspiracy to make her marry
this poor lad of a probationer, she would
be safe enough, for Ludovick Macdonell
would come to rescue her. Nay, she
could imagine the simple ceremonial about
to begin ; friends and relatives assembled
in the largest room in her father s house ;
she and this poor lad, far more tremulous
than herself, standing side by side ; the
Minister confronting them, and about to
lecture them on the duties of wedded life.
But behold ! the door opens ; Ludovick
appears — regarding these people as if
amazed at their astounding insolence ; he
parts them right and left with his broad
shoulders as he makes his way to her ;
there is a laugh of recognition when he

meets her eyes ; he seizes her hand, and,
without a word or a glance to any one but
herself, leads her away.

Leads her away — but whither, and to
what end ? And indeed she might have
proceeded to ask herself what Ludovick
could have to do with her at all, seeing
that in her own mind she had already
composed an answer to the letter which
every morning she now expected to receive
from him.

CHAPTER III,

HITHER AND THITHER.

This answer that she had already constructed
was pitilessly clear and logical ;
and was designed to convince him that
difference of creed put an insurmountable
barrier between them, and that he would
best consult the happiness of both by
abandoning forthwith what could only
prove a futile fancy. But all the while
that she was formulating this argument
(during many an anxious and silent hour,
that caused her sister Ones to wonder
why Alison should have come back from
the Highlands so preoccupied and thoughtful)
she could not conceal from herself

that it was based, not so much upon any
convictions of her own, as upon the convictions
of her friends and relatives, and of
the people among whom she lived. For
what was her own attitude towards the
Catholic Church, when she came to consider
it dispassionately, and as she strove
to free herself from those mists of prejudice
in which she had been brought up ? Informer
days, when she had been first
alarmed by Paley's " Evidences," she had
sought refuge in authority. Who was she,
she naturally asked herself, to set up her
private judgment, and question truths that
had been accepted by those who had
devoted their whole lives to the investigation
of these supreme matters ? What
learning, or knowledge, or critical faculty
had she, that she should question, for
example, the conclusions arrived at by the
Westminster Assembly of Divines ? And
now, when she came to regard the Catholic

faith, If authority was to be her safeguard
and chief good, what more august authority-could
she find than in the religion that had
held Christendom for century after century,
dowered With the majesty of unbroken
tradition, and ever ready to receive into
its haven any poor wandering soul that
had been tossed about on the seas of
perplexity and doubt ? In that haven the
greatest intellects of many lands had found
security and rest and consolation : why
should she hesitate to believe what they
had believed ? No, it was not her own
attitude towards the Catholic Church that
caused her answer to Ludovick Macdonell
to shape itself so clearly into a refusal ; it
was the knowledge that if she married a
Catholic, her nearest relations would be
shocked to the heart, her friends and
acquaintances would consider her as one
abandoned and lost, while the congregation
that sat and listened to her father's preach-vol.

II. G

ing from Sabbath to Sabbath would be
astounded that the Minister should have
been so failing In his private duties as to
allow one of his own household to stray
away into the camp of the enemy.

And yet when Ludovick Macdonell's
letter did arrive she tore it open in haste
and glanced over its contents with a
breathless anxiety. To her extreme surprise
she found there was nothing argumentative
or polemical in it ; he appeared
to have taken it for granted that that was
all gone and finished — that the representations
he had made to her in the railway-carriage
would prove to be sufficient when
she had time to consider them calmly ;
and now his appeal was all to her heart
instead of to her head. Certainly he did
once revert to the fact of their belonorlno-

o o

to different faiths, or to different versions
of the same faith, but only to repeat what
he had said before, that in these days of

religious toleration and of individual liberty
difference of creed was a wholly minor
matter, that need never dislocate the relations
between two persons who otherwise
were at one. He did not seem in the
least to understand the situation in which
she found herself placed. All he wanted
was that she should say yes, and forthwith
and joyfully he would begin to make
preparations at Oyre for the reception of
the bride. What more simple ? His
father would be delighted, he said. He
had put his hopes and plans before the old
gentleman, who, he confessed, was at first
inclined to rebel, for there had been
another project in his mind ; but the Herr
Papa was won over at last, was forced to
admit that he had been greatly charmed
with the young lady who had visited Oyre
that autumn, and finally said, " Bring her
home as soon as you like, Ludovick, and
I will take the rooms overlooking the

kitchen-garden, so that practically you'll
have the whole house to yourselves."

'' But that's not my scheme at all,"
continued Captain Ludovick. '' Fancy,
now, this morning I had to go out in
search of my pa, having some business to
talk over ; and where do you think I
found him ? All by himself up at the
edge of the plantations, engaged in clearing
the dried leaves and weeds out of the
surface-drains with his stick — you remember
the stick with the panther's claw set
in silver ? That's a fine occupation for
the old laird of Oyre, isn't it ? But I
could imagine something: much better than
that for him. I could imagine him, on a
warm afternoon, walking up and down the
little avenue, under the shade of the
sycamores ; a young lady with him and
clinging to his arm — a very pretty young
lady, with the clearest and kindest of gray
eyes, and the demurest of dimples in her

cheek, and the most bewitching smile, and
dark hair so neatly and nicely braided
under a white Tam o' Shanter~and him
telling her splendid and awful lies about
the jungle, and her listening and believing
every word, and pleasing him mightily.
Can you guess who she was ? I could see
her quite clearly. Yes, and I could see
Flora and Hugh come driving up in a
dog-cart, and get down with their rackets
in their hands ; then the young lady in
the white Tam o' Shanter must needs flyaway
and get a cigar, and the Inverness
CoiL7'ier, and some whiskey and water for
the old gentleman, and put them on a
small table in front of the house ; and then
she joined the others, all determined to
get three sets of tennis played before
going in to dinner. And if the old gentleman,
in the heat of the afternoon, let his
cigar go out, and fell asleep behind the
newspaper, at all events he was in good

company, and more comfortably occupied
than in pottering about all by himself and
clearlnof dried leaves out of drains."

Alison turned from this letter with a
sigh, and took up Its fellow that had
arrived by the same post. It was from
Flora — sent at Ludovlck's urgent request.
And it was written In a very different key,
for Flora seemed to perceive a great deal
more clearly than the headstrong lover the
difficulties with which Alison was surrounded,
though, to be sure, she made light
of them also, in her happy-go-lucky fashion.

Dear Alison,

I hate you. You have turned
the best fellow in the world Into a bore.
I try to shunt him on to Hugh, who is
quite sympathetic and agrees ; for I am
not sympathetic and don't agree, and
decline to believe that you are the most
wonderful creature that ever came into this

weary world. However, that's neither
here nor there. My lord has given me
his orders. I am to write at once and
convince you that there is nothing to
hinder a Protestant and a Catholic from
marrying each other. He says you didn't
know he was a Catholic until the very
day you left — when he played us that
pretty trick by cutting across through the
Black Mount Forest — and that you seemed
quite upset by the discovery. But what
does it amount to, if you two pretty dears
really care for each other ? Here's my
solution of the difficulty. If you think
that husband and wife must necessarily be
of the same faith, why don't both of you
agree to join the Church of England,
which is a nice, convenient, Half-way
House between Protestantism and Catholicism
? Isn't that sensible ? At the same
time I see no reason why you shouldn't
marry and remain Protestant and Catholic

just as you are ; I don't believe the difference
would come into your actual lives at
all ; and there's one very certain thing,
you need have no fear about the priests
interfering with your domestic affairs or
relations. Oh no ; my worshipful gentleman
has a tolerably stiff neck ; and he hasa
kind of notion that his house is to be his
own, and himself undisputed master of it.
There won't be any cowled monk coming
out from a sliding panel at Oyre, or any
kind of foreign dictation or interference,
you may depend on that. Indeed, so far
as your being a Protestant and his being
a Catholic is concerned, I don't see why
there should be any trouble at all — anymore
than the same difference affected
your friendly relations with him when you
were here, and when you didn't even guess
at its existence — and if you were only to
consider your two selves, everything would
be clear enough.

But oh, Alison Blair, when I think of
you forsaking all the preaching and teachings
of your forefathers, and bidding defiance
to the amazement and horror and
bewailing of your friends and family, then
it's quite another matter ; and I'm not
going to advise you, however Ludovick
may beg and implore. For he doesn't
understand, and that's the truth, or else
he's so headstrong that he won't pay any
heed. My goodness, the ghosts of all the
Blairs of Moss-end would rise from their
graves, and point their snaky finger at
you, and sing psalms of lamentation (tune,
ColesJiill). And then the congregation,
and the elders, and the elders' wives, and
Agnes too — what would she says ? Your
joining hands at the Half-way House
would be no kind of concession to them.
What .^ the daughter of Mr. Blair of East
Street Church gone away and become an
Episcopalian ! — you might just as well

become a Catholic at once. Of course,
Ludovick won't hear of all this, but I know
more than he does about the Free Kirk
folk here — I hear plenty about them from
my father ; and If you mean to do this
thing, you will have to pull yourself
together to face the consequences.

Well, now, my dear Miss Dimity, this
Is all I have to say by way of warning, and
I've freed my conscience. No doubt It
has all been present to your own mind ; for
you know the conditions far better than I
do, and no doubt you have been considering.
But at the same time I must honestly
tell you that if this affair between Ludovick
and you is very, very serious — and he
appears to take it seriously — I wouldn't be
frightened of these dire consequences, if I
were In your position. No, I wouldn't.
If I cared for a man, I wouldn't pay much
attention to what the East Street elders
and their wives said about either him orme.

But then I should have to care for
him a good lot, and if your interesting little
entanglement with Captain Ludovick was
only a bit of summer flirtation — natural
enough too, for he's very good-looking and
good-natured, and quite as clever as you
want a man to be, for you don't want them
to be too sharp — well, you'd save yourself
a great deal of trouble if you'd drop it at
once. When men feet an idea into their
head, they hold on to it ; and they never
see a joke, or take a hint, they're so
frightfully serious ; and in fact Ludovick is
so completely entetd that I was afraid to
suggest to him that perhaps you had only
been having a little fun. Only a perhaps,
my dear ; and after all I don't think that
is your line ; but you kept so very quiet
about it that Ludovick considerably
astonished me when he came to me with his
full-blown confession. And I hope I did
not hurt your feelings by anything I said

on board the steamer when you were
leaving Fort William. I thought you
looked rather cut up ; and I really did
think Ludovick was treating you shabbily,
after the attention he had paid you ; so I
thought I would restore your nerve by
giving you a good, wholesome dose of
worldly wisdom. Did I say anything that
too fearfully shocked your sensitive soul ?
At all events, if I uttered a single word
against that incomparable man-creature.
Captain Ludovick, I hereby withdraw it,
and make my humble apology on my two
bended knees, and will never do so again.
That's all. At present I prefer to
keep a neutral attitude, in spite of Mr.
Ludovick's fine speeches. I would advise
you to consult Aunt Gilchrist before doing
anything serious. At one time I know
she entertained the idea that Ludovick
was the scheming son of an impecunious
old Highland laird, and that both of them

were conspiring to improve their impoverished
estate with her money ; but
perhaps that was a passing whim of
Periphery. Anyway, you won't do anything
without consulting her — if she's
going to give you the money that ought
to come to me, you cat !

I suppose you were already revelling
in dreams of future wealth when you went
and tipped that horrid boy Johnny ? Do
you know what he did ? His first exploit
wasn't so bad ; he merely got his photograph
taken — for threepence ; and when I
said it was very like him, he chose to grin
a very sarcastic grin, and say, ' Oh, they
can mek anybody look pretty, them things ! '
giving me to understand that he was far
above being vain of his personal appearance.
But with part of the rest of the
money the fiend bought an old flint-pistol
and now you are never safe for five
minutes — there's a bang just close behind

you, and you jump up to find that John
has been firing at a cat for scratching up
the garden, he says. But I know better.
It's because he thinks they do him mischief
when they turn to witches ; and he wants
to take them unawares when they are only
cats. Master John has been so kind as to
ask more than once about your health and
general welfare.

Now good-bye. I consider this is a
letter ; and that you're greatly indebted
to me.

'* Your affectionate cousin,

Flora.

'' Pes. — Let me know ; and don't forget
about Aunt Gilchrist. Although you
have robbed me, I don't bear you any ill-will."


Alison read this long epistle twice
through, and with an ever-increasing
gratitude, for she easily recognized the

aim of It. It was all meant to give her
courage. If she said yes, then she was to
face the consequences with a stout heart,
and with the assurance that difference of
creed was not such a terrible thing after
all ; if she said no, then a summer flirtation
was a thing to be easily forgotten, and
nobody the worse. A good deal of the
careless gaiety of the letter, Alison could
see, was assumed for this very purpose of
cheering her up in the difficult position In
which she found herself: otherwise she
might have been a little surprised by its
apparent lack of womanly sympathy. Yet
she could hear Flora's voice In it all the
way through ; and it was an honest voice,
frank and straightforward, and most well-intentioned
and friendly. And perhaps she
could not help envying her cousin her confidence
and high spirits, and admiring them
too : light-heartedness of that kind was nota
common thing in Kirk o' Shields.

But not for a moment did she hesitate
about the answer she was to send to
Ludovick Macdonell, though, to be sure,
when she came to put it down on paper, It
did not seem to be quite so conclusive as
when she had aro-sued it out in her own mind.

o

There seemed something wanting. She
grew to think that, if she wrote a hundred
letters, she would never get him to understand
the atmosphere in which she had
been brought up, nor the opinions and
sentiments of the people by whom she was
surrounded. To him it did not seem to
matter whether a human being was a
Catholic or a Protestant ; to them far
smaller things, both as regards doctrine
and practice, were of vital and transcendent
importance, as affecting nothing less than
their eternal salvation. Nay, she told him
frankly that, although she might reason
herself into his way of thinking, it could
hardly be expected that she should have

been brought up all her life to hear Roman
Catholics described as dangerous enemies,
and Jesuits, and persecutors, and the Roman
Catholic Church denounced as the Mother
of Iniquity and the arch-plotter against
men's lives and liberties, without imbibing
some kind of prejudice. The Roman
Catholics in Kirk o' Shields were the Irish
labourers in the iron-works, and they were
a terror to the rest of the population. If a
priest were seen in the streets, the children
would leave the pavement to let him pass,
and look after him with fear on their faces.
The Roman Catholics were popularly
believed to be capable of committing any
crime, for all they had to do was to go and
purchase absolution ; and were supposed
to be secretly looking forward to the overthrow
of the Protestant Church and the
revival of heretic-burning. Fore's " Book
of Martyrs " was in every other cottage,
side by side with the Bible ; and the

VOL. II. H

imagination of children, from their earliest
years, was stirred by hideous pictures of
the sufferers tied to the stake and writhing
among flames, with a scowling priest looking
on, and pressing a crucifix on the sight
of the dying man. And even if she could
effectually clear her mind of the results
of all this training, she would have to
remember that her immediate relations
and friends regarded Roman Catholics
with an aversion and mistrust which they
might possibly find it difficult to explain ;
while, as for the bulk of her fathers
congregation, they would regard her as
having done something worse than merely
imperil her own soul, as having betrayed
a high trust, and brought disgrace
on a family long renowned for its
piety and its devoted constancy to the true
faith.

This, or something like this, she hinted
to him as clearly and yet as gently as she

could ; and then she read the letter over
and over again, feeling more and more
that it was useless, that he would not
understand, that he would not accept it asa
reason for her refusal. Nay, she began
to imagine, as she brooded over these
inadequate sentences, that if at this very-moment
she were in Lochaber, she would
not be thinking in this fashion at all.
What she had written seemed cold and
narrow ; seemed to be raking up an
obsolete and despicable bigotry and intolerance
; to have no honest concern with any
human being's life. Oh, for one of those
bright and clear and buoyant days, with a
brisk wind ruffling the blue waters of
Loch Linnhe, with the sun hot on the
garden-flowers, and on the gray beach with
its yellow fringe of sea-weed, with Flora
laughing, and Hugh listening amused, and
Ludovick begging of them to hurry down
to the boat : she would not be thinking

this way at all ! But here, amidst a
gloom of smoke and rain, with the incessant
mournful throb and murmur of the ironworks
all around her, and opposite her,
visible through the streaming panes, the
sombre black walls and closed door of
East Street Free Church, all the future
seemed hopeless enough, and her heart
was heavy, and she knew not how to say
good-bye in a simple and natural way.
For what was the use of considering
these narrow prejudices, these ignorant
bigotries, these contemptible aversions and
suspicions, when all she had to say was
good-bye ? She tore up the paper, and
went to the rain-beaten window and stood
there, gazing blankly out into the wet
street.

But this thing had to be done, and the
sooner the better ; so she resolutely went
back to her desk again, and wrote as
follows : —

** Dear Ludovick,

It cannot be. I think Flora
will be able to tell you better than I can.
I had written a long letter to you, but it
seemed so heartless, and I don't want you
to think me that. If you knew how I am
situated, you would understand how this
must be the last word, and I am sure,
when I ask you, you will accept it as such.
If we should ever meet again, I hope you
will let me be always to you what I should
like to consider myself now — your sister
and friend.

'' Alison."

She cried a little ; but when she had
put the letter in an envelope and addressed
it, and got the maid-servant, under shelter
of an umbrella, to carry it to the postoffice,
her heart felt considerably lighter.
It was over and done with now; she had
to face the future as best she might ; and

in time she hoped this episode in her life
would come to be regarded only as a
kind of pleasant fancy, something to be
remembered with a certain wistful tenderness,
perhaps, but without any too serious
pang.

Meanwhile she set about her busy and
multifarious duties, as house-mistress, as
member of the Dorcas Society, as Sunday-school
teacher, and all the rest of it, with
a cheerful assiduity, convinced that this
was the surest way towards forgetfulness.
That was all she wanted now. Of her
own accord she had locked the door of
the Beautiful Land and thrown away the
key. Here were her true interests and
cares — superintending her father's household,
taking her share of the charitable
work that was going, and making herself
agreeable to the members of the congregation.
She tried to think the best of
them, and of their narrow views and rather

mean and envious dispositions. They
were what nature and circumstances had
made them, she strove to remember.
Their wretched, spiteful little tittle-tattle,
especially directed against any one who
was in any way prominent or prosperous,
was perhaps but a pathetic confession of
inferiority, or perhaps, on the other hand,
It served as a check upon vainglory and
pretence. One thing she always could
and did respect about them, and that was
the earnestness and sincerity of their faith.
There was no make-believe about that.
If they were rather inclined to dwell on
the fact that the rest of the human race
were on the broad road to perdition, that
was merely what they had been taught.
And if their temperaments were sombre
and melancholy even to moroseness, what
else could be expected as the result of
their stern repression of all human affections,
of their rigid renunciation of all

natural enjoyment, of that routine of
monotonous and grimy toil, of sordid cares
and anxieties, amid surroundings plague-stricken
of smoke and ashes and gloom ?

Sometimes, when the two sisters had a
quiet evening to themselves, Alison would
sit and discourse of all the wonderful
things she had seen during her stay in the
north, and of the kindness of the people
there ; and Aenes had a vivid imagination,
and could easily construct pictures out of
what she heard. She had only seen her
cousins Flora and Hugh on one occasion,
and then they rather overawed this shy
little lass, for they talked (as she imagined)
beautiful English, and they had fine clothes,
and a freedom of manner with which she
was quite unaccustomed. They remained
strangers to her — creatures belonging: to a
different sphere ; but she could well understand
how her sister Alison, who was so
capable and clever in all ways, and used

to be treated with respect, could go among
them, and not only hold her own, but be
welcomed as an equal and friend. But of
all the people that Agnes heard of, the
one she was most interested in was Captain
Macdonell ; and indeed she heard a great
deal about him, for Alison was schooling
herself in this direction, and was making
believe to herself that she could talk about
him without any heart-tremor whatsoever.
To Agnes the young Highland laird
seemed the very heart and soul of all this
wonderful life that her sister was describing
to be the central figure in all these
imaginative pictures ; and she was naturally
curious about him.

Was he so very handsome, Ailie ? "
she said thoughtfully, on one occasion.

'' Handsome ! " said Alison, but with her
face suddenly mantling red. "What has
handsomeness to do with it ? You would
never think of his being handsome if you

were with him ; you would think of his
happy disposition, and of his being able todo
anything that was wanted, and of the
way he seems to make the people round
him pleased and light-hearted."

** Yes," said Agnes (apparently still contemplating
her imaginary hero), " that is
ever so much better, isn't it, Ailie — to have
a nice disposition than to be good-looking ?
Of course I thought he was good-looking ;
I don't know why ; but now I can fancy
him all you say, and quite plain as

well "

*' But I never said he was plain, Agnes,"
Alison said, with her face burning redder
than ever. " No, not plain. I only said
it wasn't his good looks you would think
of first, or make the most of; but if it
came to that — well, I — I think he is the
handsomest and manliest-looking man I
ever saw."

Is he ? Is he really ? " Agnes exclaimed,

with her eyes wide. " Oh, I
think that's far pleasant to think about !
And I was sure he was handsome, somehow
; tell me exactly what he is like,
Ailie ! "

But this Alison, who was greatly embarrassed,
managed to evade ; and in order
to escape from her invidious position she
wandered off into a description of the
general appearance of the young Highlanders
she had met, especially of the
manner in which they turned out their
feet in walking, giving them a certain
proud step and air. But Agnes was still
thinking:.

"Is he going to marry Flora?" she
asked.

Alison started somewhat ; but instantly
she recollected that that had been her own
natural deduction from the intimacy she
had found existing between Ludovick r\Iac-
cornell and the INIunroes.

I don't know,' she answered absently ;
'' perhaps he may some day."

During these confidences Alison scrupulously
avoided all mention of what had
happened between herself and Captain
Macdonell. That was all over and done
with, she argued ; it was as nothing now ;
it had only to be forgotten. Besides, she
knew that Agnes would be inexpressibly
shocked at the prospect of her sister
marrying a Roman Catholic, and what was
the use of alarming her, now that the
possibility no longer existed ? In all these
recitals of her adventures in the north,
Ludovick figured merely as the lighthearted
companion, the master-spirit of
their expeditions, the ever considerate
brother and friend. Agnes sat and listened
with a vivid fancy that magnified and
glorified. She heard of the wonders of
the dawn flaming along the crests of the
mountains of Lochiel and Ado-our ; she

could see the bright-coloured garden, the

white road, the shore, the calm loch, and

Hugh's sailing-boat lying at her moorings ;

she went fishing with them on those

magical twilit evenings, while the northern

glow hung high in the heavens far into the

night ; she went climbing with them up

the sterile altitudes of Ben Nevis, with all

the land below in darkness, and Hugh and

Flora singing —

The stars are all burning cheerily cheerily
Ho ro, Mairii thu, turn to me I
The sea-mew is mourning drearily, drearily.
Ho ro, Mairii thu, tur7i to me I "

She even transformed poor Johnny into
a Scandinavian troll, possessed of supernatural
gifts, and holding mysterious converse
with the unseen powers. Aunt
Gilchrist became a beneficent fairy godmother
— for Alison had rather glossed
over those little attacks of temper that
were really the result of peripheral rheumatism.
And one evening she said —

'well, they seem to have been very
kind to you, Ailie, and to have made much
of you ; and surely they cannot have forgotten
you already. Have you not heard
from any of them ? "

Oh yes, I had a letter from Flora,"
Alison answered ; and then she honestly
added, after a moment's hesitation, 'rand
one from Captain Macdonell."

I wish you had shown it to me," the
younger sister said unsuspectingly. "It
would be like hearing him speak ; and you
get to understand people better that way.
Did you answer them ? "

"Yes, indeed."

Well, I hope you let them know you
were sensible of their kindness to you.
For I think you are sometimes too stiff,
Ailie, and dignified — but perhaps that's
only with some people."

Not with them, anyway," Alison said
promptly. 'you couldn't be stiff with
them."

So the days went by ; and she strove
to put her whole heart and mind into the
duties and occupations immediately surrounding
her ; and she hoped that erelong
she would be able to regard the time
she had spent in Lochaber as a tale that
had been told. Still, sometimes, and in
spite of her strenuous endeavours at forgetfulness,
she wondered that he had not
sent the briefest line or word in acknowledgment
of her letter. It needed no
reply, certainly — nay, she had begged of
him to accept it as the last word between
them. He was only obeying her own
injunctions in remaining silent. No doubt
he knew, with herself, that that was best.
Nevertheless, at odd moments, when some
wandering fancy had gone straying back
to the Highlands, she said to herself that
surely he might have written just a line
to say that her letter had been received.
That would involve nothing. She wanted

to know that he was not offended with
her ; that they were still friends. More
than once she caught herself thinking too
long about this matter, and growing sick
at heart, so that tears would steal Into her
eyes when she was alone ; and then she
would get angry with herself, and dry her
eyelashes with a proud Impatience, and set
to work more resolutely than ever at all
those things that were expected of the
Minister's daughter. Her sister did not
even suspect.

One morning Alison happened to be
alone in the house, save for the maidservant
Katie ; and she was in her own
room, busy with some dress-making performance.
She heard the bell ring below,
but paid little heed, for there were a good
many callers at the Minister's house, and
Katie would simply have to tell the visitor
that Mr. Blair was not at home. Presently,
however, the buxom, black-eyed lass

appeared, and informed her young mistress
that a gentleman wished to see her. Even
then Alison was not surprised, for it was
a common thing for members of the congregation
to leave messages with her.

Who is it ? " she said carelessly.

Katie looked round about her on the
floor.

He died me a caird, miss, but I maun
hae left it below."

Oh, never mind," Alison said ; and
with much composure she went downstairs
and opened the parlour door.

And then she stood transfixed, the
colour suddenly forsaking her face, her
fingers tightly grasping the door-handle.
For the stranger was no other than
Ludovick Macdonell — Ludovick Macdonell,
with very visible satisfaction and
kindness shining in his eyes ; and betraying
no kind of hesitation or embarrassment
whatever on finding himself in Kirk o'

VOL. II. I

Shields, and In the Minister's parlour, with
Alison confronting him and almost shrinking
back from his frankly out-stretched
hand.

CHAPTER IV.

A VISITOR.

Alison ! " he said in a tone of remonstrance,
and he went boldly forward and
seized the hand that quite unconsciously
she seemed inclined to withhold from him.
For whither had fled all her clear reasonings
about Catholicism, and her conviction
that she at least was free from the common
prejudices amid which she had been
brought up ? His sudden appearance had
startled her into her other self. She only
knew — in a kind of rapid bewilderment —
that here was a dangerous person come
into her father's house ; that she might be
accused of harbouring an enemy ; that she

had concealed from her people the fact
that this Ludovick Macdonell, with whom
she had been on more than friendly terms,
was a Roman Catholic ; and that, unless
he could be got away instantly, a terrible
discovery would ensue. The young man
looked at her with surprise, and with a
sort of good-humoured reproach : what
could he, with his happy-go-lucky assurance,
know of these vague and wild
alarms ?

*' Alison," he said, " you don't seem very
glad to see me. I suppose I should have
written to tell you I was coming. Of
course you knew why I did not answer
your letter ; I saw that writing was of no
use ; I thought it better to wait until I
could see yourself; and so here I am.
But I hope I haven't put you about "

"Oh no, Captain Macdonell — no "

she stammered.

He dropped her hand In wonderment.

Captain Macdonell ! " he exclaimed.
It was * Ludovick ' in your letter "

"Yes," she said, rather breathlessly.
Yes — I — I was writing hurriedly — and —
it was like saying good-bye — and perhaps
I did not notice."

(And all the while her heart, that was
beating quickly enough, was longing to
cry aloud to him, " Oh, if we two were
only in Lochaber, I could speak to you
there ; but here I cannot speak to you ;
here there are people who would shudder
to think that a Roman Catholic had made
his way into the Minister's house, and was
talking alone with the Minister's daughter :
if only we two were in Lochaber, it would
be all different then ! ")

Alison ! " said he, '' aren't you going to
ask me to sit down ? "

This somewhat recalled her to her
senses.

** I beg your pardon," she said, with the

colour mantling In her face ; and she shut
the door behind her, and went forward to
the window, where there chanced to be
two chairs conveniently placed. " But It

was such a surprise to find you here "

'' Oh yes," he said, In a very kindly
fashion (for he was not one to take offence
readily). "And of course I should have
written. Or I should have waited till the
afternoon ; but the fact Is as soon as I got
into the town I was so anxious to make
sure you were here that I came along at
once. And you needn't be afraid, Alison ;
I'm not going to plague you. I only
wanted to see yourself, to tell you that I
went to Flora, as you asked me, and she
explained to me your probable reasons for
saying no. But, Alison, they weren't
reasons at all ! If other people delight In
fighting over sectarian differences, and In
making their theological squabbles so
many little gods to be worshipped, what

has that got to do with you and me ?
Here I am ; there you are ; why should
there be interposed between us this impalpable
stuff that doesn't concern us ? If
you yourself were a bigot, I could understand
it ; but you are not ; and why should
you let the bigotry of other people interfere
between you and me ? Of course," he
said, altering his tone and speaking with
much less confidence, " you will see what
I am assuming. I am assuming that this
is your only reason for saying no. Tell
me, Alison — tell me honestly — supposing
I were a member of your church, you
might then be persuaded to say yes ? "

Her eyes were downcast.

My people would have no objections
against you then," she said, in rather a low
voice.

But that is not it," he urged, though
quite gently. " You yourself — what would
you say ? "

Her voice was lower still.

What is the use of speaking of it ? "
was all she said — but it was the tell-tale
colour in her face that was for him
sufficient answer.

He rose and took her hand, and held it
for a moment ; there was a proud and kind
look in his eyes.

I'm not going to press you further,
Alison. I know enough now. You have
told me quite enough ; and now you must
leave me to conquer all these tremendous
difficulties that you seem to think so
formidable. And first of all," he continued,
in a very cheerful fashion, " I'm coming
along this afternoon to show your father
and your sister that I'm not a desperate
man-eating ogre ; that's what I've got todo."


Now she had gradually grown accustomed
to the sound of his voice ; and his
very presence seemed to have lent her

something of his own happy self-confidence
; but this abrupt proposal recalled
her first alarms, and she looked up
startled.

Oh yes," said he — and she could not
help admiring the robust unconscious
audacity he exhibited, even while she
looked forward to this contemplated interview
with a good deal of dismay — 'that is
the best plan, to show yourself and give
people an opportunity of judging what you
are. The housemaid told me your father
would be in about four o'clock. I asked
for him first — no, don't be frightened ! —
not to say anything serious — only to say
that I knew relatives of his in the Highlands,
and that I had met you there, and
that I wanted to make his acquaintance, as
I happened to be in the neighbourhood.
Will your sister be in then too ? "

'' Oh yes' said Alison, though she was
still rather aghast. '' Agnes will be back

for dinner at two o'clock, and will be in all
the afternoon."

"So much the better," said the young
man, who seemed very well content after
having received that assurance from
Alison's downcast face. " I want your
sister to be on my side ; and I think I
shall be able to manage that. But how I
am to get at the whole congregation — how
I am to win over the elders' wives — I
don't quite see at present ; and Flora
seemed to fancy you would consider their
opinion as of some importance. I shouldn't
have thought so myself ; but still, perhaps
you know best. Well, good-bye just now,
Alison; you have made me 'very happy,
though you have not said much ; and I'm
not going to torment you into saying
more ; I'm well content to wait."

So presently he was gone ; and she was
once more alone, and entirely confused and
disconcerted by this bold and unexpected

intrusion. She could not understand it at
all as yet. Mechanically she began to put
things straight about the little parlour —
wondering if he had paid any attention to
these small matters ; and she was mortified
to think that she had that very morning
postponed putting up clean curtains until
the following day. Then she went to
the mirror over the mantelpiece, and
rather anxiously smoothed her hair — as if
that were of any use now. Moreover, her
mind was all in a turmoil about his forthcoming
visit in the afternoon : as to how
Agnes would regard him ; as to how her
father would receive him ; what he might
think of the family as a whole. These
were the immediate things that concerned
her : as for his arguments, if arguments
they could be called, she paid little heed to
them. He had not in the least upset her
conviction that it was all over between
them : she understood what he could not be

brought to understand ; and there was an
end to that. But she thought of Oyre,
and of the old laird there, and of his great
kindness and courtesy and gentleness to
her, a stranger ; and she hoped that
Ludovick would bear away with him no
unpleasant impression of her family and of
her friends if he should happen to meet
any of them. And then she remembered
having seen in a certain shop-window a
very neat small collar — an upstanding
collar, blue-striped, such as those Flora
was used to wear ; and she thought she
would quickly slip out and purchase that
little bit of adornment before Agnes should
be home for dinner.

But this town of Kirk o' Shields seemed
now to be full of all kinds of sudden surprises
and bewilderment. She had not
put on her bonnet and left the house over
a couple of minutes when she found herself
once more confronted by Captain Ludovick,



who was coming sauntering along the
pavement, staring about him as if he were
owner of the whole place. And while his
eyes lighted up with pleasure at sight of
her, it was with the greatest coolness that
he inquired whither she was going, and
proceeded to walk with her in that direction.
To be going along the main street
of Kirk o' Shields, with Ludovick Macdonell
by her side — this was a strange
thing ; and she hoped she was giving
coherent answers to his many questions,
for she felt that the eyes of all the neighbours
were upon her ; and she was profoundly
grateful to him for affecting to
take a friendly Interest in this small town.
She did not understand that his friendly
Interest, his more than friendly Interest,
was due to the fact that this was her birthplace
; that he was regarding these squalid
pavements only to think that now and
again she had to trip along them ; and that

it was the influence of Alison's own eyes
that caused his eyes to see something very
fine and picturesque in the white masses
of steam intertwisting themselves among
the darker clouds of smoke. She was
forlornly saying to herself that she had
never seen Kirk o' Shields look so squalid
and grimy ; while he, on the other hand,
was declaring that there was a distinct
glimmering of sunlight that would soon
break through the murky skies. And
when they came to a certain large frontage
a large frontage it seemed among these
small two-storied houses of dirty gray —
she was quite ashamed. This had been a
theatre — the only effort at gaiety ever
made in Kirk o' Shields ; and now the
windows were all broken and battered in,
and the dismal walls were plastered over
with rain-beaten and bedraggled placards,
and the words of the Royal License over
the doorway were no longer to be made
out by mortal eyes.

Poor devils ! " said Macdonell, contemplating
this sorry sight, " the last lot
who had to forsake that place must have
had a bad time of it ; for a provincial
company will hold on so long as there's a
single penny coming into the treasury."

Please don't say anything about it to
my father," Alison hinted rather anxiously.
They are rather proud of having shut up
the theatre."

"Oh, you may trust me!" he said confidently.
" You may trust me. You've
no idea of the amount of discretion I
have."

'* Perhaps not," Alison said, and she
ventured to look up with a bit of a
smile, " for I haven't seen much of it,
have I ? "

And behold ! at this moment who should
come along the street but the Rev. James
Cowan, who, as he drew near, stared and
better stared at this stranger, even in

summoning up courage to raise .his cap to
Alison. Ludovick bestowed upon the
young probationer but the briefest glance.

'who's that?" he said to his companion,
when the pallid-faced young man
in the loose black clothes had passed.

'' He Is a young friend of ours," Alison
made answer, and she appeared a little
embarrassed. " A young minister — but
he has not got a church yet."

His trousers would make a dog laugh,"
Macdonell said Indifferently, and as if
that were the only comment that was
necessary.

And not only did Captain Ludovick
walk all the way to the shop with her, but
he remained outside until she had finished
her purchases, and proceeded to accompany
her home as^aln. It did not seem to occur
to him that the neighbours might be
wondering who was this unknown young
man walking with the Minister's daughter.

Indeed he paid but little heed to any one
whom they chanced to meet ; and although
he did catch another glimpse of the Rev.
James Cowan — who was furtively watching
them from a distant corner — he made no
comment about either him or his trousers
this time, but went on talking to Alison.
She could not get him to walk quick.
He appeared to like this leisurely strolling
along the gray pavement, with Alison by
his side. And when at length he left herat
the Minister's house, and the door was
shut, he turned away in a lingering sort of
fashion, as if his occupation were gone,
and he knew not now what to do.

But she had plenty to do and to think
over about his coming back In the afternoon.
A hundred times would she rather
have had him stay away ; but how could
she hint any such thing, after the kindness
and hospitality she had received in the
Highlands ? No ; all she could do now

VOL. II. K

was to make everything as tidy as possible
about the little parlour ; and when Agnes
came home she got her help In putting up
smart lace curtains — Agnes, meanwhile,
being filled with wonderment over the
unheralded appearance of this stranger
from the far country she had heard so
much about. Again and again Alison
strove to tell her sister that Ludovick
Macdonell was a Roman Catholic, but
invariably her heart failed her ; she was
extremely anxious, she did not ask herself
why, that Agnes should think well of him ;
and there was no time to combat prejudices
now.

As it chanced, when the Minister returned
home he was accompanied by Mr.
Todd, the Precentor ; and when they had
laid aside their hats and entered the parlour,
they resumed the subject that had been
occupying them as they walked along.
The Precentor was a little, elderly, gray-whiskered

man, who spoke in a soft and
suave fashion, as if he was carefully guarding
his voice for his musical duties on the
Sabbath ; and his manner was of a studied
humility, as if he was well aware that
pride of office was inconsistent with the
character of a Christian. It appeared that
a number of the younger members of the
congregation had signed and forwarded to
him a memorial, begging him to introduce
into his repertory a few of the more
modern tunes, of a somewhat lighter cast
than the old-established Baitg'or, Yo7'k,
Ballerma, and the like ; and the Precentor
would not presume to settle this serious
question by himself ; he would rather have
the Ministers advice.

'' For myself, Mr. Blair," he was saying
(as Alison sat and listened intently for the
door-bell), " I consider it quite natural
that the younger folk should like a pleasant
and lightsome tune like New Lydia or

Devises, even if they could hardly expect
me to go the length o' Desert or Violet
Grove ; for mony o' them practice psalm-tunes
at home, and they're better employed
that way than in singing idle, or worse
than idle, things that come frae theatres
and sic places. But then, on the other
hand, there's the older folk that have been
accustomed a' their lives to Martyrdom
and Coleshill and Dundee; they're sir
put about by what they ca' fal-deals ; and
there's more than one o' them would say
that tunes like Merkswortk or Walter,
where there is part-singing, are not respectful
to the Psalms, in throwing bits of them
this way and that, as they would say."

"Surely," answered the Minister, "the
younger people must remember that we
enter the Lord's house for the purposes of
prayer and worship, and not to exercise
an}^ personal gift of voice ; and surely
those tunes are the best that all are familiar

with, and that exclude none from singing
to the praise of God in His own tabernacle."


'' Yes, Mr. Blair, that's true enough,"
the Precentor said, scratching his head in
his perplexity, "but I'm afraid they'll no
think o' that when they hear that the
Precentor o' the U. P. Kirk has been
giving out such tunes as Shrewsbury and
Cornwall. I would not like to dictate ; I
hope I am a person of reasonable judgment
and moderation "

Alison heard no more. The bell rang.
She could hear the housemaid go along
the lobby ; then there were other footsteps ;
presently the parlour door opened ; and
there was Ludovick Macdonell, hat in
hand. The Minister rose.

Father," said Alison, rather breathlessly,
'this is Captain Macdonell, who is
a friend of the Munroes in Fort William —
and of Aunt Gilchrist too — and — and "

And I thought, as I was passing
through Kirk o' Shields," said this young
man, with the easiest assurance in the
world, *' I might as well call and see how
Miss Blair was, so that I might tell her
friends in the north. She made a good
many while she was there."

The Minister received this unexpected
guest with a grave courtesy, and bade
Alison see that tea was brought in. At
first the conversation was of a vague and
general kind — about the war rumours, of
which the newspapers happened then to
be full ; and the young Highlander had
plenty of information to impart ; for he
seemed to have travelled all over Europe,
and besides, he had a sort of semi-professional
interest in the question. The
little Precentor remained mute ; Bangor
and Coleshill were lost in the discussion of
these wide affairs ; while Agnes sat, and
all unconsciously stared at Alison's hero,

and not without some little secret elation
of heart. For surely he was fit to be a
hero, this young person said to herself, so
good-looking and gallant as he was ; and
he talked to her father In a gay and frank
fashion that somewhat astonished her ; and
Alison had never told her that he had so
pleasant a smile. And he was going to
marry Flora ? No wonder Alison had
talked a great deal about him — so handsome
he looked, so winning and gentle was
his manner. She would listen with a far
keener Interest now (If that was possible)
to Alison's stories of her experiences and
adventures In the far northern land.

Meanwhile tea had been brought In,
and the Precentor had taken advantage of
this break to resume his discussion of the
merits of the various psalm-tunes, and of
the advisability of his listening to the
prayer of his humble petitioners. Macdonell
listened for a few minutes, and then

he turned to Agnes, who sat next him, and
began talking about music generally, and
asking her whether there were any concerts
In Kirk o' Shields, and so forth.

*' I was up at Fort Augustus this autumn,"
said he In a casual way, " at the performances
given by the school-boys at the
Benedictine Abbey, just before they left
for the holidays ; and the way they presented
a little comic opera — I forget the
name — was really admirable. For an
amateur performance, it was as clever a
thing as ever I saw done."

Alison quaked to hear these dreadful
sounds. The Benedictine Abbey ! This
was a specimen of his discretion, then ?
But fortunately the Precentor was engaging
the Minister s sole attention at this moment ;
while as for Agnes, her heart was so well
inclined towards this young man that suspicion
of his true character never entered
her head.

Indeed for Alison this visit was a severely
trying ordeal ; and despite all her remembrances
of Highland hospitality and kindness,
she could not help wishing that the
young man was well out of the house.
She knew not but that at any moment the
disclosure that she dreaded might be
made ; and she could imagine her father s
look of astonishment, and perhaps some
other kind of look directed to herself;
she could foresee her sister's sudden
disappointment and reproach ; she knew
that the Precentor would have a wonderful
story to spread about among the members
of the congregation. As for Ludovick
Macdonell, he appeared to be quite at
his ease. When the Minister, returning
to his stranger guest, began to speak of
the position of the Free Church in the
Highlands, and its representative pastors
there, and their doings, Macdonell smilingly
observed —

8 IN FAR LOCHABER.

'* Yes, sir, I believe the ' Highland host '
is a formidable contingent when you have
any delinquent to punish."

The Minister raised his heavy eyebrows
for a second, for the 'highland host" is
generally so described by scoffers and
frivolous persons ; but he merely went
on to say, in his grave and deliberate
manner —

'' They have done us good service, and
that at a time when a tenacious clinging to
the truth, and a constant battling for it, is
of the first moment. For what do we find
all around us — a disposition to slacken the
bonds of belief; a tendency to soften and
break down those demarcation which our
forefathers established, and which are now
our only safeguard against an indifferently
that is but the first step on the steep road
to infidelity. Oh yes, I hear the talk that
is going on ! ' It is time to forget old
conflicts,' they say. High time indeed it

is to forget old conflicts, if we are willing
to forget why they were fought, and who
fought them, and the stronghold they gave
us as a possession for ourselves and our
children and our children's children. Yes,
I hear what they say ! " he continued with
a deepening scorn. " Let brotherly love
continue — between the wolf and the lamb !
All things are ready for it. England is
leaning towards synodical church government
; Scotland has hankering for a
liturgical worship ; and the beginning is
surely simple enough — merely a junction
between the Presbyterians and the Episcopalians,
or rather not a junction but an
absorption, for how could we deprive the
poor creatures of their ordinance of confirmation
and their other rites and ceremonies
? Has not the movement been ?
Have we not got here and there in our
own Presbyterian churches organs and
floral services ; and why should we not goon

to crucifixes, and high mass, and mum-series
of processions ? "

*' Bless us a, do they say that ! " exclaimed
Mr. Todd, in a soft, awe-struck
voice.

But the fusion, as they call it, is not
yet," the Minister resumed. 'there are
some of us who still remember that there
was such a thing as the Solemn League
and Covenant. There are still a few of us
who are not to be deluded by Episcopalian
Allies into surrendering one jot or tittle
of our protest against the debased and
idolatrous practices of the Church of
Rome."

'' Father," said Alison, in helpless haste,
and with her forehead blushing pitifully,
Aunt Gilchrist said that — that she might
perhaps come through to Kirk o' Shields
this winter ; she will be quite surprised to
hear that Captain Macdonell has been to
see us."

Feeble as this interposition seemed to be,
it proved effectual ; for Captain Ludovick,
noticing her embarrassment, quickly came
to her relief, and began to say some very
nice and good-humoured things about
Aunt Gilchrist and her ways — to all of
which the Minister listened in silence, his
face having resumed its ordinary expression
of profound and resigned melancholy.
And then as the Precentor, after a few
final observations about Comfort, French,
and Artaxerxes, rose to go, the other
guest had no good excuse for remaining,
and both proceeded to take their leave.
Macdonell said pleasantly enough that he
was very glad to have had the chance of
making the Minister's acquaintance, and
hoped to see them all again, should he
revisit Kirk o' Shields. There was an
abundant kindness in his look as he bade
good-bye to Agnes ; and then Alison,
following the custom of most small Scotch

households, herself escorted her guests to
the outer door, which Ludovick Macdonell
opened. Having allowed the Precentor
to go on a step or two, he paused for a
second as he took her hand, and then he
said,>egarding her upturned face —

'' I want to see you again, Alison, for a
minute, before I go back home. You are
not terrified now, are you ? You see no
one has eaten me alive. Well, good-bye
for the present — mind, I shall be looking
out for you." And with that he was gone.

So he had not left for good, after all,
she asked herself, when she found an
opportunity for a little half-frightened self-communion.
He was still in this very
town, under this dull canopy of a sky ;
perhaps only a street or two off; perhaps
wandering about the bit of a hill on which
stands the Established Church ; perhaps
down at the canal wharves, regarding the
grimy work going on there. And he was

Still bent upon seeing her again — looking
forward to some casual meeting, which
might easily be construed into a clandestine
meeting, should any one happen to pass by.
She assured herself that she would not go
forth from the house until she knew that
he had finally quitted the town ; and yet
she could not keep herself from thinking
of all the various thoroughfares and
districts, and wondering in which of them
he might be, and how Kirk o' Shields was
looking in his eyes. Had he not even
attempted to praise the picturesqueness of
these wreathing clouds of steam and
smoke ? He was well-disposed towards
the place, she thought. And she was glad
that he seemed to have taken no manner
of offence at what her father had said
about the Church of Rome.

All the rest of that day she did not go
out at all ; and half the following night she
passed in wondering whether she dared

venture forth the next morning. Next
morning came ; dark and lowering it was,
with the mighty forges flashing their
orange flames into the heavy rain-empurpled
skies ; and she began to think it would be
cowardly of her to remain within-doors.
Why should she keep him hanging about
this dull place on so dismal a morning, if
he was bent on seeing her ? Finally,
having disposed of her household duties,
she put on her bonnet and ulster (for the
weather was getting cold now), and having
fixed in her mind certain errands which
might serve as an excuse, if need were,
she left the house.

Now, there were two ways of getting
down to the centre of Kirk o' Shields —
one by the main street of the town, the
other by a less frequented thoroughfare
that overlooked a branch of the canal and
also the wide extent of plain on which the
iron-works stood. She chose the latter,

thinking it quite probable he might be
strong about there, watching the barges
coming and going far below him, or waiting
to see the molten metal of the furnaces
run out like crimson serpents into the
grooves of the sand-beds. But there was
nobody at all in this silent and deserted
thoroughfare ; and she was thinking she
might just as well return to the main street
of the town, when she found herself overtaken.
Without turning she knew who this
was ; she was not surprised when she heard
her name ; she stopped and welcomed him
with a kind look and with hardly any
embarrassment. Even in that brief glance,
however, she could see that his face was
much graver than usual.

'' Alison," he said, " I have been thinking
over all that Flora told me, and I
believe I understand your position a little
better now, and all the difficulties that
surround you. Well, there is but the one

VOL. II. T.

way out of It : come away from among
these people altogether ! "

She shook her head rather sadly.

I could not do that."

Why not ? "

There are duties one can't throw over
merely to please one's self," she said.
*' But even if I were willing to leave my
own family and the people among whom I
have lived, it isn't my going away merely
that would hurt and shock them. I
suppose it is a common thing for a young
woman to have to leave her own people.
But this is different. You don't know
what is expected of a Minister's daughter.
Ever since you have been here I have
been in terror lest any one should find out
you were a Catholic : I dared not even tell
my own father or sister."

I guessed as much," said he, rather
grimly, 'from one or two expressions your
father used; and my own inclination was

to tell them there and then and brave it
out, only I thought it might worry you,
and so I let the thing drop. However, I
don't see that it matters much whether
they know that I am a Catholic or not. I
don't want to convert them ; I suppose
they would consider it hopeless to try and
convert me. But that's neither here nor
there. My being a Catholic doesn't
concern them : it concerns you and me
only "

Ludovick," she said, and she turned
her honest, clear eyes towards him with an
appeal which he could not withstand, '' let
this be the end ! Perhaps I have said
more than I meant to say. But you
cannot understand how I am situated.
And — and you won't press me any further
■ — don't make it too hard for me to say
good-bye "

Tears sprang to her eyes.

'' Of course," she said, still regarding

him with that look of appeal, '' we shall befriends
— always, always, always ! "

'alison," said he slowly, 'you mean
this — that I am to say no more ? "

She nodded her head.

Very well," said he, after a moment's
hesitation ; " my mouth is shut. But we
shall be friends, as you say, always. And
you want me to say good-bye, here and
now ? "

"Yes — yes," she murmured.

Very well. Good-bye, and God bless
you, my darling," he said ; and then, before
she knew what was happening, he had
stooped and kissed her, pressed her hand
once more, and she was left in this solitary
thoroughfare — regarding that retreating
figure through a blinding mist of tears,
and with a heart that yearned and yearned
to call him back again, in spite of all her
strength of will. Then she too turned
away ; and slowly got back to her father's

house ; and shut herself up in her own
room, concealing herself from the light of
day, and hiding what she deemed her un-maidenly
grief. For it was all over now ;
and these bitter and passionate tears and
this aching sickness of heart were but a
merited punishment meted out to her for
having listened to idle promptings and
dreamed idle dreams.

Then, in the very midst of this utter
prostration of misery she bethought her of
the hour at which the next train would
pass through Kirk o' Shields for Stirling,
Hollander, and the north ; and it seemed
to her that she might steal alone to the
station, with some despairing notion, not
of speaking to him again, but of being
able, herself unseen, to wish him a last
farewell. So she hurriedly arose, and
removed as well as she could the traces of
her tears ; then she quickly walked along
the deserted thoroughfare she had left but

half an hour before, and managed to reach
the railway-Hne just as the train was about
to start. Stealthily as a ghost, and white-faced,
she passed underneath the tunnel,
up a wooden staircase, and on to the
platform — but so concealing herself that
no one in the train could see her. Alas !
what was the need of concealment ? He
was not looking out for her ; he had no
thought of her being there ; these strangers
about were all indifferent to her. The
great black engine, throwing up clouds of
steam that were a bewildering white
against the lowering heavens, began to
draw away from the station ; more and
more rapidly it went, dwindling and
dwindling the while, until it disappeared
altogether ; and before her there was
nothing but the empty track of black
ashes, and the shining lines of rail that
went away out narrowing and narrowing
until they were lost in the haze that seemed

to fill this dismal and hopeless day. She
stood there, absent-eyed and heavy of
heart — perhaps with wistful visions before
her of the fairer and happier scenes whither
he was bound : then the Minister's daughter,
still pale-faced and somewhat worn
and tired in look, but with a touch of
resolution about her lips, walked with firm
enough step through the dull streets of
Kirk o' Shields, back to her father's house.
She was grave and silent, that was all, as
she set about her ordinary duties ; not
even her sister had any suspicion of what
had happened.

CHAPTER V.

INTERVENTION.

A LONG and dreary winter followed ; and
the slow weeks and months seemed to
plunge Kirk o' Shields into an ever-increasing
gloom. Sometimes the land lay
hard and silent in the grip of a black
frost ; and then there was no breath of
wind to stir the atmosphere ; the fumes
and vapours hung heavy in the motionless
air, so that people forgot what the sky was
like. Sometimes a bewilderment of snow
was abroad ; and then through the pervading
mist the far uplands could be seen
to be of a phantom white ; but in the town
itself and all round about it the snow was

immediately dusted over with coal, where it
was not trodden into mire. And then
again would come persistent rain ; but here
there was some little compensation ; for if
the daytime showed the very extreme of
wretchedness and squalor, the night made
the flames of the great furnaces more
resplendent than ever, as the crimson glow
flashed across the wet slates of the house-roofs.
Altogether a miserable winter it
was, numbing the mental faculties and
cramping the bodily powers ; but the
members of East Street congregation
abated not one jot or tittle of their strict
observances ; no matter how hard or wet
the weather, every Sabbath morning found
them slowly and decorously taking their
places in the cold, damp-smelling pews ;
while the attendance at the Weekly Prayer-meetings,
the Bible Classes, the Young
Men's Christian Association, and so forth,
was undiminished.

During all this time Alison's anxieties
and duties were considerably increased by
the fact that her sister Agnes, never very
strong, seemed to grow more and more
liable to attacks of nervous weakness or
excitability ; and as these frequently culminated
in sleep-walking, Alison had to be
on the alert by night as well as by day.
It was so strange to be in this little room
that seemed filled with the sombre glow of
the iron-works, and to watch the timidly
uplifted appealing hand, and to hear the
murmured '' Mother !" which told how faraway
the spirit was from its frail tenement
of a body. Agnes Blair, at all events, had
one way of escape from the desolation that
overshadowed Kirk o' Shields. Night
brought her release, and carried her away
to far and shining regions, where she met
the gentle-visaged mother who was waiting
for her with" out-stretched hands. Alison
could see her slip noiselessly from the bed,

her large gray eyes entranced and still ;
and for a moment she would remain uncertain,
as if it took that space of time to
waft her across the black night to the
mystic splendour of a perpetual dawn — to
the great wall of jasper and the radiant
gates of the new Jerusalem. Then she
would whisper, ** Mother"; her gentle
guide was found ; these two were walking
now through the wonderful streets in the
city that had " no need of the sun, neither
of the moon, to shine in it ; for the glory of
God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the
light thereof ; " and the rapt eyes were
gazing on the tree of life, and on the river
of the water of life, clear as crystal, that
came flowing from the great white throne.
And then sometimes (in this little room,
in the silence, with Alison half afraid to
follow her lest she should rouse her too
suddenly) the younger sister would raise
her hand slightly, and stand transfixed, as

if she were intently listening. Listening
to what ? — to the distant singing of the
ransomed hosts, or to the voice of the
angel proclaiming aloud the doom of
Babylon the Great ? These were sleepless
nights for Alison, though her sister
in her unconscious state was amenable
enough ; and next morning Agnes had no
knowledge of these restless wanderings,
save as a wistful dream.

Perhaps the elder sister was not altogether
sorry to have the whole burden of
the domestic duties, and of the charitable
labour expected from the Minister's
family, devolve upon her own shoulders ;
for there were many things she wished to
forget, and she found that resolute hardwork
was the best means towards that end.
Not that she could entirely banish by-gone
occurrences from her mind ; for now and
again there came a letter from her cousin
in Fort William, which was sure to contain

some news of Ludovick Macdonell, even
when it did not enclose, as frequently
happened, some written communication
from himself, addressed to Flora. He was
in Egypt now, and on his way to India,
where he vaguely hinted that there was
some chance of his getting an appointment ;
but in the mean time the winter society in
Cairo seemed extremely pleasant, and he
was in no hurry to leave.

But look here, my dear Miss Dimity,"
Flora wrote, in enclosing one of these
epistles, '' I don't quite understand why, in
the midst of such gaiety, and with all those
nice people being kind to him, he should
be sighing and pining for his native land.
If he wants to come home, what's to hinder?
And there's such a lot to pine for at this
present moment ! You should see Fort
William now, Miss Dimity — dead — dead
as a door-nail ; all the rowing-boats high
and dry in the back-yards ; all the yachts

gone ; and the sea-birds find the place so
entirely to their mind that you can hear
oyster-catchers whistling all along the
shore, and see starts sailing about and
bobbing their heads within a stone's-throw
of the house. There's no bustle now at
the quay when the Mountaineer comes in ;
and what's the use of making yourself
very smart and nice, and going down to
meet her, when there's never a man onboard
younger than the captain, or perhaps
a commercial traveller bound for Inverness ?
We're all asleep here ; the weather is perfectly
clear and still ; the hills and the loch
are as much in a dream as we are ; and
when the fiend John, no matter how faraway
he is, fires his pistol at some harmless
bird on the shore, you would think the
whole world was listening. By-the-way,
if Ludovick is discontented amid his
southern gaieties, why doesn't he come
home for the winter shooting, which is

very good about Oyre ? Hugh was to
have come through from Edinburgh ; and
I should Hke to see the boy again, notwithstanding
that he hates the whole of us
poor women creatures. I don't understand
why Ludovick should stop in Egypt orin
India either, if he would rather be at
home.

'* But what is far more extraordinary is
that he should take such pains to write tome
so minutely about himself and his
doings. I was never so honoured before,
I assure you. Really, this sudden friendship
is very flattering ; and I begin to think
I am not quite so contemptible a being as
Hugh would make me out even if I can't
throw a stone straight. And, indeed, I
don't know that I am not betraying confidence
in letting you see these letters ;
but then, on the other hand, I have sent
him such news of you as I could, for let me
tell you, my dear Miss Dimity, you are a

pretty poor correspondent. I did think
you might have told me a little more about
the breaking off of that affair between you
and Ludovick — for it was precious little
I could get out of Jim ; but I suppose in
such a very delicate matter it is wise for
outsiders to remain outsiders ; and I have
no doubt that what you did was for the
best. But I can't help being a little sorry
sometimes ; for, to speak honestly, he is a
real good fellow, and I am sure he was
very fond of you ; and it would have been
very nice for us to have had you as a
neighbour at Oyre. However, it's no use
talking now."

It was no use talking now ; that was all
o-one and done with ; indeed, the matrimonial
project that at the moment was
before Alison's mind, or rather pressed in
upon her attention, was of a very different
cast. The Rev. James Cowan was now
openly and avowedly a suitor for her

hand, though, to be sure, his mother did
most of the wooing for him. But that
astute Httle woman had come to see that
nothing was to be hoped for from this
poor lad of hers accompanying his parents
to the Minister's house, and sitting in
hopeless apathy until they were ready to
come away again. It was in vain that the
fond mother praised the logic of James's
sermons, and repeated sayings of his, which
were mostly of her own invention, and
tried to draw him into conversation with
the Minister, so long as the listless-eyed,
down-spirited, pale-faced probationer had
never a word for Alison, and, indeed,
covertly and quickly avoided her when
there was a chance of meeting her in the
streets of Kirk o' Shields. So at last Mrs.
Cowan bethought her of a means of
spurring him on.

"Ye see, James," said she, with a fine
affectation of frankness, '' your father and

VOL. II. M

me have never liked looking forward to
your leaving Corbieslaw ; and you are the
only son now ; and we had been thinking
that even if ye married, while as yet ye
hanna a church, ye might bring your wife
to the farm, and she might just help to
cast an eye o'er things that will be her ain
by-and-by. But maybe that's short-sighted.
Ye'll be going away from Corbieslaw,
James, sooner or later, when ye get a call ;
and I've been considering that it might be
better for ye in many ways to make the
change now. If ye were to marry Alison
Blair, and go to Edinburgh, and take a bit
house there for yourselves, ye would be
mair among folk, and have a better chance
of getting a congregation ; and I'm sure
that Mrs. Gilchrist, wi' a that distillery
money, would see that her niece was well
provided for. We'll do our part ; and
though I'm sweirt to break into the store
o' napery at Corbieslaw, still there's enough*

and to spare for the quiet way ye would
be beginning; and surely it would be ill
done o' Mrs. Gilchrist, after a' the fuss she
has made about Alison Blair, if she did not
do something real handsome. That would
be a chance for ye, James ; ye ought to
see folk ; better for ye to be in Edinburgh,
ready to step into any vacant pulpit that
offers, than writing sermons at Corbieslaw."
She had hit the nail on the head this
time. The possibility of having a house
of his own — of escaping from the brutal
tyranny and contempt of his ghoul-faced
father — awoke a world of new ideas and
half-piteous hopes in the breast of the
luckless probationer ; and as it seemed
that Alison Blair was to be the means of
his deliverance, he turned to her with a
sort of mute and wistful appeal. He did
not speak. But he patiently walked home
from church every Sabbath day with Alison
and her sister ; and the congregation soon

began to make comments — the elders being
of opinion that if this lad married the
Ministers daughter, Alexander Cowan of
Corbieslaw would be more domineering in
the church than ever, their wives hinting
that Mrs. Cowan was a shrewd and a
sharp woman, who had an eye on the
money that every one knew was coming
to Alison.

Indeed, in time it came to be regarded
as a settled affair; and Mrs. Cowan was
not the one to contradict any such pleasant
rumour. In fact, she herself went to the
Minister to demand his approval. Now,
in Kirk o' Shields, as has already been
said, not only was all outward expression
of the natural affections severely checked,
but it was considered almost unseemly to
mention them. The word " love " was
never used at all, except in a pious sense.
When Mrs. Cowan went to the Minister
to tell her story, and to gain his consent.

he was exceedingly embarrassed and even
resentful at being approached on such a
subject. He had no thought of inquiring
how the young people were disposed
towards each other ; still less would it
have entered his mind to go to his daughter
and ask for any confidence. He dismissed
Mrs. Cowan as quickly as he could ; and
she went away well content ; for she could
easily twist about the one or two half-impatient
phrases he had used so as to
convince Alison that her father was looking
forward to seeing her become James
Cowan's wife.

And as for Alison herself? Well, if
the young probationer had come forthwith
and abruptly asked her to marry him, she
would probably, with a touch of her father's
impatience, have told him not to make a
fool of himself, and so made an end of that
matter. But there was something pathetic
in the spectacle of this poor lad, frightened-eyed

and cowed of manner, mutely sitting
in the corner of the room, or humbly
endeavouring, perhaps, to say a word or
two to the Minister when some professional
subject was brought forward. He
sent Alison one of his manuscript sermons,
which was a harmless kind of gift. Out
of mere curiosity she read it. It really
was a most business-like production ; carefully
divided and arranged ; and if there
was not much of the burning fire of rhetoric
in it, at least it was clear and sensible and
simple in style. The text was I. Corinthians,
ii. 14 : " But the natural man recelveth
not the things of the Spirit of God : for
they are foolishness unto him : neither can
he know them, because they are spiritually
discerned ; " and the main argument was
that the mystery of godliness was beyond
the reach of reason, and that human knowledge,
while efficient within its own sphere,
was wholly inefficient, and not to be regarded,

when it attempted to deal with
the higher things of faith. She thought
it was exceedingly well constructed ; and,
being of a kindly disposition, she said so
to the young man, whose pallid face flushed
up between embarrassment and pleasure,
for he was not accustomed to appreciation.
But when Mrs. Cowan heard of this approval,
and proudly came to Alison, and
asked her what she thought of James's
future now — plainly intimating that Alison
herself was concerned — the girl grew somewhat
grave and reserved. It is true that
it had been conveyed to her that her
father would be well pleased if she married
the young minister ; and she could understand
that the congregation generally
would approve of such a step ; but at all
events, the time was not yet ; and her
brows gathered together a little when she
found the farmer's wife takins: the whole
thing for granted.

But the most startling event that occurred
this winter — or rather the early spring it
was now — was a sudden and unexpected
visit from Aunt Gilchrist, who descended
like a blast from the mountains into this
dull level of dreariness. The tempestuous
small dame had quarrelled with one of her
fellow-patients at the Crieff Hydropathic
Establishment ; had instantly resolved to
leave and bestow her patronage on the
rival resort in the island of Bute ; and as
she had to pass through Kirk o' Shields
on the way, she wrote that she would
arrive there on the following afternoon,
and would stay the night. Alison read
this letter with a quick joy at her heart.
Here was some one associated with that
happy and beautiful time she had spent
in the Highlands ; here was some one to
whom she could talk about those kind
friends in the north. And on the morning
on which she got this note, Kirk o' Shields

was looking almost cheerful. A cold
north-west wind had been blowing overnight,
and some of the smoke was cleared
away ; so that there was a faint semblance
of sunlight on the gray pavements ; and
the spire of the Established Church, on
the top of the little hill, rose into clouds
that here and there grew thin and showed
a wan suggestion of blue. But by the
time it was necessary for Alison to go
along to the station, the afternoon of the
short day was closing over ; and the smoke-clouds
seemed to gather together again ;
so that Kirk o' Shields presented its usual
appearance — with its crimson fires and
white blasts of steam leaping and twisting
and writhing into the desolation of the
now darkening heavens.

And here's my bit lady ! " Aunt Gilchrist
called aloud, the moment she stepped
on to the platform ; and the bright-eyed,
fresh - complexioned, silver - haired little

dame caught Alison by the shoulders, and
kissed her again and again. '' Well, well,
it's just a delight to see you ; for I've been
a lone, lone woman, Alison, my dear, since
I went to the Hydropathic ; and many's
the time I've wished ye were with me, just
to stand up for me, and teach them no
to trample on a poor old creature like me.
And I've booked all my luggage through
to Glasgow, Alison ; so that I've nothing
but this bit bag here ; and we'll get into a
cab at once "

''A cab. Aunt Gilchrist!" said Alison,
in dismay. '' Do you really want a cab }
For there isn't such a thing in Kirk o'
Shields."

'' Bless my soul and body, what kind of
a town is this ! " the old dame exclaimed ;
but she was in far too good a humour overseeing
her niece to be seriously put about.
'' And where's the gas ? Do they no see
it's dark } Or is this the only kind o'

daylight they've got in this dreadful'
place "

'' If you would rather not walk, aunt,"
Alison said doubtfully, '' I could send fora
machine "

*away wi' your machines!" Aunt Gilchrist
cried. '' We'll just set out on foot
it'll serve to keep Periphery in proper
subjection. And ye'll carry my bag forme,
Alison, and let me lean on your arm ;
for you're a strong young lass, for all your
delicate complexion ; and many's the time
I wished ye were at Crieff to fight my
battles for me. Ye would have taught
them something, I'm thinking ! — for ye're
a sharp tongue in your head when ye like
oh ay "

'' I should not have thought you wanted
any help in that way, aunt," her niece said
demurely, as they left the station.

Now, Alison Blair, don't be impertinent
to an old woman like me," Aunt Gilchrist

made answer, with great severity, " the
very moment I set eyes on ye ! Who else
would have come to see ye in such a
fearsome hole as this — mercy on me, it's
like the bottomless pit ! Surely it's worse
since I was here last — how many years
was that ? It's enough to frighten a body
we'd think we'd got into the bad place
by some kind o' accident, and without a
chance o' getting out again. Does any
human creature ever come here that can
avoid it ? "

'' Oh, we don't mind it, Aunt Gilchrist ;
we're used to it," Alison said cheerfully.
And this morning the town was looking
quite pleasant ; we could actually see the
sun shining — or something like it. But I
think it was getting your letter, aunt, that
made the morning: seem so bright and
nice."

'' Ay, ye're there again, are ye, with
your palavering tongue ! " the old dame

protested ; but all the same, she clung a
little closer to the warm young arm that
gave her such help as she wanted ; and in
this wise, and without any great quarrelling,
they by-and-by reached the Minister's
house.

'' How are ye, Minister, how are ye ? '
said Aunt Gilchrist gaily, as she entered
the parlour with outstretched hand.

'' I am fairly well in health," the Minister
made answer, in his slow and serious
fashion. " But the years are passing over
us, Jane ; it is time we should be preparing
ourselves for the long journey."

I'm no come to that yet," said Aunt
Gilchrist briskly. "I'm going to Rothesay.
Rothesay's a grand place in cold weather
like this ; the sea-air is as soft as soft ;
and there are no crowds o' tourist-bodies
swarming about in the spring. Alison, my
dear, I would like a cup of tea."

'* Yes, indeed, aunt, you shall have that

at once," her niece said promptly ; " and
then in a Httle while you must have something
more substantial ; for one of the
elders is coming in this evening, with his
wife and son — I would rather have had
you all to ourselves, but this is a longstanding
engagement — and we shall all
have a proper tea together."

*' An elder ? " said Aunt Gilchrist, with
a bit of a sniff " I hope the body is not
going to preach at me."

Indeed, her attitude towards the whole
Cowan family, when they arrived, was
soon seen to be distinctly hostile ; but her
special antagonism seemed to be aroused
by the thick-lipped, wide-nostrils, heavy-headed
farmer, whose ponderous assumption
of importance seemed to irritate this
alert little person beyond all endurance.
As for Mrs. Cowan of Corbieslaw, no
sooner did she discover who this unknown
visitor was than instantly she set to work

to propitiate Aunt Gilchrist by every
description of servile fawning and flattery.
The small, shrewd eyes expressed an eager
approval of everything that Mrs. Gilchrist
said ; it was Mrs. Gilchrist alone who was
listened to — and listened to with humbly
appreciative smiles and nods. Poor James
was nowhere. The presence of this
stranger annihilated him. But sometimes
he looked at Alison — perhaps wistfully
thinking of his chances of escape to
Edinburgh.

Now, when this evening meal was over,
Aunt Gilchrist was naturally looking forward
to a pleasant little chat about friends
and acquaintances, or about affairs of the
day — notably a murder-trial that was then
exciting much interest ; but this frivolous
waste of time in nowise commended itself
to Mr. Cowan of Corbieslaw. By sheer
weight of words he bore down all opposition
until there was nothing heard but an

interminable monologue on church government,
to which the Minister listened with
a kind of abstracted air, only putting in a
correcting word now and again. Aunt
Gilchrist began to fret and fume. Once
or twice she turned to Alison with a look
of amazement, apparently asking if this
was the kind of evening she usually passed.
And still the elder laboured on with his
somnolent and confused incoherences about
synods and presbyteries, until the brisk
little dame abruptly addressed her niece.

'* I'm thinking this is pretty dry work,"
said she contemptuously. *' It makes me
wish the Doctor was here — and the
decanter."

Alison smiled.

"I've provided that for you, aunt," said
she, and forthwith — to the wonderment
and consternation of the Corbieslaw family
she deliberately went to the sideboard
and brought out an old-fashioned decanter

of cut crystal, which was filled with some
dark ruby fluid. Then she produced a
wine-glass, and a tumbler, and some sugar,
and some cinnamon, while Agnes was sent
to fetch boiling water.

'' There, now," said Aunt Gilchrist, with
her bright' coloured face beaming with
satisfaction (and the elder had been startled
into a momentary silence), '' that's like my
bit lady — everything straight, and honest
and aboveboard ; no tricks, and hiding,
and make-believe. I don't like the 
bedroom business at the
Hydrostatics ; but then, to be. sure, it's
hard to 2:0 to bed on a cold winter's nicrht
without a drop o' something to comfort
ye

"It's quite true, Mrs. Gilchrist," said
Mrs. Cowan, in her slaves manner, 'eyes,
it's quite true."

*' It would be better," said the farmer,
scowling at his wife, " if ye would remem-

VOL. II. N

ber that that drop o' something is just the
curse of this country."

Ay, do ye say that now ? " remarked
Aunt Gilchrist, as she coolly began to
prepare her negus, Alison helping her the
while. 'well, I'm no the country, and it
never cursed me."

*' I'm sure of that, Mrs. Gilchrist," said
the farmer's wife, in her politest Edinburgh
accent. " Everybody can see that. I'm
sure ye take nothing but what is good
for ye."

The scowl on the farmer's face grew
darker as he heard his wife thus shamelessly
go over to the enemy ; but he held
his peace ; perhaps in his dull brain there
was some glimmering guess at the reason
for her extraordinary complacency. Meanwhile
the determined little wine-bibber at
the table had begun to sip her negus with
much satisfaction — never dreaming of the
notable discovery she was shortly to make.

'' Well, Minister," said she, " I'm thinking
I would just like to take Alison away with
me to Rothesay for a week or two. Fm
sure the poor thing wants a breath of
fresh air after being so lone in this dreadful'
town. A town ? — it's not like a town
at all ; it's like a pandemonium. I should
think ye would have little difficulty in
describing to your congregation the terrors
of the place of punishment — ye're but to
bid them look around them. And I would
like to take her away for a week or two,
just to cheer her up ; for they're no so
bad, they Hydrostatics, after a' ; they
have their bits o' diversions — a dance now
and again, and the like "

Dancing ! " exclaimed the big elder in
solemn tones. " I should not like to hear
o' a minister's daughter taking to dancing.
We ken what comes o' dancing. We ken
what happened in the time of Herod the
tetrarch "

Herod the tea-tray ! " said the impatient
little dame with open scorn. '' Do
ye imagine that a young Scotch lass cannot
dance a Highland Schottische without
wanting somebody's head served up in a
charger ? "

'jane," said the Minister severely, '* I
think your mention of scriptural things
might be a little more respectful and
becoming."

"Well, indeed, Mrs. Gilchrist," the
farmer's wife interposed, to make all things
smooth and pleasant, 'there may not be
so much harm in dancing as people say.
No, not qtiite so much as they say. I
hardly approve of it myself any more than
Alexander does ; but maybe there's not quite
so much harm in it. Besides, the younger
people have newer ideas, so to speak, and
I'm not sure that James would set his face
altogether against dancing — dancing in
moderation, that is— In reasonable sobriety
and moderation."

Aunt Gilchrist directed a swift glance
towards James ; but the abashed probationer
instantly lowered his eyes.

*' I would like to take Aenes too," she
resumed, turning again to the Minister,
'' but I'm afraid ye cannot spare them
both ; if ye can, Til just be too glad."

"It's a kind offer, Jane," the Minister
made answer, 'rand I'm sure the girls are
obliged to you ; but Agnes is hardly well
enough to go anywhere at present, and as
for Alison, I doubt if she could leave her
various duties, outside the house as well as
in, with a clear conscience. She was a
long time with you last summer."

If I may speak," observed Mrs. Cowan,
with an engaging humility, " if I may
speak, I would say this, Mrs. Gilchrist,
that it would be a useful experience for us
all, but especially for Miss Agnes, if ye
were to take Miss Blair away wi' ye for
the time ye propose ; for then we should

a' have to learn how to do without her.
And perhaps ye may have heard," the
farmer's wife continued, with a significant
Httle simper, '' that we are expecting some
such change ? "

'' What's that ? " said Aunt Gilchrist
sharply ; and she glanced with a sudden
surprise from Mrs. Cowan to Alison, and
back again, and even at the white-faced
young probationer, who had furtively
looked up.

Oh, well," said Mrs. Cowan, not to
over-emphasize the hint — for she could see
that Alison was grievously confused — " a
young lady naturally looks forward to
changing her name sooner or later, and it's
just as well that her friends and her family
should have learned to bear the loss — for
I'm sure you'll agree with me, Mrs.
Gilchrist, that it will be a great loss to
them in the case of Miss Blair."

This plausible explanation in nowise

quieted Aunt Gilchrist's suspicions ; and
the first thing she did as soon as the
Cowans were gone was to go to her own
room and summon Alison thither.

Alison," said she, " what did that
simpering idiot o' a woman mean ? Is
there a talk of your getting married ? "

'' I believe there is, aunt," the girl
answered.

*' To whom, then ? " demanded Aunt
Gilchrist, with an ominous frown.

Well," said Alison, after a moment's
hesitation, "toto the young man who
was here to-night — young Mr. Cowan."

What ! " exclaimed the little dame,
taking a step backward in order the better
to stare at her niece. " What ! To that
creature ! To that wizened wisp of a
thing ! To that voiceless, washed-out rag
of a stickit minister ? Alison Blair, have
ye taken leave of your senses ? "

Well, they all seem to expect it — that's

all I know about it," Alison said petulantly ;
for it was hard for her to be reproached
for what was none of her doing or wishing.

But you yourself — what do you say ? "
was the next sharp question.

'' I haven been asked," she answered,
with her petulance darkening to sullenness.

*' Now, Alison, don't make me angry ! "
her aunt exclaimed. " Don't you quarrel
with me. Are you going to marry that
insignificant creature out of spite — is that
it ? Oh, mind you, I've seen that done
often enough. I've seen girls marrying
out of spite, and precious sick and sorry
they were afterwards. Your family and
your friends won't let you marry the man
you want, and so you revenge yourself on
them by marrying a man you hate or
care nothing about. Is that what ye're
after ? "

No, it is not ! " said Alison, with proud
lips, but with tears near coming to her

eyes. 'rit is not, and you've no right to
say any such thing."

'' Oh, very well, very well ! " said Aunt
Gilchrist, still regarding her niece doubtfully.
" But what about that young Macdonell
? Answer me that now, Alison, for
I've heard something from Flora."

Captain Macdonell and I are the best
friends in the world, and we mean to
remain so, and I don't care who knows it,"
the girl answered, with the same proud
expression of face, though her head was
partly turned away.

Aunt Gilchrist looked at her for several
seconds in silence.

'' Ye're a queer creature, Alison ; and

I'm not sure that I've quite made ye out

yet. But I'm not going to quarrel with

«
ye, for all your stiff-wickedness and pride

and wilfulness. I'll talk to ye in the

morning. I'm not going to let you make

a fool o' yourself, if I can help it. Oh, I

know what you wilful young hussies are
capable o' doing when people thwart you ;
and here you've been nursing schemes and
plans, and not a word to me, not a word,
though I thought I had some right to be
consulted. Oh yes, yes, yes," she continued,
as if some new light were breaking
in upon her. " I see now why that cringing,
crimping, smirking creature o' a woman
was a' bows and backs and smiles. My
certes, here's a pretty clanjamfrey of a
project to be building up in the dark ! Oh
yes, to be sure, Mrs. Gilchrist was always
in the right ; and there oughtn't be quite
so much harm in dancing ; and Miss Blair
oiLght to go away to the Hydropathic, that
we might try how we could bear her loss ;
while that great big yellow-faced, sow-shouted
lump of a man sat and stared at
my bit drop o' negus as if he thought
Satan was likely to make a sudden appearance
on the table. But never you mind,

Alison, my dear. They haven carried off
my bit lady yet ! No, they have not ; and
maybe they'll just find out that they've to
settle wi' me first. So just give me a kiss,
my dear, and say good night."

Alison's face had considerably lightened
at these kinder tones, and she would have
bid her aunt good night as she desired ;
but as the minister's daughter she was
bound to remember the rules of the house.

Are you not going down again, aunt ? "
she asked. *' Father will expect you at
family worship, and I hear the servants
just going in."

You pretty Miss Innocence ! " this
audacious little woman exclaimed, with a
wicked laugh — and she pushed the girl to
the open door, and kissed her affectionately
by way of saying good night. '' Don't you
see that that's the very reason why I'm
going to bed ? "

CHAPTER VL

A SUMMONS.

Aunt Gilchrist came and went ; the
young spring days began to lengthen — •
even in this sombre Kirk o' Shields ; and
Alison, with a calm serenity of mind that
she mistook for forgetfulness, busied herself
from hour to hour with her various tasks,
and strove to earn, or to continue, the
good-will of all these diverse folk — many
of them intractable enough, some meanly
suspicious of her advances, others " dour "
to a degree — who made up her fathers
congregation. But especially was she
kind and considerate towards James
Cowan ; for the poor pale-faced probationer,
whatever his pathetic fancies may have

been, did not bother her much ; while his
mother, despite her insinuating smiles and
hints addressed to Alison, failed to drive
the disheartened lad into any more resolute
attitude. Alison was grateful to him for
his silence ; and she read the two or three
sermons he timidly submitted to her ; and
comforted him with the assurance that they
would be very useful to him when he
received the long-looked-for call.

But this tranquil life was about to be
disturbed. Summer-time found Aunt
Gilchrist again at Fort William ; and
nothing would do the imperious small
dame but that Alison should repair thither
at once. Periphery, she wrote, had been
almost entirely subjugated and driven forth
though sometimes it returned and feebly
tried to regain possession ; she was going
to make up for all the crippled time ;
Alison was to come and share in her wild
diversions ; and no longer need the bit

lady fear being buffeted about by any
fitful gusts of temper. Agnes, she was
glad to hear, appeared to be quite strong
again ; very well, let her take a turn at
managing the Minister's house ; the elder
sister deserved a holiday ; besides. Aunt
Gilchrist demanded that she should come,
and there was to be no argument, but
immediate obedience.

When Alison received this summons
her heart fell to beating with a marvellous
rapidity ; and she was somewhat breathless
and bewildered ; and also not a little resentful
against herself that so simple a
proposal should so entirely upset her peace
of mind. For she had come to consider all
that had happened in the previous summer
as a sort of dream, to be regarded with a
touch of tenderness, perhaps, until it should
finally fade away and be forgotten. But
this possibility of reawakening associations,
of seeing actual places that had become

almost visionary to her, and of meeting,
not the vague phantoms that dwelt in her
solitary reveries, but the living people
themselves, was altogether a startling
thing. Instinctively she shrank back from
it. And then again she began to argue
with herself. What had she to dread ?
The days of cruel anxiety, of bitter farewells,
of hidden heartache, were all over
now. She had schooled herself into acquiescence.
And why should she be afraid
to meet Ludovick Macdonell ? He and
she had promised to be fast friends : and
what was the friendship worth if she was
not prepared to abide by it ? Probably by
this time he had half forgotten her. In his
numerous letters from Egypt and from
India he had hardly ever mentioned her.
If she went to Fort William she would
merely find that she had one acquaintance
the more — that is, if he happened to be in
Lochaber at all.

Indeed, when the Minister's consent had
been obtained and her brief preparations
made, and when she was ready to set forth
upon her northward journey, she had
almost convinced herself that she could
meet Captain Ludovick without any too
serious qualm, and that in returning to
Lochaber she was not risking the reawakening
of any too poignant regrets. It is true
that as she entered the little station a
sudden throb went through her heart ; for
she could not but remember the terrible
day on which she had come up hither — a
pale, trembling ghost of a creature — to
see the black train thunder away into the
mist. The mere sight of those long,
empty lines of rail seemed to make her
shiver. But that was a long time ago
now ; and here was Agnes, very officious
with her last little kindnesses ; and joyful
anticipation, not the recalling of by-gone
anguish, was the natural mood for a

traveller about to enter upon a long and
pleasant holiday.

Moreover, this was a singularly clear
and cheerful morning that was greeting her
setting out, when once she had got entirely
away from the dark and poisoned region
surrounding Kirk o' Shields. She saw the
sky again — a wonderful thing, far-reaching,
with soft white clouds in it that hardly
stirred. The air was sweet that came in
at the carriage-window. And the farther
and farther northward that she got, the
more and more beautiful became her surroundings.
The sun lay warm on the wide
meadows through which the Forth winds
its silver way ; the gray battlements of
Stirling Castle rose far into the blue. The
rugged chasm of the Pass of Deny was
hanging in rich summer foliage ; a thousand
million diamonds flashed on the rippling
waters of Loch Lubnaiof. And then she
got away up into wilder regions — into

VOL. n. o

the solitudes of Glen Ogle and Glen
Dochart : but the mountains had nothing
forbidding about them on this beautiful
morning — there was a velvet softness
in the shadows even where a towering
peak grew dark under a passing cloud,
while for the most part the lower slopes
and shoulders were dappled yellow with
sunlight. And then again, as she was
nearing Tyndrum, she grew still more
curiously interested in these outward
things ; and her heart, in a sort of laughing
mood, began to amuse itself with a wild
impossibility. For it was at Incrustation
that Captain Ludovick had made
his appearance — having come down
through the Black Mount forest to intercept
her on her southward journey ; and
might he not be here to meet her now ?
She assured herself that she would welcome
him gladly, even joyously ; there would be
no embarrassment at all ; she would call

him " Ludovick," and take his hand, and
know that he had not forgotten her. She
could not understand how the thought of
meeting him had alarmed her. Here she
had no fear. In a few minutes she would
look out of the carriage-window ; she
would call to him " Ludovick ! — Ludo-vice
! " she could see the flash of recognition
in his eyes, his quick step forward,
and his opening the carriage-door. Sister-like,
she would be as kind to him as she
could ; and they would go through the
remaining stages of the journey in great
comfort and happiness ; and he would tell
her all about Hugh and Flora and the rest
of them — while Loch Awe and gray
Kilchurn went by, and the Pass of Brander,
and the hills of Benderloch, until a sweep
of Loch Etive brought them in sight of
Morven and Mull, and the mountains that
face the blue western seas.

But even as the train slowed into the

little Station she knew that all this was
entirely impossible ; and it was merely to
indulge a whimsical fancy that she affected
to look out for some one ; and when the
train had moved on again, and she had
resumed her solitary seat, she could hardly
say she was disappointed. For well she
was aware why it was that Ludovick Macdonell
had been so sparing of his references
to herself in these letters from abroad ; and
why he had scrupulously refrained from
trying to reopen any communication with
her. It was his quick sense of courtesy
and of consideration towards her that
restrained him. He would not weary her
with his importunity. Everything should
be as she wished. And when she told
him that she was tied hand and foot by
reasons and circumstances that she could
not explain and that he could not understand,
he was bound to believe her, and to
take her no as meaning no. And well she

knew that in accepting Aunt Gilchrist's
invitation to go to the Highlands, she was
not in danger of encountering any distressing
persecution on his part.

At the same time, when she got to the
end of her railway-journey, and found
Hugh and Flora awaiting her, she was a
little surprised, not perhaps to find that
Captain Ludovick was not with them, but
that they did not refer to his absence.
They said nothing about him, in fact, even
when they were comfortably settled onboard
the Mountaineer, and had plenty of
time for rapid questions and answers. And
then again, as the steamer moved away
from Oban harbour, Alison was keenly
interested in all the objects around her ;
for these seemed so strangely different
from the memories of them with which
she had beguiled the dark hours of the
winter. Everything was so extraordinarily
vivid. The air seemed full of light. To

Huo^h and Flora doubtless these were
familiar features — the pretty little bay, all
of a trembling blue, save where the sunlight
blazed and shimmered on the ripples —
Ferrara, with its slopes of green and points
of weeded rock — the long spur of Lismore
ending in the small gray lighthouse — the
far mountains of Mull and Morven, clear
to the top, the clefts and scars on their
vast brown shoulders traced in lines of the
purest, most delicate azure — all this was
familiar enough to them ; but it was not at
all familiar to her. The world seemed so
beautiful ! — so surpassingly brilliant — and
yet so peaceful and calm and still. It
appeared to her that in leaving Kirk o'
Shields she had come out of a long and
sombre night, and got into the white day
again ; and that her eyes were naturally
bewildered by the overpowering radiance
around her. The phantom pictures of her
winter dreams had fled : this was the living

world, filled with sunlight, the wide skies
all open, the wide seas all trembling in
that lustrous blue, a gladness everywhere !
They could not get her to go below for
lunch. She would not go. So Hugh had
to take Flora down, and see that she was
provided for ; but instantly he was up
again, and sitting beside this pretty, pale-complexion,
gray-eyed cousin from the
south. He lit a cigarette (a newly acquired
habit for him) and did not talk much to
her ; for he could see that she was occupied
and more than content.

Flora came on deck again, and the
general conversation was resumed — about
Aunt Gilchrist's newly developed passion
for the game of poker, about the last
exploits of the boy John, about the big
takes of bream they had been getting on
recent evenings, and so forth ; but never a
word was said about Ludovick Macdonell.
Yet here was Appin ; and vividly enough,

as the boat slowed Into the pier, could
Alison recall the broad-shouldered, sllm-
built young fellow, with the laughing eyes,
and clear, sunburnt complexion, whom she
had seen come down with his lone swinging
pace to the steamer. There was no
Captain Ludovick at Appin pier now ;
perhaps he was not even In Lochaber ;
perhaps he had got that appointment, and
had remained In India. And so \\\^ Mountaineer
went on again, through the fair and
shining day. Up here Loch LInnhe lay
In a dead calm — long swathes of white and
blue without a ripple anywhere ; there was
no stirring of wind ; even the rugged and
lonely hills of KIngalrloch, that usually
are dark and purple-stained, showed their
slopes of red granite and gray schist
through a faint haze of summer heat, and
were grown quite ethereal In hue. As the
steamer cleft Its way through the still
water a school of porpoises took it Into

their heads to race her ; and ever and
anon a dorsal fin would appear on the calm
surface, gleaming for an instant in the sunlight
as the oily-looking fish rolled over.
The very quietude of the scene around
them seemed to moderate the garrulity of
the cousins ; Hugh lit another cigarette
and began to walk up and down the deck ;
Flora leaned her two hands on the gunwale,
and her chin on her hands, to look abroad
over that shining breadth of sea ; while
Alison watched the slow passing by of the
successive bays, the rocky shores, the
upward-sloping plantations, the barer
summits of the hills receding into the
almost cloudless sky. There was but little
talking ; anyhow Ludovick Macdonell's
name was not even mentioned.

And then at last they came in sight of
the southern outskirts of Fort William —
little white dots of houses among the trees,
with pleasant green slopes rising behind

them, and the vast bulk of Ben Nevis,
seamed and scarred, towering far behind.
Those pretty Hide villas set among
gardens had a smiling and cheerful appearance
as they were brought closer and
closer ; and Alison jumped to her feet to
respond, when she perceived that from
certain windows a welcome was being
waved to her. She knew the house welland
her heart warmed towards It. How
often had she not sat and dreamed of It —
In the drear winter nights of Kirk o'
Shields. In the hushed parlour, with every
soul In the house bent over a pious book —
dreamed of It and of all the kindness and
new wonderful experiences connected with
it. As she waved her handkerchief to
those unseen friends, her eyes were moist.
Indeed they had been kind to her, In their
robust, happy-go-lucky fashion.

And here, awaiting their arrival, was
the lad John. But John was in an exceedingly

bad temper. There had come down
to the quay a band of itinerant musicians,
who were going away by the steamer ; and
they had been utiHzinc- their time of waiting
by playing a series of loud and lively
strains, which, instead of having any
mollifying effect upon John, only irritated
him, for he was bent on business. And
not only that, but even as he was conveying
Alison's things ashore, she following
him, one of these musicians had the
effrontery to come up cap in hand to the
newly landed party, whereupon John interposed
angrily.

'' Oh, go awe hom I " he said, with
crushing scorn. " Go awe hom ! Your
noise gives me a sore head. I would
sooner hear a bull roaring than you and
your noise ! " And with that he seized
the shafts of his barrow and manfully set
forth — to display to the world the difference
between a person who could do

honest work and an idle, useless, strolling-vagabond.


Aunt Gilchrist was seated in the front
garden — amid a brave show of roses red
and white, of pansies pale yellow and deep
purple, of sweet-william of every shade, of
nasturtiums, and pheasant's eyes, and
double-poppies ; and she herself was just
as bright and pleasant to look at as any of
them. Her welcome of her bit lady was
of the warmest.

Yes, my dear," said she, and she took
the girl's hand in hers, and patted it affectionately,
" this is something like the kind
of place for you and me to be together. I
tell you I'll never go to yon town again.
I never will, Alison. You'll have to come
to see me. Do ye remember that dreadful'
night — wi' yon great, big, jaundiced-faced
baboon o' an elder maundering away about
synods, and assemblies, and sederunt ? —
mercy o' me ! "

But no doubt it was interesting to him,
aunt," said Alison, with a smile.

Interesting ! I'll not believe it. I'll
not believe a word of it. It was done just
for the pleasure of hearing his own continuous
Rabble and fable, like a burst
rain-pipe on a pouring day. What I
should have done but for that comforting
drop o' port-wine negus "

''^How is your neuralgia, aunt?" Alison
asked.

The little old dame held up a warning-finger.


Whish ! Alison," she said, in a whisper.
Periphery's lying quiet just now ; we'll
no waken him. I've a kind o' feeling in
the left side o' my foot that I don't entirely
like. I'm afraid Periphery's no quite
driven out o' the house yet ; he's lying
asleep in the cellar, as ye may call it ; but
as long as he doesna get up and begin to
stamp about, we'll just say nothing."

'rand are you still taking your port-wine
negus ? " Alison asked.

What's that got to do with It ? " the
old lady retorted, with some sharpness.
'' Are you setting up to be a doctor too ?
Are you going to begin to blether about
bromides and iodides ? I tell ye, ye may
fill yourself wi' drugs from week's end to
week's end, and ye may dance about from
one Hydropathic to another from January
to December ; and Periphery '11 just laugh
at you, and have as firm a grip o' ye as
ever ; but if ye can coax the bit chappie to
lie quiet, by paying no heed to him at all,
and doing nothing to stir him up, then
ye're got a chance of getting something
like peace and comfort."

"But I suppose you can walk well
enough, aunt ? " Alison proceeded to ask.

*' Hem ! " said Aunt Gilchrist doubtfully.
'' I can walk. Oh, yes, I can walk. But
I cannot say that I am very eager about

walking. It's a fine thing to let sleeping
dogs lie."

And then again Aunt Gilchrist said —

Well, I suppose ye're kept your word,
my dear. I never got that line ye promised
to send me if they began to drive ye into
marrying that poor, shambling, saucily
windlestrae o' a creature ; so I supposed
that smirking mother o' his was letting ye
alone "

** But what's that, aunt ? " Flora cried
interposing. '' Is Alison going to be
married— and to somebody we don't know ?
Why didn't you say anything about it ? "
Then she turned to Alison with a curious
look in her face. " Is it true, Alison ?
Are you going to be married ? "

Perhaps I'd better wait until I'm
asked," Alison answered, with reasonable
modesty.

Come away now," Aunt Gilchrist said,
taking the girl's arm. '' Come away into

the house. That's a secret between you
and me, AHson. When the time comes,
I'll tell them all about the stickit Minister.
Oh, ay, when the time comes !'' She
laughed quite gaily. "deed, that was a
fine plot for me to discover ; and if I
hanna discovered it, I don't know what
might not have happened ; for you're just
that wilful and perverse, you stiff-necked
little Puritan ! And you were very near
quarrelling wi' me, too. Quarrelling wi'
me ! — I like your impudence ! "

'' Well, it isn't easy quarrelling with you,
aunt," Alison said, '* unless when Periphery
has wakened up."

Whish, I tell you, whish ! " the old
lady said, in a peremptory whisper ; and
then they all went into the house, where
the Doctor's wife was waiting for them at
the tea-table.

Now, Aunt Gilchrist was a considerate
person ; she knew that young people like

to be by themselves at times ; so presently
she had ordered off the three cousins to
find amusement for the afternoon, until the
evening should summon them to supper and
her favourite game of cards. At first there
was a talk of getting sea-lines and going
after the bream ; but Flora interposed.

Of course," said she, laughing, " Alison
will go if you ask her. But she'll just
hate it all the time. She's always so neat
and trim ; and she can't bear getting her
fingers and her cuffs wet "

What is far more horrid," Alison herself
said, '* is the flopping of the fish in the
bottom of the boat — near your dress : they
seem to come alive again when you least
expect it "

Very well, let's get out the gig, Flora,"
was the brother's suggestion, which was
instantly adopted. *' We'll take Alison fora
row ; and she can steer. The oars are
in the gig, so we can get off at once."

VOL. II. p

And thus It was that Alison speedily
found herself in command of the long and
shapely boat, with her two cousins leisurely
pulling a slow and measured stroke, out
into the glassy plain. The warm afternoon
sunshine was now streaming along
the loch, lighting up the bracken-covered
knolls, the grassy slopes of the hills, and
the green and yellow patches of the crofts
along the shore ; while the sea was so
still that the shining spars of the yachts
sent down reflections unbroken by any
line or ripple. There was no particular
designation before these voyagers. They
went this way and that, exploring the
various shores ; the rowers rowing with
idle but regular stroke; Alison seeming
to drink in the joy and calm and beautiful
colour all around her. Evening found
them up at the mouth of upper Loch Eil ;
and now, while the western hills were
darkening in shades of softest olive-green

the sea around them was a plain of burnished
gold and pale rose-purple. A small
boat crossing that golden plain was itself
of jet-black, and as it went on its way it
left behind it two honos divergent lines of
lilac, like the attenuated wings of an
insect. When the cousins rested from
their rowing, the silence around them
was so intense that they could hear the
sound of voices coming across from the
Corpach shore. This was not like Kirk
o' Shields.

On their way home to Fort William,
x-\lison took Flora's oar, and Flora went
to the tiller ; and sometimes these two
were chatting to each other ; and sometimes
they could hear Hugh humming the
old Gaelic air that is known as *' The
Cowboy ; " or perhaps Flora, in a pause of
silence, would sing to herself, but with no
great sadness, a verse of '' The Lowlands
o' Holland " —

The love that I had chosen,

Was to my hearts content;
The saint sea will be frozen

Before that I repent ;
Repent it will I never

Until the day I dee,
Though the Lowlands d Holland

Hae twined* my love and me''

By the time they had leisurely got back
to Fort William the evening was well on ;
but the darkness it had brought with it
was confined to the massive bulk of the
hills along the opposite shore ; overhead
there was a clear and luminous sky, with
a few purple and orange-fringed clouds ;
while the loch around them had become of a
trembling silver-gray, for a slight wind had
arisen, and the glassy surface was gone.

And it was still in a beautiful lambent
twilight that they had supper, and thereafter
took to cards — in a room fronting the
west. This was a very unscientific game
of poker that Alison was now called upon
Twined — severed.

to witness. Aunt Gilchrist's chief aim
seemed to be to engage in a battle royal
with her brother the Doctor ; and when
these two combatants closed, the others
having given up, the fun waxed fast and
furious. For the Doctor knew but little
of the game ; and in his perplexity he
invariably consulted his wife, who knew
less, but was ever good-humouredly ready
with her advice. These consultations,
however, were innocently outspoken and
above-board ; so that Aunt Gilchrist could
easily guess at what was in her opponent's
hand ; and again and again her shrill laugh
of triumph rang out as she swept in the
coppers from before the angry Doctor's
nose. It was a very frank and honest
game of poker that was played by these
simple folk; and as the 'tante" was one
halfpenny, and the limit of betting threepence,
there was no deadly destruction
dealt to anybody.

It was during the progress of this happy ~
go-lucky game, however, that AHson incidentally
made a notable discovery. Flora
had adventured upon a bold piece of
blushing — a dangerous experiment for anyone
with such an expressive face, and such
merry, conscious, tell-tale eyes ; the Doctor,
at the instigation of his wife, refused to be
intimidated ; the young lady was " called,"
and found to be queen high, and the pool
was raked in.

Ah, you thought you were playing
with Ludovick, did you ! " her brother said
scornfully. " When she's playing against
Ludovick she bluffs like the very mischief,
for he always gives up. That's not the
game at all ! If he held four aces, he'd
pretend he was afraid of her, and put in
his cards. The other night it was quite
ridiculous ; I'm certain he was only pretending
he held bad hands."

'' Wait a little while, Hugh," his mother

said, with a quiet smile. " You may find
yourself just as willing as any other young
man to lose at cards when you want to
make yourself agreeable."

'' What stuff all that is, unless the girl's
a fool ! " Master Huorh retorted. ''To be
flattered by being allowed to win at cards !
Besides, it's spoiling the game for other
people."

As fresh hands were being dealt, nothing
further was said on the subject ; but this
brief conversation had revealed to Alison
not only that Ludovick Macdonell was in
his own country, but that he had been in
this very house a night or two before.
And for a moment her surprise that he
had not come to see her on her arrival
was accompanied by a sudden fear that
she had offended him somehow. It was
but for a moment. Perhaps in Kirk o'
Shields, sitting alone with her silent reveries,
she might have alarmed herself with some

such surmise, and tortured herself over It,
and longed for some explanation. But
here, among these simple, good-natured,
well-contented folk, amid this battlement
of laughter and harmless wrangling, she
dismissed it forthwith. Ludovick was her
friend : she need not mistrust him. He
would tell her why it was he had not come
to welcome her. Or rather, was not the
reason sufficiently apparent ? He did not
want to embarrass her. It was consideration
for her that kept him away — even
as it was a kind of delicacy on the part of
her cousins that bade them refrain from
speaking of him to her. But he would
make his appearance in good time, when
there was no risk of embarrassment. All
things were well. She felt herself very
happy and safe in this little dining-room,
among these kind folk. And Ludovick
would be coming to see her one of these
days ; and she thought she would be able

to give him a more frank and friendly
greeting now. There was nothing to
frighten her, here in Lochaber. Indeed,
she would try to make up to him for any
restraint of manner she might have shown
in Kirk o' Shields. Amid the noise of
this most unscientific game she sat and
looked on ; but she saw something more
than the cards : she saw Ludovick Macdonell
coming forward to meet her — it
might be in this very room — it might be
on the white roadway outside — but in his
eyes there was the pleasant smile that she
knew of old ; and this time she would not
withhold her hand.

And some such vision was still before
her, long after the noise of the poker-party
had ceased, and long after the house had
sunk into profound silence and slumber.
She was now in her own room, seated at
the window, breathing the soft cool air
that floated up from the shore, and watching

the mysterious pallid glow in the sky
and on the wide water — that no-marshland
of twilight that in these regions lies between
the linorerinof evening and the coming of
the dawn. The hills on the other side of
the loch had slowly wrapped themselves in
impenetrable gloom — no single feature of
rock or tree visible — the deep olive-green
grown so dark as to be almost indistinguishable
; but over them the heavens
were of a clear and pearly gray, with one
or two clouds, of softest purple, hanging
motionless there ; while the sleeping loch
was of a wan and livid blue, with the
various boats and yachts, lying on that
still surface, appearing so strangely vivid
that they seemed to have been carved out
of jet. Not a leaf stirred in the garden ;
not a ripple whispered along the seaweed
fringe of the beach. Far into the night
she sat, half dreaming, but wholly satisfied
and content ; for she was in the enchanted



land again ; her heart was full of peace —
as serene and full of peace as this wide,
silent, beautiful world out there ; and she
had assured herself that all was well.

CHAPTER VII.

AN EXPEDITION.

When Alison looked out next morning
she observed the boy Johnny engaged in
raking smooth the gravel-path ; and she
was pleased to see him thus industriously
occupied ; and hoped that he had abandoned
the inveterate indolence which used
to possess him. And it seemed hard that
just at this moment three graceless loons,
coming along from the town, should set to
work to jeer at John. What offence, if
any, he had given them, she could not
make out — partly because her window was
shut, and partly because the altercation,
insulting on the one side, and scornful on

the other, was carried on in GaeHc. It
ended by the three of them making derisive
gestures with their fingers, the further to
exasperate Johnny ; and then — the tallest
of the lads having picked up a clod of
earth and flung it at him by way of playful
farewell — the idle vagabonds went on.

Johnny regarded his retreating foes with
a gloomy deliberation. They did not
wholly disappear. Alison could see them
indulging in all kinds of horse-play farther
along the road ; then they went down to
the edge of the loch and began to throw
stones at a bit of floating wood. At the
same moment she saw John put aside his
rake and come back to the house ; and as
she judged that he had resolved to treat
these tomfools with proper contempt, by
paying no more heed to them, she turned
to look at the beds of yellow pansies, and
the masses of orange nasturtiums, and the
blue lobelia borders, which were all very

bright and cheerful In the morning sunlight.


But presently Johnny reappeared ; and
she perceived that he had in his hand an
old straw hat. This he left at the gate ;
and then — with a furtive look in the direction
of his enemies— he stole across the
road, went down the beach, picked up a
large stone, and quickly returned. He
then took that battered old straw hat, and
placed it in the middle of the highway —
but with the big stone carefully concealed
inside. That done, he came back to the
garden, shut the gate, and locked it, and
took up a place of observation behind a
couple of fuchsia-bushes, where he could
see without easily being seen.

Johnny's dark and subtle anticipations
proved correct — his enemies were not
going far ; very soon they were perceived
to be returning along the road, with all
kinds of gambolling and boisterous nonsense.

But no sooner did they notice the
old hat lying there than they simultaneously
made a rush for it, struggling and hauling
at each other as to which should have the
first kick. By this time Johnny had thrown
himself prone on his face, just behind the
little parapet of stone supporting the railings
which were the garden frontage,
where also was a row of fuchsia-bushes.
He could hear, but he could not see ;
neither could he be seen — except by
Alison, who was a spectator of the whole
performance. It was the tallest of the
lads— he who had thrown the clod of earth
at Johnny — who managed to shake off his
two companions, and secure the coveted
first kick. He came on with a rush ; then
there was a crack ! but instead of the
tattered hat flying into the air, behold ! a
big stone rolled away along the road, while
the enraged and astonished youth caught
up his leg with both hands, and clinched

his teeth outside his underlip in a manner
betokening extreme dissatisfaction. Even
through the shut window AHson could
hear the roars of derision set up by his
companions ; and she could see that Johnny,
lying snug behind the fuchsia-bushes, was
entirely convulsed with fiendish laughter,
rolling and shaking, and digging his elbows
into the ground. The injured youth outside
regarded the house and its surroundings
with malevolent and vindictive eyes ;
but of course there was no one to be seen.
He even limped painfully up to the gate
and shook it; and it might have gone
hard with Master John if he had been
discovered ; but the gate was locked. So
there was nothing for that lamed and
sobered young man but to hobble away
back to Fort William — no doubt delighting
his companions with his contortions of
pain and his curses and vows of vengeance.
But there was harder work than gravel-raking



in store for Master Johnny that
day. The three cousins had planned an
expedition to a little lake far away among
the hills — Flora desirous of getting some
water-lilies, and Hugh looking forward to
an hour or two's fly-fishing ; while upon
Johnny devolved the double task of carrying
the luncheon-basket and rowing the
boat. Alison wanted Aunt Gilchrist to
accompany them ; but the wild escapades
which the little dame had been promising
herself were being postponed from day today,
through some uneasy suspicion that
Periphery was merely asleep with one eye
open. Aunt Gilchrist went with them as
far as they could drive ; then the waggonette
set out for home again, carrying her with
it ; and the three cousins were left to
climb the hill towards this solitary tarn,
the faithful Johnny struggling manfully
upward with the luncheon-basket on his
shoulder.

VOL. II. Q

The morning was singularly bright and
breezy — indeed, Flora was much surer of
getting her water-lilies than Hugh was of
getting any fly-fishing, for the wind was
blowing hard and there was an abundant
sunlight everywhere. When at last they
came In sicrht of the little loch there was
a picture before them that would have
delighted the eye of anybody but an
angler. Set in a cup of the hills this small
tarn was surrounded by soft green slopes,
some of them covered with birch and
some with bracken ; while along the shores
ran a circle of tall rushes that were bending
and swaying In successive waves ; and then
another belt of water-lilies, whose broad
leaves were all lifting and flapping in the
wind, while the big white stars of flowers
moved slowly hither and thither. For
there was a brisk gale blowing ; and the
water of the lake, naturally of a deep
brown, was driven into a rich purple-blue.

that became quite ruddy in the shallows.
Everywhere there was a restless change
and movement — a universal shimmering
and rustling — the fierce o^usts striking;
down on the marshy banks where the
sand-brown grass, the tall loosestrife, and
the meadowsweet bent before the blast,
and then widening out upon the racing
and hurrying waves that dashed with a
fringe of white alone the leeward shore.
It was all very bright and beautiful, no
doubt — the keen blue sky overhead, the
brilliant sunlight, the purple loch amid
those fair green slopes ; but there was not
much prospect of fly-fishing.

In the mean time Johnny was despatched
to the other end of the loch to bring across
the boat ; and a fine sight it was to see
him trying to drive that heavy craft
against wind and water. For a space it
would seem as if he were making progress ;
then one of those black squalls would

Strike down, tearing the racing waves
along with it; and Johnny would come to
a sudden standstill, even when he was not
carried to leeward.

His laziness is having his work cut out
for him this time ! " Hugh said grimly, ashe
watched the spray springing white at
the bows of the slow-labouring boat.

Then why don't you call to him to put
back, and you could go and help him ? "
Alison naturally asked.

That would be no use — only one can
pull in that boat," was the answer. '' Buta
dose of hard work does Johnny a power
of good. He thinks over it for days after ;
and that leaves him less time for plotting
mischief."

Nevertheless, the lad John had a heavy
pair of shoulders, and eventually he
managed to bring the boat along to the
broad bed of water-lilies, through which
he had to force it by using one of the oars

as a pole When at last he had got the
bow securely jammed into the soft bank,
he stepped ashore.

Well, Johnny, is there any wind out
there?" Hugh asked of him, in playful
fashion.

Johnny ruefully looked at the palms of
his hands.

"If there was mich more o' this," said
he, "I think I would need to go to the
smithy, and ask them to mek me a pair of
iron hands."

** Why, man, it's fine exercise for you ! "
his master said.

I do not know about that," said John,
regarding with a kind of sullen reproach
the farther end of the loch and the lashing
waves ; " but I know this, that if you was
down yonder you would think the Duffle
himself was in the water, and trying to
drive the boat ashore."

Indeed, from the comparative calm that

prevailed here among the rushes and Hies
it was impossible for any one to judge of
the force of wind and water farther out —
as the three cousins were presently to discover.
For as soon as Hugh had got his
tackle ready they all embarked, and slowly
pushed their way through the tangled
mass of stems and broad leaves. This
was all very well, and Hugh had even
begun to cast, when it was found that the
boat was beginning to drift down the loch
with a marvellous rapidity. As they had
neither an anchor nor a bit of rope, their
only resource was to get Johnny to pull
against the wind ; but perhaps Johnny's
previous struggle had exhausted him ; or
perhaps he was beginning to think he had
had enough of this useless labour : anyhow,
the boat kept drifting over Hugh's flies,
which he could only recover in a helpless
manner.

*' Pull harder, Johnny ! " the impatient

fisherman cried. " Don't let the boat drift
so fast."

Thereupon John made a further pretence
of puling very hard indeed ; but still the
boat was careering down the wind, and
getting momentarily into rougher water.

How do you like this, John ? '' Alison
inquired, with a gentle smile.

I wish I was in my bed sleeping,"
Johnny answered gloomily, as he laboured
away at the cumbrous oars.

Sleeping in the middle of the day ? "
she asked.

*' Well, sleeping is better for you than
rowing, at any time," he answered sullenly.

But perhaps this discontent of John's
was in a measure affected — just as there
was a good deal of pretence about his hard
rowing — for presently he was heard to
say —

Cosh, I think this is the loch where
the Duffle comes up to get a drink ; and

when he finds a boat on it, he's angry, and
he shoves her about below. I would need
a pair of iron shoulders as well as iron
hands to pull a boat on this loch ! "

Whatever the matter was, it was clear
that Johnny could not hold his own against
the gale ; fishing was out of the question ;
and they had only now to consider where
they could let themselves be driven ashore
without getting wet with spray. Fortunately
they espied a little bay that was
partly sheltered by its abundance of rushes ;
and here the boat was run in out of the
tempest, and securely fastened to the bank.
Hugh took out his fly-book and began to
go over the leaves in idle thought ; the
girls went away to gather an armful of
meadowsweet for home decoration ; and
John, sitting on the gunwale of the boat,
morosely gazed out upon the loch that had
given him such a dose of hard work, and
all for nothing.

Presently Flora called aloud —

'* Hugh, isn't that Ludovick away over
yonder ? "

They could make out the figure of someone
crossing a distant bracken-covered
ridge.

Very likely," was the answer.

Flora turned to Alison with an air of
studied indifference.

I think it very likely too. He knew
we were coming to this loch to-day. And
somehow all our expeditions get mismanaged
Ashen Ludovick isn't with us.
You'll see he'll be able to do something
for us."

Alison heard, but did not answer ; she
was a little tremulous and breathless ; she
dared not raise her eyes. And yet this was
not fear that filled her heart — not fear at
all, but rather a kind of gladness and joyful
anticipation. With all this brilliant, blowing
day around her, with these pleasant

companions, and with Ludovick himself
coming in this casual fashion to see what
they were after, there seemed no occasion
for any hesitating doubts or fears. She
was ready to welcome him ; she hoped he
would think her welcome of him friendly.
And if she did not care to watch that
solitary figure coming across the slopes of
heather and bracken (for Flora was standing
by), she seemed to know well enough
that this was Captain Ludovick, and that
presently the little party of four would be
together again, just as in the olden, never-to-be-forgotten
days.

'' Yes, it's Ludovick : let's go back to
the boat," Flora said ; and back to the boat
they went, to deposit their wild-flowers
there, while the new-comer's long, swinging
stride was bringing him rapidly towards
them.

'' How do you do. Miss Alison ? I'm
glad to see you back again in Lochaber,"

he said, In a very pleasant and friendly
way; but his eyes did not rest on her
more than a second ; he immediately turned
to Hugh and Flora.

A chill of disappointment struck home
to her heart. Was this the long-expected
meeting, then ? Was this his welcome of
her — this couple of half-indifferent phrases,
and hardly a single glance ? He had
given her no opportunity of showing that
she wished to be kind to him — that she
had no fear now — that she claimed the
friendship he had promised. He was
talking to Hugh ; and Hugh was explaining
that Johnny could not hold the boat
against the wind, so that the fishing had
scarcely been tried.

Oh, as for that," Macdonell said
promptly, " I'll pull the boat for you. I
don't know that it will be of much use —
the fish won't rise in squally weather like
this. However, you may as well try it.

now you're here ; and If you put on a big
fly we'll troll up the middle of the loch,
and then you can put on your other flies
again and we'll drift down the side."

But, Ludovick," said Flora, " Alison
and I may as well stop ashore, and there'll
be less weight in the boat."

"Not at all!" he protested. 'you
come and see the fun — you never know
what may happen. But Johnny can stop
ashore."

'johnny will not be sorry," said Miss
Flora, with a pleasant smile.

No, I will not be sorry," Johnny said,
mostly to himself, in answer to her sarcasm
and he was morosely looking out on the
dark and driven water. " It is no use
trying the fishing. The Duffle is in that
loch ; and the fish are all awe hom."

Despite this evil augury, the four companions
got into the boat, and presently
they were making their way through the

rushes out into the open loch. And very
soon it appeared that this new gillie was
of a much more powerful build than his
predecessor — though he seemed to set
about his self-imposed duties in a very
free and easy manner. Notwithstanding
that the waves were striking heavily at the
bows, and that those black squalls came
whirling along every minute or two, he
managed to keep a fairly steady way on
the boat, and apparently without much
trouble to himself; and if they could not
induce a fish to follow the trailing fly, at
least they succeeded in getting up to the
head of-the loch, where the drifting was to
begin. And in this drifting, too, it seemed
quite easy for him to hold the boat just
as he wished, so that Hugh industriously
fished all down the one side of the loch —
not casting, but merely lifting the files so
that the wind carried them out. But their
conjoint labour was of no avail. The

trout would not rise. The squalls and
heavy water had frightened them, and they
had gone below, or into the safety of the
reeds. So there was nothing for it but to
run the boat once more into that sheltered
little bay — and to get forth the luncheon-basket.


Now, this ought to have been a very
pleasant little luncheon-party, in this snug
retreat ; and Flora and Hugh were merry
enough ; but Alison could not help being
a little surprised and hurt by the distant
courtesy with which Captain Ludovick
appeared to treat her. She felt that she
was not on the same footing with him as
were Flora and Hugh. All his laughing
stories were told to them. He rarely
addressed her, except when civility demanded
; still more rarely did their eyes
meet. Did he want to punish her, then,
for her refusal ? Or did this coldness
arise from an excess of courtesy — from his

determination that no revival of his former
attentions should embarrass her ? Anyhow,
it seemed hard that she should be
thus left out, in however indefinable a way.
In the afternoon, however, an incident
occurred that for a time at least interrupted
these strained and formal relations.
Having waited in vain for the wind to
lessen, they thought they would give the
loch one more trial before going home ;
and as before, Ludovick Macdonell offered
his services as gillie. They had got upto
the head of the loch, and were drifting
down before the squally breeze, when
Hugh, noticing that his flies had not fallen
quite straight, unthinkingly twitched them
out of the water to make an ordinary cast
over his shoulder. To have done this
successfully, with these heavy gusts blowing,
would have demanded some little
exercise of strength and also of dexterity ;
but, as it was, this careless backward cast

did not get the line out at all — In fact, it
was blown down in a heap upon the boat
and its occupants. At the same instant
Alison uttered a brief quick cry of pain ;
instinctively she covered her eye with her
hand ; and Hugh, wheeling round in dismay,
perceived where one of his flies had
caught. His face turned deadly white —
far whiter than hers, indeed — and he was
quite paralyzed with fear : it was Ludovick
Macdonell who took Alison's hand and
gently removed it.

'you must let me look," he said to her,
and he held her hand lest she should put it
back. To his great relief he found that
the hook had not entered the eye ; but it
had caught the edge of the under eyelid,
and was lightly fixed there.

'' Tell Hugh not to mind," was the first
thing she said —as if she were already
blind, and speaking of some distant person
whom she could not see.

*' But you needn't be frightened, Alison'
Ludovick said to her, with eager assurance,
though he himself was in considerable
doubt as to what should be done. " The
hook is not in your eye ; it has only caught
the eyelid. Hugh, have you got a pair of
scissors in your fly-book ? "

It was with trembling fingers that the
wretched lad got out the pair of scissors,
and handed them to Macdonell, who as a
preliminary measure snipped the casting
line close to the fly. Then he said to
her —

'* Look here, Alison, I believe I could
take it out myself, now, and without hurting
you much, if you cared to run the risk ;
but perhaps it will be safer to wait until
we get back to Fort William, and then the
Doctor can make certain of it."

I would rather you would take it out,"
she said calmly enough.

''No, Alison, no!" Flora entreated.

VOL. II. R

'* Don't run any risk ! Wait till we get
home ! "

'rit would be safer," Captain Ludovick
said — but he was still addressing Alison,
except for this — that the hook might
work itself farther in."

*' I would like you to take it out now, if
you would be so kind," she said to him
simply.

'' Well, if you like to trust me — but it
will hurt a little," he said.

I don't mind that," she answered.
And still he hesitated ; for it was something
of a responsibility ; besides, he did
not know how much pain he might inflict
and how much more gladly would he
have borne it himself!

'' I would rather cut it out of my own
finger," he said, "even if it was in both
barb and shank. Are you quite sure you
won't draw back your head when you find
me take hold of the hook ? "

I shall not move."

For safety's sake he put one hand on
her shoulder ; but she was firm enough ;
she did not flinch a hair's-breadth even
when she felt him cautiously take hold of
the hook.

*' Are you ready, Alison ? "

-Yes."

'' Quite ? "

Quite."

Then there was a quick little jerk. She
uttered no cry ; she merely kept her eyes
closed until Flora called to her joyously —

Alison, it's all right ! Ludovick has
got it out ! — it's all right, isn't it ? "

The girl opened her eyes, which were
moist with the pain caused by that sudden
twitch ; but even through these involuntary
tears she could smile her thanks to the
operator— and her eyes were expressive
enough when she chose.

** I hope I didn't hurt you much," said

he, '' but really it was better to get it out
at once : you've no idea how horrid a
things it is to cut a hook out, when once
the barb has got right in. Take your
handkerchief now, Alison, and dip it in the
water, and bathe your eye a little. Why,
there's hardly a speck — just the smallest
bit of skin torn away. I wish I had a
looking-glass of some kind."

'' Why ? " she asked.

He smiled a little — indeed he seemed
quite gratified over the success of his
experiment, and was talking at random
and carelessly now.

Well, it was this way : I was living ina
rather dilapidated shooting-lodge up in
Ross-shire, and one evenings the ceilings of
the kitchen fell in. There was a mighty
noise ; and of course we all rushed to the
place ; and then we found that the plaster
had knocked down a young servant-girl
who happened to be there, and she was lying



senseless — though it turned out she was
more frightened than hurt. I noticed this,
though, that when everything was being
done to reassure the unfortunate creature
after she came to, the old house-keeper did
best of all — she ran away and got a hand-glass,
and made the girl look in it to convince
herself that she was not disfigured in
any way. I thought the old woman had
some knowledge of human nature."

Then I will be your hand-glass,
Alison ! " Flora cried quite joyfully. '' And
I declare to you that there's nothing but a
small pink scratch — oh, hardly bigger thana
pin's head 1 Disfigurement '^. Nothing
of the kind. And you're looking just as
nice and trim and provokingly neat as
ever, if that is any comfort to you ! "

Alison laughed a little ; byt there was
still gratitude in her eyes as she obeyed
Ludovick's directions as to the use of the
wet handkerchief.

This was the end of the fishing, or
attempted fishing — indeed, the boat had
meanwhile drifted down and imbedded
itself in a mass of water-lilies ; so they got
ashore and prepared for their march down
through the hills to the spot where the
w^aggonette was awaiting them. Hugh
was deeply mortified and apologetic ; again
and again he returned to the subject,
upbraiding his own stupidity, until Alison
had seriously to ask him what it was she
had suffered. But he was not to be
comforted ; and when everything was ready
he walked off by himself, and would have
gone on by himself, only that Flora
hastened to overtake him, and give him of
her sisterly sympathy and remonstrance.
The consequence of this arrangement was
that Captain Ludovick and Alison brought
up the rear by. themselves, for the boy
John had gone forward some time before
with the luncheon-basket.

And then Alison took heart of grace.

'' I don't think you were very friendly
with me this morning," she said, with her
eyes cast down.

He seemed a little surprised.

I hope I was not unfriendly," he said.
'' But — but I thought it was better that I
should let you understand that I did not
mean to harass you — or — or vex you."

You promised that we were to be firm
and fast friends," she said a little proudly.

'* Yes ? " he said.

"And yet you called me 'Miss Alison'
all the morning — until you had to take the
hook out of my eyelid," she continued,
with growing confidence — for it seemed so
easy and natural to talk to him here : she
was quite resolved on having a thorough
understanding with him, if he wished it
also.

*' Do you think I like to call you * Miss '
Alison ? " he responded. " No, I don't.

I think of you as Alison ; and I suppose I
might as well say it. But I did not wish
to embarrass you."

Well, you wouldn't embarrass me by
calling me Alison," she said, as they walked
on together.

o

'rit will be a great deal more pleasant
for me," he made answer again. '' Mind
you, I want to be to you, now and always,
just what you wish me to be. You gave
me your last word, and I accepted it ; and
my mouth is shut — until — well, I am not
going to risk anything by speaking. Let
our friendship be as close and firm and
fast as it can be. But I wonder if you
would be offended, Alison, if I told you
something about yourself ? "

She raised her eyes, and met his bravely.

Offended ? I am sure no," she said.

Well, then," said he, with a trace of
shyness that rather became him, '' I can't
help thinking that you are a far more

human kind of a being when you are in
the Highlands ; and sometimes I can't
help thinking of what might happen if only
you were always living among us."

CHAPTER VIII.

PRINCESS DEIRDRI.

That, at all events, she was a very
different kind of being up in these regions
was very well known to herself; for
whether it was the fresh air and exercise,
or the cheerful society and constant occupation,
or the delight of looking at the
beautiful things surrounding her, or all of
these combined, certain it is that the whole
day long a sort of elation seemed to thrill
through her to the very finger-tips.
Every moment was full of life. Even
when she was away alone — up among the
hills whither she used to climb in order to
have a view of the wider waters in the

south — there was no sadness in her mind,
but rather a sense of jubilation, and thankfulness,
and content with all the world.
The wildest days of gloom, so far from
having any terror for her, exercised over
her a singular fascination ; she rejoiced in
the foreboding of the storm ; she welcomed
the comines of this terrible unknown elinor
that darkened the heavens and the earth.
For what mis^ht not these sombre mountains
brinor forth — the orreat masses of them in
communion with the lowering clouds, and
here and there retreating behind a mystic
veil of rain ? The driven sea — its lurid
green broken by white flashes of foam —
and the wind that tore by her in sudden
gusts and squalls seemed awful and
threatening ; and yet she had no fear of
them ; rather they made her strong to
withstand, and defiant, and even proud of
their angry and vengeful look. Then,
sometimes, a soft sun-touched hill-side

would slowly emerge from behind those
gray mists of showers, and a rainbow
would declare itself against the purple
masses of the clouds ; and here and there
the running sea would be struck a vivid
green by following shafts of light. And
then all this changing phantasmagoria was
quite near to her ; not remote and passively
picturesque like the views of Switzerland
she had seen ; but quite close around her,
and she part of them, and mysteriously
associated with them, a child of the
universe like themselves. No, even in
these wild days of storm and tempest she
had no fear ; these winds and clouds and
sun-swept seas were friendly things ; she
loved to be alone with them, and listen to
their strange uncertain voices. Sometimes
she wondered whether they understood
her, and her presence there, any better
than she understood them.

And the glooms and terrors and anxious



perplexities of Kirk o' Shields ? She had
forgotten them ! She had forgotten that
Ludovick Macdonell was a Roman Catholic,
a dangerous person, in league with priests
and persecutors, a worshipper of the scarlet
woman, the woman drunken with the blood
of the Saints. She was too light-hearted
and busy to think of such things ; the
present moment was full of gladness and
occupation ; when she looked in his face,
and met his frank and pleasant smile, she
did not remember anything about the
scarlet woman and the beast that came
out of the bottomless pit. When he was
walking by her side along the shores of
Loch Eil, or telling her stories in the
stern of Hugh's lug-sail boat, or giving
her a hand at the steep places of the hillside,
why, he was just Ludovick ! — and
she did not bother her head about anything
else. And it must be said that the companionship
of these two had become a

very pronounced and notorious thing.
They made no kind of concealment about
it — AHson least of all. They were continually
together, during the long walks
and drives, when they went on sailing
expeditions, as they sat in the garden on
these clear and still summer evenings, or
went in-doors to see how that mild game
of poker was going on. He did not
address himself much to her, nor she to
him ; but somehow they were never very
far away from each other ; and they
seemed entirely satisfied with this half-silent
comradeship. It was '' Alison " and
'' Ludovick " now ; they were as belonging
to the one family, along with Flora and
Hugh ; and the various excuses that
Captain Ludovick made for coming over
from Oyre and planning new excursions
were simply innumerable; while even during
his brief absences there was always some
reminder of his existence and of his

remembrance making its way to the house
in which AHson Heed.

It was altogether a very extraordinary
state of affairs. But for the name of the
thing, they were to all outward appearance
conducting themselves precisely as a pair
of affianced lovers, and that without any
concealment or embarrassment. Nominally
they were merely friends, of course ; but
this friendship that Alison had boldly
claimed, and that Captain Ludovick was
in nowise inclined to withhold, seemed to
be of an extremely devoted and exclusive
kind. And not only did the other members
of the household tacitly acquiesce In
these relations, but Aunt Gilchrist in
especial looked on with open approval.
She no longer appeared to regard Captain
Macdonell as a possible fortune-hunter.
The fact is, she had indignantly resented
the insolence, as she deemed It, of the
Cowan family in endeavouring to carry

away her ward, her especial charge, to
marry her to that poor voiceless probationer
; and she had given everybody
to understand that she, Jane Gilchrist,
meant to put her foot down upon that
little scheme. She intimated plainly enough
that she had already made some kind of
settlement upon Alison, and that she had
not the slightest intention of allowing any
portion of her money to find its way into
the pockets of the ''stickit minister."

No, no ! Alison, my dear," the old
dame said openly. 'i'm a wilful woman
when I take anything into my head ; and
I tell ye Tm ready to defy the whole o'
that congregation — elders, deacons, precentors,
and all the rest of them ! "

Yes, Aunt Gilchrist," Alison said, with
a smile, " It's easy to defy them when you
don't live among them."

'' Ay, Is that it ? " the old lady said, with
a sharp look. "Are ye feared to go

back ? Well, just tell them that I'll maybe
not let ye go back. Tell them I've bought
ye for my own. You're nothing but a
white slave. And I should not wonder if
I did not let ye marry at all."

*' I'm sure I don't want to get married,
aunt," said Alison cheerfully ; " I am very
happy as I am."

*' Oh yes," Aunt Gilchrist made answer,
half to herself. '' They all say that ! But
it's wonderful how quick they can change
their mind when the occasion comes."

Nothing further was said just then, for
at this moment Captain Ludovick happened
to make his appearance, driving up
the waggonette that belonged to Oyre.
They were all bound on an expedition
into the Braes of Lochaber — the excuse
this time beino;- that the horses at Oyre
did not get nearly enough exercise ; and
as everything was ready, the whole of the
party forthwith took their places. By

VOL. II. s

rights Aunt Gilchrist should have been
given the post of honour next the driver ;
but as she declared she preferred going
inside, it was remarkable with what
equanimity Alison, at Captain Ludovick's
suggestion, got up and occupied the seat
beside him. After all, she was a kind of
stranger and guest ; and no doubt Captain
Ludovick wanted to point out to her the
objects of interest along the road.

It was a pleasant morning for setting
out ; the distant village of Corpach was
shining white among its scattered trees ;
and the little gray monument to Colonel
Cameron of Fassiefern could be seen
distinctly enough under the velvet-soft
slopes of the hills. They drove out and
past the ruins of Inverlochy Castle, that
seemed to have grown dark with tradition
and tales of strife and slaughter ; and by-and-by,
when they had got away to the
north of Ben Nevis, they entered a wild

moorland country — the long, bare undulations
bounded by dark green pine-woods,
and these again leading the eye up to the
loftier hills, that were all picturesquely
dappled with sunshine and shadow. This
in truth was rather a monotonous highway
its chief feature being the roadside cairns
of stones built up where a funeral procession
had rested the coffin on their way to the
churchyard in the lonely glen ; and perhaps
it was the sight of these rude memorials
that induced Captain Ludovick to tell his
companion the sad story of Princess
Deirdri, whose name is supposed to linger
in that of the vitrified fort, Dundearduil, in
Glen Nevis. The beautiful Irish princess,
as some may care to know, was beloved
of King Connacher of Ulster, but she
would have nothing to do with him, seeing
that he was old and ugly, red-haired and
squint-eyed, whereupon Connacher shut
her up in prison. But there were three

young men, nephews of the king, who
were sorry for the captive princess ; and
they succeeded In freeing her, and In
escaping along with a party of followers
across the seas to the western Highlands,
where they settled first of all upon the
shores of Loch Etive. Whether Naos, one
of the three brothers, and the Princess
Delrdrl had been In love with each other
before they forsook their native country Is
not stated ; however, In this new land they
did love each other, and were married, and
lived In great happiness. After several
years the King of Ulster professed to
forgive them, and Invited them to go home
again ; and the Princess Delrdri was
against that, having anxious forebodings of
treachery ; but eventually they persuaded
her to go. It was on her voyage across
the seas that she composed her lament on
leaving the various places where she had
been so happy ; and the story tells how all

her companions were moved to tears as
she manor —

o

Gle?i Etive, O Glen Etive,
There was raised my earliest home
Beautiful were its woods on risings
When the sun fell on Glen Etive I

* * *
Gle?iorchy, O Glenorchy,

The straight glen of smooth ridges;
No ina?i of his age was so joyful
As viy Naos in Glenorchy /

* * *
Glentnassan, O Glen7nassa?t^

Long its grass, and fair its woodland glades ;
All to ourselves was the place of out repose
On grassy Invermassan I "

Deirdri's mournful anticipations proved
correct ; Connacher, finding her more
beautiful than ever, straightway slew her
husband, hoping to win her for himself ;
but the faithful princess did not linger
behind — she managed to borrow a knife
from a boatman, plunged it into her bosom,
and fell dead on her husband's corpse, so
that the lovers went together into lands

IN FAR LOCHABER.

Still more unknown than even the far Glen
Etive and Lochaber.

Such was the substance of the tale he
told her ; and then he went on to say —

I knew of another Princess Delrdri,
though whenever I think of her I suffer a
pretty sharp twinge of remorse. This is
how it was. I was once at a small 
right away up in the highest
demon of the Monao^hlea hills — the most

o o

lonely and unfrequented place you could
imagine — and one morning we were up in
the carries driving the woods for black
game. The beaters were just getting to
the end of a drive, when a young roebuck
came flashing out of the bushes and crossed
me about thirty yards off — it was an easy
shot, and I dropped him. But the next
moment I began to wonder at any roe-deer
being so high up in the hills, for they
generally keep to the woods and glens
farther down ; so when the keepers came

along, I asked them. Then I found out
what I had done. Quite early in the
summer a young buck and a young doe
had come straying up into these wilds, and
I suppose they had taken a fancy to the
neighbourhood, for they remained there,
though none of the rest of the herd ever
followed them. They had the whole place
to themselves ; and when the keepers
happened to come on them they were
always found together, either feeding about
among the rocks or lying on the warm
heather. This morning the beaters had
again stumbled on them ; but the doe had
doubled back and escaped ; it was the
young buck that unfortunately came within
reach of my gun — and there that idol
ended. I was mighty sorry for it, I can
tell you," he continued, as they were
leisurely driving along. " I've often
thought of the fine time those two must
have had together — for it is a very pretty

place up there — lovely little glens, and
clear streams, and birch-woods — and all
that summer they had the whole district to
themselves. And a very handsome young
roebuck he was too : I've got his head
mounted at Oyre. But I've never shot a
roe-deer since."

And what became of the other one ? "
Alison asked.

'' Well, she was seen about the woods
for some little time after, and then she
disappeared. I suppose she went back
to the herd ; and I sometimes wonder
whether that Princess Deirdri used to
think of the happy days she spent with her
Naos up in the Corrie-nan-Shean. I don't
like to think of that idol of the hills — but
it has saved the life of many a roebuck
since."

Now, the hapless young Irish princess
came into their talk still once again that
day, and in this wise. They had driven

away along Glen Spean (and it was with
no little interest that she regarded Epoch
House, for she had come to know a good
deal about the Macdonells of Epoch,
and their deeds of other days) until they
came to Bridge of Roy ; and as this was
the end of their drive they stopped at the
solitary little inn ; the horses were taken out
while they went inside to order lunch. But
luncheon in the Highlands is not supposed
to be complete without boiled potatoes ;
and while these were being got ready,
Captain Ludovick and Alison went out fora
stroll about the place, their wandering
footsteps eventually leading them down to
the river. They talked of various things,
but only now and again, for this companionship
of theirs seemed to suffice without
any effort at mutual entertainment ; and
when at length they reached the bridge
they paused there, and Alison, the better
to look down into the rocky chasm through

which the clear brown water flowed, placed
both arms on the rude stone parapet, and
bent her head over. Nothing was said for
some time ; she was used to silence, and
content with it ; it was enough for her that
Ludovick was near.

But presently he took hold of her hand,
and she did not withdraw it, as, in their
present relations, she ought to have done.

'' Alison," said he, " isn't it about time to
have done with this make-believe ? "

She flushed quickly, and raised her
head a little bit, so that she could see his
face if she chose.

What make-believe ? " she asked,
though well she knew.

The pretence of being only friends,"
he answered. '' I love you ; I think you
love me : what is the use of hiding it ? "

What is the use of anything else ? " she
said rather wistfully. Then she raised her
head somewhat, and spoke with greater

cheerfulness : *' Are we not happy enough
as we are, Ludovick ? "

As we are ! " he exclaimed. " Yes,
this is all very well — and it's very pleasant
for us to be continually together — but don't
you sometimes look forward a little bit ?
It's very pleasant for mie to be seeing you
nearly every day, and to be with you for
hours and hours at a stretch ; but how long
will it last ? You will be going away. You
won't be so happy then, will you ? I shall
not, I know. And for yourself, Alison,
don't you rather think you will be like the
Princess Deirdri when she was bidding
good-bye to all the places she had known ;
and don't you think you will look back
more than once to the days when you and
I were together here ? But there won't
be so much happiness then."

Her eyes were filled with sudden tears ;
she turned away her head.

*' Indeed I know that," she said, in a

low voice that was rather uncertain. " I
have — gone through that before."

'' Very well," said he, at once, " let us
take the other way. What is the use. of
concealment ? There is no use in it any
longer. Let me write this very evening
to your father, and I will tell him that you
and I mean to get married — what can be
simpler than that ? "

She suddenly rose erect, and faced him
with frightened eyes.

Oh no, I couldn't do that ! " she said
breathlessly. " I couldn't, Ludovick ! — I
—I aren't ! "

"Very well," said he gently. " Perhaps
that is too much — too abrupt. But what
I want to do is to convince you that you
entirely exaggerate the horror which your
friends and relatives would exhibit if they
were told you were going to marry a
Catholic. I don't believe they would show
any horror at all. It is the Catholic doctrines

and ritual they hold in abhorrence ;
and they would know well enough that
neither would concern you in the least —
that you need have nothing to do with
either. Then your family have seen me
they know I haven't cloven feet and
horns "

'' I did not tell them you were a
Catholick, Ludovick," she said rather
ruefully.

*' I wish now you had," he made answer.
But never mind. Here is my proposal.
Perhaps making the announcement in
that way to your father would be too
abrupt. But I want to get you to believe
that there will be no such wild dismay as
you expect. Very well : write to your
sister Agnes, and tell her frankly all about it.
Confide in her. You will see what she says ;
and I am pretty certain it won't alarm you."

She looked up again with more hopefulness
in her eyes.

'' I thought of it once, Ludovick," she
said rather shyly.

Do it now, then — this evening," said
he. " But, then, do it the right way. Don't
put it before her as if it were some vague
proposition that might as well be dismissed,
for the better comfort of everybody concerned.
Alison," he continued, regarding
her, '' you will tell her that the relationship
between you and me is something beyond
recall. It is so, is it not ? "

He could hardly hear her answer.

'' I — I hope so, Ludovick."

He grasped her hand more tightly than
ever.

'' Then let this be the first step, my
darling ; and you will see that your fears
will vanish away one by one. You have
courage enough for anything — I can see
it every day — and why not for this ? Come
away now — yonder is Flora at the door of
the inn, waving a handkerchief for us.

And don't you forget to tell everything
quite frankly to your sister."

As they were walking back to the inn
she looked up to him with a smile.

Do you know, Ludovick," said she,
'' that when I am with you, when I hear
you talking, I have no fears at all ! Everything
seems quite simple and easy."

And indeed when they had returned to
the inn, and all of them were seated round
the table in the little parlour, no one could
have imagined from her manner that any
very serious conversation had taken place
between these two on Roy Bridge. She
was quite animated and cheerful ; and
submitted to some raillery on the part of
Aunt Gilchrist with the greatest of good-humour.
It is true that during the long
drive home she was somewhat silent ; and
the moment she entered the house she
went to her own room, and remained therefor
a considerable time. And when she

came out again and despatched Johnny to
the post-office with the letter she had
written, she seemed restless and uneasy ;
and she even lingered about the front
garden, pretending to examine the various
shrubs, until he had actually come back
again. But when she had ascertained from
him that the letter had been definitely and
irretrievably posted, her countenance cleared
considerably ; and, probably to make light
of her previous disquietude, she casually
asked John whether he had ever been to
Bridge of Roy.

'' No, mem, it's a long wei from here,"
said John.

But seeing that Alison did not immediately
dismiss him, Johnny made bold to
ask her if she had been at the burial-ground
that morning when they were up
in the Braes.

What burial-ground, Johnny ? " she
inquired of him.

Well, I am not remembering the name
of it," said Johnny, after a moment's pause,
'but it is up in the hills whatever, and
many's the time I hef heard of it. The
old people used to be buried there for
years and years. But what I hef been
told is thus," John continued, with a demure
twinkle in his eye, '' that they were burying
a Protestant in that place, where there
was none but Catholics before ; and ever
after that at night there was a terrible
noise of clashing of swords and shields
and dirks ; and all the people living there
were frightened to go by that way. Oh,
a terrible noise it was ; and when they
went to the Free Church minister — well,
mebbe he was not believing the story,
but he could do nothing at all ; and the
darker the night the more awful the clashing
and the noise. Cosh, I think the
Protestant man was a ferry good fighter,
when the whole of them could not put him

VOL. n. T

out ! And then it grew to be so bad that
they had to send for a Catholic priest ;
and he brought some holy water with him,
and said the prayers over the ground, and
now it is all quite again. But I know I
would not like to be going near that place
at night."

*' Are you a Protestant or a Catholic,
Johnny?" Alison asked, with a kind of
new interest.

Johnny looked at her inquiringly for a
second.

'' What will you be for being yourself,
mem ? " he said cautiously.

But this return question was a very
shocking thing. It was perfectly obvious
that this Laodicean sought to find out
what her faith was merely that he might
cheerfully declare himself of the same
way of thinking, and she could not countenance
any such piece of depravity ; so
she made some excuse for breaking off

the conversation, and departed into the
house.

It was a couple of days thereafter that
she received the answer to the letter she
had sent to Kirk o' Shields. Flora and
she had been out driving with Aunt Gilchrist
until late in the afternoon (for a
wonder, Captain Ludovick was not with
them — he had been summoned away on
business) ; and when they returned home
they were met by Hugh, who declared
that he had been working hard all day,
and besought the two girls to go out with
him for a row in the gig, for there was a
clear evening light shining all around, and
the loch was still. Flora good-naturedly
acquiesced, and so did Alison ; and both of
them would have forthwith gone down to
the shore, but that Hugh happened to say —

''Oh, there's a letter for you, Alison,
lying on the lobby-table. Shall I bring it
for you ? "

No," she said rather hastily — and with
some colour mounting to her face, for she
guessed what this might be — " I will get
it myself. Will you go down to the boat,
Flora ? I shall be after you in a moment."

So she quickly went back through the
garden, entered the house, and found the
letter lying there. Rather breathlessly she
tore it open, and glanced rapidly over its
several pages, with a wonderful strange
feeling rising and rising in her heart. For
what was all this ? Remonstrances ? —
reproaches ? — warnings of the opprobrium
she was earning for herself, and the shame
she was brinmnor on those nearest and
dearest to her ? No ; it was far from
that ; and she read with an ever-increasing
wonder and a joy that she could hardly
have explained to herself. The astonishing
thing was that Agnes did not even once
refer to the fact of Ludovick Macdonell
being a Catholic — though that had been

put prominently enough in Alison's letter
to her. This was all praise of Ludovick
Macdonell himself; though how Agnes
could have discerned so many fine and
admirable qualities in him during the brief
hour of his visit, her sister was far too
surprised and pleased to stay to inquire.
And very affectionately did Agnes write of
Alison herself — quite unusually so, indeed,
for people in Kirk o' Shields are reticent
in such matters ; but now there was a convenient
distance separating them ; and she
could say things on paper that probably
she would not have said to Alison herself.
And not only did the younger sister appear
extremely gratified, and even proud, that
Alison was going to marry the young man
who had seemed to her so much of a hero,
but also she said plainly that she was glad
the arrangement on which the Cowan
family counted was not going to be carried
out. She confessed that she had always

looked forward to seeing Alison a minister's
wife ; there was something so wise and
gentle and thoughtful about her that she
would be a great help and comfort to a
congregation ; but James Cowan was not
her ideal of a young minister ; moreover,
until he got a church, she feared Alison
would have been unhappy while living at
Corbieslaw. And might she write to
Captain Macdonell, to congratulate him ?
And would he answer her letter ? She
wanted to tell him a good deal about her
sister that perhaps he had not discovered
yet. Of course, if this was to be a secretin
the mean time, as Alison appeared to
desire, then a secret it should be ; but she
did not understand why there was any
necessity. And then the letter wound up
with all sorts of kind wishes and messages :
it was about as comforting an epistle as
could have been composed in these peculiar
circumstances.

For many and many a day thereafter
that happy evening Angered in Alison's
memory, though she hardly knew how she
got through the garden, and across the
road, and down the shingle to the boat
that was awaiting her. All the air seemed
full of music ; this was like a love-letter
that had been sent her ; all kinds of wistful
fancies that had once been discarded were
summoned back now ; and she wished to
say just two words to Ludovick, and to
look into his eyes.

'' You seem to have had good news,
Alison," said Flora to her, when she had
got seated at the tiller, and the two cousins
were leisurely pulling out into the loch.

Yes," she answered, with her cheeks
grown rosy-red, " I — I have had a very
kind letter — from Agnes."

Oh, from Agnes ? " Flora repeated,
with a glance of surprise ; but she said
nothing further ; and presently brother

and sister had settled into their long
steady stroke, which seemed to afford
them sufficient interest and occupation.

As for Alison, she did not care to break
the gracious silence that was all around
them ; her heart was murmuring to her of
its own happiness as they pulled along.
She did not think of asking herself whether
there was not something suspicious in the
fact of Agnes having so completely ignored
all her references to Captain Ludovick
being a Catholic, and the possible trouble
arising therefrom ; she did not reflect that
her sister might, out of an extreme delicacy
and kindness, have refused, at such a time,
to say anything that would dim her tender
hopes. No ; she only thought that she
would like to show this letter to Ludovick.
Did it not confirm all his prognostications ?
Was it not a fair beQ^inninor ? Her heart
within her said yes again and again, with
an exceeding comfort and joy.

Moreover, she had plenty of time to
weave these fond fancies ; for the two
cousins, as they worked away at the oars,
were humming together snatches of Gaelic
airs that did not interfere with her. It
was a beautiful evening, now that the sun
had sunk behind the western hills : just
above the lofty peaks the sky was of the
clearest gold, fading into a pale translucent
purple overhead ; while the waters of the
loch around them were all of a trembling
and lapping lilac-gray, with the universal,
sudden, bewildering ripples grown almost
black. As the time went by, the twilight
became more wan and ghostly ; and yet
the objects along the opposite shore, under
the darkening hills and the pine-woods,
could be made out with a strange, a livid,
distinctness. Then the first lights beQ;-an
to appear — a quivering orange ray here
and there that told of a distant window or
perhaps of an anchored yacht making all

snug for the night. When they finally got
ashore, and made their way up to the
house through the garden, the slumbering
air was sweet with the scents of the flowers,
and there were bats flitting about the
eaves, suddenly swooping between them
and the pale, clear sky. On the threshold
she paused and looked back. It was an
evening long to be remembered — an
evening of visions and dreams.

END OF VOL. II.

London: printed by william closes and sons, limited,
stamford street and charing cross.

3b£

^4

.^.■;'^'-

W

WILLIAM BLACK,

AUTHOR OF
A PRINCESS OF Title," "MACLEOD OF DARE," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

SECOND EDITION.

LONDON :

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

LIMITED,

Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, Eg.
1888.

wall rights risen ed.)

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A HOUSE-boat.
Fourth Edition. Three vols. Crown 8vo. 315. 6d.

It is pleasantly told with a plentiful seasoning of descriptio
of scenery . . . a wholesome fragrant book." — Saturday Rev hei

In small post %vo.^ uniform ; cloth extra,
price 6j". ech.

A DAUGHTER OF HETH. Nineteenth Edition.

THREE FEATHERS.

Ailment.

IN SILK ATTIRE.

LADY SILVERDALE's SWEETHEART.

SUNRISE.

ions

LONDON :

Sampson Low, Marston, Searle & Rivington, Limited,
St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane, Malcontents

OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

A BOLT FROM THE BLUE.

But, as it happened, the very next day
brought another communication from Kirk
o' Shields that was destined to lead the
way to a sudden and unexpected crisis.
A little accident helped. When Aunt
Gilchrist took the as yet unopened envelope
with her into the parlour, where the rest
of the family were seated at the table for
afternoon tea — the Doctor having also
dropped in by chance — and just as she
was about to sit down, she struck her foot

VOL. III. B

sharply against the leg of the chair. Fora
second she bit her lip in silence, and it
was clear she was suffering considerable
pain ; then she muttered to herself —

Dang this confounded thing ! "

Your language, Jane," said the Doctor,
quite good-naturedly, 'might be a little
more gentle."

Oh, my language ! " she said, opening
forth in wrath. " My language, indeed !
You can talk fine enough about your
oxides, and sulphates, and trash o' that
kind, to bamboozle a lot of fools ! — but
much good your long-winded names have
ever done to me ! Here, Alison, run away
and get me a cloth slipper — this infernal
fire is like to burn my toe off, now it's
begun again ! "

Alison went quickly away, and returned
with a pair of cloth slippers, and forthwith
the hurt foot was in a measure relieved.
But when Alison was for unbuttoning the

Other boot, her aunt said no — the one was
enough.

"Why, aunt," she protested, "do you
mean to say you can sit in comfort with
a boot on one foot and a shoe on the
other?"

'' Oh, Hasten, mother," Flora cried.
Isn't that like Alison ? Isn't she prim
and precise ! She's bound to grow up an
old maid ! "

'' More likely," Master Hugh put in,
she'll grow up to be like the old lady
who declared she couldn't go in proper
style to have her photograph taken until
she had put some eau-de-cologne on her
handkerchief " — though it is to be imagined
that that apocryphal old lady was an
invention of the moment.

But meanwhile Aunt Gilchrist had taken
her seat, looking very gloomy, for she was
vexed that Periphery should have been so
easily aroused again. And perhaps she

was all the more taciturn that the young
Munroes chose to make themselves surreptitiously
merry over her accident, and
that they were openly aided and abetted
by the Doctor, while Mrs. Munro looked
on and listened in mild amusement. Aunt
Gilchrist would have nothing to say to
that ribald crew. Nay, to escape from
them and their covert jeers, she betook
herself to her letter, which otherwise might
have lain unopened on the table.

And presently it was perceived that the
contents thereof were exciting her in no
common degree. Indeed, her astonishment
and resentment caused her to break forth
into brief muttered exclamations — exclamations
that showed clearly enough what was
passing in her mind.

'' Well, I declare ! " she cried, with
withering contempt. *' Bless my soul and
body, the woman's mad ! — stark, staring
mad ! But I'll teach her ! To talk to me

like this ! Well, I never did hear the
like ! "

What's your news, Jane ? " the Doctor
asked.

It's somebody that wants a lesson
taught them," said she, looking up fiercely.
'' And, my word, they'll get it ! "

If it's anything serious," said he
amiably enough, " I wouldn't advise you to
answer it in your present state of mind."

'' My present state of mind ! " she
retorted with scorn. " What do you know
about my present state of mind ! I suppose
you would like to doctor that too ! —
brown messes and white messes — once
every three hours — to be well shaken — is
that the thing this time ? Man, man —
Duncan, I wonder ye do not take all your
phosphates and hydrates and stuff down to
the sea some dark night and tumble them
in when there's nobody looking ! "

I might as well, if I had many patients

like you, Jane," her brother said with
great good-humour ; and presently, this
frugal meal being ended, he was the first
to rise, as his professional duties called'
him away again.

But Aunt Gilchrist took ellison with her
to her own room.

There, read that ! " said the incensed
little dame. '' Read that, Alison, and tell
me if there's another such impudent woman
in the whole wide world ! "

Alison took the letter — which she at
once perceived to be from Mrs. Cowan of
Corbieslaw — and carefully and deliberately
read it through ; but as she had no nerves
on fire to worry her, she did not find in it
anything calculated to arouse so fierce a
storm of indignation. She was very much
embarrassed, it is true ; for it was all about
herself and her prospects ; but in so far as
the tone of this communication towards
Aunt Gilchrist was concerned, it was

almost servile — indeed it may have been
the specious plausibility of the whole epistle
that had irritated the recipient of it.

Well, aunt," said Alison, " I don't see
anything in that to anger you."

Nothing to anofer me ! " she exclaimed.
What riorht has that woman to interfere

o

with me ? What business has she to
write to me at all ? So you're ' devoted to
the service of the Lord,' are you, ' and the
interests of His church ? ' Indeed, now !
But does she think I cannot tell what that
means ? Ay, but I can, though : I was
not born yesterday, Alison, my dear ; nota
bit of it ! The service of the Lord is
that Lm to provide that stickit minister
with a house and a wife at the same time,
and support the whole concern. Oh, that's
a fine way of providing for him ; better
than waiting and waiting for a pulpit. A
pulpit, my word ! To stick up a creature
like that in a pulpit : I'll tell ye what he's

better fit for — I'd stick him up In a cornfield,
to frighten the crows away! And
then ' the distractions and temptations
surrounding young people " Aunt Gilchrist
continued, turning to the letter again.
Tell me now, Alison : do ye think this
woman has a suspicion that there's something
between you and Captain Macdonell
? "

Alison flushed a rose-red, but she answered
frankly enough —

I don't know, aunt. It is quite possible.
I wrote to Agnes the other day about —
about Ludovick ; and she may by chance
have dropped some hint. Or perhaps it's
this — Mr. James Cowan met me walking
with — with Captain Macdonell in Kirk o
Shields one day, and he may have spoken
to her about the stranger — and — and perhaps
that's it."

*' So Fm to be her cat's-paw, am I?"
Aunt Gilchrist resumed, still indignant

with this hapless letter. " Fm to see that
the stickit minister is provided for ? And
it's all for the service of the Lord, of
course, and the interests of the church !
My certes, I'll send her an answer she
little expects : I'll teach her to dictate
to me, with her cringing, fawning, sneaking
pretences ! "

Then she turned to Alison herself.

Now, Alison," said she, in a much
gentler way, " I'm not blinder than other
people ; and I've seen the way that you
and your Captain Ludovick, as they call
him, are aye together. I'm not going to
ask ye questions, for young folk will have
their secrets — it's part of the play, I
suppose ; but this I will say to you — this
I'm bound to say to you — that ye need
not be afraid to speak to me about him.
No, I give ye my word : I've seen enough
of him, and I will say this, that a finer,
franker, better-natured young man never

Stepped in shoes. I was not quite so
certain about him at one time ; and I took
the liberty of giving him a hint or two —
for I'm an old woman, Alison, and ye're a
young one ; but I do honestly believe this
now — I do honestly believe he would take
ye this minute if ye had not a penny."

'aunt," said Alison — but there were
tears of gratitude trembling on her lashes,
and her voice was not very firm — " there
would have been no concealment — and
least of all from you — but it all seemed so
hopeless. It was broken off because I —
because I told him they would never
agree to it. He is a Catholic."

Yes, that's true, he is a Catholic— I
had forgotten that. But who's they ?
That woman Cowan ? " said Aunt Gilchrist,
beginning to sniff and fume again
at the mere mention of her enemy. ^' What
have they got to do with you ? Who
asked their permission ? If you want to

marry the young man, what business is
it of theirs whether he is a Catholic or
not ? The impudence of some people, I
do declare ! "

No, aunt, it wasn't the Cowans I was
mostly thinking of, nor yet the congregation
generally, though I made sure they
would be terribly against it ; but it is my
own family, my father especially. And I
thought about Agnes too ; but I wrote to
her, just to try — and — and I got a letter
from her that was a great surprise, so kind
it was, and not a word about his being a
Catholic."

"And Macdonell — what does he say to
all this, eh ? " was the next inquiry.

Well, aunt," Alison made answer,
with downcast eyes, "you know he has
been away the last day or two, and I
haven't been able to show him Agnes's
letter."

'agnes's letter!" she repeated. "But

I suppose he wants to make you his wife,
whatever any one may say ? "

I — I think so," was the half-heard
answer.

'' And I think so too ! " Aunt Gilchrist
said, with a proud kind of laugh. *' Oh,
ril warrant him ! Well, Alison, you maybe
off now, for I'm going to send this
woman her answer — oh yes, it'll be an
answer, I can tell ye — when I think of the
look of her face when she gets it, I could
just skip round this room, like a three-year-old,
only there's that little fire-devil
sitting watching on my toes. And here's
another thing, Alison : ye may tell me
your secrets, or ye may not tell me your
secrets, just as ye please ; but ye'll see if
I don't make it all fair and straight with
your Captain Ludovick as soon as he
comes back to Fort William."

Alison lingered, still regarding that
letter.

'aunt Gilchrist," said she, "you must
not say anything that will vex the Cowans.
They are great friends of my father's ; and
they are important people in the church."

"The wise little woman!" Aunt Gilchrist
said, with another laugh. " Well,
perhaps I'll not answer the fool according
to her folly; but I'll give her a bit of my
mind all the same. Now go away, and
tell Flora to stop that strumming, for I'm
going to write."

So Alison departed — very grateful to
Aunt Gilchrist for the kindly things she
had said about Captain Ludovick, but not
much reassured otherwise. She knew
very well that this brisk, independent,
cheerful lite Gallic was about the last
person to understand the Kirk o' Shields
folk, or what they would think of this
proposed marriage. Her ways were not
as their ways. The simple and self-sufficing
formula, "The Lord made us, and He'll

take care of us," was a very different thing
from their fierce contentions of creed, their
strenuous and anxious faith in their own
sectarianism. Aunt Gilchrist was delighted
to make the most of Hfe and enjoy the
brood things of this world : with them a
heart searching renunciation was the first
duty of ever' Christian, and an austere
contemning of this world the surest passport
to the next. ind if she seemed
disposed to make light of the fact that
Ludovick Macdonell was a Catholic, Alison
was well aware that the members of East
Street Church would be in no such mind.

Tvlean while it was remarkable that when
Captain Ludovick was absent from Fort
William the days did not pass nearly so
quickly ; and frequently, when her cousins
were otherwise occupied, and her aunt did
not need her assistance, Alison had to be
content with the companionship of the boy
John. She was trying to reform Johnny

now ; but the task was an uphill one.
When she endeavoured to reason him out
of his belief in witches and warlocks and
malevolent spirits, he answered with all
kinds of stories of what had actually
happened. And then when she remonstrated
with him about his own conduct —
his cruelty and malice and revengeful
tricks — Johnny had always some excuse
or another for his wickedness. One morn-nor,
as she was setting ready to ofo downstairs,
she casually went to the window
which was a habit she had unconsciously
formed. She did not wish to play the spy
on johnny ; but this window commanded
a view of the garden, the road, and the
shore ; and if Johnny was anywhere about,
he was sure to be in some mischief or
other ; so that she was continually catching
him in this fashion, after which she would
go and lecture him severely. On this occasion
she perceived that Johnny was merely

talking to a small boy who was outside
the railings, In the road ; and there did not
seem much harm In that. It was clear
that Johnny was trying to persuade the
small boy to come round by the gate Into
the garden ; but the other shook his head
and remained where he was. Thereupon
Johnny took something out of his pocket
and showed it. The small boy approached
a little nearer. Then Alison made out
that what Johnny held in his hand was a
common clay pipe ; and now he pulled out
a match and lit the pipe, which he passed
through the railings to the small boy, who
began to smoke. She was very angry
that John should have been teaching that
flaxen-haired urchin so wicked a practice ;
but little did she know what It all meant.
She went back to finish her dressing,
resolved to rebuke him by-and-by.

When she got hold of him later on she
said sternly —

"What were you about this morning,
Johnny ? I suppose you thought no one
saw you ? tow dare you go and teach a
Httle boy to smoke tobacco ! "

Now Johnny, so far from being disconcerted
or frightened, grinned in honest
anticipation that she would enjoy his Httle
joke.

Aw, Cosh, it was the finest thing •!
ever sal ! " said he. '' He was ofettine
seeker and seeker, and whiter and
whiter ; and before he went awe he could
scarcely crawl along the road ! "

Then a suspicion of the truth flashed
upon her.

Do you mean to say," she demanded,
"that you deliberately got that little boy
to smoke in order to make him sick ? "

Well," said Johnny, sturdily, "there lass
been more as once that him and his big
brother they were throwing stone at me.
And I said to myself, ' Ferry well ; throw

VOL. III. ^ c

1v

awe ; it Is your turn now, but It will be
my turn some other time."

"Yes," said she indignantly, "but you
took good care it was not the big brother
you were revenged on ! "

Johnny was not a whit abashed by this
taunt.

Well," said he, " the big brother is
bigger than me, and he throws stone at
me ; and if the little one is smaller than
me, then it is my turn. Two Is too many
for one ; but when you get them separate,
then Is the chance. Cosh, that one will
not be for throwing stone for a little while !
And if he did not want to smoke, what
made him smoke ^ "

I suppose you pretended to be friends
with him?" said she; but in truth she
despaired of bringing this Incorrigible lad
to a sense of his iniquities.

Johnny grinned again.

Oh ay, he was ferry suspicious at

the first. Mebbe he thought there was
gunpowder in the pipe. But I had to
light it myself and gif it to him ; and I said
he would never be a man at all until he
learned to smoke ; and I said that smoking
was ferry nice — and mebbe so it uz, or
they would not be all at it. But where is
he now?" continued Johnny, with a sudden
incoherent laugh of fiendishness. " Well,
I think he is lying down on the shore, with
his head on the cold stone, and his cheeks
as white as a sheet of paper ! "

I suppose you think it very clever to
torture a small boy like that ! " said she
angrily. " But wait a little. Wait till he
tells his people at home — wait till he tells
his big brother — then you'll catch it ! "

But this threat was not of the least
avail.

*' No, no ; I'm not thinking he will do
that," Johnny said coolly. '* He will not
say a word to any one, not to any one at

all, for fear of a strapping. He will not
say a word. But he will be in less of a
hurry to throw stone at me again ! "

And then once more she had to give up
the task of reforming this reprobate as
something quite hopeless ; for Johnny had
always some argument with which to meet
her remonstrances. Nor was it any use
to warn him that sooner or later he would
receive a sound thrashing, for he had been
let off too many times before ; besides, in
this strange world in which he found himself,
surrounded on all hands by malevolent
creatures, armed with fists and claws and
hoofs and stings to injure him, he had so
much to do in fighting these enemies and
in getting his revenge (either on them or
their congeners) that he soon forgot warnings.
He was too busy, in fact — for he
was determined not to have the worst of
this incessant conflict ; and where he could
not win to victory by strength, he could

fall back upon a very respectable fund
of patience and astuteness and malicious
cunning.

One evening Flora and Alison were
strolling backward and forward through
the garden, arm-ins arm. They were bareheaded,
for the air was warm and still ;
Flora carried a scarlet double poppy
hanging from her hand, Alison had a
white rose at her neck. And no doubt
any passer-by would have thought that
these two pensive maidens were merely
drinking in the balmy air, and idly regarding
the various bright beds of pansies and
snapdragon and sweet-william ; whereas
the truth was that Miss Flora was entertaining
her companion with sundry experiences
of her own, especially as regards
young men, and their insensate folly and
simplicity as she had seen these exhibited
on diverse occasions. It was hardly an
edifying conversation ; for Miss Flora

frankly confessed that nothing dd%fated

bersomiKli as to see two youi:^ rr.r. 2:

dU^n a s drawn on her acxoimt, and cnriog

darker to conceal die same Hrr

cantiqis and coquetries were !' /

over ; bat Alison could guess ^

^le knew where lay the or

bitter underhand fatckeriii^ :.

and animosities. The dem. t

was in thigh handsome danse 5 t - i :. i :.

"" Hullo ! "^ she exclaimed, happening to
look along; the road :dL

come bad' And ther - 1
thoo^^ "swell Fm
Marlmirs', to beg fir
copper beech for the 1 : ^ ^
I wonder why coheir :: zz-
ittdbe' bloody' bet
fikdy. I suppose I can go :
getting my bonnet"*

So dx. went; down to the gate post intime

to meet Ludovick there ; shook hands
with him, and asked him about certain
common friends of theirs in Edinburgh ;
and then went carelessly on her way. By
this means she left him to find Alison
alone in the garden.

I have something to tell you, Ludo-vice,"
said she rather shyly, when he
came up.

And I can see by your face that it isn't
very bad news," said he. ** Let's sit down
on this seat, and you can tell me all about
it. Well ? •'

'' I have heard from Agnes,'^ she said,
when they were seated together, just outside
the house.

** Yes, and she hasn't cried * Bogey ' at
all ? '' he said cheerfully.

''No •'

Didn't I tell you ? " he broke in.
Wasn't I sure of it ? Well, now, there is
some encouragement for you : that will give

you heart of grace for a beginning at
least "

Yes, but, Ludovick," Alison said, with
a kind of rueful smile, " it's all very well
for you to make light of difficulties — for
you simply won't look at them. Now, in
this letter it is rather odd that Agnes
doesn't say a single word about your being
a Catholic "

'' Why should she ? " he asked. " Why
should anybody ? "

But I particularly mentioned it," washer
reply, for she had been pondering over
this matter, " and told her all my perplexities,
and what I feared. Well, she
doesn't say a word in answer to all that !
She says a lot of very nice things about
you, and is very kind to me ; but there's
not a word with regard to the very question
I wrote to her about ! "

*' Because that is unnecessary," said he,
'' and she knew it."

Alison shook her head doubtfully.

'' I am not so sure," she said. " However,
there is one thing I must tell you.
Aunt Gilchrist knows all about it now, and
she approves "

*' Of course she does ! " said this hapless
young man, who did not dream how soon
his buoyant confidence and dearest hopes
were all to be dashed to the ground. " I
could have foretold that. Your Aunt
Gilchrist and I are excellent friends, and
quite understand each other. We had a
talk last summer — about you. But what
led her to say anything definite ? "

'' There's a Mrs. Cowan," Alison made
answer, rather hanging down her head the
while. " I — I told you — about that young
man "

*' Oh yes, I remember," said he carelessly
; " the fellow with the long-tailed
coat and the flabby trousers."

"And — and Mrs. Cowan wrote to Aunt
Gilchrist about him — and about me "

Really ! That was very kind — very
considerate," he said — for he did not seem
to concern himself much about this rival.
She wanted to secure the prize for her
hopeful son. Very natural. Well ? "

Well, Aunt Gilchrist was very angry —
besides, she happened to hurt her foot just
as she got the letter, and that made her
all the more irritable ; and before sending
her answer she questioned me about —
about you, Ludovick — and she approved
at once, and without hardly saying anything
about your being a Catholic "

*' There ! " said he. '' There is another
one ! "

But Alison was not so confident as he
was.

I am afraid that answer of Aunt Gilchrist's
will make mischief, Ludovick," she
said absently.

Oh, nonsense ! " he cried. *' Why,
Alison, you mustn't be afraid of those

people. You're in Lochaber now — you're
not in Kirk o' Shields ! I believe they
cow you when they get you among them —
you that have courage and nerve for anything
when your own natural self gets the
upper hand. Here you are not frightened
of anything — I believe you'd face Johnny's
big Duffle himself if you saw him coming
along the road. And now you have got
an answer from the only two people you
have consulted ; and you see they don't
anticipate any terrible opposition. Of
course," said he presently, with more of
gentle consideration in his voice, " I quite
understand your hesitation. You find
yourself at present very much alone. You
don't know what may happen ; and you
have been brought up to put weight on
the opinion of all those people. But you
see, Alison, if once the definite step were
taken, you wouldn't be any longer alone ;
you would have given me the right to be

your protector ; and I can answer for it
that I will take care you shan't be harmed
or interfered with by anybody's opinion
or opposition. You are alone now. You
wouldn't be alone then."

She looked up to him, as if already
appealing for that guidance and protection,
and she said —

'' Then what would you have me do
now :

Well," said he, '' I don't think you
could do better, in order to be rid of all
these anxieties, than write to your father
at once, and tell him frankly the whole
position of affairs."

Her eyes widened with a sudden apprehension
; then she said gravely —

'* I would rather wait — until I could
speak to him. Writing seems so cold a
thing."

He said with a smile —

'won't you have lost a great part of

your courage, Alison, when once you are
back In Kirk o' Shields ? And in the
mean time, why should you suffer anxiety,
when the way is clear ? "

The way was not so clear as he imagined.
At this moment Flora made her appearance,
approaching the gate with a few
branches of the " bloody beech " in her
hand. As she came up through the
garden she said —

Now you may scold me, Alison, as
much as you please. I met the postman
this afternoon, and got the letters from him,
and the one for you I put in my pocket, and
forgot all about it until a couple of minutes
ago. Here it is. I'm very sorry ! "

'' I'm sure it doesn't matter," Alison
said, as she took the letter from Flora,
who straightway went into the house with
her leaves.

And then Alison glanced at the envelope,
and started slightly.

This Is from Agnes," said she to her
companion. '' You won't mind my opening
it ? — perhaps she has something further to
say."

As for him, he was anticipating no evil,
and it did not occur to him to watch the
expression of her face as she ran her
frightened eyes over these brief pages,
that were written in a tremulous and
uncertain hand. Her lips grew very pale,
but she said nothing. Even when she
had finished she did not stir ; she seemed
scarcely to breathe ; she held the letter In
her clinched fingers, and blankly gazed
at It.

'' Dearest Alison," her sister wrote, in
that trembling hand, " I hardly know how
to tell you. Something dreadful has
happened. Mrs. Cowan has been here —
and saw father. Then he came to me,
and questioned me — only a few words —

but I have never seen him look Hke that
before — oh, it was terrible ! and his eyes
were like coals, and he spoke to me as he
never spoke before. And what he said
was that I was to sit down and write to
you that unless you were back home
within four and twenty hours after getting
this letter, the door of the house would be
shut on you for ever. Dear Alison, my
heart is just like to break ; but what can I
do but send you the message ? Come
home quick, quick, and go to him yourself.
He said he was glad mother was dead —
but oh ! it was his look that was so terrible.
Come home quick, Alison, for I don't know
what to do.

"Agnes."

Ludovick Macdonell was idly gazing
across the loch, and at the darkening
opposite hills, behind which the sun had
already sank, while he waited for his companion

to finish her letter. But when he
heard her utter a brief sigh he turned
quickly, and it was well that he did so, for
he found she had grown deathly white,
and in another moment she would have
fallen senseless from the seat.

CHAPTER II.

IN EXTREMITY.

The evening after-glow had deepened and
rlchened in its marvellous intensity of light
and colour ; for while in the shining skies
overhead there hung masses of crimson
cloud that were soft and ethereal in their
reposeful majesty and calm, down here the
wide waters of the loch were all of a
lambent ruddy-purple, broken everywhere
by multitudinous swift-glancing ripples —
black shuttles they seemed to be, darting
transversely hither and thither through the
rose-violet fire. And yet, despite this
final glory in sky and sea, a sombre darkness
was gathering over the western hills

VOL. in. D

behind which the sun had gone down ; and
the profound and hushed silence prevailing
everywhere seemed to tell of the coming
of the night.

And it was under these still shining
heavens and by the side of these lustrous
waters that Alison and her lover walked
slowly to and fro, he earnestly pleading
with her, she almost too distraught to
make answer ; for the meaning of that
letter was plain enough. The end had
come.

Ludovick," she said at length, between
her only half-concealed sobs, 'since ever
we two met it has been one good-bye after
another, but this is the last ; and it is
better it should be the last. It was all a
mistake from the beginning. And I have
been the one to blame, I know that. I
should have discovered you were a Catholic ;
and then — and then, after knowing it, I
should never have come back to Fort

William. I thought it would be easy
enough. I thought we could be friends.
But I am the one that is to blame ; and I
I shall have to bear the punishment ; for
you are a man — you will forget it all in a
year or two ; but I am a woman — it will
go with me through life."

Come, don't talk like that, Alison ! " he
said to her, but very gently. " Things are
not so bad as that. But they are bad
enough ; and I will tell you what it is I
fear. You see, when you are left to your
own judgment, when you are removed
from certain influences, when you are herein
the Highlands, in short, I do believe
you are the most clear-sighted, courageous,
self-possessed woman I have ever met
with ; but as soon as you eo back to that
town you surrender yourself and become
quite a different being. You are afraid of
the congregation ; the elders' wives are
all-important to you ; why, you even seem

to owe some mysterious duty to those
ancient Blairs of Moss-end — who were no
doubt worthy old gentlemen in their own
day, walking according to their lights, just
as you should do now, without being
tyrannized over by them or their ghosts.
Here in the Highlands you are bright and
merry and talkative, and happy as the day
is long ; there you are a timorous frightened
creature, who will hardly hold out your
hand when a friend calls on you. I don't
know whether it's the moral atmosphere of
the place, or the physical, or both ; but
what I fear is that when you go back there
you will lose your self-possession, you will
let them do with you what they like, and
then what will be the end ? Why, that
you and I may never see each other again
in this world."

'' Ludovick, what else is there ? " she
said piteously.

'' I wish you had never gone back to

that town ! " he exclaimed almost angrily.
'' Why was I such a fool as to let you go
back last summer ? — why am I such a fool
as to let you go back now ? "

'' Ludovick," said she, with an accent of
reproach, " would you have the door of my
father's house shut against me for ever ? "

Well, I know what will happen," he
said. " I know it to a certainty. I tell
you, Alison, I do believe I understand you
better than you understand yourself. I
have reasoned it all out many a time —
after what Flora told me. Many a night
I used to lie awake in the dahabeeah we
had on the Nile — a fine place for thinking
it was, the hammock slung in the small
cabin, and hardly a whisper heard of the
water outside — and I went over aorain and
again all Flora's explanations, and I got to
see pretty well how you were situated.
And haven't I told you before now that
you are a far more human kind of being in

the Highlands — that you show all your
frank qualities of mind and disposition —
that, in fact, you are the Alison that all of
us up here have got to be so fond of
But what are you in Kirk o' Shields ! — the
Minister's daughter, a cowed creature,
superstitious, timorous, with all your natural
gaiety crushed out of you by the fear of
the congregation. Oh, upon my soul it's
too bad ! " he exclaimed, in his hot impetuosity.
'rit's too bad ! You — who
have the spirit of a lark — who are naturally
as light-hearted as a bird — and — and
merry — for you to be chained down — to be
shut up in that dungeon — that hole — it's
too bad ! "

But this indignant and incoherent protest
brought no light of direction with it.

It isn't every one who can choose," she
made answer rather sadly. " And it's all
very well for you, Ludovick, to make light
of duties ; but the duties are there ; and it

would be better not to live at all than to
live with a conscience that would always
be reproaching you."

Oh, now you're beginning to talk like
Kirk o' Shields ! " he said roughly. '' I
wish you would talk like our Alison — like
the Alison we know."

And what would you have me say,
Ludovick — except good-bye ? "

The question was a simple one, not to
say a pathetic one ; but it received no
answer. His soul within him was chafing
against these unseen bonds, that were all
the more vexatious that they were impalpable
and not to be seized and broken
asunder. He walked on in silence by her
side, his brows knit, his eyes fixed mostly
on the ground. As for her, she was
regarding the now fading glories of sea
and sky with the knowledge that, here at
least, she should never look on them ao^ain.
She was taking farewell of them, as it

were. She was Princess Deirdri, gazing
for the last time on the land where she had
been beloved and happy.

'' Alison," said he presently, '' have you
definitely resolved to go back to Kirk o'
Shields tomorrow ? "

'' What else can I do, Ludovick ? " she
said. " I cannot have my father s house
shut against me. I must go back."

Then, as I say, I know what will
happen. Here and now you might make
a resolution — I might even claim a promise
from you ; but there you would soon be
under the power of old influences and
associations ; and you would let yourself be
led. Do you forget what your aunt Gilchrist
told me ? — that you were very nearly being
induced to marry that wretched creature of
a divinity student "

'' But that was different, Ludovick ! " she
exclaimed, in eager self-justification. '' I
I thought it was all over between you

and me — I knew it was — and I didn't
seem to care what happened "

'' And won't the same thing occur again ?"
he said. " The moment you go back you
will be forbidden to have any communication
with such a frightful monster as a
Catholic — and the years will go by — and
some fine day I shall hear of my Alison
being married to that stickit minister, as
your aunt calls him. That will be a
pleasant thing for me to hear."

I don't think you ever will, Ludovick,"
she said, in rather a low voice.

You don't think so now, because you
are here, on the shores of Loch Eil ; but
you may think differently when two or
three years of living in Kirk o' Shields,
among all those people, have changed you.
And I wonder what Mrs. James Cowan —
that is the name you will be wearing then,
isn't it ? — I wonder what Mrs. James
Cowan will be saying to herself when she

sees In the newspaper that the Ludovick
she used to know in other days has got
married too ? I wonder what she will bethinking
then ? or will she think at all ?
I suppose she will have forgotten there
ever was such a person, or that she was
ever in such a place as Lochaber."

"You are not — not very kind to me tonight,
Ludovick," she said, in tremulous
tones, "and — and I am going away tomorrow."


He suddenly stopped (a gray twilight
lay over the land now ; and these two
figures were quite dark against the wan
lilac of the water), and he took both her
hands in his, and held them tight.

'' Sweetheart," said he, in a very different
voice, " don't heed what I have been
saying ! The very idea of losing you
altogether maddens me ! I can't bear
your going away — when I think of what
may happen, with distance and perhaps

years separating us ; and when I see you
standing here so close to me, and not very
happy, I suppose — you, my own Alison,
that should be mine always — and yet you
are going away from me — well, I was too
impatient — and you will forgive me ! "

These appealing sentences had to cease ;
some belated traveller was coming along
the road ; and they had to resume their
walk in silence until he had passed. Then
he said —

You see, Alison, what I was thinking
of is this : it is so easy for two young
people to say they will never marry if they
cannot marry each other ; and they make
promises and vows ; and they separate,
quite sure of each other's constancy. It's
the commonest thing in the world. But
circumstances are strong ; you can never
tell what may happen in absence ; misrepresentations
may be made, or false
rumours get about ; and friends and relatives

may be urgent until — well, until one
of the lovers forgets what she has promised,
or Is perhaps piqued by false reports Into
marrying some one else ; and the other
one — well, he Is miserable enough for a
time, but he gives up the dreams of his
youth, and by-and-by consoles himself as
best he may. Oh, I assure you," he continued
(and now the whole twilit world
was to themselves, and there was not a
sound but the monotonous plash of the
ripples along the sea-weed), " I could preach
to you for an hour on that subject ; for I've
been preached to, again and again, and in
very similar circumstances. I should like
to tell you the story, Alison : perhaps you
would care to know what the two sweethearts
did ? "

He paused in his walk, while she stopped
too. He was regarding her curiously ; her
eyes were downcast ; probably she was
listening with sadly wandering thoughts ;

for how could a story interest one who was
about to say good-bye for ever to the man
she loved ?

They were both friends of mine,"
Ludovick continued cheerfully enough,
though he never for a moment removed
his eyes from her downcast face. ** One
of them indeed was my chum — Ogilvie his
name. Well, at that time his regiment
was stationed at Fort George ; and it was
at the Northern Counties Ball at Inverness
that he met the youngest of the Ramsay
girls — the Ramsay of Kilcoultrie — Lilies
I think her name was, but I've often heard
her called the Flower of Strath-glas — and
the two of them took such a fancy for each
other that they were like Romeo and
Juliet over again. He was quite daft
about her — managed to get invitations to
any country-house she might be stopping
at — and worried his colonel's life out for
leave. But the Ramsay family wouldn't

hear of It ; they are very wealthy — and
besides she had become quite a famous
beauty ; and young Ogilvie had Httle
beyond his pay. At last they forbade him
to have any communication with her ; and
as they found that wasn't enough, they
resolved upon sending the Flower of
Strath-glas to the south of Ireland, where
she had some relatives, to live there for an
indefinite time. Ogilvie came to me. I
got preached at, as I tell you. He was
quite pathetic, and magnified all the
dangers of the threatened separation ; but
I don't think I would have intermeddled
on his account, if the young lady had not
come and appealed to me as well. That
finished me ; I couldn't refuse ; and when
I found out what pluck she had, I became
party to a little scheme, though the Ramsay
family have no idea until this day that I
had anything to do with it. The short
and the long of it was that one fine morning

these two young people, without
saying by your leave or with your leave,
got quietly married in Inverness — and no
one knew anything about it for nearly
three years thereafter."

They got married ? " Alison repeated,
rather faintly — and she raised her face
with asking eyes.

He was regarding her intently : her
raised eyes were seeking, and fearing, to
read the meaning in his.

But that is not what I would have
done," he said slowly. ** I would have no
secret marriage — not a bit. If I were ina
position like that — and if the girl had
courage enough — and if there was a chance
of our being separated for ever — then I
might ask her to go through a form of civil
marriage before the sheriff, because that
could be done instantly, and there could be
no chance of interference ; but immediately
it was over, I should want everybody to

know who cared to know. I should want
to be able to say, ' She is mine ; you can't
touch her now ; she may go back to her
own home, if she thinks her duty lies that
way, but she is mine : absence and threats
and persuasions are of no avail now ;
sooner or later we shall come together
again ; in the mean time we will wait, if
there is reason for waiting, but you cannot
divide us the one from the other any more.'
Alison," he said, " what is your answer ? "

She uttered a little cry, and buried her
face in his bosom.

Oh, Ludovick ! " was all she could say.

'* Understand," he continued, " I don't
want to drag you into any secret marriage
any hole-and-corner marriage. I want
everybody to know who has the right to
know. I should like you to go right back
now and let me tell Hugh and Flora, and
Mr. and Mrs. Munro, and your aunt Gilchrist
what we are going to do tomorrow

morning ; and after we have been to the
sheriff's chambers, then you are free to go
back to Kirk o' Shields. Isn't it simple,
Alison ? You are mine — but I want you
to be safely mine, that is all ! "

She withdrew herself from his embrace.

It is late," she said ; " they will be
wondering."

Indeed she hardly seemed to know what
she said ; and when they turned to walk
back to the outskirts of the little town —
where the orange lamps were beginning to
appear in the dusk — he led her by the
hand, as if she had been a child, while he
was persuading her that this step he was
urging her to take was reasonable and
natural and justifiable. She listened in
silence. Once only, in the midst of his
earnest, his almost passionate, pleadings,
she stopped him.

Ludovick," she said, " if — if I hesitate
don't think it is because I do not love

VOL. III. E

you, or am afraid to trust you. I have
trusted you ; I have given myself to you ;
what more can I do than that ? But — but
this is so sudden."

And then again he said, very gently —
I know, dearest Alison, that it is a
very startling thing, but the circumstances
are imperative. You are going away
tomorrow morning : it is a question of
hours. But if you are so alarmed, wouldn't
you ask the advice of your friends ?
Wouldn't you ask Flora and Hugh and
Mrs. Gilchrist ? They can only wish for
your good. I don't quite say you should
ask the Doctor and Mrs. Munro ; for, you
see, you are staying in their house, and
they are in a way responsible for you to
your father ; but your aunt Gilchrist — she
knows how you are situated, she is exceedingly
fond of you : why not ask her ?
In any case you would have to give her
some reason for your going away so suddenly

; why not give her the true reason,
and tell her what I want you to do ? "

'' Yes — yes — perhaps," Alison answered
absently : her thoughts were flying far
afield.

But as it chanced it was Hugh and
Flora who were first called into counsel.
As Ludovick and his companion were
getting back to the small garden-enclosed
villas they perceived two dark figures
coming along the road towards them, and
as these drew near they could be made out
to be Alison's cousins.

Why, where have you two been ? "
Flora cried, with good-humoured reproach.


I will apologize to your mother the
moment we get back," Ludovick said at
once, " for having kept Alison out so late ;
but the fact is something serious has
happened, and we had many matters to
talk over that could only be spoken of

University OF ILUNDU

Literary

between ourselves. She is going back to
Kirk o' Shields tomorrow morning."

*' What ! Alison ? " cried Flora ; and
instinctively the girl seized hold of her
cousin s hand, as if she would detain her
there and then, and prevent any such
spiriting away. '' What do you mean,
Ludovick ? "

'' It Is for Alison herself to say how
much I am to tell you," he answered.

She hesitated only for a moment.

'' Everything, Ludovick — everything,"
she said.

Well, thereupon Captain Ludovick told
his two friends the whole story of their
engagement (which was hardly news,
perhaps), of Alison's hopes that her friends
in Kirk o' Shields might perchance be
brought to sanction the marriage, of the
peremptory letter received that evening,
and also of his daring proposal for the
morrow morning ; and he hinted that

Alison was looking to them for some
advice and assistance in the straits in
which she found herself.

"Well, look here, Ludovick," Hugh
said frankly, ** I for one am dead against
it. I can foresee nothing but trouble — for
Alison first, and for both of you after.
You would land yourself in for you don't
know what. But in any case where is the
use of talking ? You couldn't 'get married
in that hasty fashion if you tried. How-could
you get married at an hour or two's
notice ? "

'* The simplest thing in the world," was
the confident rejoinder. " My dear lad,
I've been through it — as best man, that is ;
I know all about it. You get a lawyer to
draw out a declaration ; Alison and I sign
it ; you have two witnesses — you'll be one,
Hugh, and the lawyer the other ; then you
take it along to the sheriff-substitute ; he
reads it over and signs it ; you take the

warrant along to the registrar, and the
ceremony is complete. Simplest thing in
the world ! "

And then as they were going up through
the garden to the open door of the house
he told them the story he had told to
Alison, in explanation of his knowledge of
these particulars.

But, Ludovick," said Flora, who had
not yet expressed either approval or disapproval,
" how did that marriage turn out
in the end ? "

Why, excellently — excellently ! " he
said, with unnecessary eagerness. '' The
Ramsay saw it was no use crying over
spilt milk ; they made it up with the young
people very soon after the truth became
known ; and I must say the old man
behaved very handsomely. As for Major
Ogilvie and his wife — well, I went with
them as far as Suez last winter, when they
were going to India, and I'm sure there

wasn't a happier or merrier couple onboard."


Well, I don't know, Ludovick," Hugh
said doubtfully, as they were going into
the house ; " but I for one wouldn't advise
Alison to do anything of that kind."

'anything of what kind!" Captain
Ludovick protested. " This isn't a secret
marriage at all ! This is as open as the
day ! "

He could say nothing further at the
moment, for they had reached the diningroom
door, and Mrs. Munro came out to
scold the two recusants (as well as she
could scold anybody), and to inform them
that they should have to sup by their two
selves, as the rest of the family had
declined to wait for them.

It was not supper that was in Alison's
mind. She asked for her Aunt Gilchrist.
She was told that the old lady had gone
to her own room. Thither, accordingly,

Alison repaired — but slowly and thoughtfully,
for she did not know how she was to
acquaint her with what had happened.

And when she came to the door she
paused there, irresolute, that she might
gain some composure ; for her heart was
full. Aunt Gilchrist had been more than
kind to her. And now she was come to
say good-bye; and she did not wish to
appear ungrateful. There was something
else that was bringing her near to tears ;
but she was trying to put that aside for
the moment.

At last she summoned up courage, and
tapped at the door.

'come in!" called a cheerful voice;
and then on entering she found her aunt
seated by the little window-table, the gaslit,
and an open desk beside her.

"Well, what does my bit lady want ?" '
Aunt Gilchrist asked encouragingly
enough, as she laid aside the legal-looking

document she had been reading. " I was
just looking at your name, my dear, in
that paper there."

The girl went forward, hesitating — notable
to speak — and then she sank on to
her knees, and buried her head in the old
dame's lap, and burst into a passionate
fit of crying.

'' Oh, you've been so good to me. Aunt
Gilchrist — you've been so good to me ! "
she sobbed. 'rand I'm going away
tomorrow morning ; and perhaps they'll
never let me come to see you again ! "

'' Mercy on us, what in all the world is
this now ? " exclaimed Aunt Gilchrist, ina
swift blaze of anger. " Going away ?
Who says that ? Tell me who says
that ! "

But Alison could only sob and sob, and
made no answer ; and pity for the grief-stricken
child before her quickly interfered
with the old dame's wrath against these

persons unknown. She put her hand on
the soft brown hair.

"Aie, my dear," said she, 'what's all
this now ? Why, I've just been delighted
this while back to see you so light-hearted
and blithe and merry, and now all of a
sudden it's gone, and you're struck down,
and crying like a bairn. What is it, my
dear ? There, now, get up and dry your
eyes, and take that chair, and tell me the
whole story. I warrant it's none o' your
own wrong-doing ; I'll be bound for that.
But I know there's folk in this world just
that contentious and cantankerous that
they'll not let things go smoothly on. And
to interfere with such an innocent creature
as you ! I say interfere ; for unless faces
tell lies, ye're been a very happy young
madam since ye're been in Fort William
this time. Oh, I'm not asking for secrets,
never fear ; but old as I am I can see
what's as plain as a pikestaff to everybody

else. Well, now, that's a dear ! there's my
lamb ! you just draw your chair close up,
and keep quiet and peaceful, and tell me
the whole story."

But Alison could not so quickly recover
her self-control ; and so, as the simplest
key to the whole situation, she took out
the letter that had summoned her to the
south, and without a word handed it to
her aunt Gilchrist. And no sooner had
the little old dame begun to read Agnes's
trembling lines than it was quickly apparent
she had forgotten those exhortations to
peacefulness and calm which she had been
impressing on her niece but a moment
before. Her eyes began to burn ; her
teeth were set hard with indignation ; and
at last she dashed down the letter on the
table with her clinched fist.

It's that woman, Alison ! " she exclaimed,
with suppressed fury. " It's that
woman that's at the bottom o't ; and I

declare to ye she'll never rest until I set
my ten nails on her smirking, sniggering,
simpering face ! I wish I could see that
great yellow hogshead o' a husband o' hers
take a thick stick to her back ; that would
teach her to interfere In other folk s affairs.
But I've not done wi' her yet — my word,
I've not ; and for your father to be led
away by a cringing, mincing, scheming,
double-faced, wicked woman like that — oh,
it would drive a saint wild ! Has he no
eyes ? Does he no see that all her concern
is to get you to marry that bit o'
washed-out rag that they hope to make a
minister o' ? "

Alison shook her head.

"No, aunt, it — it isn't that has made
my father threaten to shut the door on me.
Can you remember — In the letter you sent
to Mrs. Cowan — whether you happened to
say that — that Ludovick was a Catholic ? "

Of course I did ! " said Aunt Gilchrist,

with rather a triumphant air ; " of course I
did ! I thought I would give her a fright
her and her tallow-candle-faced son !
Certainly I told her what stir notions were
as to your probable future, my dear ; and
I let her know pretty plainly that the
probationer was no included ! "

Ah, that is it, then," Alison said sadly
enough. '' She has taken the letter to my
father ; and no doubt she made the most
of Ludovick's being a Catholic. Well, it
does not matter. He would have had to
know sooner or later ; and I suppose this is
what would have been the end in any case."

*' And so you are really going away
back tomorrow morning, Alison ? " the
old lady demanded, with a curious look of
interrogation.

Yes ; what else can I do ? " the girl
answered simply. '' And I came to thank
you, dear aunt, or to try to thank you, for
all your goodness to me "

We'll say nothing about that," Aunt
Gilchrist broke in without ceremony.
'' This is what I want to know — have ye
put all this affair before Captain Ludovick ?"

'* Oh yes, indeed, aunt."

And — and what does he say about
it ? " the old dame inquired, in an off-hand
kind of fashion, but still regarding her
niece.

Alison hesitated. What was the use of
disclosing that wild scheme, when It had
already met with Hugh's distinct disapproval,
and with Flora's hardly less significant
silence ? Yet Ludovick had appealed
to her to include Aunt Gilchrist also
among her counsellors ; and so, briefly
enough, and with downcast eyes, she told
the little dame what it was that Ludovick
Macdonell had proposed should be done
on the very next morning.

And what a change came over Aunt
Gilchrist's face during this recital ! At

first there was merely surprise ; but when
she fully understood what was in contemplation
she became quite radiant and
exultant.

"Well done! — well done!" she cried,
with a kind of proud laugh. "There's a
proper kind o' man ! there's a fellow for
ye ! there's my brave laddie ! — and so that's
the answer he's sending back to they folk
in Kirk o' Shields ! " She laughed aloud
in her delight. "■ I declare to ye, Alison,
I could take three skips o'er the floor and
back again, if it serena for that wee devil
Periphery that's waiting for me ! I thought,
now, he would be for letting you slip
through his fingers ! My word, that's a
good one I that's the way to carry the war
into the enemy's camp. And you — what
do you say ? Is it to be ' hey the bonny
breast-knots' before ye go away by the
steamer ? Are we to have a wedding
sprung on us at a moment's notice ? Assure

as I'm alive, Alison Blair, if ye get
married the morn's morning, I'll dance a
reel wi' your good man in the evening, ay,
if I die for it ! "

Alison smiled a little, and blushed too,
and her eyes were averted.

'you see, Aunt Gilchrist, it is not quite
easy to say either yes or no, for it has all
been so sudden, so unexpected. I have
only spoken of it to Hugh and Flora.
Hugh is greatly against it; he foresees
nothing but trouble."

Hugh ? What's Hugh ! " the impetuous
small creature exclaimed. '' Hugh understands
about music and poetry and things
o' that kind : what does he know of the
practical affairs o' this blessed world we
ivm m :

And I imagine Flora thinks the same
way. Aunt Gilchrist," Alison said, looking
up doubtfully.

'' Flora ! What right has that impertinent

young minx to have an opinion at all ?
Tell her from me to mind her own business,
and keep to her gallivanting with those
young fellows she pretends to despise all
the time ! "

And — and you, Aunt Gilchrist ? "
Alison said, with some hesitation.

Come here ! "

She took the girl in her arms, and drew
down her head and kissed her very tenderly.

Ailie, my dear, I've never had a child
of my own, and yere been like a daughter
to me. There is nothing in the world I
would not do for your welfare. And
maybe I was a wee bit thing too hasty,
because I was delighted with the spirit o'
the lad ; and — and I was glad to think o'
they folk getting a slap on the cheek ; but
it's your own heart ye must consult, my
lamb ; ye must ask yourself what ye're the
courage to face ; for there may be trouble.
But mind this — now mind this, Alison — if

VOL. in. F

ever you are in trouble, ye'll never want
for a friend and a warm welcome as long's
I'm above the ground. Now go away
and think it out for yourself — and ye're a
wise kind of creature, too — and ye're got
decision enough when ye like : think it
out for yourself; ask yourself what ye
have the courage to do ; and then come
and tell me — to-night, or as early the
morn's morning as ye like."

Very well, aunt," Alison said, and
kissed her, and was about to leave the
room, when the little old lady called to
her again.

'' And just remember this, my dear,"
Aunt Gilchrist said, in a much blither
fashion, " that when I promised ye a home
and a warm welcome, I did not mean a
Hydropathic. Not one bit! You and I
will find for ourselves something snugger
than a bis: hotel filled wi' lunatics drinking

o o

water. And if ye do get married the

morn's morning, and if by-and-by ye would
take up your natural position in Oyre
House, just you tell your Captain Ludovick
that his bride will be provided for on all
points, for whenever he asks me I'll come
and be a mother-in-law to him for as many
weeks together as he likes."

Meanwhile the whole house had been
put in commotion by the news that Alison
was going away by the next day's steamer ;
but it was now grown late ; and there was
not much time left for consideration as to
what should happen on the morrow. When
Alison went downstairs, she found that her
two cousins and Ludovick had one out
into the garden ; for there was a clear
moonlight niorht shining all around — the
pale and silvery radiance lighting up the
flower-beds near at hand, the white road,
the gray beach, the still bosom of the
loch, and the far slopes and crags of the
opposite hills that rose into an almost

cloudless sky. She joined that Httle group
of black figures ; but she had no definite
message for them. Aunt Gilchrist had
left the matter to her own decision ; and she
would take the intervening time to think
over it. So Hugh and Flora discreetly
bade Ludovick good night, and slipped
into the house, leaving the two lovers to
their own farewells. These were not protracted
; for Ludovick did not wish to
weaken what he had said by any needless
repetition ; soon Alison had rejoined her
cousins, and in a little while thereafter the
whole household had retired to rest.

CHAPTER III.

FOR GOOD OR ILL.

Long into the nia:ht, and on towards the
morning, she sat at the open window of
her room, with this ghostly, silent, moonlit
world all around her, not even the whisper
of a ripple along the sea-weed margin of
the beach, not a breath of wind stirring
the wan gray surface of the loch. A kind
of phantom world it was, and she the only
living thing in it. And as she looked
absently and wistfully at the sleeping
water, at the silvered crags and slopes that
rose afar into the starry skies, at the
darker pine-woods in the north, and the
still more distant and visionary hills beyond

Loch Ell, the farewell souq- of the Princess
Deirdri would come again and again into
her head, like some recurrent, ineffably sad
refrain :

Glen Etive, O Glen Etive,
There was raised my earliest home.
Beautiful were its woods on rising.
When the sunt fell on Glen Stiver

* *

Glenorchy, O Gleiiorchy,
The straight glen of smooth ridges ;
No mani of his age was so joyful
As my Naos in Glenorchy I

* * *
Glen77iassan^ O Gle7miassan,

Long its grass ^ and fair its woodland glades ;
All to ourselves was the place of our repose
On grassy I7iver7iiassati ! "

For she was trying to put away from her
the momentous decision she would have to
face before the morning. It was her leave-taking
— this time a final leave-taking — on
which her mind was fixed. She had been
living in a fool's paradise ; Ludovick had
warned her of it at Bridge of Roy. And

here was the sharp and sudden awakening ;
and a swift end to all her pleasant day-dreams,
and to that joyousness that for the
time behoof she had deemed all-sufficient.

But there were two or three other chance
words of Ludovick Macdonell's that haunted
her in a curious way. Her Imagination
would insist on carrying her forward a few
years and showing her a certain thing
happening to her. She did not picture
herself as Mrs. James Cowan. If her
friends pleaded with her, if it was put
before her as her bounden duty — well, that
might or might not be : It was hardly a
matter of concern to her. She might be
Mrs. James Cowan, or she might still be
Alison Blair : she only knew that the
woman she looked forward to and beheld
in these coming years was a solitary
woman, with hardly anything to hope for,
and anxious only to secure forgetfulness of
what was bygone by Incessant attention to

the trivial duties surrounding her. One
morning — this Is what AHson saw, regarding
herself as another person almost — she
Is In Kirk o' Shields, and busy as usual
with her household cares, when a newspaper
arrives. It is addressed to her by
some friend in the North ; she opens It ;
there is a mark that attracts her attention
then her startled eyes read the brief
announcement of the marriage of Captain
Ludovick Macdonell, of Oyre House,
Lochaber, to Miss So-and-so, daughter of
So-and-so. '' And he was once my
Ludovick," that solitary woman is saying
to herself, as the newspaper drops from
her hand, and her memory flies swiftly
back to the time when every hour was a
delight to her, when kind friends were
around her, and the days shining and
clear, and her lover by her side, waiting
for a smile and a look, In the far solitudes
of Lochaber. And perhaps that Alison,

grown callous and indifferent with added
years, might dismiss the announcement of
Ludovick's marriage with merely a bit of
a sigh ; but this Alison — here at this
window, and with the knowledge that her
departure was now but a question of hours
had not so schooled herself This
Alison, with her arms on the sill, and her
head bent down on them, was sobbing and
sobbing as if her heart would break. The
other Alison might say, sadly enough,
He was once my Ludovick." This
Alison kept repeating to herself, '' He is
my Ludovick ; and tomorrow I may be
looking into his eyes for the last time."

Yet ever and anon the bewildering
alternative — that she should go through a
hasty and informal marriage ceremony just
before stepping on board the steamer — -
would reassert itself, and press for a
decisive yes or no. Guidance she had
none. Even her aunt Gilchrist, who at

first had been captivated by the mere
audacity of the proposal, had grown
doubtful. On the one hand was the girl's
own natural dread of so sudden and serious
an undertaking, on the other were her
lover's eager and impetuous representations.
And then, while her heart swayed this way
and that, now shrinking back in fear, now
grown bold through very desperation,
there would come before her once more
that vision of the solitary, sad-eyed woman
living in Kirk o' Shields — and the newspaper
with its laconic announcement — and
her knowledge that now she was wholly
cast aside and severed and foro-often. It
was Ludovick himself who had told her
that such was the way of the world.
Lovers swore vows of eternal constancy
when they were about to part ; but absence,
the persuasions of friends, perhaps false
reports — all these were powerful solvents.
She knew now what she had to expect

when she went back to Kirk o' Shields:
no more illusion was possible on that point.
Just as likely as not, she would be sternly
forbidden to hold any, even the slightest,
further communication with this dangerous
person who had almost drawn her away
from her allegiance to the true Church.
And night and day they would be pointing
out to her the iniquity of one in her
position thinking of marrying a Roman
Catholic.

The silence of this sleeping world
brought her no counsel ; the ineffable
beauty of the silvered night had no
message for her, unless it were to increase
her sadness at the thought of the morrow's
farewell. That unspeakable sadness followed
her even into the land of dreams ;
for when at length, worn out by these
conflicting anxieties, she flung herself, half
undressed, upon the bed, and eventually
fell into a troubled and uncertain slumber,

behold ! she was once more the Princess
Deirdri, saiHng away from the shores where
she had been joyous and beloved. There
was a sound of lamentation ; her friends
were weeping around her ; she could seethe
pleasant garden-land slowly receding
from sight, and the dark mountains
gradually hemming it in. But what was
the song of mourning ? — it was no longer
a farewell to Glen Etive and Glenorchy
and Glenmassan — it was " Lochaber no
more ! Lochaber no more ! " that the very
winds and the waves were shine and
calling as the boat sped away to the South.
And then still stranger things began to
happen. For surely this is no more the
Princess Deirdri — this solitary, pale-faced
woman, clothed, in black, who stands all
alone in a pew in the church, with the rest
of the congregation pointing at her and
murmuring. Then some one reads aloud
■ — and the sound of the reading Shoes

echoing through the silent church — 'rand
I heard another voice from heaven, saying,
Come oct of her, my people, that ye be not
partakers of her sins, and that ye receive
not of her plagues. For her sins have
reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered
her iniquities. Reward her even as she
rewarded you, and double into her double
according to her works : in the cup which
she hath filled, fill to her double. Hou mtcch
she hath glorified her self , and lived deliciously,
so much torment and sorrow give her : for
she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, aid
am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.
Therefore shall her plagues come in one
day, death, and mourning, and famine ;
and she shall be utterly burned with fire :
for strong is the Lord God who judge
her!' She stands unmoved, and white of
face ; no one comes near her ; the people
begin to leave — turning and pointing towards
her as they go, and murmuring

among themselves — until she Is absolutely
alone In the empty building. Darker It
grows and darker. The walls seem to
come closer together : why, this Is a prison
a dungeon — and she is lost for ever to
the outer world. And yet she is unmoved
; she is like a statue ; no prayer
rises to her lips, no tears come to her
eyes ; here In the darkness she remains
unheeding ; the life seems to have gone
from her ; she Is as stone ; she makes no
appeal to God or man. ind then — but
she knows not how loner thereafter — a
sound strikes her ear — a sound as of
distant bells — and a wild desire possesses
her to learn what is going on in the world
there Without. In the wall of the dungeon
is a small grating ; she climbs up to It ;
eagerly she clasps two of the Iron bars —
and lo ! a fair and sunlit landscape, with a
white beach sloping down to the sea, and
pleasant gardens, and dappled and preceding

hills. Breathless she holds on to
the bars ; for there is a wedding procession
coming along — the bride all in white — the
bridegroom gay and smiling — the bridesmaids
bearing white flowers. Nearer they
come — now they are passing by — and in
vain, in vain she strives to make herself
heard. *' Ludovick ! Ludovick ! — have you
no word for me ? " she calls to him in her
extremity of anguish ; but he cannot hear.
'' Ludovick ! Ludovick ! — have you quite
forgotten ? " she would call to him again ;
but her voice cannot reach him ; the
wedding-party has passed by ; her grasp
relaxes ; and with a wild cry of despair she
falls backward from the light, and knows
no more.

It was that despairing cry that awoke
her ; and when she came into the real
world again, behold ! the new day was
here — the new day that was to see her a
bride, or a broken-hearted fugitive and

exile. Quickly she went to the window
ao-ain — to assure herself that she was In
no black dungeon, forsaken and alone,
with the wedding-party going on in its
joyful procession, leaving her unheeded in
the dark. And if there was anything that
could bring peace to her troubled soul,
surely it was this tranquil dawn that was
now declaring Itself over land and sea.
Soft and shadowy It was as yet, for the
skies were veiled by a network of cloud ;
and strangely still it was — the loch a dead
calm, save where the smooth olive-green
reflections of the opposite hills were broken
by some wandering puff of wind into a
shivering silver-gray. There was no blaze
of morning splendour In this prevailing
quietude ; the only shaft of sunlight that
came into this mysterious half-darkened
world caught a solitary distant peak — a
shoulder of rose-hued granite that shone
clear and wonderful above the shadowed
mountains of Ardour.

Suddenly Into this silence and solitude
there stepped an apparition — at least so
her frightened eyes at first Imagined ; but
the next instant she had recognized the
well-known figure of Ludovick Macdonell,
who was coming Idly along the road, but
with his eyes fixed on the Doctor's house.
And the moment he caught slo^ht of her
she could see how his face lit up. He
waved his hand. She forgot that she was
but partly dressed ; again and again she
returned his salutation — for It seemed so
reassuring to have him near her, after
those black terrors of the night. But he
lingered there, in front of the small garden :
did he expect her to go down to him ?
Then swiftly she retreated from the window
dressed herself in a kind of way — thrust
her bare feet into slippers — drew a shawl
round her head — and presently, with
stealthy foot-fall, was making her way
down the stairs and through the sleeping

VOL. ni, G

house. The heavy lock made something
of a noise, but she did not heed that now ;
Ludovick was there, expecting her. And
then the next moment she found herself in
the garden — she rosy-red, and yet with
joy and welcome In her eyes, he hastening
to her with a look as glad as her own.

'' What have you to say to me, Alison ?
Is It to be yes ? "

He had not to wait for an answer — It
was written In her upturned face : he
caught her to him, and pushed back the
shawl from her forehead, and kissed her
again and again.

'' So you are going to be brave ! " he
said to her.

She hid her burning face in his bosom,
and murmured —

'' Ludovick, I am yours — yours — yours !
Tell me what Is right."

*' But you are all trembling ! " he exclaimed.


I have been so frightened," she said.
'there was a terrible dream — I thought I
was in a dungeon — and there was one
small window — and I looked through it
and saw you — you were going away to be
married "

"And there's a true dream, anyway!"
he said gaily. " Indeed I am going to be
married, as soon as ever this blessed town
of Fort William wakes up ! "

But why are you here already ? " she
asked ; and she disengaged herself a little,
so that they could walk up and down the
small gravelled pathways between the
beds of flowers, though still his arm was
interlinked with hers. 'what made you
think of coming so early, Ludovick ? "

Oh, well," he said evasively, " I have
just been strolling about."

Ludovick," she protested, " do you
mean that you have never been to bed at
all ? "

It was hardly worth while," he said ;
and then he added, 'well, to tell you the
truth, I was determined to have the earliest
possible glimpse of you, and I knew you
would come to the window some time.
And really it was very pleasant. There
has been hardly any darkness at all ; the
moonlight seemed to melt into the first
light of the morning. I have been walking
up and down in front of the gardens, and
wondering whether the good people would
be awfully angry if I went in and made up
a bouquet of all the prettiest flowers, for
the bride to carry in her hand."

** Were you so sure, Ludovick ? " she
said slowly, with downcast eyes.

I was nearly sure."

She was silent for a second or two ; then
she said — but perhaps merely to hide her
embarrassment — " How delicious the morning
air is ! Don't you think the flowers
smell more sweetly before the sun gets at

them ? That is why I Hke to sleep with
the window open ; you can almost tell
when the morning begins by the scent of
the flowers coming in, and the birds beginning
to chirp. I mean when I am
living here," she said, rather sadly. '* We
have neither birds nor flowers in Kirk o'
Shields."

I suppose not," he said lightly — for
he would not allow her to fall into any
despondent mood on her wedding-morning.
But you are not going to live always in
Kirk o' Shields. By the way, Alison," he
said, in a sort of incidental fashion, "don't
you think Oyre House looks very bare
outside ? I can't see why the gardener
shouldn't get some flowering plants trained
up the walls. I suppose you don't know
whether honeysuckle or a tree-fuchsia
would grow most quickly ? "

'' No, Ludovick, I'm sure I don't know,"
she said.

'the tree-fuchsia is certainly a beautiful
thing," he continued, as they were idly and
happily walking together, with interlinked
arms, between those beds of blossoms,
"when you can get it to grow properly. I
have seen the whole side of a house covered
with it — and the rich crimson bells go so
well with the dark-green leaves. But the
honeysuckle has the great advantage of
scent. Which would you like to have
round your window ? "

I ?" she said, looking up at this abrupt
question.

'' Yes ; I was just thinking," he said,
*' that I must try and do something to
make Oyre look less forlorn ; and I was
wondering whether honeysuckle or fuchsias
would be best."

'' I should think most people would
say honeysuckle," Alison made answer
modestly ; and then she said, '* Now I must
go in, Ludovick."

'' No, not yet," he pleaded. "We have
got the whole world to ourselves ; there
is no one thinking of stirring yet. I want

you to tell me " (For a moment he

could not say what he wanted her to tell
him ; then he hit upon an excuse for
delaying her.) " I want you to tell me
what are your favourite flowers for planting
out — beds like these, you see — tell me
your favourite colours in flowers. You
know, I don't think our man at Oyre has
much taste — or perhaps it's direction he
wants ; my father and myself never think
of interfering. Aren't you very fond of
white moss-roses, Alison ? I fancy they
are not so common as they used to be, but
we've got some bushes — oh yes, we've got
some "

'but I must go in, Ludovick ! The
fact is," she said, by way of laughing excuse,
" the pebbles are hurting my feet —
my slippers are so thin."

'' Then come and stand on the doorstep,"
said he.

'' But the servants will be about directly."

*' Oh no, not at all. You have no idea
how early it is yet. Why, don't they say
it is unlucky for lovers to meet on their
wedding-day before the ceremony takes
place ? But then, you see, this isn't the
wedding-day yet ; this belongs to the
night-time ; it isn't day at all yet."

It looks very like it, Ludovick," said
she — for now there were stray shafts of
sunlight striking on the higher crests of
the opposite hills ; and the yachts, that
had been black as jet on the lilac-gray
water, had now assumed their ordinary
colour, their riding-lights being no longer
distinguishable.

But despite the ever widening and
brightening dawn, their leave-taking was
a long and lingering one ; and even when
she had crept silently back to her own

room she found he was still in the garden
below, waiting for a last look or wave of
the hand. So from a jug of flowers that
stood on the small table beside her she took
a rose and fluor it to him, and kissed her
finger-tips therewith ; then she noiselessly-shut
the window, so that none in the house
should hear. But she did not go back to
bed again — there was too much to think
of on this eventful morning.

Eventful, indeed ! For no sooner had
Alison's decision become known throughout
the household than there was very
considerable perturbation, not to say dismay
— the elder Munroes having to be told,
and the Doctor taking no pains to conceal
his strong disapproval of so mad a project.

Of course, you are quite old enough
to judge for yourself, Alison," he said at
the breakfast-table, when the servant had
left the room, 'rand whatever you do will
be quite legal and proper and correct ; but

I wish it had not been done from this
house. We have had charge of you ; your
father will put the blame on us. And I
for one cannot but think that so sudden
and unconsidered a step may lead you into
difficulties that you don't anticipate just
now "

Duncan," his wife interposed, with a
quiet smile, " surely you have not forgotten
that you wanted me to do exactly
the same thing when we were sweethearts ?"

There's a great difference," he said
quickly and uneasily (for the father of a
family does not like to have his romantic
exploits of past days discussed at his own
breakfast-table). " There's a great difference
between a medical student without
any certain prospects and the young laird
of Oyre. Your family were quite right
in their opposition — I may say that now ;
but where can the objection be to young
Macdonell — what is the use of this hurry

what is the need of rushing into a hasty
marriage ? "

Duncan, my man," interposed Aunt
Gilchrist, with but scant courtesy towards
her brother, "ye're just havering. There's
plenty of objection to young Macdonell
among they folk in Kirk o' Shields ; and
if Alison goes back there without some
such bond, I doubt whether she will ever
see him again. Oh, I'm not responsible
for the marriage — ye needna think that !
I left it to herself— I left it to herself to
say whether she had courage enough ; but
now that my bit lady has plucked up
heart, do ye think I'm going to desert
her ? Not I ! That's not like me, I tell
ye ! I'll stand by your side, Ailie, my
dear; and I've got something to hint to
your Captain Ludovick when I get a quiet
word wi' him that'll no disappoint him, I
reckon."

'' Responsible or no responsible, Jane,"

said the Doctor, who seemed extremely
uncomfortable about this affair, *' you are
taking act and part in it. And if it were
an ordinary marriage, with proper notice
given to everybody — but an irregular

marriage

Who says it is an irregular marriage ? "
demanded the little dame fiercely.

*' They are going to be married by
declaration and a warrant of the sheriff-substitute
— isn't that the proposal ? " her
brother said.

^' What then?"

'' But that zs an irregular marriage," he
insisted. '' You will find it will have to be
so described in the Register."

Then Aunt Gilchrist laughed aloud in
her scorn.

Well, I declare ! " she cried. '' You do
exactly as the law bids ye, and then the
law itself tells ye it is irregular! Dod,
man, Duncan, the lawyers maun be as daft

as the doctors ! Never mind, it's a marriage
all the same ; and if I'm to be at the
wedding, I'm going to make myself as
splendid as splendid can be, and Alison is
coming to help me. And mind," said this
imperious small person, as she was leading
her niece away with her towards the door,
'mind, as this is Alison's wedding-day,
I'm not going to tramp backward and forward
through the streets of Fort William.
One of you, Hugh or Flora, you'll just
step along to Mr. Carmichael, and say I
want the waesfonette sent here instanter,
and the best pair o' horses in the stable.
And if the man has a new suit o' livery,
then on wit at once ! Come away, Alison ;
it's * hey the bonny, ho the bonny, hey the
bonny breast-knots ! ' and if ye're got no
special finery for the wedding, see if I
cinna make that up to ye before long — my
word for it ! "

And then again, when the little silver-haired,

fresh-complexioned, bright-eyed
woman had got her niece into her own
room, she placed her at arm's-length before
her and regarded her.

"They've no frightened ye, Ailie, my
dear ? "

No, aunt, not in the least," Alison
answered, quite simply.

There's self-possession for ye ! there's
coolness ! — there's my bit lady, that would
face a regiment of cavalry when her mind's
made up ! " Aunt Gilchrist said, quite
proudly. '' That brother o' mine — don't
you heed him, Alison ! They professional
folk are just that timid about what the
neighbours may say — they're a' living in
glass houses — and they arena call their
soul their own. But I thought he might
frighten you."

'' Well, aunt, this is how it is," Alison
made answer. " I was very much troubled
and very anxious at first, when I had to

consider this — this proposal ; but since I
have given my promise to Ludovick, it is
of no consequence what any one may say
that is all."

*' Since you've given your promise to
Ludovick ! — and when was that, I wonder?"

This morning."

This morning "

"He was in the garden, aunt : I went
down and saw him."

They young folk ! they young folk ! "
exclaimed Aunt Gilchrist, shaking her head
mournfully ; but she was not deeply displeased,
and forthwith she went to her
chest of drawers. 'well, Alison, I'll show
ye the gown I'm going to wear; and if ye
cinna say it's fit for a wedding, I'll call yean
ungrateful hussy."

Indeed, one might have thought it was
Aunt Gilchrist herself who was about to be
married, from the importance she assumed
on this momentous morning. Of course

there was a vast amount of hurrying, for
the time was short ; and yet In the midst
of it all Aunt Gilchrist found an opportunity
of calming the consciences of the
elder Munroes, who were not a little
alarmed by what was going on. She
pointed out to them that they need not
take any part whatsoever in this projector
be in any way responsible for it. What
would happen, would happen after Alison
had left their house. Her luggage was
quite ready ; let the lad John convey it
down to the quay. Alison would say
good-bye to the Doctor and Mrs. Munro
at their own door ; and if she chose to go
through a marriage ceremony with anybody
— no matter whom — between that
leave-taking and her departure by the
steamer, why, that was her own affair, and
they need not be supposed to know.

When Ludovick Macdonell came along,
a few minutes thereafter, Flora's quick eye

perceived that he did not wear his usual
happy and careless audacity of manner ;
he seemed anxious about Alison somehow ;
he kept looking at her from time to time —
though, to be sure, she appeared perfectly
calm and self-possessed. He had no opportunity
of speaking to her alone until
they were going down through the garden
to the waggonette, and even then it was
only a word.

'alison," he said, in a low voice, 'ram
I asking too much ? "

No, Ludovick," she answered simply,
and with frank eyes upturned to his.

And indeed there was nothing very
exacting or imposing or terrifying about
this brief ceremony. When they drove
along to the solicitors office, that functionary
drew out a declaration of marriage
from particulars he had already received
from Captain Ludovick. The two contracting
parties signed it — Alison's hand

VOL. ni. H

just trembling a little ; then two witnesses
had to sign, of whom Aunt Gilchrist boldly
claimed to be the first. The bridegroom
looked doubtfully at Hugh.

Perhaps you would rather have nothing
to do with it, Hugh ? " said he.

"Oh, I'm going to stand by you,
Ludovick," the younger man answered
promptly, and he took the pen from Aunt
Gilchrist and affixed his name.

The next part of the ceremony was

equally brief and simple. Armed with

this important document they drove along

to the big brown-stone building in which

the sheriff's court is held ; there they

sought out the sheriff-substitute in his

chambers. That worthy gentleman read

over the declaration, signed it, and handed

it back to Captain Ludovick, whom, by

the way, he chanced to know slightly ; and

the next minute, when they were out in

the open air again, Alison Blair was no

longer Alison Blair, but Alison Macdonell,
whatever the change might bring to her in
the coming years.

And is it really all over, Ludovick ? "
Flora cried, clinging on to Alison's arm,
and looking a little bit awe-stricken as well
as amused ; for there was something uncanny
about this swift, simple, informal
transaction that had in a few minutes so
completely transformed the lives of two
human beings.

*' Well," said the bridegroom doubtfully,
as he pulled out his watch, " there might
be time to go to the registrar and get a
copy of the entry, if Alison would like to
take it with her."

** Ludovick," said Hugh, who was a
long-sighted lad, '' the steamer has left
Corpach."

Then we'll run no risks," Macdonell
said forthwith. " I'll q-q to the registrar
when I come back in the afternoon — there

is no hurry ; and we can walk down to the
quay now, unless Mrs. Gilchrist would
rather drive."

''Oh, ril go with ye. Periphery will
let me go that short way' Aunt Gilchrist
responded. " But the waggonette must wait
for me. I'm not eoino- home until I see
my bit lady fairly started for the South."

And now, as the red-funnelled steamer
slows in and stops, picks up its passengers
and cargo, and sets forth on its voyage
again — and when the last farewells have
been waved to the proud little dame still
standing at the end of the quay — behold !
this is no sad-eyed Princess Deirdri sailing
away southward, surrounded by weeping
companions. The steeled composure of
the morning is no longer necessary ; the
ordeal is over ; now she is roseate and
happy and glad, as becomes a bride ; and
her cousins are as kind to her as they can
be, though still they must tease her, and

pay mock homage to her new estate. As
for Captain Ludovick, he holds somewhat
aloof; he is her husband, but does not
press any claim on her attention ; he allows
the cousins to monopolize her ; he appears
indifferent — has he not the part of a husband
to play ? And is not the day a fair
day and fit for a bride ? The farther and
farther south they go the skies get brighter
and brighter, until here, close at hand,
along the Appin shore, the sun is shining
brilliantly on the sandy bays, on the rocks
and crags half covered with ivy, and on
the patches of dark-green fir and light-green
ash ; while away to the west, beyond
the glassy plain of the sea, the far hills of
Morven and Kingairloch have become of
a faint rose-gray, with every scar and
corrie traced in shadows of purest azure.
The throb of the paddle-wheels no longer
bids her say a last farewell to Lochaber ;
kind friends are close and near to her ; her

lover — her husband — is but a yard or two
away, an outstanding guard, as it were ;
and if there were no marriage-bells rung
for her in Fort William, they are ringing
now in her heart.

Ludovick comes forward.

'' I say, Flora," he begins, " don't you
think it is rather shabby of me to let
Alison go back alone ? Don't you think
I should go with her, to see her properly
established ? "

Alison looks up with a smile.

** Well, Ludovick," she says, *' I don't
know what may happen to me ; perhaps
something not very pleasant ; but I know
if you were to go with me, it would be
twenty times worse. You talk about your
discretion : why, you haven't got any at
all ! No, you must come back in this
steamer with Hugh and Flora; I don't
want any one to see you with me in the
railway-train or anywhere else ; that would

only make matters worse ; and the truth
is, Ludovick, perhaps — perhaps it may be
better for me not to tell them what has
happened — not for a little while, anyway,
until I see a good chance."

Then," said he, with an air of surprise,
'' do you want me to address my letters to
Miss Alison Blair? — is that what I'm to
call you ? "

She looked down.

'' Oh yes, why not ? " she said.

Oh, very well," he made answer, cheerfully
enough ; " it is of little consequence —
only that would hardly be my way — I
would tell them straight off, and let them
make what they can of it. But just as
you like. You see, Flora, I'm going to bea
very obedient husband — at first. We'll
have to lead her into slavery by gentle
degrees. We'll have the rack and the
thumb-screw produced later on."

None the less was it somewhat hard

that the parting between husband and wife
should take place in view of the onlookers
in Oban railway-station. The train was
pretty full ; the best he could do for her
was to get her a seat in a compartment in
which an elderly lady and her three fair,
large, and bright-haired daughters were
already installed ; therefore, what he had
to say to her had to be spoken in parables.

*' Remember, Alison " — these were his
last words to her as the train was beginning
to move out of the station — '' remember,
you will have to be at Oyre long before
the honeysuckle has had time to grow upto
the window."

Her eyes were fixed on his : she knew
what he meant.

I am not so sure about that, Ludovick,"
she answered ; but she smiled bravely as
long as he was in sight ; and even kissed
her hand to him again and again, despite
the presence of these strangers ; and when

at last the train tore her away from him,
and from the cousins who had been so
kind to her, the tears that dimmed her
eyes were not such tears of wretchedness
after all.

CHAPTER IV.

A SUMMONS.

One afternoon Flora was in the garden,
busily engaged in snipping dead roses off
the rose-bushes, when her brother Hugh
came up from the shore. He had his
yellow oil-skins over his arm, for it had
been wet in the morning, though now the
sun was hot on the flower-beds and the
little gravelled paths.

*' Look here," said he gloomily, *ewe
must get rid of that fellow Johnny. He's
growing worse and worse. He has been
so encouraged, and so often forgiven, that
he is now perfectly reckless, and the end
of it will be his finding himself in Inverness

jail. It's no use. ?Ie doesn't believe you
when you threaten him."

Why, what has he been doing now ? "
said Flora, looking up.

There it is ! " her brother exclaimed
in disgust. " At once you are ready to
laugh ! That is the way you encourage
him — and do you think he doesn't understand
? Well, I don't see the fun of it
myself. I don't want to be had up on a
charge of manslaughter."

What is it now ? " she repeated.

*' Oh, nothing ! " he said, '' only a little
playful trick ! When I went out in the
lug-sail boat I put him up at the bow to
keep a look-out — I thought it would just
suit his laziness. Well, nothing happened
till we were near to Corpach, when all of
a sudden I heard a frightful yell right in
front of me, and when I jammed down the
helm I found myself just shaving the edge
of a canoe — some tourist, I suppose, out

from Batavia. It was a most extraordinary
thing that I did not cut the boat clean
in two — and I think the man in it was
so frightened he hadn't a single curse to
fling after me. Then as for your friend
John — oh, It was a splendid thing for him !
he was grinning from ear to ear like a
dead sunfish. When I asked the young
devil why he had not called out, though I
was more like hitting him over the head
with the boat-hook, he only said, ' Cosh,
you would have smashed him fine ! I
would have liked to see a big fat man like
that floating' in the water ! ' "

Flora fairly shrieked and shrieked again
with laughter, which only made her brother
the more angry.

'' Oh, you think that a joke, do you ? "
he said. '' Do you know what manslaughter
is ? Well, the sooner he goes
back to his father's croft the better; and
a pretty handful the old man will have of

him. I know the way he goes on at home.
He'll go in of an evening, and say to his
father, ' Get up out of that chair now ; I'm
the only one that has been at work all day,
and I'm tired.' And it's mostly owing to
you, Flora, that he thinks himself such a
funny creature, and prides himself on every
piece of devilment he can think of. Alison
tried to keep some kind of control over
him, though it wasn't much. He's afraid
of Ludovick, certainly, but Ludovick can't
be here always."

'' Talk of the — ahem ! " said Flora, who
was facing the road. '' Here he is."

Hugh turned, and there, sure enough,
was Ludovick Macdonell, just entering by
the gate. But he did not send them a
loud and hearty greeting, as was his wont.
When he came up the pathway, they could
see that his face was unusually grave, and
his very first words, addressed to Flora,
were of an astounding character.

'' Have you heard anything of AHson ? "
said he.

Of AHson ?" she repeated, quite taken
aback. '' No — we have not heard — and I
was wondering she did not send us a Hne
but you — of course, you "

'' I declare to you I haven't heard a
single word from her since she left ! " he
exclaimed. " Day after day, day after
day, I have waited, making certain that
the next morning would bring me a letter,
and I have written four or five times to
her ; not a single word of reply ! And
you have heard nothing either ? "

"Not anything ! " said Flora, who was
quite bewildered. '' Ludovick — you — you
don't mean to say she has never written
to you since she went back to Kirk o'
Shields ? "

I have not heard from her in any way
whatsoever ! " he answered. " She might
be dead for anything I know. What can

be the meaning of It ? I confess that I

o

did not write for a day or two after she
left — I did not want to be too pressing
but even if she were offended with me, I
made sure you would have heard from
her."

"Don't think such things of Alison!"
Flora said at once. " She is not offended.
It is more serious than that."

He started slightly, and a curious look
came suddenly over his face.

Perhaps," said he, slowly, '' it is against
her will — she may not be allowed."
Huo^h noticed that look.
I say, Ludovick," he interposed, " it
may be so ; but you won't mend matters
by doing anything in anger."

"Oh, anger or no anger!" the young
man retorted impatiently — with his face
grown quite pale and set hard, for he
appeared to be contemplating many and
distant things.

*' Come into the house, Ludovick," Flora
said, " and let's talk it over."

No," he answered. " No. This will
do very well. You are quite right, Flora ;
Alison can't be offended. It's something
else — undoubtedly." He seemed hardly
to know what he was saying, so intently
was his mind fixed upon those distant
possibilities ; and a slight inflation of the
nostril was the only outward sign of the
war of self-control going on within. '' Of
course there is but the one things — I must
go and see her at once — I must go and
see how she is being treated "

Flora put her hand on his arm.

'' Don't do anything rash, Ludovick —
you might make matters worse "

•' Then I suppose I have not the right
to see her — is that it ? " he said wrathfully
(but indeed he did not mean to quarrel
with this kind-hearted friend : the young
man was out of his senses with a quick

Strife of-pity and indignation and anger:
he was guessing at all manner of things as
happening to Alison in that hateful place
far away).

'' Look here, Ludovick," Hugh interposed,
in a gentle fashion, '' consider how
difficult Alison's position must be. She Is
between father and husband — most likely
she doesn't know which to obey "

Obey ! " he exclaimed. '' I don't want
her to obey anything or anybody ! I want
her to have the freedom that every one
else In this kingdom has. Is it obeying
that she may not write a line to say she is
alive ? Well, I'll have an end of that kind
of obeying — and soon ! "

'' Ludovick, you don't know In the least
what has happened," Hugh said ; " and If
you went to find out, you would be like a
bull in a china shop, and make endless
mischief. But there are two simple ways
of getting to know, and you may take

VOL. III. I

which you please. Flora can write to
Agnes. If there's any objection to Alison
writing to you, there can be none to
Agnes writing to her cousin, surely. On
the other hand, if you like, I will go and
see what It all means. Mind, I never
liked this affair from the first ; but now
It's done, I'll stand by you and Alison ;
and I'll do anything you want me to do.
I can go down by tomorrow morning's
steamer — and by the afternoon you'll have
a telegram."

'well, there's some reason in that,"
Macdonell said, after some hesitation, and
holding his breath a little. " But — but
why should I ask for help ? Why should
I keep away like a coward ? And — and
why should I put the responsibility on to
anybody else's shoulders ? "

'' Ludovick, what are you talking about ! "
Flora cried. '' I thought we where friends [
But if you'll take my advice, you won't let

Hugh go. His other way is the better
way. Let me write to Agnes. I think I
can be more diplomatic than either of you.
I think I can make it easy for Agnes to
tell us everything we want to know, without
stirring up strife ; and surely I may
say that mother has been surprised to
have heard nothing about Alison ? Come
into the house, Ludovick, and I'll scribble
out something like what I mean to say,
and you can tell me what you think of it."

It was Flora's suggestion that was
adopted, after all ; and they went into the
house, where she set about the composition
of an exceedingly skilful letter — simple
and ordinary in outward appearance, and
merely as from one cousin to another ; and
then, somewhat more pacified, but with his
hot suspicions in nowise banished, Ludovick
Macdonell went away back to Oyre, and
so the matter rested for the moment.

But they had not to wait for any

response to these discreet inquiries : all
the information — and much more than
they could have dreamed of — came the
very next afternoon, and to Aunt Gilchrist.
Aunt Gilchrist, as it chanced, had gone
out for a little walk — a very little walk, for
Periphery was not wholly dislodged, and
had to be treated with some consideration ;
and the postman, coming along, and knowing
her well enough, stopped and gave
her the letter he had for her. She was
not far from the garden-gate, yet she
paused for a second when she recognized
the handwriting on the envelope. She too
had been wondering why no news had
come from Alison. And here, perhaps,
was the explanation.

She opened the letter, which appeared
to consist of an unusual number of sheets,
and was proceeding to glance over these,
as she walked along, when suddenly she
halted in the middle of the roadway, and

Stood Stock-still there, while she deliberately
went back to the first page and
began reading every line ; for this was
what Mrs. Cowan of Corbieslaw, writing
from Kirk o' Shields, had to say : —

Dear Madam,

'' I hope you will pardon my
addressing you, but I am sure you have
still an affectionate spot in your heart
towards your misguided niece, that has got
herself into such sore trouble, from the
which I hope with the Lord's blessing and
mercy she may be soon released, to become
again a source of thankfulness and cherishing
to her many friends, including yourself,
dear madam. The deceitful and wicked
young man that induced her to forget the
faith of her fathers and the way of her
bringing up, and to go through a mock
marriage with a Roman Catholic, has no
doubt concealed his ongoings from you,

dear Mrs. Gilchrist ; but his cruel designs
have been frustrated, thanks to an all-wise
and ever-watchful Providence ; and his
own conscience will do the rest, so far ashe
is concerned. And as for our poor
dear Alison, though how she could be led
into such a thing, having yourself to goto,
and being in such a position with her
expectations from her aunt's kindness of
thought and generosity towards her, I cannot
imagine ; but now I am thankful to
say she is penitent and biddable, and will,
I heartily hope and believe, do what she
can to make reparation, and stand well
again in her aunt's good favour. For well
she knows now that the marriage she was
entrapped into, by such wiles as can be
imagined, is not a marriage — it is a godless
ceremony that the young man's Church, if
that is to be called a Church that would
destroy us soul and body, even that Church
would scorn to acknowledge it, which is

the more to be desired that now Alison
can hold herself free from any bond, as I
have to tell her again and again, and bound
only by the natural obedience to her father,
as far as this world below is concerned, todo
all things, as he commands and ordains,
under guidance of our heavenly Father,
who has put this trust in his hands. And
now I am glad to inform you, dear and
honoured madam, that her heart, that at
first was hard as the nether millstone ^ has
softened at last ; and no wonder, for when
her father, in his own pulpit, before the
whole congregation, had to lift up his
voice and wrestle with the Lord in prayer,
and supplicate that his own daughter
should be brought to know how she had
wandered into the paths of transgression
and forsaken the home and the teaching of
her youth, and become a stumbling-block
to the righteous, and a shame to those of
her own aee that had received the Sacrament

with her, it was no wonder, and I
rejoiced to see it, that the tears were
running down her half-hidden face in token
of her penitence and contrition for the sin
she had done "

And the tears were running down Aunt
Gilchrist's face too ; but they were not
tears of pity and sympathy at all ; they
were tears of maddened and impotent rage.

If I was a man ! — if I was a man ! "
she muttered to herself, with clinched
teeth ; and she could not read any more
of the letter because of her streaming
eyes ; she walked quickly on to the gate,
and up the pathway, and into the house,
dashing Flora unceremoniously aside when
the wondering girl asked her what was the
matter. And even in her own room she
did not return to the letter. She kept
marching up and down, wringing her
hands in a kind of frenzy, and uttering brief
exclamations from time to time.

*' My lamb ! — my lamb ! My bairn — to
be treated like that ! — and not one near
to comfort her ! "

And then, in the very uselessness and
helplessness of her indignation she sank
into a seat and burst into a fit of passionate
weeping — sobbing like a schoolgirl, with
her handkerchief over her eyes. When she
came out of that fit she was a great deal
calmer, but there was a look about her
face, especially about her lips, that Mrs.
Cowan of Corbieslaw would not have
greeted with any degree of welcome.

And now, dear madam," the letter
continued, " I would like to tell you what
we have done as best beseeming your
niece's interests, temporal and eternal, and
as she is now convinced that the marriage
she was so shamefully intrigued into would
not be recognized by the Romans themselves,
and that she is therefore not a
wife, as the young man confesses himself,

or why does he address his letters to Miss
Alison Blaine, though it is of Httle consequence,
as she has been forbidden to
answer them ; but as I was saying, she is
now, according to both the laws of God
and man, under the government and direction
of her father, who has thought fit to
put some of his authority on to my
shoulders, in all kindness, I would say, and
I will take charge of her until this unhappy
affair has been forgotten. It will comfort
you, dear madam, to know that the wicked
contract she was entrapped into will intime
cease to have any power over her, for
the law, as I have it on the best aiUJwrity,
leaves a merciful way of escape for them
that have been so beguiled ; and in the
mean time we have but to see that she is
kept away from the designs and machinations
of that godless young man. She
has placed herself in our hands, being
sincerely penitent for the shame she has

brought on a Christian household ; and
though there will be no harshness "

'' Harshness ! " said Aunt Gilchrist, with
burning eyes. '' My woman, if I was
within reach of your ill-fared face ! "

'' — she has consented to do whatever
she is bid, and our first step will be to
remove her from any risk of further contamination.
He will soon stop writing
when he finds his letters not answered ;
and if he seeks her in her own home, or
elsewhere, he will seek in vain. So, dear
Mrs. Gilchrist, we have reason to rejoice
in all proper humility and humble uplifting
of a thankful heart that the sheep has
returned to the fold, and that the Good
Shepherd has not been robbed of one of
His lambs.

Just one word more, dear madam, if I
may make so bold, for I am greatly concerned
about the welfare of this poor,
misguided young lady, and I would presume

to hope that your generous intentions with
regard to her worldly Interests will not be
interfered with by what has happened.
The kindness of her att7it would be an
additional Inducement for her to persevere
in the laudable course she has now entered
upon ; and I am sure, dear madam, that at
no time could you have reconciled it with
your conscience and your duty to allow any
portion of your earthly possessions to come
under the control of a Roman Catholic, to
pay tribute to Antichrist, and help to fatten
the priests and the Pope, that are the
enemies of the Word and of them that
dwell In Zion "

Oh, this woman — this woman sickens
me ! " Aunt Gilchrist cried furiously, and
she went to the bell-rope and pulled It
again and again.

A Highland maid-servant appeared, with
eyes large, staring, and amazed.

'' Bella, there's a good lass, ye'll go

directly and get that lad John, and send
him along to Carmichael's, and he's to get
a pony there and gallop as hard's he can
out to Oyre House, and tell Captain Macdonell
that he's to come and see me just at
once. Do ye understand, now ^ — and John
is not to lose a moment — not a moment ! "

'' Oh yes, mem," said the maid, smiling.
"Johnny will go fast enough when it uss a
pony he lass to ride."

But she had not o^ot down the stair
when this impetuous small creature called
her back.

"No, Bella, that'll no do: I'm going
myself to Oyre. Send to Carmichael and
say I want the waggonette at once — just at
once. And, Bella, there's a good lassie,
could ye run along yourself? — I'm no
sure o' that idling fellow John."

Oh yes, mem," the good-natured Highland
girl said. " I will run along just this
moment."

Hugh, who was deep In his books at
the drawing-room window, and Flora, who
was busy with her shears in the garden,
were considerably astonished to find the
waggonette coming along at this unusual
hour, and still further perplexed when they
saw Aunt Gilchrist drive off alone. But
Aunt Gilchrist had many things to think
of; and she did not wish to be interrupted
by either of these young people. As she
drove away on this pleasant afternoon, she
took out Mrs. Cowan's letter again, and
read It carefully over. In what she fondly
fancied was cold blood. She even persuaded
herself that she could admire the
woman's cleverness in assuming that of
course Aunt Gilchrist must be opposed to
her niece's committing such a crime as
marriage with a Roman Catholic. Then
her references to Aunt Gilchrist's generous
Intentions, and certain concluding words
about the possibility of brighter prospects

being In store for Alison, were no doubt
Introduced In the Interests of the probationer,
the doting mother still In hopes
of seeing her offspring suitably provided
with a wife and a moderate fortune.

When Aunt Gilchrist drove up to Oyre
House, she perceived that Ludovick was
at home, for he was standing at the door
of a small conservatory, talking to the
gardener, who was within. Apparently he
had been amusing himself by mowing the
tennis-lawn, for there was the lawn-mower
standing Idle, while his jacket lay on the
grass a little distance off. The moment
he saw who this was who had arrived, he
came quickly along, picked up his jacket
and put It on, and presently was at the
steps of the waggonette.

'how do you do. Aunt Gilchrist ? " (for
so he presumed to call her now). " I
suppose you have some news ? "

Oh yes, I have some news. Ye need

not open the door, then ye ; I'm not
coming down. Yes, I've got some news,
Captain Ludovick. I've got a letter ; and
I'm afraid it will put ye into a very violent
passion ; and that'll not do— that'll not doat
all. Ye'll just have to keep yourself
quite calm and collected," continued this
eminently cool-headed, discreet, and diplomatic
person, 'rand we'll devise something,
you and me, that may serve our turn. But
cautious, cautious, ye see. We'll have to
watch."

She handed him the letter. The young
man began to read it, but presently he
appeared quite stupefied and bewildered.

Why, the woman's out of her senses ! "
he exclaimed. '' Does she think there is
no law in the land ? "

Aunt Gilchrist knew there was worse to
come : she waited that he might finish the
reading.

** Well, Captain Ludovick," said she,

rather breathlessly, "what — what do you
think of doing ? "

*' Oh, I'm going straight through to Kirk
o' Shields ! " said he, still regarding the
letter.

"Yes?" she said, with her bosom beginning
to heave a little. 'eyes? — I — I
thought you would say that. There's —
there's a man wanted to interfere. You'll
answer a letter like that in person — and —
and soon. I'm afraid they have been
rather heavy-handed wi' — wi' my bit

lady " She made an effort to smile ;

but it was rather a tremulous smile ; and
there was a surging passion at her heart
that threatened to upset all her studied
self-command. 'eyes, I'm afraid they have
been rather heavy-handed with Alison,
before they could break down her spirit
and courage. Captain — Macdonell — ye're
not going to see your young wife treated
like that ? "

VOL. III. K

'' No," said he, slowly, and with darkened
brows, " I don't think I am going to stand
by and look on, If that is what you mean. It
is about time for me to be there, I think."

Aunt Gilchrist made a desperate endeavour
to suppress the emotion that was
nearly getting the better of her ; and then
she said, with apparent quietude, though
her lips were still pale and trembling —

*' Yes, I thought ye would be for going
to Kirk o' Shields ; and — and I'll just wait
for you in the waggonette, until ye're got
some things put in your bag ; and If ye
come in to Fort William with me now,
then ye'll catch the early steamer in the
morning."

That's very kind of you," he said ; and
he was going away absently and thoughtfully,
with his head best down, when he
recollected that he ought again to ask
Aunt Gilchrist to step indoors for a moment
or two.

'' No, thank ye, no, thank ye," she made
answer ; " there's no great hurry, but I feel
as if there was ; and I'm better in the outside
air. The truth is. Captain Ludovick,
I've been just a little thing upset by this
woman's letter — and — and I'm well content
now to leave it all in your hands. Ay, ay,
I'm thinking there'll be a different story to
tell when you get to Kirk o' Shields ! "

I shan't keep you waiting three minutes.
Aunt Gilchrist," said he, as he went off to
put the few things together he might want.

And hardly had he gone when out there
came the old laird of Oyre himself, followed
by a maid-servant carrying a tray, on which
was a small basket filled with fancy biscuits,
and also a couple of decanters and a wineglass.


*' Indeed this is a flying seest," said the
white-haired old gentleman, whose shaggy
eyebrows did not in any way interfere with
the grave gentleness of his expression,

and whose curiously suave and modulated
speech had sounded so pleasant in Alison's
ears ; '' and if you will not come into the
house, perhaps you will take a little refreshment
? " He himself handed up the biscuits
to her. " And may I gif you a little
claret, or a little whiskey ? "

"Well, sir," said Aunt Gilchrist (who
put aside for the moment her hot indignation,
and who was quite touched by the
extreme courtesy of the old laird's demeanour),
" in the Highlands I'm sure
there's nothing wholesome than a little
drop o' whiskey."

'' Indeed, now, that is ferry true, and
my own opinion," Mr. Macdonell said, ashe
filled the glass and put it on the splash-board
of the waggonette ; '' and I chef
been all over the world in my younger
days. I do not think there is anything
better than a little whiskey, when it is
good whiskey. And you hef heard now

of the prank that this scapegrace son of
mine has played ? "

Y — yes," said Aunt Gilchrist, rather
nervously.

But the old laird did not seem vexed.

I could welsh it had been different,"
said he, with much good-nature; "but
these foolish young people hef their own
ways of looking at things ; and I daresay
it will be all right when the young
bride comes to live at Oyre. And if you
are seeing her, you will tell her that she
will not find me in the way — oh no, if I
am in the way, I will just take a small
cottage, where there is a little feeling,
which is an old man's amusement, and the
young people will hef the whole house to
themselves."

Indeed, sir," said Aunt Gilchrist,
valiantly, '' ye' re just making the very
proposal that would prevent Alison ever
coming near the place — depend on that,
sir, depend on that."

Old Mr. Macdonell seemed highly
pleased.

Well, now," said he, with a smile,
perhaps we might live in the one house
after all ; for I do not think I hef a ferry
bad temper — for a Highlander, that is to
say ; and if one were to judge of the young
lady's disposition by her face, then I would
not call her a quarrelsome pers-son."

'' She's just too gentle ! " Aunt Gilchrist
exclaimed, with a bit of a sob (for she had
been very near to crying when she was
making her appeal to Captain Ludovick).
'' And she's fallen Into ill hands — 111 hands.
The sooner your son takes away his young
wife from among they folk the better. And
I'm real glad, sir, to hear ye speak so
kindly about Alison ; and if she were here
this moment she would show her gratitude
to ye, I'm sure o' that, for she's a warmhearted,
affectionate bit creature, despite
the prim ways o' her bringing up, and her

pride and dignity, that would make ye
think she was the Queen o' Sheba sometimes."


"When she does come here," the old
laird said, in his grave and gentle way,
'' there's not any one will gif her a more
hearty welcome than myself ; and I hope
you will take that as a message to your
niece — that is to be my daughter as well —
I hope you will take that message to her
if you should be seeing her."

Here Ludovick made his appearance,
pitched his travelling-bag up beside the
driver, and stepped into the waggonette ;
the horses sprung forward ; the white-haired
old Highlander raised his glengarry,
and went off into the house again ; and
Aunt Gilchrist and her companion found
themselves with this long drive before
them during which they could discuss what
forthwith was to be done.

But on one point Aunt Gilchrist was

very nearly becoming angry with the
young man. She could not understand
the curious leniency, or perhaps it was
rather the contemptuous indifference, with
which he seemed to regard Mrs. Cowan of
Corbieslaw.

"She is merely a stupid and ignorant
person," said he.

She's a cunning she-devil," Aunt Gilchrist
exclaimed vindictively ; '' a bold,
impudent, brazen-faced woman ! "

'' I dare say she thinks she is acting
quite properly, and for the best interests
of everybody concerned — and especially
with regard to the interests of her son, for
very good people sometimes give way to a
little natural bias. But I wonder," he
continued, "what she means by saying
that the law offers some way of escape to
any one in Alison's position ? I suppose
she has got hold of some vulgar superstition
— there are plenty such, and particularly

with regard to marriage. However, I
don't think there will be much trouble
about that. If it comes to be a question
of claiming authority — well, I have in my
pocket at this moment a little document
that I think will settle that point. Would
you like to see it, Aunt Gilchrist ? "

'eyes, I should," said Aunt Gilchrist,
getting out her gold-rimmed glasses.

But this was hardly a small document
that he drew from his pocket — this oblong
sheet of lilac-hued paper, with its printed
matter resplendent in green ink, and with
a number of hand-written entries in its
parallel columns. Aunt Gilchrist, having
fixed her eye-glasses, got hold of this
formidable document ; and by the aid of
the after-glow that was shining all around
them, and that made those green-printed
lines look strange, she easily mastered its
contents. It was entitled " Extract of an
Entry in a Register of Marriages kept in

the tmdermentioned Parish, 07" District, in
terms of if and 18° Victories, Cap. 80.
§§ 56 and 58 ; " and then In its successive
columns were all the details of the marriage
between Ludovick Macdonell, bachelor, of
Oyre House, Lochaber, and Alison Blair,
spinster, of 5, East Street, Kirk o' Shields.
Their respective ages were given ; the
names of father and mother on each side ;
the date of the sheriff-substitute's warrant ;
and finally the signature of the registrar.
Aunt Gilchrist found herself figuring there,
along with Hugh Munro, as a witness of
the marriage : In short, this paper contained
a complete history of the ceremony,
and an exhibition of the forms that had
been gone through, as by law ordained.
Aunt Gilchrist laughed, and said —
I'm thinking they'll discover it's rather
difficult to get over that ! " But then her
eyes grew anxious again. " And, oh,
Captain Ludovick, ye'll lose no time In

finding out poor Alison, and protecting
her, and comforting her! It just breaks
my heart to think what she must have
been suffering — and alone, too — quite
alone, ye may say, with nobody to take

her part "

'' As soon as I can feet hold of Alison
herself it will be all right, Aunt Gilchrist,"
said he. '' I can guess pretty clearly what
they've been about. They have told her
lies about her not being married ; and
they have brought the reproach of the
congregation to bear on her, and all kinds
of fanatical terrorem ; then she had no
one to appeal to ; no doubt they threatened
her with pains and penalties if she even
wrote a letter. I don't suppose they have
locked her up : this is the nineteenth century
— though in some things it hardly
seems to be the nineteenth century in
Kirk o' Shields ; but anyhow, if they have
locked her up, you may trust me to find

the key. And there's another thing, Aunt
Gilchrist : when we reach Fort William, I
don't think I'll go along to the Munroes' ;
I will stay at the hotel, and be off by the
first steamer in the morning. The fact is,
it would be no use having this matter discussed
by the whole family. You know,
both Doctor and Mrs. Munro were against
the marriage ; and although they are too
good-natured to say ' I told you so,' still I
suppose they would naturally exaggerate
this trouble that has come along. I shall
have to find out about it first for myself ;
but you may tell Hugh that if I want him
to come and help me, I will telegraph to
him."

So the little old dame — in a measure
satisfied with what she had done — went
back by herself to the Munroes' villa,
and found the household assembling for
supper. She was very reticent over
what had occurred ; but subsequently she

told Flora that Captain Ludovick was
setting out next morning for Kirk o'
Shields, and that quite possibly Hugh
might be sent for.

CHAPTER V.

MAN TO MAN.

The only hotel that calls itself a hotel in
Kirk o' Shields is chiefly a public-house
on the ground floor, with the upper rooms
devoted to the entertainment of an occasional
commercial traveller. It was at this
hostelry that Ludovick Macdonell arrived,
deposited his travelling-bag, and told the
good landlady that he should want some
dinner in the evening ; then he immediately
sallied forth, making straight for the
Minister's house. And very little did he
notice of the squalor of these thoroughfares,
or of the thick pall of smoke that did
duty for a sky ; nor had he any objection

to this dull thunderous roar of hammer and
engine and forge that seemed to fill the air
for leagues around. To him Kirk o'
Shields was an engrossingly interesting,
even a fascinating, place : why, Alison
had walked along these streets ; when she
was in Lochaber she had spoken of them
and thought of them ; now, at this very
moment, there was the possibility that at
any corner he might suddenly find himself
face to face with — Alison !

He knocked at the Minister's door; it
was opened by the red-headed, freckled
servant-lass Jean. And it was clear that
she instantly recognized him ; for she retreated
half a step, her black eyes looking
frightened.

Is Miss Alison at home ? " he asked.

N — no, sir," she stammered in reply.

When will she be at home ? "

"She's no staying here, sir!" the girl
answered, rather breathlessly.

** What ? " he said — for indeed he had
paid but Httle attention to Mrs. Cowan's
threats.

I cinna ken ; and — and if I did ken
I daurna tell ye, sir."

He seemed rather bewildered.

'what nonsense Is this?" he said impatiently.
" Is the Minister at home ? "

'' No, sir ; this is ane o' his veesitin
days."

'' Well, Miss Agnes, then ? "

'' No, Miss Agnes is foot the noose

was disconcerted only for a moment.

*' Well, I'm coming in to wait until I see
somebody," he said, in a sufficiently decisive
fashion ; and as he forthwith entered the
house, she had of course to make way for
him ; and she shut the outer door when he
had gone by.

But as soon as she had followed him
into the little parlour, an odd change came
over Jean's manner: she was now quite

eager and communicative — in this safe
privacy.

'* Indeed, sir, there's been an awful' todo
; and ye'll just say ye insisted on coming
into the loose ; for although I cinna think
much o' my place — they unco guide folk
are over guide for the like o' me — I cinna
want to be turned foot neck and crop at
another body's bidden' ; and I wasna to tell
ye anything, or let ye into the loose, or
say a word to ye "

And whose orders were these ? " he
asked.

Mrs. Cowan's," Jean said, looking a
little frightened again.

Is Mrs. Cowan your mistress ? "

No, Guide be thanks ! " the girl said
fervently. '' But ye see, sir, she's ta'en
the underhand in a' this ; and mind, ye
maun say ye cam' into the loose without
ony will o' mine ; but I'll tell ye what I
can — I wull, I wull — if I'm sent back to

VOL. III. L

Lerwick-end the morn's morning. And I
tell ye, sir, it's a downright crying shame
the way they've been treating' Miss Alison
preaching' at her frae the pulpit — frae the
pulpit before a they folk ! — and that auld
wife Cowan whining' and whining' about
penitence and remission o' sins — it's just —
it's just — but I'll no say a bad word,
though they've been near driven' me tort
mair than ance ; and there's Miss Agnes
lastly foot o' her senses, and clean foot o'
them she'll be ere lang — I've to sleep
beside her at nights, that was Miss Alison's
last word, and it's greeting' for hours she
is ; and then terrible talking' about angels,
and thrones ; and her mother, that's dead
and gone, pair body, ye would think her
mother and herself' were greeting' thither
about what has happened to Miss Alison.
I declare I'm just fair sauntered wi' they
unco religious folk, and I cinna care a
docket how sure I'm back on Lernock-

side again, and herein' my father's kye, if
I only get a sup o' milk foret ! "

But the red-headed Jeans eager volubility
contained no information.

Look here, my good girl," said he
gently, ''if you consider that Miss Alison
has been so ill-used, don't you think you
could give me a little help ? I've come to
take her part — probably she will go away
with me altogether. And I dare say you
have been told not to say where she is :
well, I won't ask you to tell me, plump
and plain — still, couldn't you give me some
small hint — just some kind of indication,
you know, without actually saying anything
that would get you into trouble ? "

He put his hand in his waistcoat-pocket,
and pulled out a sovereign ; but the moment
she saw the money she shrank back.

Na, na ; I'll hae name o' that ! " said
she, with considerable emphasis. " I cinna
ken what's to be the upshot o' a' this ; and

Tm no going to be cross-questioned before
the Fiscal."

He hesitated for a moment. He was
not quite sure of her ; nor was he quite
sure what he himself should do. It seemed
too absurd that anybody should suppose
that Alison could be carried off in this way
and hidden from him. And might not
this be merely a story that the servant-lass
had been authorized to tell ? Was it not
quite probable that Alison was at this very
moment upstairs — confined to her room
under strict injunctions from her father ?
He looked at Jean again. Then he quietly
went to the door, and opened it a few
inches.

Don't you think now," he said, fixing
his eyes hard on the girl, " don't you think
now, that if I were to call loud enough,
Miss Alison would hear ?"

But she was not startled.

'' Ye think I'm levin — I'm 710^ levin ! "

she said, somewhat indignantly. '' If I
kenned where Miss AHson was, I do
believe I'd tell ye, and snap my fingers at
the whole crew o' them — Corbieslaw as
weel, though it was him got me my place."

** I do believe you would," he said, for he
could no longer doubt the girl's sincerity,
and you'll just take this little present
from me to buy yourself some ribbons
when the fair-time comes round. It isn't
a bribe ; you haven't told me any secret ;
and the Fiscal may cross-examine you
until his head drops off, when you have
nothing to confess — don't you see that ? "

He made her take the money ; and they
had some further conversation together,
during which he learned that the Minister
would not be home until the '' dinner-end "
of the day, and also that Jean was perfectly
certain that Miss Agnes was as
ignorant as herself concerning Alison's
whereabouts. In these circumstances he

considered that it was hardly worth his
while to spend the intervening hours in
this dull little parlour ; and so, saying
that he would return about the time
the Minister was expected back, he left
the house and wandered out into the
streets. -

But the more he thought over all this
matter, the more intolerable the insolence
of this woman Cowan seemed to become.
A cunning she-devil, Aunt Gilchrist had
called her ; and no doubt she had got the
Minister well under her thumb before he
had allowed her to assume such authority
over his own daughter. As for the farce
of carrying Alison away into hiding, Captain
Ludovick at first paid little heed to
that. It was a preposterous piece of
impudence, and nothing more. We were
living in the nineteenth century. The
Minister was a reasonable human being ;
as soon as he was appealed to he would

recognize the futility of this attempted
seclusion. It was merely the act of an
intermeddling and ignorant woman, who
did not know that there was such a thiner
as an order of the Court of Session — a
remarkably imperative kind of thing, moreover.
No doubt the Minister was a sort
of recluse, and little conversant with the
world's affairs ; he had allowed this officious
busybody to take charge of Alison ; and it
was her idiotic notion that she could keep
the young wife away from her husband by
the simple expedient of removing her to
some other dwelling. Which of these
houses, then, held Alison ? Might she not
see him from one of these windows ? Or
was it not possible he might meet her
coming along this very thoroughfare — or
coming round the corner of the next street ?
For they could not have locked her up.
He reminded himself again that we were
living in the nineteenth century ; and,

indeed, was not much concerned about this
foolish travesty of concealment.

But matters assumed a very different
aspect in the evening. When he returned
to the house, Mr. Blair was at home ; and
Captain Macdonell was shown into the
parlour. A moment thereafter the Minister
made his appearance — the deeply-lined,
sallow, sad face showing neither surprise
nor anger, but only a calm self-possession ;
and when he came into the room the
two men remained standing, facing each
other.

Mr. Blair, I want you to tell me where
Alison is," Macdonell said at once, and
without further ceremony.

By what right do you ask ? " the
Minister made answer slowly.

The younger man was rather taken
aback.

'' By what right ? By a very good right,
I imagine. I presume you know — indeed,

you must know — that Alison and I are
married."

The Minister regarded him for a moment
in silence ; and then said, in his measured
and deliberate fashion —

** You show some confidence, young man,
in coming to me — to me, her father — with
any such demand. I will not ask you
what has been your conduct towards a
young girl deprived for a brief time of
parental guidance and advice, unprotected,
alone, and ignorant of the consequences
of her acts. I leave that to your own
conscience. I am aware that in the heyday
of youth there may be an impetuosity
that spurns all considerations and would
sacrifice all interests and duties to its own
selfish ends ; but in time the still small
voice makes itself heard — if God is merciful
to the transgressor. I do not seek now
to bring home to you a sense of what you
have done ; I leave that in higher hands

than mine ; but when you come to me and
ask me to give my daughter into your
charge — knowing as I do, that the consequence
must be her spiritual ruin, the
forfeiture of her soul's birthright — you
cannot wonder if I distinctly say no."

"You call yourself a clergyman, a
minister," Macdonell said hotly, " and you
want to come between man and wife ! "

But this stern-faced, sad-eyed old man
was not to be moved into any angry retort.

"Well you know," he said, in those
measured, impressive tones, " that your
own Church — false and perverted, as we
deem it to be, and a fountain of iniquity —
even your Church refuses to recognize a
civil marriage. And you, are you not
governed by its doctrines and practices ?
Who is your lord and king ? The Pope
of Rome. In his eyes you are not married.
In his eyes my daughter is not bounden to
you by any tie whatever. If you have a

master, why not obey him ? If you set
him up as your king, why not serve him ?
If you have raised your idol on high, give
him the worship and obedience due to him
and leave my daughter to live and die
among her own kindred and those of her
own faith."

It was the very simplicity and dignity
of this man — his inviolable and serene
conviction — that seemed to drive Macdonell
to desperation. He felt as if he
were dashing himself against impalpable
barriers that he was powerless to remove.

"I do know this," he said somewhat
excitedly, "that civil marriages are established
by the law of this kingdom, and
that whoever comes between husband and
wife does so at his or her own peril. Do
you think you can shut Alison up forever
? Do you think there is no means of
discovering her ? Why, I thought it was
merely some foolish trick of that woman

Cowan ! But now you come forward ; you
interpose ; you accept the responsibility of
what this ignorant woman appears to have
done. Well, what do you expect will
come of it ? What do you hope to gain
by it ? "

'with God's blessing," the Minister
said calmly enough, *ewe hope to undo
much, if not all, of the evil you have
wrought. We hope to bring the child to
a perception of her error in having strayed
away from the fold of her own people.
Her seclusion may be temporary : when
she comes forth from it, she will come
forth as one purified and restored to her
right mind ; and she will return to dwell
within the tents of Israel, among her own."

'* But this is mere madness !" the younger
man exclaimed, for he was rapidly losing
his self-control. '' She is married ! She
is my wife ! I don't know what your
particular congregation may think ; but I

know that even in Catholic countries, let
alone Protestant countries, civil marriages
are recognized as freely as any other ; and
I know in this country, that the law, which
institutes civil marriage, is bound to hold it
valid. Valid ? — I should think it was !
There is no marriage more absolute and
irrevocable. And do you imagine I am
going to stand by and allow Alison to be
shut up like that, and preached at, and
lectured into submission, and whined over ?
I want to learn something about this instruction
that is going on : I'm not quite
satisfied about the gentle ways of the
saints. And am I to understand that you
definitely and finally refuse to tell me
where Alison is ? "

I do refuse," the Minister said, with
tranquil self-possession.

*' You don't know that I can compel
you, then ? " he demanded, with eyes
afire.

'' I know you cannot," was the calm
answer.

'' You think there Is no law in this
country ? "

"You may appeal to the law if you
choose to do so," Mr. Blair said slowly.
But there is no law in this country that
can force me to open my mouth when my
conscience bids me be silent ; and there is
no law in this country that can compel me
to hand my child over to the emissaries of
Satan. You may appeal to the law, young
man : I owe obedience to a higher law :
every moment of my life I stand before a
tribunal compared with which all other
tribunals are but as grains of sand on the
sea-shore. We who regard all temporal
things as of small moment stand In the
presence of a greater Judge. ' The Lord
is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the
Lord is our King.' "

The moral grandeur of this old man, his

unflinching courage, the lofty position he
had assumed were all lost upon his younger
and fiercer antagonist, who exclaimed passionately
—

*' Very well, then, take the consequences !
You have treated that harmless girl — who
is my wife, and whom I mean to protect,
in spite of you — I say you have treated
her with the most monstrous cruelty ; and
since you have determined to bear the
brunt of it, you shall ! You will discover
that the laws of this country are not to be
defied with impunity, whatever sophistical
arguments you apply to your conscience.
I tell you that I have the right to claim
my wife ; you accept the responsibility of
concealing her ; and if you persist in your
refusal to produce her, then you will have
leisure to think over your own folly, when you
find yourself within the four walls of a jail!"

The Minister responded, with perfect
serenity —

** I fear no earthly judge, nor any penalty
he may inflict. In all things I would
willingly obey those that are set in authority
over us ; but my chief allegiance lies elsewhere.
If I have to go to prison, I hope
to be as Peter and the other apostles when
they were called before the Council and
commanded to be beaten — they rejoiced
that they were counted worthy to suffer
shame for His name."

*' Then to prison you shall go ! " the
young man said — his face grown bloodless
and terrible to see ; and without another
word he burst from the room, and made
his way along the passage, opening the
door for himself and issuing into the street.

It was getting to dusk now ; and mechanically
and blindly he walked back to
the humble hostelry, where dinner was
awaiting him ; but he could not eat anything
; rage and fury filled his heart. He
sat for a time there, thinking or trying to

think : then he got up and went out and
made straight away for the open country —
if that could be called country where there
were forges and furnaces more frequently
than farms, where there were stone dikes
instead of hedges, and where the road-side
he walked on was composed of cinders
and broken slag. Into this mysterious
dusk, lighted up by the wild flames of the
iron-works, he walked recklessly and aimlessly,
conjuring up all kinds of imaginary
fears and evils, chiefly consisting of cruelties
being practised on Alison. For the situation
was far more serious now. This was
no longer a mere ignorant device on the
part of a stupid, ambitious, and scheming
woman. This was a deliberate attempt to
break the spirit of the girl ; a conspiracy ;
and a conspiracy not over-scrupulous about
invoking religious terrorism as a means of
accomplishing its aim. And the law was
on his side, he knew.

VOL. III. M

Stone-walls do not a prison make ? "
he said to himself, with savage irony.
"Well, perhaps not; but they form a
remarkably good imitation of it ! "

For he was determined to hold the
Minister responsible for this thing that
had been done — done with his sanction,
if not even at his suggestion. Where
Mrs. Cowan might be he knew not. Pero



laps she had taken Alison out of the
country altogether, in the hope that
absence, and pious counsel, and misrepresentation
and calumny might bring the
earl to a final renunciation of her lover and
husband. Where Alison might be — where
her cunning she-devil of a guardian might
be — he could not tell ; but the Minister
knew — he was here — he could be got at —
he would be made to speak, if there was
any law in this land. And if he would not
speak ? — then to jail with him ! The
Court of Session had a short way of dealing

with fanatics. Bravado was all very
fine ; but bravado sometimes collapsed in
presence of prison-fare and inside foursquare
walls.

The young man's heart was hot within
him. He began to recall, with a painful
acuteness, certain terms of mrs. Cowan's
letter ; and the fancy that his young wife
might be suffering all kinds of mental and
moral torture in some unknown place, and
thinking of him, and wondering why he
did not come to her rescue — all this drove
him to the verge of frenzy. He did not
notice that it was now raining fast ; and
he had neither over-coat nor umbrella.
The black night was all around him ; and
above him the heavy, red-pulsating skies :
sometimes one of the iron-works sent up a
sudden flame that threw his shadow across
the half-seen highway. But while this
wild war of piteous commiseration, and
indignant wrath, and thirst for vengeance,

seemed driving him to distraction, plans
were forming too. The very next morning
he would go to Edinburgh and see his old
friend Balwhinnan, an advocate there.
Mr. Balwhinnan would advise him how to
put the courts In motion ; the conspirators
would speedily learn whether they could
with Impunity steal away a young wife
from her husband. Going to jail for conscience'
sake sounded very noble and
heroic : perhaps when the moment arrived,
that fanatical resolution would falter. But
if not — if the Minister still remained
obdurate — then let the law take Its course !
If there were any question about the
validity of the marriage, If there were any
doubt as to the young husband's legal
claim, this would be his answer ! Perhaps
the doubts would be removed when the
doubter found himself within the compass
of a prison-cell.

And sometimes a haunting voice would

try to say to him, " What is this you are
about to do ? On whom are you going
to wreak your vengeance ? In your inmost
heart you know that this old man is
no fanatic, no maniac, no charlatan, but
one who believes in the Divine government
of the world, who knows that for every
action of his life he is accountable to his
Maker, who is ready to suffer all things
rather than offend against his conscience.
Are you so blind that you cannot perceive
the moral elevation — the invulnerable and
austere integrity — of such a man ? What
does he care for your threats ? What are
your prison-walls to him ? "

But he would not hear. Before his
burning eyes there was a vision of Alison
in her father's pew, her head bent forward,
and tears streaming down her face,
while that congregation of sanctimonious
Pharisees looked on and rejoiced that the
Minister's daughter was stricken low and

repentant and ashamed of her transgression.
And there was another vision as well — of
Aunt Gilchrist's " cunning she-devil " — the
cat-like guardian of her pale prisoner, the
whining preacher, the wheedling and coaxing
match-maker ; and he swore with his
teeth set hard that the lawyers should pay
a little attention to her also !

By-and-by he turned and set out again
for Kirk o' Shields, through the thick rain.
There was no chance of his misslnof his
way — the sombre red glow was ever
present there, in the midst of the black
niofht. When he reached the Inn he was
drenched through ; but with the carelessness
of a Highlander he sat down and ate
some food ; and then he told the people
that when he went to bed they must get
his clothes dried, for he was leaving early
in the morning. It was to Edinburgh he
was going.

CHAPTER VI.

SOME SURPRISES.

On Macdonell's arrival in Edinburgh he
drove to a hotel in Prince's Street, where
he was well-known, left his travelling-gear
there, and forthwith set out on foot to
seek his friend Balwhinnan, whose house
was in Moray Place. There had been
rain earlier in the morning, but now wan
gleams of sunshine were appearing ; and
picturesque indeed were those masses of
tall black buildings, and the innumerable
spires, and the great bulk of the castled
rock all rising away into a confusion of
golden clouds and moving mists and
smoke. But he had little thought either

for the outward aspect of this noble
thoroughfare, or for the thousand memories
and associations that It naturally awakens.
His heart was burning with a fierce desire
for vengeance — vengeance on those who
had taken away his young wife from him,
and treated her so cruelly. And when he
got to Moray Place, and found that the
famous advocate was at home, he rejoiced
In his wrath ; retribution, swift and dire,
was now to be meted out, and that with a
firm hand.

He was ushered into a long and lofty
apartment which seemed to be partly
a library and partly an ornithological
museum ; for above the shelves of books
that went round the walls there ran a
continuous glass-case filled with stuffed
birds — mostly sea-birds from the northern
coasts and Isles — while on a table close upto
one of the windows some skins were
lying, along with all the implements of the

taxidermist's art, pins, sealing-wax, colours,
glass eyes, arsenic paste, and what not.
Had his mind been less perturbed, he
mio^ht have sought out in that collection

o o

certain specimens that he himself had contributed
; but as it was he was waiting
impatiently for the lawyer's appearance.

The door opened ; Mr. Balwhinnan
entered, bawling out a jovial and hearty
greeting as he came forward to meet his
friend. He was a man of about six feet
two in height, spare of frame, with a long,
thin, clean-shaven face, a retreating forehead,
an aquiline nose, sandy hair, fresh
complexion, and gray eyes that were sufficiently
merry and good-natured.

*sand what's brought ye to Edinburgh,
Macdonell ? " he cried, as he hauled
along a couple of chairs to the central
table. *' Man, that was a fine velvet duck
you sent me — as handsome a fellow as ever
1 set eyes on ; do you see him up yonder ? "

Macdonell did not even glance in the
direction indicated.

'look here, Balwhinnan," said he, " IVe
come to ask you for advice in a very
serious affair. You know Gemmill and
Inglis do what Httle law-business we want
done ; but I could not go to them about
this matter ; I want the advice of a friend
as well as a lawyer ; you must tell me
precisely what my position is, and what
steps I am to take."

Then Ludovick Macdonell began and
told his story ; and it might have been remarked
that durinorthis narrative a singular
change came over Mr. Balwhinnan's expression.
He was no longer the bluff,
hearty, sportsman-looking person who had
noisily come into the room ; his eyes had
lost their merry good-nature and were
keen and scrutinizing; his lips seemed to
be thinner; and it may be added that if
his forehead was distinctly retreating his

head was long-shaped behind. Watchful
and silent he sat, until the tale was told ;
and it was not for a second or two thereafter
that he attempted to answer the
younger man's appeal.

My good fellow," said he slowly 'you
have certainly got yourself into a very
extraordinary position, and the way out of
it isn't as easy as you seem to imagine.
I'm afraid the law is powerless to do what
you want. You see, if it were the case of
a child who was being kept back and concealed,
and if you were her legal guardian,
you could petition the Court of Session
for the custody of the child ; sou would get
a warrant for her recovery, and if the
person concealing her refused to hand her
over, or refused to tell the court where she
was, that person would forthwith find himself
or herself in prison. But your wife is
in the eyes of the law capable of acting for
herself ; she is away from you of her own

free-will ; and the law of Scotland gives
the husband no power to compel his wife
to live with him against her inclination.
Of course," said he, with a swift look of
inquiry, " I assume that she is away of her
own free-will ? You don't suppose that
she is locked up anywhere and kept a
prisoner by force ? "

No, no ; that is too absurd," Macdonell
said hastily ; " but if I admit that she is
away of her own free-will, I mean that she
has been subjected to all kinds of influences,
that she has been misinformed
and terrorized over ; and what is more,
I am perfectly certain of this, that if I
could compel them to tell me where she is,
if I could get to her, I should have no
trouble at all in bringing her away from
them. None. I know her too well. I
know what they have been doing "

*' Yes, yes, my dear fellow," Mr. Bal-whitman
said bluntly, "but in the meantime

you must take it that she is remaining
away from you of her own choice. Now,
I am afraid it is EneHsh law that has been
running in your head. In England the
husband can not only bring a suit for the
restitution of conjugal rights, and compel
his wife to live with him, whether she is
willing or not, but he can also bring an
action for damages against any one who
is foolish or daring enough to harbour
her. Here it isn't so at all. In Scotland
the law gives better protection to the wife
who, for whatever reason, is resolved to
remain apart from her husband ; and not
only that, but provision is made by which

the marriage may be annulled "

Good heavens, man, what are you
talking about ! " Macdonell exclaimed, in
sudden dismay. For was this the loophole
of escape that I\Irs. Cowan had
spoken of ? Perhaps she was not so
ignorant after all ? '' You don't mean to

say that a legal marriage can be dissolved
for that reason alone ? "

In Scotland, yes," Mr. Balwhinnan
replied calmly. '' And why not ? It is a
just and a reasonable statute. What is
the use of compelling husband and wife to
live together when either is unwilling ?
What happiness can result from that ?
Our Scotch law protects the wife, certainly
; but it also gives the husband his
remedy. It does not say that the wife, if
she chooses, may remain apart from her
husband, and the husband still remain tied
by the marriage-bond. No. That would
be obviously and monstrously unfair. What
he is entitled to do is to bring an action
for adherence ; then if she doesn't obey
the order of the court — that is to say, if
she refuses to come and live with him — at
the expiry of four years he can get a
divorce from her, and both are freed."

Do you mean that he can get a divorce

from her for that reason alone ? " Macdonell
demanded, with not a little consternation
— for it was becoming clear to
him what the woman Cowan had meant.

Undoubtedly," was the lawyer's answer.
*' And that is all he can do. He has no
compulsory power over her whatsoever.
And that is the awkwardness of your
position, my good friend. By George, I
wish I could help you ! But I can't ; all
the lawyers in the kingdom couldn't.
What you've got to do is to find out for
yourself where your wife is, and then you
can reason with her, or perhaps get her
away from any terrorism that may be held
over her. But that is for herself to say ;
they cannot keep her, you cannot take her,
against her will."

Macdonell rose and began to pace up
and down the floor in the greatest perplexity
and perturbation.

Oh, I know what she would do if I

could only Qfet hold of her hand for a
moment ! " he exclaimed presently. *' Do
you think I don't know that ? Do you
think she married me for nothing It
was to be a bond between us for ever, justin
case her friends should interfere ! They
have interfered ; they have told her lies ;
they have frightened her with the horror
and sanctimonious lamentation of those
elders and their wives ; then she has been
accustomed to obey her father ; and this
she-devil of a woman has coaxed or
wheedled or threatened her into compliance.
I have no doubt she said to herself,
Well, what does it matter ? I will obey
them ; the bond between my husband and
myself remains all the same ; they cannot
break that ; and he will come and take me
away before long.* And do you mean to
tell me," he continued passionately, " that
I have no means of claiming my own .^
The law gives her to me, but gives me no

power to claim her, even if she is willing
to come ! I cannot compel those people
to say where she is ? I cannot send them
to jail if they refuse to tell me ? There
is the old man her father : he takes the
whole responsibility on his shoulders ; he
comes forward and gives you to understand
that it is his doing — and yet the law
can neither make him speak nor punish
him for refusing to speak. Is that the
law ? "

The long sandy-haired advocate answered
quietly enough, " If it is revenge
you want, you can have it."

Then I do want it ! " the young man
said vehemently. " Not revenge — I don't
want revenge — I want punishment. If
that old Minister will not tell me where
Alison is, I want to see him lodged in jail
and kept there until he speaks ! "

Oh, you can do that," Mr. Balwhinnan
said. " But mind this, Macdonell, while I

VOL. HI. N

tell you, as a lawyer, what the law is, I
don't, as a friend, advise you to put it in
operation. And there is no doubt you
could have the old gentleman sent to
prison, but it would be by means of a trick
well, I won't precisely say that, but you
could only proceed against him indirectly.
What you would have to do would be to
bring your action for adherence ; then call
him as a witness ; he could be asked to
say where his daughter was ; and if the
court ordered him to answer, and if — as
is very likely, for those old Free Kirk
fellows have stubborn wills where their
conscience is concerned — if he refused to
answer, he would assuredly be sent to
prison for contempt."

'* Very well, then, I'll have it done ! "
the young man said, with resolute lips.

The long lawyer lay back in his chair,
and regarded his friend.

'* Don't you think," he said slowly, " that

you could find some quieter way out of it ?
It would rather make a scandal, wouldn't
it ? If you are so sure that the young
lady would forsake them and come away
with you if once you had the chance of
removing certain false impressions from
her mind, wouldn't it be better to seek for
that chance ? "

Bless my soul, how can I search all
Scotland to find her ? " the younger man
cried. '' And how do I know that she is
in Scotland ? They may have taken her
abroad."

I should imagine," Mr. Balwhinnan
made answer, with professional serenity,
from all you have told me, that it is
almost a matter of certainty she is under
the guardianship of that Mrs. Cowan.
Well, now, do you think a Lancashire
farmer's wife is the kind of person to pay
a flying visit to the south of Spain, or
adventure on a voyage out to the Canaries ?

I should fancy you might try somewhere
nearer home. What was the name of the
farm you mentioned ? "

Corbieslaw."

*' In the neighbourhood of Kirk o'
Shields ? "

'' Yes."

'' Don't you think, now, you might pay
a little attention to that farm-house ? " the
lawyer said, glancing at his friend. " A
little prospecting about would do no harm.
I wouldn't have any professional detective
as yet ; but you might get somebody to
keep an eye on the place "

By Jove, Balwhinnan, that Is a most
sensible suggestion," Ludovick exclaimed,
with eagerness, for his imagination was
fired by the possibility of finding Alison so
near him, and so soon to be discovered
and released and borne away in triumph —
''a capital suggestion! I'll tell you what
I'll do : I'll telegraph to her cousin Hugh,

In Fort William — he's a great chum of
mine — and he'll come through at once, and
bring with him as well a young lad they
have there, who has the cunning and the
endurance of a wild-cat ; and we'll see if
among us we can't find out Alison. Hugh
can come down to Oban by this evening's
steamer, stay the night there, and catch
the first train In the morning. Of course
he will stop at Kirk o' Shields station, and
I shall be there to meet him, even If I go
through this evening — no, not this evening"
— he corrected himself, with sudden
remorse for his forgetfulness of this good
friend's kindness to him. " No, I want
you to dine with me this evening, Bal-whitman
; will you ? "

'eyes, I will," the other said promptly;
'' for my wife Is with her Wigtownshire
friends at present. And as it is near
lunch-time now, you'll just walk along with
me to my club and we'll have a snack, and

then I want you to look at some new
additions to the Advocates' Library."

'' All right' Macdonell said. '' I'm
always glad to drop in there, if only to
have a glance at the standard that brave
fellow brought home from Flodden Field."

And there's another thine I want to
say to you, my young sir," the advocate
continued, as the two of them were walking
towards Prince's Street. "Mrs. Balwhinnan
will be home again in a few days' time.
Now, if you succeed in liberating the
captive, I suppose — well, it's none of my
business — but I should imagine you might
be contemplating a little wedding-trip just
to get the young lady securely away from
those people. In that case, she wouldn't
be likely to have bridal travelling-dresses,
and such things, eh ? Well, if you want
to have her nicely fitted out, just you bring
her along to Moray Place, and she will be
our guest for a few days, and Mrs. Bal-whitman

will be delighted to be a mother
to her ; for of course she must go abroad
with all due state and ceremony."

Do you mean that ? " Macdonell said,
involuntarily stopping short for a second,
and with his eyes flashing gratitude.

^* I sometimes mean what I say, although
I am a lawyer," the tall Sutherlandshire-
looking man made answer imperturbably,
as he continued his long, measured stride
across Charlotte Square.

But these anticipations were all too
premature and roseate, as Ludovick Macdonell
was soon to discover. When Hugh,
accompanied by Johnny — who regarded
this expedition into foreign countries as a
very wonderful thing indeed — arrived in
Kirk o' Shields, all three set about their
amateur-detective work with the greatest
eagerness, and also with the certain cons
fiction they must discover where Alison
was concealed. But day after day went by,

and they could find no clue whatsoever.
They bribed the letter-carrier who traversed
the Corbieslaw district ; and Macdonell
made the acquaintance of the modest and
shy eyed young lady who was behind the
counter at the post-office ; but the most
cautious and discreet of questions met with
no satisfactory reply. It was the especial
charge of Johnny, as being a less conspicuous
figure than Hugh or Ludovick,
to keep an eye on Corbieslaw farm ; and
this duty he performed most faithfully ; for,
indeed, how could there be a more delightful
occupation than to sit on the top of a
stone dike, with one's hands in one's
pockets, and with whole hours in which
to whistle '' The Hills of Glenorchy " ?
Nevertheless, this espionage did not wholly
commend itself to Johnny's mind.

*' What uss't Macdonell wants ? " he said
to Hugh, on one occasion, when Captain
Ludovick chanced to be absent. '' Does

he want to put the auld wife into the
pollus-offus ? "

Never you mind what he wants," Hugh
made answer. '' It's your business to find
out whether Miss Alison is at the farm."

'' If I was Macdonell," said John, in his
cool fashion, " I would find that out for
myself — ay, before another hour was
over.

'' And how could you find it out ? "
Hugh said contemptuously.

'' I would tek a stuck in my hand," said
Johnny, "and I would go up to the farm,
and I would go into the house, and I
would go into every room in the house,
and if any one tried to stop me I would
hit him over the head with the stuck."

Yes, you would have somebody in the
police-office very soon — but it would be
yourself.'

Cosh, but I would find out, though,"
John maintained confidently. " Macdonell

uss a Strong man : with a stuck in his
hand, who would try to stop him ? "

However, both Hugh and Captain Ludo-vice
were now inclining to the belief that
neither Mrs. Cowan nor Alison was at
Corbieslaw. Johnny brought reports about
all the other people — the farmer himself,
the fledgling minister, the men and women
servants — but no one answering to the
description of the farmer's wife had made
her appearance; and it was unlikely she
would have remained in-doors all this time
had she been in the house. Their vigilant
search was turned else whither, but with a
distressing vagueness of aim. Mr. Bal-whitman's
idea was that Mrs. Cowan and
her charge would be found to have gone
not very far away ; but in what direction ?
And the more Macdonell chafed at this
enforced delay, the more helpless he felt
himself, and the more he harrowed himself
with baleful fancies as to all that Alison

might be suffering, the more he returned
to his sombre thoughts of vengeance.

And that's what it is coming to," he
said to Hugh, as they conversed together
in the inn, of an evening, over the one
all-engrossing subject. " That is what
must be done. Oh, it's all very well for
you to talk of abstract right ; but I want
rough justice done ; and justice says that
if this old man will not tell me where
Alison is, then let him go to jail ! What
do I care what the public say ? I'm not
thinking about the public ; I'm thinking
about Alison."

"Why are you defending yourself so
vehemently, Ludovick ? " Hugh retorted,
and also with some warmth. " Because
you know that if you do this thing you
will be acting wrongly and meanly, and ina
way you will regret all your life. Why,
according to your own version of the story,
Alison's father is to be respected : it is his

conscience that refuses to tell you what
you want to know."

His conscience !" Ludovick exclaimed.
Has he the only conscience in the world ?
But that's the way with people who pride
themselves on having a highly superior
and sensitive conscience ; they alone have
such a thing ; other people haven't any !
Their sense of right allows them to take
away 'a young girl and treat her most
cruelly ; but if my sense of right tells me
that I shall be a contemptible coward if I
don't use every means in my power to
prevent them so treating her, then I am
to pay no heed to that ? They've got all
the conscience, then ? Conscience only
exists and lives in Kirk o' Shields, and in
that congregation of whining Pharisees ! "

*' I can quite understand your anger,
Ludovick," Hugh said, in his gentle way,
and yet with a quiet firmness that seemed
beyond his years, " and your impatience

and indignation ; but I tell you that if you
set the law in operation against this old
man, you will be doing the wrong thing.
I shouldn't be your friend if I did not say
so. It isn't right ; you may talk and
argue as much as you please, but it isn't
the riofht things. You would see that for
yourself, if you weren't fancying every
minute that Alison was being treated
harshly. But do you think that probable ?
Do you think she is the sort of girl to
submit tamely ? Well, I don't. She could
always hold her own with Aunt Gilchrist :
is it likely she would let this Mrs. Cowan
intimidate her ? "

I won't allow any man or woman to try!"
young Macdonell said, with burning eyes.
'' No, not if I can step in to take her part ! "

But is it likely she is being badly
treated ? " Hugh said again. " Look at
the letter that Mrs. Cowan wrote to Aunt
Gilchrist."

'' Yes ! — and Alison before the whole
congregation of them — crying."

But apparently she is under Mrs.
Cowan's charge now," Hugh continued ;
and what motive could she have for
treating Alison badly ? Look at the letter.
It was a slavish and despicable letter, no
doubt, but it was all done to propitiate
Aunt Gilchrist, and to keep her in the same
mind as regards Alison and the money she
intends to give her. Mrs. Cowan means
to get that money for her son's wife : is
she likely to do anything that would offend
either Alison or Aunt Gilchrist ? "

Yes, but I want to know : I want to
see for myself," the young husband said.
*rit seems to me I have some right to
learn for myself what is going on. And I
tell you this, that whoever stands in my
way must take the consequences."

Ludovick," said this create-voiced lad,
'' I dare say you don't care what people

generally would say ; but I want to ask
you this : supposing you get your Edinburgh
lawyers to bring the whole affair
into court, and supposing that Mr. Blair
refuses to answer, then no doubt he will
have to suffer the consequences : but,
Ludovick, what will Alison think of the
man who has sent her father to prison ? "

Macdonell winced at this, and was silent
for a moment or two ; but then he said —

I don't send him to prison. If he
chooses to defy the law of the country, it
is that sends him to prison. Why should
he be exempted any more than any one
else ? If a man breaks into my house, and
robs me, it isn't I who send him to prison ;
it is the law, that all of us have to obey.
And why should this old Minister be
exempt? If, out of pure pig-headed
obstinacy, he courts imprisonment, why, let
him have it ! "

Ludovick, you are not talking like

yourself," Hugh said. " I wish to goodness
we could find Alison ; and if once
you saw that she wasn't being ill-treated,
you wouldn't have such a fierce desire for
vengeance."

'' But she alas been ill-treated : and is no
one to suffer for that ? " the other demanded.


At all events it is not for you, in the
position you hold with regard to this old
man, it is not for you to put the law in
motion, and get him thrown into jail. I
tell you it is not right," Hugh continued,
with some emphasis. " It is not right ; and
if you do it, you will regret it as long as
ever you live."

But even Hugh was puzzled to say what
should be done, in face of the fact that
despite all their search and inquiry they
could find no trace whatsoever of Mrs.
Cowan and her ward. On the very next
day, as it happened, Ludovick encountered

Alison's sister Agnes, as he was walking
along the unfrequented thoroughfare overlooking
the canal and certain large ironworks.
He was startled to see how ill the
girl looked ; and he might probably have
passed her without recognition, had he not
got into the habit of scanning eagerly every
face he saw, even at a distance. When
Agnes perceived who this stranger was,
she started back in affright, and no doubt
would have sought to avoid him, but that
he intercepted her.

Miss Agnes ! " he said, as a sort of
appeal.

I — I should not speak to you," answered
the girl, whose pale face was now paler than
ever, and whose large and wistful eyes were
like those of some startled wild animal.

*' But you will speak to me — for Alison's
sake ! " he said. " Tell me where she is !
That is all I want to know — it is not much
for you to say ! "

VOL, ni. o

She glanced backward along the road ;
there was no one there but some children
playing.

If I knew, I would tell you, indeed I
would," she said, at once hurriedly and
piteously. " Oh, Captain Macdonell, it is
terrible to have Alison away like that — as
if she were dead. Her name is never
mentioned ; the letters you sent her are
lying there unopened ; I don't know where
she is ; and I dare not ask. And then it
is so hopeless. If she were to come back,
it would only be worse. You know how
gentle and kind Alison always is ; but she
has a great deal of firmness, too, when she
thinks she is in the right. And nothing
will make her yield now : if she were to
come back, she might be in the same house
with my father, but^they would not recognize
each other ; and I can look forward to
nothing but misery "

The girl's eyes filled with tears ; for she

was a sensitive, tremulous kind of creature ;
and she had been very fond of her sister.

'' But why didn't AHson open my
letters ? " he demanded.

'* They came after she left' was the
answer. " She was sent away almost immediately
— on the Monday morning after
she had been prayed for in the church.
Oh, it was terrible, her going away : I
never saw my father look like that before
so stern and implacable : though he
hardly said anything. It was Alison who
spoke most ; but she was quite quiet,
though she was white as white ; and she
said that if he wished her to leave the
house, she would go ; and she would go
wherever Mrs. Cowan chose to take her ;
but she said that as soon as you came for
her, it was her husband she would obey,
and no one else ; and she would wait until
you told her what you wished her todo
"

She said that ? " he exclaimed, quickly.

'' Yes, indeed," Agnes made answer.
And although she was crying when she
left the house, I know it is useless for Mrs.
Cowan to think she will talk her over.
When Alison sees a thing clearly, and
knows it to be right, nothing will make
her yield about it ; and if you were to goto
her, Captain Macdonell, she would do
what you asked her to do, because she said
she would obey her husband ; but it is
hopeless for Mrs. Cowan to think she will
persuade her into anything else — yes, and
that's why it is useless and hopeless to
bring her back to Kirk o' Shields "

Then she is not in Kirk o' Shields ? "
he interposed suddenly.

I don't know," Agnes said, with the
most obvious simplicity and sincerity — in
truth, a more guileless face than that of
this pale, delicate-looking, wistful-eyed girl
could hardly be imagined. " Sometimes I

think she cannot be, or some one would
have seen her and told me. But her name
is never mentioned in the house. It is
just as if she were dead. Once or twice
at family worship my father makes some
reference that you might fancy applied to
Alison ; but that is only part of what he
may be thinking himself ; he says nothing
openly ; and it's just as if she had never
been in the house at all."

'* And you have not the slightest idea
where she is ? " he asked again.

No," said she rather sadly, " none.
But you — now you have come here — don't
you think you will be able to find her ? "

''Oh, I will find her," said he, with
something more than confidence in his
tone. '' I may have an unpleasant duty to
perform as a preliminary step ; but I will
undertake to find her."

** And when you do. Captain Macdonell,
you will let me know i^ — you will tell me

that Alle is well — and — and perhaps a
little happier than when she went away
from us ? If you knew what it has been
to me to see all this trouble, and not to be
able to help ; and now I am quite alone ;
and I dare not mention her name. Ailie
and I were always such close companions
— — "

She stopped, for her lips were tremulous.

''Oh, I'll find her out, never fear," he
said in a more gentle way, " and you shall
be the first to know, depend on that.
Alison herself will write to you ; and when
you hear from her you may be sure she is
no longer in any kind of captivity, or being
lectured or preached at in any way whatsoever."


*' Good-bye," she said ; and she would
have gone on so, but that he remonstrated
with her.

Won't you shake hands with me ? "

Somewhat timidly the girl gave this

dangerous person, this Roman Catholic,
her hand ; and then she so far overcame
her shyness as to raise her eyes for a
moment.

** Be kind to Aie," she said — these
were her parting words as she turned and
went hurriedly away.

It was with no little exultation that
Ludovick now hastened back to the inn,
where he found Hugh just arrived from
the fruitless watchings and wanderings of
the morning ; and eagerly, as they sat
over their frugal midday meal, he told his
friend the story of this interview with
Agnes, and its revelations. And now he
was grown impatient of their amateur-detective
work ; he would forthwith go
through to Edinburgh and put the case,
under this new light, before Balwhinnan,
who would advise him what to do next.
Moreover, he no longer spoke of vengeance ;
he was only anxious to release Alison from

captivity ; and what he insisted on was
that if the courts were put in motion, and
Mr. Blair summoned as a witness, the old
Minister would say where Alison was as a
matter of course, for the simple reason that
he must know, after Alison's declaration,
that detaining her under any kind of
guardianship was absolutely useless. But
Hugh warmly protested.

Depend on this, Ludovick, that he
will not be affected by any considerations
of that kind. He will refuse to be a party
to handing his daughter over to a Roman
Catholic ; and he will suffer anything rather
than yield. What will be the result ? The
court must punish him for contempt, to
uphold its own dignity : you will have sent
him to prison whether you intended it or
not. And I tell you you will be sorry —
sorrier than you think now. Why should
you do such a thing ? You don't imagine,
after what Agnes has said, that Alison is

being ill-treated ; and you don't call out
for vengeance on account of what she has
suffered. Very well, let us take peaceful
means ; and don't send that old man to
prison ! Let us go to Edinburgh and get
a couple of professional detectives, if you
like. But not till tomorrow. I have my
eye on a house in Cambridge Street that
that divinity student fellow has called at
twice during the last three days, and there
is a backyard to it, with a high stone-wall
round it, where a couple of prisoners might
easily get a little exercise unseen. I still
think Mr. Balwhinnan was right, and that
you'll find Mrs. Cowan is not so far away.
Wait till tomorrow in any case ; and then
we can go to Edinburgh and see about
getting some professional help."

However, as it chanced, it was no professional
detective who discovered a clue
to the whereabouts of Mrs. Cowan and
Alison : It was the lad John. Johnny, on

this same afternoon, was as usual prowling
about the neighbourhood of Corbieslaw,
but quite carelessly now, for he had become
convinced that Mrs. Cowan and
Alison were not at the farm. And Johnny
was angry that he had spent so much time
for nothing ; for Ludovick Macdonell, in
order to render him diligent, had said
something encouraging about his astuteness
; and Johnny did not like the idea of
going back to Lochaber a confessed failure.
On this particular evening, towards dusk,
he happened to observe, at a considerable
distance, the figure of the " stickit minister,"
who was coming honor the road towards

o o

the farm ; and by some lucky accident,
some flash of inspiration, a daring design
sprung into Johnny's brain. The fields in
this part of the country are divided from
the highway, not by hedges, but by big
solid stone-walls, the gate in which is
made of strips of iron. Johnny instantly

went and opened one of these gates just
so far as to let himself through ; and there
he crouched down behind the wall and
waited in the gathering dusk for the
coming of the probationer. The Rev.
James Cowan, dreaming of no harm —
dreaming, perhaps, of the brighter days in
store for him when he should be released
from the baleful tyranny of his father, and
set up in an establishment of his own in
Edinburgh, with Alison as his house-mistress,
and this congregation and that
vying with each other as to the earnestness
of their '' call " to him — the Rev. James
Cowan came along the black pathway, and
passed the partly opened gate without
thought of harm. But hardly had he
passed when Johnny, issuing from his concealment,
followed with one or two swift
and stealthy steps, and then with a sudden,
startling cry, sprang like a wild-cat on the
shoulders of the hapless probationer, hurling

him forward, prone, on the path-way,
and pinning him face downward with a
grip of two muscular hands on his throat.

*' Heeg-a-neesh ! — keeg-a-jteesh ! " * he
yelled, while the luckless minister, frightened
out of his wits, in vain attempted to
free himself from this horrible incubus.
The Duffle is on you ! — the big Duffle is
on you ! — tell me now where Miss Alison
is — where is she ? — tell me now, or the
Duffle, the Duffle will hef your head off!"

Again and again the captive strove to
cast off this terrible unknown thing that
had seized him ; but the weakly, white-faced,
ill-made probationer was no match
for this heavy shouldered demon of a lad,
whose hands were as hard as iron with
rowing. To save himself from actual
strangulation, the black-coated youth''gasped
out —

"She — she's in Portobello."

" Thiga-iiis ! " — Come along, now !

"What place is that?" Johnny cried,
with ferocious determination. *' Tell me
again now, or the Duffle will hef your head
off! — the Duffle, the Duffle lass you ! —
tell me again — what place is it ? "

"Port — Portobello ! " the probationer
managed to ejaculate, as well as Johnny's
iron fingers would allow him — and the
next moment he found himself free.

But long before the bewildered and
stupefied minister could pull himself together,
Master Johnny was flying down
the road towards Kirk o' Shields, shrieking
with eldritch laughter, and calling aloud
from time to time the talismanic word in
his wild delight.

** Portobello ! — aw, it's Portobello, uss
it ; and a fine name too ! Aw, a fine name
that ! And what will Macdonell say now ?
Cosh, that fellow's awe hom ; and he's
thinking the big Duffle was on his back ;
but Macdonell will be giving me something

for this night's work. • Portobello ! —
^ aw, Cosh, it's a fine place, Portobello, if I
will be getting any money for it ! Go
awe horn, you black-dotted fellow, and
tell them what the Duffle was doing to
you in the middle of the rod ! Hurrah,
now, and another hurrah ! — there was no
one could find it out but myself ; and the
Duffle was a good friend to me this
night!"

CHAPTER VIL

A BATTLE ROYAL.

LuDOviCK Macdonell had of course heard
of Portobello, but he had never been there,
nor had Hugh ; and both of them, imagining
it to be merely an ordinary small seaside
village, thought they would have no
difficulty in finding Alison and carrying
her off from her temporary jailer. So,
when they went through to Edinburgh,
they did not think of going to see Mr.
Balwhinnan ; they were in too great a
hurry ; they left their things at the hotel
where Macdonell was known ; they hired
an open fly that happened to be coming
honor Prince's Street at the moment ; and

by-and-by they found themselves rattling
through the rather melancholy eastern
suburbs of the city, and out Into the pallid
semblance of the country that was all
vague and dismal under the haze of a
north-east wind.

But when they drew near to Portobello,
and when they had got through the smoke
of its outlying potteries and gas-works,
and entered the old-fashioned, Scotch-looking
town, and still more when they
left the fly behind them, and walked down
to the sea-front, and found the long extent
of brown sand literally swarming with
holiday-makers, mostly women and children,
they perceived that this was a far bigger
place than they had bargained for, and
that their task was not to be so extremely
simple. Macdonell had looked with interest
interest as they passed at each of
those little villas, with Its front of black-gray
stone and small garden ; for any one

of them might hold the prisoner he was
come to liberate ; and it was strangle to
think that perhaps this or that door was
the only thing that intervened between
him and Alison. But when they got down
to the beach, the sight of the big modern
houses and the swarming population rather
chilled his eager hopes ; and when they
walked out the pier — which seemed a kind
of fashionable promenade — he grew familiar
with disappointment, as stranger after
stranger came nearer, and passed by unheeded.
Nor was the day one to exhilarate
the spirits and cheer him with fond anticipations.
The bleak north-easter had
brought mist with it, so that Inchkeith
rock was just visible and no more ; but
the wind was not strong enough to raise
anything of a sea, and the wide waste of
desolate gray water lapped languidly into
the shore, where it took a tinge of muddy
brown from the sand. The flashing blue

VOL. III. p

waves, the silver-gleaming clouds, the wild
rain of the west had no place here ;
everything was gray and cold and dull ; it
seemed impossible to him that Alison
should be anywhere in this nebulous,
fluctuating, uninteresting throng.

'' Oh, don't be so hopeless all at once ! "
Hugh said to him. '' That is only a first
impression. It won't be so difficult ; we
must find her, now that we know where
she is. Johnny," he said, turning to the
lad, who was but a step behind them,
*' you don't suppose the stickit minister
was playing a trick on you when he said
Portobello ? "

Uss it a trick ? " said Johnny, brightening
up at once. '' Cosh, there was no
trick in his head when he thought the
Duffle was on his shoulders ! Ay, and
he's thinking that now, I'm sure, and it
v/ill be a fine thing for him to tell them
from the pulpit — that he was fighting

with the Duffle in the middle of the
rod ! "

Hugh turned to his companion.

"What we have to do is this," said he,
we must take rooms in that small hotel
we passed, and have our things sent down
from Edinburgh. You know now all that
you want to know ; Alison is here ; and
she is ready to go with you whenever you
ask her to do that. Of course we must
see her sooner or later walking about, or
coming out of a house, or going into one :
and we must have a fly waiting in readiness
at the hotel, so that she may be taken
away with as little fuss as possible. There
will be a fuss, no doubt, if Mrs. Cowan is
with her at the time — there will be a
mighty row, in fact ; for although she
can't prevent your taking Alison away, she
can make a scene, and give you a bit of
her mind. You'll get the worst of that,
Ludovick," he continued, with rather a

grim smile. 'you'll decidedly get the
worst of that ; if I were you, I wouldn't
say a word. By George, I'd give something
to have Aunt Gilchrist here just at
that moment ; then you'd see the fur fly !
I'd back the Highland bantam to make a
poor thing of the Southerner — unless,
indeed, Mrs. Cowan went on the other
tack, and began to whine. She won't
whine with you, Ludovick, you may be
sure ; you will have it served up hot and
hot."

'' I am not likely to mind that much,"
Ludovick said indifferently, " if once I had
got hold of Alison. But the worst of it is
that we haven't the slightest idea what
this woman Cowan is like ; we might meet
her half a dozen times without knowing it ;
our only chance is to find Alison herself."

'' And of course we shall find her,"
Hugh said instantly (for he was always
afraid of Macdonell returning to his project

of appealing to the law, and compelling
the old Minister to speak, or else to go to
jail). 'this isn't like an ordinary town ;
they are sure to come out for a walk, and
they are sure to stroll along the sea-front,
or out this pier. Now let us have a distinct
understanding ; if you can get clear
away with Alison, you put her in the cab,
and drive off with her to Edinburgh ; if
there's any row, leave Johnny and me to
see it out. Once you've put Alison under
Mrs. Bal whin nan's care — that's the proposal,
isn't it ? — there will be no chance of
further trouble ; you won't catch Mrs.
Cowan hammering at an advocate's door
and screaming for the police. She must
know well enough that you have the law
on your side ; I don't believe she's half the
ignorant person you seem to think her.
And here is Johnny all impatience to begin
a search of the town ; you're determined to
win that gun, aren't you, Johnny ? "

I was thinking that if Miss AHson uss
in this place, I will be finding her before
long," observed Johnny, who was rather
giving himself airs now since his exploit
on the highway.

If you do," Ludovick said to this heavy,
lumbering, shrewd-eyed lad, " I'll not only
give you the gun, but you may come out
from time to time to Oyre, and if you find
any hodie-crows along the rocks, I'll give
you a shilling for every one you kill."

'' A sullen ? " said John quickly.

'' Yes."

And mebbe you'll be for giving me a
few cartridges," said John insidiously.

Oh yes, I'll give you a few cartridge's,
now and again, but not to be fired away in
the air, or at marks. You'll have to stalk
the hodie-crows, for they're precious
cunning, and when you get at one of the
brutes, you shoot him sitting, mind that,
or anyhow you can manage it."

"Well, he maybe cunning," said John,
reflectively, " but mebbe there's other folk
christ as cunning as him. I've catched a
snail by the horns before now — though I
could not throw the little duffle over my
shoulder."

And indeed, as it turned out, it was
Johnny's proud privilege to secure that
precious gun, and that in a far more simple
way than any one of them had hoped for.
Ludovick and Hugh were walking back
through the town towards the hotel which
has been mentioned, when Johnny, who
was lingering behind them somewhat, suddenly
saw a face present itself at the window
of one of the small villas they were passing,
and then there was a quick rapping
on the framework, and also, as he thought,
a half-stifled cry. Instantly he called to
the two in front of him.

'' Here !— here !— Mr. Hugh ! "

They wheeled round. But Johnny

could say nothing ; he was frightened ; he
was staring at the window which was now

o

quite empty. And then — it all seemed to
happen in one brief bewildering second —
the door of the house was thrown open,
and there stood Alison, rose-red, and
smiling, and yet with anxious and pleading
eyes. Ludovick was up the steps and by
her side in a moment, and holding her by
both hands.

'' Have you come for me, Ludovick ? —
are you going to take me away with you ? "
she said ; but the proud and glad light that
shone in her eyes showed that she knew
what his answer would be.

Indeed, I have come for you,'*' said he,
and he drew her a little way into the
passage. It seemed a wonderful thing to
see Alison's face upturned to his again,
and her soft eyes all radiant, and her lips
smiling : this was not the tear-worn Alison
he had been thinking of ; this was rather

the happy bride, rose-red and shy, and yet
blithe of look, who had come sailing away
with him on board the steamer. '' And
I'm going to take you away with me, you
may be sure of that — now, this very minute.
But what are you doing in this place,
Alison ? What brought you here ? When
you left your father's house, why didn't
you come straight through to the Highlands
? "

Ludovick," said she, with her eyes
cast down, " how could I do that — unasked
? "

Then why didn't you write to me ?"
Wouldn't that have been just about
the same thing?" she said gently ; and then
she looked up again — trustful and confident.
" But I knew you would come forme,
Ludovick ! "

*' Yes, I've had a long search for you,
Alison ; but now I've found you I don't
mean to lose sight of you any more. You

must come away at once. I suppose Mrs.
Cowan Is not In the house ? "

'' She went out only a few minutes ago,
but she may be back again directly,"
Alison said, with some apprehension appearing
on her face. '' Shall I go and get
my things ready, Ludovick ? I — I would
rather be away before she came back."

'' Oh, as for that," said he, "It Is of no
consequence to me if there were fifteen
dozen of Mrs. Cowans In the house : you
are coming away with me, and that Is all
about It. But we may as well get you
away quietly If we can. I see Hugh has
disappeared : he Is off to get a cab, I
know, and he will be back presently. And
here Is Johnny; you go and get your
portmanteau ready, Alison, and Johnny
will be waiting to carry It down to the fly."

She hurried away at once ; and then
Ludovick called to Johnny, who came up
the steps grinning with satisfaction, for

now he knew the gun was secured, Likewise
the cartridges, and the stalking of
hodie-crows.

Look here, Johnny," said he, "you go
along and stand at the foot of that stair.
There will be a portmanteau for you to
fetch down from the room above, and you
will have to carry it out to the cab when
it comes. Mind you don't let any one
interfere with you."

Cosh, will there be a fight ? " exclaimed
Johnny, with eager and delighted eyes.

'' Of course not. Only, don't let anyone
stop you. Drive you right through
and get the portmanteau out and into the
cab."

Presently an open fly was driven up,
and here was Hugh, very anxious and
excited.

Isn't she ready ? Isn't she ready ? "
he said breathlessly.

*' There's no such great hurry," Macdonell

said quite calmly. " Even if my
amiable friend Mrs. Cowan turns up, what
can she do ? "

'' You don't know what she mayn't do.
She has the tremendous advantage of
being a woman. If there's any kind of a
difficulty, you can't knock her out of the
way as you might a man. However, if
Alison would only look sharp, it will be all
right. What a lucky chance it is ! "

Indeed, all was going well ; for now
they heard Alison calling Johnny to come
and get down the portmanteau. Moreover,
a domestic who had been summoned
from some back region by this unusual
commotion, having stood and gazed at
these strangers for a second or two, quietly
retired again : she evidently thought it was
none of her business. But alas ! as ill fate
would have it, just as it seemed probable
they were going to get easily and freely
away, Mrs. Cowan appeared upon the

scene ; and she had not even entered the
house when she seemed to divine what
was going on.

*' Hoity, toity, what's this now ? " she
exclaimed, with eyes sparkling with anger ;
and she confronted Ludovick and Hush
in the lobby. All her cringing and servile
suavity was gone now ; she saw the position
clearly enough ; she knew that if once
the girl was allowed to leave the house,
then farewell to all the fond mother's
hopes about the poor probationer and his
prospects ; this was her last chance, and
she was prepared to do battle for it.
Here's impudence ! " she cried. " I'd
just like to know what ye're doing in a
respectable woman's house ! Well, I declare
"

*' I have come to take away my wife,"
Ludovick said politely enough, '' if that is
what you want to know."

Oh, it's you, then," she said, with

rather panting expression — for the crisis
had found her unprepared with sufficiently
cutting phrases — 'rit's you, then, that led
astray that poor girl, and would have made
a Roman of her, and a Jezebel, and — and
worse. But you've not done it yet ; and
you'll no do it ; for we've the law on our
side ; and not a foot will she stir out o'
this house, or my name's no Cowan."

I'm sure I don't know what your name
is," Macdonell said, "and I don't care very
much ; but my wife is going away with me
now — this minute."

'' She's not ! — she's not ! " the woman
cried fiercely — for the sight of Johnny
bringing the portmanteau downstairs
seemed to drive her frantic. " I'll have
the law ; I'll bring a policeman ; you're
stealing these things — you're stealing them !
She's under my charge ; I'll no have her
carried off by a gang o' Roman Catholics
and thieves ! "

At this moment Alison appeared, and
Mrs. Cowan instantly turned to face her —
barrister way, indeed.

*' I dare ye to leave this house ! " she
cried. " Ye're the daughter of an honest,
God-fearing man, and I dare ye to go
forth and bring shame on him and his
house and his congregation ! "

Let me pass, Mrs. Cowan," said Alison,
who was very pale.

I will not — I will not !" this infuriated
person cried. " Ye're under my charge ;
out o' this house ye'll not budge one step.
I'll take ye back to your room myself "

'* If you lay a hand on her," Ludovick
said — and his eyes were beginning to flash
fire now — " it will be the worst day for
you you ever encountered in your life ! "

But she was not to be intimidated.

Back to your room, miss ! " she said ;
and she seized the girl by the wrist.

Well, here an extraordinary thing occurred.

Johnny, by some mischance, happened
at this very moment to trip over
the portmanteau which was lying in the
lobby, and he fell forward against Mrs.
Cowan — fell forward, indeed, with such
violence and weight that she was sent
staggering against the parlour door, which
yielded, so that she stumbled backward
into the room, while the heavy-shouldered
lad, carried on by the impetus of his fall,
rolled in after her. Instantly there was a
frightful shrieking and scrimmage ; but
Hugh clapped to the door, and held the
handle.

Quick now, Ludovick ! whip up the
portmanteau, and be off with you ! Get
into the cab, Alison ! Leave Johnny and
me to come along afterwards : look sharp
or she'll have him killed ! "

Ludovick with his powerful arms seized
the portmanteau, carried it down the steps
and across the pavement, and swung it upto

the driver ; he opened the door and
helped Alison into the fly ; then they
drove away, and Hugh waited until they
were well out of sight. Just as they disappeared
round a distant corner, Ludovick
looked back and waved his hand : he was
laughing — doubtless over Johnny's achievement
; but Alison, Hugh could perceive,
still seemed frightened and was very pale.
Then he thought it was time for him to
open the parlour door, and see what was
going on within.

But the battle raged no longer. The
combatants were exhausted. Mrs. Cowan
had thrown herself on the sofa, her face
downward on the cushion, and she was
sobbing hysterically ; while her dress was
in dire disarray. Johnny, on the other
hand, stood erect, irate, and vengeful,
regarding his enemy with lowering eyes ;
but he too was in woful plight — his collar
hanging from his neck, his waistcoat torn

VOL. in. Q

open, and blood streaming profusely from
two terrible scratches that extended from
his right temple all down the side of his face.
'' Come away, Johnny — come away ! " his
master said to him.
But Johnny lingered.
I was giving that tamed something
she will remember," he said between
his teeth, as he still regarded his prostrate
foe. " Does she want any more ? "

There was no response from the sobbing
and dishevelled figure on the sofa.
Come away, John, I tell you ! "
But even when he had in a fashion
dragged him out of the house, Hugh could
not induce Johnny to go any farther.

*' That tamed ," he said sullenly

as he was mopping his face with his handkerchief,
'she had her nails in my neck.
I'm not going back to Edinburgh just yet,
Mr. Hugh, I know the wei there ferry
well. I'm going to stay here until it is

dark ; and when it is dark I will go back.
She's an ahfu' woman, that ; but, by Cosh,
I was giving her something ! "

What on earth do you want to stay
here till it is dark for ? " Hugh demanded,
with some impatience.

** I want to bash the windows with stone,"
said Johnny, gloomily regarding the house.

Yes, and get locked up in the police-office
! "

That is no matter," was all that John
said.

Eventually, however, he was forced to
come away with Hugh : and when they
caught a tramway car, and got on the top
of the same, Huorh set to work magnanimously
to convince John that he had not
fared worst in that fell duel.

But just remember this, Johnny,"
Hugh Munro said to this extremely 
lad, whose torn collar
could not be made to come together again.

'' Consider what you've done. You've
broken into a house, and carried off a
portmanteau, and let a minister's daughter
run away, and committed assault and
battery, and I don't know what else.
You'll be very well out of it if you get
safely back to Lochaber. What would you
say now if you were taken before a judge
in Edinburgh — a terrible person in a big
white wig and silk robes — and if you were
charged before him, what would you say ?''
Well," said Johnny, with the most
imperturbable coolness, '' I would tell him

I was giving that tamed as much

as she was giving me ; and if he did not
like the answer, I would tell him to do
what was his pleasure. For you know
what they say in the Gaelic, Mr. Hugh —
'Is coma lets an rio^h DiicrhalL is coma le
Dunghill CO dhidbh! " *

" The King hates Dugald, but Dugald does not
care a straw for that."

CHAPTER VIII.

AGNES.

What strangely unexpected strands appear
In this web of life we weave from day today.
When Alison Macdonell was walking
through the luxuriant gardens of Monaco,
between branching palm and towering
cactus, and looking down the steep cliffs
to the Intense opaque blue of the Mediterranean
Sea basking in the noonday sun,
her thoughts would go wandering away
back to the grimy little Scotch town, with
its rain, Its squalid streets and smoke-laden
skies ; when she stood in ' the
mysterious dusk of Milan Cathedral, and
beheld the enthroned cardinals In their

robes of purple and red, and listened to
the distant sound of trumpet and viol and
bassoon leading the hushed invisible choir,
she would think (and with no kind of disrespect
or contempt) of the bare walls and
cold pews of East Street Church, and of
the harsh voices of men singing, " Be
merciful to me, O God " to the melancholy
strains of " Coleshill " or '' Bangor ; " and
even with her young husband by her side,
laughing, talking, proud of her, assiduous
in his devotion to her, and studying her
every wish with a constant kindness, her
heart would turn with a sort of piteous
longing for reconciliation to the stern old
man who had shut the door of his house
upon her for ever. Ludovick did not seek
to argue her out of these wistful regrets,
though sometimes he good-naturedly remonstrated.


'* Look here, Ailie," he would say, but
very gently, 'reach person has to go his or

her own way in the world ; and I think,
after you have got back to Lochaber, and
are settled down there, and have got
acquainted with the many families who
will be delighted to become your friends, I
think you will find yourself leading a far
more wholesome and natural life than ever
you did in Kirk o' Shields. Of course, if
your father were disposed to make it up
with us, I should be very glad. I should
be very glad for several reasons ; among
them, I should like to have your sister
Agnes come often to stay with us at Oyre.
But if he won't relent, then obstinacy and
bigotry must simply be allowed to go their
own way — as we go ours."

Yes, Ludovick," she would say submissively
; and she would strive to be
wholly engrossed with the various details
and experiences of their travelling, though
he came to the conclusion that time alone
would effectually clear away these sad

fancies, these unspoken regrets, from her
mind.

However, when they did eventually
return home to Fort William and to Oyre
House, the general welcome that awaited
the young bride (which involved them in a
series of visits, oftentimes to distant parts
of the country), and the new and unfamiliar
duties devolving upon Alison herself, were
of themselves a fortunate distraction.
Armed as she was with a tolerable notion
of housekeeping, she had much to learn in
this extended sphere ; and she was in
many ways a shifty and business-like
young person, who had early acquired a
sense of responsibility ; so that Ludovick
used laughingly to declare that Aunt Gilchrist's
'' bit lady " was developing into a
solemn and awful chatelaine, who ought to
go about in stiff black satin, vv^ith the keys
of an oubliette dangling from her girdle.
But Alison was exceedingly proud when

the success of this or the other modest
Httle festivity at Oyre called forth gentle
and polished but none the less sincere
praises from the old laird, who, indeed,
was now so given to talking of his daughter-in-law
wherever he went, and of her beautiful
nature, her affectionate disposition, her
persuasive ways, her simplicity, and self-possession,
and charm of manner, that he
had hardly any time left for his Indian
stones. And then again, if Alison had
fallen in love with the West Highlands
in the summer-time, consider what she
thought of them in the gorgeous hues of
late October. In summer, the West Highlands,
when they are not darkened by
black rain-storms from the west, become
faint and ethereal in the haze produced by
fine weather ; the mountains recede behind
a veil, as it were, through which you can
see the pale lilac-grays and rose-grays of
their lofty peaks and shoulders, with the

shadows traced in lightest blue ; but in
the colder and clearer atmosphere of late
October, when the brackens of the lower
slopes have turned to orange, and the
bent-grass of the higher slopes has withered,
the hills come startlingly near, and are of
a solid russet-red, with every corrie and
watercourse sharply marked in deep cobalt ;
while as the afternoon wanes, and the skies
riches in intensity, the wide calm stretch
of sea becomes a lake of crimson fire.
With these splendours before her, Alison
could not always be thinking of Kirk o'
Shields.

Aunt Gilchrist, who tarried long in Fort
William this autumn, apparently for no
other reason than to catch an occasional
glimpse of her bit lady, whom she had
befriended in a most substantial manner —
Aunt Gilchrist, it was observed, would
never come near Oyre House when there
were any strangers or any formal dinner-party

there. She affected to be a Httle
shy. If Hugh and Flora only were going
out to have an afternoon game of tennis
and to spend the evening, she would sometimes
accompany them ; and she had struck
up a great friendship with Mr. Macdonell ;
but she kept away from Alison's new set
of acquaintances. She said she was justa
foolish old Scotchman (which was not
true, for she was Highland to the backbone)
who had so long been accustomed to
have her own way in her own small circle,
that she did not care to go among strangers ;
and when Ludovick teased her by saying
he knew why she would not accept these
invitations — that it was because, after her
goodness to Alison, she did not wish to
come forward publicly to exact too much
of their humble devotion and homage — she
would answer significantly —

I've seen more o' the world than you,
young sir ; and when I promised my dear

that she would go properly provided to
Oyre House — that I would come and be a
mother-in-law to you whenever you wanted
me — I knew at the same time that a
mother-in-law has to be discreet in her
visits. I've done nothing for my bit lady
but what I said I would ; yere not obliged
to me the least thing; I'm happy enough
when I hear her drive up to the gate and
when I look out and see her blithe face
coming through the garden."

The fact was that just at this time Aunt
Gilchrist's chief companion was John. The
little old dame betrayed a most unholy joy
in hearing the minutest details of the encounter
between John and Mrs. Cowan ;
she laughed aloud at the picture of her
adversary's overthrow ; she spurred on
Johnny's imagination until his recital,
elaborated day after day, rose to epic
heights. At first John had been chary of
bragging. Despite all his nonchalance,

there remained with him some dim vision
(conjured up by Hugh's warning) of an
Edinburgh judge, sitting in awful court,
and with knit brows inquiring into the story
of the Portobello outrage. But at home
here in Lochaber he o^rew to disregard
these vague terrors ; and the more Aunt
Gilchrist — chuckling, crowing, making
merry over the downfall of her direst
enemy — the more Aunt Gilchrist encouraged
him, the more did John, with his
small eyes twinkling, and his large mouth
grinning, add vivid particulars to his
description of the fray. He took no shame
to him that his victory had been obtained
over a woman. Have not other heroes
been in the like case ? Did not the famous
and valiant Siegfried strive with and overcome
that " devil's-wife," the fierce Brune-hilt
? The Portobello- Lied drew in
proportions, until, from being the mere
account of a cockatoo-and-monkey scrimmage,

It became a great heroic poem,
something that seemed to demand a
lamenting or joyful chorus at the end of
Its several parts. And the first thing that
caused Johnny to rise to these altitudes
of invention was his Inquiry about the
probable cost of Mrs. Cowan's bonnet.

"Well, mem," he said to Aunt Gilchrist,
while as yet the chant of triumph was in
embryo, "when she put her nails Into the
back of my neck, I had a group of her too ;
and if she tore my collar, well, I pulled her
bonnet In pieces, and what Is more as that,
mem, when It came off all her front hair
came off too "

"That was false hair, Johnny, I'll be
bound," said Aunt Gilchrist, sniggering
to herself. " So the plaits came off, did
they ? "

"Ay, but this Is what I would like to
know, now ; I would like to know what
she would be paying for that bonnet that I

tore into bits ? " Johnny asked. '' Two
shillings, mebbe ? "

Two shillings ? what are you talking
about ? "

'' Mebbe more as that ? Mebbe seffen
or echo shillings ? " said Johnny eagerly.
Seffen or echo shillings ? "

'' More likely a pound, or five-and-twenty
shillings!" answered Aunt Gilchrist
— and she, too, was chuckling over
the destruction of this piece of property.

*' Five-and-twenty shillings ! " exclaimed
Johnny — awe-struck in the midst of his
delight. " Five-and-twenty shillings ! "
And then he burst out laughing. " Aw,
Cosh, that's a fine thine, now ! Five-and-twenty
shillings ! That's a good story now
as ever I was hearing ! Five-and-twenty
shillings ! I will be telling that story to
Macdonell when I go out to get the gun
he was promising me."

Johnny not only got the gun and a

moderate amount of cartridges, but also
permission to shoot an occasional rabbit or
two when the Munroes could let him go
out to pay a visit to Oyre ; and it was
quite remarkable how many rabbits seemed
to get in John's way. He entirely failed
to find any hodie-crows ; but proud indeed
was Johnny when he could present
the young mistress of Oyre with two or
three rabbits, their legs neatly tied together
with a piece of string. He would not take
them into the back premises and give
them to the cook ; he lay in wait for
Alison ; and she, knowing what this murderous
youth most valued, made no scruple
about going into her husband's gun-room
and filching from the case another handful
of cartridges which she surreptitiously
conveyed to John. These two were excellent
friends ; but Johnny got no encouragement
from her to relate and magnify his
onslaught upon Mrs. Cowan : the Porto-bellowed

was for Aunt Gilchrist's ears
alone.

The flamIno[- month of October burned
itself out ; Aunt Gilchrist had now gone
away to the Rothesay Hydropathic Establishment,
to settle herself there for the
winter ; and yet no message of any kind,
no proffered word of conciliation, had come
to Alison from the inexorable old man in
Kirk o' Shields. Ao^nes was her correspondent
; and Agnes wrote frequently,
saying smooth things and assuring her
sister that in time her father would relent ;
but Alison could tell, even from these
letters, that her name was never mentioned,
that in her old home she was as one dead
and departed for ever. Mrs. Cowan was
a good deal about the house, she learned.
She had been instrumental in getting the
servant-lass Jean dismissed — Jean having
imprudently made some slighting remark
about the length of the prayers at family

VOL. HI. R

worship ; and Mrs. Cowan had brought
down from Corbieslaw a girl to supply
Jean's place, the new-comer being of a
much more pious turn, though her godliness
was more in evidence than her cleanliness.
And every one of these letters
wound up with the piteous hope that soon
Alison might find some means of winning
over her father from his rigid and austere
isolation, showing how this gentle, nervous,
sensitive creature Agnes was fretting about
that unhappy estrangement.

Suddenly those letters ceased ; and
Alison, wondering, wrote again and again,
without getting any answer. Then she
became alarmed. She went to her husband,
and asked him whether she might
not write to Mrs. Cowan ; and she probably
would have done so had not a telegram
arrived from Kirk o' Shields that confirmed
her worst fears. She looked at it,
breathless and dismayed. '' Your sister is

seriously ilL She wishes to see yozc.
Ebenezer Blair" She did not stay to
consider that here was an intimation from
her father that his house was again open
to her ; she was not thinking of herself at
all ; she was thinking only of the frail,
delicate, wistful-eyed girl who had such a
slight physique with which to combat
any attack of disease. And when she
hurriedly, and with rather a pale, frightened
face, carried this telegram to her husband,
she could not tell him all the anxious forebodings
that were in her mind.

"You must go at once," Ludovick said,
'' and I will go with you. We will put up
at the inn, so that we need not be in anyone's
way. Of course, Ailie," he added,
I am very sorry your sister is ill ; and I
hope it may be only something temporary ;
but there's this to be said about it — it has
made it easy for your father and you to
become friends again. People forget bygones

in the face of such a crisis. And I
know you have been worrying and vexing
yourself about it — far more than ever you
would tell me : well, here is the beginning
of a reconciliation. He himself asks you
to go to the house ; whereas he might
have got Mrs. Cowan to send you the
telegram • "

*' I do not care about that," she said
sadly. " I'm afraid Agnes must be very ill."

And thus it was that Alison found herself
once more in Kirk o' Shields, on the
afternoon of a bleak and cold November
day, just as the daylight, or what passes
there for daylight, was falling into a sombre
dusk. The people at the Inn knew that
the Minister's daughter was seriously ill.
It was some kind of fever, they said. She
had been prayed for in the church on the
preceding Sabbath. But there was something
in the guarded way they spoke that
alarmed Alison more than their words.

Forthwith she walked hurriedly along to
East Street and to her father's house, and
was admitted by the new servant-girl,
Ludovick accompanying her. \\^hen she
went upstairs and entered her sister's room
(which used to be her room, too) the gas
was already lit ; her father was standing
talking in low tones to the doctor ; Mrs.
Cowan sat by the side of the bed ; an open
Bible lay on the small table. The moment
she made her appearance, Mrs. Cowan
rose and retired to the upper end of the
room ; and Alison went forward on tiptoe,
and knelt down by the bedside. Apparently
her sister was asleep — at least
her eyes were closed ; her face was pale
and wan and sunken ; she was breathing
heavily, and with sometimes a kind of
shudder that seemed to pass through the
wasted frame ; and when Alison ever so
gently put her hand on the back of her
sister's hand, there was a cold clamminess

there that struck a mortal dread to her
heart.

At that slight touch the girl opened her
eyes — languid they were, and anxious too,
and almost frightened, but there was no
fierce fire of fever in them, as Alison was
rejoiced to perceive.

Have you just come, Ailie ?" she said,
in a weak, uncertain voice, as if breathing
were difficult to her. And then she said,
with a kind of troubled look, " I thought
you were here last night, Ailie, but — but
sometimes I don't quite knovv the difference
between dreaming and waking : my
head is so strange. Is — is your husband
here ? "

Yes, he is in the parlour," Alison said
quickly. '' Would you like to see him,
Aggie ? "

'' Yes."

Alison went downstairs at once, and
fetched Ludovick — who came forward to

the bedside without paying heed to anyone
in the room. Curiously enough, at
sight of him, the large, languid eyes of the
sick girl filled with tears.

Come nearer," she said.

He stooped down to listen.

You 11 be kind to Ailie ! " she said, ina
piteous kind of way.

We all try to be as kind to her as we
can," said he cheerfully. " But it is you
who have got to be kind to her now.
Ever since she came to Oyre, she has
been wondering when you were coming to
pay us a visit — a long, long visit, so that
she can show you all the wonderful things
in Lochaber. And that is what you have
got to do now — you must make haste to
feet strong and well, and as soon as the
doctor allows you, we'll see what the change
will do for you, and the Highland air, and
Alison's nursing."

She only shook her head mournfully ;

and turned away from them ; and once
more closed the tired, heavy eyes.

Alison had thrown aside her bonnet and
travelling-ulster on entering the house ;
and as Mrs. Cowan had now left the room,
it seemed so natural that the elder sister
of the patient should take the place of
nurse that the doctor, before going, came
forward to her, and in an undertone eave
her directions as to what she should do.
Down below he found Alison's husband in
the parlour ; and Macdonell, being anxious
to hear all about the case, went outside
with him, and walked some distance with
him. The report he received was far
from satisfactory. She had no strength of
constitution to fight this nervous fever, the
doctor said. She had been delirious
several times. Though apparently she
slept now and again, it was not real sleep ;
it was only a sort of dozing, during which
her brain seemed to be racked by all kinds

of terrors and visions. Ludovick asked
him whether there was any immediate
danger ; and the doctor somewhat evasively
admitted that he feared there was.

Meanwhile Alison had been left alone
with her father in the hushed sick-chamber ;
and now the old man with the sad, worn
face had drawn his chair in to the table,
and was reading aloud in solemn, monotonous
tones, the Thirty-eighth Psalm, that
perchance some phrase of petition or confession
or consolation might reach that
troubled brain. " ' O Lord, rebuke me
not in thy wrath : neither chasten me in
thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows
stick fast in me, and thy hand pressed me
sore. There is no soundness in my flesh
because of thine anger ; neither is there
any rest in my bones because of my sin.
For mine iniquities are gone over my
head : as a heavy burden they are too
heavy for me.' " And still more impressively

he read out the closing verses, as if
he also were joining in this appeal for
Divine pity and succour. " ' Forsake me
not, O Lord : O my God, be not far from
me. Make haste to help me, O Lord my
salvation.' "

In the silence that ensued, the sick girl
began to murmur something, in an uneasy,
broken, restless fashion ; and Alison leaned
over to hear what she was saying. It was
all about herself, she found ; it was Ailie
this — Ailie that ; and apparently Agnes
was addressing some third person, who
she fancied was with her. Who that was
Alison soon learned.

'' Mother, mother," the girl said — and
now there was a curious hectic flush on
her face, and the palm of her hand was
burning hot — *' mother," she said, in those
low and piteous tones, " you would not
have let Ailie stand there crying if you
could have come to her — you would have

taken poor Ailie away — you would have
brought her here, with us — we should
have been all together. And — and if she
was here now, I should not be afraid — Ailie
was always the one to help me — but — but
I am afraid — oh, don't take me forward,
mother ! — don't ! — don't ! — the Lord Jesus
on the White Throne — and the golden
crown, and the sickle that is to reap when
the time is come to reap — it will be all so
terrible ! — let me wait here, mother — hide
me, hide me ! — let me wait here, for
Ailie ! And you would have pitied her,
mother — they were so cruel with her — and
my father not speaking to her — and she
was crying when she was in the church,
and when she left the house. I looked upto
the skies ; I thought you would be
crying, too, mother, when you looked down
and saw poor Ailie, that was always your
favourite ; but there are no tears here —
only those voices that are so far away ;

.and I can see no one but you. No ! no !
not yet ! — don't lead me forward yet,
mother ! — I would rather wait for Aille ;
and she will take the one hand, and you
the other, and I will go between you — and
and my eyes cast down — and perhaps
the Lord Jesus will pity me, and not be
angry. Mother, if only I had something
to put at the foot of the Throne 1 — some
flowers — but there were none when I came
away — it was winter and everything was
dark — there were none that I could bring
with me. Will He be angry, mother, that
I have brought nothing with me ? "

"Hush, hush, Aggie!" the elder sister
said, and she put her hand on the girl's
burning forehead.

And then it was that she opened her
eyes again — which were fixed and staring ;
and she tried to lift her poor, helpless arm
as if she would point to what she saw
before her.

Look ! — look ! — the great white banner
and the red letters on it — do you see
what it says, mother — ' For Sinners Slain '
is He coming now ? Is He coming this
way, mother ? Oh, look at the thousands
and thousands of them, all robed in white,
and singing — don't you hear them, mother ?
it's Helmsley they're singing — ' Lo, He
comes with clouds descending, once for
favoured sinners slain ' — listen, mother —
it's Helmsley they're singing — ' Thousand,
thousand saints attending, swell the triumph
of His train ' — was it singing like this that
Ailie heard — in the cathedral somewhere ? "

Hush, dear, hush ! " Alison said soothingly,
and she moistened the parched lips
with the cooling drink that stood by.

The younger sister turned her glazed,
staring eyes upon Alison, and seemed to
recognize her — but as part of this rapt
vision.

Have you come, Ailie ? " she said, in a

low, hurried voice. " Do you see them ?
do you see them there ? — mother has
gone away — she will be back — she has
gone to tell them why I had nothing to
put at the foot of the White Throne — she
knew I was frightened. For it is all so
different now, so different ! Once He said
Suffer the little children to come unto
me ' ; but that was when He was a poor
man, living among poor people ; now He
is the King of Glory, the Lord strong and
mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. ' Feed
my lambs,' He said ; but that was long
aeo ; and He has forgotten now. Now
He is the King of Glory — and the everlasting
gates are opened before Him — oh,
Ailie, He is coming ! — give me your hand,
quick, quick ! — and be still — be still — maybe
He will remember what He said once
maybe He will pity us and not be
angry — I can — see — mother — pleading for
us

She turned away with a weaned sigh ;
she closed her eyeHds and lay breathing
heavily. And then in the silence
arose the solemn tones of the Minister's
voice —

' I will bless the Lord at all times :
his praise shall continually be in my mouth.
My soul shall make her boast in the Lord :
the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.
O magnify the Lord with me, and let us
exalt his name together. I sought the
Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me
from all my fears'"

So the slow hours went by ; and Alison
sat there, patient and assiduous in her
ministrations, and watching the strange
fluctuations from burning heat to shuddering
cold that marked the progress of the
fever. There was no recurrence of violent
delirium ; but sometimes the earl would
moan and mutter to herself, in a voice so
low as to be almost inaudible. It was clear

that she was not asleep ; It was mere
exhaustion that kept her eyes closed.

Towards midnight the old servant Margaret
came up and whispered that she had
prepared some food for Alison, and that
she would take her place at the bedside
(for Mrs. Cowan had gone home for the
present). When Alison went down to the
parlour, she found her husband still there ;
and she begged him to go back to the inn,
but he refused to do that ; he said he could
pass the night very well in the arm-chair,
and preferred to remain in case he should
be wanted. He did not tell her what the
doctor had said.

The long night passed, slowly and wearifully
; the bleak, gray morning broke over
the squalid little town ; and the wan light
entering by the window showed hardly
any change in the condition of the sick
girl, who, indeed, had fallen into a kind of
stupor, taking no heed of anything, and

suffering no longer from these delirious
attacks. It was a lethargy of exhaustion ;
the fever had burned up the vitality of the
delicate constitution ; she lay in a sort of
coma, as if asleep, but not asleep. When
the doctor came, he looked grave and
anxious ; and he said a few words to the
Minister out of Alison's hearing. He
called two or three times during the day ;
and he hardly strove to conceal his fear
that his patient was slipping away from
under his care.

Towards nightfall it was evident to
everybody that she was sinking fast.
Alison, Mrs. Cowan, and the Minister were
in the room ; the servants were in the
passage outside ; Mr. Cowan, Ludovick
Macdonell, and one or two relatives were
in the parlour below, waiting to be summoned.
And in the silence of the sick-chamber
there was only the monotonous,
mournful sound of the Minister's voice.

VOL. III. S

He was walking up and down, repeating
in slow and measured and earnest tones
verse after verse of Scripture, that perhaps
the dying girl might overhear :

' For if the dead rise not, then is not
Christ raised : And if Christ be not raised,
your faith is vain ; ye are yet in your sins.
Then they also which are fallen asleep in
Christ are perished. If in this life only
we have hope in Christ, we are of all men
most miserable. But now is Christ risen
from the dead, and become the firstfruits
of them that slept.' "

And then again would come a pause of
dreadful stillness, in which the poor woman
Margaret could be heard sobbing in the
passage without. But there was no faltering
of the Ministers voice, no trace of
emotion in the stern, sad face.

'' ' If a man die, shall he live again ? all
the days of my appointed time will I wait,
till my change come. Thou shalt call, and

I will answer thee : thou wilt have a desire
to the work of thine hands.'

*****

'' ' Yea, though I walk through the valley
of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil :
for thou art with me ; thy rod and thy staff
they comfort me.'

*****

' Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my
cry come unto thee. Hide not thy face
from me in the day when I am in trouble ;
incline thine ear unto me : in the day
when I call answer me speedily. For
my days are consumed like smoke, and
my bones are burned as a hearth. My
heart is smitten, and withered like grass ;
so that I forget to eat my bread.'

*****

'' ' Ho, every one that thirsted, come ye
to the waters ; and he that hath no money,
come ye, buy, and eat ; yea, come, buy
wine and milk without money and without

price. . . . Incline your ear, and come
unto me : hear, and your soul shall live ;
and I will make an everlasting covenant
with you, even the sure mercies of David'"
He repeated that last phrase again and
again, so that she mtLst overhear : " ' I will
make an everlasting covenant with you,,
even the sure mercies of David.'

% * * *

' Thus salt the Lord ; A voice was
heard in Rajah, lamentation, and bitter
weeping ; Rachel weeping for her children
refused to be comforted for her children,
because they were not. Thus saith the
Lord ; Refrain thy voice from weeping,,
and thine eyes from tears : for thy work
shall be rewarded, saith the Lord.' "

And surely it was to lend her courage
on her entrance into the dark valley, that
his voice now became even more solemn
and strenuous —

* So when this corruptible shall have

put on incorruption, and this mortal shall
have put on immortality, then shall be
brought to pass the saying that is written,
Death is swallowed up in victory. O
death, where is thy sting ? O grave, where
is thy victory ? The sting of death is sin ;
and the strength of sin is the law. But
thanks be to God, which giveth us the
victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.' "

Here there was a longer pause, and
Agnes opened her eyes and looked
languidly around, as if seeking some one.
Alison instantly bent down towards her.

'what is it, dear?"

Her eyes were still looking wearily for
what she could not find.

Where — is — he ? " she asked.

*' Do you mean Ludovick ? " Alison said
and her sister's eyes plainly answered
yes.

She went hastily downstairs and brought
Ludovick up and into the room. When

he came to the bedside, he Instinctively
took the dying girl's hand in his, for she
was too weak to raise it. And then she
seemed to try to say something — but was
unable.

I know," said he, stooping over her,
*' I know what you wish to say to me. It
is what you said last night. And you
want me to make a promise ? Well, then,
I do ; you need not be afraid ! "

Her last look was directed towards his
eyes ; and it was a look of gratitude and
kindness, of assurance and peace. He
was still holding her hand when the
change came ; and the gentle, loving spirit
passed quite quietly away, almost without
a struggle.

It was the strong, resonant voice of the
Minister that broke the hushed silence.

Let us give praise to the Most High
that He has seen fit to take another lamb
Into His fold."

And Ashen he knelt down, and as the
others knelt down — the two servants having

«z>

come unbidden into the room — if the
women were sobbing and crying, no tremor
of emotion broke the clear tones of this
old man's declaration of his acquiescence
in the Divine will. What to him were the
sorrows of this transitory life but as snowflakes
beating against the impregnable
armour of his faith in the heavenly wisdom
and mercy ? Nay, this was no supplication,
but rather a strenuous resignation. She
who had been taken from them had been
spared the trials and temptations and
afflictions of years, and had entered early
into the joy of her Lord, Why should we
mourn, he said (almost as if addressing
those grief-stricken relatives and friends),
that she had won to her eternal rest a
little while before others who had still to
toil and fret in these earthly bonds, until
the happy moment of their release should

come ? Death had been conquered ; their
young kinswoman had been raised to
everlasting Hfe ; to God be all the praise !
It was a devout and sincere thanksgiving
that the Minister poured forth, in measured,
earnest, impressive sentences ; but perhaps
they had not all attained to his lofty and
resolute disregard of the sufferings and
tribulations of this brief moment of human
existence ; indeed, when the news got
bruited abroad that night, there was more
than one sad heart in the town, for the
gentle, affectionate, frail-constitution girl
had made many friends, even in this
austere Kirk o' Shields.

CHAPTER IX.

HOMEWARD.

Of course Ludovick and Alison had to
v/ait for the funeral ; but he did not choose
that she should remain in Kirk o' Shields ;
he took her through to Edinburgh, under
pretence of getting proper mourning for
her ; and there she was most kindly received
by the Balwhinnans, who did what
they could to assuage her all-absorbing
grief. There also Ludovick had abundant
opportunity of talking over his present
circumstances with his old friend.

*' I shall be glad when I get her finally
and for ever away from that place," he
said. "It is not the right atmosphere for

her ; it never could have been. Naturally
she is a most blithe and crowd-humoured
girl, alert and merry, quite contented with
everything, nothing making her so happy
as seeing those round about her in full
enjoyment. She is far too quick-witted,
she has too much common sense, to believe
in the gospel of useless renunciation — to
believe in the efficacy of perpetual little
martyrdoms — to measure your chance of
heaven by the number of groans and sighs
you can crowd into an afternoon "

My good friend," remonstrated Bal-whitman,
smiling and shaking his head,
you will never understand those people."

'' I understand them as far as I have
seen them," the younger man said confidently.
"And what I have observed in
them is plenty of faith, and plenty of hope,
but not the fifteenth part of a grain of
charity. Oh, I can tell you they let me
know pretty clearly that I was a leper, and

to be shunned ; and what's more, Alison
saw it too — though she didn't say anything ;
if it had not been for this great trouble
occupying her entirely, I fancy she might
have even a certain Mr. Cowan a bit of
her mind. Not that it mattered to me ;
it amused me in a way. But the cheek
of some people ! Of course they have all
the religion, and all the conscience, that
exist among the sons of men ; and the
fashion in which they have secured a
monopoly of the good things in the next
world is just beautiful to behold. It seems
to me, Balwhinnan, you want a modern
apostle to go preaching through some of
your South of Scotland smaller towns ;
and I could furnish him with a text for
his sermons — Beware of spiritual pride."

'' At all events," the advocate said, '' you
are better satisfied now that you did not
go to law in order to find out where the
young lady was."

'* We did not appeal to the law ; we
broke it," Ludovick said simply. '' If that
rascal of a lad had not made a most
outrageous, violent, and unprovoked attack
on an unoffending divinity student, I don't
see how we ever could have found out
where she was;'

But it will be all the easier for you
now to make friends with the old Minister
before you go back home — that is what
your wife seems chiefly anxious about at
present."

I know," said the younger man rather
gloomily. 'rand I don't see much chance
of it. When I first heard of that poor
girl's illness, I thought it might offer a
way towards some kind of reconciliation ;
but I am not so sure now. And I know
Alison will be fretting over her fathers
loneliness. His loneliness ! His loneliness
seems to me merely the isolation of pride.
Of course I admit that there is something

fine in the contempt or indifference he
seems to have for anything that may
happen to him in this world ; there is
something fine in that ; it is worthy of
Epictetus, though I suppose the Minister
would call it ordinary Christian fortitude. I
can see what is fine in that ; even if it
leads him to disregard the claims of natural
affection, even if he refuses to his only
daughter the trifle of sympathy and consideration
she is begging and praying for
in her heart. Well, I wall do what I can
towards making matters smooth. I will
go to him and offer him my hand ; I will
ask him for the briefest message of kindness
that I may take to Alison "

Don't you think," his friend said
gently, "that it might be better for her

to oro herself ? "
« >

"She shall not do anything of the
sort ! " Ludovick said, with a fish in his
eyes. " She has suffered enough already ;

she shall suffer no more, in that quarter.
Do you think I want a jury of elders and
elders' wives to come together to consider
her conduct ? Do you think she is to goas
a suppliant to them? Not while I can
prevent it ! "

'' It was only a suggestion of mine," the
lawyer said good-naturedly. " You see, you
are not the most diplomatic person in
the world, Macdonell ; and you might go
with some prejudice in your mind, some
resentment, perhaps, over what happened
formerly ; and that might make things
different. Then, again, you must remember
the natural relation between father and
daughter."

"■ What did he do before ? " the younger
man demanded. '' He handed her over to
the custody of Mrs. Cowan. I suppose
she was not deemed worthy to be in his
sight. She was sent away to be purified
of her iniquities and transgressions ; and

then she was to come back a contrite
penitent. And you see she is not a contrite
penitent yet. If she went all by
herself to that house, she mio^ht have
her sins and enormities flaunted before
her again. She might have the sermon
that was preached at her from the pulpit
repeated for her benefit. She might have
that sickening hypocrite of a woman
whining over her as a brand not yet
plucked from the burning. Well, then, I
say ' No, thank you,' to all that. She is
not going to encounter anything of the
kind. I will make it my business to see
she shall not

The advocate scratched his head.

Well, I don't know what the mischief is
to come of it all," he said, with a perplexed
air. '' I wish both of you were back in
Lochaber, leaving time to smooth away
these differences. But if you go to this
old man with such an antagonism of
feeling "

Luclovick Macdonell — who was really a
most good-humoured and generous-spirited
kind of person, when he was not harassed
by these bitter memories — suddenly looked
up, and said with a frank smile —

You need not be afraid of that, Bal-whitman.
I give you my word that when
I 2:0 to see the old Minister I weill abase
myself down to the ground — for Alison's
sake."

The day of the funeral was dark and
o^rim. Over the thick smoke-laden atmosphere
of Kirk o' Shields hung leaden
skies ; and a continuous rain poured into
the melancholy streets. The funeral service,
as is customary in Scotland, took place in
the house, the friends and relatives assembling
in the parlour, while the coffin
lay In the room above. The Minister,
worn of face and sad-eyed, but still with
the same air of lofty resignation and
acquiescence, stood at the head of the

table, an open Bible before him, while in
measured and monotonous tones he admonished
this little group of sorrowing
folk of the vanity and worthlessness of
human life, and reminded them of the
great eternal prize towards which they
should be pressing, through these brief
moments here below. And it was almost
with tenderness, but with no break in his
voice, that he referred to the young girl
who had been taken away from them.
She had been a faithful handmaid of the
Lord. She had walked according to the
light. In so far as her station and years
allowed, she had been attentive to her
duties ; she had been as the child Samuel,
who ministered unto the Lord before Eli
the priest. And even as the Lord had
called to Samuel, and the child had answered,
*' Speak, Lord ; for thy servant
heareth," so to this other young ministrant
and servant He had sent His summons,
VOL. in. T

and she had answered, and gone home to
her rest. Why should they weep, or doubt
the infinite wisdom and mercy of Him who
ruled all things, even the smallest ? Their
young sister in the Lord had only gone
before, to her exceeding gain. And then
he repeated the words of Paul to the
Thessalonians : " But I would not have
you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning
them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not,
even as others which have no hope. For
if we believe that Jesus died and rose
again, even so them also which sleep in
Jesus will God bring with him."

But here a terrible thing occurred. The
old servant woman Margaret, who was
standing near the door-way, was taken
with a violent trembling, and she sank on
her knees to the floor, and raised her
clasped hands above her head, and called
aloud, with a piteous cry —

Lord God, have mercy upon me ! have

mercy upon me ! They're a' looking dorrit
to seeing her again ; there a' to meet her
there except me — except me ! She'll no
come near where I am — in the everlasting
fire ! Lord God, have mercy upon me !
Will ye no have mercy on a poor sinner ?
Is there to be no mercy for me through all
eternity ? Lord God, have piety — have
piety ! "

The Minister paused. '' Remove that
poor woman," he said, in a calm, grave
voice ; and when they had raised the poor
trembling wretch and led her from the
room, he continued the solemn, simple,
unimposing service.

When that was over, the coffin was
brought down and placed in the hearse ;
and as the sombre vehicle slowly moved
away, the male relatives and friends (the
women-folk remaining in the house) proceeded
to follow it on foot, two by two, led
by the Minister himself and his chief elder,

Mr. Cowan of Corbieslaw. The small,
irregular black procession made its way
through the rain and along these dingy
thoroughfares till it reached the cemetery
just outside the town. And of all the
dismal sights about Kirk o' Shields, surely
this was the most melancholy. Here were
no white stones marking the graves of the
loved and lost ones, nor carefully tended
flowers in their purity and sweetness
emblematic of the kind remembrance, the
wistful hope, that placed them there. The
head-stones were dank and sodden with
wet and smoke ; the bits of bushes here
and there were leafless, withered, and
black ; the very grass was grimy. The
hearse came to within a few yards of the
open grave, then the coffin was taken out
and carried over, and slowly and reverently
lowered into its resting-place. It had but
the one white wreath upon it. That Alison
had brought with her from Edinburgh ;

you cannot buy flowers in Kirk o' Shields
if you wished. There was no service by
the side of the grave. When the coffin
had been lowered, the friends and relatives
took a last look ; then, as the grave-diggers
began their work, they fell to talking
among themselves ; finally, in scattered
groups, they set out again for the town
and for their several homes, walking
through the heavy rain. Ludovick was
alone all this time ; no one had spoken to
him, or taken any notice of him.

But when he returned to the Minister's
house to fetch away Alison, he was surprised
she had already gone, though Mrs.
Cowan and one or two others of the
women-folk were still there. She had
returned to the inn, the servant-maid informed
him, shortly after the funeral had
left. So, as this seemed as good an
opportunity as any for trying to come to
some amicable understanding with the

•a

Minister, he bade the servant-lass inform
Mr. Blair that he would like to see him
for a moment. She knocked at the door
of the Minister's room and delivered her
message ; Mr. Blair came out into the
passage, and she discreetly disappeared.

''Mr. Blair," said Macdonell, 'alison
will be going away this afternoon, and she
would like to say good-bye to you "

It is unnecessary," the Minister said
calmly.

Perhaps so," said the intermediate, in
as gentle and submissive a fashion as
possible, " but — but — it is only natural fora
girl to wish to part on good terms with
her father ; and I think especially at such
a time as the present there might be a — a
little consideration for family ties. As for
myself, I offer you my hand, and ask you
to forget what is past, as I hope to do
also. I don't wish to have any feeling of
resentment towards any man, least of all

towards Alison's father. I know you have
reason to complain of me, and though I
cannot honestly say that I regret having
induced Alison to enter into that hasty
marriage, still I can understand how it
would strike you, and I ask your pardon."

Mr. Blair did not take the proffered
hand.

'rit is unnecessary, perhaps something
more than unnecessary, for my daughter
to come here," he said, In grave, deliberate
tones, and there was no expression save
that customary sadness In the sunken eyes
and in the worn and lined face ; " and it Is
unnecessary for you to make explanations
or apologies for that which Is now irremediable.
To open up these matters
again might merely lead to contention and
reproach, which I am far from desiring.
My daughter has chosen her own path ;
let her follow it. I will not be her judge.
Perhaps when we win to the greater light

we may see with different eyes. The
Lord's ways are not as our ways ; there
may be guidance where we see but footsteps
wandering in the dark ; in His good
time we shall know all. As for you, I
hope I bear you no enmity ; I would part
with you without bitterness ; but before
you go I would ask of you one question.
Do I understand that you have not sought
to lead away my daughter from the faith
of her childhood, from the faith in which
those of her house who have gone before
have found peace and consolation in their
dying hours? I — I understood it to be
so — is it so ? "

Certainly it is so ! " Ludovick said
with emphasis. '' Alison is absolutely free
in all such matters — of course she is. If
she chooses to go to the Established
Church in Fort William, that is simply
because the Munroes go there : she may
go to any church she pleases, and welcome."

And if there are children of the
marriage ? " the old man said.

If there are children of the marriage,
they will be brought up in their mother's
faith ; I pledge you my honour to that."

Mr. Blair hesitated, but only for a
second.

I thank you," he said, in the same
grave, unimpassioned voice, and he seemed
about to go.

But — but have you no message for
Alison ? " Ludovick asked, in an appealing
kind of way.

I would not have her think there was
aught of bitterness in my heart against
her," he answered; and then he added,
with slow impressiveness, " Nay, I wish
you both well." And with that the
Minister, reserved, austere, unapproachable,
passed into his own room.

Ludovick Macdonell did not go straight
back to the inn ; he went aloncr to the

unfrequented thoroughfare overlooking the
canal and the Iron-works ; and paced up
and down there (though the rain was still
falling heavily), that he might make the
best of this message that he had to carry
Alison. And when at last he returned,
and found her standlnof at the window,
looking out into the wet streets, he said —

'' Why did you leave the house, Allie ?
I went back expecting to find you there."

She turned to him at once.

'well, Ludovick," said she, somewhat
proudly, '' I did not choose that your wife
should remain there to be — to be — looked
at askance."

Oh, you must not heed the looks, or
the words either, of people like that ! "
said he quite cheerfully. (Perhaps he was
not so Ill-pleased that his young wife had
resented the manner of the elders' wives
towards her.) " What are they to you ?
But I have brought a message for you

from your father. Oh yes ; he was not
nearly so implacable as you might imagine.
He was quite courteous and civil, in his
reserved way. Of course, he said he
thought it would be unnecessary for you
to go and bid him a formal good-bye at
the present time, and that he would rather
not have me go into any explanations or
excuses ; and that is reasonable. I saw
that he did not want to have any controversy,
such as might arise, and might
produce bitterness. No ; he said he had
no feeling against either of us ; that perhaps
it might appear to him some day as if
everything had been for the best ; and the
last words he said, Ailie, were that he
wished you well. These were his last
words. ' / wish yo2i both well,' he said.
Oh, 1 can look forward a year or two, and
see what his present attitude will lead to ;
but in the mean time you ought to be
very glad that he is so amicably disposed

towards us. And there's another thing
I've got to tell you, Ailie," Captain Ludo-vice
continued, in the same cheerful and
hopeful strain. '' We are not going to set
out for the Highlands this afternoon."

*' No ? " she said ; and her face, that had
been painfully anxious when he began to
tell her of that interview, was now grown
much more placid and grateful and content.

'' No ; at least, not directly back. The
simple fact is this, Alle : you are being
thoroughly spoiled in Lochaber. You get
such an inordinate quantity of petting that
all your natural firmness of character is
being destroyed. It Isn't wholesome ; it's
far from wholesome. The old laird is the
worst, it is true ; but the rest of them are
nearly as bad. You're being softened and
blunted into a sentimental, jelly-fish sort of
condition."

But it's very nice, Ludovick," she
pleaded.

"I tell you it isn't wholesome. It is
most detrimental to your character," Captain
Ludovick maintained. *' You want somebody
to sharpen you — to keep your wits
on edge — to make you hold your own, and
give an account of yourself. Well, I'm
going to get such a person. I am going
to take you through to Glasgow to-night
To-morrow we shall go down the Clyde to
Rothesay. There I shall take possession
of your Aunt Gilchrist, and carry her off
with us to Fort William, and establish
her at Gyre for the winter. That will
counteract the petting, I think ! And why
shouldn't she spend the winter with us as
well as at that Hydropathic place ? My
gracious ! haven't we as pure drinking-water
at Gyre as they've got at Rothesay?"

And well Alison knew what it was that
had led him to make this proposal ; it was
no desire to provoke a series of t( i - per-combats,
good-humoured as these assuredly

would be, for his own amusement ; it was
the thought that she might feel a little
lonely in the world after the death of her
sister, and herself removed from among
her kinsfolk and former friends.

She went up to him and kissed him.

Ah, Ludovick," she said, with swimming
eyes, '* you are so kind to me ! "

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
