Cf)e §)torp of a Daughter

BY

WILLIAM BLACK

AUTHOR OF * MACLEOD OF DARE,' ' A PRINCESS OF THULE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

lotion

MACMILLAN AND CO.



the right of translation is reserved.]

TO

JAMES PA YN

THIS STORY IS DEDICATED BY ONE OF
HIS MANY FRIENDS.

London, 1883.

^^

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Released from Chateau Cold Floors . . i

CHAPTER IT.
The Shadow Behind . . . . .20

CHAPTER in.
Preparations for Flight . . .-39

CHAPTER IV.
A Farewell to England . . . • 58

CHAPTER V.
Mrs. Bell . . . . . . • 77

CHAPTER VI.
On the Mediterranean 96

CHAPTER VII.
A Day Ashore . . . . . .115

Page

CHAPTER VIII.
Reconnaissances . . . . .-135

CHAPTER IX.
Clouds . . . . . . . .156

CHAPTER X.
In the Night . . . . . .181

CHAPTER XI.
Isolation . . . . . . .200

CHAPTER XII.
A Conspiracy . . . . . .218

CHAPTER XIII.
Intervention . . . . .-239

CHAPTER XIV.
A Settlement . . . . .-259

CHAPTER XV.

New Plans . . . . . . .281

CHAPTER XVI.
Obedience . 300

CHAPTER XVn.
A Chat in the Desert . . . . .318

CHAPTER Xvi.
A Phrase . 337

CHAPTER I.

RELEASED FROM CHATEAU COLD FLOORS.

Late one evening In April, In a private
sitting-room on the first floor of an hotel In
Albemarle Street, a member of the British
House of Commons was lying back in an
easy-chair, having just begun to read. In an
afternoon journal, an article about himself.
He was a man approaching fifty, with what
the Scotch call "a salt-water face" — that Is
to say, a face tanned and reddened with wind
and weather ; sharp of feature, and with hair
become prematurely quite silver-white. At a
first glance he seemed to have the air of an
Imperative, eager, aggressive person ; but
that impression was modified when by any
accident you met his eyes, which were
nervous, shrinking, and uncertain. Walking

VOL. I. , B

in the street, he rarely saw any one ; perhaps
he was too preoccupied with public affairs ;
perhaps he was sensitively afraid of not
being able to recognise half remembered
faces. When sitting alone, slight noises
made him start.

This was what the man with the thin red
face and the silver-white hair was reading : —

By his amendment of last night, which,
as every one anticipated, was defeated by an
overwhelming majority, the member for
Slagpool has once more called attention to
the unique position which he occupies in
contemporary politics. Consistent only in
his hopeless inconsistency, and only to be
reckoned on for the wholly unexpected, one
wonders for what particular purpose the
electors of Slagpool ever thought of sending
Mr. Winterbourne to Parliament, unless,
indeed, it were to make sure that their town
should be sufficiently often heard of in the
councils of the nation. A politician who is at
once a furious Jingo in foreign affairs and an
ultra-revolutionary at home ; an upholder of
the divine rights and liberties of the multitude,
who, at the same time, would, if he

could, force them to close every public-house
In the country, alike on Sunday and Saturday;
a virulent opponent of Vivisection, who nevertheless
champions the Game Laws, and who
is doubtful about the abolition of Capital
Punishment, probably because he would like
to reserve to himself the right of hanging
poachers : it may be conceded that such a
member of Parliament, if he is not to be
counted on by any party, or by any section
or sub-section of any party — if, indeed, he is
ordinarily a good deal more dangerous to his
allies than to his enemies — may at least do
some service to his constituents by continually
reminding the country of their existence,
while ministering on the same occasions to his
own inordinate vanity. For It Is to this — It
Is to an inordinate vanity, spurred on by an
Irritable and capricious temper, that we must
look for the cause of those spasmodic
championships and petulant antagonisms,
those erratic appearances and disappearances,
those sudden alliances and incomprehensible
desertions, which have made of the
member for Slagpool the very whirligig and
teetotum of modern English politics."

When he had got thus far he stopped.

It sounds like the writing of a young-man,"
he was thinking. " But perhaps it is
true. Perhaps that is what I am Hke. The
public press is a mirror. I wonder if that is
how I appear to Yolande ?"

He heard a footstep outside, and immediately
thrust away the newspaper from him,
face downward. The next moment the door
of the room was opened, and the framework
of the door became the framework of a living
picture. Mr. Wlnterbourne's face lightened
up with pleasure.

The picture framed by the doorway was
that of a young girl of eighteen, singularly
tall and strikingly fair, who stood there
hesitating, timid, half-laughing.

** Look," she said. 'ris it your idea ?"

'ris it yotLr idea /" he repeated, peevishly.
Yolande, you are getting worse and worse,
instead of better. Why don't you say, ' Is
this what you meant ?' "

'' Is this what you meant ?" she said,
promptly, and with a slight foreign accent.

His eyes could not dwell on her for two
seconds together, and be vexed.

*' Come to the mirror, child, and put on your
hat, and let me see the whole thing properly."

She did as she was bid, stepping over to
the fireplace, and standing before the old-fashioned
mirror, as she adjusted the wide-brimmed
Rubens hat over the ruddy gold of
her hair. For this was an experiment in
costume ; and it had some suggestion of
novelty. The plain gown was of a uniform
cream-white — of some rough towel-like substance
that seemed to cling naturally to the
tall and graceful figure ; and it was touched
here and there with black velvet ; and the
tight sleeves had black velvet cuffs ; while
the white Rubens hat had also a band of
black velvet round the bold sweep of the
brim. For the rest, she wore no ornaments
but a thick silver necklace round her throat
and a plain silver belt round her waist, the
belt being a broad zone of solid metal, untouched
by any graver.

But any one who had seen this young
English girl standing there, her arms uplifted,
her hands busy with her hat, would not have
wasted much attention on the details of her
costume. Her face was interesting, even at

an aofe when gentleness and sweetness are
about the only characteristics that one expects
to meet with. And although no mere catalogue
of her features — the calm, clear brow ;
the wide-apart, gray-blue eyes ; the aquiline
nose, the unusually short upper lip and beautifully
rounded chin ; her soft and wavy hair
glittering in its ruddy gold ; and her complexion,
that was in reality excessively fair,
only that an abundance of freckles, as well as
the natural rose-colour of youth in her cheeks,
spoke of her not being much afraid of the sun
and of the country air — although no mere
enumeration of these things is at all likely to
explain the unnameable grace that attracted
people to her, yet there was at least one expression
of her face that could be accounted
for. That unusually short upper lip, that
has been noted above, gave a slight pensive
droop to the mouth whenever her features
were in repose ; so that, when she suddenly
looked up, with her wide, wondering, timid,
and yet trustful eyes, there was something
pathetic and wistful there. It was an expression
absolutely without intention ; it was inexplicable
and also winning ; it seemed to

convey a sort of involuntary unconscious
appeal for gentleness and friendship, but
beyond that it had no significance whatsoever.
It had nothing to do with any sorrow,
suffered or foreshadowed. So far the girl's
existence had been passed among the roses
and lilies of life ; the only serious grievance
she had ever known was the winter coldness
of the floors in the so-called chateau in Brittany
where she had been educated. And
now she was emancipated from the discipline
of the Chateau Cold Floors, as she had
named the place; and the world was fair around
her ; and every day was a day of gladness to
her, from the first "Good-morning!" over
the breakfast-table to the very last of all the
last and lingering " Good-nights !" that had
to be said before she would let her father go
down to put in an appearance at the House.

This must be admitted about Yolande
Winterbourne, however, that she had two
very distinct manners. With her friends
and intimates she was playful, careless, and
not without a touch of humorous wilfulness ;
but with strangers, and especially with
strangers abroad, she could assume in the

most astonishing fashion the extreme coldness
and courtesy of an English Miss.
Remember, she was tall, fair, and English-looking
; that (when all the pretty, timid
trustfulness and merriment was out of them)
her eyes were wide apart and clear and contemplative
; and further, that the good dames
of the Chateau Cold Floors had instructed
her as to how she should behave when she
went travelling with her father — which
happened pretty often. At the table dliote,
with her father present, she was as lighthearted,
as talkative, as pleasant, as any one
could wish. In the music-room after dinner,
or on the deck of a steamer, or anywhere,
with her father by accident absent, she was
the English Miss out-and-out, and no aside
conversations were possible. "So proud —
so reserved, so English," thought many an
impressionable young foreigner, who had
been charmed with the bright, variable, vivacious
face as it had regarded him across the
white table-cover and the flowers. Yolande's
face could become very calm — even austere
on occasion.

"Is it what you meant?" she repeated,

turning to him from the mirror. Her face
was bright enough now.

'' Oh yes," said he, rather reluctantly.
'' I — I thought it would suit you. But you
see, Yolande — you see — it is very pretty —
but for London — to drive in the Park — in
London — wouldn't it be a little conspicuous

i^

Her eyes were filled with astonishment ;
his rather wandered away nervously to the
table.

*' But, papa, I don't understand you ! Everywhere
else you are always wishing me to
wear the brightest and lightest of colours. I
may wear what I please — and that is only to
please you, that is what I care about only —
anywhere else — if we are going for a walk
along the Lung' Arno, or if we go for a drive
in the Prater — yes, and at Oatlands Park,
too, I cannot please you with enough bright
colours ; but here, in London, the once or
twice of my visits "

'' Do speak English, Yolande," said he,
sharply. '' Don't hurry so."

*' The once or twice I am in London, oh
no! Everything is too conspicuous! Is it

the smoke, papa ? And this time I was
so anxious to please you — all your own
ideas ; not mine at all. But what do I
care ? " She tossed the Rubens hat on to
the couch that was near. ** Come ! What
is there about a dress? It will do for
some other place, not so dark and smoky
as London. Come — sit down, papa — you
do not wish to go away to the House yet !
You have not finished about Godfrey of
Bouillon."

I am not going to read any more Gibbon
to you to-night, Yolande," said he ; but he
sat down all the same, in the easy-chair,
and she placed herself on the hearthrug
before him, so that the soft, ruddy gold of
her hair just touched his knees. It was a
pretty head to stroke.

Oh, do you think I am so anxious about
Gibbon, then ? " she said, lightly, as she
settled herself into a comfortable position.
''No. Not at all. I do not want any more
Gibbon. I want you. And you said this
morning there would be nothing but stupidity
in the House to-night."

"Well, now, Miss Inveigler, just listen to

this," said he, laying hold of her by both her
small ears. '' Don't you think it prudent of
me to show up as often as I can in the House
especially when there is a chance of a
division — so that my good friends in Slag-pool
mayn't begin to grumble about my being
away so frequently ? And why am I away ?
Why do I neglect my duties ? Why do I
let the British Empire glide on to its doom ?
Why, but that I may take a wretched schoolgirl
— a wretched, small-brained, impertinent,
prattling schoolgirl — for her holidays ; and
show her things she can't understand ; and
plough through museums and picture-galleries
to fill a mind that is no better than a sieve ?
Just think of it. The British Empire going
headlong to the mischief all for the sake of
an empty-headed schoolgirl ! "

Do you know, papa, I am very glad to
hear that ?" she said, quietly.

'' Glad, are you ?"

"Yes," said she, nestling closer to him,
for now I think my dream will soon be
comines true."

'' Your dream ?"

My dream. The ambition of my life,"

said she, seriously. "It is all I wish for and
hope for. Nothing else — nothing else in the
world."

'bless us all!" said he, with a touch of
irony. 'what wonderful ambition is this .'^"

"It is to make myself indispensable to
you," she said, simply.

He took his hands from her ears and put
them on her hair, for there were some bits
of curls and semi-ringlets about her neck that
wanted smoothing.

"You are not indispensable, then .'^" said
he.

Listen now, papa ; it is your turn," she
said. " Surely it is a shame that you have
wasted so much time on me, through so
many years — always coming to see me and
take me away — perhaps not a week between
and I glad enough, for it was always expectation
and expectation — and my things
always ready — and you, poor papa, wasting
all your time, and always on the route, and
that such a long way to Rennes. Even at
Oatlands Park the same — up and down — up
and down by rail — and then long beautiful
days that were very good to me, but were

stupid to you, when you were thinking of
the House all the time. Very well, now,
papa ; I have more sense now ; I have been
thinking ; I want to be indispensable to you ;
I want to be in London with you — always ;
and you shall never have to run away idling,
either to the Continent or to Oatlands Park ;
and you shall never have to think that I am
wearying for you — when I am always with
you in London. That is it now ; that I wish
to be your private secretary."

Her demand once made, she turned up
her face to him ; he averted his eyes.

'* No, no, Yolande," he said, hastily — and
even nervously. *' London won't do for you
it — it wouldn't do at all. Don't think of
it even."

*' Papa," said she, 'what other member of
Parliament, with so much business as you
have, is without a private secretary ? Why
should you answer all those letters yourself .^
For me, I will learn politics very quickly ; I
am studying hard ; at the chateau I translated
all your speeches into Italian, for exercises.
And just to think that you have never allowed
me to hear you speak in the House ! When

I come to London — yes, for five minutes or
half-an-hour at a time — the ladies whom I
see will not believe that I have never once
been in the — the what is it called ? — for the
ladies to listen in the House ? No, they
cannot believe it. They know all the
speakers ; they have heard all the great men ;
they spend the whole of the evening there,
and have many come to see them — all in
politics. Well, you see, papa, what a burden
it would be taking off your hands. You
would not always have to come home and
dine with me, and waste so much of the
evening in reading to me ; — no, I should beat
the House, listening to you, and understanding
everything. Then all the day here,
busy with your letters. Oh, I assure you I
would make prettier compliments to your
constituents than you could think of ; I
would make all the people of Slagpool who
write to you think you were the very best
member they could choose. And then —
then I should be indispensable to you."

You are indispensable to me, Yolande.
You are my life. What else ^o I care for T'
he said, hurriedly.

You will pardon me, papa, if I say it is
foolish. Oh, to think now ! One's life is
more important than that, when you have
the country to guard."

'' They seem to think there," said he, with
a sardonic smile, and he glanced at the newspaper,
'' that the country would be better off
without me."

It was too late to recall this unfortunate
speech. He had thrust aside the newspaper
as she entered, dreading that by accident she
might see the article and be wounded by it ;
but now there was no help for it ; the moment
he had spoken she reached over and took up
the journal, and found her father's name
staring her in the face.

*' Is it true, Solander" said he, with a
laugh. "Is that what I am like .^"

As she read, Yolande tried at first to
be grandly indifferent — even contemptuous.
Was it for her, who wished to be of assistance
to her father, in public affairs, to mind what
was said about him in a leading article ?
And then, in spite of herself, tears slowly
rose and filled the soft gray-blue eyes —
though she kept her head down, vainly trying

to hide them. And then mortification at
her weakness made her angry ; and she
crushed up the paper twice and thrice, and
hurled it into the fire ; nay, she seized hold
of the poker and thrust and drove the offending
journal into the very heart of the coals.
And then she rose, proud and indignant (but
with her eyes a little wet), and with a toss of
her pretty head she said —

'rit is enough time to waste over such
folly. Perhaps the poor man has to support
a family ; but he need not write such stupidity
as that. Now, papa, what shall I play
for you ?"

She was going to the piano. But he had
risen also.

'' No, no, Yolande. I must be off to the
House. There is just a chance of a division ;
and perhaps I may be able to get in a few
words somewhere, just to show the Slagpool
people that I am not careering about the
Continent with my schoolgirl. No, no ; I
will see you safe in your own room, Yolande ;
and your lamp lit, and everything snug : then
Good-night !"

"Already?" she said, with a great disappointment
in her face. " Already ? "

'' Child, child, the affairs of this mighty
Empire "

'what do I care about the Empire!"
she said.

He stood and regarded her calmly.

"You are a nice sort of person to wish
to be private secretary to a member of
Parliament."

Oh, but if you will only sit down for five
minutes, papa," she said piteously, " I could
explain such a lot to you "

'' Oh yes, I know. I know very well.
About the temper Madame was in when the
curls fell out of her box."

'papa, it is you who make me frivolous.
I wish to be serious "

I am going Yolande."

She interposed.

No. Not until you say, ' I love you.' "

I love you."

' And I forgive you.' "

And I forgive you."

Everything ? "

"Everything."

VOL. I. c

'rand I may go out tomorrow morning
as early as ever I like, to buy some flowers
for the breakfast-table ? "

But this was hard to grant.

I don't like your going out by yourself,
Yolande," said he, rather hesitatingly. " You
can order flowers. You can ring and tell the
waiter "

"The waiter ! " she exclaimed. "What am
I of use for, then, if it is a waiter who will
choose flowers for your breakfast-table, papa ?
It is not far to Covent Garden."

"Take Jane with you, then."

Oh yes."

So that was settled ; and he went upstairs
with her to see that her little silver
reading-lamp was properly lit ; and then he
bade her the real last cfood-niQ-ht. When he
returned to the sitting-room for his hat and
coat, there was a pleased and contented look
on his face.

Poor Yolande ! " he was thinking ; " she
is more shut up here than in the country ;
but she will soon ha\(.', the liberty of Oat-lands
Park again."

He had just put on his coat and hat, and

was giving a last look round the room to see
if there was anything he ought to take with
him, when there was a loud, sharp crash at
the window. A hundred splinters of glass
fell on to the floor ; a stone rolled over andover
to the fireplace. He seemed bewildered
only for a second ; and perhaps it was the
startling sound that had made his face grow
suddenly of a deadly pallor ; the next second
noiselessly and quickly — he had stolen
from the room, and was hurriedly descending
the stair to the hall of the hotel.

THE SHADOW BEHIND.

The head waiter was in the hall, alone, and
staring out through the glass door. When
he heard some one behind him, he turned
quickly, and there was a vague alarm in his
face.

"The the lady, sir, has been here again."

Mr. Winterbourne paid no heed to him ;
passed him hastily, and went out. The
lamp-light showed a figure standing there on
the pavement — the figure of a tall woman,
dark and pale, who had a strange, dazed lookin
her eyes.

I thought I'd bring you out!" she said,
tauntingly, and with a slight laugh.

'* What do you want ? " he said, quickly,
and under his breath. " Have you no shame,
woman ! Come away. I'll me what you
want ! "

'you know what I want," she said,

sullenly. '' I want no more lies." Then an
angrier light blazed up in the impassive,
emaciated face. '' Who has driven me to it,
if I have to break a window ? I want no
more lies and tidings. I want you to keep
your promise ; and if I have to break every
window in the House of Commons, I will let
everybody know. Whose fault is it ? "

But her anger seemed to die away as
rapidly as it had arisen. A dull, vague,
absent look returned to her face.

'' It is not my fault."

"What madness have you got hold of
now ! " he said, in the same low and nervous
voice — and all his anxiety seemed to be to
get her away from the hotel.

Come along and tell me what you want.
You want me to keep my promise — to you,
in this condition ? "

"It is not my fault," she repeated, in a
listless kind of way ; and now she was quite
obediently and peaceably following him ; and
he was walking towards Piccadilly, his head
bent down.

I suppose I can guess who sent you,"
he said, watching her narrowly. *' I suppose

It was not for nothing" you came to make an
exhibition of yourself In the public streets.
They asked you to go and get some
money ? "

This seemed to put a new Idea Into her
head ; perhaps that had been his intent.

Yes. I will take them some money, if
you Hke," she said, absently. " They are
my only friends now — my only friends.
They have been kind to me — they don't
cheat me with lies and promises — they don't
put me off, and turn me away when I ask for
them. Yes, I will take them some money."

And then she laughed — a short, triumphant
laugh.

I discovered the way to bring some one
out ! " she said — apparently to herself.

By this time they had reached the corner
of Piccadilly, and, as a four-wheeled cab
happened to be passing, he stopped It, and
himself opened the door. She made no
remonstrance ; she seemed ready to do anything
he wished.

Here is some money. I will pay the
driver."

She got into the cab quite submissively ;

and the man was given the address, and
paid. Then the vehicle was driven off; and
he was left standing on the pavement, still
somewhat bewildered, and not conscious how
his hands were trembling.

He stood uncertain only for a second or so ;
then he walked rapidly back to the hotel.

** Has Miss Winterbourne's maid gone to
bed yet ?" he asked of the landlady.

"Oh no, sir; I should think not, sir;"
the buxom person answered : she did not
observe that his face was pale and his eyes
nervous.

'will you please tell her, then, that we
shall be going down to Oatlands Park again
tomorrow morning ? She must have everything
ready ; but she is not to disturb Miss
Winterbourne to-night."

Very well, sir."

Then he went into the coffee-room, and
found the head waiter.

Look here," said he (with his eyes
averted), *' I suppose you can get a man to
put in a pane of glass in the window of our
sitting-room — the first thing in the morning ?
There has been some accident, I suppose.

You can have it done before Miss Winterbourne
comes clown, I mean ?"

Me slipped a sovereign into the waiter's
hand.

*' I think so, sir. Oh yes, sir."

'' You must try to have it done before Miss
Winterbourne comes down."

He stood for a moment, apparently listening
if there was any sound upstairs ; and
then he opened the door again and went out.
Very slowly he walked away through the
lamp-lit streets, seeing absolutely nothing of
the passers-by, or of the rattling cabs and
carriages ; and although he bent his steps
Westminster-wards, it was certainly not the
affairs of the nation that had hold of his
mind. Rather he was thinking of that
beautiful fair young life — that young life so
carefully and tenderly cherished and guarded,
and all unconscious of this terrible black
shadow behind it. The irony of it ! It was
this very night that Yolande had chosen to
reveal to him her secret hopes and ambition ;
she was to be always with him ; she was to
be "indispensable ;" the days of her banishment
were! to be now left behind ; and these

two, father and daughter, were to be inseparable
companions henceforth and for ever.
And his reply ? As he walked along the
half-deserted pavements, anxiously revolving
many things, and dreaming many dreams
about what the future might have in store
for her, and regarding the trouble and terrible
care that haunted his own life, the final 
of all his doubts and fears resolved
itself into this — If only Yolande were married !
The Irony of it ! She had besought him out
of her love for him, and out of her gratitude
for his watchful and unceasing care of her,
that she should be admitted into a closer
companionship ; that she should become his
constant attendant and associate and friend ;
and his answer was to propose to hand her
over to another guardianship altogether — the
guardianship of a stranger. If only Yolande
were married !

The light was burning on the clock-tower,
and so he knew the House was still sitting ;
but he had no longer any intention of joining
in any debate that might be going forward.
When he passed into the House (and more
than ever he seemed to wish to avoid the

eyes of strangers) it was to seek out his
friend, John Shortlands, whose rough common
sense and ]quint counsel had before now
stood him in c^ood stead, and served to brace
up his unstrung nerves. The tall, corpulent,
big-headed ironmaster — who also represented
a northern constituency — he at length found
in the smoking-room, with two or three companions,
who were seated round a small table,
and busy with cigars and brandy and soda.
Winterbourne touched his friend lightly on
the shoulder.

'can you come outside for a minute ?"

All right."

It was a beautiful, clear, mild night ; and
seated on the benches on the Terrace there
were several groups of people — among them
two or three ladies, who had, no doubt, been
glad to leave the stuffy Chamber to have tea
or lemonade brought them in the open, the
while they chatted with their friends and
regarded the silent, dark river and the lights
of the Embankment and Westminster Bridge.
As Winterbourne passed them, he could not
but think of Yolande's complaint that she
had never even once been in the House

of Commons. These were, no doubt, the
daughters or wives or sisters ot members :
why should not Yolande also be sitting there ?
It would have been pleasant for him to come
out and talk to her — pleasant than listening
to a dull debate. Would Yolande have
wondered at the strange night-picture — the
broad black river, all quivering with golden
reflections ; the lights on the bridge ; the
shadowy grandeur of this great building
reaching far overhead into the star-lit skies ?
Others were there ; why not she ?

The Terrace of the House of Commons
is at night a somewhat dusky promenade —
when there does not happen to be moonlight ;
but John Shortlands had sharp eyes ; and he
instantly guessed from his friend's manner
that something had happened.

'' More trouble ? " said he, regarding
him.

'eyes," said the other. "Well, I don't
mind — I don't mind, as far as I am concerned.
It is no new thing."

But he sighed, in spite of his resigned
way of speech.

'' I have told you all along, Winterbourne,

that you brought it on yourself. You should
lia' taken the bull by the horns "

'rit is too late to talk of it — never mind
that now," he said, impatiently. " It is about
Yolande I want to speak to you."

'eyes?"

Then he hesitated. In fact, his lip
trembled for the briefest part of a second.

You won't sues what I am anxious for
now," he said, with a sort of uncertain laugh.
"You wouldn't guess it in a month, Short-lands.
I am anxious to see Yolande
married."

Faith, that needn't trouble you," said the
big ironmaster, bluntly. " There'll be no
difficulty about that. Yolande has grown
into a thundering handsome girl. And they
say," he added jocosely, "that her father is
pretty well off."

They were walking up and down slowly ;
Mr. Winterbourne's face absent and hopeless
at times, at times almost piteous, and again
lightening up as he thought of some brighter
future for his daughter.

She cannot remain longcT at any school,"
he said, at length, "and I don't like leaving

her by herself at Oatlands Park or any similar
place. Poor child ! Do you know what
her own plans are ? She wants to be my
private secretary. She wants to share
the life that I have been leading all these
years "

'rand so she might have done, my good
fellow, if there had been any common sense
among the lot o' ye "

'rit is too late to speak of that now," the
other repeated, with a sort of nervous fretfulness.
" But indeed it is hard on the poor
girl. She seems to have been thinking seriously
about it. And she and I have been
pretty close companions, one way or another,

of late years. Well, if I could only see

her safely married and settled — perhaps
living in the country, where I could run down
for a day or so — her name not mine — perhaps
with a young family to occupy her and make
her happy — well, then, I think I should be
able to put up with the loss of my private
secretary. I wonder what she will say when
I propose it. She will be disappointed —
perhaps she will think I don't care for her —
when there is just not another creature in the

world I do care for — she may think it cruel
and unnatural "

Nonsense, nonsense, man. Of course a
girl like Yolande will get married. Your
private secretary ! How long would it last ?
Does she look like the sort of girl who ought
to be smothered up in correspondence or
listening to debates ? And if you're in such
a mighty hurry to get rid of her — if you want
to get her married at once, I'll tell you a safe
and sure way — send her for a voyage onboard
a P. and O. steamer."

But this was just somewhat too blunt ;
and Yolande's father said, angrily —

*' I don't want to get rid of her. And I
am not likely to send her anywhere ; hitherto
we have travelled together — and we have
found it answer well enough, I can tell you.
Yolande isn't a bale of goods, to be disposed
of to the first bidder. If it comes to that,
perhaps she will not marry any one."

'* Perhaps," said the other, calmly.

I don't know that I may not throw Slag-pool
over and quit the country altogether,"
he exclaimed, with a momentary recklessness.
'' Why shouldn't I .^ Yolande is fond of

travelling. She has been four times across
the Atlantic now. She is the best companion
I know : I tell you I don't know a better
companion. And I am sick of the way they're
going on here." (He nodded in the direction
of the House.) "Government? They don't
govern ; they talk. A Parliamentary victory
is all they think about ; and the country going
to the mischief all the time. No matter, if
they get their majority ; and if they can
pose before the world as the most moral and
exemplary Government that ever existed. I
wonder they don't give up Gibraltar to Spain ;
and hand over Malta to Italy ; and then they
ought to let Ireland go, because she wants
to go ; and certainly they ought to yield up
India, for India was stolen ; and then they
might reduce the Army and the Navy, to set
an example of disarmament ; so that at last
the world might see a spectacle ! — a nation
permitted to exist by other nations because
of its uprightness and its noble sentiments.
Well, that has nothing to do with Yolande ;
except that I think she and I could get on
very well even if we left England to pursue
its course of high morality. We could look

on — and kiugh, lis the rest of the world are
doing."

'' My dear fellow," said Shortlands, who
had listened to all this high treason with
calmness; "you could no more get on without
the excitement of worrying the Government
than without meat and drink. What
would it come to? You would be in Colorado,
let us say ; and some young fellow in Denver,
come in from the plains, would suddenly discover
that Yolande would be an adorning
feature for his ranch ; and she would discover
that he was the handsomest young
gentleman she ever saw ; and then where
would you be ? You wouldn't be much good
at a ranch. The morning papers would look
tremendous empty without the usual protest
against the honourable member for Slagpool
so grossly misrepresenting the action of the
Government. My good fellow, we can't do
without you in the House ; we might as well
try to do without the Speaker."

For a few seconds they walked up and
down in silence ; at last Winterbourne said
with a sigh —

"Well, I don't know what may happen ; but

In the meantime I think I shall take Yolande
away for another long trip somewhere "

*' Again ? Already ?"

I don't care where ; but the moment I
find myself on the deck of a ship, and
Yolande beside me, then I feel as If all care
had dropped away from me. I feel safe ; I
can breathe freely. Oh, by the way ! I meant
to ask If you knew anything of a Colonel
Graham ? You have been so often to Scotland
shooting. I thought you might know."

But there are so many Grahams "

'* Inverstroy, I think, Is the name of his
place."

Oh, that Graham. Yes, I should think
so — a lucky beggar. Inverstroy fell plump
Into his hands some three or four years ago
quite unexpectedly — one of the finest
estates In Inverness-shire. I don't think
India will see him again."

'* His wife seems a nice sort of woman ?"
said Mr. WInterbourne, with the slightest
touch of interrogation.

'' I don't know her. She is his second
wife. She is a daughter of Lord Lynn."

"They are down at Oatlands just now.

VOL. I. D

Yolande has made their acquaintance, and
they have been very kind to her. Well, this
Colonel Graham was saying the other evening
that he felt as though he had been long
enough in the old country, and would like to
take a P. and O. trip as far as Malta, or Suez,
or Aden, just to renew his acquaintance with
the old route. In fact, they proposed that
Yolande and I should join them."

"The very thing!" said John Shortlands,
facetiously. "What did I say? A P. and
O. voyage will marry off anybody who is
willing to marry."

I meant nothing of the kind," said the
other, somewhat out of temper: "Yolande
may not marry at all. If I went with these
friends of hers it would not be ' to get rid of
her,' as you say."

"My dear fellow, don't quarrel with me,"
said his friend, with more consideration than
was habitual with him. " I really understand
your position very well. You wish to see
Yolande married and settled in life and removed
from — from certain possibilities. But
you don't like the sacrifice ; and I don't
wonder at that ; I admit it will be rather

rough on you. But It is the way of the
world ; other people's daughters get married.
Indeed, Winterbourne, I think it would be
better for both of you. You would have less
anxiety. And I hope she'll find a young
fellow who is worthy of her ; for she is a
thundering good girl, that's what I think ;
and whoever he is he'll get a prize — though
I don't imagine you will be over well disposed
towards him, old chap."

"If Yolande is happy, that will be enough
for me," said the other, absently, as Big Ben
overhead began to toll the hour of twelve.

By this time the Terrace was quite deserted
; and after some little further chat
(Mr. Winterbourne had lost much of his
nervousness now, and of course all his talking
was about Yolande, and her ways, and her
liking for travel, and her anxiety to get rid of
her half French accent, and so forth), they
turned Into the House, where they separated,
Winterbourne taking his seat below the
gangway on the Government side, John
Shortlands depositing his magnificent bulk
on one of the Opposition benches.

There was a general hum of conversation.

There was also, as presently appeared, some
laborious discourse going forward on the part
of a handsome-looking elderly gentleman — a
gentleman who, down in the country, was
known to be everything that an Englishman
could wish to be : an efficient magistrate, a
plucky rider to hounds, an admirable husband
and father, and a firm believer in the Articles
of the Church of England. Unhappily, alas,
he had acquired some other beliefs. He had
got it into his head that he was an orator ;
and as he honestly did believe that talking
was of value to the State — that it was a
builder up and maintainer of Empire — he
was now most seriously engaged in clothing
some rather familiar ideas in long and Latinised
phrases, the while the House murmured
to itself about its own affairs, and the Speaker
gazed blankly into space, and the reporters
in the Gallery thought of their courting days,
or of their wives and children, or of their
supper, and wondered when they were to
get home to bed. The speech had a half
somnolent effect ; and those Who were so inclined
had an excellent opportunity for the
dreaming of dreams.

What dreams, then, were Hkely to visit
the brain of the member for Slagpool, as he
sat there with his eyes distraught ? His getting
up some fateful evening to move a vote
of want of confidence in the Government ?
His appearance on the platform of the Slag-pool
Mechanics' Institute, with the great
mass of people rising and cheering and
waving their handkerchiefs ? Or perhaps
some day — for who could tell what changes
the years might bring ? — his taking his place
on the Treasury bench there ?

He had got hold of a bluebook. It was
the Report of a Royal Commission ; but of
course all the cover of the folio volume was
not printed over — there were blank spaces.
And so (while those laborious and ponderous
sentences were being poured out to inattentive
ears) the member for Slagpool began
idly and yet thoughtfully to pencil certain
letters up at one corner of the blue cover.
He was a long time about it; perhaps he
saw pictures as he slowly and contemplatively
formed each letter ; perhaps no one but himself
could have made out what the uncertain
pencilling meant. But it was not of politics

he was thinking. The letters that he had
faintly pencilled there — that he was still wistfully
regarding as though they could show
him things far away — formed the word
Poland. It was like a lover.

PREPARATIONS FOR FLIGHT.

Next morning his nervous anxiety to get
Yolande away at once out of London was
almost pitiable to witness, though he strove
as well as he could to conceal it from her.
He had a hundred excuses. Oatlands was
becoming very pretty at that time of the
year. There was little of importance going
on in the House. London was not good for
the roses in her cheeks. He himself would
be glad of a breather up St. George's Hill, ora
quiet stroll along to Chertsey. And so
forth ; and so forth.

Yolande was greatly disappointed. She
had been secretly nursing the hope that at
last she might be allowed to remain in
London, in some capacity or another, as the
constant companion of her father. She had
enough sense to see that the time consumed
in his continually coming to stay with her in

the country must be a serious thing for a
man in public life. She was in a dim sort of
way afraid that these visits might become
irksome to him, even although he himself
should not be aware of it. Then she had
her ambitions, too. She had a vague impression
that the country at large did not quite
understand and appreciate her father ; that
the people did not know him as she knew
him. How could they, if he were to be forever
forsaking his public duties in order to
gad about with a girl just left school ? Never
before (Yolande was convinced) had the
nation such urgent need of his services.
There were a great many things wrong
which he could put right ; of that she had no
manner of doubt. The Government were
making a tyrannical use of a big majority to
go their own way, not heeding the warnings
and protests of independent members ; this
amongst many other things ought to be
attended to. And it was at such a time, and
just when she had revealed to him her secret
aspiration that she might perhaps become his
private secretary, that he must needs tell her
to pack up. and insist on (knitting London

with her. Yolande could not understand it ;
but she was a biddable and obedient kind of
creature ; and so she took her place in the four-wheeled
cab without any word of complaint.

And yet, when once they were really on
their way from London — when the railway-carriage
was fairly out of the station — her
father's manner seemed to gain so much in
cheerfulness that she could hardly be sorry
they had left. She had not noticed that he
had been more anxious and nervous that
morning than usual ; but she could not fail to
remark how much brighter his look was now
they were out in the clearer air. And when
Yolande saw her father's eyes light up like
this — as they did occasionally — she was apt
to forget about the injury that was being
done to the affairs of the Empire. They had
been much together, these two ; and anything
appertaining to him was of keen interest to
her ; whereas the country at large was something
of an abstraction ; and the mechanical
majority of the Government — for which she
had a certain measure of contempt — little
more than a name.

'' Yolande," said he (they had the compartment

to themselves), " I had a talk with John
Shortlands last night."

Yes, papa ? "

'* And if England slept well from that time
until this morning it was because she little
knew the fate in store for her. Think of this,
child ; I half threatened to throw up my place
in Parliament altogether — letting the country
go to the mischief if it liked ; and then the
arrangement would be that you and I,
Yolande — now just consider this — that you
and I should start away together, and roam
all over the world, looking at everything, and
amusing ourselves — going just where we liked
no one to interfere with us — you and I all
by ourselves — now, Yolande ! "

She had clasped her hands with a quick
delight.

Oh, papa, that would indeed "

But she stopped ; and instantly her face
grew grave again.

"Oh no," she said, "no ; it would not do.
Last night, papa, you were reproachful of
me "

' Reproachful of me ! " " he repeated,
mockingly.

'reproachful to me?" she said, with
inquiring eyes. But he himself was not
ready with the correct phrase ; and so she
went on : '' Last night you were reproachful
that I had taken up so much of your time ;
and though it was all in fun, still it was true ;
and now I am no longer a schoolgirl ; and I
wish to help you if I can, and not be merely
tiresome and an encumbrance "

'you are so much of an encumbrance,
Yolande ! " he said, with a laugh.

Yes," she said, gravely ; " you would tire
of me if we went away like that. In time
you would tire One would tire of always
being amused ; all the people that we see
have work to do ; and some day — it might
be a long time — but some day you would
think of Parliament, and you would think
you had given it up for me "

"Don't make such a mistake!" said he.
Do not consider yourself of such importance,
Miss. If I threw over Slagpool, and
started as a Wandering Jew — I mean we
should be two Wandering Jews, you know,
Yolande — it would be quite as much on my
own account as yours "

You would become tired of being amused.
You could not always travel," she said. She
put her hand on his hand. "Ah, I see what
it is," she said, with a little laugh. " You are
concealing. That is your kindness, papa.
You think I am too much alone ; it is not
enough that you sacrifice to-day, tomorrow,
next day, to me ; you wish to make a sacrifice
altogether ; and you pretend you are tired of
politics. But you cannot make me blind toit.
I see — oh, quite clearly I can see through
your pretence ! "

He was scarcely listening to her now.

I suppose," he said, absently, " it is one
of those fine things that are too fine ever to
become true. Fancy now — the two of us
just wandering away wherever we pleased —
resting a day, a week, a month, when we
came to some beautiful place — all by ourselves
in the wide world."

'' I have often noticed that, papa," she
said, " that you like to talk about being away
about beings remote "

Put we should not be like the Wandering
Jew in one respect," he said, almost to
himself. "The years would w\\. There

would be a difference. Something might
happen to one of us."

And then, apparently a new suggestion
entered his mind. He glanced at the girl
opposite him — timidly and anxiously.

'' Yolande," said he, '' I — I wonder now —
I suppose at your age — well, have you ever
thought of getting married ?"

She looked up at him with her clear, frank
eyes, and when she was startled like that her
mouth had the slight pathetic droop, already
noticed, that made her face so sensitive and
charming.

Why, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of times ! " she exclaimed, still with the
soft clear eyes wondering.

His eyes were turned away. He appeared
to attach no importance to this confession.


Of course," she said, " when I say I have
thought hundreds of times of getting married
it is about not getting married that I mean.
No. That Is my resolution. Oh, many a
time I have said that to myself. I shall not
marry — never — no one."

In spite of himself his face suddenly

brightened up ; and it was quite cheerfully
that he went on to say—

' Oh, but, Yolande, that is absurd. Of course
you will marry. Of course you must marry."

"When you put me away, papa."

"When I put you away!" he repeated,
with a laugh.

Yes," she continued, quite simply. "That
was what Madame used to say. She used to
say ' If your papa marries again, that is what
you must expect. It will be better for you
to leave the house. But your papa is rich ;
you will have a good portion ; then you will
find some one to marry you, and give you
also an establishment.' 'Very well,' I said,
but that is going too far, Madame ; and
until my papa tells me to go away from him
I shall not go away, and there is not any
necessity that I shall marry any one.' "

'' I wish Madame had minded her owen
affairs," Mr. Winterbourne said, angrily. '* I
am not likely to marry again. I shall not
marry again. Put that out of your head,
Yolande — at once, and for always. But as
for you — well, don't you sec, child — I — I can't
live for ever ; and you have got no very near

relatives ; and besides, living with relatives
isn't always the pleasantness of things ; and I
should like to see your future quite settled.
I should like to know that — that "

''My future!" Yolande said, with a light
laugh. '' No, I will have nothing to do with
a future ; is not the present very good ?
Look — here I am ; I have you ; we are going
out together, to have walks, rides, boating :
is it not enough ? Do I want any stranger
to come in to interfere ? No ; some day you
will say ' Yolande, you worry me. You stop
my work. Now I am going to attend to Parliament
; and you have got to marry ; and
go off; and not worry me.' Very well. It
is enough. What I shall say is this : Papa,
choose for me. What do I know ? I do
not know, and I do not care. Only a few
things are necessary — are quite entirely
necessary. He must not talk all day long
about horses. And he must be in Parliament.
And he must be on your side in
Parliament. How much is that — three ? —
three qualifications. That is all."

Indeed, he found it was no use trying to
talk to her seriously about this matter. She

laughed it aside. She did not believe there
was any fear about her future. She was well
content with the world as it existed ; was not
the day fine enough, and Weybridge, and
Chertsey, and Esher, and Mouse all awaiting
them? If her father would leave his
Parliamentary duties to look after themselves,
she was resolved to make the most of the
holiday.

"Oh, but you don't know," said he, quite
falling in with her mood, "you don't know
Yolande, one fifteenth part of what is in
store for you. I don't believe you have
the faintest idea why I am going down to
Oatlands at this minute."

"Well, I don't, papa," she said, "except
through a madness of kindness."

"Would it surprise you if I asked Mrs.
Graham to take you with them for that sail
to Suez or Aden ?"

She threw up her hands in affright.

Alone ?" she exclaimed. " To go away
alone with strangers ?"

Oh no ; I should be going also — of
course."

But the time "

"• I should be back for the Budget. Yo-lance,"
said he, gravely, " I am convinced —
I am seriously convinced — that no one should
be allowed to sit in Parliament who has not
visited Gibraltar, and the island of Malta, and
such places, and seen how the Empire is held
together, and what our foreign possessions
are

"It is only an excuse, papa — it is only an
excuse to give me another holiday ! "

'' Be quiet. I tell you the country ought
to compel its legislators to go out in batches
paying the expenses of the poorer ones, of
course — and see for themselves what our
soldiers and sailors are doing for us. I am
certain that I have no right to sit in Parliament
until I have visited the fortifications of
Malta and inspected the Suez Canal."

"Oh, if it is absolutely necessary," Yo-lance
said, with a similar gravity.

It is absolutely necessary. I have long
felt it to be so. I feel it is a duty to my
country that we should personally examine
Malta."

Very well, papa," said Yolande, who was
so pleased to find her father in such good

VOL. I. E

humour tJKit she forbore to protest, even
though she was vaguely aware that the confidence
of the electorate of Slagpool was
again being abused in order that she should
enjoy another long and idling voyage, with
the only companion whom she cared to have
with her.

The Grahams were the very first people
they saw when they reached Oatlands.
Colonel Graham — a tall, stout, grizzled,
good-natured-looking man — was lying back
in a garden-seat, smoking a cigar and reading
a newspaper ; while his wife was standing
close by, calling to her baby, which plump
small person was vainly trying to walk to
her, under the guidance of an ayah, whose
dusky skin and silver ornaments and flowing
garments of Indian red looked picturesque
enough on an English lawn. Mrs. Graham
was a pretty woman, of middle height, with
a pale face, a square forehead, short hair
inclined to curl, and dark gray eyes with
black eyelashes, and black eyebrows. But
along with her prettiness, which was only
moderate, she had an exceedingly fascinating
manner, and a style that was at least attractive

to men. Women, especially when they
found themselves deserted, did not like her
style ; they said there was rather too much
of it ; they said it savoured of the garrison-flirt,
and was obviously an importation from
India ; and they thought she talked too
much, and laughed too much, and altogether
had too little of the dignity of a matron.
No doubt they would have hinted something
about the obscurity of her birth and parentage,
had that been possible. But It was not
possible ; for everybody knew that when
Colonel Graham married her, as his second
wife, she was the only daughter of Lord
Lynn, who was the thirteenth baron of that
name in the peerage of Scotland.

Now this pretty, pale-faced, gray-eyed
woman professed herself overjoyed when
Mr. Winterbourne said there was a chance
of his daughter and himself joining her and
her husband on their suggested P. and O.
trip; but the lazy, good-humoured-looking
soldier glanced up from his paper and said —

Look here, Polly, It's too absurd. What
would people say ! It's all very well for you
and me ; we are old Indians and don't mind;

U. OP ILL LIB.

but if j\Ir. W'interbourne is coming with us —
and you, Miss Winterbourne — we nuit do
something more reasonable and christianity
than sail out to Suez or Aden and back,
all for nothing."

** But nothing could suit us better!"
Yolande's father said — indeed, he did not
mind where or why he went, so long as he got
away from England, and Yolande with him.

Oh, but we must do something," Colonel
Graham said. '' Look here. When we
were at Peshawur a young fellow came up
there — you remember young Ismat, Polly }
well, I was of some little assistance to
him ; and he said any time we wanted to see
something of the Nile I could have his
father's dahabeeyah — or rather one of them,
for his father is Governor of Merhadj, and a
bit of a swell, I fancy. There you are, now.
That would be something to do. People
wouldn't think we were idiots. We could
have our sail all the same to Suez, and seethe
old faces at Gib. and Malta ; then we
could have a skim up the Nile a bit — and
by the way, we shall have it all to ourselves
just now "

*' The very thing!" exclaimed Mr. Winterbourne,
eagerly, for his imagination seemed
easily captured by the suggestion of anything
remote. "Nothing could be more admirable.
Yolande, what do you say ?"

Yolande's face was sufficient answer.

My dear child," said Mrs. Graham, in
an awful whisper, 'have you got a Living?"

'' A what ?" said Yolande.

'' You have not ? And you might have
gone to Egypt at this time of the year,
without a Levinge !"

'' What are you talking about the time of
the year, Polly!" her husband cried peevishly.
'rit is the only time of the year that the Nile
is tolerable. It is no longer a Cockney
route. You have the whole place to yourself
at least, so Ismat Effendi assured me ;
and if he has given me a wrong tip, wait
till I get hold of him by the nape of his
Egyptian neck. And you needn't frighten
Miss Yolande about mosquitoes or any of
the other creatures of darkness ; for you've
only to get her one of those shroud things "

"Just what I was saying!" his wife protested.


Indeed, she seemed greatly pleased about
this project; and when they went in to lunch,
they had a table to themselves, so as to
secure a full and free discussion of plans.
Mrs. Graham talked in the most motherly
way to Yolande ; and petted her. She
declared that those voyages to America, of
which Yolande had told her, had nothing of
the charm and variety and picturesqueness
of the sail along the African shores. Yolande
would be delighted with it ; with the people
on board ; with the ports they would call at ;
with the blue of the Mediterranean Sea. It
was all a wonder, as she described it.

But she was a shrewd - headed little
woman. Very soon after lunch she found an
opportunity of talking with her husband
alone.

'' I think Yolande Winterbourne prettier
and prettier the longer I see her," she said,
carelessly.

'' She's a good-looking girl. You'll have
to look out, Polly. You won't have the
whole ship waiting on )ou this time."

And very rich — cjuitc an heiress, they
say. "

*' I suppose Winterbourne Is pretty well
off."

** He himself has nothing to do with the
firm now, I suppose."

'' I think not."

** Besides, making engines Is quite respectable.
Nobody could complain of that."

I shouldn't, if it brought me in ^15,000
or ;^20,ooo a year," her husband said, grimly.
** I'd precious soon have Inverstronan added
on to Inverstroy."

"Oh," she said, blithely, "talking about
the north, I haven't heard from Archie for a
long time. I wonder what he is about —
watching the nesting of the grouse, I suppose.
I say, Jim, I wish you'd let me ask him to
go with us. It's rather dull for him up
there ; my father Isn't easy to live with.
May I ask him V

She spoke very prettily and pleadingly.

He'll have to pay his own fare to Suez
and back, then," her husband answered,
rather roughly.

Oh yes ; why not ?" she said, with
great Innocence : "I am sure poor Archie is
always willing to pay when he can ; and I

do wish my father would be a little more
liberal. I am sure he might. Every inch
of shooting and fishing was let last year ! —
even the couple of hundred yards along
the river that Archie always has had for
himself. I don't believe he threw a fly last
year "

"He did on the Stroy," her husband said,
gloomily.

'' That was because you were so awfully
good to him," said his wife, in her sweetest
manner. " And you can be awfully good to
people, Jim, when you don't let the black
bear ride on your shoulders."

Then Mrs. Graham, smoothing her pretty
short curls, and with much pleasure visible
in the pretty dark gray eyes, went to her
own room and sat down, and wrote as
follows : —

"Dear Archie — Jim's good nature is
beyond anything. We are going to have a
look at Gib. again, and at Malta, just for
auld lang syne; and then Jim talks of taking
us up the Nile a bit ; and he says you ought
to go with us, and you will only have to pay

your passage to Suez and back — which you
could easily save out of your hats and boots
if you would only be a little less extravagant,
and get them in Inverness instead of in
London. Mr. Winterbourne, the member
for Slagpool, is going with us ; and he and
Jim will halve the expenses of the Nile
voyage. Mr. Winterbourne's daughter makes
up the party. She is rather nice, I think ;
but only a child. Let me know at once.
There is a P. and O. on the 1 7th — I think
we shall catch that ; Jim and the captain are
old friends. — Your loving sister,

*' Polly."

She folded up the letter ; put it in an
envelope ; and addressed it so —

The Hon. the Master of Lynn,
Lynn Towers,

by Inverness, Neb.

A FAREWELL TO ENGLAND.

A VOYAGE in a P. and O. steamer is so familiar
a matter to thousands of English readers that
very little need be said about it here in detail,
except, indeed, in so far as this particular
voyage affected the fortunes of these one or
two people. And Yolande's personal experiences
began early. The usual small crowd
of passengers was assembled in Liverpool
Street Station — hurrying, talking, laughing,
and scanning possible ship-companions with
an eager curiosity ; and in the midst of them,
Yolande, for a wonder — her father having
gone to look after some luggage — found
herself for the moment alone. A woman
came into this wide, hollow resounding
station, and timidly and yet anxiously
scanned the faces of the various people who
were on the platform adjoining the special
train. Lie was a respectably dressed person,

apparently a mechanic's wife ; but her features
bore the marks of recent crying — they were
all '' begotten," as the Scotch say. She
carried a small basket. After an anxious
scrutiny — but it was only the women she
regarded — she went up to Yolande.

I beg your pardon, Miss," she said — but
she could say no more, for her face was
tremulous.

Yolande looked at her ; thought she was
drunk ; and turned away rather frightened.

*' I beg your pardon, Miss " And with

that her trembling hands opened the basket,
which was filled with flowers.

No, thank you ; I don't want any," said
Yolande, civilly. But there was something
in the woman's imploring eyes that said
something to her. She was startled ; and
stood still.

*rare — are you going farther than Gibraltar,
Miss ?"

'eyes. Yes, I think so," said Yolande,
wondering.

There were tears running down the
woman's face. For a second or two she
tried to speak, ineffectually ; then she said —

"Two days out from — from Gibraltar —
would you be so kind, Miss, as to put — these
flowers — on the water? — My little girl was
buried at sea — two days out "

*' Oh, I understand you," said Yolande,
quickly — with a big lump in her throat.
*' Oh yes, I will ! I am so sorry for }'ou "

She took the basket. The woman burst
out crying ; and hid her face in her hands ;
and then turned to go away. She was so
distracted with her grief that she had forgotten
even to say "Thank you." At the
same moment Mr. Winterbourne came up —
hastily and angrily.

"What is this?"

"Hush, papa! l^he poor woman had a
little girl buried at sea — these are some
flowers "

Yolande went quickly after her, and
touched her on the shoulder.

Tell me," she said, " what was your
daughter's name ?"

The woman raised her tear-stained face.

"Jane. We called lu:r Janie ; she was
only three years old ; she would have been
ten by now. You won't forget, Miss — it

was — it was two days beyond Gibraltar that
that we buried her "

'' Oh no ; do you think I could forget ?"
Yolande said ; and she offered her hand.
The woman took her hand, and pressed it ;
and said, ** God bless you, Miss — I thought
I could trust your face ; " then she hurried
away.

Yolande went back to her father, who,
though closely watching her, was standing
with the Grahams ; and she told them (with
her own eyes a little bit moist) of the mission
with which she had been entrusted ; but
neither she nor they thought of asking why,
out of all the people about to go down by
the steamer train, this poor woman should
have picked out Yolande as the one by whom
she would like to have those flowers strewn
on her child's ocean grave. Perhaps there
was something in the girl's face that assured
the mother that she was not likely to forget.

And at last the crowd began to resolve
itself into those who were going and those
who were remaining behind ; the former
establishing themselves in the compartments,
the latter talking all the more eagerly as the

time grew shorter. And Mrs. Graham was
in despair because of the non-appearance of
her brother.

*' There," she said to her husband, as the
door of the carriage was finally locked, and
the train beo^an to move out of the station,
•' I told you. I told you I should not be
surprised. It is just like him — always wanting
to be too clever. Well, his coolness has
cost him something this time. I told you I
should not at all be surprised if he missed
the train altogether."

'' I don't think the Master s finances are
likely to run to a special," her husband said,
good-humouredly.

*' Oh, it is too provoking!" exclaimed the
pretty young matron (but, with all her anger,
she did not forget to smooth her tightly
fitting costume as she settled into her seat).
** It is too provoking! I left Baby at home
more on his account than on any one else's.
If there was the slightest sound, I knew he
would declare that Baby had been crying all
the nicrht through. There never was a
better baby — never! Now, was there ever,
Jim?"

"Well, I can't answer for all the babies
that ever were In the world," her husband
said, in his easy, good-natured way ; " but it
is a good enough baby, as babies go !"

It is the very best-tempered baby I ever
saw or heard of," she said, emphatically ; and
she turned to Yolande. 'just think, dear,
of my leaving Baby in England for two
whole months, and mostly because I knew
my brother would complain. And now he
goes and misses the train — through laziness,
or indifference, or wanting to be too
sharp "

'* I should think that Baby would be much
better off on land than on board ship," said
Yolande, with a smile.

*' Of course. Miss Winterbourne," the
Colonel said. '' You're quite right. A baby
on board a ship is a nuisance."

'jim! You don't deserve "

"And there's another thing," continued
the stout and grizzled soldier, with the most
stolid composure. " I've seen it often onboard
ship. I know what happens. If the
mother of the baby is old or ugly, it's all
right ; the baby is let alone. But if she's

young and good-looking, It's wonderful how
the young fellows begin and pet the baby,
and feed it up on toffy and oranges. What
do they know ? Hang 'em, they'd fetch up
pastry from the saloon and give it to a two-year-old.
That aunt good for a baby."

Poor Archie ! " said his wife, rather
inconsequently, '' it will be such a disappointment
for him."

I'll tell you what it is," said Colonel
Graham, '' I believe he has never heard that
the P. and O. ships don't stop at Southampton
now. Never mind, Polly ; he can go
overland, if he wants to catch us up at
Cairo."

*rand miss the whole voyage!" she exclaimed,
aghast. 'rand forfeit his passage-money
? Fancy the cost of the railway
journey to Brindisi!"

"Well, if people will miss trains, they
must pay the penalty," her husband remarked,
quietly ; and there was an end of that.

At Tilbury there was the usual scramble
of getting the luggage transferred to the
noisy little tender ; and the natural curiosity
with which every one was eager to scan the

great and stately vessel which was to be their
floating home for many a day. And here
there was a surprise for at least one of the
party. When, after long delays, and after
a hurried steaming out into the river, the
tender was drawing near the side of the huge
steamer, of course all eyes were turned to the
decks above, where the picturesque costumes
of the Lascar crew were the most conspicuous
points of colour. But there were obviously
a number of other people on board, besides
the dusky crew and their English officers.

"There he is, I can make him out," observed
Colonel Graham.

'who ?" his wife asked.
*" Why, the Master of Lynn," he answered,
coolly.

"Well, I never!" she exclaimed, in either
real or affected anger. " Shan't I give it
him ! To think of his causing us all this
disquietude !"

"Speak for yourself, Polly," her husband
said, as he regarded a group of young men
who were up on the hurricane-deck, leaning
over the rail, and watching the approach of
the tender. " I wasn't much put out, was

VOL. I. F

I ? And apparently he hasn't been ; for he
is smoking a cigar, and chatting to — yes,
by Jove! It's Jack Douglas — and young
Mackenzie of Seat — oh, there's Ogilvy's
brother-in-law — what do you call him ? —
the long fellow who broke his leg at Bombay
there's young Fraser, too, eye-glass and alla
regular gathering of the clans — there'll
be some Nap going among those boys ! "

I hope you won't let Archie play, then!"
his wife said, sharply. But she turned with
a charming little smile to Yolande. "You
mustn't think my brother is a gambler, you
know, dear ; but really some of those young
officers play far beyond their means, and
Archie is very popular amongst them, I am
told "

But by this time everybody was scrambling
on to the paddle-boxes of the tender, and
from thence ascending to the deck of the
steamer. The Master of Lynn was standing
by the gangway, awaiting his sister. He
was a young man of four or five and twenty,
slim, well built, with a pale, olive complexion,
and a perfectly clean-shaven face ; and he
had the square forehead, the well-marked

eyebrows, and the pleasant gray eyes with
dark eyelashes that his sister had. But he
had not her half curly hair ; for his was
shorn bare, in soldier fashion — though he
was not a soldier.

How are you, Graham ? How are you,
Polly '^ " said he.

"Well, I like your coolness!" his sister
said, angrily. "Why were you not at the
station ? Why did you not tell us ? Of
course we thought you had missed the train !
I wish you would take the trouble to let
people know what you are about. Let me
introduce you to Miss Winterbourne. Yo-lance,
dear, this is my brother Archie — Mr.
Winterbourne, my brother, Mr. Leslie.
Well, now, what have you to say for yourself?"


He had thrown away his cigar.

Not much," said he, smiling good-naturedly,
and taking some wraps and things
from her which her husband had selfishly
allowed her to carry. " I went down to see
some fellows at Chatham last night ; and of
course I stayed there and came over in the
morning. Sorry I vexed you. You see,

Miss Winterbourne, my sister likes platform
parade ; she likes to have people round her
for half-an-hour before the train starts; and
she likes to walk up and down, for it shows
off her figure and her dress ; isn't that so,
Polly ? But you hadn't half your display
this morning, apparently. Where's Baby ?
Where's Ayah ? "

You know very well. You would have
been grumbling all the time if I had brought
Baby "

"Well," said he, looking rather aghast,
if you've left Baby behind on my account,
I shall have a pleasant time of it. I don't
believe you. But tell me the number of
your cabin, and I'll take these things down for
you. I'm on the spar-deck, thank goodness."

Miss Winterbourne's cabin is next to
mine ; so you can take her things down too."

"No, thank you," said Yolande, who was
looking out for her luggage (her maid being
in a hopeless state of bewilderment), and who
had nothing in her hand but the little basket.
I will take this down myself, by and by."

There was a great bustle and confusion
on board ; friends giving farewell messages ;

passengers seeking out their cabins ; the
bare-armed and barefooted Lascars, with
their blue blouses and red turbans, hoisting
luggage on to their shoulders and carrying
It along the passages. Mr. Winterbourne
was impatient.

'' I hate this — this confusion and noise,"
he said.

But, papa," said Yolande, " I know your
things as well as my own. Jane and I will
see to them when they come on board.
Please go away and get some lunch — please !
Everything will be quiet In a little while."

I wish we were off," he said, in the same
Impatient way. '' This delay is quite unnecessary.
It is always the same. We ought
to have started before now. Why doesn't
the captain order the ship to be cleared ? "

'' Papa, dear, do go and get places at
the table. The Grahams have gone below.
And have something very nice waiting forme.
See, there comes your other portmanteau,
now ; and there is only the toper-box, and I
know It because I put a bit of red silk on the
handle. Papa, do go down and get us comfortable
places — I will come as soon as I have

sent your toper-box to your cabin. I suppose
we shall be near the Grahams."

"Oh, I know where Mrs. Graham will
be," her father said peevishly. " She will
be next the captain. She is the sort of
woman who always sits next the captain."

Then the captain is very lucky, papa,"
said Yolande, mildly ; " for she is exceedingly
nice ; and she has been exceedingly kindtome."

*' I suppose the day will come when this
captain, or any other captain, would be just
as glad to have you sit next him," he said.

"Papa," she said, with a smile, "are you
jealous of Mrs. Graham for my sake ? I am
sure I do not wish to sit next the captain ; I
have not even seen him yet that I know of."

But this delay, necessary or unnecessary,
made him irritable and anxious. He would
not go to the saloon until he had seen all the
luggage — both his and Yolande's — despatched
to their respective cabins. Then he began
to inquire why the ship did not start ? Why
were the strangers not packed off on board
the tender and sent ashore ? Why did the
chief officer allow these boats to be hanorino^
about ? The agent of the company had no

right to be standing talking on deck two
hours after the ship was timed to sail.

Meanwhile Yolande stole away to her own
cabin, and carefully, and religiously — and,
indeed, with a little choking in the throat —
opened the little basket that held the flowers,
to see whether they might not be the better
for a sprinkling of water. They were rather
expensive flowers for a poor woman to have
bought ; and the damp moss in which they
were embedded, and the basket itself also,
were more suggestive of Covent Garden than
of Whitechapel. Yolande poured some water
into the wash-hand basin, and dipped her
fingers into it, and very carefully and tenderly
sprinkled the flowers over. And then she considered
what was likely to be the coolest and
safest place in the cabin for them, and hung
the basket there, and came out again, shutting
the door, involuntarily, with quietness.

She passed through the saloon, and went
up on deck. Her father was still there.

"Papa," said she, 'you are a very unnatural
person. You are starving me "

'' Haven't you had lunch, Yolande ?" said
he, with a sudden compunction.

•' No, I have not. Do I ever have lunch
without you ? I am waiting for you."

Really this delay is most atrocious !" he
said. " What is the use of advertising
hour and sailing at another ? There
can be no excuse. The tender has gone
ashore "

'* Oh, but, papa, they say there is a lady
who missed the train, and is coming down by
a special "

'' I don't believe a word of it ! Why, that
is worse. The absurdity of keeping a ship
like this waiting for an idiot of a woman !"

'' I am so hungry, papa !"

"Well, go down below and get something
if you can. No doubt the gross mismanagement
reaches to the saloon tables as well."

She put her hand within his arm, and half
drew him along to the companion-way.

"What is the difference of an hour or
two," said she, '* if we are to be at sea for a
fortnight ? Perhaps the poor lady who is
coming down by the special train has someone
ill abroad. And — and besides, papa, I
am so very, very, ver)- hungry."

He went down with her to the saloon, and

took his place in silence Yolande sat next
to Mrs. Graham, who was very talkative and
merry, even though there was no captain in
his place to do her honour. Young Archie
Leslie was opposite, so was Colonel Graham.
They were mostly idling ; but Yolande was
hungry, and they were all anxious to help herat
once, though .the silent dusky stewards
knew their duties well enough.

By and by, when they were talking about
anything or nothing, it occurred to the young
Master of Lynn to say —

I suppose you don't know that we are
off?"

'' No ! impossible !" was the general cry.

/' Oh, but we are, though. Look !"

Mr. Winterbourne quickly got up and
went to one of the ports ; there, undoubtedly,
were the river banks slowly, slowly going
astern.

He went back to his seat, putting his hand
on Yolande's shoulder as he sat clown.

'' Yolande," said he, " do you know that
we are off — really and truly going away from
England — altogether quit from Its shores T'

His manner had almost Instantly changed,

His spirits quickly brightened up. He made
himself most agreeable to Mrs. Graham ; and
was humorous in his quiet, half-sardonic way;
and was altogether pleased with the appearance
and the appointments of the ship. To
fancy this great mass of metal moving away
like that and the throbbing of the screw
scarcely to be detected !

"You know, my dear Mrs. Graham," he
said, presently, '' this child of mine is a most
economical — even a penurious — creature, and
I must depend on you to force her to make
proper purchases at the different places — all
the kinds of things that womenfolk prize,
don't you know. Lace, now ; what is the use
of being at Malta if you don't buy lace ?
And embroideries and things of that kind ;
she ought to bring back enough of eastern
silks and stuffs to last her a lifetime. And
jewellery, too — silver suits her very well ; —
she must get plenty of that at Cairo "

'* Oh, you can leave that to my wife,"
Colonel Graham said, confidently. " She'd
buy up the Pyramids if she could take them
home. I'm glad it won't be my money."

And this was but one small item of expectation.

The voyage before them furnished
forth endless hopes and schemes. They all
adjourned to the hurricane-deck, and here his
mood of contented cheerfulness was still more
obvious. He was quite delighted with the
cleanness and order of the ship, and with the
courtesy of the captain, and with the smart
look of the officers ; and he even expressed
approval of the pretty, quiet, not romantic
scenery of the estuary of the Thames.
Yolande was with him. When they walked
they walked arm-in-arm. He said he thought
the Grahams were likely to be excellent
companions ; Mrs. Graham was a charming
woman ; there was a good deal of quiet
humour about her husband ; the Master of
Lynn was a frank-mannered young fellow,
with honest eyes. His step grew jaunty.
He told Yolande she must, when in Egypt,
buy at least half-a-dozen eastern costumes,
the more gorgeous the better, so that she
should never be at a loss when asked to goto
a fancy-dress ball.

And at dinner, too, in the evening it was a
delight to Yolande to sit next him and listen
to his chuckles and his little jokes. Care

seemed to \\<\\(.\ left him altogether. The
night, when they went on deck again, was
dark ; but a dark night pleased him as much
as anything. Yolande was walking with him.
And then they sat down with their friends;
and Mrs. Graham had much to talk about.
Yolande sat silent. Far away in the darkness
a long, thin, dull line of gold was visible ; she
had been told that these were the lights of
Hastings. It is a strange thing to sail pasta
country in the night-time, and to think of
all the beating human hearts it contains — of
the griefs, and despairs, and hushed joys, all
hidden away there in the silence. And perhaps
Yolande was thinking most of all of the
poor mother, whose name she did not know,
whom she should never see again, but whose
heart she knew right well was heavy thai
night with its aching sorrow. It was her
first actual contact with human miser' ; and
she could not help thinking of the woman's
face. That was terrible, and sad beyond
anything that she could have imagined. For
indeed her own life so far had been amonir
the roses. As Mrs. Graham had said, she
was but a child.

MRS. BELL.

"It Is really quite wonderful how Intimate
you become with people on board ship, and
how well you get to know them."

This not entirely novel observation was
addressed to Yolande by the Master of Lynn ;
while these two, with some half-dozen others,
were grouped together In the companion-way,
where they had taken shelter from the
flying seas. The remark was not new ; but
he appeared to think it important. He
seemed anxious to convince her of Its truth.

It Is really quite wonderful," he repeated ;
and he regarded the pretty face as if eager
to meet with acquiescence there. '' On board
ship you get to know the characters of people
so thoroughly ; you can tell whether the
friendship Is likely to last after the voyage Is
over. Balls and dinner parties are of no
use ; that Is only acquaintanceship ; at sea

you are thrown so much together — you are
cut off from the world, you know — there is a
kind of fellow-feeing and companionship —
that — that is quite different. Why," said he,
with his eyes brightening, ** it seems absurd
to think that the day before yesterday you
and I were absolute strangers ; and yet here
you have been letting me bore you for hours
by talking of Lynn and the people there "

'' Oh, I assure you I am very grateful,"
said Yolande, with much sincerity. *' But
for you I should have been quite alone."

The fact is, they had encountered a heavy
two-days' gale outside the Bay of Biscay and
south of that ; and as the ship was a pretty
bad roller, sad havoc was wrought among the
passengers. Mrs. Graham had disappeared
from the outset. Her husband was occasionally
visible ; but he was a heavy man, and
did not like being knocked about, so he remained
mostly in the saloon. Mr. Winterbourne
was a good enough sailor, but the
noises at night — he had a spar-deck cabin —
kept him awake, and he spent the best part
of the daytime in his berth, trying to get
fitful snatches of sleep. Accordingly, Yolande,

who wanted to see the sights of the storm,
betook herself to the companion-way, where
she would have been entirely among strangers
(being somewhat reserved in her walk and
conversation) had it not been for Mr. Leslie.
He, indeed, proved himself to be a most
agreeable companion — modest, assiduously
attentive, good-natured and talkative, and
very respectful. He was entirely governed
by her wishes. He brought her the news of
the ship when it was not every one who
would venture along the deck, dodging the
heavy seas. He got her the best corner in
this companion-way and the most comfortable
of the chairs ; and he had rugs for her,
and a book, only that she was far too much
interested in what was going on around her
to read. Once or twice, when she would
stand by the door, he even ventured to put
his hand on her arm — afraid lest she should
be overbalanced and thrown out on the
swimming decks. For there was a kind of
excitement amid this roar and crash of wind
and water. Who could decide which was
the grander spectacle — that great mass of
driven and tossing and seething silver that

went out and out until it met a wall of black
cloud at the horizon, or the view from the
other side of the vessel (with one's back to
the sunlight) — the mountains of blue rolling
by, and their crests so torn by the gale that
the foam ended in a rainbow flourish of orange
and red ?

** They say she is rolling 84 degrees ' out
and out,' " said Archie Leslie.

Oh, indeed," said Yolande, looking grave.
But I don't quite know what that means."

'* Neither do I," said he; "but it sounds
well. What I do know Is that you won't
see my sister until we get to Gib. You
seem to be a capital sailor, Miss Winterbourne."


•' I have often had to be ashamed of It,"
said Yolande. '' To-day, also — there was no
other lady at the table — oh, I cannot sit
alone like that any more — no, I will rather
have no dinner than go and sit alone — it is
terrible — and the Captain laughing "

Poor fellow, he is not in a laughing
mood just now "

"Why, then ? There is no dangers"
"Oh no. But I hear he has had his head

cut open, a chronometer falling on him in his
cabin. However, I think he'll show up at
dinner ; it is only a flesh wound. They've had
one of the boats stove in, they say, and some
casks carried away, and a good deal of smashing
forward. I wonder if your father has got
any sleep — I should think not. I'll go and
see how he is getting on if you like "

Oh no ; if he is asleep that is very well.
No," said Yolande ; " I wish you to tell me
more about your friend — the gentleman who
was your tutor ; that is a very strange life for
any one to live."

What she wished was enough for him.

'^ I have not told you the strangest part
of the story," said he, " for you would not
believe it."

"Am I so unbelieving ?" said she, looking
up.

His eyes met hers, but only for an instant.
Yolande's eyes were calm, smiling, unconcerned
; it was not in them, at all events, that
any confusion lay.

"Of course I did not mean that," said
he; "but — but one has one's character for
veracity, don't you know — and if I were to
VOL. I. G

tell you about Mrs. Bell — the story is too

improbable "

"Then it is about Mrs. Bell that I wish to
hear," said Yolande, in her gentle imperious
way.

Besides, I've bored you all day long
about those people in Inverness-shire. You
will think I have never seen any one else, and
never been anywhere else. Now I would
much rather hear about the Chateau and the
people there. I want you to tell me what
you thought of America — after living in that

quiet place "

"What I thought of America!" said Yo-lance,
with a laugh. "That is a question
indeed !"

Isn't it the question that all Americans
ask of you .-^ You have heard enough about
the Inverness-shire people. Tell me about
Rennes. Have you seen much of Paris ?
Did you like the Parisians ?"

"Ah," said she, "you are not so obedient
to me as my papa is."

Fathers in Scotland arc made of sterner
stuff," he answered. " We don't talk that
way

Now, listen," she said. '' I have the
picture before me — everything complete — the
lake, and Lynn Towers — the mountains and
moorland, also the ravines where the deer
take shelter — oh yes, I can see all that quite
clear — but the central figure, that is absent."

'* The central figure ?"

'' Mrs. Bell."

He had quite forgotten about that lady ;
now he laughed.

''Oh no," he said; 'mrs. Bell is not so
important as that. She has nothing to do
with Lynn. She lives at Dress."

"Well, that is a beginning, at all events,"
she remarked.

Oh, but must I really tell you the story ?
You will try hard to believe ?"

I am not unbelieving."

"Very well, then. I will tell you about
Mrs. Bell, for I hope some day you will see
her "

She looked up inquiringly.

"Yes, I am going to ask your father to
take a moor up there that I know of ; and, of
course, you would come to the lodge. If he
cares about grouse-shooting, and isn't afraid

of hard work, It Is the very place for him.
Then you would see my friend Melville —
who ought to be Melville of Monaglen by
rights — and maybe he will be before Mrs.
Bell has done with him."

Mrs. Bell again ? Then I am to hear
about her after all ? "

"Very well, then. Mrs. Bell Is not Mrs.
Bell ; but Miss Bell ; only they call her
Mrs." because she is an elderly lady, and is
rich, and is a substantial and matronly-looking
kind of person. Mrs. Bell was cook to the
Melville — that was years and years ago,
before old Mr. Melville died. But she was
an ambitious party ; and Gress wasn't enough
for her. She could read ; and it Isn't every
Highland servant lass who can do that. She
read cookery books and made experiments.
Now you see the adventures of Mrs. Bell
don't make a heroic story)' "

'* But I am listening," said Yolande, with
a calm air.

She eot to be rather clever, though there
was not much chance for her in the Melville'
house. Then she went to Edinburgh. All
this Is plain sailing. Sh(^ got a situation in a

hotel there ; then she was allowed to try
what she could do in the cooking line ; then
she was made head cook. That is the end
of chapter one ; and I suppose you believe
me so far. Years went on and Kirsty was
earning a good wage ; and all that we knew
of her was that she used to send small sums
of money occasionally to help one or two of
the poor people in Gress who had been her
neighbours ; for she had neither kith nor kin
of her own. Then there happened to come
to the hotel in Edinburgh an elderly English
gentleman who was travelling about for his
health ; and he was frightfully anxious about
his food ; and he very much appreciated the
cooking at the hotel. He made inquiries.
He saw Kirsty, who was by this time a
respectable middle-aged woman, getting
rather gray. What does the old maniac do
but tell her that he has only a few years to
live ; that the cooking of his food is about
the most important thing to him in the world;
that he has no near relatives to inherit his
property ; and that if she will go to Leicestershire
and bind herself to remain cook in his
house as long as he lived, he would undertake

to leave her every penny he possessed
when he died. ' I will,' says Kirsty ; but
she was a wise woman, and she went to the
lawyers, and had everything properly settled.
Shall I go on. Miss Winterbourne ? I don't
think my heroine interests you. I wish you
could see old Mrs. Bell "

Oh yes, go on. That is not so unbelievable.
Of course I believe you, is it necessary
to say that ?"

Yolande's calm demeanour was a little bit
disturbed at this moment by a scattering of
spray around her ; but she quickly dried her
red-gold hair and the smooth oval of her
cheeks.

What comes after is a good bit stranger,"
he continued. " The old gentleman died ;
only he lived much longer than anybody
expected ; and Kirsty, at the age of fifty-eight
or so, found herself in possession of an income
of very near ;^4000 a year — well, I
believe it is more than that nov, for the
property has increased in value. And now
begins what I can't tell you half well enough
I wish you could hear Mrs. Bell's own
account — I mean of the schemes that people

laid to inveigle her into a marriage. You
know she is rather a simple and kindly-hearted
woman ; but she believes herself to
be the very incarnation of shrewdness ; and
certainly on that one point she showed herself
shrewd enough. When my sister reappears
on deck again, you say to her * Kirsty
kenned better;' and see if she does not
recognise the phrase. Mrs. Bell's description
of the various offers of marriage she has had
beats anything ; but it was always ' Kirsty
kenned better.' Yes ; and among these was

a formal proposal from Lord , — I mean

the father of the present Lord ; and

that proposal was twice repeated ; you know

the s are awfully poor ; and that one

was at his wit's end for money. But Kirsty
was not to be caught. Among other things,
he stipulated that he was to be allowed to
spend eight months of the year in London, she
remaining either in Leicestershire or in the
Highlands, as she pleased. More than that,

he even eot the Duke of to write to

Miss Bell, and back up the suit, and promise
that, if she would consent, he would himself
go down and give her away "

The irreat Duke of ^ ?" said Yolande,

with her eyes a Httle bit wider.

"Yes; the lite Duke. I thought I
shoukl astonish you. But I have seen the
Duke's letter — it is one of Mrs. Bell's
proudest possessions — I have no doubt you
will see it for yourself some day. But
Kirsty kenned better "

What did she do, then ?"

What did she do ? She went back to
Gress, like a sensible woman. And she is
more than sensible ; she is remarkably good-natured
; and she sought out the son of the
old master — that's my friend Melville, you
know — and then she tried all her flattery and
shrewdness on him, until she got him persuaded
that he should live in Gress — he was
cadging about for another tutorship at the
time — and make a sort of model village of
it, and have old Kirsty for his housekeeper.
Oh, she's clever enough in her way. She
has picked up very good manners ; she can
hold her own with anybody. Moreover, she
manages Melville most beautifully ; and he
isn't easy to manage. She is always very
respectful ; and makes him believe he is

doing her a great kindness in spending her
money in improving the village, and all that ;
but what she really means, of course, is that
he should be a kind of small laird in the place
that used to belong to his people. And that
is what that woman means to do — I know it
I am certain of it. If ever Monaglen
comes into the market, she'll snap it up ; she
must have a heap saved, besides the original
bulk of her property. Sooner or later she'll
make Jack Melville ' Melville of Monaglen,'
as sure as he's alive."

"You and he are great friends, then ?"
'' Oh, he rather sits upon me," the Master
of Lynn said, modestly; 'but we are pretty
good friends, as things go."

The gale did not abate much that afternoon
; on the contrary, the great ship seemed
to be rolling more heavily than ever ; and atone
minute a little accident occurred that
might have been attended with more serious
consequences. Mr. Winterbourne and young
Leslie, not being able to reach the smoking-room
on account of the seas coming over the
bows, had sought shelter on a bench immediately
aft of the hurricane deck ; and there,

enveloped in waterproofs, they were trying
lo keep their cigars aught. Unfortunately,
the lashinofs securing this bench had not been
very strong ; and at one bad lurch of the
vessel — indeed the deck seemed to be at
right angles with the water below them —
away the whole thing went, spinning down
to leeward. Leslie was a smart young fellow ;
saw what was coming ; and before the bench
had reached the gunwale, he had with one
hand swung himself on to the ladder ascending
to the hurricane-deck, while with the
other he had seized hold of his companion's
coat. Probably, had he not been so quick,
the worst that could have happened was that
the two of them might have had a thorough
sousing in the water surging along the
scuppers ; but when Yolancle heard of the
accident, and when Mr. Winterbourne, rather
sadly, showed her his waterproof, which had
been half torn from his back, she was instantly
convinced that young Leslie had saved her
father's life.

In consequence she was much less imperious
and wilful in her manner all that afternoon
; and was even timidly polite to him.

She consented, without a word, to go down
to dinner — although, again, she was the only
lady at table. And, indeed, dinner that
evening was entirely a ludicrous performance.
When Mr. Winterbourne and Yolande and
young Leslie got to the foot of the companion-stairs,
and, with much clinging, prepared to
enter the saloon, the first thing they saw
before them was a sudden wave of white that
left the table and crashed against the walls.
The stewards regarded the broken crockery
with a ghastly smile, but made no immediate
effort to pick up the fragments. The
*' fiddles" on the table were found to be of
no use whatever. When these three sat
down they could only make sure of such
things as they could keep their fingers upon.
Buttressing was of no avail. Plates, tumblers,
knives, and forks, broke away, and steeple-chased
over the fiddles, until the final smash
on the walls brought their career to a close.
The din was awful ; and Mr. Winterbourne
was much too anxious about the objects
around him to be able to make his customary
little jokes. But they got through it somehow
; and the only result of these wild

adventures with pocketing loaves and plates
and bottles was that Poland and the young
Master of Lynn seemed to be on more and
more friendly and familiar terms. Yolande
talked to him as frankly as if he had been
her brother.

Next day matters mended considerably ;
and the next again broke blue and fair and
shining, with an immense number of Mother
Gary's chickens skimming along the sunlit
waters. Far away in the south the pale line
of the African coast was visible. People
began to appear on deck who had been
hidden for the last couple of days ; Mrs.
Graham was up and smiling, in an exceedingly
pretty costume. When should they
reach Gibraltar ? Who was going ashore ?
Were there many " Scorpions " on board ?

Yolande was not much of a politician ; but
her father being something of a "Jingo," of
course she was a "Jingo" too; and she was
very proud when, towards the afternoon,
they drew nearer and nearer to the great
gray scarred rock that commands the Mediterranean
; and her heart warmed at the
sight of a little! red speck on one of the

ramparts — an English sentry keeping guard
there. And when they went ashore, and
wandered through the streets, she had as
much interest in plain Tommy Atkins in his
red coat as in any of the more picturesquely
clad Spaniards or Arabs she saw there ; and
when they went into the Alameda to hear
the military band play, she knew by a sort of
instinct that among the ladies sitting in their
cool costumes under the maples and acacias
such and such groups were Englishwomen —
the wives of the officers, no doubt — and she
would have liked to have gone and spoken
to them. " Gib." seemed to her to be a bit
of England, and therefore friendly and
familiar ; she thought the place looked tremendously
strong ; and she was glad to see
such piles of shot and ranged rows of cannon ;
and she had a sort of gratitude in her heart
towards the officers, and the garrison, and
even the Englishwomen sitting there, with a
tint of nutbrown on their cheeks, but an
English look in their eyes. And all this was
absurd enough in a young minx who made a
fool of English idioms nearly every time she
opened her mouth !

What a beautiful night that was as they
sailed away from the vast gray Rock. The
moon was growing in strength now ; and the
heavens were clear. The passengers had
begun to form their own little groups ;
acquaintanceships had been made ; chairs
drawn close together on the deck, in the
silence, under the stars. And along there
the skylight of the saloon was open ; and
there was a yellow glare coming up from
below ; also the sound of singing. They
were at duets below — two or three young
people ; and whether they sung well or ill,
the effect was pleasant enough, with the soft
murmur of the Mediterranean all around.
O, who will o'er the downs so free " — of
course they sang that ; people always do sing
that on board ship. Then they sang, '' I
would that my love could silently," and
many another old familiar air, the while
the vessel churned on its way through the
unseen waters, and the pale shadows thrown
by the moon on the white decks slowly
moved with the motion of the vessel. It
was a beautiful night.

The Master of Lynn came aft from the

smoking-room, and met his brother-in-law on
the way.

'this is better, isn't it?" said Colonel
Graham. " This is more like what I shipped
for."

'' Yes, this is better. Do you know where
the Winterbournes are ?"

*' In the saloon. I have just left them
there."

Young Leslie was passing on ; but he
stopped.

I say, Graham, I've noticed one thing
on board this ship already."

'what?"

You watch tomorrow, if they're both on
deck at the same time. You'll find that Polly
has got all the men about her; and Miss
Winterbourne all the children. Odd, isn't
it?"

ON THE MEDITERRANEAN.

They were indeed cut off from the rest of the
world, as they went ploughing their way
through these blue Mediterranean seas. Day
after day brought its round of amusements ;
and always the sun shining on the white
decks ; and the soft winds blowing ; and now
and again a swallow, or dove, or quail, or
some such herald from unknown coasts, taking
refuge for a while in the rigging or fluttering
along by the vessel's side. There was an
amateur photographer on board, moreover ;
and many were the groups that were formed
and taken ; only it was observed that when
the officers were included the captain generally
managed to have Yolande standing on
the bridge beside him — a piece of favouritism
that broke through all rules and regulations.
There was a good deal of " Bull " played ;
and it was wonderful how, when Mrs. Graham

was playing, there always happened to be a
number of those young Highland officers
about, ready to pick up her quoits for her.
And always, but especially on the bright and
breezy forenoons, there was the constitutional
tramp up and down the long hurricane deck
an occupation of which Yolande was particularly
fond, and in which she found no one
could keep up with her so untiringly as the
Master of Lynn. She was just as well
pleased, however, when she was alone ; for
then she sang to herself, and had greater
freedom In flinging her arms about.

Look at her," her father said, one morning,
to Mrs. Graham — concealing his admiration
under an air of chagrin. " Wouldn't you
think she was an octopus, or a windmill, or
something like that ?"

'' I call It a rattling good style of walking,"
said Colonel Graham, interposing. *' Elbows
in, palms out. She Is a remarkably well-made
young woman — that's my opinion "

** But she isn't an octopus," her father said,
peevishly.

Oh, that is merely an excess of vitality,"
her champion said. '' Look how springy her

VOL. I. H

walk is ! I don't believe her heel ever
touches the deck — all her walking is done
with the front part of her foot. Gad ! it's
infectious," continued the Colonel, with a
grim laugh. " I caught myself trying it
when I was walking with her yesterday.
But it ain't easy at fifteen stone."

*she need not make herself ridiculous,"
her father said.

'' Ridiculous ? I think it's jolly to look
at her. Makes one feel young again. She
don't know that a lot of old fogies are watching
her. Bet a sovereign she's talking about
dancing. Archie's devilish fond of dancing
so he ought to be at his time of life. They
say they're going to give us a ball to-night —
on deck."

Pretty Mrs. Graham was a trifle impatient.
There were none of the young officers
about, for a wonder ; they had gone to have
their after-breakfast cigar in the smoking-room
— and perhaps a little game of Nap,
therewithal. This study of Yolande's appearance
had lasted long enough, in her
opinion.

"It is clever of her to wear nothing on

her head," she said, as she took up a book,
and arranged herself in her chair. '' Her
hair is her best feature."

But what Yolande and her companion,
young Lesse, were talking about, as they
marched up and down the long white decks
occasionally stopping to listen to a small
group of Lascars, who were chanting a
monotonous sing-song refrain — had nothing
in the world to do with dancing.

"You think, then, I ought to speak to
your father about the moor ? Would you
like it ?" said he.

''I.'*" she said. 'that is nothing. If
my papa and I are together, it is not any
difference to me where we are. But if it is
so wild and remote, that is what my papa will
like'

'remote!" said he, with a laugh. "It
is fourteen miles away from anywhere. I
like to hear those idiots talking who say the
Highlands are overrun with tourists. Much
they know about the Highlands. Well, now
they've got the railway to Oban, I suppose
Oban is pretty bad. But this place that I
am telling you of — why you would not see a

Strange face from one year's end to the
other !"

*'Oh, that will exactly suit my papa —
exactly," she said with a smile. " Is it very,
very far away from everything and everyone
r

Isn't it!" he said, grimly. "Why, it's
up near the sky, to begin with. I should
say the average would be near three thousand
feet above the level of the sea. And as
for remoteness — well, perhaps Kingussie is
not more than fourteen miles off as the crow
flies ; but then you've got the Morale
mountains between it and you ; and the
Morale mountains are not exactly the sort
of place that a couple of old ladies would like
to climb in search of wild flowers. You see,
that is the serious part of it for you, Miss
Winterbourne. Fancy the change between
the temperature of the Nile and that high
moorland "

"Oh, that is nothing," she said. "So
long as I am out of doors, the heat or the
cold is to mc nothing — nothing at all."

The other change," he continued, " I
have no doubt would be striking enough —

from the busy population of Egypt to the
solitude of Allt-nam-ba "

'' What is it ? Alltt "

"• Allt-nam-ba. It means the Stream of
the Cows, though there are no cows there
now. They have some strange names there
left by the people who have gone away.
I suppose people did live there once ; though
what they lived on I can't imagine. They
have left names, anyway ; some of them
simple enough — the Fair Winding Water,
the Dun Water, the Glen of the Horses, the
Glen of the Gray Loch, and so forth — but
some of them I can't make out at all. One
is the Glen of the Tombstone ; and I have
searched it, and never could find any trace
of a Tombstone. One is the Cairn of the
Wanderers ; and they must have wandered
a good bit before they got up there. Then
there is a burn that is called the stream of
the Fairies — Liege nan Spithead — that is
simple enough ; but there is another place
that is called Black Fairies. Now who on
earth ever heard of black fairies ? "

'* But it is not a frightful place ?" she
said. " It is not terrible — gloomy .'^"

Not a bit!" said he. "These are only
names. No one knows how they came there
that is all. Gloomy 1 I think the strath
from the foot of the moor down to our place
is one of the prettiest strath in Scotland."

** Then I should see Lynn Towers.'^" she
said.

''Oh yes — it isn't much of a building,
you know "

'rand Mr. Melville of Monaglen— that
would be interesting to me "

Oh yes," said he ; " but — but I wouldn't
call him Monaglen — do you see — he hasn't
got Monaglen — perhaps he may have it back
some day."

"And you," she said, turning her clear
eyes towards him, — " sometimes they call
you Master — is it right ?"

He smiled.

Oh, that is a formal title — in Scotland.
Colonel Graham makes a little joke of it — I
suppose that is what you have heard "

I must not call you so .'*"

"Oh no," — and then he said, with a
laugh : " You may call me anything you like
what's the odds? If you want to please

my brother-in-law you should call him
Inverstroy."

*' But how can I remember ?" she said,
holding up her fingers and counting. " Not
Monaglen. Not Master. But yes, Inver-stray.
And Mrs. Bell — shall I see her?"

Certainly, if you go there."

"And the mill-wheels, and the electric
lamps, and all the strange things ?"

Oh yes, if Jack Melville takes a fancy
to you. He doesn't to everybody."

Oh, I am not anxious," she said, with a
little dignity. " I do not care much about
such things. It is no matter to me."

"I beg your pardon a thousand times!"
he said, with much earnestness. " Really, I
was not thinking of what I was saying. I
was thinking of Jack Melville's ways. Of
course he'll be delighted to show you everything
— he will be perfectly delighted. He is
awfully courteous to strangers. He will be
quite delighted to show you the whole of his
instruments and apparatus."

'rit is very obliging," she said, with something
of coldness, '' but there is no need that
I shall be indebted to Mr. Melville "

'not of Monaglen — " he said, demurely.

*' Of Monaglen, or not of Monaglen," she
said, with heh indifference. " Come, shall we
go and find my papa, and tell him about the
wild, far place, and the Stream of the Fairies?"

'' No, wait a moment, Miss Winterbourne,"
said he, with a touch of embarrassment.
You see, that shooting belongs to my father.
And I look after the letting of our shootings
and fishings when I am at home ; though of
course we have an agent. Now — now — I
don't quite like taking advantage of a new
friendship to — to — make such a suggestion —
I mean I would rather sink the shop.
Perhaps your father might get some other
shooting up there "

But not with the Glen of the Black
Fairies, and the strath, and Lynn Towers
near the loch where the char are, and all that
you have told me. No ; if I am not to see

Mrs. Bell — if I am not to see" She was

going to say Mr. Melville of Monaglen, but
she waved that aside with a gesture of petulance
" No, I wish to see all that you

have told me about ; and I think it would be
pleasant if we were neighbours."

*' You really must have neighbours," said
he, eagerly, "in a place like that! That is
one thing certain. I am sure we should try
to make It as pleasant for you as possible. I
am sure my father would. And Polly would
be up sometimes — I mean Mrs. Graham.
Oh, I assure you, if it was any other shooting
than Allt-nam-ba I should be very anxious
that you and your father should come and
take it. Of course, the lodge is not a grand
place "

*' We will go and talk about it now," she
said, 'sto my papa ; and you can explain."

Now, as it turned out, although Mr.
Winterbourne was rather staggered at first
by Yolande's wild project of suddenly changing
the idle luxuries of a Nile voyage for
the severities of a moorland home in the
north, there was something in the notion that
attracted him. He began to make inquiries.
The solitariness, the remoteness of the place
seemed to strike him. Then 1050 brace of
grouse, a few black game, a large number of
mountain hares, and six stags, was a good
return for nine weeks' shooting ; and the
last tenant had not had experts with him.

Could Yolande have a piano or a harmonium
sent to her away in that wilderness ? — anything
to break the silence of the hills. And
Mr. Winterbourne was unlike most people
who are contemplating the renting of a moor ;
the cost of it was the point about which he
thought least. But to be away up there —
with Yolande

Of course it is just possible that the place
may have been let since I left," the Master of
Lynn said. '' We have not had it vacant for
many years back. But that could easily be
ascertained at Malta by telegram."

You think you would like the place,
Yolande ? " her father said.

•' I think so ; yes."

You would not die of cold ? "

Not willingly, papa — I mean I would try
not — I am not afraid. You must go somewhere,
papa ; there is no Parliament then ;
you are fond of shooting ; and there will be
many days, not with shooting, for you and
me to wander in the mountains. I think that
will be nice."

Very well. I will take the place, Mr.
Leslie, if it is still vacant ; and I hope we

shall be good neighbours ; and If )'ou can
send us a deer or two occasionally into the
ravines you speak of, we shall be much
obliged to you. And now about dogs — and
gillies — and ponies "

But this proved to be an endless subject
of talk between these two, both then and
thereafter ; and so Yolande stole away to
look after her own affairs. Amongst other
things she got hold of the purser, and talked
so coaxingly to him that he went and ordered
the cook to make two sheets of toffee instead
of one — and all of white suo-ar ; so that when
Yolande subsequently held her afternoon
levee amon" the children of the steerage
passengers she was provided with sweetstuff
enough to make the hearts of the mothers
quake with fear.

It was that evening that she had to put
the flowers overboard — on the wide and sad
and uncertain o-rave. She did not wish an'
one to see her, son^iehow ; she could not
make It a public ceremony — this compliance
with the pathetic, futile wishes of the poor
mother. She had most carefully kept the
flowers sprinkled with water, and, despite of

that, they had got sadly faded and shrivelled ;
but she had purchased another basketful at
Gibraltar, and these were fresh enough.
What mattered ? The time was too vague ;
the vessel's course too uncertain ; the trifles of
flowers would soon be swallowed up in the
solitary sea. But it was the remembrance of
the mother she was thinking of.

She chose a moment when every one was
down below at dinner, and the deck was
quite deserted. She took the two little
baskets to the rail ; and there, very slowly
and reverently, she took out handful after
handful of the flowers and dropped them down
on the waves, and watched them go floating
and floating out and out on the swaying
waters. The tears where running down her
face ; and she had forgotten whether there
was anybody by or not. She was thinking
of the poor woman in England. Would she
know ? Could she see ? Was she sure that
her request would not be forgotten ? And
indeed she had not gone so far wrong when
she had trusted to the look of Yolande's face.

Then, fearing her absence might be
noticed, she went quickly to her cabin, bathed

her eyes in cold water, and then went below —
where she found the little coterie at their end
of the table all much exercised about Mr.
Winterbourne's proposal to spend the autumn
among the wild solitudes of Allt-nam-ba.
He, indeed, declared he had nothing to do
with it. It was Yolande's doing. He had
never heard of Allt-nam-ba.

'rit is one of the best grouse moors in
Scotland, I admit that," Colonel Graham
said, with an ominous smile ; '' but it is a
pretty stiffish place to work over."

'you talk like that, Jim," said his wife
(who seemed anxious that the Winterbournes
should preserve their fancy for the place),
because you are getting too stout for hill
work. We shall find you on a pony soon.
I should like to see you shooting from the
back of a pony."

Better men than me have done that,"
said Inverstroy, good-humouredly.

They had a concert that night — not a ball,
as was at first intended ; and there was a
large assemblage, even the young gentlemen
of the smoking-room having forsaken their
Nap when they heard that Mrs. Graham was

going to sing. And very well she sang, too.
with a thoroughly trained voice of very considerable
compass. She sang all the new
society songs, about wild melancholies and
regrets and things of that kind ; but her voice
was really fine in quality ; and one almost
believed for the moment that the pathos of
these spasmodic things was true. And then
her dress — how beautifully it fitted her neat
little shoulders and waist! Her curly short
hair was surmounted by a coquettish cap ;
she had a circle of diamonds set in silver
round her neck ; but there were no rings to
mar the symmetry of her plump and pretty
white hands. And how assiduous those boy-officers
were, although deprived of their
cigars ! They hung round the piano ; they
turned over the music for her — as well as an
eyeglass permitted them to see ; nay, when
she asked, one of them sent for a banjo, and
performed a solo on that instrument — performing
it very well too. None of the unmarried
girls had ll^e ghost of a chance. Poor
Yolande, in her plain pale pink gown, was
nowhere. All eyes were directed on the
smart little figure at the piano ; on the stylish

costume ; the charming profile, with its outward
sweep of black lashes ; on the graceful
arms and white fingers. For a smile from
those clear dark gray eyes, there was not one
of the tall youths standing there who would
not have sworn to abjure sporting newspapers
for the rest of his natural life.

There was only one drawback to the
concert, as a concert. To keep the saloon
cool the large ports astern had been opened ;
and the noise of the water rushing away from
the screw was apt to drown the music.

'' Miss Winterbourne," some one said to
Yolande — and she started, for she had been
sitting at one of the tables, imagining herself
atone, and dreaming about the music, 'one
can hear far better on deck. Won't you
come up and try ? "

It was the Master of Lynn.

Oh yes," said she ; 'thank you."

She went with him on deck, expecting to
find her father there. But Mr. Winterbourne
had gone to the smoking-room. No matter.
All companions are alike on board ship.
Young Leslie brought her a chair, and put
it close to the skylight of the saloon ; and he

sat down there too. They could hear pretty
well ; and they could talk In the intervals.
The night was beautifully quiet ; and the
moonlight whiter than ever on the decks.
These southern nights were soft and fitted
for music ; they seemed to blend the singing
below and the gentle rushing of the sea all
around. And Yolande was so friendly — and
frank to plain-sullenness. Once or twice
she laughed ; it was a low, quiet, pretty
laugh.

Such were the perils of the deep that lay
around them as they sailed along those
southern seas. And at last they were nearing
Malta. On the night before they expected
to reach the island Mrs. Graham took occasion
to have a quiet chat with her brother.

*' Look here, Archie, we shall all be going
ashore tomorrow, I suppose," said she.

"No doubt."

And I daresay," she added, fixing her
clear, pretty, shrewd eyes on him, 'that you
will be going away to the Club with those
young fellows, and we shall see nothing
of you.

We shall be all over the place, I suppose,"

he answered. " Most likely I shall lunch at
the Club. Graham can put me down ; he is
still a member, isn't he ^. "

'* It would be a good deal more sensible-like,"
said his sister, " if you gave us lunch at
a hotel."

''I?" he cried, with a laugh. ''I like
that! Considering my income, and Inver-stray's
income, a proposal of that kind strikes
one with a sort of coolness "

I didn't mean Jim and me only," said
Mrs. Graham, sharply. 'jim can pay for
his own luncheon, and mine too. Why don't
you ask the Winterbournes '^ "

This was a new notion altogether.

'they wouldn't come, would they ?" he
said, diffidently. "It is not a very long
acquaintance. Still, they seem so friendly —
and I'd like It awfully — if you think you
could get Miss Winterbourne to go with you.
Do you think you could, Polly ? Don't
you see, we ought to pay them a compliment
they've taken Allt-nam-ba."

Miss Winterbourne," said Mrs. Graham,
distantly, " is going ashore with me tomorrow.
Of course we must have lunch somewhere.

VOL. I. I

If you men like to go to the Club, very well ;
I suppose we shall manage."

Well, perhaps It was only a natural thing
to suggest. The Winterbournes had been
kind to him. Moreover, women do not like
to be left to walk up and down the Strata
Real by themselves when they know that
their husbands and brothers are enjoying
themselves in the Union Club. But it is
probable that neither Mrs. Graham nor the
young Master of Lynn quite fully recollected
that attentions and civilities which are simple
and customary on board ship — which are a
necessity of the case (people consenting to
become Intimate and familiar through being
constantly thrown together) — may, on land,
where one returns to the conventionalities
of existence, suddenly assume a very different
complexion, and may even appear to have a
startling significance.

A DAY ASHORE.

Most "landward" people, to use the Scotch
phrase, would imagine that on board ship
ladies would be content with any rough and
tumble costume that would serve all purposes
from morning till night. But on a long
voyage the very reverse is the case. Nowhere
else do women dress with more elaborate
nicety, and with such studied exhibition
of variety as their tolerably capacious wardrobes
permit. For one thing, they have no
more engrossing occupation. They can
spend hours in their cabin devising new combinations
; and, as many of them are going
to live abroad, they have with them all their
worldly gear from which to pick and choose.
It is a break in the monotony of the day to
have one dress at breakfast, another for forenoon
games and lunch, another for the afternoon
promenade, another for the meal of state

in the evening. Then nowhere else are well-made
costumes seen to such advantage ; the
deck is a wide stage, and there is the best of
liorht for colours. Moreover, in a woman's
eyes it is worth while to take trouble about
dressing well on board ship ; for it is no fleeting
glance that rewards her pains. The
mere change of a brooch at the neck is
noticed.

But all the innocent little displays that had
been made during the long voyage were as
nothing on board this ship to the grand transformation
that took place in view of the landing
at Malta. The great vessel was now
lying silent and still ; her screw no longer
throbbing ; and instead of the wide, monotonous
circle of water around her, here were
blue arms of the sea running into the gray-green
island ; and great yellow bastions along
the shore ; and over these again a pale white
and pink town straggling along the low-lying
hills. After breakfast the men-folk were left
in undisturbed possession of the deck. TJiey
were not anxious about their costume — at
least, the middle-aged ones were not. They
smoked their cigars, and leaned over the rail,

and watched the swarm of gaily-painted boats
that were waiting to take them ashore. And
perhaps some of them were beginning to wish
that the women would look alive ; for already
the huge barges filled with coal were drawing
near, and soon the vessel would be enveloped
in clouds of dust.

Then the women began to come up, oneby
one ; but all transformed ! They were
scarcely recognisable by mere acquaintances.
There was about them the look of a Sunday
afternoon in Kensington Gardens ; and it
was strange enough on the deck of a ship.
People who had been on sufficiently friendly
terms now grew a little more reserved ; these
land costumes reminded them that on shore
they might have less claim to a free-and-easy
companionship. And Mr. Winterbourne
grew anxious. Did Yolande know ? The
maid she had brought with her, and whose
services she had agreed to share with Mrs.
Graham, had been useless enough, from the
moment she put foot on board the ship ; but
surely she must have learned what was going
forward ? Perhaps Yolande would appear in
her ordinary pale pink morning dress ? She

was far too content with simplicity in costume.
Again and again he had had to
rebuke her.

Why don't you have more dresses ? " he
had said to her on board this very ship.
'' Look at Mrs. Graham. Why don't you
have as many dresses as Mrs. Graham ? A
married lady ? What difference does that
make ? I like to see you prettily dressed.
When I want you to save money, I will tell
you. You can't get them at sea ? Well, of
course not ; but you might have got them on
shore. And if it meant more trunks, what is
the use of Jane ? "

He was a nervous and fidgety man, and
he was beginning to be really concerned
about Yolande's appearance, when he caught a
glimpse of Yolande herself, coming out on to
the deck from the companion-way. Hews instantly
satisfied. There was nothing striking
about her dress, it is true — the skirt and sleeves
were of dark blue velvet, the rest of dark blue
linen, and she wore her white silver belt —
but at all events it was different ; and then
the (kit, dark blue Scotch ca) looked pretty
enough on her ruddv-L!'oldc;n hair. Indeed,

he need not have been afraid that Yolande
would have appeared insignificant anyhow or
anywhere. Her tall stature ; her slender and
graceful figure ; her air and carriage — all
these rendered her quite sufficiently destine
, even when one was not near
enough to know anything of the fascination
of her eyes and the pretty, pathetic mouth.

And yet he was so anxious that she should
acquit herself well — he was so proud of her
that he went to her quickly and said —

'' That is one of the prettiest of your
dresses, Yolande — very pretty — and it suits
your silver girdle very well — but the Scotch
cap — well, that suits you too, you know "

"It is Mrs. Graham's, papa. She asked
me to wear it in honour of Allt-nam-ba."

"Yes, yes," he said. "That is all very
well — at Allt-nam-ba. It is very pretty —
and Jane has done your hair very nicely this
morning "

I have not had a glimpse of Jane this
morning ! " Yolande said with a laugh.
"Could I be so cruel ? No. Mrs. Graham
going ashore — and I to take Jane away ? —
how could I ? "

'* I don't like the arrangement," her father
said, with a frown. "Why should you not
have the help of your own maids But about
the cap, Yolande — look, these other ladies
are dressed as if they were going to church.
The cap would be very pretty at a garden-party
— at lawn-tennis — but I think "

"Oh yes, I will put on a bonnet," said
Yolande, instantly. " It is not to please Mrs.
Graham — it is to please you — that I care for.
One minute "

But who was this who intercepted her ?
Not the lazy young fellow who used to lounge
about the decks in a shooting-coat, with a
cigarette scarcely ever absent from his fingers
or lips ; but a most elegant young gentleman
in tall hat and frock-coat, who was dressed
with the most remarkable precision, from his
collar and stiff necktie to his snow-white
gaiters and patent-leather boots.

"Are you ready to go ashore, INIiss Winterbourne
? " said he, smoothing his gloves
the while. " My sister is just coming up."

In one minute," she said ; " I am going
for a bonnet, instead of my Scotch cap "

Oh no," he said, (quickly ; " please don't.

Please, wear the cap. You have no idea how
well it becomes you. And it would be so
kind of you to pay a compliment to the highlands
think half the officers on board
belong to the Seaforth Highlanders — and if
we go to look at the Club "

'' No, thank you," she said, passing him
with a friendly smile. '' I am not going en
vivandiere. Perhaps I will borrow the cap
some other time — at Allt-nam-ba."

Mr. Winterbourne overheard this little
conversation — in fact, the three of them were
almost standing together ; and whether it
was that the general excitement throughout
the vessel had also affected him, or whether
it was that the mere sight of all these people
in different costumes had made him suddenly
conscious of what were their real relations —
not their ship relations — it certainly startled
him to hear the young Master of Lynn,
apparently on the same familiar footing as
himself, advise Yolande as to what became
her. The next step was inevitable. He
was easily alarmed. He recalled his friend
Shortlands' remark — which he had rather
resented at the time — that a P. and O. voyage

would marry off iLn)body who wanted to get
married. He thought of Yolande ; and he
was stricken dumb with a nameless fear. Was
she going away from him ? Was some one
else about to supplant him in her affections ?
These two had been in a very literal sense
all the world to each other. They had
been constant companions. They knew few
people ; for he lived in a lonely, nomadic
kind of way ; and Yolande never seemed to
care for any society but his own. And now
was she going away from him ?

Then it suddenly occurred to him that he
had just arranged to take her away into those
wild solitudes in the Highlands, where the
Lesliess would be their only neighbours. It
seemed more and more inevitable. But why
not? Why should not this happens He
nerved himself to face the worst. Yolande
must marry some day. He had declared to
John Shortlands that he almost wished she
would marry now. And how could she
marry better ? This young fellow was of
good birth and education; well-mannered
and modest ; altogether unexceptionable, as
far as one could judge. And Mr. Winterbourne

had been judging, unconsciously to
himself. He had observed in the smoking-room
and elsewhere that young Leslie was
inclined to be cautious about the expenditure
of money — at cards or otherwise ; but was
not that rather a good trait ? The family
were not wealthy ; the present Lord Lynn
had been engaged all his life in slowly paying
off the mortgages on the family estates ; and
no doubt this young fellow had been economically
brought up. And then again — if
Yolande were to marry at all — would it not
be better that she should be transferred to
that distant and safe solitude ? Yolande as
the mistress of Lynn Towers — far away
there in the seclusion of the hills — living a
happy and peaceful life, free from scathe and
terror ; that was a fancy that pleased him.
It seemed not so terrible now that Yolande
should marry — at least — at least he would
face the worst, and strive to look at the
pleasant aspects of it. She would be faraway
— and safe.

These anxious, rapid, struggling thoughts
had not occupied a couple of minutes.
Yolande appeared, and he was almost afraid

to rcu'ard her. Mi^'ht there not be something
of the future written in her face ?
Indeed, there was nothing there but a pleasant
interest about the going on shore ; and
when she accepted a Httle nosegay that the
Master of Lynn brought her, and pinned it
on her dress, it was with a smile of thanks,
lout with — to any unconcerned eyes — the
very frankest indifference.

The Grahams now announced themselves
as ready ; and the party descended the gangway
into the boat — young Leslie preceding
them, so as to hand Yolande into her
place.

''Mr. Winterbourne," said he, when they
were all seated under the awning, and sailing
away through the lapping green water, '' I
hope you and your daughter will come and
lunch with us "

"Oh yes, of course," said he: did they
not make one party ^,

But what I mean is this," said the Master
of Lynn, " I am giving those Graham people
their lunch — the cormorants i— and Lynn
Towers is a long wa' off; ■a\\([ I haven't
often the chance of paying host ; and so I

want you and Miss Winterbourne also to be
my guests at the Hotel."

*' Oh, thanks ; very well," said Yolande's
father, who had begun now to study this
young man with the most observant but
cautious scrutiny, and was in a strange kind
of way anxious to be pleased with him.

"Why, I thought you were going to the
Club they were all speaking of," said Yolande,
staring at him. '' Captain Douglas told me
so.

Captain Douglas thinks he knows everything,"
said young Leslie, good-naturedly;
'whereas he knows nothing, except how to
play sixpenny loo."

But we will all go to the Club, Miss
Yolande," said Colonel Graham, "and you
shall see the ball-room. Very fine. I don't
know what the high-art fellows nowadays
would think of it. I used to think it uncommonly
fine in bygone times. Gad, I'm
not so fond of dancing now."

You can dance as well as ever you did,
Jim, only you're so lazy," his wife said,
sharply.

"You'll have to give them a torchlight

dance, Archie," the Colonel continued, "the
first stag Mr. Winterbourne kills. Miss
Yolande would like to look at that. And
you're pretty good yourself at the sword-dance.
I once could do it in a way "

"Jim, I won't have you talk as if you
were an old man," his wife said, angrily. " I
don't care about you ; I care about myself.
I won't have you talk like that. Everybody
on board thinks I'm forty."

'' You are not so young as you once were,
you know, Polly."

But Mrs. Graham was much too radiant a
coquette to be put out by any impertinent
speech like that. She was too sure of herself.
She knew what her glass told her —
and the half-concealed admiration of a whole
skilful of people. She could afford to treat
such speeches with contempt. And so they
reached the shore.

They refused to have a carriage ; preferring
rather to climb away up the steep
steps, and away up the steep little streets,
until they reached those high and narrow
thoroughfares (with their ]pink and yellow
houses, and pretty balconies, and green casements)

that were so cool and pleasant to
wander through. Sometimes the sun, though
shut out, sent a reflected light down into these
streets in so peculiar a fashion that the pink
fronts of the houses looked quite transparent ;
and not unfrequently, at the far end of the
thoroughfare, the vista was closed in by a
narrow band of the deepest and interest
blue — the high horizon-line of the distant sea.
They went up to St. John's bastion, to look
at the wilderness of geraniums and lotus-trees.
They went to St. John's Church.
They went to the telegraph office, where the
Master of Lynn sent off this message : —

Archibald Leslie ^ Ronald MacPherson,

Hotels Thalia. High Street,

Inverness.

Consider A lit-nam-bay if unlet, taken by Winterbourne M.P.
Slagpoolf Seven hundred fifty. Reply.

They went to see the Governor's garden,
and, in short, all the sights of the place ; but
what charmed the women-folk most of all
was, naturally, the great ball-room at the
Union Club. As they stood in the big,
empty, hollow-resounding place, Yolande
said —

'* Oh yes, it is beautiful. It must be cool,
with such ci high roof. Papa, have they as
fine a ball-room at the Reform Club ? "

The Reform Club ?" her father repeated
rather vexed that she should make such a
blunder. '' Of course not ! Who ever heard
of such a thing ! "

Why not ? " she said. " Every one says
this is a good club — and very English. Why
not at the Reform Club? Is that why you
have never taken me there ? "

'' Well, it is; it is devilish English-looking,"
said Colonel Graham to his wife, as they
turned into the long and cool coffee-room,
where there were rows of small tables all
nicely furnished out. " I like it. It reminds
me of old times. I like to see the fellows in
the old uniforms ; it makes one's heart warm.
Hanged if I don't have a glass of sherry and
bitters just to see if it tastes like the real
thing — or a brandy and soda. It's devilish
like home. I don't like being waited on by
these Lascar-Portugucse-half-nigger fellows.
My chap said to me yesterday at breakfast
when I asked for poached eggs — ' No go yet
when go bell me bring.' And another

fellow, when I asked for my bath, said, ' Hot
water no go — when go hot water, me tell.'
By Gad, there's old Munro — the fellow that
nailed the Sepoy at Azimghur — he's got as
fat as a turkey-cock "

Indeed the members of the Club — mostly
officers, apparently — were now coming in to
lunch ; and soon Colonel Graham was fairly
mobbed by old friends and acquaintances,
insomuch that it was with difficulty he was
drawn away to the banquet that young Leslie
taking advantage of the stay of the party
in St. John's Church — had had prepared for
them at the hotel. It was a modest feast,
but merry enough ; and the table was liberally
adorned with flowers, of which there is
no 'lack in Malta. Colonel Graham was
much excited with meeting those old friends,
and had a great deal to say about them ; his
wife was glad to have a rest after so much
walking ; Yolande was naturally interested in
the foreign look of the place and the people ;
and young Leslie, delighted to have the
honour of being host, played that part with
much tact and modesty and skill.

To Mr. Winterbourne it was strange.

VOL. I. K

Yolande seemed to half belong to those
people already. Mrs. Graham appeared to
claim her as a sister. On board ship these
things were not so noticeable ; for of course
they met at meals ; and the same groups that
were formed at table had a tendency to draw
together again on deck or in the saloon.
But here was this small party cut off from all
the rest of the passengers ; and they were
entirely on the footing of old friends ; and
the Master of Lynn's anxiety to please
Yolande was most marked and distinct. Onboard
ship it would scarcely have been
noticed ; here it was obvious to the most
careless eye. And yet, when he turned to
Yolande herself, who, as might have been
imagined, ought to have been conscious that
she was being singled out for a very special
attention and courtesy, he could read no
such consciousness in her face — nothing
but a certain pleasant friendliness, and indifference.


After luncheon they went away for a long
drive to sec more sights ; and in the afternoon
returned to the hotel, before going
on board. Young Leslie was thinking of

leaving Instructions that the telegram from
Inverness should be forwarded on to Cairo
when, fortunately, it arrived. It read
curiously —

Ronald AlacPhersoHy The Honourable the Master of Lynn y
Estate and Colliery Agent, Of the P. and O. Company's

High Street, St earn ship ,

Inverness. The Hotel, Malta.

Right.

"Now, what on earth — oh, I see!" exclaimed
the recipient of this telegram, after
staring at it in a bewildered fashion for a
moment. " I see. Here is a most beautiful
joke. MacPherson has wanted to be clever.
Has found out that telegraphing to Malta is
pretty dear ; thinks he will make the message
as short as possible — but will take it out in
the address. I am certain that is It. He
has fancied the address was free, as in
England ; and he has sent his clerk to the
office. Won't the clerk catch it when he
goes back and says what he has paid !
That is real Highland shrewdness. Never
mind ; you have got the shooting, Mr.
Winterbourne."

I am glad of that," said Yolande's father,

rather absently ; for now, when he thought
of the solitudes of Allt-nam-ba, it was not of
stags or grouse or mountain hares that he
was thinking.

They got on board again, and ahiiost
immediately went below to prepare for dinner,
for the decks were still dirty with the coal-dust.
And that night they were again at
sea — far away in the silences ; and a small
group of them were up at the end of the
saloon, practising glees for the next grand
concert. Mr. Winterbourne was on deck,
walking up and down, alone ; and perhaps
trying to fancy how it would be with him
when he was really left alone, and Yolande
entirely away from him, with other cares and
occupations. And he was striving to convince
himself that that would be best ; that
he would himself feel happier if Yolande's
future in life were secured, — if he could see
her the contented and proud mistress of
Lynn Towers. Here, on board this ship, it
might seem a hard thing that they should
separate, even though the separation were
only a mitigated one ; but if they were back
in England again, he knew those terrible

fears would again beset him, and that it
would be the first wish of his heart that
Yolande should get married. At Lynn
Towers he might see her sometimes. It
was remote, and quiet, and safe ; sometimes
Yolande and he would walk together there.

Meanwhile, down below they had finished
their practising ; and the Master of Lynn
was idly turning over a book of glees.

Polly," said he to his sister, '' I like that
one as well as any — I mean the words.
Don't you think they apply very well to Miss
Winterbourne ? "

His sister took the book, and read Sheridan's
lines —

Marked you her eye of heavenly blue ?
Marked you her cheek of roseate hue ?
That eye in liquid circles moving ;
That cheek abashed at man's approving ;
The one love's arrows darting round.
The other blushing at the wound."

Well, the music of this glee is charming ; and
the words are well enough ; but when the
Master of Lynn ventured the opinion that
these were a good description of Yolande, he
never made a worse shot in his life. Yolande

"abashed at man's approving ?" She let no
such nonsense get into her head. She was a
little too proud for that — or perhaps only
careless and indifferent.

RECONNAISSANCES.

I don't believe In any such simplicity.
Men may ; women don't. It seems to me
more the simplicity of an accomplished
flirt."

The speaker was Mrs. Graham ; and she
spoke with an air of resentment.

'you don't know her!" said the Master
of Lynn, with involuntary admiration.

'* I suppose you think you do," his sister
said, with a * superior ' smile. And then —
perhaps she was tired of hearing so much in
praise of Yolande ; or perhaps she wished
her brother to be cautious ; or perhaps she
was merely gratuitously malicious — she said :
I'll tell you what It is — I should not be at
all surprised to hear that she was engaged,
and has been engaged for any length of
time."

He was struck silent by this fierce suggestion

; it bewildered him for a second or two.
Then he exclaimed —

Oh, that is absurd — perfectly absurd !
I know she is not !"

*' It would be a joke," continued his sister,
with a sardonic smile, "if that where the explanation
of the wonderful friendliness that
puzzles you so much. If she is engaged, of
course she has no further care or embarrassment.
Everything is settled. She is as
frank with Dick as with Tom and Harry.
Oh, Archie, that would be a joke — how Jim
would laugh at you !"

But it isn't true," he said, angrily, "and
you know it isn't. It is quite absurd."

'' I will find out for you, if you like," his
sister said, calmly ; and here the conversation
ceased, for Colonel Graham at this
moment came along to ask his brother-in-law
for a light.

They were again away from the land —
perhaps even forgetful that such a thing existed.
It seemed quite natural to get up
morning after morning to find around them
the same bright, brilliant monotony of white-crested
blue seas and sunlit decks and fair

skies ; and each day passed with the usual
amusements ; and then came the still moonlight
night, with all its mysterious charm and
loneliness. It was a delightful life — especially
for the Grahams and Winterbournes,
who were going nowhere in particular, but
had come chiefly for the voyage itself. And
it was a life the very small incidents of which
excited interest, simply because people had
plenty of time to consider them — and each
other.

There was no doubt that Yolande had
become a pretty general favourite ; for she
found herself very much at home ; and she
put aside a good deal of that reserve which
she assumed in travelling on land. These
people could in no sense be considered
strangers ; they were all too kind to her.
The ship's officers brought her the charts out
of the chart-room, to show her how far the
vessel had got on her course. The captain
allowed her to go on the bridge, and gave
her his own glass when a distant sail was to
be seen. And the young soldiers, when they
were not in the smoking-room, and when
they were not picking up rope quoits for Mrs.

Graham, had an c}'e on the many strayed
birds fluttering about, and when they could
they caught one and brought it to Miss
Winterbourne, who was glad to take the
wild-eyed fluttering wanderer down into the
saloon and put its beak for a second or two
into a glass of fresh water. The swallows
were the most easily caught ; they were
either more exhausted or more tame than the
quails and thrushes and ringdoves. Once or
twice Yolande herself caught one of these
swallows ; and the beautiful bronze - blue
creature seemed not anxious to get away
from her hand. Mrs. Graham said it was
too ludicrous to see the Major of a Highland
regiment — a man six feet two in height, with
a portentously grave face — screw his eyeglass
into its place and set off to stalk a
dead-tired thrush, pursuing it along the awning
and from boat to boat. But all the same,
these warriors seemed pleased enough when
they could bring to Yolande one of these
trembling captives, and when she took the
poor thing carefully into her hands, and
looked up, and said "Oh, thank you!" It
ought to be mentioned that the short upper

lip of the girl, though it had the pathetic
droop at the corners which has been mentioned
— and which an artist friend of the
writer says ought to have been described as
Cupid's bow being drawn slightly — lent itself
very readily to a smile.

Mrs. Graham watched for a chance of
speaking to Yolande, and soon found it.
She went to the girl, who was standing by
the rail of the hurricane-deck, and put her
arm most affectionately round her, and said —

My dear child, what are you staring into
the sea for ? Do you expect to see dolphins ?"

*' I was wondering what made the water
so blue," said she, raising herself somewhat.
'* It is not the sky. If you look at the water
for a while, and turn to the sky, the sky is a
pale washed-out purple. What a wonderful
blue it is, too ; it seems to me twenty times
more intense than the blue of the water along
the Riviera."

'you have been along the Riviera ?"

'* Oh, two or three times," said Yolande.
We always go that way into Italy."

'* You must have travelled a great deal,
from what I hear."

*' Yes," said Poland, with a slight sigh,
I am afraid it is a great misfortune. It is
papa's kindness to me ; but I am sorry. It
takes him away. At one time he said it was
my education ; but now we both laugh at
that — for a pretence. Oh I assure you weare
such bad travellers — we never go to see
anything that we ought to see. When we goto
Venice, we go to the Lido, and the sands —
but to the churches ? — no. In Egypt you will
have to do all the sight-seeing : you will find
us — oh, so very lazy that you cannot imagine
it ; you will go and see the tombs and the inscriptions,
and papa and I, we will take a walk
and look at the river until you come back."

"What a strange life to have led," said
her friend, who had her own point in view.
And among all your wanderings, did you
never meet the one who is to be nearer and
dearer ?"

'nearer and dearer?" said Yolande,
looking puzzled. " Papa is nearer and dearer
to me than any one or anything — naturally.
That is why we are always satisfied to be
together ; that is what makes our travelling
so cons()lin<>' — no — so — so contented."

*' But what I mean is — now forgive me,
dear Yolande — you know I'm a very impertinent
woman — I mean, in all your travels
have you never come across some one whoni-
you would care to marry ? Indeed, indeed,
you must have met many a one who would
have been glad to carry you off — that I can
tell you without flattery."

'indeed, not any one!" said Yolande,
with a perfectly frank laugh. " That is not
what I would ever think of. That is not
what I wish." And then she added, with an
air of sadness : '' Perhaps I am never to have
what I wish — it is a pity — a misfortune."

"What is it, then, dear Yolande.'^ In
your father's position I don't see what there
is in the world that he could not get for
you. You see I am curious — I am very
impertinent — but I should like to treat you
like my own sister — I am not quite old enough
to act as a mother to you, for all that Jim
says."

*' Oh, it is simple enough — it does not
sound difficult," Yolande said. "Come, we
will sit down and I will tell you."

They sat down in two deck-chairs that

happened to be handy, and Mrs. Graham
took the girl's hand in hers ; because she
really liked her, although at times human
nature broke down, and she thought her
husband was carrying his praises of Yolande
just a trifle too far.

'when I have met English ladies abroad,"
said Yolande, 'rand the one or two families I
know in London, it was so nice to hear them
talk of their home — perhaps in the country,
where every one seemed to know them, and
they had so many interests, so many affections.
They were proud of that. It was
a tie. They were not merely wanderers.
Even your brother, dear Mrs. Graham, he
has filled me with envy of him, when he has
told me of the district around Lynn Towers,
and seeming to know every one, and always
settled there, and capable to make friends fora
lifetime, not for a few hours in a hotel.
What place do I really know in the world —
what place do they really know me .'^ — a little
village in France that you never heard of!
And I am English ! I am not French. Ah
yes, that is what I have many a time wished
that my papa would have a house like

others — in the country ? — yes — or in the
town ? — yes — what does that matter to me ?
And I should make it pretty for him ; and
he would have a home — not a hotel ; also I
have thought of being a secretary to him,
but perhaps that is too much beyond what is
possible. Do you think I can imagine anything
about marrying when this far more
serious thing is what I wish ? Do you think
that any one can be nearer and dearer to me
than the one who has given me all his affection,
all his life, who thinks only of me, who
has sacrificed already far too much for me ?
Who else has done that for me ? And you
would not have me ungrateful ? Besides,
also, it is selfish. I do not like the society
of any one nearly so much ; why should I
change for a stranger ? But it is not necessary
to speak of that — it is a stupidity — but
now I have told you what I wish for, if it
were possible."

Mrs. Graham was convinced. There was
no affectation here. The Master of Lynn
had no rival, at all events.

*' Do you know, my dear child, you talk
very sensibly," said she, patting her hand.

"And I don't see why your papa should not
give you two homes — one in the country and
one in town, — for I am sure every one says he
is wealthy enough. But perhaps this is the
reason. Of course you will marry — no, stay
a minute — I tell you you are sure to marry.
Why, the idea ! Well, then, in that case, it
might be better for your papa not to have a
household to break up ; he could attend to
his Parliamentary duties very well if he lived
in the Westminster Palace Hotel, for example,
and be free from care "

Yolande's mouth went very far down this
time.

"Yes, that may be it," she said. "Perhaps
that will happen. I know I have taken
away too much of his time ; and once, twice
perhaps, we have had jokes about my being
married ; but this was the end, that when my
papa tells me to marry, then I will marry. I
must go somewhere. If I am too much of a
burden — and sometimes I am very sad and
think that I am — then he must go and bring
some one to me, and say ' Marry him.' And
I will marry him — and Quite hin!'

"Gracious Heavens, child, what are you

saying ? Of course if ever you should marry,
you will choose for yourself"

"It is not my affair," said Yolande, coldly.
'' If I am to go away, I will go away, but I
shall hate the one that takes me away."

*' Yolande," said her friend, seriously, " you
are making it rather hard for your father.
Perhaps I have no right to interfere ; but you
have no mother to guide you, and really you
talk such — such absurdity "

'' But how do I make it hard for my
papa?" said Yolande, quickly looking up
with an anxious glance. " Am I a constraint?
Do you think there is something he would
do ? Am I in his way — a burden to him ?"

No, no, no," said the other, good-humouredly.
'why should you think any
such thing ? I was only referring to the
madness of your own fancy. The idea that
your father is to choose a husband for you —
whom you will hate ! Now suppose that you
are a burden — I believe I informed you that
I was a very impertinent woman, and now I
am an intermeddler as well — suppose that
your father would like to take a more active
part in public affairs, and that he knows you

VOL. I. L

are opposed to the very notion of getting
married. He is in a very painful dilemma.
He won't tell you that you are rather interfering
with his Parliamentary work. And
most assuredly he won't recommend you to
marry any one, if you are going to marry with
a deadly grudge against your husband."

Yolande thought over this for some
minutes.

'' I suppose It Is true," she said, rather
sadly. '* He would not tell me. He has
said I kept him away from the House of
Commons ; but then it was only amusement
and joking. And I — I also — have many a
time been fearing it was not right he should
waste so much care on me, when no one else
does that with their daughters, ^\'hy does
he go to the House ? Partly because it is his
duty to work for the country — to see that it is
well-governed ; partly to make fame, which is
a noble ambition. And then I Interfere. He
thinks I am not quite well when I am quite
well. He thinks I am dull when I am not
dull — when 1 would rather read his speech
in the newspapers than go anywhere. But
always the same — I must go and be amused,

and Parliament and everything is left behind.
It was not so bad when I was at
the Chateau ; then I was learning ; but even
then he was always coming to see me and to
take me away. And when I used to say,
Papa, why don t you take me to England ?
I am English ; I want to see my own country,
not other countries;' — it was always: 'You
will see enough of England by and by.' But
when I go to England, look ! it is the same
always away again, except a week or two,
perhaps, at Oatlands Park, or a day or two in
London ; and I have not once been to the
House of Commons, where every one goes,
and even my papa is vexed that I do not
know they have not a ball-room at the Reform
Club!"

Well, dear Yolande, you have led a queer
sort of life ; but, after all, was not your father
wise 1 He could not have a household with
a schoolgirl to look after it. But now I can
see that all this will be changed ; and you
will have no more fears that you are a restraint.
Of course you will marry, and you
will be very happy ; and your papa will have
your home to go to at the Easter holidays ;

and you will go up to town to hear him
speak in the House ; and he will have a fair
chance in politics. So that is all arranged,
and you are not to have any wild or fierce
theories. There goes dressing-bell ; come
along !"

Day after day passed without change.
The young Master of Lynn had been reassured
by his sister ; and very diligently,
and with a Jacob-like modesty and patience,
he strove to win Yolande's regard ; but although
she was always most friendly towards
him and pleased to chat with him, or walk
the hurricane-deck with him, she seemed to
treat him precisely as she treated any of the
others. If there was one whom she especially
favoured, it was Colonel Graham, whose
curt, sardonic speeches amused her.

At last they arrived at Port Said, that
curious, rectangular - street, shanty - built
place, that looks like Cheyenne painted pink
and white ; and of course there was much
wonder and interest in beholding land again,
and green water, and the swarming boats
with their Greeks and Maltese and Negroes
and Arabs, all in their various costumes.

But it was with a far greater interest that
they regarded the picture around them when
the vessel had started again, and was slowly
and silently stealing away into the wide and
lonely desert land, by means of this water
highway. The Suez Canal had been rather
a commonplace phrase to Yolande — mixed
up with monetary affairs mostly, and suggestive
of machinery. But all this was
strange and new ; and the vessel was going
so slowly that the engines were scarcely
heard ; she seemed to glide into this dream-world
of silver sky and far-reaching wastes
of yellow sand. It was so silent, and so
wide, and so lonely. For the most part the
horizon-line was a mirage ; and they watched
the continual undulation of the silver-white
waves, and even the strange reflections of
what appeared to be islands ; but here there
was not even a palm to break the monotony
of the desert — only the little tamarisk bushes
dotting the sand. From a marsh a red-legged
flamingo rose, slowly winging its way
to the south. Then a string of camels came
along with forward-stretching heads, and
broad, slow-pacing feet ; the Bedouins either

perched on the backs of the animals or striding
through the sand by their side, their
faces looking black in contrast to their white
wide-flowing garments. And so they glided
through the silent, gray, silver world.

The night saw another scene. They
were anchored in a narrow part of the canal
where the banks were high and steep ; and
the moonlight was surpassingly vivid. On
one of these banks — it seemed a great mountain
as it rose to the dark blue vault where
the stars were — the moonlight threw the
shadow of the rigging of the ship so sharply
that every spar and rope was traced on the
silver clear sand. There was an almost
oppressive silence in this desert solitude ; a
dark animal that came along through the
tamarisk bushes — some said it was a jackal
disappeared up and over the sand-mountain
like a ghost. And in the midst of this weird,
cold moonlight and silence these people
began to get up a dance after dinner. The
piano was brought on deck from the saloon.
The women-folk had put on their [prettiest
costumes. There had been, perhaps (so it
was said), a little begging and half-promising

going on beforehand. The smoking-room
was deserted. From the supports of the
awnings a number of large lanterns had been
slung ; so that when the ladies began to
appear, and when the first notes of the music
were heard, the scene was a very animated
and pretty one, but so strange with the
moonlit desert around.

The Master of Lynn had got hold of
Yolande — he had been watching for her
appearance.

I hope you will give me a dance, Miss
Winterbourne," said he.

"Oh yes, with pleasure," said she, in the
most friendly way.

"There are no programmes, of course,"
said he, "and one can't make engagements ;
but I think a very good rule in a thing like
this is that one should dance with one's
friends. For myself, I don't care to dance
with strangers. It doesn't interest me. I
think when people form a party among
themselves on board ship — well, I think
they should keep to themselves "

"Oh, but that is very selfish, is it not?"
Yolande said. "We are not supposed to be

strangers with any one after being on board
ship so long together "

*' Miss Winterbourne, may I have the
pleasure of dancing this waltz with you ? "
said a tall solemn man with an eye-glass ;
and the next minute the Master of Lynn
beheld Yolande walking towards that cleared
space with Major Mackinnon, of the Seaforth
Highlanders; and as to what he thought of
the Seaforth Highlanders, and what he hoped
would happen to them, from their colonel
down to their pipe-major, it is unnecessary
to say anything here.

But Yolande did give him the next dance,
which mollified him a little — not altogether,
however, for it was only a square. The next
was a Highland Schottische ; and by ill-luck
he took it for granted that Yolande, having
been brought up in France, would know
nothing about it, so he went away and
sought out his sister. Their performance
was the feature of the evenings. No one
else thought of interfering. And it was very
cleverly, and prettily, and artistically done ;
insomuch that a round of applause greeted
them at the end — even from the young Highland

officers, who considered that young
Lesse might just as well have sought a
partner elsewhere, instead of claiming his
own sister. Immediately after the Master
of Lynn returned to Yolande.

''Ah, that is very pretty," she said. ''No
wonder they approved you and clapped their
hands. It is the most picturesque of all
the dances — especially when there are only
two, and you have the whole deck for display.
In a ball-room, perhaps no."

"You must learn it, Miss Winterbourne,
before you come north," said he. "We
always dance it in the north."

"Oh, but I know it very well," said
Yolande, quietly.

"You?" said he, in an injured way.
"Why didn't you tell me ? Do you think I
wanted to dance with my sister and leave
you here ?"

But Mrs. Graham and you danced it so
prettily — oh, very well, indeed "

There was somebody else approaching them
now — for the lady at the piano had that instant
begun another waltz. This was Captain
Douglas, also of the Seaforth Highlanders.

'' Miss Winterbourne, if you are not
engaged, will you give me this waltz ? "

Yolande did not hesitate. Wliy should
she ? She was not engaged.

Oh yes, thanks," said she, with much
friendliness, and she rose and took Captain
Douglas's arm.

But young Leslie could not bear this
perfidy, as he judged it. He would have
no more to do with the dance or with her.
Without a word to any one he went away to
the smoking-room and sat down there, savage
and alone. He lit a cigar and smoked vehemently.


Polly talks about men being bamboozled
by women," he was thinking bitterly. " She
knows nothing about it. It is women who
know nothing about women ; they hide themselves
from each other. But she was right
on one point. That girl is the most infernal
flirt that ever stepped the earth."

And still, far away, he could hear the
sound of the music, and also the stranger
sound — like a whispering of silken wings —
of feet on the deck. He was angry and
indignant. Yolande could not he blind to

his constant devotion to her ; and yet she
treated him exactly as if he were a stranger
going off with the first-comer ! Simplicity !
His sister was right — it was the simplicity of
a first-class flirt.

And still the waltz went on, and he heard
the winnowing sound of the dancers' feet ;
and his thoughts were bitter enough. He
was only five-and-twenty ; at that age hopes
and fears and disappointments are emphatic
and near ; probably it never occurred to him
to turn from the vanities of the hour, and
from the petty throbbing anxieties and
commonplaces of everyday life, to think of
the awful solitudes all around him there —
the voiceless, world-old desert lying so dim
and strange under the moonlight and the
stars, its vast and mysterious heart quite
pulseless and calm.

CLOUDS.

Next morning, quite unconscious that she
had dealt any deadly injury to any one,
Yolande was seated all by herself on the
hurricane-deck, idly and carelessly and happily
drinking in fresh clear air and looking
away over the wastes of golden sand to a
strip of intense dark blue that was soon to
reveal itself as the waters of a lake. She
was quite alone. The second officer had
brought her one of the ship's glasses, and
had then (greatly against his will) gone on
the bridge again. The morning was fair
and shining ; the huge steamer was going
placidly and noiselessly through the still
water ; if Yolande was thinking of anything
it was probably that she had never seen her
lather so pleased and contented as on this
long voyage ; and perhaps she was wondering
whether, after all, it might not be cjuite

as well that he should give up Parliament
altogether, so that they two might wander
away through the world, secure In each
other's company.

Nor was she aware that, at this precise
moment, her future was being accurately
arranged for her In one of the cabins
below.

'' I confess I don't see where there can
be the least objection," Mrs. Graham was
saying to her husband (who was still lying
In his berth, turning over the pages of a
novel), as she fixed a smart mob-cap on her
short and pretty curls. " I have looked at
it every way. Papa may make a fuss about
Mr. WInterbourne's politics ; but there are
substantial reasons why he should say as
little as possible. Just think how he has
worked at the Improving of the estate all
his life, and with scarcely any money ; and
just fancy Archie coming In to complete the
thing. I know what I would do. I would
drain and plant the Rushed slopes, and build
a nice lodge there ; and then I would take
the sheep off Allt-nam-ba and make It a small
forest ; and It would let for twice as much

again. Oh, Jim, just fancy if Archie were
to be able to buy back Corrievreak ! "

Her husband flung the book aside, and
put his hands under his head. His imagination
was at work.

If I were Archie," he said, with his eyes
fixed on vacancy, " I would make Corrievreak
the sanctuary ; that's what I would do.
Then I would put a strip of sheep up the
Glenbuie side to fence off Sir John — do you
see that, Polly '^. And then I would take the
sheep off Allt-nam-ba, as you say, only I
would add on Allt-nam-ba to Lynn. Do
you see that ? What made your grandfather
part with Corrievreak I don't know. Fancy
having the sanctuary within two miles of a
steam-boat pier ; it's a standing temptation
to all the poachers in the country ! Now, if
you take in Allt-nam-ba and make Corrie-wreak
the sanctuary, and if you'd hold your
hand for a year or two in the letting, you'd
soon have one of the best forests in Scotland.
But letting is the mischief. Those fellows
from the south shoot anything on four legs
they can get at. T^orty years ago the finest
stags in Inverness-shire were found round

and about Corrievreak — the Fort Augustus
lads knew that — they used to say. Oh, I
quite agree with you. I think it would bean
uncommon good match. And then
Archie would have a house in town, I suppose
; and they might put us up for a week
or two in the season. Tit for tat's fair play.
He has the run of Inverstroy when there
isn't a bit of rabbit-shooting left to him at
Lynn."

"Well, but there's just this, you know,
Jim," his wife said, with an odd kind of smile :
*' We know very little about what kind of
girl she is, and Archie knows less than we
do."

"Oh, she's well enough," said the stout
soldier, carelessly. That was a subsidiary
point. What his mind clearly grasped was
the importance of having Corrievreak made
the sanctuary of the deer forest.

She is well enough, no doubt," his wife
said ; and as she had finished her toilet she
now stood and regarded him with a demure
kind of hesitation in her face, as if she were
afraid to confess her thoughts. " She is well
enough. She has good manners. She is

distinguished-looking for a girl of her age;
and you know all the money in Slagpool
wouldn't induce papa to receive a dowdy
daughter-in-law. And she doesn't flirt, unless
well, it's just possible she knows that that
indifference of hers is attractive to young
men ; it puts them on their mettle and
touches their vanity. But after all, Jim, we
know very little about the girl. We don't
know what sort of a wife she would make.
She has come through nothing, less than
most girls ; for she might as well have been
in a convent as in that Chateau. And of
course she can't expect life always to be as
pleasant for her; and — and — she has come
through no crisis to show what kind of stuff
she is made of, and we might all be mistaken
"

"Oh, I see what you're driving at," her
husband said, with just a touch of contempt.
'' Don't be alarmed : I daresay Archie isn't
anxious to marry a tragedy queen. I don't
see why Miss Winterbourne should be put
to any fiery trial, or should have to go
through mortal agonies, any more than the
majority of young women in exceptionally

easy circumstances. And if she should, I
have no doubt she will show common sense ;
and men prefer common sense to hysterics —
a long way. I think she has common sense ;
and I don't see why she and Archie shouldn't
marry, and have a pleasant enough time of
it ; and I suppose they will quarrel until one
or other gets tired of quarrelling, and refuses ;
and if they only have a tidy little house about
Breton Street or Conduit Street, and a good
cook, it will be very convenient for us. Now
I wish to goodness you'd clear out, and let
me get dressed."

The dismissal was summary ; but pretty
Mrs. Graham was a good-natured woman ;
and with much equanimity she left the cabin,
made her way along the saloon, and up the
companion-way to the outer air. About the
first person she ran against was her brother ;
and black thunder was on his face.

** Where is Miss Winterbourne .'^" she
said, inadvertently, and without reflecting
that the question was odd.

** On the hurricane-deck," said he. ** I
daresay you will find half the officers of the
ship round her."

VOL. I. M

There was something In his tone which
caused his sister, with considerable sharpness,
to ask him what he meant ; and then out
came the story of his wrongs. Now Mrs.
Graham had not been too well pleased when
her husband and everybody else sang the
praises of Yolande to her ; but no sooner
was the girl attacked In this way than she
instantly — and with a good deal of warmth
flew to her defence. What right had he
to suppose that Miss WInterbourne ought to
have slnMed him out as different from the
others ? Why should she not dance with
whomsoever she pleased ? If the ship's
officers showed her some little ordinary
courtesies, why should she not be civil In
return } What right of possession had he
In her ? What was he to her In any way
whatever ?

'* You said yourself she was a flirt," her
brother retorted.

"I ?" she said. " I ? I said nothing of
the kind ! I said that the preposterous Innocence
that you discovered In her was more
like the innocence of a confirmed lllrt. But
that only shows me that you know nothing

at all about her. To imagine that she should
have kept all her dances for you "

*' I imagine nothing of the sort," he
answered, with equal vehemence. ** But I
imagined that as we were travelling together
as friends, even a small amount of friendliness
might have been shown. But it is no
matter "

*' You are quite right, it is no matter," she
interrupted. '' I have no doubt Miss Winterbourne
will find plenty to understand her
character a little better than you seem to do.
You seem to think that you should have
everything — that everything should be made
smooth and pleasant for you. I suppose,
when you marry, you will expect your wife
to go through life with her ball-room dress
on. It isn't her womanly nature that you
will be thinking of; but whether she dresses
well enough to make other women envious !"

All this was somewhat incoherent ; but
there was a confused recollection in her brain
of what she had been saying to her husband,
and also, perhaps, a vague impression that
these words were exculpating herself from
certain possible charges.

"You don't consider whether a woman Is
fit to stand the test of suffering and trouble : do
you think she Is always going to be a pretty
doll to sit at the head of your dinner-table ?
You think you know what Yolande's nature is ;
but you know nothing about It. You know-that
she has pretty eyes, perhaps ; and you get
savage when she looks at any one else "

She turned quickly away : Yolande had at
that moment appeared at the top of the steps.
And when she came down to the deck, Mrs.
Graham caught her with both hands, and
kissed her, and still held her hands and regarded
her most affectionately.

Dear Yolande, how well you are looking
! " she exclaimed (meaning that her
brother should hear ; but he had walked
away). *' Dissipation does not harm you a
bit. But indeed a dance on the deck of a
ship is not like a dance In town "

Yolande glanced around ; there was no
one by.

Dear Mrs. Graham," said she, " I have
a secret to ask you. Do you think your
brother would do me a great favour .^ Dare
I .ask him ?"

'why — yes — of course," said the other,
with some hesitation and a Httle surprise.
Of course he would be delighted."

She could see that Yolande, at least, knew
nothing of the fires of rage or jealousy she
had kindled.

'' I will tell you what it Is, then. I wish
my papa to think that I can manage — oh,
everything ! — when we go to the house In the
Highlands. I wish that he may have no
trouble or delay ; that everything should be
quite ready and quite right. Always he has
said, ' Oh, you are a child ; why do you want
a house ? Why should you have vexation ?'
But, dear Mrs. Graham, I do not mind the
trouble at all ; and I am filled with joy when
I think of the time I am to go to the shops in
I inverness ; and papa will see that I can remember
everything that is wanted ; and he will have
no bother at all ; and he will see that I can look
after a house, and then he will not be so afraid
to take one in London or the country, and to
have a proper home, as every one else has.
And this is what I would ask of your brother,
if he will be so very kind ; he will be at
Inverness before any of us, I suppose V

'* No doubt ; but why should you look sofar
ahead, Yolande, and trouble yourself?"

"It is no trouble; it is a delight. You
were speaking of the carriage we should want
and the horses, to drive between Allt-nam-ba
and the steamboat pier. Now all the other
things that I have made a list of "

'already?"

When you were so good as to tell me
them, I put them down on a sheet of paper
it is safer ; but the carriage : do you think
I might ask your brother to hire that for us
for the three months ? Then when papa
goes to Inverness, there will be no bother or
waiting; everything in readiness ; the carriage
and horses engaged ; the dogs sent on before ;
the cook at the lodge, with luncheon reader
dinner, if it is late ; all the bedroom things
nicely aired ; all right — everything right.
Do you think I might ask Mr. Leslie ? Do
you think he would be so kind ?"

*' Oh, I am sure he would be delighted,"
said Mrs. Graham (with some little misgiving
about Archie's existing mood). " I fancy he
has promised to get your papa a couple of
ponies for the game panniers ; and he might

as well get you a dog-cart at the same time.
I should say a four-wheeled dog-cart and one
stout serviceable horse would be best for
you ; with perhaps a spring-cart and an additional
pony — to trot in with the game to the
steamer. But Archie will tell you. It sounds
so strange to talk about such things — here.
Jim and I had a chat about the Highlands
this very morning."

I will speak to your brother after breakfast,
then."

But after breakfast, as it turned out, the
Master of Lynn was nowhere to be found.
Yolande wondered that he did not as usual
come up to the hurricane-deck to play 'bull,"
or have a promenade with her ; but thought
he was perhaps writing letters in the saloon,
to be posted that night at Suez. She did
not like to ask ; she only waited. She played
Bull" with her father, and got sadly beaten.
She had a smart promenade with Colonel
Graham, who told her some jungle stories ;
but she was thinking of the Highlands all the
time. She began to be impatient ; and set
to work to devise letters, couched in such
business phraseology as she knew, requesting

a firm of livery-stable keepers to state their
terms for the hire of a clog-cart and horse
for three months, the wages of the groom
included.

There was no need to hurry. There had
been some block in the Canal ; and the huge
bulk of the ship was now lying idly in the
midst of the Greater Bitter Lake. All around
them was the wide plain of dazzling blue-green
water ; and beyond that the ruddy
brown strip of the desert quivered in the
furnace-like heat ; while overhead shone the
pale clear sky, cloudless and breathless. Yo-lance,
as usual, wore neither hat nor bonnet ;
but she was less reckless in venturing from
under shelter of the awnings. And some of
the old Anglo-Indians were hoping that the
punkah-walls would be set to work at
dinner-time.

The Master of Lynn had not shown up at
breakfast ; but he made his appearance at
lunch ; and he greeted Yolande with a cold
Good-morning," and a still colder bow.
Yolande, in truth, did not notice any change
in his manner at hast ; but by and by she
could not fail to perceive that he addressed

the whole of his conversation to Colonel
Graham, and that he had not a single word
for her, though he was sitting right opposite
to her. Well, she thought, perhaps this
question as to whether they were to get
through to Suez that evening was really very
important. It did not much matter to her.
She was more interested in Inverness than
in Suez ; and among the most prized of her
possessions was a long list of things necessary
for a shooting-lodge, apart from the supplies
which she was to send from the Army and
Navy Stores. She felt she was no longer
a schoolgirl ; nor even a useless and idle
wanderer. Her father should see what she
could do. Was he aware that she knew that
ordinary blacking was useless for shooting
boots ; and that she had got "dubbing" down
in her list ?

'archie," said Mrs. Graham to her brother,
the first time she got hold of him after lunch ;
"you need not be rude to Miss Winterbourne."

'' I hope I have not been," said he, somewhat
stiffly.

You treated her as if she were an absolute
stranger at lunch. Not that I suppose

she cares. But, for your own sake, you
mio'ht show better manners."

I think you mistake the situation," said
he, with apparent indifference. *' * Do as
you're done by' is a very good motto. It is
for her to sav whether we are to be friends,
acquaintances, or strangers : and if she
chooses to treat you on the least favoured
nation scale, I suppose you've got to accept
that. It is for her to choose. It is a free
country."

I think you are behaving abominably.
I suppose you are jealous of those young
officers ; men who are not in the army always
are ; they know women like a man who can
ficrht "

Fight ! Smoke cigarettes and play sixpenny
Nap, you mean ! That's about all the
fighting they've ever done!"

"Do you say that about Jim?" said the
young wife, with a flash of indignation in her
eyes. " Why "

I wasn't aware that Graham was a
candidate for Miss Winterbourne's favours,"
said he.

"Well, now," she said. " you are making

a fool of yourself, all to no purpose. If you
are jealous of them, won't you be rid of the
whole lot of them to-night, supposing we get
to Suez ? And we shall be all by ourselves
after that ; and I am sure I expected we
should make such a pleasant and friendly
party."

But I am quite willing," said he. ''.If I
meet Miss Winterbourne on terms of her
own choosing, surely that is only leaving her
the liberty she is entitled to. There is no
quarrel, Polly. Don't be aghast. If Miss
Winterbourne wishes to be friendly, good
and well ; if not, good and better. No bones
will be broken."

I tell you this, at least," said his sister,
as a parting warning or entreaty, " that she is
perfectly unconscious of having given you
any offence. She has been anxious to speak
to you all day, to ask you for a favour. She
wants you to hire a dog-cart and a spring-cart
for them, when you go to Inverness. If
she thought there was anything the matter,
would she ask a favour of you ? "

There is nothing the matter," he rejoined,
with perfect equanimity. " And I am quite

willing to hire any number of dog-carts for
her — when she asks me."

But, oddly enough, whether it was that
Yolande had detected something unusual in
his manner, or whether that item in her list
of preparations had for the moment escaped
her memory, or whether it was that the ship
had again started, and everybody was eagerly
looking forward to reaching Suez that night,
nothing further was then said of the request
that Yolande had intended to make. Indeed,
she had but little opportunity of speaking to
him that afternoon ; for most of her time was
taken up in finally getting ready for quitting
the big steamer, and in helping Mrs. Graham
to do likewise. When they did reach Suez,
it was just dinner-time, and that meal was
rather hurried over ; for there were many
good-byes to be said, and people could begot
at more easily on deck.

The clear hot evening was sinking into
the sudden darkness of the Egyptian night
when the Grahams and Winterbournes got
into the railway carriage that was to take
them along to the hotel ; and a whole crowd
of passengers had come ashore to bid them

a last good-bye, amongst them notably the
young Highland officers.

'lucky beggars!" said Colonel Graham,
rather ruefully. '' Don't you wish you were
going out, Polly ? Wouldn't you like to be
going out again ? "

'' Not I. Think of dear Baby, Jim ! "

By Jove ! " said he, " if Colin Mackenzie
were here with his pipes to play The Barren
Rocks of Aden, I believe I'd go. I believe
nothing could keep me."

And so they bade good-bye to those boys ;
and Mrs. Graham and Yolande found themselves
overladen with fruit and flowers when
the train started. They were tired after so
much excitement, and very soon went to
bed after reaching the hotel.

Next morning they set out for Cairo ; the
Master quite courteous. In a reserved kind of
way ; his sister Inwardly chafing ; Yolande
perhaps a trifle puzzled. Colonel Graham
and Mr. WInterbourne, on the other hand,
knowing nothing of these subtle matters,
were wholly engrossed by the sights without.
For though at first there was nothing but
the vast monotony of the Desert — a blazing

Stretch of sun-brown, with perhaps, now and
again, a string of camels looking quite black
on the far horizon-line — that in time gave
way to the wide and fertile plains of the Nile
valley. Slowly enough the train made its
way through these teeming plains, with all
their strange features of Eastern life — the
mud-built villages among the palms ; herds
of buffaloes coming down to wallow in the
river ; oxen trampling out the corn in the
open ; camels slowly pacing along in Indian
file, or here and there tethered to a tree ;
strange birds flying over the interminable
breadths of golden grain. And, of course,
when they reached Cairo, that wonderful city
was still more bewildering to European eyes
the picturesque forms and brilliant costumes
; the gaily caparisoned donkeys, ridden
by veiled women, whose black eyes gleamed
as they passed ; the bare-legged runner, with
his long wand clearing the way for his master
on horseback ; the swarthy Arabs leading
their slow-moving camels ; and side by side
with the mosques and minarets and Moorish
houses, the French-looking cafes and shops,
to say nothing of the French-looking public

gardens, with the European servant-maids
and children listening to tinkling music from
the latest Parisian comic opera.

Then they got them to a large hotel,
fronting these public gardens, the spacious
hall and corridors of which were gratefully
cool ; while outside there was such a mass of
verdure — flowering shrubs and palms, wide-leaved
bananas, and here and there a giant
eucalyptus — as was exceedingly pleasant to
eyes long accustomed to only the blue of the
sea and the yellow-white of the deck. Moreover
they were In ample time for the table
d'hote; and every one, after the dust and
heat, was glad to have a thorough change of
raiment.

When the guests assembled In the long
and lofty dining-saloon (there were not many,
for most of the Spring tourists had already
left, while many of the European residents in
Cairo had gone away, anticipating political
troubles), it was clear that Mrs. Graham and
her younger companion had taken the opportunity
of donning a shore toilette. Mrs.
Graham's costume was certainly striking ; it
was a deep crimson, of some richly-brocaded

stuff; and she had some red flowers in her
black hair. Yolande's was simpler : the
gown a muslin of white or nearly white ; and
the only colour she wore was a bit of light
salmon-coloured silk that came round her
neck, and was fastened in a bow in front.
She had nothing in her hair ; but the light
falling on It from above was sufficient, and
even glorious, adornment. For jewellery she
had two small earrings, each composed of
minute points of pale turquoise ; perhaps
these only served to show more clearly the
exquisite purity of her complexion, where the
soft oval of the cheek met the ear.

'' By heavens," the Master of Lynn said
to himself, the moment he had seen her come
in at the wide door, '' that girl is the most
beautiful creature I have ever seen!"

He was startled Into renewed admiration
of her. He could not keep his eyes away
from her ; he found himself listening with
a quick sympathy and approval when she
spoke ; and as her face was all lit up with excitement
and gladness because of the strange
things she had seen, he followed her varying
expressions, and found himself being helps

1

lessly drawn under a witchery which he could
not, and did not strive much, to withstand.
She spoke mostly — and she was pleasantly
excited and talkative this evening — to her
father and to Mrs. Graham ; but sometimes,
perhaps inadvertently, she glanced his way
as she spoke, and then he eagerly agreed
with what she was saying before he knew
what it was. She, at least, had no covert
quarrel with him or with any one else. Delight
shone in her eyes. When she laughed it
was like music. Even her father thought that
she was looking unusually bright and happy ;
and so that made him very contented, too ;
but his satisfaction took the form of humorous
grumbling ; and he declared that he didn't
know what she was made of — that she should
be making merry after the long day's heat and
dust, that had nearly killed every one else.

After dinner they all flocked into the
reading-room, anxious to have a look at the
English papers — all except the Master of
Lynn, who left the hotel, and was absent fora
little time. When he returned he went
into the reading-room, and (with a certain
timidity) went up to Yolande,

VOL. I. N

Miss Winterbourne," said he, not very
loudly, "wouldn't it be pleasant for you
to sit outside and see the people passing ?
It is very interesting; and they are playing
music in the gardens. It is much cooler out-of-doors."


Oh yes," said Yolande, without the least
hesitation ; and instantly she rose and walked
out, just as she was, on to the terrace, he
modestly attending her. He brought her a
chair, and she sat down by the railings to
watch the picturesque crowd. She spoke to
him just in her usual way.

*' Miss Winterbourne," said he, at length,
*' I have got you a little case of attar of
roses ; will you take it '^ When you get
home, if you put it in your wardrobe, it will
last a long time ; and it is sure to remind
you of Cairo."

'when I get home ?" she repeated, rather
sadly. " I have no home. I do not understand
it. I do not understand why my papa
should not have a home, as other people have."

Well, then, will you take it to Allt-nam-
ba ?" said he. " That will be your home fora
while."

At the mere mention of the place her face
brightened up.

''Oh yes," she said, in the most friendly-way,
'that will indeed be a home for us fora
while. Oh, thank you — it is very kind of
you ; I shall prize it very much "

And Polly was saying you wanted me to
take some commissions for you to Inverness,"
said he, abasing himself to the uttermost.
I should be awfully glad. I should be delighted
"

\ *' Oh, will you?" she said — and she rewarded
him with an upward glance of gratitude
that drove Cairo, and Inverness, and
dog-carts, and everything else, clean out of
his head. " And you are not anxious to read
the newspapers V^

No— not at all."

Then will you sit down and tell me a
little more about Allt-nam-ba 1 Ah, you do
not know how I look forward to it. If it is
only for three months, still it is a home, as
you say — all to ourselves ; and my papa and
I have never been together like that before.
I am so glad to think of it ; and I am frightened,
too, in case I do anything wrong ; but

your sister has been very kind to me. And
there is another thing — if I make mistakes
at the beginning — well I believe my papa
does not know how to be angry with me."

'well, I should think not — I should think
not, indeed!" said he, as if it were quite an
impossible thing for anybody to be angry
with Yolande.

IN THE NIGHT.

He had at last discovered an easy way of
gaining her favour. She was so anxious to
prove to her father that she was a capable
house-mistress that she was profoundly grateful
for any hint that might help ; and she
spared neither time nor trouble In acquiring
the most minute Information. Then all this
had to be done In a more or less secret fashion.
She wished the arrangements at the shooting-lodge
to be something of a surprise. Her
father, on getting up to Inverness-shire, was
to find everything In perfect order ; then
he would see whether or not she was fit to
manage a house. She had even decided
(after serious consultation with the Master of
Lynn) that when the gillies went up the hill
with the shooting-party, she would give them
their lunch rather than the meaner alternative
of a shilling a piece ; and when the Master

suggested that oatcake and cheese were quite
sufficient for that, she said no — that, as her
father, she knew, would not have either
whisky or beer about the place, she would
make it up to the men in giving them a good
meal.

This decision was arrived at, of all places
in the world, in the gimcrack wooden building
that Snail had put up at the foot of the
Great Pyramid for the reception of his
guests. The Grahams and Winterbournes
had, as a matter of course, driven out to seethe
Pyramids and the Sphinx ; but when
there was a talk of their climbing to the top
of the Great Pyramid, Yolande flatly refused
to be hauled about by the Arabs ; so that
Mrs. Graham (who had her little ambitions)
and her husband and Mr. Winterbourne
started by themselves, leaving the Master of
Lynn, who eagerly accepted the duty, to
keep Yolande company. And so these two
were now sitting well content in this big,
bare, cool apartment, the chief ornament of
which was a series of pictures on the wall —
landscapes, in fact, so large and wild and
vehement in colour that one momentarily

expected to hear a sharp whistle, followed by

carpenters rushing in to run them off the

staofe.
< >

I suppose, Miss Winterbourne," said he
(it was an odd kind of conversation to take
place at the foot of the Great Pyramid),
'your father would like to kill a few red-deer
while he is at Allt-nam-ba ?"

''Oh yes; I know he is looking forward
to that."

Do you think," said he, with a peculiar
smile, "that it would be very wicked and
monstrous if I were to sacrifice my father's
interests to your father's interests ? I should
think not, myself. There are two fathers In
the case ; what one loses the other gains."

I do not understand you," Yolande said.

Well, this Is the point. What deer maybe
found in the Allt-nam-ba gullies will most
likely go in from our forest. Sometimes they
cross from Sir John's ; but I fancy our forest
contributes most of them ; they like to nibble
a little at the bushes for a change ; and,
indeed, in very wild weather they are sometimes
driven down from the forest to get
shelter among the trees. Oh, don't you

know ?" he broke in, noticing some expression
of her eyes. '' There are no trees in a
deer-forest — none at all — except perhaps a
few stunted birches down in the carries.
Well, you see, as the deer go in from our
forest into your gullies, it is our interest that
they should be driven out again, and it is
your interest that they should stay. And I
don't think they will stay if there is not a
glass of whisky about the place ; that was
the hint I meant to give you, Miss Winterbourne."


*' But I don't understand yet," said Yo-lance.
'whisky?"

"All your father's chances at the deer
will depend on the goodwill of the shepherds.
The fact is we put some sheep on Allt-nam-
ba, mostly as a fence to the forest ; there is
no pasturage to speak of; but, of course, the
coming and going of the shepherds and the
dogs drive the deer back. Now supposing
just listen to me betraying my father's
interests and my own — supposing there is an
occasional glass of whisky about, and that
the shepherds are on very friendly terms with
you ; then not only are they the first to know

when a good stag has come about, but they
might keep themselves and their dogs down
in the bothy until your father had gone outwith
his rifle. Now do you see ?"

'' Oh yes ; oh yes !" said Yolande, eagerly.
"It is very kind of you. But what am I todo
} My father would not have whisky in
the house — oh, never, never — not for all the
deer in the country. Yet it is sad — it is provoking
— I should be so proud if he were to
get some beautiful fine horns to be hung up
in the hall, when we take a house some day.
It is very, very, very, provoking."

'* There is another way," said he, quietly,
as the cookery book says. You need not
have whisky in the house. You might order
a gallon or two in Inverness and give it in
charge to Duncan the keeper. He would
have it in his bothy, and would know what
to do with it."

Out came her note-book in a second : Two
gallons of whisky addressed to Mr, Duncan
Macdonald, gamekeeper, A lit-name da, with
note explaining. At the same moment the
dragoman entered the room to prepare
lunch ; and a glance out of the window

showed them the other members of the party
at the foot of that great blazing mass of
ruddy-yellow that rose away Into the pale-blue
Egyptian sky.

** Mind you, don't say I have had anything
to do with It," said he (and he was
quite pleased that this little secret existed
between them). ** My father would think I
was mad In giving you these hints. But yet
I don't think It Is good policy to be so niggardly.
If your father kills three or four
stags this year, the forest will be none the
worse, and Allt-nam-ba will let all the more
easily another season. And I hope It Is not
the last time we shall have you as neighbours."

She did not answer the Implied question ;
for now the other members of the party
entered the room, breathless and hot and
fatigued, but glad to be able to shut back
at last the clamouring horde of Arabs who
were still heard protesting and vociferating
without.

That same evening they left Cairo by the
night train for Asyoot, where the dahabeeah
of the Governor of Merhadj was awaiting
them ; and for their greater convenience they

took their dinner with them. That scrambled
meal in the railway-carriage was something
of an amusement ; and in the midst of it all
the young Master of Lynn would insist on
Yolande's having a little wine. She refused
at first, merely as her ordinary habit was ;
but when he learned that she had never
tasted wine at all, of any kind whatever, he
begged of her still more urgently to have the
smallest possible quantity.

It will make you sleep. Miss Winterbourne,"
said he, 'rand you know how distressing
a wakeful night journey Is."

Oh no," she said, with a smile. *' Not
at all. There Is to be moonlight, and why
should not one lie awake ? My papa wished
me not to drink wine, and so I have not ;
and I have never thought about it. The
ladies at the Chateau scarcely took any ;
they said it was not any better than water."

But fancy you never having tasted It at
all!" he said, and then he turned to her
father. '' Mr. Winterbourne, will you give
Miss Yolande permission to take a very
little wine — to taste it ?"

The reply of her father was singular.

I would sooner see her drink Prussia
acid — then the end would be at once," said
he.

Now this answer was so abrupt, and
apparently so unnecessarily harsh, that the
Master of Lynn, not knowing what blunder
he had made, immediately strove to change
the subject ; and the most agreeable thing
he could think of, to mention to Yolande's
father, was the slaying of stags.

While you were going up the Great
Pyramid this morning, Mr. Winterbourne,"
said he, "we were talking about what you
were likely to do at Allt-nam-ba ; and I was
telling your daughter I hoped you would get
a stag or two."

''Yes.'^ — oh yes," said Mr. Winterbourne,
apparently recalling himself from some reverie
by an effort of will. '' A stag .-^ I hope so.
Oh yes, I hope so. We will keep a sharp
look-out."

Miss Winterbourne," said the younger
man, with a significant glance at her which
seemed to remind her that they had a secretin
common, " was surprised to hear that there
were no trees in a deer-forest. But her

ignorance was very excusable. How could
she know ? It wasn't half as bad as the talk
of those fellows in Parliament and the newspapers,
who howl because the deer-forests
are not given over to sheep, or to cattle, or
turned into small crofts. Goodness gracious,
I wonder if any one of them ever saw a deer-forest
? Miss Winterbourne, that will be
something for you to see — the solitude and
desolation of the forest — mile after mile of
the same moorland and hill without a sound,
or the sight of a living thing "

'' But is not that their complaint — that
so much land is taken away, and not for
people to live on ?" said Yolande, who had
stumbled on this subject somewhere in following
her father's Parliamentary career.

'eyes," said he, ironically; *' I wonder
what they'd find there to live on. They'd
find granite boulders, and withered moss,
and a hard grass that sheep won't touch, and
that cattle won't touch, and that even mountain
hares would starve on. The deer is the
only living animal that can make anything of
it ; and even he is fond of getting into the
gullies to have a nibble at the birch-trees.

I wish those Radical fellows knew something
of what they were talking about, before
making all that fuss about the Game Laws.
The Game Laws won't hurt you, if you
choose to keep from thieving."

But you are a Liberal, are you not V
said Yolande, with wide open eyes. Of
course, she concluded that any one claiming
the friendship of her father and herself must
needs be a Liberal. Travelling in the same
party, too : why

Well, it was fortunate for the Master
that he found himself absolved from replying ;
for Mr. Winterbourne broke in, with a
sardonic kind of smile on his face.

'* That is a very good remark of yours,
Mr. Leslie," said he; ''a very good remark
indeed. I have something of the same belief
myself, though I shock some of my friends
by saying so. I am for having pretty
stringent laws all round ; and the best defence
for them is this — that you need not break
them unless you choose. It may be morally
wrong to hang a man for stealing a sheep ;
but all you have got to do is not to steal the
sheep. Well, if I pay seven hundred and

fifty pounds for a shooting, and you come
on my land and steal my birds, I don't care
what may happen to you. The laws may bea
little severe ; but your best plan would
have been to earn your living in a decent
way, instead of becoming an idle, sneaking,
lying, and thieving poacher "

Oh certainly, certainly," said the younger
man, with great warmth.

'' That is my belief, at all events," said
Mr. Winterbourne, with the same curious
sort of smile ; " and it answers two ends : it
enables me to approve my gamekeeper for
the time being, when otherwise I might
think he was just a little too zealous ;
and also it serves to make some friends
of mine in the House very wild ; and you
know there is nothing so deplorable as
lethargy."

But you are a Liberal, Mr. Leslie, are
you not V repeated Yolande.

And here again he was saved — by the
ready wit of his sister.

My dearest Yolande, what are you talking
about ! " she said. '' What these two
have been saying would make a Liberal

or a Radical jump out of his five senses — oris
it seven ? Is It seven, Jim ? "

I don't know," her husband said, lazily.
Five are quite enough for a Radical."

'' I know I used to have a great sympathy
with poachers," continued pretty Mrs. Graham.
'' It always seemed to me romantic — I mean,
when you read about the poacher in poems —
his love of sport, you know "

"His love of sport ! " her husband growled,
contemptuously. '' A miserable, sneaking
fellow loafing about the public-house all day,
and then stealing out at night with his ferrets
and his nets to snare rabbits for the market.
A love of sport ! "

Oh, but I can remember," said she,
stoutly, '' when I was a girl, there were other
stories than that. That is the English
poacher. I can remember when it was quite
well known that the Badenoch young fellows
were coming Into the forest for a deer ; and
it was winked at by everybody when they
did not come more than twice or thrice In the
year. And that was not for the market.
Anybody could have a bit of venison who
wanted ; and I have heard that there was a

fine odour of cooking in the shepherds'
bothies just about that time."

** That has nothing to do with the Game-laws,"
her husband said, curtly. " I doubt
whether deer are protected by the Game
Laws at all. I think it is only a question of
trespass. But I quite agree with Mr.
Winterbourne : if laws are too severe, your
best plan is not to break them. "

Well, I was cured of my sympathy on
one occasion," said Mrs. Graham, cheerfully
(having warded off danger from her brother).
Do you remember, Jim ? You and I were
driving down Glenstroy, and we came on
some gypsies. They had a tent by the roadside
; and you know, dear Yolande, I wasn't
an old married woman in those days, and
grown suspicious ; and I thought it would
be nice to stop and speak to the poor people
and give them some money to get proper
food when they reached a village. Do you
know what Jim said ? — ' Money for food ?
Most likely they are plucking a brace of
my uncle's black game.' Well, they were
not. We got down from the trap ; and went
into the little tent ; and they weren't plucking
VOL. I. o

a brace of black game ; but they were cooking
two hen pheasants on a spit ; as comfortable
as might be. I suppose a gypsy
wouldn't do much good as a deer-stalker,
though ? "

And while they thus sat and chatted about
the far northern wilds (Yolande was deeply
interested ; and the Master of Lynn perceived
that ; and he had himself an abundance of
experience about deer) the sunset went, and
presently, and almost suddenly, they found
themselves in the intense blackness of the
tropical night. When, from time to time,
they looked out of the window, they could see
nothing at all of the world around ; though
Jupiter and Venus were shining clear and
high in the western heavens, and Orion's
jewels were paling as they sank ; and away
in the south, near the horizon, the solitary
Sirius gleamed. But as the night went on
(and they were still talking of. Scotland) a
pale light — a sort of faint yellow smoke —
appeared in the south-east ; and then a sharp,
keen glint of gold revealed the edge of the
moon. The light grew and spread up into
the sky ; and now the world around them was

no longer an indistinguishable mass of black ;
its various features became distinct as the soft
radiance became fuller and fuller ; and by
and by they could make out the walls of the
sleeping villages, with their strange shadows,
and the tall palms that threw reflections down
on the smooth and ghostly water. Can anything
be more solemn than moonlight on a
grove of palms — the weird darkness of them,
the silence, the consciousness that all around
lies the white, still desert ? Yolande's fancies
were no longer far away ; this silent, moonlit
world out there was a strange thing.

Then, one by one, the occupants of the
railway-carriage dropped off to sleep ; and
Yolande slept too, turning her face into the
window-corner somewhat, and letting her
hands sink placidly into her lap. He did not
sleep; how could he ? He had some vague
idea that he ought to be guardian over her ;
and then — as he timidly regarded the perfect
lines of her forehead and chin and throat,
and the delicacy of the small ear, and the
sweep of the soft lassies — he wondered that
this beautiful creature should have been so
long in the world and he wasting the years

in Ignorance ; and then (for with youth there
is little diffidence; it is always " I have chosen;
you are mine ; you cannot be any other than
mine") he thought of her as the mistress of
Lynn Towers. In black velvet, would she
not look handsome, seated at the head of the
dinner-table ; or in a tall-backed chair by the
fireplace, with the red glow from the birch-logs
and the peat making glimmerings on her
hair ? He thought of her driving down the
Glen ; on the steamboat quay ; on board the
steamboat; in the streets of Inverness; and
he knew that nowhere could she have
any rival.

And then it occurred to him that what air
was made by the motion of the train must be
blowing in upon her face, and that the sand-blinds
of the windows were not sufficient
protection ; and he thought he could rig up
something that would more effectually shield
her. So, in the silence and the semi-darkness
he stealthily got hold of a light shawl of his
sister's, and set to work to fasten one end to
the top of the carriage-door and the other to
the netting for the handbags, in order to
form some kind of screen. This manoeuvre

took some time, for he was anxious not to
waken any one ; and, as he was standing up,
he had to balance himself carefully, for the
railway-carriage jolted considerably. But at
last he got it fixed ; and he was just moving
the lower corner of the screen, so that it
should not be too close to her head, when,
by some wild and fearful accident, the back of
his hand happened to touch her hair. It was
the lightest of touches ; but it was like an
electric shock ; he paused, breathless ; he was
quite unnerved ; he did not know whether to
retreat or wait ; it was as if something had
stung him and benumbed his senses. And
light as the touch was it awoke her. Her eyes
opened ; and there was a sudden fear and bewilderment
in them when she saw him standing
over her ; but the next second she perceived
what he had been doing for her ; and kindness
and thanks were instantly his reward.

*' Oh, thank you — thank you," she said,
with smiling eyes ; and he was glad to get
back into his own corner, and to think over
this that had happened, and to wonder at
the sudden fear that had paralysed him. At
all events, he had not offended her.

The dawn arose in it: east ; the cold clear
blue giving way to a mystic gray ; but still
the moon shone palely on the palms, and on
the water, and the silent plains. And still
she slept ; and he was wondering whether she
was dreaming of the far North, and of the
place that she longed to make a home of, if
only for the briefest space. And Avhat if this
new day — that was spreading up and up,
and fighting the pallid moonlight, and bringing
with it colour and life to brighten the
awakening world — what if this new day were
to bring with it a new courage ; and he where
to hint to her — or even to tell her plainly —
that this pathetic hope of hers was of easy
accomplishment ; and that, after their stay
at Allt-nam-ba, if it grieved her to think of
leaving the place that she had first thought
to make a home of, there was another home
there that would be proud and glad to welcome
her, not for two months or for three months,
but for the length of her life ? Why should
not Mr. Winterbourne be free to follow out
his political career ? He had gathered from
Yolande that she considered herself a most
unfortunate draw:' and enciuul^rancc on her



father ; was not this a happy solution of all
possible difficulties ? In black velvet, more
especially, Yolande would look so handsome
in the dining-room at Lynn Towers.

ISOLATION.

And as for Mr. Winterbourne himself?
Well, he was not blind. He could see as far
ahead as any of them. If his imagination
was not captured by any picture of Yolande
in black velvet, and if he knew nothing about
the desirability of buying back Corrievreak,
his hope and prayer for the future was clear
and definite enough. To secure for Yolande
a peaceful, safe, and happy life — that was his
one aim and thought ; and already he clearly
recognised, and in his own mind strove to
make light of in a sadly humorous way,
the necessity of a separation between him
and her. It was the way of the world — why
should he complain ? If she was securely
settled in life, that would be enough happiness
for him. And this young fellow, who
was paying her so much obvious attention,
was a nice enough young fellow, as things

went ; of good birth and breeding, well-mannered,
good-natured, and otherwise unobjectionable.
And Yolande seemed to be
on the most friendly terms with him.

But even now it was a strange thing to
find himself being ousted, in however slight
a degree, from Yolande's companionship. It
was his own doing ; and he knew it ; and he
knew that he was acting wisely in preparing
himself by small degrees for the inevitable ;
and yet he had to confess to himself that the
operation was not a pleasant one. Then it
was a slow process. Yolande herself did not
notice how, whether they were in the Cairo
bazaars or in the balcony at the hotel, her
father managed to hang back a little ; and
how the Master of Lynn had come quite
naturally to take his place ; and how it was
the latter, and not the former, who knew
where her travelling bag was, and called her
maid for her, and bought her fruit at the
stations. On this very morning, for example,
on their arrival at Asyoot, when they had
seen their luggage packed on the camels'
backs by the tall and swarthy Arabs, and
when they set out to walk down to the Nile,

over the burning sands, it was, as usual, Mr.
Leslie who happened to be her companion.
Her father had lingered behind, under pretence
of once more counting over the articles
of luggage along with Ahmed the dragoman ;
and when he overtook the other members of
the party it was the Grahams that he chose
to accompany. Mrs. Graham was complaining
of the discomfort of travelling by night,
and declaring that she would not undertake
such another journey to avoid all the heat
that ever was heard of; and her husband
was observing, with the candour of husbands,
that her hair certainly did look like a hay-rick
in a gale of wind.

'there's Archie," she said, glancing at
the two figures in front of them, '' he's always
spick and span. No matter what happens,
he always looks as if he'd come out of a
band-box."

'rand a very proper thing, too," said Mr.
Winterbourne. " To be careless about one's
appearance is no great compliment to one's
companions. Mrs. Graham," he added, in
his timid and nervous way, " I wish you
would tell me frankly — you see, there is

scarcely any one I ask — would you tell me
honestly if you think that Yolande dresses
fairly well ?"

Oh, I think she dresses charmingly,"
said pretty Mrs. Graham, in the most good-natured
way. " Quite charmingly. She is
so very original."

'' But I don't want her to be original," he
said, with a slight touch of querulousness.
'' That is just it. I want her to go to the
very best places, and get what is most correct,
and not to mind about the cost of it.
I don't care about the cost of it ; we have no
establishment to keep up ; no horses or anything
of the kind ; and why should she be so
particular about the cost of this or that ?
Really, Mrs. Graham, it would be so kind of
you to give her a word of advice "

Oh, but dear Yolande and I have had
long talks about that already, you know, Mr.
"Winterbourne," said she. '' Do you suppose
two women could be so much together without
? And I know what she thinks. First
and foremost, she wears what she thinks will
please you ; and I think she is rather clever
at finding out what you like."

*' Oh, but that Is absurd," said he, peevishly.
"What do I know about it? Sometimes I
have made suggestions ; but — but I want her
to be well dressed "

'* I would not blame her much for bene

o

economical," said Mrs. Graham, with a smile.
It is a very useful quality In a girl. She
might marry a poor man, you know."

He glanced at her, with a sort of fright in
his eyes.

''Oh, but she will never marry any one who
whose position would cause her embarrassments
of that kind," he said, hastily. '* Oh
no. I do not value money much ; but she
must never be subjected to embarrassments.
Besides, I can provide against that. That,
at least, Is one of the troubles of life she will
be safe from. I hope there is no fear of that
in her mind."

"Oh probably not, doubtless not," Mrs.
Graham said, cheerfully ; for she was sorry
to have caused this alarm by a chance remark.
"And you know I promised on board ship to
buy a lot of silks and tidings for Yolande
when we are oolnij' home ao^aln through

C* •>

air

And silver," he suggested. '' She ought
to have different belts and bracelets and
things of that kind. I suppose Cairo might
not be the best place for getting some more
expensive jewellery, would it, do you think ?
Yolande ought to have more jewellery. She
is a woman now. Her schoolgirl trinkets
were all very well ; but now she is a
woman she must have some proper jewellery
"

'' If I were Yolande," said Mrs. Graham,
demurely, '' and if I had a very generous
papa, I think I know what I should do."

'what, then?" said he, with his eyes
brightening ; for to give something to Yo-lance
likely to please her was one of the gladness
of his life — perhaps even the chief.

I would take him to a shop in Cairo —
Alderman, was it ? — and I would ask him
just to look again at that wonderful piece of
Syrian embroidery "

"■ I remember," said he, quickly. ''I remember
quite well. Of course she shall
have it ! I had no idea she cared for it."

Do you think any living woman could
look at it without coveting it with her whole

soul ? Rut she was not likely to say that to
you. It was horribly expensive — I forget
how much."

*' She shall have it," he said briefly.

It would make the loveliest opera-cloak,"
she suggested.

'ran opera-cloak?" he repeated, with a
sudden chancre of manner.

'' It would be perfectly gorgeous," she
said.

Oh, but I don't think she will want an
opera-cloak," said he, coldly. '' It would bea
pity. It would be throwing it away."

'' Are you never going to take her to the
theatre, then?" said Mrs. Graham, with a
stare.

I hope Yolande will not live much in
cities," said he, somewhat hastily, and
evidently wishing to get rid of the subject.
"She has lived always in the country — look
at the health of her cheeks. I hope she will
never live in a city; she will live a far quieter
and happier life in the country ; and she will
do very well without theatres or anything of
the kind."

Then he seemed to iliink he had l)een

unnecessarily harsh in his refusal ; and so
he said, in a lighter way —

''No, no; I have my own plans, Mrs.
Graham. I want to induce a very estimable
lady to persuade that girl of mine into buying
a lot of things that are necessary for her, now
that she is a young woman. And I want a
bribe for the purpose ; and I have discovered
that she has a fancy for a piece of Syrian
needlework. Very well — now, I am going
to have my own way, and there is no use
protesting — you are going to take that piece
of embroidery home with you ; and you will
make something of it at Inverstroy ; and perhaps
Yolande and I will pay you a visit some
day — if it is not too far to drive from Allt-
nam-ba — and then we shall see how a bit of
Cairo looks in Inverness-shire."

They could not pursue the subject further;
for they now found themselves on the landing-stage
by the side of the river ; and there was
a fearful shouting and yelling over the unloading
of the luggage from the camels'
backs. But from this Babel of confusion
there was an easy escape. Among all the
trading vessels moored by the river's bank.

there was but one dahabeeah (the tourist
season being long over) ; and they made no
doubt that this gaily coloured thing — looking
like a huge state barge, but with long yards
sweeping up to the sky both at the bow and
astern — was the vessel which the Governor
of Merhadj had sent for them. They eyed
it, every feature of it, curiously — the rows of
the cabin windows with their sun-blinds of a
most vivid green ; the vast awning on the
upper deck ; the enormous yellow dragon at
the prow ; and everywhere a blaze of gaudy
colours, blue and white. And while they
were thus examining it, a tall and grave
person, in a white turban and garment of
sombre black, who proved to be the captain,
came ashore ; and, after a word or two in
Arabic with Ahmed, came up to Colonel
Graham, and respectfully presented him with
a letter.

Hill," said he, "this is from young
Ismat. Rather queer English. He is in
'an abysm of despair.' Father gone into
the interior — important meeting with some
Sheiks — despairs he must remain in Merhadj
hopes to see us when we come up — hopes

we shall find the dahabeeah comfortable— has
heard of Ahmed — very good man — hopes we
bring good news from Cairo — if we are at all
afraid, his father will give us a guard of

soldiers what the mischief does he mean ?

Come on, Polly ; let's go and take possession."


And indeed it was with great delight that
they got away from the noise and bustle, the
heat and dust, of the outer world into the
spacious and cool interior of this barge ; and
great was their curiosity in exploring cabin
after cabin, and finding each one more like a
little French boudoir — in a cherish kind of
style — than anything else. There was
nothing at all Eastern about the fittings or
decoration of this dahabeeah, except a green
and scarlet rug here and there ; the saloons
and state-rooms were all of white and gold,
with flimsy French - looking mirrors, and
French - looking little curtains, and aniline-dyed
table-covers and sofa cushions. But
everything was very clean and bright and
cool ; and the circular open space at the stern
was a veritable Belvedere, from which, sitting
in the shade, they could gaze abroad on the

VOL. I. P

wide yellow green waters of the Nile, and on
the picturesque scenes along the banks ; and
when, in due course, breakfast was brought
them — an interminable meal, with three or
four kinds of wine on the table — they forgot
that the vicnu and the dishes were French,
when their attendant was an Albanian-looking
person in embroidered cap and baggy
breeches of yellow silk, and when they heard,
outside, the hoarse chorus of a Nubian crew
labouring at the long oars of one of the
trading boats.

Then they went away to their respective
cabins to see about the unpacking of their
luggage ; and at the same time the Reis
Mustapha and his swarthy crew began to
unfurl the vast breadth of sail on the forward
yard, for the north wind was now blowing
steady and fair. And then, by and by, when
the members of the party assembled again —
on the upper deck, under the wide awning —
they found that they were out in the shallow
lake-like waters of the Nile, the mighty sail
in front of them bellying out and straining
at the sheets, and a rippling sound at the
prow making a soft and monotonous music.

And there were the well-known and monotonous
features of the famous river : the
brown mud-walled villages ; the dark green
palms with their branches slowly moving in
the breeze ; the arid wastes of sand ; the tall
jet-black figures of the Arabs marching along
with stately stride ; now and again the
glimpse of a minaret telling of some town or
village farther inland ; a group of fellaheen,
driving before them their horses, donkeys,
and camels ; a drove of buffalo brought down
to water themselves — nothing visible of each
of them but a shining back, a snout, and a
pair of horns busy with the flies ; goats
sheltering themselves in the shadow of the
sandbanks from the heat of the noonday sun ;
unknown birds floating afar on the surface of
the river or stalking unconcernedly along the
yellow shoals ; and over all this abundant
and curious life the pale distant heat-obscured
turquoise blue of the African sky, so different
from the deep and keen and quivering blue of
the storm-washed atmospheres of the north.

"Well, now, Miss Yolande," said Colonel
Graham, lying back in the cane-bottomed
easy-chair, and carefully regarding the ash of

his cigar, " what do you think of Ahmed's
arrangements ? Are they satisfactory ? Does
the turmoil of Nile travel fatigue you ; do
the hardships oppress you ? Of course, you
cannot expect to penetrate the deserts of
Africa without suffering privations. I hope
the meagre fare will not make a skeleton of
you. The rude accommodation of these
cabins "

*' Oh, I think everything is delightful,"
said she, "and this cool wind is delicious."

But then she fixed her eyes on him
solemnly.

I wished to ask a question, however.
Colonel Graham. Did you hear a shriek }
No ? Well, this is the question : I found a
cockroach in one of the drawers as big as
as — well, I thought it was an alligator out
of the river — you did not hear Jane shriek ?
and I would like to know if all the beasts
are similar in proportion "

My dear child ! " broke in Mrs. Graham.
Thank goodness you know nothing about
it — you never were in India. Here you
haven't to twitch off the bed-clothes before
going to bed to make sure that there isn't a

snake waiting for you. Why, what is there
here ? Nothing. The heat is bad; but it is
dry : it does not sap the life out of you Hke the
Indian heat. The flies worry ; but they are
not nearly so bad if you don't lose your temper.
The mosquitoes are pretty considerable, I
admit ; but you have your Levinge "

Do you think I was complaining?" exclaimed
Yolande. *' Complaining ? — as weare
now ! "

** No, it was Jim, I daresay," said the
other, most gratuitously. 'men always do
complain, because they have so little to
complain about. But it would take an Ai
complainer to find anything wrong with a
day like this, or with such a pleasant setting-out
; and I do hope, Jim, you will be civil
for once, and let that young fellow and his
father know how much we are obliged to
them for the loan of the boat. They expect
it, those Eastern people. They are not all
grumpy, like Englishmen and Scotchmen.
I do hope you'll be polite to him."

"All right," said her husband, with his
lazy good-nature, '' I'll Bismillah him within
an inch of his life."

So the calm and shining and dream-like
day went pleasantly by, the slowly-moving
panorama around them constantly offering
objects of new interest. In the afternoon
they passed some ranges of bare and arid
limestone hills ; and on the face of them —
now catching a faint pink or lilac glow from
the westering sun — they could make out the
entrances of ancient tombs, placed high above
all possible inundations. It was not far south
of this portion of the river that the Reis
resolved to come to an anchor ; for the sunset
(which was somewhat chromo-lithographic
in character, like most of the atmospheric
effects in Egypt) was of brief duration ; and
the twilight was even briefer ; so that night,
with all her stars, was upon them ere they
had begun to think of preparing for dinner.

That was a pleasant enough meal, too, in
the cheerful little saloon, the spurious colours
of which were in a measure subdued by the
yellow radiance of the swinging-lamp. The
two women had put on their lightest and
coolest and brightest costumes ; and now, for
the first time, perhaps, they recognised how
complete)' the little group of them was shut

off from the world. On board ship they had
plenty of neighbours ; in hotels they sat at
the table dote; but here they were really
a family party ; and Colonels Graham, in
addressing Yolande, dropped the " Miss "
quite naturally, and it seemed as though
these people had known each other all their
lives through, and that they had come away
for their holiday-trip, and were to be together
until they returned again together to their
proper home in the Highlands. The
Grahams, indeed, talked as if they had
already annexed and adopted Yolande.

After dinner they adjourned to the upper
deck for the sake of coolness ; and there
coffee was brought them ; and the womenfolk
lay idly in their rocking-chairs and used
their fans ; and the men lit their cigars.
There was plenty of light ; for two large
swinging-lamps had been hung from the iron
bars ; and these threw a reddish-golden glow
on the canvas of the awning and on the deck.
But one had only to step to the side of the
vessel, and look out from this yellow glare, to
fid all around the darkness and the silence of
the desert, and overhead the solemn heavens

with their multitude of throbbing stars. The
Nile could scarcely be heard as it ran swiftly
and noiselessly and unseen beneath.

By and by the Master of Lynn, who had
been leaning on the railing, and looking out
into the clear, dark night, came back, and
said to Yolande —

Miss Winterbourne, I wish you would
come and look at this constellation. I think
it is the Southern Cross. Do you know it ?
I think this must be the Southern Cross."

She instantly rose and followed him to
the side of the deck, where they were at some
little distance from the others. They talked
about the constellation, but could make
nothing of it. Of course, what he had asked
her to come there for was to fulfil his resolve
of the night before — to hint to her that, if the
charm of home had such great attractions for
her, there was one home he knew that would
be glad to welcome her and cherish her, now
and throughout all her life. But some compunction
seized him — some sudden qualm of
conscience. The doubt occurred to him as
to whether it was quite fair. It was like
trying to steal away the affections of the girl ;

and she the only daughter and companion of
this solitary man. Ought he not to speak to
her father first, and get to know what his
plans were, and so be able to approach her
in a franker way ? Perhaps he might be able
to gain Mr. Winterbourne's approval, and
thus be thrice armed .'^

Yolande's father, who had regarded these
two as they stood there by the rail, looking
out into the starlit night, watched them as
they came back again ; and he looked at the
girl with a strange and wistful look. Had
she said "Yes" already.-^ Was she going
away from him ? But there was no sign of
any emotion on the fair young face — neither
alarm nor concealment, nor maiden hesitation,
nor anything of the sort. Quite frankly and
naturally she came over to her father's chair,
sat down beside him on the deck, and put
her hand on his knee.

'' I wish I knew a little more about the
stars," she said.

A CONSPIRACY.

I THINK I am doing what is right," the
Master of Lynn said to his sister, of whom,
in his perplexity, he was driven to take
counsel.

They had once more resumed their idle,
uneventful, dream-like voyage up the broad
river ; and the dahabeeah was large, and
had many quiet corners for confidential conversations.
Moreover, the monotony of the
scene around them left them ample leisure.
Their attention was seldom called away by
any striking feature or incident ; and never
at all by any atmospheric phenomena. The)'
had grown accustomed to the level plains of
yellow sand, the distant low hills quivering
in the heat, the wide, yellow-green waters
ruffled by the northerly breeze, and the
palms, and the mud villages, and the groups
of swarthy Arabs (^r Ulpian la/ilv driving

down the sheep and camel and buffalo to the
banks of the stream. The pulse of the world
beats slowly there.

*' Yes, I think you are doing what is right
though not what is usual, perhaps," said
his sister, regarding him.

'' What do you mean T'

"Oh, well," she said, with a smile, ''no
doubt it is quite correct to ask the papa's
permission first ; it is quite according to rule
and etiquette ; but generally, I should think,
some understanding exists "

'' But I am afraid to startle her," he said,
quickly. " Besides, there might be some one
else ; and I would rather get to know that
from her father."

'there is no one else," said pretty Mrs.
Graham, sipping her tumbler of cold tea.
What is more, you are acting with greater
prudence than I could have given you credit
for. But I suppose you don't know ; you
don't understand."

What's the conundrum now ?" he asked,
bluntly.

Yolande and I have had some talk together,"
she said ; and she regarded him with

an air of superior sagacity. " I happen to
know what she thinks ; and you are acting
very prudently in going to her father first.
She has been educated in France."

"What do you mean? Why don't you
speak out .^ " he said, irritated by these
women's ways of mystery.

Is there any need ? She has been educated
in France ; and she knows what her
duty is. She will marry any one her father
approves of. It is for him to arrange it.
But there is something further in her case.
Yolande is haunted by the fear that she is a
burden and drag on her father — that she is
taking him away from public life. And I
think she is right. Why should he be here
just now, for example ? It is all very well
for Jim and me to take a holiday ; but for a
member of the House of Commons to be
continually leaving England to travel about
as he and Yolande do — I don't understand it.
It is absurd. Very well ; if she once imagines
that her father would like to see her married,
so that he might attend to his own affairs,
the way is clear. And it would be a very
good thing. I like the girl. She sticks up

for her own ; whoever she marries won't have
to blow his own trumpet. It would be a very
good thing in many ways. I was saying to
Jim only the other day that you might buy
back Corrievreak."

Do you think I want to marry her for
her money ?" said he.

Well, no. But she has money — or will
have it. I daresay, now, if Shena Van ^ "

*' Leave Miss Stewart alone," said he,
somewhat hotly.

She laughed,

** Poor girl ! It wasn't her fault that she
was born in a Scotch manse instead of being
the daughter of a member of the House of
Commons. But I think Shena Van, with all
her pretty eyes, had a bit of a temper, you
know, Archie "

Leave her alone, will you," he said,
roughly. '* You have done her enough mischief"


*' I ?" said Mrs. Graham, with a stare.

'well never mind. That is done with.
Why don't you have a turn at Miss Winterbourne
? You and she appear to be great

1 The proper spelling is Sine Than — Fair Janet.

friends ; and women can always say spiteful
things about their nearest friends. Haven't
you some nice things to say about her too ?"

'' Wait till she is your wife, Archie, and
then I will find out all manner of things
against her. You have no idea how sharp a
sister-in-law's eyes are."

However, this prospect had the immediate
effect of removing his wrath ; he grew quite
friendly and confidential again, and finally
announced his resolve to speak to Mr.
Winterbourne that very day.

'* If the thing is impossible, it will be
better to learn it from him. If I were to ask
Yolande herself, and if she said no, look how
awkward that would be for the rest of this
trip. I'd have to go. No; I'll have everything
fair and above board ; and then no one
can complain, whatever happens."

And yet the long, pleasant, idling day had
passed before he had screwed up his courage
to make the plunge. They had come to an
anchor for the night ; the sun was sinking
far away in the west ; along the low-lying
eastern hills there was a flush of the pale
ethereal pink. The women folk had disappeared

to dress for dinner ; Colonel Graham
was at the stern of the dahabeeah, fishing ;
Mr. Winterbourne and he were alone on the
upper deck ; clearly it was an opportunity
not to be missed. Nor, indeed, was there
any difficulty, once the subject was mentioned.
Yolande's father seemed inclined to meet the
younger man half way, though there was
more of resignation than of gladness in the
way he spoke.

** Of course, everything depends on herself,"
he said, at length. ** She must be
guided by her own wishes "

"Oh yes, certainly, certainly," said the
younger man, with eagerness. '' I would not
let any consideration interfere with her perfect
freedom of choice. That is not to bethought
of "

Mr. Winterbourne was scarcely heeding
him ; his thoughts were far away ; and, when
he spoke, it was to interrupt — a rudeness of
which he was never consciously guilty.

*' Yes, I should like to see Yolande settled
in life," he said, absently. " There is no
saying what might happen to me. Once or
twice I have fancied my heart was affected —

but I would not have her imagine such a
thing, remember ; you must never mention
it—"

Oh, certainly not!"

Very slight surprises are enough to give
me pretty bad palpitation," he continued,
** and although it may be nothing serious,
still — if Yolande were made quite happy and
secure, my mind would be more at rest. I
don't say much about her, though I might.
If you win her affection, you are not likely to
lose it ; she is staunch. And she has courage.
If trouble should come to her or hers, she
will not be the one to flinch."

'* But why should you anticipate trouble ? "
said the Master of Lynn, who was very much
excited and joyous, and almost eager to go
away and ask Yolande at once. " I can see
nothing but a pleasant and happy life for her.
Of course, sickness may come to any one ;
but it is less likely to fall on her than any one

I know. Why, to look at her "

She ought always to live in the country,"
said Mr. Winterbourne, quickly, and he
glanced at his companion in an inquiring
sort of way. " I hope she will never live in a

town — the peace and quiet of the country are
what I should wish for her always. She
does not care for society. Her own small
circle is enough for her ; that is where she
is best seen ; it is there you get to know her
and — and to love her. Well, perhaps I
shouldn't talk about her. She and I have
been pretty close companions. It will seem
strange to me, at first, that she should belong
to some one else ; but — but it is right ; it is
in the natural course of things. I shall be
content if I know that she is being treated
with kindness and affection — and with a little
consideration for her youth. Perhaps she
will make mistakes, as a young wife ; but she
is willing to do her best — and — and she is
grateful — for a little consideration "

It was scarcely an appeal. He was describing
Yolande as he had known her. He
was thinking of all those bygone years.

But at this moment they were startled by
the report of a gun ; and that was followed
by another and another.

*' What the mischief is that ? " called out
Colonel Graham, as he hurried forward to the
bow ; for, indeed, the air was full of ominous

VOL. I. Q

rumours just at that time ; and even a general
massacre of the Europeans in Egypt had
been talked of as a possibility.

It appeared, however, that this crowd of
people who now emerged from a belt of
palms, and came down to the river's edge to
some boats there, was only a wedding party ;
and Ahmed, who had been ashore with the
chef, explained that these were the friends of
the bride, escorting her thus far; while the husband
to be (the wedding ceremony was to take
place in the evening) had sent camels to meet
her, which were waiting for her on the other side
of the Nile. And of course Mrs. Graham and
Yolande were instantly called for, and came up
in time to see the little veiled woman, with
much conscious dignity, take her place in one
of the boats, while her friends proceeded to put
into the other boats the bales of carpets and
the eight or ten donkeys which formed her
marriage portion. Then, away on the other
side, they saw two camels make their appearance,
the first of them with a big tent on its
back, surmounted by three tall hearse-like
plumes ; and Ahmed, with much queer English,
managed to explain that these plumes

were the projecting tops of the three palms
of which the tent was composed ; and that
the tent was sent by the bridegroom to receive
his bride, while the other camel was to
carry her household perishing.

'' It is obvious he hasn't sent a camel to
fetch his mother-in-law," said Colonel Graham;
but the solemn-faced Ahmed did not understand
what was meant, and took refuge in a
surreptitious cigarette.

Then they saw the boats being slowly
rowed across the great stream ; and the
donkeys and bales were landed ; and the
bride disappeared into the tent ; and presently
the procession was on its way again, until the
gathering dusk and the inequalities of the
desert hid bride and friends and all from
view.

*' It is a wide river," said Mr. Winterbourne,
absently, looking at the flowing
waters, ''to lie between the old home and the
new, between the old life and the new. But
it is the way of the world. She may be quite
as happy as a wife as she was as a girl."

** I don't see why she shouldn't be a great
deal happier," Mrs. Graham said, cheerfully.

I am. I mean, I should be, if Jim weren't so
impatient with Baby. Come away, Yolande
dear ; I have found a piece of blue ribbon,
and I am going to make a snood for your
hair."

At dinner it was very clear to Mrs. Graham
that her brother had so far met with no hindrance
to his suit ; for he was unusually vivacious,
and most obviously attentive and respectful
to Yolande. He was delighted with
Egypt, and with this placid and idle life, and
with the general resolve to abstain from sightseeing
('' there are plenty of British Museums
everywhere, when you want to be bored,"
he said somewhat incorrectly) ; but he was
chiefly busy with anticipations of the Highlands,
and of the circumstances under which
this same little party would reassemble there.
He volunteered to go over from Lynn to
Allt-nam-ba whenever Mr. WInterbourne
wanted a rifle for one of the passes ; nay, he
said he knew the woods well, and would be
glad to serve as an extra beater at any time.
And when Mr. WInterbourne and Miss
Yolande went to Inverstroy, he meant to beg
his brother-in-law for an Invitation. Of

course they would be going up the hill — that
is, Mr. Winterbourne and Colonel Graham —
and they would want all the keepers and
gillies they could get ; and what, in that case,
was to become of Miss Solander salmon-fishing
if he were not there to help ? And
Yolande regarded him with pleased and
grateful eyes. It was so clear that he wished
to be kind to her.

After dinner they found that the Arab
sailors were having a little concert among
themselves, and they stood for a while to
listen. The grave-faced performers, with
their flowing robes and heavily turbaned
heads, looking picturesque enough in the light
of the swinging lamp, were squatted in a circle
in the forward part of the dahabeeah, one of
them possessed of a tambourine, another
strumming on two small tom-toms ; and to
the time thus beat each singer would contribute
a piece of shrill, high, melancholy
recitative, while the others accompanied him
with a heavy monotonous bass chorus. The
Master of Lynn touched his sister on the
arm ; and she drew back from the lite group
without her absence being noticed. The two

of them passed through the saloon, along the
corridor between the cabins, and out Into
what they called the Belvedere. Here there
was nothing visible but the shining starlit
heavens and the great broad dusky streams.

"Wells" she said.

So far it Is all right," he said, In a low
voice, but with considerable excitement.
'' Oh, you can't imagine how sensible and
reasonable he is about it — and so friendly,
too. He told me exactly how he was
situated. He would like to see her married
and comfortably settled ; and he just as good
as intimated that he hoped she would say
yes, although, of course, he said he would
have everything left to her own wishes.
There is another reason, too — which I cannot
tell you about ; but I can see plainly that his
mind would be much more at ease if this
thing were to come off I am sure of It.
Of course, he spoke In rather a sad way ;
any one can understand that ; but every one
has to consider what will be best In the end.
And now, don't you see, Polly — now that I
have got on so far, I am beginning to feel a
bit shaky. If It had been stopped at the

beginning, well and good ; but now I don't
want to spoil my chance by making a mistake.
And my nerves are not what they ought to
be — hanged if they are ; one gets no exercise
in this dawdling kind of life ; and you don't
feel fit "

'' I know what you're driving at, Archie,"
said his sister, with a little laugh. '' You
want encouragement. Poor thing ! Are
you so very nervous ? Is she so terrible ?"

'^ Oh, but you don't understand," said he.
You don't see what a chance I have got.
Of course, a woman does not covet a prize
like that ; and you don't understand why I
should feel nervous. But — but, you know. If
she were suddenly startled, she might say no,
plump and decisive. There would be an
end. Whereas, if the idea were suggested
to her by some one else "

That's me," said his sister, plainly.
'' You want me to speak to her. But don't
you think, my dear Master, that the idea has
already occurred to her, and been suggested
by yourself'* I should have thought your
attentions were obvious enough."

'you ought to know, Polly," said he.

Well, they were obvious enough tome."


But she Is strange," said he, doubtfully.
She seems to think it natural that people
should be friendly with her ; and with people
she knows she has very little reserve. But
I have watched her. I have watched her
manner with Graham ; she is quite as friendly
with him as she is with me. Of the two, I
would say she was more friendly with him ;
she talks to him as if she had known him all
her life."

My dear Master, that is her cunning,"
said his sister, coolly. " They're all like that.
They pretend to prefer married men ; but
they are watching the unmarried ones all the
same. Wait till you speak."

He was silent for a second or two ; and,
fortunately, the Arabic improvisation going
on forward seemed interminable. He passed
the fingers of one hand over the open palm
of the other; and regarded them pensively.

"If the biggest stag in Glendyerg was
within eighty yards of me just now, I'd back
its life against my rifle. I don't know what
to do, Polly."

"■ There Is only the one thing to do," said
his practical sister.

*' I am afraid of that plump and final no.
I can't face it. Why "

And you want me to go and make her a
proposal of marriage on your account ? I
wonder what she would think of you!" said
pretty Mrs. Graham, scornfully.

*' I don't want anything of the kind," said
he. "You don't understand. Where are
your brains, Polly ? — they're generally sharp
enough. I want you to make her familiar
with the idea. I don't want to have her
startled and frightened. Don't you see, there
are a whole lot of things that a third person
could talk about. You could tell her, for
example, that travelling by ourselves like this
shows you what people are. You see what
they are, and know them. It isn't the chance
acquaintanceship of ball-rooms and drawing-rooms.
And she doesn't look on us as
acquaintances at all ; we are all old friends
now — and rightly, too. There are whole
heaps of things, like that, don't you see,
Polly, that you might say to her, so that she
wouldn't be frightened and startled "

"And what ani I to have for my share in
this conspiracy ?"

Why, the prettiest sister-in-law you could
wish for!" he said. "Oh, I know you.
You can say sharp things ; but I can see you
are very fond of her ; and I know you would
be very proud of her if you were to take
her to the Northern Meeting at Inverness.
What's more — I'd back you two, for good
looks, against any two women at the Ball ;
and they get up a finer show there than anywhere
else I know. She would just suit
you, Polly — dark and fair together, of
course ; and I know she thinks you dress
awfully well ; and she would take your
advice."

This final touch proved effectual ; even
the shrewd young married woman succumbed.

Well, I will try to find out what she
thinks about it," she said. " Of course, it is
on the distinct understanding; that her father
approves .'^"

'' Oh, most decidedly. He told me so in
the plainest terms."

For that is the short and the honos of the
whole matter. Very well, I will speak to her.

I will do my best for you, Archie, you may
depend. For sooner or later you would be
making a fool of yourself with some one ; and
this girl is really very nice and ladylike ; and
I don't think you are likely to do better, in
other respects. I suppose they have gone
up above for coffee ; shall we go ?"

That same night Mrs. Graham announced
the news to her husband in the privacy of
their cabin.

'^ I think it is all plain sailing now with
Archie," she said. " He has spoken to
Mr. Winterbourne about Yolande, and Mr.
Winterbourne has given his consent."

'' The deuce he has !"

'' Why shouldn't he ? " she retorted, with
some sharpness.

'' Oh, I daresay it's all right," rejoined
the lazy soldier, as he began to arrange the
occult mechanism of his Levinge. '' Rather
a brief acquaintance, aunt it ?"

'' Why, certainly not. Archie was talking
about that very thing. This constant companionship
is worth years of acquaintanceship,
and I don't see why they should not thoroughly
understand and appreciate each other

by now. Archie does, any way. And each
has just what the other wants ; she has
money, and he will succeed to the title. I
think it will be a very good match."

'* Oh, I think so too," her husband said,
good-naturedly. '' She seems fond of him.
And if he treated her with a little less courtesy,
I daresay she would treat him with a
little more frankness ; she is a humorous
young party at times. But that will all come
right. I don't quite see why it shouldn't be
quite plain sailing, as you say. His Lordship
will kick up dust and thunder about
Winterbourne's politics ; but the buying back
of Corrievreak will brings him round. Goodnight."


Suddenly she uttered a shrill scream.

'' Oh, Jim — a cockroach ! "

*' Very well; it isn't a kangaroo, is it?"
said he, sulkily. '' Besides my revolver isn't
loaded."

'' Such a beast ! — such a monster ! "

'' Why don't you get into your hammock,
then, instead of sitting there V

I'm going directly," she said ; for indeed
her dread of these huge insects was such

that they had had to rig up a hammock for
her in her cabin. '' But, Jim, I want to ask
you about something that has been puzzling
me a good deal. Didn't you say that the
Winterbournes were a comparatively old
family, up in the north of England there .^"

** I believe so — I've heard so," her husband
said, sleepily.

Then why should Mr. Winterbourne
want me to buy jewellery for Yolande ?"

*' Because she hasn't got any ; or hasn't
got enough, I suppose. Don't see it's any of
my business."

'' But where is the family jewellery ?"

How can I tell ? He may be a younger
son — rather think he is. What does it
matter to you ? You'll like the spending
of the money well enough."

But how should the girl come to have
no jewellery at all ? Where is her mother's ?
and her mother's mother's }''

"Oh, how can I tell! All I know is,
she'll soon have plenty if Winterbourne allows
you to go careering up and down Bond
Street."

"Well, it is strange, you know," said

pretty Mrs. Graham, as she placidly examined
the fastenings of her hammock. '' I don't
understand it ; but it is one of those things
that one can't well ask about. I never knew
a girl, at her age, in her position in life, who
hadn't plenty of jewellery — family rings and
things of that sort. What an odd thing it
would be if an eno^acrement-rinQf were to bethe
first ; and in that case I do hope Archie
will buy a nice one when he is about it !
But it is very strange, you know, Jim."

INTERVENTION.

Mrs. Graham saw clearly before her the
difficulties and danger of the task she had
undertaken ; and she approached it with
much circumspection and caution. Time and
an abundance of opportunities were on her
side, however. Moreover, she and Yolande
were like sisters now ; and when the menfolk
were smoking together in some other
part of the dahabeeah, and talking about
public affairs or their chances of having a
little shooting In the neighbourhood of Mer-had,
these two were most likely seated in
the cool shade of the Belvedere, having a
quiet and confidential chat all to themselves,
the while the slow-moving panorama of the
Nile stole stealthily by.

And gradually Mrs. Graham got Yolande
to think a good deal about the future, which,
ordinarily, the girl was loth to do. She had

an admirable capacity for enjoying the present
moment, so long as the weather was fine, and
her father not a long way off She had
never experienced any trouble ; and why
should she look forward to any ? She was
in perfect health, and consequently her brain
was free from morbid apprehensions. Sometimes,
when Mrs. Graham was talking with
the sadness begotten of worldly wisdom, the
younger woman would laugh lightly and ask
what there was on earth to depress her — except,
perhaps, the absence of dear Baby. In
short, Yolande could not be made anxious
about herself. She was content to take the
present as it was, and the future as it might
come. She was far more interested in watching
the operations of this or that African
kingfisher, when the big black and gray bird,
after fluttering in the air for a while in the
manner of a hawk, would swoop down and
dive into the river, emerging with a small
silver fish in its beak.

But if she could not easily be made
anxious about herself, she very easily indeed
could be made anxious about her father ; and
Mrs. Graham quickly discovered that anything

suggested about him was instantly
sufficient to arouse her interest and concern.
She played upon that pipe skilfully, and yet
with not the faintest notion that her siren
music was anything but of the simplest and
honestest kind. Was it not for the welfare
and happiness of every one concerned ? Even
Jim, with his faculty for looking at the sardonic
side of things, had not a word to say
against it. It would be a very good arrangement,
that oracle had declared.

*' Do you know, dear," said she one morning
to Yolande, '' what Jim has just been saying
? — that he would not be surprised if,
sooner or later, your father were offered some
place in the Government."

Yolande opened her eyes wide with surprise.
But then she laughed, and shook her*
head.

''Oh no. It is impossible. He is not
good friends with the Government. He has
too many opinions to himself."

'' I don't know," said pretty Mrs. Graham,
looking at one of the little French mirrors,
and smoothing her curls. '' I don't know.
You should hear Jim, any way. Of course, I

VOL. I. R

don't mean a post with a scat in the Cabinet ;
but office of some kind — an Under-secretaryship
or something of that sort. Jim says he
heard just before he left town that the
Government were going to try to conciliate
the Radicals, and that some member below
the gangway would most likely be taken in.
It would please some of the northern towns ;
and Slagpool is an important place."

"Oh, do you think it is possible?" cried
the girl, with a new light in her eyes. " My
papa in the Ministry — and always in
town ? "

'that's just it, Yolande dear," said Mrs.
Graham. "If your papa were a member of
the Government, in whatever place, he could
not go gallivanting about like this "

Oh, of course not, certainly not," the girl
said, eagerly. "He would live in London.
He would have a house — a proper home.
Do you think it is likely ? I never heard of
It before. But why should it not be — why
should It not be, dear Mrs. Graham 1 There
are very few members In the House of
Commons — why, scarcely any at all — who
are returned by such a number of persons.

Look at the majority he always has : does it
not say that those people respect him, and
believe he is working for the good of the
country? Very well; why should it not be?"

I quite agree with you ; and Jim says it
is not at all unlikely. But you were talking
about a house, Yolande dear : well, it would
scarcely be worth your papa's while to take a
house merely for you ; though it is certainly
of importance for a member of the Government
to have a town house, and entertain, and
so forth. You could scarcely manage that,
you know, my dear ; you are rather young ;
but if your papa were to marry again ? "

"Yes?" said Yolande, without betraying
any dismay.

'ein that case I have been wondering
what would become of you," said the other,
with her eyes cast down.

*' Oh, that is all right," said the girl, cheerfully.
'* That is quite right. Madame has
directed me to that once or twice — often ; but
not always with good sense, I consider. For
it cannot always happen that step-mother and
step-daughter do not get on well — If there Is
one who Is very anxious to please. And If

my papa were to marry again, it is not that I
should have less of his society ; I should have
more ; if there was a home, and I allowed to
remain, I should have more ; and why should
I have anything but kindness for his wife,
who gives me a home ? Oh, I assure )ou, it
is not I who would make any quarrel."

"Oh no; I daresay not, — I daresay not,
Yolande dear," said the other, with a gracious
smile. *' You are not terribly quarrelsome.
But it seldom answers. You would find
yourself in the way. Sooner or later, you
would find yourself in the way."

'' Then I would go."

'where?"

The girl made a little gesture by turning
out the palms of her hands ever so slightly.

'' I will tell you, my dear child, of one
place where you could go. If you came to us
at Inverstroy — now, or then, or at any time
there is a home there waiting for you ; and
Jim and I would just make a sister of you."

She spoke with feeling, and, indeed, with
honesty ; for she was quite ready to have
welcomed Yolande to their northern home,
wholly apart from the projects of the Master

of Lynn. And Yolande for a second put her
hand on her friend's hand.

"I know that," said she, 'rand it is very
kind of you to think of it ; and I believe it
true — so much that, if there was any need, I
would accept it at once. And it is a very
nice thing to think of — that there are friends
who would take you into their own home, if
there were need. Oh, I assure you, it is
pleasant to think of, even when there is no
need at all."

'will you come and try it? Will you
come and see how you like it," said pretty
Mrs. Graham, with a courageous cheerfulness.
Why not ? Your papa wants to be back intime
for the Budget, or even before that.
They say that it will be a late Session — that
if they get away for the Twelfth they will be
lucky. Now, you know, dear Yolande,
between ourselves, your father's constituents
are very forbearing. It is all very well for
us to make a joke of it here ; but really —
really — really

I understand you very well," said
Yolande, quickly ; '' and you think he should
remain in London till the Twelfth, and always

be at the House? Yes, yes; that is what I
think too. Do you imagine it is I who take
him away on voyage after voyage ? No !
For me, I woukl rather have him always at
the House. I would rather read his speeches
in the newspaper than see any more cities,
and cities, and cities."

'* Very well ; but what are you going todo,
Yolande, dear, between the time of our
getting back and the Twelfth ?"

'' Oh," said Yolande, with her face brightening,
'' that will be a busy time — no more of
going away — and I shall be all the time in
the hotel in Albemarle Street — and papa and
I dining together every night, and having a
chat before he goes to the House."

*' I am sure you are mistaken there," said
Mrs. Graham, promptly. '' Your father won't
let you stay all that time in town. He hates
the very name of town. He is too fond of
you, too careful of you, Yolande dear, and
too proud of the roses in your cheeks, to let
you shut yourself up in a town hotel."

*' But look at me!" the girl said, indignantly.
** Do I look unwell .^ Am I sick
looking ? Why should not I live in a town

hotel as well as others ? Are all unwell who
live in London ? No ; it is folly to say that.
And if anything were likely to make me
unwell, it is not living in London ; but it is
the fretting, when I am away from London,
that I can be of no use to my papa, and that
he is living alone there. Think of his living
alone in the hotel, and dining alone there —
worse than that still, dining at the House
of Commons. Why, it was only last night
Colonel Graham and he were speaking of the
bad dinners there — the heat and the crush
and the badly-cooked joints — yes, and I sitting
there, and saying to myself, ' Very welland
what is the use of having a daughter if
she cannot get for you a pretty dinner, with
flowers on the table ?'"

*' I understand you so well ; when you
speak, it is like myself thinking," said Mrs.
Graham, in her kindly way (and not at all
imagining that she was anything of a hypocrite,
or talking for a purpose) ; '' but you
may put it out of your head. Your father
won't let you stay in town. I know that."

*' Then I suppose it will be Oatlands
Park," said Yolande, with a bit of a sigh.

*' No. Why should it ?" said her friend,
briskly. "Come to Inverstroy. Go back
with us. Then we will see about the cook
and the housemaid in Inverness ; and Archie
will get the dog-cart and horses for you ; and
we might even go down to Allt-nam-ba, and
see that the keeper has kept on fires during
the winter, and that the lodge is all right.
And then we will all go on to Inverstroy —
Archie as well ; and he will take you out
salmon-fishing, for I shall have my own house
to attend to for a while ; but we will make
you just one of the family, and you will amuse
yourself just as you think best ; and if we
don't pet you, and make you comfortable, and
as happy as ever you were in your life, then
my name isn't Mary Graham. You will just
see what a Highland welcome we will Drive
you !

'' I know — I know," said the girl. *' How
can I thank you for such kindness ? But
then to think of my papa being all that time
left by himself in London "

*' My dear Yolande, I must speak frankly
to you, even if you fancy it cruel. Don't you
imagine your father would stand a little better

with his constituents, and consequently be
more at ease in his own mind, if he were left
by himself a little more than at present ?
Don't you think it might be prudent ? Don't
you think it would be better for every one if
he were left a little freer ?"

'eyes, yes — it is so — I can see it "

'' And if you were with us, he could give
his whole time and attention to Parliament."

Yes, yes — though I had other wishes as
well," the girl said, with her lips becoming a
little tremulous.

"It is a very awkward situation," said
Mrs. Graham, with abundant cheerfulness ;
'' but I see the natural way out of it. Perhaps
you don't, dear Yolande ; but I do. I
know what will happen. You will have a
house and home of your own ; and your
father will be very glad to see you happy
and settled ; and he will give proper attention
to Parliament while Parliament is sitting
; but when Parliament is not sitting then
he will come to you for relaxation and amusement,
and you must have a salmon-rod ready
for him in the spring, and in the autumn nice
luncheons to be sent up the hill, where he

will be with the others. Now isn't that
something to look forward to ?"

"Yes — but — a house of my own ?" the
girl said, bewildered.

Of course, when you marry, my dear.
That is the obvious solution of the whole
difficulty : it will put every one in a proper
position."

She said neither yea nor nay ; there was
no affectation of maiden coyness — no protest
of any kind. But her eyes were distant and
thoughtful ; not sad exactly, but seemingly
filled with memories — probably memories of
her own futile schemes and hopes.

That afternoon they came in sight of some
walls and a minaret or two, half hidden by
groves of palms lying along the high banks
of the river ; and these they were told belonged
to Merhadj ; but the Reis had had
orders to moor the dahabeeah by the shore
at some short distance from the town, so
that the English party should not be quartered
among the confusion and squalor
farther along. The consequence of this was
that very soon they found themselves the
practical owners of a portion of Africa which

seemed to be uninhabited ; for when the
whole party got ashore (with much excitement
and eager interest), and waded across the
thick sand, and then entered a far-stretching
wood of acacia-trees, they could find no trace
of human occupation ; the only living things
being an abundance of hoopoes — the beautiful
red-headed and crested birds were so tame
that one could have flung one's cap at them
and wood-pigeons, the latter of a brilliant
blue and gray and white. But by and by,
as they wandered along — highly pleased to
be on shore again, and grateful for the shelter
of the trees — they met a slow procession of
Arabs, with donkeys and camels, wending
their way through the dry rushes and hot
sand ; and as the animals were heavily laden,
they made no doubt that the natives were
carrying in farm produce to sell at Merhadj.
Then, when they returned to the dahabeeah,
they found a note from Ismat Effendi,
written in excellent English, saying that his
father had just returned from the interior,
and that they both would do themselves
the honour of paying a visit the following
mornings.

But what to do till dinner-time — now that
the dahabeeah was no longer moving past
the familiar features of the Nile ? Ahmed
came to the rescue. The chief was anxious
to have some pigeons : would the gentlemen
go ashore and shoot some for him ? The
gentlemen flatly refused to go and kill those
half-tame creatures ; but they discovered that
Ahmed could shoot a little ; so they lent him
a gun, and offered to beat the wood for him.
It was an occupation, at least. And so the
two women were left by themselves again,
with nothing before them but the choosing
of a costume for dinner, and the donning of
the same.

It was an opportunity not to be missed,
and yet Mrs. Graham was terribly nervous.
She had an uncomfortable suspicion all day
that she had not been quite ingenuous in her
conversation of the morning ; and she was
anxious to confess, and clear her mind, and
yet afraid of the effects of her confession.
But Yolande had spoken so reasonably and
sensibly ; she seemed to recognise the situation
; why should she be startled ?

For good or ill, she determined to plunge

in nicias res ; and she adopted a gay air,
though her fingers were rather shaky. She
put her arm within Yolande's arm. They
were slowly walking up and down the upper
deck, under the awning. They could just
see the gentlemen of the party, along with
Ahmed, disappearing Into the grove of dark
green acacias.

''Yolande, I am a wicked woman," she
said, suddenly. *' Hear my confession. I
was not quite frank with you this morning ;
and I can't rest till I have told you. The
fact is, my dear child, when I spoke to you
about the possibility of your marrying, I
knew of the wishes of one or two others ; and
I ought to have told you. And now I wish
to confess everything ; and you will forgive me
if I say anything to offend or alarm you "

'* About my marrying?" said the girl,
looking rather frightened. " Oh no ; I do
not wish to know. I do not wish to know
of anything that any one has said to you."

** Then you have guessed ?"

The mere question was an intimation.
The girl's face flushed, and she said, with
an eager haste, and in obvious trouble —

"Why should we speak of any such
thing" ? Dear Mrs. Graham, why should I
be afraid of the future ? No ; I am not
afraid."

'' But there are others to be considered —
one, at least, whose hopes have been clear
enough to the rest of us for some time back.
Dearest Yolande, am I speaking too much
now :

She stood still, and took both the girl's
hands In hers.

'' Am I telling you too much ? Or am I
telling you what you have guessed already ?
I hope I haven't spoken too soon ! — if I have
done anything Indiscreet, don't blame ///;;/ !
I could not talk to you just like sister to
sister, and have this knowledge In the background,
and be hiding It like a secret from
you."

Yolande drew her hands away ; she
seemed scarcely able to find utterance.

'* Oh no, Mrs. Graham — it is a mistake —
it Is all a mistake — you don't mean what you
say

"But indeed I do!" the other said,
eagerly. " Dearest Yolande, how can I help

wishing to have you for a sister ? But If I
have revealed the secret too soon, why you
must forget It altogether, and let Archie
speak for himself. But you know I do wish
It. I can't help telling you. I have been
thinking of what we might be to each other
up there In the Highlands ; for I never had
a sister, and my mother died when I was
quite young, like yours, dear Yolande. You
can't tell how pleased I was when Archie
began to — to show you attention; and I
made sure you must have seen how anxious
he was to please you "

She paused for a second here ; but there
was no answer ; the girl was too bewildered.

"Why, Jim would be like a big brother to
you — you can't tell how fond he Is of you ;
and your father approving, too "

The girl started, as If she had been struck,
and her face became quite white.

*' Did you say — that my father wished It V
she said, slowly.

"Oh yes — oh yes!" Mrs. Graham said.
What more natural ? What should he wish
for more than to see you happily married ?
I wouldn't say that he would be more free to

attend to public affairs — I wouldn't say that
was his reason, though it might be one of
several reasons ; but I can very well understand
his being pleased at the notion of seeing
you married and comfortably settled
among people who would make much of you
as I really and truly think we should.
Now, dear Yolande, don't say anything in
haste. I am not asking you on behalf of
Archie — I am telling ycu a secret to clear my
own mind. Ah, and if you only knew how
glad we should be to have you among us !"

The girl's eyes had slowly filled with tears ;
but she would not own it. She had courage.
She looked her companion fair in the face, as
if to say, " Do you think I am crying. I am
not." But when she smiled. It was a very
strange sort of smile — and very near crying.

*' Then If It Is a secret, let It remain a
secret, dear Mrs. Graham," said she, with a
sort of cheerfulness. " Perhaps it will always
remain one, and no harm done. I did not
know that my papa wished that ; I did not
suspect it. No ; how could I ? Amen we
have talked of the years to come, that was
not the arrangement that seemed best."

She paused for a while.

'' Now I remember what you were saying
in the morning. And you knew then, also,
that my papa wished it V

"Oh yes, certainly — not that he has
spoken directly to me "

But Yolande was scarcely listening. Rapid
pictures were passing before her — pictures
that had been suggested by Mrs. Graham
herself. And Yolande's father, not her future
husband, was the central figure of them.

Then she seemed to throw aside these
speculations with an effort of will.

'come," she said, more cheerfully, "is it
not time to dress ? We will put away that
secret — it is just as if you had never spoken
it is all away in the air — vanished. And
you must not tell your brother that you have
been talking to me ; for you know, dear Mrs.
Graham, he has been very kind to me, and I
would not give him pain — oh, not for anything
"

My dear Yolande, if he thought there
was a chance of your saying yes, he would
be out of his senses with joy !" exclaimed the
other.

VOL. I. s

"Oh, but that is not to be thought of,"
said the girl, with quite a practical air. "It
is not to be thought of at all as vet. i\Iv
papa has not said anything to me. And a
little talking between us two — what is that ?
Nothing — air — it goes away ; why should we
remember it ?"

Mrs. Graham could not understand this
attitude at all. Yolande had said neither yes
nor no ; she seemed neither elated nor depressed
; and she certainly had not — as most
young ladies are supposed to do, when they
have decided upon a refusal — expressed any
compassion for the unfortunate suitor. Moreover,
at dinner, Mrs. Graham observed that
more than once Yolande regarded the young
Master of Lynn with a very attentive scrutiny.
It was not a conscious, furtive scrutiny; it
was calm and unabashed. And Mrs. Graham
also noticed that when her brother looked upto
address Yolande, and met her eyes, those
eyes were not hastily withdrawn in maiden
confusion, but rather answered his look with
a pleased friendliness. She was certainly
studying him. the sister thought.

A SETTLEMENT.

Next morning there was much hurrying to
and fro on board the dahabeeah, In anticipation
of the visit of the Governor ; so that
Mrs. Graham had no chance of having an
extended talk with her brother. Nevertheless
she managed to convey to him a few
covert words of information and counsel.

** Archie," said she, "I have spoken to
Yolande — I have hinted something to her."

No !" he said, looking rather frightened.

Oh, you need not be much alarmed," she
said, with a significant smile. " Rather the
other way. She seems quite to know how
you have wished to be kind and attentive to
her — quite sensible of it, in fact ; and when
I hinted something "

"She did not say 'no' outright.'^" he
interrupted, eagerly ; and there was a flush
of gladness on his face.

His sister glanced around.

I thought there could be no harm if I
told her that Jim and I would like to have
her for a sister," she answered, demurely.

And she did not say ' no ' outright ?" he
repeated.

"Well," Mrs. Graham said, after a second,
I am not going to tell you anything more.
It would not be fair. It is your business,
not mine. I'm out of it now. I have intermeddled
quite enough. But I don't think
she hates you. And she seems rather pleased
to think of living in the Highlands, with her
father having plenty of amusement there,
you know ; and perhaps she might be brought
to consider a permanent arrangement of that
kind not so undesirable; and — and, well,
you'd better see for yourself. As I say, Jim
and I will be very glad to have her for a
sister; and I can't say more, can I ?"

She could not say more then, at all
events ; for at this moment Colonel Graham
appeared on the upper deck with the intelligence
that the Governor's barge was just
then coming down the river. Mr. Winterbourne
and Yolande were instantly summoned

from below ; some further disposition of
chairs and divans was made ; some boxes
of cigarettes were sent for ; and presently
the sound of oars alongside announced the
arrival of the chief notables of Merhadj.

The Master of Lynn saw and heard little
of what followed ; he was far too busy with
the glad and bewildering prospect that his
sister's obscure hints had placed before him.
And again and again he glanced at Yolande
timidly, and yet with an increasing wonder.
He beo^an to ask himself whether It was
really true that his sister had spoken to her.
The girl betrayed no consciousness, no
embarrassment ; she had greeted him on
that morning just as on other mornings ; at
this moment she was regarding the arrival of
those grave officials with an Interest which
seemed quite oblivious of his presence. As
for him, he looked on impatiently. He
wished It was all over. He wished to have
some private speech with her ; to have some
inquiry of her eyes — surely her eyes would
make some tell-tale confession } — and in a
vague kind of way he grew to think that the
Governors son, Ismat Effendi, who was

acting as interpreter, and who spoke English
excellently, addressed a little too much of the
conversation to the two ladies. Moreover, it
was all very well for him, on coming on board,
to shake hands with Mrs. Graham, for he had
known her in India ; but why \vith Yolande ?
The Governor — a corpulent and sallow-faced
old gentleman who looked like a huge
frog — and his companions sat in solemn
state ; while young Ismat, with much grace
of manner and remarkably eloquent eyes,
hoped that the visitors vere comfortable onboard
the dahabeeah, and so forth. He was
a well-dressed young gentleman ; his black
frock-coat, white waistcoat, and red tarboosh,
were all of the newest and smartest ; and his
singularly small feet were encased in boots
of brilliant polish. The Master of Lynn
considered him a coxcomb, and also a
Frenchified semi-theatrical coxcomb). But
the womenfolk liked his pleasant manners
and his speaking eyes ; and when he said
that he had never been to England, but
intended to go the next year, Mrs. Graham
made him defmitel)- promise thai he would
pay them a visit at Inverstroy.

*' And Miss WInterbourne," said the
young gentleman with the swarthy face and
the brilliant white teeth, 'does she live in
Scotland also ? "

'well, no," said Mrs. Graham, placidly;
but I hope you will find her there when
you come. We want her to go back with us
when we go back ; and if she likes her first
visit perhaps she will come again. I hope
you will find her with us."

"And I also, madam, hope to have the
felicity of the visit that you propose," said
he, " if politics will permit me."

He directed an inquiring and rather
curious glance at Colonel Graham.

You did not hear anything very remarkable
in Cairo, sir ?"

*' Well, nothing remarkable," said the
stout soldier. '' Lots of rumours. Always
plenty of that in politics. Mostly lies. At
the Consulate they thought we were safe
enough."

The young man turned to his father, who
was silently and solemnly sipping his coffee,
apparently quite uninterested In what was
going on, and spoke in Arabic to him for a

second or two. The old gentleman appeared
to grunt assent.

'* My father says he will have much
delight in sending two or three soldiers to
accompany your party if you are making
excursions into the interior. There is no
danger, except that some bad men will try to
rob, when they can. Or if you will permit
me, if you will have the grace to permit me,
I will accompany you myself."

But to take up so much of your time "

said pretty Mrs. Graham, with one of her
most pleasant smiles.

He waved his hand in a deprecatory
fashion.

*' It will be too charming for me. Perhaps
your dragoman does not know the district as
well as I. Do you permit me ? Shall I
come tomorrow, with everything prepared V

Look here. Mr. Ismat," said Colonel
Graham ; " you'd better come along and
dine with us this evening ; then we can talk
it over. In the meantime we can't keep
your father and the other gentlemen waiting
we discuss our rambles. Will you
[please tell his Excellency once more how

much obliged we are, and honoured by his
visit ; and that we will do ourselves the
pleasure of coming to see him at Merhadj
tomorrow, if that will suit his Excellency's
convenience ?"

This was the final arrangement — that
young Ismat Effendi was to come along to
dinner in the evening ; a prospect which
seemed to please him highly. Very soon
after the grave company was seated in the
stern of the barge, and the big oars were
once more at work. The dahabeeah returned
to its normal state of silence ; the little party
of Europeans were again left to their own
society ; and the Master of Lynn, a little
anxious and excited, and almost fearing to
meet Yolande's eyes, and yet drawn towards
her neighbourhood by a secret spell, declined
to go ashore with the other two gentlemen,
and remained with his sister and Yolande in
the Belvedere, in the cool shade of the canvas
awning.

No ; she betrayed not the slightest embarrassment
at his sitting thus quite near
her ; it was he who was nervous, and
awkward in his speech. She was engaged

in some delicate needlework ; from time to
time she spread it out on her lap to regard
it ; and all the time she was chatting freely
with Mrs. Graham about the recent visitors
and their Q^rave demeanour, their almost
European costume, their wonderfully small
feet, and so forth.

"Why do you not go ashore.'^" she said,
turning with frank eyes to the Master of
Lynn. '' It is so interesting to see the strange
birds, the strange plants."

"It is cooler on the river," said he.

He was wondering whether his sister
would get up and go away and leave them
together ; and he was half afraid she would
and half afraid she would not. But at all
events he was now resolved that on the first
opportunity he would speak to Yolande himself.
He would not trust to any go-between.
Was it not enough that she had had some
intimation made to her of his wishes and
hopes, and yet showed no signs of fear at his
approach ?

The mid-day went by, and he found no
chance of addressing" her. His sister and
she sat together, and sewed and chattel, oro



Stopped to watch some passing boat and
listen to the boatmen singing a long and
melancholy chorus to the clanking of the
oars. At lunch-time Mr. WInterbourne and
Colonel Graham turned up. Then in the
afternoon the whole of them got into a boat,
and were rowed away to a long and flat and
sandy island on the other side of the Nile,
which they explored in a leisurely way.
And then back again to the dahabeeah for a
draught of cold tea in the welcome shade of
the awning.

It was not until near the end of the day
that the long-looked-for opportunity arrived ;
indeed, nearly every one had gone below to
get ready for dinner ; but Yolande had lingered
above to watch the coming over of the
twilight. It was a strange enough sight In
its way. For after the yellow colour had
died out of the bank of bearded corn above
the river's edge, and while the strip of acacia-trees
over that again had grown solemn and
dark against the clear, pallid, blue-gray sky
of the south, far away in the north-western
heavens there still lingered a glow of warmer
light, and a few clouds high up had caught

a saffron tinge from the sinking sun. It
seemed as if they here were shut in with the
dark, while far away in the north, — over the
Surrey lanes, and up among the Westmoreland
waters, and out amid the distant Hebrides
isles — the summer evening was still fair and
shining. It led one to dream of home. The
imagination took wings. It was pleasant to
think of those beautiful and glowing scenes,
here where the gloom of the silent desert was
gathering all around.

She was standing by the rail of the deck ;
and, when the others had gone, he quietly
went over to her, and began talking to her —
about the Highlands mostly, and of the long,
clear twilights there, and how he hoped she
would accept his sister's invitation to go back
home with them when they returned to England.
And when she said something very
pretty about the kindness of all of them to
her, he spoke a little more warmly, and asked
if there was any wonder ? People got to
know one another intimately through a constant
companionship like this, and got to
know and admire and lo\'e beautiful qualities
of disposition and mind. And then he told

her it would not be honest If he did not
confess to her that he was aware that his
sister had spoken to her — it was best to be
frank ; and he knew she was so kind she would
not be angry If there had been any indiscretion
; and he begged for her forgiveness if
she had been In any way offended. He
spoke In a very frank and manly way ; and
she let him speak, for she was quite incapable
of saying anything ; her fingers were working
nervously with a small pocket-book she held,
and she had turned partly away, dreading to
lift her eyes, and yet unable to go until she
had answered him somehow. Then she
managed to say, rather hurriedly and breathlessly
—

''Oh no, I am not offended. Why? It
is — a great honour — I — I knew It was your
sisters kindness and friendship that made
her speak to me — please let me go away
now "

He had put his hand on her arm, unwittingly.


But may I hope, Yolande ? May I
hope ?" he said, and he stooped down to
listen for the faintest word. '' I don't want

you to pledge yourself altogether now.
Give me time. May I try to win you ? Do
you think some time — some time of your own
choosing — as far ahead as you may wish —
you will consent ? May I hope for it ? May
I look forward to it — some day ?"

Oh, lout I cannot tell you — I cannot tell
you now," she said, in the same breathless
way. " I am sorry if I have given any pain
any anxiety — but — some other time I will
try to talk to you — or my papa will tell you
but not now — you have always been so
kind to me that I ask it from you "

She stole away in the gathering darkness,
her head bent down : she had not once turned
her eyes to his. And he remained there fora
time, scarcely knowing what he had said or
what she had answered ; but vaguely and
happily conscious that she had not, at all
events, refused him. Was it not much ?
He was harassed by all kinds of doubts, surmises,
hesitations ; but surely prevailing-over
these was a buoyant hope, a touch o{
triumph even ? He would fain have gone
away for a long stroll in the dusk, to have
reasoned out his hopes and guesses with

himself; but here was dinner-time approaching,
and young Ismat was coming; and he —
that is, the Master of Lynn — began to have
the consciousness that Yolande in a measure
belonged to him, and that he must be there.
He went down the steps with a light and a
proud heart. Yolande was his, he almost felt
assured. How should she regard him, when
next they met ?

And indeed at dinner there was no longer
any of that happy serenity of manner on her
part that had so puzzled him before. Her
self-consciousness and embarrassment were so
great as to be almost painful to witness ; she
never lifted her eyes ; she ate and drank
next to nothing ; when she pretended to be
listening to Ismat Effendi's descriptions of
the troubles in the Soudan, any one who
knew must have seen that she was a quite
perfunctory listener, and probably understood
but little of what was being said. But then
no one knew that he had spoken but himself ;
and he strove to convince her that he was
not regarding her by entering eagerly into
this conversation about the false prophet ;
and though now and again her trouble and

confusion perplexed him — along with the
recollection that she had l)een so anxious
to say nothing definite — still, on the whole,
triumph and rejoicing were in his heart.
And how beautiful she looked, even with the
pensive face cast down ! No wonder young
Ismat had admired her that mornings : the
very Englishmen of her appearance must
have struck him — the tall stature, the fine
complexion, the ruddy-golden hair, and the
clear, proud, calm, self-confident look of the
maidenly eyes. This was a bride fit for a
home-coming at Lynn Towers !

But, alas ! Yolande's self - confidence
seemed to have strangely forsaken her that
evening. When they were all up on deck,
taking their coffee in the red glow shed by
the lanterns, she got hold of her father, and
drew him aside into the darkness.

'what is it, Yolande?" said he, In surprise.


She took hold of his hand ; both hers were
trembling.

"I have something to tell you, papa —
something serious."

Then he knew, and for a moment his

heart sank ; but he maintained a gay demeanour.
Had he not reasoned the whole
matter out with himself ? H e had foreseen this
crisis ; he had nerved himself by anticipation.

Oh I know. I know already, Yolande,"
said he, very cheerfully. " Do you think I
can't spy secrets ? And of course you come
to me, with your hands trembling ; and you
think you have something dreadful to confess;
whereas it is nothing but the most ordinary
and commonplace thing in the world. You
need not make any confession. Young Leslie
has spoken to me — quite right ; very right ;
I like frankness ; I consider him a very fine
young fellow. Now what have you got to
say — only I won't listen if you are going to
make a fuss about it and destroy my nervous
system, for I tell you it is the simplest and
most ordinary affair in the world."

** Then you know everything — you approve
of it, papa — it is your wish .'^" she said,
bravely.

*' My wish ! " he said ; " what has my
wish to do with it, you stupid creature?" But
then he added, more gently : '' Of course you
know, Yolande, I should like to see you

VOL. I. T

married and settled. Yes, I should like to
see that ; I should like to see you in a fixed
home, and not liable to all the changes and
chances of the life that you and I have been
livdncr. It would be a Seat relief to my mind.
And then it is natural and right. It is not
for a young girl to be a rolling-stone like that;
and, besides, it couldn't last : that idea about
our always going on travelling wouldn't
answer. So whenever you think of marrying
; whenever you think you will be happy
in choosing a husband — just now, tomorrow,
or any time — don't come to me with a breathless
voice, and with trembling hands as if you
had done some wrong, or as if I was going
to object, for to see you happy would be
happiness enough for me ; and as for our
society together, well, you know, I could pay
the people of Slagpool a little more attention,
and have some more occupation that way ;
and then you, instead of having an old and
frail and feeble person like me to take care
of-ou, )'C)U would have one whose years
would make him a fitter companion for you,
as is c[uite right and proper and natural.
And now do you understand ?"

Oh yes, I think so, papa," said she, quite
brightly ; and she regarded him with grateful
and loving eyes. '' And you would have ever
so much more time for Parliament, would
you not ?"

'assuredly."

And you would come to see me sometimes,
and go shooting and fishing, and take
a real holiday — not In towns and hotels ?"

'soh, don't be afraid. I will bother the
life out of you. And there are always fishings
and shootings to be got somehow."

'rand you would be quite happy, then ?"

If you were, I should be," said he ; and
really this prospect pleased him so much that
his cheerfulness now was scarcely forced.
Always on this distinct and clear understanding,"
he added, " that, when we are
coming back from the shooting, you will
come out to meet us and walk back with us
the last half mile."

** I should be dressing for dinner, papa,"
she said. "And just worrying my head off
to think what would please you."

You will be dressing to please your husband,
you foolish creature, not me."

He won't care as much as you, papa."
Then she added, after a second : " I should
get the London newspapers, yes ? Quite
easily ? Do you know, papa, what Colonel
Graham believes ? — that they are going to
take one of the extreme Liberals into the
Ministry, to please the northern towns."

But what has that got to do with you,
child ?" said he, with a laugh. "Very likely
they may. But you didn't bring me over
here to talk politics .'^"

But even if you were in the Government,
papa, you would have your holiday-time all
the same," she said, thoughtfully.

"la member of the Government?" said
he. " You may as well expect to hear of me
being sent to arrest the false prophet in the
Soudan. Come away, then, Yolande ; your
secret is not a secret ; so you need not trouble
about it ; and now that I have expounded
my views on the situation, you may as well
go and call to Ahmed that I want another
cup of coffee."

And then he hesitated.

You have not said yes or no yet,
Yolande V

'* Oh no ; how could I, until I knew what
you might think ?" said she, and she regarded
him now with frank and unclouded eyes.
How could I ? It might not have been
agreeable to your wishes. But I was told
that you would approve. At first — well, it is
a sudden thing to give up visions you have
formed ; but when you see it is not practicable
and reasonable, what is it but a small
struggle ? No ; other plans present themselves
— oh yes, I have much to think of
now that looks very pleasant to anticipate.
Very much to look forward to — to hope for."

He patted her lightly on the shoulder.

"And if you make half as good a wife,
Yolande, as you have been a daughter, you
will do pretty well."

They went back to their friends, their
absence scarcely having been noticed ; for
Ismat Effendi was a fluent and interesting
talker. And whether Mr. Winterbourne had
been playing a part or not in his interview
with Yolande, that cheerfulness of his soon
left him. He sat somewhat apart, and silent;
his eyes were fixed on the deck ; he was not
listening. Yolande herself brought him the

coffee ; and she put her hand on his shoulder,
and stood by him ; then he brightened up
somewhat. But he was thoughtful and distraught
for the whole of the evening, except
when he happened to be spoken to by
Yolande, and then he would summon up some
of his customary humour, and petulantly
complain about her un-english idioms.

And she ? Her anxiety and nervousness
seemed to have vanished. It is true, she
rather avoided the Master of Lynn, and rarely
ventured to look in his direction ; but she
was in good spirits, cheerful, practical, self-possessed
; and when Ismat Effendi, on going
away, apologised to her for having talked
tedious politics all the evening, she said, with
a charming smile —

No ; not at all. How can politics be
tedious ? Ah, but we will have our revenge,
perhaps, in Scotland. Mrs. Graham says
that in their house it is nothing but deer that
is talked of all the evening : that will not interest
you ?"

I shall rejoice to he allowed to try," said
the polite young Egyptian ; and then he shook
hands with her, and bowed ver)' low, and left.

During the rest of the evening the Master
of Lynn, seeing that Yolande seemed no
longer In any trouble, kept near her, with
some vague hope that she would herself
speak, or that he might have some chance of
reopening the subject that engrossed his mind.
And Indeed, when the chance arrived, and he
timidly asked her if she had not a word of
hope for him, she spoke very frankly, though
with some little nervousness, no doubt. She
made a little apology, in very pretty and
stammering phrases, for not having been
able to give him an answer ; but since then,
she said, she had spoken to her father,
without whose approval she could not have
decided.

Then you consent, Yolande — you will
be my wife!" he said, in a low and eager
voice, upsetting in his haste all the continuity
of those hesitating sentences.

"But Is It wise.'^" said she, still with
her eyes cast down. " Perhaps you will
regret "

He took her hand Into his, and held it
tight.

This has been a lucky voyage for me,"

said he ; and that was all that he had a chance
of saying just then ; but it was enough.

Colonel Graham heard the news that same
evening. He was a man of solid and fixed
ideas.

A very good thing, too," said he to his
wife. "A very good thing. Now they'll
take the sheep off Allt-nam-ba, and make
Corrievreak the sanctuary. Nothing could
have happened better."

NEW PLANS.

Early next morning, and long before anyone
on board the dahabeeah was awake, Mr.
Winterbourne was seated in the quiet little
saloon writing the following letter : —

Near Merhadj, on the Nile, May 13.

'' Dear Shortlands — I have news for you.
You will be glad to learn that Yolande is
engaged to be married — I think with every
prospect of happiness ; and you will also be
glad to know that I heartily approve, and that
so far from viewing the coming change with
dread, I rather welcome it, and look on it
as the final removal of one of the great
anxieties of my life. Sometimes I wonder
at myself, though. Yolande and I have been
so much to each other. And I daresay I
shall feel her absence for a while. But what
does it matter ? My life has been broken

and wasted ; what remains of it is of little
consequence, if her life be made the fuller
and happier and more secured ; and I think
there is every chance of that. After all, this
definite separation will be better than a series
of small separations, haunted by continual
fears. She will be removed from all the possibilities
you know of. As for me, what does
it matter, as I say ? And so I have come to
regard the handing over of my Yolande to
somebody else as not such a hard matter after
all ; nay, I am looking forward to it with a
kind of satisfaction. When I can see her
securely married and happily settled in a
home, that will be enough for me ; and maybe
I may have a chance from time to time of
regarding the pride and pleasure of the young
house-mistress.

"The accepted suitor is Mrs. Graham's
brother (I think you know we came away
with Colonel Graham, of Inverstroy, and his
wife .'*), and the only son of Lord Lynn. I
have had a good opportunity) ol studying his
character ; and you may imagine that, when
I saw a prospect of this happening, I regarded
him very closely and jealously. Well. I must

say that his qualities bore the scrutiny well.
I think he is an honest and honourable young
fellow ; of fair abilities ; very pleasant and
courteous in manner (what I especially like
in him is the consideration and respect he
pays to women, which seems to be unusual
nowadays ; he doesn't stand and stare at them
with a toothpick in his mouth) ; I hear he is
one of the best deer-stalkers in the Highlands,
and that speaks well for his hardihood and his
temperance ; he is not brilliant, but he is
good-natured, which is of more importance
in the long run ; he is cheerful and high-spirited,
which naturally follows from his excellent
constitution : deer stalking does not
tend to congestion of the liver and bilious
headache ; he is good-looking, but not vain ;
and he is scrupulously exact in money matters.
Indeed, he is almost too exact, if criticism
were to be so minute, for it looks just a little
bit odd, when we are playing cards for
counters at threepence a dozen, to see the
heir of the house of Lynn so very particular
in claiming his due of twopence halfpenny.
But this little weakness is forgivable ; to be
prudent and economical is a very good failing

in a young man ; and then you must remember
his training. The Lesliess have been
poor for several generations ; but they have
steadily applied themselves to the retrieving
of their condition and the bettering of the
estate ; and it is only by the exercise of
severe economy that they now stand in so
good a position. So, doubtless, this young
fellow has acquired the habit of being particular
about trifles ; and I don't object ; from
my point of view it is rather praiseworthy ;
Yolande's fortune — and she shall have the
bulk of what I have — will be placed in good
and careful hands.

So now all this is well and happily
settled ; and, as every one bids fair to be content,
you will ask what more we have to do
than to look forward to the wedding, and the
slippers, and the handfuls of rice. Well, it is
the old story ; and you, as an old friend, will
understand. That is why I write to you,
after a wakeful enough night — for the sake
of unburdening myself, even though I can't
get a word of your sturdy counsel at this
great distance. As I say, it is the old story.
For the moment you delude yourself into the

belief that the time of peril and anxiety Is
past ; everything is safe now for the future ;
with Yolande's life made secure and happy,
what matters what happens elsewhere ? And
the next moment new anxieties present themselves
; the old dread returns ; doubts whether
you have acted for the best ; and fears about
this future that seemed so bright. There Is
one point about these Lesliess that I forgot to
mention ; they are all of them apparently —
and young Leslie especially — very proud of
the family name and jealous of the family
honour. I do not wonder at it. They have
every right to be ; and it is rather a praiseworthy
quality. But now you will understand,
old friend, the perplexity I am in — afraid to
make any revelation that might disturb the
settlement which seems so fortunate a one,
and yet afraid to transfer to the future all
those risks and anxieties that have made the
past so bitter and so terrible to me. I do
not know what to do. Perhaps I should
have stated the whole matter plainly to the
young man when he came and asked permission
to propose to Yolande ; but then I was
thinking, not of that at all, but only of her

happiness. It seemed so easy and safe a
way out of all that old trouble. And why
should he have been burdened with a secret
which he dared not reveal to her ? I thought
of Yolande being taken away to that Highland
home — living content and happy all
through her life ; and it did not occur to me
to imperil that prospect by any disclosure of
what could concern neither her nor him.
But now I have begun to torture myself in
the old way again, and in spite of myself
conjure up all sorts of ghastly anticipations.
The fit does not last long ; if you were herewith
your firm way of looking at things,
possibly I could drive away these imaginings
altogether ; but you will understand me when
I say that I could wish to see Yolande
married tomorrow and carried away to the
Highlands. Then I could meet my own
troubles well enough."

• He was startled by the rustling of a dress
he looked up, and there was Yolande herself,
regarding him with a bright and happy
and smiling face, in which there was a trifle
of surprise, and also perhaps a faint Hush of
self-consciousness, for it was but the; previous

evening that she had told him of the engagement.
But surely one glance of that face —
so young, and cheerful, and confident — was
enough to dispel those dark forebodings.
The page of life lying open there was not the
one on which to write down prognostications
of trouble and sorrow. His eyes lit up with
pleasure ; the glooms of the night were suddenly
forgotten.

"Writing? Already?" she said, as she
went forward and kissed him.

"You are looking very well this morning,
Yolande," he said, regarding her. "The
silence of the boat does not keep you from
sleeping, apparently, as it sometimes does
with older folk. But where is your snood ?
the colour suits your hair."

Oh, I am not in the Highlands yet," she
said lightly. " Do you know the song Mrs.
Graham sings ? —

'It's I would give my silken snood
To see the gallant Grahams come hame.'

That was in the days of their banishment."

But what have you to do with the homecoming
of the Grahams, Yolande?" her

father said, to tease her. "You will be a
Leslie, not a Graham."

She changed the topic quickly.

To whom are you writing V

*' To John Shortlands."

May I see ?"

She would have taken up the letter, had
he not hastily interposed.

- No "

"Ah, it is about business. Very well.
But I may put in a postscript"

What do you want to write to Mr.
Shortlands about ?" her father said, in amazement.


Perhaps it will be better for you to write,
then. I was going to ask him to visit us at
Allt-nam-ba."

'swell, now, Yolande, that is a most
excellent idea!" he exclaimed. "You are
really becoming quite a sensible and practical
person. We shall want another gun. John
Shortlands is just the man."

"We can give him," said she, sedately,
"the bedroom over the dining-room; that
will be farthest away from the noise of the
kennels."

Then he stared at her.

'what on earth do you know about the
bedroom over the dining-room, or the kennels
either ?"

** Mr. Leslie," said she, with a momentary
flush, '' gave me a plan of the house — there it
is, papa. Oh, you shall have no trouble — it
is all quite easily arranged "

She took out a piece of paper from her
notebook, unfolded it, and put it before
him.

'' There," said she, with a practical air,
'* is a very good room — that looks down the
glen — that is for you. That one is for a
visitor — yes, Mr. Shortlands, if he will come
so that he shall not be disturbed by the
dogs. That one for me "

'' But why should you be disturbed by the
dogs ?"

** Me ? Oh no ! I shall be used to it.
Besides," she said, with a laugh, 'there is
nothing that will disturb me — no, not the
cockatoo at the Chateau that Madame did
not keep more than three days."

*' But look here, Yolande," said he, gravely.
I am afraid you are going to attempt too

VOL. I. u

much. Why should you ? Why should you
bother '^. I can pay to get somebody to do
all that. It's all very well for Mrs. Graham,
who has all her servants about her, trained
to help her. And she has been at the thing
for years. But really, Yolande, you are
taking too great a responsibility ; and why
should you worry yourself when I can pay
to get it done 1 I daresay there are people
who will provision a house as you provision
a yacht, and take back the surplus stores. I
don't know; I suppose so. In any case, I
can hire a housekeeper up there "

She put her hand on his mouth.

*' No — no — no," she said, triumphantly.
'why, it is all arranged — long ago — all
settled — every small point. Do I not know
what cartridges to buy for you, for the rifle
that Mr. Leslie is to lend you — do I not
know even that small point ?"

She referred to her note-book.

"There it is," she said. *' Eley- Boxer,
500 bore, for express rifle "

Well, you know, Yolande," said he, to test
her, " I should have thought that when the
Master proposed to lend me a rifle, he might

have presented me with some cartridges,
instead of letting me buy them for myself."

But she did not see the point.

'* Perhaps he did not remember," said she,
lightly. '' Perhaps it is not customary. No
matter ; I shall have them. It is very
obliging that you get the loan of the rifle.
Quand on emprunte, on ne choisit pas."

"Very well, then; go away, and let me
finish my letter," said he, good-naturedly.

When she had gone he turned the sheet
of paper that he had placed face downwards,
and continued :

'when I had written the above, Yolande
came into the saloon. She has just gone,
and everything is changed. It is impossible
to look at her — so full of hope and life and
cheerfulness — and be downcast about the
future. It appears to me now that whatever
trouble may befall will affect me only ; and that
that does not much matter ; and that she will
be living a happy life far away there, in the
north, without a care. Is it not quite simple ?
She will no longer bear my name. Even if
she were to come to London — though it is
far from probable they will ever have a

London house, even for the season — she will
come either as the Hon. Mrs. Leslie or as
Lady Lynn ; and nothing could occur to
alarm her or annoy her husband. Everything
appears to have happened for the best ;
and I don't see how any contretemps could
arise. When we return to England, the
proposal is that Yolande should go on with
the Grahams to Inverstroy, until I go down
to a shooting that I have rented for the
season from Lord Lynn — Allt-nam-ba is the
name of the place — and there we should befor
the following three months. I don't
know how long the engagement of the young
people is likely to last ; but I should say they
knew each other pretty well after being constantly
in each other's society all this time ;
and I, of course, could wish for nothing
better than a speedy marriage. Nor will
there be any risk about that. Whether it
takes place in the Highlands, or at Wey-
bridge, or anywhere else, there needs be no
great ceremony or publicity ; and I would
gladly pay for a special license, which I could
fairly do on the plea that it was merely a
whim of my own.

Now as for yourself, dear old boy. Would
you be surprised to hear that Yolande has
just suggested — entirely her own suggestion,
mind — that you should come and pay us a
visit at that shooting-box ? She has even
decided that you are to have the bed-room
farthest removed from the noise of the kennels.
I do hope you will be able to go down with me
for the Twelfth. With decent shooting, and if
the moor Is In its normal state, they say we
should get looo or 1200 brace; and besides
that, the moor abuts on three deer forests,
and there is no reason, moral or legal, why
you shouldn't have a shot at SMohferce nahtrce
as may stray on to your ground. And then
(which is, perhaps, a more important thing —
at all events, you would be interested, for I
think you rather like the child) you would
see what kind of a choice Yolande has made.
I hope I am not blinded by my own wishes ;
but it seems as if everything promised well.

'' There Is another thing I want to mention
to you before I close this screed — which more
resembles the letters of our youth than the
staccato notes they call letters nowadays. I
have talked to you about this engagement as

if it were a good arrangement — a solution, in
fact, of a very awkward problem ; but don't
think for a moment that, when they do marry,
it will be anything but a marriage of affection.
Mr. Leslie is not so poor that he needs to
marry for money — on the contrary, the family
are fairly well off now, and the estates almost
free ; and Yolande, on the other hand, is not
the sort of creature to marry for title or social
position. I saw that he was drawing towards
her a long time ago — as far back, indeed, as
the time of our arriving at Malta ; and as for
her, she made a friend and companion of him
almost at the beginning of the voyage in a
way very unusual with her ; for I have noticed
again and again, In travelling, how extremely
reserved she was when any one seemed
anxious to make her acquaintance. No
doubt the fact that he was Mrs. Graham's
brother had something to do with it ; for thc^
Grahams were very kind to her at Oatlands
and have been ever since, I need hardly
say. It will be very pleasant to her to have
such agreeable neighbours when she marries.
Mrs. Graham treats her like a sister already ;
she will not be going among strange kinsfolk

; nor among those likely to judge her
harshly.

'' So far we have enjoyed the trip very
well ; though, of course, to some of us its
chief interest lay in this little drama that now
points, I hope, to a happy conclusion. We
have had the whole Nile to ourselves — all
the tourists gone long ago. The heat considerable
: yesterday at mid-day it was io
degrees in the shade ; but it is a dry heat, and
not debilitating. Of course we keep under
shelter on the hottest days. I hear that the
wine at dinner is of a temperature of 90
degrees — there being no ice ; so that we
abstainers have rather the best of it, the
water, kept in porous jars, being much cooler
than that. We visit Merhadj to-day ; and
thereafter begin a series of excursions in the
neighbourhood — if all goes well. But we
heard some ugly rumours in Cairo, and may
at any moment have to beat a swift retreat.

*' As soon as I get back I shall begin my
Parliamentary attendance again, and stick
close to work until the end of the Session ;
and I have no doubt the Government will
give me plenty of chances of reminding the

Slagpool people of my existence. I wish you
would have a paragraph put in one of the
London papers to the effect that the health
of the member for Slagpool being now almost
re-established by his visit to Egypt, he will ina
few weeks be able to take his place again
in the House. Then the Slagpool papers
would copy. They have been very forbearing
with me, those people ; I suppose it is
because I bully them. They would have
turned out any more complaisant person long
ago.

''Yolande — still harping on his daughter,
you will say ; but it is only for a little while ;
soon I shall see and hear little enough of hero



has undertaken the whole control and
household management of the shooting-box ;
and I daresay she will make a hash of it ;
but I don't think you will be severe on her,
if, as I hope, you can come to us. It will bean
occupation and amusement for her while
she is in the Highlands ; and I am very glad
she is going to be with the Grahams during
that interval. She wearied a good deal at
Oatlands Park, though she tried not to show
it ; and as for ever having her in London

again — no, that is impossible. Mrs. Leslie

or Lady Lynn may come and live in London

when she pleases — though I hope it may be

many a year before she does so — but not

Yolande Winterbourne. Poor child, she little

knows what kind of a shadow there is behind

her fair and bright young life. I hope she

will never know ; I am beginning to believe

now that she will never know ; and this that

has just happened ought to give one courage

and strength.

'' Do not attempt to answer this letter.

The writing of it has been a relief to me. I

may be back in town very shortly after you

get it.; for we shall only stay in Cairo a few

days to get some things for Yolande that

may be of service to her after. — Always your

friend,

'' G. R. Winterbourne.

Pes. — I should not wonder at all, if,
before this letter gets posted even, that torment
of fear and nervous apprehension should
again get possession of me. I wish the marriage
were well over, and I left alone in
London."

The various noises throughout the daha-
beech now told him that all the people were
stirring ; he carefully folded this letter, and
put it in his pocket (that he might read it
over again at his leisure) ; and then he went
out and up the stairs to the higher deck.
Yolande was leaning with her elbows on the
rail, gazing out on the wide waters and the
far wastes of sand. She did not hear him
approach ; she was carelessly singing to herself
some snatch of a French song, and
doubtless not thinking at all how inappropriate
the words were : —

Ole ! . . . c'est la terre de France !
0\\€ ! . . . Parsons ! bonne entrance I
Vois-tu, lh,-bas, sous le ciel gris
A Horizon ? . . . C'est le pays !

Macedon, Ferine

Toinon, Catherine "

'* Yolande," said he, and she started and
turned round quickly.

Why, you don't seem to consider that you
have taken a very serious step in lile," he
said, with a smile.

- Moi ?"

Then she recalled herself lo her proper
tongue.

*' I think it pleases every one ; do you
not ?" she said, brightly ; and there were no
more forebodings possible when he found himself,
as now, face to face with the shining
cheerfulness of her eyes.

OBEDIENCE.

YoLANDE was right on that one point at
least ; every one seemed greatly pleased.
There was a new and obvious satisfaction
permeating all through this little party in
exile. Mrs. Graham was more affectionate
than ever — it was '' dear Yolande " every
other minute ; Colonel Graham was assiduous
in giving her perfectly idiotic advice about
her housekeeping at Allt-nam-ba ; and the
Master of Lynn sought, but sought in vain,
for opportunities of having little confidential
talks with her. And the most light-hearted of
them all was Yolande herself. Her decision
once given, she seemed to trouble herself no
more about the future. Every one was
pleased ; so was she. She betrayed no concern
; she was not embarrassed by that
increase of attention and kindness which,
however slight, was easily recognisable and

significant. To all appearance she was occupied,
not in the least with her future duties
as a wife, but solely and delightedly with
preparations for the approaching visit to
Merhadj ; and she was right thankful that
they were going by water, for on two occasions
they had found the sand of the riverbank
to be of a temperature of 140 deg. in
the sun, which was not very pleasant for
women-folk wearing thin-soled boots.

When they had got into the stern of the
big boat, and were being rowed up the wide
yellow-green river, her father could not help
regarding this gaiety of demeanour with an
increasing wonder, and even with a touch of
apprehensive doubt. And then again he
argued with himself. Why should she anticipate
the gravities of life ? Why should she
not be careless and light-hearted, and happy
in the small excitements of the moment ?
Would it not be time to face the evil days, if
there were to be any such, when they came ?
And why should they come at all ? Surely
some lives were destined for peace. Why
should not the story of her life be like the
scene now around them — placid, beautiful,

and calm, with unclouded skies ? To some
that was given ; and Yolande (he gradually
convinced himself) would be one of those.
To look at her face — so full of life and pleasure
and bright cheerfulness — was to acquire
hope ; it was not possible to associate misery
or despair with those clear-shining confident
eyes. Her life (he returned to the fancy)
was to be like the scenery in which the
courtship and engagement passage of it had
chanced to occur — pretty, placid, unclouded,
not too romantic. And so by the time they
reached Merhadj he had grown to be, or had
forced himself to appear, as cheerful as any of
them. He knew he was nervous, fretful, and
liable to gloomy anticipations ; but he also
had a certain power of fighting against these,
and that he could do best when Yolande was
actually beside him. And was she not there
now — merry and laughing and delighted ;
eagerly interested in these new scenes, and
trying to talk to every one at once ? He
began to share in her excitement ; he Ibrgot
about those vague horoscopes ; it was the
crowd of boats, and the children swimming
in the Nile, and the women coming down

with pitchers on their heads, and all the
other busy and picturesque features along the
shore, that he was looking at, because she
also was looking at them ; and it was no
visionary Yolande of the future, but the very
sensible and practical and light-hearted Yolande
of that very moment, that he had to grip by
the arm, with an angry remonstrance about
her attempting to walk down the gangboard
by herself. Yolande laughed ; she never believed
much in her father's anger.

They got ashore to find themselves in the
midst of a frightful tumult and confusion —
at least, so It appeared to them after the
silence and seclusion of the dahabeeah.
Donkeys were being driven down to the
river, raising clouds of dust as they came
trotting along ; the banks swarmed with
mules and camels and water-carriers ; the
women were filling their pitchers, the boys
their pig-skin vessels ; the children were
driving and splashing and calling ; and altogether
the bustle and clamour seemed different
enough from the ordinary repose of
Eastern life, and were even a trifle bewildering.
But in the midst of it all appeared

young Ismat Effendi, who came hurrying
down the bank to offer a hundred eager
apologies for his not having been in time to
receive them ; and under his guidance they
got away from the noise and squalor, and
proceeded to cross a large open square,
planted with a few acacia-trees, to the Governor's
house just outside the town. The
young Ismat was delighted to be the escort
of those two English ladies. He talked very
fast ; his eyes were eloquent ; and his smiling
face showed how proud and pleased he was.
And would they go through the town with
him after they had done his father the honour
of a visit ?

The bazaars are not like Cairo," said he.
No ; no ; who could expect that ? We area
small town ; but we are more Egyptian than
Cairo ; we are not half foreign, like Cairo."

*' I am sure it will be all the more interesting
on that account," said Mrs. Graham,
graciously ; and Yolande was pleased to
express the same opinion ; and young Ismat
Effendi's face seemed to say that a great
honour had been conferred on him and on
Merhadj.

And indeed they were sufficiently interested
in what they could already see of the place —
this wide sandy square, with its acacias in tubs,
its strings of donkeys and camels, its veiled
women and dusky men ; with the high bare
walls of a mosque, the tapering minaret, some
lower walls of houses, and everywhere a profusion
of palms that bounded the farther side.

'' Hill, Mr. Ismat," called out Colonel
Graham, as two gangs of villainous-looking
convicts, all chained to each other, came along,
under guard of a couple of soldiers. '' What
have these fellows been doing ? "

*' They are prisoners," said he, carelessly.
*' They have killed somebody, or stolen something.
We make them carry water."

The next new feature was a company of
soldiers in white tunics and trousers and red
tarbooshes, who marched quickly along to the
shrill sharp music of bugles. They disappeared
into the archway of a large square
building.

That is my father's house," exclaimed

young Ismat to the ladies. ** He looks to

your visit with great pleasure. And the other

gentlemen of the town, they are there also ;

VOL. I. X.

and the chief engineer of the district. Your
coming is a qrreat honour to us."

*' I wish I knew a Httle Arabic," said Mrs.
Graham. " I am sure we have not thanked
his Excellency half enough for his kindness
in lending us his dahabeeah."

'' Oh, quite enough, quite enough ! " said
the polite young Egyptian. " I assure you
it is nothing. Though it is a pity my father
does not understand English — and not much
French, either. He has been very busy all
his life, and not travelling. The other
gentlemen speak French, like most of the
official Egyptians."

*' And you," said Mrs. Graham, regarding
him with her pretty eyes, — ''do you speak
French as well as you speak English .-^ "

** My English ! " he said, with a slight
shrug of his shoulders. 'rit is very bad. I
know, it is very, very bad — I have never
been in England — I have had no practice
except a little in India. But, on the contrary,
I have lived three years in Paris ; Trench is
much more natural to me than English."

It is so with me also, Mr. Ismat," said
Yolande, a trille shyly.

With you ! " he exclaimed.

I have lived nearly all my life in France.
But your English, that you speak of, is not in
the least bad. It is very good ; is it not,
Mrs. Graham ? "

Nothing further could be said on that
point, however, for they were just escaping
from the glare of the sun into a cool high
archway ; and from that they passed into a
wide, open courtyard, where the guard of
soldiers they had seen enter presented arms.
Then they ascended some steps; and finally
were ushered into a large and lofty and barely-furnished
saloon, where the Governor and
the notables of Merhadj received them with
much serious courtesy. But this interview,
as it turned out, was not quite so solemn as
that on the deck of the dahabeeah ; for, after
what Ismat Effendi had said to the two
ladies without, it was but natural that the
conversation should be conducted in French ;
and so the coffee and cigarettes which were
brought in by two young lads were partake
of in anything but silence. And then, as
little groups were thus formed, and as Ismat's
services as interpreter were not in such constant

demand, he somehow came to devote
himself to the two ladies, and as Yolande
naturally spoke French with much more ease
and fluency than Mrs. Graham, to her he
chiefly addressed himself. The Master of
Lynn did not at all like this arrangement.
He was silent, and impatient. He regarded
this Frenchified Arab, who seemed to consider
himself so fascinating, with a goodly
measure of robust English contempt. And
then he grew angry with his sister. She
ought not to be, and she ought not to permit
Yolande to be, so familiar with this Egyptian
fellow. Did she not know that Egyptian
ladies studiously kept their faces concealed }
And what must he be thinking of these two
English ladies, who laughed and chatted in
this free and easy fashion ?

Then, as regarded Yolande, his gratitude
for the great gift she had given him was still
full in his mind, and he was willing to make
every excuse for her, and to treat her with a
manly forbearance and leniency ; but at the
same time he could not get rid of a certain
consciousness that she did not seem to recognise
as she ought that he had, in a way, a

right of possession. She bore herself to him
just as she bore herself to the others ; if there
was any one of the party whom she seemed
specially to favour that morning as they came
up the Nile, it was Colonel Graham, who
did nothing but tease her. She did not seem
to think there was any difference between
yesterday and to-day ; whereas yesterday she
was free, and to-day she was a promised
bride. However, he threw most of the blame
on his sister. Polly was always trying the
effect of her eyes on somebody ; and this
Egyptian was as good as another. And he
wondered how Graham allowed it.

But matters grew worse when this ceremonious
interview was over. For when they
went to explore the narrow, twisting, mud-paved,
and apparently endless bazaars of
Merhadj, where there was scarcely room for
the camels and donkeys to pass without
bumping them against the walls or shop
doors, of course they had to go two and two ;
and as young Ismat had to lead the way, and
as he naturally continued to talk to the person
with whom he had been talking within, it fell
out that Yolande and he were the first pair ;

the others following as they pleased. Once
or twice the Master struggled forward through
the crowd and the dust and the donkeys, and
tried to detach Yolande from her companion ;
but in each case some circumstance happened
to intervene, and he failed ; and the consequence
was that, bringing up the rear with
Mr. Winterbourne, who was not a talkative
person, he had abundant leisure to nurse his
wrath in silence. And he felt he had a right
to be angry, though it was not perhaps
altogether her fault. She did not seem to
understand that there where relations existing
between engaged people different from those
existing between others. He had acquired a
certain right ; so, in fact, had she ; for he put it
to himself whether, supposing he had had the
chance of walking through those miserable little
streets of Merhadj with the prettiest young
Englishwoman who ever lived, he would have
deserted Yolande for her side. No, he would
not. And he thought that he ought to remonstrate,
and that he would remonstrate; but yet
In a kindly way, so that no offence could betaken.
It could be no offence, surely, to beg
Iron her just a little bit more of her favour.

Meanwhile, this was the conversation of
those two in front, as they slowly made their
way along the tortuous, catacomb-looking
thoroughfare, with its dusky little shops, in
the darkness of each of which sat the merchant,
cross-legged, and gazing impassively out from
under his large white turban.

"What is it, then, you wish?" he was
saying to her ; and he spoke in French that
was much more idiomatic, if not any more
fluent, than his English. *' Curiosities ?
Bric-a-brac ? "

'* It is something very Eastern, very
Egyptian, that I could send to the ladies at
the Chateau where I was brought up," she
said, as she attentively scanned each gloomy
recess. "And also I would like to buy
something for Mrs. Graham — a little present
I know not what. Also for my papa. Is
there nothing very strange — very curious ? "

"But alas! Mademoiselle," said he, "we
have here no manufactures. Our business of
the neighbourhood is agriculture. All these
articles in the bazaar are from Cairo ; we
have not even any of the Assist pottery,
which is pretty and curious, but perhaps not

safe to carry on a long journey. The silver
jewellery is all from Cairo ; those silks from
Cairo also ; those cottons from England "

At Cairo, then, one could purchase some
things truly Egyptian ? "

** Certainly — certainly, Mademoiselle, you
will find the bazaars at Cairo full of interest.
Ah, I wish with all my heart I could accompany
you ! "

"That would be to encroach entirely too
much on your goodness," said she, with a
pleasant smile.

'' Not at all," said he, earnestly. " Ah
no ; not at all. It is so charming to find
one's self for a time in new society ; and if
one can be of a little assistance, that is so
much the better. Then there is also something
I would speak to Monsieur your father
about. Mademoiselle, before you return to the
dahabeeah. I have arranged one or two
excursions for you, which may interest you,
perhaps ; and the necessary means are all
prepared ; and I think it might be of advantage
to begin these at once. There is no
danger — no, no ; there is no cause for any
alarm ; but always of late the political atmosphere

has been somewhat disturbed ; and if
you were at Cairo, you would find out better
what was going to happen than we ourselves
do here. Then, as you have said, you would
wish to buy some things ; and you will have
need of plenty of time to go through the
bazaars "

He seemed to speak with a little caution
at this point.

'* I have heard the gentlemen speak of it,"
said she, with no great concern, for she was
far from being a nervous person ; 'but they
seemed to think there was no danger."

Danger ? No, no," said he. " For you
there can be no danger. But if there is
political disquiet and disturbance, it might
not be quite agreeable for you ; and that is
all I wish to say to Monsieur your father,
that he would have the goodness to make the
excursions as soon as possible, and so leave
more time forbidding the situation. It is a
hint — it is a suggestion — that is all."

I am sure that my papa and Colonel
Graham will do whatever you think best,"
said she.

"You are very good, Mademoiselle. I

wish to serve them," said he, with great
courtesy.

Well, not only did this young man —
whether intentionally or not, it was impossible
to say — monopolise Yolande's society during
the remainder of their exploration of Merhadj,
but furthermore, on their embarking in their
boat to return, he accepted an invitation to
dine with them that same evening ; and the
Master of Lynn was determined that, before
young Ismat put foot on board the dahabeeah,
Yolande would be civilly but firmly requested
to amend her ways. It was all very well for
his sister, who was a born flirt, to go about
making great friends with strangers ; and it
was all very well for Colonel Graham, who
was too lazy to care about anything, to look
on with good-humoured indifference. But
already this audacious youth had begun to
pose Yolande as an exalted being. She
knew nothing about Garrison life in India.

He had very considerable difficulty in
obtaining a private conversation with Yolande,
for life on board the dahabeeah was distinctly
public and social ; but late on in the afternoon
he succeeded.

*' So, Yolande," said he, with an artful
carelessness, 'this has been the first day of
our engagement."

Oh yes," said she, looking up in a pleasant
way.

'ewe haven't seen much of each other,"
he suggested.

"Ah no; it has been such a busy day.
How much nicer is the quiet here, is it not ?"

But you seemed to find Ismat Effendi
sufficiently amusing," he said, somewhat
coldly.

Oh yes," she answered, quite frankly.
And so clever and intelligent. I hope we
shall see him when he comes to England."

I thought," said he, " that in France
young ladies were brought up to be rather
reserved — that they were not supposed to become
so friendly with chance acquaintances."

Perhaps there was something in the tone
that caused her to look up, this time rather
seriously.

I should not call him a chance acquaintance,"
she said, slowly. " He is the friend of
Colonel Graham, and of papa, and of yourself."
And then she added, speaking still

slowly, and still regarding him : '* Did you
think I was not enough reserved ? "

Well, there was a kind of obedience in her
manner — a sort of suitableness in her eyes
that entirely took the wind out of the sails
of his intended reproof.

You see, Yolande," said he, in a much
more friendly way, " perhaps it was mere bad
luck ; but after getting engaged only last
night, you may imagine I wanted to see a
little of you to-day ; and you can't suppose
that I quite liked that Egyptian fellow monopolising
you the whole time. Of course, I
am not jealous — and not jealous of that
fellow ! — for jealousy implies suspicion ; and
I know you too well. But perhaps you don't
quite understand that people who are engaged
have a little claim on each other, and expect
to be treated with a little more intimacy and
friendliness than as if they were outsiders."

*' Oh yes, I understand," she said, with her
eyes cast down.

Of course, I am not complaining," he
continued, in the most amiable way. " It
would be a curious thing if 1 were to begin
to complain now, after what you said last

night. But you can't wonder if I am anxious
to have all your kindness to myself; and that
I should like you and me to have different
relations between ourselves from those we
have with other people. An engagement
means giving up something on both sides, I
suppose. Do you think I should like to see
you waltzing with any one else now? It isn't
in human nature that I should like it."

*' Then I will not waltz with any one," she
said, still looking down.

'* And I don't think you will find me a
tyrannous sort of person, Yolande," said he,
with a smile, '' even if you were inclined to
make an engagement a much more serious
matter than you seem to consider it. It is
more likely you who will prove the tyrant ;
for you have your own way with everybody ;
and why not with me too ? And I hope you
understand why I spoke, don't you '^. You
don't think it unkind .^ "

Oh no, I quite understand," she said, in
the same low voice.

Ismat Effendi came to dinner, as he had
promised. She spoke scarcely a word to him
the whole evening.

A CHAT IN THE DESERT.

"Archie," said his sister, on one occasion, in
rather a significant tone, 'you will have some
trouble with papa."

They were on their way to visit a convent
some few miles inland, and the only thing
that varied the monotony of the journey was
the occasional stumbling of the wretched
animals they rode. He glanced round, to
see that the others were far enough off; then
he said, either carelessly or with an affectation
of carelessness —

'' I daresay. Oh yes, I have no doubt of
it. But there would have been a row in any
case ; so it does not matter much. If I had
brought home the daughter of an archangel,
he would have growled and grumbled. He
gave you a pretty warm time of it, Polly,
before he let you marry Graham."

And then he said, with more vehemence —

Hang it all, my father doesn't understand
the condition of things nowadays ! The
peerage isn't sacred any longer ; you can't
expect people to keep on intermarrying and
intermarrying, just to please Burke. We can
show a pretty good list you know ; and I
wouldn't add any name to It that would disgrace
it; but that craze. of my father's is all
nonsense. Why, the only place nowadays
where a lord is worshipped and glorified is
the United States ; that's where I should
have gone if I had wanted to marry for
money ; I daresay they would have found out
that sooner or later I should succeed to a
peerage. Of course, my father is treated
with great respect when he goes to attend
meetings at Inverness; and the keepers and
gillies think he is the greatest man In the
kingdom ; but what would he be in London ?
Why, there you find governing England a
commoner, whose family made their money
in business ; and under him — and glad
enough to take office, too — noblemen whose
names are as old as the history of England
"

His sister interrupted him.

*' ]\Iy dear Master," said she, "please remember
that because a girl is pretty her
father's politics are not necessarily right. If
you have Imbibed those frightful sentiments
from Mr. Winterbourne, for goodness' sake
say nothing about them at the Towers. The
matter will be difficult enough without that.
You see, with anybody else, it might be practicable
to shelve politics; but Mr. Winterbourne's
views and opinions are too widely
known. And you will have quite enough
difficulty in getting papa to receive Mr.
Winterbourne with decent civility, without
your talking any wild Radicalism in that
way."

*' Radicalism .-^ " said he. 'Tt Is not Radicalism.
It Is common sense, which is just
the reverse of Radicalism. However, what
I have resolved on is this, Polly : his lordship
shall remain in complete ignorance of the
whole affair until Yolande goes to Allt-nam-
ba. Then he will see her. That outfit todo
something to smooth the way ? There is
another thing, too. Winterbourne has taken
Allt-nam-ba ; and m\' father ought to be well
disposed to him on that account alone."

'' Because a gentleman rents a shooting
from you for one year "

'but why one year?" he interposed,
quickly. " Why shouldn't WInterbourne
take a lease of it ? He can well afford it.
And with Yolande living up there, of course
he would like to come and see her sometimes ;
and Allt-nam-ba Is just the place for a man to
bring a bachelor friend or two with him from
London. He can well afford It. It Is his only
amusement. It would be a good arrangement
for me, too ; for I could lend him a hand — and
the moor wants hard shooting, else we shall behaving
the disease back again some fine day.
Then we should continue to let the forest."

'rand where are you and Yolande going
to live then ? " said his sister, regarding him
with a curious look. "Are you going to
install her as mistress of the Towers ? "

"Take her to Lynn!" he said, with a
scornful laugh. " Yes, I should think so !
Cage her up with that old cat. Indeed ! "

She Is my aunt as well as yours, and I
will not have her spoken of like that," said
Mrs. Graham, sharply.

She Is my aunt," said this young man.

VOL. I. Y

"And she is yours; and she is an old cat
as well. Never mind, Polly. You will see
such things at Lynn as your small head never
dreamed of. The place has just been starved
for want of money. You must see that when
you think of Inverstroy : look how well
everything is done there. And then, when
you consider how we have been working to
pay off scores run up by other people — that
seems rather hard, doesn't it ? "

I don't think so — I don't think so at all!"
his sister said, promptly. "Our family may
have made mistakes in politics ; but that was
better than always truckling to the winning
side. We have nothing to be ashamed of.
And you ought to be very glad that so much
of the land remains ours "

'well, you will see what can be made of it,"
her brother said, confidently. " I don't regret
now the long struggle to keep the place together;
and once we get back to Corrievreak,
we'll have the watershed for the march again."

His face brightened up at this prospect.

"That will be something, Polly*" he
said, gaily. "What a view there is from the
tops all along that march ! You've got the

whole of Inverness-shire spread out around
you like a map. I think it was ^8000 my
grandfather got for Corrievreak ; but I suppose
Sir John will want ;^ 15,000. I know
he is ready to part with it, for it is of little
use to him ; it does not lie well with his
forest. But if we had it back — and with the
sheep taken off Allt-nam-ba "

'jim says you ought to make Corrievreak
the sanctuary," his sister remarked ; and,
indeed, she seemed quite as much interested
as he in these joyful forecasts.

"Why, of course. There couldn't be a
better "

*' And I was saying that if you planted the
Rushed slopes, and built a good large comfortable
lodge there, you would get a far
better rent for the forest. You know, it isn't
like the old days, Archie. The people who
come from the south now come because it is
the fashion ; and they must have a fine house
for their friends "

"Yes, and hot luncheons sent up the hill —
with champagne glasses and table-napkins ! "
said he. '' No more biscuits and a flask to last
you from morning till night. The next thing

will be a portable dining-table, that can betaken
up into one of the carries ; and then
they will have finger-glasses, I suppose, after
lunch. No matter. For there is another
thing, my sweet Mrs. Graham, that perhaps
you have not considered : it may come to
pass that, as time goes on, we may not have
to let the forest at all. That would be much
better than being indebted to your tenant fora
day's stalking in your own forest."

And then it seemed to strike him that all
this planning and arranging — on the basis of
Yolande's fortune — sounded just a little bit
mercenary.

*'To hear us talking like this," said he,
with a laugh, "' any one would imagine that I
was marrying in order to improve the Lynn
estate. Well, we haven't quite come to that
yet, I hope. If it were merely a question of
money, I could have gone to America, as I
said. That would have been the market for
the only kind of goods I've got to sell. No.
I don't think any one can bring that against
me.

"I, for one, would not think of accusing
you of any such thing," said his sister, warmly.

I hope you would have more pride. Jim
was poor enough when I married him."

'' Now, if I were marrying for money,"
said he — and he seemed eager to rebut this
charge — '' I would have no scruples at all
about asking Yolande to go and live at Lynn.
Of course it would be a very economical
arrangement. But would I ? I should think
not. I wouldn't have her shut up there for
anything. But I hope she will like the
house, as a visitor, and get on well with my
father and my aunt. Don't you think she
will produce a good impression ? What I
hope for most of all is that Jack Melville ray
take a fancy to her. That would settle it ina
minute, you know. Whatever Melville
approves, that is right — at the Towers, or
anywhere else. It's his cheek, you know.
He believes in himself; and everybody else
believes in him. It isn't only at Gress that
he is the dominie. ^ He is a scholar and a
gentleman ' — that is my beloved auntie's pet
phrase, as if his going to Oxford on the
strength of the Ferguson scholarship made
him an authority on the right construction of
a salmon-ladder."

"Is that the way you speak of your
friends behind their back ?"

"Well, he jumps upon me considerable,"
said he, frankly; "and I may as well take it
out of him, when he is at Gress, and I am in
Egypt. No matter. If he takes a fancy to
Yolande, it will be all right. That is how
they do with cigars and wines in London —
specially selected and approved by Messrs.
So-and-so.' It is a guarantee of genuine
quality. And so it will be ' Yolande Winterbourne,
approved by Jack Melville of Mona-glen
and forwarded on to Lynn Towers'"

If that is all, that can be easily managed,"
said his sister, cheerfully. " When she is
with us at Inverstroy, we will take her over
to call on Mrs. Bell."

I know what Mrs. Bell will call her— I
know the very phrase : she will say, ' She is a
bonny doo, that.' The old lady is rather proud
of the Scotch she picked up in the south."

She ought to be prouder of the plunder
she picked up farther south still. She ' drew
up wi' blanket Englishman at Carlisle-ha' ' to
some purpose."

"Yes; and Jack Melville will have every

penny of it ; and a good solid nest-egg it
must be by this time. I am certain the old
lady has an eye on Monaglen. What an odd
thing it would be if Melville were to have
Monaglen handed over to him just as we
were getting back Corrievreak ! I think
there are some curious changes in store in
that part of the world."

At this point Mrs. Graham pulled up her
sorry steed, and waited until the rest of the
cavalcade came along.

"Yolande dear," said she, in a tone of
remonstrance, "why don't you come on in
front, and get less of the dust ?"

Yolande did as she was bid.

''I have been so much interested," said
she, brightly. "What a chance it is to learn
about Afghanistan and Russia — from one
who knows, as Colonel Graham does. You
read and read in Parliament ; but they all
contradict each other. And Colonel Graham
is quite of my papa's opinion."

"Well, now, the stupidity of it!" said
pretty Mrs. Graham, with an affected petulance.
"You people have been talking away
about Afghanistan, and Archie and I have been

talking away about the Highlands — in the
African desert. What is the use of it ? We
ought to talk about what is around us "

I propose," said the Master of Lynn,
"that Yolande gives us a lecture on the
antiquities of Karnac."

Do you know, then, that I could ?" said
she. 'but not this Karnac. No; the one
in Brittany. I lived near it at Array for a
long time before I was taken to the Chateau.

My dear Yolande," exclaimed Mrs.
Graham, "if you will tell us about yourself,
and your early life, and all that, we will pack
off all the mummies and tombs and pillars
that ever existed !"

But there is no story at all, except a sad
one," said the girl. " My uncle was a French
gentleman — ah, so kind he was ! — and one
day in the winter he was shot in the woods
when he and the other gentlemen were out.
Oh, it must have been terrible when they
brought him home — not quite dead ; but they
did not tell me ; and perhaps I was too young
to experience all the misery. But it killed
my aunt, who had taken me away from
England when my mother died. She would

not see any one ; she shut herself up ; then
one morning she was found dead ; and then
they sent for my father, and he took me to
the ladies at the Chateau. That is all.
Perhaps, if I had been older, I should have
understood it more, and been more grieved ;
but now, when I look back at Array and our
living there, I think mostly of the long drives
with my aunt, when my uncle was away at
the chase, and often and often we drove along
the peninsula of Quiberon, which not everyone
visits. And was it a challenge, then,"
she added, in a brighter way, '' about a lecture
on Carnal ? Oh, I can give you one very
easily. For I have read all the books about
it; and I can give you all the theories about
it, each of which is perfectly self-evident, and
all of them quite contradictory. Shall I
begin ? It was a challenge."

"No, Yolande, I would far rather hear
your own theory," said he, gallantly.

Mine ? I have not the vanity," she said,
lightly. *' But this is what all the writers do
not know — that, besides the long rows of
stones in the open plains — oh, hundreds and
thousands, so thick that all the farmhouses

and the stone walls have been built of them
besides these, all through the woods,
wherever you go, you come upon separate
dolmens, sometimes almost covered over.
My aunt and I used to stop the carriage, and
go wandering through the woods in search ;
and always we thought these were the graves
of pious people who wished to be buried in a
sacred place — near where the priests were
sacrificing in the plain — and perhaps that
their friends had brought their bodies from
some distant land "

'just as the Irish Kings were carried to
iona to be buried," said the Master.

But, Yolande dear," said Mrs. Graham,
who was more Interested in the story of
Yolande's youth than in Celtic monuments,
'' how did you come to keep up your English,
since you have lived all your life in
France ?"

** But my aunt spoke English, naturally,"
said she. ** Then at the Chateau one of the
ladies also spoke it — oh, I assure you, there
was no European language she did not speak.
Nor any country she did not know, for she
had been travelling companion to a noble

lady. And always her belief was that you
must learn Latin as the first key."

'then did you learn Latin, Yolande?"
the Master of Lynn inquired, with some
vague impression that the question was
jocular, for Yolande had not revealed any
traces of erudition.

If you will examine me in Virgil, I think
I shall pass," said she ; 'but in Horace — not
at all! It is distressing the way he twists
the meaning about the little short lines, and
hides it away ; I never had patience enough
for him. Ah, there is one who does not hide
his meaning — there is one who can write the
line that goes straight and sounding and
majestic. You have not to puzzle over the
meaning when it is Victor Hugo who recounts
to you the story of Racy Bias, of
Cromwell, of Angela, of Herman, That is
not the poetry that is made with needles !"

Mrs. Graham was scarcely prepared for
this declaration of faith.

My dear Yolande," said she, cautiously,
Victor Hugo's dramas are very fine ; but I
would not call them meat for babes. At the
Chateau, now "

Oh, they were strictly forbidden, ' she
said, frankly. *' Madame would have stormed
if she had known. But we read them all
the same. Why not ? What is the harm ?
Every one knows that there is crime and wrong
in the world ; why should one shut one's eyes?
that is folly. Is it not better to be indignant
that there should be such crime and wrong ?
If there is any one who takes harm from such
writing, he must be a strange person."

'eat all events, Yolande," said he, '' I hope
you don't think that all kings are scoundrels,
and all convicts angels of light ? Victor
Hugo is all very well, and he thunders along
in fine style ; but don't you think he comes
awfully near being ridiculous ? He hasn't
much notion of a joke, has he ? Don't you
think he is rather too portentously solemn ?"

Well, this inquiry into Yolande's opinions
and experiences — which was intensely interesting
to him, and naturally so — was eliciting
some odd revelations ; for it now appeared
that she had arrived at the conclusion that
the French, as a nation, were a serious and
sombre people.

Do you not think so V she said, with

wide eyes. '' Oh, I have found them so
grave. The poor people in the fields, when
you speak to them and they answer, it is
always with a sigh ; they look sad and tired ;
the care of work lies heavily on them. And
at the Chateau, also, everything was so serious
and formal ; and when we paid visits, there
was none of the freedom, the amusement, the
good humour of the English house. Sometimes,
indeed, at Oatlands, at Weybridge,
and once or twice in London, when my papa
has taken me to visit, I have thought the
mamma a little blunt in her frankness — in the
expectation you would find yourself at home
without any trouble on her part ; but the
daughters — oh, they were always very kind,
and then so full of interest, about boating, or
tennis, or something like that — always so full
of spirits, and cheerful — no, it was not in the
least like a visit to a French family. In
France, how many years is it before you
become friends with a neighbour? In England,
if you are among nice people, it is

tomorrow ! You, dear Mrs. Graham, when
you came to Oatlands, what did you know
about me ? Nothing."

Bless the child, had I not my eyes ?"
Mrs. Graham exclaimed.

But before two or three days you were
calling me by my Christian name."

"Indeed I did," said Mrs. Graham, " if it
is a Christian name, which I doubt. But
this I may suggest to you, my dear Yolande,
that you don't pay me a compliment, after
the friendship you speak of, and the relationship
we are all hoping for, in calling me by
my married name. The name of Polly is not
very romantic "

"Oh, dear Mrs. Graham, I couldn't!"
said Yolande, almost in affright.

"Of course not," said the pretty young
matron, with one of her most charming smiles.
"Of course you couldn't be guilty of such
familiarity with one of my advanced age.
But I suppose Jim is right. I am getting
old. Only he don't seem to consider that
a reason for treating me with any increasing
respect."

I am sure I never thought of such a
thing!" Yolande protested, almost in a voice
of entreaty. " How could you imagine it !"

"Very well. But if you consider that

Polly ' is not in accordance with my age, or
my serious character as a mother and a wife,
there is a compromise in ' Mary,' which,
indeed, was my proper name until I fell into
the hands of men. I used always to be
called Mary, until Archie and Jim began
with their impertinence. And when we are
in the Highlands together, you know, and
you are staying with us at Investroy, or weare
visiting you at Allt-nam-ba, or when weare
all together at the Towers, whatever
would the people think if they heard you call
me ' Mrs. Graham ' ? They would think we
had quarrelled."

"Then you are to be my sister Mary!"
said Yolande, placidly ; but the Master of
Lynn flushed with pleasure when he heard
that phrase.

And I will be your champion and protectress
when you come into our savage
wilds in a way you can't dream of," continued
pretty Mrs. Graham. 'you don't know
how we stand by each other in the Highlands.
We stand up for our own ; and you will be
one of us in good time. And you haven't
the least idea what a desperate person I am

when my temper is up — though Jim would
tell you he knows. Well, now, I suppose
that is the convent over there, behind those
palms ; and we have been chattering the
whole way about the Highlands, and Victor
Hugo, and I don't know what ; and I haven't
the least idea what we are going to see or
what we have to do."

But here the dragoman came up to assume
the leadership of the party ; and the Master
of Lynn allowed himself to be eclipsed. He
was not sorry. He was interested far less in
the things around him than in the glimpses
he had just got of Yolande's earlier years ;
and he was trying to place these one after
another, to make a connected picture of her
life up till the time that this journey brought
him and her together. Could anything be
more preoccupying than this study of the
companion who was to be with him through
all the long future time ? And already she
was related to him ; she had chosen his sister
to be hers.

A PHRASE.

But these Idle wanderings of theirs In Upper
Egypt were destined to come to a sudden
end. One evening they were coming down
the river, and were about to pass Merhadj,
when they saw young Ismat Effendi putting
off In another boat, evidently with the Intention
of intercepting them. They Immediately
ordered their boat to be pulled in to the shore ;
and as Ismat said he wanted to say something
to them, they stepped on board his father's
dahabeeah, and went into the saloon, for the
sake of coolness.

Then the bright-faced young Egyptian,
who seemed at once excited and embarrassed,
told them, in his fluent and oddly-phrased
English, that he was much alarmed ; and
that his alarm was not on account of any
danger that might happen to them, but was

VOL. I. z

the fear that they might think him discourteous
and inhospitable.

"Who could think that!" said pretty
Mrs. Graham, in her sweetest way.

*'0f course not. What's the matter?"
said her husband, more bluntly.

Then young Ismat proceeded to explain
that the latest news from the capital was not
satisfactory ; that many Europeans were leaving
the country : that the reports in the
journals were very contradictory ; and that,
in short, no one seemed to know what might
not happen. And then he went on to implore
them, if he suggested that they ought to
return to Cairo, and satisfy themselves of
their safety, by going to the English Consulate
there, not to imagine that he wished
them to shorten their visit, or that his father
desired to dispossess them of the dahabeeah.
How could that be," he said, quite anxiously,
"when here was another dahabeeah lying
idle ? No ; the other dahabeeah was wholly
at their service, for as long as they chose ;
and it would be a great honour to his father,
and the highest happiness to himself, if they
were to remain at Merhadj for the longest

period they could command ; but was he not
bound, especially when there were two ladies
with them, to let them know what he had
heard, and give them counsel ?"

*' My dear fellow, we understand perfectly,"
said Colonel Graham, with his accustomed
good humour. "And much obliged for the
hint. Fact is, I think we ought to get back
to Cairo in any case ; for those women-folk
want to have a turn at the bazaars, and by
the time they have half ruined us, we shall
just be able to get along to Suez, to catch
the Ganges "

'ewe must have plenty of time in Cairo,"
said Mrs. Graham emphatically.

Oh yes," said he. " Never mind the
danger. Let them buy silver necklaces, and
they won't heed anything else. Very well,
Mr. Ismat, come along with us now and have
some dinner, and we can talk things over.
We shall just be in time."

May I ?" said the young Egyptian to
Mrs. Graham. " I am not intruding ?"

"We shall be delighted if you will come
with us," said she, with one of her most
gracious smiles.

"It will not be pleasant for me when you
go," said he. "There is not much society
here."

"Nor will you find much society when
you come to see us at Inverstroy, Mr. Ismat,"
she answered. " But we will make up for
that by giving you a true Highland welcome :
shall we not, Yolande dear ?"

Yolande was not in the least embarrassed.
She had quite grown accustomed to consider
the Highlands as her future home.

I hope so," she said, simply. "We are
not likely to forget the kindness Mr. Ismat
has shown to us."

''Oh, Mademoiselle!" said he.

Now this resolve to go back to Cairo, and
to get along from thence in time to catch the
P. and O. steamer Ganges at Suez, was hailed
with satisfaction by each member of the little
party, though for very different reasons.
Mr. Winterbourne was anxious to be at St.
Stephens' before the Budget ; and he could
look forward to giving uninterrupted attention
to his Parliamentary duties, for Yolande was
going on to Inverstroy with the Ch'ahams.
Yolande herself was u'lad to think that soon

she would be installed as house-mistress at
Allt-nam-ba ; she had all her lists ready for
the shops at Inverness ; and she wanted time
to have the servants tested before her father's
arrival. Mrs. Graham, of course, lived in
the one blissful hope of seeing Baby again ;
while her husband was beginning to think
that a little salmon-fishing would be an
excellent thing. But the reason the Master
of Lynn had for welcoming this decision was
much more occult.

Polly," he had said to his sister on the
previous day, *' do you know, your friend
Miss Yolande "

My friend !" she said, staring at him.

'' She seems more intimate with you than
with any one else, at all events," said he.
'well, I was going to say that she takes
things pretty coolly."

'' I don't understand you."

I say she takes things very coolly," he
repeated. '' No one would imagine she was
engaged at all."

Are you complaining of her, already ? "

I am not complaining. I am stating
a fact."

"What is wrong, then? Do you want
her to go about proclaiming her engagement ?
Why, she can't. You haven't given her an
engagement-ring yet. Give her her engage-entering
first, and then she can go about
and show it."

*' Oh, you know very well what I mean.
You know that no one cares less about
sentimentality and that sort of thing than I
do ; I don't believe in it much ; but still — she
is just a trifle too business-like. She seems
to say ' Did 1 promise to marry ? Oh, very
well ; all right, when the time comes. Call
again tomorrow.' Of course my idea would
not be to have a languishing love-sick maiden
always lolloping at your elbow ; but her
absolute carelessness and indifference "

Oh, Archie, how can you say such a
thing ! She is most friendly with you "

Friendly ! Yes ; so she is with Graham.
Is it the way they bring up girls in France ?
to have precisely the same amount of friendliness
for everybody — lovers, husbands, or
even other people's husband's. It is convenient,
certainly ; but things might get
mixed."

*' I wonder to hear you," said Mrs. Graham,
Indignantly. 'you don't deserve your good
fortune. The fact Is, Yolande WInterbourne
happens to have very good health and spirits,
and she Is naturally light-hearted ; whereas,
you would like to have her sombre and
mysterious, I suppose ; or perhaps It Is the
excitement of lovers' quarrels that you want.
Is that It ? Do you want to be quarrelling
and making up again all day long ? Well, to
tell you the truth, Archie, you haven't hit on
the right sort of girl. Now, Shena Van
would have suited you ; she has a temper
that would have given you amusement."

'leave Miss Stewart alone!" he said,
roughly. " I wish there were many women
In the world like her : If there are, I haven't
met them."

Yolande Is too good for you."
"So she seems to think, at all events."
"Why don't you go and quarrel with her,
then ? What Is the use of coming and talking
over the matter with me ? "

"With her? It wouldn't Interest her.
She would rather talk about the price of coals,
or the chances of the Irish getting Home

Rule — anything but what ought to be the
most important event in her Hfe."

Archie," said his sister, who did not attach
too much seriousness to these temporary
moods of disappointment, "if papa finds out
that Mr. Winterbourne is half inclined, and
more than half inclined, to favour Home Rule,
he will go out of his senses."

Let him go out of his senses," said her-brother,
with deliberate indifference. " I
suppose the worst that could happen would
be the breaking off of the match."

But this possibility, involving the destruction
of all her beautiful plans and dreams of
the future, instantly awoke her alarm ; and
her protest was emphatic.

** Archie," said she, regarding him sternly,
** I beg you to remember that you are expected
to act as a gentleman."

I don't know what you mean," he said.

** I will tell you, plain enough. You have
asked this girl to be your wife ; she has
accepted you ; your engagement has been
made known ; and I say this, that if you were
to throw her over — I don't care for what
reason — you would stamp yourself as a

coward. Is that plain ? A girl may be
allowed to change her mind — at least, she
sometimes does ; and there Is not much said
against her ; but the man who engages himself
to a girl, and allows the engagement to
be known and talked about, and then throws
her over, I say Is a coward, neither more nor
less. And I don't believe It of you. I don't
believe you would allow papa or any one else
to Interfere, now the thing Is settled. The
Lesliess are not made of stuff like that."

That Is all very well " — he was going to
urge ; but the Impetuous little woman would
have her say.

'what Is more, I honour her highly for
her reserve. There Is nothing more disgusting
than to see young people dawdling
and fondling In the presence of others. You
don't want to be Jock and Jenny going to
the fair, do you ?"

'' Look here, Demosthenes," he said,
calmly. "You are as good as any one I
know at drawing a herring across the scent ;
but you are perfectly aware all the time of
what I mean."

This somewhat disconcerted her.

"Well, I am — in a way, she said; and
her tone was now rather one of appeal.
But don't you see what life on board this
boat is? It is all in the open. You cannot
expect any girl to be confidential when you
have scarcely ever a chance of talking to
her by herself. You must make allowances,
Archie. I do know what you mean : but —
but I don't think you are right ; and I, for
one, am very glad to see her so light-hearted.
You may depend on it, she hasn't sacrificed
any one else in order to accept you. Her
cheerfulness promises very well for the future
that is my idea of it ; it shows that she is
not thinking of somebody else, as girls sometimes
do, even after they are engaged. Of
course it isn't the girl's place to declare her
sentiments ; and it does happen sometimes
that there Is some one they would rather
have had speak ; and, of course, there is
an occasional backward glance, even after
marriage. In Yolande's case, I don't think
there is. One cannot be certain ; but I
don't think there is. And why should you
be disappointed because she does not too
openly show her preference } Of course she

can't — in this sort of life. But you will have
the whole field to yourself. You have no
rival ; and she has a quickly grateful nature.
You will have her all to yourself in the
Highlands. Here she is waiting on her
father half the time, and the other half Jim is
making fun with her. At Inverstroy it will
be quite different."

'well, perhaps. I hope so," said he.

'' Of course it will ! You will have her
all to yourself Jim will be away at his
fences and his pheasant-coops ; and I shall
have plenty to do in the house. And if you
want her to quarrel with you, I daresay she
will oblige you. Most girls can manage
that. But the first thing to be done, Archie
in sober seriousness — is to buy a very nice
engagement-ring for her at Cairo ; and that
will be always reminding her. And I do
hope it will be a nice one, a very handsome
one indeed. You ought not to consider
expense on such an occasion. If you haven't
quite enough money with you, Jim will lend
you some. It is certainly odd that she
should have no family jewellery ; but it is all
the greater opportunity for you to give her

something very pretty ; and you ought to
show the Winterbournes, for your own sake,
and for the sake of our family, that you can
do the thing handsomely."

He laughed.

"To hear you, Polly, one would think
you were an old woman — a thorough old
schemer. And yet how long is it since your
chief delight in life used to be to go toma-
bogging down the face of Bender ?"

I have learnt a little common sense
since then," said pretty Mrs. Graham, with
a demure smile.

Well, he did buy a very handsome ring
for her when they got to Cairo ; and Yolande
was greatly pleased with it, and said something
very kind and pretty to him. Moreover,
there was a good deal of buying going
on. The gentlemen at the Consulate had
expressed the belief that they were in no
immediate danger of having their throats cut;
and they set to work to ransack the bazaars
with a right good will. Nor was there any
concealment of the intent of most of those
purchases. Of course they bought trinkets
and bric-a-brac, mostly for presentation to

their friends; and Mr. Winterbourne insisted
on Mrs. Graham accepting from him a costly
piece of Syrian embroidery on which she had
set longing eyes during their previous visit.
But the great mass of their purchases — at
least of Mr. Winterbourne's purchases — was
clearly and obviously meant for the decoration
of Yolande's future home. Under Mrs.
Graham's guidance, he bought all sorts of
silk stuffs, embroideries, and draperies. He
had a huge case packed with hand-graven
brass-work — squat, quaint candlesticks, large
shields, cups, trays, and what not ; and once,
when, in an old curiosity shop, and Yolande
happening to be standing outside, Mrs.
Graham ventured to remonstrate with him
about the cost of some Rhodian dishes he
had just said he would take, he answered
her thus —

My dear Mrs. Graham, when in Egypt
we must do as the Egyptians do. Don't you
remember the bride who came down to the
river, bringing With her her bales of carpets
and her drove of donkeys ? Yolande must
have her perishing — that is a good Scotch
word, is it not .'^"

But I should think she must have about
a dozen of those sheikhs' head-dresses
already," said pretty Mrs. Graham. "And
we don't really have so many fancy-dress
balls in Inverness. Besides, she could not
go as a sheikh."

Fancy-dress balls ? Oh no ; nothing
of the kind. They will do for a dozen things
in a room — to be pitched on to sofas — or on
the backs of chairs — merely patches of fine
colour."

** And that," said she, with a smile, looking
at an antique Persian dagger, with an
exquisitely carved handle and elaborately Inlaid
sheath, — "of what use will that be in
the Highlands '^ "

My dear madam," said he, with a perfectly
grave face, '' I have not listened to
your husband and your brother for nothing.
Is It not necessary to have something with
which to gralloch a wounded stag ? "

To gralloch a stag with a beautiful thing
like that ! " she exclaimed in horror.

'rand If It Is too good for that, cannot
Yolande use It as a paper-knife '^ You don't
mean to say that when you and your husband

came home from India, you brought back no
curiosities with you ? "

*' Of course we did ; and long before that
Jim had a whole lot of things from the
Summer Palace at Pekin ; but then, we are
old people. These things are too expensive
for young people just beginning."

** The bride must have her perishing,"
said he, briefly ; and then he began to
bargain for a number of exceedingly beautiful
Damascus tiles, which, he thought, would just
about be sufficient for the construction of a
fireplace.

Nor were these people the least bit
ashamed when, some days after this, they
managed to smuggle their valuable cases onboard
the homeward-bound steamer, without
paying the Customs dues. Mr. Winterbourne
declared that a nation which was so
financially mad as to levy an 8 per cent ad
valorem duty on exports — or rather that a
nation which was so mad as to tax exports at
all — ought not to be encouraged in its lunacy ;
and he further consoled his conscience by
reflecting that, so far from his party having
spoiled the Egyptians, it was doubtless all

the other way ; and that probably some £bo
o^ ^/O o^ English money had been left in
the Irene bazaars which had no right to
be there. However, he was content. The
things were such things as he had wanted ;
he had got them as cheaply as seemed possible
; he would have paid more for them
had it been necessary. For, he said to himself,
even the rooms of a Highland shooting-box
might be made more picturesque and
interesting by these art-relics of other and
former civilisations. He did not know what
kind of home the Master of Lynn was like"
to provide for his bride ; but good colours
and good materials were appropriate anywhere
; and even if Yolande and her husband
were to succeed to the possession of Lynn
Towers, and even if the rooms there (as he
had heard was the case at Balmoral) were
decorated exclusively in Highland fashion,
surely they could set aside some chamber for
the reception of those draperies, and potteries,
and tiles, and what not, that would remind
Yolande of her visit to the East. 1 he bride
must have her perishing, he said to himself
again and again. But they bought no

jewellery, of a good kind, in Cairo ; Mr.
Winterbourne said he would rather trust
Bond Street wares.

And at last the big steamer slowly sailed
away from the land ; and they had begun
their homeward voyage. Mrs. Graham and
her husband were on the hurricane - deck ;
she was leaning with both arms on the rail.

*' Good-bye, Egypt," said she, as she regarded
the pale yellow country under the pale
turquoise sky. " You have been very kind
to me. You have made me a most charming
present to take back with me to the
Highlands."

'' What, then ? " said her husband.

'* A sister."

'' She isn't your sister yet," he said,
gruffly.

*' She is ; and she will be," she answered,
confidently. " Do you know, Jim, I had my
hopes and wishes all the way out ; but I
could never be sure ; for Archie is not easily
caught. And I don't think she distinguished
him much from the others on the voyage
here ; except in so far as he was one of our
party. Sometimes I gave it up, to tell you

VOL. I. 2 A

the truth. And then again it seemed so
desirable in every way ; for I had got to Hke
the girl myself; and I could see that Archie
would be safe with her ; and I could see
very well, too, that Mr. Winterbourne had
his eyes open, and that he seemed very well
disposed towards it."

*' You must have been watching everybody
like a cat," her husband said, in not too
complimentary fashion.

'' Can you wonder that I was interested ? "
she said, in protest. "Just fancy what it
would be for us if he had brought some
horrid insufferable creature to Lynn ! I
wouldn't have gone near the place ; and we
have little enough society as it is. But that
life on the Nile did it ; and I knew it would,
the moment the dahabeeah had started away
from Asyoot — being all by ourselves like
that, and he paying her little attentions all
day long. He couldn't help doing that, could
he i^ — it wouldn't have been civil. And I
foresaw what the end would be ; and I am
very glad of it ; and quite grateful to Egypt
and the Nile, despite all the flies and the
mosquitoes."

*' I daresay it will turn out all right' her
husband said, indifferently.

'well, you don't seem very delighted,"
she exclaimed. "Is that all you have to
say ? Don't you think it is a very good
thing ? "

Well, yes, I do think it is a good thing.
I have no doubt they will get on very well
together. And in other respects the match
will be an advantageous one."

'' That is rather cold approval," said she,
somewhat disappointed.

Oh no, it isn't," said he, and he turned
from looking at the retreating land and regarded
her. '' I say I don't think he could
have chosen better ; and I believe they will
be happy enough ; and they ought to be
comfortable and well off. Isn't that sufficient ?
He seems fond of her ; I think they will lead
a very comfortable life. What more } "

'' But there is something behind what you
say, Jim ; I know there is," she said.

'' And if there is, it is nothing very serious,"
said he ; and then he added with a curious
sort of smile : " I tell you I think it will come
out all right ; I am sure it will. But you

can't deny this, Polly — well, I don't know
how to put it. I may be mistaken. I haven't
as sharp eyes as yours. But I have a fancy
that this marriage, though I have no doubt it
will be a happy enough one, will be, on her
side at least "

"What thence" said his wife, peremptorily.

** I don't quite know whether the French
have a phrase for it," said he, evasively, but
still with the same odd smile on his face.
Probably they have ; they ought to have,
at least. At any rate, I have a kind of fancy
now it's nothing very terrible — I say I have
a dim kind of fancy that on her side the
marriage will be something that might be
called a mariage de complaisance. Oh, you
needn't go away in a temper. There have
been worse marriages than a mariage de
complaisance r

END OF VOL. I.

Purified by R. & R. Ci.akk, Edinburgh.

\.\

Cf)e ©totg of a a:)aug:bter

BY

WILLIAM BLACK

AUTHOR OF ' Macleod OF Take. ' A Princess OF THULE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL II.

Mention

MACMILLAN AND CO.



\TJie right of translation is reserved. \

V

CONTENTS OF VOL. 11.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Among the Clouds i

CHAPTER H.
Melville's Welcome Home " . 26

CHAPTER HI.
Neighbours . 42

CHAPTER IV.

Im Walk UND AUF DER Heine " . . .62

CHAPTER V.
A Confidant . . . . . . .82

CHAPTER VL
A Peacemaker 10 1

CHAPTER I.

AMONG THE CLOUDS.

Far up in the wild and lonely hills that form
the backbone, as it were, of eastern Inverness-shire,
in the desert solitudes where the Findhorn
and the Foyers first begin to draw their
waters from a thousand mystic-named or
nameless rills, stands the lodge of Allt-nam-ba.
The plain little double-gabled building, with
its dependencies of kennels, stables, coach-house,
and keepers' bothy, occupies a promontory
formed by the confluence of two
brawling streams ; and faces a long, wide,
beautiful valley, which terminates in the
winding waters of a loch. It is the only sign
of habitation in the strangely silent district ;
and it is the last. The rough hill-road
leading to it terminates there. From that

Vols II. B

small plateau, divergent charles— softly wooded
most of them are, with waterfalls half hidden
by birch and rowan trees — stretch up still
farther into a sterile wilderness of moor and
lucian and bare mountain-top, the haunt of
the ptarmigan, the red deer, and the eagle ;
and the only sound to be heard in these
voiceless altitudes is the monotonous murmur
of the various burns — the White Winding
Water, the Dun Water, the Stream of the
Red Lucian, the Stream of the Fairies, the
Stream of the Corrie of the Horses, as they
are called in the Gaelic.

At the door of this solitary little lodge, on
a morning towards the end of July, Yolande
Winterbourne was standing, engaged in
buttoning on her driving gloves, but occasionally
glancing out at the bewildering,
changeful, flashing, and gleaming day around
her. For, indeed, since she had come to live
at Allt-nam-ba she had acquired the conviction
that the place seemed very close up to
the sky ; and that this broad valley, walled
in by those great and silent hills, formed a
sort of caldron, in which the elements were
in the habit of mixing up weather for transference

to the wide world beyond. At this
very moment, for example, a continual
phantasmagoria of cloud - effects was passing
before her eyes. Far mountain-tops grew
blacker and blacker in shadow ; then the
gray mist of the rain stole slowly across and
hid them from view ; then they reappeared
again, and a sudden shaft of sunlight would
strike on the yellow-green slopes and on the
boulders of wet and glittering granite. But
she had this one consolation — that the
prospect in front of the lodge was much
more reassuring than that behind. Behind
over the mountainous ranges of the moor
the clouds were banking up in a heavy
and thunderous purple ; and in the ominous
silence the streams coming down from the
carries sounded loud ; whereas, away before
her, the valley that led down to the haunts of
men was for the most part flooded with
brilliant sunlight, and the wind-swept loch
was of the darkest and keenest blue. Altogether
there was more life and motion here
more colour and brilliancy and change —
than in the pale and placid Egyptian landscape
she had grown accustomed to ; but

there was also — she might have been pardoned
for thinking — for one who was about to drive
fourteen miles in a dogcart, a little more
anxiety ; and she had already resolved to
take her waterproof with her.

However, she was not much dismayed.
She had lived in this weather-brewing caldron
of a place for some little time; and had grown
familiar with its threatening glooms, which
generally came to nothing ; and with its
sudden and dazzling glories, which laughed
out a welcome to the lonely traveller in the
most surprising fashion. When the dog-cart
a four-wheeled vehicle— was brought round,
she stepped into it lightly, and took the reins
as if to the manner born, though she had
never handled a whip until Mrs. Graham
had put her in training at Inverstroy. Then
there was a strict charge to Jane to see that
brisk fires were kept burning in all the rooms ;
for, although it was still July, the air of these
alpine solitudes was sometimes somewhat keen.
And then — the youthful and fair-haired Sandy
having got up behind — she released the break ;
and presently they were making their way,
slowly and cautiously at first, down the stony

path, and over the loud-sounding wooden
bridge that here spans the roaring red-brown
waters of the Allt-cam-ban.

But when once the ^ trt over the bridge
and into the road leading :: vr. :ret vide
strath, they quickly mended : : r : r T ^ r r
was an unusual eagerness ana ongncnes^j in
her look Sandy the groom knew that the
stout and serviceable cob in the shaft:? ■ u a
sure-footed beast; but the road was re

roughest ; and he could not understand how
the your. ^- E r ^ ?.dy, who was generally

very cau: :- --ve so fast. Was it

to get ^^\<x\ i^Kjiw eric : back thunder-masses
of cloud that lay over the .-: . : : :.5 behind
them ? Here, at least there seemed no
danger of any storm. The s r ^ : was
brilliant on the wide grr :: : - : : r s . nd on the
flashing waters of the-::r : i :he steep

and sterile hillsides wrrr sr : :;^ r: ?end
the loch far ahead of the:. : - . :^ . .ri : ed
surface of a blue like the heart of a sapphire.
Yolande's face soon showed the influence of
the warm sunlight and of the finest keen air ;
and her eyes were glad, though they seemed
busy with other things. Indeed, there was

scarcely any sign of life around to attract her
attention. The sheep on the vast slopes,
where there was but a scanty pasturage
among the blocks of granite, were as small
gray specks ; an eagle, slowly circling on
motionless wing over the farthest mountain-range,
looked no bigger than a hawk ; some
young falcons, whose cry sounded just overhead
among the crags, were invisible. But
perhaps she did not heed these things much ?
She seemed preoccupied, and yet happy
and light-hearted.

When, In due course of time, they reached
the end of the valley and got on to the road
that wound along the wooded shores of the
loch, there was much easier going ; and Sandy
dismissed his fears. It was a pretty loch,
this stretch of wind-stirred blue water, for
the hills surrounding it were somewhat less
sterile than those at Allt-nam-ba ; here and
there the banks were fringed with hazel, and
at the lower end of It, where the river flowing
from It wound through a picturesque ravine,
were the dark green plantations surrounding
Lynn Towers. They had driven for about a
mile and a half or so by the shores of the

lake, when Yolande fancied she heard some
clanking noise proceeding from the other
side ; and thereupon she instantly asked
Sandy what that could be, for any sound
save the bleating of sheep or the croak of a
raven was an unusual thing here. The young
Highland lad strained his eyes in the direction
of the distant hillside ; and at last he
said —

Oh yes, I see them now. They will bethe
men taking up more fencing to the forest.
Duncan was speaking about that, madam."

(For he was a polite youth, as far as his
English went.)

I can't see anything, Sandy," said the
young lady.

"If Miss Winterbourne would be looking
about half-way up the hill — they are by the
side of the gray corrie now."

Then he added, after a second —

I am thinking that will be the Master at
the top."

'* Do you mean the Master of Lynn ? "
she said, quickly.

Yes, madam."

"Well, your eyes are sharper than mine,

Sandy. I can see that black speck on the
sky-line, but that is all."

'' He is waving a handkerchief now," said
Sandy, with much coolness.

Oh, that is impossible. How could he
make us out at this distance ? "

The Master will know there is no other
carriage than this one coming from Allt-nam-
ba."

'every well, then," said she, taking out
her handkerchief and giving it a little shake
or two in the sunlight. '' I will take the
chance ; but you know, Sandy, it is more
likely to be one of the keepers waving his
hand to you."

Oh no, madam, it is the Master himself
I am sure of it. He was up at the bothy
yesterday evening, to see Duncan about the
gillies ; and he was saying something about
the new fence above the loch."

'was Mr. Leslie at Allt-nam-ba last
night ? " said she, in surprise.

Oh yes, madam."

And he left no message for me } "

I think there was not any message.
But he was asking when Miss Winterbourne's

father was coming ; and I told him that I
was to drive Miss Winterbourne into Foyers
this morning."

*' Oh, that is all right," she said, with much
content.

By this time they had reached the lower
end of the lake ; and, when they had crossed
the wooden bridge over the river and ascended
a bit of a hill, they found themselves opposite
Lynn Towers — a large modern building,
which, with its numerous conservatories,
stood on a level piece of ground on the
other side of the ravine. Then on again,
and in time they beheld stretching out before
them a wide and variegated plain, looking
rich and fertile and cultivated after the mountainous
solitudes they had left behind ; while
all around them were hanging woods, with
open slopes of pasture, and rills running down
to the river in the valley beneath. As they
drove on and down into that smiling and
shining country, the day grew more and more
brilliant. The breaks of blue in the sky
grew broader ; the silver-gleaming clouds
went slowly by to the east ; and the air,
which was much warmer down here, was

perfumed with the delicate resinous odour
of the sweet-gale. Wild flowers grew more
luxuriantly. Here and there a farm-house
appeared, with fields of grain encroaching on
the moorland. And at last, after some miles
of this gradual descent, Yolande arrived at a
little sprinkling of houses sufficient in number
though much scattered among the fields —
to be called a village ; and drew up at the
small wooden gate of a modest little mansion,
very prettily situated in the midst of a garden
of roses, columbine, nasturtiums, and other
cottage favourites.

No sooner had the carriage stopped than
Instantly the door was opened by a smiling
and comely dame, with silver-gray hair and
pleasant, shrewd, gray eyes, who came down
the garden path. She was neatly and plainly
dressed, in a housekeeper looking kind of
costume, but her face was refined and intelligent
; and there was a sort of motherless,
as well as very obvious kindliness, In the
look with which she regarded the young
English lady.

Do you know that I meant to scold you,
Mrs. Bell, for robbing your garden again V

said Yolande. 'but this time — no — I am
not going to scold you, I can only thank you,
for my papa is coming to-day ; and oh, you
should see how pretty the rooms are with the
flowers you sent me. But not again, now —
not any more destroying the garden "

Dear me, and is your papa coming the
day ? " said the elderly woman, in a slow,
persuasive, gentle, south-country sort of
fashion.

'' I am going now to meet him at the
steamer," said Yolande, quickly. '' That is
why "

'well now," said Mrs. Bell, "that is justa
most extraordinary piece of good luck ; for
I happen to have a pair of the very finest and
plumpest young ducklings that ever I set
eyes on "

No, no ; no, no, no ! " Yolande cried,
laughing. " I cannot have any more excuses
for these kindnesses and kindnesses. Everyday
since I came here — every day a fresh
excuse — and always the boy coming with
Mrs. Bell's compliments "

Diana ye think I know perfectly well,"
said the other, in a tone of half indignant

remonstrance, "what it is for a young teddy
to be trying housekeeping in a place like yon ?
So there's not to be another word about it ;
ye'll just stop for a minute as ye're going
back, and take the ducklings wi' ye ; ay, and
I've got a nice bunch or two o' fresh-cut
lettuce for ye, and a few carrots and turnips
I declare it's a shame to see the things
wasting in the garden, for we canna use the
half of them "

'wouldn't it be simpler for you to give
me the garden and the house and everything
all at once?" said Yolande. 'well, now, I
wish to see Mr. Melville."

Ye canna do that," was the prompt reply.

"Why?" said the girl, with something of
a stare ; for she had not been in the habit of
having her requests refused up in this part of
the world.

He is at his work," said the elderly dame,
glancing at a small building that stood at
right angles with the house. " Do ye think
I would disturb him when he is at his work ?
Do ye think I want him to send me about my
business ?"

"There is a tyrant!" exclaimed Yolande.

*' Never mind, then ; I wanted to thank him
for sending me the trout. Now I will not.
Well, good-bye, Mrs. Bell ; I will take the
vegetables, and be very grateful to you ; but
not the ducklings "

'yell just take the ducklings, as I say,
like a sensible young teddy," said Mrs. Bell,
with emphasis, '' and there is not to be another
word about it."

So on she drove again, on this bright and
beautiful July day, through a picturesque and
rocky and rugged country, until in time she
reached the end of her journey — the charming
little hotel that is perched high amid the
woods overlooking Loch Ness, within sound
of the thundering Foyers Water. And as
she had hurried mainly to give the cob a long
mid-day rest — the steamer not being due till
the afternoon, — she now found herself with
some hours' leisure at her disposal, which she
spent in idly wandering through the umbrageous
woods, startling many a half-tame pheasant,
but never coming on the real object of
her quest, a roe-deer. And then, at last, she
heard the throbbing of paddle wheels in the
intense silence ; and, just about as quick as

any roe-deer, she made her way down through
the bracken and the bushes, and went right
out to the end of the Httle pier.

She made him out at once, even at that
distance ; for though he was not a tall man,
his sharp-featured, sun-reddened face and
silver white hair made him easily recognisable.
And of course she was greatly delighted when
he came ashore, and excited too ; and she herself
would have carried gun-cases, fishing-baskets,
and what not, to the dog-cart, had
not the boots from the hotel Interfered. And
she had a hundred eager questions and
assurances, but would pay no heed to his
remonstrance about the risks of her driving.

*' Why, papa, I drove every day at Inver-stray
!" she exclaimed, as they briskly set out
for Allt-nam-ba.

'' I suppose the Grahams were very kind
to you ?" he said.

Oh, yes, yes, yes !"

And the Master, how is he ?"

*' Oh, very well, I believe. Of course I
have not seen him since Mrs. Graham left.
But he has made all the arrangements
for you — ponies, panniers, everything quite

arranged. And he left the rifle at the bothy,
and I have the cartridges all right from
Inverness — oh yes, you will find everything
prepared ; and there is no want of provision,
for Mr. Melville sends me plenty of trout, and
Duncan goes up the hill now and again for a
hare, and they are sending me a sheep from
the farm "

''A sheep !"

'' Duncan said it was the best way, to
have a sheep killed. And we have new-laid
eggs and fresh milk every day. And everyone
is so kind and attentive, papa, that whatever
turns out wrong that will be my fault in
not arranging properly "

*' Oh, that will be all right," said he, good-humouredly.
'' I want to hear about yourself,
Yolande. What do you think of Lord Lynn
and his sister, now that you have seen something
more of them ?"

This question checked her volubility, and
for a second a very odd expression came over
her face.

'' They are very serious people, papa,"
said she, with some caution ; "and — and very
pious, I think."

'' But I suppose you are as pious as they
can be?" her father said. 'that is no
objection."

She was silent.

"And those other people — the old woman
who pretends to be a housekeeper and is a
sort of good fairy in disguise, and the penniless
young laird who has no land "

Instantly her face brightened up.

Oh, he is the most extraordinary person,
papa — a magician ! I cannot describe it ;
you must see for yourself; but really it is
wonderful. He has a stream to work for
him — yes — for Mrs. Graham and I went and
visited it — climbing away up the hills — and
there was the water-wheel at work in the
water, and a hut close by, and there were
copper wires to take the electricity away
down to the house, where he has a store of
it. It is a genie for him ; he makes it light
the lamps in the house, in the schoolroom,
and it makes electrotype copies for him ; it
works a lathe for turning wood — oh, I can't
tell you all about it. And he has been so
kind to me ; but mostly in secret, so that I
could not catch him to thank him. How

could I know ? I complain to Mrs. Bell
that it is a trouble to send to Inverness for
some one to set the clock going ; the next
morning — it is all right. It goes ; nothing
wrong at all ! Then the broken window
in the drawing-room ; Mrs. Graham and I
drive away to Fort Augustus : when I come
back in the evening there is a new pane
put in. Then the filter in the water-tank
up the hill "

'' But what on earth is this wonderful 
all-trades doing here ? Why, you yourself
wrote to me, Yolande, that he had taken
theSnell Exhibition and the Ferguson Scholarship,
and blazed like a comet through Balliol ;
and now I find him tinkering at windowpanes
"

She laughed.

'' I think he works very hard ; he says he
is very lazy. He is very fond of fishing ; he
is not well off; and here he is permitted to
fish in the lakes far away among the hills
that few people will take the trouble to go to.
Then naturally he has much interest in this
neighbourhood, where once his people were
the great family ; and those living here have

VOL. II. c

a great respect for him ; and he has built a
school and teaches in it — it is a free school,
no charge at all," Yolande added hastily.
'that is Mrs. Bell's kindness, the building
of the school. Then he makes experiments
and discoveries : is it not enough of an occupation
when every one is talking about the
electric light ? Also he is a great botanist ;
and when it is not school time, he is away up
in the hills, after rare plants, or to fish. Oh,
it is terrible the loneliness of the small lakes
up in the hills, Mr. Leslie has told me ; no
road, no track, no life anywhere. And the
long hours of climbing : oh, I am sure I have
been sorry sometimes — many times — when
day after day I receive a present of trout and
a message, to think of the long climbing and
the labour "

But why doesn't he fish in the loch at
Allt-nam-ba ?" her father exclaimed. " That
can't be so difficult to get at."

He had permission last year," said she.

"Why not this .^"

"He thought it would be more correct to
wait for you to give permission."

"Well, now, Yolande," said he, peevishly.

'how could you be so stupid! Here is a
fellow who shows you all sorts of kindnesses,
and you haven't enough common sense to
offer him a day's fishing in the loch !"

'rit was not my affair," she said, cheerfully.
"That was for you to arrange."

Waiting for permission to fish in a loch
like that ! " her father said, more good-naturedly
for indeed his discontent with Yolande rarely
lasted for more than about the fifteenth part of
a second. " Leslie told me the loch would be
infinitely improved if five-sixths of the fish
were netted out of it ; the trout would run to
a better size. However, Miss Yolande, since
you've treated him badly, you must make
amends. You must ask him to dinner."

Oh yes, papa ; I shall be glad to do
that," she said, blithely.

"If the house is anywhere near the road,
we can pick him up as we go along. Then
I suppose you could send a message to the
Master ; he is not likely to have an engagement."


"But you don't mean for to-night!" she
said, in amazement.

I do, indeed. Why not ?"

'what! The first night that we have
to ourselves together, to think of inviting
strangers ?"

'strangers?" he repeated. "That Is an
odd phrase to be used by a young lady who
wears an engaged ring."

"But I am not married yet, papa," said
she, flushing slightly. " I am only engaged.
When I am a wife, It may be different ; but
at present I am your daughter."

"And you would rather that we had this
first evening all by ourselves ?"

"It is not a wish, papa," said she, coolly.
"It is a downright certainty. There Is only
dinner for two ; and there will be only dinner
for two ; and these two are you and I .
Do you forget that I am mistress of the
house ?"

Well, he seemed nothing loth ; the prospect
did not at all overcloud his face — as they
drove away through this smiling and cheerful
and picturesque country, with the severer
altitudes beyond gradually coming into view.

That same night Yolande and her father
set out for an arm-in-arm stroll away down
the broad silent valley. It was late ; but still

there was a bewilderment of light all around
them ; for in the north-western heavens the
wan twilight still lingered ; while behind
them, in the south-east, the moon had arisen,
and now projected their shadows before them
as they walked. Yolande was talkative and
joyous — the silence and the loneliness of the
place did not seem to oppress her ; and he was
always a contented listener. They walked
away along the strath, under the vast solitudes
of the hills, and by the side of this
winding and murmuring stream ; and in time
they reached the loch. For a wonder it was
perfectly still. The surface was like glass ;
and those portions that were in shadow were
black as jet. But these were not many, for
the moonlight was shining adown this wide
space, touching softly the overhanging crags
and the woods, and showing them — as they
got on still farther — above the loch and the
bridge and the river, and standing silent amid
the silent plantations, the pale white walls of
Lynn.

*rand so you think, Yolande," said he,
"• that you will be quite happy in living in
this solitary place ?"

*' If you were always to be away — oh no ;
but with you coming to see me sometimes, as
now, oh yes, yes — why not ? " said she, cheerfully.


'' You wouldn't mind being cut off from the
rest of the world ? " he said.

'' I ?" she said. ^'What is it to me ? I
know so few people elsewhere."

"It would be a peaceful life, Yolande," said
he, thoughtfully. " Would it not ?"

'' Oh yes," she answered, brightly. '' And
then, papa, you would take Allt-nam-ba for
the whole year, every year, and not merely
have a few weeks' shooting in the autumn.
Why should it not be a pleasant place to live
in ? Could anything be more beautiful than
to-night — and the solitude ? And one or two
of the people are so kind. But this I must
tell you, papa, that the one who has been
kindest to me here is not Lord Lynn, nor his
sister, Mrs. Colquhoun, nor any one of them,
but Mrs. Bell ; and the first chance, when
she is sure not to meet Mr. Melville, or Mr.
Leslie — for she is very particular about that,
and pretends only to be a housekeeper — I
am going to bring her up to Allt-nam-ba ;

and you will see how charming she is, and
how good and wise and gentle, and how
proud she is of Mr. Melville. As for him,
he laughs at her. He laughs at every one.
He has no respect for any one more than
another ; he talks to Lord Lynn as he talks
to Duncan — perhaps with more kindness to
Duncan. Rich or poor, it is no difference —
no, he does not seem to understand that
there is a difference. And all the people,
the shepherds, the gillies, and Mrs. Mac-dough
at the farm — every one thinks there
is no one like him. Perhaps I have learnt
a little from him, even in so short a time ?
it may be. I do not care that Mrs. Bell
has been a cook ; that is nothing to me ; I
see that she is a good woman, and clever,
and kind ; and I will be her friend if she
pleases ; and I know that he gives her more
honour than to any one else, though he does
not say much. No, he is too sarcastic ; and
not very courteous. Sometimes he is almost
rude ; but he is a little more considerate with

old people "

'' Look here, Yolande," her father said,
with a laugh, " all this afternoon, and all this

evening, and all down this valley, you have
done nothing but talk about this wonderful
Mr. Melville — although you say you have
scarcely ever seen him "

"No, no, no, papa ! I said, when he had
done any kindness to me, he had kept out
of the way, and I had no chance to thank
im.

"Very well, all your talking has produced
nothing but a jumble. I want to see this
laird without land, this Balliol clockmaker,
this fisherman schoolmaster, this idol who is
worshipped by the natives. Let me see what
he is like, first of all. Ask him to dinner —
and the Master too. We have few neighbours,
and we must make the most of them.
So now let us get back home again, child ;
though it is almost a shame to go indoors on
such a night. And you don't really think
you would regret being shut off from the
world, Yolande, in this solitude ?"

She was looking along the still loch, and
the wooded shores, and the moonlit crags
that were mirrored in the glassy water ; and
her eyes were happy enough.

"Is it not like fairyland, papa. How

could one regret living in such a beautiful
place ? Besides," she added, cheerfully,
"have I not promised?" And therewith
she held out her unloved hand for a second ;
and he understood what she meant, for he
saw the three diamonds on her engagement-ring
clear in the moonlight.

'' Melville's welcome home.'

Amid all the hurry and bustle of preparing
for the Twelfth, Yolande and her affairs
seemed half forgotten ; and she, for one, was
glad to forget them ; for she rejoiced in the
activity of the moment, and was proud to
see that the wheels of the little household
worked very smoothly. And long ago she
had mastered all the details about the luncheon
to be sent up the hill, and the dinner for the
gillies, and what not ; she had got her instructions
from Mrs. Graham at Inverstroy.

In the midst of all this, however, the
Master of Lynn wrote the following note to
his sister : —

*' Lynn Towers, August 8.

** Dear Polly — I wish to goodness you
would come over here for a couple of days,
and put matters straight. I am helpless. I
go for a little quiet to Allt-nam-ba. I would

ask Jack Melville to interfere ; but he is so
blunt-tongued he would most likely make the
row worse. Of course it's all Tabby : if ever
I succeed to Lynn won't I make the old cat
skip out of that. I expected my father to
be cross when I suggested something about
Yolande; but I thought he would see the
reasonableness, etc. But Tabby heard of it ;
and then it was all ' alliance with demagogues,'
'disgrace of an ancient family,' 'the Lesliess
selling their honour for money,' and other
rubbish. I don't mind. It doesn't hurt me.
I have not knocked about with Jack Melville
for nothing ; I can distinguish between missiles
that are made of air and pass by you,
and missiles that are made of granite or
wood, and can cut your head open. But the
immediate thing is this : they won't call on
the Winterbournes ; and this is not only a
gross discourtesy, but very impolitic. I should
not at all wonder if Mr. Winterbourne has a
good season this year, if he were to take a
lease of Allt-nam-ba ; and Duncan is reckoning
on 1 200 brace. As a good tenant, my
father ought to call on Mr. Winterbourne, if
for nothing else. And, of course, matters

cannot remain as they are. There must bean
explanation. What I am dreadfully afraid
of Is that Yolande may meet Tabby some
day, and that Tabby may say something.
At present they have only met driving — I
mean since you left — so that was only a case
of bowing. To hear Tabby talk would make
you laugh ; but It makes me rather wild, I
confess ; and though my father says less, or
nothing at all, I can see that what she says
is making him more and more determined.
So do come along, and bring some commonsense
Into the atmosphere of the house.
What on earth has politics got to do with
Yolande ? Come and fight It out with Tabby.
Your affectionate brother,

''A. Leslie."

This was the answer that arrived on the
evening of the next day : —

Inverstroy, August 9.

'' Dear Archie — You must have gone mad.
We have five visitors In the house already,
and by the day after tomorrow we shall be
full to the hall-door. It Is quite absurd ;
Jim has not asked a single bachelor this year ;

and every man who is coming is bringing
his wife. Did you ever hear of such a thing
really I can't understand why women should
be such fools : not a single invitation refused !
But there is one thing — they will get a good
dose of grouse-talk before they go south ; and
if they are not heartily sick of hearing about
stags it will be a wonder. So you see, my
dear Master, you must worry out of that
muddle in your own way ; and I have no
doubt you got into it through temper, and
being uncivil to Aunt Colquhoun. It is
impossible for me to leave Inverstroy at
present. But, whatever you do, don't get
spiteful and go and run away with Shena
Van. — Your affectionate sister,

'' Polly."

Well, It was not until the eve of the
Twelfth that Yolande gave her first dinner-party
; the delay having chiefly been occasioned
by their having to wait for some wine
from Inverness. This was a great concession
on the part of her father ; but when he discovered
that she was desperately afraid that
her two guests, the Master of Lynn and Mr.

Melville, would imagine that the absence of
wine from the table was due to her negligence
and stupidity as a housekeeper, he yielded at
once. Nay, in case they might throw any
blame on her of any kind, her father himself
wrote to a firm in Inverness, laying strict
injunctions on them as to brands and so forth.
All of which trouble was quite thrown away,
as it turned out, for both the young men
seemed quite indifferent about drinking anything
; but the wine was there, and Yolande
could not be blamed : that was his chief and
only consideration.

Just before dinner Mr. Winterbourne,
Yolande, and the Master were standing outside
the lodge, looking down the wide glen,
which was now flooded with sunset light.
Young Leslie's eyes were the eyes of a deerstalker
; the slightest movement anywhere
instantly attracted them ; and when two
sheep — little dots they were, at the far edge
of the hill just above the lodge — suddenly
ceased grazing and lifted their heads, he knew
there must be some one there. The next
moment a figure appeared on the sky-line.

'' I suppose that is Jack Melville," he said,

peevishly. '' I wish he wouldn't come across
the forest when he is up at his electric boxes."

'but does he do harm?" said Yolande.
"He cannot shoot deer with copper wires."

'' Oh, he's all over the place," said the
Master of Lynn, 'rand there isn't a keeper
or a watcher who will remonstrate with him ;
sand of course I can't. He's always after his
botany, or his fishing, or something. The
best thing about it is that he is a capital hand
to have with you if there are any stray deer
about, and you want to have a shot without
disturbing the herd. He knows their ways
most wonderfully, and can tell you the track
they are certain to take."

Meanwhile the object of these remarks
was coming down the hillside at a swinging
pace ; and very soon he had crossed the little
bridge, and was coming up the path — heralding
his arrival with a frank and careless greeting
to his friends. He was a rather tall, lean,
large-boned and powerful-looking man of
about eight-ands twenty ; somewhat pale in
face, seeing that he lived so much out-of-doors ;
his hair a raven black ; his eyes gray, penetrating,
and steadfast ; his mouth firm, and

yet mobile and expressive at times ; his forehead
square rather than lofty ; his voice, a
chest-voice, was heard in pleasant and well-modulated
English ; he had not acquired any
trace of the high falsetto that prevails (or
prevailed a few years ago ?) among the young
men at Oxford. As for his manner, that was
characterised chiefly by a curious simplicity
and straightforwardness. He seemed to have
no time to be self-conscious. When he spoke
to any one, It was without thought or heed of
any bystander. With that one person he had
to do. Him or her he seized, with look and
voice ; and even after the most formal introduction
he would speak to you In the most
simple and direct way, as if life were not long
enough to be wasted in conventionalities ; as
if truth were the main thing ; as if all human
beings were perfectly alike ; and as if there
was no reason in the world why this new
stranger should not be put on the footing of
a friend. If he had an affectation, It was to
represent himself as a lazy and indolent person,
who believed in nothing, and laughed at
everything, whereas he was extremely Industrious
and indefatigable ; while there were

certainly two or three things that he believed
in — more, perhaps, than he would confess.

"Here, Miss Winterbourne," said he, 'ris
the little vasculum I spoke to you about ; it
has seen some service, but it may do well
enough. And here is Bentley's Manual ;
and a Flora. The Floi^a is an old one ; I
brought an old one purposely, for at the
beginning there is a synopsis of the Linnaean
system of classification, and you weill find that
the easiest way of making out the name of a
new plant. Of course," he added, when he
had put the vasculum and the books on the
window-sill and come back, 'when you get
farther on ; when you begin to see how all
these plants have grown to be what they are ;
when you come to study the likenesses and
relationships — and unless you mean to go sofar
you are only wasting time to begin — you
will follow Jessie and De Candle ; but in
the meantime you will find the Linnaean
system a very dodge instrument when you
are in a difficulty. Then, another thing —
mind, I am assuming that you mean business
if you want to friable, and pick pretty poses,
I shut my door on you — but, I say, if you

VOL. II. D

mean business, I have told Mrs. Bell you are
to have access to my herbarium, whether I
am there or not "

But here Yolande began to laugh.

*soh yes, that is so probable!" said she.
'' Mrs. Bell allowing me to go into your
study ! "

'mrs. Bell and I understand each other
very well, I assure you," he said, gravely.
'' We are only two augurs, who wink at each
other ; or rather we shut our eyes to each
other's humbug "

'why, Jack, she means to buy back
Monaglen for you!" the Master of Lynn
exclaimed.

I know she has some romantic scheme
of that sort In her head," he said, frankly.
"It is quite absurd. What should I do with
Monaglen ? However, in the meantime I
have made pretty free use of the old lady's
money at Gress ; and she is highly pleased,
for she was fond of my father's family, and
she likes to hear me spoken well of, and you
can so easily purchase gratitude — especially
with somebody else's money. You see, it
works well all round. Mrs. Bell, who Is an

honest, shrewd, good, kindly woman, sees
that her charity is administered with some
care ; the people around — but especially the
children — are benefited ; I have leisure for any
little experiments and my idle rambles ; and If
Mrs. Bell and I hoodwink each other, it is done
very openly, and there is no great harm."

'she was very indignant," said young
Leslie, laughing, 'when you wouldn't have
your name put on the tablet in the schoolhouse."


"What tablet ?" said Yolande.

"Oh, a tablet saying that Mr. Melville
had built the school and presented it to the
people of Gress."

"And I never contributed a farthing!" he
said. " She did the whole thing. Well, now,
that shows how artificial the position is ; and,
necessarily, it won't last. We have for so
long been hypocrites for the public good — let
us say it was for the public good ; but there
must come an end."

"Why, Jack, if you leave Gress you'll
fairly break the old dame's heart. And as
for the neighbourhood — it will be like the
going away of Aikendrum."

'who was that ?" said Yolande.

I am sure I don't know. Mrs. Bell will
sing the song for you, if you ask her ; she
knows all those old things. I don't know
who the gentleman was ; but they made a
rare fuss about his going away.

'• 'Bout him the charles were gabbin'
The braw laddies sabbin',
And a' the lasses greeting'

For that Aikendrum's away.' "

*' The dinner is ready, madam," said a soft-voiced
and pretty Highland maidservant,
appearing at the door ; and Yolande s heart
sank within her. She summoned up her
courage, nevertheless ; she walked into the
room sedately, and took her place at the head
of the table with much graciousness, though
she was in reality very nervous and terribly
anxious about the result of this wild experiment.
Well, she need not have been anxious.
The dinner was excellently cooked, and very
fairly served. And if those two younger men
seemed quite indifferent as to what they ate
and drank, and much more interested in a
discussion about certain educational matters,
at least Mr. Winterbourne noted and approved

; and greatly comforted was she from
time to time to hear him say : '' Yolande, this
is capital hare soup ; why can't we get hare
soup cooked in this way in the south ?" or
'' Yolande, these are most delicious trout.
Mr. Melville's catching, I suppose? It seems
to me you've stumbled on an uncommonly
good cook ; " or '' What ? Another robbery
of Mrs. Bell's poultry-yard ? Well, they're
fine birds — noble, noble. We must send her
some grouse tomorrow, Yolande."

And then outside there was a sudden and
portentous growl of bass drones ; and then
the breaking away into the shrill clear music
of a quickset ; and through the blue windowpanes
they could see in the dusk the tall,
tightly - built figure of young Duncan, the
pipes over his shoulder, marching erect and
proud up and down the gravel-path. That
was the proper way to hear the pipes — away
up there in the silence of the hills, amid the
gathering gloom of the night ; and now they
would grow louder and shriller as he drew
near, and now they would grow fainter and
fainter as he passed by ; while all around them,
whether the music was faint or shrill, was the

continuous hushed murmur of the mountain
streams.

I told Duncan'* said Yolande to the
Master, '* that it was a shame he should keep
all his playing for the shepherds in the bothy.
And he told me that he very well knew the
Hills of Lynn''

Young Leslie regarded her with an odd
kind of smile.

You don't think that is the Hills of Lynn y
do you, Yolande ?"

Is it not ? I have heard very few."

No ; I am not first favourite to-night.
It isn't the Hills of Lynn. That is Melville s
Welcome Home''

Yolande looked surprised, but not in anyway
guilty.

'' I assure you, Miss Winterbourne," said
Jack Melville, pleasantly enough, " that I
don't feel at all hurt or insulted. I know
Duncan means no sarcasm. He is quite
well aware that we haven't had a home to
welcome us this many a day ; but he is not
playing the quickset out of irony. He and
I are too old friends for that."

Oh, I am sure he does not mean anything

like that," said Yolande. *' It is a great
component he means, is it not ?"

Then coffee came ; and cigars and pipes
were produced ; and as Yolande had no dread
of tobacco-smoke, they all remained together,
drawing in their chairs to the brisk fire of
wood and peat, and forming a very friendly,
snug, and comfortable little circle. Nor was
their desultory chatting about educational
projects solely ; nor, on the other hand, was
it confined to grouse and the chances of the
weather ; it rambled over many and diverse
subjects, while always, from time to time,
could be heard in the distance (for Duncan
had retired to regale his friends in the bothy)
the faint echoes of The j()t/is Farewell to
Gibraltar or Mackenzie s Farewell to Sutherland,
or The Barrett Rocks of Aden, with
occasionally the sad, slow wail of a Lament
Lord Lovafs or Mackintosh's, or Mac
Commons. And as Mr. Melville proved to
be a very ready talker (as he lay back therein
an easy-chair, with the warm rays of the
fire lighting up his fine, intellectual features
and clear and penetrating gray eyes) Mr.
Winterbourne had an abundant opportunity

of Studying this new friend ; and so far from
observing in him any of the browbeating and
brusqueness he had heard of, on the contrary,
he discovered the most ample tolerance, and,
more than that, a sort of large - hearted
humanity, a sympathy, a sincerity and directness
of speech, that began to explain to him
why Mr. Melville of Gress was such a favourite
with those people about there. He seemed
to assume that the person he was talking to
was his friend, and that it was useless to
waste time in formalities of conversation.
His manner towards Yolande (her father
thought) was characterised by just a little too
much of indifference ; but then he was a
schoolmaster, and not in the habit of attaching
importance to the opinions of young
people.

It was really a most enjoyable, confidential,
pleasant evening ; but it had to come to an
end ; and when the two young men left, both
Yolande and her father accompanied them to
the door. The moon was risen now, and
the long wide glen looked beautiful enough.

sewell, now, Mr. Melville," said Mr.
Winterbourne as they were going away,

*' whenever you have an idle evening, I hope
you will remember us and take pity on us."

'' You may see too much of me."

That is impossible," said Yolande,
quickly ; and then she added very prettily :
'' You know, Mr. Melville, if you come often
enough you will find it quite natural that
Duncan should play for you Melville s
Welcome HovieT

He stood for a moment uncertain ; it was
the first sign of embarrassment he had shown
that night.

"Well," said he, 'that is the most friendly
thing that has been said to me for many a
day. Who could resist such an invitation .-^
Good-night — good-night !"

NEIGHBOURS.

John Shortlands, as It turned out, could
not come north till the 20th ; so Mr. Winterbourne
asked young Leslie to shoot with him
for the first week ; and the Invitation had
been gratefully accepted. The obligation,
however, was not all on one side. The
Master of Lynn was possessed of a long and
familiar experience of the best and swiftest
methods of getting the birds sent to a good
market ; and he made his arrangements in
this direction with a business-like forethought
which amused Mr. WInterbourne, who expressed
some whimsical scruples over his
being transformed into a game-dealer.

''I don't look at It in that light at all," the
Master said, coolly. " Game is the only
thing land like that will produce ; and I like
to know what it is worth. I think I can
guarantee that the hire of the gillies and

ponies and panniers won't cost you a farthing."


"You should not be so anxious to have
your own moor hard shot," said Mr. Winterbourne,
with a smile.

But I am," said this shrewd young man.
There is no danger on ground like this of
too small a breeding-stock being left. It is
all the other way. What I am afraid of is
too big a stock, and the disease coming along.
That is a terrible business. You are congratulating
yourself on the number of birds,
and on their fine condition; and some pleasant
morning you wake up to find the place swept
clean."

'not in one night ?"

'well, a day or two will do it. This
epidemic is quite different from the ordinary
mild forms of disease, where you can see the
birds pining away to death. Instead of that
you find them all about among the heather,
dead, but perfectly plump and well-looking,
not a sign of disease outside or in. So, if
you please, Mr. Winterbourne, don't have
any scruples about turning on Duncan if you
think we are not doing well enough. The

bigger consignments we can send off the
better."

Now one consequence of this arrangement
was that when Yolande, in the morning, had
said "Good-bye, papa!" and 'good-bye,
Archie !" and given each of them a flower or
some such trifle (for in that part of the country
the presentation of a small gift, no matter
what, to any one going shooting, is supposed
to bring good luck), and when she had seen
that luncheon was quite prepared to be sent
up the hill when the first pony left, she found
herself with the whole day before her, with
no companion, and with no occupation save
that of wandering down the glen or up one
of the hillsides in search of new flowers. It
is not to be wondered at, then, that she should
seek some variety by occasionally driving into
Gress, when the dogcart was taking the
game shot the day before to Foyers, and
spending a few hours with Mrs. Bell until the
trap came back to pick her up again. For
one thing, when she discovered some plant
unknown to her, she found it much easier
to consult Mr. Melville's herbarium than to
puzzle over the descriptions of the various

species in the Flora ; and as he was generally
occupied either in the schoolhouse or in his
laboratory, she did not interfere with him.
But the truth is, she liked this shrewd, kindly,
wise old Scotchman, who was the only one in
the neighbourhood who took any notice of her.
The people at the Towers had neither called
nor made any other overtures. And as Mrs.
Bell's thoughtfulness and kindness took the
substantial form of sending up to Allt-nam-ba,
pretty nearly every day, some article or articles
likely to be of use to the young housekeeper,
of course Yolande had to drive in to thank her.

'' Mrs. Bell," said she, one warm and
sunny afternoon, when they were together in
the garden (this good woman made awful
havoc among her flowers when Yolande came
to see her), 'who was Aikendrum ?"

''A young lad who went away for a
lodger — so the song says."

'rand every one was so sorry, is it not
so?" said this tall young lady, who already
had her hands full of flowers. " The Master
was saying that, if Mr. Melville leaves here,
every one will be quite as sorry — it will belike
the going away of Aikendrum."

"Why should he go?" said Mrs. Bell,
sharply. '' Why should he not stay among
his own people — yes, and on land that maybe
his own one day V And then she added
more gently : *' It is not a good thing for one
to be away among strangers ; there's many a
sore heart comes o' that. It's not only them
that are left behind, sometimes it's the one
that goes away that is sorrowful' enough about
it. I daresay, now, ye never heard o' an
old Scotch song they call ' The sun rises
bright in France ' ?"

Oh, will you sing it for me ?" said
Yolande, eagerly ; for indeed the reputation
of this good dame for the singing of those
old Scotch songs was wide in that district :
though it was not every one whom she would
honour. And her singing was strangely
effective. She had but little of a voice ;
she crooned rather than sang ; but she
could give the words a curiously pathetic
quality ; and she had the natural gift of
knowing what particular airs she could make
tell.

She laid her hand on Yolande's arm — as
if to ask for attention —

The sun rises bright in France

And fair sets he;
But he has tint the bli?ik he had

Iji my ain countries.
Ifs no my ait ruijt

That weeks aye juy ^e^
But the dear Marie I left behind

Wi' sweet barnes threes''

'' We've no heard that before ?"

*' Oh no. It is a very sad air. But why
Marie ? — that is French."

'' Well,, ye see, the PVench and the Scotch
were very thick ^ in former days ; and Marie
was a common name in Scotland. I am told
they spoke nothing but French at Holyrood ;
and the young gentlemen, they were all for
joining the French service "

'' But is there no more of the song, Mrs.
Bell ?"

*' Oh, ay ; there are other two verses.
But it's no for an auld wife like me to be
singing havers."

"Please!"

'* Very well, then —

The bud cones back to sumner,
And the blossom to the tree

1 Thick — intimate.

But I win back — oh, never
To my ain coimtrie.
Gladness comes to many

Sorrow comes to me,
As I look o'er the wide ocean
To my ain countries.

Fu' bienly lowed i7iy ain hearth,

And S77iiled my ain Marie :
Oh ! Tve left my heart behind

In my ait countries !
O Pm leal to high heaven,

Which aye was leal to me !
And ifs there Til meet ye a' soon,

Frae my anti countries'' ^''^

'' It Is a beautiful air — but so sad," Yolande
said; and then she added slyly, 'rand now
Aikendruinr

But Mrs. Bell doggedly refused.

'' I tell ye It's no for an auld wife like me
to be fashing with such blethers ; It's for
young lassies when they're out at the herding.
And I hope, now, that ye are no likely to put
any Aikendrum notions into Mr. Melville's
head. Let him stay where he is. Maybe
we'll get him a better stance In the country

The words of this song are by Allan Cunningham ;
the music is an old Celtic air.

2 Stance — holding or position.

side soon ; stranger things have come to
pass."

''\ ?" said Yolande ; 'ris it likely I should
wish him to go away ? Perhaps you do not
know, then, that I am going to live in this
neighbourhood — no ?"

''Oh, Indeed; is that possible noo?" said
Mrs. Bell — and she would say no more. She
was herself most kindly and communicable ;
but always she preserved a certain reserve of
manner in a case like this — it was not her
"place" to betray curiosity. However, Yo-lance
was quite frank.

Oh yes," said the young lady, cheerfully.
Of course I must live here when I am
married ; and of course, too, I look forward
to seeing Mr. Melville always. He will be
our nearest friend — almost the only one. But
it is so difficult to catch him. Either he is in
the school ; or he is up at the water-wheel —
why, this moment, now, if I could see him, I
would ask him to drive out to Allt-nam-ba,
when the carriage comes, and stay to dine
with us."

I wish ye would — eh, I wish ye would,
my dear young teddy ! " the old dame ex-vol.

II. E

claimed. '' For the way he goes on Is just
distressing ! Not a settled proper meal will
he sit down to ! nothing but a piece of cold
meat aye to be standing by. There it is — in
there among they smelling chemical things —
day and night there must aye be the same
thing on the side table waiting for him —
some cold meat, a bit o' bread, and a wee,
script, half pint bottle o' that questionless
claret-wine that is not one preen point better
than vinegar. And then when he gives the
bairns a day's holiday, and starts away for
Loch-na-lairige — a place that no one has ever
won to but the shepherds — not a thing in his
pocket but a piece o' bread and cheese. How
he keeps up his strength — a big-boned manlike
that — passes me. If ye want to anger
him, that's the way to do it — compel him to
sit toon to a respectable meal and get the
lasses to prepare a few things for him in a
clever kind o' way as ye would get in any
Christian house. Well, many a time I think
if that's the manner they train young men
at Oxford they would be better brought up at
another place. And what is the use of it .^
His means are far beyond his wants — I take

care there is no watchfulness in the housekeeping,
for one thing ; and even if they
were not, is there not my money ? — and a
proud woman I would be that day that he
would take a penny of it ! "

At this moment the object of these remarks
came out of the laboratory — a small building
standing at right angles with the house — and
he was buttoning his coat as if he had just
put it on.

Good afternoon. Miss Winterbourne,"
said he, and he seemed very pleased to see
her as he took her hand for a second. '* I
thought I heard your voice. And I have
got a word of approval for you."

Oh indeed ? " said she, smiling ; for
occasionally his schoolmaster air and his condescending
frankness amused her.

I had a look over my herbarium last
night ; you have been very careful."

** You thought I should not be ? "

*' I did not know. But if there had been

any confusion or mischief done, I should not

have mentioned it — no, probably I should

have let you have your will ; only, I would

never have allowed any one else to go near

^ ^ Jt- ll LIB

I-

the place ; so, you see, you would have been
inflicting injury on an unknown number of
persons in the future."

"But how wrong not to tell me!" she
exclaimed.

''Oh you have been careful enough. Indeed
you have taken unnecessary trouble.
It is quite enough if the different genera are
kept separate ; it is not necessary that the
species should follow in the same order as
they are in the Flora. You must not give
yourself that trouble again."

'when the dog-cart comes along," said
she, " I hope you will drive out with me to
Allt-nam-ba, and spend the evening with us."

"You are very kind."

No, I am scheming," she said. " The
truth is the fishmonger at Inverness has
disappointed me — no, no, no, Mrs. Bell, on
the whole he has been very good ; but this
time there is a mistake ; and do you think,
Mr. Melville, if you were taking your rod
you could get me a few trout out of the
loch on the way home ? Is it too much to
asks"

He glanced at the sky. " I think we

might manage it," said he, "though it is
rather clear. There may be a breeze on the
loch ; there generally is up there. But what
we ought to do is to set out now, and walk
it ; and let the trap pick us up at the loch.
Can you walk so far } "

I should think so ! " said Yolande.
"And be delighted too."

'' Well, I will go and get my rod and
basket. Then as we go along I can tell you
the names of any plants you don't know, or
answer any questions that may be puzzling
you. Don't be afraid to ask. I like it. It
helps to keep one's recollections clear. And
I never laugh at ignorance ; it is the pretence
of knowledge that is contemptible."

They did not, however, talk botany exclusively
as they walked away from Gress, on
this beautiful afternoon ; for he very speedily
discovered that she knew far more about him
and his family and his affairs than he could
possibly have imagined.

'the days in Egypt were long," she explained,
'rand the Master used to tell me all
about this neighbourhood until, when I came
to it, everything seemed quite familiar."

You have been a great traveller," he said.

"Yes; we have travelled about a good
deal. And you ? "

'* Not much. I think I am too lazy. The
kind of travelling that I enjoy is to sit out in
the garden of a summer evening, in an easy-chair,
and to watch the sunset, and, perhaps,
the moon slowly rising "

But you said travelling," she said.

'well, you are hurling along at a rate of
68,000 miles an hour ; isn't that quick enough
for anything } " he said, laughing.

"It is a cheap way of travelling," said
she, with a smile.

That is why it suits me."

But you don't see much .^ "

No ! Not when you can watch the stars
appear, one by one, over the hilltops ?
Don't you think they are as interesting as
the shops in the Palais Royal ? They are
more mysterious, at all events. It does seem
odd, you know, when you think of the
numbers of human beings all over the world
the small, tiny creatures — sticking up their
little tin tubes at the midnight sky, and
making guesses at what the stars are made

of, and how they came to be there. It is a
pathetic kind of thing to think about. I
fancy I must try a ' Zulu ' and a ' March
Brown ' ? "

This startling non sequitur was caused by
the fact that by this time they had reached
the loch, and that he frequently thought
aloud in this fashion, heedless of any incongruity,
and heedless also of his companion.
He sat down on a lump of granite, and took
out his fly-book.

'won't you walk on to the lodge, Miss
Winterbourne ? " said he. I am going to
drift down in the boat, and it will be slow
work for you."

'' I will wait on the bank," said she, 'rand
watch. Do you not understand that I am
seriously interested ? "

"Then you will see whether I get any.
It is a sport," he added, as he was selecting
the flies, "that there is less to be said against
than shooting, I imagine. I don't like the
idea of shooting birds, especially after I
have missed one or two. Birds are such
harmless creatures. But a fish is different —
the fish is making a murderous snap at an

innocent fly, or what he thinks to be a fly,
when a Httle bit of steel catches him in the
very act. It serves him right, from the moral
point of view."

But surely he is justified in trying to get
his dinner," said she. "Just as you are
doing now ? "

"Well, I will put on a jay's wing also,"
said he, "and if they don't like one or other
of those nice wholesome little dishes, we
must try them with something else."

As it happened, however, the trout seemed
disposed to rise to anything; for it was a
good fishing afternoon — warm, with a light
wind ruffling the surface of the loch. By the
time the dogcart came along he had got
close on two dozen in his basket, averaging
about three to the pound, so that a selection
from them would do very well for dinner ;
and when he got ashore, and got into the
trap, Yolande thanked him for them very
prettily, while he, on the other hand, said
that the obligation was all on his side.

"Why do you not come oftener, then?"
she said, as they were driving along up the
wide glen.

'' I might be depriving some one else of
the use of the boat," he answered.

No, no ; how can that be ? " she insisted.
*' They are all day up the hill. Why do you
not come to the loch, every afternoon, and
then come in and spend the evenings with us.
Mrs. Bell says you do very wrong about
your food, not having proper meals at proper
times. Now we are always very punctual ;
and if you came in and dined with us, it
would teach you good habits."

"You are too kind. Miss Winterbourne,"
said he. " But please don't think that I have
forgotten the invitation you gave me the other
night. I could not be so ungrateful as that."

'' And the use of remembering, if you do
not act on it ? " said she — but she could not
lecture the schoolmaster any further just then,
for they had arrived at the wooden bridge,
and she had to let the cob go very cautiously
over that primitive structure.

After dinner that evening Mr. Winterbourne
begged to be excused for a short time,
as he had a letter to write that he wished
posted at Whitebridge the same night. This
was the letter : —

58 Poland. [chap:

** Allt-nam-ba, August 15.

"Dear Shortlands — I am sending you
a couple of brace of birds, and would send
you more, but that I can see that my future
son-in-law regards these bequests with great
disfavour ; and as it is in my interest that he
is trying to make as much as he can out of
the shooting, I don't like to interfere with his
economical exertions. Prudence in a young
man should be encouraged rather than
checked. I hope you will not be later than
the 20th. I shall be glad to have you here.
The fact is, I have been torturing myself
with doubts and questions, which may appear
to you uncalled for. I hope they are uncalled
for. Indeed, to all appearance, everything is
going on well. Yolande is in the brightest
spirits, and is delighted with the place ; and
young Leslie seems very proud of her and
affectionate. The only thing is whether I
should not have put the whole facts of the
case before him at the outset ; and whether I
am not bound in honour to do so now, before
the serious step of marriage is taken. I
don't know. I am afraid to do it ; and afraid
of what might happen if I remain silent.

There is a young man here, a Mr. Melville,
who was Leslie's tutor, and who remains his
intimate associate and friend. He is very
highly respected about here ; and, as I judge,
seems to deserve the high opinion every one
has of him. What I am thinking of now is
the propriety of laying the whole affair before
him, as Leslie's nearest friend. He knows
the other members of the family also. I
could trust him to give an honest opinion ;
and if he, knowing all the circumstances of
the case, and knowing Leslie, and the ways
of the family, were to think it unnecessary to
break silence, then I might be fairly justified
in letting the thing be as it is. Do you not
think so ? But you will answer this question
in person — not later than the 20th, I hope.

'' For a long time I thought that, if only
Yolande were married and settled quietly in
the country, there would be no further need
for anxiety ; but now I cannot keep from
speculating on other possibilities, and wondering
whether it would not be better to prevent
any future ground of complaint, and consequent
unhappiness, by telling the whole
truth now. Surely that might be done

without letting Yolande know ? Why should
she ever know ?

''If you can leave on the night of the
1 8th, you will reach Inverness next forenoon,
and catch the 3 p.m. boat down the Caledonian
Canal. Most likely you will find
Yolande waiting for you at the pier ; she
likes driving. Our prospects for the 20th
are fairly good ; there is more cover for black
game up those mountainous carries than I
could have expected. We shoot all we find,
as they don't stop here through the winter.
On the 1 eth we had sixty-eight brace grouse,
one ptarmigan, one snipe, and a few mountain
hares ; on the 13 th, seventy - one brace
grouse, and also some hares ; yesterday it
was wet and wild, and we only went out for
an hour or so in the afternoon — nine brace ;
to-day was fine, and we got sixty-two brace
grouse, and one and a half brace ptarmigan.
Young Leslie is about the best all-round
shot I have ever seen ; cool and certain.
I think I get more nervous year by year ;
but then he is a capital hand at redeeming
mistakes, and that gives one a little more
confidence. A stag and three hinds passed

close by the lodge late last night — at least so
the shepherds say.

** I know you won't mind my asking you
to bring some little trifle or other for Yolande,
just to show that you were thinking of her.
She will meet you at Foyers Pier. — Yours
faithfully, G. R. Winterbourne."

Next morning there was a sudden call on
Mr. Winterbourne to dismiss these fears and
anxieties. The little community away up
there in the solitude of the hills was suddenly
thrown into violent commotion. A young
gillie who had been wandering about had
come running back to the bothy, declaring
that he had seen a stag go into the wood just
above the lodge ; and of course the news
was immediately carried to the house ; and
instantly the two gentlemen came out — Mr.
Winterbourne eager and excited, the Master
of Lynn not quite so sure of the truth of the
report. Duncan, to tell the truth, was also
inclined to doubt ; for this young lad had,
until the previous year, been a deck-hand onboard
the Dunara Castle, and knew a great
deal more about starts and seagulls than about
stags. Moreover, the shepherds had been

through the wood this same morning, with
their dogs. However, it was determined,
after much hurried consultation, not to miss
the chance, if there was a chance. The day,
in any case, threatened to turn out badly ;
the clouds were coming closer and closer
down ; to drive this wood would be a short
and practicable undertaking that would carry
them on conveniently to lunch time. And
so it was finally arranged that Mr. Winterbourne
should go away by himself to a
station that he knew, commanding certain
gullies that the stag, if there were a stag,
would most likely make for ; while the
Master would stay behind, and, after a
calculated interval, go through the wood
with Duncan and the beaters.

In the midst of all this Miss Yolande
suddenly made her appearance in a short-skirted
dress, thick boots, and deer-stalker's
cap.

"What do you want?" her father said,
abruptly, and with a stare.

I am going with you," was her cool
answer.

Indeed you are not."

*why not, then?"

"Women going deer-stalking!" he exclaimed.
'what next?"

'' Can I not be as quiet as any one ? Why
should I not go with you ? I have climbed
the hill many times, and I know very well
where to hide, for Duncan showed me the
place."

'' Go spin, you jade, go spin !" her father
said, as he shouldered the heavy rifle, and
set off on the long and weary struggle up the
hill.

Yolande turned to the Master.

'ris he not unkind!" she said, in a crestfallen
way.

If I were you," said he, laughing, " I
would go all the same."

"Should I do any harm ? Is it possible
that I could do any harm ?" she asked,
quickly.

"Not a bit of it ! What harm could you
do ? There is room for a dozen people to
hide in that place; and if you keep your
head just a little bit above the edge, and
keep perfectly still, you will see the whole
performance in the gully below. If there is

a stag in the wood, and if I don't get a shot
at him, he is almost sure to go up through
the gullies. You won't scream I suppose ?
And don't move — if you move a finger he
will see you. And don't tumble into too
many moss-holes, Yolande, when you are
crossing the moor. And don't break your
ankles in a peat-hag. And don't topple
over the edge when you get to the gullies."

** Do you think you will frighten me .^
No, I am going as soon as papa is out of
sight."

'' Oh, you can't go wrong," said he, good-naturedly.
*' The only thing is, when you
get to the top of the hill, you might go on
some three or four hundred yards before
crossing the moor, so as to keep well back
from the wood."

''Oh yes, certainly," said Yolande. "I
understand very well."

Accordingly, some little time thereafter,
she set out on her self-imposed task ; and she
was fully aware that it was a fairly arduous
one. Even here at the outset it was pretty
stiff work, for the hill rose sheer away from
the little plateau on which the lodge stood,

VOL. II. F

and the ground was rugged in some parts,
and a morass in others ; while there was an
abundance of treacherous holes where the
heather grew long among the rocks. But she
had certain landmarks to guide her. At first
there was a sheep track, then she made for two
juniper bushes, then for certain conspicuous
boulders ; then, higher up, she came on a
rough and stony face where the climbing was
pretty difficult ; then by the edge of a little
hollow that had a tree or two in it ; and
then, as she was now nearly at the top, and
as there was a smooth boulder convenient,
she thought she would sit down for a minute
to regain her breath. Far below her the
lodge and its dependencies looked like so
many small toy houses ; she could see the
tiny figures of human beings moving about ;
in the perfect silence she could hear the
whining of the dogs shut up in the kennel.
Then one of those miniature figures waved
something white ; she returned the signal.
Then she rose and went on again; she
crossed a little burn ; she passed along the
edge of some steep gullies leading away down
to the Corrie-an-Eich — that is, the Corrie of

the Horses ; and finally, after some further
climbing, she reached the broad, wide, open,
undulating moorland, from which nothing
was visible but a wilderness of bare and bleak
mountain-tops, all as silent as the grave.

She had been up here twice or thrice
before ; but she never came upon this scene
of vast and voiceless desolation without being
struck by a sort of terror. It seemed away
out of the world. And on this morning a
deeper gloom than usual hung over it ; the
clouds were low and heavy ; there was a
brooding stillness in the air. She was glad
that some one had preceded her ; the solitude
of this place was terrible.

And now as she set out to cross the wild
moorland she discovered that that was a
much more serious undertaking than when
she had a friendly hand to lend her assistance
from time to time. This wide plain of moss
and bog and heather was intersected by a
succession of peat-hags, the oozy black soil of
which was much more easy to slide down into
than to clamber out of. The Master of Lynn
had taught her how to cross these hags : one
step down, then a spring across, then her

right hand grasped by his right hand, then
her elbow caught by his left hand, and she
stood secure on the top of the other bank.
But now, as she scrambled down the one
side, so she had to scramble up the other,
generally laying hold of a bunch of heather
to help her ; and as she was anxious not to
lose her way, she made a straight course
across this desert waste, and did not turn
aside for drier or smoother ground as one
better acquainted with the moor might have
done. However, she struggled on bravely.
The first chill struck by that picture of desolation
had gone. She was thinking more of
the deer now. She hoped she would be up
in time. She hoped her father would get a
chance. And of course she made perfectly
certain that if he did get a chance he would
kill the stag ; and then there would be a joyful
procession back to the lodge ; and a rare
to-do among the servants and the gillies, with
perhaps a dance in the evening to the skirl of
Duncan's pipes.

All at once a cold wind began to blow,
and about a minute thereafter she had no
more idea of where she was than if she had

been in the middle of the Atlantic. The
whole world had been suddenly shut out from
her ; all she could see was a yard or two,
either way, of the wet moss and heather.
This gray cloud that had come along was raw
to the throat and to the eyes, but It did not
deposit much moisture on her clothes ; Its
chief effect was the bewilderment of not seeing
anything. And yet she thought she
ought to go on. Perhaps she might get out
of it. Perhaps the wind would carry It off
And so she kept on as straight as she could
guess, but with much more caution ; for at
any moment she might fall Into one of the
deep holes worn by the streams In the peat,
or Into one of the moss-holes where the
vegetation was so treacherously green.

But as she went on and on, and could find
nothing that she could recognise, she grew
afraid. Moreover there was a roaring of a
waterfall somewhere, which seemed to her
louder than anything she had heard about
there before. She began to wonder how far
she had come, and to fear that in the mist
she had lost her direction, and might be
in the immediate neighbourhood of some

dangerous precipice. And then — as she was
looking all round her helplessly — her heart
stood still with fright. There — away in that
vague pall that encompassed her — stood the
shadow, the ghost of an animal, — a large,
visionary thing, motionless and noiseless, at
a distance that she could not compute. And
now she felt sure that that was the stag they
were in search of; and, strangely enough,
her agony of fear was not that she might by
accident be shot through being in the neighbourhood
of the deer, but that she might by
some movement on her part scare it away.
She stood motionless, her heart now beating
with excitement, her eyes fixed on this faint
shade away in there, in the gray. It did not
move ; she did not move. She kept her
hands clenched by her side, so that she should
not tremble. She dared not even sink into
the heather and try to hide there. But the
next moment she had almost screamed, for
there was a hurried, rushing noise behind
her, and as she (in spite of herself) wheeled
round to face this new danger, a troop of
phantoms went flying by — awful things they
appeared to be until, just as they passed her,

she recognised them to be humble and familiar
sheep. Moreover, when she saw that other
animal out there disappear along with them
the whole of them looming large and
mysterious in this cloud-world — she made
sure that that had been a sheep also ; and
she breathed more freely. Must not these
animals have been disturbed by her father .^
Ought she not to make back in the direction
from which they had come .^ To go any
farther forward she scarcely dared ; the roar
of water seemed perilously near.

As she thus stood, bewildered, uncertain,
and full of a nameless dread, she saw before
her a strange thing — a thing that added
amazement to her terror — a belt of white,
like a waterfall, that seemed to connect earth
and sky. It was at an unknown distance,
but it appeared to be perfectly vertical ; and
she knew that no such stupendous waterfall
had she either seen before or heard of. That,
then, — that white water — was the cause of the
roaring noise. And then she bethought her
of a saying of Archie Leslie, that tales were
told of people having gone into this wilderness
and never having been heard of again ;

but that there was one sure way of escape for
any one who got astray — to follow any one of
the streams. That, he had said, must sooner
or later lead you down to Allt-nam-ba. But
when she thought of going away over to that
white torrent, and seeking to follow its course
down through chasm after chasm, she shuddered.
For one who knew the country intimately
— for a man who could jump from
boulder to boulder, and swing himself from
bush to bush — it might be possible ; for her
it was impossible. Nor was there the slightest
use in her trying to go back the way she
came. She had lost all sense of direction ;
there was nothing to give her a clue ; she
was absolutely helpless.

But fortunately she had the good sense to
stand still and to consider her position with
such calmness as she could muster ; and that
took time ; and during this time, insensibly
to herself, the clouds around were growing
thinner. Then she noticed that the upper
part of that awe-inspiring torrent had receded
very considerably — that the white line was
no longer vertical, but seemed to stretch back
into the distance. Then the moorland visible

around her began to grow more extended.
Here and there faint visions of hills appeared.
And then a flood of joyful recognition broke
over her. That awful torrent was nothing
but the familiar Allt-cam-ban/ its brawling
white stream not vertical at all, but merely
winding down from the far heights of the
hills. She had come too far, certainly ; but
now she knew that the gullies she was in
search of were just behind her ; and that her
father's hiding-place was not more than three
hundred yards distant. The cloud that had
encompassed her was now trailing along the
face of the hill opposite her ; the gloomy
landscape was clear in all its features. With
a light heart she tripped along, over heather,
across hags, through sopping moss, until
behind a little barricade which Nature had
formed at the summit of a precipice overlooking
certain ravines — a little box, as it were,
that looked as if it had been dug out for the
very purpose of deer-slaying — she found her
father quietly standing, and cautiously peering
over the ledge.

When he heard her stealthy approach, he

1 The White Winding Water.

quickly turned ; then he motioned her to
stoop down and come to him. This she did
very cautiously and breathlessly, and presently
she was standing beside him, on a spot
which enabled her to look down into the
gullies beneath. These certainly formed a
most admirable deer-trap, if ever there was
one. The place consisted of a series of little
hills or lumps, probably not more than 150
feet in height, with sheer smooth slopes, here
and there lightly wooded, but mostly covered
with heather. The gullies between those
lumps, again, came to a point in a ravine just
underneath where Yolande was standing ; so
that, whichever way the deer came, they were
almost certain to make up the steep face just
opposite this station, and so give the rifleman
an excellent chance. Yolande took out her
housekeepers notebook, and wrote on the
fly-leaf:

*' Have you seen anything ? "

He shook his head ; and motioned to her
to put the book away. It was not a time for
trifling. If there were a stag in the unseen
woods beyond, it might make its sudden
appearance in this silent little ravine at any

moment, and might make for the top by some
quite unexpected track. He kept his eyes
on the watch all along the gullies ; but his
head was motionless. Yolande, too. was
eager and anxious — but only tor a while.
As time passed she grew listless. This
solitude seemed always to have been a solitude.
There was no sign of life in it.
Doubtless the young lad had been deceived.
And then she grew to thinking of the strange
sight she saw in the mist, when the waters ot
the Allt-cam-ban seemed to be one foaming,
white, vertical torrent.

Then a shock came to her eyes : a living
thing suddenly appeared in that empty solitude
; and at once she clenched her hands.
She knew what was expected of her. She
remained rigid as a stone ; she would not
even raise her head to see if her father saw.
She kept her eyes on this startling feature in
the landscape ; she held her breath ; she was
mainly conscious of a dim fear that this
animal that was coming over that hillock at
such a speed was not a deer at all but a fox.
It was of a lio^ht reddish - brown colour.
Then it had not come up any of the gullies,

as she had been told to expect ; it had come
right over the top of the Httle hill, with a
long, sinuous stride ; and now it was descending
again into the ravine. But here she saw
it was a deer. Once out of the long heather,
and coming nearer, too, it was clear that this
was a deer. But surely small ? Where were
the great horns ? Or was it a hind ? She
knew rather than saw that her father twice
aimed his rifle at this animal, whatever it
was, as it sped across an open space at the
bottom of the ravine. Of course all this
happened in a few seconds ; and she had just
begun to think that the animal had horns,
and was a roebuck, when the lithe, red,
sinuous, silent object disappeared altogether
behind a ridge. Still she did not move.
She did not express disappointment. She
would not turn her head.

Then she knew that her father had quickly
passed her and jumped on to a clump of
heather whence he could get a better view.
She followed. The next thing she saw, clear
against the sky, and not more than a hundred
and twenty yards off, was the head of a deer,
the horns thrown back, the nostrils high in

the air. The same instant her father fired ;
and that strange object (which very much
frightened her) disappeared. She saw her
father pause for a second to put a fresh cartridge
in his rifle ; and then away he hurried to
the place where the deer had passed ; and so
she thought she might now safely follow.
She found her father searching all about, but
more particularly studying the peat-hags.

I do believe I hit him," he said (and
there was considerable vexation in his tone).
'* Look about, Yolande. He must have
crossed the peat somewhere. If he is
wounded, he may not have gone far. It was
only a roebuck — still — such a chance ! Confound
it, I believe I've missed him clean ! "

He was evidently grievously mortified ;
and she was sorry ; for she knew he would
worry about it afterwards ; smaller trifles
than that made him fidget. But all their
searching was in vain. The peat-hags here
were narrow ; a frightened deer would clear
them.

'* If he is wounded, papa, Duncan and the
dogs will go after him."

Oh no," said he moodily, '' I believe I

missed him clean. If he had been hit, he
couldn't have got away so fast. Of course, it
was only a buck — still "

'' But, papa, it was a most difficult shot !
I never saw any creature go at such a pace ;
and you only saw him for a moment ! "

Yes, and for that moment he looked as
big as a cow, against the sky. Nobody but
an idiot could have missed the thing ! "

*' Oh, you need not try to make me believe
you are a bad shot," said she, proudly.
*' No. Every one knows better than that. I
know what Mr. Leslie tells me. And I suppose
the very best shot in the world misses
sometimes ? "

'well, there is no use waiting here," said
he. '' Of course there was no stag. The
stag that idiot of a boy saw was this roebuck.
If there were a stag, the noise of the shot
must have driven him off. Why the mischief
I did not fire when he was crossing the
gully I don't understand ! — I had my rifle up
twice "

Papa," said she, suddenly, " what is
that ? "

She was looking away down into the

ravine beneath them — at a dusky red object
that was lying in a patch of green grecian.
He followed the direction of her eyes.

"Why, surely — yes, it is, Yolande — that
is the buck — he must have fallen backwards
and rolled right down to the bottom "

'rand you said you were such a bad shot,
papa ! "

"Oh, that is no such prize," he said (but
he spoke a good deal more cheerfully) ;
"what I wonder is whether the poor beast is
dead — I suppose he must be "

There they come — there they come —
look ! " she said ; and she was far more excited
and delighted than he was. "There
is the red gillie at the top, and Duncan coming
along by the hollow — and there is
Archie "

She took out her handkerchief, and waved
it in the air.

"Don't, Yolande!" said he. "They'll
think we've got a stag !"

We've got all the stag there was to get !"
said she, proudly. "And you said you were
not a good shot — to shoot a roebuck running
at such a pace !"

'you are the most thorough-going flatterer,
Yolande!" he said, laughing (but he
was very much pleased all the same). '' Why,
he wasn't going at all just at the crest — he
stopped to sniff the air "

'' But you could only have seen him for
the fiftieth part of a second : isn't that the
same as running ?"

At this moment a voice was heard from
below, where a little group of figures had
collected round the buck. It was the Master
of Lynn who was looking up to them.

''A very fine head, sir!" he called.

"There, didn't I tell you?" she said,
proudly — though she had never told him anything
of the kind. And then in the excitement
of the moment she forgot she had never
revealed to her father that little arrangement
about the whisky that the Master had suggested
to her.

'* Duncan," she called down to them.

'eyes, Miss?"

"When you go back home, you will let
the beaters have a glass of whisky each."

"Very well, Miss," he called back; and
then he proceeded with the slinging of the

buck round the shoulders of the red-headed
gillie.

'archie," she called again.

'eyes?"

"If you are back at the lodge first, wait
for us. We shall be there in time for lunch."

"All right."

She was very proud and pleased as they
trudged away home again over the wild
moorland. For her part she could see no
difference between a redeem and a red-deer,
except that the former (as she declared) was
a great deal pleasant to eat, as she hoped
she would be able to show them. And was
it not a far more difficult thing to hit a deer
of the size of a roebuck than to hit a stag as
tall as a horse .^

Flatterer — flatterer !" he said ; but he
was mightily well pleased all the same ; and
indeed to see Yolande gay and cheerful like
this was of itself quite enough for him ; so
that for the time he forgot all his anxieties
and fears.

VOL. II.

A CONFIDANT.

One evening John Shortlands and Jack
Melville were together standing at the door
of the lodge, looking down the glen at the
very singular spectacle there presented.
The day had been dull and overclouded, and
seemed about to sink into an equally gloomy
evening, when suddenly, at sunset, the western
heavens broke into a flame of red ; and
all at once the stream flowing down through
the long valley became one sheet of vivid
pink fire, only broken here and there by the
big blocks of granite in its channel, which
remained of a pale and ghostly gray. It
was a very curious effect ; for it was the
boulders (getting their colour from the overclouded
zenith) that seemed faint and shadowy
and phantasmal ; while the water was solid,
shining, fire-red, and bewildering to the eyes.
The big, burly M.P., however, did not

seem wholly occupied with this transfiguration
of the heavens. He looked vexed, perturbed,
impatient.

''Mr. Melville," he said, abruptly, in his
broad Northumbrian intonation, 'will you
walk down the glen for a bit ?"

Yes ; but we should fetch Miss Winterbourne
to show her the skies on fire."

No ; it's about her I want to speak to
you. Come along."

About her ? " he repeated, with the
large clear gray eyes showing some astonishment.


"Or, rather," said his companion, when
they had got as far as the bridge, "about her
father. Winterbourne is an old friend of
mine, and I won't just call him an ass ; but
the way he is going on at present, silly
sallying, frightened to say this, frightened
to say that, is enough to worry a far stronger
man than he is into his grave. Well, if he
won't speak, I will. Dang it, I hate mystery !
My motto is — Out with it ! And he would
never have got into this precious mess if he
had taken my advice all through."

Melville was surprised ; but he did not

Interrupt. John Shortlands seemed a trifle
angry.

'' The immediate trouble with him is
this : Ought he, or ought he not, to confide
certain matters to you as a friend of young
Leslie ? Well, I am going to take that into
my own hand. I am going to tell you
the whole story — and a miserable business

It IS.

Do you think that Is wise ?" the younger
man said, calmly. "If there is anything
disagreeable, shouldn't the knowledge of it
be kept to as few people as possible ? I
would rather have my Illusions left. The
WInterbournes have been kind to me since
they came here ; and It has been delightful
to me to look at these two — the spectacle of
father and daughter "

Oh, but I have nothing to say against
either of them — God forbid ! — except that
Winterbourne has been a confounded ass, as
It seems to me ; or perhaps I should say as
it used to seem to me. Well, now, I suppose
you know that your friend Leslie and Yolande
are engaged V

I have understood as much."

*' But did he not tell ye ?" said Shortlands,
with a stare.

"Well, yes," the other said, in rather a
cold way. " But we did not have much talk
about it. Archie Leslie is a very fine fellow ;
but he and I don't always agree in our ways
of looking at things."

'' Then, at all events, in order to disagree
you must know what his way of looking at
things is; and that is just the point I'm
coming to' said Shortlands, in his blunt, dogmatic
kind of way. 'just this, that Yolande
Winterbourne has been brought up all her
life to believe that her mother died when she
was a child ; whereas the mother is not dead,
but very much alive — worse luck ; and the
point is whether he ought to be told ; and
whether he is a sensible sort of a chap, who
would make no fuss about it, and who would
see that it could not matter much to him ;
and, above all, whether he would consent to
keep this knowledge back from Yolande, who
would only be shocked and horrified by it.
Do ye understand ? I think I have put it
plain — that is, from Winterbourne's point of
view "

But surely," exclaimed Melville, with
wide-open eyes, — "surely the best thing —
surely the natural thing — would be to tell the
girl herself, first of all !"

'man alive, Winterbourne would rather
cut his throat ! Don't you see that his affection
for the girl is quite extraordinary ? it is
the sole passion of his life ; a needle-scratch
on Yolande's finger is like a knife to his
heart. I assure you the misery he has
endured in keeping this secret is beyond
anything I can tell you ; and I do believe he
would go through the whole thing again just
that Yolande's mind should be free, happy,
and careless. Mind you, it was not done
through any advice of mine. No ; nor was
it Winterbourne either who began it ; it was
his sister. The child was given to her charge
when she was about two or three years old, I
fancy. Then they were living in Lincolnshire
; afterwards they went to France ; and
the aunt died there. It was she who brought
Yolande up to believe her mother dead ; and
then Winterbourne put off and put off telling
her — although twenty times I remonstrated
with him — until he found it quite impossible.

He couldn't do it. Sometimes when I look
at her now, I scarcely wonder. She seems
such a radiant kind of a creature that I doubt
whether I could bring myself to tell her that
story — no, I could not — dang it, I could not 1
And even when I was having rows with
Winterbourne, and telling him what an ass
he was, and telling him that the torture he
was going through was quite unnecessary,
why, man, I thought there was something
fine in it too : and again and again I have
watched him when he would sit and look at
Yolande and listen to all her nonsense, and
have seen his face just filled with pleasure to
see her so happy and careless, and then I
thought he had his moments of recompense
also. When he goes about with her he
forgets all that worry — thank goodness for
that ; and certainly she is high - spirited
enough for anything ; you would think she
had never known a care or a trouble in all
her existence ; and I suppose that's about
the truth."

John Shortlands had grown quite eloquent
.about Yolande — although, indeed, he was
not much of an orator in the House ; and

his companion listened in silence — in a
profound reverie, in fact. At last he said,
slowly —

'' I suppose there is no necessity that I
should know why the girl has been kept in
ignorance of her mother's existence ?"

''Oh, I will tell you the story — miserable
as it is. Well, it is a sad story, too : for you
cannot imagine a pleasant creature than
that was when Winterbourne married her.
He was older than she was, but not much ;
he looks a good deal older now than he really
is — those years have told on him. It was
neuralgia that began it ; she suffered horribly.
Then some idiot advised her to drink port
wine — I suppose the very worst thing she
could have tried, for if it is bad for gout, it
must be bad for rheumatism and neuralgia,
and such things ; at least I should think so.
However, it soothed her at first, I suppose ;
and no doubt she took refuge in it whenever
a bad attack came on. But, mind you, it
was not that that played the mischief with
her. She herself became aware that she was
being tempted to take too much ; for quite
suddenly she went to her husband, who had

suspected nothing of the kind, told him
frankly that the habit was growing on her,
and declared her resolution to break the thing
off at once. She did that. I firmly believe
she did keep her resolution to the letter.
But then the poor wretch had worse and
worse agony to bear ; and then it was that
somebody or other — it wasn't Winterbourne,
and he knew nothing about it — recommended
her to try one of those patent medicines they
make up from opium or morphia. I daresay
it was harmless at first. No doubt she
began with small doses. But it seems that
those drugs are twenty times worse than
brandy or whisky in destroying the power of
the will ; and so I suppose the poor creature
went on and on, increasing the doses and
destroying her brain at the same time, until
in the end she was simply a hopeless drunkard.
It seems miraculous how women can go on
destroying themselves with those infernal
drugs without being found out. I don't know
whether Winterbourne would ever have found
it out ; for he is an indulgent sort of chap,
and he was very fond of her ; but one night
there was a scene at dinner. Then he discovered

the whole thing. The child was
sent away, for fear of further scenes ; and this
so terrified the mother that she made the
most solemn promises never to touch the
poison again. But by this time — here is the
mischief of those infernal things — her power
of self-control had gone. Man alive, I can't
tell you what Winterbourne had to go
through. His patience with her was superhuman
; and always the promise held out to
her was that Yolande was to be restored to
her ; and sometimes she succeeded so well
that every one was hopeful, and she seemed
to have quite recovered. Then again there
would be another relapse ; and a wild struggle
to conceal it from the friends of the family ;
and all the rest of it. What a life he has led
all those years — trying to get her to live in
some safe retreat or other ; and then suddenly
finding that she had broken out again, and
gone to some people, Romney or Comforts,
the name is, who have a most pernicious influence
over her, and can do anything with
her when she is in that semi-maudlin state.
Of course they use her to extort money from
Winterbourne ; and she has drugged half

her wits away ; and it is easy for them to
persuade her that she has been ill-treated
about Yolande. Then she will go down to
the House, or hunt him out at his lodgings —
oh, I assure you I can't tell you what has
been going on all these years. There is only
one fortunate thing — that the Comforts are
not aware of the terror in which he lives of
Yolande getting to know the truth, or else
they would put the screw on a good deal
more forcibly, I reckon. As for her, poor
woman, she has no idea of asking for money
for herself — in fact, she has plenty. It is nota
question of money with Winterbourne.
His dread is that she might stumble on them
accidentally, and Yolande have to be told.
That is why he has consented to her remaining
all these years in France, though his only
delight is in her society. That is why he
won't let her live in London, but would
rather put himself to any inconvenience by
her living elsewhere. That is why he looks
forward with very fair composure to a separation
; Yolande living in peace and quiet in
this neighbourhood here ; and he left in
London to take his chance of a stone being

thrown through his window at any hour of
the day or night ! "

*' But that terrorism is perfectly frightful
! "

*' How are you to avoid it ?" said Short-lands,
coolly. " There is the one way, of
course. There is the heroic remedy. Tell
Yolande the whole story ; and then, the next
time the stone is thrown, summon the police,
give the woman in charge, bind her over in
recognisance, and have all your names in
the next day's paper. Some men could do
that. Winterbourne couldn't ; he hasn't the
nerve*'

The answer to that was a strange one. It
was a remark, or rather an exclamation, that
Melville seemed to make almost to himself.

My God, not one of them appears to see
what ought to be done !"

But the remark was overheard.

*' What would you do, then .^"

*'I ?" said Melville — and John Shortlands
did not observe that the refined, intellectual
face of his companion grew a shade paler ashe
spoke : '' I ? I would go straight to the
girl herself, and I would say : ' That is the

condition in which your mother is : go and
save her '!"

"Then let me tell you this, Mr. Melville,"
said Shortlands, quite as warmly, " rather
than bring such shame and horror and suffering
on his daughter, George Winterbourne
would cut off his fingers one by one. Why,
man, you don't understand what that girl is
to him — his very life ! Besides, everything
has been tried. You don't suppose the
mother would have been allowed to sink to
that state without every human effort being
made to save her ; and always Yolande herself
held out to her as the future reward.
Now we must be getting back, I think. But
I wish you would think over what I have told
you ; and let Winterbourne have your opinion
as to whether all this should be declared to
your friend Leslie. Winterbourne's first idea
was that, if Yolande were married and settled
in the country — especially in such a remote
neighbourhood as this — there would be no
need to tell even her husband about it. It
could not concern them. But now he is
worrying himself to death about other possibilities.
Supposing something disagreeable

were to happen in London, and the family-name
get into the paper, then Yolande's
husband might turn round and ask why it
had been concealed from him. That might
be unpleasant, you know. If he were not
considerate, he might put the blame on her.
The fact is, Winterbourne has had his nervous
system so pulled to pieces by all this fear and
secrecy and anxiety that he exaggerates
things tremendously and keeps speculating
on dangers never likely to occur. Why, he
can't shoot half as well as he used to ; he is
always imagining something is going to
happen ; and he does not take half his chances
just for fear of missing and being mortified
after. He has not had a pleasant time of it
these many years."

They turned now, and leisurely made their
way back to the lodge. The red sunset still
flared up the glen ; but now it was behind
them ; and it was a soft warm colour that
they saw spreading over the heather slopes
of the hills, and the wooded carries, and the
little plateau between the convergent streams.

"• May I ask your own opinion, Mr. Short-lands
.'^ " said Melville, after a time, 'ras to

whether this thing should be kept back from
Leslie ?"

"Well, I should say that would depend
pretty much on his character," was the
answer ; " and as to that I know very little.
My own inclination would be for having a
frank disclosure all round ; but still I see what
Winterbourne has to say for himself; and I
cannot imagine how the existence of this poor
woman could concern either your friend Leslie
or his wife. Probably they would never hear
a word of her. She can't live long. She
must have destroyed her constitution completely
— poor wretch, one can't help pitying
her ; and at the same time, you know, it would
be a great relief if she were dead, both to
herself and her relatives. Of course, if Mr.
Leslie were a finical sort of person — I am
talking in absolute confidence you know, and
in ignorance as well — he might make some
objection ; but if he were a man with a good
sound base of character, he would say, ' Well,
what does that matter to me T and he would
have some consideration for what Winterbourne
has gone through in order to keep
this trouble concealed from the girl, and

would himself be as willing to conceal it from

her."

Don't you think," said Melville, after a
minute's pause, 'that the mere fact that he
might make some objection is a reason 
should be informed at once ?"

'' Is he an ass ?" said John Shortlands,
bluntly. '' Is he a worrying sort of creature ?"

''Oh, not at all. He is remarkably sensible
— very sensible. He will take a perfectly
calm view of the situation ; you may depend
on that,"

"Other things being equal, I am for his
being told — most distinctly. If he has common
sense, there need be no trouble. On
the other hand, you know, if you should think
we are making a fuss where none is necessary,
I have a notion that Winterbourne would be
satisfied by your judgment, as an intimate
friend of Leslie's."

But that is putting rather a serious responsibility
on me. Supposing it is decided
to say nothing about the matter, then I should
be in the awkward position of knowing something
affecting Leslie's domestic affairs of
which he would be ignorant."

'' Undoubtedly. I quite see that. But if
you are afraid of accepting the responsibility,
there's an easy way out of it. I will go and
tell him myself, and have it over. I have
already broken away from Winterbourne's
shilly-shallying by speaking to you ; he would
never have done it ; and he is worrying himself
into his grave. He is a timid and sensitive
fellow ; he now thinks he should have
told the Master, as he calls him, when he first
proposed for Yolande ; and perhaps it might
have been better to do so ; but I can see how
he was probably well inclined to the match
for various reasons, and anxious not to put
any imaginary stumbling-block in the way.
But now, if you were to go to him and say,
Well, I have heard the whole story. It can't
concern either Yolande or her future husband.
Forget the whole thing ; and don't worry anymore
about it,' I do believe he would recover
his peace of mind, for he has confidence in
your judgment."

It would be rather a serious thing."

I know it."

'' I must take time to turn the matter
over."

VOL. II. H

Oh, certainly."

They had now reached the bridge, and,
happening to look up, they saw that Yolande
had come to the door of the lodge, and was
standing there, and waving a handkerchief to
them as a sign to make haste. And what a
pretty picture she made as she stood there —
the warm light from the west aglow upon the
tall, English-looking figure clad in a lighted
costume, and giving colour to the fair,
freckled face, and the ruddy-gold aureole of
her hair. Melville's eyes lighted up with
pleasure at the very sight of her ; it was but
natural — she was like a vision.

'* Ah," said she, shaking her finger at
them as they went up the path, '' you are
wicked men. Seven minutes late already ;
and if the two-pounder that Mr. Melville
brought for me has fallen all to pieces you
must have yourselves to blame — that is true."

*' I wish. Miss Winterbourne," said Jack
Melville, "that some noble creature would
give me a day's salmon - fishing. Then I
could bring you something better than loch
trout."

''Oh no," she answered, imperiously, "I

will not have anything said against the loch
trout. No ; I am sure there is nothing ever
so good as what you get from your own place
nothing. Papa says that never, never did
he have such cutlets as those from the roe-deer
that he shot last week."

'' I can tell you, Miss Yolande," said John
Shortlands, 'that others beside your father
fully appreciated those cutlets. The whole
thing depends on whether you have got a
smart young housekeeper ; and I have it in
my head now that I am going to spend the
rest of my days at Allt-nam-ba ; and I will
engage you — on your own terms — name
them — you shall have the money down — and
then I will have Duncan compose a march
for me — why should it be always Melville s
Welcome Home f "

But you are also to have the Bar^xn Rocks
of Adept to-night," said she, brightly. " I told
Duncan it was your favourite. Now, come
along — come along — oh, dear me ! it is ten
minutes late !"

Jack Melville was rather silent that night
at dinner. And always — when he could
make perfectly certain that her eyes were cast

down — or turned in the direction of John
Shortlands or of her father — he was studying
Yolande's face ; and sometimes he would
recall the phrase that Mrs. Bell had used on
the first occasion she had seen this young
lady, or rather immediately after parting with
her — 'she's a braw lass, that; I fear she
will make some man's heart sore " — and then
again he kept wondering and speculating as
to what possible strength of will and womanly
character there might lie behind those fair,
soft, girlish features.

A PEACEMAKER.

Pretty Mrs. Graham was standing In her
room at Inverstroy, ready to go out ; her
husband was in the adjacent dressing-room,
engaged In the operation of shaving.

"You need not be afraid, Jim," said the
young matron. " Everything has been
arranged. Everything will go quite right
till I come back. And Archie is to meet
me at Fort Augustus, so that the ponies
won't have the long pull up Glencoe."

"Why can't he manage his own affairs ?"
the stout warrior grumbled.

"Aunt Colquhoun isn't easy to get on
with," she said. "And I am beginning to
feel anxious. What would you say to his
getting spiteful, and running away with Shena
Van''

"Stuff!"

"Oh, I don't know. If I chose I could

show you something I cut out of the
Inverness Courier about three years ago.
Well, I will show it to you."

She went to a drawer in her wardrobe,
and hunted about for a time until she found
the newspaper cutting, which she brought
back and put before him on the dressing-table.
This was what he took up and read : —

FOR Siena's NEW YEAR'S DAY MORNING.

Her eyes are dark and soft and blue,
She's light-stepped as the roe;

Shena, Shena, my heart is true
To you where'er you go /

1 wish that I were by the rills

Above the Allt-cam-bdn j
And wandering with me over the hills,,
My own dear Shena Vit.

Far other sights and scenes I view :

The year goes out in snow j
O Shena, Shena, nty heart is true

To you where'er you go ! "

*' Well," said he, contemptuously throwing
down again the piece of paper, "you don't
suppose Archie wrote that rubbish 1 That
isn't his line."

"It's a line that most lads take at a
certain age," said Mrs. Graham, shrewdly.

More likely some moon-struck ploughboy
! " her husband interjected ; for, indeed,
he did not seem to think much of those verses,
which she regarded with some fondness.

I am afraid," said she, looking at the
lines, 'that the ploughboys in this part of
the world don't know quite as much English
as all that comes to. And how many people
do you think now, Jim, have ever heard of
the Allt-cam-ban ? And then Shena — how
many people have ever heard of Janet
Stewart's nickname ? There is another
thing. Those verses appeared when Archie
was at Edinburgh ; and of course he knew
very well that, although he was not allowed
to write to her, the Inverness Courier would
make its way into the manse. I think they
are very pretty.

O Shena, Sheets, ny heart is true
To you-wherever you go ! '

That is the worst of marrying an old man.
They never write poetry about you."

*' You call that poetry ! " he said.

'well, good-bye, Jim. I will tell Mac-kenzie
when he is to meet me at Fort
Augustus."

'' Bring back Yolande Winterbourne with
you," said Colonel Graham, who had now
about finished his toilette.

"" How can I, without asking her father ?
And there wouldn't be room."

*' I don't want her father. I want her.
There is no fun in having a whole houseful
of married women."

'' I quite agree with you. And who
wanted them ? Certainly not I. There is
only one thing more absurd than having
nothing but married women in the house, and
that is having nothing but married men. But
you have had a warning this year, Jim. Everybody
acknowledges that there never was such
bad shooting. I hope another year you will
get one or two younger men who know what
shooting is, and who can climb. Well, goodbye,
Jim." And presently pretty Mrs. Graham
was seated in a light little waggonette of polished
oak, the reins in her hand, and a pair of
stout little ponies trotting away down through
the wooded and winding deeps of Glenstroy.

It was a long drive to Fort Augustus ;
and although from time to time a refrain went
echoing through her head —

O Shena, Shena, my heart is true
To you wherever you go f^''

and apparently connecting itself somehow
with the pattering of the horses' feet on the
road, still her brain was far from being idle.
This expedition was entirely of her own
proper choice and motion. In truth she had
been alarmed by the very fact that the Master
of Lynn had ceased to wish for her interference.
He had refused to urge his case
further. If the people at Lynn Towers were
blind to their own interests they might remain
so. He was not going to argue and stir up
domestic dissension. He would not allow
Yolande's name to be drawn into any such
brawl ; and certainly he would not suffer any
discussion of herself or her merits. All this
Mrs. Graham gathered vaguely from one
or two letters ; and, as she considered the
situation as being obviously dangerous, she
had, at great inconvenience to herself, left
her house full of guests, and was now about
to see what could be done at Lynn Towers.

When she reached Fort Augustus Archie
Leslie was waiting for her there at the hotel ;
and she found him in the same mood. He

did not wish to have anything said about the
matter. He professed to be indifferent. He
assumed that his sister had come on an ordinary
filial visit, and he had luncheon ready
for her. He said she was looking prettier
than ever, and was anxious to know whether
they had done well with the shooting at
Inverstroy.

'now look here, Archie," said she, when
the waiter had finally left the room. " Let
us understand each other. You know what
I have come about — at some trouble to
myself. There is no use in your making
the thing more difficult than needs be. And
you know perfectly well that matters cannot
remain as they are."

I know perfectly well that matters cannot
remain as they are," he repeated, with some
touch of irony ; "for this excellent reason,
that in the course of time the Winterbournes
will be going south, and that as Mr. Winterbourne
has never been within the doors of
Lynn Towers, and isn't likely to be, he will
draw his own conclusions. Probably he has
done so already. I haven't seen much of
him since his friend Shortlands came. Very

likely he already understands why our family
have taken no notice of them ; and I know
he is too proud a man to allow his daughter
to be mixed up in any domestic squabble.
They will go south. That will be — Goodbye."


'' But, my dear Master," his sister protested,
'' if you would only show a little
conciliation "

'' What ! " he said, indignantly. '' Do
you think I am going to beg for an invitation
for Mr. Winterbourne ? Do you
expect me to go and ask that Yolande should
be received at Lynn Towers ? I think not !
I don't quite see my way to that yet ! "

"You needn't be angry "

'' But it is so absurd," he exclaimed.
"What have Winterbourne's politics to do
with Yolande ? Supposing he wanted to
blow up the House of Lords with dynamite,
what has that got to do with her 1 It is
Burke's Peerage that is at the bottom of all
this nonsense. If every blessed copy of that
book were burned out of the world, they
wouldn't have another word to say. It is
the fear of seeing ' daughter of Mr. Winterbourne,

M.P. for Slagpool,' that is setting
them crazy. That comes of living out of the
world — that comes of being toadied by gillies
and town councillors. But I am not going
to trouble about it," said he, with a sudden
air of indifference. " I am not going to
make a fuss. They can go their way ; I can
go mine."

Yes, and the Winterbournes will go
theirs," said his sister, sharply.

'every well."

But it is not very well — it is very ill.
Come now, Archie, be reasonable. You
know the trouble I had before I married
Jim ; it was got over by a little patience and
discretion."

'' Oh, if you think I am going to cringe
and crawl about for their consent, you are
quite mistaken. I would not put Yolande
Winterbourne into such a position. Why,"
said he, with some sense of injury in his
tone, '' I like the way they talk — as if they
were asked to sacrifice something ! If there
is any sacrifice in the case it seems to me
that I am making it, not they. I am doing
what I think best for Lynn, that has always

been starved for want of money. Very well ;
if they don't like it they can leave it alone.
I am not going to beg for any favour in the
matter."

'rit might be as well not to talk of any
sacrifice," said his sister, quietly, and yet
with some significance. '' I don't think
there will be much sacrifice. Well, now I'm
ready, Archie ; what have you brought — the
dog-cart ?"

'eyes."

Shortly thereafter they set out for Lynn ;
and they did not resume this conversation ;
for as they had to climb the steep road
leading into Glencoe, the Master got down
and walked, leaving the reins to his sister.
They passed through the deep woods, and
up and out on to the open heights. They
skirted the solitary little lake that lies in a
mountain-cup up there. And then, in due
time, they came in sight of the inland country
a broad and variegated plain, with here
and there a farmhouse or village.

They came in sight of something else, too
the figure of a young woman who was
coming along the road. Mrs. Graham's eyes

were fixed on that solitary person for sometime
before she exclaimed —

Archie, do you see who that is ?"

Of course I do," said he, not with the
best grace.

'' It is she, isn't it ?" she said, eagerly.

I suppose you can see that for yourself,"
was the answer.

'' Perhaps it isn't the first time to-day that
you have met her ?" said she, looking up
with a quick scrutiny.

''If you want to know, I have not set
eyes on her since last Christmas. She has
been living in Inverness."

He pulled up. This young lady whom
they now stopped to speak to was a good-looking
girl of about twenty, with light
brown hair and very dark blue eyes. There
was some firmness and shrewdness of character
in the face, despite the shyness that
was also very visible there. For the rest,
she was neatly dressed — in something of a
town style.

She merely nodded to the Master, who
took off his hat ; but, as she was on Mrs.
Graham's side of the dog-cart, she shook

hands with that lady ; and her bright, fresh-coloured,
upturned face had something of
diffidence or self-consciousness in it.

"Oh, how do you do, Miss Stewart ! It
is such a long time since I have seen you,"
said Mrs. Graham.

"You do not come often to Lynn now,
Mrs. Graham," said Miss Stewart, with justa
touch of a very pretty accent, " and I have
been living in Inverness."

Oh, indeed. And how are the people
at the manse ?"

They chatted in the ordinary fashion for a
few minutes ; and then the Master of Lynn
drove on again — in silence. Mrs. Graham
ventured to repeat — apparently to herself,
though he must have overheard —

And wandering with nie o'er the hills
My own dear Sheets Van j''''

but if he did overhear, he took no notice ;
and certainly he betrayed neither confusion
nor annoyance. Perhaps the verses were
not his, after all ? The minister's daughter
was the belle of those parts ; she had had many
admirers ; and the Inverness Courier was the
natural medium for the expression of their

woes. Still, Mrs. Graham asked herself
how many people in the world knew of the
existence of the Allt-cam-ban, far away in the
solitudes over Allt-nam-ba.

Mrs. Graham, as it turned out, had a
terrible time of it with her father. This
short, thickset man with the voluminous
brown and gray beard, shaggy eyebrows,
and bald head surmounted by a black velvet
skull-cap, was simply furious ; and so far
from being affected in any degree by his
daughter's blandishments, he seemed inclined
to direct his wrath upon her as the chief aider
and abettor of her brother's high treason.
Nor was his lordship's language marked by
much gentleness or reticence.

The idea," he exclaimed, 'that Dochfour,
and Lochiel, and Culloden, and the rest of
them, might have to rub shoulders with a
low, scoundrelly Radical ! the mere chance of
such a thing happening is monstrous !"

I beg to remind you, papa," said Mrs.
Graham, with her face grown a little pale,
'that my husband is not in the habit of
associating with low scoundrels of any kind.
And I would rather not hear such things

said about the father of my particular
friend."

Then she saw that that Hne would not do.

'' Papa," she pleaded, ''a little civility costs
nothing. Why should you not call ? You
must have known it was this Mr. Winterbourne
who had taken the shooting when we
telegraphed you from Malta."

''I must have known ? I did know !
What has that to do with it ? I do not let
my friendship with my shootings. What my
tenant may be is nothing to me, so long ashe
can pay ; and he is welcome to everything
he can find on the shooting ; but it does not
follow he is entitled to sit down at my table,
or that I should sit down at his."

But you were very kind to Yolande
Winterbourne when she came up at first, and
you knew whose daughter she was," pretty
Mrs. Graham pleaded again.

I did not know that that young jackass
proposed to make her one of the family — it
is too great an honour altogether !"

'you know, papa, it is such a pity to
make trouble when it is not likely to help.
Archie can marry whom he pleases "

VOL. II. I

'let him, and welcome!" said this fierce
old gentleman. "He can marry whom he
pleases ; but he cannot compel me to associate
with his wife's father."

She went away somewhat crestfallen, and
sought out the Master, whom she found in
one of the greenhouses.

'well," said he, with a smile — for he had
anticipated the result.

"His lordship does seem opinionated
about it," she had to confess. "And yet I
think I could talk him over. If only Aunt
Colquhoun were absent. I suppose she will
be back from Foyers by dinner-time."

I wish she were sewn in a sack, and at
the bottom of Loch Ness," said he.

Archie, for shame ! You see," she added,
thoughtfully, " I must get back to Fort
Augustus by four to - morrow afternoon.
And I haven't come all this way without
being resolved to see Yolande before I go.

That leaves me little time. But still have

you asked Mr. Melville to speak to papa .'^"

No. Jack Melville and I nearly quarrelled
over it ; so I dropped the subject. He doesn't
understand matters, don't you know, Polly ;

he doesn't understand what the improvement
of a poor estate costs. He has forgotten his
Horace —-pennis lion domini dates — that means
that human beings aren't born with enough
money. He made quite a fuss when I
showed him that there were prudential
reasons for the match ; as if there were any
use in blinding one's eyes to obvious facts.
Well, I don't care. I have done my best.
My intentions towards Lynn were sincere
and honourable ; now they can make a hash
of the whole thing if they like."

'' It is folly speaking like that," his sister
said, sharply. '' Surely you have too much
spirit to yield to a little opposition of this
kind "

"A little opposition!" he said, with a
laugh. '' It's about as bulky as Borlum Hill ;
and I for one am not going to ram my head
against it. I prefer a quiet life."

'' But you are bound in honour to Yolande
Winterbourne not to let the engagement
cease!" she cried. "Why, to think of such
a thing ! You ask a girl to marry you ; she
consents ; and then you throw her over
because this person or that person objects.

Well, I never heard of one of the Lesliess
acting that way before ! I was only a girl ;
but I showed them what stuff I was made of
when they tried to interfere with me !"

"Oh, but that's different," he said, coolly.
'* Girls are romantic creatures. They rather
like a shindy. Whereas men prefer a quiet
life."

'' Well, I never heard the like of that "

'' Wait a minute. I am going to talk to
you plainly, Polly," said he. "I wanted to
marry Janet Stewart; and I daresay she
would have had me if I had definitely asked
her "

** I daresay she would !"

Oh, you think she hasn't as much pride
as anybody else because she is only a minister's
daughter ? That is all you know about her.
However, they all made such a row, and you
especially, that I consented to let the affair
go. No doubt that was wise. I was young.
She had no money ; and Lynn wanted money.
Very well. I made no objection. But you
will observe, my dear Miss Polly, that when
these stumbling-blocks are again and again put
into the road, even the most patient of animals

may begin to get fractious, and might even
kick over the traces. At present I hope I
am not in a rage. But I am older now than
I was then ; and not in the least bit inclined
to be made a fool of"

'rand do you really mean to say," said
Mrs. Graham, with her pretty dark gray eyes
regarding him with astonishment, 'that you
are deliberately prepared to jilt Yolande
Winterbourne merely on account of this
little difficulty?"

It isn't my doing," said he. " Besides,
they seem bent on piling up about three cartloads
of difficulty. Life isn't long enough
to begin and shovel that away. And if they
don't want to have Corrievreak back, I daresay
Sir John will be quite willing to keep it."

I don't think I will speak to papa again
until after dinner," said she, musingly.
Then I will have another try — with Corrie-wreak."


THE AMBASSADOR.

Now Jack Melville — or Melville of Monaglen,
as Mrs. Bell (with her own dark purposes
always In view) proudly preferred to call him —
had not only decided that the Master of Lynn
should know that Yolande's mother was alive,
but he had also undertaken himself to tell
him all the facts of the case, to Mr. Winterbourne's
great relief. Accordingly, one afternoon
he gave the school-children a half-holiday
and walked over to Lynn. He met the
Master at the wooden bridge adjoining Lynn
Towers ; and also the dog-cart conveying
Mrs. Graham back to Fort Augustus.

'' There she goes," said young Leslie, sardonically,
as he regarded the disappearing
vehicle. 'she Is a well-intentioned party. She
thinks she can talk people over. She thinks
that when people are in temper they will listen
to common sense. And she hasn't even now

learned a lesson. She thinks she would have
succeeded with more time ; but of course she
has to get back to Inverstroy. And she
still believes she would have had her own
way, if she had had a day or two to spare."

'what is the matter ?"

'* Oh, nothing much," said the other, carelessly.
'' Only his lordship in a fury at the
idea of my marrying the daughter of a Radical.
And of course it isn't the slightest use
pointing out that Mr. Winterbourne's Radicalism
generally consists in opposing what is
really a Radical Government. And it isn't
the slightest use pointing out that politics
don't run in the blood ; and that Yolande
has no more wish to destroy the British Constitution
than I have. However, what is the
consequence ? They can fight it out amongst
themselves."

But Melville did not seem inclined to treat
the matter in this off-hand way. His thoughtful
face was more grave than was its wont.
After a second or two he said —

'' Look here, Archie ; I have got something
to say to you ; will you walk along the strath
a bit?"

You are going to try the loch ?" said the
Master, observing that his companion had
his fishing-rod under his arm.

Yes, for an hour or so, if they are rising."

** I will come and manage the boat for you,
then," said the other, good-naturedly.

'' Then we can go on together to Allt-nam-
ba. You are dining there, I suppose."

"Well, no," said young Leslie, with a trifle
of embarrassment.

'' But I was told I should meet you !"

'' I was asked. Well, you see, the lodge
is small ; and it isn't fair to overgrown it,
and give Yolande so much more housekeeping
trouble. Then Macpherson may come down
from Inverness any afternoon, almost, to
arrange about the Glendyerg march. We
have come to a compromise about that ; anything
is better than a law-suit ; and the gully
just above the watcher's bothy remains ours,
which is the chief thing."

But Melville was not to be put off; he
knew this young man.

What is the real reason of your not going
up to Allt-nam-ba this evening T'

*' Well, I will tell you if you want to know.

The real reason is that my people have treated
the Winterbournes badly ; and I am ashamed
of It ; and I don't want to go near the place
more than I can help. If they imagine weare
all very busy at Lynn that may be some
excuse for neither my father nor my aunt
having had the common civility to call at
the lodge. But I am afraid Mr. WInterbourne
suspects the true state of affairs ; and of
course that puts me into rather a difficult
position when I am at Allt-nam-ba; and
when you see a difficult position before you
the best thing you can do is not to step
Into It."

And do you expect everything to be
made smooth and comfortable for you ?" said
Melville, almost angrily. '' Don't you expect
to have any trouble at all in the world ?
When you meet the difficulties of life, is your
only notion to turn away and run from them?"

'' Yes ; as fast as I can and as far as I
can. Look here. Jack; different people have
different views ; it doesn't follow that you
are right because you look at things not as I
do. You think common sense contemptible ;
I think Quixotism contemptible : it cuts both

ways, you see. I say distinctly that a man
who accepts trouble when he can avoid it Is
an ass. I know there are lots of women
who like woe ; who relish it and revel in it.
There are lots of women who enjoy nothing
so much as a funeral ; the blinds all down ; a
mysterious gloom In the rooms ; and weeping
relations fortifying themselves all day long
against their grief by drinking glasses of muddy
port-wine and eating buns. Well, I don't. I
don't like woe. I believe in what a young
Scotch fellow said to me one morning on board
ship when we were on the way out — I think
he was a bagman from Glasgow — at all events
he came up to me with an air of profound
conviction on his face and said : ' Man, It's a
sickening thing to be seek !' Well, that Is
the honest way of looking at it. And although
I am arguing not so much with you as with
Polly, still I may as well say to you what I
said to her when she wanted me to do this,
that, and the other thing: 'No; if those people
don't see it would be to their interest and to
everybody's Interest that this marriage should
take place, they are welcome to their opinion.
I shan't interfere. I don't mean to have any

domestic squabble if I can help it. I prefer
a quiet life."

By this time they had reached the boat,
which they dragged down to the water and
shoved off, the Master of Lynn good-naturedly
taking the oars. It was a pleasant warm
afternoon ; and it looked a likely afternoon
for fishing, besides ; but it was in a very
silent and absent fashion that Jack Melville
put his rod together and began to look over
his casts. This speech of the young Master's
was no revelation to him ; he had known all
that before. But, coming in just at this
moment, it seemed to make the task he had
undertaken more and more difficult and
dangerous ; and, indeed, there flashed across
his mind once or twice some wild doubt as to
the wisdom of his decision, although that
decision had not been arrived at without long
and anxious consideration.

And it was in a very perfunctory way that
he began to throw out the flies upon the
water, insomuch that one or two rises he got
he missed through carelessness in striking.
In any case the trout were not rising freely ;
and so at length he said —

Archie, would you mind rowing over to
the other side ? One of the shepherds sent
me word that the char have come there ; and
Miss Winterbourne has never seen one. I
only want one or two to show her what they
are like ; I don't suppose they will be worth
cooking just now."

'' But you have no bait."

'' I can manage with the fly, I think."

And so they rowed away across the pretty
loch on this placid afternoon, the while Melville
took off the cast he had been using,
substituting three sea-trout flies of the most
brilliant hues. Then, when they had got to
the other side, Melville made for a part of
the shore where the banks seemed to go very
sheer down ; and then proceeded to throw the
flies over a particular part of the water, allowing
them slowly to sink. It was an odd sort
of fly-fishing, if it could be described as fly-fishing
at all. For after the cast had been
allowed to sink some couple of yards or so,
the flies were slowly and cautiously trailed
along ; then there was a curious sensation as
if an eel were swallowing something at the
end of the line — very different from the quick

snap of a trout — and then, as he carefully
wound in the reel there appeared in the water
a golden-yellow thing, not fighting for its life
as a trout would, but slowly, lily circling
this way and that until a scoop of the small
landing-net brought the lethargic, feebly flopping,
but beautifully golden-ands red-spotted
fish into the boat. When he had got the
two that he wanted, he had done with that ;
it was not sport. And then he sat down in
the stern of the boat, and his rod was idle.

"Archie," said he, "there is something
better in you than you profess."

"Oh, come," said the other, "char-fishing
isn't exciting; but it is better than a lecture."

This is serious," said the other, quietly ;
"you yourself will admit that when I tell
you."

And then, very cautiously at first, and
rather in a roundabout way, he told him the
whole sad story ; begging him not to interrupt
until he had finished ; and trying to
invoke the young man's pity and sympathy
for what those people had suffered, and trying
to put their action in a natural light, and trying
to make clear their motives. Who was

o

to blame — the indiscreet sister who had invented
the story, or the foolishly affectionate
father who could not confess the truth ? He
would not say ; he would rather turn to consider
what they had attempted and succeeded
in securing — that the beautiful child-nature of
this girl should grow up untainted with sorrow
and humiliation and pain.

The Master of Lynn heard him patiently
to the end, without any expression of surprise
or any other emotion. Then he said —

*' I suppose, Jack, you have been asked to
tell me all this ; most likely you are expected
to take an answer. Well, my answer is clear.
Nothing in the world would induce me to
have anything to do with such a system, or
conspiracy, or whatever it may be called.
You may think the incurring of all this
suffering is fine ; I think it is folly. But that
is not the point. I am not going to judge
them. I have to decide for myself; and I
tell you frankly I am not such a fool as to
bring any skeleton into my cupboard. I
don't want my steps dogged ; I don't want to
have to look at the morning paper with fear.
If I had married and found this out afterwards

I should have said I had been grossly
deceived ; and now, with my eyes open, I
consider I should be behaving very badly
towards my family if I let them in for the
possibility of any scandal or disgrace "

'why, man, how could there be any such
thing ! " Melville exclaimed ; but he was
interrupted.

"I let you have your say ; let me have
mine. There is no use beating about the
bush. I can have nothing to do with any
such thing ; I am not going to run the risk
of any public scandal while it can be
avoided "

What would you do, then, if you were in
Winterbourne's position ? "

"What would I do ? What I would not
do would be to Incur a lifelong martyrdom
all for a piece of sentimental folly ! "

But what would you do ? I want to
know what you would do ! "

I would lock the woman up in a lunatic
asylum ! Certainly I would. Why should
such a system of terrorism be permitted! It
is perfectly absurd."

You cannot lock her up in a lunatic

asylum unless she is a lunatic ; and the poor
creature does not seem to be that — not yet,
at least "

** I would lock her up in a police-cell,
then ! "

'' And would that prevent exposure ? "

*' At all events, it would prevent her going
down and lying in wait for him in Westminster
Palace Yard. But that is not the
point. It is not what I would do in his place;
it is what I am going to do in my own. And
that is clear enough. I have had enough
bother about this business ; I am not going
to have any more. I am not going to have
any secrets and mysteries. I am not going
to submit to any terrorism. Before I marry
Yolande Winterbourne, all that affair of that
lunatic creature must be arranged ; and
arranged so that every one may know of it,
without fear and trembling and dissimulation."


"The message is definite," said Melville,
absently, as his companion took up the oars
and began to row across to the other side of
the loch.

It was characteristic of this man that he

should now begin and try to look at this
declaration from young Leslie's point of view,
and endeavour to convince himself of its
reasonableness ; for he had a general wish
to approve of people and their ways and
opinions, having in the long run found that
that was the most comfortable way of getting
along in the world. And this that the Master
had just said was, regarded from his own
position, distinctly reasonable. There could
be no doubt that Mr. Winterbourne had had
his life perverted and tortured mainly through
his trying to hide this secret from his daughter;
and it was but natural that a young man should
be unwilling to have his own life clouded over
in like manner. Even John Shortlands had
not sought to defend his friend when he told
the story to Melville. As for himself — that
is, Melville, well, he could not honestly approve
of what Mr. Winterbourne had done —
except wJie7i he heard Yolande laugh.

They rowed over to the other side in
silence, and there got out.

'' I hope I did not use any harsh terms.
Jack," the younger man said. " But the thing
must be made clear."

VOL. II. K

'' I have been wondering," said the other,
*' whether it would not have been better if I
had held my tongue. I don't see how either
you or your wife could ever have heard
of it."

'' I think it would have been most dishonourable
of you to have known that and to
have kept it back from me."

''Oh you do?"

'' Most distinctly I do ! "

"There is some consolation in that. I
thought I was perhaps acting the part of an
idle busybody, who generally only succeeds
in making mischief. And I have been wondering
what is the state of the law. I really
don't know. I don't know whether a magistrate
would consider the consumption of those
infernal drugs to be drunkenness ; and I don't
even know whether you can compulsorily
keep in confinement one who is a confirmed
drunkard."

'you may very well imagine that I don't
want to have anything to do with police
courts and police magistrates, or with lunatic
asylums either, when I get married," said
young Leslie, when they had pulled the boat

up on the bank. " But this I am sure of,
that you can always get sufficient protection
from the law from annoyances of that sort, if
you choose to appeal to it. On the other
hand, if you don't, — if you try to shelter people
from having their deserts, — if you go in for
private and perfectly hopeless remedies, — then
you have to stand the consequences. I
declare to you that nothing would induce me
to endure for even a week the anxiety that
seems to have haunted Winterbourne for
years and years."

But then he is so desperately fond of
Yolande, you see," Jack Melville said, with a
glance.

Leslie flushed slightly.

'' I think you are going too far."

Oh, I hope not. I only stated a fact.
Come, now, Archie," he said, in his usual
friendly way, "call your common sense to
you, that you are so proud of. You know I
feel myself rather responsible. I don't want
to think I have made any mischief "

'you have made no mischief. I say you
would have acted most dishonourably if you
had kept this back."

"Well, now, take a rational view of the
situation. No doubt you are vexed and
annoyed by the opposition at home. That is
natural. No one likes his relatives to object
when he knows that he has the right and
the power to choose for himself. But don't
transfer your annoyance over that matter to
this, which is quite different. Consider yourself
married and living at Allt-nam-ba or at
Lynn ; how can the existence of this poor
creature affect you in any way ? And, moreover,
the poor woman cannot live long "

She might live long enough to break
some more windows, and get everybody's
name into the paper," said he. 'you don't
suppose we should always be living in the
Highlands?"

I want you to come along with me now
to the lodge ; and you can say that after all
you found you could come to dinner — there
never were people so charmingly free from
ceremony of any kind ; and after dinner you
will tell Mr. Winterbourne that certainly you
yourself might not have been prepared to do
what he has done, during these years, for
Yolande's sake ; and perhaps that you could

not approve of it ; but that for the' short time
likely to elapse you would be content also to
keep silence ; and you might even undertake
to live in the Highlands until death should
remove that poor creature and all possible
source of annoyance. That would be a
friendly, natural, human sort of thing to do ;
and he would be grateful to you. You owe
him a little. He is giving you his only
daughter ; and you need not be afraid —
he will make it easy for you to buy back
Corrievreak and do all the other things
you were speaking of. I think you might
do that."

"Midsummer madness!" the other exclaimed,
with some show of temper. '' I
can't imagine how you could expect such a
thing. Our family is old enough to be
haunted by a ghost, and we haven't started
one yet ; but when we do start one, it won't
be a police court sort of ghost, I can assure
you. It is hard luck enough when one of
one's own relatives goes to the bad — I've
seen that often enough in families ; but voluntarily
to take over some one else's relative
who has gone to the bad, without even the

common protection of the policeman and the
magistrate — no, thanks!"

Then that is your message, I suppose."

Most distinctly. I am not going into
any conspiracy of secrecy and terrorism —
certainly not. I told you that I liked a quiet
life. I am not going to bother about other
people's family affairs — assuredly I am not
going to submit to any persecution or any
possibility of persecution, however remote,
about them."

'every well."

Don't put it harshly. I wish to be
reasonable. I say they have been unreasonable
and foolish ; and I don't want to involve
myself in the consequences. When I marry,
I surely must have, as every human being in
the country has, the right to appeal to the
law. I cannot have my mouth gagged by
their absurd secrets."

"Very well."

And I fancy," the Master of Lynn added,
as his eye caught a figure that had just come
in sight far away up the strath, "that that is
Yolande Winterbourne herself You need not
say that I had seen her before I left " and

SO he turned and walked away in the direction
of Lynn Towers.

And was this indeed Yolande ? Well,
he would meet her with an unclouded face —
for she was quick to observe ; and all his talk
would be about the golden char, and the
beautiful afternoon, and the rubber of whist
they sometimes had now after dinner. And
yet he was thinking.

*' I wonder if my way would do," he was
saying to himself, as he still regarded that
advancing figure. '' Perhaps it is Quixotic,
as Archie would say. Statistics are against
me ; and statistics are horribly sure things,
but sometimes they don't apply to individual
cases. Perhaps I have no business to interfere.
No matter; this evening at least she
shall go home to dinner with a light heart.
She does not know that I am going to give
her my Linnaean borealis!'

The tall figure now advancing to him
was undoubtedly that of Yolande, and he
guessed that she was smiling. She had
brought out for a run the dogs that had been
left in the kennel ; they were chasing all
about the hillside and the road in front of

her. The light of the sunset was on her
face.

"Good evening, Miss Winterbourne, "
said he, when they met.

But I am going to ask you to call me
Yolande," said she, quite frankly and simply,
as she turned to walk back with him to Allt-
nam-ba, 'for I have not many friends; and
I like them all to call me Yolande."

A WALK HOME.

'* But was not that Mr. Leslie ?" she
said.

''Oh yes, it was," he answered, with an
assumed air of indifference. 'eyes. It is a
pity he cannot dine with you this evening."

'* But why did he not come along now,
for a minute even, when he was so far ?"

She certainly was surprised ; and there
was nothing for him but to adopt the somewhat
lame excuses that the Master in the
first instance had offered him.

'' I think he is expecting a lawyer from
Inverness," said he, rather quickly slurring
over the various statements, '' and if he came
by the afternoon boat he would be due just
about now. They have a good deal of
business on hand just now at Lynn "

Yes, apparently that is true," she said,
with rather a singular gesture — very slight.

but significant. '' We have not seen anything
of them."

** Well, you see," he continued, in the
most careless and cheerful way, '' no doubt
they know your father is occupied with the
shooting, and you with your amateur housekeeping
— which I am told is perfect. Mr.
Shortlands says the lodge is beautifully
managed."

Ah, does he ?" said she, with a quick
flush of genuine pleasure, " I am glad to
hear that. And it is very simple now — oh,
yes, for they are all so diligent and punctual.
And now I have more and more time for my
botany ; and I am beginning to understand a
little more of the arrangement, and it is
interesting."

'' I consider you have done very well," said
he. ** So well that you deserve a reward."

''Ah, a prize?" said she, with a laugh.
Do you give prizes at your school '^ Well
now — let me see— what shall I choose ? A
box of chocolate ! "

Did they allow you to choose your own
prizes at Chateau Cold Floors 1 We don't
do that here. No ; the reward I have in

Store for you is the only specimen I have got
of the Linea borealis — the only plant that
bears the name of the great master himself,
and such a beautiful plant, too ! I don't
think you are likely to find it about here. I
got mine at Clove ; but you can get everything
at Clove."

"It is so kind of you," she said; 'but
what am I to do with it ? "

'' Start a herbarium. You ought to have
plenty of time ; if not, get up an hour earlier.
You have a fine chance here of getting the
Alpine species. I have got some fresh
boards and drying paper down from Inverness
; and I meant to lend you my hand-press
; but then 1 thought I might want it
myself for some other purpose ; and as Mrs.
Bell was glad to have the chance of presenting
you with one, I said she might ; it will be
dov/n from Inverness tomorrow."

'' But I cannot accept so much kindness

she was about to protest, when he

interrupted her.

'' You must," he said, simply. '' When
people are inclined to be civil and kind to
you, you have no right to snub them."

Suddenly she stopped short and faced
him. There was a kind of mischief in her
eyes.

"■ Will you have the same answer," she
asked, slowly, and with her eyes fixed on
him, '' when Mrs. Bell presents to you
Monaglen ? "

Despite himself a flush came over the
pale, handsome features.

'' That is absurd," said he, quickly. '' That
is impossible. I know the Master jokes
about it. If Mrs. Bell has any wild dreams
of the kind "

*' If she has," Yolande said, gravely, " if
she wishes to be civil and kind, you have no
right to snub her."

'you have caught me, I confess it," he
said, with a good-natured laugh, as they
resumed their walk along the wide strath.
*' But let us get back to the sphere of practical
politics."

He then proceeded to give her instructions
about the formation of a herbarium ; and in
this desultory conversation she managed very
plainly to intimate to him that she would not
have permitted him to take so much trouble

had this new pursuit of hers been a mere
holiday amusement. No ; she hoped to
make something more serious of it ; and
would it not be an admirable occupation for
her when she finally came to live in these
wilds, where occupations were not abundant ?
And he (with his mind distraught by all sorts
of anxieties) had to listen to her placidly
talking about her future life there, as if that
were to be all very plain sailing indeed. She
knew of no trouble ; and she was not the one
to anticipate trouble. Her chief regret at
present was that her botanising (at least sofar
as the collection of plants was concerned)
would cease in the winter.

'' But you cannot live up here in the
winter!" he exclaimed.

"Why not?"

'' You would be snowed up !"

"Could anything be more delightful than
that ?" she said. " Oh, I see it all before me
like a Christmas picture. Big red fires in
the rooms ; outside the sunlight on the snow ;
the air cold and clear ; and papa going away
over the hard sparkling hills to shoot the
ptarmigan and the white hares. Don't you

know, then, that papa will take Allt-nam-ba
for all the year round when I come to live
here ? And if Duncan the keeper can live
very well in the bothy, why not we in the
lodge ? Oh, I assure you it will be ravishing
"

'' No, no, no ; you could not attempt such
a thing," he said. 'why, the strath might
be quite impassable with the snow. You
might be cut off from the rest of the world
for a fortnight or three weeks. You would
starve."

'' Perhaps, then, you never heard of tinned
meats ?" she said, with an air of superiority.

''No, no ; the people about here don't do
like that. Of course, in the winter, you
would naturally go in to Inverness, or go
south to Edinburgh, or perhaps have a house
in London "

Oh no, that is what my papa would
never, never permit — anything but London."

"Well, then, Inverness is a pleasant and
cheerful town. And I must say this for the
Master, that he is not at all likely to prove
an absentee landlord when his turn comes.
He is quite as diligent as his father in looking

after the estate ; there won't be any reversal
of policy when he succeeds, as sometimes
happens."

'' Inverness ?" said she, wistfully. 'eyes ;
perhaps Inverness — perhaps here — that is
what my papa would prefer ; but London —
ah no. And sometimes I think he is so
sadly mistaken about me — it is his great
affection, I know — but he thinks if I were in
London I would hear too much of the attacks
they make on him, and I might read the
stupidities they put into the newspapers about
him. He is so afraid of my being annoyed —
oh, I know, for himself he does not care — it
is all me, me — and the trouble he will take
to watch against small annoyances that might
happen to me, it is terrible and pitiable, only
it is so kind. Why should I not go to the
House of Commons ? Do they think I care
about their stupidities '^. I know they are
angry because they have one man among
them who will not be the slave of any party
who will not be a — a cipher .^ is it ? — in a
crowd — an atom in a majority — no, but who
wishes to speak what he thinks is true."

*' Oh, but, Yolande," said he (venturing

thus to address her for the first time), '' I
want you to tell me : do you ever feel annoyed
and vexed when you see any attack on your
father ?"

She hesitated ; she did not like to confess.

It is a natural thing to be annoyed when
you see stupidities of malice and spitefulness,"
she said, at length — with the fair freckled
face a shade warmer in colour than usual.

For I can give you a panacea for all
such wounds ; or rather an absolute shield
against them."

'can you — can you ?" she said, eagerly.

Oh yes," he said, in that carelessly indifferent
way of his. "When you see anybody
pitching into your father, in the House or ina
newspaper, all you have to do is to recall a
certain sonnet of Milton's. You should bear
it about with you in your mind ; there is a
fine wholesome tone of contempt in it ; and
neither persons in public life nor their relatives
should have too great a respect for other
people's opinions. It is not wholesome. It
begets sensitiveness. You should always
consider that your opponents are — are "

'eames de boue T said Yolande, fiercely.

That is what I think when I see what they
say of my papa."

'* But I don't think you would feel so much
indignation as that if you would carry about
this sonnet with you in your memory :

I did but prompt the age to quit their clogs
By the known rules of ancient liberty,
When straight a barbarous noise environs me
Of owls, and cuckoos, asses, apes, and dogs ;
As when those hinds that were transformed to frogs
Railed at Latona's twin-born progeny,
Which after held the Sun and Moon in fee.
But this is got by casting pearls to hogs.
That bawl for freedom in their senseless mood,
And still revolt when Truth would set them free.
License they mean when they cry Liberty ;
For who loves that must first be wise and good :
But from that mark how far they rove we see.
For all this waste of wealth and loss of blood.'

There is a good, honest, satisfactory, wholesome
contempt in it."

Yes, yes ; will you write it down forme
?" said she, quickly and gratefully. " Will
you write it down for me when we get to the
lodge ?"

If you like."

When they drew near to the lodge, however,
they found that something very unusual

VOL. II. L

was going forward. The whole of the
women-servants, to begin with, were outside,
and gazing intently in the direction of a hillside
just above the confluence of the Dun
Water and the Crooked Water ; while the
pretty Highland cook was asserting something
or other in strenuous terms. The
moment they saw Yolande those young
people fled into the house, like so many
scurrying rabbits ; but Sandy, the groom,
being over near the kennel, did not hear, and
remained perched up on the fence, using an
opera-glass which he had filched from the
dining - room mantelpiece. Yolande went
over to him (as she had to kennel up the dogs
in any case), and said to him —
"What is the matter, Sandy ?"
He very nearly dropped with fright, but
Instantly recovered himself, and said, with
great excitement —

*' I think they are bringing home a stag,
madam ; I am sure that is it. I was seeing
the pony taken down to cross the burn ; and
it was not the panniers that was on him ; and
there Is the gentlemen standing by the bridge,
looking."

There certainly was a small group of
figures standing on the farther side of that
distant bridge — a slim, little structure slung
on wires, and so given to oscillation that only
one person could cross at a time. This performance,
indeed, was now carefully going
on ; but what had become of the pony ?
Presently they saw something appear on the
top of the bank on this side of the stream.

It is a stag, undoubtedly, Yolande," Jack
Melville said (he had got hold of the opera-glass),
"and I should say a good one. Now,
how could that have come about '^. Never
mind, I daresay your father will be delighted
enough ; and I should say Duncan will tune
up his pipes this evening."

Yolande looked through the glass, and
was very much excited to see that small pony
coming home with its heavy burden ; but the
gentlemen were now invisible, having passed
behind a hillock. And so she sped into the
house, fearful that the curiosity of the women-servants
might have let affairs get behindhand,
and determined that everything should be in
readiness for the home-coming sportsmen.

Melville was left outside ; and as he regarded,

now the gillie leading the pony, and
now the party of people who were visible
coming over the hillock, it was not altogether
of the dead stag that he was thinking. In
this matter of the Master of Lynn he had only
performed his thankless duty as messenger,
as it were ; still, it was not pleasant to have
to bring back bad news. Sometimes he
wished he had had nothing whatever to do
with the whole complication ; then, again, he
reminded himself that that secret had been
confided to him by John Shortlands unsolicited
; and that he, Melville, had subsequently
done what he honestly thought best. And
then he turned to think about Yolande.
Would he grudge anything he could do for
that beautiful child-nature — to keep it clear
and bright and peaceful ? No, he could not.
And then he thought, with something of a
sigh, that those who were the lucky ones in
this world did not seem to place much value
on the prizes that lay within their hand's
reach.

The corpulent John Shortlands, as he now
came proudly along, puffed and blowing and
breathless, clearly showed by his radiant face

who had shot the stag ; and at once he
plunged Into an account of the affair for the
benefit of Jack Melville. He roundly averred
that no such 'fluke" was known in English
history. They were not out after any stag.
No stag had any right to be there. They
had passed up that way in the morning, with
the dogs. Nor could this have been the
wounded stag that the shepherds had seen
drinking out of the Allt-corrie-an-Eich some
four days ago. No ; this must have been
some wandering stag that had got startled
out of some adjacent forest, and had taken
refuge in the glen just as the shooting-party
were coming back from the far tops. Duncan
had proposed to have a try for a few black
game when they came down to these woods ;
and so, by great good luck, John Shortlands
had put a No. 4 cartridge in his left barrel,
just in case an old black-cock should get up
wild. Then he was standing at his post
when suddenly he heard a pattering ; a brown
animal appeared with head high and horns
thrown back ; the next instant it passed him,
not more than fifteen yards off, and he blazed
at it — in his nervousness with the right barrel;

then he saw it stumble, only for a second ;
then on it went again, he after it, down to
the burn, which fortunately was rushing red
with the last night's rain ; in the bed of the
stream it stumbled again and fell ; and as it
struggled out and up the opposite bank, there
being now nothing but the breadth of the
burn between him and it, he took more
deliberate aim, fired, and the stag fell back,
stone-dead, its head and horns, indeed, remaining
partly in the water.

Then Mr. Winterbourne, when he came
along, seemed quite as honestly pleased at
this unexpected achievement as if the stag
had fallen to his own gun ; while as for
Duncan, the grim satisfaction on his face was
sufficient testimony.

This is something like a good day's
work," said he. 'rand I was bringing down
the stag for Miss Winterbourne to see it,
before the dark ; and now Peter will take
back the pony for the panniers."

But Jack Melville took occasion to say to
him, aside —

Duncan, Miss Winterbourne will look at
the head and horns when you have had time

to take a sponge or a wet cloth to them, don't
you understand ? — later on in the evening,
perhaps."

'' Very well, sir. And I suppose the
gentlemen will be sending in the head to
Mr. Macleay's tomorrow ? It is not a
royal ; but it is a very good head whatever."

'' How many points — ten ?"

'eyes, sir. It is a very good head whatever."


Yolande had so effectively hurried up
everything inside the lodge that when the
gentlemen appeared for dinner, it was they,
and not the dinner, who were late. And of
course she was greatly delighted also ; and
all the story of the capture of the stag had to
be described over again, to the minutest
points. And again there was a fierce discussion
as to who should have the head and
horns, John Shortlands being finally compelled
to receive the trophy which naturally
belonged to him. Then a wild skirl outside
in the dark.

'what is that, now?" said John Short-lands.


"That," said Yolande, complacently — for

she had got to know something of these
matters — *ris the Pibroch of Donald Diu."

"That is the Pibroch of Donald Black, I
suppose," said John Shortlands, peevishly.
What the mischief have I to do with Donald
Black ? I want the Pibroch of John Short-lands.
What is the use of killing a stag if
you have to have somebody else's pibroch
played ? If ever I rent a deer-forest in the
Highlands, I will have my own pibroch made
for me, if I pay twenty pounds for it."

Indeed, as it turned out, there was so
much joy diffused throughout this household
by the slaying of the stag, that Jack Melville,
communing with himself, decided that his ill
news might keep. He would take some other
opportunity of telling Shortlands the results
of his mission. Why destroy his very obvious
satisfaction ? It was a new experience
for him ; he had never shot a stag before.
The cup of his happiness was full to the
brim ; and nobody grudged it him, for he was
a sound-hearted sort of man.

One rather awkward incident arose, however,
out of this stag episode. In the midst
of their dinner-talk, Yolande suddenly said —

'' Papa, ought I to send a haunch of venison
to Lynn Towers ? It seems so strange
to have neighbours, and not any component
one way or the other. Should I send a
haunch of venison to Lord Lynn V

Her father seemed somewhat disturbed.

''No, no, Yolande ; it would seem absurd
to send a haunch of venison to a man who
has a deer-forest of his own."

'but it is let."

Yes, I know ; but no doubt the tenant
will send in a haunch to the Towers if there

is any occasion

But I know he does not, for Archie said so.
Mr. Melville," she said, shifting the ground of
her appeal, " Would it not be a nice compliment
to pay to a neighbour ? Is it not customary ?"

His eyes had been fixed on the table ; he
did not raise them.

I — I don't think I would," said he, with
some little embarrassment. " You don't know
what fancies old people might take. And
you will want the venison for yourselves.
Besides, Mr. Shortlands shot the stag ; you
should let him have a haunch to send to his
friends in the South."

"Oh, yes, yes, yes, certainly!" she cried,
clapping her hands. 'why did I not think
of it ? That will be much better."

At another time John Shortlands might
have protested ; but something in Melville's
manner struck them, and he did not contend
that the haunch of venison should be sent to
Lynn Towers.

After dinner they went out into the dark,
and, guided by the sound of the pipes, made
their way to the spacious coach-house, which
they found had been cleared out, and in which
they found two of the gillies and two of the
shepherds — great, huge, red-bearded, brawny
men — dancing a four-some reel, while Duncan
was playing as if he meant to send the roof
off The head and horns of the deer were
hung up on one of the pillars of the loose-box.
The place was ruddily lit up by two lamps, as
well as a few candles ; there was a small keg
of whisky in a dim corner. And Yolande
thought that the Highland girls might just as
well come over from the lodge (the English
Jane was of no use), and very soon the dance
was made much more picturesque.
But where was the Master of Lynn, with the

torchlight dance he had promised them on
the occasion of their kilHng their first stag ?

When Jack Melville was going away that
night he was surprised to find the dog-cart
outside, Sandy in his livery, the lamps lit, and
warm rugs on the front seat.

This is not for me ?" he said.

It is indeed," said Yolande.

Oh, but I must ask you to send it back.
It is nothing for me to walk to Gress. You
have enough work for your horses just now."

The night is dark," she said, " and I wish
you to drive — you will have the light of the
lamps."

'why should I drive to Gress," he said.

"But I wish it," she answered.

And that was enough.

DANGER.

It might have appeared to any careful
observer, who also knew all the circumstances
of the case, that what was now happening,
or about to happen, away up in those
remote solitudes, was obvious enough ; but
certainly no suspicion of any such possibilities
had so far entered the minds of the parties
chiefly interested. Yolande regarded her
future as already quite settled. That was
over and done with. Her French training
had taught her to acquiesce in any arrangement
that seemed most suitable to those who
hitherto had guided her destiny ; and as she
had never experienced any affection stronger
than her love for her father, so she did not
perceive the absence of any such passion.
To English eyes her marriage might seem
a mariage de complaisance, as Colonel Graham
had styled it ; in her eyes it seemed everything

that was natural, and proper, and fitting
; and she was quite content. It never
occurred to her to analyse the singular satisfaction
she always felt in the society of this
new friend — the sense of safety, trust, guidance,
and reliance with which he inspired her.
He claimed a sort of schoolmasters authority
over her ; and she yielded — sometimes, it is
true, reasserting her independence by the
use of feminine wiles and coquetries which
were as natural as the scampering of a young
rabbit or the rustling of the leaves of a tree ;
but more ordinarily submitting to his dictation
and government with a placid and amused
sense of security. While, as for him, had he
dreamed that he was stealing away the affections
of his friend's chosen bride, he would have
fled from the spot on the instant, with shame
and ignominy haunting him. But how could
such an idea present itself to him ? He
looked on her as one already set apart. She
belonged to the Master of Lynn : as his
friend's future wife he hoped she also would
be his friend. He admired her bright spirits,
her cheerfulness and frankness ; but it was
this very frankness (added to his own blunt

disregard of conventionalities) that was deceiving
them both. Five minutes after she
had asked him to call her Yolande, she was
talking to him of her future home and her
married life ; and she was as ready to take
his advice in that direction as in the direction
of drying plants and setting up an herbarium.
And if sometimes she reversed their relations,
and took to lecturing him on his unwise ways
at Gress — his carelessness about his meals,
and so forth — why, then he humoured her,
and considered her remonstrances as only an
exhibition of friendly interest, perhaps with a
trifle of gratitude added, for he knew very
well that he had spent a good deal of time in
trying to be of service to her.

Then, at this particular moment, everything
seemed to conspire towards that end
which neither of them foresaw. Yolande
found the domestic arrangements at Allt-nam-
ba flow very easily and smoothly, so that
practically she had the bulk of the day at her
own disposal ; and Gress was a convenient
halting-place when she went for a drive, even
when she had no particular message or
object in view. But very frequently she had

a distinct object in view which led to her
sending on the dog-cart to Foyers and awaiting
its return. On the very morning, for example,
after Jack Melville had dined with them, she
got the following letter, which had been
brought out from Whitebridge late the night
before. The letter was from Mrs. Bell ; and
the handwriting was singularly clear and precise
for a woman now over sixty, who had for
the most part educated herself.

Gress, Wednesday.

''My dear young lady — Excuse my
forwardness in sending you a letter ; but I
thought you would like to hear the good
news. The lawyers write to me from
Edinburgh that young Mr. Eraser is now
come of age, and that the trustees are now
willing to sell the Monaglen estate, if they
can get enough for it. This is what I have
looked forward to for many's the day ; but
we must not be too eager like ; the lawyers
are such keen bodies, and I have not saved
up my scraps to feed their pigs. I think I
would like to go to Edinburgh myself, if it
was not that they lasses would let everything

go to rack and ruin, and would have no sense
to study Mr. Melville's ways ; the like of
them for blanket hussies is not in the land.
But I would greatly wish to see you, dear
young lady, if you will honour me so far,
before I go to Edinburgh ; for I cannot
speak to Mr. Melville about it ; and I do not
wish to go among they lawyers with only my
own head to guide me. — I am, your humble
servant,

Christina Bell."

Yolande laughed when she got this letter,
partly with pure joy over the great good
fortune which was likely to befall her friend,
and partly at the humour of the notion that
she should be consulted about the conveyancing
of an estate. However, she lost no
time in making her preparations for driving
down to Gress ; and indeed the dog-cart had
already been ordered, to take some game
into Foyers, and also the stag's head destined
for Mr. Macleay. Yolande saw that everything
was right ; got a brace of grouse and a
hare for Mrs. Bell ; and then set out to drive
away down the strath — on this changing,

gloomy, and windy day that had streaked the
troubled surface of the loch with long white
lines of foam.

She found Mrs. Bell much excited, but
still scarcely daring to talk above a whisper ;
while from time to time she glanced at the
laboratory, as if she feared Mr. Melville
would come out to surprise them in the
discussion of this dark secret.

"He is not in the schoolhouse, then .^ "
Yolande said.

*' Not the now. You see, the young lad
Dalrymple that he got from Glasgow College
is doing very well now ; and Mr. Melville is
getting to be more and more his own maister.
He canna aye be looking after they bairns ;
and if we could get Monaglen for him, who
would expect him to bother his head about a
school .^ He's done enough for the folk
about here ; he'll have to do something for
himself now — ah. Miss Winterbourne, that
will be a proud day for me when I hand him
over the papers."

She spoke as if it were a conspiracy between
these two.

'' But it will be a sir, sir job to get him

VOL. II. M

to take the place," she continued, reflectively,
"for the man has little common sense; but
he has pride enough to move mountains."

"Not common sense?" said Yolande,
with her eyes showing her wonder. "What
has he, then '^, I think it is always commonsense
with him. When you are talking with
him, and not very sure what to do, whatever
he says is always clear, straight, and right ;
you have no difficulty ; he sees just the right
way before you. But how am I to help you,
Mrs. Bell?"

"Well, I cinna ken, exactly; but the idea
of an auld woman like me going away to
Edinburgh among a' they lawyers Is just
dreadful'. It's like Daniel being put into the
den of lions."

"Well, you know, Mrs. Bell," Yolande
said, cheerfully, " no harm was done to
him. The lions did not touch a hair of his
head."

"Ay, I ken that," said Mrs. Bell, grimly;
"but they cinna work miracles nowadays."

Surely you must have your own lawyers ?"
the girl asked.

I have that."

You can trust them, then ; with them
you are safe enough, surely ?"

'well, this is the way o't," said Mrs.
Bell, with decision. "It is not in the nature
o' things for a human being to trust a lawyer
it's no possible. But the necessity o'
the case drives ye into their hands, and ye
can only trust in Providence that they will
make the other side suffer, and no you.
They're bound to make their money out o'
somebody. I'm no saying, ye ken, but that
the lawyers that have been doing business
for ye for a number o' years might no bea
bit fairer ; for it's their interest to carry ye
on, and be greens wi' ye ; but dear me, when
I think of going away to Edinburgh, a by
myself', among that pack o' wolves, it's
enough to keep one frae sleeping at nights."

But every one says you are so shrewd,
Mrs. Bell!"

Do they ?" she responded, with a pleased
laugh. "Just because I kenned what they
men were after ? It needed no much judgment
to make that out. Maybe if I had
been a young lass, they could ha' persuaded
me ; but when I was a young lass, with

scarcely a bawbee in my stocking, there was
never a word o't ; and when they did begin
to come about, when I was an auld woman,
I kenned fine it was my bank-book they
were after. It diana take much judgment to
make that out — the idiots ! Ay, and my
lord, too — set him up with his eight months
in London by himsel' ; and me finding him
the money to put saut in his kail. Well,
here am I bletherin' about a lot o' havers
like that, as if I was a young lass out at the
herein' ; when I wanted to tell ye, my dear
young teddy, just how everything was. Ye
see, what I was left was, first of a, the whole
of the place in Leicestershire, and a beautiful'
country-side it is, and a braw big house, too,
though it was not likely I was going to live
there, in a state not becoming to one like
me, and me wanting to be among my own
people besides. Then there was some money
in Consols, which is as safe as the Bank, as
the saying is ; and some shares in a mine in
Cornwall. The shares I was advised to sell,
and I did that, for I am not one that cares
for risk ; but when I began to get possession
of my yearly money, and when I found that

what I could save was mounting up and
mounting up in just an extraordinary way, I
put some o' that Into French stock, as I
thought I might take a bit Liberty wi' what
was my own making In a measure. And
now, though It's no for me to boast, it's a
braw sum — a braw sum; and atween I'm
thinking that a fine rich English estate, even
by itself', should be able to buy up a wheen
bare hillsides in Inverness-shire, even if we
have to take the sheep over at a valuation
ay, and leave a pretty penny besides. I
declare when I think o' what might ha' happened,
I feel I should go down on my knees
and thank the Almighty for putting enough
sense In my head to see what they men were
after ; or by this time there might not be
stick or stone to show for It — a' squandered
away in horse-racing or the like — and ]mr.
Melville, the son of my auld master, the best
master that ever lived, going about from one
great man's house to another, teaching the
young gentlemen, and him as fit as any o'

them to have house and ha' of his ain "

She stopped suddenly ; for both of them
now saw through the parlour window Jack

Melville himself come out of his laboratory,
carelessly whistling. Doubtless he did not
know that Yolande was in the house, else he
would have walked thither ; and probably he
had only come out to get a breath of fresh
air, for he went to a rocking-chair close by
the garden, and threw himself into it, lying
back with his hands behind his head. Indeed,
he looked the very incarnation of indolence
— this big-boned, massive - shouldered
young man, who lay there idly scanning the
skies.

I am going out to scold him for laziness,"
said Yolande.

'* Please no, my dear young teddy," Mrs.
Bell said, laying her hand gently on the
girl's arm. '' It is now he is working."

"Working! Does it look like it .^ Besides,
I am not so afraid of him as you are,
Mrs. Bell. Oh yes, let me go."

So she went out and through the little
lobby into the garden ; coming upon him,
indeed, quite unawares.

'mrs. Bell says I must not speak to you,"
she said. 'she says you are working, and
must not be disturbed. Is it so ? And

what Is the work ? Is it travelling at 68,000
miles an hour ?"

Something like that," said he ; and he
forgot to rise, while she remained standing.
Then he glanced round the threatening sky
again. '' You were brave to venture out on
a morning like this."

Why ? What is there ? "

Looks like the beginning of a storm,"
said he. " Here we are fairly sheltered ; but
there are some squalls of wind going across.
I hope you won't all be blown down the
strath into the loch to-night."

'' Ah, but I do not believe any longer in
weather prophecies," she said, tauntingly.
No. I do not think any one has any knowledge
of It — at Allt-nam-ba, at all events. It
is never five minutes the same. One moment
you are in the clouds ; the next— in sunlight !
Duncan looks up the hill In the morning, and
is very serious ; before they have got to the
little bridge, there is blue sky! It Is all
chance. Do you think science can tell you
anything ? You, now, when you brought
that instrument " — and here she regarded a
solar machine, the mirrors and brass mountings

of which were shining clear even on this
dull day — 'did you expect to get enough
sunlight at Gress for you to distil water ? "

A twinkle in the clear gray eyes showed
that she had caught him.

*' There are mysteries in science that cannot
be explained to babes," said he (and she
thought it rather cool that he remained sitting,
or rather lounging, instead of going and
fetching a chair for her). '' Everything isn't
as easy as snipping out the name of a genus
and pasting it at the foot of a double sheet of
white paper."

*' That is good of you to remind me," she
said, without in the least being crushed.
*' One thing I came for to-day was the
Linnet borealis

Then he instantly jumped to his feet.

*' Certainly," said he; 'come along into
the house. You may as well take back the
boards, and drying paper, and so forth, with
you ; and I will show you how to use them
now. There may be a few other things you
should have out of my herbarium, just to
start you, as it were — not rare plants, but
plants you are not likely to get up at Allt-

nam-ba. Are you superstitious. I will give
you a four-leaved clover, if you like."

Did you find it ? "

*' Yes — in a marshy place In Glencoe."

'' But it is the finder to whom It brings
luck, as I have read," Yolande said.

'' Oh, is It so ? " he answered, carelessly.
'' I am not learned in such things. If you
like you can have it ; and in the meantime
we will start you with your Linnet and a
few other things. I don't suppose the hand-press
has arrived yet ; but mind, you must
not refuse It."

"Oh no," said she, gravely repeating the
lesson of yesterday. "When one wishes to
be civil and kind to you, you have no right
to snub him."

The repetition of the phrase seemed to
remind him ; he suddenly stopped short, regarding
her with an odd, half-amused look In
his eyes.

Can you keep a secret ? "

I hope so."

"Well, now," he said, rather under his
voice, " I am going to tell you a secret,
which on no account must you tell to Mrs.

Bell. I have just heard, on very good
authority, that Monaglen is about to come
into the market, after all."

''Oh, indeed," said she, with perfectly
innocent eyes. " Can it be possible ! "

'' Don't mention the thing to Mrs. Bell ;
for you know her wild schemes and visions ;
and it would only make her unhappy."

'why, thence"

Because what she means to do (if she
really means to do it) is not practicable," he
said, plainly. " Of course, if she buys Mona-glen
for herself, good and well. She is
welcome to sit in the hall of my fathers. I
daresay she will do more good in the neighbourhood
than they ever thought of doing,
for she is an excellent kind of creature. And
it is just possible that, seeing me about the
place, she may have thought of some romantic
project ; but when once I am clear away from
Gress, it will quite naturally and easily fade
from her mind."

But you are not going away ! " she said.
And that sudden sinking of the heart ought
to have warned her ; but, indeed, she had not
had a wide experience in such matters.

''Oh yes," said he, good-naturedly.
'* How could this makeshift last ? Of course,
I must be off — but not this minute or tomorrow.
I have started a lot of things in
this neighbourhood — with Mrs. Bell's money,
mind — and I want to see them going
smoothly; then I'm off"

She did not speak. Her eyes were distant
; she was scarcely conscious that her
heart was so disappointed and heavy. But
she was vaguely aware that the life she had
been looking forward to in these far solitudes
did not seem half so full and rich now.
There was some loneliness about it — a
vacancy that the mind discerned but did not
know how to fill up. Was it the gloom of
the day ? She thought of Allt-nam-ba in the
winter ; it had no longer any charm for her.
There was no mischief in her brain now, no
pretended innocence in her eyes. Something
had befallen — she scarcely knew what. And
when she followed him into the house, to get
the Limited borealis, that little pathetic droop
of the mouth was marked.

That same afternoon, as she was driving:
home, and just above the little hill that goes

down to the bridge adjacent to Lynn Towers,
she met the Master, who was coming along
on horseback. The drive had been a sombre
one, somehow ; for the skies were gloomy
and threatening. But when she saw him she
brightened up, and gave him a very pleasant
greeting.

'you are quite a stranger," said she, as
they both stopped.

We have had a good many things to
attend to at the Towers," he said — as she
thought, rather distantly.

'' I hear them talking of having a hare
drive some day soon — away at a great distance,
at the highest parts. You will come
and help them, I suppose ? "

''I think I must go In to Inverness; and
I may have to be there for some days."

'you will come and see us before you
go, then ? " she Inquired — but rather puzzled
by the strangeness, almost stiffness, of his
manner.

I hope so," said he. *' I am glad to see
you looking so well. I hear they have been
having good sport at Allt-nam-ba. Well, I
must not detain you. Good-bye ! "

Good-bye ! " — and she drove on, wondering.
He had not even asked how her father
was. But perhaps these business affairs were
weighing on his mind.

THE GALE.

As night fell the storm that Jack Melville
had foreseen began to moan along the upper
reaches of the hills ; and from time to time
smart torrents of rain came rattling down,
until the roar of the confluent streams out
there in the dark sounded ominously enough.
All through the night, too, the fury of the
gale steadily increased ; the gusts of wind
sweeping down the gorge shook the small
building (although solidly built of stone) to
its very foundations ; and even the fierce
howling of the hurricane was as nothing to
the thunder of the now swollen waters, that
seemed to threaten to carry away the whole
place before them. Sleep was scarcely possible
to the inmates of this remote little
lodge ; they knew not what might not happen
up in this weather-brewing caldron of a place ;
and at last, after an anxious night, and towards

the blurred gray of the morning, they must
have thought their worst fears were about to
be raised, for suddenly there was a terrific
crash, as if part of the building had given
way. Almost Instantly every bedroom door
was opened ; clearly no one had been asleep.
And then, through a white cloud of dust, they
began to make out what had happened ; and
although that was merely the falling in of
part of the telling of the hall, of course they
did not know how much more was likely to
come down, and Mr. Winterbourne called to
Yolande, sternly forbidding her to stir. John
Shortlands was the first to venture out ; and
through the cloud of plaster-dust he began to
make his examinations, furnished with a long
broom-handle that he obtained from one of
the frightened maids.

"It is all right," he said. "There are
one or two other pieces that must come down ;
then the rest will be safe. Yolande, you can
go back to bed. What .^ Well, then, go
back and shut your door anyway, until I get
Duncan and the gillies to shovel this stufT
away. Don't come out until I tell you."

John Shortlands then went downstairs,

got a cap, and opened the hall-door. The
spectacle outside was certainly enough to
deter any but the bravest. There was no
rain ; but the raging hurricane seemed to fill
the atmosphere with a gray mist ; while from
time to time a gust would sweep down into
the bed of the stream, tear the water thereinto
a white smoke, and then whirl that up
the opposite hillside until it was dissolved in
the general vapour. But these water-spouts,
he quickly perceived, were only formed down
there in the opener stretches of the strath,
where the gusts could get freely at the bed
of the stream ; up here at Allt-nam-ba there
was nothing but the violence of the wind that
came in successive shocks against the lodge,
shaking it as if it were in the grip of a vice.

He ventured out. His first experience
was to find his deer-stalking cap, which he
greatly prized, whirled from off his head, and
sent flying away in the direction of the Allt-
cam-ban. But he was not to be daunted.
He went indoors again and got another ; and
then, going out and putting his bullet head
and his splendid bulk against the wind he
fairly butted his way across to the bothy.

He found Duncan trying to put up some
boards where a window had been blown in ;
and an angry man was he when he learnt
from Mr. Shortlands what had happened at
the lodge.

'the Master will give it him ! " he said,
savagely.

'whom?"

"The plasterer from Inverness, sir. I
was telling him It was no use mending and
mending ; but that it was a whole new ceiling
that was wanted, after such a wild winter as
the last winter. The Master will be very
angry. The young lady might have been
hurt."

The young lady might have been hurt ! "
said John Shortlands, ironically. "Yes, I
should think so, if she happened to have been
passing. But in this part of the country,
Duncan, is it only women who are hurt when
the ceiling of a house falls on them ? The
men don't mind ? "

Duncan was quite impervious to irony,
however. He went away to get Sandy and
the rest of them to help him In shovelling off
the plaster — going out, indeed, into this raging

VOL. II. N

tempest in his shirt-sleeves and with a bare
head, just as if nothing at all unusual were
happening.

Of course, with the inhabitants of the
lodge there was no thought of stirring out
that day. They built up the fires in the little
dining and drawing rooms, and took to books,
or the arrangement of flies, or the watching
at the window how the gale was still playing
its cantrips — tearing at the scant vegetation
of the place, and occasionally scooping up
one of those vaporous waterspouts from the
bed of the stream. Then Yolande managed
to do a little bit of household adornment —
with some audible grumbling.

'* Dear me," she said, standing at the
dining-room fire, '' did ever any one see two
such untidy persons ? There is a fine row of
ornaments for a mantel-shelf. I wonder
what Madame would say. Let us see : first,
some cartridges — why are they not in the bag ?
Second, a dog-whistle. Third, some casting-lines.
Fourth, a fly-book — well, I will make
a little order by putting the casting-lines in
the book "

Let them alone, Yolande," her father

said, sharply. 'you will only make confusion."


She put them in, nevertheless ; and continued
her enumeration.

Fifth, some rifle-cartridges ; and if ane
were to fall in the fire, what then 1 Sixth,
the stoppers of a fishing-rod. Now, the
carelessness of it ! Why does not Duncan
take your rod to pieces, Mr. Shortlands, and
put in the stoppers ? I know where he keeps
it, outside the bothy, just over the windows ;
and think now how it must have been shaken
last night. Think of the varnish !"

I believe you're right, Yolande," said he ;
*' but it saves a heap of trouble."

Seventh, a little silver fish in a box — a
deceitful little beast all covered with hooks.
Eighth, a flask, with whisky or some horrid-smelling
stuff in it : ah, Madame, what would
you think ? Then a telescope — well, that is
something better — that is something better

allons, we will go and look at the

storm."

Looking out of the window was clearly
impracticable, for the panes were blurred ;
but she went to the hall-door, opened it, and

directed the glass down the valley. She
was quite alone ; the others were busy with
their books. Then suddenly she called to
them —

*' Come, come ! There is some one that
I can see — oh ! imagine any one fighting
against such a storm ! A stranger ? Perhaps
a friend from England ? Ah, such a day to
arrive ! Or perhaps a shepherd ? — no, there
are no dogs with him "

Well, the appearance of a human being on
any day, let alone such a day as this, in this
upland strath, was an event ; and instantly
they were all at the door. They could not
make him out ; much less could they guess
on what errand any one, stranger or friend,
should be willing to venture himself against
such a gale. But that figure away down
there kept making headway against the wind.
They could see how his form was bent — his
head projecting forward. He was not a
shepherd : as Yolande had observed, he had
no dogs with him. He was not the Master
of Lynn ; that figure belonged to a bigger
man than the Master.

** I'll tell you who it is," said John Short-lands,

curtly. '' It's Jack Melville. Three
to one on It."

"Oh, the folly — the folly!" Yolande exclaimed,
in quite real distress. '* He will be
blown over a rock "

'not a bit of it!" said John Shortlands,
to comfort her. " The people about here
don't think anything of a squall like this.
Look at Duncan there — marching down to
dig some potatoes for the cook. A head-keeper
in the south wouldn't be as good-natured
as that, I warrant you. They are
much too swell gentlemen there."

And it was Jack Melville, after all. He
was very much blown when he arrived, but
he soon recovered breath, and proceeded to
say that he had been afraid that the gale
might catch the boat and do some mischief.

And it has," said he. " It is blown right
over to the other side ; and apparently
jammed between some rocks. So I have
come along to get Donald and one of the
gillies to go with me ; and we will have it
hauled clear up on the land "

"Indeed, no!" Yolande protested, with
pleading in her face. " Oh no ! — on such a

day why should you go out ? Come in and
stay with us ! What is a boat, then "

"■ But," said he, with a sort of laugh, '' I
am afraid I am partly responsible for it. I
was the last that used the boat "

'' Never mind it," said she ; "what is it —
a boat ! No, you must not go through the
storm again."

'' Oh, but we are familiar with these things
up here," said he, good-naturedly. "If you
really mean to invite me in, I will come —
after Donald and I have gone down to the
loch."

Will you ? " she said, with her bright
face full of welcome and gladness.

I must come back with my report, you
know," said he. " For I am afraid she may
have got knocked about ; and if there is any
damage I must make it good "

"Nonsense!" Mr. Winterbourne interrupted.


'' Oh, but I must. It is Lord Lynn's
boat ; and there are people from whom one
is not quick to accept an obligation. But
then there are other people," said he, turning
to Yolande, " from whom you can receive any

number of favours with great pleasure ; and
if you don't mind my staying to lunch with
you — if I may Invite myself to stay so
long "

Do you think I would have allowed you
to go away before!" she said, with a touch
of pride in her tone ; she had got to know
something of Highland ways and customs.

So he and Donald and two others went
away down the glen ; and in about a couple
of hours came back with the report that the
boat was now placed In a secure position ; but
that it had had two planks stove in, and would
have to be sent to Inverness for repair — Jack
Melville insisting on taking over that responsibility
on his own shoulders, although, as a
matter of fact, the Master of Lynn had assisted
him in dragging the boat up on the last occasion
on which it had been used. As for
Yolande, she did not care for any trumpery
boat : was it not enough that their friend
should have come to keep them company on
this wild and solitary day ? Then there was
another thing. She had determined to
astonish the gentlemen with the novelty of a
hot luncheon : and here was another who

would see what the Httle household could do !
Indeed, It was a banquet. Her father drew
pointed attention to the various things (though
he was himself far enough from being a gourmand).
A venison pasty John Shortlands
declared to have been the finest dish he had
encountered for many a day. He wished to
heavens they could make a salad like that at
the Abercorn Club.

*' Is it not nice to see them so grateful ?"
said she, turning with one of her brightest
smiles to the stranger guest. *the poor
things ! No wonder they are pleased. The
other day I climbed away up the hill to surprise
them at their lunch — oh, you cannot imagine
the miserableness of it ! Duncan told me where
I should find them. The day was so dull and
cold ; the clouds low down ; and before I was
near the top, a rainy drizzle began "

"• They generally say a drizzling rain in
English," her father said.

'' But we are not In England. It Is a
rainy drizzle In the Highlands, Is It not, Mr.
Melville?"

It does not matter how you take It," he
answered ; '' but we get plenty of it."

'' Then the cold wet all around ; and the
heather wet ; and I went on and on — not a
voice — not a sign of any one. Then a dog
came running to me — that was Bella — and I
said to myself ' Aha, I have found you now ! '
Then we went on ; and at last — the spectacle !
the poor people all crouched down in a
peat-hag, hiding from the rain ; papa seated
on a game-bag that he had put on a stone ;
Mr. Shortlands on another ; their coat-collars
up ; the plates on their knees ; the knives,
forks, cold beef, and bread, all wet with the
rain — oh, such a picture of miserableness has
never been seen. Do you wonder that they
are grateful, then — do you wonder they
approve — when they have a fire, and a warm
room, and dry plates, and dry knives and
forks?"

Indeed, they had a very pleasant meal ;
and the coffee and cigars after it lasted a longtime
; for of what good was anything but
laziness so long as the wind howled and roared
without ? All the time, however. Jack Melville
was wondering how he could have a few
minutes' private talk with Mr. Shortlands ;
and as that seemed to be becoming less and less

probable — for Mr. Winterbourne seemed
content to have an idle day there in his easy-chair
by the fire, and Yolande was seated on
the hearth rug at his knees, quite content to
be idle too — he had to adopt a somewhat wild
pretext. John Shortlands was describing the
newest variety of harmless gun ; then he
spoke of the one he himself had bought just
before coming north. Melville pretended a
great interest. Was it in the bothy .^ Yes.
Might they not run over for a couple of
minutes 1 Yolande protested ; but John
Shortlands assented ; so these two ventured
out together to fight their way across.

Instead of going into the central apartment
of the bothy, however, where the guns
stood on a rack, Melville turned into the next
apartment, which was untenanted, and which
happened to be warm enough, for Duncan
had just been preparing porridge for the
dogs, and a blazing fire still burned under the
boiler.

** I wanted to say a word to you."
I guessed as much. What's your news?"
'well, not very good," said Jack Melville,
rather gloomily, 'rand I don't like to be the

bearer of bad news. I meant to tell you the
other evening ; and I could not do it somehow."


'' Oh, out with it, man ! never fear. I like
to hear the worst, and then hit it on the head
with a hammer, if I can. There would have
been none of this trouble if I had had my way
from the beginning — however, that's neither
here nor there."

** I am afraid I am the bearer of an ultimatum,"
Melville said.

*well?"

It was clear that Melville did not like this
office at all. He kept walking up and down
the earthen floor, though the space was limited
enough — his brows contracted — his eyes benton
the ground.

"It is awkward for me," he said, rather
impatiently. " I wish I had had nothing todo
with it. But you cannot call me an intermeddler
; for you yourself put this thing on
me ; and — and — well, it is not my business
either to justify or condemn my friend — I can
only tell you that I considered it was safest
and wisest he should know the true state of
affairs — if I have erred in that, well "

I don't think you have," said Shortlands,
slowly. *' I left it open to your decision — to
your knowledge of this young fellow. But I
think my decision would, in any case, have
been the same."

*' Very well. I think I put the whole
matter fairly to him. I told him that he had
practically no risk to run of any annoyance ;
and that the cause of all this trouble, poor
wretch, would soon be out of the way ; and
then I told him what Mr. Winterbourne had
gone through for the sake of his daughter.
Well, he did not seem to see it that way.
He was quite frank. He said it was a mistaken
Quixotism that had been at the bottom
of it all "

'' I said so, too ; but still "

'* It is a matter of opinion ; it is of no
immediate consequence," Melville said. 'but
what he seemed quite resolved on was that
he would not consent to become a party to
this secrecy. He says everything must be
met and faced. There must be no concealment
; in short, Yolande must be told the
whole story, so that, in case of any further
annoyance, there should be no dread of her

discovering It, but only the simple remedy of
appealing to a constable."

John Shortlands considered for a minute
or two.

'' I don't know that he Isn't quite right,"
he said, slowly. *' Yes, I Imagine his position
is a fair one. At one time I said the
same. I can look at it from his point of
view. I think we must admit, as men of the
world, that he Is perfectly In the right ; but,"
and here he spoke a little more quickly, '' I
can't help speaking what is on my mind ; and
I say that, If you think of what WInterbourne
has done for this girl, this ultimatum, if you
call It so — from the fellow who pretends to
be her sweetheart, from the fellow who wants
her for a wife — well, I call It a damned
shabby thing ! "

Melville's face flushed.

I am not his judge," he said, coldly.

** I beg your pardon," John Shortlands
said — for his anger was of short duration.
'' I ought to have remembered that this
young Leslie is your friend, as WInterbourne
is mine. I beg your pardon — I can do no
more."

"Yes, you can," said Melville, in the same
measured way. " I wish you distinctly to
understand that I express no opinion whatsoever
on Mr. Leslie's decision ; and I must
ask you to remember that I certainly cannot
be supposed to approve of it simply because
I am a messenger."

'' Quite so — quite so — I quite understand,"
John Shortlands said. *' The least said the
easiest mended. Let's see what is to be
done. I suppose there was no doubt in his
mind — no hesitation } "

None."

"It would be no good trying to talk him
over ? "

"I, for one, will not attempt It. No, his
message was distinct. I think you may take
it as final. Perhaps I ought to add that he
may have been influenced by the fact that
his people at the Towers seem to have been
quarrelling with him about this marriage; and
he has not the best of tempers at times ; and
I think he feels injured. However, that Is
not part of my message. My message was
distinct, as 1 say. It was, In fact, an ultimatum."


*' Poor Winterbourne," John Shortlands
said, absently. '' I wonder what he will look
like when I tell him. All his labour and care
and anxiety gone for nothing. I suppose I
must tell him ; there must be an explanation ;
I daresay that young fellow won't come near
the Lodge now until there is an understanding.
Winterbourne will scarcely believe me.
Poor devil — all his care and anxiety gone for
nothing ! I don't mind about her so much.
She has pluck ; she'll face it. But Winterbourne
— I wonder what his face weill look
like to-night when I tell him."

'well, I have done my best and my
worst, I suppose, however it turns out," said
Jack Melville, after a second or two. '' And
now I will bid you good-bye."

But you are going into the house ? "

No."

"No?" said the other, in astonishment.
"You'll bid them good-bye, I suppose }''

I cannot ! " said Melville, turning himself
away in a manner. " Why, to look at
that girl — and to think of the man she is
going to marry having no more regard for
her than to "

But he suddenly recalled himself: this was
certainly not maintaining his attitude of impartiality.


*' Yes," said he, '* I suppose I must go into
bid them good-bye."

They were loth to let him depart ; Mr.
Winterbourne, indeed, wishing him to remain
for dinner and stay the night. But they
could not prevail on him ; and soon he was
making his way with his long strides down
the glen, the gale now assisting instead of
impeding his progress. John Shortlands
(who was apt to form sudden and rather
violent prepossessions and prejudices) was
looking after him, as the tall figure grew
more and more distant.

"There goes a man," he was saying to
himself; "and I wish to heavens he would
kick that hound ! "

SURMISES.

The gale was followed by heavy rain ; there
was no going out the next day. But, indeed,
it was not of shooting that those two men
were thinking.

"He might have spared her — he might
have spared her!" was Mr. Winterbourne's
piteous cry, as he sat in his friend's room,
and gazed out through the streaming windowpanes
on the dismal landscape beyond.

And who was to tell her ? Who was to
bring grief and humiliation on that fair young
life ? Who was to rob her of the beautiful
dream and vision that her mother had always
been to her ? Not he for one. He could
not do it.

And then (for he was a nervous, apprehensive
man, always ready to conjure up distressing
possibilities) might she not misunderstand
all this that had been done to keep her in

VOL. II. o

ignorance ? Might she not be angry at having
all her life been surrounded by an atmosphere
of concealment ? If she were to mistake the
reason of her father's having stooped to subterfuge
and deceit ? Was Yolande going to
despise him, then — she, the only being in the
world whose opinion he cared for ? And
always his speculations, and fears, and anxious
conjectures came back to this one point —

*' He might have spared her — he might
have spared her."

** Now, look here, Winterbourne," John
Shortlands said, in his plain-spoken way.
If I were you, before I would say a word
of this story to Yolande, I would make sure
that that would be sufficient for him. I don't
know. I am not sure. He says that Yolande
must be told ; but will that suffice .-^ Is that
all he wants ? If I were in your place, I
would have a clear understanding. Do you
know, I can't help thinking there is something
behind all this that hasn't come out. If this
young fellow is really in earnest about Yolande
if he is really fond of her — I don't think he
would put this stumbling-block in the way —
I don't think he would exact this sacrifice from

you — unless there was some other reason.
Yesterday afternoon Melville said as little
as he could. He didn't like the job. But
he hinted something about a disagreement
between young Leslie and his family over
this marriage."

'* I guessed as much," said Mr. Winterbourne.
'eyes, I have suspected it for sometime.
Otherwise I suppose his father and
aunt would have called on Yolande. They
know each other. Yolande stayed a night at
the Towers when Mrs. Graham first brought
her here — until the lodge was got ready."

Of course, if the fellow has any pluck,
he won't let that stand in his way. In the
meantime, a domestic row isn't pleasant ; and
I daresay he is impatient and angry. Why
should he revenge himself on Yolande, one
might ask ? But that is not the fair way of
putting it. I can see one explanation. I
didn't see it yesterday ; and the fact was I
got pretty wild when I learned how matters
stood ; and my own impression was that kicking
was a sight too good for him. I have
been thinking over it since, though ; the rain
last night kept me awake. And now I can

understand his saying ' Well, I mean to
marry In spite of them ; but I will take care,
before I marry, to guard against any risk of
their being able to taunt me afterwards.'
And then, no doubt, he may have had some
sort of notion that when there was no more
concealment, when every one knew how
matters stood, some steps might be taken to
prevent the recurrence of — of — you know.
Well, there Is something in that. I don't see
that the young fellow is so unreasonable."

Mr, WInterbourne was scarcely listening ;
his eyes looked haggard and wretched.

"When I took this shooting," he said,
absently, "when the place was described tome,
on the voyage out, I thought to myself
that surely there Yolande and I would be safe
from all anxiety and trouble. And then again,
up the Nile, day after day I used to think of
her being married and settled in this remote
place, and used to say to myself that then, at
least, everything would be right. And here
we are, face to face with more trouble than
ever !

Nonsense, man, nonsense!" John Short-lands
said, cheerfully. " You exaggerate

things. I thought this mountain-work would
have given you a better nerve. Everything
will be right — in time. Do you expect the
young people never to have any trouble at
all } I tell you everything will be right intime.
You pull up your courage ; there is
nothing so dreadful about it ; and the end is
certain — wedding-bells, old slippers, speeches,
and a thundering headache the next morning,
after confectioner's champagne."

The haggard eyes did not respond.

'' And who is to tell her } The shock will
be terrible — it may kill her."

"Nonsense — nonsense! Whoever is to
tell her, it must not be you. You would
make such a fuss ; you would make it far
more desperate than it is. Why, you might
frighten her into declaring that she would not
marry — that she would not ask her husband
to run the risk of some public scandal. That
would be a pretty state of affairs — and not
unlikely on the part of a proud-spirited girl
like that. No, no ; whoever tells her must
put the matter in its proper light. It is
nothing so very desperate. It will turn out
all right. And you for one should be very

glad that the Master, as you call him, now
knows the whole story ; for after the marriage,
whatever happens, he cannot come back on
you and say you had deceived him."

'rafter the marriage! And what sort of
a happy life is Yolande likely to lead when
his relatives object to her already ? "

There you are off again ! More difficulties
! Why, man, these things must betaken
as they come. You don't know that
they object — and I don't believe they can
object to her, though the old gentleman
mayn't quite like the colour of your politics.
But supposing they do, what's the odds '^
They can't interfere. You will settle enough
on Yolande to let the young couple live
comfortably enough, until the old gentleman
and his sister arrive at common sense — or the
churchyard. I don't see any difficulty about
it. If only those people were to marry whose
friends and relatives on both sides approved,
you might just as well cut the Marriage Service
out of the Prayer-book at once."

This was all that was said at the time ;
and it must be admitted that it left Mr.
Winterbourne pretty much in the same mood

of anxious perturbation. His careworn face
instantly attracted Yolande's notice ; and she
asked him what was the matter. He answered
that there was nothing the matter — except
the dulness of the day, perhaps ; and for the
moment she was satisfied. But she was not
long satisfied. She became aware that there
was trouble somewhere ; there was a kind of
constraint in the social atmosphere of the
house ; she even found the honest and hearty
John Shortlands given to moody staring into
the fire. So she went to her own room, and
sat down, and wrote the following note : —

Allt-nam-ba, Friday.

'' My dear Archie — We are all in a state
of dreadful depression here, on account of the
bad weather, and the gentlemen shut up with
nothing to do. Please, please, take pity onus,
and come along to dinner at seven. Last
night, in spite of the gale, Duncan played
the Hills of Lynn outside after dinner ; and
it seemed a kind of message that you ought
to have been here. I believe the gentlemen
have fixed next Tuesday, if the weather is
fine, for the driving of the hares on the far

off heights ; and I know they expect you to
go with them ; and we have engaged a whole
crowd of shepherds and others to help in the
beating. There is to be a luncheon where
the U ska-nan- Sheen, as Duncan calls it, but
I am afraid the spelling is not right, comes
into the Alltt Crom, and it will not be difficult
for me to reach there, so that I can see how
you have been getting on. Do you know
that Monaglen is for sale ? — what a joy it
will be if Mr. Melville should get It back
again, after all — that will indeed be Melville s
Welcome Home ! You will make us all very
happy if you will come along at seven, and
spend the evening with us. — Yours affectionately,
YoLANDE."

She sent this out to be taken to Lynn
Towers by one of the gillies who was to wait
for an answer ; and in something more than
an hour the lad on the sturdy little black
pony brought back this note : —

Lynn Towers, Friday afternoon.

'' Dear Yolande — I regret very much that
I cannot dine with you to-night ; and as for
Tuesday, I am afraid that will be also impossible,

as I go to Inverness tomorrow. I
hope they will have a good day. — Yours
sincerely, A. Leslie."

She regarded this answer at first with
astonishment ; then she felt inclined to laugh.

"Look at this, then, for a love-letter!"
she said to herself.

But by and by she began to attach more
importance to it. The coldness of it seemed
studied ; yet she had done nothing that she
knew of to offend him. What was amiss ?
Could he be dissatisfied with her conduct in
any direction ? She had tried to be most
kind to him, as was her duty ; and until quite
recently they had been on most friendly
terms. What had she done ? Then sl;ie
began to form the suspicion that her father
and John Shortlands were concealing something
— she knew not what — from her. Had it
anything to do with the Master ? Had it anything
to do with the singular circumstance that
not even the most formal visiting relationship
had been established between Lynn Towers
and the Lodge ? Why did her father seem
disturbed when she proposed to send a haunch

of venison to the Towers — the most common
act of civility ?

It was strange that, with these disquieting
surmises going on in her brain, she should
think of seeking information and counsel, not
from her father, nor from Mr. Shortlands,
nor from the Master of Lynn, but from Jack
Melville. It was quite spontaneously and
naturally that she thought she would like to
put all her difficulties before him ; but on
reflection she justified herself to herself. He
was most likely to know, being on friendly
terms with everybody. If there was nothing
to disquiet her — nothing to reproach herself
with — he was just the person to laugh the
whole thing away and send her home satisfied.
She could trust him. He did not treat her
quite so much as a child as the others did.
Even when he spoke bluntly to her, in his
schoolmasters way, she had a vague and
humorous suspicion that he was quite aware
that their companionship was much more on
a common footing than all that came to ; and
that she submitted because she thought it
pleased him. Then she had got to believe
that he would do much for her. If she asked

him to tell her honestly what he knew, he
would. The others might try to hide things
from her ; they might wish to be considerate
towards her ; they might be afraid of wounding
her sensitiveness ; whereas she knew that if
she went to John Melville he would speak
straight to her, for she had arrived at the
still further conclusion that he knew he could
trust her, as she trusted him. Altogether,
it was a dangerous situation.

Next morning had an evil and threatening
look about it ; but fortunately there was a
brisk breeze ; and towards noon that had so
effectually swept the clouds over that the
long wide valley was filled with bright warm
sunshine. Yolande resolved to drive in to
Gress. There was no game to take to
Foyers : but there were two consignments
of household materials from Inverness to
be fetched from Whitebridge. Besides, she
wanted to know what Mrs. Bell had done
about Monaglen and the lawyers. And besides
she wanted to know where Alchemist
arvensis ended and A . alpine began ; for she
had got one or two varieties that seemed to
come in between ; and she had all a beginner's

faith in the strict Ones of species. There
was, in short, an abundance of reasons.

On arriving at Gress, however, she found
that Mr. Melville, having finished his forenoon
work in the school, had gone off to his
electric storehouse away up in the hills, and
so she sent on the dog-cart to Whitebridge, and
was content to wait awhile with Mrs. Bell.

'i'll just send him a message, and he'll
come down presently."

Oh no, please don't ; it is a long way to
send any one," Yolande protested.

"It's no a long way to send a wee bit
flash o' fire, or whatever it is, that sets a bell
ringing up there," said the old dame. " It's
wonderful, his devices. Sometimes I think
it's mair than natural. Over there, in the
laboratory, he has got a kind of ear-trumpet ;
and if you take out the stopper, and listen in
lateness, you'll hear every word that's going
on in the school."

"That is what they call a telephone, I
suppose ?"

"The very thing!" said Mrs. Bell, as she
left the room to send a message to him.

When she came back, she was jubilant.

My dear young teddy, I am that glad to
see ye! I've sent the letter."

"What letter?"

"To the lawyers. Oh, I was a lang, lang
time thinking o't ; for they lawyers are kittle
cattle to deal wi' ; and I kenned fine if I was
too eager they would jalouse what I was
after ; and then they would be up to their
pranks. So I just felled them that I did not
want Monaglen for myself — which is as true's
the Gospel — but that if they happened to
hear what was the lowest price that would betaken,
they might send me word, in case I
should come across a customer for them.
It doesna do to be too eager about a
bargain, especially wi' they lawyers ; it's just
inviting them to commit a highway robbery
on ye."

If Mr. Melville," said Yolande, quickly,
"were to have Monaglen, he would still
remain in this neighbourhood, then ?"

Nae coot about that ! It'll be a' a man's
work to put the place to rights again ; for the
factor is a pair body, and the young gentleman
never came here — he has plenty elsewhere,
I have been told."

*' Mr. Melville would still be living here ?"
said Yolande, eagerly.

At Monaglen, ay ; and it's no so faraway.
But it will make a difference to me,"
the old dame said, with a sigh. " For I
have got used to his ways about the loose ;
and it will seem empty, like."

'then you will not go to Monaglen ?"

'deed, no; that would never do. I
would like to go as a servant, for I have
been living too long in idleness ; and I
could go back in any other kind of a way,
for I ken my place. Na, na ; I will just bide
where I am, and I will keep ^220 a year,
or thereabouts, for myself' ; and wi' that I
can mak ends meet brawly, in spite o' they
spendrif hussies."

These romantic projects seemed to have a
great fascination for this good dame (who
had seen far less that was attractive in the
prospect of being given away in marriage by
a famous Duke) ; and she and Yolande kept
on talking about them with much interest,
until a step outside on the gravel caused the
colour to rush to the girl's face. She did not
know that, when she rose on his entrance.

She did not know that she looked embarrassed,
because she did not feel embarrassed.
Always she had a sense of safety in his
presence. She had not to watch her words,
or think of what he was thinking of what
she was saying. And on this occasion she
did not even make the pretence of having
come about Alchemist alpine. She apologised
for having brought him down from his
electric works ; asked him if he would take a
turn in the garden for a minute or two, as
she had something to say to him ; and then
went out, he following. She did not notice
that when she made this last remark his
face looked rather grave.

Mr. Leslie went to Inverness this morning
?" she said, when they were out in the
garden.

Yes ; he looked in as he was passing."

'' Do you know why he went ?"

*well," said he, ''I believe they have

been having some dispute about the marches

of the forest ; but I am told it is to be all

amicably settled. I fancy Archie is going

to have the matter squared up in Inverness."

She hesitated then. She took up a flower ;

regarded it for a second ; and then looked
him fair in the face.

''Mr. Melville," said she, "do you think
it strange that I ask you this question ? — you
are Mr. Leslie's friend : is he offended with
me ? "

His eyes were looking at hers, too — rather
watchfully : he was on his guard.

'' I have not the slightest reason to suppose
that he is," was the answer, given with
some earnestness, for he was glad to find the
question so simple.

None ? I have not done anything that
he could complain of — to you or any one ? "

I assure you I never heard him breathe
a word of the kind. Besides," added he,
with a very unusual warmth in the pale
cheeks, " I wouldn't listen. No man could
be such a coward "

Oh, please don't think that I am angry,"
she said, with earnest entreaty. " Please
don't think I have to complain. Oh no !
But every one knows what mischief is wrought
sometimes by mistake ; some one being offended
and not giving a chance of explanation
; and — and — I was only anxious to be

assured that I had done nothing to vex him.
His going away without seeing us seemed
so strange — yes ; and also his not coming of
late to the lodge ; and — and — my papa seems
to be troubled about something : so that I
became anxious ; and I knew you would tell
me the truth, if no one else would. And it is
all right, then ? There is no reason to be
disturbed, to be anxious ? "

He was disturbed at all events ; and sorely
perplexed. He dared not meet her eyes ;
they seemed to read him through and through
when he ventured to look up.

*' Don't imagine for a moment that you
have anything to reproach yourself with — not
for a moment," he said.

Has any one, then ? "

*why, no. But — but — well, I will be
honest with you, Yolande ; there has been a
little trouble — at the Towers. The old
people are not easy to please ; and — and
Archie has too much spirit to allow you to be
dragged into a controversy, you see ; and as
they don't get on very well together, I suppose
he is glad to get off for a few days to
Inverness."

VOL. II. p

** Ah, I understand," she said, slowly.
That is something to know. But why-did
he not tell me ? Does he think I am
afraid of a little trouble like that ? Does
he think I should be frightened } Oh no.
When I make a promise, it is not to break it.
He should have trusted me more than that.
Ah, I am sorry he has to go away on my
account. Why did he not speak ? It is
strange."

And then she regarded him with those
clear, beautiful, contemplative eyes of hers.

'* Have you told me everything ? "

He did not answer.

"No. There is more. There is more to
account for my papa's trouble — for his going
away this morning. And why do I come to
you ? — because I know that what you know
you will tell to me. You have been my friend
since ever we came to this place."

He could not withstand her appeal ; and
yet he dared not reveal a secret which was
not his own.

'' Yolande," said he, and he took her hand
to emphasise his words, 'there is more ; but
it is not I who must tell you. What I can

tell you, and what I hope you will believe, is
that you are in no way the cause of anything
that may have happened. You have nothing
to reproach yourself with. And any little
trouble there may be will be removed in time,
no doubt. When you have done your best,
what more can you do ? ' The rest is with
the gods.' "

It is just possible that she might have
begged him to make a candid confession of
all that he knew — for she had a vague fear
that she herself was the cause of that anxiety
which she saw too visibly in her father's look
but at this moment the dog-cart drove upto
the front gate, and she had to go. She
bade him, and also Mrs. Bell, good-bye
almost in silence ; she went away thoughtfully.
And as he watched her disappear
along the highroad — the warm westering
light touching the red-gold of her hair — he
was thoughtful too ; and his heart yearned
towards her with a great pity ; and there was
not much that this man would not have done
to save her from the shadow that was about
to fall on her young life.

He could not rest, somehow. He went into
the laboratory, and looked vacantly around ;
the objects there seemed to have no interest
for him. Then he went back to the house
into the room where he had found her
standing ; and that had more of a charm
for him : the atmosphere still seemed to bear
the perfume of her presence, the music of her
voice still seemed to hang in the air. She
had left on the table — she had forgotten,
indeed — a couple of boards inclosing two
specimens of the Alchemist. These he
turned over, regarding with some attention
the pretty, quaint French handwriting at
the foot of the page — '' Alche^itilla alpine.
Alpine Lady-mantle. Allt-7iam-ba, September,
1 88 — " ; but still his mind was
absent ; he was following in imagination
the girl herself, going away along the road

there, alone, to meet the revelation that was
to alter her life.

And was he going to stand by, idle ? Was
he going to limit himself to the part he had
been asked to play — that of mere message-bearer
? Could he not do something ? Was
he to be dominated by the coward fear of
being called an intermeddler ? He had not
pondered over all this matter (with a far deeper
interest than he himself imagined) without
result. He had his own views, his own
remedy ; he knew what counsel he would give,
if he dared intervene. And why should he
not dare ? He thought of the expression of
her face as she had said, with averted eyes,
'* Good-bye !" and then — why, then, a sudden
impulse seized him that somehow and at once
he must get to Allt-nam-ba, and that before
she should meet her father.

He snatched up his hat and went quickly
out and through the little front garden into
the road ; there he paused. Of course, he
could not follow her ; she must needs see him
coming up the wide strath ; and in that case
what excuse could he give } But what if the
shooting party had not yet come down from

the hill ? Might he not intercept them somewhere
? Sometimes, when they had been
taking the far tops in search of a ptarmigan
or two, they came home late — to be scolded
by the young house-mistress for keeping
dinner back. Well, the result of these rapid
calculations was that the next minute he had
set out to climb, with a swiftness that was yet
far too slow for the eagerness of his wishes,
the steep and rough and rugged hills that
stretch away up to the neighbourhood of
Lynn forest.

First it was over peat-bog and rock ; then
through a tangled undergrowth of young
birches ; then up through some precipitous
gullies ; until at last he had gained the top
and looked abroad over the forest — that wide,
desolate, silent wilderness. Not a creature
stirred ; not even the chirp of a chaffinch
broke the oppressive stillness ; it seemed a
world of death. But he had no time to take
note of such matters ; besides the solitude of
a deer-forest was familiar to him. He held
along by the hill-top, sometimes having to
descend into sharp little gullies and clamber
up again, until, far below him, he came insight

of Lynn Towers, and the bridge, and
the stream, and the loch ; and onwards still
he kept his way, until the strath came in view,
with Allt-nam-ba, and a pale blue smoke rising
from the chimneys into the still evening air.
Probably Yolande had got home by that time ;
perhaps she might be out and walking round
the place — talking to the dogs in the kennel,
and so forth. So he kept rather back from
the edge of the hill-top, so that he should not
be descried, and in due time arrived at a
point overlooking the junction of three glens,
down one of which the shooting-people, if
they had not already reached the lodge, were
almost certain to come.

He looked and waited, however, in vain ;
and he was coming to the conclusion that they
must have already passed and gone on to the
lodge, when he fancied he saw something
move behind some birch bushes on the hillside
beyond the glen. Presently he made
out what it was — a pony grazing, and gradually
coming more and more into view. Then
he reflected that the pony could only be therefor
one purpose ; that probably the attendant
gillie and the panniers were hidden from sight

behind those birches ; and that, if it were so,
the shooting party had not returned, and were
bound to come back that way. A very few
minutes of further waiting proved his conjectures
to be right ;• a scattered group of people,
with dogs in to heel, appearing on the crest of
the hill opposite. Then he had no further
doubt. Down this slope he went at headlong
speed ; crossed the rushing burn by springing
from boulder to boulder ; scrambled up
through the thick brushwood and heather of
the opposite banks ; and very soon encountered
the returning party, who were now
watching the panniers being put on the pony's
back.

Now that he had intercepted Mr. Winterbourne,
there was no need for hurry. He
could take time to recover his breath ; and
also to bethink himself as to how he should
approach this difficult matter; and then, again,
he did not wish those people to imagine that
he had come on any important errand. And
so the conversation, as the pony was being
loaded, was all about the day's sport. They
had done very well, it appeared ; the birds
had not yet got wild, and there was no sign

of packing ; they had got a couple of teal and
a golden plover, which was something of a
variety ; also, they had had the satisfaction of
seeing a large eagle — which Duncan declared
to be a Golden Eagle — at unusually close
quarters.

Then they set out for home : Duncan and
the gillies making away for a sort of ford by
which they could get the pony across the Dun
Water ; while the three others took a nearer
way to the lodge by getting down through a
gullies to the Corrie-an-EIch, where there was
a swing-bridge across the burn. When they
had got to the bridge, Melville stopped them.

'' I am not going on with you to the lodge,"
said he. "Mr. Winterboune, I have seen
your daughter this afternoon. She is troubled
and anxious ; and I thought I'd come along
and have a word with you. I hope you will
forgive me for thrusting myself in where I
may not be wanted ; but — but it is not always
the right thing to 'pass by on the other side.'
I couldn't in this case."

I am sure we are most thankful to you
for what you have done already," Yolande's
father said, promptly ; and then he added, with

a weary look in his face, '' and what is to be
done now, I don't know. I cannot bring myself
to this that Leslie demands. It is too
terrible. I look at the girl — well, it does not
bear speaking of"

"" Look here, Winterbourne," John Short-lands
said, " I am going to leave you two
together. I will wait for you the other side.
But I would advise you to listen well to anything
that Mr. Melville has to say ; I have
my own guess."

With that he proceeded to make his way
across the narrow and swaying bridge, leaving
these two alone.

'what I want to know, first of all," Mr.
Winterbourne said, with a kind of despair in
his voice, 'ris whether you are certain that
the Master will insist ? Why should he ?
How could it matter to him ? I thought we
had done everything when we let him know.
Why should Yolande know ? Why make her
miserable to no end ? Look what has been
done to keep this knowledge from her all
through these years ; and you can see the
result in the gaiety of her heart. Would she
have been like that if she had known — if she

had always been thinking of one who ought
to be near her, and perhaps blaming herself
for holding aloof from her ? She would have
been quite different ; she would have been
old in sadness by this time ; whereas she has
never known what a care was. Mr. Melville,
you are his friend ; you know him better than
any of us ; don't you think there is some
chance of reasoning with him and inducing
him to forego this demand ? It seems so
hard."

The suffering that this man was undergoing
was terrible. His questions formed
almost a cry of entreaty ; and Jack Melville
could scarcely bring himself to answer in
what he well knew to be the truth.

'' I cannot deceive you," he said, after a
second. '' There is no doubt that Leslie's
mind is made up on the point. When I
undertook to carry his message he more than
once repeated his clear decision "

But why ? What end will it serve ?
How could it matter to them — living away
from London ? How could they be harmed ?"

Mr. Winterbourne," said the other, with
something of a clear emphasis, 'when I

reported Leslie's decision to Mr. Shortlands,
as I was asked to do, I refused to defend it —
or to attack it, for that matter — and I would
rather not do so now. What I might think
right in the same case — what you might think
right — does not much matter. I told Mr.
Shortlands that perhaps we did not know
everything that might lead to such a decision ;
Leslie has not been on good terms with his
father and aunt, and he thinks he is being
badly used. There may be other things ; I
do not know."

'' And how do we know that it will suffice?"
the other said. '* How do we know that it
will satisfy him and his people } Are we to
inflict all this pain and sorrow on the girl, and
then wait to see whether that is enough ?"

"It is not what I would do," said Jack
Melville, who had not come here for nothing.

'what would you do, then? Can you
suggest anything ?" her father said, eagerly.
"Ah, you little know how we should value
any one who could remove this thing from us!"

What I would do ? Well, I will tell you.
I would go to that girl, and I would see how
much of the woman is in her ; I think you

will find enough. I would say to her : ' There
is your mother ; that is the condition she has
sunk into through those accursed drugs.
Every means has been tried to save her
without avail — every means save one. It is
for you to go to her — you yourself — alone.
Who knows what resurrection of will and
purpose may not arise within her, when it is
her own daughter who stands before her and
appeals to her — when it is her own daughter
who will be by her side during the long
struggle ? That is your duty as a daughter ;
will you do it ?' If I know the girl, you will
not have to say more !"

The wretched man opposite seemed almost
to recoil from him in his dismay. " Good
God!" he muttered; and there was a sort of
blank, vague terror in his face. Melville
stood silent and calm, awaiting an answer.

'' It is the suggestion of a devil," said this
man, who was quite aghast, and seemed
scarcely to comprehend the whole thing just
yet, " or else of an angel. Why "

"It is the suggestion neither of a devil
nor an angel," said Melville, calmly, '' but of a
man who has read a few medical books."

The Other, with the half horror-stricken
look in the eyes, seemed to be thinking hard
of all that might happen ; and his two hands
clasped together over the muzzle of his gun,
which was resting on the ground, were
trembling.

'' Oh, it is impossible — impossible !" he
cried at length. *' It is inhuman. You have
not thought of it sufficiently. My girl to go
through that ; have you considered what you
are proposing to subject her to ?"

I have considered," Jack Melville said
(perhaps with a passing qualm ; for there was
a pathetic cry in this man's voice); 'rand I
have thought of it sufficiently, I hope. I
would not have dared to make the suggestion
without the most anxious consideration."

And you would subject Yolande to thats

"No," said the other, "I would not. I
would not subject her to anything ; I would
put the case before her, and I know what her
own answer would be. I don't think anyone
would have to use prayers and entreaties.
I don't think it would be necessary to try
much persuasion. I say this — put the case
before her, and I will stake my head I can

tell what her answer will be — what her
decision will be — yes, and before you have
finished your story !"

"And to go alone "

'' She will not be afraid !"

He seemed to have a very profound conviction
of his knowledge of this girl's nature ;
and there was a kind of pride in the way he
spoke.

'but why alone ?" pleaded the father —
he seemed to be imagining all kinds of things
with those haggard eyes.

*' I would not have the mental shock
lessened by the presence of any one. I would
have no possible suspicion of a trap — a bait
a temptation. I would have it between
these two : the daughter's appeal to her
mother. I am not afraid of the result."

'she could not ! My girl to go away by
herself — she could not ! it is too terrible !"

Try her."

She has never travelled alone. Why,
even to go to London by herself "

Oh, but that has nothing to do with it.
That is not what I mean at all. As for that
her maid would go with her as a matter of

course ; and Mr. Shortlands might see her
as far as London if he is going south shortly,
as I hear. She could put up at one or other
of the hotels that she has already stayed at
with you. Then you would give her the
address ; and leave the inst to her

'' You have been thinking over this," Mr.
WInterbourne said. *' I have not. I am
rather bewildered about it. Shall we ask
Shortlands ?"

''If you wish. But first let me explain,
Mr. Winterbourne. As I understand, several
arrangements have been made with this poor
woman — only, unhappily to be broken by her.
Well, now, why I want Yolande to go alone
if you think the experiment should be
tried at all — is to prevent suspicion in the
poor woman's mind. I would have no third
person. It should be a matter between the
two women themselves ; and Yolande must
insist on seeing her mother alone."

'' Insist ! Yes, and insist with two such
wretches as those Comforts ! Why, the man
might insult her — he might lay hands on her,
and force her out of the house."

Melville's pale, dark face grew darker at

this ; and his eyes had a sudden, sharp fire
In them.

*she must have a policeman waiting outside,"
he said, curtly. "And her maid must
go inside with her — but not necessarily into
the room."

'rand then," said Mr. Winterbourne — who
was apparently picturing all this before his
mind ; '' supposing she were to get her mother
away with her — what then ?"

'she would take her back to the hotel.
She must have a private sitting-room, of
course. Then in two or three days' time,
when she had got the necessary travelling-things
for her mother, she would take her
down to some quiet seaside place — Eastbourne
or Bournemouth, or some such place
and get rooms there. The two women
would get to know each other that way ;
Yolande would always be with her ; her constant
society would be her mother's safeguard."

"You have thought of everything — you
have thought of everything," the father murmured.
"Well, let us see what Shortlands
says. It is a terrible risk. I am not hopeful
myself. The thing is — is it fair to bring all

VOL. II. Q

this distress and suffering on the girl on such
a remote chance ?"

'you must judge of that," said Melville.
"You asked me what I would do. I have
told you."

Mr. Winterbourne was about to step onto
the bridge — across which only one could
go at a time ; but he suddenly turned back
and said, with some earnest emphasis, to the
younger man —

'' Do not imagine that because I hesitate
I think any the less of your thoughtfulness.
Not many would have done as much. Whatever
happens, I know what your intentions
were towards us." He took Melville's hand
for a moment, and pressed it. "And I thank
you for her sake and for my own. May God
bless you !"

When they got to the other side they
found John Shortlands seated on a boulder of
granite, smoking a cigar. He was not much
startled by this proposal — for Melville had
mentioned something of the kind to him in
an interjectional sort of fashion, some time
before ; and he had given it a brief, but rather
unfavourable, consideration. Now as they

talked the matter over, it appeared that he
stood about midway between these two ;
having neither the eager enthusiasm of Jack
Melville nor yet the utter hopelessness of
his friend Winterbourne.

If you think it is worth trying, try it," said
he, coolly. 'rit can't do much harm. If
Yolande is to know, she may as well know to
some end. Other things have been tried,
and failed ; this might not. The shock might
bring her to her senses. Anyhow, don't you
see, if you once tell Yolande all about it, I
rather fancy she will be dissatisfied until she
has made a trial."

'that is what I am certain of," Melville
said, quickly. " I would contentedly leave it
to herself Only the girl must have some
guidance."

"Surely, surely," said John Shortlands.
I consider your plan very carefully laid
out — if Winterbourne will risk it. The
only other way is to leave Yolande in her
present happy ignorance ; and tell the Master
of Lynn, and his father, and his aunt, and
whatever other relations he has, to go to
the devil."

Shortlands, " said Mr. Winterbourne,
angrily, 'this is a serious thing; it is not to
be settled in your free and easy way. I
suppose you wouldn't mind bringing on
Yolande the mortification of being jilted ?
How could you explain to her ? She would
be left — without a word. And I hear she is
beginning to be anxious already. Poor child,
whichever way it goes, she will have enough
to suffer."

'' I should not mind so much which way
it goes," said John Shortlands, bluntly, '' if
only somebody would take the Master of
Lynn by the scruff of the neck, and oblige
me by kicking him from Allt-nam-ba Bridge
to Foyers Pier."

*' Come, come," said Melville (though he
was by much the youngest of these three),
*the less said in that way the better. What
you want is to make the best of things ; not
to stir up ill-will. For my part, I regard
Miss Winterbourne's engagement to Mr.
Leslie as a secondary matter — at this present
moment ; I consider her first duty is to her
mother ; and I am pretty sure you will find
that will be her opinion when you put the

facts of the case before her. Yes ; I am
pretty certain of that."

'rand who would undertake to tell her?"
her father said. "Who could face the suffering,
the shame, you would see in her eyes ?
Who would dare to suggest to her that she,
so tenderly cared for all her life, should go
away and encounter these horrors ?"

There was silence.

If it comes to that," said Melville, slowly,
I will do it. If you think it right — if it
will give you pain to speak to her — let me
speak to her."

"You?" said her father. "Why should
you undertake what cannot but be a dreadful
task ? Why should you have to bear that ?"

Oh," said he, " my share in the common
trouble would be slight. Besides, I have not
many friends ; and when one has the chance
of lending a hand, don't you understand, it is
a kind of gratification. I know it will not be
pleasant — except for one thing. I am looking
forward to her answer ; and I know what
it will be."

But, really," her father said, with some
hesitation, "is it fair we should put this on

you ? It is a great sacrifice to ask from one
who has been so recently our friend. You
have seen her — you have seen how Lighthearted
she is ; and to ask any one to go
and take away the happy carelessness of her
life from her "

*' Yes, it will make a change," said Melville,
thoughtfully. " I know that. She will be
no longer a girl. She will be a woman."

'' At all events, Winterbourne," John
Shortlands broke in, 'what I said before I
say now — you are the last man to undertake
such a job. You'd frighten the girl out of
her senses. It's bad enough as it is ; and
it'll have to be told her by degrees. I would
have a try myself ; but I might say something
about the cause of her having to be told ;
and that would only make mischief. If I said
anything about your friend Leslie, Mr. Melville,
I ask you to forget it. No use making
rows. And I say, if Winterbourne decides
on taking your way out of this troublous
business, and if you don't mind doing what
you've offered to do, you could not find a
better time than next Tuesday, if that will be
convenient for you, for we shall be all away

at the far tops that day, and I daresay it
will take you some time to break the news
gently."

'' I am quite at your service, either on
Tuesday or any other day, whenever you let
me know what you have decided."

He would not go on to the house with
them, despite all their solicitations ; on the
other hand, he begged them not to say to
Yolande that they had seen him. So they
went on their way down to the little lodge
and its dependencies ; while he went back
and over the hills.

'' He's a damned fine fellow that, and no
mistake," said the plain-spoken John Short-lands.
'there is a sort of broad human
nature about him. And I should think,
Winterbourne, you were very much obliged
to him."

'' Obliged ?" said Yolande's father. '' It is
scarcely the word."

CONTRITION.

Mrs. Graham, attended by her maid, and
dressed in one of the most striking of her
costumes, was slowly pacing up and down
the loud-echoing railway-station at Inverness.
This was what her brother used spitefully to
call her platform parade ; but on this occasion,
at all events, she had no concern about what
effect, if any, her undoubtedly distinguished
appearance might produce. She was obviously
deeply preoccupied. Several times
she stopped at the book-stall, and absently
glanced at the titles of the various journals ;
and, indeed, when at length she purchased
one or two papers, she forgot to take up the
change, and had to be called back by the
pretty young lady behind the counter. Then
she glanced at the clock, handed the newspapers
to her maid, and bade her wait therefor

a few minutes ; and forthwith entered the
Station Hotel.

She passed along the corridor, and went
into the drawing-room. From that room she
had a full view of the general reading-room,
which forms the centre of the building, and
is lit from the roof; and the first glance
showed her the person of whom she was in
search. The Master of Lynn, the sole occupant
of the place, was lying back in a cane-bottomed
rocking-chair, turning over the
pages of Punch.

'* So I have found you at last. What are
you doing here ?" she said — rather sharply.

He looked up.

'' I might ask the same question of you,"
he answered, with much coolness.

'you know well enough. It is not for
nothing I have come all the way from
Inverstroy."

"You must have got up early," he remarked.


I want to know what you are doing here."

I am reading Punch''

"Yes," said she, with some bitterness;
and I suppose your chief occupation is

playing billiards all day long with commercial
travellers!"

*' One might be worse employed."

Archie, let us have none of this nonsense.
What do you mean to do ? Why don't you
answer my letters ?"

'' Because you make too much of a fuss.
Because you are too portentous. Now I like
a quiet life. That is why I am here ; I came
here to have a little peace."

Well, I don't understand you at all," his
sister said, in a hopeless kind of way. *' I
could understand it better if you were one of
those young men who are attracted by every
pretty face they see, and are always in a
simmering condition of love-making. But
you are not like that. And I thought you
were proud to think of Yolande as your future
wife. I can remember one day on board the
dahabeeah. You were anxious enough then.
What has changed you ?"

I do not know that I am changed," said
he, either with indifference or an affectation
of indifference.

*' Is Shena Van in Inverness ?" said Mrs.
Graham, sharply.

I suppose Miss Stewart has as good a
right to be in Inverness as anybody else," he
said, formally.

'' Do you mean to say you don't know
whether she is in Inverness or not ?"

I did not say anything of the kind."

'' Have you spoken to her ?"

*' Don't keep on bothering," he said, impatiently.
'miss Stewart is in Inverness ;
and, if you want to know, I have not spoken
a single word to her. Is that enough ?"

*why are you here, then? What are
you going to do .'^"

'' Nothing."

'' Really this is too bad, Archie," his sister
said, in deep vexation. 'you are throwing
away the best prospects a young man ever
had, and all for what ! For temper !"

I don't call it temper at all," said he.
I call it self-respect. I have told you
already that I would not degrade Yolande
Winterbourne so far as to plead for her being
received by my family. A pretty idea!"

There would have been no necessity
to plead, if only you had exercised a little
patience, and tact, and judgment. And surely

it is not too late yet. Just think how much
pleasant it would be for you, and for all of
us, in the future if you were rather more on
an equal footing with Jim — I mean as regards
money. I don't see why you shouldn't have
your clothes made at Poole's, as Jim has.
Why shouldn't you have chamois-leather
pockets in your overcoat as well as he ?"

*'I can do without chamois-leather pockets,"
he answered.

"Very well," said she, suddenly changing
the mode of her attack, "but what you cannot
do without is the reputation of having
acted as a gentleman. You are bound in
honour to keep faith with Yolande Winterbourne."


I am bound in honour not to allow her
to subject herself to insult," he retorted.

"Oh, there will be nothing of the kind!"
his sister exclaimed. "How can you be so
unreasonable ?"

You don't know the worst of it," said he,
gloomily. " I only got to know the other
day. Yolande's mother is alive — an opium
drinker. Off her head at times — kicks up
rows in the streets — and they are helpless,

because they have all been in this conspiracy
to keep it back from Yolande "

*' You don't mean that, Archie !" his sister
exclaimed, looking very grave.

"I do, though. And, you know, his
lordship might in time be got to overlook the
Radical papa, but a mamma who might at
any moment figure in a police court — I think
not even you could get him to stand that."

"But, Archie, this is dreadful!" Mrs.
Graham exclaimed again.

'' I daresay it is. It is the fact, however."


'rand that is why he was so anxious to
get Yolande away from London," she said,
thoughtfully. " Poor man, what a terrible
life to lead !"

She was silent for some time ; she was
reading the story more clearly now — his continual
travelling with Yolande, his liking for
long voyages, his wish that the girl should
live in the Highlands after her marriage.
And perhaps, also, his warm and obvious
approval of that marriage ? — she knew that
fathers with only daughters were not always
so complaisant.

Two or three strangers came into the
reading-room.

'archie," said she, waking up from a
reverie, 'let us go out for a stroll. I must
think over this."

He went and fetched his hat and stick ;
and the maid having been directed to go into
the hotel and await her mistress's return, the
brother and sister went outside and proceeded
to walk leisurely through the bright and
cheerful little town, in the direction of the
harbour.

"What is your own view of the matter V
she said, at length, and somewhat cautiously.

Oh, my position is perfectly clear. I can
have nothing to do with any such system of
secrecy and terrorism. I told Jack Melville
that when he came as a sort of ambassador.
I said I would on no account whatever
subject myself to such unnecessary risks and
anxieties. My contention was that, first of
all, the whole truth should be told to Yolande ;
then if that woman keeps quiet, good and
well ; if not, we can appeal to the law and
have her forcibly confined. There is nothing
more simple ; and I daresay it could be kept

out of the papers. But then, you see, my
dear Miss Polly, there is also the possibility
that it might get into the papers ; and if you
add on this little possibility to what his lordship
already thinks about the whole affair,
you may guess what use all your beautiful
persuasion and tact and conciliation would be."

'' I don't see," said Mrs. Graham, slowly,
"why papa should know anything about it.
It does not concern him. Many families
have ne'er-do-well or disreputable members ;
and simply nothing is said about them ; and
they are supposed not to exist. Friends
of the family ignore them ; they are simply
not mentioned, until in time they are forgotten
altogether ; it is as if they did not
exist. I don't see why papa should be told
anything about it."

'' Oh, I am for having everything straightforward,"
said he. "I don't wish to have anything
thrown in my teeth afterwards. But
the point isn't worth discussing in the present
state of his lordship's temper ; and it isn't
likely to be so long as that old cat is at his
elbow. Well, now, that is what Mr. Winterbourne
might fairly say. He might say we

had no right to object to his having a half-maniac
wife in his family so long as we had
an entirely maniac aunt — who is also a cantankerous
old beast — in ours."

Archie, I must ask you to be more
decent in your language ! " his sister said,
angrily. "Is that the way the young men
talk at Balliol now ? "

'* I guess it's the way they talk everywhere
when they happen to have the luxury of
having an Aunt Colquhoun as a relative."

'' My dear Master, you won't go very far
to put matters straight if you continue in that
mood."

Am I anxious to go far to put matters
straight ? "

'you ought to be — for the sake of Miss
Winterbourne," said his sister, stiffly.

*' No," he answered ; *' it is they who
ought to be — for the sake of Lynn."

Well, she saw there was not much to be
done with him just then ; and, indeed, there
was something in what he had told her that
wanted thinking over. But in the meantime
she was greatly relieved to find that he had
not (as she had suspected) resumed any kind

of relations with Shena Van ; and she was
anxious above all things to get him away
from Inverness.

'when are you going back to Lynn?"
she asked.

I don't know," he answered, carelessly.

'' Now, do be sensible, Archie, and go
down with me in this afternoon's steamer.
All this trouble will be removed in good time ;
and you need not make the operation unnecessarily
difficult. I am going down to
Fort Augustus by the three o'clock boat ;
you can come with me as far as Foyers."

'' Oh, I don't mind," he said. " I have had
a little peace and quiet ; I can afford to go
back to the menagerie. Only there won't be
anybody to meet me at Foyers."

'you can get a dogcart from Mrs.
Elder," his sister said. "And if you were
very nice, you would take me back to your
hotel now, and give me some lunch, for I am
frightfully hungry. Do you know at what
hour I had to get up in order to catch the
boat at Fort Augustus ! "

I don't see why you did it."

"No, perhaps not. But when you are as

VOL. 11. R

old as I am, you will see with different eyes.
You will see what chances you had at this
moment, that you seem willing to let slip
through your lingers ; and why ? — because
you have not enough patience to withstand a
little opposition. But you know perfectly
well, when you asked Yolande Winterbourne
to marry you, on board the dahabeeah, that
papa might very probably have objections ;
and you took the risk ; and now, when you
find there are objections and opposition, I
don't think it is quite fair for you to throw
the whole thing up, and leave the girl deserted,
and every one disappointed. And it all
depends on yourself. You have only to be
patient and conciliatory ; when they see that
you are not to be affected by their opposition,
they will give in, in time. And as soon as
the people go away from Inverstroy, I will
come over and help you."

He said nothing ; so they went back and
had lunch at the hotel ; and in due time, Mrs.
Graham's maid accompanying, they drove
along to the Canal and got on board the little
steamer. They had a beautiful sail down
Loch Ness on this still, golden afternoon ;

but perhaps the picturesqueness of the scenery
was a trifle familiar to them ; in fact, they
regarded the noble loch mostly as an excellent
highway for the easy transference of casks
and hampers from Inverness, and their chief
impression of the famous Falls of Foyers was
as to the height of the hill that their horses
had to climb in going and coming between
Foyers and Lynn.

As they were slowly steaming in to Foyers
Pier, pretty Mrs. Graham said —

I wonder if that can be Yolande herself
in that dog-cart. Yes ; it is ; that is her
white Rubens hat. Lucky, for you, Master ;
if she gives you a lift, it will save you hiring."

'' I don't think," said he, with a faint touch
of scorn, 'that the mutual excess of courtesy
which has been interchanged between Lynn
Towers and Allt-nam-ba would warrant mein
accepting such a favour. But the cat
bows when she and Yolande pass. Oh yes,
she does as much as that."

'rand she will do a little more in time, if
only you are reasonable," said his sister, who
still hoped that all would be well.

Young Leslie had merely a hand-bag with

him. When he left the steamer, he walked
along the pier by himself until he reached the
road, and there he found Yolande seated in the
dog-cart. He went up and shook hands with
her ; and she seemed very pleased to see him.

You are going to Lynn ? Shall I drive
you out '^. "

"No, thank you," said he, somewhat stiffly.
'' I will not trouble you. I can get a trap at
the hotel."

She looked surprised, and then, perhaps,
a trifle reserved.

'soh, very well," said she, with calm
politeness. " The hotel carriages have more
room than this little one. Good-bye."

Then it suddenly occurred to him that he
had no quarrel with her. She might be the
indirect cause of all this trouble and confusion
that had befallen him ; but she was certainly
not the direct cause. She was in absolute
ignorance of it, in fact. And so he lingered
for a second ; and then he said, looking up —

*' You have no one coming by the steamers"

Oh no," she said ; but she did not renew
the invitation — indeed, there was just a touch
of coldness in her manner.

If I thought I should not overload the
dog-cart," said he, rather shamefacedly, '' I
would beg of you to give me a seat. I
understand the stag's head has come down
by this steamer. I saw it at Macleay's this
morning."

'' It is that I have come in for — that only,"
she said. 'there is plenty of room, if you
wish."

So, without more ado, he put his hand-bag
into the dog-cart, behind ; and there also was
deposited the stag's head that Sandy was
now bringing along from the steamer. Then,
when the lad had gone to the horse's head,
Yolande got down ; for she always walked
this steep hill, whether going or coming ;
and, of course, no men-folk could remain in
the vehicle when she was on foot. So she
and the Master now set out together.

'' I hope they have been having good
sport at Allt-nam-ba," he said.

Oh yes."

It was clear that his unaccountable refusal
of her invitation had surprised her ; and her
manner was distinctly reserved. Seeing that,
he took the more pains to please her.

'' Macleay has done the stag's head very
well," said he; "and I have no doubt Mr.
Shortlands will be proud of it. Pity it isn't
a royal ; but still it is a good head. It is
curious how people's ideas change as they goon
preserving stag's heads. At first, it is
everything they shoot, no matter what ; and
every head must be stuffed. Then they begin
to find that expensive ; and they take to
boiling the heads, keeping only the skull and
the horns. Then they begin to improve
their collection by weeding out the second
and third rate heads, which they give to their
friends. And then, in the end, they are
quite disappointed with anything short of a
royal. I went in to Macleay 's a day or two
ago, and asked him to push on with that
head. I thought Mr. Shortlands would like
to see how it looked hung up in the lodge ;
and I thought you might like to see it too."

It was very kind of you," she said.

"Has the great hare drive come off ? " he
asked — and surely he was trying to be as
pleasant as he could be. " Oh, I think you
said it was to be tomorrow. I should like
to have gone with them ; but, to tell you

the truth, Yolande, I am a little bit ashamed.
Your father has been too kind to me — that is
the fact. Of course, if we had the forest in
our own hands, it would not matter so much ;
for your father then might have a return
invitation to go for a day or two's deer-stalking.
But with everything let, you see, I am helpless;
and your father's kindness to me has been
almost, embarrassing. Then there is another
thing. My father and aunt are odd people.
They live too much in seclusion ; they have
got out of the way of entertaining friends,
because, with the forest and the shooting
always let, they could scarcely ask any one to
come and live in such a remote place. It is
a pity. Look at the other families in
Inverness-shire ; look at Lord Lovat, look at
Lord Sheffield, look at The Mackintosh, and
these ; they go out into the world ; they
don't box themselves up in one place. But
then we are poor folk — that is one reason,
perhaps ; and my father has just one mania
in his life — to improve the condition of Lynn ;
and so he has not gone about, perhaps, as
others might have done."

Now it sounded well in her ears that this

young man should be inclined to make excuses
for his father, even when, as she suspected,
the domestic relations at the Towers were
somewhat strained ; and she instantly adopted
a more friendly tone towards him.

''Ah," said she, "what a misfortune
yesterday ! The red shepherd came running
in to say that there were some deer up the
glen of the Alltt Crom ; and, of course, everyone
hurried away — my papa and Mr. Short-lands
to two of the passes. What a misfortune,
there being no one with the beaters. They
came upon them — yes, a stag and four hinds,
quite calmly standing and nibbling, and away
away — they went up the hill, not going
near either of the guns. Was it not sad ? "

Not for the deer."

"And my papa not to have a stag's head
to take back as well as Mr. Shortlands ! "
she said, in great disappointment.

Oh, but if you like he shall have a finer
head to take back than any he would be
likely to get in half-a-dozen years of those
odd chances. I will give him one I shot —
with three horns. I have always had a clear
understanding about that : anything I shoot

Is mine — it doesn't belong to the furniture of
Lynn Towers. And I will give that head to
your father, if you like ; it is a very remarkable
one, I can assure you."

"That is kind of you," she said. They
were on more friendly terms now ; she had
forgiven him.

When they got to the summit of the hill,
they got into the dog-cart, and descended
the other side, and drove away through the
wooded and rocky country. She seemed
pleased to be on better terms with him ; and
he, on his part, was particularly good-natured
and friendly. But when they drew near to
Gress she grew a little more thoughtful. She
could not quit discard those hints she had
received. Then her father's anxious trouble
Was that merely caused by the disagreement
that had broken out between the Master and
his relatives ? If that were all, matters would
mend, surely. She, at all events, was willing
to let time work his healing wonders ; she
was in no hurry ; and certainly her pride was
not deeply wounded. She rather liked the
Master's excuses for those old people who
lived so much out of the world. And she

was distinctly glad that now there was no
suspicion of any coldness between herself and
him.

There was no one visible at Gress ; and
they drove on without stopping. When they
arrived at the bridge, the Master got down
to open the swinging Iron gate, telling Sandy
to keep his seat ; and it was not worth his
while to get up again.

'now," said Yolande, brightly, ''I hope
you will change your mind and come along
tomorrow morning to Allt-nam-ba and go
with the gentlemen, after all. It is to be a
great affair."

'' I will see if I can manage It," said he,
evasively ; and then they bade each other
good-bye, and she drove on.

But although they had seen no one at
Gress, Jack Melville had seen them. He
was far up the hillside, seated on some bracken
among the rocks ; and his elbows were on his
knees, and his head resting on his hands.
He had gone away up there to be perfectly
alone — to think over all that he was to say
to Yolande on the next day. It was a terrible
task ; and he knew It.

He saw them drive by ; and his heart had
a great pity for this girl.

The evening is coming over the sky
now," he was thinking, as he looked around,
'rand she has left behind her the last of the
light-hearted days of her life."

FABULA Narrator.

Early next morning (for he was anxious to
get this painful thing over) he walked slowly
and thoughtfully up to Allt-nam-ba. He
knew she was at home ; for the dog-cart had
gone by with only Sandy in it. Perhaps she
might be indoors — working at the microscope
he had lent her, or arranging her plants.

She had seen him come up the strath ; she
was at the door awaiting him, her face radiant.

Ah, but why are you so late ?" she cried.
They are all away. Shepherds and gillies
and all, two hours ago."

'* I did not mean to go with them. I have
come to have a chat with you, Yolande, if you
will let me."

He spoke carelessly ; but there was something
in his look that she noticed ; and when
she had preceded him into the little drawing-room,
she turned and regarded him.

'what is it? Is it serious?" she said,
scanning his face.

Well, he had carefully planned how he
would approach the subject ; but at this
moment all his elaborate designs went clean
away from his brain. A far more happy expedient
than any he had thought of had that
instant occurred to him. He would tell her
this story as of some one else.

'* It is serious in a way," said he, "for I
am troubled about an unfortunate plight that
a friend of mine is in. Why should I bother
you about it ? — but still, you might give me
your advice."

'' My advice ?" she said. " If it would be
of any service to you, yes, yes ! But how
could it be ? What experience of the world
have I had ?"

'rit isn't a question of experience of the
world ; it is a question of human nature
mostly," said he. "And this friend of mine
is a girl just about your own age. You might
tell me what you would do in the same circumstances."


But I might do something very foolish."

I only want to know what you would

naturally feel inclined to do. That is the
question. You could easily tell me that ; and
I could not find it out for myself — no, not if
I were to set all my electric machines going."

''Ah, well, I will listen very patiently, if I
am to be the judge," said she. 'rand I am
glad it is not anything worse. I thought
when you came in it was something very
serious."

He did not wish to be too serious ; and,
indeed, he managed to tell her the whole
story in a fashion so plain, matter-of-fact, and
unconcerned, that she never for an instant
dreamed of its referring to herself. Of course
he left out all details and circumstances that
might positively have given her a clue, and
only described the central situation as between
mother and daughter. And Yolande had a
great compassion for that poor, debased
woman ; and some pity, too, for the girl who
was kept in ignorance of her mother being
alive ; and she sat with her hands clasped
on her knees, regarding these two imaginary
figures, as it were, and too much interested
in them to remember that her counsel was
being asked concerning them.

Now, you see, Yolande," he continued,
"it appears that one of the results of using
those damnable — I beg your pardon — I really
beg your pardon — I mean those — those
poisonous drugs, is that the will entirely goes.
The poor wretches have no command over
themselves ; they live in a dream ; they will
promise anything — they will make the most
solemn vows of abstinence — and be quite
unable to resist the temptation. And the
law practically puts no check on the use of
these fiendish things ; even when the public-houses
are closed the chemist's shop is open.
Now, Yolande, I have a kind of theory or
project with regard to that poor woman — I
don't know whether the doctors would approve
of it — but it is a fancy I have : let us suppose
that that poor wretch of a mother does not
quite understand that her daughter has grownup
to be a woman — most likely she still regards
her as a child — that is a very common
thing — at all events, she is not likely to know
anything as to what her daughter is like.
And suppose that this daughter were to goto
her mother and declare herself: do you
not think that that would be enough to startle

her out of her dream ; and do you not think
that in the bewilderment of finding their relations
reversed — the child grown to be a
woman assuming a kind of protection and
authority and command over the broken-down
creature — she might be got to rely on that
help, and, encouraged and strengthened by
constant care and affection, to retrieve herself ?
Don't you think it is possible ? To be startled
out of that dream by shame and horror ; then
the wonder of having that beautiful daughter
her champion and protectress ; then the continual
reward of her companionship : don't
you think it is possible ?"

'' Oh yes — oh yes, surely ! " said the girl.
'' Surely you are right ! "

'' But then, Yolande, I am afraid you don't
understand what a terrible business it will be.
It will demand the most constant watchfulness
; for these drugs are easy to get ; and
people who use them are very cunning. And
it will require a long time — perhaps years —
before one could be certain that the woman
was saved. Now look at it from the other
side. Might not one say, ' That poor
woman's life is gone, is done for : why should

you destroy this other young life in trying to
save a wreck ? Why should you destroy one
happy human existence in trying to rescue
the mere remnant of another human existence
that would be worthless and useless even if
you succeed ? Why should not the girl live
her own life in peace and happiness ?

'' But that is not what you would say ;
that is not what you think," she said, confidently.
" And do you ask what the girl would
think ? — for I can tell you that. Oh yes, I
can tell you — she would despise any one who
offered her such a choice ! "

'' But she would be in ignorance, Yolande;
she would know nothing: about it."

'' She ouo^ht not to be in ignorance, then !
Why do they not tell her ? Why not ask
herself what she will do ? Ah, and all this
time the poor woman left to herself — it was
not right — it was not just ! "

'' But she has not been left to herself,
Yolande. Everything has been tried — everything
but this. And that is why I have come
to ask you what you think a girl in that position
would naturally do. What would she do
if she were told ? "

VOL. II. s

"There cannot be a doubt," she exclaimed.
''Oh, there cannot be a doubt! — You — I
know what your feeling is — what your opinion
is. And yet you hesitate ? Why ? Go ;
and you will see what her answer will be ! "

Do you mean to say, Yolande," he said,
deliberately, and regarding her at the same
time, " that you have no doubt whatever ?
You say I am to go and ask this young girl
to sacrifice her life — or it may be only a part,
but that the best part, of her life — on this
chance of rescuing a poor broken - down
creature "

'her another'' said Yolande.

"What will she think of me, I wonder,"
he said, absently.

The answer was decisive.

"If she is the girl that you say, oh, I know
how she will be grateful to you. She will
bless you. She will look on you as the best and
dearest of her friends, who had courage when
the others were afraid, who had faith in her."

Yolande," said he, almost solemnly,
"you have decided for yourself."

"I V she said, in amazement.

"Your mother is alive."

She uttered a sharp cry — of pain, it
seemed.

My mother — my mother — like that .^"

For a time this agony of shame and horror
deprived her of all power of utterance ; the
blow had fallen heavily. Her most cherished
and beautiful ideals lay broken at her feet ;
in their place was this stern and ghastly picture
that he had placed before her mental
eyes. He had not softened down any of the
details ; it was necessary that she should
know the truth. And she had been so much
interested in the story, as he patiently put it
before her, that now she had but little difficulty
— alas ! she had no difficulty at all — in
placing herself in the position of that imaginary
daughter, and realising what she had to face.

He waited. He had faith in her courage;
but he would ive her time. This was a
sudden thing to happen to a girl of nineteen.

'well," she said, at length, in a low voice,
- I will go."

Her hands were tightly clenched together;
but she showed no symptom of faltering.
Presently she said, in the same steady, constrained
way —

*' I will go at once. Does papa know you
were coming here to-day to tell me ? "

'' Yes. He could not do it himself,
Yolande. He has suffered fearfully during
these long years in order to hide this from
you ; he thought it would only pain you to
know — that you could do no good."

'what induced him to change his mind?"

He was embarrassed; he had not expected
the question. She glanced at his face.

"Was that the objection at Lynn Towers?"
she said, calmly.

'' No, Yolande, no ; it was not. I daresay
Lord Lynn does not quite approve of
your father's politics ; but that has nothing todo
with you."

'' Then it was your idea that I should be
told?"

'well," said he, uneasily, " possibly your
father imagined that Archie Leslie might
not like — might think he had been unfairly
treated if he were not told — and then, I was
his friend, don't you see, and they mentioned
the matter to me — and — and — being an
outsider, I was reluctant to interfere at first
but then, when they spoke of telling you,

I said to myself that I knew, or I fancied I
knew, what a girl like Yolande Winterbourne
would be sure to do in such circumstances —
and so I thought I would venture the suggestion
to them, and — and, if it turned out to be so,
then I might be of some little help to you."

That was cleverly done ; he had not told
her it was the Master of Lynn who had
insisted on that disclosure.

And now she was gathering her courage
to her ; though still she maintained a curious
sort of constrained reserve, as though she
were keeping a tight hold over her feelings.

I suppose," she said, slowly, "it is your
idea I should go there — alone."

"If you are not afraid, Yolande, — if you
are not afraid !" he said, anxiously.

I am not afraid."

"Don't you see, Yolande," he said, eagerly,
"if you go accompanied by a stranger, she
may think it is a solicitor — people in that
weak mental state are usually suspicious ;
and if you go with your father, she would
probably only consider it a repetition of
former interviews, that came to nothing.
No ; it is the sudden appearance of her

daughter that will startle her into consciousness
of what she is. Then don't mind those
people she is with. Don't be afraid of them.
They dare not detain her. You will have a
policeman waiting outside ; and your maid
will go into the house with you, and wait in
the passage. You will have to assume
authority. Your mother may be a bit dazed,
poor woman ; you must take her with you ;
let no one interfere. Now, do you think you
have nerve for that — all by yourself?"

"Oh yes, I think so," she said, calmly.
But I must begin at the beginning. I
cannot leave the lodge without putting someone
in charge "

I will send up Mrs. Bell — she will be
delighted."

"Ah, will you?" she said, with a quick
glance of gratitude breaking through her
forced composure. "If only she would be
so kind as to do that ! She knows everything
that is wanted "

Don't trouble yourself about that fora
moment," he said. " Mrs. Bell will be
delighted — there is nothing she would not
do for you."

"Then I must take away my things with
me ; perhaps I shall not see Allt-nam-ba
again ; my life will be altered now. Where
do I go when I reach London ?"

'' I should say the hotel your father and
you were at once or twice, in Albemarle
Street. But are you sure, Yolande, you
would rather not have some one go with you
to London, and see you to your quarters in
the hotel ? Why, I would myself — with
pleasure ; for my assistant Dalrymple gets on
very well in the school now. Or Mr. Short-lands,
he is going south soon, is he not ? I
would not ask your father ; it would be too
painful for him."

"No," she said, " I do not want any one.
Jane and I will do very well. Besides I
could not wait for Mr. Shortlands. I am
going at once."

"At once! Surely you will take time to
consider "

"I am going tomorrow," she said, ''if
Mrs. Bell will be so kind as to come and
take my place."

Don't be so precipitate, Yolande," he
said, with some anxiety. " I have put all

this before you for your consideration ; and I
should feel I was burdened with a terrible
responsibility if you were to do anything you
might afterwards regret. Will you consult
Mr. Shortlands?"

She shook her head.

*' Will you take a week to think over
it?"

*' No ; why?" she said, simply. 'did I
not consider when you were telling me the
story of this imaginary girl ? Had I any
doubt ? No. I knew what she would
decide. I know what I have decided.
What use is there in delay ? Ah, if there is
to be the good come out of it that you have
imagined for me, should I not haste ? When
one is perishing, you do not think twice if
you can hold out your hand. Do you think
that I regret — that I am sorry to leave a
little comfort behind — that I am afraid to
take a little trouble ? Surely you do not
think that of me. Why I am anxious to go
now is to see at once what can be done — to
know the worst or the best — to try. And
now — I shall not be speaking to my papa
about it ; that would only give pain — will

you tell me what I should do, in all the small
particulars ? I am not likely to forget."

That he could do easily ; for he had
thought enough over the matter. He gave
her the most minute instructions ; guarding
against this or that possibility ; and she
listened mutely and attentively, with scarcely
the interruption of a question. Then at
length, he rose to say good-bye; and she rose
too. He did not notice that, as she did so,
her lips quivered for the briefest second.

He hesitated.

''If you are going tomorrow, Yolande,"
said he, "I will see you as you pass. I will
look out for you. I should like to say goodbye
to you ; it may be for a long time."

"It may, for always," she said, with her
eyes cast down; "perhaps I shall never be
back here again."

"And I am sending you away into all
this trouble and grief How can I help
knowing that it is I who am doing it ? And
perhaps, day after day, and night after night,
I shall be trying to justify myself — when I am
thinking over it, and wondering where you are ;
and perhaps I shall not succeed very well."

But it is I who justify you — that is
enough," she said, in a low voice. *' Did I
not decide for myself? And I know that in
your heart you think I am doing right ; and
if you are afraid for me — well, that is only
kindness — such as that you have always
shown to me "

Here she stopped ; and he did not see
that her hands were clenched firm, as she
stood there opposite him, with her eyes cast
down.

*rand whatever happens. Yolande — you
may be in pain and grief — and perhaps all
you may endure may only end in bitter
disappointment — well, I hope you will not
imagine that I came to you with my proposal
unthinkingly. I have thought over
it night and day. I did not come to you
offhand "

"Ah, then," she said quickly, "and you
think it is necessary to justify yourself — you,
to me, as if I did not know you as well as I
know myself! Do you think I do not know
you and understand you because I am only
a girl ?" Her forced composure was breaking
down altogether, she was trembling somewhat,

and now there were tears running down
her cheeks, despite herself; though she
regarded him bravely, as If she would not
acknowledge that. 'rand you asked me
what the girl you spoke of would think of
the man who came to her and showed her
what she should do ? Did I not answer ?
I said she would know then that he was the
one who had faith in her ; that she would
give him her gratitude ; that she would know
who was her best and truest friend. And
now, just as you and I are about to say goodbye,
perhaps for ever, you think It is necessary
for you to justify yourself to me — you, my
best friend — my more than friend "

And then — ah, who can tell how such
things happen, or which is to bear the blame ?
his arms were round her trembling figure,
and she was sobbing violently on his breast.
And what was this wild thing she said in
the bewilderment of her grief — '' Oh, why,
why was my life given away before I ever
saw you ? "

"Yolande," said he, with his face very
pale, '' I am going to say something, for this
is our last meeting. What can a few words

matter — my darling ! — If we are never to see
each other again ? I love you. I shall love
you while I have life. Why should I not say
it, for this once ? I blinded myself ; I tried
to think it friendship — friendship, and the
world was just filled with light whenever I
saw you ! It is our last meeting ; you will
let me say this for once — how can it harm
you ? "

She shrank out of his embrace ; she sank
down on the couch there, and turned away
her head and hid her face in her hands.

"Go, go!" she murmured. 'what have
I done .-^ For pity's sake go — and forget!
Forget I"

He knelt down by the side of the couch ;
and he was paler than ever now.

''Yolande, it is for you to forget — and
forgive. I have been a traitor to my friend ;
I have been a traitor to you. You shall
never see me again. God bless you ! — and
good-bye ! "

He kissed her hair, and rose, and got
himself out of the house. As he went down
that wide strath, his eyes fixed on nothing,
like one demented, and his mind whirling

this way and that amid clouds of remorse and
reproach and immeasurable pity — it seemed
to him that he felt on his brow the weight of
the brand of Cain.

PREPARATIONS.

And as for her : she was stunned almost into
unconsciousness by this shock of self-abasement
and distress. She lay on the sofa, her
face covered with her hands ; she could not
face the light. What was she then ? — she
who hitherto had been so fearless and so
proud. A flirt, a jilt, a light-o'-love — that
was how she saw herself ; and then there was
a kind of despair over the misery she had
wrought, and a yearning to have him back to
implore his pity and his forgiveness ; and
then sudden resolves to free herself in another
direction, at any cost of penitence and humiliation.
She began to compose hurried brief
messages — though the throbbing brain and
the shame-stricken soul could scarce decide
between the fitness of them. These were
some of them : —

'dear Papa — / have gone away. Tell
Archie not to think any more about me. —
Yolande''

And then again : —

'dear Archie — I sendyoit back the engage-meriting
; I am not worthy to be your wife.
I am sorry if I have cattsedyou any disappointment;
but you have less to regret than I have''

And then again — to one not named at
all :— .

*' To-day I go away. Never think of nie
again, or of what has happened. Forgive me ;
that is all''

And then she began to thinks this wild
torture of suggestions could be called thinking
— of the undertaking that lay before her ;
and the thought of it was something of a
relief. There would be an occupation,
urgent, continuous, demanding all her attention
; in time, and in a measure, she might
school herself to forget. Perhaps, if this
duty turned out to be a very sad and painful
one, it might be taken by those whom she
had wronged as a sort of penance ? She was

prepared to suffer. She thought she deserved
to suffer. Had she not proved a traitor to
the man whom she had promised to marry ?
Had she not brought misery to this best and
dearest of all her friends — to this fine and
noble nature that she had learned to know ;
and that by her idleness and carelessness —
the carelessness of a vain coquette and ,
heedless of consequences.'^ What
would he think of her ? She could only
vaguely recall the reproaches he had heaped
upon himself; but she knew that he was in
distress, and that she was the cause of it.
And, perhaps, if there were trials in store for
her, if there were suffering in store for her,
perhaps he would never know that she rather
welcomed that, and was content to receive
her punishment '^ Perhaps he would never
know how grieved she was ? It was over
and done, and past recall. And she knew
that henceforth her life would be quite different
to her.

How long she lay there in that misery of
remorse and despair she probably never
knew ; but at last she forced herself to rise.
She was not thinking of her appearance ; she

did not know that her face was haggard and
pale ; that an expression never before there
was there now ; that her eyes were no longer
the eyes of a child. She was going away —
this was all she was compelling herself to
think about ; and there were preparations to
be made. And so in a slow and mechanical
fashion she began to put a few things together
even in this drawing-room ; although every
other minute her heart seemed to stand still
as she came upon some little trifle that was
associated with him — something he had done
for her, something that he had brought her,
showing his continued solicitude and thoughtfulness
and affection. Why had she not seen ?
Why did she not understand ? And then she
began to think of the evenings he had spent
at the house, and of the walks they had had
together down the wide valley ; and she
began to know why it was that these evenings
had seemed so rich in happy human
sympathies, and why the valley had appeared
so wondrous and beautiful, and why her life
at Allt-nam-ba had had so strange and unnameable
a charm thrown over it. And he
he had been blind, too. She knew that he

VOL. II. T

could not have imagined it possible that he
was betraying his friend ; otherwise he would
have fled from the place. She was standing
quite still now, her eyes distraught ; and she
was trying to recall the very tones in which
he had said "I love you." That was the misery
of it ; and the cause of her shame ; and the
just reason for her remorse and self-abasement
; and yet — and yet — somewhere or
other deep down in her heart there was a
curious touch of pride that she had heard
those words. If circumstances had been
different — to be approved, to have won the
affection, to be loved by one like that ! And
then a passion of self contempt seized her;
and she said to herself: " You, to think yourself
worthy of such a love ! You, who can
allow yourself to think of such things, with
that ring on your finger ! "

This also was strange, that, amid all the
preparations for departure that she was now
mechanically making, she should be possessed
by a singular anxiety that Mrs. Bell, when
she came to Allt-nam-ba, should find the
household arrangements in the most perfect
order. Had she some vague hope or fancy,

then, that some day or other, when she
should be far enough away from Allt-nam-ba,
and Gress, and Lynn, and not likely to see
any one of them again, her name might be
mentioned casually by this good woman, and
mentioned, perhaps, with some slight word of
approval ? When she drew out, for Mrs.
Bell's guidance, a list of her arrangements
with the Inverness tradesmen, she was dissatisfied
with the mere handwriting of it (for,
indeed, her fingers trembled somewhat), and
she destroyed it and wrote out another ; and
that she destroyed, and wrote out another —
until the handwriting was fairly clear and
correct.

Her maid Jane was a fool of a woman ;
but even she could see that her young mistress
was faint-looking, and even ill-looking ;
and again and again she besought her to
desist from these preparations, and to go and
have some lunch, which awaited her in the
dining-room.

"You know, Miss," said she, "you can't
go before your papa comes home ; and then
it would be far too late to catch the steamer.
You can't go before the morning ; and I am

sure, Miss, you will be quite ill and unable to
travel if you don't eat something."

Well, Yolande went into the dining-room,
and sat down at the table ; but she could
not eat or drink anything ; and in a minute
or two she was back again in her bedroom
superintending the packing of her trunks.
However, she was in time compelled to
desist. The mental agitation of the morning,
combined with this want of food, produced
the natural result ; she gradually acquired a
violent headache, a headache so violent that
further superintendence of packing or anything
else was entirely out of the question.
Now it was the literal fact that she had never
had a headache in her life — except once, at
the Chateau, when a large volume she was
reaching for in the library fell and struck her
and she did not know what to do ; but she
fancied that by tying a wet towel round her
head she might lessen the throbbing of the
temples ; and this she did, lying down the
while. Jane stole out of the room, fancying
her young mistress might now get
some sleep. The girl was not thinking of
sleep.

Mr. Winterbourne and John Shortlands
were on their way back from the hill.

'' I scarcely know what has happened today,"
Mr. Winterbourne was saying. *'A11
the time I have been thinking of our going
back. And I know what I shall find when I
go back — the wreck of the happiness that I
have so carefully nursed all through these
years. It is like hedging round a garden ;
and growing flowers there ; and all at once,
some morning, you find the place trampled
down and a wilderness. I hope I am not
unjust, Shortlands ; but I think he might
have spared her."

-Who?"

"Young Leslie. I think he might have
spared her. It was not much. Don't you
think — out of consideration "

*' Nonsense, man. What young Leslie
has done seems to me, on reflection, perfectly
just, and right, and reasonable," said John
Shortlands, telling a lie in the calmest manner
possible. '' The young people ought not to
be hampered in starting life. A little trouble
now — what is that ? And it will be better
for you too, Winterbourne. You would have

kept on worrying yourself. You would have
been always apprehensive about something.
You would have reproached yourself for not
telling him."-

I am not thinking of myself," Yolande's
father said, rather wistfully. " I could have
borne all that ; I am used to it. It is about
her I am thinking. I remember in Egypt,
away up at that still place, wondering whether
all her life might not be just as quiet and
uneventful and happy as it was there."

"The fact is, Winterbourne," said John
Shortlands, bluntly, " you are just mad about
that child of yours ; and you expect the
world to be changed all on her account ;
whereas every reasonable being knows that
she must take her chance of trouble as well
as others. And this — what is this ? Is it
so great an affair ? You don't know yet
whether she will follow out that suggestion
of Melville's. Perhaps she won't. If you
would rather she should not, no doubt she
will abide by your wishes. By this time she
has been told. The secret is at an end.
Leslie has had what he wanted ; what the
devil more can he ask for ? "

But the sharp asperity of this last phrase
rather betrayed his private opinion ; and so
he added, quickly —

*' However, as you say, she is more likely
to go. Well, why not look at the brighter
side of things ? There is a possibility. Oh,
you needn't shake your head ; when I look
at the whole thing from Melville's point of
view, I can see the possibility. He's a
devilish long - headed fellow, that ; and a
devilish fine fellow, too ; not many men
would have bothered their heads as he has
done. I wouldn't. If you and I weren't old
friends, do you think I would have interfered ?
I'd have let you go on your own way. But
now, old chap, I think you'll find Yolande
ready to go ; and you'd better not make too
much fuss about it, and frighten the girl. I
shall be in London ; I shall see she has
plenty of money."

'rit seems so inhuman," her father said,
absently.

'what?"

That I should remain here shooting ;
and she allowed to go away there, alone."

My dear fellow, she'll get on twenty

times better without ye," said Shortlands,
plainly. 'rit seems to me that what you say
Melville pointed out to you was just the perfection
of good advice ; you'll do well to
abide by it."

But he does not know Yolande as I do,"
her father said.

"He seems to have made a thundering
good guess, anyway ! "

I don't mean that. He does not know
how she has been brought up — always looked
after and cared for. She has never been
allowed to shift about for herself Oh, as
regards herself, I can see well enough that
he imagines she has certain qualities ; and
perhaps he thinks it rather fine to make
experiments. Well, I don't. I don't see
why Yolande should be made the victim of
any experiment ; I am content with her as
she is."

'you'd better see what she says about it
herself."

When they reached the lodge, Yolande
was not, as usual, standing in the porch to
welcome them home from the hill.

Please, sir," said the maid, " Miss

Winterbourne has a headache, and says
would you excuse her coming down to
dinner ? "

He stood irresolute for a second or two —
obviously greatly disturbed ; then he slowly
and thoughtfully went up the stairs, and
gently knocked at the door of her room.

'' May I come in, Yolande ? "

She had just time to untie the wet towel
from her head, to smooth her hair, and sit up
in bed.

*' Yes, papa."

He entered, went over and drew a chair
near to her and sat down.

'' I am sorry for you, Yolande," he said, ina
low voice ; and his eyes were nervously
bent on the ground.

'why, papa?"

She spoke in quite a cheerful way ; and
as he had not suffered his eyes to meet hers,
he was unaware how that cheerfulness was
belied by the strange expression in them.
She was forcing herself to make light of this
matter ; she would not have him troubled.
And perhaps, indeed, to her this was in truth
a light matter, as compared with that tragic

disclosure and its consequences, which seemed
to have cut away from her, at once and forever,
the shining and rose-coloured years of
her youth.

If I erred, Yolande," said he, "in keeping
all this back from you, I did it for the
best."

Do you need to say that to me, papa ?"
she answered, with some touch of reproach.

'' I thought it would save you needless
pain," said he ; and then, as he ventured to
lift his eyes, he caught sight of the pale
anguish-stricken face, and he nearly cried
aloud in his sudden alarm, " Yolande, are you
ill ?"

'' Oh no, papa," she said ; and she did try
her best to look very cheerful. " I have a
headache — that is all ; and it is not so bad as
it was. I — I — have been seeing things
packed, and making arrangements."

'you are going, Yolande?" he said, with
a sinking of the heart.

"That, again, it is unnecessary for you to
ask me," the girl said, simply.

But not at once, Yolande ?" said he,
glancing at an open trunk. " Not at once ?"

"To-morrow morning, papa," she answered.
" Oh, but I assure you, you will be
put to no trouble — no trouble at all. Mrs.
Bell is coming from Gress to see everything
right. And I have made out lists for her ; it
is all arranged ; you will not know any difference
"

'' Yolande, you will make me angry if you
talk like that. What signifies our comfort ?
It is the notion of your going away by yourself
"

"Jane goes with me. That is all arranged
also," she said. '' I have no fear."

Listen, now, Yolande. I don't disapprove
of your going. We have tried everything,
and failed ; if there is a chance of your
succeeding — well, perhaps one might say it
is your duty to go. Poor child, I would rather
have had you know nothing about it ; but
that is all over now. Well, you see, Yolande,
if you go, there must be no unnecessary risk
or trouble about your going. I have been
thinking that perhaps Mr. Melville may bea
little too imaginative. He sees things
strongly. And in insisting that you should
go alone — why, there may be a danger that

he has been carried away by a — by a — well,
I don't know how to put It, except that he
may be so anxious to have this striking appeal
made to your poor mother as to be indifferent
to ordinary precautions. Why should you
go friendless and alone ? Why should I remain
amusing myself here ?"

'' Because you would be of no use to me,
papa," said she, calmly. " I know what I
have to do."

Why, then, should you not wait for a
few days and travel south with Mr. Short-lands
?"

*' Oh, I must go at once, papa — at once ?"
she exclaimed. " I must go tomorrow. And
Jane goes with me! Is it not simple enough ?"

''Yolande, you cannot be left in London
with absolutely no one to whom you can
appeal. The least you must do is to take a
letter to Lawrence and Lang. They will do
anything you want ; they will let you have what
you want ; if there is any hiring of lodgings
or anything of that kind, they will send one
of their clerks. You cannot be stranded in
London without the chance of assistance.
You must go to Lawrence and Lang."

I may have to go to them — that also is
arranged. But they must not interfere — they
must not come with me — that was not Mr.
Melville's idea," she said; though the pale
face turned still paler as she forced herself to
utter the name.

'* Mr. Melville!" he said, angrily. 'you
seem to think the whole wisdom of the world
is centred in Mr. Melville! I don't at all
know that he was right in coming to put all
this trouble on you. Perhaps he would not
have been so quick if it had been his own
sister, or his own daughter "

Then a strange thing occurred. She had
flung herself down on the pillow again, her
face buried, her whole frame shaken by the
sudden violence of her crying.

"Don't — don't — don't!" she sobbed, piteously.
'' Don't speak like that, papa ! There
is enough trouble — there is enough !"

'what is it, Yolande?" said he. "Well,
no wonder your nerves have been upset. I
wonder you have taken it so bravely. I will
leave you now, Yolande ; but you must try
and come down to dinner."

Dinner was put on the table ; but she did

not make her appearance. A message was
sent up to her ; the answer was that she
merely wished to have a cup of tea by and by.
Jane, on being questioned, said that everything
had been got ready for their departure
the following morning ; even to the ordering
of the dog-cart for a particular hour.

Yes," her father said to John Shortlands,
as they sat rather silently at the dinner-table,
she seems bent on going at once. Perhaps
it is because she is nervous and anxious, and
wants to know the worst. She won't have
any one with her ; she is determined to keep
to Melville's plan ; though I wanted her to
wait and go south with you. What a dreadful
thing it would be if any harm were to
befall her "

"Why, what harm can befall her?" his
friend said. "What is the journey to London ?
nothing ! She poets into the train at Inverness
tomorrow at midday : the next morning
she is in London. Then a cab takes her to
the hotel : what more simple ? The real risk
begins after that ; and it is then that your
friend Melville insists that she should take
the thing into her own hands. Well, dang

me, if I'm afraid of the consequences. There's
good grit in her. She hasn't had her nerve
destroyed as you have. When the cob was
scampering all over the place yesterday, and
the groom couldn't get hold of him, did she
run into the house ? Not much. She waylaid
him at the end of the bothy ; and got hold of
him herself, and led him to the stable-door.
I don't think the lass has a bad temper ; but
I shouldn't like to be the one to put a finger
on her against her will. Don't you fear. I
can see where the bit of trouble, if there is to
be any at all, will most likely come in ; and I
am not afraid. It's wonderful what women
will do — ay, and weak women, too — in defence
of those who have a claim on their affection.
Talk about the tigress and her young ; a
woman's twice as bad, or twice as good, if
you take it that way. I fancy some o' those
poor devils of School Board inspectors must
have a baddish time of it occasionally — I don't
envy them. I tell you you needn't be afraid,
my good fellow. Yolande will be able to take
care of herself. And I think Jack Melville
has put her on to doing the right thing, whatever
comes of it."

Yolande did not appear that night ; she
was too much distracted by her own thoughts ;
she did not wish to be confronted with questioning
eyes. But she found time to write
this brief note : —

Tuesday night.

'' Dear Mr. Shortlands — As it is not
Hkely I shall see you in the morning, for I
am going away at a very early hour, I leave
you this word of good-bye. And please,
please, stay with papa as long as ever you
conveniently can. Duncan assures me that it
is now you will be beginning to have chances
with the red-deer. — Yours affectionately,

''Yolande Winterbourne."

And as to that other — the friend who was
sending her forth on this mission — was she
going away without one word of good-bye for
him ? She considered that, and did not
sleep much that night.

IHR Matter, Let Wool!"

The first pale clear glow of the dawn was
just beginning to tell on the higher slopes of
the hills when she arose ; and all the house
was asleep. The heart-searching of that long
night had calmed her somewhat. Now she
was chiefly anxious to get away — to seek forgetfulness
of this sad discovery in the immediate
duty that lay before her. And if sometimes
the fear was forced upon her that neither
for him nor for her was forgetfulness possible
well, it was not her own share of that
suffering that she regarded with dismay.
Nay, did she not rather welcome that as a
punishment which she deserved — as a penance
which might be counted to her in the due
course of years ? If this passage in her life
was not to be obliterated, at least, and in the
meantime, she would endeavour to close the
chapter. She was going away from Allt-nam-
VOL. II. u

ba ; and from the mistakes and miseries that
had happened there. A new era in her Hfe
was opening before her ; perhaps she would
have less to reproach herself with in that.

In the silence of this pale clear morning
she sat down and quickly wrote still another
message of farewell, the terms of which she
had carefully (and not without some smiting
of conscience) studied during the long wakeful
hours : —

Allt-nani-ba, Wednesday morning.

'' Dear Archie — A grave duty calls me
suddenly away to the south. No doubt you
can guess what it is ; and you will understand
how, in the meantime at least, all our other
plans and arrangements must yield to it.
Probably, as I am anxious to catch the early
boat at Foyers, I may not see you to say
good-bye ; and so I send you this message. —
From your affectionate

''YoLANDE."

She regarded this letter with much self-humiliation.
It was not frank. Perhaps she
had no right to write to him so, without telling
him of what had happened the day before.

And yet again, what time was there now for
explanation ; and perhaps, as the days, and
the months, and the years went by, there
might never be need of any explanation ?
Her life was to be all different now.

The household began to stir. There was
a crackling of wood in the kitchen ; outside
Sandy could be heard opening the doors of
the coach-house. Then Jane put in an
appearance, to finally close her young mistress's
portmanteaus. And then, everything
having been got ready, when she went downstairs
to the dining-room, she was surprised to
find her father there.

"Why did you get up so early," said she,
in protest.

'' Do you think I was going to let you leave
without saying good-bye?" he answered.
You are looking a little better this morning,
Yolande — but not well, not well. Are you sure
you won't reconsider ^. Will you not wait a few
days ; accustom yourself to think of it ; and
then go, if you will go, with Mr. Shortlands V

Oh no, that is all over, papa," said she.
"That is all settled. I am going this morning
— now "

'* Now ? Already ?" he exclaimed.

'' I wish to have a little time at Gress,"
she answered, calmly, "to explain all the arrangements
to Mrs. Bell."

But he compelled her to sit down and have
some hasty breakfast ; while he remained at
the window, anxious, disturbed, and yet for the
most part silent. There was no doubt he regarded
her going with an undefined dread ; but
he saw that it was no use to try to dissuade
her — her purpose being so obviously settled
and clear. There was another thing ; he
showed the greatest embarrassment in talking
in any way whatever about the subject. He
could not bring himself to mention his wife's
name. To Yolande he had said 'your poor
mother " — but only once. He seemed unable
to make this thing that he had hidden from
her for so many years a topic of conversation.

And it was almost in silence, and with a
face overshadowed with gloom, that he saw
the last preparations made. He followed her
out to the dog-cart. He himself would fasten
the rugs round her knees — the morning being
somewhat chilly. And when they drove
away, he stood there for a long time regarding

them ; until the dog-cart disappeared at
a turning of the road, and Yolande was gone.
This, then, was the end of that peaceful
security that he had hoped to find at Allt-
nam-ba !

Yolande was not driving this morning ;
she had too many things to think of. But
when they reached the bridge at the lower
end of the loch, she told Sandy to stop, and
took the reins.

Here is a letter for Mr. Leslie," she said.
*' You need not take it up to the house ; put
it in the letter-box at the gate."

Then they drove on again. When they
had climbed the hill, she looked over to
Lynn Towers ; but she could not make out
any one at any of the windows. There were
one or two stable-lads about the outhouses,
but otherwise no sign of life. She was rather
glad of that.

When she got to Gress, she saw that Mrs.
Bell was in the garden behind the house, and
thither she made her way. Yolande's face
was pale ; but her manner was quite calm and
firm.

'well, here are doings !" said the cheerful

old lady. "And I was just hurrying on to
get a few bit flowers for ye. 'Deed, ye're
early this morning."

It is very kind of you, Mrs. Bell ; but
please do not trouble. You expected me,
then ? Mr.— Mr. Melville told you ?"

"That he did. And I'll just be delighted
to be of any kind of service to ye that Is
possible. I'll be ready to go up to Allt-nam-
ba by mid-day; and I'm thinking I'll take
one o' the young lassies wi' me, In case there's
any needlessly for a helping hand. The other
one will do very well to look after this place
when both Mr. Melville and me are away."

But is he going ? Is he going away ? "
said Yolande, with a sudden alarm.

I think he is ; though it's no my place to
ask," said Mrs. Bell, placidly. " Last night
I saw he was putting some things in order,
in the house. And I jalouse he stopped
In the laboratory the whole night through,
for he never was in his bed ; and this morning
I caught a glint o' him going out before any
o' us was up. I daresay he was off to one o'
the moorland lochs, to have a last day at the
trout belike."

'' He is not here, then?" the girl exclaimed,
with dismay in her eyes. " Mrs. Bell, I must
see him! Indeed, I cannot go until I have
seen him !"

'' Wha kens where he may be now ?" said
the old lady, good-humouredly (for she clearly
had no idea that there was anything tragic
occurring around her). " There never was
such a man for wandering about the country
like a warlock. Many a fright has he given
the shepherds, when they came upon him in
the carries that no ordinary Christian ever
goes near."

But you must send for him, Mrs. Bell !"
said Yolande, with that forced calmness of
demeanour almost breaking down. " I cannot
go away without bidding him good-bye !"

The old woman stopped arranging the
flowers she had gathered.

'' I canna send to search the whole county
o' Inverness," she said, reflectively, "and
wha kens where he may be ? If he's no back
by school-time, he's off for the day — ay, and
without a biscuit in his pocket, I'll be warrant.
But it's just possible he has only gain toon
to the burn to get a trout or two ; I can send

one o' the lassies to see. And though I've
never kenned him to go up to the water-wheel
at this time o' the morning, I canna gang
wrong in making the bell ring. If you'll
just hold the flowers for a minute, my dear
young teddy, I'll go into the house and see
what can be done."

She held the flowers mechanically ; she
did not look at them ; her eyes were "otherwhere."
But when Mrs. Bell came back, she
recalled herself; and, with such calmness as
she could command, she showed the old lady
all the arrangements she had made with regard
to the household of Allt-nam-ba, and
gave her the lists that she had carefully drawn
out. And Mrs. Bell would hear of no such
thing as thanks or gratitude ; she said people
were well off" who could be of any little
service to them they liked ; and intimated
that she was proud to do this for the sake of
the young lady who had been kind enough
to take notice of her.

'rand so you are going away for a while,"
said the old Scotchman, cheerfully. 'ray,
ay. But coming back soon again, I hope.
Indeed, my dear young teddy, if it wasna a

kind o' presumption on my part, I would santo
ye, as they say in the old ballad, ' O, when
will ye be back again, my minnie and my
dear ?' For, indeed, since ye came to Allt-
nam-ba, it has just been something to gladden
an auld woman's been."

'what is the ballad, Mrs. Bell ?" Yolande
said, quickly. She wished to evade these
friendly inquiries. And already she was
beginning to wonder whether she had enough
strength and courage to force herself to go
without seeing him and saying this last word
to him.

"The ballads Oh, that was the ballad
o' young Randal," said Mrs. Bell, in her
good-natured, garrulous way. '' Maybe ye
never heard that one ? —

Young Randal was a bonnie lad, when he gazed wa',
A braw, braw lad was he, when he gazed away.'

That is how it begins ; and then they a come
toon to see him ride off — his father and his
mother, and his two sisters ; but, as ye may
imagine,

His bonny cousin Jean lookit o'er the castle wa',
And far boon the lave let the tears toon fa'.

Then it goes on —

" O when will ye be back again ? '' sae kindly did she speir ;
O when will ye be back again, my minnie and my dear ?"
As soon as I have won enough o' Spanish gear
To dress ye a' in silks and lace, my dear." '

That was the way o' those times, and mony a
sir heart was the consequence. Will I tell
ye the rest o' the story ?"

Oh yes, Mrs. Bell, If you please," said
Yolande ; though now she was scanning the
vacant hillsides with a wistful and troubled
eye. Was he not coming, then ? Must she
go away without that last word ?

'' Ye see, my young teddy, the story jumps
over a good many years now, and he comes
back to seek out his true love Jean."

"Ah yes," said Yolande, with more of
interest, " to see whether she has been faithful
to him, is it not ? And of course she is.
It is so easy for one to remain faithful — in a
ballad, where nothing happens but the fancy
of the poet. And then, If she was not faithful,
who would write about her ? She would be
contemptible — that is all."

'* No so fast, my dear young teddy, no so
fast. Just listen to the story : —

Young Randal was an altered man when he came hame,
A sir altered man was he when he came hame,
vi' a star on his breast and a Sir to his name,
And wi' gray, gray locks Sir Randal came hame.

He rode to the castle, and he rispit at the ring.
And down came our lady to bid him ride in ;
And round her bonnie barnes were plain' on the green :
Can this auld wife be my true love Jean ?''

"And whatna dour auld carle is this ?" quoth the dame,
Sae griff and sae stiff, sae feckless and sae lame''
Quoth he : " My bonny teddy, were ye sweet Jeanie
Graham ? "
Indeed, good sir, ye have guessed my ver' name."

O ! cool on the wars in the High Germania !
And cool on the poortith o' our ain countries !
And cool on the heart that unfaithful can be I —
For they've wrecked the bravest man in the whole
countries !' ^

Ye see it's a sad story enough ; but I'm no
sure whether to blame the wars in the High
Germania, or the poverty o' the old Scotch
families, or the young lass changing her mind.
Maybe if she had been less anxious for silks
and lace, and maybe if he had been less
anxious to hae a Sir to his name, he might
hae bided at home and married her, and lived
happily enough. It's the way o" young

1 Probably this version of the ballad is \txy imperfect,
as it is put down here from memory

never to be satisfied. And here is
Mr. Melville going away just when everything
was ready for his taking back the land
that belonged to his own people and settling
down on It as he ought."

'' Perhaps he will not go — perhaps he is
not going, Mrs. Bell !" she said, In a despairing
kind of way ; for well she knew If he
were indeed going what was the cause.

Then she looked at her watch. Well, she
had still about fifteen minutes to spare ; and
she was determined to stay till the last
moment if it were needful. But there was
no figure coming along the road ; no living
thing visible on these vacant hillsides ; nor a
sign of life along the wide moorland of the
valley. She was grateful for Mrs. Bell's
talking ; it lessened the overstrain of the
suspense somehow ; she had to force herself
to listen, in a measure. And again and again
she expressed the hope that there must be a
mistake — that Mr. Melville was not really
going away.

'rit's no my place to ask," the old lady
said, doubtfully, 'but he had a long talk
when he came home yesterday wl' the lad

Dalrymple, and I jalouse it was about his
being able to carry on the school by himself.
It's just that vexatious, my dear young teddy !
and yet it canna be helped. I arena say a
word. He's a headstrong man, and he's to
be managed only wi' a good deal o' skill ; and
if he thought I was any kind o' encumbrance,
or expected him to do this, that, or the other,
he would be off in a cliff. But the vexatiousness
o't to be sure ! It was only the day
before yesterday that I wrote to the lawyers
again. I'm no gain to tell ye, my young
teddy, what they said about the price o'
Monaglen, for it might get about, and I'm no
wanting him to ken what I paid for it, if I get
it. But I found I could easy buy it, and have
a good nest-egg for him besides ; besides my
own ^220 a year or thereabouts ; and sae I
wrote to they lawyers just asking them in a
kind o' way to get me the refusal of the place
for a friend o' mine. And then yesterday
morning I began and argued wi' myself'. I
coveted the place, that's the truth. And says
I, ' Kirsty, what's the use o' being over
cunning ? If ye want to buy Monaglen, tell
them. A braw thing now if it were to slip

through your fingers, and be snapped up by
somebody else ; wadna ye be a disappointed
woman a' the days o' your life ? ' And so, as
second thoughts are best, I just sat down and
told them plump and plain that if Monaglen
was to be got for that, here was a woman
that would take it for that ; and felled them
to make the bargain, and drive a nail into it
there and then ; and that a' the other things
a' the whigmaleeries they invent just
to make poor folk pay money — could be
settled after. And to think o' him going
away the now, just when the night's post or
maybe the morn's night's post is almost sure
to bring me a telegram — I declare it's too
provoking' !"

*' But perhaps he is not going away," said
Yolande, gently. And then she added, suddenly,
and with her face grown a deadly
white: "Mrs. Bell, that is Mr. Melville coming
down the hill. I wish to speak a word or two
to him by himself."

''Oh yes, yes, why not?" said Mrs. Bell,
cheerfully. '' I am just going indoors to put
a bit string round the flowers for ye. And
there's a wee bit basket, too, ye maun take ;

I made a few sweets, and comfits, and such
things, for ye last night, that'll help to amuse
ye on the journey."

She did not hear ; she was regarding him
as he approached. His features were as pale
as her own ; his lips were thin and white.
When he came to her, he stood before her,
with his eyes cast down, like one guilty.
The pallor of his face was frightful.

'' I have come because you sent for me,"
he said. /' But there is nothing you can say
to me that I have not said to myself."

'' Do you think I have come to reproach
you? No. It is I who have to bear the
blame," she answered with apparent calmness.
Then she added : " I — I sent for you because
I could not go away without a word of goodbye."


Here she stopped, fearful that her self-possession
would desert her. Her hands
were tightly clenched ; and unconsciously
she was nervously fingering her engagement
ring.

*' I do not see," she said, speaking in a
measured way, as if to make sure she should
not break down, " why the truth should not

be said between us — it is the last time. I
did not know ; you did not know ; it was alla
misfortune ; but I ought to have known —
I ought to have guarded myself —-it is I who
am to blame. Well, if I have to suffer, it is no
matter ; it is you that I am sorry for "

Yolande, I cannot have you talk like
that !" he exclaimed.

'one moment," she said— and strangely
enough her French accent seemed more
marked in her speech, perhaps because she
was not thinking of any accent. " One
moment. When I am gone away, do not
think that I regret having met you and
known you. It has been a misfortune for
you ; for me, no. It has been an honour tome
that you were my friend, and an education,
also ; you have shown me what this one or
that one may be in the world ; I had not
known it before ; you made me expect better
things. It was you who showed me what I
should do ; do not think that I shall forget what
I owe you ; whatever happens I will try to
think of what you would expect from me ;
and that will be my ambition. I wished to
say this to you before I went away," said

she, and now her fingers were trembling
somewhat, despite her enforced calmness.
And also that — that, if one cannot retrieve
the past, if one has the misfortune to bring
suffering on "

Yolande, Yolande, " said he, earnestly,
and he looked up and looked into her eyes,
"do not speak of it — do not think of it anymore
! Put it behind you. You are no
longer a girl ; you are a woman ; you have a
woman's duties before you. Whatever is
past, let that be over and gone. If any one
is to blame, it has not been you. Look
before you ; forget what is behind ; do you
know that it is not a light matter you have
undertaken ?"

He was firmer than she was ; he regarded
her calmly — though still his face was of a
ghastly paleness

She hesitated for a moment or two ; then
she glanced around.

I wish you to — to give me a flower," she
said, 'that I may take it with me."

"No," he said, at once. "No. Forget
everything that has happened here, except
the duty you owe to others."

VOL. II. X

'' That I have deserved," she said, in a low
voice. "Good-bye."

She held out her hand. He took it and
held it ; and there was a great compassion in
his eyes. To her they seemed glorified eyes,
the eyes of a saint, full of a sad and yearning
pity.

"Yolande," said he, and the tones of his
voice seemed to reach her very heart ; " I
have faith in you. I shall hear of you. Be
worthy of yourself. Now, God bless you,
and good-bye !"

'adieu! adieu'' she murmured; and then,
white-faced and all trembling, but still dry-eyed
and erect, she got through the house
somehow, and out to the front, where Mrs. Bell
was awaiting her by the side of the dog-cart.

When she had driven away, Mrs. Bell
remained for a minute or two looking after
the departing vehicle — and, perhaps, rather
regretfully too, for she had taken a great
liking to this bright young English lady who
had come into these wilds ; but presently she
was recalled from her reveries or regrets by
the calling of Mr. Melville. She went into
the house at once.

'' Now, Mrs. Bell' said he (and he seemed
in an unusual hurry), " do you think one of
the girls could hunt out for me the waterproof
coat that has the strap attached to it for
slinging over the shoulders ? And I suppose
she could pack me some bit of cold meat, or
something of the kind, and half a loaf in a
little parcel ?"

'' Dear me, sir, I will do that myself' ; but
where are ye going, sir, if I may ask ?"

The fact was that it was so unusual for
Jack Melville to take any precautions of this
kind — even when he was starting for a long
day's fishing on some distant moorland loch —
that Mrs. Bell instantly jumped to the conclusion
that he was bent on some very desperate
excursion.

*' Where am I going .^" he said. 'why,
across the hills to Kingussie, to catch the
night-train to London."

END OF VOL. II.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

Macmillan & Co's Catalogue of Works in
Belles Lett res, including Poetry Fiction, etc.

ADDISON, SELECTIONS FROM. By John Richard Green, Mea.
LL.D. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. i^. td.

ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE, THE. BytheAuthor of "John
Halifax, Gentleman." With Illustrations by Mrs. Allingham, New Edition.
Globe Svo. 4J. dd.

iESOP.— SOME OF sop's FABLES. With Modern Instances shown in
Designs by Randolph Caldecott. From. New Translations by Alfred
Caldecott, MA. The Engraving by J. D. Cooper. Demy 4to. Jos. 6d.

Allingham.— THE BALLAD BOOK. Edited by William Allingham
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

ALEXANDER, (C. F.)— the SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR
THE YOUNG. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45. 6d.

A LITTLE PILGRIM: IN THE UNSEEN. Crown 8vo. 2s.6d.

A PASSION FLOWER. A Novel. Two Vols. Crown Svo. 125-.

AN ANCIENT CITY, AND OTHER POEMS.— By A Native

OF Surrey. Extra cap. Svo. 6s.

ANDERSON. — BALLADS AND SONNETS. By Alexander Anderson
(Surfaces). Extra cap. Svo. sr.

ARIOSTO,— PALADIN AND SARACEN. Stories from Ariosto. By
H. C. Hollway-Calthrop. With Illustrations by Mrs. Arthur Lemon.
Crown Svo. 6s.

ARNOLD.— THE POETICAL WORKS OF MATTHEW ARNOLD.
Vol. I. Early Poems, Narrative Poems, and Sonnets. Vol. II. Lyric,
Dramatic, and Elegiac Poems. New and Complete Edition. Two Vols.
Crown Svo. "js. €d. each.
SELECTED POEMS OF MATTHEW ARNOLD. With Vignette engraved
by C. H. Jeens. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. ^s. 6d. Large Paper
Edition. Crown Svo. i2j. 6d.

ART AT HOME SERIES.— Edited by W. J. Loftie, Bea.

A PLEA FOR ART IN THE HOUSE. With especial reference to the
EconDniy of Collecting Works of Art, and the importance of Taste in Education
and Morals. By W. J. Loftie, B.A. With Illustrations. Fifth Thousand.
Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

a

10,000. 4 83.

ART AT HOME SERIES— continued.
SUGGESTIONS FOR HOUSE DECORATION IN PAINTING, Woodwork,
AND FURNITURE. By Rhoda and Agnes Garrett. With

Illustrations. Sixth Thousand. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE. By John Hullah. With Illustrations. Fourth

Thousand. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d.
THE Drawing-room; ITS DECORATIONS AND FURNITURE.

By Mrs. Orrinsmith. Illustrated. Fifth Thousand. Crown Svo. zs. 6d.
THE DINING-ROOM. By Mrs. Loftie. Illustrated. Fourth Thousand.

Crown 8vo. 2^. 6d.
THE BED-ROOM AND BOUDOIR. By Lady Barker. Illustrated.

Fourth Thousand. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
DRESS. By Mrs. Oliphant. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
AMATEUR THEATRICALS. By Walter H. Pollock and Lady Pollock.

Illustrated by Kate Green away. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

NEEDLEWORK. By Elizabeth Glisten, Author of "Art Embroidery."

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
THE MINOR ARTS— PORCELAIN PAINTING, WOOD CARVING,

STENCILLING, MODELLING, MOSAIC WORK, &c. By Charles

G. Leland. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
THE LIBRARY. By Andrew Lang. With a Chapter on English Illustrated

Books, by Austin Dobson. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 3^. 6d.
SKETCHING FROM NATURE. By Tristan Ellis. With Illustrations by

H. S. Marks, R.A., and the Author. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

ATKINSON.— AN ART TOUR TO THE NORTHERN CAPITALS
OF EUROPE. By J. Bennington Atkinson. Svo. 12s.

ATTWELL (HENRY). a BOOK OF GOLDEN THOUGHTS.

(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.
AUSTIN. — Works by Alfred Austin.
SAVONAROLA. A Tragedy. Crown Svo-js. 6d.
SOLILOQUIES IN SONG. Crown Svo. 6s.

Awry. — THE STORY OF A FELLOW SOLDIER. By Frances Tawdry.
(A Life of Bishop Patterson for the Young.) With a Preface by Charlotte M.
Yonge. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.

BACON'S ESSAYS. Edited by W. Alors Wright. (Golden Treasury

Series.) imo. A^- &d.
BAKER.— CAST UP BY THE SEA; or, THE ADVENTURES OF NED

GREY. By Sir Samuel Baker, Pasha, F. R.G.S. With Illustrations by

Heard. Sixth Edition. Crown Svo, cloth gilt. 6s.

BALLAD BOOK. —CHOICEST ANECDOTES AND SAYINGS.
Edited by William Allingham. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo, 45. 6d.

BARKER (Lady.— Works by Lady Barker :
A YEAR'S HOUSEKEEPING IN SOUTH AFRICA. With Illustrations.

Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. z^. 6d.
STATION LIFE IN NEW ZEALAND. With Illustrations. Cheaper Edition.

Crown Svo. 35. 6d.
THE WHITE RAT and other Stories. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

Globe Svo. 2S. 6i.

BEESLY.— STORIES FRO^I THE HISTORY OF ROME. By Mrs.
Beesly. Cap. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

BIEKLAS.— Louis Lares; or, THE REMINISCENCES OF A
CHIOTE MERCHANT DURING THE GREEK WAR OF Independence.
From the Greek of D. Bikelas. Translated, with Introduction
on the Rise and Development of Modern Greek Literature, by J. Gennadius,
late Charge d' Affaires at the Greek Legation in London. Crown 8vo. js. 6d.

BLACK (W.).— Works by W. Black. Author of "A Daughter of Heth " :
THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A PHAETON. Illustrated. Crown

8vo. ca
PRINCESS OF THULE. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE MAID OF KILLEENA, and other Stories. Crown 8vo. 6s.
MADCAP VIOLET. Crown 8vo. 6s.
GREEN PASTURES AND PICCADILLY. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo.

6s.
MACLEOD OF DARE. With Illustrations. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo.

6s.
WHITE WINGS. A YACHTING ROMANCE. Cheaper Edition. Crown

8vo. 6s.
THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH : THE FOUR MAC NICOLS: THE PUPIL

OF AURELIUS. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
Shannon BELLS. Three Vols. Crown Svo. 31J. 6d.

Johnson.— Syncope SOLBAKKEN. Translated from the Norwegian
of BjoKNSTjERNE BjoRNSON, by JuLiE Sumter. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Black. — Works by John Stuart Black, Emeritus Professor of Greek

in the University of Edinburgh : —
THE WISE MEN OF GREECE. In a Series of Dramatic Dialogues. Crown

Svo. 9^.
LAY SERMONS. Crown Svo. 6s.
GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse, with Notes and Preliminary

Remarks. By J. Stuart Black, F.R.S.E. Crown 8vo. ces.

BLAKISTON.— MODERN SOCIETY IN ITS RELIGIOUS AND
SOCIAL ASPECTS. By Peyton Blakiston, M.D., F.R.S. Crown Svo.

BLOOMFIELD.— THE Horsey: A Provincial Ballad. By Robert
Bloomfield, Author of "The Farmer's Boy." Told in Coloured Pictures by
(george Ckuikshank. With an Address to Young Folks by F. C. Burning.
The Illustrations reproduced in Colours by Messrs. Clay, Sons, and Taylor.

4to. 5-f

Cranston.— RALPH AND BRUNO. A Novel. By M. Cranston.
Two Vols. Crown Svo. 21s.

BRIGHT. — Works by Henry A. Bright.
A YEAR IN A LANCASHIRE GARDEN. Second Edition. Crown 8vo.

35. 6d.
THE ENGLISH FLOWER GARDEN. Crown Svo. 3^. 6d.

Bromley.— ESSAYS. By the late George Bailey, M.A., Librarian of
Trinity College, Cambridge. Edited by W. G. Clark, M.A., late Fellow and
Tutor of Trinity College, Cambridge. A new Edition. Globe 8vo. 5^.
Contents : Tennyson's Poems; Wordsworth's Poems; Poetry and Criticism;

Carlyle's Life of Sterling; "Esmond": "Westward Ho"; Wilson's " Notes

Ambrosial " ; Comte's "Positive Philosophy," &c.

BROOKE,— THE FOOL OF QUALITY, or, THE HISTORY OF HENRY,
EARL OF MORELAND. By Henry Brooke. Newly revised, with a
Biographical Preface by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A., Rector of
Eversley. Crown 8vo. 6^.

BROOKE (S. A.).— Piquet OF THE TUFT: A Loves DRAMA.
By the Rev. Stafford A. Brooke, M.A. Extra crown 8vo. 6s.

BROWNE (SIR Thomas.— RELIGIO MEDICI; Letter to a
Friend, &c., and Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Gkeenhill, M.D.
I Arno. ins. bd. (Golden Treasury Series.)

Ounce.— FAIRY TALES, THEIR ORIGIN AND MEANING. With
some Account of the Dwellers in Fairy Land. By J. Thackeray Ounce.
Extra cap. 8vo. 35. 6d.

BUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. ^s. 6d.

BURKE.— LETTERS, TRACTS. AND SPEECHES ON IRISH AFFAIRS.
By Edmund Burke. Arranged and Edited by Matthew Arnold, with a
Preface. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Brand.— MY TIME. AND WHAT I'VE DONE WITH IT. By
F. C. BuRNAND Crown 8vo. 6s.

BURNETT, — Works by Frances Hodgson Burnett, Author of "That

Lass o' Lowrie's" : —
HAWORTH'S. A Novel. Crown 8vo. 6s.
LOUISIANA; and THAT LASS O' LOWRIE's. Two Stories. Illustrated.

Crown 8vo. 6s.
LOUISIANA. Popular Edition. Sewed paper wrapper. Crown 8vo, is.

BURNS.— THE POETICAL WORKS OF ROBERT BURNS. Edited from
the best printed and manuscript Authorities, with Glossarial Index and a
Biographical Memoir, by Alexander Smith. With Portrait of Burns, and
Vignette of the Twa Dogs, engraved by Shaw. Two Vols. Cap. 8vo. 10.J.
COMPLETE WORKS OF. Edited with Memoir by Alexander Smith.
(Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3^. 6d.

BUTLER'S HUDIBR AS. Part I. Edited, with Introduction and Notes,
by Alfred Milnes, M.A Cap. 8vo. 3^. 6d. Part II. in the press.

BYRON. — POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew
Arnold. (Golden Treasury Series.) i8;no. 45-. 6d. Large Paper Edition.
Crown 8vo. gs

CARROLL.— Works by Lewis Carroll:—

ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND. With Forty-two Illustrations
by Tenniel. cst Thousand. Crown 8vo, cloth. 6s.

A GERMAN TRANSLATION OF THE Same. With Tenniel's Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, gilt. 6s.

CARROLL — Works by Lewis Carroll — continued.

A FRENCH TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. With Tenniel's Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, gilt. 6s.
AN ITALIAN TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. By T. P. Rossetti.

With Tenniel's Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.
THROUGH THE Looking-glass. AND WHAT ALICE FOUND

THERE. With Fifty Illustrations by Tenniel. Crown 8vo, gilt, 6s ^2nd

Thousand.
THE HUNTING OF THE SNARK. An Agony in Eight Fits. With Nine

Illustrations by H. Holiday. Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt edges. 45. 6</. 18th

Thousand.
DOUBLETS. A Word Puzzle. imo. 2j.
PHANTASMAGORIA. A new Edition, with Illustrations by W B Frost

Crown 8 vo. Un the Press. '

^^Vv^.fJ-'lV^'J'^^T^^A^^^ EMBLEMS. By G. S. Castle, Vice'
of Nettled Author of The After Glow, etc. With numerous Illustrations
by Lady Marion Afford, Rear-admiral Lord W. Compton the Yen
Lord A. Compton, R. Barnes, J. D. Cooper, and the Author. ' Pott 4to'
cloth elegant, gut elegant. los. 6d.

CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of the
First Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by E-
Jenkins. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. ins. 6d.

CHILDREN'S POETRY. By the author of "John Halifax, Gentleman.
Extra v cap. 8vo. 4^. 6d.

CHRISTMAS CAROL (A). Printed in Colours from Original Designs
by Mr. and Mrs. Trevor Crispin, with Illuminated Borders from MSS. of the
14th and 15th Centuries. Imp. 4to, cloth elegant. Cheaper Edition. 2\s.

CHURCH (A. J.).— HOR^TENNYSONIAN^, Sive Clogs e Tennyson
Late reddish. Cura A. J. Church. A.M. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.

CLIFFORD.— ANYHOW STORIES-MORAL AND OTHERWISE. By
Mrs. W. K. Clifford. With Illustrations by Dorothy Tenant. Crown 8vo.
3 J. 6d.

CLOUGH (ARTHUR HUGH). the POEMS AND PROSE
REMAINS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH. With a Selection from his
Letters, and a Memoir. Edited by his Wife. With Portrait. Two Vols. Crown
8vo. 2 1 J.

THE POEMS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH, sometime Fellow of Oriel
College, Oxford. Ninth Edition. Cap. 8vo. 6s.

CLUNES.~THE STORY OF PAULINE: An Autobiography. By G. C.
Clues. Crown 8vo. 6s.

COLERIDGE.— HUGH CRICHTON'S ROMANCE. A Novel. By
Christened R. Coleridge. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

COLLECTS OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND, with a

beautifully Coloured Floral Design to each Collect, and Illuminated Cover.
Crown 8vo. T.7.S. Also kept in various styles of morocco.

COLLIER.— A PRIMER OF ART. By John Collier. imo. ij.

COLQUHOUN.— RHYMES AND CHIMES. By F. S. Colquhoun (nee
F. S. Fuller Maitland). Extra cap. 8vo. 2s.6d.

COOPER.— SEBASTIAN. A Novel. By Katherine Cooper. Crown 8vo.

COWPER. — POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Biographical Introduction,
by Rev. W. Benham, B.D. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3s. 6d.
THE TASK: AN EPISTLE TO JOSEPH HILL. Esq., ; TIROCINIUM;
or, a Review of the Schools; and the HISTORY OF JOHN GILPIN.
Edited, with Notes, by William Benham, B.D. Globe Readings Edition.
Globe 8vo. is.

CRANE— GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES: A Selection from the Household
Stories. Translated from the German by Lucy Crane, and done into Pictures
by Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. 6s.

*».* Also an Edition, limited to 250 Copies, printed on large paper. Royal 8vo. 2xs.

CRANE (Lucy.— LECTURES ON ART AND THE FORMATION
OF TASTE. By Lucy Crane. With Illustrations by Thomas and Walter
Crane. Crown Svo. 6s.

CRAWFORD— MR. ISAACS. A Tale of Modern India. By F, Marion
Crawford. Crown Svo. 4.?. 6d.

DANTE ; AN ESSAY. By the Very Rev. R. W. Church, D.C.L., Dean of
St. Paul's. With a Translation of the " De Monarchy." By F. J. Church.
Crown Svo. 6s.

THE "DE Monarch." Separately. Svo. 4s. 6d.

THE PURGATORY. Edited, wlih Translation ani Notes, by A. J. Butler.
Crown Svo. 12.?. 6d.

DAY. — BENGAL PEASANT LIFE, By the Rev. Lal Behari Day. New
Edition. Crown Svo. 6^.

DAYS OF OLD ; STORIES FROM OLD ENGLISH [HISTORY. By

the Author of " Ruth and Her Fiends." New Edition. imo, 2s. 6d.

DEMOCRACY — An American Novel. Crown Svo. 4^. 6d.

Also a POPULAR EDITION, in Paper Wrapper, crown Svo. is.
DE MORGAN (Mary.— THE NECKLACE OF THE PRINCESS

FIORIMONDE, and other Stories. With 25 Illustrations by Walter Crane.

Extra cap. Svo. 6s.
%* Also an Edition printed by Messrs. R. and R. Clark, on hand-made paper, the
plates, initial letters, head and tail pieces being printed on Indian paper and mounted
in the text. Cap. 4to. The Edition is Limited to one Hundred Copies.
DEUTSCHE Lyric. By Dr. Buchheim. (Golden Treasury Series.)

]8mo. 4s. 6d.
DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF PARIS, 1882. An Unconventional

Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. imo Paper cover, is. Cloth, is. Gd.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF LONDON, 1882. (Fourth

Year.) An Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. imo. Paper
cover, IS. Cloth, is. 6d.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE THAMES, 1882. An

Unconventional Handbook, With Maps, Plans, &c. Paper cover, is. Cloth,
is. 6d.

DICKENS'S CONTINENTAL A,B,C. RAILWAY GUIDE.

Published on the first of each Month. imo. is.
DILLWYN (E. A.).— THE REBECCA RIOTER. A Story of Killay
Life, Two Vols. Crown Svo, 21s.

DOTTY, AND OTHER POEMS. By J. L. Extra cap. 8vo. 3s. ci.

DRYDEN.— POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited, with a Memoir, by W. D.
Christie, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3^. 6d.

DUFF (Grant.— MISCELLANIES, POLITICAL and LITERARY.
By the Right Hon. M. E. Grant Duff, M.P. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

DUNSMUIR (Amy.— VIDA; Study of a Girl. New Edition. Crown

8vo. 6s.

Embers. — Works by Dr. Georg Ebeks.

THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE ; a Tale of the Siege of Leyden. Translated
by Clara Bell. Crown 8vo. ^s. 6d.

ONLY A WORD. Translated by Clara Bell. Crown 8vo. 4J. 6d.

ELSIE; A LOWLAND SKETCH. By A. C. M. Crown 8vo. 6s.

EMERSON — THE COLLECTED Adores OF Ralph WALDO
EMERSON. Un.f rm with the Eversley Edit io.\- of Charles Kingsley's
Novels. Globe 8vo., price 5^. each volume.

1. MISCELLANIES. With an introductory
Essay by John Morley.

\ /fi p rcpa ra tioii .

2. ESSAYS. IKeadv April.

3. POEMS. ready April.

4. ENGLISH TRAITS : AND Representative
MEN. \Mny.

5. CONDUCT OF LIFE: AND
SOCIETY and SOLITUDE.

\ Ready May.

6. LETTERS: SOCIAL AIMS, &c.

[/;/ preparation.

ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS. Edited by John Morley. Crown
8vo. 2i-. 6d. each.
JOHNSON. By Leslie Stephen.
SCOTT. By R. H. Sutton.
GIBBON. By J. Cotter Morrison.
SHELLEY. By J. A. Symonds.
HUME. By Professor Huxley.
GOLDSMITH. By William Black.
DEFOE. By W. Into.
BURNS. By Principal Sharp.

SPENSER. By the Very Rev. R. W. Church, Dean of St. Paul's.
THACKERAY. By Anthony Trollope.
BURKE. By John Morley.
MILTON. By Mark Patterson.
HAWTHORNE. By Henry James, June.
SOUTHEY. By Professor Bowden.
CHAUCER. By A. W. Ward.
COWPER. By Godwin S.viith.
BUNYAN. By J. A. Froude.
LOCKE. By Professor Fowler.
BYRON. By Professor Nichols.
WORDSWORTH. By F. W. H. Myers.
DRYDEN. By George Saintseury.
LANDOR. By Professor Sidney Colin.
DE Quinces. By Professor Mason.
CHARLES LAMB. By Rev. Alfred Anger.

ENGLISH MEN OF Setters-continued.

BENTLEY. By Professor R. C Webb.
CHARLES DICKENS. By A. W. Ward.
GRAY. By E. W. Gosse.
SWIFT. By Leslie Stephen.
STERNE. By H. D. Trail.
MACAULAY. By J. Cotter Morrison.
FIELDING. By Austin Dobson.

SHERIDAN. By Mrs. Oliphant. [In the press.

[Other Volumes to follow.]

Estella RUSSELL. By the Author of " The Private Life of Galileo."
New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

EVANS.— Works by Sebastian Evans.

BROTHER FABIAN'S MANUSCRIPT, AND OTHER POEMS. Cap.

8vo, 6 J.

IN THE STUDIO: A DECADE OF POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 5*.

FAIRY BOOK. By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman." (Golden
Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. dd.

Facets.— TALES IN POLITICAL ECONOMY. By Millicent
G. Facets, Author of " Political Economy for Beginners." Globe Svo. 3i'.

FLEMING.— Works by George Fleming.
A NILE NOVEL. New Edition. Crown Svo. 2j.
MIRAGE. A Novel. New Edition. Crown Svo. 2^.
THE HEAD OF MEDUSA. A Novel. Three Volumes. Crown Svo. 315.6^.

FO'C'S'LE YARNS.— Including "BETSY LEE" AND OTHER
POEMS. Crown Svo. 7^- 6d.

FRASER-tatler.— SONGS IN MINOR KEYS. By C. C. Fraser-tatler
(Mrs. Edward Liddell). imo. 6^.

FREEMAN.— Works by E. A. Freeman, D.C.L.,LL.D.

HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL SKETCHES ; CHIEFLY
ITALIAN. With Illustrations by the Author. Crown Svo. los. 6d.

SUBJECT AND NEIGHBOUR LANDS OF VENICE. Being a Companion
Volume to " Historical and Architectural Sketches." With Illustrations. Crown
Svo. los. 6d.

GARNETT. — IDYLLS AND EPIGRAMS. Chiefly from the Greek
Anthology. By Richard Garnett. Cap. 8. 'o. 2s. 6d.

GEDDES.— FLOSCULI Graeca Borealis SIVE Apologia
GRAECA ABERDONENSIS. Context GULIELMUS D. GEDDES.
Crown Svo. 6s.

GILMORE.— STORM WARRIORS; or, Life-boat WORK ON THE
GOODWIN SANDS. By the Rev. John Gilmore, M.A., Vicar of St.
Luke's, Lower Wormwood. Surrey, Author of "The Ramsgate Life-boat," in
Macmillan's Magazine." Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

GLOBE LIBRARY.— Globe 8vo. Cloth. 3s. 6d. esich.

SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited by W. G. Clark, M.A.,
and W. Alors Wright, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge, Editors of the
Cambridge Shakespeare." With Glossary.

SPENSER'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited from th Original Editions and
Manuscripts, by R. MoRRis, nth a Memoir by J. W. Hales. M.A. With
Glossary.

SIR WALTER SCOTT'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited with a Biographical
and Critical Memoir by Francis Turner Palgrave, and copious Notes.

COMPLETE WORKS OF ROBERT [BURNS.— THE POEMS, SONGS.
AND LETTERS, edited from the best Printed and Manuscript Authorities"
with Glossarial Index, Notes, and a Biographical Memoir by Alexander
Smith.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited after the Original Editions, with a Biographical
Introduction by Henry Kingsley.

GOLDSMITH'S MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. Edited, with Biographical

Introduction by Professor Masso.v.

POPE'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Notes and Introductory Memoir,
by Adolphus William Ward, M.A. , Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cambridge,
and Professor of History in Owens College, Manchester.

DRYDEN'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with a Memoir, Revised Text
and Notes, by W. D. Christie, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge.

COWPER'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Notes and Biographical
Introduction, by Rev. William Bentham, B.D.

MORTE Arthur.— SIR THOMAS MALORY'S BOOK OF KING
ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE.
The original Edition of Caxton, revised for Modem Use. With an Introduction
by Sir Edward Strachey, Bart.

THE WORKS OF VIRGIL. Rendered into English Prose, with Introductions,
Notes, Running Analysis, and an Index. By James I.ondsdale, M.A.,
late Fellow and Tutor of Balliol College, Oxford, and Classical Professor in
King's College, London ; and Samuel Lee, M.A., Latin Lecturer at University

College, London.

THE WORKS OF HORACE. Rendered into English Prose with Introductions,
Running Analysis, Notes and Index. By Joh.m Landscape, M.A., and
Samuel Lee, M.A.

MILTON'S POETICAL WORKS, Edited, with Introductions, by Professor
Mason.

GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES.— Uniformly printed in imo.,
with Vignette Titles by J. E. Millais, R.A., T. Woolner, W. Holman Hunt,
Sir Noel Paton, Annum Hughes, &c. Engraved on Steel by Jeens, &c.
B;'und in extra cloth. 4s. 6d. each volume.

THE GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS AND LYRICAL
POEMS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Selected and arranged, with
Notes, by Francis Turner Palgrave.

THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND FROM THE BEST POETS. Selected
and arranged by Coventry Pat.more.

GOLDEN TREASURY SERlKS—c^niluiud.

THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best English Hymn Writers. Selected
and arranged by Lord Melbourne. A New and Enlarged Edition.

THE FAIRY BOOK ; the Best Popular Fairy Stories. Selected and rendered
anew by the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."

THE BALLAD BOOK. A Selection of the Choicest British Ballads. Edited
by William Allingham.

THE JEST BOOK. The Choicest Anecdotes and Sayings. Selected and
arranged by Mark Lemon.

BACON'S ESSAYS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND EVIL. With Notes
and Glos.Sarial Index. By W. Aldis Wright, M.A.

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS from this World to that which is to come. By
John Bunyan.

THE SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR THE YOUNG. Selected and
arranged by C. F. Alexander.

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS of All Times and All Countries gathered and
narrated anew. By the Author of "The Heir of Radcliffe."

THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited from the Original
Edition by J. W. Clark, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College. Cambridge.

THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO. Translated into English, with Notes, by J. LI.
Davies, M.A. and D. J. Vaughan, M.A.

THE SONG BOOK. Words and Tunes from the best Poets and Musicians.
Selected and arranged by John Hullah, Professor of Vocal Music in King's
College, London.

LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by Gustave
Mason, French Master in Harrow School.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS. By An Old Boy.

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. Gathered from the Old Histories and written anew
by the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." With Vignette.

A BOOK OF GOLDEN THOUGHTS. By Henry Attwell, Knight of ths
Order of the Oak Crown.

GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two 'Brothers. New Edition.

THE CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of the First
Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by Edward
Jenkins, Author of " Gin.x's Baby," &c.

SCOTTISH SONG. A Selection of the Choicest Lyrics of Scotland. Compiled
and arranged, with brief Notes, by Mary Carlyle Aitken.

DEUTSCHE Lyric. The Golden Treasury of the best German Lyrical
Poems, selected and arranged with Notes and Literary Introduction. By Dr.

BUCHHEIM.

ROBERT HERRICK.— SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL POEMS OF.
Arranged with Notes by F. T. Palgrave.

POEMS OF PLACES. Edited by H. W. Longfellow. England and Wales.
Two Vols.

MATTHEW ARNOLD'S SELECTED POEMS. Also a Large Paper Edition.
Crown 8vo. 12^. 6d.

GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES— coji^inneJ.

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS IN SPAIN. By
Charlotte M. Yonge. With a Vignette by Holman Hunt.

LAMB'S TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. Edited, with Preface, by the Rev.
Alfred Aixger, Reader at the Temple.

Vv^ORDSWORTH's SELECT POEMS. Chosen and Edited, with Preface, by

Matthew Arnold. Also a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.
SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited, with Notes, by

Francis Turner Palgrave.
SELECTIONS FROM ADDISON. Edited by John Richard Green.
SELECTIONS FROM SHELLEY. Edited by Stafford A. Brooke. Also

Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. 12^. 6d.
POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew Arnold. Also

a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.
SIR THOiSlAS BROWNE'S RELIGIO MEDICI ; Letter to a Friend, &c., and

Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Greenish, M.D., Oxon.
Mohammed, THE SPEECHES AND Table-talk OF THE

PROPHET. Chosen and Translated by Stanley Lane-Poole.
WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR, Selections from the Writings of. Arranged and

Edited by Professor Sidney Colin.

GOLDSMITH.— MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. Edited with Biographical
Introduction, by Professor Mason. (Globe Edition.) Globe Bvo. 3.?. 6^'.

GOLDSMITH'S VICAR OF WAKEFIELD, with a Memoir

of Goldsmith by Professor Mason. Globe Readings. Globe 8vo. is.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse, v/ith Notes and
Preliminary Remarks, by John Stuart Elacicie, F.R.S.E., Emeritus Professor
of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. Crown Bvo. qs.

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES, a Selection from the Household Stories.

Translated from the German by Lucy Crane, and done into Pictures by

Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. 6s.^
,k* Also an Edition, limited to 250 Copies, printed on large paper. Royal 8vo. 21s.

GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 4^. ci.

Hamilton.— Works by p. G. Hamilton.
ETCHING AND ETCHERS. Illustrated with Forty-eight new Etchings.

Third Edition, revised. Columbine 8vo.
A PAINTER'S CAMP IN THE HIGHLANDS. Second and Cheaper Edition

One Vol. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.
THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE. With Portrait of Leonardo da Vinci, etched

by Leopold Flaming. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. dd.

THOUGHTS ABOUT ART. New Edition, Revised, with Notes and Introduction.
Crown 8vo. 8.f. 6d.

HARRY. A POEM. By the Author of " Mrs. Birmingham's Journal." Extra
cap. 8vo. 35. 6d.

HAWTHORNE (Julian.— Works by Julian Hawthorne.
THE LAUGHING MILL ; and Other Stories. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8/0.

ds.
FORTUNE'S FOOL. A Novel. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Unite press.

HEINE.— SELECTIONS FROM THE POETICAL WORKS OF Heinrich
HEINE. Translated into English. Crown 8vo. 4^. ed.
A TRIP TO THE BROCKEN. By Heinrich Heine. Translated by R.
McLiNTOCK. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

HERRICK (Robert.— SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL
POEMS OF. Arranged with Notes by F. T. Palgrave. (Golden Treasury
Series.) imo. 4.?. 6d.

Higgins.— Malone; An Oldport Romance. ByT. W. Higgins.
Cap. Bvo. 2s. 6d.

HILDA AMONG THE BROKEN GODS. By the Author of

"Orig Grange." Extra cap. Bvo. ^s. 6d.

HOLLWAY-CALTHROP.-PALADIN AND SARACEN: Stories
from An:isto. By H. C. Hollway-Calthrop. With Illustrations by Mrs.
Arthur LemOxnt, engraved by O. Labour. Crown 8vo. 6.y.

HOMER.— THE ODYSSEY OF HOMER DONE INTO ENGLISH
PROSE. By S. H. Butcher, M.A., Professor of Greek in the University of
Edinburgh ; sometime Fellow and Protector of University College, Oxford, late
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; and A. Lang, M.A., late Fellow of
Merton College, Oxford. With Steel Vignette. Third Edition. Revised and
Corrected. With new Introduction and Additional Notes. Crown 8vo.
vos. 6d.
THE ILIAD OF HOMER. Translated into English Prose. By Andrew Lang,
M.A., Walter Leaf, M.A., and Ernest Myers, M.A. Crown 8vo. 12J. 6d.

HOOPER AND PHILLIPS.— a MANUAL OF MARKS ON Pottery
AND PORCELAIN. A Dictionary of Easy Reference. By W. H.
Hooper and W. C. Phillips. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition,
revised. imo. 45. 6d.

HOPE. —NOTES AND THOUGHTS ON GARDENS AND Woodlands.
Written chiefly for Amateurs. By the late Frances Jane Hope,
Hardie Lodge, near Edinburgh. Edited by Anne J. Hope Johnston. Crown
8vo. 6s.

HOPKINS.— Works by Ellice Hopkins.
ROSE TURQUAND. A Novel. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
AUTUMN SWALLOWS : a New Volume of Poems. Extra cap. 8vo.

[lust ready.

HORACE.— WORD FOR WORD FROM HORACE. The Odes literally
versified. By W. T. Thornton, Cab. Crown 8vo. 7^. 6d.
WORKS OF. Rendered into English Prose by John Lonsdale, M.A. and
Samuel Lee, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3J. 6d

HUNT.— TALKS ABOUT ART. By William Hunt. With a Letter by

J. E, MiLLAis, R.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 3^. 6d.
IRVING. — Works by Washington Irving.
OLD CHRISTMAS From the Sketch Book. With upwards of 100 Illustrations
by Randolph Caldecctt, engraved by J. D. Cooper. New Edition.
Crown 8vo, cloth elegant. 6s.

People's SixpennyjEdition. Illustrated. Medium 4to. 6d.
Drawbridge HALL. With 120 Illustrations by R. Caldecott. New
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt. 6s.
People's Sixpenny Edition. Illustrated. Medium 4to. 6d.

JAMES. — Works by Henry James, jun.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

WASHINGTON SQUARE ; THE PENSION BEAUREPAS ; A BUNDLE
OF LETTERS. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE EUROPEANS. A Novel. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE AMERICAN. Crown 8vo. 6s.

DAISY MILLER: AN INTERNATIONAL EPISODE: FOUR Meetings.
Crown Svo. 6s.

Frederick HUDSON. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE MADONNA OF THE FUTURE; and other Tales. Crown Svo. 6s.

JOUBERT,— Penser OF JOUBERT. Selected and Translated with the
Original French appended, by Henry Attwell, Knight of the Order of the
Oak Crown. Crown Svo. 5s.

KEARY.— A MEMOIR OF ANNIE KEARV. By her Sister. With a
Portrait. Third Thousand. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d.

KEARY (A.).— Works by Annie KEARY.
CASTLE DALY ; THE STORY OF AN IRISH HOME THIRTY YEARS

AGO. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
JANET'S HOME. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
CLEMENCY Franklin. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
Sudbury. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
A YORK AND A LANCASTER ROSE. Crown Svo. 6s.
A DOUBTING HEART. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
THE HEROES OF ASGARD. Globe Svo. 2J. 6d.

KEARY (E.).— Works by Eliza KEARY.
THE MAGIC VALLEY; or, PATIENT ANTOINE. With Illustrations by

E. V. B. Globe Svo. gilt. 4^. 6d.
MEMOIR OF ANNIE KEARY. With a Portrait. New Edition. Crown Svo.

4.?. 6d.

KINGSLEY'S (CHARLES) NOVELS.— Beverley EDITION.
WESTWARD HO ! 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.
TWO YEARS AGO. 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.
HYPATIA. 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.
YEAST. I Vol. Globe Svo. is.
ALTON LOCKE. 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.
HEREWARD THE WAKE. 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.

Kingsley. — Works by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A., late Rector
of Eversley, and Canon of Westminster. Collected Edition. 6.y. each.

POEMS ; including the Saint's Tragedy, Andromeda, Songs, Ballads, &c. Complete

Collected Edition.
YEAST : a Problem.
ALTON LOCKE. New Edition. With a Prefatory Memoir by Thomas

Hughes, Q.C, and Portrait of the Author.

BELLES LETTRES.

KINGSLEY {Z.).~continncd.
HYPATIA ; or, NEW FOES WITH AN OLD FACE.

GLAUCUS; or, THE WONDERS OF THE SEA-SHORE. With Coloured
Illustrations.

WESTWARD HO ! or, THE VOYAGES AND ADVENTURES OF SIR

Amy's LEIGH.
THE HEROES ; or, GREEK FAIRY TALES FOR MY CHILDREN. With

Illustrations.

TWO YEARS AGO.

THE WATER BABIES. A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. With Illustrations by
Sir Noel Paton, R.S.A , and P. Skelton.

THE ROMAN AND THE TEUTON. A Series of Lectures delivered before
the University of Cambridge. With Preface by Professor Max Miller.

HEREWARD THE WAKE-LAST OF THE ENGLISH.

THE HERMITS.

MADAM HOW AND LADY WHY ; or, FIRST LESSONS IN EARTH-lore

FOR CHILDREN.
AT LAST; A CHRISTMAS IN THE WEST INDIES. Illustrated.
PROSE IDYLLS. NEW AND OLD.

PLAYS AND PURITANS ; and other HISTORICAL ESSAYS. With Portrait
of Sir Walter Raleigh.

HISTORICAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

SANITARY AND SOCIAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

SCIENTIFIC LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

LITERARY AND GENERAL LECTURES.

HEALTH AND EDUCATION. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*.

Phaeton ; or, LOOSE THOUGHTS FOR LOOSE THINKERS. Crown

8V0. 25.

TOWN GEOLOGY. Crown 8vo. 55.

SELECTIONS FROM SOME OF THE WRITINGS OF THE REV.
CHARLES KINGSLEY. Crown Bvo. ts.

OUT OF THE DEEP. Words for the Sorrowful, from the writings of Charles
Kingsley. Extra cap. Svo. 3J. Qd.

KINGSLEY (H.).— TALES OF OLD TRAVEL. Re-narrated by Henry
Kingsley. With Eight full-page Illustrations by Heard. Fifth Edition.
Crown Bvo, cloth, extra gilt. 5J.

KNOX. — SONGS OF CONSOLATION. By Pisa Craig Knox. Extra cap.
Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, /^s. 6d.

LAMB. — Works by Charles Lamb.
TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. Edited, with Preface, by Alfred Anger,

M.A. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4J. 6d. Globe Readings Edition for

Schools. Globe 8vo, 2J.
ESSAYS OF ELIA. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Alfred Anger,

M.A. Globe 8vo. 5*.

LANDOR (WALTER Savage.— SELECTIONS FROM THE

WRITINGS OF WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR. Arranged and Edited by
Professor Sidney Colin, With Portrait. imo. 4^. (>d. (Golden Treasury
Series.)

LEADING CASES DONE INTO ENGLISH. By an Apprentice

of Lincoln's Inn. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 7.s. 6d.

LECTURES ON ART.— Delivered in Support of the Society for
Protection of Ancient Buildings. By Read. Stuart Poole, Professor W.
B.-RicH.MOND, E. J. Pointer, R.A., J. T. MicKLETHWAiTE, and William
Morris. Craven Svo. 4^. 6d.

LEMON (Mark.— THE JEST BOOK. (Golden Treasury Series.)
1 3 mo. 4 J. 6d.

LIFE AND TIMES OF CONRAD THE SQUIRREL. a

Story for Children. By the Auth r of " Wandering Willie," "Effie's Friends."
&c. With a Frontispiece by R. Barren'. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 3r. 6d.

LITTLE ESTELLA, and other FAIRY TALES FOR THE YOUNG.
imo, cloth extra. 2s. 6d.

LITTLE SUNSHINE'S HOLIDAY.— By the Author of "John
Halifax, Gentleman." With Illustrations. Globe Svo. 2s. cii,

Borne. — Works by the Marquis of Lore: —

GUIDO AND Lisa: A TALE OF THE RIVIERA. A Poem. Third
Edition. Small 4to, cloth elegant. With Illustrations. 7.^. 6d.

THE BOOK OF THE PSALMS, LITERALLY RENDERED IN VERSE.
With Three Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 7^. 6d.

LOWELL.— COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS of James Russell Lowell.
With Portrait, engraved by Jeens. imo, cloth extra. 4.?. 6d.

LYTTELTON.— Works by Lord Lvttelton.
THE "COMUS" OF MILTON, rendered into Greek Verse. Extra cap. Svo.

5-y.

THE "Samson Agonies " OF MILTON, rendered into Greek Verse.
Extra cap. Svo. 6s. 6d,

MACLAREN.— THE FAIRY FAMILY. A Series of Ballads and Metrical
Tiles illustrating the Fairy Mythology of Europe. By Archibald Maclaren.
With Frontispiece, Illustrated Title, and Vignette. Crown Svo, gilt. sey.

BELLES LETTRES.

MACMILLAN'S BOOKS FOR

cloth elegant. Illustrated, zs. dd. each :•
WANDERING WILLIE. By the
Author of "Conrad the Squirrel."
With a Frontispiece by Sir Noel
Paton.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF
CONRAD THE SQUIRREL. By
the Author of " Wandering Willie."
With a Frontispiece and Vignette.
THE WHITE RAT, AND OTHER
STORIES. By Lady Barker.
With Illustrations by W. J. Hennessy.



Pansies's FLOUR BIN. By the

Author of "When I was a Little

Girl." With Illustrations by Adrian

Stokes.
Silly AND Only ; or, A Holiday

among the Mountains. By Mrs.

T. H. Ward. With Illustrations by

Mrs. Alma Tadema.
THE H Hero ES OF ASGARD ; Tales

from Scandinavian Mythology. By

A. and E. Weary.
WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL.

By the Author of "St. Slave's,"

Nine Years Old," &c.

THE YOUNG.— In Globe 8 vo,

A STOREHOUSE OF STORIES.

Edited by Charlotte M. Yonge,
Author of " The Heir of Redclyffe."
Two Vols.

THE STORY OF A FELLOW.
SOLDIER. By Frances Tawdry.
(A Life of Bishop Patterson for the
Young.) With Preface by Charlotte
M. YONGE.

AGNES HOPETOUN's SCHOOLS
AND HOLIDAYS. By Mrs. Olim

AND HER FRIENDS. A
Story for Girls.

THE RUNAWAY. By the Author
of "Mrs. Birmingham's Journal."

OUR YEAR. A Child's Book in
Prose and Verse. By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman."

LITTLE SUNSHINE'S Holiday.
By the Author of "John
Halifax, Gentleman."

NINE YEARS OLD. By the Author
of " When I was a Little Girl."

MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE.— Published Monthly. Price i^. Vols.
I. to XLVI. are now ready. 7^. dd. each.

MACMILLAN'S POPULAR Novels in Crown 8vo, cloth.
Price 6j. each Volume : —

MACLEOD OF DARE. Illustrated.
A Yachting Ro-white

WINGS

dance.

THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH :
THE FOUR MAC NICOLS:
THE PUPIL OF AURELIUS.

By William Black.

A PRINCESS OF THULE.

MADCAP VIOLET.

THE MAID OF KILLEENA ; and
other Tales.

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES
OF A PHAETON. Illustrated.

GREEN PASTURES AND Piccadilly.


By Charles Kingsley.
TWO YEARS AGO. ' I HYPATIA.

WESTWARD HO ! " YEAST.

ALTON LOCKE. With Portrait. I HEREWARD THE WAKE,

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY. AGATHA'S HUSBAND.

Illustrated. treated.

OLIVE
THE Gillies. Illustrated.

Illustrated.
MY MOTHER AND I.

Illus-illustrated.





MACMILLAN'S POPULAR f^OVELS-co^t^inueJ.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

THE HEIR OF Radcliffe.
With Illustrations.

Heartless. With Illustrations.

THE DAISY CHAIN. With Illustrations.


THE TRIAL: More Links in the
Daisy Chain. With Illustrations.

HOPES AND FEARS. Illustrated.

DYNEVOR TERRACE. With
Illustrations.

MY YOUNG Allies. Illustrated.

THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE.
Two Vols. Illustrated.

CLEVER WOMAN OF THE
FAMILY. Illustrated,

THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER.
Illustrated.

THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S
NEST. Illustrated.

THE CAGED LION. Illustrated.

THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS.

Illustrated.

LADY HESTER, and THE dangers
PAPERS. Illustrated.

THE THREE BRIDES. Illustrated.


MAGNUM BONUM. Illustrated.

LOVE AND LIFE. Illustrated.

HAWORTH'S
"LOUISIANA* and
Illustrated.

By Frances H. Burnett.

THAT LASS O' LOWRIE's.

Two Stories.

By Lady Augusta Noel.

OWEN Wynne's Great
WORK.

FROM GENERATION TO generations


CASTLE DALY.
Sudbury.
JANET'S HOME.

By Annie Weary.

CLEMENCY Franklin.

A YORK AND A LANCASTER

ROSE.
A DOUBTING HEART.

By Henry James, June.

THE EUROPEANS.

THE AMERICAN.

DAISY MILLER • AN International
EPISODE: FOUR
MEETINGS.

Frederick HUDSON.

THE MADONNA OF THE
FUTURE, and other Tales.

WASHINGTON SQUARE: THE
PENSION BEAUREPAS : A
BUNDLE OF LETTERS.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

By the Author of "Hogan, M.P.'

HOGAN. M.P.

THE HONOURABLE MISS ferrara.


CHRISTY CAREW.

FLITTERS, TATTERS, AND
THE COUNSELLOR : WEEDS
AND OTHER SKETCHES.

BELLES LETTRES.

MACMILLAN'S POPULAR l^OYEhS- continued.
TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS.
TOM BROWN AT OXFORD.
THE FOOL OF QUALITY. By

H. Brooke.
REALM AH. By the Author of

Friends in Council."
THE BERKSHIRE LADY. By

Mrs. Macquoid,
HUGH CRICHTON'S ROMANCE.

By C. R. Coleridge.
MY TIME, AND WHAT I'VE

DONE WITH IT. By F. C.

Brand.

ROSE TURQUAND. By Ellice

Hopkins.
OLD SIR DOUGLAS. By the

Hon. Mrs. Norton.
A BELEAGUERED CITY. By

Mrs. Oliphant.

JOHN Inelegant. A Romance.
By J. H. Storehouse.

By Katharine

SEBASTIAN.
Cooper.

THE LAUGHING MILL; and
other Tales. By Julian Hawthorne.


THE HARBOUR BAR.

CHRISTINA NORTH. By E. M.
Archer.

UNDER THE LIMES. By E. M.

Archer.

BENGAL PEASANT LIFE.
Lal Behari Day.

By

VIRGIN SOIL. By Tourgenief.

VIDA. The Study of a Girl. By
Amy Dunsmuir.

MACMILLAN'S TWO SHILLING NOVELS :—
By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman.'

THE Gillies.

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY,

OLIVE.

AGATHA'S HUSBAND.

TWO MARRIAGES.
IN PREPARATION,

By Mrs. Oliphant.

THE CURATE IN CHARGE. i HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN

A SON OF THE SOIL. HE MAY.

YOUNG Misgave. I

By Mrs. Macquoid.

PATTY.

By George Fleming.
A NILE NOVEL. | MIRAGE.'

MACMILLAN'S ONE SHILLING VOLUMES:—

Crown Svo, sewed, is. each.
DEMOCRACY. An American Novel

LOUISIANA. By Frances Hodgson
Burnett, Author of "That
Lass o' Lowrie's," &c.

HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES on
several Points, particularly on the
Preparation cf Economical and
Tasteful Dishes. By Mrs. Fredu-

Sick.

MACQUOID. — works by Katharine S. Macquoid.
PATTY. New Edition. Crown Svo. zs.
THE BERKSHIRE LADY. Crown Svo. 6s.

MADOC. — THE STORY OF Reticent. By Far Madoc. Crown
8vo. 4^. 6d.

MAGUIRE. —YOUNG PRINCE MARIGOLD, AND OTHER FAIRY
STORIES. By the laie John Francis Maguire, M.P. Illustrated by S. E.
Waller. Globe svo, gilt. ^s. 6d.

MAHAFFY.— Works by J. P. Mahaffy, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College,

Dublin :—
SOCIAL LIFE IN GREECE FROM HOMER TO MENANDER. Fourth

Edition, enlarged, with New Chapter on Greek Art. Crown 8vo. 9^.
RAMBLES AND STUDIES IN GREECE. Illustrated. Second Edition,

revised and enlarged, with Map. Crown 8vo. \cs. 6d.
THE DECAY OF MODERN PREACHING. An Essay. Crown Svo. 3*. 6d.

Males.— MRS. LORIMER. A Novel. By Lucas Male. Two Vols.
Globe Svo. i2y.

Mohammed, SPEECHES AND Table-talk OF

THE PROPHET. Chosen and Translated by Stanley Lane-Poole
imo. ^s. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.)

MASSON (Gustave.— LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and
arranged with Notes. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

MASSON (Mrs.).— THREE CENTURIES OF ENGLISH Poetry

being selections from Chaucer to Herrick, with Introductions and Notes by Mrs.
Mason and a general Introduction by Professor Mason. Extra cap. Svo.
3J. 6d.

MASSON (Professor); — Works by David MASSON, M.A., Professor of
Rhetoric and English Literature in the University of Edinburgh.

WORDSWORTH, SHELLEY, KEATS, AND OTHER ESSAYS. Crown
Svo. ss.

CH Atherton : A Story of the Year 1770. Crown Svo. ss.

THE THREE DEVILS: LUTHER'S, MILTON'S AND GOETHE'S; and
other Essays. Crown Svo. 5J.

MAZINL — IN THE GOLDEN SHELL: A Story of Palermo. By Linda
Mazzini. With Illustrations. Globe Svo, cloth gilt. 4,5. 6d.

Derivable. — KEATS' HYPERION, rendered into-latin Verse. By
C. Derivable, B.D. Second Edition. Extra cap. Svo. y.6d.

Miller.— THE LILY OF LUMLEY. By Edith Milnkr. Crown Svo,
TS. 6d.

MILTON'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited with Text collated from
the best Authorities, with Introduction and Notes, by David Mason.
(Uniform with the Cambridge Shakespeare.) With three Portraits engraved by
Jeens. Three Volumes. Svo. 42$. Cap. 8vo Edition. By the same Editor.
With Portraits. Three Vols. 155. (Globe Edition.) By the same Editor. Globe
Svo. 3^. 6d.

MISTRAL (F.).—MIRELLE, a Pastoral Epic of Provence. Translated by
H. Crichton. Extra cap. Svo. 6s.

b 2

Milford (A. B.).— TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B. Milford,
Second Secretary to the British Legation in Japan. With Illustrations drawn
and cut on Wood by Japanese Artists. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
8vo. 6s.

Wordsworth.— Works by Mrs. Wordsworth (Ennis Graham).
ROSY. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe 8vo. 4s. 6d.
SUMMER STORIES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. Crown 8vo. 45.6^.
THE ADVENTURES OF HERR BABY. With Twelve full-page Pictures by

Walter Crane. Globe 4to. 6^.
GRANDMOTHER DEAR. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe 8vo.

4^. 6d.
TELL ME A STORY. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo. 4^. 6d.
"CARROTS"; JUST A LITTLE BOY. Illustrated by Walter Crane.

Globe Svo. 45. 6d.
THE CUCKOO CLOCK. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo. 4s. 6d.
THE TAPESTRY ROOM. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo.

45. (>d.
A CHRISTMAS CHILD. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo. 45. td.

MORTE Arthur.— SIR THOMAS MALORY'S BOOK OF
KING ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND
TABLE. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 3J. 6d.

MOULT ON. — SWALLOW FLIGHTS. Poems by Louise Chandler
MoULTON. Extra cap. Svo. 45. ()d.

MOULTRIE.— POEMS by John Moultrie. Complete Edition. Two Vols.
Crown Svo. qs. each.

Vol. I. MY BROTHER'S GRAVE, DREAM OP LIFE, &c. With Memoir by

the Rev. Prebendary Coleridge.
Vol. II. LAYS OF THE ENGLISH CHURCH, and other Poems. With notices

of the Rectors of Rugby, by M. H. Bloxham, F.R.A.S.

MRS. GANDER'S STORY. By H. A. H. With Twenty-four Full-illustrations
by N. Huxley. Demy oblong. 35. 6d.

MRS. Birmingham's JOURNAL, a Poem. Purporting to
be the Journal of a Newly-married Lady. Third Edition. Cap. Svo. 35. 6d.

MUDIE. — STRAY LEAVES. By C. E. Muche. New Edition. Extra cap.
Svo-xs. 6d. Contents :—" His and Mine"— "Night and Day" — "One of
Many' &c.

MURRAY.— ROUND ABOUT FRANCE. By E. C. Grenville Murray.
I Crown Svo. "js. 6d.

MYERS (Ernest.— Works by Ernest Myers.
THE PURITANS. Extra cap. Svo, cloth. 2^. 6d.
POEMS. Extra cap. Svo. 4^. 6d.

MYERS (F. W. H.)-— Works by F. W. H. Myers.
ST. PAUL. A Poem. New Edition. Extra cap. 8vo. 2S. 6d.
THE RENEWAL OF YOUTH, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
ESSAYS. 2 Vols. I. Ancient. IL Modern. Crown 8vo. 4^. 6d. each.

[/« the press.

Naval.— ESSAYS AT HOME AND ELSEWHERE. By E. S. Natal.

Crown 8vo. ts.

Nichols, — Works by Joiix Nichols, B.A., Oxon., Regius Professor of English
Language and Literature in the University of Glasgow.

HANNIBAL, A HISTORICAL DRAMA. Extra cap. 8 vo. 7^.6.-/.
THE DEATH OF THEMISTOCLES, AND OTHER POEMS. Extra cap.
8vo. TS. 6d.

NINE YEARS OLD.— By the Author of " St. Slave's," " When I was a
Little Girl," &c. Illustrated by Frolic. New Edition. Globe Svo. zs. 6d.

NOEL.— BEATRICE AND OTHER POEMS. By the Hon. Rode Noel.
Cap. Svo. 6s.

NOEL (LADY Augusta.— Works by Lady Augusta Noel.
OWEN Wynne's great WORK. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6*.
FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION. Crown Svo. 6s.

NORTON.— Works by the Hon. Mrs. Norton.
THE LADY OF LA GARAYE. With Vignette and Frontispiece. Eighth Edition.

Cap. Svo. 4 J. 6d.
OLD SIR DOUGLAS. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

OLIPHANT.— Works by Mrs. Oliphant.

THE LITERARY HISTORY OF ENGLAND in the end of the Eighteenth
and beginning of the Nineteenth Century. Cheaper Issue. With a New Preface.
3 Vols. Demy Svo. 2xs.

AGNES HOPETOUN's SCHOOLS AND HOLIDAYS. New Edition, with
Illustrations. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.

THE SON OF THE SOIL. New Edition. Crown Svo. 2S.

THE CURATE IN CHARGE. New Edition. Crown Svo. 2s.

YOUNG Misgave. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 25.

HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN HE MAY. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. iS.

THE MAKERS OF FLORENCE: Dante, Giotto, Savonarola, and their City.
With Illustrations from Drawings by Professor Melmotte, and a Steel Portrait
of Savonarola, engraved by C. H. Jeens. New and Cheaper Edition with Preface.
Crown Svo. Cloth extra. vos. 6d.

THE BELEAGUERED CITY. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

DRESS. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 2J. 6d. [Ari at Home Series.

OUR YEAR. A Child's Book, in Prose and Verse. By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman." Illustrated by Clarence Dobell. Royal imo.

2J. 6d

PAGE.— THE LADY RESIDENT, by Hamilton Page. Three Vols. Crown
Svo. 31J. 6d.

Palgrave. — Works by Francis Turner Palgrave, M.A., late Fellow
of Exeter College, Oxford.

THE FIVE DAYS' ENTERTAINMENTS AT WENTWORTH GRANGE.
A Book for Children. With Illustrations by Arthur Hughes, and Engraved
Title-page by Jeens. Small 4to, cloth extra. 6s.

LYRICAL POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.

ORIGINAL HYMNS. Third Edition, enlarged imo. i^. 6d.

VISIONS OF ENGLAND ; being a series of Lyrical Poems on Leading Events
and Persons in English History. With a Preface and Notes. Crown 8vo. js. dd.

GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS AND LYRICS. Edited
by F. T. Palgrave. imo. 4J. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS AND SONGS. Edited by F. T. Palgrave.
With Vignette Title by Jeens. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45. 6d.

THE CHILDREN'S TREASURY OF LYRICAL POETRY. Selected and
arranged with Notes by F. T. Palgrave. imo. 2^. 6d. And in Two Parts,
i,r. each.

HERRICK: SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL POEMS. With Notes.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

Pansies's FLOUR BIN. By the Author of "When I was a Little
Girl," " St. Slave's," &c. Illustrated by Adrian Stokes. Globe Bvo. 4^. 6d.

PATER.— THE RENAISSANCE. Studies in Art and Poetry. By Walter
Pater, Fellow of Brasenose College, Oxford. Second Edition, Revised, with
Vignette engraved by C. H. Jeens. Crown 8vo. io.y. 6d.

PATMORE.— THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND, from the Best Poets
Selected and arranged by Coventry Patmore. New Edition. With Illustrations
by, J. Lawson. Crown 8vo. gilt. 6s (Golden Treasury Edition.) imo.
45. 6d. Globe Readings Edition for Schools, Globe 8vo, "zs.

PEEL.— ECHOES FROM HOREB, AND OTHER POEMS. By Edmund
Peel, Author of " An Ancient City," &c. Crown 8vo. 3^. 6d.

Member.— THE TRAGEDY OF LESBOS. A Dramatic Poem. By
E. H. Member. Cap. 8vo. ass. 6d.

PEOPLE'S EDITIONS. Profusely Illustrated, medium 410, 6d. each;
or complete in One Vol., cloth, 3.?.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By an Old Boy.
Watertown's WANDERINGS IN SOUTH AMERICA.
WASHINGTON IRVING'S OLD CHRISTMAS.
WASHINGTON IRVING'S Drawbridge HALL.

PHILLIPS (S. K.).— ON THE SEABOARD; and Other Poems.
Susan K. Phillips. Second Edition. Crown Svo. ^s.

PLATO.— THE REPUBLIC OF. Translated into English with Notes by
J. Ll. Davies, M.A., and. J. Vaughan, M.A. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 4J. 6d.

POEMS OF PLACES— (ENGLAND AND WALES). Edited by
H. W. Longfellow. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45. 6d.

POETS (ENGLISH). — SELECTIONS, with Critical Introduction by
various writers, and a general Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited by
T. H. Ward, M.A. Four Vols. Crown 8 vo. 75. td. each.

Vol. I. CHAUCER TO DONNE.

Vol. II. BEN JONSON TO DRYDEN.

Vol. III. ADDISON TO BLAKE.

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH TO SYDNEY DOB ELL

POOLE.— PICTURES OF COTTAGE LIFE IN THE WEST OF
ENGLAND. By Margaret E. Pole. New and Cheaper Edition. With
Frontispiece by R. Barren. Crown 8vo. 3.^. 6d.

POPE.— POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited with Notes and Introductory
Memoir by Adolphus William Ward, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo.
y. 6d.

POPULATION OF AN OLD PEAR TREE. From the French
of E. Van Brussels. Edited by the Author of "The Heir of Radcliffe."
With Illustrations by Decker. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, gilt. 4^. 6d.

POTTER.— LANCASHIRE MEMORIES. By Louisa Potter. Crown
Svo. 6s.

PRINCE FLORESTAN OF MONACO, THE FALL OF.

By Himself. New Edition, with illustrate. n and Map. Svo. cloth extra.
gilt edges. 5J. A French Translation. 5^. Also an Edition for the People.
Crown Svo. iv.

PUSHKIN.— EUGENE ONEGUINE. Romance of Russian Life in Verse.
By Alexander Pus.hkin. Translated from the Russian by Lieut-Col. Spalding.
Crown Svo. 6s.

RACHEL Oliver.— A Novel. Three Vols. Crown Svo. 31^.6^/.

REALM AH. — By the Author of " Friends in Council. Crown Svo. 6s.

Rhodes.— POEMS. By James Rhodes. Cap. Svo. ^s. 6d.

RICHARDSON.— THE ILIAD OF THE EAST. A Selection of Legends
drawn from Valmiki's Sanskrit Poem, 'the Ramayana." By Frederica
Richardson. Crown Svo. 7^. 6d.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited, with Biographical Introduction, by
Henry Kingsley. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. ^s. 6d. — Golden Treasury
Edition. Edited by J. W. Clark, T*I.A. imo. 4J. 6d.

ROSSETTI. — Works by Christina Rossetti.

POEMS. Complete Edition, containing "Goblin Market," "The Prince's
Progress," &c. With Four Illustrations by D. G. Rossetti. Extra cap. Svo.
6s.

SPEAKING LIKENESSES. Illustrated by Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo.
gilt edges. 4s. 6>d.

A PAGEANT, AND OTHER POEMS. Extra cap. Svo. 6s.

ROSSETTI (D.G.),~DANrE GABRIEL ROSSETTI : a Record and a
Study. ^ By William Sharp. With an Illustration after Dante Gabriel
Rossetti. Crown 8vo. los. dd.

RUTH AND HER FRIENDS, a Story for Girls. With a Frontispiece.
New Edition. Globe 8vo. is. 6d.

SCOURING OF THE WHITE HORSE; oR, THE LONG

VACATION RAMBLE OF A LONDON CLERK. By the Author of " Tom
Brown's School Days." Illustrated by Doyle. Imp. imo. Cloth gilt. scott

(SIR Walter.— POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited with a
Biographical and Critical Memoir by Francis Turner Palgrave. (Globe
Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3^. 6d.

THE LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL; and THE LADY OF THE
LAKE. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Francis Turner
Palgrave. Globe 8vo. i.y. (Abbe Readings f )r Schools.)

MARMION ; and THE LORD OF THE ISLES. By the same Editor.
Globe 8vo. xs. (Abbe Readings for Schools.)

SCOTTISH SONG.— A SELECTION OF THE CHOICEST LYRICS
OF SCOTLAND. By Mary Carlyle Aitken. (Golden Treasury Series.)

imo. 4^. 6d.

Melbourne (Lord.— THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best
English Hymn writers. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4jr. 6d.

SERMONS OUT OF CHURCH. By the Author of " John Halifax,
Gentleman." Crown 8vo. 6s.

SHAKESPEARE. — The Works of William Shakespeare. Cambridge
Edition. Edited by W. George Clark, M.A., and W. Aldis Wright, M.A.
Nine Vols. 8vo, cloth.

SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited, by W. G.
Clark, M.A., and W. Aldis Wright, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Glebe 8vo.
3J. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited, with

Notes, by Francis Turner Palgrave. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo.
45. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE PHRASE BOOK, THE. By John Bartlett,
Author of " Familiar Quotations." Globe 8vo. 125. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE.— CHARLES LAMB'S TALES FROM Shakespeare.
Edited, with Preface, by Rev. A. Anger. (Golden Treasury
Series.) imo. 45. 6d. Globe Readings Edition for Schools, Globe 8vo, 25^.

SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS. An attempt to determine the Chronological
Order. By the Rev. H. Paine Stokes, B.A. Extra cap. 8vo. 4^. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE'S TEMPEST. Edited, wth Glossarial and Explanatory
Notes, by the Rev. J. M. Jephson. New Edition. ism. is.

Storehouse.— JOHN Inelegant : A ROMANCE. By J. H.
Storehouse. 2 Vols. New and Cheaper Edition. Globe 8vo. i2.y.
Popular Edition. Crown 8 vo. 6j.

SHELLEY,— POEMS OF SHELLEY. Edited by Stafford A. Brooke.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. i,s.bd. Also a fine Edition printed on hand-made
paper. Crown 8vo. i2.r. 6d.

Sedley.— TWO DRAMATIC POEMS. By Manilla Bute S.medley-
Author of " Lady Grace," &c. Extra cap. 8vo. 6.r.

SMITH. — POEMS. By Catherine Barnard Smith. Cap. Bvo. is.

SMITH.— Works by Rev. Walter C. Smith.
HYMNS OF CHRIST AND THE CHRISTIAN LIFE. Cap 8vo. 6j.
HILDA AMONG THE BROKEN GODS. Third Edition. Cap. 8vo. ^s. ed.

SMITH.— THREE ENGLISH STATESMEN. A Course of Lectures on the
Political History of England. By Godwin Smith. New Edition. Crown
8vo. song

BOOK. WORDS AND TUNES FROM THE BEST POETS
AND MUSICIANS. Selected and arranged by John Hullah. (Golden
Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

SPENSER.— COMPLETE WORKS OF. Edited by the Rev. R. Morris.
M.A., LL.D., with a Memoir by J. W. Hales, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe
Svo. 3^-. 6d.

STEPHEN (C. E.).— THE SERVICE OF THE POOR; being an
Inquiry into the Reasons for and against the Establishment of Religious Sisterhoods
for Charitable Purposes. By Caroline Emilia Stephen. Crown Svo.
6s. 6d.

STREETS AND LANES OF A CITY : Being the Reminiscences of
Amy Dutton. With a Preface by the Bishop of Salisbury. Second and
Cheaper Edition. Globe Svo. zs. 6d.

TANNER.— THE ABBOTT'S FARM: or, PRACTICE WITH SCIENCE.
By HenryT^xxer, M.R.A.C., F.C.S., late Professors Principles of Agriculture
in the Royal Agricultural College; Examiner in the Principles of Agriculture
under the Government Department of Science. Author of "First Principles
of Agriculture," &c. Extra cap. Svo. y. 6d.

THE RUNAWAY. By the Author of " Mrs. Jemingham's Journal." With
Illustrations. Globe 8vo. 2J. 6d.

THIRTY YEARS.— BEING POEMS NEW AND OLD. By the Author
of " John Halifax. Gentleman." New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

THOMPSON.— A HANDBOOK TO THE PUBLIC PICTURE Galleries
OF EUROPE. With a brief sketch of the History of the various
Schools of Painting from the thirteenth century to the eighteenth, incisive. By
Kate Thompson. I'hird Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With numerous
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 7^. dd.

THROUGH THE RANKS TO A COMMISSION.— av«;«„^

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. zs. 6d.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By An Old Boy. With Seven

Illustrations by A. Hughes .ind Sydney Hall. Crown 8vo. 6s. ; Golden
Treasury Edition. 45.6^.; People's Edition. - 2.r. People's Sixpenny Illustrated
Edition. Medium 4(0. 6d.

TOM BROWN AT OXFORD.

Crown Bvo. €s.

New 'Edition. With Illustrations.

TOURGENIEF.— VIRGIN SOIL. By I. TouRGENiEF. Translated by
AsHTON W. DiLKE. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TRENCH. — Works by R. Chenevix Trench, Dad., Archbishop of Dublin
(For other Works by this Author, see Theological, Historical, and Philosophical
Catalogues.)

POEMS. Collected and arranged anew. Cap. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

HOUSEHOLD BOOK OF ENGLISH POETRY. Selected and arranged, with
Notes, by Archbishop Trench. Third Edition, revised. Extra cap. Bvo.
5;?. 6d.

SACRED LATIN POETRY, Chiefly Lyrical. Selected and arranged for Use.
By Archbishop Trench. Third Edition, Corrected and Improved. Cap. Bvo.
7J.

TYRWHITT.— OUR SKETCHING CLUB. Letters and Studies on Landscape
Art. By the Rev. R. St. John Tyrwhitt, M.A. With an Authorised
Reproduction of the Lessons and Woodcuts in Professor Ruskin's "Elements of
Drawing." Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 7.^. 6d.

UNDER THE LIMES. By the Author of " Christina North." Second
Edition. Crown Bvo. 6s.

VIRGIL.— THE WORKS OF. Rendered into English Prose. By John
Lonsdale, M.A., and Samuel Lee, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Bvo. 35. 6d.

WARD.— ENGLISH POETS. Selections, with Critical Introductions by
various writers, and a general Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited by
T. H. Ward, M.A. Four Vols. Crown Bvo. 7J. 6d. each.

Vol. I. CHAUCER TO DONNE.

Vol. II. BEN JONSON TO DRYDEN.

Vol. III. ADDISON TO BLAKE.

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH TO SYDNEY DOBELL.

WARD, MRS. T. H.— Silly AND OLLV ; or, a Holiday among the
Mountains. By Mrs. T. H. Waked. Illustrated by Mrs. Alma Tadema. Globe
8vo. 2S. 6d.

Webster. — Works by A'jGtrsTA Webster.
DRAMATIC STUDIES. Extra cap. 8vo. 5^.

A WOMAN SOLD, AND OTHER POEMS. Crown 8vo. 7*- portraits.
Second Edition. Extra cap. Bvo. 35. 6d.
THE AUSPICIOUS DAY. A Dramatic Poem. Extra cap. Bvo. 5^.
YU-PE-YA's LUTE. A Chinese Tale in English Verse. Extra cap. 8vo. 3.1 6d.
A HOUSEWIFE'S OPINIONS. Crown Bvo. 7^.6^
A BOOK OF RHYME. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL. Bathe Author of "St. Slaves."
Illustrated by L. Froi.ich. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.

WHEN PAPA COMES HOME : The Story of Tip, Tap, Toe. By
the Author of "Nine Years Old," " Pansle's Flour Bin," &c. WithlUustrati'-ns
by W. J. Hennessy. Globe Bvo. 4^. 6d.

WHITE.— RHYMES BY WALTER WHITE. Bvo. 75 6d

WHITTIER. John GREENLEAF WHITTIER'S POETICAL WORKS.

Complete Edition, with Portrait engraved by C. H. Jeens. imo. 4.?. 6d.

WILLOUGHBY.— FAIRY GUARDIANS. A Book for the Young. By
F. WiLLOUGHBY. Illustrated. Crown Bvo, gilt. 5.?.

WOOLNER.— Works by Thomas Woolner, R.A.

MY BEAUTIFUL LADY. With a Vignette by A. Hughes. Third Edition.
Cap. 8vo. 55.

PYGMALION. A Poem. Crown Bvo. 7^. 6d.

WORDS FROM THE POETS. Selected by the Editor of "Ray
of Sunlight." With a Vignette and Frontispiece. imo, limp. js.

WORDSWORTH.— SELECT POEMS OF. Chosen and Edited, with
Preface, by Matthew Arnold. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.
Fine Edition. Crown Bvo, hand-made paper, with Portrait of Wordsworth,
engraved by C. H. Jeens, and Printed on India Paper, qs.

YONGE (C. M.).— New Illustrated Edition of Novels and Tales by Charlotte
M. YoNGE.

In Eighteen Volumes. Crown 8vo. 6s. each :—
Vol. I. THE HEIR OF Radcliffe. With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway.



II. Heartless. With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway.

III. HOPES AND FEARS. With Illustrations by Herbert Gandy.

IV. DYNEVOR TERRACE. With Illustrations by Adrian Stokes.

V. THE DAISY CHAIN. Illustrated by J. P. Atkinson.

VI. THE TRIAL. Illustrated by J. P. Atkinson.

VII. & VIII. THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE; or, UNDER Mode,
UNDER RODE. Illustrated by Herbert Gandy. Two Vols.

IX. THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER. New Edition. Illustrated by Marian
Huxley.

X. CLEVER WOMAN OF THE FAMILY. New Edition. Illustrated

by Adrian Stokes.

XI. THE THREE BRIDES. Illustrated by Adrian Stokes.

XII. MY YOUNG Allies : or, A FADED PHOTOGRAPH. Illustrated
by Adrian Stokes.

XIII. THE CAGED LION. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XIV. THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S.NEST. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XV. THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS ; or, THE WHITE AND BLACK
RIBAUMONT. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XVI. LADY HESTER : AND THE Dangers PAPERS. Illustrated by
Jane E. Cook.

XVn. MAGNUM BONUM; or, MOTHER CAREY'S BROOD. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy.

XVIII. LOVE AND LIFE. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

YONGE (CM.).— Works by Charlotte M. Yonge: —

STRAY PEARLS: MEMOIRS OF MARGARET DE RIBAUMONT,
VISCOUNTESS OF BELLAISE Two Vols. Crown 8vo. gs.

UNKNOWN TO HISTORY. A Novel. 2 Vols. Crown 8vo. gs.

THE PRINCE AND THE PAGE. A Tale of the Last Crusade. Illustrated.
New Edition. Globe Svo. 4^. 6d.

THE LANCES OF Logwood. New Edition. With Illustrations. imo.
is. ci.

YONGE (C. m.)— continued.

THE LITTLE DUKE: RICHARD THE FEARLESS. New Edition.
Illustrated. Globe 8vo. 4^. 6d.

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS OF ALL TIMES AND ALL Count
TRIES, Gathered and Narrated Anew. (Golden Treasury Series.) tes. 6d.
Globe Readings Edition for Schools, Globe Svo, 2s. Cheap Edition, is.

LITTLE LUCY'S WONDERFUL GLOBE. Illustrated by L. Frolic.
Globe Svo. 4J. 6d.

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45. 6d.

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS IN SPAIN.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

CAMEOS FROM ENGLISH HISTORY, From Rollo to Edward II.
Third Edition, enlarged. Extra cap. Svo.

Second Series. THE WARS IN FRANCE. New Edition. Extra cap.
Svo. 5J.

Third Series. THE WARS OF THE ROSES. Extra cap. Svo. 5J.

Fourth Series. REFORMATION TIMES. Extra cap. Svo. 5^.

P's AND Q's: or. THE QUESTION OF PUTTING UPON. With Illustrations
by C. O. Murray. New Edition. Globe Svo, cloth gilt. 4^. 6d.

Byword: A COLLECTION OF TALES NEW AND OLD. Crown Svo.
6*.

MACMILLAN'S BIOGRAPHICAL SERIES.

Crown 8vo, uniformly bound. Price 6s. each.

SPINOZA: A Study of. By Rev, Dr. James Martineau.

With a Portrait Photographed from the Original Painting in the Wolfenbuettel
Library.

THE LIFE AND WORK OF MARY CARPENTER. By

J. EsTLiN Carpenter, M.A. With Steel Portrait.

CATHERINE AND Crawford TAIT. Wife and Son of

Archibald Campbell, Archbishop of Canterbury : a Memoir. Edited, at the
request of the Archbishop, by the Rev. W. Benham, B.D. With Two Portraits
engraved by Jeens. New and Cheaper Edition.

BERNARD (Step.— THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ST.

BERNARD, Abbot of Clairvaux By J. C Morrison, M.A. New
Edition.

CHARLOTTE Bronze: A Monograph. By T. Wemyss

Reid. Third Edition.

ST. ANSELM. By the Very Rev. R. W. Church, M. A., Dean

of St. Paul's. New Edition.

GREAT CHRISTIANS OF FRANCE : St. Louis and

Calvin. By M. Guizot, Member of the Institute of France.

ALFRED THE GREAT. By Thomas Hughes, Q.C.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES, 1852-75. By Harriet

Martineau. With Four Additional Sketches, and Autobiographical Sketch.
Fifth Edition.

FRANCIS OF ASSISI. By Mrs. Oliphant. New Edition.
VICTOR EMMANUEL II., FIRST KING OF ITALY.

By G. S. Godwin. New Edition.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

Cite (0«flli£j]b Citi'ictt.

A Series of Short Books on his Rights and Responsibilities. Crown
8vo. 35-, (id. each.

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT. By H. D. Trail, D.C.L.,

late Fellow of St. John's College, Oxford.

THE ELECTORATE AND THE LEGISLATURE. By

Spencer Walpole, Author of " The History of England from 1815."

THE POOR LAW. By the Rev. T. W. Fowls, M. A.

THE NATIONAL BUDGET; THE NATIONAL DEBT ;

TAXES AND RATES. By A. J. Wilson.

THE STATE IN RELATION TO LABOUR. By W.

Stanley Jevons, LL.D., F.R.S.

THE STATE AND THE CHURCH. By the Hon. Arthur
Elliot, MP.

FOREIGN RELATIONS. By Spencer Walpole, Author of

"The History of England from 1815."

THE STATE IN ITS RELATION TO TRADE. By

T. H. Farmer.

LOCAL GOVERNMENT. By M. D. Chalmers.

In Preparation.
JUSTICE AND POLICE. By F. Pollock, M.A., late Fellow

of Trinity College, Cambridge.

THE STATE AND EDUCATION. By Henry Crank, M.A.
THE STATE AND THE LAND. By F. Pollock, late Fellow

of Trinity College, Cambridge. [/« the Press.

INDIA. By J. S. Cotton, late Fellow of Queen's College, Oxford.

[/« the Press,

COLONIES AND DEPENDENCIES. By E. J. Payne,

Fellow of University College, Oxford. [In thu Press.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

BELLES LETTRES, ETC.

MACMILLAN'S NEW 4s. 6d. SERIES.

Nov Publishing ti Crown Svo. ^s. 6d. each Volume.

DR. George Embers's NEW NOVEL.
ONLY A WORD. By Dr. Georg Embers, Author of "The

Egyptian Princess," "The Burgomaster's Wife," sic Translated by Clara.
Bell. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. [Ready.

THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE, A Tale of the Siege of

Leyden. By Dr. Georg Embers. Author of " The Egyptian Princess," &c.
Translated by Clara Bell. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND
SIXPENCE. ready.

A NEW NOVEL BY AN AMERICAN WRITER.
MR. ISAACS. A Tale of Modern India. By F. Marion Crawford.

Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. [Ready.

The book has an undeniable power and charm. . . .The writer has some remarkable
gifts. . . . 'Mr. Isaacs' is a novel of originality and promise." — Pall Mall
Gazette.

DEMOCRACY: An American Novel. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR
SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. Popular Edition. Paper Covers. ONE
SHILLING. [Ready.

A NEW NOVEL. BY MISS YONGE.

STRAY PEARLS. Memoirs of Margaret de Ribaimiont, Viscountess
of Bellaise. By Charlotte Yonge. Two Vols. Crown 8 vo. Price NINE
SHILLINGS. [Ready.

UNKNOWN TO HISTORY. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

Two Vols. Crown 8vo. Price NINE SHILLINGS. [Ready.

THE STORY OF Reticent. By Far Madoc. Crowns.
Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. [Ready,

A MEMOIR OF ANNIE KEARY. By Eliza KEARY. With

a Portrait New Edition. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND
SIXPENCE. [Ready.

A MEMOIR OF DANIEL MACMILLAN. By Thomas

Hughes, Q.C With a Portrait Engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens, from a
Painting by Lower Dickinson. Fourth Thousand. Crown Svo. Price
FOUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. [Ready.

A MEMOIR OF SIR CHARLES REED. By Charles

E. B. Reed. M.A. With a Portrait. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS
AND SIXPENCE. [Nearly Ready.

LECTURES ON ART, Delivered in support of the Society for
Protection of Ancient Buildings. By Read. Stuart Poole, Professor W. B.
Richmond, E. J. Pointer. R.A , J. T. Micklethwaite, and William
Morris. One Vol. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND Sixpence.
[Ready.

THE Burma ; His Life and Notions. By Sway Yoe.

Two Vols. Crowns. Price NINE SHILLINGS, [Ready.

THE EXPANSION OF ENGLAND. By Professor J. R. Seeley,
M.A. Crown Svo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.

[In the Press.
ESSAYS. By F. W. H. Myers, M.A. Two Volumes. I. Ancient.
II. Modern. Crown 8vo. Price FOUR SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE each

[III the Press.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

London: r. clay, sons, and taylor, printers.

t^

'-: '*.-»^'.irCM'

M

■'/■\][\]-y' :y''<

^

5;

m::

m

w-f.'r

^''^'

f v.* ' >

.^.v

v^v .; "?. »

■iv^se^^

Cf)e ©torg of a Daughter

BY

WILLIAM BLACK

AUTHOR OF 'macleod OF DARE,' 'A PRINCESS OF THULE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

London

MACMILLAN AND CO.


the right of translation is reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

DiR, O Stiles That, grass sum Letztenmal !" I

CHAPTER II.

An Abduction . . . . . .21

CHAPTER in.
A Beginning . . . . . . .42

CHAPTER IV.
Awaking . 68

CHAPTER V.
"O' Bygone Days and Me" 83

CHAPTER VL
A Guess . 103

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

A Message . . . . . .124

CHAPTER VIII.
A Last Intervention . . . . .143

CHAPTER IX.
Loosened Chains 162

CHAPTER X.
The Hour of Vengeance 181

CHAPTER XL

A Perilous Situation . . . . .200

CHAPTER Nil
A Spy 221

CHAPTER XIII.
Snow and Sunlight . 242

CHAPTER XIV.
A Meeting . . . . . . .262

CHAPTER XV.

PAGE

Rome 283

CHAPTER XVI.
Venice 297

CHAPTER XVH.
Conclusion . . . . . . .312

CHAPTER I.

** DIR, O Stiles That, Grass Sum
LETZTEXMAL !"

The train roared and jangled through the
long black night ; and always before her shut
but sleepless eyes rose vision after vision of
that which she was leaving for ever behind —
her girlhood. So quiet and beautiful, so rich
in affection and kindness, that appeared to
her now ; she could scarce believe that it was
herself she saw, in those recurrent scenes, so
glad and joyous and light-hearted. That
was all over. Already it seemed far away.
She beheld herself walking with her father
along the still valley, in the moonlight ; or
out on the blue waters of the loch, With the
sun hot on the gunwale of the boat ; or away
up on the lonely hillsides, where the neigh-vol.

III. B

boyhood of the watercourses was marked
by a wandering blaze of gold — widespread
masses of the yellow saxifrage ; or seated at
the head of the dinner-table, with her friends
laughing and talking ; and all that life was
grown distant now. She was as one expelled
from Paradise. And sometimes, in spite of
herself — in spite of all her wise and firm resolves
— her heart would utter to itself a sort
of cry of despair. Why did he refuse her
that bit of a flower to take away with her ^.
It was so small a thing. And then she
thought of the look of his eyes as he regarded
her ; of the great pity and tenderness shining
there ; and of the words of courage and hope
that he had spoken to her as she left. Well,
she would show herself worthy of his faith in
her. She would force away from her those
idle regrets over a too-beautiful past. A new
life was opening before her ; she was content
to accept whatever it might bring. Who
could grudge to her this long, last review of
the life she was leaving for ever ? Farewell —
farewell ! She was not even carrying away
with her a bit of a leaf or a blossom, to
awaken memories, in the after time, of the

garden in which she had so often stood in the
white clear air, with the sunlight all around
her. Well, it was better so. And perhaps
in the new life that she was entering she
would find such duties and occupations as
would effectually prevent the recurrence of
this long night's torture — this vision-building
out of the past, this inexplicable yearning,
this vain stretching out of the hands to that
she was leaving for ever.

Towards morning she slept a little, but
not much ; however, on the first occasion of
her opening her eyes, she found that the gray
light of the new day was around her. For
an instant a shock of fear overcame her —
a sudden sense of helplessness and affright.
She was so strangely situated ; she was drawing
near the great, dread city ; she knew not
what lay before her ; and she felt so much
alone. Despite herself, tears began to trickle
down her face, and her lips were tremulous.
This new day seemed terrible, and she was
helpless — and alone.

** Dear me, Miss," said Jane, happening
to wake up at this moment, " ' what is the
matters"

** It is nothing," her young mistress said.
'* I — I have scarcely slept at all these two
nights, and I feel rather weak and — and — not
very well. It is no matter."

But the tears fell faster now ; and this
sense of weakness and helplessness completely
overpowered her. She fairly broke down.

I will tell you what it is," she sobbed, ina
kind of recklessness of despair. " It is
that I have undertaken to do what is beyond
me. I am not fit for it. They have asked
too much of me. It is beyond what I can
do. What can I do ? — when I feel that I
should be happy if I could only lie down and
die, and be the cause of no more trouble to
any one !"

The maid was very much startled by these
words, though she little guessed the cause of
them. And indeed her young mistress very
speedily — and by a force of will that she did
not suspect herself of possessing — put an end
to this half-hysterical fit. She drew herself
up erect ; she dried her eyes ; and she told
Jane that as soon as they got to the hotel she
would go to bed for an hour or two and try
to get some sleep ; for that really this long fit

of wakefulness had filled her head with all
sorts of ridiculous fancies.

And that was the last sign of weakness.
Pale her face might be, as she set about the
undertaking of this duty ; but she had steeled
her heart. Fortunately, when they got to
the hotel, and when she had had some breakfast,
she was able to snatch an hour or two's
sound and refreshing sleep in the silence of
her own room ; and when she reappeared
even the dull-witted Jane noticed how much
better and brisker she looked. Nay, there
was even a kind of hopefulness and cheerfulness
in the way she set about making her
preparations. And first of all she told Jane
fully and frankly of the errand on which she
had come to London ; and this, as it turned
out, was a wise thing to do ; for the good
Jane regarded the whole situation, and her
probable share in the adventure, with a stolid
self-sufficiency which was as good as any
courage. Oh, she said, she was not afraid of
such people ! Probably she knew better how
to manage them than a young lady would.
They wouldn't frighten her! And she not
obscurely hinted that, if there was any kind

of incivility going on, she was quite capable
of giving as good as she got.

Yolande had resolved, among other things,
that, while she would implicitly obey Mr.
Melville's instructions about making that
appeal to her mother entirely unaided and
unaccompanied, she might also prudently
follow her father's advice and get such help
as was necessary, with regard to preliminary
arrangements, from his solicitors ; more especially
as she had met one of those gentlemen
two or three times, and so far was on friendly
terms with him. Accordingly, one of the
first things she did was to get into a cab,
accompanied by her maid, and drive to the
offices of Lawrence and Lang in Lincoln's-inn-fields.
She asked for Mr. Lang ; and
by and by was shown into that gentleman's
room. He was a tall, elderly person, with
white hair, a shrewd, thin face, and humorous,
good-natured smile.

Take a seat, Miss Winterbourne," said
he. " Very lucky you came now. In another
ten minutes I should have been off to seek

you at the Hotel ; and we should have

crossed each other."

But how did you know I was at the

Hotel?" she said, with a stare of

astonishment.

*' Oh, we lawyers are supposed to know
everything," he answered, good-naturedly.
"And I may tell you that I know of the
business that has brought you to London ;
and that we shall be most happy to give you
all the assistance in our power."

But how can you know ?" the girl said,
bewildered. "It was only the day before
yesterday I decided to go ; and it was only
this morning I reached London. Did my
papa write to you, then, without telling me.-*"

My dear young lady, if I were to answer
your questions, you would no longer believe
in the omniscience of lawyers ! " he said, with
his grave smile. " No, no ; you must assume
that we know everything. And let me tell
you that the step you are taking, though it is
a bold one, deserves to be successful ; perhaps
it will be successful because it is a bold one.
I hope so. But you must be prepared for a
shock. Your mother has been ill."

Ah ! " said Yolande — but no more. She
held her hands clasped.

'' I say she has been ill," said this elderly
suave person, who seemed to regard the girl
with a very kindly interest. "Now she is
better. Three weeks ago my clerk found
her unable to sign the receipt that he usually
brings away with him ; and I was about to
write to your father, when I thought I would
wait a day or two and see ; and, fortunately
she got a little better. However, you must be
prepared to find her looking ill ; and — and —
well, I was going to say she might be incapable
of recognising you ; but I forgot. In
the meantime we shall be pleased to be of
every assistance to you in our power ; in fact,
we have been instructed to consider you asunder
our protection. I hope you find the
Hotel comfortable ? "

*' Oh yes — oh yes," Yolande said, absently ;
she was not thinking of any hotel ; she was
thinking in what way these people could be
of help to her.

'* Of course," said he, "when you go to
see your mother, I could send some one with
you, if you wished it ; or I would go with
you myself, for that matter ; but I understand
that is not considered desirable."

Oh no," said she ; " I must go alone. I
wish to see her alone."

'ras for your personal safety," said he,
that need not alarm you. Your friends maybe
anxious about you, no doubt ; but the very
worst that can happen will be a little impertinence.
You won't mind that. I shall have
a policeman in plain clothes standing by ; if
your maid should consider It necessary, she
can easily summon him to you. She will be
inside ; he outside ; so you have nothing to
fear."

'' Then you know all how it has been
arranged ! " she exclaimed.

'' Why, yes ; it Is our business here to
know everything," said he, laughing, 'though
we are not allowed sometimes to say how we
came by the information. Now what else
can we do for you ? Let me see. If your
poor mother will go with you, you might
wish to take her to some quiet seaside place,
perhaps, for her health ? "

"Oh yes ; I wish to take her away from
London at once ! " Yolande said, eagerly.

"Well, a client of ours has just left some
lodgings at Worthing — in fact, we have

recommended them, on one or two occasions,
and we have been told that they gave satisfaction.
The rooms are clean and nicely
furnished, and the landlady is civil and
obliging. She is a gentlewoman, in short, in
reduced circumstances, but not over preaching.
I think you might safely take the
rooms."

'' Will you give me the address, if you
please ? "

He wrote the address on a card, and gave
it her.

'* But do not trouble to write," said he ;
"■ we will do that for you, and arrange terms."

'' But I must go down to see the place
first," said she. " I can go there and get
back in one day — tomorrow — can I not '^ "

'* But why should you give yourself so
much trouble .'^ " he said.

*' What a daughter can do for her own
mother, that is not called trouble," she answered,
simply. "Is Worthing a large town ? "

No ; not a large town. It is one of the
smaller watering-places."

'' But one could hire there a pony and a
pony-chaise ? "

'' Undoubtedly."

'rand could one take the rooms and hire
the pony and pony-chaise conditionally ? "

'' I don't quite understand you."

'' Could one say, ' Yes, I shall want these
most likely ; but if I telegraph to you
tomorrow or next day that I do not want
them, then there is no bargain and there is
nothing to pay ' V

I have no doubt they would make that
arrangement with you. That would be merely
reserving the refusal for you for a certain
number of days."

'' Two days at the most," said Yolande,
who seemed to have studied this matter —
even as she used to study the details of her
future housekeeping at Allt-nam-ba when she
was sitting on the deck of the great steamer
with the Mediterranean sea around her.

'' May I presume to ask," said he,
'whether you are sufficiently supplied with
money ? We have no instructions from your
father ; but we shall be pleased if you consider
us your bankers."

I have only eight or nine pounds," said
she, " in money ; but also I have three

blank cheques which my papa signed : that
is enough, is it not ? "

'* Well, yes, I should say that was enough,"
he remarked, with a perfectly subdued irony.
*' But those blank cheques are dangerous
things, if you will permit me to say so.
I would strongly advise you, my dear Miss
Winterbourne, to destroy them ; and to send
to us for such sums as you may want from
time to time. That would be much the safer
plan. And if there is any other particular in
which we can be of the least assistance to
you, you will please let us know. We can
always send some one to you, and a telegram
from Worthing only costs a shilling. As we
have received such strict injunctions about
looking after you, we must keep up our
character as your guardian."

I thought you said my papa had not sent
you any instructions ? " Yolande exclaimed
again.

'' About the cheques, my dear young lady,"
said he, promptly.

'' Then I wish you to tell me something
of those people — I wish to know who and
what they are."

** I think, Miss Winterbourne," said he,
gravely, " that the information would not
edify you much."

'' But I wish to know," said she ; " I wish
to know the sort of people one must expect
to find there."

'' The facts are simple, then. He is a
drunken scoundrel, to put the matter shortly.
I believe he was once in a fairly good position
I rather think he was called to the Bar ;
but he never practised. Betting on races and
drink finished him, between them. Then
he tried to float a bit by marrying the proprietress
of a public-house — an illiterate
woman ; but he drank through her money,
and the public-house, and everything. Now
they are supposed to let out this house in
rooms : but, as that would involve trouble,
my own impression is they have no lodgers
but your mother, and are content to live
on the very ample allowance that we are
instructed to pay her monthly. Well, no
doubt, they will be very angry if you succeed
in taking away from them their source of
income ; and the man, if he is drunk, may be
impertinent ; but that is all you have to fear.

I would strongly advise you to go in the
evening. Then the presence of the policeman
in the street will not arouse suspicion ;
and if there should be any trifling disturbance
it will be less likely to attract the notice of
bystanders. Might I ask — please forgive
me if I am impertinent " — he said, '' but I
have known all about this sad story from the
beginning, and I am naturally curious — may
I ask whether the idea of your going to your
mother, alone, and taking her away with you,
alone, was a suggestion of your father's ? "

'' It was not," said she, with downcast
eyes. 'rit was the suggestion of a friend
whose acquaintanceship— whose friendship — :
we made in the Highlands — a Mr. Melville."

'* Ah," said he ; and he glanced at a card
that was lying before him on the table. "It
is bold — bold," he added, musingly. '' One
thing is certain, everything else has failed.
My dear young lady, I am afraid, however
successful you may be, your life for sometime
to come will not be as happy and cheerful
as one could wish for one of your age."

'that I am not particular about," said
Yolande, absently.

** However, in a matter of this kind, it is
not my place to advise : I am a servant only.
You are going down to Worthing tomorrow ;
I will give you a list of trains there and back,
to save you the trouble of hunting through a
time-table. You will be back in the evening.
Now, do you think it desirable that I should
get this man whom I mean to employ in your
service to hang about the neighbourhood
of the house tomorrow, just to get some
notion of the comings and goings of the
people '^. "

'' I think it would be most desirable,"
Yolande said.

'' Very well ; it shall be done. Let me
see ; this is Thursday ; tomorrow you go to
Worthing ; could you call here on Saturday
to hear what the man has to say, or shall he
wait on you at the Hotel ? "

** I would rather call here," she said.

'* Very well ; and what hour would be
most convenient ? "

Ten — is it too soon ? "

Not at all," said he, jotting down a
memorandum on a diary before him. " Now
one thing more. Will you oblige me by

burning those cheques ; I will write to your
father, and take the responsibility."

If you think it right I will," she said, *' as
soon as I go back to the hotel."

"And here," he continued, going to a safe
and fetching out some Bank of England notes,
'ris £2^ in ^5 notes ; it is not so serious a
matter if one of those should go astray.
Please put these in your purse. Miss Winterbourne
; and when you want any further sums,
you have only to write to us."

She thanked him, and rose, and bade him
good-bye.

Good-bye, Miss Winterbourne," said hein
a very friendly way ; *' and please to
remember that although, of course, all the
resources of our firm are at your disposal, asa
matter of business, still I hope you may
count on us for something more than that, if
there is any way we can help you — I mean ina
private and personal way. If any such
occasion should arise, please remember that
your father and I were friends together in
Slagpool five-and-thirty years ago ; and anything
that I can do for his daughter will be a
great pleasure to me."

As she left, she thought that London did
not seem to be, after all, such a terrible place
to be alone in. Here was protection, guardianship,
friendship, and assistance put all around
her at the very outset. There were no more
qualms or sinking of the heart now. When
she got outside, it suddenly occurred to her
that she would like to go away in search of
the street in which her mother lived, and
reconnoitre the house. Might there not be
some chance of her coming out — the day was
fairly fine for London ? And how strange to
see her mother walking before her. She felt
sure she should recognise her. And then —
perhaps — what if one were suddenly to discard
all preparations ? — what if she were to be
quickly caught, and carried off, and transferred

to the safety of the Hotel before any one

could interfere ?

But when she had ordered the cabman to
drive to Oxford Circus, and got into the cab,
along with Jane, she firmly put away from her
all these wild possibilities. This undertaking
was too serious a matter to be imperilled by
any rashness. She might look at the street,
at the house, at the windows ; but not if her

VOL. III. c

mother were to come out and pass her by,
touching her skirts even, would she declare
herself. She was determined to be worthy
of the trust that had been placed in her.

At Oxford Circus they dismissed the cab,
and walked some short distance until they
found the place they were in search of — a
dull, respectable-looking, quiet, misty little
thoroughfare, lying just back from the continuous
roar of Oxford Street. She passed
the house once or twice, too, knowing it by
its number ; but there was no sign of life in
it. The small, curtained windows showed no
one sitting there or looking out. She waited
and waited ; went to distant points, and
watched ; but, save for an occasional butcher's
boy or postman, the street remained uniformly
empty. Then she remembered that it was
drawing towards the afternoon, and that poor
Jane was probably starving ; so she called
another cab, and drove to the Hotel.

Next day was a busy day — after that life
of quietude far away among the hills. She
got to Worthing about twelve ; and went
straight to the lodgings that had been recommended
by Mr. Lang, which she found in

one of the brio-ht and cheerful-looking terraces
fronting the sea. She was much pleased with
the rooms, which were on the first floor — the
sitting-room opening on to a balcony prettily
decorated with flowers : and she also took
rather a fancy to the little old lady herself,
who was at first rather anxious and nervous,
but who grew more friendly under the influence
of Yolande's calm and patronising gentleness.
Under the conditions mentioned to
]Mr. Lang, she took the rooms : and gave her
name and address, and her father's name and
address, adding, with the smallest touch of
pride —

Of course you know him by reputation."
"Oh yes, indeed," somewhat vaguely said
this timid, pretty, little old lady, who was the
widow of a cleror\-man, and whose sole and
whole notion of politics was that the Radicals
and other evil-disposed persons of that kind
were plotting the destruction of the Church
of England, which to her meant nothing
nor less than the swallowing up of the

&

^P

visible universe. "He is in Parliament, is
he not ?''

Yes," said Yolande ; "and some people

wish he were not there. He. is a little too
honest and outspoken for them."

Next she went to a livery-stable keeper,
and asked about his terms for the hire of a
pony and pony-carriage. These terms seemed
to her reasonable, but they were not ; for she
was judging them by the Inverness standard,
whereas that standard is abnormally high, for
the reason that the Inverness livery-stable
keepers have demands made on them for only
two, or at most, three months in the year, and
are quite content, for the other nine months,
to lend out their large stock of horses for
nothing to any of the neighbouring lairds or
farmers who will take them and feed them.
However, the matter was not a serious one.

The next morning she called at the office
of Messrs. Lawrence and Lang; heard what
the man who had been posted in that little
thoroughfare had to say ; and arranged that
she should go alone to the house that evening
at eight o'clock. She had no longer in her
eyes the pretty timidity and bashfulness of a
child ; she bore herself with the demeanour
of a woman.

AN ABDUCTION.

A FEW minutes before eight on that evening,
in the thoroughfare just mentioned, a short,
thick-set man was standing by a lamp-post,
either trying to read, or pretending to read,
an evening newspaper by the dull, yellow
light. Presently a hansom cab drove up to
the corner of the street and stopped there ;
and a taller and younger man got out and
came along to the lamp-post.

I would go a dozen yards nearer," said
the new-comer.

'every well, sir," said the other; and then
he added : " The master of the house has just
gone out, sir."

So much the better," said the younger
man, carelessly. " There will be the less
bother — probably none at all. But you keep
a little bit nearer, after the young lady has
gone into the house."

'every well, sir."

The new-comer apparently did not consider
that any great vigilance or surveillance
would be necessary ; but all the same, while
he still left the hansom at the corner of the
street, he walked along a few yards farther
(glancing in passing at the windows of one
of the houses), until he came to a narrow
entry leading down into a courtyard ; and
there a step or two into the gloom of the
little passage effectually hid him from sight.

Punctually at eight o'clock, a four-wheeled
cab appeared and drew up ; and Yolande
got out, followed by her maid. Without
delay or hesitation she crossed the pavement,
and knocked at the door. A girl of about
fifteen opened it.

"Is Mrs. Winterbourne within ? " said
Yolande, calmly.

The girl eyed her doubtfully.

"Y— es. Miss."

*' I wish to see her, if you please."

Y — es. Miss — if you wait for a moment
I'll go and tell missis."

'' No," said Yolande, promptly — and she
passed into the lobby without further ado.

"No; I will not trouble your mistress.
Please show me where I shall find Mrs. Winterbourne
; that is enough."

Now the girl looked frightened ; for the
two strangers were inside ; and she glanced
behind her to see whether her mistress were
not coming to her relief. Moreover, this
tall young lady had an imperious way with
her.

Which is her room ? "

''T — that is her sitting-room," stammered
the girl — indeed, they were all standing just
outside the door of it.

'thank you," she said, and she put her
hand on the handle of the door. " Jane, wait
for me." The next moment she was inside
the room, and the door shut behind her.

A spasm of fear caught her and struck her
motionless. Some one sat there — some one
in a chair — idly looking into the fire — a newspaper
flung aside. And what horror might
not have to be encountered now ? She had
been warned ; she had prepared herself ; but
still

Then the next moment a great flood of
pity and joy and gratitude filled her heart :;

for the face that was turned to her — that regarded
her with a mild surprise — though it
was emaciated and paled, was not unlovable ;
and the eyes were large and strange and
melancholy. This poor lady rose, and with
a gentle curtsey regarded her visitor, and
said —

'' I beg your pardon ; I did not hear you
come into! the room."

What a strange voice — hollow and distant ;
and it was clear that she was looking at this
new-comer only with a vague, half pleased
curiosity, not with any natural wonder at
such an intrusion. Yolande could not speak.
She forgot all that she had meant to say.
Her heart seemed to be choking her.

'* Mother," she managed to say at length,
"you do not know, then, that I am your
daughter ? "

''My Yolande?" she said — and she retreated
a step, as if in fear. 'you are not
my Yolande — you ? "

She regarded her apparently with some
strange kind of dread — as if she were an
apparition. There was no wonder, or joy,
or sudden impulse of affection.

"You — you cannot be my Yolande — my
daughter ? "

But indeed I am, mother," said the girl,
with the tears running down her face in spite
of herself. ''Ah, it is cruel that I should
come to you as a stranger — that you should
have no word of kindness for me. But no
matter. We shall soon make up for all these
years. Mother, I have come to take you
away. You must no longer be here, alone.
You will come with me, will you not V'

The pale, emaciated, hollow-voiced woman
came nearer now, and took Yolande's hand,
and regarded her with a kind of vague,
pleased curiosity and kindness.

And you are really my Yolande, then ?
How tall you are ; and beautiful, too — like
an angel. When I have thought of you, it
was not like this. What beautiful, beautiful
hair ; and so straight you have grown, and
tall ! So they have sent you to me at last.
But it is too late now — too late."

No, no, mother ; it is not too late ! You
will come away with me, will you not — now
at once ? "

The other shook her head sadly ; and yet

It was obvious that she was taking more and
more Interest In her daughter — regarding
her from top to toe, admiring her dress even,
and all the time holding her hand.

Oh no, I cannot go away with you," she
said. 'rit is not for you to be hampered with
one like me. I am content. I am at peace
here. I am quite happy here. You are
young, rich, beautiful ; you will have a beautiful
life; everything beautiful round you. It
is so strange to look at you ! And who sent
you ? The lawyers, I suppose. What do
they want now ? Why do they not let me
alone ? "

She let the girl's hand fall, and turned
away dejectedly, and sank down into the
easy-chair again, with a sigh. But Yolande
was mistress of herself now. She went forward,
put her hand upon her mothers
shoulder, and said firmly —

'' Mother, I will not allow you to remain
here. It is not a fit place for you. I have
come to take you away myself; the lawyers
have not sent me ; they want nothing. Dear
mother, do make up your mind to come away
with me — now ! "

Her entreaty was urgent ; for she could
hear distinctly that there were some " high
words " being bandied in the lobby ; and she
wished to get her mother away without any
unseemly squabble.

Do, mother ! Everything Is ready. You
and I will go away together to Worthing ;
and the sea air and the country drives will
soon make you well again. I have got
everything prepared for you — pretty rooms
fronting the sea ; and a balcony where you
can sit and read ; and I have a pony carriage
to take you for drives through the lanes.
Ah, now, to think It is your own daughter
who is asking you ! You cannot refuse !
You cannot refuse ! "

She had risen again, and taken Yolande's
hand ; but her look was hesitating, bewildered.


"They will be angry," said she, timidly;
for now the dissension without was clearly
audible.

'who, then?" said Yolande, proudly.
"You will leave them to me, mother; I am
not afraid. Ah, If you saw how much prettier
the rooms are at Worthing ! — yes ; and no

longer you will have to sit alone by yourself
in the evening. Come, mother ! "

At this moment the door opened : and a
short, stout, red-faced, black-haired woman
made her appearance. It was clear that the
altercation with Jane had not improved her
temper.

'' I beg your pardon, young lady," said
she, with studied deference, 'but I want to
know what this means."

Yolande turned, with flashing eyes.

Leave the room ! "

For a second the woman was cowed by
her manner; but the next moment she had
bridled up again.

*' Leave the room, indeed ! Leave the
room — in my own house! Not until I'm
paid. And what's more, the poor dear lady
isn't going to be taken away against her will.
She knows who her friends are. She knows
who have looked after her and nursed her.
She shan't be forced away from the house
against her will, I warrant you."

Leave the room this instant, or I will
send for a policeman ! " Yolande said ; and
she had drawn herself up to her full height ;

for her mother, poor creature, was timidly
shrinking behind her.

"A policeman! Hoity-toity!" said the
other, with her little black eyes sparkling.
You'd better have no policeman in here.
It's not them that are robbing a poor woman
that should call for a policeman. But you
haven't taken her with you yet ; and what's
more, she shan't move an inch out of this
house until every farthing that's owing to us
is paid — that she shan't. We're not going to
be robbed, so long as there's the law. Not
till every farthing is paid, I warrant you ! — so
perhaps you'll let the poor dear lady alone,
and leave her in the care of them that she
knows to be her friends. A policeman,
indeed ! Not one step shall she budge until
every farthing of her debt is paid ! "

Now for the moment Yolande was completely
disconcerted. It was a point she had
not foreseen ; it was a point, therefore, on
which she had asked no counsel. She had
been assured by Mr. Lang that she had
nothing to fear in taking away her mother
from this house — that she was acting strictly
within her legal rights. But how about this

question of debt ? Could they really detain
her ? Outwardly, however, she showed no
symptom of this sudden doubt. She said to
the woman with perfect calmness —

'your impertinence will be of little use to
you. My mother is going with me ; I am
her guardian ; if you interfere with me, it will
be at your own peril. If my mother owes
you anything, it will be paid."

'how am I to know that .^ Here she is,
and here she shall remain, until every farthing
is paid. We are not going to be robbed in
that way !"

I tell you that whatever is owing to you
will be paid," said Yolande. "You need not
pretend that you have any fear of being
robbed ; you know you will be paid. And
now, I wish you to tell me where my mother's
things are. Which is her bedroom? "

I'll show you whether you can ride the
high horse over me ! " said the woman, with
her eyes glittering with anger. " I'll go and
fetch my husband — that I will." And the
next second she had left the room and the
house too — running out into the night bareheaded.


Now, mother," said Yolande, quickly,
'now is our chance! Where are your
things ? Oh, you must not think of packing
anything ; we will send for what you want
tomorrow. But do you really owe these
people anything ? "

I don't know," said her mother, who
seemed to have been terrified by this threat
on the part of the woman.

"Well, then, where is your hat? — where
is your shawl ? Where is your room ? "

Almost mechanically she opened the fold-indoors
that formed one side of the apartment,
disclosing beyond a bedroom. Yolande
preceded her, picked up the things she
wanted, and helped her to put them on.

Come, now, mother ; we will get away
before they come back. Oh, you need not
be afraid. Everything is arranged for you.
There is a cab waiting for us outside."

"Who is in it ?" said the mother, drawing
back with a gesture of fear.

"Why, no one at all!" said Yolande,
cheerfully. " But my maid is just outside, in
the passage. Come along, mother!"

Where are we going T'

'' To the hotel where I am staying, to be
sure ! Everything is arranged for you — weare
to have supper together — you and I — all
by ourselves. Will that please you, mother ?"

"Wait for a moment, then."

She went back into the bedroom ; and
almost instantly reappeared — glancing at
Yolande with a quick furtive look that the
girl did not understand. She understood
after.

Come, then !"

She took her mother. by the hand and led
her as if she were a child. In the lobby they
encountered Jane ; and Jane was angry.

"Another minute, Miss, and I would have
turned her out by the shoulders!" she said,
savagely.

''Oh, it is all right," said Yolande, briskly.
'' Everything is quite right ! Open the door,
Jane — there's a good girl."

They had got out from the house, and
were indeed crossing the pavement, when the
landlady again made her appearance, coming
hurriedly up in the company of a man who
looked like (what he was) a butler out of
employment, and who was obviously drunk.

He began to hector and bully. He interposed
himself between them and the cab.

'' You aunt going away like this ! You
aunt going to rob poor people like this ! You
come back into the house until we settle this
affair."

Now Yolande's only aim was to get clear
of the man and to get her mother put into the
cab ; but he stood in front of her, whichever
way she made the attempt ; and at last he
put his hand on her arm, to force her back to
the house. It was an unfortunate thing for
him that he did so. There was a sudden
crash ; the man reeled back, staggered, and
then fell like a log on to the pavement ;
and Yolande, bewildered by the instantaneous
nature of the whole occurrence, only knew
that something like a black shadow had
gone swiftly by. All this appeared to have
happened in a moment ; and in that same
moment here was the policeman in plain
clothes, whom she knew by sight.

"What a shame to strike the poor man !"
said he to the landlady, who was on her knees,
shrieking, by the side of her husband. " But
he aunt much hurt, mum. I'll help him in-vol.

III. D

doors, mum. I'm a constable, I am; I wish
I knew who done that ; I'd have the law again
him."

As he uttered these words of consolation,
he regarded the prostrate man with perfect
equanimity ; and a glance over his shoulder
informed him that, in the confusion, Yolande
and her mother and the maid had got into
the cab and driven off. Then he proceeded
to raise the stupefied ex-butler, who certainly
had received a " facer ; " but who presently
came to himself as near as the fumes of rum
would allow. Nay, he helped, or rather
steadied, the man into the house ; and assured
the excited landlady that the law would find
out who had committed this outrage ; but he
refused the offer of a glass of something, on
the plea that he was on duty. Then he took
down the number of the house in his notebook
and left.

As he walked along the street, he was
suddenly accosted by the tall, broad-shouldered
young man who had disappeared into the narrow
entry.

*' Why weren't you up in time ?" said the
latter, angrily.

Lor, sir, you was so quick !"

'* Is that drunken idiot hurt ?"

"Well, sir, he may 'ave a black eye in the
morning — maybe a pair on 'em. But 'taint
no matter. He'll think he run again a lamp-post.
He's as drunk as drunk."

"What was the row about .^ — I couldn't
hear a word."

"Why, sir, they said as the lady owed
them something."

Oh, that was the dodge. However, it's
all settled now ; very well settled. Let me
see, I suppose Lawrence and Lang pay you .^"

Yes, sir."

"Well, you know, I don't think you did
your best. You weren't sharp enough. When
you saw that drunken brute seize hold of the
young lady's arm, you should have been thereon
the spot — on the instant "

Lor, sir, you was so quick ! — and the man
went over like a ninepin "

Well, the affair is satisfactory as it stands,"
said the younger and taller man ; " and I am
well satisfied, and so I suppose you don't
mind my adding a sovereign to what Lawrence
and Lang will give you."

'' Thank ye, sir," said the man, touching
his cap.

Here you are, then. Good-night."

Good-night, sir."

Then the younger man walked on to the
corner of the street ; jumped into the hansom
that was still awaiting him there ; called
through the trap-door to the driver "• United
University Club, corner of Suffolk Street,
Pall Mall," and so was driven off

That same night Yolande wrote the following
letter to her father : —

'' My dear Papa — I wish that I might
write this letter in French, for my heart is so
full ; but I know you would not like it, so I
will do may best in English. It is all over
and settled ; my mother is with me — in this
room where I am writing — reading a little,
but not so agitated by the events of the day,
or rather this evening, that one might expect.
It is I who am agitated ; please forgive any
errors. But, oh, it was the saddest thing
ever seen in the world, for a mother to be
standing opposite her own daughter, and not
caring for her — not knowing her. We were

two strangers. But my heart was glad. I
had had the apprehension that I should have
to overcome emotions ; that it might be only
duty that would keep me by her side ; but
no, no. when I saw her face, and her gentle
eyes. I s?.': r: myself how easy would be the
task of .owing her as a daughter should.
Dear papa, she is so ill ; and also she seems
so far away and absorbed and sad. She is
only a little interested in me — only a little.
But yet I think she is pleased. I have
shown her what wardrobe I have with me,
and that pleased her a little ; but it is I who
will have to be the guardian, and buy things
for her. She was pleased with my dressing-bag
; and tomorrow I am going to buy her
the most beautiful one I can get in London.
Mr. Lang asked me to burn the three blank
cheques you gave me ; and I did that ; and I
am to have money from him ; but after the
dressing-bag, 1 hope there will not be much
expense ; tor we shall be living quietly at
\\'orthino^, and I know that when you crave
Mrs, Graham the tx r::-'. - Piece of broderie
at Cairo you wil riOt-;rua-;c me that 1 olive
my mother a beautiful dressing-bag.

"It has all happened just as Mr. Melville
planned ; how he could have foreseen so
much I cannot tell ; perhaps it is that I
followed to his instructions as nearly as I
could. The people were insolent somewhat ;
but to me, not to my mother ; so that is right.
But at the end, when we were coming away,
the man seized me, and then I was frightened
he wished me to go back into the house —
and then, I know not how, he was struck and
fell, — perhaps by the policeman it was, but I
did not stay to look ; I hurried my mother
into the cab, and we are here safe and sound.
Poor Jane is so angry. She demands to go
back tomorrow, to recover some things of
my mother's, and also that she wants to
have it out ' with the woman because of the
way she spoke to me ; but this I will not
allow ; I shall write to Messrs. Lawrence
and Lang to-night to send some one ; also to
pay whatever is owing.

She has just come over and stroked my
hair, and gone back to her chair again ; I
think she is a little more affectionate to me
now ; and oh ! I am so anxious to get away
to the sea air, that it may wake her out of

this lethargy. I know it will ; I am sure of
it. We have got such cheerful rooms. The

address, dear papa, is Arbutus Villa,

Terrace, Worthing ; please give it to Duncan,
and tell him to send me each week a brace
of grouse, a brace of black game, one or two
hares, and any odd ptarmigan or snipe you
may get ; then I will know that they are
good. To-night we had supper together;
alas ! she ate scarcely anything. I asked if
she would have a little wine — no ; she seemed
to have a horror of it — even to be frightened.
She came round the table, and took me by
the hand, and begged of me to be always
with her. I said was not that what I had
come for ? She said, with such a strange
voice, 'I need help — I need help;' and I
answered that now everything was to be
reversed, and that I was to be the mother to
her, and to take charge of her. Then she
cried a little ; but I think she was pleased
with me ; and when I said that I wanted to
write a letter, after we had finished, she said
she would read until I had written the letter,
and then that she wished to hear where I had
been, and how I had lived in the Highlands.

Perhaps in time I will persuade her to be
affectionate to me ; on my part, it will not be
difficult that I should soon love her ; for she
is gentle, and to regard her fills one's heart
with pity. I had great terror that it might
not be so.

''To-morrow, if it is possible, I think we
will get away to Worthing ; I am anxious
to begin my guardianship. Perhaps by a
middle-day train — if I have to buy some
things for my mother. Or why not there,
where we shall have plenty of time ? I wish
to see her away from the town — in clear,
brisk air ; then we shall have the long, quiet,
beautiful days to become acquainted with
each other. It is so strange, is it not, a
mother and daughter becoming acquainted
with each other '^. But, since I am her
guardian, I must not let her sit up too late ;
and so good-night, dear, dear papa, from
your affectionate daughter,

**Y0LANDE."

That was naturally the end of the letter ;
and yet she held it open before her for sometime,
in hesitation. And then she took her

pen and added : '' I cannot tell you how glad
it would make me if you had time to write a
long letter to me about Allt-nam-ba, and all
the people there ; for one cannot help looking
back to the place where one has been
happy."

A BEGINNING.

Despite all her hurrying, however, Yolande
did not manage to get away from London on
the day following ; it was not until early the
next morning that she and her mother and
the maid found themselves finally in the train,
and the great city left behind for good. The
weather was brilliant and shining around
them ; and the autumn-tinted woods were
glorious in colour. To these, or any other
passing object, Yolande, in her capacity of
guardian, drew cheerful attention, treating
the journey, indeed, as a very ordinary everyday
affair ; but the sad-eyed mother seemed
hardly capable of regarding anything but her
daughter — and that sometimes with a little
bit of stealthy crying.

"Ah," she said, in those strangely hollow
tones, '' it is kind of you to come and let me
see you for a little while."

'' A little while ? What little while,
then ?" said Yolande, with a stare.

Until I OTQ back."

Until you go back where, mother ?"

'anywhere — away from you," said the
mother, regarding the girl with an affectionate
and yet wistful look. 'rit was in a dream
that I came away from the house with you.
You seemed calling me in a dream. But
now I am beginning to wake. At the station
there were two ladies ; I saw them looking
at us ; and I knew what they were thinking.
They were wondering to see a beautiful
young life like yours linked to a life like
mine ; and they were right. I could see it
in their eyes."

They would have been better employed
in minding their own business !" said Yolande,
angrily.

No ; they were right," said her mother,
calmly ; and then she added with a curious
sort of smile : " But I am going to be with
you for a little while. I am not going away
yet. I want to learn all about you, and
understand you ; then I shall know what to
think when I hear of you afterwards. You

will have a happy life ; I shall hear of you
perhaps and be proud and glad ; I shall
think of you always as young and happy and
beautiful ; and when you go back to your
friends "

'' Dear mother," said Yolande, '' I wish
you would not talk nonsense. When I go
back to my friends ! I am not going back
to any friends until you go back with me ;
do you understand that T'

I ?" said she ; and for a second there
was a look of fright on her face. Then she
shook her head sadly. " No, no. My life
is wrecked and done for ; yours is all before
you — without a cloud, without a shadow.
As for me, I am content. I will stay with
you a little while, and get to know you ;
then I will go away — how could I live if I
knew that I was the shadow on your life ?"

*' Well, yes, mother, you have got a good
deal to learn about me," said Yolande, serenely.
It is very clear that you don't know what a
temper I have, or you would not be so
anxious to provoke me to anger. But please
remember that it isn't what you want, or
what you intend to do — it is what I may be

disposed to allow you to do. I have been
spoiled all my life ; that is one thing you will
have to learn about me. I always have my
own way. You will find that out very soon ;
and then you will give over making foolish
plans, or thinking that it is for you to decide.
Do you think I have stolen you away, and
carried you into slavery, to let you do as
you please ? Not at all ; it is far from that.
As soon as we get to Worthing I am going
to get you a prettier bonnet than that — I
know the shop perfectly — I saw it the other
day. But do you think I will permit you to
choose the colour ? No ; not at all ! Not
at all. And as for your going away, or going
back, or going anywhere — oh, we will see
about that, I assure you ! "

For the time being, at all events, the
mother did not protest. She seemed more
and more fascinated by the society of her
daughter ; and appeared quite absorbed in
regarding the bright young fresh face, and in
listening with a strange curiosity for the
slight traces of a foreign accent that remained
in Yolande s talking. As for the girl herself,
she bore herself in the most matter-of-fact

way. She would have no sentiment interfere.
And always it was assumed that her mother
was merely an invalid whom the sea air
would restore to health ; not a word was said
as to the cause of her present condition.

Worthing looked bright and cheerful on
this breezy forenoon. The wind - swept
yellow-gray sea was struck a gleaming silver
here or there with floods of sunlight ; the
morning promenaders had not yet gone in to
lunch ; a band was playing at the end of the
pier. When they got to the rooms, they
found that every preparation had been made
to receive them ; and in the bay-window they
discovered a large telescope which the little
old lady said she had borrowed from a neighbour
whose rooms were unlet. Yolande
managed everything — Jane being a helpless
kind of creature ; and the mother submitted,
occasionally with a touch of amusement
appearing in her manner. But usually she
was rather sad, and her eyes had an absent
look in them.

'' Now let me see," said Yolande, briskly,
as they sat at lunch (Jane waiting on them).
There is really so much to be done, that I

don't know where we should begin. Oh yes,
I do. First we will walk along to the shops
and buy your bonnet. Then to a chemist's
for some scent for your dressing-bag. Then
we must get glass dishes for flowers for the
table — one round one for the middle, and
two semicircles. Then when we come back
the pony carriage must be waiting for us ;
and we will give you a few minutes to put on
the bonnet, dear mother ; and then we will
go away for a drive into the country.
Perhaps we shall get some wild flowers ; if
not, then we will buy some when we come
back "

*why should you give yourself so much
trouble, Yolande }'' her mother said.

Trouble } It is no trouble. It is an
amusement — an occupation. Without an
occupation how can one live ?"

''Ah, you are so full of life — so full of
life," the mother said, regarding her wistfully.

Oh, I assure you," said Yolande, blithely,
that not many know what can be made of
wild flowers in a room — if you have plenty
of them. Not all mixed ; but here one mass
of colour ; and there — another. Imagine,

now, that we were thirty-three miles from
Inverness ; how could one get flowers except
by going up the hillside and collecting them ?
That was an occupation that had a little
trouble, to be sure ! — it was harder work than
going to buy a bonnet ! But sometimes we
were not quite dependent on the wild flowers ;
there was a dear, good woman, living a few
miles away — ah, she was a good friend tome
— who used to send me from her garden
far more than was right. And every time
that I passed — another handful of flowers ;
more than that, perhaps some fresh vegetables
all nicely packed up ; perhaps a little basket of
new-laid eggs ; perhaps a pair of ducklings —
oh, such kindness as was quite ridiculous from
a stranger. And then when I come away, she
goes to the lodge, and takes one of the girls
with her, to see that all is right ; and no
question of trouble or inconvenience ; you
would think it was you who were making the
obligation and giving kindness, not taking it.
I must write to her when I have time. But
I hope soon to hear how they are all going
on up there in the Highlands."

** Dear Yolande," said the mother, 'why

should you occupy yourself about me ? Do
your writing ; I am content to sit in the same
room. Indeed, I would rather listen to you
talking about the Highlands than go out to
get the bonnet or anything else."

"Why do I occupy myself about you?"
said Yolande. " Because I have brought
you here to make you well, that is why. And
you must be as much as possible out of doors
especially on such a day as this, when the air
is from the sea. Ah, we shall soon make you
forget the London dinginess and the smoke.
And you would rather not go for a drive, perhaps,
when it is I who am going to drive you.-^"

Indeed, she took the mastership into her
own hand ; and perhaps that was a fortunate
necessity, for it prevented her thinking over
certain things that had happened to herself.
Wise, grave-eyed, thoughtful, and prudent,
there was now little left in her manner of
speech of the petulant and light-hearted
Yolande of other days ; and yet she was
pleased to see that her mother was taking
more and more interest in her, and perhaps
sometimes — though she strove to forget the
past altogether and only to keep herself busily
VOL. III. " E

occupied with the present — there was some
vague and subtle sense of self-approval. Or
was it self approval ? Was it not rather
some dim kind of belief that, if he who had
appealed to her, if he who had said that he
had faith in her, could now see her, he would
say that she was doing well ? But she tried
to put these remembrances away.

An odd thing happened when they were
out. They had gone to the shop where
Claude had seen the bonnets ; and she was
so satisfied with the one that she chose that
she made her mother put it on then and
there, and asked the milliner to send the
other home. Then they went outside again ;
and not far off was a chemist's shop.

"Now," said Yolande, 'ewe will go and
choose two scents for the bottles in the
dressing-bag. One shall be white rose, and
the other ? What other ? "

"Whichever you like best, Yolande," said
her mother, submissively ; her daughter had
become so completely her guide and guardian.

But it is for your dressing-bag, mother,
not mine," said Blonde. " You must choose.
You must come into the shop and choose."

"Very well, then."

They walked to the shop, and Yolande
glanced for a minute at the window and then
went inside. But the moment they had got
within the door — perhaps it was the odour of
the place that had recalled her to herself — the
mother shrank back with a strange look of
fear on her face.

"Yolande," she said, in a low, hurried
voice, " I will wait for you outside."

But which is to be the other scent,
mother ? "

I will wait for you outside," said she,
with her hand touching her daughter's arm.
I will wait for you outside."

Then Yolande seemed to comprehend
what that dazed look of fear meant ; and she
was so startled that, even after her mother
had left, she could scarce summon back
enough self-possession to tell the showman
what she wanted. Thereafter she never
asked her mother to go near a chemist's
shop.

That same afternoon they went for a drive
along some of the inland country lanes ; and
as they soon found that the stolid, fat, and

a' OF ILL LIS.

placid pony could safely be left under the
charge of Jane, they got out whenever they
had a mind, to look at an old church or to
explore banks and hedgerows in search of
wild flowers. Now this idle strolling, with
occasional scrambling across ditches, was
light enough work for one who was accustomed
to climb the hills of Allt-nam-ba ; but
no, doubt it was fatiguing enough to this poor
woman, who, nevertheless, did her very best
to prove herself a cheerful companion. But
it was on this fatigue that Yolande reckoned.
That was why she wanted her mother to be
out all day in the sea air and the country air.
What she was aiming at was a certainty of
sleep for this invalid of whom she was in
charge. And so she cheered her on to further
exertion, and pretended an eagerness in
this search for wild flowers which was not very
real (for ever, in the midst of it, some stray
plant here or there would remind her of a
herbarium far away and of other days and
other scenes), until at last she thought they
had both done their duty ; and so they got
into the little carriage again and drove back
to Worthing.

That evening at dinner she amused her
mother with a lone and minute account of
the voyage to Egypt, and of the friends v^ho
had gone with them, and of the life on board
the dahabeeah. The mother seemed peculiarly
interested about Mr. Leslie, and asked
many questions about him ; and Yolande told
her frankly how pleasant and agreeable a
young fellow he was, and how well he and
his sister seemed to understand each other,
and so forth. She betrayed no embarrassment
in expressing her liking for him ;
although, in truth, she spoke in pretty much
the same terms of Colonel Graham.

''Mr. Leslie was not married, then V

"Oh no."

"It was rather a dangerous situation for
two young people," the mother said, with a
gentle smile. " It is a wonder you are not
wearing a ring now."

"What ring ?" Yolande said, with a quick
flush of colour.

"An engagement-ring."

In fact, the girl was not wearing her
engagement-ring. On coming to London
she had taken it off and put it away ; other

duties claimed her now — that was what she
said to herself. And now she was content
that her mother should remain in ignorance
of that portion of her past story.

*' I have other things to attend to," she
said, briefly ; and the subject was not continued.


That day passed very successfully. The
mother had shown not the slightest symptom
of any craving for either stimulant or narcotic ;
nor any growing depression in consequence
of being deprived of these — though Jack
Melville had warned Yolande that both were
probable. No ; the languor from which she
suffered appeared to be merely the languor
of ill-health ; and, so far from becoming more
depressed, she had become rather more
cheerful — especially when they were wandering
along the lanes in search of wild flowers.
Moreover, when she went to bed (she and
Yolande occupied a large double-bedded
room) she very speedily fell into a sound,
quiet sleep. Yolande lay awake, watching
her ; but everything seemed right ; and so
by and by the girl's mind began to wander
away to distant scenes and to pictures that

she had been trying to banish from her
eyes.

And if sometimes in this hushed room she
cried silently to herself, and hid her face in
the pillow so that no sob should awaken the
sleeping mother ? Well, perhaps that was
only a natural reaction. The strain of all
that forced cheerfulness had been terrible.
Once or twice during the evening she had
had to speak of the Highlands ; and the
effort on such occasions to shut out certain
recollections and vain regrets and self-abasement
was of itself a hard thing. And now
that the strain was over, her imagination
ran riot ; all the old life up there, with its
wonder and delight and its unknown pitfalls,
came back to her ; and all through it she
seemed to hear a sad refrain — a couple of
lines from one of Mrs. Bell's ballads — that
she could not get out of her head.

Quoth he, ' My bonnie teddy, were ye sweet Jeanie Graham P
Indeed giddy Sir, but ye're guessed my very iiame.'' "

They could not apply to her ; but somehow
there was sorrow in them ; and a meeting
after many years ; and the tragedy of two
changed lives. How could they apply to

her ? If there was any one of whom she was
thinking it ought to have been he to whom
she had plighted her troth. She had put
aside her engagement-ring for a season ; but
she was not thereby absolved from her promise.
And yet it was not of him that she
was thinking — it was of some one she saw only
vaguely — but gray-haired and after many
years — coming back to a wrecked existence —
and her heart, that had a great yearning and
pity and love in it, knew that it could not
help — and what was there but a woman's
tears and a life-long regret } That was a sad
night. It was not the mother, it was the
daughter, who passed the long sleepless hours
in suffering. But with the morning Yolande
had pulled herself together again. She was
only a little pale — that was all. She was as
cheerful, as brave, as high-spirited as ever.
When did the band play 1 — they would walk
out on the pier. But even Jane could see
that this was not the Yolande who had lived
at Allt-nam-ba — with a kind of sunlight
always on her face ; and she wondered.

Not that day but the next came the
anxiously expected news from the Highlands.

'' My darling Yolande — Your letter has
given me inexpressible relief. I was so loth
to see you go. Above all, it seemed so cruel
that you should go alone, and I remain here.
But probably Mr. Melville was right ; perhaps
it may all turn out for the best ; but it will
be a long time before any one can say so ;
and as I think of you in the meantime, it is
with no great sense of satisfaction that I am
conscious that I can do nothing to help you.
But I rejoice that so far you have had no
serious trouble ; perhaps the worst is over ;
if that were so, then there might be a recompense
to you for what you must be undergoing.
It would be strange, indeed, if this
should succeed after so many failures. It
would make a great difference to all our lives ;
sometimes I begin to think it possible, and
then recollections of the past prove too strong.
Let me know your opinion. Tell me everything.
Even after all these years, sometimes
I begin to hope, and to think of our having a
home and a household after all.

*' There is but little news to send you. At
the moment I am quite alone. Mr. Short-lands
has changed all his plans, and has gone

south for a few days, finding that he can come
back and remain with me until the 15th of
October. Then you must tell me what you
would have me do. Perhaps you will know
better by that time. If you think the experiment
hopeless, I trust you will have the
honesty to say so ; then I will take you for a
run abroad somewhere, after your long waiting
and nursing.

'the Master Is In Inverness, I hear; probably
It Is business that detains him ; otherwise
I should have been glad of his company
on the hill, now that Shortlands Is away.
But the shooting has lost all Interest for me ;
when I come back In the evening there is no
one standing at the door, and no one to sit
at the head of the dinner-table. I shall be
glad when the 15th of October comes; and
then. If there Is no prospect of your present
undertaking proving successful, you and I will
preen our feathers for the South. If they are
going to bury you alive In these wilds subsequently,
you and I must have at least one
last swallow-flight. Not the Riviera this
time ; the Riviera Is getting to be a combination
of Bond Street and Piccadilly. Athens —

what do you say ? I remember the Grahams
talking vaguely about their perhaps trying to
spend a winter in Algiers : and pleasant
travelling companions you could not find anywhere
; but even if we have to go alone, we
shall not grumble much ?

'' This reminds me that one part of your
letter made me very angry — I mean about
the expense of the dressing-bag, and your
proposed economy at Worthing. I suppose
it was those people at the Chateau that put
those ideas into your head ; but I wish you
to understand that there is nothing so stupid
as unnecessary economy for economy's sake ;
and that when I wish you to begin cheese-paring
I will tell you so. Extravagance is
silly — and ill-bred, too ; but there is some
such thing as knowing what one can fairly
spend in proportion to one's income ; and
when I wish you to be more moderate in your
expenditure I will tell you. And, indeed, it
is not at such a time that you should think of
expense at all. If this experiment is likely
to end as we wish — then we shall not be considering
a few pounds or so.

'' I think you will be pleased to hear that

Mrs. Bell does not manage one whit better
than you — how could she, when everything
was perfect ? But the situation is awkward.
I imagined she was only coming here for a
day or two — to set things going, as it were,
under a new regime ; but the good woman
shows no signs of departure ; and, indeed,
she manages everything with such tact and
good sense, and with such an honest, frank
recognition of the facts of the case, that I am
really afraid to hurt her and offend her by
suggesting that she should not waste so much
of her time up here. It was all very well with
Mr. Melville — he was her hero, the master
of the house, the representative of the family
that she looked up to ; but it is different with
me ; and yet there Is a kind of self-respect in
the way in which she strictly keeps to her
'station,' that one does not like to interfere.
I have thought of pointing out to her that my
last housekeeper was a person called Yolande
WInterbourne, and that she was In no wise
so respectful In her manner ; but then I
thought It better to let the good woman have
her own way ; and with all her respectfulness
there is, as you know, a frank and honest

friendliness which tells you that she quite
understands her own value in the world. She
has, however, been so communicative as to
unfold to me her great project of the buying
back of Monaglen ; and I must say it seems
very ill-advised of Mr. Melville, just when
this project is about to be accomplished, to
disappear and leave not even his address
behind. All that Mrs. Bell knows is that, on
the morning you left, he announced his intention
of crossing over the hills to Kingussie,
to catch the night-train going south ; and
Duncan says he saw him going up by the
Corrie-an-EIch. You know what an undertaking
that is, and the stories they tell about
people having been lost in these solitudes ;
but, as Duncan says, there was not any one
in the country who could cross the hills with
less chance of coming to harm than Mr.
Melville. Still, he might have left the good
woman his address ; and she, it seems, did
not consider it her ' place ' to ask."

At this point Yolande stopped — her brain
bewildered, her heart beating wildly. If he
had crossed over the hills to catch the night-train

to the south — why, that was the train in
which she also was travelling from Inverness
to London ! Had he been in that same train,
then — separated from her by a few carriages
only — during the long darkness in which she
seemed to be leaving behind her youth, and
hope, and almost the common desire of life ?
And why ? He had spoken to no one of his
going away. Mrs. Bell had guessed that he
might be going, from his preparations of the
previous evening ; but to leave on that very
morning — to catch the very train in which
she was seated — perhaps to come all the way
to London with her ; here was food for speculation
and wonder! Of course, it never occurred
to her that he might have come to any
harm in crossings the hills ; she did not even
think of that. He was as familiar with these
carries and slopes and streams as with the
door-step of the house at Gress. No ; he^had
waited for the train to come along ; perhaps she
did not even look out from the window when
they reached the station ; he would get into
one of the carriages ; and all through the long
afternoon and evening, and on and through
the blackness of the night, and in the gray of

the morning, he was there. And perhaps at
Euston Square, too ? He might easily escape
her notice in the crowd, if he wished to do so.
Would he disappear into the wilderness of
London ? But he knew the name of the
hotel she was going to — that had all been
arranged between them ; might he not by
accident have passed along Albemarle Street
on one or other of those days ? Ah, if she had
chanced to see him ! — would not London have
seemed less lonely — would she not have consoled
herself with the fancy that somewhere
or other there was one watching over her and
guarding her ? A dream — a dream. If he
were indeed there, he had avoided meeting
her. He had gone away. He had disappeared
— into the unknown ; and perhaps the
next she should hear of him might be after
many years, as of a gray-haired man going
back to the place that once knew him, with
perhaps some vague question on his lips :
'' My bonny teddy, were ye sweet Jennie
Graham ? " — though to whom he might
address that question she scarcely dared to
ask or think.

She only looked over the remainder of the

letter ; her hurried fancies were wandering
far away.

*' So you see I have no news ; although in
my solitude this gossip seems to unite you
with me for a time. The only extraordinary
thing that I have seen or met with since you
left me ran across the other night on coming
home from the shooting. We had been to
the far tops after ptarmigan and white hares,
and got belated. Long before we reached
home complete darkness overtook us ; a
darkness so complete that, although we
walked Indian file, Duncan leading, I could
not see Shortlands, who was just in front of
me ; I had to follow him by sound, sliding
down among loose stones or jumping into
peat-hags in ^ very happy-go-lucky fashion.
Crossing the Alltt Crom by the little swinging
bridge you know of was also a pleasant performance
; for there had been rain, and the
waters were much swollen, and made a terrible
noise in the dark. However, it was when we
were over the bridge and making for the
lodge that I noticed the phenomenon I am
going to tell you about. I was trying to

make out John Shortlands' legs in front of
me when I saw on the ground two or three
small points of white fire. I thought it
strange for glow-worms to be so high above
the level of the sea ; and I called the others
back to examine these things. But now I
found, as they were all standing in the dark,
talking, that wherever you lifted your foot
from the wet black peat, immediately afterwards
a large number of these pale points
of clear fire appeared, burning for about a
minute and then gradually disappearing.
Some were larger and clearer than others —
just as you remember, on a phosphorescent
night at sea, there are individual big stars
separate from the general rush of white as
the steamer goes on. We tried to lift some of
the points of light, but could not manage it ;
so I take it they were not glow-worms or any
other living creatures, but an emanation of
gas from the peaty soil ; only that, unlike the
will-o'-the-wisp, they were quite stationary
and burned with a clear white, or blue-white
flame — the size of the most of them not bigger
than the head of a common pin, and sometimes
about fifteen or twenty of them appear-vol.

III. F

ing where one foot had been pressed into the
soft soil. Had Mr. Melville been at Gress I
should have asked him about it ; no doubt he
has noticed this thing in his rambles ; but he
has been away, as I say, and nobody about
here has any explanation to offer. The
shepherds say that the appearance of this
phosphorescence, or electricity, or illuminated
gas, or whatever it is, foretells a change in
the weather ; but I have never yet met with
anything in heaven or earth of which the
shepherds did not say the same thing. But
as you, my dear Yolande, have not seen this
phenomenon, and know absolutely nothing
about it, you will be in a position to furnish
me with a perfectly consistent scientific theory
about it, which I desire to have from you at
your convenience.

''A hamper of game goes to you to-day —
also a bunch of white heather from your
affectionate father,

'' R. G. WiNTERBOURNE."

She dwelt over the picture here presented
of his solitary life in the north ; and she knew
that now no longer were there happy dinner-parties

in the evening, and pleasant friends
talking together ; and no longer was there
any need for Duncan — outside in the twilight
to play Melville's Welcome Home.

AWAKING.

Another two days passed, Yolande doing
her best to make the time go by briskly and
pleasantly. They walked on the promenade
or the pier ; they drove away inland, through
quaint little villages and quiet lanes ; when
the weather was wet they stayed indoors, and
she read to her mother ; or they rigged up
the big telescope in the bay-window, to follow
the slow progress of the distant ships. And
the strange thing was that, as Yolande gradually
perceived, her mother's intellect seemed
to grow clearer and clearer while her spirits
grew more depressed.

I have been in a dream — I have been ina
dream," she used to say. '' I will try not
to go back. Yolande, you must help me.
You must give me your hand."

'' You have been ill, mother; the sea air

will make you strong again," the girl said,
making no reference to other matters.

However, that studied silence did not last.
On the evening of the fifth day of their stay
at Worthing, Yolande observed that her
mother seemed still more depressed and
almost suffering ; and she did all she could to
distract her attention and amuse her. At
last the poor woman said, looking at her
daughter in a curious kind of way —

"Yolande, did you notice, when I came
away from the house with you, that I went
back for a moment into my room ? "

Yes, I remember you did ? "

I will tell you now why I went back."

She put her hand in her pocket and drew
out a small blue bottle, which she put on
the table.

'' It was for that," she said, calmly.

A flush of colour overspread the hitherto
pale features of the girl ; it was she who was
ashamed and embarrassed ; and she said
quickly —

"Yes, I understand, mother — I know
what it is — but now you will put it away —
you do not want it any longer "

'' I am afraid," the mother said, in a low
voice. *' Sometimes I have tried, until it
seemed as if I was dying ; and that has
brought me to life again. Oh, I hope I
shall never touch it again — I want to be
with you, walking by your side among the
other people — and like them — like every one
else "

'* And so you shall, mother," Yolande said ;
and she rose and got hold of the bottle. '' I
am going to throw this away."

''No, no, Yolande, give it to me," she
said, but without any excitement. "It is no
use throwing it away. That would make me
think of it. I would get more. I could not
rest until I had gone to a chemist's and got
more — perhaps some time when you were
not looking. But when it is there, I feel
safe. I can push it away from me."

Very well, then," said Yolande, and she
went to the fireplace, and placed the bottle
conspicuously on the mantel-shelf. Then she
went back to her mother. "It shall remain
there, mother — as something you have no
further need of. That is done with now. It
was a great temptation when you were living

In lodgings in a town, not in good air ; and
you were very weak and ill ; but soon you
will be strong enough to get over your fits of
faintness or depression without that She
put her hand on her mother's shoulder. '' It
is for my sake that you have put it away ? "

In answer she took her daughter's hand in
both hers, and covered it with kisses.

"Yes, yes, yes! I have put it away
Yolande, for your sake. I have put it away
for ever now. But you have a little excuse
for me '^. You do not think so hardly of meas
the others ? I have been near dying — and
alone. I did not know I had such a beautiful
daughter — coming to take care of me, too \
And I don't want you to go away now — not
for a while at least. Stay with me for a little
time — until — until I have got to be just like
the people we meet out walking — just like
every one else — and then I shall have no fear
of being alone — I shall never, never touch
that

She glanced at the bottle on the mantelshelf
with a sort of horror. She held her
daughter's hand tight. And Yolande kept
by her until, not thinking it was prudent to

make too much of this little incident, she
begged her mother to come and get her
things on for another short stroll before
tea.

Towards the evening, however, it was
clear that this poor woman was suffering
more and more, although she endeavoured to
put a brave face on it, and only desired that
Yolande should be in the room with her.
At dinner, she took next to nothing ; and
Yolande, on her own responsibility, begged
to be allowed to send for some wine for her.
But no. She seemed to think that there was
something to be got through, and she would
go through with it. Sometimes she went to
the window and looked out — listening to the
sound of the sea in the darkness. Then she
would come back and sit down by the fire,
and ask Yolande to read to her — this, that, or
the other thing. But what she most liked to
have read and re-read to her was ''A Dream
of Fair Women ; " and she liked to have
Yolande standing by the fireplace, so that she
could regard her. And sometimes the tears
would gather in her eyes, when the girl came
to the lines about Naphtha's daughter :

emptied of all joy,

Leaving the dance and song.

Leaving the olive-gardens far below,

Leaving the promise of my bridal bower,

The valleys of grape-loaded vines that glow
Beneath the battled tower.

The light white cloud swam over us. Anon
We heard the lion roaring from his den ;

We saw the large white stars rise one by one,
Or, from the darkened glen,

Saw God divide the night with flying flame.
And thunder on the everlasting hills.

I heard Him, for He spake, and grief became
A solemn scorn of ills."

•'It was not fair — it was not fair," she
murmured.

"What, mother?"

To send you here."

"Where ought I to be, then," she asked,
proudly, " except by your side ? "

You ? Your young Hfe should not be
sacrificed to mine. Why did they ask you ?
I should thank God, Yolande, if you were to
go away this evenings — now — if you were to
go away, and be happy, with your youth, and
beauty, and kind friends — that is the life fit
for you "

But I am not going, mother."
"Ah, you don't know — you don't know,"
the other said, with a kind of despair coming
over her. '' I am ill, Yolande. I am wretched

and miserable "

'' The more reason I should stay, surely ! "
'' I wish you would go away and leave me.
I can get back to London. What I have
been thinking of is beyond me. I am too ill.
But you — you — I shall always think of you
as moving through the world like a princess

in sunlight "

Dear mother," said Yolande, firmly, '' I
think we said we were going to have no more
nonsense. I am not going to leave you.
And what you were looking forward to is
quite impossible. If you are ill and suffering
now, I am sorry — I would gladly bear it for
your sake. I have had little trouble in the
world ; I would take your share. But going
away from you I am not. So you must take
courage, and hope ; and some day — ah, some
day soon you will be glad."

But if I am restless to-night," said she,
glancing at her daughter uneasily, "and walking
up and down, it will disturb you."

"What does it matter?" said Yolande,
cheerfully.

'' You might get another room ? "

'' I am not going into any other room — do
you think I will forsake my patient ? "

'will you leave the light burning, then ?"

''If you wish it — yes ; but not high, for
you must sleep."

But when they were retiring to rest the
mother begged that the little blue bottle
should be placed on the bedroom chimney-piece
; and the girl hesitated.

Why, mother, why ? You surely would
not touch it ! "

"Oh, I hope not! I hope not! But I
shall know it is near — if I am like to die ! "

You must not fear that, mother. I will
put the bottle on the chimney piece, if you
like ; but you need not even think of it.
That is more likely to cause your death than
anything else. And you would not break
your promise to me ? "

She pressed her daughter's hand — that
was all.

Yolande did not go quickly to sleep ; for
she knew that her mother was suffering — the

laboured sighs from time to time told her as
much. She lay and listened to the wash of
the sea along the shingle, and to the tramp
of the last wayfarers along the pavement.
She heard the people of the house go upstairs
to bed. And then, by and by, the stillness
of the room, and the effects of the fresh air,
and the natural healthiness of youth, combined
to make her drowsy, and, rather against her
inclination, her eyes slowly closed.

She was woke by a moan — as of a soul in
mortal agony. But even in her alarm she
did not start up ; she took time to recover
her senses. And if the poor mother were
really in such suffering, would it not be better
for her to lie as if she were asleep ? No
appeal could be made to her for any relaxation
of the promise that had been given her.

Then she became aware of a stealthy
noise; and a strange terror took possession of
her. She opened her eyes ever so slightly —
glimmering through the lashes only — and
there she saw that her worst fears were being
realised. Her mother had got out of bed
and stolen across the room to the sideboard
in the parlour, returning with a glass.

Yolande, all trembling, lay and watched.
She was not going to interfere — it was not
part of her plan ; and you may be sure she
had contemplated this possibility before now.
And very soon it appeared why the poor
woman had taken the trouble to go for a
glass ; it was to measure out the smallest
quantity that she thought would alleviate her
anguish. She poured a certain quantity of
the black-looking fluid into the glass ; then
she regarded it, as if with hesitation ; then
she deliberately poured back one drop, two
drops, three drops ; and drank the rest at a
gulp. Then, in the same stealthy fashion,
she took the glass to the parlour and left it
there ; and crept silently back again and into
bed.

Yolande rose. Her face was pale ; her
lips firm. She did not look at her mother ;
but, just as if she were assuming her to be
asleep, she quietly went out of the room and
presently returned with a glass in her hand.
She went to the chimney piece. Very well
she knew that her mother's eyes were fixed
on her, and intently watching her ; and, as
she poured some of that dark fluid into the

glass, no doubt she guessed the poor woman
was imagining that this was an experiment
to see what had been taken out of the bottle.
But that was not quite Yolande's purpose.
When she had poured out, as nearly as she
could calculate, the same quantity that her
mother had taken, she turned her face to the
light, and deliberately drank the contents of
the glass. It was done in a second ; there
was a sweet, mawkish, pungent taste in the
mouth, and a shiver of disgust as she swallowed
the thing ; then she calmly replaced the bottle
on the chimneypiece.

But the mother had sprung from her bed
with a wild shriek, and caught the girl by
both hands.

Yolande, Yolande, what have you done!"

"What is right for you, mother, is right
for me," she said, in clear and settled tones.
It is how I mean to do always !"

The frantic grief of this poor creature was
pitiable to witness. She flung her arms
round her daughter, and drew her to her,
and wept aloud, and called down vengeance
upon herself from Heaven. And then, in a
passion of remorse, she flew at the bottle that

was standing there, and would have hurled it
into the fireplace, had not Yolande (whose
head was beginning to swim already) interposed,
calmly and firmly. She took the bottle
from her mother's hand, and replaced it.

'' No ; it must remain there, mother. It
must stand there until you and I can bear
to know that it is there, and not to wish
for it."

Even in the midst of her wild distress and
remorse there was one phrase in this speech
that had the effect of silencing the mother
altogether. She drew back, aghast ; her face
white ; her eyes staring with horror.

"You and I?" she repeated. " You and

I ? You — to become like — like "

'' Yes," said Yolande. '' What is right for
you is right for me ; that is what I mean todo
— always. Now, dear mother," she added,
in a more languid way, " I will lie down — I

am giddy "

She sat down on the edge of the bed,
putting her hand to her forehead, and rested
so awhile ; then insensibly after a time she
drooped down on to the pillow — although the
frightened and frantic mother tried to get an

arm round her waist ; and very soon the girl
had relapsed into perfect insensibility.

And then a cry rang through the house
like the cry of the Egyptian mothers over the
death of their first-born. The poison seemed
to act in directly opposite ways in the brains
of these two women — the one it plunged into
a profound stupor; the other it drove into
frenzy. She threw herself on the senseless
form, and wound her arms round the girl, and
shrieked aloud that she had murdered her
child — her beautiful daughter — she was dying

dead — and no one to save her — murdered

by her own mother! The little household
was roused at once. Jane came rushing in,
terrified. The landlady was the first to
recover her wits, and instantly she sent a
housemaid for a doctor. Jane, being a strong-armed
woman, dragged the hysterical mother
back from the bed, and bathed her young
mistress's forehead with eau-de-cologne — it was
all the poor kind creature could think of. Then
they tried to calm the mother somewhat ; for
she was begging them to give her a knife, that
she might kill herself and die with her child.
The doctor s arrival quieted matters somewhat

; and he had scarcely been a minute in
the room when his eyes fell on the small bluebottle
on the mantelpiece. That he instantly
got hold of; the label told him what were
the contents ; and when he went back to the
bedside of the girl — who was lying insensible,
in a heavy-breathing sleep, her chest labouring
as if against some weight — he had to
exercise some control over the mother to get
her to show him precisely the quantity of the
fluid that had been taken. The poor woman
seemed beside herself She dropped on her
knees before him in a passion of tears, and
clasped her hands.

"Save her — save her! — save my child tome
! — if you can give her back to me I will
die a hundred times before harm shall come
to her — my beautiful child, that came to me
like an angel, with kindness, and open hands
and this is what I have done!"

Hush, hush," said the doctor, and he
took her by the hand, and gently raised her.
Now you must be quiet. I am not going
to wake your daughter. If that is what she
took, she will sleep it off; she is young, and
I should say healthy. I am going to let
VOL. III. G

nature work the cure ; though I fear the
young lady will have a bad headache in the
morning. It is a most mischievous thing to
have such drugs in the house. You are her
maid, I understand?" he said, turning to Jane.

'eyes, sir."

''Ah. Well, I think for to-night you had
better occupy that other bed there ; and the
young lady's mother can have a bed elsewhere.
I don't think you need fear anything — excepta
headache in the morning. Let her sleep
as long as she may. In the morning let her
go for a drive in the fresh air, if she is too
languid to walk,"

But the mother cried so bitterly on hearing
of this arrangement that they had to consent
to her retaining her place in the room, while
Jane said she could make herself comfortable
enough in an arm-chair. As for the poor
mother, she did not go back to her own bed
at all ; she sat at the side of Yolande's bed —
at the foot of it, lest the sound of her sobbing
should disturb the sleeper ; and sometimes
she put her hand ever so lightly on the bedclothes,
with a kind of pat, as it were, while
the tears were running down her face.

O' Bygone DAYS AND ME."

The Master of Lynn vas walking along
Church Street, Inverness, leisurely smoking
his morning: cio-ar, \Yhen a small boY from the
hotel Overtook him, and handed him a letter.
He glanced at the handwriting, and saw it was
from his sister : so he put it in his pocket
without opening it. Then he went on and
into ?mr. Macleay's shop.

This was a favourite lounge of his. For
not only was it a Valuable museum of natural
history — all kinds of curiosities and rarities
being sent thither to be preserved — but also,
to anY one with sufficient knowledge. it
afforded a Very fair report as to what was
eine on in the different forests. ]\Iore than
that, it was possible for one to form a shrewd
guess as to the character of some of the
people then wandering about the Highlands, —
the sort of sportsmen, for example, who sent

to be stuffed such rare and remarkable birds
as gannets, kittiwakes, and starts, or who
wished to have all the honours of a glass-case
and a painted background conferred on a
three-pound trout. It was not difficult (as he
sat on the counter or strolled about) to
imagine the simple joy with which these
trophies had been secured and carefully
packed and sent away for preservation ;
while, on the other hand, some great stag's
head — a magnificent and solitary prize —
perhaps awoke a touch of envy. Tl^e good-natured
proprietor of the establishment, busy
with his own affairs, let this young man do
pretty much what he liked in the place ; and
so it was that the Master, having had a look
at the latest specimens of the skill of the
workshop, took out his sister's letter and read
it, and then begged for a sheet of paper and
the loan of a pen. He thought he might
just as well finish his cigar here, and answer
his sister at the same time.
He wrote as follows : —

Inverness, September 29.

*dear Polly — I wish you would be pleased

to moderate the rancour of your tongue; there
is quite enough of that commodity at Lynn.
Whoever has told you of the latest row has
probably not overstepped the truth ; but isn't
it a blessed dispensation of Providence that
one can obtain a little peace at the Station
Hotel ? However, that is becoming slow.
I wish I knew where Jack Melville is ; I
would propose a little foreign travel. For
one thing, I certainly don't mean to go back
to Lynn until Mr. Winterbourne has left Allt-
nam-ba ; of course, he must see very well
that the people at the Towers have cut him ;
and no doubt he understands the reason ; and
he might ask, don't you see ; and very likely
he might get angry and indignant (I shouldn't
blame him), and then he might ask Yolande
to break off the engagement. Such things
have happened before. But you needn't
get wild with me. I don't seek to break off
the engagement ; certainly not ; if that is
what they are aiming at they will find me just
as pertinacious as you were about Graham
(you needn't assume that you have all the
obstinacy in the world) ; and although I'm
not too squeamish about most things, still,

I'm not going to break my word simply
because Auntie Tab doesn't like Mr. Winterbourne's
politics.

Now there's a chance for you, Miss Polly.
Why don't you set to work to make the
leopard change his spots ? You think you
can talk anybody over. Why don't you
talk over Mr. Winterbourne into the paths of
virtue and high Toryism ? I don't see why
it should be so difficult. Of course he's
violent enough in the House ; but that's to
keep in with his constituents ; and to talk
with him after a day's shooting you wouldn't
guess he had any politics at all. I'd bet a
sovereign he would rather get a royal than
be made a Cabinet Minister. You'd much
better go and coax him into the paths of the
just than keep getting into rages with me.
You talk as if it was you that wanted to
marry Yolande ; or rather, as if it was you
who were going to buy the Corrievreak side
from Sir John, and couldn't wait for the conveyancing
to be done. Such impetuosity
isn't in accord with your advancing years.
The fact is, you haven't been having your
fair dose of flirtation lately, and you're in a

bad temper. But why with me ? I didn't
ask the people to Inverstroy. I can see what
sort of people they are by the cart-load of
heads Graham has sent here (I am writing
in Macleay s shop). If ever I can afford to
keep our forest in my own hands there won't
be anything of that kind going on — no matter
who is in the house.

'rand why should you call upon me for
the explanation of the ' mystery ' ? What
mystery is involved in Yolande's going
south ? Her father, I understand, leaves
on the 15th of October ; and I am not surprised
that nothing has been said about a
lease of the place. Of course, Winterbourne
must understand. But in the south, my dear
Polly, if you would only look at the reasonable
aspect of affairs, we may all of us meet
on less embarrassing terms ; and I for one
shall not be sorry to get away for the winter
from the society of Tabby and Co. Yolande
and I have not quarrelled in the least ; on
that point you may keep your hair smooth.
But I am not at all sure that I am not bound
in honour to tell her how I am placed ; and
what treatment in the future — or rather what

no-treatment — she may expect from my
affectionate relatives. Of course it cannot
matter to her. She will be independent of
them — I also. But I think I ought to let
her know ; so that she will not be surprised
at their silence ; and of course if she resents
their attitude to her father (as is very likely)
well, that is their fault, not mine. I am
not going to argue any more about it ; and
as for anything like begging for their patronage
or sufferance of Yolande, that is entirely
out of the question. / will not have it ; and
I have told you so before ; so there may just
as well be an end to your lecturing. I am a
vertebrate animal.

"Yolande is at Worthing: — not in London,
as you seem to think. I don't know her
address ; but I have written to Allt-nam-ba
for it — I believe she left rather in a hurry.
No ; I shan't send it to you ; for you would
probably only make mischief by interfering
; and indeed it is not with her that any
persuasion is necessary. Persuasion '^. — ita
little common sense that is necessary !
But that kind of plant doesn't flourish at
the Towers — I never heard of Jack Melville

getting it for his collection of dried
weeds.

'well, good-bye. Don't tear your hair.
Your affectionate brother,

Archie."

'' Pes. — It is very kind of you to remind
me of Baby's birthday ; but how on earth do
you expect me to know what to send it ?
A rocking-horse, or a Latin Grammar, or
what ? "

He leisurely folded the letter, put it in
an envelope, and addressed it ; then he turned
to have a further chat with Mr. Macleay
about the various triumphs of the taxidermic
art standing around. Several of these were
in the window ; and he was idly regarding
them when he caught sight — through the
panes — of some one passing by outside.
For a second he seemed to pause, irresolute ;
then he quickly said good-morning to Mr.
Macleay, went outside, threw away his
cigar, and followed the figure that he had
seen passing the window. It was that of a
young woman, neatly dressed ; indeed, it was
no other than Shena Van — though probably

Janet Stewart had acquired that name when
she was younger, for now she could not
strictly be described as fair, though her hair
was of a light brown and her eyes of a deep
and exceedingly pretty blue.

*' Good-morning, Miss Stewart," said he,
overtaking her.

The young lady turned quickly, perhaps,
with a slight touch of alarm as well as of
surprise In her look.

"Oh, good-morning, Mr. Leslie," said she,
with a certain reserve — not to say coldness —
of manner ; though the sound of her speech,
with Its slight accent, was naturally gentle
and winning.

'' I had no Idea you were In Inverness,"
said he. ''I just caught a glimpse of you
while I was In Macleay's shop. Why, It Is a
long time since I have seen you now."

She was a little embarrassed and nervous ;
probably desirous of getting away, and yet
not wishing to be rude.

*' I am often In Inverness, now," she said,
with her eyes averted, "since my sister was
married."

"Are you going to the steamers" he

asked, for she carried a small parcel in her
hand.

Yes," said she, with some hesitation. " I
—I was thinking of walking to the steamer."

Then I suppose I may go as far with
you," said he, 'for I have a letter that I want
the clerk to have sent on to Inverstroy."

She glanced quickly up and down the
street ; but he did not give her time to say
yea or nay ; and then with something of
silence and resentment on her part, they set
out together. It was a very pleasant and
cheerful morning ; and their way was out into
the country ; for Miss Stewart's destination
was that lock on the Caledonian Canal from
which the steamer daily sails for the south.
Nevertheless the young lady did not seem
over well pleased.

At first they talked chiefly about her
friends and relatives — he asking the questions
and she answering with somewhat few words ;
and she was careful to inform him that now
she was more than ever likely to be away
from Inverness-shire, for her brother had
recently been elected to one of the professorships
at Aberdeen, and he had taken a house

there, and he liked to have her in the house,
because of looking after things. She gave
him to understand that there was a good deal
of society in the ancient city of Aberdeen ;
and that the young men of the University
were anxious to visit at her brother's house.

'rit is a natural thing," said pretty Shena
Van, with a touch of pride in her tone, "for
the young men to be glad to be friends with
my brother; not only because he is one of
the professors, but because he was very distinguished
at Edinburgh, and at Heidelberg
too — very distinguished indeed."

'' Oh yes ; I know that," said the Master
of Lynn, warmly. '* I have heard Jack
Melville speak of him. I daresay your father
is very proud of his success."

'' Indeed, I think we are all rather proud
of it," said Miss Stewart.

But when they had crossed the bridge
over the wide and shallow waters of the
Ness, and were getting away from the town
into the quietude of the country, he endeavoured
to win over his companion to something
more of friendliness. He was a
gentle-spoken youth ; and this coldness on

the part of his ancient comrade he seemed to
consider unfair.

"We used to be great friends," said he,
'but I suppose you have forgotten all that.
I suppose you have forgotten the time when
Shena Van was reaching out for the branch
of a rowan-tree and fell into the burn ?"

She blushed deeply ; but there was the
same cold reserve in her manner as she
said —

'' That was a long time ago."

'sometimes," said he, with a sort of
gentleness in his look, " I wish your father
had never gone away to Strathaylort ; you
and I used to be great friends at one
time."

"My father is very well pleased with
Strathaylort," said Miss Stewart, "and so
are we all ; for the manse is larger ; and we
have many more friends in Strathaylort.
And the friends we left — well, I suppose,
they can remember us when they wish to
remember us."

This was rather pointed ; but he took no
notice of it — he was so anxious to win his
companion over to a more conciliatory mood.

'rand are you as fond of reading poetry
as ever ?" said he, regarding her — but always
her eyes were averted.

'' Sometimes I read poetry as I read other
things," she said, "but with my sister In
Inverness and my brother In Aberdeen, I am
very often on visits now."

*' Do you remember how you used to read
Horatius ' aloud — on the hill above Corslet
? And the bridge below was the
bridge that the brave Horatius kept ; and
you seemed to see him jump Into the Alltt
Crom, not the Tiber at all ; and I am quite
sure when you held out your finger and
pointed when

he saw on Palatines
The white porch of his home '

-yo

u were looklnof at the zinc-roofed 



house at Allt-narn-ba."

I was very silly then," said Shena Van,
with red cheeks.

'' And when you were Boadicea, a flock of
sheep did very well as an army for you to
address ; only the collies used to think you
were mad."

I daresay they were right."

Do you remember the Sword Chant of
Thorstein Raudi, and my bringing you a
halberd from the Towers? 'Might Giver!
I kiss thee' — 'Joy Giver! I kiss thee' —
Fame Giver ! I kiss thee ' ?"

Indeed you have a wonderful recollection,"
said Miss Stewart. " I should think
it was time to forget such folly. As one
grows up there are more serious things to
attend to. I am told" — and here, for the
first time, she turned her beautiful dark blue
eyes to him, but not her face ; so that she
was looking: at him rather askance, and in a
curious, interrogative, and at the same time
half-combative fashion — " I am told that you
are about to be married."

Now it was his turn to be embarrassed ;
and he did not meet those too searching
eyes.

"As you say, Shena, life turns out to have
serious duties, and not to be quite like what
one dreams about when one is young," he
observed, somewhat vaguely. " That can't
prevent your remembering other days with a
good deal of affection "

■' But you must let me congratulate you,

Mr. Leslie," said she, sharply bringing him
to his senses. '' And If the wedding is to beat
Lynn, I am sure my father would be glad
to come over from Strathaylort."

There could be nothing further said on
this rather awkward subject just at the
moment, for they had arrived at the steamer,
and he had to go and hunt out the clerk to
intrust him with those small commissions.
Then he rejoined Miss Stewart, and set out
for the town again ; but, while she was quite
civil and friendly In a formal fashion, he
could not draw her Into any sort of conjoint
regarding of their youthful and sentimental
days. Nay, more ; when they got back to
the bridge, she Intimated, in the gentlest and
most respectful way, that she would rather
go through the town alone ; and so he was
forced to surrender the cruel solace of her
companionship.

"Good-bye, Shena!" said he, and he held
her hand for a moment.

Good-morning, Mr. Leslie," said she,
without turning her eyes towards him.

Then he walked away by the side of the
river, with a general sense of being aggrieved

settling down on him. Whichever way he
turned, people seemed only disposed to
thwart and controvert him. Surely there
was no harm in being on friendly terms with
Shena Van, and in reminding her of the days
when he and she were boy and girl together ?
If he had jilted her, she would have good
grounds for being vexed and angry ; but he
had not. Nothing in that direction had ever
been spoken of between them. It is true he
had at one time been very much in love with
her ; and although he had but little romance
in his character (that being an ingredient not
likely to be fostered by the air of Oxford, or
by the society of the young officers of the
Seaforth Highlanders), still the glamour of
love had for the moment blinded him, and he
had seriously contemplated asking her to be
his wife. He had argued with himself that
this was no stage-case of a noble lord wedding
a village maiden ; but the son of an almost
penniless peer marrying a well-accomplished
young lady of perfectly respectable parentage,
a young lady whose beautiful qualities of
mind were known only to a few — only to one,
perhaps, who had discovered them by looking

VOL. III. H

into the magic mirror of a pair of strangely
dark and clear blue eyes. The infatuation
was strong — for a time ; but when pretty
Mrs. Graham came to learn of it, there was
trouble. Now the Master of Lynn detested
trouble. Besides, his sister's arguments in
this case were terribly cogent. She granted
that Shena Van might be everything he said,
and quite entitled, by her intelligence and
virtues and liabilities of character, to become
the future mistress of Lynn Towers.
But she had not a penny. And was all the
labour that had been bestowed on freeing the
estate from its burdens to be thrown away .^
Were the Lesliess to remain in those pinched
circumstances that prevented their taking
their proper place in the country, to say
nothing of London '^. Mrs. Graham begged
and implored ; there was some distant and
awful thunder on the part of his lordship ;
and then Archie Leslie (who hated fuss)
began to withdraw himself from the fatal
magnetism of those dark blue eyes. Nothing
had been said ; Miss Stewart could not complain.
But the beautiful blue eyes had a
measure of shrewdness in them ; she may

have guessed ; nay, more — she may have
hoped, and even cherished her own little
romantic dreams of affection. Be that as it
may, the young Master of Lynn gave way to
those entreaties, to that warning of storm.
When his sister said he was going to make a
fool of himself, he got angry ; but at the same
time he saw as clearly as she that Lynn was
starved for want of money. And although
love's young dream might never return in all
its freshness of wonder and longing, still
there were a large number of pretty and
handsome young women in this country,
some one of whom (if her eyes had not quite
the depth and clearness of the eyes of Shena
Van) might look very well at the head of the
dinner-table at Lynn Towers. And so for a
time he left Lynn, and went away to Edinburgh
; and if his disappointment and isolation
did drive him into composing a little
song with the refrain,

O Shejia, Shena, my heart is true
To you where'' er you go "

—that was only the last up flickering flame
from the dust and ashes of the extinguished
romance ; and the Master of Lynn had done

everything that was required of him, and had
a fair right to expect that his relatives would
remember that in the future.

And now it can be well understood how,
as he walked alone along the shores of the
wide river, he should feel that he had been
ill-treated. Not even Janet Stewart's friendship
was left to him. He had looked once
more into those blue eyes ; and he could
remember them shining with laughter or
dilated with an awful majesty, as Boadicea
addressed an army of sheep, or perhaps
softening a little in farewell when he was
going away to Oxford ; but now there was
nothing but coldness. She did not care to
recall the old days. And, indeed, as he
walked on and out into the country, some
other verses that he had learned from Shena
Van in those bygone days began to come
into his head ; and he grew in a way to compassionate
himself, and to think of himself in
future years as looking back upon his youth
with a strange and pathetic regret — mingled
with some other feelings.

Oh, mind ye love, how oft we left
The deavin, winsome town,

To ivaiider by the green burnside

And hear its water croo?t ?
The simmer leaves hung over our heads

The flow e7's burst round our feet ^
And in the gloamift^ o' the wood

The throssil whistled sweet.

Oh dear, dear Jeanie Morrison,

Since we were hindered young,
Fve never seen your face, nor heard

The music o^ your tongue;
But I cotdd hug all wretchedness.

And happy could I dee,
Did I but ken your heart still dreamed

C bygone days and nne / "

These were some of the lines he remembered
(they were great favourites of Shena Van informer
times) ; but instead of this compassionate
of himself by proxy, as it were,
leading him to any gentleness of feeling, it
only made him the more bitter and angry.
I have had enough of this — I have had
enough of it," he kept repeating to himself.
'' Very few men I know have kept as straight
as I have. They'd better look out. I have
had just about enough of this."

That evening he dined with the officers at
Fort George, and drank far more wine than

he usually did — for he was very abstemious
in that direction. After dinner, he proposed
unlimited loo ; but more moderate counsels
prevailed, and the familiar and innocent
sixpenny Nap was agreed upon. But even
at this mild performance you can lose a fair
amount if you persistently 'ego Nap" on
almost any sort of a hand that turns up.

A GUESS.

Some well-known pieces of writing have
described to us the ecstatic visions vouchsafed
to the incipient opium-eater ; and these, or
some of these, may be a faithful enough
record. At all events, Yolande's first and
only experience was of a very different character.
All through that terrible nicrht one
horror succeeded another ; and always she
felt as if she were bound and gagged — that
she could neither flee away from those hideous
things nor shriek out her fear and cry for aid.
First she was in a vast forest of impenetrable
gloom ; it was night, and yet there was a
grayness in the open glade ; there was no sky
visible ; she was alone. Then down one of
these glades came a slow procession — figures
walking two by two ; and at first she thought
they were monks, but as she came nearer she
could see that within each cloak and hood

there was a skeleton, with eyes of white fire.
They took no heed of her ; she could not
move ; in the awful silence she beheld them
range themselves behind the trunks of the
great oaks, and although they were now invisible
it appeared to her that she could still
see their eyes of fire, and that they were
gazing on the figure of a woman that now
drew near. The woman was wringing her
hands ; her hair was dishevelled ; she looked
neither to the right nor to the left. And,
then, as she passed, the spectres came out
two by two, and formed a crowed and followed
her ; they pressed on her and surrounded
her, though she did not seem to see them ; it
was a doom overtaking her ; the night grew
darker ; a funeral song was heard far away —
not as from any opening heavens, but within
the black hollows of the wood — and then the
ghastly pageant disappeared.

Presently she was in a white world of snow
and ice, and a frantic despair had seized her,
for she knew that she was drifting away from
the land. This way and that she tried to
escape ; but always she came to a blue impassable
chasm ; she tried to spring from one

side to the other, but something held her
back ; she could not get away. There was a
fire-mountain there — the red flames looking
so strange in the middle of the white world ;
and the noise of the roaring of it was growing
fainter and more faint as she floated away on
this moving ice. The sea that she was entering
— she could see it far ahead of her — was
black ; but a thin gray mist hung over it ; and
she knew that once she was within that mist
she would see nothing more, nor be heard of
more, for ever and ever. She tried no longer
to escape ; horror had paralysed her ; she
wanted to tall aloud for help, but could not.
Denser and denser grew the mist ; and now
the black sea was all around her ; she was as
one already dead ; and when she tried to
think of those she was leaving for ever, she
could not remember them. Her friends ? —
the people she knew ? — she could remember
nothing. This vague terror and hopelessness
filled her mind ; otherwise it was a blank ;
she could look, but she could not think — and
now the black waters had reached almost to
her feet, and around her were the impenetrable
folds of air so that she could no longer see.

And so she passed from one vision of
terror to another all through the long night ;
until in the gray of the morning she slowly-awoke
to a sort of half-stupefied consciousness.
She had a headache, so frightful
that at first she could scarcely open her eyes ;
but she did not mind that ; she was overjoyed
that she could convince herself of her escape
from those hideous phantoms, and of her
being in the actual living world. Then she
began to recollect. She thought of what she
had done — perhaps with a little touch of pride,
as of something that he might approve, if ever
he should come to know. Then, though
her head was throbbing so dreadfully, she
cautiously opened her eyes to look around.

No sooner had she done so than Jane, who
was awake, stole noiselessly to her young
mistress's bedside. Yolande made a gesture
to ensure silence — for she saw that her mother
was lying asleep ; then she rose, wrapped a
a shawl round her, and slipped out of the
room, followed by her maid.

'what shall I get you Miss — I have kept
the fire alight downstairs — I can get you a
cup of tea in a minute."

No, no, never mind," said Yolande, pressing
her hand to her head. '' Tell me about
my mother. How long has she been asleep ?"

'' Not very long. Oh, she has passed a
dreadful night — the poor lady. She was so
excited at first, I thought she would have
killed herself ; but in the end she fairly cried
herself to sleep, after I got her to lie down
on the bed. And you don't feel very ill. Miss,
I hope ? But it was a terrible thing for you
to do."

^'What?"

'' I beg your pardon. Miss," said Jane,
with a little embarrassment ; 'but I guessed
what you had done. I guessed from what
the poor lady said. Oh, you won't do that
again, will you, Miss ? You might have
killed yourself; and then whatever should I
have said to your papa ? And I don't think
you will ever have need to do it again — I
heard what the poor lady kept saying to herself
— you won't have to do any such terrible
thing again — she declares that she will kill
herself before you have cause to do that
again "

'* I hope there won't be any occasion,'

said Yolande, calmly ; and then she went to
the window.

It was truly a miserable morning — dull and
gray and overclouded ; and it had rained
during the night ; the street and the terrace
were sodden and wet ; and a leaden-hued sea
tumbled on to the empty beach. But notwithstanding
that, and notwithstanding her headache,
Yolande vaguely felt that she had never
looked on a fairer picture. This plain, matter-of-fact,
commonplace world was such a beautiful
thing after those phantom horrors through
which she had passed. She liked to look at
the solid black boats high up on the shingle ;
at the terraced foot-way ; at the iron railing
along the road. She began to wish to be out
in that substantial world ; to see more of it,
and more closely ; perhaps the cold sea
breezes would temper the racking pain in her
head '^

*' Jane," said she, ''do you think you could
slip into the room and bring me my things
without waking my mother ? "

But you are not going out. Miss } " said
the maid, wondering. 'the night is scarcely
over yet. Won't you go back and lie down ?"

''No, no," said Yolande, almost with a
shudder of dread. " I have had terrible
dreams — I want to get outside — and I have
a headache, besides ; perhaps the fresh air
will make it better. But you can lie down,
Jane, after I have gone ; and don't wake my
mother, no matter how late she sleeps.
When I come back perhaps the people in the
house will be up, and I shall try to take some
breakfast "

I could get it for you now. Miss," said
Jane, eagerly.

I could not touch it," the girl said,
shivering.

The maid went and fetched her things ;
and when she had dressed she stole noiselessly
down the stairs and got outside. How
cold and damp the air felt ; but yet it was
fresh and new and strange ; the familiar
sound of the sea seemed pleasant and companionable.
As yet, in the dull gray dawn,
the little town appeared to be asleep ; all the
people she could find as she passed were a
policeman, leaning against a railing and reading
a newspaper, two men working at the
roadway, and a maidservant cleaning the

windows of a first-floor parlour. She walked
on ; and pushed back the hair from her forehead
to let the cool sea breeze dispel this
racking pain. But although the headache
was a bad one, and although it was a most
rare thing for her to know what a headache
was, still it did not depress her. She walked
on with an increasing gladness. This was a
fine, real world ; there were no more processions
of skeletons, or Arctic mists, or fields
covered with coffins. This was Worthing :
there was the pier ; these were most substantial
and actual waves that came rolling in
until they thundered over and rushed seething
and hissing up the beach. Moreover,
was there not a gathering sense of light
somewhere — as if the day were opening and
inclined to shine ? As she walked on in the
direction of Lower Lancing a more spacious
view of sea and sky opened out before her ;
and it appeared to her that away in the direction
of Brighton the clouds seemed inclined
to bank up. And then, gradually and here
and there, faint gleams of a warmer light
came shooting over from the east ; and in
course of time, as she still followed the windings

of the shore, the rising sun shone level
along the sea, and the yellow-brown waves,
though their curved hollows were in shadow
as they rolled on to the beach, had silver-gleaming
crests, and the wide stretches of
retreating foam that gurgled and hissed down
the shingly slopes were a glare of cream-white
dazzling to the eyes.

She walked quickly — and proudly. She
had played a bold game ; and she hoped that
she might win. Nay, more, she was prepared
to play it again. She would not shrink from
any sacrifice ; it was with no light heart that
she had undertaken this duty. And would
he approve ? — that was always her secret
thought, though generally she tried to banish
all remembrances of what was bygone.
Should he ever come to know of what she
had done ? For it was of her own planning.
It was not his suggestion at all ; probably, if
he had thought of such a means of terrorism,
he would not have dared to recommend it.
But she had laid this plan ; and she had
watched her opportunity ; and she was glad
that some days had elapsed before that opportunity
had occurred, so that her mother had

had time to become attached to her. And
what if that once did not suffice ? Well, she
was prepared to go on. It was only a headache
(and even that was quietly lessening, for
she had an elastic constitution, and was a
most capable walker). What were a few
headaches ? But no — she did not think that
much repetition of this experiment would be
necessary ; she could not believe that any
mother alive could look on and see her
daughter poisoning herself to save her.

The morning cleared and brightened ;
when she got to Lancing, she struck inland,
by the quiet country ways ; a kind of gladness
filled her. And if she should be successful,
after all — if the thing that she had
feared was to turn out a beautiful thing — if
the rescue of this poor mother was to be her
reward, what should she not owe him who
had told her what her duty was. He had
not been afraid to tell her — although she was
only a girl. Ah, and where was he now ?
Driven away into banishment, perhaps, by
what had happened up there in the north,
through her blindness and carelessness.
Once or twice, indeed, during these long

evenings, she had followed out a curious
fancy that perhaps his crossing the Morale
hills to catch the afternoon train at Kingussie
had really some connection with her coming
south. Had he wished to see that she was
secure and guarded, now that she was embarked
on an errand of his suggestion ? It
pleased her to think of him being in the same
train. Perhaps — in the cold gray morning at
Euston Station — standing backward from the
people, he had watched her get into the cab ;
perhaps he had even followed in his own cab
and seen her enter the hotel .^ Why should
he have hurried to catch that particular train ?
Why should he have adopted that arduous
route across the hills, unless it was that he
wished to travel with her, and yet without
her knowing it ? But it was so strange he
should make this long journey merely to see
that she was safely lodged in her hotel.

Now she had been studying this matter on
one or two occasions — and letting her fancy
play about it with a strange curiosity — but it
was on this particular morning, as she was
nearing the little village of Something, that a
new light suddenly flashed in on her. Who

VOL. III. I

was it who had told Lawrence and Lang of
her being in London ? who had explained to
them what her business was ? who had asked
Mr. Lang to go to her hotel and see her ?
Was it possible, then, that he had journeyed
to London in that same train, and gone
direct to the lawyers' office, so that she should
have their assistance ? He knew they were
her father s lawyers ; for she herself had told
him to whom she should apply in case of
difficulty ; whereas, on the other hand, it was
not possible for her father to have written.
Had he been guarding her, then, and watching
over her, all that time — perhaps even
looking on ? And if looking on — then, in a
breathless kind of way, she recalled the circumstances
of her taking her mother away.
She had been disturbed and bewildered, no
doubt ; still had she not the impression of
some one darting by — some one who felled the
man who had seized her arm, and then passed
quickly by ? Surely, surely it must have been
he. Who else could have known ? Who
else could have interfered ? Her heart grew
warm with gratitude towards him. Ah, there
was the true friend — watching over her but

still keeping back, and unrequited with a
single word of thanks. She began to convince
herself that this must have been so.
She accused herself of blindness that she had
not seen it before And for how long had his
guardianship continued ? When had he gone

away } Perhaps

Then her face grew pale. Perhaps he
was even now in Worthing, still exercising
this invisible care over her ? Perhaps she
might meet him, by some accident, in the
street. She stopped short in the road, apparently
afraid to go on. For what would their
meeting be, if such a meeting were to happen ?
But no, it would not happen — it should not
happen. Even if he were in Worthing (and
she tried to get rid of the dreams and fancies
begotten of this morning walk) he would not
seek to see her ; he would avoid her rather ;
he would know, as well as she, that it was not
fit and proper that they should meet. And
why should he be in Worthing ? H is guardianship
there could be of no avail ; she had
nothing to fear in any direction where he
could help. The more she calmly reviewed
the possibilities of the case, the more she

considered it likely that he had indeed come
to London with her ; that he had given
instructions to the lawyers ; perhaps, even,
that he had been present when she bore her
mother off. But even if these things were so,
by this time he must have left, perceiving
that he could do no more. And whither ?
She had a kind of dim notion that he would
not quickly return to Gress. But whither,
then, whither ? She saw him an outcast and
a wanderer ; she imagined him away in far
places ; and the morning seemed less cheerful
now. Her face grew grave ; she walked
firmly on. She was returning to her appointed
task, and to any trials that might be in store
for her in connection with it.

She was getting near to Breakwater when
she saw along the road a pony-carriage
coming quickly in her direction ; the next
moment she perceived that her mother was
in it, and that Jane (who had been brought
up in the country) was driving. A few
seconds sufficed to bring them to her, and
then the mother, who seemed much excited,
got out from the trap, and caught
her daughter by both shoulders, and stroked

her hair and her face in a sort of delirium
of joy.

"We have been driving everywhere in
search of you — I was so afraid — ah, you are
alive, and well, and beautiful as ever —
my child, my child, I have not murdered
you ! "

'' Hush, mother," said the girl, quite calmly.
"It is a pity you got up so early. I came
out for a walk because my head was bad ; it
is getting better now ; I will drive you back
if you like."

She drew the girl aside for a few yards,
caressing her arm and stroking her fingers.

My child, I ought to be ashamed and
miserable ; but to see you alive and well — I
I was in despair — I was afraid. But you
need not fear any more, Yolande, you need
not fear any more."

I hope not, mother," said Yolande,
gravely, and she regarded her mother ; "for
I think I would rather die than go through
again such a night as last night."

But you need not fear — you need not
fear!" said the other, pressing her hand.
Oh no. When I saw you lying on the bed

last night — then — then I seemed to know
what I was. But you need not fear. No,
never again will you have to poison yourself
in order to shame me."

"It was not to shame you, mother — it was
to ask you not to take any more of that —
that medicine."

'you need not fear, Yolande, you need
not fear!" she repeated, eagerly. "Oh no;
I have everything prepared now. I will
never again touch it — you shall never have
to sacrifice yourself like that "

"Well, I am glad of it, dear mother, for
both our sakes," Yolande said. " I hope it
will not cost you much suffering."

"Oh no, it will not cost me much suffering,"
said the mother, with a strange sort of
smile.

Something in her manner attracted her
daughter's attention.

Shall we go back ?" she asked.

But I wished you to understand, Yolande,
that you need have no longer any fear "

"You have promised, mother."

Yes, but did I not promise before .^ Ah,
you — you so young, so strong, so self-reliant

■ — you cannot tell how weak one can be.
But now that is all over. This time I know.
This time I can tell that I have tasted that
poison for the last time — if there were twenty
standing by, it would not matter."

You must nerve yourself, mother "

Oh, but I have made it secure in another
way' she said, with the same curious smile.

How then ?"

"Well, what am I worth in the world?
What is the value of my life ^ It is a wreck
and worthless ; to save it for a week, for a
day, would I let you have one more headache,
and be driven away into the country by
yourself like this ? Ah no, Yolande ; but
now you are secure ; there will be no more
of that ; when I feel that I must break my
promise again — when I am like to die with
weakness and — and the craving — then, if
there were twenty bottles standing by, you
need not fear. If living is not bearable,
then, rather than you should do again what
you did last night, I will kill myself — and
gladly!"

Yolande regarded her with the same calm
air.

'rand is that the end you have appointed
for me, mother ? "

Her mother was stupefied for a second ;
then she uttered a short quick cry of terror.

Yolande, what do you mean ?"

I think I have told you, mother, that I
mean to follow your example in all things —
to the end, whatever it may be. Do not let
us speak of it."

She put her hand on her mother's arm,
and led her back to the pony-carriage. But
the poor woman was trembling violently.
This terrible threat had quite unnerved her.
It had seemed to her so easy, if the worst
came to the worst — if she could control her
craving no longer, — that, sooner than her
daughter should be sacrificed, she herself
should throw away this worthless fragment of
existence that remained to her. And now
Yolande's manner frightened her. This easy
way of escape was going to produce the direst
of all catastrophes ? She regarded the girl
who was preoccupied and thoughtful, and
who allowed Jane to continue to drive — all
the way back ; and there was something in
her look that sent the conviction to her

mother's heart that that had been no idle
menace.

When they got back to Worthing, Yolande
set about the usual occupations of the day
with her accustomed composure, and even
with a measure of cheerfulness. She seemed
to attach little importance to the incident that
had just happened, and probably wished her
mother to understand that she meant to see
this thing through as she had begun it. But
it was pitiable to see the remorse on the
mother's face when a slight contraction of
Yolande's brow told that from time to time
her head still swam with pain.

The first hamper of game from the north
arrived that day ; and it was with a curious
interest that the mother (who was never done
wondering at her daughter's knowledge and
accomplishments and opinions) listened to all
that Yolande could tell her about the various
birds and beasts. As yet the ptarmigan
showed no signs of donning their winter
plumage ; but the mountain hares here and
there — especially about the legs — showed
traces of white appearing underneath the
brownish-gray. Both at the foot and at the top

of the hamper was a thick bed of stags-horn
moss (which grows in extraordinary luxuriance
at Allt-nam-ba), and Yolande guessed
and guessed correctly — that Duncan, who
had observed her on one or two occasions
bring home some of that moss, had fancied
that the young lady would like to have some
sent her to the south. And she wondered
whether there was any other part of the
world where people were so thoughtful and
so kind — even to visitors who were almost
strangers to them.

At night, when Yolande went into the
bedroom, she noticed that there was no
bottle on the mantelpiece.

Where is it, mother ?" she said.

I have thrown it away. You need not
fear now, Yolande," her mother said. And
then she regarded her daughter nervously.
Don't mind what I said this morning, child.
It was foolish. If I cannot bear the suffering
well, it cannot be so hard a thing to die ; that
must come if one waits."

'you are not going to die, mother," said
Yolande, gently patting her on the shoulder.
"You are going to live; for some day, as

soon as you are strong enough, you and I
are going to Nice, to drive all the way along
to Genoa ; and I know all the prettiest places
to stop at. But you must have courage and
hope and determination. And you must get
well quickly, mother ; for I should like to go
away with you ; it is such a long, long time
since I smelt the lemon-blossom in the air."

A MESSAGE.

As subsequent events were to prove, Yolande
had, by this one bold stroke, achieved the
victory she had set her heart upon. But as
yet she could not know that. She could not
tell that the frantic terror of the poor mother
at the thought that she might have killed her
only child would leave an impression strong
enough to be a sufficient safeguard. Indeed,
she could see no end to the undertaking on
which she had entered ; but she was determined
to prosecute that with unfailing patience
and with hope in the final result ; and also,
perhaps, with the consciousness that this
immediate duty absorbed her from the consideration
of other problems of her life.

But while she tried to shut up all her cares
and interests within this little town of Worthing
— devising new amusements and occupations,
keeping her mother as much as possible

in the open air, and lightly putting aside the
poor woman's remorse over the incidents of
that critical night — there came to her reminders
from the outer and further world.
Among these was the following letter from
the Master of Lynn, which she read with
strangely diverse emotions contending for
mastery in her mind : —

*' Station Hotel, Inverness, October 2.

'' My dearest Yolande — It is only this
morning that I have got your address from
Allt-nam-ba ; and I write at once, though
perhaps you will not care to be bothered with
much correspondence just at present. Your
father has told me what has taken you to the
south ; and indeed I had guessed something
of the kind from the note you sent me when
you were leaving. I hope you are well, and
not over-troubled ; and when you have time
I should be glad to have a line from you —
though I shall not misconstrue your silence
if you prefer to be silent. In fact, I probably
should not write to you now but that your
father is leaving Allt-nam-ba short ; and I
suppose he will see you as soon as he goes

south ; and I think I am bound to give you
some explanation as to how matters stand.
No doubt he will think it strange that I have
rather kept out of his way ; and very likely
he will be surprised that my father has never
called at the lodge, or shown any sign of
civility, and so forth. Well, the plain truth
is, dear Yolande, that I have quarrelled with
my father, if that can be called a quarrel
which is all on one side — for I simply retire,
on my part, and seek quiet in an Inverness
hotel. The cause of the quarrel, or estrangement,
is that he is opposed to our marriage ;
and he has been put up to oppose it, I
imagine, chiefly by my aunt, the elderly and
agreeable lady whom you will remember
meeting at the Towers. I think I am bound
in honour to let you know this ; not that it
in the least affects either you or me, as far as
our marriage is concerned, for I am old
enough to manage my own affairs ; but in
order to explain a discourtesy which may
very naturally have offended your father, and
also to explain why I, feeling ashamed of the
whole business, have rather kept back, and
so failed to thank your father, as otherwise I

should have done, for his kindness to me.
Of course I knew very well when we became
engaged in Egypt that my father, whose
political opinions are of a fine old crusted
order, would be rather aghast at my marrying
the daughter of the Member for Slagpool ;
but I felt sure that when he saw you and
knew you, dear Yolande, he would have no
further objection ; and indeed I did not anticipate
that the eloquence of my venerated
aunt would have deprived him of the use of
his senses. One ought not to write so of
one's parent, I know ; but facts are facts ;
and if you are driven out of your own home
through the bigotry of an old man and the
cattish temper of an old woman, and if you
have the most angelic of sisters taken to
nagging at you with letters, and if you are
forced into the sweet seclusion of a hotel
adjoining a railway-station, then the humour
of the whole affair begins to be apparent, and
you may be inclined to call things by their
real names. I have written to your father to
say that he need not bother about either the
dogs or the horses ; when he has left I will
run down to Allt-nam-ba and see them sent

off; but I have not told him why I am at
present In Inverness ; and I tell you, my dear
Yolande, because I think you ought to know
exactly how matters stand. I should not be at
all surprised to hear from you that you had
imagined something of the state of the case ;
for you must have wondered at their not asking
you and your father to dinner, or something
of the kind, after Polly taking you to
the Towers when you first came north ; but
at all events, this is how we are situated now,
and I should be inclined to make a joke of
the whole affair, if it were not that when I
think of you I feel a little bit indignant. Of
course, it cannot matter to you — not in the
least. It is disagreeable, that is all. If dogs
delight to bark and bite, it does not much
matter so long as they keep their barking
and biting among themselves. It is rather
hard, certainly, when they take possession of
your house, and turn you out into the street ;
especially when you have a lovely sister come
and accuse you of having no higher ambition
in life than playing billiards with commercial
travellers.

'' I shall hang on here, I expect, until our

Other tenants — they who have the forest —
leave for the south ; then I shall be able to
make some final arrangements with our agent
here ; after which I shall consider myself free.
You must tell me, dear Yolande, when and
where you wish to see me — of course, I don't
wish to inconvenience or trouble you in anyway
— I shall leave it entirely in your hands
as to what you would have me do. Perhaps
if I go away for a while, the people at Lynn
may come to their senses. Polly has been
at them once or twice ; she is a warm ally
of yours ; but to tell you the truth I would
not have you made the subject of any appeal.
No word of that kind shall come from me.
Most likely when the last of the people that the
Grahams have with them at Inverstroy have
gone, Polly may go over to Lynn and establish
herself there, and have a battle-royal with my
revered aunt. Of course I would not bother
you with the details of this wretched family
squabble if I did not think that some explanation
were due both to you and to your father.
*' I shall be glad to hear from you, if you
are not too much occupied. — Yours affectionately,
Archie Leslie."

VOL. III. K

'' Pes. — I hope to be able to leave hereabout
the 2 2d."

Her first impulse was to rush away at once
and telegraph to him, begging him not to
come south ; but a moment's reflection showed
her that was unnecessary. She re-read the
letter ; there was nothing of the impetuosity
of a lover in it, but rather a studied kindness,
and also a reticence with regard to her present
surroundings and occupations that she
could not but respect. For she knew as well
as any one that this matter concerned him,
too ; and she could even have forgiven a
trace of apprehension on his part — seeing
that a young man about to marry is naturally
curious about the new conditions that are to
surround him. His silence on this point
seemed part of the careful consideration that
prevailed throughout this message to her.
Then it was so clear that he would be ruled
by her wishes. He was not coming to claim
her by the right he had acquired. She could
put away this letter for future consideration,
as she had for the moment put aside her
engagement-ring. While she was first reading

it, some strange fancies and feelings had
held possession of her — a quick contrition ; a
desire to tell him everything, and so release
herself from this bond ; a remonstrance with
herself, and a vague kind of hope that she
might make atonement by a life-long devotion
to him, after this first duty to her mother had
been accomplished. But these conflicting
resolves she forced herself to discard. She
would not even answer this letter now.
There was no hurry. He would not come
to Worthing if she did not wish it. And was
it not fortunate that she could turn aside from
unavailing regrets and from irresolute means
and purposes to the actual needs of the
moment ? She calmly put the letter in her
pocket, and went away to see whether her
mother were not ready for her morning drive.
And now it had come to pass that whenever
Yolande drew near there was a look of affection
and gratitude in this poor woman's eyes
that made the girl's heart glad.

Day after day passed ; the weather happened
to be fine, and their exploration of the
surrounding country was unwearied. The
castles of Arundel and Chamber, the parks of

Answering and Bad worth, Harrow Hill,
Amberley Wild Brook, Wellington, Washington,
Warrington, Washington — they knew them
all ; and they had so educated the wise old
pony that, when Jane was not with them, and
they were walking along by the edgeways
or climbing a hill, they could safely leave him
and the pony-carriage far behind them, knowing
that he would come up at his leisure, keeping
his own side of the road, and refusing to
be tempted by the greenest of wayside patches.
Yolande, both at home and abroad, was always
on the watch, and carefully concealed the fact.
But now she was beginning less and less to
fear, and more and more to hope ; nay, at
times, and rather in spite of herself, a joyful
conviction would rest upon her that she had
already succeeded. Four days after that relapse,
a desperate fit of depression overtook the
poor woman ; but she bravely fought through it.
'you need not fear this time, Yolande,"
she would say, with a sad smile. " I said
that once before, but I did not know then. I
had not seen you lying on the bed — perhaps
dying, as I thought. You shall have no more
headaches through me."

''Ah, dear mother," said Yolande, " in a
little time you will not even think of such
things. You will have forgotten them. It
will be all like a dream to you."

'eyes, like a dream — like a dream" — the
other said, absently. "It was in a dream
that you came to me. I could not understand.
I heard you, but I could not understand.
And then it seemed that you were
leading me away, but I scarcely knew who
you were. And the evening in the hotel,
when you were showing me your things, I
could scarcely believe it all ; and when you
said you would get me a dressing-bag, I asked
myself why I should take that from a stranger.
You were so new to me — and tall — and so
beautiful — it was a kind of wonder — I could
not think you were indeed my own daughter
but a kind of angel — and I was glad to
follow you."

"Well, I carried you off," said Yolande
plainly (for she did not like to encourage
fantasy). " There is no mistake about it ;
and I shall not let you go back to those
friends of yours who were not at all good
friends to you — that also is quite certain."

"Oh no, no," she would say, grasping the
girl's hand. '* I am not going back — never,
never, to that house. You need not fear
now, Yolande."

It has already been mentioned that this
poor woman was greatly astonished that
Yolande should know so much and should
have seen so much, and read so many different
things. And this proved to be a field of quite
unlimited interest : for there was not a single
opinion or experience of the girl that she did
not regard with a strange fascination and
sympathy. Whether Yolande was relating
to her legendary stories of Brittany, of which
she knew a good many, or describing the
lonely streets of Pompeii, or telling her of the
extraordinary clearness of the atmosphere in
Washington (the physical atmosphere, that
Is), she listened with a kind of wonder, and
with the keenest curiosity to know more and
more of this young life that had grown up
apart from hers. And then Yolande so far
wandered from the path of virtue — as laid
down by her father — as sometimes to read
aloud in French ; and while she frequently
halted and stumbled in reading aloud in

English, there never was any stumbling, but
rather a touch of pride, when she was pronouncing
such sonorous lines as this —

"Z(2 vaste mer vmrmut'e autour de son cercueil'''

and it was strange to the poor mother that
her daughter should be more at home in reading
French than in reading English. She
would ask the minutest questions — about
Yolande's life at the Chateau, about her life
on board ship during her various voyages,
about her experiences in those mountain
solitudes of the north. Her anxiety to be
always in the society of her daughter was
insatiable ; she could scarcely bear to have
her out of her siofht. And when Lawrence
and Lanof sent her, in the course of time, her
usual allowance of money, her joy was extreme.
For now, whenever she and Yolande went
out, she scanned the shop-windows with an
eager interest, and always she was buying
this, that, or the other trinket, or bit of
pretty-coloured silk, or something of the kind
for the girl to wear. Yolande had rather
severe notions in the way of personal adornment
; but she was well content to put a bit

of colour round her neck or an additional
silver hoop round her wrist when she saw the
pleasure in her mother's eyes.

At length she felt justified in sending the
following letter to her father : —

"Worthing, October 12.

'' My dear Papa — I intend this to reach
you before you leave Allt-nam-ba ; because
it carries good news ; and I know you have
been anxious. I think everything goes well
sometimes I am quite sure of it — sometimes
I look forward to such a bright future.
It has been a great struggle and pain (but
not to me, please do not speak of me at all
in your letters, because that is nothing at all),
but I have not so much fear now. Perhaps
it is too soon to be certain ; but I cannot
explain to you in a letter what it is that gives
me such hope ; that drives away what reason
suggests, and compels me to think that all will
be well. Partly, it is my mother's look.
There is an assurance in it of her determination
— of her feeling that all is safe now ;
again and again she says to me, ' I have been
in a dream ; but now I am come out of It.

You need not fear now.' Mr. Melville said
I was not to be too sanguine, and always to
be watchful ; and I try to be that ; but I
cannot fight against the joyful conviction that
my mother is now safe from that thing.
Only, she is so weak and ill yet — she tries to
be brave and cheerful to give me comfort ;
but she suffers. Dear papa, it is madness
that you should reproach yourself for doing
nothing, and propose to take us to the Mediterranean.
No, no ; it will not do at all.
My mother is too weak yet to go anywhere ;
when she is well enough to go I will take
her ; but I must take her alone ; she is now
used to me ; there must be no such excitement
as would exist if you were to come for
us. I am very thankful to Mr. Shortlands
that you are going to Dalescroft ; and I hope
you will find charming people at his house,
and also that the shooting is good. Dear
papa, I hope you will be able to go over to
Slagpool while you are in the north ; and
perhaps you might give an address or deliver
a lecture — there are many of the Members
doing that now, as I see by the newspapers,
and you owe something to your constituents

for not grumbling about your going to
Egypt.

'' I hope everything has been comfortable
at the lodge since I left ; but that I am sure
of, for Mrs. Bell would take care. You must
buy her something very pretty when you get
to Inverness, and send it to her as from you
and me together — something very pretty,
indeed, papa, for she was very kind to me,
and I would not have her fancy that one forgets.
Mr. Leslie says in a letter that he will
see to the ponies and dogs being sent off, so
that you need have no trouble ; he is at the
Station Hotel, as probably you know, if you
wish to call and thank him. I remember
Duncan saying that when the dogs were
going he would take them over the hills to
Kingussie and go with them by the train as
far as Perth, where he has relatives, and there
he could see that the dogs had water given
them in the morning. But you will yourselves
take them, perhaps, from Inverness ?
Another small matter, dear papa, if you do
not mind the trouble, is this — Would you ask
some one to pack up for me and send here
the boards and drying paper and hand-press

that I had for the wild flowers ? We go
much into the country here, and have plenty
of time in the evening ; and my mother is
so much interested in any pursuit of mine
that this would be an additional means of
amusing her. You do not say whether
you have heard anything further of Mr.
Melville.

*' Do not think I am sad, or alone, or repining.
Oh no ; I am very well ; and I am
very happy when I see my mother pleased
with me. We do a hundred things — examine
the shop-windows, walk on the pier or along
the promenade, or we drive to different places
in the country, and sometimes we have lunch
at the old - fashioned inns, and make the
acquaintance of the people. So good-natured
they are, and well-pleased with their own
importance ; but I do not understand them
always, and my mother laughs. We call the
pony Bertrand du Guesclin ; I do not remember
how it happened ; but at all events he is
not as adventurous as the Constable : he is
too wise to run any risks. But when I am
quite sure, and if my mother is well enough
for the fatigue of the voyage, I think I will

take her to the south of France, and then
along the Riviera, for I fear the winter here,
and she so delicate. Dear papa, you say I
am not to mind the expense — very well, you
see I am profiting by your commands. In
the meantime I would not dare. I try to
keep down my excitement — we amuse ourselves
with the shops, with the driving, and
what not — it is all simple, pleasant, and I
wait for the return of her strength. Yes, I
can see she is much depressed, sometimes ;
and then it is that she has been .accustomed
to fly for relief to the medicines ; but now I
think that is over, and the best to be looked
forward to. Yes, in spite of caution, in spite of
reason, I am already almost assured. There
is something in her manner towards me that
convinces me — there is a sympathy which has
grown up — she looks at me as she does not
look at any one else, and I understand. It is
this that convinces me.

'will you give a farewell gift to each of
the servants, besides their wages ? I think
they deserve it ; always they helped me
greatly, and were so willing and obliging,
instead of taking advantage of my ignorance.

I would not have them think that I did not
recognise it, and was ungrateful. And please,
papa, get something very pretty for Mrs. Bell.
I do not know what. Something she could
be proud to show to Mr. Melville would
probably please her best.

"Write to me when you get to Dales-court.
— Your affectionate daughter,

'' Poland."

There is no doubt that Yolande made
those repeated references to Mr. Melville
with the vague expectation of learning that
perhaps he had returned to Gress. But if
that was her impression she was speedily
undeceived. The very next morning, as she
went down into the small lobby, she saw
something white in the letter-box of the door.
The bell had not been rung, so that the
servant-maid had not taken the letter out.
Yolande did so, and saw that it was addressed
to herself — in a handwriting that she instantly
recognised. With trembling fingers she
hastily broke open the envelope ; and then
read these words, written in pencil across a
sheet of notepaper : —

'* You have done well. You will succeed.
But be patient. Good-bye. — -J. M."

She stood still — bewildered — her heart
beating quickly. Had he been there all the
time, then ? — always near her ; watching her ;
guarding her ; observing the progress of the
experiment he had himself suggested ? And
now, whither had he gone — without a word
of thanks and gratitude? Her mother was
coming down the stairs. She quickly concealed
the letter, and turned to meet her. In the
dusk of this lobby the mother observed
nothing strange or unusual in the look of her
daughter's face.

A LAST INTERVENTION.

It has already been said of Mrs. Graham, as
of her brother, that she was not altogether
mercenary. She had a certain share of
sentiment in her composition. It is true, she
had summarily stamped out the Masters
boyish fancies with regard to Janet Stewart ;
but then, on the other hand (when the danger
to the estates of Lynn was warded off), she
could afford to cherish those verses to Shena
Van with a sneaking fondness. Nay, more
than that, she paid them the compliment of
imitation — unknown to her husband and
everybody else ; and it may be worth while
to print this, her sole and only literary effort,
if only to show that, just as sempstress
imagine the highest social circles to be the
realm of true romance, and like to be told of
the woes and joys of high-born ladies, so this
pretty Mrs. Graham, being the only daughter

of a nobleman, when casting about for a
properly sentimental situation, must needs
get right down to the bottom of the social
ladder, and think it fine to speak of herself
as a sailor's lass. One small touch of reality
remained — the hero she named Jim. But
here are the verses to speak for themselves : —

/ care not a fig for your brag, you girls

And dames of high degree;
Or for all your silks and satins and pearls,

Asfi7ie as fine may be;
For Til be as rich as dukes and earls

When my fin comes horne from sea.

Ifs ii Portsmouth town that I know a laiie,

Arid a S77iall house jolly a7td free,
Thais sheltered well front the wi7id arid the rain,

Arid as S7iiig as S7iug cadi be j
Arid ifs there that we'll be sitting again

Whe7i 77ty Jii7i coins ho77ie fro77i sea.

'Twas afire brave sight when the yards were 77ia7ined,

Though my eyes could scarcely see;
Ifs a lo7ig, long sail to the Rio Grand

Arid a lo7ig, lo7ig waiting for 77iej
But Til e7ivy riot any one ijt the land

Whe7i 7?iy finn conies ho77ie frown sea.

So here's to your health, you high-bor?i girls

Arid ladies of great degree;
Arid I hope you'll all be married to earls.

As proud as proud may be;

But I wouldn't give fourpence for all of your pearls

When my Jim comes home from sea.'''

Of course, she carefully concealed these
verses — especially from her husband, who
would have led her a sad life if he had found
them and discovered the authorship ; and
they never attained to the dignity of type in
the Inverness Courier where the lines to
Shena Van had appeared ; but all the same
pretty Mrs. Graham regarded them with a
certain pleasure, and rather approved of the
independence of the Portsmouth young lady,
although she had a vague impression that she
might not be quite the proper sort of guest to
ask to Inverstroy.

Now her anger and dismay over the possible
breaking down of the scheme which she
had so carefully formed and tended were due
to various causes, and did not simply arise
from a wish that the Master of Lynn should
marry a rich wife. It was her project, for
one thing ; and she had a certain sentimental
fondness in regarding it. Had she not
wrought for it, too, and striven for it '^ Was
it for nothing that she had trudged through

VOL. III. L

the dust of the Merhadj bazaars, and fought
with cockroaches in her cabin, and gasped
with the Egyptian heat all those sweltering
afternoons ? She began to consider herself
ill-treated, and did not know which to complain
of the more — her brother's indifference
or her father's obstinacy. Then she could
get no sort of sympathy from her husband.
He only laughed — and went away to look
after his pheasants. Moreover, she knew
very well that this present condition of affairs
could not last. The Master's ill-temper
would increase rather than abate. Blade
would grow accustomed to his neglect of her.
Perhaps Mr. Winterbourne would interfere
and finally put an end to that pretty dream
she had dreamed about as they went sailing
down the Mediterranean.

Accordingly she determined to make one
more effort. If she should not be able to
coax Lord Lynn into a more complaisant
frame of mind, at least she could go on to
Allt-nam-ba and make matters as pleasant as
possible with Mr. Winterbourne before he
left. The former part of her endeavour,
indeed, she speedily found to be hopeless.

She had no sooner arrived at the Towers
than she sought out her father and begged
him to be less obdurate ; but when, as she
was putting forward Corrievreak as her chief
argument, she was met by her father's affixing
to Corrievreak, or rather prefixing to it, a
solitary and emphatic word — a word that
was entirely out of place, too, as applied
to a sanctuary — she knew it was all over.
Lord Lynn sometimes used violent language,
for he was a hot-tempered man ; but not
language of that sort ; and when she heard
him utter that dreadful wish about such a
sacred thing as the sanctuary of a deer-forest
she felt it was needless to continue further.

'every well, papa," said she, ''I have
done my best. It is not my affair. Only,
everything might have been made so pleasant
for us all "

"Yes, and for the Slagpool Radicals," her
father said, contemptuously. " I suppose
they would land at Foyers, with banners ;
and have picnics in the forest !"

'eat all events, you must remember this,
papa," said Mrs. Graham, with some sharpness,
"that Archie is a gentleman. He is

pledged to marry Miss Winterbourne. And
marry her he will."

'let him and welcome!" said this short,
stout, thick person with the bushy eyebrows
and angry eyes. "He may marry the dairymaid
if he likes. I suppose the young gentleman
has a right to his own tastes. But I
say he shall not bring his low acquaintances
about this house while I am alive!"

Mrs. Graham herself had a touch of the
family temper ; and for a second or two her
face turned quite pale with anger ; and when
she spoke it was in a kind of forced and
breathless way.

I don't know what you mean. Who are
low acquaintances 1 Yolande Winterbourne
is my friend. She is fit to marry any one in
the land — I care not what his rank is — and —
and I will not have such things said — she is
my friend. Low acquaintances ? — if it comes
to that, it was I who introduced Archie to
Mr. Winterbourne — and — and this is what I
know about them, that if they are not fit to —
to be received at Lynn, then neither am I ! "

And with that she walked calmly (but still
with her face rather pale) out of the room,

and shut the door behind her ; and then went
away and sought out her own dressing-room
of former days, and locked herself in there
and had a good cry. She did feel injured.
She was doing her best, and this was what she
got for it. But she was a courageous little
woman, and presently she had dried her eyes
and arranged her dress for going out ; then
she rang and sent a message to the stables to
get the dog-cart ready, for that she wanted to
drive to Allt-nam-ba.

By and by she was driving along by the
side of the pretty loch, under the great hills ;
and she was comforting herself with more
cheerful reflections.

"It is no matter," she was saying to herself.
''If only Mr. Winterbourne remains in
good humour, everything will go right.
When Archie is married, he will be rich
enough to have a home where he pleases. I
suppose Jim wouldn't have them always with
us ? — though it would be nice to have
Yolande in the house, especially in the long
winter months. But Archie could build a
house for himself ; and sell it when he no
longer wanted it. The country about Loch

Eil would please Yolande ; I wonder if Archie
could get a piece of land anywhere near
Fassiefern ; that would be handy for having
a yacht, too, and of course they will have a
yacht. Or why shouldn't he merely rent a
house — one of those up Glen Urquhart, if
only the shooting was a little better ; or over
Glen Spean way, if Lochaber isn't a little too
wild for Yolande ; or perhaps they might get
a place in Glengarry, for Yolande is so fond
of wandering through woods. No doubt
Archie exaggerated that affair about Yolande's
mother ; in any case it could easily be
arranged ; other families have done so, and
everything gone on as usual. Then if they
had a town-house we might all go to the
Caledonian Ball together ; Archie looks so
well in the kilt ; and Yolande might go as
Flora Macdonald'*

She drove quickly along the loch-side, but
moderated her pace when she reached the
rough mountain-road leading up the glen,
for she knew she would not mend matters by
letting down one of her father's horses. And
as she approached Allt-nam-ba a chill struck
her heart — those preparations for departure

were so ominous. Duncan was in front of
the bothy, giving the rifles and guns their
last rub with oil before putting them into the
cases ; boxes of empty soda-water bottles had
been hauled out by the women-folk for the
men to screw up ; a cart with its shafts
resting on the ground stood outside the
coach-house ; and various figures went hurrying
this way and that. And no sooner had
Mrs. Graham driven up and got down from
the dog-cart, than her quick eye espied a tall
black-bearded man who, from natural shyness
or perhaps he wanted to have a look at
Duncan's gun-rack — had retreated into the
bothy ; and so, instead of going into the
house, she quickly followed him into the wide,
low-roofed apartment, which smelt considerably
of tobacco-smoke.

'* Isn't your name Angus '^. " said she.

*' Yes, ma'am," said he, with a very
large smile, that showed he recognised
her.

** I suppose Mr. Macpherson has sent you
about the inventory ? "

"Yes, ma'am."

Have you been over the house yet ?"

''No, ma'am ; I have just come out with
the empty cart from Inverfarlgulg."

'' Well, then, Angus, you need not go over
the house. I don't want the gentlemen
bothered. Go back and tell Mr. Macpherson
I said so."

'' There was £"] of breakages with the
last tenant, ma'am," said he, very respectfully.

'' Never mind," said she ; and she took
out her purse, and got hold of a sovereign.
'' Go back at once ; and if you have to sleep
at Whitebridge that will pay the cost ; or you
may get a lift in the mail-cart. My brother
is in Inverness, isn't he ?"

'' Yes, ma'am."

'then you can go to him, and tell him I
said there was to be no going over the
inventory. This tenant is a friend of mine.
You go to my brother when you get to
Inverness, and he will explain to Mr. Macpherson.
Now good-bye, Angus " — and she
shook hands with him, as is the custom in
that part of the country, and went.

The arrival of a stranger at Allt-nam-ba
was such an unusual circumstance that, when
she went up to the door of the lodge, she

found both Mr. Winterbourne and John
Shortlands awaiting her — they having seen
her drive up the glen ; and she explained
that she had been leaving a message with one
of the men.

I heard you were leaving, Mr. Winterbourne,"
said she, with one of her most
charming smiles, when they had got into the
drawing-room, "and I could not let you go
away without coming to say good-bye. Both
my husband and I expected to have seen much
more of you this autumn ; but you can see for
yourself what it is in the Highlands — every
household is so wrapt up in its own affairs
that there is scarcely any time for visiting.
If Inverstroy had come to Alltt - nam - ba,
Inverstroy would have found Allt- nam-ba
away shooting on the hill, and vice versa;
and I suppose that is why old - fashioned
people like my father have almost given up
the tradition of visiting. When do you go ?"

*swell, if we are all packed and ready, I
suppose this afternoon ; then we can pass the
night at Foyers, and go on to Inverness in
the morning."

*' But if I had known I could have brought

some of the people from the Towers to help
you. My father would have been delighted."

She said it without a blush ; perhaps it
was only a slip of the tongue.

Do you think Mrs. Bell would suffer any
interference ? " said John Shortlands, with a
laugh. '' I can tell you, my dear Mrs.
Graham, that she rules us with a rod of iron
though we're not supposed to know it."

"And how is dear Yolande ? " said Mrs.
Graham.

"She is very well," Yolande's father said,
instantly lowering his eyes, and becoming
nervous and fidgety.

I heard something of what had called
her away to the south — at least I presumed
that was the reason," continued Mrs. Graham,
forcing herself to attack this dangerous topic
in order to show that, in her estimation at
least, nothing too important had occurred.
Of course one sympathises with her. I
hope you have had good news from her } "

Oh yes," said he, hastily. " Oh yes. I
had a letter last night. Yolande is very
well."

"Archie," continued Mrs. Graham, thinking

enough had been said on that point, "is at
Inverness. I declare the way those lawyers
fight over trifles is perfectly absurd. And I
confess," she added, with a demure smile,
"that the owners of deer-forests are not much
better. Of course they always tell me I don't
know — that it is my ignorance ; but to find
people quarrelling about the line the march
should take — when an acre of the ground
wouldn't give grazing for a sheep — seems
stupid enough. Well now, Mr. Winter -
bourne, may I venture to ask how you found
the shooting ? "

Oh, excellent — excellent," said he,
brightly, for he also was glad to get away
from that other topic. "We have not found
as many deer coming about as we expected ;
but otherwise the place has turned out everything
that could be wished."

I am glad of that," said she, "for I know
Archie had qualms about inducing you to
take the shooting. I remember very well, onboard
ship, he used to think it was a risky
thing — supposing the place had not turned
out well, then you might have felt that —
that "

No, no, my dear Mrs. Graham," said
he, with a smile, '' Caveat emptor. I knew I
was taking the place with the usual attending
risks ; I should not have blamed your brother
if we had had a bad year."

She was just on the point of asking him
whether he liked Allt-nam-ba well enough to
come back again ; but she thought it was too
dangerous. She had no means of knowing
what he thought of Lord Lynn's marked un-neighbourhoods
; and she deemed it more
prudent to go on talking of general subjects,
in her light and cheerful way, and always
on the assumption that the two families were
on friendly terms, and that Yolande's future
home would be in the Highlands. At length
she said she must be going.

'' I would ask you to stay to lunch," said
Mr. Winterbourne, "but I daresay you know
what lunch is likely to be on the day of leaving
a shooting-box "

Dear me ! " said she, in tones of vexation.
"Why did they not think of that at
the Towers ? They might have saved you a
great deal of bother that way ; but they have
got into an old-fashioned groove there "

'eat the same time, my dear Mrs. Graham,"
said Mr. Winterbourne, with great courtesy,
"if you Hke to take the risk, I daresay Mrs.
Bell can find you something ; and we have
not often the chance of entertaining anyone
at Allt-nam-ba. Will you take pity
on us ? Will you sit in Yolande's place ?
The house has been rather empty since she
left."

'' I should like it of all things," said pretty
Mrs. Graham, taking off her hat and gloves
and putting them on the sofa, "for I feel that
I haven't given you half the messages I wish
you to take to dear Yolande. And you must
let me have her address, so that Jim can send
her a haunch of venison at Christmas."

I am afraid that would not be of much
use, thank you," said he; "for I hope by
that time, if all goes well, that Yolande will
be away in the south of Europe."

"Archie is going south also," said Mrs.
Graham, pleasantly. "There is little doing
here in the winter. After he has made all
the arrangements with papa's agents in
Inverness, then he will be off to the south
too. Where is Yolande likely to be .^ "

'well, I don't exactly know," said Mr.
Winterbourne, with a kind of anxious evasion.
'' But she will write to you. Oh yes, I will
tell her to write to you. She is — she is much
occupied at present — and — and perhaps she
has not much time. But Yolande does not
forget her friends."

'' She shall not forget me ; for I won't let
her," said Mrs. Graham, blithely. ''If she
should try, I will come and ferret her out and
give her a proper scolding. But I don't
think it will be needed."

The luncheon, frugal as it was, proved to
be a very pleasant affair ; for the two menfolk
were glad to have the table brightened
by the unusual presence of a lady-guest —
who was, moreover, very pretty and talkative
and cheerful ; while on the other hand, Mrs.
Graham, having all her wits about her, very
speedily assured herself that Yolande's father
was leaving Allt-nam-ba in no dudgeon whatever
; and also that, although he seemed to
consider Yolande as at present set apart for
some special duty, and not to be interfered
with by any suggestions of future meetings
or arrangements, he appeared to take it for

granted that ultimately she would live in the
Highlands. Mrs. Graham convinced herself
that all was well, and she was a skilful flatterer,
and could use her eyes ; and altogether
this was a very merry and agreeable luncheon
party. Before she finally rose to go, she had
got Yolande's address, and had undertaken to
write to her.

And then she pleased Mr. Winterbourne
very much by asking to see Mrs. Bell ; and
she equally pleased Mrs. Bell by some cleverly
turned compliments, and by repeating what
the gentlemen had said about their obligations
to her. In good truth, Mrs. Bell needed
some such comfort. She was sadly broken
down. When Mrs. Graham asked her about
Mr. Melville, tears rose unbidden to the old
dame's eyes ; and she had furtively to wipe
them away with her handkerchief, while pretending
to look out of the window.

'' He has written two or three times to the
young lad Dalrymple," said she, with just one
suppressed sob ; " and all about they brats o'
bairns, as if he wasna in mair consideration
in people's minds than a wheen useless lads
and lassies. And only a message or two tome,

about this family or the other family—
the deil take them, that he should bother his
head about their crofts and their cows and
their seed-corn ! And just as he might behaving
his ain back again — to gang wa like
that, without a word o' an address. I jalouse
it's America — ay, I'm thinking it's America,
for there they have the electric things he was
aye speaking o' ; and he was a curious man,
that wanted to ken everything. I wonder
what the Almighty was about when He put
it into people's heads to get fire out o' running
water ; they might hae been content as they
were ; and Mr. Melville would hae been better
occupied in planting his ain hillsides — as a' the
lairds are doing nowadays — than in running
frae ae American town to another wi' his
boxes o' steel springs and things."

'' But he is sure to write to you, Mrs.
Bell," said Mrs. Graham.

'' I just canna bear to think o't ! " said
the older woman, in a kind of despair. *' I
hope he diana leave because he thought I
would be an encumbrance on him. I hae
mair sense than that. But he's a proud man ;
though I should say it. Ay, and the

poor lad without a home — and without the

land that belongs to him "

The good old lady found this topic too
much for her ; and she was retiring with an
old-fashioned curtsey, when Mrs. Graham
shook hands with her in the most friendly
manner, and assured her that, if any tidings
of Mr. Melville came to Inverstroy (as was
almost certain), she would write at once.

VOL. III. M

LOOSENED CHAINS.

*' Voce have done well — you will succeed!'
Yolande read and again read that brief note ;
pondering over it in secret, and always with
an increasing joy. He had seen ; he had
approved. And now when she was walking
about the streets of Worthing with her mother,
she found a strange interest in guessing as to
which of those houses he had lived in while,
as she assured herself, he was keeping that
invisible guard over her. Was it this one,
or that ; or perhaps the hotel at the corner ?
Had he been standing at the window there,
and regarding her as she passed unconscious ?
Had he seen her drive by in the little pony-carriage
? Had he watched her go along the
pier, himself standing somewhere out of the
way ? She had no longer any doubt that
it was he who had gone to the ofhce of Lawrence
and Lang on the morning of her arrival

in London ; she was certain he must have
been close by when she went to fetch her
mother on that fateful evening. And her
heart was full of gratitude to him ; and her
brain was filled with fancies about him ; and
her imagination (which refused to be controlled
by all the vows and resolves she had made to
herself, and which, moreover, had plenty of
scope for exercise in the monotony of that
Worthing life) went away seeking in strange
and distant places, wondering where he might
be, and what he was doing, and whether he
was ever casting a look behind him.

And indeed, as time went on, it became
more and more certain that that forgetfulness
to which she had looked forward was
still far from her ; and now she began to
regard with a kind of dismay the prospect of
the Master of Lynn coming to claim her.
She knew it was her duty to become his wife ;
that had been arranged and approved by her
father ; she had herself pledged away her
future ; and she had no right of appeal. She
reminded herself of these facts a hundred
times, and argued with herself; she strove to
banish those imaginings about one who ought

henceforth to be as one dead to her ; and
strove also to prove to herself that, if she did
what was right, unhappiness could not be the
result ; but all the time there was growing up
in her heart a fear — nay, almost a conviction
that this marriage was not possible. She
turned away her eyes and would not regard
it ; but this conviction pressed itself in on her
whether she would or no. And then she
would engage herself with a desperate assiduity
in the trivial details of their daily life
there, and try to gain forgetfulness that way.
This was the letter she wrote to the Master
of Lynn, in reply to his. It cost her some
trouble, and also here and there some qualm
of self-reproach ; for she could not but know
that she was not telling the whole truth : —

Worthing, Wednesday afternoon.

"Dear Archie — I am exceedingly grieved
to hear of your trouble with your family,
and also to think that I am the cause of it.
It seems so great a pity, and all the more that,
in the present circumstances, it is so unnecessary.
You will understand from my papas
letter that the duty I have undertaken is

surely before any other ; and that one's
personal wishes must be put aside, when it is
a question of what a daughter owes to her
mother. And to think there should be trouble
and dissension now over what must in any
case be so remote — that seems a very painful
and unnecessary thing ; and surely, dear
Archie, you can do something to restore yourself
to your ordinary position with regard to
your family. Do you think It Is pleasant tome
to think that I am the cause of a quarrel ?
And to think also that this quarrel might be
continued in the future ? But the future Is
so uncertain now in these new circumstances
that I would pray you not to think of it, but
to leave it aside, and become good friends
with your family. And how, you may ask ?
Well, I would consider our engagement at an
end for the present ; let It be as nothing ; you
will go back to Lynn ; I am here, in the
position that I cannot go from ; let the future
have what it may In store. It will be time to
consider afterwards. Pray believe me, dear
Archie, it is not In anger that I write ; or any
resentment ; for I understand well that my
papa's politics are not agreeable to every one ;

and I have heard of differences in families on
smaller matters than that. And I pray you
to believe that neither my father nor myself
was sensible of any discourtesy — no, surely
every one has the right to choose his friends
as he pleases ; nor could one expect one's
neighbours to alter their habits of living, perhaps,
and be at the trouble of entertaining
strangers. No, there is neither resentment
nor anger in my mind ; but only a wish that
you should be reconciled to your friends ; and
this is an easy way. It would leave you and me
free for the time that might be necessary ; you
can go back to Lynn, where your proper place
is ; and I can give myself up to my mother,
without other thoughts. Will you ask Mrs.
Graham if that is not the wisest plan ? — I am
sure she must be distressed at the thought of
your being estranged from your relatives ; and
I know she will think it a pity to have so
much trouble about what must in any case
be so distant. For to tell you the truth, dear
Archie, I cannot leave to any one else what
I have now undertaken : and it may be years
of attention and service that are wanted ; and
why should you wait and wait, and always

with the constraint of a family quarrel around
you ? For myself, I already look at my
position that way. I have put aside my .
I have given myself over to
the one who has most claims on me ; and I
am proud to think that I may have been of a
little service already. Will you consent, dear
Archie ? then we shall both be free ; and the
future must be left to itself.

*' It was so very kind of you to look after
the sending away of the dogs and ponies from
Allt-nam-ba ; my papa has written to me
from Dalescourt about it, and was very
grateful to you. No, I will not tell him anything
of what is in your letter ; for it is not
necessary it should be known — especially as
I hope you will at once take steps for a reconciliation
and think no more of it. And it
was very good of your sister to go out and
pay them a visit at Allt-nam-ba. I have had
a letter from her also — as kind as she always
is — asking me to go to Inverstroy at Christmas
; but you will understand from what I
have said that this is impossible, nor can I
make any engagement with any one now, nor
have I any desire to do so. I am satisfied

to be as I am — also, I rejoice to think that I
have the opportunity ; I wish for nothing
more except to hear that you have agreed to
my suggestion and gone back to Lynn. As
for my mother and myself, we shall perhaps
go to the south of France when she is a little
stronger ; but at present she is too weak to
travel ; and happily we find ourselves very
well content with this place, now that we are
familiar with it, and have found out different
ways of passing the time. It is not so wild
and beautiful as Allt-nam-ba ; but it is a
cheerful place for an invalid — we have a
pretty balcony, from which we can look at
the people on the promenade, and the sea,
and the ships ; and we have a pony-carriage
for the country roads, and have driven almost
everywhere in the neighbourhood.

'* So now I will say good-bye, dear Archie ;
and I hope you will consider my proposal,
and see that it is wise. What may occur in
the future, who can tell ? — but in the meantime
let us do what is best for those around
us ; and I think this is the right way. I
should feel far happier if I knew that you
were not wondering when this service that I

owe to my mother were to end ; and also I
should feel far happier to know that I was no
longer the cause of disagreement and unhappiness
in your family. Give my love to
your sister when you see her ; and if you
hear anything about the Gress people, I
should be glad to hear some news about them
also. — Believe me, yours affectionately,

"Poland."

She looked at this letter for a long time
before putting it in an envelope and addressing
it ; and when she posted it, it was with a
guilty conscience. So far as it went, she had
told the truth. This duty she owed to her
mother was paramount ; and she knew not
for how long it might be demanded of her.
And no doubt she would feel freer and more
content in her mind if her engagement were
broken off — if she had no longer to fear that
he might be becoming impatient over the
renewed waiting and waiting. But that was
only part of the truth. She could not blind
herself to the fact that this letter was very
little more than a skilful piece of prevarication
; and this consciousness haunted her, and

troubled her, and shamed her. She grew
uneasy. Her mother noticed that the girl
seemed anxious and distraught, and questioned
her ; but Yolande answered evasively.
She did not think it worth while to burden
her mother's mind with her private disquietudes.


No ; she had not been true to herself; and
she knew it ; and the knowledge brought shame
to her cheeks when she was alone. With a
conscience ill at ease, the cheerfulness with
which she set about her ordinary task of
keeping her mother employed and amused
was just a little bit forced ; and despite herself
she fell into continual reveries — thinking
of the arrival of the letter, of his opening it,
of his possible conjectures about it. Then,
besides these smiting of conscience, there
was another thing : would he consider the
reason she had advanced for breaking off the
engagement as sufficient ? Would he not
declare himself willing to wait ? The tone
of his letter had been firm enough. He was
unmoved by this opposition on the part of his
own people ; it was not to gain any release
that he had written to her. And now might

he not still adhere to his resolution — refusing
to make up the quarrel ; resolved to wait
Yolande's good pleasure ; and so, in effect,
requiring of her the fulfilment of her plighted
troth ?

It would be difficult to say which was the
stronger motive — the shamed consciousness
that she had not spoken honestly, or the
ever-increasing fear that, after all, she might
not be able to free herself from this impossible
bond ; but at all events she determined to
supplement that letter with a franker one.
Indeed, she stole out that same evening,
under some pretence or other, and went to
the post office, and sent off this telegram to
him : — '' Letter posted to you this afternoon :
do not answer it ttntil you get the one following!'
Then she went back to the rooms
quickly, her heart somewhat lighter, though,
indeed, all during dinner she was puzzling to
decide what she should say, and how to make
her confession not too humiliating. She did
not wish him to think too badly of her. Was
it not possible for them to part friends ? Or
would he be angry, and call her 'jilt," "light
o' love," and so forth, as she had called

herself? Indeed, she had reproached herself
enough ; anything that he could say would
be nothing new to her. Only she hoped —
for she had had a gentle kind of regard for him,
and he had been mixed up in her imaginings
of the future, and they had spent happy days
and evenings together, on board ship or in
the small lodge between the streams — that
they might part friends, without angry words.

'' Yolande, there is something troubling
you," her mother said, as they sat at table.

She had been watching the girl in her sad
tender way. As soon as she had spoken
Yolande instantly pulled herself together.

'why, yes, there is indeed!" she said.
'* Shall I tell you what it is, mother ? I have
been thinking that soon we shall be as tired
of pheasants as we were of grouse and hares.
Papa sends us far too many ; or rather it is
Mr. Shortlands now ; and I don't know what
to do with them — unless somebody in the
town would exchange them. Is it possible ?
Would not that be an occupation now — to sit
in a poulterer's shop and say, ' I will give
you three brace of pheasants for so many of
this and so many of that ' ?"

"You wrote a long letter this afternoon,"
the mother said, absently. '' Was it to Mr.
Shortlands ?"

Oh no," Yolande said, with a trifle of
colour in her face. "It was to the Master
of Lynn. I have often told you about him,
mother. And one thing I quite forgot. I
forgot to ask him to inquire of Mrs. Bell
where the ballad of ' Young Randal ' is to be
found — you remember I told you the story ?
No ; there is nothing of it in the stupid book
I got yesterday — no, nor any story like it,
except, perhaps, one where a Lord Lovat of
former times comes home from Palestine and
asks for May Maitre.

And bonnier than them «'

May Maisrey^ whare is she f

It is a pretty name, is it not, mother '^, But
I think I must write to Mrs. Bell to send. me
the words of ' Young Randal,' if it is not to
be found in a book."

I wish you would go away to your friends
now, Yolande," the mother said, regarding
her in that sad and affectionate way.

"That is so very likely!" she answered,
with much cheerfulness.

'' You ought to go, Yolande. Why should
you remain here ? Why should you be shut
up here — away from all your friends ? You
have done what you came for — I feel that
now — you need not fear to leave me alone
now — to leave me in these same lodgings.
I can stay here very well, and amuse myself
with books and with looking at the people
passing. I should not be dull. I like the
rooms. I should find amusement enough."

'rand where am I to go, then ?" the girl
said, calmly.

'* To your friends — to all those people you
have told me about. That is the proper kind
of life for you, at your age — not shut up in
lodgings. The lady in the Highlands, for
example, who wants you to spend Christmas
there "

'' Well, now, dear mother," said Yolande,
promptly, " I will not show you another one
of my letters if you take the nonsense in them
as if it were serious. Christmas, indeed !
Why, do you know where we shall be at
Christmas '^. Well, then, at Monte Carlo !
No, mother, you need not look forward to
the tables ; I will not permit any such wickedness

— though I have staked more than once
or, rather, papa staked for me — five-franc
pieces, and always I won — for as soon as I
had won five francs I came away to make
sure. But we shall not go to the tables ;
there Is enough without that. There are
beautiful drives ; and you can walk through
the gardens and down the terraces until you
get a boat to go out on the blue water. Then,
the other side you take a carriage and drive
up to the little town, and by the sea there are
more beautiful gardens. And at Monte Carlo
I know an excellent hotel, with fine views ;
and always there is excellent music. And —
and you think I am going to spend Christmas
in a Highland glen! Grazie alia bontct
sua !

It is too rnuch of a sacrifice. You must
leave me to myself — I can do very well by
myself now," the mother said, looking at the
girl with wistful eyes. " I should be happy
enough only to hear of you. I should like to
hear of your being married, Yolande."

I am not likely to be married to any one,"
said she, with averted eyes and burning forehead.
" Do not speak of it, mother. My

place is by you ; and here I remain — until
you turn me away."

That same night she wrote the letter which
was to supplement the former one and free
her conscience : —

'' Dear Archie — In the letter I sent you
this afternoon I was not quite frank with you ;
and I cannot rest until I tell you so. There
are other reasons besides those I mentioned
why I think our engagement should be broken
off now ; and also — for I wish to be quite
honest, and to throw myself on your generosity
and forbearance — why I think that we
ought not to look forward to the marriage
that was thought of. Perhaps you will ask
me what these reasons are — and you have
the right ; and in that case I will tell you.
But perhaps you will be kind, and not ask ;
and I should never forget your kindness.
When I promised to marry you, I thought
that the friendliness and affection that prevailed
between us was enough ; I did not
imagine anything else ; you must think of
how I was brought up, with scarcely any
women - friends except the ladies at the

Chateau, who were very severe as to the
duty of children to their parents, and when I
learned that my papa approved my marrying
you, it was sufficient for me. But now I
think not. I do not think I should bring
you happiness. There ought to be no regret
on the marriage-day ? — no thoughts going
away elsewhere ? You have the right to be
angry with me, because I have been careless,
and allowed myself to become affectionate to
some one else without my knowing it ; but it
was not with intention ; and now that I know,
should I be doing right in allowing our
engagement to continue ? Yes, you have the
right to upbraid me ; but you cannot think
worse of me than I think of myself; and
perhaps it is well that the mistake was soon
found out, before harm was done. As forme,
my path is clear. All that I said in the
other letter as to the immediate future, and I
hope the distant future also, is true ; you have
only to look at this other explanation to know
exactly how I am situated. I welcome my
position and its duties — they drive away
sometimes sad thinking and regret over what
has happened. You were always very kind

VOL. III. N

and considerate to me ; you deserved that I
kept my faith to you more strictly ; and if I
were to see your sister, what should I say ?
Only that I am sorry that I can make no
more amends ; and to beg for your forgiveness
and for hers. And perhaps it is better
as it is for all of us. My way is clear. I
must be with my mother. Perhaps, some
day, if our engagement had continued, I
might have been tempted to repine. I hope
not ; but I have no longer such faith in myself.
But now you are free from the impatience
of waiting ; and I — I go my own way,
and am all the more certain to give all my
devotion where it is needed. I would pray
you not to think too harshly of me, only I
know that I have not the right to ask ; and
I should like to part friends with you, if only
for the sake of the memories that one treasures.
My letter is ill-expressed — that I am sure it
must be ; but perhaps you will guess at anything
I should have said and have not said ;
and believe that I could stretch out my hands
to you, to beg for your forgiveness, and for
gentle thoughts of me in the future, after some
years have given us time to look back. I do

not think little of any kindness that has been
shown to me ; and I shall remember your
kindness to me always, and also your sister's,
and the kindness of every one, as it seemed
to me, whom I met in the Highlands. I
have made this confession to you without
consulting any one ; for it is a matter only
between you and me ; and I do not know
how you will receive it ; only that I pray you
once more for your forgiveness, and not to
think too harshly ; but, if you have such
gentleness and commiseration, to let us remain
friends and to think of each other in
the future as not altogether strangers. I
know it is much that I ask, and that you
have the right to refuse ; but I shall look for
your letter with the remembrance of your
kindness in the past. Yolande."

It was a piteous kind of letter ; for she
felt very solitary and unguided in this crisis ;
moreover, it was rather hard to fight through
this thing and preserve at the same time an
appearance of absolute cheerfulness so long
as her mother was in the room. But she got
it done ; and Jane was sent out to the postoffice;

and thereafter Yolande — with something
of trial and trouble in her eyes, perhaps,
but otherwise with a brave face — fetched
down some volumes from the little bookcase,
and asked her mother what she wanted to
have read.

THE HOUR OF VENGEANCE.

The Master of Lynn had spent the whole of
the morning in arranging affairs with his
father s agent ; and when he left Mr. Ronald
Macpherson's office he knew that he had
now all the world to choose from. He
was anxious to get away from this dawdling
life in Inverness ; but, on the other hand, he
was not going back to Lynn. He still felt
angry and indignant ; he considered he had
been badly used ; and it is far from improbable
that if, at this moment, Yolande had
been differently situated, and if Mr. Winterbourne
had been likely to have given his
consent, he, the Master, would now have
proposed an immediate marriage, leaving his
father and aunt to do or think as they pleased.
But, in the present circumstances, that was
impossible ; and he did not know well which
way to turn, and had generally got himself

into an unsettled, impatient, irritable condition,
which boded no good either for himself
or for those who had thwarted him.

He returned to the Station Hotel, and
was having lunch by himself in the large and
almost empty dining-room when two letters
were brought to him which had doubtless
arrived by that morning's mail. As he was
thinking of many things it did not occur to
him to look at both addresses and decide
which letter should have precedence ; he
mechanically opened and read the first that
came to hand : —

"St. James's Club, Piccadilly, Oct. 31.

'' Dear Leslie — Are you game for a
cruise ? I will go where you like, and start
any day you like. I have never taken the
Juliet across the Atlantic — what do you say ?
The worst of it is, there aunt much to see
when you get there ; but we should have some
fun going over and coming back. Drop mea
line. She is at Plymouth, and could begot
ready in a week. — Yours ever,

Barton."

Now to have a 300-ton steam yacht put

at your disposal is an agreeable kind of
thing ; but there were other circumstances
in this case. Lord Dartown was a vounof
Irish peer who had inherited an illustrious
name, large estates (fortunately for him, some
of them were in England), and a sufficiency
of good looks ; but who, on the other hand,
seemed determined to bid a speedy farewell
to all of these by means of incessant drinking.
His friends regarded him with much interest ;
for he was doing it on dry champagne ; and as
that is a most unusual circumstance — champagne
being somewhat too much of child's
play for the serious drinker — they looked on
and wondered how long it would last, and
repeated incredible stories as to the number
of bottles this youth could consume from the
moment of his awaking in his berth until his
falling asleep in the same. The Jtdiet was
an exceedingly well-appointed vessel : the
cook had a reputation that a poet might
envy ; but the habits of the owner were
peculiar, and most frequently he had to
make his cruises alone. But he had always
had a great respect for the Master of Lynn.
who was his senior by a year or two, when

they were school-fellows together ; and sometimes
in later years a kind of involuntary
admiration for the firm nerve and hardened
frame of his deer-stalking friend would lead
to a temporary fit of reformation, and he
would even take to practising with dumb-bells,
which his trembling muscles could
scarcely hold out at arm's length.

'' Owley must be off his head altogether
this time," the Master of Lynn coolly said
to himself, as he regarded the shaky handwriting
of the letter. '' To think of facing
the ' rolling forties ' at this time of year !
We should die of cold besides. Not good
enough, Owley ; you must throw a fly over
somebody else."

So he put that letter aside, and took up
the other. It was the second one of the two
that Yolande had sent him ; he had got its
predecessor on the previous day. And now,
as he read this final declaration and confession,
it was with an ever-increasing surprise ; but
it certainly was with no sense of dismay, or
disappointment, or even the resentment of
wounded vanity. He did not even, at this
moment, heed the piteous appeal for charity

and kindliness : it was not of her he was
thinking ; and scarcely of himself ; it was
rather of the people at Lynn.

Now I will show them what they have
done !'' he was saying to himself, with a kind
of triumph. '' They shall see what they have
done, and I hope they will be satisfied. As
for me. I am Q-oinQ; mv own wav after this.
I have had enough of it. Polly may scheme
as she likes ; and they may rage, or refuse,
or go to the deuce, if they like ; I am going
to look after myself now."

He picked up the other letter, and took
both with him into the writing room ; he had
forgotten that he had left his luncheon but
half finished. And there he read Yolande's
appeal to him with more care : and he was
touched by the penitence and the simplicity,
and the eager wish for friendliness in it ; and
he determined, as he sat down at the writings
that, as far as he had command of the
English language, she should have safe assurance
that they were to part on kindly terms.
Indeed, as it turned out, this was the most
affectionate letter he had ever sent her ; and
it might have been said of him, with regard

to this engagement, that nothing in it so well
became him as his manner of leaving it.

*' My Dearest Yolande," he wrote, '' I
am inexpressibly grieved that you should
have given yourself the pain to write such a
letter ; and you might have known that whenever
you wished our engagement to cease I
should consider you had the right to say so ;
and so far from accusing you or doing anything
in the tragedy line, I should beg to be
allowed to remain always your friend. And
it won't take any length of time for me to be
on quite friendly terms with you — if you will
let me ; for I am so now ; and if I saw you
tomorrow I should be glad of your companionship
for as long as you chose to give
it me ; and I don't at all think it impossible
that we may have many another stroll along
the streets of Inverness, when you come back
to the Highlands, as you are sure to do. Of
course, I am quite sensible of what I have
lost — you can't expect me to be otherwise ;
and I daresay, if all the circumstances had
been propitious, and if we had married, we
should have got on very well together — for

when Polly attributes everything that happens
to my temper, that is merely because she is
in the wrong, and can't find any other excuse;
whereas, if you and I had got married, I
fancy we should have agreed very well, so
long as no one interfered. But to tell you
the honest truth, my dear Yolande, I never
did think you were very anxious about it ;
you seemed to regard our engagement as a
very light matter — or as something that would
please everybody all round ; and though I
trusted that the future would right all that —
I mean that we should become more intimate
and affectionate — still, there would have been
a risk ; and it is only common sense to regard
these things now, as some consolation, and
as some reason why, if you say, ' Let us
break off this engagement,' I should say,
Very well ; but let us continue our friendship.'


But there is a tremendous favour I would
beg and entreat of you, dearest Yolande ; and
you always had the most generous disposition
I never knew you refuse anybody anything
(I do believe that was why you got engaged
to me — because you thought it would please

the Grahams and all the rest of us). I do
hope that you will consent to keep the people
at Lynn in ignorance — they could only know
through Polly, and you could keep it back
from her — as to who it was, or why it was,
that our engagement was broken off. This
is not from vanity ; I think you will say I
haven't shown much of that sort of distemper.
It is merely that I may have the whip-hand
of the Lynn people. They have used me
badly ; and I mean to take care that they
don't serve me so again ; and if they imagine
that our engagement has been broken off
solely, or even partly, through their opposition,
that will be a weapon for me in the
future. And then the grounds of their
opposition — that they or their friends might
have to associate with one professing such
opinions as those your father owns ! You
may rest assured, dearest Yolande, that I did
not put you forward and make any appeal ;
and equally I knew you would resent my
making any apology for your father, or allowing
that any consideration on their part was
demanded. It's no use reasoning with raving-maniacs
; I retired. But I mention this once

more as an additional reason why, if our
engagement is to be broken off, we should
make up our minds to look on the best side
of affairs, and to part on the best of terms ;
for I must confess more frankly to you now
that there would have been some annoyance,
and you would naturally have been angry on
account of your father, and I should have
taken your side, and there would simply have
been a series of elegant family squabbles.

'' There are one or two other points in
your letter that I don't touch on ; except to
say that I hope you will write to me again —
and soon ; and that you will write in a very
different tone. I hope you will see that many
things justify you in so doing ; and I hope I
have made this letter as plain as can be. I
have kept back nothing ; so you needn't be
reading between the lines. If you have no
time to write a letter, send me a few words
to show that you are in a more cheerful mood.
If you don't, I shouldn't wonder if I broke
through all social observances, and presented
myself at your door — to convince you that
you have done quite right, and that everything
is well, and that you have given me a

capital means of having it out with the Lynn
people when the proper time comes. So
please let me have a few lines ; and in the
meantime I hope I may be allowed to sign
myself, yours most affectionately,

''A. Leslie."

'' Pes. — Do you remember my telling you
of the small youth who was my fag — the
cheeky young party who was always smuggling
champagne and pastry ? I may have told
you that he is now the owner of a 300-ton
yacht ? Well, he wants me to go a cruise
with him. I had not intended doing so ; but
it occurs to me that I might do worse — as all
my affairs are settled up here ; and so, if you
can write within the next few days, will you

please address to me at the Hotel,

Jermyn Street ?"

Then he wrote : —

"Inverness, Oct. 31.

Dear Owley — It isn't a contagion de
voyage you want ; it's a strait waistcoat.
You would knock the Juliet all to bits if you
took her across now ; and a fine thing to
choose winter for a visit to New York, where

the weather Is cold enough to freeze the ears
off a brass monkey. This letter will reach
London same time as myself; so you can

look me up at Hotel, Jermyn Street ;

and I'll talk to you like a father about it.
My notion is you should send the Juliet to
Gib., and we could make our way down
through Spain ; or, if that is too tedious for
your lordship, send her to Marseilles, and
then we could fill up the intervening time in
Paris. I have never been to Venice In a
yacht, and don't remember whether you can
get near enough to Danielii's to make it
handy ; but I suppose, even if you have to
lie down by the Gludecca, there would be no
difficulty about getting people to a dance onboard
? I'll see you through it. — Yours,

'' A. Leslie."

And then (for now the hour of vengeance
had struck) he wrote as follows to his sister : —

"Station Hotel, Oct. 31.

'' Dear Polly — I have to inform you, and
I hope you will convey the information to his
Papa-ship and to Aunty Tab, that my engagement
to Yolande Winterbourne is finally,

definitely, and irrevocably broken off. I hope
they will be satisfied. I shall be more careful
another time to keep the affair in my own
hands.

'' I am off for a cruise with Dartown, in
xh^ Juliet. Guess there'll be about as much
fluid inside as outside that noble craft. —
Your affectionate brother, Archie."

And then, having folded up and addressed
his letters, he rose and went outside and lit a
cigar. He thought he would have a stroll
away through the town and out by the
harbour, just to think over this that had
occurred, and what was likely to occur in the
future. It happened to be a very bright and
cheerful afternoon, and he walked quickly,
with a sort of glad consciousness that now he
was master of his own destiny, and meant to
remain so ; and when he came in sight of the
ruffled and windy blue sea, that had suggestions
of voyaging and the seeing of strange
places that were pleasant enough. Then his
cigar drew well ; and that, although it maybe
unconsciously, tells on a man s mood. He
began to be rather grateful to Yolande. He

hoped she would quite understand his letter,
and answer it in the old familiar, affectionate
way, just as if nothing had occurred. It distressed
him to think she should be in such
grief — in such penitence. But he knew he
should get some cheerful lines from her ; and
that, and all, was well.

By and by, however, a very uncomfortable
suspicion got hold of him. He had had no
very large experience of women and their
ways ; and he began to ask himself whether
the ready acquiescence he had yielded to
Yolande's prayer would please her over much.
It certainly was not flattering to her vanity.
For one thing, he could not wholly explain
his position to her. He could not tell her
that he had virtually said to his father, " Here
is a way of getting back Corrievreak ; and
getting the whole estate into proper condition.
You refuse ? Very well ; you mayn't get another
chance, remember." He could not fully
explain to her why her proposal, instead of
bringing him disappointment, was rather welcome,
as offering him a means of vengeance
for the annoyance he had been subjected
to. She knew nothing of Shena Van. She

VOL. III. o

knew nothing of the proposal to complete
the Lynn deer-forest. And so he began to
think that his letter, breaking off the engagement
so very willingly, might not wholly
please her ; and as he was well disposed
towards Yolande at this moment, and honestly
desiring that they should part the best of
friends, he slowly walked back to the hotel,
composing a few more sentences by the way,
so that her womanly pride should not be
wounded.

But it was a difficult matter. He went
upstairs to his room, and packed his things
for the journey to London, while thinking
over what he would say to her. And it was
very near dinner-time before he had finished
this addendum to his previous letter.

'' My dearest Yolande," he wrote, " I
want to say something more to you ; if you
get the two letters together, read this one
second. Perhaps you may think, from what
I said in the other, that I did not sufficiently
value the prospect that was before me at one
time, or else I should say something more
about losing it. I am afraid you may think

I have given you up too easily and lightly ;
but you would make a great mistake if you
think I don't know what I have lost. Only
I did not want to make it too grave a matter ;
your letter was very serious ; and I wanted
you to think, and I want you to think, that
there is no reason why we should not continue
on quite friendly and intimate terms.
Of course, I know what I have lost ; I
wasn't so long in your society — on board
ship, and in the dahabeeah, too, and at Allt-
nam-ba — without seeing how generous you
were, and sincere, and anxious to make everyone
around you happy ; and if it comes to
that, and if you will let me say it, a man
naturally looks forward with some pride to
having always with him a wife who can hold
her own with everybody in regard to personal
appearance, and grace and finish of
manner, and accomplishments. Of course I
know what I have lost. I am not blind. I
always looked forward to seeing you and
Polly together at the ball at the Northern
Meeting. But when you say it is impossible,
and seem put out about it, naturally I tried
to find out reasons for looking at the best

side of the matter. It is the wisest way.
When you miss a bird it is of no use saying,
Confound it, I have missed;' it is much
better to say, ' Thank goodness I didn't go
near it ; it won't go away wounded.' And
quite apart from anything you said in your
letter of to-day, there was enough in your
letter of yesterday to warrant us both in
consenting to break off the engagement.
Circumstances were against it, on both sides.
Of course I would have gone on — as I wrote
to you. A man can't be such a cur as to
break his word to his promised wife simply
because his relatives are ill-tempered — at
least, if I came across such a gentleman he
wouldn't very long be any acquaintance of
mine. But there would have been trouble
and family squabbles, as I say, if not a complete
family separation — which could not be
pleasant to a young wife ; and then, on your
side, there is this duty to your mother, which
was not contemplated when we were engaged ;
and so, when we consider everything, perhaps
it is better as it is. I daresay, if we
had married, we should have been as contented
as most people ; and I should have

been very proud of you as my wife, naturally ;
but it is no use speculating on what might
have been. It is very fortunate, when an
engagement is broken off, if not a particle of
blame attaches to either side ; and in that
way we should consider ourselves lucky, as
giving no handle for any ill-natured gossip.

Of course, Polly will be cut up about it.
She always had an extraordinary affection for
you, and looked forward to your being her
sister. Graham will be disappointed too ;
you were always very Highly varied in that
quarter. But if you and I are of one mind
that the decision we have come to is a wise
one, it is our business, and no one else's."

He stopped and read over again those
last sentences.

I consider now," he was saying to himself,
" that that is a friendly touch — No blame
attaching to either side : that will please her ;
she was always very sensitive, and pleased to
be thought well of."

'rand even," he continued, "if I should
get reconciled to my people (about which I
am in no hurry), Lynn will seem a lonely
place after this autumn ; and I suppose I

shall conceive a profound detestation for next
year's tenant of Allt-nam-ba. Probably two
or three bachelor fellows will have the Lodge ;
and It will be pipes and brandy and soda and
limited loo In the evening ; they won't know
that there was once a fairy living In that glen.
But I don't despair of seeing you again In the
Highlands, and your father too ; and, as they
say the subject of deer-forests is to be brought
before the House, he will now be in a position
to talk a little common sense to them
about that subject. Did you see that the
chief agitator on this matter has just been
caught speaking about the grouse and red-deer
of iona ? Now I will undertake to eat
all the red-deer and all the grouse he can find
In iona at one meal ; and I'll give him three
months for the search."

He thought this was very cleverly Introduced.
It was to give her the impression
that they could now write to each other indifferently
on the subjects of the day — In short,
that they were on terms of ordinary and pleasant
friendship.

But I daresay you will consider me pre
judged — for I have been brought up from my

infancy almost with a rifle in my hand ; and
so I will end this scrawl, again asking from
you a few lines just to show that we are
friends as before, and as I hope we shall ever
remain. — Yours, most affectionately,

Archie Leslie."

It was a clever letter, he considered. The
little touches of flattery ; the business-like
references to the topics of the day ; the frank
appeals to her old friendship — these would
not be in vain. And so he went in to his
dinner with a light heart, and the same night
went comfortably to sleep in a saloon-carriage
bound for London.

A PERILOUS SITUATION.

The Master of Lynn, however, was not destined
to get to London without an adventure
an adventure, moreover, that was very near
ending seriously. Most people who have
travelled in the North will remember that the
night train from Inverness stops for a considerable
time, in the morning, at Perth
before setting out again for the south ; and
this break in the journey is welcome enough
to passengers who wish to have the stains of
travel washed from their hands and faces, to
get their breakfast in peace and comfort, and
have their choice of the morning newspapers.
The Master of Lynn had accomplished these
various duties ; and now he was idly walking
up and down the stone platforms of the wide-resounding
station, smoking a cigarette. He
was in a contented frame of mind. There
had been too much trouble of late up there in

the north ; and he hated trouble ; and he
thought he would find the society of "Owley"
very tolerable, for '' Ovvley " would leave him
alone. He finished his cigarette; had another
look at the bookstall ; purchased a two-shilling
novel that promised something fine —
for there was a picture outside of a horse
coming to awful grief at a steeplechase, and
its rider going through the air like a cannonball
; and then he strolled back to the compartment
he had left, vacantly whistling the
while The Hills of Lynn.

Suddenly he was startled to find a well-known
face regarding him. It was Shena
Van, and she was seated In a corner of a
second-class carriage. The moment she saw
that he had noticed her, she averted her eyes,
and pretended not to have seen him ; but he
instantly went to the door of the carriage.

"It isn't possible you are going to London,
Miss Stewart ?" said he, in great surprise.

Oh no," said Shena Van. " I am not
going so far as that."

How far, then ?" he asked — for he saw
that she was embarrassed, and only wishing
to get rid of him, and certainly that she

would afford no information that wasn't asked
for.

'' I am going to Carlisle," said she, not
looking at him.

"And alone?"

'* Oh yes. But my brother's friends will
be waiting for me at the station."

'' Oh, you must let me accompany you,
though," said he, quickly. *' You won't
mind?"

He did not give her the chance of refusing
; for he had little enough time in which
to fetch his things along from the other
carriage. Then he had to call the news-boy,
and present to Miss Stewart such an assortment
of illustrated papers, comic journals,
and magazines, as might have served for a
voyage to Australia. And then the door
was shut ; the whistle shrieked ; and the
long, heavy train moved slowly out of the
station.

'well, now," said he, 'this is lucky!
Who could have expected it ? I did not see
you at the station last night."

She had seen him, however; though she
did not say so.

** I did not even know you were in Inverness
; I thought you were at Aberdeen."

I have been in Aberdeen," said she.
I only went back a day or two ago to get
ready for going south."

*' I suppose I mustn't ask you what is
taking you to Carlisle ? — and yet, we used to
be old friends, you know."

Now Miss Stewart was a little bit annoyed
at his thrusting himself on her society ; and
she was very near answering saucily that it
was the train that was taking her south ; buta
little touch of feminine vanity saved him
from that reproof. Shena Van was rather
glad to have the chance of telling him why
she was going south.

'' It is no great secret," said she. '' I am
going to stay with the family of the young
lady whom my brother will marry before long.
It appears that the professorship will be worth
a good deal more than we expected — oh yes,
indeed, a good deal more — and there is no
reason why he should not marry."

'' Well, that is good news," said the Master,
cheerfully. 'rand what sort of girl is she?
Nice?"

'she is a very well-accomplished young
lady," said Shena Van, with some dignity.
*she was two years in Germany at school
and two years in France, and she is very well
fitted to be a professor's wife, and for the
society that comes to my brother's house."

*' I hope she's good-looking ?"

'* As to that," said Miss Stewart, " I should
say she was very pretty indeed ; but that is
of no consequence nowadays."

'' Why, what else is ! " he exclaimed,
boldly.

But this was clearly dangerous ground ;
and Miss Stewart sought refuge in the pages
of Punch.

He had time to regard her. He had
never seen her look so well. She had made
ample use of the clear water supplied at Perth
station ; and her face was as fresh as the
morning ; while her pretty, soft, light-brown
hair was carefully brushed and tended. As
for her eyes — those strangely dark blue eyes
that he could remember in former years
brimming over with girlish merriment or
grown pensive with imaginative dreams — he
could not get a fair glimpse of them at all ;

for when she spoke she kept them averted
or turned down ; and at present she devoted
them to the study of Punch. He began to
regret those extensive purchases at the station.
He made sure she was at this moment poring
over Mr. du Maurier's drawings — for it is
to them that womenfolk instinctively turn
first ; and he grew to be jealous of Mr. du
Maurier, and to wish, indeed, that Mr. du
Maurier had never been born — a wish, one
may be certain, then formulated for the first
and only time by any inhabitant of these three
countries. Moreover, when she had finished
with Punchy she took up this magazine, and
that magazine, and this journal and that
journal ; the while answering his repeated
attempts at conversation in a very distant
and reserved way, and clearly intimating that
she wished to be allowed to prosecute her
studies. He hated the sight of those pages.
He was ready to devote the whole periodical
literature of his country to the infernal gods.
Why, look now, on this beautiful, shining
morning, how she ought to be admiring those
far-stretching Ochils and the distant Braes of
Done! Here were the wooded banks of

Allan Water — had these no romantic associations
for her, no memories of broken-hearted
lovers and sad stories and the like ? Had
she no eye for the wide, open strath they
were now entering, with the silver winding
Links of Forth coming nearer and nearer,
and a pale blue smoke rising afar over the
high walls and ramparts of Stirling town ?
He verily believed that, just to keep away
from him, and fix her attention on something,
she was capable of reading Parliamentary
Debates — the last resort of the vacant
mind.

But once they were away from Stirling
again, he determined at all hazards to startle
her out of this distressing seclusion.

Shena," said he, " do I look ill ? "

She glanced up, frightened.

''No."

''I ought to look ill — I ought to look
unhappy and miserable," said he, cheerfully.
Don't you know that I have been jilted .f^"

Well, she did not quite know what to say
to that. He looked as if he was joking ; and
yet it was not a thing he was likely to
mention in joke — and to her.

*' It Is quite true, I assure you," said he,
seeing that she did not make answer. " You
said you had heard I was going to be married.
Well, It's all broken off."

I am very sorry," said Shena Van, as In
duty bound ; but she was clearly not very
sure as to how to take the news.

''Oh please don't waste any pity on me,"
said he. "I don't feel very miserable. I
feel rather the other way. ' Ah, freedom Is
a noble thing ' — you remember how Barbour
used to puzzle you, Shena ? Yes, I am free
now to follow out my own wishes ; and that's
what I mean to do."

"You are going to live in London, perhaps
V said Miss Stewart, regarding him —
but not betraying any keen personal interest.

"Why, this is the point of it," said he,
with greater animation, for at last she had
deigned to lay down the newspaper, " that I
don't in the least know where I am going,
and don't much care. I have determined to
be my own master, since my folk at home
appeared disinclined to accept the programme
I had sketched out. Absolutely my own
master ; and now, if you, Shena, would tell

me something very fine and pleasant for me
to do, that would be a kindness."

'' In the meantime," said she, with a slight
smile, '' I wish you would call me by my
right name."

'' Do you think I can forget the days
when you were always 'Shena'.'^" said he,
with a sort of appealing glance that her eyes
were careful to avoid. " Don't you remember
when I brought you the white kitten from
Inverness, and how it was always pulling its
collar of daisies to pieces ? Don't you remember
my getting you the falcon's wings ?
Why, I had to lie all night among the rocks
on Carn-nan-Gael to get at that falcon. And
you were always 'Shena' then."

** Because I was a child," said Miss Stewart,
with a slight flush on the pretty, fresh-coloured
face. " When we grow up, we put aside
childish things."

But we can't always forget," said he.

Indeed, it seems easy enough to many,"
she answered, but with no apparent sarcasm
or intention. ** And you have not fixed where
you are going, Mr. Leslie T' she added, with
a certain formality.

"At the present moment, to tell you the
truth," said he, ''I have half made an engagement
to go away on a yachting cruise with a
young fellow I know. But he is rather an
ass. I am not looking forward to it with
any great pleasure. Ah ! I could imagine
another kind of trip."

She did not ask him what it was. She
seemed more inclined to turn over the title-pages
of the magazines.

'' I can imagine two young people who
are fond of each other being able to go away
by themselves on a ramble through Italy —
perhaps two young people who had been
separated, and meeting after a time, and
inclined to take their lives into their own
hands and do with them what seemed best —
leaving friends and other considerations aside
altogether. And they might have old times
to talk about as they sat at dinner — by
themselves — in a room at this or that hotel —
perhaps overlooking the Rhine, it may be, if
they were still in Germany ; or perhaps overlooking
the Arno, if they were in Florence.
Fancy having only the one companion with
you, to go through the galleries, and see all

VOL. III. p

the pictures ; and to go to the opera with
you in the evening — just the one and only
companion you would care to have with you.
Wouldn't that be a trip ?"

'' I daresay," replied Miss Stewart, coldly.
*' But the two people would have to be pretty
much of one mind."

'' I am supposing they are fond of each
other," said he, looking at her ; but she
would not meet his glance.

'' I suppose it sometimes happens," said
she, taking up one of the magazines, so that
he was forced to seek refuge in a comic
journal, greatly against his will.

By and by they were hurling onward
through the solitudes where the youthful
Clyde draws its waters from the burns that
trickle and tumble down the slopes of " Tin-took
Tap." He thought it was not kind of
Shena Van to hide herself away like that.
Her imagination would not warm to any
picture he could draw — though that of their
being together in a Florentine gallery seemed
to him rather captivating. Perhaps she
was offended at his having neglected her
for such a long time ? But she was

a sensible young woman ; she must have
understood the reasons. And now had he
not intimated to her that he was no longer
inclined to submit to the influence of his
friends ? But she did not betray any interest
or curiosity.

'' I wonder whether we stop at Mattock
Junction," said he.

''I am sure I don't know," she answered,
civilly.

"Has it occurred to you, Shena," said he,
with a peculiar sort of smile, " that if any one
who knew both of us happened to be at one
of those stations, they might make a curious
surmise about us ?"

"I do not understand you," Miss Stewart
observed.

Did you ever hear of Allison's Bank
Toll-house ?" he asked.

'' No."

'' That was where they made the Gretna
Green marriages — it is just on this side the
Border. I think it is rather a pity the Gretna
Green marriages were done away with ; it
was an effectual way of telling your friends
to mind their own business. There was no

trouble about it. But it is just about as easy
now, if you don't mind paying for a Special
License ; and I do believe it is the best way.
Your friends can get reconciled to it afterwards
if they like ; if they don't like, they
can do the other thing. That was what I
was thinking, Shena — if some of our friends
were to see us in this carriage, it wouldn't
surprise me if they imagined we were on a
venture of that kind."

Shena Van blushed deeply, and was
ashamed of her embarrassment ; and said
with some touch of anger —

'' They could not think of such nonsense ! "
'Tt's the sensible plan, though, after all,"
said he, pertinaciously — and yet appearing to
treat the subject as a matter of speculation.
'jock o' Hazledean, Young Lochinvar, Ronald
Macdonald, and the rest of them, why they said
' Oh hang it, let's have no more bother
about your friends ; if you are willing to
chance it, so am I ; let's make a bolt of it,
and they can have their howl when they
find out.' And it answered well enough,
according to all accounts. I rather think
there was a row about Bonny Glenlyon ;

but then the noble sportsman who carried
her off carried her off against her will ; and
that is a mistake. It's 'Will ye gang to the
Hieland, Leezie Lindsay?' and if you can
persuade her, she ' Kilts up her coats o' green
satin ' and you lift her into the saddle ; but if
she doesn't see it — if she thinks it isn't good
enough — you drop the subject."

"You seem to have been reading a good
many songs," said Shena Van, rather coldly.
But people don't go on in that way in
ordinary life."

Perhaps it might be better if they did,
occasionally," said he. '' You remember Jack
Melville, of course ? "

Oh, certainly," said she, with some
eagerness, for she thought he would now
leave that other perilous topic.

'' Well, I remember one night, in my
rooms, when we were at Oxford together,
he propounded the theory that morality is
merely a system of laws devised by the aged
and worn-out for keeping young people
straight. Of course, it was only a joke ; but
it startled the boys a bit. And although it
was only a joke, mind you, there was something

in it ; I mean, for example, that it
doesn't follow, because you're seventy, you
know what is best for a person of five-and-twenty.
You may know what is most
prudent, from the money point of view ; but
you don't necessarily know what is best.
You look with different eyes. And there is
a great deal too much of that going on nowadays."


Of what ? " she asked, innocently.

Oh, of treating life as if everything were
a question of money," replied this profound
philosopher — who had for the moment forgotten
all about Corrievreak in his anxiety to
get a peep at Shena Van's unfathomable blue
eyes.

Miss Stewart now returned to one of those
inhuman periodicals ; and he searched his
wits in vain for some subject that would
draw her thence. Moreover, he began to
think that this train was going at a merciless
speed. They smashed through Lockerbie.
They had scarcely a glimpse of Ecclefechan.
Kirtlebridge went by like a flash of lightning.
And then he recollected that very soon they
would be at Gretna Green.

'' Shena," said he, eagerly. " Shena, have
you been as far south as this before ? "

"Oh no," she answered. ''I have never
been farther south than Edinburgh and
Glasgow. But Mary Vincent is to be at the
station waiting for me."

I did not mean that. Don't you know
that soon you will be at Gretna ? Don't you
know you will soon be crossing the Border ?
Why, you should be interested in that! It
is your first entrance into England. Shall I
tell you the moment you are in England 1 "

''Oh yes, if you please," said Miss Stewart,
condescending to look out and regard the not
very picturesque features of the surrounding
scenery.

Well, you be ready to see a lot of things
at once ; for I don't know whether you
actually see Gretna Green church ; but I
will show you the little stream that divides
the two countries — that was the stream the
runaway lovers were so anxious to get over.
I am told they have extraordinary stories in
Gretna about the adventures of those days —
I wonder nobody goes and picks them up.
They had some fun in those days. I wish I

had lived then. Modern life is too monotonous
don't you think so ? "

'' I don't know," said Shena Van, honestly.

'' I mean I wish I had lived in those days
if I had had the chance of running away with
somebody that made it worth the risk.
Shena," said he, 'supposing you had lived at
that time, don't you think you would rather
have had the excitement of that kind of
wedding than the ordinary, humdrum sort of
affair?"

*' I have never thought anything about it,"
said Miss Stewart, with some precision — as
if any properly-conducted young woman
would give a moment's consideration to the
manner in which she might wish to be
married !

'' Look, look," said he, jumping up, and
involuntarily putting his hand on her arm.
'' Look, Shena! The village is over there —
here is the river, see ! — it is the Sark — and
the bridge is down there, to the left of that
house — that house is an inn, the last in England
on the old coach-road "

She took away her arm.

''Ah," said he, as he sat down, "many a

happy couple were glad to find their great
big George the Fourth phaeton clattering
over the bridge there — the triumph after all
the risk "

Then he reflected that in a few minutes'
time they would be in Carlisle ; and this made
him rather desperate ; for when again should
he see Shena Van — and Shena Van alone ?

'can you imagine yourself living at that
time, Shena ; and if I were to ask you to
make off for Gretna with me and get married,
what would you say ?"

'' You — you have no right to ask me such a
question," said Shena Van, rather breathlessly.

"There would have been no chance of
your saying 'yes' ?" he asked, gently.

I don't know what you mean," said
she ; and she was nervously twisting the
magazine in her hand. " I — I think you are
forgetting. You are forgetting who you are
who I am — and everything that — that once
happened — I mean, that nothing happened —
for how could it ? And to ask such a question
— even in joke — well, I think you have
no right to ask me such a question ; and the
absurdity of it is enough answer."

*' I did not mean it as a joke at all, Shena,"
said he, quite humbly — and yet trying to
catch sight of her eyes. " I asked you if you
could imagine other circumstances — other
circumstances in which I might ask you such
a question — of course, I am very sorry if I
have offended you "

'' I think there has been enough said,"
said Miss Stewart, quietly, and, indeed, with a
good deal of natural dignity.

Just before they were going into Carlisle
station, she said —

I hope, Mr. Leslie, you won't misunderstand
me ; but — but, of course. Miss Vincent
and her friends won't know who you are ; and
I would rather they did not know. There
is always silly talk going on ; it begins in
amusement ; and then people repeat it and
believe it."

I shall be quite a stranger to you when
we get into the station," said he. "And in
the meantime I will say good-bye to you ; and
you must tell me that we part good friends ;
although you do seem to care so little about
those bygone days, Shena."

'' Good-bye," said she, holding out her hand

(but with her eyes cast down). '' And perhaps
I care for them as much as I ought ; but one
acquires a Httle common sense as one grows
up. I hope you will have a pleasant trip in
the yacht, Mr. Leslie."

At the station he got out first and assisted
her to alight ; then he got a porter for her ;
and raised his hat to her with the air of a
perfect stranger as she disappeared with her
friends. Then he had his own things shifted
into a first-class smoking compartment ; and
the journey was resumed.

It was a lonely journey. There was something
wrong. He already hated ih^ Juliet ;
and looked forward with disgust to being
thrown on the society of a brainless young
idiot. Nay, this was the matter ; why had he
not asked Janet Stewart plump and plain ?
Why had he not asked her to stop at Carstairs
Junction, and go back with him to Edinburgh
or Glasgow, where he could easily have found
friends to take care of her until the special
license had been obtained ? Why had he not
dared his fate ? Sometimes women were captured
by the very suddenness of the proposal.

'rand as for the people at Lynn," he was

saying to himself during these perturbed
meditations, '' why, then they might have had
some good occasion to squawk ! They might
have squeaked to some purpose then ! But
I missed my chance — if ever there was one ;
and now it is this accursed yacht and that insufferable
young nincompoop!"

Things did not look altogether serene for
the Right Honourable the Lord Dartown of
Dartown, Co. Limerick, and Atwood Manor,
Berks.

A SPY.

It is quite impossible to describe the gladness
and gratitude with which Yolande read the
letter from the Master of Lynn, which not
only gave her her freedom, but said good-bye
in such a friendly fashion. For once a ray
of sunlight fell on a life which, of late, had
not been of the brightest.

Yolande, what is the matter ? You have
had good news this morning ?" said the
mother, coming into the room, and noticing
the radiant face of the girl.

'' Yes, indeed, mother — the best I have
had for many a day!" said she, and she led
her mother to the window, and put her in the
easy-chair, and patted her shoulder affectionately.
"The best news I have had for
many a day."

'what is it? May I ask?"

For an instant Yolande hesitated ; then

she laughed, and put the letter in her
pocket.

''No; it would be too long to explain.
But shortly I will tell you what it is, mother
why, only that one of the friends I know
in the Highlands has been generous and
kind to me. Is it a wonderful thing ? Is it
new — unexpected ?"

'' Ah, you ought to be with them, Yolande :
not here, throwing away your time on me."

"Ridiculous — ridiculous!" said she, in
her French way ; and then with a light step
and a bright face she went off to get writing
materials.

"Dear Archie," she wrote, — "It is so
good of you. I do not deserve it. You have
made me very happy ; and I hope you also
will soon be reconciled at home, and everything
go well. It is a great pleasure you
offer me that we should always continue
friends, and I hope it will be so ; I know it
will on my side; and one may be in Inverness
some day, perhaps ? — then I should be
pleased to see you again, and also your
sister, and Colonel Graham. But that will

be a long time if at all ; for my mother,
though she is much better, does not get
strong as I wish, and naturally I remain with
her — perhaps for always. How could I leave
her ? But if once she were strong enough to
travel, then one might perhaps see one's
friends, in the Highlands or elsewhere ;
and in the meantime it is consolation to
know that they remain your friends, and
think of you occasionally. Dear Archie, you
are really too kind to me, and too flattering
also, but you cannot expect a woman to fight
very hard against that, so I am glad you will
have as generous an opinion of me as is possible,
even if it is exaggerated, and perhaps
not quite true. I remember your speaking
of your schoolfellow very well — is he the
most favourable of companions for a yachting-voyage
} I suppose you are going south ;
for now the days are becoming cold ; and weare
thinking of going away to the south also.
How strange it would be if my mother and I
were to be seated on one of the terraces at
Monte Carlo and you were to come sailing
into the harbour below us. You must tell
me the name of the yacht ; and when we are

at Nice or Cannes, or such places, I will lookin
the newspapers for the lists, and perhaps
hear of you.

'this is all I can write to you at the
moment, but you must believe me that it does
not convey to you anything like what I feel.
You will excuse me — perhaps you will understand.
But I will not forget your kindness.
Your grateful Yolande."

'' Pes. — I will do as you wish about not
stating any reasons ; though I am afraid that
is only another part of your consideration and
generosity in disguise."

She went to get her hat and cloak.

Tais-toi, lion gas
Et ne ris pas
Tout va de mal en pire^'^

she was humming to herself, most inappropriately,
as she put them on. And then she
went back to her mother.

'will you get ready, mother? I have a
letter to post. And I want to see if they can
get me as much more of that fur as will make
a hood for your travelling-cloak — ah, you

have no idea how comfortable it is if the
weather is cold and you are on a long railway
journey."

"Why, you spoil me, Yolande — you make
a petted child of me," the mother protested.

'' Come, get on your things," said she, not
heeding. 'rand perhaps, when we are seeking
for the fur, I might get a winter-cloak for
Jane. Does she not deserve a little present ?
She has been very attentive — has she not, do
you think ?"

'when she has had the chance, Yolande,"
the mother said, with a smile. " But you do
everything yourself, child."

The alteration in the girl's manner after
the receipt of that letter was most marked.
Gladness dwelt in her eyes, and spoke in her
voice. She grew so hopeful, too, about her
mother's health, that now, when they went
out for a morning stroll among the shops,
she would buy this or the other small article
likely to be of use to them in travelling.
That was partly why she presented Jane with
that winter-cloak ; Jane was to be their sole
attendant. And now all her talk was about
orange-groves and palms, and marble terraces

VOL. III. Q

shaded from the sun, and the summer-blue
waters of the south.

But there was one person who certainly
did not regard the breaking off of this engagement
with equanimity. Immediately
on receiving the brief note sent from the
Station Hotel at Inverness, Mrs. Graham,
astonished and indignant and angry, posted
over straightway to Lynn, and told her tale,
and demanded explanations. Well, they had
no explanations to offer. If it were true,
Lord Lynn said indifferently, it was a very
good thing ; but he did not choose to bother
his head about it. Then pretty Mrs. Graham
had a few words, verging on warmth, with
her Aunt Colquhoun ; but she quickly saw
that that would not mend matters. Thereupon
she thought she would appeal to
Yolande herself; and she did so — dating the
letter from Lynn Towers.

''My dear Yolande," she said, — "Is it
true ? Or has Archie been making a fool of
us ? Of course, he is off without a word of
explanation ; and I cannot imagine it possible
that his and your engagement should have

been so suddenly broken off, and without any
apparent cause. Forgive me for interfering,
dearest Yolande ; I know it is no concern of
mine — except in so far as this goes — that
Archie is my brother, and I have a right to
know whether he acted as he should have
done, and as becomes the honour of our
family. I have a right to know that. At
the same time it seems incredible that you
and he should have parted — and so suddenly
without any warning ; for although there
where some disagreement here, as he probably
hinted to you, still, that could have
nothing to do with him and you ultimately,
and he distinctly informed me that his position
with regard to you was not affected, and
would not be affected, by anything happening
here. I hope I am not giving you pain in
making these inquiries, dear Yolande ; but I
think I have a right to know that my brother
conducted himself honourably ; for it was
through us, you may remember, that he made
your acquaintance ; and both Jim and I would
consider ourselves in a measure responsible if
he has behaved badly. But I daresay it is
not so serious as that. I know he is impatient

of worry ; and probably he has asked
you to — well, I don't know what he could
fairly ask ; and all I can say is that I hope, if
matters are as he says, that he has done
nothing to cause us reproach. You may well
think that we shall both — I mean Jim and I
be exceedingly grieved if it is true ; for we
both looked forward to having you as our
sister and friend ; and you may depend on it
that if there had been any temporary disagreement
in one quarter, that would have
been more than atoned for in the warmth of
the welcome you would have got from us.
Pray forgive me, dearest Yolande, for begging
a line from you at your very earliest
convenience ; it is not idle curiosity ; and I
trust your answer will be that Archie's exaggeration
only means that for a while he is
leaving you to the duties that now occupy
you, and that in time everything will be as it
was. My best love to you, dearest Yolande,
from your affectionate friend,

Mary Graham."

'' Pes. — Surely it cannot be true, or your
father would have told me on the day of his

leaving Allt-nam-ba ? Will you please write
to Inverstroy."

Yolande remembered her promise to the
Master of Lynn, and deemed it safest to say
as little as possible. So she merely wrote —

"■ ]My dear Mary — I hasten at once to say
that your brother's conduct has been always
and throughout most honourable ; and that in
the breaking off of our engagement it has
been even more — It has been most manly and
generous. Pray have no fears on that head.
As for the reasons, it is scarcely worth while
explaining them when it is all over and gone
now. Do you think you need tell me that
you would have given me welcome in the
Highlands ? — indeed I have had experience
of that already. I hope still to be your
friend ; and perhaps some day, in the Highlands
or elsewhere, we may be once more
together ; in the meantime, please remember
me most kindly to your husband, and believe
me, yours affectionately,

"Yolande Winterbourne."

Yolande now seemed to consider that

episode in her life as over and done with ;
and set herself all the more assiduously to the
service of her mother, who, poor woman,
though she could not fail to see the greater
cheerfulness and content of the girl, and
probably herself derived some favourable
influence from that, still remained in a weak
and invalides condition which prevented
their migration to the south. However,
something now occurred which stopped once
and for all her recurrent entreaties that
Yolande should go away to her own friends
and leave her by herself. One day, as she
was seated in her accustomed easy-chair,
looking at the people, and the sea, and the
ships, she suddenly uttered a slight exclamation,
and then quickly rose and withdrew from
the window.

''Yolande dear!" she exclaimed, in a
voice of terror. '' Yolande ! "

Yes, mother ! " the girl answered, looking
calmly up from her sewing.

And then she saw that her mother was
strangely agitated ; and instantly she rose
and caught her by the hand.

"What is it, mother?"

I have seen that man that you know of
Rumford."

'well, what of that?" the girl said,
quietly.

But he was looking up at the house,
Yolande ! " said she, obviously in great alarm.
"He must know that we are here. He must
have sought us out."

"Very well; and what of that?" said
Yolande ; and she added, with a gentle touch
of scorn : " Does he wish to be asked to have
some tea with us ? I think we are not at
home just now."

But you don't understand, child — you
don't understand," said the mother, with a
kind of shiver. "To see him was to recall
everything. I was in a dream ; and now it
looks hideous to me ; and the thought of his
coming here — and wishing to take me back
to that life — when I did not care whether
each day was to be the last "

"My dear mother," said Yolande, "is it
of much consequence what the gentleman
wishes ? It is of more consequence what I
wish. And that is that you are to remain
with me."

*' Oh yes, with you, Yolande — with you ! "
she exclaimed, and she eagerly caught both
hands of the girl and held them tight.
*' Always with you — always, always! I am
not going away from you — I dare not go
away. I have asked you to go to your
friends, and leave me by myself; but I will
not ask it again ; I am afraid ; if I were
alone, he might come and speak to me — and
and persuade me that his wife was the one
who best knew how to take care of me — oh,
when I think of it, Yolande, it maddens me ! "

"Then you need not think of it, mother
dear," said the girl, pressing her to sit down.
Leave Mr. Romford to me. Oh, I will
make him content with me, if he chooses to
be troublesome. Do not fear."

''If he should come to the house, Solander"

'the ladies do not receive this afternoon,"
she answered, promptly, "nor tomorrow
afternoon, nor the next day morning, nor any
other time, when the gentleman calls whom
you will describe to the landlady and her two
girls and also to Jane. As for me, I scarcely
saw him — I was too bewildered, and too
anxious about you, mother ; and then at last,

when he did come near to me — pouf ! away
he went on the pavement. And as for him
now, I do not care for him that !'' — and she
flicked her middle finger from the tip of her
thumb.

'' But he may speak to us on the street,
child ! "

'rand if we do not wish to be spoken to,
is there no protection ? " said Yolande,
proudly. " Come to the window, mother,
and I will show you something.

'' Oh no, no ! " she said, shrinking back.

'every well, then, I will tell you. Do you
not know the good-natured policeman who
told us when the harness was wrong at the
shaft, and put it right for us ? And if we say
to him that we do not wish to have any of the
gentleman's conversation, is it not enough ?"

I do not think I could go back now," the
mother said, absently, as if she were looking
over the life, or rather the living death, she
had led. " I have seen you. I could not go
back and forget you, and be a trouble to you
and to your father. He must be a forgiving
man to have let you come to me ; and yet
not wise. I was content ; and those people

were kind to me. Why should your Hfe be
sacrificed ! "

"What a dreadful sacrifice, then!" exclaimed
Yolande, with a smile. " Look
around — it is a dreadful sacrifice ! And when
we are at Cannes, and at San Nemo, and at
Cordillera, it will be even more horrible and
dreadful."

But no, no, I cannot go back now," she
said. '' The sight of that man recalls everything
to me. And yet they were kind to me.
I could do as I pleased ; and it was all in a
kind of dream. I seemed to be walking
through the night always. And indeed, I
did not like the daytime — I liked to be in my
own room, alone, in the evening — with newspapers
and books — and it was a kind of half
sleep with waking pictures — sometimes of
you, Yolande — very often of you ; but not as
you are now — and then they would come and
torture me with telling me how badly I was
treated in not being allowed to see you — and
then — then I did not know what I did. It is
terrible to think of "

Don't think of it, mother, then ! "

"It is all before me again," the wretched

woman said, with a kind of despair. " I see
what I have been — and what people have
thought of me. How can I raise myself
again ? It is no use trying ! My husband
away from me — my friends ashamed to speak
of me — my child throwing away her young
life to no end — why should I try ? — I should
be better away — anywhere — to hide myself

and be no longer an injury and a shame "

Mother," said Yolande, firmly (for she
had had to fight those fits of hopelessness
before and knew the way of them well), *' don't
talk nonsense. I have undertaken to make
you well ; and I have very nearly succeeded ;
and I am not going to have my patient breakdown
on my hands, and people say I am a
bad doctor. I wonder what you would have
said if I had called in a real doctor ? — to give
you physic and all the rest of it ; whereas I
get all kinds of nice things for you ; and take
you out for drives and walks ; and never a
word of medicine mentioned. And I don't
think it is fair, when you are getting on so
well, to let yourself drop Into a fit of despondency
; for that will only make you worse, and
give me so much longer trouble before I have

you pulled through. For you are not going
to shake me off — no — not at all! — and the
sooner you are well, the sooner we are off to
France and Italy ; and the longer you are not
well, the longer it is you keep me in Worthing,
which perhaps you will not find so cheerful
when the winter comes. Already it is
cold ; some morning when you get up you
will see — what ? nothing but snow ! everything
white ! and then you will say it is time
to fly ; and that is right ; but why not
sooner ? "

"Well, to be beside you, Yolande," said
the mother, stroking the girl's hand, "is what
I live for. If it were not for that, I should
not care what happened."

Yolande professed to treat this Mr. Rom-ford
as a person of little account ; but she was
in her inmost heart a trifle more disquieted
than outwardly she made believe. She
shrewdly suspected that he was not the sort
of gentleman to be disporting himself at a
watering-place merely for amusement ; and
she made no doubt that, somehow or other,
he had found out their address, and had
followed them hither in the hope of getting

her mother once more under his control. As
to that, she had no fear ; but, to make sure
that he had no monetary or other claim that
could warrant his even knocking at the door
of the house, she resolved to write at once
to Lawrence and Lang. The answer was
prompt ; she got it by the first post next
morning ; and it said that as "our Mr. Lang,"
by a fortunate accident, happened to be at the
moment in Brighton, they had telegraphed
to him to go along and see her ; consequently
Miss Winterbourne might expect him to call
on her during the course of the day.

This was far from being in accordance
with Yolande's wish ; but she could not now
help it ; and so she went to her mother, and
said that a gentleman would probably call
that day with whom she wanted to have a few
minutes' private talk ; and would the mother
kindly remain in her room for that time ?

'' Not — not Romford ?" said she, in alarm.

I said a gentleman, mother," Yolande
answered.

And then a strange kind of glad light came
into the mother's face ; and she took her
daughter's hands in hers.

Can it be, then, Yolande ? There is one
who is dear to you ?"

The girl turned very pale for a second or
so ; but she forced herself to laugh.

Nonsense, mother. The gentleman is
calling on business. It is very inconvenient ;
but the firm told him to come along from
Brighton ; and now I can't prevent him."

I had hoped it was something more,"
said the mother, gently, as she turned to her
book again.

Mr. Lang called about half-past twelve.

I am very sorry you should have taken
so much trouble about so small an affair," said
Yolande.

But you must understand. Miss Winterbourne,"
said the tall, white-haired man, with
the humorous smile and good-natured eyes,
'that our firm are under the strictest injunctions
to pay instant heed to the smallest
things you ask of us. You have no idea how
we have been lectured and admonished. But
I grant you, this is nothing. The man is a
worthless fellow, who is probably disappointed
; and he may hang about ; but you
have nothing to fear from him. Everything

has been paid ; we have a formal acquittance.
I daresay the scoundrel got three times what
was really owing to him ; but it was not a
prodigious sum. Now what do you want
me to do ? I can't prosecute him for being
in Worthing."

'* No ; but what am / to do if he persists
in speaking to my mother when we are out
walking V

Give him in charge. He'll depart quick
enough. But I should say you had little to
fear in that direction. Unless he has a chance
of speaking to your mother alone, he is not
likely to attempt it at all."

'rand that he shall not have — I can take
care of that," said Yolande, with decision.

"You really need not trouble about it.
Of course, if he found your mother in the
hands of a stranger, what happened before
might happen now — that is to say, he would
go and try to talk her over — vrould say that
she was never so happy as when he and his
wife were waiting on her — that they were her
real friends — and all that stuff But I don't
think he will tackle you," he added, with a
friendly sort of smile.

"He shall not find my mother alone, at
any rate," said Yolande.

I hear everything is going on well ?" he
ventured to say.

'' I hope so — I think so," she answered.

"It was risky — I may say, it was a courageous
thing for you to do ; but you had
warm friends looking on."

She started, and looked up ; but he proceeded
to something else.

I suppose I may not see Mrs. Winterbourne
; or may I ?"

I think not," said Yolande. "It would
only alarm her, or at least excite her ; and I
am keeping all excitement away from her.
And if you will excuse me, Mr. Lang, I will
not keep her waiting. It is so kind of you to
have come along from Brighton "

I dare not disobey such very strict
orders," said he, with a smile, as he took up
his hat and opened the door.

She did not ring the bell, however, for the
maid-servant ; she said she would herself see
him out, and she followed him downstairs.
In the passage she said —

I want you to tell me something, Mr.

Lang. I want you to tell me who it was who
explained to you what you were to do for me
when I arrived in London — for I think I
know."

Then there can be no harm in telling
you, my dear young lady. He called again
on us, about a couple of weeks ago, on his
way north ; and laid us under more stringent
orders than ever. Mr. John Melville — was
that your guess T'

"Yes," said Yolande, with her eyes downcast,
but in perfectly calm tones. " I thought
it was he. I suppose he was quite well when
you saw him ?"

"Oh yes, apparently, certainly."

"Good-bye, Mr. .Lang — it is so kind of
you to have taken all this trouble."

Good-morning," said Mr. Lang, as he
opened the door and went his way — and he
also had his guess.

VOL. III.

SNOW AND SUNLIGHT.

YoLANDE, however, was a strict and faithful
guardian ; and Mr. Romford, no doubt finding
it impossible to get speech of her mother
alone, had probably left the place, for they
saw no more of him. Indeed, they were
thinking of other matters. Yolande was
anxious to get away to the south, and yet
afraid to risk the fatigue of travelling on a
system obviously so frail as her mother's was.
She kept lingering on and on. In the hope of
seeing some improvement taking place ; but
her mother, though much more cheerful inspirits,
did not seem to gain in strength :
indeed, she seemed physically so weak that
again and again Yolande postponed their
departure. This, also, had its drawbacks ;
for the weather was becoming more and more
wintry ; and out-of-door exercise was being
restricted. It was too cold for driving; Yo-lance

had sent back the pony-carriage. Then
she dared not expose her mother to northerly
or easterly winds ; frequently now she had to
go out for her morning walk by herself; a
brisk promenade once or twice up and down
the pier being enough to send her home with
pink cheeks. At last she said to her mother,
with some timidity —

I have been thinking, mother, that we
might take some one's advice as to whether
you are strong enough to bear the journey."

^' I think I could go," the mother said.
Oh yes, I should like to try, Yolande ; for
you seem so anxious about it ; and of course
Worthing must be dull for you."

The girl did not mind this reference to
herself

'' I have been thinking how it could be
most easily done, mother. I would get a
carriage here, and have you nicely wrapped
up from the cold, and we should drive to
Newhaven ; that would be more comfortable
than the tedious railway journey round by
Lewes. Then we should choose our own
time of crossing when the sea was calm ;
and the railway journey from Dieppe to Parisis

so much shorter than the Calais route.
But to Marseilles — that is a terrible long
journey "

I think I could do it, Yolande ; I see
you are so anxious to get away — and no
wonder."

I am anxious for your sake, mother.
But I am afraid to take the responsibility.
Would you mind my asking some one ?
Would you mind my taking some advice ?"

But you are the best doctor I have ever
had," said the mother, with a smile. " I
would rather take your advice than anyone
s.

'' But I am afraid, mother," she said. And
then she added, cautiously, "It was not the
advice of a doctor I was thinking of."

"Whose, then?"

The girl went and stood by her mother's
side and put her hand gently on her shoulder.

Mother, my father is fretting that he can
be of no service to us "

"Oh no, no, no, Yolande!" the other
cried, with a sudden terror. " Don't think
of it, Yolande — it would kill me — he will
never forgive me "

'' There is no forgiveness needed, mother ;
all that Is over and forgotten. Mother "

But the mere mention of this proposal
seemed to have driven the poor woman Into
a kind of frenzy. She clung to her daughter's
arm ; and said In a wild sort of way —

If I saw him, Yolande, I should think he
was coming to take you away from me — to
take you away from me ! — it would be the
old days come back again — and — and the
lawyers "

She was all trembling now, and clinging
to the girl's arm.

'stay with me, Yolande; stay with me!
I know I have done great harm and Injury ;
and I cannot ask him to forgive me ; but you
I have not harmed you — I can look Into
your face without reproach "

I will stay with you, mother — don't be
afraid. Now pray calm yourself; I won't
speak of that again, If it troubles you ; we
shall be just by our two selves for as long as
ever you like ; and as for lawyers, and doctors,
or anybody else, why, you shall not be allowed
to know that they exist."

So she gradually got her mother calmed

again ; and by and by, when she got the
opportunity, she sat down and wrote to her
father, saying that at present it was impossible
he should come and see them, for that
the mere suggestion of such a thing had
violently alarmed and excited her mother,
and that excitement of any kind did her most
serious mischief She added that she feared
she would have to take on her own shoulders
the responsibility of deciding whether they
should attempt the journey ; that most likely
they would try to proceed by short stages ;
and that, in that case, she would write to
him again for directions as to where they
should go on arriving in Paris.

That indeed was what it came to ; although
the girl naturally wished to share with some
qualified person the responsibility of the
decision. But now, as heretofore, whenever
she hinted that they ought to call in a skilled
physician, merely for a consultation, the
mother betrayed such a nervous horror of
the idea of seeing any stranger that the proposal
had to be dropped.

"Why, Yolande, why?" she would say.
I am well enough — only a little weak. I

shall be stronger by and by. What could you
ask of a doctor ?"

'' Oh, well, mother," the girl said, rather
vaguely, '' one might leave it to himself to make
suggestions. Perhaps he might be of some
help — who knows ? There are tonics, now,
do you see, that might strengthen you —
quinine, perhaps ? — or "

"No, no," said she, in rather a sad fashion.
I have done with drugs, Yolande. You
shall be my doctor ; I don't want any one else.
I am in your hands."

'' It is too great a responsibility, mother."

'' You mean to decide whether we leave
Worthing .^ " said the mother, cheerfully.
"■ Well, I will decide for you, Yolande. I say
let us go."

"We could go slowly — in short distances,"
the girl said, thoughtfully. " Waiting here
or there for fine weather, do you see, mother ?
For example, we would not set out at this
moment ; for the winds are boisterous and
cold. And then, mother, if there is fatigue
if you are very tired with the journey, think
of the long rest and idleness at Nice — and
the soft air."

'every well, Yolande ; whatever you do
will be right. And I am ready to set outwith
you whenever you please."

Yolande now set about making final preparations
for leaving England ; and amongst
the first of these was the writing a letter to
Mrs. Bell. It was little more than a message
of good-bye ; but still she intimated that she
should be glad to hear how affairs were going
on at Gress, and also what was being done
about Monaglen. And she begged Mrs.
Bell's acceptance of the accompanying bits of
lace, which she had picked up at some charitable
institution in the neighbourhood, and
which she thought would look nice on black silk.

The answer, which arrived speedily, was
as follows : —

Gress, the i with November.

My dear Young Lady — It was a great
honour to me to receive the letter from you
this morning, and a great pleasure to me to
know that you are well, this leaving us all
here in the same. Maybe I would have taken
the liberty to write to you before now, but
that I had not your address ; and Duncan,
the keeper, was ignorant of it. And I had a

mind to ask the Hon. Mrs. Graham, seeing
her drive past one day, on her return ; but
they blanket lassies that were to have told
me when they saw her come along the road
again were forgetful, as usual, and so I missed
the opportunity. My intention was to tell
you about Monaglen, which you are so kind
as to ask about. It is all settled now, and
the land made over to its rightful possessor ;
and I may say that when the Lord, in His
good time, sees fit to take me, I will close
my eyes in peace, knowing that I have done
better with what was intrusted to me than
otherwise might have happened. But in the
meantime my mind is ill at ease, and I am
not thankful for such mercies as have been
vouchsafed me ; because I would fain have
Mr. Melville informed of what has been done,
and yet not a word dare I speak. At the
best he is a by-ordinary proud, contrary man ;
but ever since he has come back this last time,
he is more unsettled and distant like — not
conversing with people as was his custom, but
working at all kinds of hours, as if his life
depended on they whigmaleeries ; and then,
again, away over the hills and moors by himself,

without even the pastime of fishing that
used to occupy him. 'Deed, I tried once to tell
him, but my brain got into a kind of humble;
I could not get out a word ; and as he was
like to think me an idiwut, I made some
excuse about the school-laddies, and away he
went. However, what's done cannot be undone.
The lawyers vouch for that ; and a
pretty penny they charged me. But Mona-glen
is his, to have and to hold — whether he
will or no ; and the Melville have got their
ain again, as the song says. And if any one
tells me that I could have done better with
the money, I will not gainsay them, for there
are wiser heads than mine in the world ; but
I will say that I had the right to do what
pleased myself with what belonged to me.

Many's the time I wish that I had an
intervener, that would tell him of it, and take
the task off my hands ; for I am sore afraid
that did I do it myself, having little skill of
argument or persuasion, he would just be off
in a fluff, and no more to be said. For that
matter, I might be content with things as they
are, knowing that his father's land would goto
him when my earthly pilgrimage was come

to an end ; but sometimes my heart Is grieved
for the poor lad, when I'm thinking that maybe
he is working early and late, and worrying
himself into a whey-faced condition, to secure
a better future for himself, when the future Is
sure enough If he only kenned. Besides
that, I jalouse there's a possibility of his going
away again ; for I see there are bits of things
that he put together on the day when you,
dear young lady, left Allt-nam-ba, that he has
not unpacked again ; and he has engaged the
young lad Dalrymple at a permanent wage
now, seeing that the chlel does very well with
the school-bairns, though I envy not the
mother that had to keep him In porridge when
he was a laddie. Now that is how we are
situate here, my dear young lady, since you
have been so kind as to remember us ; and I
would fain be asking a little more news about
yourself If It was not making bold, for many's
the time I have wondered whether ye would
come back again to Allt-nam-ba. It is a
rough place for gentle-nurtured people, and
but little companionship for a young lady ;
but I heard tell the shooting was good ; and
if the gentlemen are coming back, I hope

you'll no be kept away by the roughness of
the place, for I'm sure I would like to have a
glint of your face again. And I would say
my thanks for the collar and cuffs in that
beautiful fine lace, but indeed there is more
in my heart than the tongue can speak. It
is just too good of ye ; and although such
things are far too fine for an old woman like
me, still I'm thinking I'll be putting them on
next Sabbath morning, just to see if Mr.
Melville will be asking if I have taken leave
of my five senses. But he has not been
familiar-like since his coming back, which is
a sorrow to me, that must keep my tongue
tied when I would fain speak.

'•'This is all at present, dear young lady,
from your humble servant,

** Christina Bell."

For one breathless second It flashed
across Yolande's brain that she would become
the '' intervener." Would it not be a friendly
thing to do, as she was leaving England, to
write and tell him, and to lay an injunction
on him not to disappoint this kind creature's
hopes } But then she turned away. The

past was past. Her interests and duties
were here. And so — with something of a
sigh, perhaps — she took to the immediate
business of getting ready for the journey ;
and had everything so prepared that they
were ready to start at a moment's notice,
whenever the weather was propitious.

And, indeed, they had fixed definitely the
day of their departure when, on the very
night before, the varying northerly winds
that had been blowing with more or less of
bitterness for some time culminated in a gale.
It was an unusual quarter — most of the gales
on that part of the coast coming from the
south and the south-west ; but all the same
the wind during the night blew with the force
of a hurricane, and the whole house shook
and trembled. Then, in the morning, what
was their astonishment to find the sunlight
pouring in at the parlour windows ; and outside,
the world white and hushed under a
sheet of dazzling snow ! That is to say, as
much of the world as was visible — the pavement,
and the street, and the promenade, and
the beach ; beyond that the wind-ruffled
bosom of the sea was dark and sullen in

comparison with this brilliant white wonder
lying all around. And still the northerly gale
blew hard ; and one after another strangely
dark clouds were blown across the sky, until,
as they got far enough to the south, the sun
would shine through them with a strange
coppery lustre, and then would disappear
altogether, and the dark sea would become
almost black. And then again the fierce
wind would hurry on the smoke-coloured pall
to the horizon ; and there would be glimpses
of a pale blue sky flecked with streaks of
white ; and the brilliant sunlight would be all
around them once more, on the boats and
the shingle and the railings and the snow-whitened
streets.

Now Yolande's mother was strangely
excited by the scene ; for it confirmed her ina
curious fancy she had formed that during
all the time she had been under the influence
of those drugs she had been living in a dream,
and that she was now making the acquaintance
again of the familiar features of the
world as she once had known them.

*rit seems years and years since I saw the
snow," she said, looking on the shining white

world in a mild entrancement of delight.
'' Oh, Yolande, I should like to see the falling
snow — I should like to feel it on my hands."

'you are likely to see it soon enough,
mother," said the girl, who had noticed how,
from time to time, the thick clouds going over
shrouded everything in an ominous gloom.
"In the meantime, I shall go round, after
breakfast, and tell Mr. Atherton not to
send the carriage ; we can't start in a snowstorm."


'' But why not send Jane, Yolande .'^ It
will be bitterly cold outside."

I suppose it will be no colder for me than
for her," Yolande said ; and then she added,
with a smile of confession, '' Besides, I want
to see what everything looks like."

'* Will you let me go with you 1 May I .'^ "
said the mother, wistfully.

You ? " said Yolande, laughing. ** Yes,
that is likely ! That is very likely ! You
are in good condition to face a gale from the
north-east and walk through snow at the
same time ! "

When Yolande went out she found it was
bitterly cold, even though the terrace of

houses sheltered her from the north-east
wind. She walked quickly, and even with
a kind of exhilaration, for this new thing in
the world was a kind of excitement ; and
when she had gone and delivered her
message, she thought she would have a turn
or two up and down the pier, for there the
snow had been in a measure swept from the
planks and there was freer walking. Moreover,
she had the whole promenade to
herself; and when she got to the end, she
could turn to find before her the spectacle of
the long line of coast and the hills inland all
whitened with the snow ; while around her
the sullen-hued sea seemed to shiver under
the gusts of wind that swept down on it.
Walking back was not so comfortable as
walking out ; nevertheless, she took another
turn or two ; for she knew that, if the snow
began to fall, she might be imprisoned for
the day ; and she enjoyed all the natural
delight of a sound constitution in brisk exercise.
Besides, she had to walk smartly to
withstand the cold ; and the fight against the
wind was something; altogether she remained
on the pier longer than she had intended.

Then something touched her cheek, and
stung her, as it were. She turned and looked
soft white flakes — a few of them only, but
they were large — were coming fluttering
along and past her ; and here and there one
alighted on her dress like a moth and hung
there. It was strange ; for the sunlight
was shining all around her ; and there were
no very threatening clouds visible over the
land. But they grew more and more frequent ;
they lit on her hair, and she shook them off;
they lit on her eyelashes and melted moist
and cold into her eyes ; at length they had
given a fairly white coating to the front of
the dress ; and so she made up her mind to
make for home, through this bewilderment
of snow and sunlight. It was a kind of fairy
thing, as yet, and wonderful and beautiful ;
but she knew very well that as soon as the
clouds had drifted over far enough to obscure
the sun, it would look much less wonderful
and supernatural, and she would merely be
making her way through an ordinary, and
somewhat heavy, fall of snow.

But when she got near to the house, something
caught her eye there that filled her

VOL. III. s

with a sudden dismay. Her mother was
standing in the balcony ; and she had her
hands outstretched as if she were taking a
childish delight in feeling the flakes fall
on her fingers ; and when she saw Yolande,
she waved a pleased recognition to her.
Yolande — sick at heart with dread — hurried
to the door ; ran upstairs when she got in ;
and rushed to the balcony. She was breathless
; she could not speak ; she could only
seize her mother by the arm, and drag her
into the room.

"Why, what is it, Yolande?" the mother
said. " I saw you coming through the snow.
Isn't it beautiful — beautiful! It looks like
dreams and pictures of long ago — I have
not felt snow on my hands and my hair for
so many and many years "

How could you be so imprudent, mother ?"
the girl said, when she had got breath.
"And without a shawl! Where was Jane .'^
To stand out in the snow "

"It was only for a minute, Yolande," said
she, while the girl was dusting the snow
from her mother's shoulders and arms with
her pocket-handkerchief. "It was only a

minute — and It was so strange to see snow
again."

'' But why did you go out ? — why did you
go out ? " the girl repeated. " On a bitterly
cold morning like this — and bare-headed and
bare-necked "

'well, yes, it is cold outside," she said,
with an involuntary shiver. " I did not think
it would be so cold. There, that will do,
Yolande ; I will sit down by the fire, and get
warm again."

"What you ought to do is to have some
hot brandy-and-water, and go to bed, and
have extra blankets put over you," said
Yolande, promptly.

'' Oh no ; I shall be warm again directly,"
said she, though she shivered slightly, as she
got Into the easy-chair by the fire, and began
chafing her hands, which were red and cold
with the wet snow. 'rit was too much of a
temptation, Yolande — that Is the fact. It
was making the acquaintance of the snow
again "

"It vv^as more like making the acquaintance
of a bad cold," said Yolande, sharply.

However, she got some thick shawls, and

put them round her mother, and the shivering
soon ceased ; she stirred up the fire, and
brought her some illustrated papers ; and
then went away to get some things out again
from the portmanteaus, for it was clearly no
use thinking of travelling in this weather.
It had settled down to snowing heavily ; the
skies were dark ; there was no more of the
fairy-land performance of the morning ; and
so Yolande set about making themselves as
comfortable as possible within doors, leaving
their future movements to be decided by such
circumstances as should arise.

But during that evening Yolande's mother
seemed somewhat depressed, and also a little
bit feverish and uncomfortable.

''I should not wonder if you were going
to have a very bad cold, mother," the girl said.
'' I should not wonder if you had caught
a chill by going out on the balcony "

Nonsense, nonsense, child ; it was only
for a minute or so "

'* I wish you would take something hot
before going to bed, mother. 
is good, is it not ? I do not know. I
have only heard. Or hot whisky-and-water?

Mr. Shortlands had three tumblers of it after
he fell into the Uisge-nan-Sithean, and had
to walk the long distance home in wet
clothes ; and the rugs and shawls we had put
on his bed — oh, it is impossible to tell the
number."

'' No, never mind, Yolande," the mother
said. " I would rather not have any of these
things. But I am a little tired. I think I
will go to bed now ; and perhaps Jane could
ask for an extra blanket for me. You need
not be alarmed. If I have caught a slight
cold — well, you say we ought not to start in
such weather in any case."

'* Shall I come and read to you, mother ?"

*' No, no ; why should you trouble ^ Besides,
I am rather tired ; most likely I shall
go to sleep. Now I will leave you to your
novel about the Riviera ; and you must draw
in your chair to the fire ; and soon you will
have forgotten that there is such a thing as
snow."

And so they bade good-night to each
other, and Yolande was not seriously disturbed.


A MEETING.

But next morning the mother was ill — nay,
as Yolande in her first alarm imagined, seriously
ill. She could hardly speak ; her hands
and forehead were hot and feverish ; she
would take nothing in the shape of breakfast ;
she only turned away her head languidly.
Yolande was far too frightened to stay to
consult her mother's nervous fancies or dislikes
; a doctor was sent for instantly — the
same doctor, in fact, who had been called in
before. And when this portly, rubicund,
placid person arrived, his mere presence in
the room seemed to introduce a measure of
calm into the atmosphere ; and that was well.
He was neither excited nor alarmed. He
made the usual examination ; asked a few
questions ; and gave some general and sufficiently
sensible directions as to how the patient
should be tended. And then he said he would

write out a prescription — for this practitioner,
in common with most of his kind, had retained
that simple and serene faith In the efficacy of
drugs which has survived centuries of conflicting
theories, contradictions In fact, and scientific
doubt, and which is perhaps more beneficial
than otherwise to the human race so
long as the quantities prescribed are so small
as to do no positive harm. It was aconite,
this time, that he chose to experiment with.

However, when he followed Yolande Into
the other room, In order to get writing-materials,
and when he sat down and began
to talk to her, it was clear that he understood
the nature of the case well enough ; and he
plainly intimated to her that, when a severe
chill like this had caught the system and promised
to produce a high state of fever, the
result depended mainly on the power of the
constitution to repel the attack and fight its
way back to health.

'now I suppose I may speak frankly to
you. Miss Winterbourne," said he.

"Oh yes, why not?" said Yolande — who
was far too anxious to care about formalities.

You must remember, then, that though

you have only seen me once before, I have
seen you twice. The first time you were insensible.
Now," said he, fixing his eyes on
her, 'eon that occasion, I was told a little, but
I guessed more. It was to frighten your
mother out of the habit that you took your
first dose of that patent medicine. May I
assume that ?"

'well, yes," said Yolande, with downcast
eyes — though. Indeed, there was nothing to
be ashamed of.

"Now I want you to tell me honestly
whether you believe that warning had effect."

Indeed, I am sure of it!" said Yolande,
looking up, and speaking with decision.

You think that since then she has not had
recourse to any of those opiates ? "

"I am positively certain of It!" Yolande
said to him.

I suppose being deprived of them cost
the poor lady a struggle ?" he asked.

Yes, once or twice — but that was sometime
ago. Latterly she was growing ever so
much more bright and cheerful ; but still she
was weak ; and I was hesitating about risking
the long journey to the south of France. Yes,

it is I that am to blame. Why did I not go
sooner ? Why did I not go sooner ?" she
repeated, with tears coming into her eyes.

*' Indeed you cannot blame yourself, Miss
Winterbourne," the doctor said. '' I have no
doubt you acted for the best. The imprudence
you tell me of might have happened
anywhere. If you keep the room warm and
equable, your mother will do as well here as
in the south of France — until it is safe for you
to remove her "

'but how soon, doctor? — how soon?
Oh, when I get the chance again, I will not
wait "

'' But you must wait — and you must be
patient, and careful. It will not do to hurry
matters. Your mother is not strong. The
fight may be a long one. Now, Miss Winterbourne,
you will send and get this prescription
made up ; and I will call again in the afternoon."


Yolande went back to her mother's room,
and sent away Jane ; she herself would be
nurse. On tiptoe she went about, doing what
she thought would add to her mother's comfort
; noiselessly tending the fire that had

been lit, arranging a shutter so that less light
should come in, and so forth, and so forth.
But the confidence inspired by the presence
of the doctor was gone now ; a terrible anxiety-had
succeeded ; and when at last she sat
down in the silent room, and felt that she
could do nothing more, a sense of helplessness,
of loneliness, entirely overcame her, and
she was ready to despair. Why had she not
gone away sooner before this terrible thing
happened ? Why had she delayed ? They
might now have been walking happily together
along some sunny promenade in the
south — instead of this — this hushed and
darkened room ; and the poor invalid, whom
she had tended so carefully, and who seemed
to be emerging into a new life altogether, thus
thrown back and rendered once more helpless.
Why had she gone out on that fatal
morning 1 Why had she left her mother
alone ? If she had been in the room, there
would have been no venturing into the snow,
whatever dreams and fancies were calling.
If she had but taken courage and set out for
the south a week sooner — a day sooner — this
would not have happened ; and it seemed so

hard that when she had almost secured the
emancipation of her mother — when the undertaking
on which she had entered with so
much of fear, and wonder, and hope, was
near to being crowned with success — the work
should be undone by so trifling an accident.
She was like to despair.

But patience — patience — she said to herself
She had been warned, before she had
left Scotland, that it was no light matter that
lay before her. If she was thrown back into
prison, as it were, at this moment, the door
would be opened some day. And, indeed,
it was not of her own liberty she was thinking
— it was the freedom of light and life and
cheerfulness that she had hoped to secure for
this stricken and hapless creature whom fortune
had not over well treated.

Her mother stirred, and instantly she went
to the bedside.

'what does the doctor say, Yolande ? "
she asked, apparently with some difficulty.

'' Only what every one sees," she said,
with such cheerfulness as was possible. " You
have caught a bad cold, and you are feverish ;
but you must do everything that we want

you to do, and you will fight it off intime."


'what kind of day is it outside?" she
managed to ask again.

'rit is fine, but cold. There has been
some more snow in the night."

If you wish to go out, go out, Yolande.
Don't mind me."

But I am going to mind you, mother,
and nobody else. Here I am, here I stay,
till you are well again. You shall have no
other nurse "

"You will make yourself ill, Yolande.
You must go out."

She was evidently speaking with great
difficulty.

Hush, mother, hush ! " the girl said. " I
am going to stay with you. You should not
talk any more — it pains you, does it not ? "

"A little." And then she turned away
her head again. " If I don't speak to you,
Yolande, don't think it is unkind of me. I — I
am not very well, I think."

And so the room was given over to
silence again, and the girl to anxious thoughts
as to the future. She had resolved not to

write to her father until she should know
more clehnitely. She would not necessarily
alarm him. At first. in her sudden alarm,
she had thought of summoning him at once ;
but nov' she had determined to wait until the
doctor had seen her mother ao;ain. If this
were only a bad cold, and should show symptoms
of disappearing, then she could send
him a reassuring message. At present she
was far too upset, and anxious, and disturbed,
to carefully weigh her expressions.

About noon Jane stole silently into the
room, and handed her a letter, and withdrew
ao-ain. Yolande was startled when she

o

glanced at the handwriting, and hastily opened
the envelope. The letter came from Inverness,
and was dated the morning of the
previous day : that was all she noted carefully
— the rest seemed to swim into her consciousness
all at once, she ran her eye over
the successive lines so rapidly and vrith such
a breathless agitation,

]\Iy dear Yolaxde," Jack Melville wrote,
*' I shall reach Worthing just about the same
time as this letter. I am coming to ask you

for a single word. Archie Leslie has told me
quite casually, in a letter about other things
that you are no longer engaged to him ;
and I have dared to indulge in some vague
hopes — well, it is for you to tell me to put
them aside for ever, or to let them remain,
and see what the future has in store. That
is all. I don't wish to interfere with your
duties of the moment — how should I ? — but
I cannot rest until I ascertain from yourself
whether or no I may look forward to some
distant time, and hope. I am coming on the
chance of your not having left Worthing.
Perhaps you may not have left ; and I beg
of your kindness to let me see you for ever
so short a time."

She quickly and quietly went to the door,
and opened it. Her face was very pale.

'jane!"

The maid was standing at the window,
looking out ; she immediately turned and
came to her mistress.

'' You remember Mr. Melville, who used
to come to the lodge V

"Oh yes, Miss."

** He will be In Worthing to-day — he will
call here — perhaps soon "

She paused for a second, in this breathless,
despairing way of talking, as if not
knowing what to say.

''He will ask to see me — well — you will
tell him I cannot see him — I cannot see him.
My mother is ill. Tell him I am sorry — but
I cannot see him."

Oh yes, Miss," said the girl, wondering
at her young mistress's agitation.

Then Yolande quietly slipped into the
room again — glancing at her mother to see
whether her absence had been noticed ; and
her hand was clutching the letter ; and her
heart beating violently. It was too terrible
that he should arrive at such a moment —
amidst this alarm and anxiety. She could
not bear the thought of meeting him. Already
she experienced a sort of relief that she was
in the sick-room again : that was her place ;
there her duties lay. And so she sat in the
still and darkened room, listening with a sort
of dread for the ring at the bell below ; and
then picturing to herself his going away ;
and then thinking of the years to come, and

perhaps his meeting her; and she grew to
fancy (while some tears were stealing down
her cheeks) that very likely he would not
know her again when he saw her, for she
knew that already her face was more worn
than it used to be, and the expression of the
eyes changed. When she did hear the ring
at the bell her heart leapt as if she had been
shot ; but she breathed more freely when the
door was shut again. She could imagine him
walking along the pavement. Would he
think her unkind ? Perhaps he would understand
? At all events, it was better that he
was gone ; it was a relief to her ; and she went
stealthily to the bedside to see whether her
mother was asleep ; and now all her anxiety
was that the doctor should make his appearance
soon, and give her some words of cheer,
so she should have no need to write to
her father.

This was what happened when Melville
came to the door. To begin with, he was
not at all sure that he should find Yolande
there : for he had heard from Mrs. Bell that
she and her mother were leaving England.
But when Jane, in response to his ringing of

the bell, opened the door, then he knew that
they were not gone.

'miss Winterbourne is still here, then ?" he
said, quickly — and, indeed, with some appearance
of anxiety in the pale, handsome face.

'' Yes, sir."

He paused for a second.

Will you be good enough to ask her if I
can see her for a moment ?" he said, at
length. '' She knows that I meant to call on
her "

Please, sir. Miss Winterbourne told me
to say that she was very sorry, but that she
cannot see you."

He seemed as one stupefied for a moment.

Her mother is ill, sir," said Jane.

'* Oh," he said, a new light breaking in on
him — for indeed that first blunt refusal, as
uttered by the maid, was bewildering.

Not very ill, is she ?"

"Well, sir," said Jane, in the same stolid
fashion ; "I think she is very ill, sir ; but I
would not say so to my young mistress, sir."

"Of course not — of course not," he said,
absently; and then he suddenly asked : "Has
Miss Winterbourne sent for her father .'^"

VOL. III. T

I think notes sir. I think she is waiting
to hear what the doctor says."

Who is the doctor ?"

She gave him both the name and address.

Thank you," said he. '' I will not trouble
Miss Winterbourne with any message." And
with that he left.

But he sent her a message — some half-hour
thereafter. It was merely this : —

*' Dear Yolande — I am deeply grieved
to have intruded upon you at such a time.
Forgive me. I hope to hear better news ;
but do not you trouble ; I have made
arrangements so that I shall know. — J. M."

And Yolande put that note with the other
for in truth she had carefully preserved
every scrap of writing that he had ever sent
her ; and it was with a wistful kind of satisfaction
that at least he had gone away her
friend. It was something — nay, it was
enough. If all that she wished for in the
world could get as near to completion as this,
then she would ask for nothing more.

The doctor did not arrive till nearly three
o'clock ; and she awaited his verdict with

an anxiety amounting to distress. But he
would say nothing definite. The fever had
increased, certainly ; but that was to be expected.
She reported to him — as minutely
as her agitation allowed — how his directions
had been carried out in the interval ; and he
approved. Then he begged her not to be
unduly alarmed, for this fever was the common
attendant on the catching of a sudden
chill ; and with similar vague words of reassurance
he left.

But the moment he had gone she sat
down and wrote to her father. Fortunately
Mr. Winterbourne happened at the moment
to be in London ; for he had come up to
make inquiries about some railway project
that his constituents wished him to oppose
next Session ; and he was at the hotel in
Arlington Street that Yolande knew.

'dear Papa," she said, — "We did not
leave yesterday as I said we should ; for the
weather was so severe I was afraid to take the
risk. And now another thing has occurred ;
my dear mother has caught a very bad cold,
and is feverish with it, so that I have called

in the doctor. I hope it will soon go away,
and we be able to make the voyage that was
contemplated. Alas ! it is a misfortune that
there was any delay. Now, dear papa, you
said that you were anxious to be of service
to us ; and if your business in town is over,
could you spare a few days to come and stay
at a hotel in Worthing, merely that I may
know you are there, which will reassure me,
for I am nervous and anxious, and probably
imagining danger when there is none. As
for your coming here — no, that is not to bethought
of ; it would agitate my dear mother
beyond expression, and now more than ever
we have to secure for her repose and quiet.
Will it inconvenience you to come for a few
days to a hotel ? — Your loving daughter,

Poland WiNTERBOURNE."

Mr. Winterbourne came down next morning
— rather guessing that the matter was
more serious than the girl had represented,
and went straight to the house. He sent
for Jane ; and got it arranged that, while she
took Yolande's place in the sick-room for a
few minutes, Yolande should come downstairs

and see him in the ground-floor parlour,
which was unoccupied. It is to be remembered
that he had not seen his daughter since
she left the Highlands.

When Yolande came into the room his
eyes lighted up with gladness ; but the next
minute they were dimmed with tears — and
the hands that took hers were trembling —
and he could hardly speak.

'child, child," said he, in a second or so,
"how you are changed. You are not well,
Yolande : have you been ill ?"

Oh no, papa, I am perfectly well."

The strange seriousness of her face! —
where was the light-hearted child whose laugh
used to be like a ray of sunlight ? She led
him to the window ; and she spoke in a low
voice, so that no sound should carry.

'' Papa, I want you to call on the doctor,
and get his real opinion. It tortures me to
think that he may be concealing something ;
I sit and imagine it ; sometimes I think he
has not told me all the truth. I want to
know the truth, papa. Will you ask him ? "

"Yes, yes, child — I will do whatever you
want," said he, still holding her hand, and

regarding her with all the old affection and
admiration. Ah, your face is changed a little,
Yolande, but not much, not much — oh no, not
much ; but your voice hasn't changed a bit —
I have been wondering this many a day when
I should hear you talking to me again "

'' Never mind about me, papa," said she,
quickly. '' I will give you the doctor's
address. Which hotel are you staying at ? "

He told her as she was writing the doctor's
address for him on a card ; and then, with a
hurried kiss, she was away again to the sickroom,
and sending Jane down to open the
door for him.

As Yolande had desired, he went and saw
the doctor, who spoke more plainly to him
than he had done to the girl of the possible
danger of such an attack ; but also said that
nothing could be definitely predicted as yet.
It was a question of the strength of the constitution.
Mr. Winterbourne told him frankly
who he was, what his position was, and the
whole sad story ; and the doctor perfectly
agreed with Yolande that it was most unadvisable
to risk the agitation likely to be
produced if the poor woman were to be confronted

with her husband. Any messages
he might wish to send (in the event of her
becoming worse) could be taken to her ; they
might give her some mental rest and solace ;
but for the present the knowledge of his being
in Worthing was to be kept from her. And
to this Mr. Winterbourne agreed ; though he
would fain have seen a little more of Yolande.
Many a time — indeed, every day — he walked
up and down the promenade, despite the coldness
of the weather, and always with the hope
that he might catch some glint of her at the
window, should she come for a moment to look
at the outer world and the wide sea. Once or
twice he did so catch sight of her ; and the day
was brighter after that. It was like a lover.

As the days passed, the fever seemed to
abate somewhat, but an alarming prostration
supervened. At length the doctor said, on
one occasion when Mr. Winterbourne had
called on him for news —

I think, Mr. Winterbourne, if you have
no objection, I should like to have a consultation
on this case. I am afraid there is some
complication."

*' I hope you will have the best skill that

London can afford," said Mr. Winterbourne,
anxiously ; for although the doctor rather
avoided looking him in the face, the sound of
this phrase was ominous.

Shall I ask Sir to come down ? "

he said, naming one of the most famous of
the London physicians.

'' By all means ! And, whatever you do,
don't alarm my daughter! — try to keep her
mind at rest — say it is a technical point — say
anything — but don't frighten her

I will do my best," the doctor promised ;
and he added : "I will say this for the young
lady, that she has shown a devotion and a
fortitude that I have never seen equalled in
any sick-room ; and I have been in practice
now for two-and-thirty years."

But all the skill in London or anywhere
else could not have saved this poor victim
from the fatal consequences of a few moments'
thoughtlessness. The wasted and enfeebled
constitution had succumbed. But
her brain remained clear ; and as long as she
could hold Yolande's hand or even see the
girl walking about the room, or seated in a
chair, she was content.

I don't mind dying now," she said, or
rather whispered, on one occasion. " I have
seen you, and known you ; you have been
with me for a while. It was Hke an angel
that you came to me ; it was an angel who
sent you to me. I am ready to go now."

'mother, you must not talk like that!"
the girl exclaimed. "Why, the nonsense of
it ! How long, then, do you expect me to be
kept waiting for you, before we can start for
Cordillera together ? "

We shall never be at Cordillera together,"
the mother said, absently, — 'never
never ! But you may be, Yolande ; and I
hope you may be happy there, and always ;
for you deserve to be. Ah yes, you will be
happy — surely it cannot be otherwise — you,
so beautiful and so noble-hearted "

And at last Yolande grew to fear the
worst. One evening she had sent for her
father ; and she went downstairs and found
him in the sitting-room.

Yolande, you are as white as a ghost."

Papa," said she, keeping a tight guard
over herself, " I want you to come upstairs
with me. I have told my mother you were

coming. She will see you ; she is grateful to
you for the kind messages I have taken to
her — I — I have not asked the doctors — but —
I wish you to come with me — do not speak
to her — It is only to see you that she
wants "

He followed her up the stairs ; but he
entered first Into the room ; and he went over
to the bedside and took his wife's hand, without
a word. The memories of a lifetime
were before him as he regarded the emaciated
cheek and the strangely large and brilliant
eyes ; but all the bitterness was over and
gone now.

'george," said she, ''I wished to make
sure you had forgiven me, and to say goodbye.
You have been mother as well as father
to Yolande — she loves you — you — you will
take care of her."

She closed her eyes, as if the effort to
speak had overcome her ; but he still held his
wife's hand in his ; and perhaps he was thinking
of what had been, and of what — far otherwise
— might have been.

ROME.

It was In the month of January following,
when the white thoroughfares of Rome were
all shining clear in the morning sunlight, that
Yolande Winterbourne stood in the spacious
vestibule of the Hotel du Quirinal, waiting
whilst her father read a letter that had just
been given him. She was dressed in deep
mourning ; and perhaps that only heightened
the contrast between the clearness and brightness
of her English-looking complexion and
ruddy-golden hair and the sallow foreign-looking
faces around. And if the ordeal
through which she had passed had altered her
expression somewhat — if it had robbed her
for ever of the light laughter and the carelessness
of her girlhood — it had left in their stead
a sweet seriousness of womanhood that some
people found lovable enough. It was not her
father only who saw and was charmed by this

grave gentleness of look, as an odd incident
in this very hotel proved. At the time of the
Winterbournes' arrival in Rome, there happened
to be there — and also staying at the
Quirinal Hotel — a famous French painter.
Of course every one in the hotel knew who
he was, and every one pretended not to know ;
for he seemed to wish to be alone ; and he
was so hard at work that when he came in
for his mid-day meal — which was of the most
frugal kind — he rarely spent more than tenor
twelve minutes over it, and then he was
off again, only pausing to light a cigarette
in the corridor. Well, one day the Winter-bourne
went as usual into the winter-garden
saloon of the hotel to have a bit of lunch, for
they were going for a drive somewhere in
the afternoon, and they were just about to
sit down at their accustomed table, when
the famous artist rose from his table and
approached them. He was a little man,
with a boyish face, but with careworn
eyes ; his manner was grave, and yet pleasant.


'' Pardon me, sir, the liberty ; but may I
present myself to you?" said he, in the

queerest of pronunciations — and he held a
card between his finger and thumb.

"You do me a great honour, Monsieur,"
said Mr. Winterbourne, with a low bow, and
addressing him in his own tongue ; and he
managed dexterously to hint that Monsieur

had no need of a visiting-card with which

to introduce himself.

Meanwhile Yolande had turned aside,
under pretence of taking off her bonnet ; and
the great artist, without any circumlocution,
told her father what was the object of his thus
desiring to make their acquaintance. He was
painting a religious subject, he said, which
had great difficulties for him. He had observed
Mademoiselle from time to time. She
had so noble an air, an expression so tender,
so Madonna-like. All that he wanted, if her
father would grant the request, was to be
permitted to sit at their table for a few minutes
to observe more closely, to find out what
was that peculiar charm of expression.
Would Monsieur forgive a painter, who could
only plead that it was in the interest of his
art that he made so bold a request.

Mr. Winterbourne not only gladly assented,

but was greatly flattered to hear such
praise of Yolande from so distinguished a
man ; and so she was immediately summoned,
and introduced ; and they all three sat down
to the little table, and had their lunch together.
Yolande was in happy ignorance that she was
being studied or examined in any way whatever
; and he took good care not to let her
know. This little, sad-eyed man proved a
cheerful enough companion. He talked
about anything and everything ; and on one
occasion Yolande had the happiness of being
able to add to his knowledge. He was saying
how the realistic decorations on the walls of
this saloon — the blue skies, the crystal globes
filled with swimming fish and suspended in
mid-air, the painted balconies and shrubs and
what not — would shock the severe theorists
who maintain that in decoration natural objects
should be represented only in a conventional
manner ; and he was saying that nevertheless
this literal copying of things for the purposes
of decoration had a respectable antiquity — as
doubtless Mademoiselle had observed in the
houses of Pompeii, where all kinds of tricks
in perspective appeared on flat surfaces — and

that it had a respectable authority — as doubtless
Mademoiselle had observed in the Loo-gie,
where Raphael had painted birds, beasts, or
fishes, anything that came ready to his hand
or his head, as faithfully and minutely as drawing
and colour could reproduce them.

I saw another thing than that at Pompeii,"
said she. with a slight smile.

"Yes ?'' he said — and she did not know
that all the time he was regarding the beautiful
cure of the short upper lip, and observing
how easily the slight pensive droop of it could
be modulated into a more cheerful expression.

I had always imagined," said she, " that
veneering and wickedness like that were quite
modern inventions. Don't they say so ?
Don't they say that it is modern depravity
that paints common wood to make it like oak,
and paints plaster to resemble marble ? Butin
Pompeii you will also tint that wickedness
yes. I assure you. I found in more than
one house beautiful black marble with yellow
or white veins — so like real marble that one
would not suspect — but if you examined it
where it was broken you would lind it was
only plaster, or a soft gravestone. painted over."

'' Indeed, Mademoiselle," said he, laughing,
'' they were a wicked people who lived in
Pompeii ; but I did not know they did anything
so dreadful as that."

This was the beginning of an acquaintanceship
that lasted during their stay in Rome ;
but was limited to this brief chat in the middle
of the day ; for the famous Frenchman was
the most devoted of workers. And then
when he heard that the Winterbournes were
likely to leave Rome, he besought the father
to allow Yolande to give two or three sittings
to a young American artist, a friend of his,
who Was clever at pastels, and had a happy
knack in catching a likeness. As it turned
out that M. did not wish merely to procure
a commission for his brother-artist, but
wanted to have the sketch of the beautiful
young English lady for himself, Mr. Winterbourne
hesitated ; but Yolande volunteered
at once, and cheerfully ; for they had already
visited the young American's studio, and been
allowed to hunt through his very considerable
collection of bric-a-brac — Eastern costumes,
old armour, musical instruments, Moorish
tiles, and the like. It was an amusement

added to the occupations of the day. Besides,
there was one of the most picturesque views
in Rome from the windows of that lofty garret.
And so Yolande sat contentedly, trying the
strings of this or that fifteenth-century lute,
while the young American was working away
with his coloured chalks ; and Mr. Winterbourne,
having by accident discovered the
existence, hitherto unsuspected, of a curious
stiletto in the hollow handle of a Persian war-axe,
now found an additional interest in
rummaging among the old weapons which lay
or hung everywhere about the studio.

And so we come back to the morning on
which Yolande was standing at the entrance
to the hotel, waiting for her father to read his
letter. When he had ended, he came along
briskly to her, and put his arm within hers.

'now, Yolande," said he, "do you think
Mr. Meteyard could get that portrait of you
finished off to-day ? Bless my soul, it wasn't
to have been a portrait at all ! — it was only
to have been a sketch. And he has kept on
niggling and niggling away at it — why .^
Well, I don't know why — unless "

But he did not utter the suspicion that

VOL. III. u

had crossed his mind once or twice. It was
to the effect that Mr. Meteyard did not particularly
want to finish the sketch ; but would
rather have the young English lady continue
her visits to his studio — where he always
had a little nosegay of the choicest flowers
awaiting her.

"What is the hurry, papa?" she said,
lightly.

"Well, here is a letter from Shortlands.
He has just started for Venice. If we are to
meet him there we should start tomorrow for
Florence. There isn't much time left now
before the opening of Parliament."

' Then let us start tomorrow morning, " said
she, promptly, " even if I have to sit the whole
day to Mr. Meteyard. But I think this is the
only time we have ever been in Rome without
having driven out to the Baths of Caracalla."

"I have no doubt," said he, "that the
Baths of Caracalla will last until our next
visit. So come away, Yolande, and let's
hurry up Mr. Meteyard — 'yank him along,'
I believe, is the proper phrase."

So they went out together, into the
clear white sunlight.

'rand here," said he, discontentedly, as
they were going along the street of the
Quarto Fontaine, 'ris Shortlands appointing

to meet us in Venice at the Hotel. I'm

not going to the Hotel : not a bit of it !"

"Why, papa, you know that is where
Desdemona was buried!" she exclaimed.

"Don't I know!" said he, with a gloomy
sarcasm. "Can you be three minutes in the
place without being perfectly convinced of
the fact ! Oh yes, she was buried there, no
doubt. But there was a little too much of
the lady the last time we were there."

"Papa, how can you say that!" she remonstrated.
"It is no worse than the other
ones. And the parapet along the Canal is
so nice."

"I'm going to Danielii's," he said, doggedly.

I hope we shall get the same rooms we
used to have, with the balcony," said she ;
"and then we shall see whether the pigeons
have forgotten all I taught them. Do you
remember how cunning they became in opening
the little paper bags — and in searching
for them all about the room ? Then I
shouldn't wonder if we were to see Mr.

Leslie at Venice. In the last note I had from
him, he said they were going there ; but he
seemed dissatisfied with his companion, and
I do not know whether they are still together."

** Would you like to meet the Master at
Venice ?" said he, regarding her.

A trifle of colour appeared in her cheeks ;
but she answered cheerfully —

Oh yes, very much. It would be like a
party of old times — Mr. Shortlands and he,
and ourselves, all together."

Shortlands has some wonderful project
on hand — so he hints ; but he does not say
what it is. But we must not attempt too
much. I am afraid you and I are very lazy
and idle travellers, Yolande.

'' I am afraid so, papa."

'eat all events," said he, as they were
going down the steps of the Piazza di Spagna
which are no longer, alas ! adorned by picturesque
groups of artists' models — "at all
events, I must be back at the beginning of
the Session. They say the Queen is going
to open Parliament in person this year. Now
there would be a sight for you ! That is a
spectacle worth going to see."

"Ah," she said, with a quick interest, "am
I to be allowed to go to the House of Commons
after all ? Shall I hear you make a
speech ? Shall I be in the grill — is it the
grill they call it ?"

No, no, you don't understand, Solander"
said he. " It is the ceremony of opening
Parliament. It is in the House of Lords ;
and the Queen is in her robes ; and everybody
you ever heard of in England is there —
all in grand state. I should get you a ticket
by hook or by crook, if I failed at the ballot ;
I heard that one was sold for ^40 the last
time — but maybe that was romance. But I

remember this for fact, that when Lord

returned from abroad, and found every available
ticket disposed of, and couldn't get one
anyhow, he was in a desperate state because
his wife insisted on seeing the show ; and
when he went to an official, and said that, no

matter how. Lady must and should be

admitted, that blunt-spoken person told him
that he might as well try to get her ladyship
into the Kingdom of Heaven. But we'll
manage it for you, Yolande. We'll take it
in time. And if we can't secure it any other

way, we'll get you Into the Reporters' Gallery,
as the representative of a ladies' newspaper."

When they had climbed up to the altitudes
of the young artist's studio, which was situated
in one of the narrower streets between the
Piazza di Spagna and the Corso, they found
Mr. Meteyard rather dismayed at the prospect
of their leaving Rome so soon. It was not
entirely a question of finishing the portrait.
Oh yes, he said, he could get the sketch
finished well enough — that is, as well as he
was likely to be able to do it. But he had
no Idea that Mr. and Miss Winterbourne
were going away so soon. Would they dine
with him at his hotel that evening ? He was
coming to England soon ; might he call and
see them ? And would Mr. Winterbourne
take with him that Persian axe in the handle
of which he had discovered the stiletto ?
And would Miss Winterbourne allow him to
paint for her a replica of a study of a Roman
girl's head that she seemed rather to like, and
he would have it forwarded to England, and
be very proud if she would accept It ?

Alas ! alas ! this youth had been dreaming
dreams ; and no doubt that was the reason of

his having dawdled so long over a mere
sketch in crayons. But he was not wounded
unto death. It is true, he covered himself
with reproaches over the insufficiency of the
portrait — although it was very cleverly done
and an incontestably good likeness ; and he
gave them at his hotel that evening a banquet
considerably beyond what a young painter is
ordinarily supposed to be able to afford ;
and the next morning, although the train for
Florence leaves early, there he was, with such
a beautiful bouquet for the young lady ! And
he had brought her eau-de-cologne, too, for
the journey, and fruit, and sweets (all this was
ostensibly because he was grateful to her for
having allowed him to make a sketch of her
for his friend the famous French painter) ; and
when at last the train went away out of the
station he looked after it sadly enough. But
he was not inconsolable, as events proved : for
within three months of this sad parting he had
married a rather middle-aged Confess, who
had estates near Terracina, and a family of
four daughters by a former husband ; and
when the Winterbournes next saw him, he
was travelling en jargon through the southern

English counties, along with two Scotch artists,
who also — in order that nothing should interfere
with their impassioned study of Nature —
had left their wives behind them.

VENICE.

John Shortlands, however, was delayed by
some business in Paris ; and the Winter-bourne
arrived in Venice first. They went
to Danielii's, and secured the rooms which
were familiar to them in former days. But
Yolande found that the pigeons had forgotten
all she had ever taught them ; and she had
to begin again at the beginning — coaxing
them first by sprinkling maize on the balustrade
of the balcony : then inveigling them
down into the balcony itself ; then leaving the
large windows open, and enticing them into
the room ; and finally educating them so that
they would peck at any half-folded packet
they found on the stone floor, and get at the
grain inside. The weather happened to be
fine ; and father and daughter contentedly set
about their water pilgrimages through the
wonderful and strange city that never seems

to lose its interest and charm for even those
who know it most familiarly, while it is the
one thing in the world that is safe never to
disappoint the new-comer, if he has an imagination
superior to that of a hedgehog.
There were several of Mr. Winterbourne's
Parliamentary friends in Venice at this time ;
and Yolande was very eager to make their
acquaintance ; for now, with the prospect
before her of being allowed to go down occasionally
and listen to the debates, she wished
to become as familiar as was possible with
\h^ personnel of the House. She could not
honestly say that these legislators impressed
her as being persons of extraordinary intellectual
force ; but they were pleasant enough
companions. Some of them had a vein of
facetiousness ; while all of them showed a
deep interest — and even sometimes a hotheaded
partisanship — when the subject of
cookery and the various tables d'hote happened
to come forward.

Then, one night when they had, as usual
after dinner, gone round in their gondola to
the hotel where Mr. Shortlands was expected,
they found that that bulky north-countryman

had arrived, and was now in the saloon, quite by
himself, and engaged in attacking a substantial
supper. A solid beefsteak and a large bottle
of Bass did not seem quite in consonance
with a moonlight night in Venice ; but John
Shortlands held to the '' caelum, non animus "
theory ; and when he could get Dalescourt
fare in Venice or anywhere else, he preferred
that to any other. He received the Winter-bourne
with great cordiality ; and instantly
they began a discussion of their plans for
filling in the time before the opening of
Parliament.

'' But what is the great project you were so
mysterious about ?" Mr. Winterbourne asked.

"Ay, there's something now," said he,
pouring out another tumblerful of the clear
amber fluid. " There's something worth talking
about. I've taken a moor in Scotland
for this next season ; and Yolande and you
are to be my guests. Tit for tat's fair play.
I got it settled just before I left London."

*' Whereabouts is it?" Mr. Winterbourne
asked again.

"Well, when it's at home they call it Allt-
nam-ba."

*' You don't mean to say you've taken
Allt-nam-ba for this year ? "

*' But indeed I have. Tit for tat's fair
play ; and, although the house won't be as
well managed as it was last year — for we
can't expect everything — still I hope we'll
have as pleasant a time of it. Ay, my lass,"
said he, regarding Yolande, "you look as if a
breath of mountain air would do ye some
good — better than wandering about foreign
towns, I'll be bound."

Yolande did not answer ; nor did she
express any gratitude for so kind an invitation
; nor any gladness at the thought of
returning to that home in the far mountain
wilderness. She sat silent — perhaps also a
trifle paler than usual — while the two men
discussed the prospects of the coming season.

ril have to send Edwards and some of
them up from Dalescourt ; though where
they are to get beds for themselves I can't
imagine," John Shortlands said. '' Won't my
fine gentleman turn up his nose if he has to
take a room in the bothy ! By the way, my
neighbour Walked — you remember him,
Winterbourne, don't ye .^ — has one o' those

portable zinc houses that he bought some two
or three years ago when he leased a salmon-river
in Sutherlandshire. I know he hasn't
used it since ; and I daresay he'd lend it tome.
It could easily be put up behind the
lodge at Allt-nam-ba ; and then they'd have
no excuse for grumbling and growling."

'' But why should you send up a lot of
English servants, who don't know what
roughing it in a small shooting-box is like ? "
said Mr. Winterbourne. 'why should you
bother ? Wee did very well last year, didn't
we '^, Why shouldn't you have exactly the
same people — and here is Yolande, who can
set the machine going again "

"There you've exactly hit it," said Short-lands.
" For that is precisely what Yolande
is not going to do, and not going to be
allowed to do. It's all very well for an inhuman
father to let his daughter slave away
at grocers' accounts. My guest is going to
be my guest, and must have a clear, full holiday
as well as any of us. I don't say that
she didn't do it very well — for I never saw a
house better managed — everything punctual
everything well done — no breaking down

just what you wanted always t6 your hand
but I say that, this year, she must have
her holiday like the rest. Perhaps she needs
it more than any of us," he added, almost to
himself.

It was strange that Yolande made no offer
however formal — of her services, and did
not even thank him for his consideration.
No ; she sat mute ; her eyes averted ; she
let these two discuss the matter between
themselves.

'' I am paying an additional ;so," said
Shortlands, "to have the sheep kept off; so
that we may have a better chance at the deer.
Fancy all that stretch of land only able to
provide ^80 of grazing. I wonder what
some of the fellows on your side of the
House, Winterbourne, would say to that.
Gad, I'll tell you now what I'd like to see :
I'd like to see the 666 members of the House
of Commons put on to Allt-nam-ba, and
compelled to get their living off it for five
years."

*' They wouldn't try," said his friend, contemptuously.
'' They'd only talk. One
honourable member would make a speech

three columns long to prove that it was the
duty of the right honourable gentleman
opposite to begin rolling off a few granite
boulders ; and the right honourable gentleman
opposite would make a speech six columns
long to show that there was no Parliamentary
precedent for such a motion ; and an Irishman
would get up to show that any labour at all
expended on a Scotch moor was an injury
done to the Irish fisheries, and another
reason why the Irish revenues should be
managed by a committee of his countrymen
meeting in Dublin. They'd talk the
heather bare before they'd grow an ear of
corn."

By the way," said John Shortlands, who
had now finished his supper and was ready
to go outside and smoke a pipe in the balcony
overlooking the Grand Canal, '' I wonder if I
shall be able to curry favour with that
excellent person, Mrs. Bell."

'but why ? " said Yolande, speaking for
the first time since this Allt-nam-ba project
was mentioned.

'* Oh, that she might perhaps give Edwards
and them a few directions when they go to

get the place ready for us. I daresay they
will find it awkward at first."

*' I am sure Mrs. Bell will be very glad
to do that," Yolande said at once. ''If you
like I will write to her when the time comes.

'' She would do it for your sake, any way,"
he said. "Well, it will be odd if we should
have just the same party in the evenings
that we used to have last year. They were
very snug those evenings — I suppose because
we knew we were so far out of the world, and
a small community by ourselves. I hope Jack
Melville will still be there — my heart warmed
to that fellow ; he's got the right stuff in him,
as we say in the north. And the Master
we must give the Master a turn on the
hill — I have never seen his smart shooting
that you talked so much about, Winterbourne.
Wonder if he ever takes a walk up to the
lodge. Should think it must be pretty cold
up there just now ; and. cold enough at Lynn,
for the matter of that."

'' But Mr. Leslie isn't at Lynn, is he ? "
said Yolande, suddenly.

"Where is he, then ? "

"He had started on a yachting cruise

when I last heard from him," Yolande said.
'why, we had half hoped to find him in
Venice ; and then it would have been strange
the Allt-nam-ba party all together again in
Venice. But perhaps he is still at Naples —
he spoke of going to Naples."

'' I don't know about Naples," said Short-lands,
'but he was in Inverness last week."

In Inverness ! No — it is impossible ! "

Oh, but it is certain. He wrote to me from
Inverness about the taking of the shooting."

Not from Lynn 1 " said Yolande, rather
wonderingly.

No. He said in his letter that he had
happened to call in at Macpherson's office —
that is their agent, you know — and had seen
the correspondence about the shooting ; and
it was then that he suggested the advisability
of keeping the sheep off Allt-nam-ba."

It is strange," Yolande said, thoughtfully.
But he was not well satisfied with his
companion — no — not at all comfortable in the
yacht — and perhaps he went back suddenly."

And then she added — for she was obviously
puzzled about this matter —

Was he staying in Inverness ? "

VOL. III. X

'' Indeed I don't know," was the answer.

'' Did he write from the Station Hotel ? "
she asked again, glancing at him.

'' No ; he wrote from Macpherson's office,
I think. You know he used often to go upto
Inverness, to look after affairs."

"Yes," said Yolande, absently; she was
wondering whether it was possible that he
still kept up that aimless feud with his
relatives — aimless now that the occasion of it
was for ever removed.

And then they went out on to the wide
balcony, where the people were sitting at
little tables, smoking cigarettes and sipping
their coffee ; and all around was a cluster of
gondolas that had been stopped by their
occupants in going by, for in one of the
gondolas, moored to the front of the balcony,
was a party of three minstrels, and the clear,
penetrating, fine-toned voice of a woman rose
above the sounds of the violins and the
guitar, with the old familiar

Mare si placid
Vent SI caro
Scorner fa i tribunal
Diariiiaro

and beyond this dense cluster of boats —
out on the pale waters of the Canal — here
and there a gondola glided noiselessly along,
the golden star of its lamp moving swiftly ;
and on the other side of the Canal the Church
of Santa Maria della Salute thrust its heavy
masses of shadow out into the white moonlight.
They were well acquainted with this
scene, and yet the wonder and charm of it
never seemed to fade. There are certain
things that repetition and familiarity do not
affect — the strangeness of the dawn, for
example, or the appearance of the first
primrose in the woods ; and the sight of
Venice in moonlight is another of these
things — for it is the most mysterious and the
most beautiful picture that the world can show.
By and by the music ceased ; there was a
little collection of money for the performers :
and then the golden stars of the gondolas
stole way in their several directions over
the placid waters. Mr. Winterbourne and
Yolande summoned theirs also, for it was
getting late ; and presently they were gliding
swiftly and silently through the still moonlight
night.

'' Papa," said Yolande, gendy, '' I hope
you will go with Mr. Shortens in the
autumn, for it is very kind of him to ask
you ; but I would rather not go. Indeed,
you must not ask me to go. But it will not
matter to you ; I shall not weary until you
come back ; I will stay in London, or wherever
you like."

'' Why don't you wish to go to Allt-nam-ba,
Yolande ? " said he.

There was no answer.

'' I thought you were very happy up
there," he said, regarding her.

But though the moonlight touched her
face, her eyes were cast down, and he could
not make out what she was thinking — perhaps
even if her lips were tremulous he might
have failed to notice.

"Yes," said she at length, and in a rather
low voice, *' perhaps I was. But I do not
wish to go again. You will be kind and
not ask me to go again, papa ?"

My dear child," said he, " I know more
than you think — a great deal more than you
think. Now I am going to ask you a question
: if John Melville were to ask you to be

his wife, would you then have any objection
to going to Allt-nam-ba ?"

She started back, and looked at him fora
second, with an alarmed expression in her
face ; but the next moment she had dropped
her eyes.

"You know you cannot expect me to
answer such a question as that," she said, not
without some touch of wounded pride.

But he has asked you, Yolande," her
father said, quietly. "There is a letter for
you at the hotel. It is in my writing-case ;
it has been there for a month or six weeks ;
it was to be given you whenever — well, whenever
I thought it most expedient to give it to
you. And I don't see why you shouldn't have
it now — as soon as we go back to the hotel.
And if you don't want to go to the Highlands
for fear of meeting Jack Melville, as I
imagine, here is a proposal that may put
matters straight. Will it .^"

Her head was still held down, and she
said in almost an inaudible voice —

Would you approve, papa ?"

"Nay, I'm not going to interfere again!"
said he, with a laugh. " Choose for yourself.

I know more now than I did. I have had
some matters explained to me, and I have
guessed at others ; and I have a letter, too,
from the Master — a very frank and honest
letter, and saying all sorts of nice things
about you too, Solander — yes, and about
Melville, too, for the matter of that — I am
glad there will be no ill-feeling, whatever
happens. So you must choose for yourself,
child, without let or hindrance — whatever
you think is most for your happiness — what
you most wish for yourself — that is what I
approve of "

'' But would you not rather that I remained
with you, papa ?" she said, though she had
not yet courage to raise her eyes.

"Oh, I have had enough of you, you
baggage !" he said, good-naturedly. '' Do
you expect me always to keep dragging you
with me about Europe .^ Haven't we discussed
all that before ? Nay, but Yolande,"
he added, in another manner, 'follow what
your own heart tells you to do. That will be
your safest guide."

They reached the hotel, and when they
ascended to their suite of rooms he brought

her the letter. She read it — carefully and
yet eagerly, and with a flushed forehead and
a beating heart — while he lit a cigarette and
went to the window, to look over at the
moonlit walls and massive shadows of San
Giorgio. There was a kind of joy in her
face, but she did not look up. She read the
letter again — and again ; studying the phrases
of it ; and always with a warmth at her heart
of pride and gratitude, and a desire to say
something to some one who was far away.

"Well?" her father said, coming back
from the window, and appearing to take
matters very coolly.

She went to him, and kissed him, and hid
her face in his breast.

I think, papa," said she, " I — I think I
will go with you to Allt-nam-ba."

CONCLUSION.

Now it Is not possible to wind up thls^hlstory
In the approved fashion, because the events
chronicled In It are of somewhat recent occurrence
— Indeed, at the present writing the
WInterbournes and John Shortlands are still
looking forward to their flight to Allt-nam-ba,
when Parliament has ceased talking for the
year. But at least the story may be brought
as far as possible "up to date." And first,
as regards the Master of Lynn. When, on
that evening in Venice, Yolande had Imagined
that he was in Naples, and John Shortlands
had affirmed that he was in Inverness, he
was neither In one nor the other. He was
In an hotel In Princes Street, Edinburgh, Ina
sitting-room on the first floor, lying extended
on a sofa, and smoking a big cigar,
while a cup of coffee that had been brought
him by affectionate hands stood on a small

table just beside him. And Shena Van, having
in vain cudgelled her brains for fitting
terms of explanation and apology, which she
wished to send to her brother, the Professor,
had risen from the writing-desk, and gone to
the window ; and was now standing there
contemplating the wonderful panorama without
— the Scott monument touched with the
moonlight, the deep shadows in the valley,
the ranges of red windows in the tall houses
beyond, and the giant bulk of the Castle-hill
reaching away up into the clear skies.

'' Shena," says he, '' what o'clock is it ? "

''A quarter past nine," she answers, dutifully,
with a glance at the clock on the
chimneypiece.

Capital!" he says, with a kind of sardonic
laugh. 'excellent! A quarter past nine.
Don't you feel a slight vibration, Shena, as if
the earth were going to blow up ? I wonder
you don't tremble to think of the explosion ! "

"Oh yes, there will be plenty of noise,"
says Shena Van, contentedly.

"And what a stroke of luck to have the
Grahams at Lynn ! Bagging the whole
covey with one cartridge ! It will soon be

twenty past. I can see the whole thing.
They haven't left the dining-room yet; his
lordship must always open the newspapers
himself ; and the women-folk keep on, to hear
whether Queen Anne has come alive or not.
Twenty past, isn't it ? ' Hang that fellow,
Hammer!' his lordship growls. 'He's always
late. Drinking whisky at Whitebridge, I
suppose. I'll send him about his business —
that's what it'll come to.' Then his lordship
has another half-glass of port-wine ; and Polly
thinks she'll run upstairs for a minute to
see that the blessed Baby is all right ; and
we'll say she's at the door when they hear
wheels outside, and so she stands and waits
for the letters and papers. All right ; don't
be in a hurry, Polly ; you'll get something to
talk about presently."

He raised himself and sat up on the sofa,
so as to get a glimpse of the clock opposite ;
and Shena Van — whose proper title by this
time was Janet Leslie — came and stood by
him, and put her hand on his shoulder.

'will they be very angry, Archie?" she
says.

He had his eye fixed on the clock.

*' By Jove," he says, " I wish I was one of
those fellows who write for the stage ; I
would tell you what's happening at this very
minute, Shena ! I can see the whole thing
Polly gets the letters and papers, and goes
back — ' Papa, here is a letter from Archie —
from Edinburgh — what is he doing in Edinburgh
? ' And then his papaship opens the
letter — ' My dear father I have the honour to
inform you ' — ' What ! ' he roars — like a stag
lost in the mist. Why, don't you hear them,
Shena ? — they're all at it now — their tongues
going like wildfire — Aunty Tab swearing
she knew it would come to this — I was never
under proper government, and all the rest —
Polly rather inclined to say it serves them
right, but rather afraid — Graham suggesting
that they'd better make the best of it, now it
couldn't be helped "

'' Oh, do you think he'll say that, Archie?"
said she, anxiously. " Do you think he'll be
on our side } "

'' My dear girl," said he, *' I don't care the
fifteenth part of a brass farthing which of
them, or whether any one of them, is on our
side. Not a bit. It's done. Indeed, I hope

they'll howl and squawk to their hearts' content.
I should be sorry if they didn't."

But you know, Archie," said Shena Van
who had her own little share of worldly
wisdom, " if you don't get reconciled with
your friends, people will say that you only
got married out of spite."

Well, let them," said he, cheerfully.
'you and I know better, Shena — what
matters it what they say ? I know what
Jack Melville will say. They won't get much
comfort out of Jmn. ' No one has got two
lives ; why shouldn't he make the most of the
one he's got ; why shouldn't he marry the
girl he's fond of ? ' — that's about all they'll get
out of him. Polly needn't try to throw the
Corrievreak fly over him. Well now, Shena,
when one thinks of it, what strange creatures
people are. There's Corrievreak ; it's a substantial
thing ; it's worth a heap of solid
money, and it might be made worth more ;
and there it was, offered to our family, you
may say, to keep in our possession perhaps
for centuries. And what interfered .^^ Why,
an impalpable thing like politics ! Opinions
things you couldn't touch with your ten

fingers if you tried a month — a mere prejudice
on the part of my father — and these solid
advantages are thrust away. Isn't it odd ? "

The abstract question had no interest for
Shena Van.

'' I hope you do not regret it," she said,
rather proudly.

Do I speak as if I regretted it ? No ;
not much ! It was that trip to Carlisle that
did it, Shena, that showed me what was the
right thing to do. And after you left wasn't
I wild that I had not had more courage. And
then Owley became more and more intolerable
but I daresay you were the cause of it, you
know, in part — and then I said to myself,
Well, I'm off to Aberdeen; and if Shena
has any kind of recollection of the old days in
her heart, why, I'll ask her to settle the thing
at once

"Yes, but why wouldn't you let me tell
my brother 1 " Shena Van pleaded.

Telling one would have been telling
everybody," said he, promptly, 'rand they
would have been at their old games. Now,
you see, it isn't of the least consequence what
they do or say — if they tear their hair out

it'll only hurt their own heads. And I don't
see why you should worry about that letter.
Why should you make apologies ? Why
should you pretend to be sorry — when you're
not ? If it bothers you to write the letter,
send a copy of this morning's Scotsman;
that's quite enough. Send them all this
morning's Scotsman; and you needn't mark
it ; it will be all the pleasant surprise for
them. When they've finished with the leading
articles, and the news, and the criticisms
of the picture-exhibitions, and when they've
looked to see how many more ministers of
the gospel have been writing letters and
quarrelling like Kilkenny cats, then they'll
stray on to a nice little paragraph — 'What?
St. Giles s Church — Archibald Leslie to
Janet Stewart — oh, snakes ! ' "

'' But you wrote to your people, Archie,"
Shena Van said — looking wistfully at the
sheet of note-paper that she had in vain
endeavoured to fill with apologies and appeals
for pardon.

"Well, yes, I did," the Master of Lynn
admitted, with a peculiar smile. '' I could
not resist the temptation. But you mistake

altogether, Shena, if you imagine that it was
to make apology that I wrote. Oh no ; it
was not that ; it was only to convey information.
It was my filial duty that prompted
me to write. Besides I wished the joyful
tidings to reach Aunty Tabby as soon as
possible — oh don't you make any mistake,
Shena — shes worth a little consideration —
she has a little money of her own — oh yes,
she may do something for us yet ! "

I don't like to hear you talk of your
relations in that way, Archie," said Shena
Van, rather sadly, "for if you think of them
like that, how are you ever to be reconciled
to them ? And you told me it would be all
right."

"And so it will, my dear girl," said he,
good-naturedly. " And this is the only way
to put it all right. When they see that the
thing is done, then they'll come to their senses.
Polly will be the first. She always makes
the best of matters — she's a good little soul.
And his lordship won't do anything desperate ;
he won't be such a fool as to drive me to
raise money on my expectations ; and he'll
soon be glad enough to have me back at

Lynn — the people there want some looking
after, as he knows. Besides, he ought to be
in a good-humour just now — both the forest
and Allt-nam-ba let already, and Arden-grecian
as good as taken."

But I must write — I must write," said
Shena, regarding the paper again.

"Well, it's quite simple," said he. 'tell
your brother that, when you left Aberdeen,
instead of going either to Inverness or to
Strathaylort, you came here to Edinburgh,
and were married, as per inclosed cutting from
the Scotsman. The cause ? — urgent family
reasons, which will be explained. Then you
ask him to be good enough to communicate
this news to your sister, and also to send a
message to the Manse ; but as for apologising,
or anything of that kind, I'd see them
hanged first. Besides, it isn't good policy.
It isn't wise to treat your relatives like that,
and lead them to think they have a right to
remonstrate with you. It's your business ;
not theirs. You have quite arrived at years
of discretion, my darling Shena ; and if you
don't want people to be for ever jumping on
you — that is, metaphorically, I mean — stop it

at the beginning, and with decision. Here,"
said he, suddenly getting up and going over
to the writing-table, " I'll write the letter for
you !

'' Oh no, Archie ! " she cried, interposing.
'you will only make them angry."

My dear child," said he, pushing her
away, "honey and molasses are a fool to
what I can write when I want to be civil ;
and at the present moment I should like to
shake hands with the whole human race."

So he wrote the letter, and wrote it very
civilly, too, and to Shena's complete satisfaction
; and then he said, as he finished his
coffee —

'' I don't think we shall stay long in Paris,
Shena. I don't like Paris. You won't find
it half as fine a town to look at as this is
now. And if you go to the theatre, it's all
spectacle and ballet ; or else it's the story of a
married woman running away with a lover ;
and that isn't the kind of thing you ought to
see on your wedding trip, is it ? There's no
saying how far the force of example might
go ; and you see you began your wedded life
by running away "

VOL. III. Y

"It was none of my doing, Archie," said
Shena Van, quickly.

'' No," said he. " I think we'll come back
to London soon ; for everybody will be thereat
the opening of the Session ; and I want to
introduce you to some friends of mine. Jack
Melville says he is going up ; and he pretends
it's about his Electric Lighting performance
; but I suspect it's more to meet
the Winterbournes, when they come back
from abroad, than to see the Directors of the
Company. If they do adopt his system, I
hope he'll make them fork out, for he is not
overburdened with the gear of this wicked
world any more than myself — faith, I wish
my right honourable papa would hand along
the cost of that Special License, for it was all
his doing. But never mind, Shena : we'll
tide along somehow ; and when we come
back from our trip, if they are still showing
their teeth, like a badger in a hole, I know
what I'll do — we'll go over to the West of
Ireland, for the Spring salmon-fishing, and
we can live cheaply enough in one of the
hotels there, either on the Shannon or out in
Connemara. How would you like that ? "

"Oh, I should be delighted!" said Shena
Van, with the dark, wonderful blue eyes filled
with pleasure. 'for I'm afraid to go back
to Inverness, and that's the truth, Archie."

Oh, but we shall have to go back to
Inverness, all in good time," said he, 'rand
it won't do to be afraid of anything. And
I think you'll hold your own, Shena," he
added, approvingly. " I think you'll hold
your own."

And so at this point we may bid good-bye
to these adventurers (who seemed pleased
enough with such fortune as had befallen
them), and come along to another couple
who, a few weeks later, were walking one
evening on the terrace of the House of
Commons. It was a dusky and misty night,
though it was mild for that time of the year ;
the heavens were overclouded ; the lights on
Westminster Bridge and on the Embankment
did little to dispel the prevailing gloom, though
the quivering golden reflections on the black
river looked picturesque enough ; and in this
dense obscurity such Members and their
friends as had come out from the heated
atmosphere of the House to have a chat or a

cigar on the terrace were only indistinguishable
figures who could not easily be recognised.
They for the most part were seated on one
or other of the benches standing about, or
idly leaning against the parapet ; but these
two kept walking up and down in front of the
vast and shadowy building and the gloomy
windows, and they were arm-in-arm.

''A generation hence," said one of them,
looking at the murky scene all around them,
'' Londoners won't believe that their city could
ever have been as black a pit as this is."

But this generation will see the change,
will it not ?" said his companion, whose voice
had just a trace of foreign accent in it. " You
are going to make the transformation are you

not r

''I ?" said he, laughing. " I don't know
how many are all trying at it ; and whoever
succeeds in getting what is really wanted will
be a wonder-worker, I can tell you. What's
more, he will be a very rich man. You don't
seem to think about that, Yolande."

"About what, then ?"

'' Why, that you are going to marry a very
poor man."

'' No, I do not care at all," she said, or
rather what she did say was, ' I do not care
aytall ' — despite the tuition of her father.

'' That is because you don't understand
what it means," said he, in a kindly way.
'you have had no possibility of knowing.
You can't have any knowledge of what it is
to have a limited income — to have to watch
small economies, and the like "

''Ah, indeed, then!" said she. "And my
papa always angry with me for my economies,
and the care and the thrift that the ladies at
the Chateau exercised always! 'Miser' he
says to me, ' Miser that you are !' Oh, I am
not afraid of being poor — not aytall !"

I have a chance," he said, absently.
"So far, indeed, I have been lucky. And
the public are hanging back just now ; they
have seen so many bad experiments that they
won't rush at any one system without examining
the others ; it's the best one that will
win in the end. But it is only a chance, after
all. Yolande," said he, "I wonder if I was
born to be your evil genius. It was I who
sent you away from your own home — where
you were happy enough ; and you must have

suffered a terrible anxiety all that time — I can

see the change in you "

Oh, but I will not have you speak like
that " said she, putting her other hand on his
arm. " How can you speak like that to me
when it is night and day that I cannot tell
you how grateful I am to you. Yes ; it was
you who sent me ; if I had not loved you
before, I should love you for that now — with
my whole heart. If you had known — if you
had seen — what joy it was to my poor mother
that I was with her for that time — that we
were together — and she happy and cheerful
for the first time for many, many sad years —
if you had seen the gladness in her face every
morning when she saw me — then perhaps you
would have understood. And if I had not
gone to her — if I had never known her — if she
had never had that little happiness — would
that not have been a sad thing ? That she
might have died among strangers — and I,
her own daughter, amusing myself with friends
and idleness and pleasure somewhere — it is
too terrible to think of ! And who prevented
that ? It is not my gratitude only ; it is hers
also that I give you, that I offer you ; you

made her happy for a time when she had
need of some kindness ; and you cannot
expect that I shall forget it."

'you are too generous," he said. " It is
a small matter to offer advice. / sacrificed
nothing ; the burden of it fell on you. But I
will be honest with you. I guessed that you
would have anxiety and trouble ; but I knew
you would be brave enough to face it ; and
I knew, too, that you would not afterwards
regret whatever you might have come through ;
and I know that you don't regret it now. I
know you well enough for that."

"And some day," she said, "or perhaps
through many and many years, I will try to
show you what value I put on your opinion
of me, and if I do not always deserve that you
think well of me, at least I shall try to deserve
it — can I promise more ?"

At this moment John Shortlands made his
appearance ; he had come out from the smoke
with a cigar in his mouth.

Look here, Yolande," said he. " I suppose
you don't want to hear any more of the
debate ?"

No, no," she said, quickly. " It Is stupid

Stupid. Why do they not say what they
mean at once — not stumbling here, stumbling
there, and all the others talking amongst
themselves, and as if everybody were going
asleep "

It's lively enough sometimes, I can
assure you," he said. " However, your
father thinks it's no use your waiting any
longer. He's determined to wait until the
division is taken ; and no one knows now
when it will be. He says you'd better go
back to your hotel — I suppose Mr. Melville
will see you so far. Well," said he, addressing
Jack Melville, "what do you think of the
dinner Winterbourne got for you ?"

I wasn't thinking of it much," Jack
Melville said. " I was more interested in
the Members. I haven't been near the
House of Commons since I used to come
up from Oxford for the boat-race."

'' How's the Company going ?"

'pretty well, I think ; but of course I've
nothing to do with that. I have no capital
to invest."

Except brains ; and sometimes that's as
good as bank - notes. Well," said Short-lands,

probably remembering an adage about
the proper number for company, '' I'll bid ye
good-night — for I'm going back to the mangle
I may take a turn at it myself."

So Jack Melville and Yolande together set
out to find their way through the corridors of
the House out into the night-world of London ;
and when they were in Palace Yard Yolande
said she would just as soon walk up to the
hotel where her father and herself were staying,
for it was no farther away than Albemarle
Street.

Did you hear what Mr. Shortlands
said ?" she asked, brightly. '' Perhaps, after
all, then, there is to be no romance ? I am
not to be like the heroine of a book, who is
approved because she marries a poor man ?
I am not to make any such noble sacrifice ?"

'' Don't be too sure, Yolande," said he,
good-naturedly. '' Companies are kittle cattle
to deal with ; and an inventor's business is
still more uncertain. There is a chance, as I
say ; but it is only a chance. However, if
that fails, there will be something else I
am not afraid."

'rand I — am I afraid" she said, lightly.

'' No ! Because I know more than you — oh,
yes, a great deal more than you. And perhaps
I should not speak ; for it is a secret — no, no,
it is not a secret, for you have guessed it — do
you not know that you have Monaglen ?"

He glanced at her to see whether she was
merely making fun ; but he saw in her eyes
that she was making an actual — if amused —
inquiry.

'well, Yolande," said he, ''of course I
know of Mrs. Bell's fantasy ; but I don't
choose to build my calculations for the future
on a fantasy "

"But," said Yolande, rather shyly, "if
you were told it was done ? If Monaglen
were already yours ? If the lawyers had
done — oh, everything — all settled — • what
then ?"

What, then ? I would refuse to take it.
But it is absurd. Mrs. Bell cannot be such
a madwoman. I know she is a very kind
woman ; and there is in her nature a sort of
romantic attachment to my father's family —
which I rather imagine she has cultivated by
the reading of those old songs. Still she
cannot have done anything so wild as that."

"She has bought Monaglen," Yolande
said, without looking up.

Very well. I thought she would do that
if she heard it was in the market. Very
well. Why shouldn't she go there — and
send for her relatives, if she has any — and bea
grand lady there ? I have met more than
one grand lady who hadn't half her natural
grace of manner, nor half her kindliness of
heart."

It is very sad, then," said Yolande (who
was afraid to drive him into a more decided
and definite opposition). 'there is a poor
woman who has the one noble ideal — the
dream of her life — it has been her hope and
her pleasure for many and many a year ; and
when it comes near to completion — no —
there is an obstacle — and the last obstacle
that one could have imagined ! Ah, the
ingratitude of it ! It has been her romance ;
It has been the charm of her life. She has
no husband, no children. She has, I think,
not any relation left. And because you are
proud, you do not care that you disappoint
her of the one hope of her life — that you
break her heart ?"

"Ah, Yolande," said he, with a smile,
Mrs. Bell has got hold of you with her old
Scotch songs — she has been walking you
through fairyland, and your reason has got
perverted. What do you think people would
say if I were to take away this poor woman's
money from her relatives — or from her friends
and acquaintances, if she has no relatives ?
It is too absurd. If I were the promoter of
a swindling company, now, I could sharp it
out of her that way ; that would be all right,
and I should remain an honoured member of
society ; but this won't do ; this won't do at
all. You may be as dishonest as you like,
and so long as you don't give the law a grip
on you, and so long as you keep rich enough,
you can have plenty of public respect ; but
you can't afford to become ridiculous. No,
no, Yolande ; if Mrs. Bell has bought Mona-glen,
let her keep it ; I hope she will install
herself there, and play Lady Bountiful — she
can do that naturally enough ; and when she
has had her will of it, then, if she likes to
leave it to me at her death, I shall be her
obliged and humble servant. But in the
meantime, my dearest Yolande, as you and I

have got to face the world together, I think
we'd better have as Httle fantasy around us
as possible — except the fantasy of affection,
and the more of that we have the better."

When they got to the hotel, they paused
outside the glass-door to say good-bye.

"Good-night, dearest Yolande."

Good-night, dear Jack."

And then she looked up at this broad-shouldered,
pale, dark man, and there was a
curious smile in her beautiful, sweet, and
serious face.

"Is it true," she asked, "that a woman
always has her own way ?"

'they say so, at all events," was the
answer.

"And if two women have the same wish
and the same hope, and only one man to say
no, then it is still more likely he will be
defeated ?"

I shouldn't say he had much chance
myself," Jack Melville said ; " but what's your
conundrum, now, sweetheart ?"

'then I foresee something," she said.
Yes, I see that we shall have to ask Mr.
Leslie to be very kind, and to lend us

Duncan Macdonald for an evening. Oh,
not so very far away — not so far away as you
Imagine ; because, you know, when we have
all gone up to Monaglen House, and we are
all inside, going over the rooms — and looking
here and there with a great curiosity and
interest — or perhaps we are all seated in the
dining-room, having a little chat together —
then what will you say if all at once you
heard the pipes outside, and what do you
think Duncan will play, on such an evening
as that if not Melville s Welcome Home f "

10 \^^

THE END.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

Handsomely hound in Cloth, 6s. each.

A Princess .OF THULE.

MADCAP VIOLET.

MAID OF KILLEEXA; and other tales.

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A PHAETON.

Illustrated.
GREEN PASTURES AND PICCADILLY.
^lACLEOD OF DARE. Illustrated.
WHITE WINGS : A Yachting Romance.
THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH : THE FOUR MAC-nichols:

THE PUPIL OF AURELIUS.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

THREE FEATHERS.

A DAUGHTER OF HETH.

Ailment.

LADY Coverdale's SWEETHEART.

IN SILK ATTIRE.

SUNRISE.

SAMPSON LOW AND CO., LONDON,

Mr. "William Black's Recent Novel.
BELLS. By William Black, Author of "A Princess of

Shannon

Thule," " Madcap Violet," &c. Three Vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6(1
A charming book." — Morning I'ost.

A SELECTION FROM

MACMILLAN & Co's POPULAR NOVELS.

In Groton d>vo. Cloth, Price 6s. each Volume.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway,
Herbert Gandy, Adrian Stokes, J.
P. Atkinson, Marian Huxley, W. J.
Hennessy, and Jane E. Cook.

The Heir of Redclyffe.

Heartless.

Hopes and. Fears.

Dynevor Terrace.

The Daisy Chain.

Pillars of the House. 2 vols.

Clever "Ionian of the Family.

The Young Stepmother.

The Trial.

The Three Brides.

My Young Ascites.

The Caged Lion.

The Dove in the Eagle's Nest.

The Chaplet of Pearls.

Lady Hester, and the Dangers

Papers.
Magnum Bonum.
Love and Life.

By the Author of " Hogan, M.P."

The Hon. Miss Ferrara.

Hogan, M.P.

Christy Carew.

Flitters, Tatters, and the Counsellor
: The Game Hen : Bailie Clark :
Weeds.

Tom Brown's Schooldays.

Tom Brown at Oxford.

John Inelegant. By J. H. Short-house.


A Beleaguered City. By Mrs.
Oliphant.

Old Sir Douglas. By the Hon.
Mrs. Norton.

The Laughing Mill, and Other
Tales. By Julian Hawthorne.

The Berkshire Lady. By Mrs.
Macquoid.

Bengal Peasant Life. By Lal
Behari Day.

Virgin Soil. By Tourgi^nief.

By Charles Kingsley.

Westward Ho!

Hereward the Wake.

Two Years Ago.

Alton Locke. With Portrait.

Hepatic.

Yeast.

By the Author of 'john Halifax,
Gentleman."

The Gillies. Illustrated by J.
M. M 'Ralston.

The Head of the Family. Illustrated
by Walter Crane.

Olive. Illustrated by G. Bowers.

Agatha's Husband. Illustrated
by Walter Crane.

My Mother and I. Illustrated
by J. M. M' Ralston.

By Annie Weary.
Castle Daly.
A Doubting Heart.
Sudbury.
Janet's Home.

A York and a Lancaster Rose.
Clemency Franklin.

By Henry James Jun.

The American.

The Europeans.

Daisy Miller : an International
Episode : Four Meetings.

Frederick Hudson.

The Madonna of the Future,
and other Tales.

Washington Square : The Pension
Beaurepas : A Bundle of Letters.

The Portrait of a Lady.

By Frances H. Burnett.
Haworth's.
Louisiana ; and That Lass o'

Lowrie's.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

^y
