OF Thou
N Diversity
or Ill Noise

82 3

V. I

FREDERICK BOYLE,

AUTHOR OF
• CAMP NOTES,' ' LEGENDS OF MV BUNGALOW,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

i3ubU3hcrs iv €)rbinar» to '^tx ^Vlajestu the (Qufcti.

1885.

[All nights Reserved.]

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

^

CHAPTER I.

OUR HEROES.

there is no district in London, I
think, so gracefully respectable
as Eaton Square. That address
suggests a mediocrity which is golden in
every sense — disdainful of pretension on
one side, and of dull dignity on the other.
And a typical house therein was Mrs.
Acland's, small but airy, broad of window,
high of ceiling ; its few rooms equally
VOL. I. 1

convenient for receiving a score of chosen
guests, and comfortable for the family.
Taste had directed the expenditure of a
vast amount of cash in furnishing them.
There was no crowding of objects, and no
display ; but somehow, if a visitor looked
in any direction with an observing eye, he
saw something unusual — a very small matter,
perhaps, but one that pleased him. It was
declared by many persons who speak with
authority, that no dwelling in London,
positively none, was so perfect in every
detail. And not a few would have liked to
add, if they dared, that the ladies therein
were most consummate of all.

Although Mrs. Acland was treated by
everybody as the owner — that is to say, the
lessee — of this delightful house, it belonged
in reality to her son since he came of age,
and before that event to his trustees. Hit
Huo^h had never asserted nor even recognised
his rights against his mother. All

the world esteemed and liked and respected
Mrs. Acland, but her children
idolized her. A woman of large but most
shapely frame, her features, too pronounced
for the word ' pretty,' but too soft for
'handsome,' could only be described as
charming. The laugh was always ready to
her dark eyes ; not the laugh of complacency
or of feeble good-nature, but shrewd as
kind. Neither she nor her children had
known a day's illness in their lives.

A very picture of intelligent ease and
graceful happiness was this lady ; but she
had gone through trouble, as was generally
known. Her husband was drowned before
he came into the estate of Worstanan, which
now belonged to his son, and for some
years the widow had to live upon a meagre
allowance. She made no secret of her bitter
experience — Mrs. Acland had no secrets —
but she alluded to it only, with laughing
tact, as her excuse for a broad and charitable

1—2

knowledge of the world wliicli mi f]^lit bethought
to need explanation among dames
of a certain standing. An abstract acquaintance
with human nature and an abstract
consideration for its weakness are expected
of everyone nowadays ; but Mrs. Acland's
views upon the matter were decidedly
practical. Servants alone regarded her
with distrust ; not because she was unkind,
for nobody could show more indulgence,
but because she saw through them with
such good-natured keenness, understood so
well what , ought or ought not to be overlooked,
made up her mind so inexorably,
and was always right. In brief, a woman
fascinating in the best sense, u companion
cultured and interesting, a judicious adviser,
a warm friend, and, if need be, a cool and
resolute antagonist.

Of her children, Hugh, the elder, had
not quite entered his twenty-fourth year at
this date, the prologue of our story

need not speak of his character, but it maybe
said that a mother so reasonable as Mrs.
Acland would hardly have hoped, even
though she had wished, to have it better
than it was. Hugh had gone through the
training ^^^'oper for a man of family and
means and station, with such credit as is
fitting, without scandal, but not without
such little adventures as gentlemen of the old
school think becoming to young blood. If
he passed not an inch beyond — seeing that
the boy had spirit, fine health, and quite
a sufficient proportion of conceit — it may be
that his mother's influence saved him unconsciously.
She knew the temptations
that beset golden youth, and she warned
her son, not by grave precept, nor by
argument, still less by appeal. Hers was a
better way, which all parents cannot follow,
unhappily. She told stories that made
Hugh laugh, but pointed a moral all the
sharper and all the more enduring because

they left him to draw it for himself. And
so he passed Avithout damage through the
years of greatest danger to the freshness of
this heart, and to the accumulations of a
long minority. One could not find a blither
young fellow in town, nor a catch more
desirable to parents who considered the
happiness of their .daughter ; nor one mora
difficult to secure, whilst he confided all
inclinations of that grave sort to his
mother.

The other child was Edith, eighteen years
old on December 10th next, but commonly
granted at least a twelvemonth more, because
she had been ' brought out ' at a very early
age. In her one recognised at a glance
the beauty which had distracted her mother's
contemporaries ; the exquisite shape, rounded
as a woman's but slender as a girl's, the
features perfect though ' unclassical,' the
large eyes full of intelligence j but not the
expression. Mrs. Acland's real experiences

of life had taught her cheerfulness and
charity. When no one could be spying,
her air was still quick with such easy
enjoyment of life as an untroubled conscience
and happy circumstances bring to
a sound digestion. Edie could laugh with
a glee more cheerful than her years, and
very often did ; but depression seized her
when alone. The girl's nature was thoughtful
and self-questioning. Had she been
less strong of constitution, she would probably
have felt ' a call ' or a craze. Perceiving
this, Mrs. Acland, always practical,
introduced her to society at an age much
earlier than is common. Edie was several
months under sixteen when she began
to accompany her mother to balls and
parties ; but no one suspected her youth,
and in the circles, not unimportant, where
they moved, Miss Acland was a reigning
beauty from the outset. Her triumph was
complete and immediate, but it had not the

effect upon her Which had been desired.
Up to a certain point, Edie felt interested
in gaieties, dress, partners and the rest,
but the point never moved. Mrs. Acland
watched her daughter more anxiously,
for low spirits in a girl seemed to her
cheerful disposition a very grave portent.
She began to think with distress that an
early marriage was desirable; but Edie
did not share this view evidently, for she
had checked several young men whose
attentions were welcome in the highest
quarters.

This report must not be misunderstood,
however. It is strictly confidential, giving
the state of things in Mrs. Acland's household
not as the world sav it, but as it
really was. No two opinions were current,
indeed, about the lady herself; her ojumi
and lively disposition, her good sense, and
pleasant humour spoke for themselves.
]out people were apt to think Hugh more

bumptious than lie really was ; and for Edie,
they declared her to be the very nicest girl
that' such a beauty could be — a little too
grave, perhaps, but gravity sat so charmingly
on her intelligent face — a little too clever,
possibly, but so unaffected with it all ! And
the world was unanimous that another
family so blest in every way could not be
found in Britain. Which was the reasoned
opinion of Mrs. Acland herself.

w ^ ^ ^ ^

The companion picture represents a
snowy plain beneath the Ivhojak Aram
Mountains, in Afghanistan. Battery X o,
R.A., is encamped there, with its escort of
Sepoyss, returning to India. The day has
been very hot, and round the tents the
snow is melted and trampled into puddles ;
but the coming frost has begun, and men
throng round the fires, clad in their sheepskins.
Officers stump up and down before
the mess-tent, eagerly awaiting the bugle.

which will not sound for half an hour ; butin
their tents it is deadly cold, and the
solitary candle is depressing. One of them,
however, is writing within ; his shadow falls
blurred upon the canvas.

. In a few Aveeks we hope to be in
the old quarters at Meerut, and we call it
joiner " home." The word unsettles me.
Ashen shall I see you and my real home
again? They say I have a fair chance of
promotion, and — one does not mind talking
nonsense to one's mother — of honours you
Avill value more. If the promotion comes
off, I fondly think I will apply for leave at
last ! How the eternal difficulty about cash
is to be got over I have no idea at all, but
the mere thought cheers one on this dreariest
of campaigns. I vow the snow of
Scarsholme is warmer than that round my
tent now.

Talking of home and you, mother, naturally

brings Grace to my mind — when I
have time to think, indeed, those three subjects
turn about in my mind with a regularity
almost disconcerting to a man who
has so many other things to think of.
Grace's letter acknowledging the photograph
reached me at Cabal, and I've worn a smile
off duty ever since — unfortunately we are
so seldom off duty that the men persist in
regarding me as a grave and serious personage.
Tell me confidentially, mother,
what Grace said. She must have been
startled. I looked at my own likeness very
long, very many times, before sending it,
and at the glass, too. Somehow I do not
recognise the lank face which they both
show as mine. I don't own it, and I don't
feel it as my property, though I have too
much reason to believe that the impostor
has established a general impression that lie
is the real and the only Captain Richard
Saxell in her Majesty's Artillery service.

Don't repeat this nonsense to Grace, but tell
me what she said at the first glimpse of the
photograph. I think I understand her well
enough to know that that impression will
recur and abide. . . .

You complain that I give so little detail
of our life in the field. I have really had
few adventures. A battle in these times is
no personal affair, so to speak, especially fora
gunner. When you read that Battery X 3
took part in an engagement, you know that
Captain Saxell was there, doing his duty as
well as he knows how. And Captain Saxell
can tell you little more. I have had only
one bit of adventure since the campaign
l)egan. It was in the action of Abdallah-
Ivurez, which you read of. The Ghilzai
<rliazis charged us suddenly, breaking the
line of infantry. We limbered up to withdraw,
but the last gun stuck, and before it
could be got out fifty of them were on us.
We made the best fight possible, but our

men are unarmed — that is, they allow us
only twenty-five carbines to a battery, and
small blame to those who decline to meet a
Pathan knife with a whip! Such as had
carbines stood their ground, and the gun
was brought away AVe went after it helter-skelter.
I thought all had o-ot off, until
some one cried that Sergeant-major Raises
was missin<i\ I looked back. The Ghilzais
were chasing us in a crowd, but a number
of them clustered round a pony, on which
they were trying to lift something. The
30th B. C. charged at that moment, and we
had the good fortune to rescue poor Raises,
little hurt. He is very grateful. I must
tell you about our sergeant-major some day,
as we sit round the fire at home and Grace

asks for stories. He is an odd fellow

There goes the mess-bugle — not too soon,
for my ink is frozen. We shall reach
Chaman tomorrow, where I shall post this,
and expect letters from you and Grace.

Our route is not through the Khojak Pass,
but through the Guaja. This detour will
cause some delay, so you will not be surprised
if my next is somewhat behindhand.'
*****

Three days later Captain Saxell wrote to
another correspondent :

In the Guaja Pass, Nov. 25.
Dear Vane,

I found your letter of October 1st
at Chaman. It has distressed me much —
more even than 3^0 u thought. I had been
cherishing hopes which must now be thrown
aside. When I think of the shifts to which
poverty compels my poor mother, I feel
hopelessly enraged against Fate. sly brain
has been working incessantly to devise some
fresh saving, which might enable me to
remit even £20, but I can think of none.
I shall write to Grace frankly this mail. It
is not right she should be tied to a pauper

who is verging on the fogey at twenty-nine
years old. If I have been deceiving myself,
I hope I have not been deceiving Grace —
and I think not. We have both regarded it
as a vision. If it were realized, I should bethe
happiest fellow living — or, at least, as
happy as the best ; and Grace perhaps would
pay me the same compliment. But it
cannot be realized, Yane, so far as I see.
If my majority was posted in the next
Gazette, it would make no effectual difference.
After all, a girl of eighteen cannot
seriously feel the breaking of an engagement
with a man whom she has not beheld for
nine years — or close on it. For the rest, I
can do nothing! Would it be impossible
for my mother to engage one of those " lady
helps " we read of as a housekeeper? With
her own income, Grace's allowance, and the
money I remit, she has means which would
be wealth to some ladies. Management is
lacking. • . .

Our situation here is not one to raise the
spirits. We are snowed up in the Guaja Pass
on the right side, fortunately. The great
cliffs, where a child with a crowbar could
crush a regiment, lie behind us. I cannot
believe there is another scene in the world
like that. Imagine a road only fifty feet in
width, overhung by mountains that rise
just like a wall on either side I don't know
how many hundreds of feet high, vast rents
and cracks intersecting them. Rocks as
big as a house are poised above one's head,
so cut and riven that it seems a breath of
wind would hr'm<r them down. And think
also in what country we were travelling I
At a giddy height, no bigger than birds,
the Kakar scouts looked down on us. We
saw them climbing and gesticulating, their
white felt robes sparkling in the sunshine,
whilst we crept on in twilight-men
scarcely spoke, but toiled along with eyes
upraised, expecting every step to be their

last. That fright is over, thank Heaven!
By sunset yesterday we reached this small
amphitheatre in the defile, and thought our
troubles past.

But when I woke in the dull grey dawn,
our camp was buried in snow. It lies a
foot deep even on the hills, and if the wind
rises we may be almost smothered in drift.
Things are very serious, for we have but
six days' fodder. However, you will hear
the end long before this reaches you. Weare
escorted, as you know, by six companies
of the 130th N. I. Our Pathan Sepoyss are
particularly lively, but all the rest lie torpid
with cold. Even the Sikhs are helpless ;
when spoken to they look up With great
eyes and drawn features, but do not move.
Our servants simply want to die in peace,
and T expect that a good many of them will
find their prayer granted before morning.
My Pathan grass-cutter has dug a hole in
the middle of the tent, which he keeps full

VOL. I. 2

^

of charcoal, and so I am able to write,
thawing my hand every five minutes. To
talk to you, old friend, distracts my
thoughts,

To a painter's eye, I suppose our camp
would be mighty picturesque. It lies in a
small valley just below the Kotul, the head
of the pass. Those lofty cliffs I spoke of
seem to overhang it in the rear. The gams
are ranged across, pointing forwards — a
bad disposition if we are attacked from the
rear, but the men were worn out last night,
as were officers indeed. Our stained and
rao-ored tents look more discreditable than
ever against the pure white of the snow.
It lies so deep that most of the stunted
bushes are hidden beneath it, and the jagged
hillsides slant smoothly down. There are
fine pista-trees about, gnarled, grey old
stumps, with heads like a thousand snakes
writhing and fighting. AVe hear scarce a
sound in camp, but ravens croak incessantly

as they flap from hill to hill, and
starved partridges twitter in the snow.

The Major summoned me to council as
I was writing' the last line. It seems that
an Africa Sepoy casually remarked to one
of his officers that the Kakars are sure to
attack. Examined by the Colonel, he says
a Kakar Sepoy told hmi so, and the Kakar
cheerfully admits the prophecy. He ought
to knows the ways of his own people, so we
have been doing what we can to prepare.
Guns have been turned by main force to
command the flanks, but we found it impossible
to take up a new position. It will
be necessary to strike the pal tents if the
enemy really comes. When all has been
done our situation will be very ugly, commanded
as it is on every side within easy
range of a jezail. However, it's as God
wills — we are doing our best. The camp is
busy enough now. Men relieve each other
with the spade, clearing broad paths to the

2—2

hills by which our pickets can be reinforced

without delay, and raising sungas. I have

run in to warm my feet whilst the men

take their dinner.

8 p.m.

No sign of the enemy all day, and they
cannot approach us in the dark. I must
tell you a very odd thing. I was seated on
a fallen pista-tree, superintending a gang of
men. The sergeant-major of the battery
was beside me, and we spoke of the
measures to be taken in case of attack.
Raises, I must tell you, is a very old
soldier, who has evidently known better
days ; in fact, he is an educated man, and
a gentleman by birth, one can see that.
He took a gloomy view of things. At
last he said, " I should like to speak with
you, sir, after work's done." I consented,
of course ; I can't tell you all he said, but
it came to this :

Oar poor sergeant-major married young;

his wife deceived him; he enlisted and came
to India, leaving such indications as made
people suppose him dead. Some short time
afterwards a considerable property devolved
upon him or his heirs. He did not hear of
the fact for a long while, and then he took
no steps. His son inherited, he supposes.
But now Raises has made a will, which, ashe
declares, leaves everything he can dispose
of to somebody else, and he asked me
to take charge of it.

Such requests are common enough when
a soldier has some trifle to dispose of, but
this case is different. The sergeant-major
talks as if he Avere a rich man. The people
his will disinherits won't thank me. I
asked who they were, and he said they
were his wife and a daughter, whom he
does not acknowledge. The son also, in
part, I suppose.

I plainly pointed out that the commission
was not agreeable, but he insisted.

One does not like to refuse a service in
front of the enemy, and lakes has a sort
of claim upon me. So, after dinner he
came With his witnesses and gave me the
document sealed up, in the presence of St.
Paul, our Major. I resolved to write an
account of the transaction while it was
fresh in my mind

Mahmoud Khan-ka-Killah, Nov. 28.

Through the defile, as you see, and myself
little hurt ; but too many of our poor
fellows are left behind. When the bugle
sounded at dawn on the 26th snow was falling
softly. The men drank their tea and
mustered for fatigue-duty. The snow fell
thicker. I had crossed to the native lines,
where the Pathan Sepoyss were working-cheerily,
as many as could get shovels. 1
saw them pause, listening. There was
such a clang of tools and hearty English
voices where I stood with the Colonel that

we could hear nothing else. Suddenly,
they ran towards their tents. I ordered
our men to cease working, and dead silence
followed, except a faint clash of arms where
the Pathans had vanished. Then in the
distance, high overhead, where hill-tops
loomed unseen in mist and driving snow,
we heard a ringing chorus. In long-drawn
notes it swelled and sank, to burst out in a
new direction, till every slope and crag
around us echoed.

" Sound to arms, trumpeter !" cried
Colonel Blair, running. Before he reached
the tents, his gallant fellows were mustering,
the Pathans noisy and excited, the
Sikhs shivering but &tead3^ As the native
bagpipes screamed, and the drums rattled,
we heard no reply up above. The song
had ceased abruptly when its purpose was
answered in showing the surround complete.


Our dispositions were already settled.

The high ground immediately about our
camp was held by pickets, as large as our
strength would bear. The danger lay ina
rush of overwhelming numbers, who
might get within charging-distance under
cover of the snow, which fell heavily.
Sentries had been pushed out as far as was
safe, and the ground surveyed overnight.
Colonel Blair sent off parties at the double
to reinforce the pickets, and to occupy the
sungas we had built. Within a few
moments the firing began, dropping shots
at first, which multiplied and thickened till
we stood in a ring of fire, though not a
flash was to be seen. Colonel Blair walked
anxiously up and down before the three
companies of Sepoyss remaining in camp.
The doctors were preparing a field hospital
under a tree, round which lay coolies
ranged in a circle, the bearers squatting
amongst them. Some had lit their hubble-bubbles
for a last smoke.

In such a fight gunners are helpless.
We had loaded with grape, armed the
drivers, and then we could but wait events.
Wounded men came straggling from the
pickets. Then bullets began to spit and
whizz among us, showing that the enemy
was creeping nearer. Half a company of
Sepoyss, young Birth at their head, doubled
off and vanished. The firing had slackened
in the quarter to which they went, but it
broke out more fiercely, and crackled without
pause.

That was a terrible fifteen minutes.
Then the fall of snow began to cease. We
could see ten yards — twenty. The flash of
musketry and the sharp puffs of smoke
became visible, but dim and indistinct.
Our pickets still held their own, but the
ragged flags were tossing perilously near
them. Only an instant I looked. A shout
from the Major drew all our eyes away.
At fifty yards' distance, grey-robed figures

came pouring from the rock itself, scores of
them, one upon another. " Fire !" At
that range grape sped like a solid shot, but
ricocheting from the cliflP it dropped the
foremost in a heap. Before another gun
could be discharged, we "vverc fighting hand
to hand. The Sepoyss poured in to our
support with fixed bayonets, their dear old
Colonel at their head. The Pathans had
only swords, but yelling their " AUah-hu!"
ej'es aflame, hair streaming, giant bodies
half stripped, they took the guns with a
rush. It was an awful tussle, Yane ! We
were driven back amono- the tents before
the Sepoyss reached us. Enemy and friend
tripped over the ropes, and fought on the
miry ground. When the soldiers pushed
through, forcing back the rush, wounded
Pathans caught them by the leg and
dragged them down, biting and stabbing,
lakes, our sergeant-major, fell like that ;
and before I could rescue him the Kakar

devil had twice run him through, holding
his right hand in his teeth. But our
Sepoyss pressed on, and a flank attack
cleared the ground. Most of the Pathans
fell where they stood. As the last of the
fugitives vanished, a burst of " Allah-hu !"
told that one of our pickets was overwhelmed.
But the enemy saw the failure
of their main attack, and they did not
follow up. After firing a volley into camp,
and murdering the wounded, they withdrew.
We pitched some shells haphazard,
and all was over.

Our losses are heavy, and of those not
mortally wounded a large proportion will
die of wet and cold, and misery. It was
dreadful to hear the cry of brave men that
night. At sunset came a thaw, but it
brought them no ease. A south wind
melted the snow all night, and the sun rose
furiously hot. Before noon the road was a
muddy torrent, every slope a quagmire.

AVe had not coolies enough for the
wounded, but to stay was death for all. I
say nothing — I shall never bear to speak
of that march. Fancy yourself helpless
amidst all the horrors of despair and agony
that one could laboriously imagine ! We
buried nine before starting, six more by the
roadside ; their coolies were re-occupied
before they had grown cold. By evening
we were not clear of the pass, and we
camped in the mud, under heavy rain.
Nine deaths in the night, and five on
the morning's march. We have sent to
Quettah for aid. I expect to arrive therein
about a week, and I will keep this o^^en
for the latest news.

Quettah, Dec. 8.

The latest news is startling. Poor
Raises died this afternoon, but you will
not see at a glance how that affects me.

I gave him as much time as I could,

since he continually asked for nie. There
was no hope, and Raises did not deceive
himself. I never saw a man, who confessed
that his life had been godless, so
perfectly cool and determined. He told mein
outline at various times a good deal of
his story, which was sad enough, but
generally he did not pretend to have
merited better fortune. A desperately badman,
I should think, who had naturally
fallen into bad society.

Our sergeant-major's real name was
Acland, and he was heir to a good estate — •
Worstanan. I think I have heard of that
place. He supposed that in due course it
fell to him, and that it is now in possession
of his son. Acland made an unhappy
marriage when very young. His wife deceived
him with a man named Beaver, after
the son's birth. His father had cut him
off on account of the marriage, and his
circumstances were quite desperate. He

avenged himself on Beaver by knocking
him down in this own park, and beating
him until he was left for dead, then
carried out a scheme which made ]people
believe him drowned ; — went away to London,
and enlisted as John Raises. From
that day he held no communication with
his family.

Worstanan was owned by an uncle, with
whom he was never on bad terms, but an
ill-conditioned sort of fellow; — like all of
his race indeed, as Acland suggests. At
the death of this uncle his father would
succeed. One or both may be living now,
for they were both excellent lives, but
the chances are against it, of course. Tf
they are dead, the bo' has Worstanan probably'.
You will soon see what a strong
motive I have for telling you all this.

The uncle once told him, after a quarrel
with his father, that he should leave him
all the personalty, a large sum. Acland, or

Raises, has no doubt that he did so, if the
old man is dead. And that personalty,
whatever it be, is left by will to myself !

It lias been inherited, Acland supposes,
by his wife, son, and reputed daughter, if
they are alive, or by their heirs. I can
hardly trust myself yet to discuss the
matter.

This morning the last change came, and
he sent for Major St. Paul, who commands
our battery, myself, and Sergeant Atkins,
the surviving witness of his will. He asked
me to bring the paper, broke the seals, and
begged St. Paul to read it aloud. You
may fancy my astonishment. I urged him
to think again, pointing out that I had no
rights, and so on. He declared that I had
saved his life once, and had tried to do so a
second time ; that his son was provided for ;
as to his wife and the daughter whom he
disowned, they had no claim to consideration.
One cannot argue at length with a

dying man. After many words, I said that
under all the circumstances I would not
refuse ; but I flatly declined to commit
myself further, though you know how great
my temptation is.

Acland saw me hesitate, T suppose, and
he added a codicil there and then, which
you Avill observe. It forbids me to compromise
with his widow, or whoever it
may be, and declares if I entertain such a
notion, or refuse to accept the legacy, my
rights pass to my mother, under the same
stipulation ; and in case of her declining,
the money is left to Chelsea Hospital.
It was clear that Acland was influenced
as much by malice towards his wife as
by gratitude towards me, and, though it
was painful to speak sharply, I could not
forbear to say as much. He answered :
We're good haters in our family, sir, and
we mostly die in a dreadful frame of mind.
But it isn't only that. I've made a resolution

to leave you, who saved my life,
what I have justly to dispose of ; and I
know just as well as I know that I am
dying, how she'll make a fool of an honest
man like you. The years I passed with her
taught me something of the cool wickedness
a clever, taking woman will practise
for sport ; and Margaret will have all her
interests at stake here. As sure as you're
alive, Saxell, or as I'm nearly dead, she'll
deceive you somehow. If you believe me,
and fight out the case, she'll contrive that
some doubts shall haunt you. But I don't
expect you will be able to resist the clever
tricks. She will turn you round her finger,
and make you so uncomfortable that you'll
be glad to accept some small amount and
let the matter drop, or else you'll refuse
altogether. That I don't mean to submit
to. Mrs. Saxell may be less trusting, and
any way she's a woman. If I'm wrong
about her, the Governors of Chelsea Hose
I. 3

vital can't be wheedled. That's low it
is !"

He had spoken with great force, and he
dropped back exhausted. Then the chaplain
came, and we left him. The man died
suddenly in my arms just as I returned.
Davies, our chaplain, tells me that he did
not speak again.

Now, what am I to do about it ? As
regards the value of the will and codicil inlaw,
that is a matter for you to examine.
But I know that judges are very tolerant
of irregularity in form when the testator
was a man killed in the service of this
country. I put that question aside.

It is not to be doubted that Acland
wished to revenge himself upon his wife ; —
we call him Acland, you see, because St.
Paul agrees with me that his manner and
bearing towards the last are quite consonant
with his story so far. And it is not to be
assumed that a man who knew he was

dying would tell a falsehood. There is the
possibility that he spoke under an hallucination.
That, in the first place, would seem
improbable from what I personally knew of
Raises. None of us, officers or comrades,
would believe it without medical authority
or clear proof. He was not popular, but
the men respected him, and we all put confidence
in our sergeant-major. There are,
I gather now, some vague traditions of his
having broken loose ; but they refer to
several years back, when he was serving in
P. 2. Since we have known him in this
battery he has been a quiet, self-contained,
trustworthy soldier, not likely to be given
to illusions. And St. Paul is just as well
satisfied as myself that this tale is no
sudden fancy. As to that, we shall know
more when his effects are overhauled at
Meerut. He has authorized me to take
possession of them, and to make any use I
think best of his papers there.

I 3—2

The mail is closing' : I have not said a
tithe of "what is in my mind, and I must
hurry. Although it is certain that A eland
hated his wife, and wished to do her as
much injury as possible by making such a
Avill, yet if she was what he declares, and
if her children have the estates, why,
then, the loss of this money will not ruin
her. Perhaps that should not be a final
argument against my acceptance of it with
honour. I did save this life, however, and
I tried my best to save it again. The gift
is not unearned, in a sense. And think
what a difference it will make, not so much
to me as to my mother and Grace! At
the beginning of this letter I was almost
desperate for want of pence, and within a
few days a prospect of riches, enormous tome,
has opened. I will not give it up
without full inquiry.

'Perhaps Mrs. A eland is dead, and her
daughter also, ]possibly. In that case I

have no hesitation. The son is provided
for. But I am running on in ignorance.
Upon you, Vane, I rely to collect the information
which must guide me. I know
you would do so much for friendship, but
I beg you to regard it as -a matter of
business. If it is not exactly etiquette fora
barrister to undertake such inquiries, put
them into the hands of a confidential lawyer.
And meanwhile address your first impressions
to Meerut, where we shall be established
before a reply could reach me. And
pray, my dear Vane, recollect what my
anxiety will be until you can forward a
definite opinion.

Yours ever,

Richard Saxell.
Rupert Vane, Paper Buildings, Temple.

Pes. — for heaven's sake, not a word to
my mother ! I beg you to regard this as
an imperative condition.'

'Meerut, Jan. 17.
Dear A^vne,

I have forwarded to you to-day

every scrap of paper found in Raises's

quarters here. They show, as we thoughts

that this assumption of his identity with

Hugh Acland was no deathbed fancy. A

lawyer's trained intelligence may observe

many points that escape me. You will

find, however, allusions of very long date,

and many broken imprecations on his wife,

such as he repeated to us. The diaries are

much mutilated, and I suppose a court of

law might hesitate to admit them in such

form. Yet the facts positive are there, and

the pages torn out may have referred to

quite other matters, which Acland did not

care to preserve when ordered on campaign.

List. Paul has seen everything. I almost

wish he had not now, but of that presently.

He sealed them up in due form.

The story suggested by these fragments

seems plain enough, and it is what I told
you, with more detail. Acland fell in love
with a beautiful girl at Oxford, beneath
him in station ; deceived her apparently, but
married her a few weeks before a son was
born. His father cut him off, and the pair
were as miserable as he at least deserved to
be. Connected somehow with the betrayal
was Julius Beaver, evidently a rich man,
and evidently feared as well as hated by
Acland. The latter seems to have discovered
— or, I should say, he vehemently
suspected — that Beaver and his wife were
playing him false a few years after the
marriage. The evidence is not stated, but
Acland's jealousy and rage are shown in a
score of violent passages. He assaulted
Beaver desperately, ingeniously made it
appear that he was drowned, and vanished
for ever. There the case is, in brief

I know you will look into it for me.
The first step is to ascertain the mere facts

whether the uncle is alive, or the father,
or Mrs. Aeland, or her children ? Then
you will learn easily enough whether there
was any money, and what has become of it.
You quite understand my position, I trust.
If I can lay claim to this bequest, honestly
and honourably, I will pursue it ; by
honestly I mean that Raises or Aeland
had it justly to leave, and by honourably
I mean that no innocent person Avill be
gravely affected by the loss of it. On these
conditions, you will shape your course
resolutely.

There is a simple step I recommend asa
soldier, subject to sour discretion. You
may send your clerk to the Adjutant-general's
office; let him find the date of
John Eaikes's enlistment — it was at Westminster,
December 14, 18G2 — and take
down the names of every recruit who joined
within a short time of that day. It will be
easy to trace them ; and lot him hunt up

those who joined the Artillery. Recruits
feel rather lost in barracks ; they fraternize
and gossip. Although I don't suppose that
Acland was a man to tell his secrets, he
must have been particularly lonely, and
there is the chance. He evidently drank,
and under such circumstances he would
probably drink harder. If you find among
the Artillery recruits any described as
*' well-educated," direct special attention to
them. They would be Acland'.s friends, if
they came within his reach.

That is all I have to say on the direct
issue, but you will allow me to mention
something, not for yourself, but in view of
the probability that you may have to
employ a lawyer, or to show papers to an
agent of the other party — if there be one.
The circumstances and conditions of Acland' s
marriage cannot affect my interests, so far
as I see ; if they did, if I am bound to go
into all that, the persons affected being

alive, I would almost throw the matter up
this instant. But I do not see how they
can be brought into any questions that
may arise. The vague accusations of his
wife's misconduct with Beaver cannot be
suppressed altogether, I fear, since they
are contained in the diaries all through ;
but the other matter is only named in a
rambling manuscript, which seems to have
been intended for a declaration of Acland's
wrongs and grievances against his wife.
They have nothing to do with me. If he
behaved to her like a scoundrel in the
beginning, and if she avenged herself afterwards,
Acland was the only man who has
no right to reproach her. I do not know
that she did, and I have no wish to know.
Therefore, keep that manuscript back. To
tell the truth. Vane, I would not have sentit
even to you, but St. Paul insisted.

He has also compelled me to forward
the rough draft of a letter dated three years

since, from How, and addressed to Miss
Acland ; so I understand the very fragmentary
hints, but it is difficult to believe that
a man could write a cold-blooded narrative
of her mother's weakness and guilt to a young
girl. That draft is the ugliest feature in an
ugly tale. I vainly repeat to myself that it
does not alter facts, that the legacy of a
scoundrel, if honestly earned, is as valid as
that of a saint. My only comfort is that
the letter perhaps was never sent, or never
received. I could almost hope that the girl
had died before it reached her.

Now I have done. You can guess my
anxiety to hear from you.

Yours ever, my dear Vane,

Richard Saxell.

'Rupert Vane, Paper Buildings, Temple.'

Scarsdale.

HE holiday visitor lias seldom a
good word for Scarsliolme. His
experience mostly justifies an
emphatic belief that it never stops raining
there. But residents tell another story.
They declare that the sentinels of the sky
keep an anxious watch over that secluded
glen. Always there is a scurrying of
clouds aloft, now in balls and drift battalions,
now in big masses which surge above
the hill-tops, and swell slowly into sight
until the broad heaven is canopied. If
strangers be spied approaching, these clouds

pour a deluge ; but when the village rests
at peace, and no forms appear but those
familiar, approved of heaven and men, they
drop just so much moisture as the earth
implores, and slide away. And when the
sun shines at Scarsholme, no spot is more
lovely The hills around it gleam and
sparkle, the still tarns glisten, the tiny
forces ' leap in ribbons of white foam from
cliff to brae. Far-stretching pinewoods,
blue in the distance, black-green at hand,
fill every gap in the coronet of hills.
Yellow pastures, hedged by walls of stone,
chequer the bleak fell. Skeletons of mighty
rocks lie half hid among brambles, tall fern,
golden gorse, and purple heather.

The Picts' Scar is a conspicuous landmark.
Every dalesman not a downright
infidel believes that this grey shoot was
channelled by invading savages, who slid
down the hill sitting on their shields. A
small cottage stands at the foot of Picts*

Scar in its own pretty grounds, divided
from the road by a little brook. All about
the place shows refinement and ease. The
bridge is graceful ; the stream-banks are
planted with taste. From the drawing-room
of the cottage opens a conservatory,
of that handsome size which demands a
stove and a good gardener. Such a dainty
little house it is that one naturally looks
for the stable, and one finds it charmingly
concealed beside the vinery. Quite a little
picture, thinks the tourist, surveying it
with rueful admiration, as he recalls his
dull villa at Bradford or Birmingham.
People who live there must needs be happy
he thinks, and he asks their name. The
coachman replies that all this country
belongs to Lord Bainforth, of Dunham
Castle. His tenant in the cottage, who has
made gi-eat improvements, is Mrs. Saxell, a
widow lady, whose son distinguished himself
so much in Afghanistan during the

war. The coachman seldom fails to add
that her niece, Miss Palliser, is the handsomest
young lady of those parts. And all
the tom-list party agree that Mrs. Saxell
must be a happy woman.

But she does not look happy at all on a
bright June day, poring over household
books and papers. Handsomely and
fashionably she is dressed in a quiet way ;
everything in the room is handsome and
fashionable in a quiet way. The furniture
is not new ; some of it, in fact, is a good
deal worn, but it bears evidence of taste and
costliness. Even the cat, dozing at the
sunny window, is thorough-bred Persian.

The lady's face is naturally harsh of outline
and austere, with large black eyes,
full of questioning and suspicion — the face
of one obstinate but flighty, quick to
imagine evil, fierce to resent it, but not
ill-tempered nor unamiable while things go
smoothly. Things are not going smoothly

to-day, however, and ]airs. Saxell's frown
becomes more and more grim as she reads
and notes. The budget is embarrassed.

A bright young creature enters, tall and
lithe, in that sweetest age of girlhood which,
for a figure like hers, promises a stately
fulness. The face is absolutely beautiful,
fair, blue-eyed, ros', without a fault. That
is, no doubt, the supreme type of loveliness,
regarded as a mere development of
colour and shape. Every man sees its perfection,
and perhaps the dullest clown is not
less affected thereby than is the keenest
judge of beauty. But the latter may not
be attracted beyond eye-worship, for such
charms, however exquisite, are apt to be
co-related to a weak and commonplace
character.

The rule did not apply in this case :
Miss Palliser did not look feeble in an}-
sense, and certainly not uninteresting. A
wilful and impulsive spirit dwelt in her

lovely eyes ; the laughing mouth showed
both firmness and daring. It was not a
clever face, nor perhaps very amiable ; but
quick and good-tempered.

You sent for me, auntie ?' she said.

The gaze of Medusa could have been
hardly more severe than that which this
young person met so gaily.

I demand,' said Mrs. Saxell, ' an explanation
of this item in Armside's bill. He
charges you with twenty yards of real
Dacca muslin, at five shillings a yard, and
five yards of silk at eight and sixpence.
What does it mean ?'

Oh, don't look at me over your spectacles,
auntie ! You look like Minerva
and her owl at once !'

I insist on a serious answer. What is
the meaning of this charge which is put
down to last week ?'

Why, the meaning of it is a dress for
Lord Rainforth's ball. Clumsy Armstrong

VOL. I. 4

is coming in to-day to make it. Isn't that
economical ?'

You have dresses enough. I shall return
all this unnecessary material !'

Armside won't take Indian muslin back.
He got it expressly for me. Make the best
of it, auntie dear, and you'll see how nice
I shall look.'

Such thoughtlessness is wicked, Grace.
Armside's bill comes to £46 3s. 6d., and
where am I to find the money? My poor
Richard ! This is how a silly girl wastes
the money you earn at the risk of your life !'

A preliminary pout, delicious to observe,
but threatening. ' Don't bring in Dick,
please, auntie. He would not object to my
spending a very few pounds for a ball at
Dunham.'

He would object, if he were wise, to
your going at all. Ashen girls are engaged
they ought not to go to balls — that's my
opinion.'

It isn't Dick's, nor mine. And if
engaged girls should not go out, it's much
more unbecoming for married women ; — but
you didn't Shut yourself up, auntie. As
for the dress, / could have got on very
well without a new rosary. Take it out of
my allowance.'

Your allowance was forestalled last
quarter. It is not calculated on a scale to
buy Indian muslins.'

astor to build rosaries!' Grace said to
herself.

What did you mutter ? Are you incapable
of perceiving what must be the end
of all this extravagance ? Ruin stares us
in the face!'

Well, auntie, really now, is it my fault ?
Girls must have dresses, but they want very
little else. May I go ?'

It was thoughtless of me to summon
you from your silly occupations.'

Grace went out, with an impatient 



sing of the lips. But she turned, and saw
her aunt miserably' bent over the figures.
Swift and graceful she sped back, and kissed
the faded cheek impetuously, crying :

Don't trouble about those wretched bills,
dear. You can say Dick is coming home,
and then all will be riu-ht.'

Don't speak of Richard, Grace I It is
terrible for a mother when she dreads to
think of meeting her son. There! You
are going to the Rectory! Be. home to
lunch. And by-the-bye, as you pass Foote's
shop, tell him his men went away at five
o'clock last night. It's shameful, when the
days are so long. They might have finished
the rosary a week since, but they wish to
increase their bill, the unprincipled artisans !
Tell Foote this downright.'

T will, in so many words.'

Grace bounded out, and Mrs. Saxell indulged
a short but comforting reverie on
the delights expected from her new rose-house.

Then, with redoubled sternness,
she set herself to studying a hopeless
budget. This duty was not often performed.
So long as her balance at the little
Scarsholme Bank was not absolutely ridiculous,
bills accumulated unread. But
when the courteous manager reluctantly
called attention to the fact that she was
overdrawing, Mrs. Saxell became very
flurried. This was an occasion of peculiar
anxiety. By the last mail, her son spoke
with some confidence of returning home;
his mother speculated in alarm whether he
was counting upon her economies to tide
them over the furlough.

For an hour, with intervals of bewildered
retrospect, Mrs. Saxell examined her situation
; at the end of that time, a sound of
wheels drew her, not reluctant, to the
window. A dogcart familiar to all the
inhabitants of Scarsholme as belonging to
the Station Hotel, at Preston, passed up

the little drive. By the coachman sat a tall
3'oung man in tweeds and pot-hat. Mrs.
Saxell recognised a tourist. A little waterfall
in the grounds sometimes attracted that
variety of the human race, and her servants
were used to deal with them. She went
back to the accounts.

Presently entered a maid, ' If you please,
'm, the gentleman wants to see you,' and
handed a card.

'Mr. Hugh Acland? Tell him I am
very sorry, but I can make no exceptions.
The waterfall is strictly private.'

The maid returned. ' Please, 'm, he insists
on seeing you. He asked particularly
if you read the name on his card.'

Say I did, and that it conveyed no
reason why the rule should be violated in
his case.'

Re-entry of maid. ' Please, 'm, he swore

at the waterfall, and he says Oh, 'm,

here he is!'

The visitor brushed past, and stood before
Mrs. Saxell, a youth with sharp but handsome
features and quick eyes.

Let me correct this young person he
said. ' I did not swear at the waterfall, but
expressed a hasty wish that it might be
suppressed by — in fact, a dam. May I have
the honour of a few minutes' conversation
with you alone, madam ?'

I am sorry you should be disappointed,
sir, but really the waterfall is not worth
the praises that have been bestowed upon
it, and '

Excuse me, Mrs. Saxell — I have the
honour to address Mrs. Saxell ? Then I
must ask, did you really glance at my card ?
And it conveyed to you the idea that I was
looking for bits of scenery ?'

It conveyed to me no idea at all, sir.'

This is most extraordinary ! My name
is Acland, madam.'

Mrs. Saxell reviewed in spirit all the

headings of her bills, found no Acland there,
and answered sternly, ' Well, sir?'

It is stupendous ! A call from Hugh
Acland does not surprise you?'

It surprises me only in the sense that I
cannot account for it.'

'Well, then, madam, let me tell you,
since you forget the name, that I am the
man, and the brother of the young lady,
against whose fortune your son has made
some cock-and-bull claim.'

If you are not mad, sir, I can only reply
that whatever my son does is certainly right
and just.' She rang.

Do I understand that you are not advised
of Captain Saxell's pretensions ? That
shows, I think, what they are worth.
When a man keeps a secret from his mother
he cannot have much confidence in his
story. I must explain, then.'

If you think proper, sir.*

The maid entered. ' Call the gardener,*

Mrs. Saxell said, ' and any man about the
place. Keep them in the kitchen till wanted.
I shall be glad to hear your explanation, sir.'

I have first to beg pardon, since you are
unacquainted '

Never mind that ! The facts !'

The facts come to this. My father
was drowned nearly twenty years ago. A
scoundrel who belonged to Captain Saxell' s
battery, mortally wounded in the affair of
the Guaja Pass last November, made a will
under my father's name, in which he left the
personal property my father would have inherited,
which is now in possession of my
mother, my sister, and myself, to your
son '

Allow me ! How could this man will
away your father's property?'

He declared, I say, that he was my
father, not drowned, as all the "svorld knew
he was. The villain's story went that he
resolved to disappear, and for this purpose

made people believe him drowned, whilst he
enlisted in the Artillery. And on his deathbed
he pretended to confess.'

I shall not try to sketch the effect of the
communication on Mrs. Saxell. But if she
could not quite control her features she
remained mistress of her nerves.

I am obliged to you for telling me all
this. But now, may I ask your motive in
calling ?'

It seemed to me probable, madam,
that your son, a distinguished soldier,
may' have been deceived by a plausible
scoundrel '

Who was dying ?'

That seems a most important point until
you have heard my explanation. I have
come here now, madam, against the advice
of everyone, even of your son's friend, Mr.
Vane. I said to myself, men are selfish
and contemptible creatures, willing to risk
their souls for money '

Referring that profound observation of
experience to my son ?'

The youth was so utterly confounded
that he could not speak for a moment.

Grimly satisfied, Mrs. Saxell resumed :

Proceed, I beg ; you did not refer
the observations to my son in particular.'


No !' he eagerly exclaimed. ' I assure
you I did not! And I do not know by
experience that men Avill sell their souls.
Pray forget that silly remark.'

Is it worth while to go further ? The
matter seems to come to this: You wish
me to interfere in this action. I know no
more of it than you have told. But if my
son claims what you say is your property,
on legal grounds, the question for me lies
between your word and his. Judge which
a mother takes !'

But allow me to explain. We know
very well who Sergeant-major Raises was,

and we can prove it to the satisfaction of
honest people '

My son's legal adviser is an honest person,
I don't doubt. You had better explain
to him.'

She rang the bell, and clary entered nth
a curious promptitude. ' Show this gentleman
out.'

But will you not listen, madam ? I
wish to avoid a painful and expensive inquiry
by '

Insulting a mother, not once, but
again and again. Send the men in,
Mary!'

Indeed I did not mean to insult you.
Taking it for granted that Captain SaxelFs
mother knew all, I naturally thought she
would understand my position. I apologize,
madam !'

There is still time to go with dignity.'

Two brawny North-countrymen appeared
at the door, amusement gleaming in their

light, shrewd eyes. Acland stood quite
unembarrassed, looking at Mrs. Saxell.

Show this young man to his vehicle,*
she said loftily.

Oh, I cannot object, if it's put in that
way ! But a guard of honour walks first,
I believe. Right about face, men ! quick
march !'

They grinned, waiting for orders. Mrs.
Saxell coloured with anger.

1 command you to leave my house,
sir!'

Indeed, I do not wish to offend you.
If these good fellows will walk first, I'll
follow like a '

He stopped short. Grace was standing
in the doorway, wide-eyed, between the two
rustics.

'And if not?'

If not then I will all the same,

renewing my apologies for the intrusion.'

He bowed, his eyes fixed on Grace, and

went. A moment afterwards the dosrcart
drove away. As it passed the window,
Acland looked in and raised his hat.

What is the matter ? Who is that young
man?'

A very vulgar and impertinent boy, who
called on business. I must consult a
lawyer, and where to find one honest and
capable in this neighbourhood I don't
know. There's ]mr. Vane. Why, he mentioned
Mr. Vane, my son's friend ! How
terribly confusing it is !'

Then tell me, aunt !'

It is nothing to interest you !'

The pretty face clouded.

I won't be put off in this silly way,
aunt !'

Grace ! Recollect yourself !'

I recollect that I am eighteen years old,
engaged to marry Dick, who is, somehow,
concerned in this matter; and therefore I
have a right to know what it is.'

When I was young, ladies did not speak
of their engagements in this tone.'

But you always say that they were
companions and comforts to their parents,
whilst we are selfish triflers. Let me play
one character or the other — or rather let me
combine the two.'

Mrs. Saxell, in truth, felt the need of
an adviser. Her firmness was not generally
supported by intelligent strength of
mind. When a resolution was taken she
clung to it pitilessly, as much, perhaps,
because she distrusted her own judgment in
changing, as because she was satisfied to
pursue the former course. Grace knew her
disposition thoroughly, and played on it
with confidence.

So at length the bewildering story was
told, Grace listening in amazement, her
eyes open to their utmost width, her beautiful
lips parted. But the young lady had a
clear brain and presence of mind imperturbable.

She saw daylight through the confusion,
and exclaimed, when the tale was
finished :

Now, auntie, write a telegram at once,
and I will take it.'

A telegram ? It's a shilling a word, I
believe.'

'Xo, no ! Xot to Dick ! To Mr. Vane !'

You display my folly in trusting a child
with secrets who instantly repeats them to
all the world.'

You forget, dear ! Mr. A'ane knows all
about the matter, evidently. Besides, you
need not commit yourself in a telegram,
even if there Avere a secret about it.'

It is never prudent to talk in business.
Act !'

But if you don't ask Mr. Yang, how
will you discover what it all means ?'

The argument struck ]\[rs. Saxell. She
said presently :

I never sent a telegram in my life.'

This with the air of a virtuous person
urged to commit forgery.

Nor I. It will be delightful. Write at
once, auntie !'

Mrs. Saxell frowned, reflected, arranged
her paper, and frowned again. After interrogating
the walls with silent severity,
she observed :

I do not see how to put it with the
delicacy required.'

Let me, dear ! " Mrs. Saxell, Scars -
holme, to Rupert Vane, Esq., Paper Buildings,
Temple. Mr. Hugh Acland has been
here " — cross out " been," say " called " —
*' speaks of claim my son makes on
him " '

Why, Grace, all the village will know
about it !'

Of course ! that won't do. Write
speaks of claim made against him. Is it
true claim made?" Sixteen words. Add
*' Reply immediately. We anxious." There !

VOL. I. 5

If Mr. Vane knows about the matter, he Avill
understand. We should get a reply to-night.
Oh, how long the afternoon will be ! Now,
I will take it to the office before lunch.'

My dear, a young lady cannot be entrusted
with a telegraphic message of this
importance. I will carry it myself

Oh, bother — I mean, do pray make
haste, dear auntie! I will bring; your
bonnet.'

Xo, no. I cannot be flustered thus.'

Remember, if we are not quick we shall
not get the answer to-night. Let me go
with you, at least.'

Under this stimulus, aided by Grace's
deft hands, Mrs. Saxell was not so long
as usual in preparing, and they set forth.
There was a sternness in the old lady's
carriage, and a concentrated rigidity in her
eye when she walked abroad, which daunted
even that independent race of men who
dwell at Scarsholme ; but upon this occasion

her solemnity was awful. She entered the
telegraph office with the air of an executioner
who is determined not to heed the
entreaties of his victim, and spoke to the
mild young person established there in tones
that thrilled her With an overpowering
sense of her responsibilities toward the
State. More impressive still, if possible,
was Mrs. Saxell's demeanour in returning
from this expedition. Grace felt inclined
to shake her aunt and run away.

That afternoon was longer than even
Grace expected, but at dinner-time the
answer came. Mrs. Saxell received it with a
trembling hand, and glowered speechlessly
at the servant, too nervous to read. Grace
snatched and tore it open :

" True such claim made. Have taken
necessary steps. I kept it secret at
Kichard's express desire. Will write."
Dick wished to spare us disappointment,
the dear fellow! But Mr. Acland is

5—2

evidently alarmed, and that is a good sign.
Auntie dear, we can't rest in this uncertainty.
We must go to town tomorrow.'

Your society would be a great comfort,
but I do not see what useful purpose '

Why, ungrateful relative, who suggested
the teleo-ram that obtained you this delightfully'
exciting reply ? In London you will

be ' lost, Grace was about to say, but

she prudently substituted ' dull, with no one
to speak to.'

That is very true. But I should probably
stay only two nights. And we have
the expense to consider.'

It is not worth while to ordre a few
pounds when we are going to talk of
thousands.'

Thousands?' repeated Mrs. Saxell, catching
her breath in a kind of snort,
Thousands ?'

Did you think it was a hundred or
two ? You dear old innocent auntie !'

I have not considered it. Why do you
say thousands ?'

Ever so many reasons. In the first
place, Dick kept the matter a secret. He
would not have done that if it had been a
trifle.'

He did very wrong, whether it was a
trifle or not. A man has no adviser so
sound and so disinterested as his mother.
I am very much grieved, and even indignant,
at Richard's conduct.'

The single thing we can be sure of
is that he thought he was acting for the
best. However, you admit he would not
have left us ignorant if it had been a
small affair. Then, Mr. Acland would not
have taken the trouble to come down. The
address on his card is Eaton Square.
That's a very rich neighbourhood, isn't
it?'

So I am informed. There is something
in that, too.'

One could see that he is a man of positions


I saw that he was very rude and unmannerly.
A foolish young man. too.'

Yes, dear, but not vulgar ; and awfully
conceited, but not snobbish. I conclude
from his \dsit, his evident anxiety, and
Dick's silence, that the question is important.
What do men think important
in affairs of money ? Not a bill like Arm-side's
for forty pounds something ! Therefore,
I conclude that one may safely talk of
thousands in this matter.'

I do not encourage you,' said Mrs.
Saxell, with patronizing complacency, ' to
give your imagination play upon general
subjects. But in this case it may' have led
you towards the truth. I wonder what
the sum will prove to be !'

Putting one thing with another, I
should say not less than fifty thousand —
perhaps more.'

Fifty thousand pounds ? But, my dear !
Recollect that this sum was left by a man
Who occupied the honourable but subordinate
post of sergeant-major in Richard's
battery. If he could have claimed one-fiftieth
of that, is it credible that he would
not have done so ?'

That argument goes too far, dear. If
he could have claimed a thousand or a
hundred or a five-pound note without some
inconvenience, would he not have done so ?
The figure even may have alarmed him.
We must suppose that Mr. Acland did
not choose to return to life. He may
have committed a crime, you know. Anyway,
his indifference or neglect, or whatever
the feeling may have been, proves
nothing as to the amount, since we have
agreed that young Mr. Acland would not
be likely to trouble himself about a few
hundreds. I go in for fifty thousand at least.'

Oh, how happy we shall be, Grace, if

it's half of that !' cried Mrs. Saxell. Recollecting
herself, she added sternly, ' But
I do not allow your childish imagination
to run away with me. To think, as an
exercise of fancy, what good deeds
might be performed with such a sura
gives a pleasing exhilaration. That is
all'

Dear Dick would come home at once.
I don't think I should wish him to leave
the Service, aunt. A civilian is poor with
fifty thousand pounds; but a gallant soldier,
distinguished and decorated, may look down
upon a duke. The fortune will give us
confidence, you know.'

This little speech reminded Mrs. Saxell
that the money, whatever it might be, was
not offered to her, but to her son and this
chit, his promised wife. Forthwith she remembered
her grievance.

Richard acted for the best as he
thought, no doubt; but he should not have

kept a matter of such importance from his
mother. It was not dutiful.'

Oh, aunt, Dick is the best of sons !'

He is a good son, but weak, I fear, in
some respects. It is most fortunate that
the imprudence of that silly young man
has given me warning. He himself possibly
is not of a designing nature, but his
friends evidently are. Richard would be
easily talked over in a money matter, and
I esteem Mr. Vane rather as an obliging
friend than as a sound man of business.'


He's very clever, isn't he ?'

I believe so, in his papers and law-books.
But not to be trusted with great
interests among unscrupulous persons.'

Your imagination has gone far beyond
me, aunt. Mr. Acland does not look unscrupulous.*


And remark that he is not trusted
by the elders ! moreover, appearances are

deceptive, especially ^vith the young. He
came here to explain something, as I
understood, which " honest people " would
believe, the effect of Which Avould be to
suppress Kichard's claim.'

When Mrs. Saxell emerged from * facts,'
which bewildered her, into the realm of
abstract suspicion, she was clear and pointed
enough.

" Honest people," ' she continued, ' is
generally a polite term for fools, since fools
is the plain English description for people
Who allow themselves to be talked over.
Depend upon it that in an action of this
kind there are always underhand proceedings,
more or less reprehensible. It is
prudent to suspect everybody in such a
case, and every word ; but above all to
suspect explanations. If Richard is not to
be defrauded I must take his interests in
hand. It is very strange he should have
wished to keep) me out of it, but stranger

to those who disbelieve in the beneficent
ways of Providence that an accident, as
they would profanely call it, should have
disconcerted his silly plans. I shall now
insist on receiving my son's full confidence
through Mr. Vane.'

Grace looked at her aunt curiously. She
was not used to think the lady very wise,
but perhaps, she said to herself, Dick might
have a less judicious counsellor in this
case. N^o fear that his interests would
suffer through Mrs. Saxell's want of attention
; nor that they would be surrendered
through weakness or pity. Her spirit was
like Catiline's and that of many spendthrifts
— careless of money belonging to
herself, incapable of forethought in everyday
affairs, but keen and active and determined
in pursuing a chance of gain.

The conference broke up under a sudden
anxiety of both ladies to be ' packed ' intime.
Mrs. Saxell took only one portmanteau,

but to arrange it was a toilsome
operation. She reflected, made up her
mind severely upon grounds of pure
reason, and gave hurried orders. But
there was a lack of ensemble in her
strategy. The introduction of each separate
object necessitated a rearrangement of
everything disposed before. The General
had no concerted plan, and when a dress
deployed, as it were, or a hairbrush sought
to take the order which exact tactics approved,
some other body always stood in
the way.

Grace pursued the opposite system. She
packed the portmanteau, a bag and a
luncheon-basket as fast as she could stow
them. Then she went to bed, and remembered
a score of things actually essential.
It was not Avorth while to rise — in the
morning there would be time enough ; butin
the morning she could remember none
of them. Mrs. Saxell had seven herself

and all about her vast trouble overnight;
but when the moment of action came she
was ready. Poor Grace was flurried and
scurried, laughing and half crying ; and
she started at length without several
necessaries, whilst her trunk was full of
useless things. They caught the train,
however ; and what trouble is worth
reckoning by a girl on her first visit to
London !

LORD D U N S C M B E.

Eli mixed were the reflections
of Mr. Hugh Acland as he
drove back in haste to catch the
afternoon express ; but I need not dwell
upon them. By half-past eight o'clock he
was at home in Eaton Square, dressed for
dinner, and he found the ladies waiting.

Good-evening, mans. Good-evening,
Edie. Anyone coming to-night ?'

Only Lord Dunscombe,' said sirs.
Acland. ' ]\[r. Vane's name was on your
memoranda, but crossed out.'

Yes, I distrust Vane. A man can't bethe

disinterested friend of both parties in a
case like ours. I wrote and told him so ;
and he probably sees the truth of my
remark, since he has not answered.'

More hasty work for your mother to
undo I'

Is it necessary to keep friends with
Yane ! AVell, you have all the diplomatic
talent of the family, mans, and my business
is to find it employment. What have
sou been about all day, little sister ?'

The usual thing. A girl's time is so
stupid that it's cruel to ask an account.
What have you been doing, Hughie ? We
haven't had a glimpse of you since yesterday
afternoon.'

I'll tell you one thing I've been, done or
suffered. I've seen the loveliest girl in the
universe !'

Dear me ! This before Edie ?'

Ob, I do our princess so much justice
that I believe only her brother could think

Grace the loveliest creature in the world.
Others Avould stand awe-struck and bewildered
between the two.'

Like the ass we read of ! Never mind
me ! Who is Grace ?'

Yes, who is Grace ? Lord Dunscombe,
who is Grace ?'

The new-comer was a very handsome
man, tall, fair-haired, with the complexion
of a girl, bronzed, not burnt, by Indian
suns. His large eyes were grave and quiet,
but the full red mouth and the crease
between his smooth brows betrayed passion
and temper.

Grace ?' he repeated thoughtfully.

Oh, Dunscombe is going to review all
the Graces in the universe, and to answer
your conundrum in a twelvemonth — Avrong.
I'll tell you who she is — Grace Palliser,
the niece of ]airs. Saxell.'

Mrs. Saxell!' exclaimed both the ladies ;
but dinner Alas announced at this moment.

Edie sat grave and silent through the
meal, but that was her usual habit. nothing'
was said about Grace before the
servants, but when they had withdrawn,
she exclaimed abruptly:

How did you come to see Mrs. Saxell's
niece, Hugh ? Are they in town ?'

They are at Scarsholme, a charming
place. By-the-bye, Dunscombe, it mostly
belongs to your father. I congratulate
you.'

I thought the name of Saxell was
familiar, somehow. So that is the lady ?
I have heard of the lovely Grace, then. I
have even seen her, years ago."

And what were you doing at Scars-holme,
Hugh ? Do you mean that you
called on those people ? What for ? By
whose advice ? How incredibly foolish !'

Mrs. Acland interrupted.

My dear child, these family explanations
cannot interest Lord Dunscombe.'

VOL. I. 6

Ko ; but Lord Dunscombe will be
pleased to hear the latest news. Well,
Hugh ?'

Well, my little sister, I went to Scars -
holme of my own accord. Would you
believe it, mans, Mrs. Saxell knew
nothing of the business ?'

No, I would not believe it !' Edie said
decisively.

It's true, nevertheless. She could not
have deceived me.'

Edie made an impatient gesture.

And what passed ?' said Mrs. Acland.

The old dragon would not talk things
over quietly. If Captain Saxell takes after
his mother, we may gird up our loins for a
real fight. She is as grim and as angular
as the queen of clubs. Our interview ended
with a situation. The old lady fetched two
cads to pitch me out of doors, and I don't
know Avhat would have happened had not
Grace made her appearance.'

You seem to have got on intimate terms
th the young lady in a short time!'

Then I went away. We didn't even
peak. The driver told me who she was.'

But what did you say ? How did you
plain sour visit ?' cried Edie.

Mrs. Saxell would hear no explanation.
\^ith that respect for the head of a family
*'^hich my little sister does not emulate, she
owed that whatever her son did was right,
nd called her myrmidons to expel the
blasphemer.'

AVhat will people say of this. Lord
)uncombed ? How will it affect the betting
our case ? The clubs will hardly accept
he ingenuous story as it stands. It's a
ound maxim in life, I have been told,
lever to give credit to an adversary for
downright madness.'

Hugh flushed.

My dear Edie,' Mrs. Acland interrupted
n her pleasant way, ' you allow your 



kings to affect your temper, which is unladylike.
These little tiffs are not common in
my family, Lord Dunscombe.'

You have honoured me with so many
opportunities to juds^e that I could not be
misled on that point. Depend on it, Miss
Acland, the club will never learn of Huo'h's
escapade from me.'

Oh,' said she carelessly, rising, ' I did
not suspect you of tattling. Here's a kiss
of forgiveness, my silly little brother.'

The two men kept silence for a time.
Hugh said at length :

The mans allows us to smoke here.'

They lit. Another pause.

By-the-bye, Dunscombe, are people
talking much about this disagreeable business
of ours ? You know all that goes on.'

Frankly, they are talking, of course.
After that paragraph in the Age, everybody
is asking everybody what it means; but no
one can answer exactly. I suppose I am

better informed than most, thanks to Mrs.
Acland's confidence — which I value very
highly, Hugh, I assure you — but I know
hardly anything.'

I wish the dear old mans would extend
more of her confidence to me, for I'm
almost as ignorant. Doesn't it strike you
as absurd that I should be kept out of the
secret in this way ? — I don't mean the secret,
but out of the details, you know. As my
father's son I have a sentimental interest
that seems worth attention, and as his heir
I am the principal party concerned.'

I thought the will did not touch your
landed property ?'

Of course not ; but if it were anything
but an act of spiteful madness or an hallucination,
it would take the most of my cash,
deprive my mother of her income and my
sister of her fortune, and that would come
to much the same thing for me. Don't you
think it's monstrous '

Hugh stopped suddenly, flushing. He
was impetuous and frank of speech, not to
say thoughtless, and it only occurred to his
mind at that instant that he was complaining
of his mother.

Dunscombe answered the idea, not heeding
the interruption.

So you went to assert yourself with
Mrs. Saxell ? Do you think that, on the
whole, you made anything of that ?'

I must confess that I didn't, so far,'
Hugh answered unwillingly.

Speaking for myself,' Dunscombe continued,
' Avithout any reference to matters
where I can't follow you, I Avill sav that
my respect and admiration of Mrs. Acland
is such that, if I held an opinion opposed
to hers, I should think many times before I
acted on it.'

Hugh looked at him sharply, as if feeling
the point of the lesson and resenting it.

Dunscombe added hastily :

Pray don't imagine that I am advising
you. My remarks are quite in the abstract.'


So I should suppose, of course,' Hugh
said drily. ' But perhaps that visit to
Scarsholme was injudicious.'

Mrs. Acland does not seem much concerned.'


Oh, she never does ! But Edie's feeling
about those people is downright savage.
You know, Dunscombe, I can't honestly
blame Saxell — not in my heart of hearts.
He's a poor man, and it must be an awful
temptation.'

Ladies can't draw these distinctions.'

I don't care,' Hugh continued. ' To see
that beautiful creature would justify any
imprudence. You never beheld a girl in a
picture so lovely.'

'Indeed!'

You are thinking of Edie — eh ? By-the-bye,
have j^ou reflected that you have

no small interest in our family trouble ?
That is, if you are still of the same
mind.'

Captain Saxell lays no claim to Miss
Acland's hand, I believe.'

You are not mercenary, anyhow. '

A pause.

She does not care a pin for me, Hugh V
Dunscombe burst out.

Well, my dear fellow, you know my
sentiments. I like 3^011 immensely, but
rather as a friend than as a brother-in-law.
And look here, Dunscombe : as you have
introduced the subject, I must say that I
don't understand how you can speak
seriously of marriage, leading the life you
do.'

I have never dared to speak of it, as
you know. If I had the vaguest hope, I
would live in a manner worthy of ]\Iiss
Acland.'

I hope so, for all our sakes. They

say you find very pretty consolations
meanwhile. But it's no business of
mine. '

I wish you would make it your business,
Hugh. You don't doubt that I speak the
truth ?'

Frankly, Dunscombe, I don't doubt that;
but, as I told you long ago, I will not try
to influence my sister either one way or the
other. You are not the husband I should
choose for her ; but she is a girl who will
choose for herself, and I grant you it's
quite possible that the man she falls in love
with will be very much less sympathetic tome
than you are, though on other grounds,
perhaps. Let us change the subject.'

One moment, Hugh. I have sometimes
feared — and I could not say what pain it
has caused me — that Miss Acland may have
made her choice already.'

Otherwise she could not have resisted
Lord Dunscombe ? I can relieve you of

that fear — Edie cares for no one. — Xow, tell
me, does Mrs. Saxell visit at Daneham ?'

Yes. Until my sister got engaged, she
had a girlish admiration for your Grace. I
often used to hear of her, and it's odd we
have never met of late years.*

Lucky for all parties, perhaps, excepting
yourself.'

And you, possibly. I shall have the
pleasure soon, I dare say. My brother
JIalph brings his bride home on the 27th,
and the governor is inviting all the countryside
to a ball. He makes a ridiculous fuss
over Ralph.'

You're not a loving brother, Duns-combe.
I note that among other demerits
that might have been personally interesting
under other circumstances.'

My dear fellow,' said Dunscombe
anxiously, ' don't judge on imperfect knowledge.
I like Ralph very well ; but ]\ain-
forth has been nagging me about him ever

since we were boys. It isn't as if he was
very clever or very good. I'll give you
the explanation, Hugh. If Ralph were the
eldest, my father would prefer me.'

I say, get me an invitation to your place
on the 27th.'

Come with me as my peculiar guest ;
my mother shall send you an invitation
to the ball. We have some odd
customs in our family, which I will put
sou up to. There's the piano. Shall we
go ?'

Miss Acland played, as she did all else,
correctly, brilliantly, without enthusiasm.
When Dunscombe asked what was the
piece, she turned back to see. He expressed
admiration of her skill in performing such
difficult music at sight.

Oh, I had practised it lots of times,
without observing the composer's name.
That isn't in the lesson.'

You don't care for music, then ?'

Oh yes ; it helps the clay along. There's
dressing and breakfast and Ebony — that's
my horse, you know — and dressing and
lunch, and music and a drive, and dressing
and tea, and dressing and dinner, and talk
and bed.'

No reading, Edie ?' asked her mother.
That's exceptional, like a ball.'
What a little humbug you are, Edie !'
Explain yourself, sagacious brother.'
You want to pose as a female cynic,
despising human pleasures. Don't believe
her, Dunscombe. She's a small volcano
of sentiment and devotion, and all
that.'

People who live on volcanoes don't
suspect the fire underneath, sometimes. So
you may be right, though I can't imagine
how you should know.'

I recollect former eruptions.'
1 never had any beside measles, and
that was not bad — was it, mamma ?'

Hugh refers to mental outbursts,' replied
Mrs. Acland, laughing.

Then he is unkind and inaccurate. All
my nurses will declare that there never was
a child who broke out less.'

I spoke metaphorically. Until two or
three years ago you '

Oh, I don't understand metaphor.'

She began playing quietly to herself.

My daughter is a very matter-afflict
young person, now,' said Mrs. Acland to
Lord Dunscombe. ' But Hugh is right in
saying that we recollect her in quite another
character.'

I am a little humbug, then ?' Edie cried,
wheeling round upon the music-stool.
This becomes a serious charge. What is
the basis ? My harmless statement apparently
that music occupies its due place
among the day's events, like eating, and
exercise, and talking" nonsense. But doesn't
it ? Do I sit down to play because I am

seized with an irresistible impulse ? am I
possessed ? Xot at all I I play because
that is the proper thing to do at a certain
hour, and it gives me a certain pleasing
sensation, like eating. ^lusic under such
conditions is the dullest and least poetic
of all the customary events I named. When
I sit down to dinner I don't know what
is comines Ashen I ride, I can 2:0 which
way I will, and perhaps I shall not return
to the place I started from. Ashen I talk,
I don't know what I shall say or what
the other person will answer. But when
I open my music-box and my book, the
process and the result are only a matter
of chords and strings. There is not an
atom of my own self in the sounds which
an eminent composer has arranged for me,
and an eminent manufacturer has supplied
me with wires and bits of ivory to execute.
The composer's soul may have found rest
in it, but mine does not, except by a

mere appropriation of his feelings. Mechanically
I reproduce some one else's ideas on a
machine, and that does not interest me
more than any other conventionality.'

But all music must be rendered by some
instrument.' said Dunscombe.

The voice is a machine, and our minds
are machines. But there is such a thing
as real music, nevertheless — a strain that
tells its own story of passion or sadness,
fresh from a human heart ; the cry of a
man or woman who could not keep silence
under deep feeling, and spoke in tones that
all the world will recognise for ever. That
is music, as that is poetry. The day's events
bring no such feeling to me.'

I should like to hear real music,' said
Dunscombe.

'. Who would not ?' she answered
coolly.

You have given a distinct challenge,'
Mrs. Acland said, ' and, under the penalty

of conviction for talking nonsense, you must
illustrate the theory.'

'But, mamma, Lord Dunscombe does not
understand ! Xone of those composers
Avrote what was real music for me. I say
that music is that which springs from the
heart — the utterance of individual passion.
I can copy or imitate, but reproduction is
not real music. Besides, we must dress,
mamma.'

There is time, I think you oujjht to
show what you mean, dear, if you mean
anything.'

Oh, it is so much trouble. And it
excites me to repeat those screams of
pathos ! Do you insist ?'

My daughter, I command.'

My sister, I imperatively implore !'

That jars ! I call this real mirsic,
Lord Dunscombe. Born, not manufactured.'


She struck a dozen Avild notes, interrogative,

sharply distinct, perilously near to
discordance.

The poet is hesitating what form to
give his thought,' said Edie, with conviction.
' Now he has it.'

A rush of sound, a clanging of human
passions, through which ran a clear thread
of melody, interrupted, pausing, struggling,
but swelling at length to a burst of
triumph, ceasing abruptly in a few dropped
notes.

What demoniac scream is that ?' Hugh
cried, his eyes aglow.

They call it " Hunniades' March." Nobody
made it. It grew ! That's man's
music — here is woman's.'

A sad, low theme, with changes and
twists and returns to the original motifs
broken by unexpected peals of laughter,
which died into lingering sobs, and ended in
slow despair.

Where did you find such extraordinary

VOL. I. 7

compositions ?' Mrs. Acland inquired
wonderingly. ' They are mad !'

Divinely mad, I think ! That is called
Romania, but it is old as human life and
woman's suffering ! Pray don't thank me,
Lord Dunscombe. Good-night !'

Mrs. Acland said, ' You won't be late,
Hugh ? I must have half an hour's conversation.'


'When my mother says "must," Duns-combe,
we always obey; but she doesn't
often test our virtue. Will one o'clock do,
mans ?'

If you are punctual.'

Count on me, dear ! Good-night, dear
little family humbug !'

Hugh is a good boy,' his sister remarked
when they had gone, 'but very silly!'

That's tautology, my child ! You said
he was a boy ! And he is — very !'

When Hugh returned, Mrs. Acland was
waiting for him. ' To-morrow,' she said.

you accompany me to Mr. Vane's chambers
with our lawyer. You know the case in
outline, but it is possible allusions maybe
made which will strike less painfully if
I prepare you. Listen attentively, therefore,
my son, for I need not say how
distressing these reminiscences are to me.

I have never concealed that my birth
was not equal to your father's. My own
father was an Independent minister at
Oxford. An undergraduate at Christ
Church paid me attentions, but I did not
like him. This man, Hardwicke, introduced
to me, as his friend, your father, who
came up to the same college. We fell in
love, but I dared not ask my parents to
consent to our marriage, and Hugh was
still more afraid. I made a terrible mistake,
which has never ceased to bear its fruits :
after a long resistance, I consented to a
secret marriage. Hardwicke had long since
pretended to be reconciled to his disappoints

2

ment. He was now ordained, and he performed
the marriage privately. I may
mention here that doubts arose afterwards
as to its legality, and we were married
again.'

Do I understand, mother,' cried Hugh
hotly, ' that this point has been raised by
Saxell ?'

Most certainly not ! It has no interest
for anyone, and I mention it only because
I wish to have no secrets from my son.

By means we could not guess at the
time, Hugh's father heard of the marriage,
and withdrew his son's allowance ; as for
the uncle, whose fortune you inherit, he
held no communication with either. I
must tell you, Hugh, for the comprehension
of my story, that all the Aclands were
quarrelsome and jealous and vindictive.

We should have been in difficulties at
the outset, but my husband's mother died,
leaving him a small fortune. He left

the University and acknowledged me. We
were neither wise nor prudent, and Hugh
fell into bad hands. His greatest friend,
besides Hardwicke, was a man named
Beaver, whom they knew at Oxford, though
he was considerably older than they.

Beaver was our evil genius, and is — a
man of enormous wealth, great talent, and
unbearable selfishness and affectation. He
professed to admire me — always in an
impersonal manner, as if I had been a work
of art. — It is painful for a mother to speak
of these things to her son '

If an angel tried to misinterpret your
conduct I should not believe him !'

It is that knowledge which sustains me,
my son ! You will never doubt me,
Hugh !'

I know you too well, mother !'

They kissed fondly.

I disliked and distrusted Beaver. But
I am laying bare all the truth to you ! —

he amused me, and he made life pleasant
with endless schemes of diversion. I was
innocent and thoughtless ; your father,
though passionate, was secret. He said
afterwards that his jealousy had been
aroused from the first, but I do not believe
it. As soon as I learned the incredible
truth I begged him to break off acquaintance
with Beaver. But they had relations — of
money I suppose — which forbade this. AVe
remained in the same position, constantly
associated with a man whom the husband
suspected and the wife both hated and
feared. A dreadful time. And it lasted'
for months !'

But, mother, is it possible my father was
such a cur as to bear this state of things —
for money?'

I believe in my heart that he did
not really doubt me. But his temper
was reckless, the shifts he was put to
had maddened him against all the world,

and lie avenged himself on me. Hugh was
not a cur ! He might have grown, under
other circumstances, into a strong man.
But, please do not interrupt — let me hurry
on !

Things became desperate with us. I
do not know what projects Beaver and my
husband had in view, but he suggested we
should retire to Wolfingham, a village near
his own home of Beaverlowe. This was
in the autumn of 1862. Hardwicke had a
curacy at Laystone, three miles away, and
the three men were constantly together.
At AVolfingham things grew worse and
worse. One morning, after a terrible scene,
Hugh rode away. I never saw him again,
dead or alive.'

Mrs. Acland was deeply affected. Hugh
took her hand and kissed her, murmuring
consolation. What painful recollections had
been lying under his mother's smiling face !

He did not return that night, but I was

not alarmed. The clergyman of the village
came next morning with hints of calamity.
T made him speak out. The horse yom*
follies was riding had regained the stable
late, having evidently swum the river, which
■\\as in flood. There is a ford by Walsingham
Bridge, which Hugh was accustomed
to use. Upon its farther bank they found
hoof-marks where the horse had entered the
water, but none to correspond on the near
side. A hundred yards below the bridge,
at a spot which was deep and dangerous at
all times, they found prints, as though the
horse had clambered out AN^ith difficulty'.
It had been swept beneath the bridge.
Your father's hat was found some miles
below, in a bush that overhung the
stream.'

This I have heard,' said Hugh, in a low
voice.

Captain Saxell's assertion is that your
father was not drowned, but deliberately

carried out a scheme to persuade us of his
death. Wait ! I am controlling myself,
Hugh, to tell this story dispassionately ;
do not unnerve me ! It is probable that
Sergeant Raises had not heard the evidence
we possess ; or he was too shrewd to raise
questions by referring to it. According to
his statement your father rode his horse
half-way across the ford, dismounted, threw
his hat into the stream, drove the horse
into deep water, and returned. But there
is an independent statement, that of a man
named Peake, who was crossing Wolfingham
Bridge at that hour. He told his story the
next day, recollect. Peake heard cries in
the river, and looking over the parapet he
saw a body washed down. No one else was
missing from the neighbourhood, and in all
these years it has never been disputed that
the body was your father's !'

It was not found ?'

It was carried out to sea, no doubt.'

And the inquiry proved nothing decisive
?'

There was no inquiry. Hugh's father
returned my letters unopened, and his uncle
did not answer them for months.'

But when my great-uncle died ?'

That was six years afterwards. The
trustees took it for granted, so far as I
know, that Hugh was dead ; if they made a
serious inquiry I did not hear of it. You
had twelve years of minority, and they may
well have felt assured that if Hugh was still
living he would 'certainly appear to claim
his own in that time. Xow, let me go
back. This accident happened on December
9th, 1862 — the evening of next day
Edie was born. When I recovered full
consciousness, I did not know Vivere to
turn for food.'

My poor mother !'

I hid myself in London, and lived by
the sale of my jewellery. When that was

exhausted, your great-uncle sought us out,
and made an allowance. Now, give me all
your attention. You know who Sergeant
Raises was ?'

His right name was Henry Hardwicke ?*
Yes, my husband's friend, and his bitter
enemy ! He also disappeared, two or three
days later, under discreditable circumstances.
It was on December 14th that Raises
enlisted in the Artillery at Westminster —
not two days after Hugh's supposed death,
as Captain Saxell declares in his case, since
that occurred on the 9th, but two days
probably after Hardwicke had vanished
from Laystone. This man, Raises, can be
traced all through, of course, from the
moment of his enlistment until he died,
with a black lie in his mouth. He put his
age at twenty-five years, the maximum for
Artillery recruits, observe; Hugh had just
reached that age, and he did not look it ;
but Hardwicke was twenty-eight. These

details, however, and others more important
I need not insist upon with you. Are there
any questions that occur to your mind ?'

I must ask, mother, what part the man
Beaver played at this time ? Was he in the
neighbourhood ?'

I believe he was, but we held no communication.
Some hints reached me, mere
gossip, of a fight between him and Hugh
that evening, in which Beaver was badly
hurt.

Where did my father ride to ?'

Your father went to dine with Hard-wicked,
and he did. I see your drift, Hugh.
But whatever may have been the truth in
that scandal, Beaver had no part in Hugh's
death. He was not the man to commit
murder.'

Did you see Peake ?'

I have never seen him. The clergyman
of Wolfingham conducted what inquiries
were made, and told me the result. My

great object now is to find Peake, who certainly
survives, and in a few days I hope to
find him.'

Where is he now ?'

AYe advertised, and the man answered,
but he is distrustful. A promise of reward,
however, seems to be producing its effect,
and we hope to see him shortly. Now,
Hugh, you will be better able to follow the
discussion tomorrow. It is not a formal
meeting of lawyers.'

They parted tenderly.

Rupert Yane was a small, dried-up man,
with the brows and eyes of a sage, the
mouth of a sensitive woman. In matters
that did not regard himself, when the result,
if painful, would not come before his own
eye, he rivalled Achitophel in the soundness,
and if need be the cruelty, of his
advice. But where his own interests or
friendships were concerned, Vane showed
hesitation and weakness. This seldom

happened, of course, and he had already
won standing as a junior of promise.

Mrs. Acland, Hugh, and their solicitor,
Mr. Gorman, met at Vane's chambers next
day.

In suggesting this interview,' he said,
I act uj^on the general drift of Captain
Saxell's instructions. His anxious desire
is to take no advantage, and he confidently
hopes to be met in the same spirit. It is
my good fortune that circumstances enable
me to carry out this idea with special
facilities. I have been acquainted with
Mrs. Acland and esteemed her for many
years, and Richard Saxell is my dearest
friend. Knowing both parties so well, I
have ventured to bring them face to face, as
it were.

Up to the present time I have not
employed a solicitor. Captain Saxell does
not profess to be indifferent about the issue.
If he can claim this money with justice, and

without inflicting a penalty too heavy on
the present holders, he thinks he has earned
it at the risk of his life, and he means to
take it. As for the second of these conditions,
if Mrs. Acland or her son take that
ground, they will address themselves to the
claimant direct. All I have to do at this
first meeting is to hand over the papers
with which I am furnished at present, and
to explain Captain Saxell's position.
Briefly, it is this : he acts absolutely on
my discretion. If I find that the assertions
of Sergeant Raises are false, I am
authorized to throw up the case. There
can be no compromise. But unless they
are proved to be so, Captain Saxell will proceed
— as at present advised.'

'It is a responsible position for you,*
said Mr. Roman. ' In the event of your
abandoning the Captain's claim, I understand
that it passes to !mrs. Saxell ?'

Yes ; but I opine that our refusal to

persevere would seriously prejudice her
chance. What I would urge, and I am
sure of meeting the sympathy of Mrs.
Acland and her son in the suggestion, is
that they meet the facts advanced openly
and straightforwardly. There is no reservation
on Captain Saxell's part. All
the evidence on w^hicli he relies has been
laid in summary before Mr. Gorman, and
I now offer copies of the originals. If new
facts should arise, they will also be submitted.
I add also a copy of the formal
document by which Captain Saxell authorizes
me to withdraw his claim instanter if
I think right to take that course. It is tome
a flattering proof of his friendship and
confidence ; to you an indisputable assurance
of his sincere stood faith. We work, therefore,
not as enemies, but as rivals, anxious
to discover the truth. The question before
us, the whole question, practically is. Was
Sergeant Kaikes Hugh Acland, senior ; or

did that gentleman die, as was generally
understood, in 1862 ?'

Allow me,' said Hugh, ' there is another.
If you can prove that Raises was a man
named Hardwicke, for instance, it would
not be necessary to go further.'

In that case he would not be Acland.
Stow, the first inquiry that arises is as to
the handwriting. You have seen several
specimens, Mrs. Acland, and here is a mass.
I understand that though you do not declare
the evidence of the handwriting conclusive
to all the world, you are satisfied it is not
your husband's ?'

It is the writing of a man who tries
laboriously to imitate another person's
hand. Where Kaikes scribbled hastily, as in
notes which do not concern the case, his
writing was utterly different to that of
papers which have reference to it. Take
these examples side by side.'

VOL. I. 8

It is very true, but most men have two
handwritings at least,' said Vane.

AVe hope to identify the scribbled hand,
however,' said Gorman.

I recognise it as that of Plardwicke,'
Mrs. Acland declared. ' I am trying to
obtain some acknowledged instances of his

*&*

writing.

'We think that Mr. Beaver, of Beaver-lowe,
has old letters of Hardwicke's. Probably
that gentleman may be able to give
valuable information, but he has not replied
to Mrs, Acland as yet.'

Well,' said Vane, J you have our case in
every particular. We shall not press you
in the least. May the right triumph, and I
doubt not that it will.'

Hugh felt that he was squeezed out of
the discussion in which he had so great
an interest. Drawing aside, rather sullen,
he turned over the passers and diaries laid
out on a table.

Many pages have been cut out here,'
he cried suddenly. ' May I ask who cut
them?'

Vane was silent, troubled ; Gorman looked
reproachfully at Mrs. Acland. Resolutely,
but with heightened colour and eyes that
burned, she met the inquiry. ' Those pages
I have already seen, Hugh, and they were
removed out of consideration for me and
my son. Hardwicke was not a villain by
halves ! Now, Mr. Yane, allow us to express
our gratitude for the very kindly and
honourable manner in which you have presented
this painful business. We beg you
to convey the same assurance to Captain
Saxell. He may depend on it we shall
meet him with equal frankness.'

The clients withdrew ; Gorman lingered
This is no common affair, Vane,' he said,
and you are not treating it in a common
manner. I confess I am more interested in
it than in any case I recollect.'

« — 9

The one thing clear to me is that Raises
was a very extraordinary person. You did
not know Huo;h senior?'

'No; but from what I learn we could
not rest our case upon the inherent improbability
of his conduct,' Gorman replied. ' I
mean, in pretending to be drowned, and
serving twenty years in the ranks. He
was wrong-headed enough for any eccentricity.'


So I have heard. Mrs. Acland brought
in all the good qualities the family can
boast, they say. What an incredible villain
Raises must have been, whoever he was !'

Mrs. Acland is her own lawyer, and I
could take quite an unprejudiced view if
there were anything to found a judgment
on. One of the most extraordinary facts is
that neither Acland nor Hardwicke seem to
have had any friends in particular.'

Not so extraordinary if Sergeant Raises
was a type of both ! You forget Beaver.'

Not likely ! He was a worthy third, as
far as I can gather.'

I suspect that Beaver could tell us a
good deal, if he liked.'

So do I, but I suspect he won't if he can
help it. We have made some inquiries
about him. Whether it was the disgrace of
the beating A eland gave him, or the shock
of his death, or mere eccentricity that broke
out at that time, we have no means of
judging; but Beaver shut himself up from
that day, and devoted his time to pictures
and orchids.'

That's not what I hear at all ! He's a
great hunting man, a model landlord, and
all a country gentleman should be. So they
say at the Rhadamanthus.'

A good example of the old story. Weare
both right. But nobody sees him off the
hunting-field, except his tenants. Beaver-lowe
used to be the liveliest house in the
country; but never a guest has entered it

these twenty years, nor has the master
entered another house.'

Mrs. Acland must have been very beautiful,'
said Vane, with no apparent connection.


And Beaver, they say, was very fascinating
and very fast,' replied Gorman,
lauofhino;.

Does that bear upon the case ? I think
we'd better drop the subject.'

I am not at all sure that it does not
bear upon the case, seeing that Acland was
a mad brute. However, I don't ask your
opinion.'

'I ask yours, then, without prejudice!
Come, now!' said Vane.

Upon my honour, the more I think of it
the more puzzled I am.'

IN HYDE PARK.

'UGrH looked upon his mother as
the dearest and best and cleverest
of women. But this feeling did
not reconcile him to the exclusion of his
views and experience in the grave matter at
issue. Young men of property learn self-confidence
in affairs, if not wisdom, at an
early age, and Hugh, perhaps, had more
than his share. Beyond dispute, his interest
in Captain Saxell's claim was most serious,
both financial and sentimental, but he found
himself put in the background. Though
ready to declare that his mother was the

cleverest of her sex, he did not think that
feminine ability is adapted to inquiries of
this sort.

His perfect confidence in Mrs. Acland
made Hugh feel the more aggrieved by the
withholding of secrets. Those pages torn
from the diary were said to be scandals
against his mother. If so, they were manifestly
absurd, and all the world knew it —
why keep them from him ? He persuaded
himself that they were not abstracted for
that reason. His mother had seen them ;
but she, in natural haste and indignation,
would not observe them closely. Yane, the
mutual friend, had probably withdrawn the
pages because there was something decisive
therein, a hint which would set the question
at rest. Anyhow, since they could not
possibly' harm his mother nor shake his
faith in her, he ought to see them. So,
after thinking this over, he went back to
Paper Buildings for an explanation, at the

hour when Vane dressed. That gentleman
repulsed him, and they quarrelled.

Returning through Pump Court, Hugh
met an old lady and a young one. At a
glance he recognised the tall, lithe figure
and graceful head, but the elder lady did
not know him. Sternly she asked her way
to Paper Buildings, which Hugh gave
rather incoherently. The young companion
smiled a very little, as they turned away
with thanks.

Here was news. But when Hugh mentioned
it after dinner, Mrs. Acland was not
at all diverted. ' This is the first consequence
of your meddling, Hugh !' she said,
with hin irritation very unusual. ' You
have set these people inquiring and annoying.
Captain Saxell understood his mother,
and he Wished to keep her ignorant of the
reversionary claim until we had prepared
our case at leisure. You have acquainted
her with it, and she can urge him by force.'

How, mother ?'

I don't know the legal form. But Mrs.
Saxell can take action to compel the trustees
— Major St. Paul, in fact — to execute the
will of Sergeant-major Raises, or to show
cause why they omit to do so in a reasonable
time. I had troubles enough before !'

What were you doing in the Temple,
Hugh ?' asked Edie. ' Oh, do keep quiet,
dear, and leave wiser heads to settle the
matter.'

Mrs. Acland's severity had passed. She
cried, laughing :

Apologize to your brother at once, you
impertinent girl ! Hugh is learning wisdom
every day b)' experience. I could wish he
practised it in other people's business, but
the desire is laudable. So Mrs. Saxell has
come to town ! And she is accompanied by
the Loveliest girl in the world ? Tell us
about her — is she like Edie ?'

I hope not — not in all respects.'

Oh, Hugh !'

I mean that I hope she doesn't bully
her brother, if she has one.'

'We never quarrelled in our lives until
this horrid news came, and now something
is always going wrong. You went to see
Mr. Vane ?'

I went to complain to the Lord Mayor
that I am not allowed a vote in my own
freehold. Pie said it was monstrous, and if
I would bring the obstructive parties before
him he would fine them sine dies

You went to Mr. Yane for some information
which you do not like to ask
mamma ? That is it ? Will you tell me ?'

I don't know anything,' he answered,
colouring hotly, ' and I don't wish to know
anything but what she tells me.'

Leave it all to her, dear Hugh, and I
will behave so prettily you shall be ashamed
to recollect you ever thought of preferring a
creature to me.'

I say, this is serious, little sister ? Am
I neve?' Nor you ?'

I can speak for myself. I never will !
Don't laugh, mamma.'

Then, to change the conversation, I will
give you news. Peake will call on me tomorrow.'


At what time ?' asked Hugh.

I don't think your presence will be
necessary, dear, and it might embarrass the
man. I will tell you all that passes.'

Hugh felt still more keenly that he was
kept outside of the family interests.

I shall not go out this evening,' Mrs.
Acland continued. ' If you will write a line
to Mrs. Palsgrave, Edie, she will be pleased
to chaperon you, no doubt. And, Hugh, if
you are going near the Rhadamanthus I
wish you would leave a note for Mr. Yane.'

To tell him Peake is coming ?'

No, dear ; but to consult what can be
done to keep Mrs. Saxell quiet.'

Could I advise you about that ?'

No doubt, and I should be very pleased
to discuss the matter. But our talk could
not do much good, I fear, unless Mrs.
Sax ell has come up to ask your opinion,
and "will abide by it. I do not understand
that you are upon such terms with the
lady?'

I am almost sorry I'm not, mans, if it
would lead you to confide in me.'

Hughie I' exclaimed his sister, in
rebuke.

You will learn to be patient with men,
my dear,' said Mrs. Acland pleasantly.
At least, I hope so, in spite of the decided
I never will," just now. It is a wife's
first lesson, and a mother finds it ease
No, my boy ; I am not offended in the very
least. But you will give Mr. Vane my
note ?'

Of course I will, inscrutable but charming
qt mans.'

Two hours later Vane drove up, and he
was closeted some time with Mrs. Acland.

You may depend upon me.' he said, in
wishing her good-night. ' It is Saxell's
wish, and my own strong conviction, that
his mother should not be excited about this
affair. She loves money, not for its own
sake, but for the pleasure of spending it —
of thro win or it about, if she had enough.
We have an appointment for tomorrow
afternoon. I shall urge her to return at
once. Your friendly message shall be
given. Allow me to sa' it is just what I
should have expected from you. Under
happier circumstances, ]\Iiss Acland would
have found Grace a delightful companion.'


Hugh meantime was playing billiards at
the Rhadamanthus with a tall, burly,
pleasant-looking youth little older than
himself.

You will chancre your mind before

October, Bob,' he said. ' That's 27,
marker.'

I don't think I shall. It will be an
awfully interesting trip. Why don't you
come with us ?'

I should like it above everything. Are
there elephants there ?'

They're the local equivalent of our
rabbit. You bag them at odd moments,
Avhen game is out of season. ' We shall
travel leisurely through Ashanti np to
this mysterious place, Telaga, shooting as
we go, and doing trade enough to pay our
expenses. Prince will push on farther,
but he undertakes to accompany me back
as far as Coomassie. I have only twelvemonths'
leave, you know.'

How you will enjoy yourselves ! But
the country is terribly unhealthy, isn't
it?'

Only on the coast. That's game !
Where's Dunscombe to-nio-ht ?'

Does anyone know?' asked Hugh. 'I
want to see him particularly.'

Saving errors caused by human frailty
and variations of clocks,' said a bystander,
you'll find him waiting round the corner
in his night-cab at a quarter-past eleven.'

Round what corner ? Why in his
night-cap ?'

Cab, with a " b," illiterate youth ! I
don't know exactly what corner, but the
one frequented by scions of nobility who
haunt the Variety Theatre.'

Dunscombe is rather forcing the pace
there, isn't he ?' asked somebody.

He's distanced all the field ! ]\Iaud has
fallen in love at last !'

I don't believe it. The news is too bad
to be true ! Making: love to Maud was a
public diversion, more innocent than most,
and Dunscombe is too good a sportsman to
interrupt it. Shooting a fox is venial compared
with this.'

A monstrous expensive diversion, one
way and another ! He'll effect a public
economy if he puts a stop to it !'

What a mean and unsportsmanlike view
to take ! Who ever grudged a good fox
his goose ?'

You refer to Maud Nathan, I suppose?'
said Hugh.

If you take it in that serious tone, I
vow I didn't for one !' exclaimed Milroy.

I didn't mean to be serious. Is she
fascinating off the stage ?'

Not a bit !' growled an elderly man.
Maud Nathan is the fashion with a
generation of unprincipled idiots, that's
all !'

Who was the fashion in your generation,
Blake ? The daughter of Herodias ?'

Oh no ! Blake's contemporaries didn't
dance ! They were arboreal in their habits,
and the height of fashion was to walk on
two legs !'

VOL. I. 9

At the place indicated Hugh found
Dunscombe, who looked much annoyed.
lout this doings were no business of Hugh's,
and he resolved more strongly that they
never should be.

I want you to do me an odd service,'
he said.

Reckon it done, and proceed.'

Will you lend me that shrewd fellow of
sours tomorrow ?'

Moore ? Certainly !'

I want him to interview Vane's clerk
and find where Mrs. Saxell is staying in
town, as I am not on very good terms with
Vane.'

Ah ! The loveliest girl in the world
accompanies her aunt, I suppose ? Are
you going to call again ?'

I have no intentions at all beyond discovering
where they live.'

Well, I'll send Moore first thing tomorrow.
But \o\\ are not the man to content

yourself ^'ith sighs and envying,
Huo^h ! Take care.'

A fair girl with large dark eyes came
from the direction of the stage - door.
Dmiscombe raised his hat, put her into the
brougham waiting, gave his coachman the
name of a restaurant, and bade Hugh
good-night.

Moore arrived early, took his instructions
without remark, and two hours afterwards
returned with the address. Mrs.
Saxell was staying at an hotel off Bond
Street, of which neither he nor Plough had
ever heard ; in truth, the lad" had stayed
there on her wedding-trip, thirty-five years
before ; sentiment led her back perhaps, or
perhaps she preferred any familiar place
among the perils of London. Moore, sent
to reconnoitre, brought intelligence that it
was quite an ' outside establishment,' as he
gravely called it.

I just threw an eye over the books, sir.

9—2

The ladies' rooms are Nos. 64 and 65 on
the second-floor. Nos. 63 and G6 are
empty, and so is No. 72, just opposite.'

What an invaluable man you are !'
Hugh exclaimed, laughing rather uneasily.
Lord Dunscombe must prize sou.'

Oh no, sir,' Moore answered, with a
respectful smile. ' His lordship doesn't
give me any employment in this way.'

Discreet as sagacious ! I feel sure you
don't gossip. Take this !'

Thank you, sir. If there's anything
I'm master of, it's my tongue.'

By-the-bye, what was the number of
that empty room opposite ?'

I put it down, sir. No. 72.'

Up to this time Hugh had formed no
plans. He did not even purpose consciously
to haunt the hotel, though it
would have come to that, doubtless. But
such matter-of-fact hints produced their
result on a young man. Moore took it for

granted that he would not only watch but
enter the building ; not only enter, but
establish himself there, as close to the
ladies as possible. Had the suggestion
been made directly, Hugh would have been
shocked and indignant. But coming as a
thing of course, the action which a gentleman
might be expected to follow, he entertained
it, and that is fatal in such cases.
After all, why not ?

So, within an hour, Hugh drove up with
a portmanteau, and engaged the room ; but
when he found himself inside, what little
impudence dwelt in his honest young soul
oozed out. While he hesitated, a door
opened opposite, and Miss Palliser's voice
was heard in tones of complaint — ' Unkind
to leave me all alone.'

It is not fitting for you to accompany
me on a business interview. I will be back
as early as T can, and, after dinner, we will
go to the theatre.'

A moment afterwards the rustle of a
dress and the tap of stately feet went
down the passage. Then a man came by,
and a rattle of plates followed his entrance.
Grace spoke again, while the door Alas
open:

Send the chambermaid, please !'
What she said when the girl went in,
Hugh did not hear, but the reply was
enough. ' Why, miss,' answered the
chambermaid, ' if you turn to the let
Bond Street is the third turning ; and if
you go straight on, you can't mistake
Regent Street when you come to it.' Pause
and murmur; chambermaid's voice again.
Yes, miss, but if I was you, I wouldn't
go to those streets for a walk, not without
your ma. There's the Park now, if you're
dull. Turn to the right and keep straight
along, it'll bring you there. Young ladies
sometimes goes to the Park alone, but not
to l>ond Street; nor yet Regent Street.'

The chambermaid departed. There's
something to be said for these old-fashioned
hotels, Hugh thought. A servant at the
International or the St. George would not
have given number sixty-five good advice
as well as service.

It was a long twenty minutes before he
heard the door reopen; then light feet
pattered down the corridor. He followed
presently, lit a cigar in the hall with
elaborate unconcern, and stood upon the
step to reconnoitre. The graceful form he
could not mistake had a hundred yards'
advance. Men turned to look after it, but
the hateful race of messieurs qui suivent les
femmes does not abound in those parts
of London ; and, besides, Grace wore a
veil. Hugh almost wished some gigantic
scoundrel would address her, that he might
introduce himself under a chivalrous aspect.
But unmolested Grace walked in maiden
innocence, not by any means unaware of

admiration, but ignorant of danger or
impropriety. She knew that her aunt
would disapprove the promenade ; but Mrs.
Saxell disapproved most actions of young
people.

Rhythmic and delightful to observe as is
the walk of a girl symmetrically shaped,
a young man has difficulty in timing his
steps therewith. Knowing the destination,
Hugh turned off round a block of houses,
struck into Park Lane, and descended as
Miss Palliser crossed the road. Upon
entering the Park, she hesitated whether to
go right or left, but finally turned towards
Hyde Park Corner, on the garden-side.
Whilst deviously skirmishing among the
trees opposite, Hugh kept her in sight.
Ashen she crossed at the bottom, he made
a long leg, reached Rotten Prow, and
advanced to meet his fate.

The world was at lunch, and few besides
nurseries and country people occupied the

path. Hugh had no experience of such
adventures, and his heart beat violently,
his throat was dry. If Grace did not
acknowledge him, or received his bow
coldly, he had not courage to address
her, though he would have bitterly reproached
-himself afterwards. When his
eager eyes detected her a long way off,
Hugh felt almost sick with nervous tremor.
But Grace found things dull in London,
and her frame of mind was rebellious.

As they drew near she did not pretend
consciousness. Dissimulation was certainly
not numbered among Grace Palliser's
many faults, but rashness and heedlessness
were. It must be remembered, however,
that in the wilds of Scarsholme, where she
had dwelt since leaving school, there was
little occasion to master the rules of daily
conventional etiquette.

Hugh's bow was accepted with a frank
little smile, which reassured him forthwith.

I knew I could not have been mistaken
yesterday,' he said, stopping. ' It was
Mrs. Saxell who asked me the way to
Paper Buildings.'

Yes. I think I am lost again. Can
this be Hyde Park ?'

It is Rotten Row.'

Rotten Row ! I thought all the world
crowded there ?'

All the world has gone home to lunch
just at present, excepting you and me.'

Huo'h had turned, and was walking side
by side with his divinity. Grace did
not notice anything unusual in his conduct.
She said :

Oh, I don't belong to the world ! I
came here to take my first peep at it from
the outside.'

Like Moore's Peri.'

Not at all like Moore's Peri, for I am
not disconsolate, and I don't long to
enter.'

And Rotten Row, just now, resembles
Paradise only in its solitude.'

In its freedom from wicked persons, you
might have said.'

That is a prettier way to put it,
but it comes to the same thing, perhaps.
If you will accept my escort for an
hour you will see the wicked world
return.'

And, if not, shall I be visited with
blindness, or will the wicked world stay
away? I don't perceive the necessity of
your escort, Mr. Acland. And when you
remind me of the fact, I know it is not
proper to be walking with a gentleman
to whom I have not been introduced. Good-morning.'


If we have not been introduced. Miss
Palliser, by what magic do we know each
other's names ?'

A question I ought to ask, not you.
We are not so inhospitable at Scarsholme

as to turn a gentleman out of doors without
knowing who he is !'

A person guided only by that incident
would think my name was Adam.'

'Oh! — well, you will admit that a girl
should not walk alone with a gentleman
she does not know from Adam. Good-morning
! '

• Dropping the question of names, it is
certain that we do know each other somehow.'


Rather anyhow,' murmured Grace.

And I venture to assert that there is
less impropriety in walking with a man
whose name and position and character you
are acquainted Avitli, than alone.'

Impropriety ! What do you mean ?'
Grace flushed angrily.

Only to persuade you to endure my
presence,' said Hugh, in alarm.

Have I done wrong ? What a shame that
a girl can't walk out on such a lovely day!'

She can walk as she pleases, under
proper escort.'

But yours is not proper.'

It is better than none. I am sure Mrs.
Saxell would have been pleased to accept
ic, when she gave you permission to stroll
out.'

What a mischievous ' she stopped.

But useful man you are,' Hugh added.

That is not what I was going to say.
Mr. Acland, I don't believe this meeting
was accidental — answer me upon your
honour !'

I own I followed you from the hotel.'

How did it happen you were passing
the hotel ? Upon your honour !'

'What a suspicious character yours is!'

She stopped.

It was not an accident. I beg you
to leave me.'

She did not pretend to be grievously
indignant, but her eye was firm enough and

her tone. Hugh made some embarrassed
explanation.

You are young and thoughtless,' she
answered — ' that's the best and the worst I
think of you. Xow be good enough to let
me return alone.'

I obey. We shall shortly meet under
happier auspices.'

What do you mean by that ?'

At Lord Rainforth's ball.'

How do you know I am going ? you
have been asking about me ?'

Dunscombe is my friend ; he may'
possibly have mentioned the grave fact.'

Hugh took off his hat and left her, not
quite mistress of the field. She was not
hurt perhaps, certainly was not surprised,
when, facing on the steps of the hotel,
she observed the enemy hovering in the
rear, a hundred yards behind,

Hugh's servant called next day to pay
his bill and remove the portmanteau. Mrs.

Saxell and her niece were in the hall, just
leaving. Grace overheard the man's conversation
and his master's name. On the
long journey to Scarsholme she was silent
and not good-tempered — found the day hot,
the carriage dusty, the sandwiches tasteless,
the milk a criminal compound of chalk and
water; remarks all true enough, but
original for careless Grace. Mrs. Saxell
offered no consolation.

Remember that I did not ask you to
accompany me,' she said.

I have had all the disagreeable, and
I have done no good — that's what irritates
me, aunt,' Grace replied. ' If you had
let me go with you yesterday we should
not be returning just as wise as we came.
I could almost cry !'

For heaven's sake don't carry your
silliness that length ! I took you to a
theatre, child !'

Yes, and I am grateful, dear ! But we

did not go to London for that purpose.'


It is annoying and disrespectful, Grace,
to keep on in this way. Mr. Vane showed
me clearly the uselessness of remaining in
town at a great expense. He told me how
the case stood, which I have explained to
you. I must say I think Richard quixotic
in ffivino^ the Aclands so much time to ixet
up their case — making them acquainted
with all his evidence, too ! Mr. Vane
thinks it will cause no difference in the end,
but I still think it foolish.'

For my own part, 1 don't trust Mr.
Vane. Dick doesn't know that he is friendly
with the Aclands. I should have insisted
on employing my own lawyer.'

You forget that richard would not confide
in his mother — with the best motives,
I hope, but there it is. I trust I have too
much pride to interfere.'

And so we may lose sixty thousand

pounds on punctilio ? Oh, think if we had
sixty thousand pounds !'

I prefer to think upon more profitable
and edifying subjects. I fear the Aclands
will feel their loss cruelly. By-the-bye,
Mrs. Acland entrusted Mr. Vane with a
friendly message. She expressed her deep
sense of Richard's consideration and honourable
dealing, and said she hoped, however
this affair ends, that we should not allow
personal animosity to creep in.'

Oh, I wonder whether she knows you
turned her son out of doors ? What did
you answer ?'

I desired Mr. Vane to say that I appreciated
the grace and Christian feeling of her
expression. I could do no less, whatever
the lady's motive.'

What motive could she have, besides
friendliness and charity ? You ought to
write to Mrs. Acland, auntie.'

That would be very injudicious. I must

VOL. I. 10

not commit myself; Richard has gone much
too far, in my opinion.'

But I might write.'

You will do nothing of the sort!'

But Grace lead made up her mind on
that point. After a while she asked :

Will young Mr. Acland be ruined if we

succeed ?'



I was very glad to learn that he has
several thousands a year, independent of
Richard's claim. But his sister will lose
all her fortune.'

Poor girl ! Is she pretty ?'

I did not ask such a frivolous question.'


After another long pause, Grace said :

And we must remain in this uncertainty
until after the long vacation ! How dull it
will be waiting' at Scarsholme all through
the summer and autumn ! I shall hate the
place !'

I trust you speak heedlessly. It woul<l

be terrible if this prospect of worldly fortune
unhinged your mind to that degree.
Hate Scarsholme !'

And the new rosary ! Oh, how happy
people are who have heaps of money — do
what they like, stay in London as long as
they please, and go to a theatre every
niofht — like Miss Acland!' •

That is an unfortunate instance. After
a youth of frivolity, she may find herself
without the means to pursue her career of
dissipation, and too probably she has no
solid resources to fall back upon.'

Well, at least she will have lived, not
vegetated. You know, auntie, you are just
as eager for this fortune as I am ; but you
won't own it because frankness isn't proper !'

I prefer silence to scurrilous observations.
If Richard gets his own, he will
use his means and opportunities for a better
purpose than mere enjoyment, I trust.'

Oh, no doubt. But he will pick up a

10—2

good deal of mere enjoyment in seeking his
better purpose.'

'If he allowed you to guide him, he
would indeed. I am not blind, Grace. I
see very well what is passing in your
mind.'

I shall be glad if you will tell me, then,
for I thought it was quite empty.'

This glimpse of London has unsettled
you. Your mind, such as it is, was always
fixed on luxury, and show, and self-display.
You envied every woman, however plain,
who had a carriage with a coat-of-arms and
a liveried footman. After passing yourself
off for a duchess incognita at the theatre,
you were ashamed when I told the commissionaire
to fetch a cab before a dozen
impertinent boys dressed out, who waited
to see us. You would have given your
soul to hear him cry, " Miss Palliser's carriage!"
and to go off in a coach and six. I
understood very well. It was no discovery

that you are mad to join the throng of
giddy, vulgar triflers !'

Indeed I am not, aunt,' Grace began ;
but her tone was even more startled than
indignant.

I have long been acquainted with your
character. Refined pursuits, such as appeal
to the artistic sentiment, have no attraction
for you. Your utmost wish would be to
lead the fashion, however stupid, so long as
it was dazzling and costly — to outshine
everybody in display, and to secure selfish
enjoyment. How far temptation might lead
you if it were offered I am distressed to
think. Your future gives me many sleepless
nights.'

Grace had really been shocked to admit in
her own mind that something of this charge
might be true. But the sentimental conclusion,
so ridiculously false, spoiled all the
effect. She laughed.

I'll try to be a better girl, auntie, if it's

only to restore your night's rest — to give
my mind, such as it is, to artistic pursuits.'


You had better,' replied ]airs. Saxell
grimly. ' Richard has not means ; and if
he win the means, he has no inclination to
take a show wife.'

Oh, as for that, he and I will settle
those questions between us.'

Mrs. Saxell grunted, not approvingly,
and they went to sleep.

THE PEELE HOUSE.

^^''^''^^''^R. PEAKE is with mamma now,*
said Edie, as her brother entered,
after his stroll in the
Park.

What is he like ?'

An ugly man. I only caught a glimpse
of him.'

Was the mans agitated, poor darling ?'

I could see she was, but he would not.'

They talked while Edie sat working.

We are good friends now, princess, aren't
we ?'

So long as you don't annoy me — quite.'

Mayn't I speak ?'

Not of lier, nor of any of the hateful
people. I loathe them — reptiles !'

The word seemed so humorously inaccurate
to describe Miss Palliser that Hugh
laughed out. His sister flashed a glance at
him.

I ought not to have laughed,' he said
penitently. ' I.et us talk of something else.
Give me your opinion of Dunscombe.'

It has not chant-ed.'

I am glad to hear that. Never allow
yourself to be persuaded, dear. I do believe
that he loves you ; but — why, you
colour!'

Girls sometimes do, when brusquely told
that gentlemen are in love. But under no
circumstances could I get beyond a moderate
liking for Lord Dunscombe.'

Speaking without any reference to him
at all, I don't think you are capable of love,
Edie. Something like half the gilded youth

of England have passed before your eyes,
and not one have you looked at twice.'

Perhaps I don't care for gilded youth ;
perhaps, as you say, my character is deficient.
It doesn't matter much, either
^vay.'

Oh, was that what you meant last night
by saying, " I never will " ? Do you think
there is no man worthy of 3'ou? Mind,
little sister, I don't think there are many.'

There are thousands and millions ! It
doesn't matter what I mean. No one has
shown the right to ask me at present — no
one, that is, who has claimed it.'

You may stand in another light, princess,
if Saxell carries off your fortune.'

In that point of view, then, I shall not
regret the loss.'

You want a hero, child — just as if you
were only sixteen ! There are not many
heroes about.'

Then I'll contentedly put up with my

silly brother !' she laughed. ' But please
understand that I don't want anyone, hero
or boor. If 1 did, he would be something
quite different from Lord Dunscombe.'

We are both agreed on that point. If
I had not felt sure, I should not have mentioned
his feeling.'

I am not complimented. Lord Duns-combe
is a pleasant acquaintance, and I
know no harm of him. But I sometimes
think that, if one went much below the
surface, one would find ugly depths. — This
conversation is very unedifying, Hughie.
Let us change it.'

'No; I want to hear your views. No
girl is incapable of love, and you least of
any. Describe your ideal !'

Oh dear ! I declare I have not the
shadow of one! What is the meaning of
this cross-examination ? Are you trying —
I do believe you are '

'What?'

To get hints from me for your own
use.'

What an absurd idea ! But what
then?'

I don't know what then.'

There are limits to feminine ingenuity.
Now, describe your hero.'

One need not be modest with one's little
brother. I am worth a true man's winning,
not without trouble and self-distrust. A
true man is brave, and thoughtful, and
kind; light-hearted because he is fearless,
ready because his intellect is trained, and
kind because he is good. I have not
analyzed my ideal beyond these points.'

You have gone quite deep enough to
exclude most men. It's lucky that girls in
general are not so exacting.'

I knew you were trying me !'

Perhaps I want to suggest a friend.'

Spare us all three ! If I could love
any man, I don't wish to find him.'

Have you made up your precious little
mind never to marry ? It is too absurd !'

Why ? One girl in every three does
not marry, as somebody calculates.'

Girls like you are outside of calculations.
But have you made up your mind ?'

There is no need ! If I have met my
hero, he did not show interest in me, and I
did not recognise him. So prepare yourself
to see me remain on hand, like a priceless
diamond in a shop, which no queen happens
to see, and no subject can afford to buy !'

And which the unbusiness-like jeweller
cherishes and admires so fondly that in his
heart he dreads a royal visit, lest the Queen
should be tempted. There's a pretty speech
for a brother ! And all true !'

You have gleams of reason, my darling
Hughie,' said Miss Acland, laughing and
blushing. ' The priceless diamond is very
happy in its nest, and only afraid that the
jeweller will desert it.'

By-the-bye, I saw Bob Holmes last
night. Poor Prince is really going to seek
consolation for his disappointment in West
Africa.'

I am very sorry for Major Prince. He
is a noble fellow. Surely West Africa is a
dreadful country to travel in !'

Bob wanted me to join them, and I
should have been awfully tempted had I
been free. The climate is healthy when
you leave the coast.'

You would not have had the heart to
abandon us, Hughie !'

I don't know ! Think of the excitement
and the novelty ! Here comes the mans !
Well, dear ?'

The interview has been painful, but
conclusive, I hope. Don't ask any questions
yet, dear Hugh.'

Her children comforted her with loving
words and kisses.

I think I shall not have to see him

again,' said Mrs. Acland. ' AVill you ring
the bell, Hugh ? If Edie can go with me,
I should like a drive.'

I am not invited ?' liuo^h asked, laughing,
but rather sore.

Not because I do not love you as well,
my son,' Mrs. Acland exclaimed with
emphasis. ' You are both equally dear tome.
But Edie will sit quiet and still,
giving me only a little pressure of the
hand and a look ; you would shuffle and
talk and kindly try to distract me — in short,
you would be a kind, good son, and you
would brinfic me home more tired than I
set out.'

Had ever man such a charming, false,
dear, Machiavelli mother ! There ! I
will leave you to feminine wiles and consolations.
Good-bye, sweetest mans !'

He went to seek Dunscombe. After
employing a man's servant in dubious
ways, the merest courtesy exacts that an

account be given. So Hugh said to himself,
but in fact he was influenced as much
by the longing to talk things over with an
experienced friend. It was not heroic, but
none of my characters make that pretension.
They have no more of the delicacy or
chivalry we read about than other people.
Huo-h's feelings towards Grace was far below
the point of intensity which forbids a youth
to name the object of his pure love. The fun
and excitement of the chase still counted for
much, and he told his story with humour.

Upon my soul,' said Dunscombe, ' when
you move you go apace ! This is the
young fellow who rebukes simple-minded
men like me !'

The cases are utterly different,' said
Hugh, with sudden gravity. ' But we are
not going to discuss yours. I have the
Countess's invitation for the ball. A thousand
thanks, Dunscombe. Has Mrs. Saxell
accepted, do you know ?'

Of course. We are all going up next
Friday to arrange for welcoming Ralph
with clue honour at Daneham. If you have
nothing better to do, come with us.'

Hugh consented gladly, and in due time
found himself in a railway carriage with
Lady Rainforth and ber daughter Madge ;
Carruthers, to whom that young lady was
engaged ; General the Hon. George Randall
and his wife ; Paul Randall, a cousin, and
Dunscombe.

Lord Rainforth prided himself on being a
Dalesman. After a stormy }-outli and a
penitent middle-age, he had settled, philosophic
and contented, in the old home,
among grey fells waist-deep in bracken,
sunny copses of oak and birch, dark pine
woods. Neither wife nor children dwelt
with him, now that Ralph had married.
Lady Rainforth argued that as she had
borne no part in the errors deplored, she
could not be justly called upon to share

the penance ; and her husband accepted
this reasoning. But all paid frequent visits
to Daneham, and the family met upon
kindly terms. Lord Eainforth preferred
his second son, observing too many of his
own foibles in the elder. When Dunscombe
was a very young ' sub ' in India, he had
been named extra A.D.C. to the Viceroy,
and his prospects were excellent. But he
fell into one of those blatant scandals which
cannot be overlooked, though charitable
persons scarcely blame a boy who is the
victim. In self-reproach and anger, Duns-combe
sent in his papers, and returned to
lead an utterly useless life at home.

Hugh had met all his companions saving
the General, but they appeared in a new
character to-day — the old ladies frank and
motherly; Lady Madge still tired with last
night's ball, but willing to be amused ; the
young men in high spirits.

Lady Hainforth observed to Hugh : ' You
VOL. I. 11

are warned that you will meet foes on our
neutral ground ?'

Mrs. Saxell and Miss Palliser Lave
nothing to do With the question.'

Has Grace turned out as pretty as she
promised?' asked ]airs. Randall. Duns-combe's
lips mutely framed ' The loveliest
girl in the world !' but the General replied :

If she promised she has kept her word
better than most young ladies do. But you
are wrong, Mr. Acland, in thinking that
she has no interest in Captain Saxell's
claim. It is an act of charity to warn all
you young civilians that Miss Palliser has
chosen the long sword, saddle, bridle, and
all the other accoutrements of the honest
soldier !'

Dear me !' exclaimed his wife, ' all the
accoutrements — already ?'

• I allude to the ornamental ones, my
dear, sung by poets.'

But the poet has sung of certain other

imminent and deadly togs, in express allusion
to the soldier,' murmured Carruthers.

His advice to your sort, sir, was to pen
your mistress's eyebrow. Go do it, and
don't blaspheme.'

Oh, let me pen your eyebrow, Madge !
It is my duty ! Countess, use your
authority !'

You have set this silly young man's
brain whirling, General. He will talk of
penning my eyebrows for a week.'

Whilst all were laughing and chatting
gaily, Hugh sat aghast. Dunscombe observed
him, and said :

You don't tell us who the lucky soldier
is, General?'

Captain Saxell, of course — Major Saxell,
Y.C., I should say — the hero of Abdallah
Karez and the pride of our county. Here's
last night's *' Gazette !" Promotion and
the Cross in one number. That's glory —
and luck !'

11—2

I remember him as a boy,' said Lady
Rainforth, ' He was full of spirit and fun

We saw him in India,' observed Mrs.
Randall, ' It was at a dak bungalow somewhere.*


At How, my dear, when we were going
to Gwalior. He had tiffin with us.'

I remember him very well. A handsome
figure of a soldier, full of spirits —
though he had trouble enough you told me.
General.'

Poverty was his only complaint, my
dear. Although he is opposed to our young
friend in a matter of business, I must say I
love Dick Saxell.'

If the brave deserve the fair,' said Lady
Rainforth, ' he and Grace Palliser are well
matched.'

If !' exclaimed Carruthers — ' do you
throw doubt on the poet's authority ?
Madge will never let me pen her eyebrows
now, and life becomes a weary blank.'

With such composure as he could summon,
Hugh observed :

They told us Major Saxell had been
eight or ten years in Lydia.'

Something like it. He went out with
St. Paul, who has commanded the battery
since — let me see — 1873, I think.'

And he has not been home ?' Lady
Madge exclaimed. ' Grace is only eighteen
now. He must have won her heart by
letter.'

Proposed through the post, as Pyramus
did to Thisbe,' cried Carruthers.

I should scarcely call it an engagement
under the circumstances,' Dunscombe said.
Suggestion is the strongest word appropriate.
There's a chance for gay civilians
yet, General!'

Not against this !' cried the old warrior,
waving his ' Gazette ' triumphantly. ' This
will defeat your heartless schemes to rob
the war-worn soldier of his bride! AYhat

are your airs and graces beside her Majesty's
public acknowledgment of a man's valour,
judgment, and — good fortune ? Crawl into
holes and hide yourselves, you young landholders
and counter-jumpers, when the
successful soldier clanks by !'

My dear General, you carry an old joke
too far.'

No ! We are all Randall here except
Carruthers, who has taken advantage of the
family degeneracy. Where is the soldier
amongst them? Don't interrupt ! an old
man of the last generation, who has not
been lucky, though he — I won't be interrupted,
I\Iartha! There's Dunscombe, our
future chief! He began life like a Randall,
but — what do you sa'? Oh, I beg ten
thousand pardons, Mr. Acland! We were
talking so freely and pleasantly that I forgot
you were not one of the family.'

I am flattered, General ! Pray don't
bring me down to my level by an apology!'

Level be hand-ed, sir ! If it comes to
that, what I said about a Randall applies to
an Acland. Why is an Acland a civilian ?
I mean the head of the house. I knew
your grandfather and your great-uncle —
they were soldiers. I often met your father.
If he had lived and prospered you would
have been one of us, no doubt ; but loafing
Sandals and others of the sort have corrupted
you.'

Dear General, we don't mind you at all;
but may I point out that my mother is
trying to go to sleep), and that Madge is
softly dreaming?'

This would be a favourable opportunity
to pen her eyebrow, don't you think ?'

Oh, go to sleep, cuckoo !'

Silence for an hour ; then intervals of
wakefulness, for casual refreshment, and
more light talk. Hugh did his best to take
part in it, but he was miserable. The announcement
that Grace was enijfaafed, and

lost to him, suddenly stirred his amused
admiration into hot love. Unreasonable,
but very natural.

In the afternoon they reached Preston,
where the Earl was waiting — a biic, clear-eyed,
white-whiskered chieftain. He shook
hands with the General, nodded all round,
kissed his daughter, and carried off her
ladyship for a drive tete-astute.

I have hinted that Lord Rainforth was
an eccentric philosopher. ' You will not be
introduced till this evening-^' Dunscombe
whispered to his friend. ' There are some
family regulations I must explain.'

Daneham Castle lies about ten miles
from Preston, a house as pleasant as maybe
found in the pleasant North country.
No trace of Gothic does it show, saving the
Peele House at the back, a memorial of
times when Randall was no better than
Elliot or Forster or Armstrong. Not once
nor twice had the head of the family been

suspended over that massive portal, before a
canny Randall came to power avIio profited
by the warning, and sought less dangerous
means of prosecuting ends identical. That
he and his successors did not search in vain
is proved by the stately pile Avliich masks
their antique donjon. The Italian architect
who designed it, in the middle of the last
century, wept and raged when forbidden to
demolish the Peele House. He declared ita
' naughtiness,' a shameless crime. But
the Rainforth of the day was firm. demonstrations
could not move his barbaric
soul, and sarcasm he met with oaths. So
the Peele House was not touched. It could
not be made to harmonize with the reproduction
of some Grand Ducal palace in
Tuscany, and the architect did his best to
hide it behind the central block of his palatial
castle.

Whilst Lord Rainforth and the others
alighted" at the Italian portico, Dunscombe

and Hugh drove on, past the facade and
the west Having, and drew up at the squat old
gateway of the Tower.

You must know,' said Dunscombe,
alighting, ' that the heir-apparent has occupied
this original seat of our family since
the castle was built. As soon as a Duns-combe
comes of age, he takes up these quarters,
and there he entertains whom he pleases,
subject to rules which I must explain.'

The grim and hoary arch had been made
as cheerful as circumstances allowed with
Indian matting, bright tiles, flowers and
hangings; but it was very old-world still.
A narrow slit on either side gave admittance
to a vault-like corridor, with nooks in the
thickness of the wall, to shelter a few desperate
defenders when the gates were forced.
The chambers to which it led, and the dungeons
at the back, were used by servants, and
for storage. A straight, steep staircase ascended
from the guard-room to the great

hall, where it ended abruptly behind a
screen of modern raising. Following Duns-combe
through the doorway of carved oak,
Hugh stood in admiration. The hall was
of no great size, though it occupied all the
area of the building. At this floor the
ancient staircase had been cut away, and its
well ' marked by the screen referred to.
In the space gained by destruction of the
massive wall and steps, two large Tudor
windows, commanding a delightful scene,
lighted the whole apartment, which had
been dark at summer noon when dependent
on the narrow meurtrieres. They now were
filled with glass, of colours pale and subdued,
but deep enough to shut out the
Italian palace. By either side of each stood
a suit of armour, not dusty and loose-jointed,
but gleaming as on a day of battle,
and set in attitudes easy and significant.
And everything about the room was, or
seemed to be, in harmony with those antique

trophies ; even the lounging-chairs, of which
the springs and cushions had been cunningly
fitted upon antique frames. The tables
shining like black mirrors, the cabinets, the
pictures, the flower-pots, even the ash-trays
and cigar-stands, were genuine bits of moyen-age,
fitted sometimes to another use. The
only things modern, but these not incongruous,
were the stairs of beaten brass
which wound spirally upward, and the
carpets of Turkestan ; which latter, being
Oriental, differed but in age from those
that a Randall Crusader mij^ht have brou<2rht
from the Holy Land.

It is the most perfect thing I ever saw 1'
Huo'h exclaimed. ' All so elegant and
bright, though grave ! You must have
passed years in Ward our Street!'

Oh, so many Buncombe had given
their minds to furnishing the Peele House
there was little for me to do ! Come and
see your room !'

They mounted the brazen steps to a floor
above, divided into six rooms, small, but as
prettily modern as Gothic windows and
three-foot walls will allow. Above this
were servants' rooms.

There's time for a cigarette and a brandy
and soda without killing sour appetite,'
said Dunscombe, as they returned to the
hall. ' I must make you acquainted with
the rather curious usages of our family.
You understand that this tower belong's to
the Dunscombe of the moment. His guests
are his own ; he may or may not introduce
them over the way, and the Lord Rainforth
of the moment may or may not recognise
them. Although the governor and I have
never had an unfriendly word, he is a
stickler for precedent, and he keeps up all
the formalities. I shall presently take you
across and introduce you, and he will ask
you to dinner. I shall mention that you
are staying some days, and he will solemnly

express a hope that whenever I honour his
table you will accompany me. The first
time you see him, every day, 3'ou will
remind him of this standing invitation ; and
he will graciously assure you of welcome.
Vary the form as ingeniously as you can ;
the dear old fellow likes niceties of that
sort.'

How very droll and curious !'
For exceptional entertainments you will
receive a special invitation ; to the ball you
are already asked. Then, you must tell
your servant not to enter the front door;
even if you forget while in the castle, and
send for him, he must not do it. He may
go to the servants' hall, and anywhere at
the back, as much as he pleases. Under no
circumstances must you ask a person staying
at the castle into this tower. If you want
to do so, you must apply to me and I will
invite him, after asking my father's permission.


These rules seem odd, but they were all
devised at one time or another by the practical
experience of our ancestors, and a story
hangs to each of them. That forbidding
Dunscombe to invite Rainforth's guests
without his knowledge and consent dates
from a tragic legend which I will tell you
one day. Now I think you are posted, and
it is time to dress.'

The General has taken away my appetite,'
said Hugh dismally.

Oh, the rivalry of a man in India, not
seen for eight years, is not very alarming !'

They went to the house together, entering
by a side-door.

This walk,' said Dunscombe, * is the
objection to a very pleasant arrangement.
For generations we have talked of covering
it in, but when Dunscombe becomes Rain-forth
he always fears the innovation.'

Even intimate acquaintance with great
nobles in London scarcely prepares a man

to behold them Avitli indifference arrayed in
all their glory at home. ] Jarring an unconscious
disregard of money, and a matter-of-fact
luxury in details, it had not struck
Hugh that Dunscombe was remarkable
amongst young men of gentlemanly position.
Xow it suddenly came home to him
what a grand personage is an English lord
of ancient birth and fortune. ISTot the
superb house nor the train of servants
impressed him much — a lucky financier has
these things as splendid. It was the careless
sense of continuity with ancestors in
mail and wig, the allusion to historic names
and deeds quorum pars magna fait every
Randall and every Dunscombe, in the person
of his forefathers. Hugh was a gentleman
by birth, of ancient lineage. His name and
his forefathers were not unknown ; but the'
had served in the ranks, as it were, whither
this kingly race had led.

We have the portrait of an Acland in

our gallery said Dunscombe. ' She married
I forget; the governor knows, perhaps.
Ah, if your sister could be influenced by
the precedent, how diligently would I get
it up !'

When they reached the drawing-room the
ceremonies indicated were duly performed.
It was a small dinner. The elder ladies did
not appear, few of the house-guests had
arrived, and for such a late entertainment
no one of the neighbourhood had been invited.
Hugh sat next to General Randall,
who said :

Dunscombe has asked me to smoke my
cheroot in his quarters to-night. I am
pleased to make acquaintance with the third
generation of your family. Is the shooting
at Worstanan kept up as it used to
be?'

Come and report, sir. You knew my
father, then ?'

Slightly. You* great-uncle commanded

VOL. I. 12

the tooth when I joined. He was on good
terms with his brother then, your grandfather.
Hugh's death was vers sad. How
is Mrs. Acland ?'

Do you know ner, too ?'

Didn't the wedding take place in my
drawling-room? She has never mentioned
that? Ay, sad to think of now ! Sad
story altogether !*

Hugh did not show the astonishment
he felt. ' My mother,' he said, ' does not
allude to those times willingly. I have
heard very little about them. Will you
tell me all you can think of?'

It's very little, but you're welcome to
what I remember.'

Ashen dinner ended. Dunscombe ceremoniously
asked permission of his father to
entertain the General. It was granted ; and
whilst the other gentlemen adjourned to
billiards, these three withdrew to the Peele
House. i

No alterations, eh ? No new old pots
or kettles? You spend your pocket-money
less innocently.'

Improvement is not possible, surely !*
said Hugh.

Humph ! Upon these matters the
opinion of the elder and the younger generation
seldom coincide. Put in another
form, Rainforth seldom approves of Duns-combe's
proceedings. And that brings us
to the subject of your family, Mr. Acland.
I've been trying to recall my memories of
your father,' the General continued, thoughtfully
inspecting his cheroots. 'He was a
baby when I first saw him at Worstanan, and
little more when I went to India. What a
fuss everybody made over the heir! And
they tell me that not a soul troubled himself
to ascertain whether he was living or
dead twenty-five years later ! There's a
moral in that.'

I observed, in my short military career,'

12—2

said Dunscombe, ' that field-officers are
always immensely interested in morals —
Lord, what a slip ! I hit the blot myself,
General ! In mercy spare us a play on
words !'

The General answered only with a look.

I recollect meeting your father in 1855,
when I took leave from India. He was at
Oxford then — a fine, dashing young fellow.
It was Acland's great misfortune that he
did not enter the service. That would
have smoothed him over. Your family are
knotty, very — that is, they were.'

Soli said that my father was married
in your house. How did that happen ?'

Ah, it was a chain of circumstances, of
which I can tell you only a little bit. I
got home again in August of the ]mutiny
year, fell in love on the voyage, and, as
soon as I recovered, chose hunting-quarters
within reach of the lady. Xo need to look
at me, Dunscombe ! You are very well

acquainted with her, for she is my wife.
I took a box by Laystone, of a man named
Beaver. One day the parson called with a
note from him, saying that he had promised
to allow Hugh Acland to be married in his
drawing-room ; but it Alas found inconvenient,
and would I lend them a corner
somewhere ? You will guess that I had a
kind of unreasoning sympathy for young
folks in that position, but I refused to hear
of it without the authority of Acland's
parents. The parson urged me, and then
your father came. He showed a letter of
my friend Pete's (that was your great-uncle),
which, so far as I remember, told
him pretty well to go to the devil his own
way, and enclosed a cheque for a wed ding -
present. I have hinted that Pete and his
brother, your grandfather, were on bad terms
then. I wrote to both of them, and neither
answered. So, to cut the matter short,
your father and mother were married one

day in the parlour of my cottage. Beaver
and I and an old woman were the witnesses,
and we all wore pink and tops — that is, the
men did. After the ceremony we rode to
the meet, had a fine run, and got home fora
wedding dinner. It was all your father's
idea, and a good one. You might have
thought it was no marriage at all, but justa
gathering of old friends for a domestic
tableau vivant, so to speak. The oddest
and the prettiest wedding I ever saw, but
Martha wouldn't consent to follow the
example. AYhat a charming woman Mrs.
Acland was — is still, I'll be bound, for
hers is a type that lasts ! Your father was
a handsome man too. I didn't see them
afterwards, I think. So that's all I can tell
you.'

*l'm very much obliged to you, General.
The clergyman's name was Hardwicke, I
suppose ?'

'Hardwicke it was, of course. A lively

fellow for a parson — full of spirits, I mean.
Pie made us all laugh with his speech after
dinner.'

Did you see much of your landlord,
Beaver ?'

ISTot much. I dined once at Beaverlowe
with the most extraordinary crowd of
lunatics you could find in an asylum.
There were all sorts and all conditions of
men, but all mad. Beaver himself was too
clever by half — one of those fellows you
don't know where to have. It always
seems an odd thin<x to me how well I
recollect that man, though I saw so little of
him.'

So fast or so dull ?' asked Dunscombe.

That wasn't it either way. What I
seem to remember is his queerness ; but he
rode like a devil. Perhaps it was his
wealth and old blood that struck me, when
such an odd chap carried them, you know.
But I really couldn't say much about

Beaver. He was above my understanding,
and I didn't see more of him than could be
helped, after making up my mind to that.
Is he alive ?'

T believe so. AVe hope he will be able
to give valuable evidence in the case.'

I trust you will find him a willing
witness then, for I fancy Beaver would
be awkward to drive. Now, you young
fellows are going to make a night of it, I
suppose ? Very proper at your time of life,
but at mine we prefer the daylight while we
can enjoy it.'

When they were alone, Dunscombe asked
how the suit was progressing, and Hugh
frankly told what he knew. In the narrative
it became disagreeably apparent to
himself what large gaps his ignorance was
compelled to leave, and the other's questions
irritated him. Again, Int by bit, Hugh's
grievances came out — how the inquiry
seemed to be carried on above his head,

how there were secrets, how parts of Raises's
diary had been suppressed by Vane with
Mrs. Acland's concurrence. When all had
been told, Dunscombe himself rebuked the
imprudence.

You really must learn,' he said, with
kindly gravity, ' to control that frank
tongue of yours, Hugh ! With me there's
no harm done, of course, for I'm almost as
much interested as if the case was my own.
But the other side might be very pressing
to know what was in those papers suppressed.'


Why, Yane suppressed them with
Saxell's knowledge !' Hugh exclaimed ;
but he already felt his silliness.

Saxell, I understand, is a chivalrous
sort of enemy, but he's not the only one.
I've been talking to people who know his
mother, and what they tell of her leads
me to think that she won't stand on chivalry
when her time comes. Take my advice !

I've learned some prudence in hard schooling,
Hugh. If I'd not been as honest us
you are nou', I shouldn't be fretting my life
away, ruiribd by a woman. That knocks
the innocence out of a man, with a
vengeance ! Don't say one word about
your business to anybody here — not even
to the General. He's a fine old soldier, but
old soldiers who have nothing to do are
the worst mischief-makers on earth. Xow
let's change the conversation !'

AN ESCAPADE.

.0 fashionable persons summoned
from town in the waning height
of the season, beauties of nature
appeal in vain. Among the victims brought
down by Lady Rainforth in her suite, a
general sense of ill-usage rose so early as
next day. No preparations had been made
for their amusement beside, as Dunscombe
put it, a rapturous imagining of Ralph's
return, beatified and married. Lord Rain-forth
thought he had done all the duty of a
host when he had conscientiously inspected
the stable, the larder, and the cellar of a

After that, lie vanished till
dinner-time, and Dunscombe made no
effort to replace his father. As the breadth
and grandeur of the festivity designed
became more evident, his discontent swelled
visibly.

Upon the third day, at breakfast, Car-withers
raised his voice.

Dear Lady Rainforth,' he began, ' as a
disinterested party, I am commissioned to
beg that you will find some pleasing mischief
for these young men to do. Their
hands are idle, and they have been brought
up in the fear of the Evil One. Couldn't you
ask some of the ladies invited to the ball to
come a few days earlier ?'

I should think ]airs. Saxell and Grace
might be tempted, mamma !' said Madge.

*We will carry the invitations!' Britain
exclaimed. ' The General weill sketch out a
plan, and we irresponsible bachelors will
execute his strategy. Carruthers — oh, Carruthers

will head the assault with his
smile. Ladies yield at discretion to his
smile.'

Prudent boys tremble at his frown I
Remember, dear Lady Rainforth, that you
will at least be rid of these offensive youths
until dinner-time.'

It is worth while to try, dear. Write

notes to ' Mrs. This and Miss That,

with whom our story has no concern.

The young men rode away in high spirits
The cottage at Scarsholme was their first
point of attack ; Hugh made an excuse,
and waited at the inn. When they returned
\^dth Mrs. Saxell's assent, they had a
theme for rhapsody which lasted the afternoon.


If manhood suffrage was not an empty
farce,' said Grisain, ' Miss Palliser would be
elected member for the county.'

She is Avorth}^ of a House to herself, I
should think ! How gladly would I give

lier mine, with all the worldly goods that a
pernicious monetary System has left me !'
cried Phil Randall.

We would make \ierjeu7ie Premiere of an
adoring party,' continued Grisain.

I dare say she would prefer the Home
Office,' said Dunscombe.

And all agreed that Miss Palliser was
the loveliest girl in the world. Duns-combe
smiled at Hugh as he added,
Excepting one !'

'Excepting one!' hastily interposed carruthers.


Excepting one !' Grisain murmured, in
romantic reverie.

Oh, I except one too, for the sake of
harmony!' grumbled Philip.

And I don't except any at all beneath
the angels !' cried Hugh.

All looked at him, and laughed.

'Why, you ' began Carruthers, and

paused.

Didn't ' softly continued Phil.

See her !' ended Grisain meditatively.

I trust your unanimous judgment V
Hugh said.

They absently exclaimed ' Oh! that's it!'
one after another, and dropped the subject.


Hugh's heart beat violently as he entered
the drawing-room next day. Instinct
guided his eye amongst the ladies present,
and the first person he saw was Grace,
seated by her aunt. After paying Lord
Kainforth the compliments rigorously expected
every evening, he was quite overcome
by nervousness ; but Dunscombe took
his arm, pinching it severely, and led him
up to the encounter. Mrs. Saxell, forewarned,
recognised her visitor with a strong-look
of displeasure.

Madge, General Randall, and Carruthers,
whom Dunscombe had made accomplices,
executed a strategic movement which

covered the operation, and his lordship
assumed a diplomatic tone.

I am taking a liberty, Mrs. Saxell,
which your generous nature will understand,
if it cannot approve. Loyal and
chivalrous enemies are the best friends off
the battle-field. I wish to make known to
each other two persons whom all of their
acquaintance esteem. Let me present to
you Mr. Hugh Acland.'

A dozen emotions had passed visibly
across the old lady's face, but Dunscombe's
speech, carefully framed and rehearsed,
resolved them all to grim acquiescence.
How could she remain hostile when credited
with loyal and chivalrous sentiments ? —
how explain that she had turned out of
doors a friend of Lord Dunscombe ? Mrs.
Saxell smiled acidly and bowed.

Then Grace had not told her of the
meeting in Hyde Park ! Immensely relieved,
Hugh made his Speech in turn.

I beg you, Mrs. Saxell, to obliterate a
recollection of which I am deeply ashamed.
With all my heart I congratulate the
mother of a noble foe upon the honours he
has won.'

Your remarks are very gracefully turned,
sir,' said Mrs. Saxell, relenting ; they
should be, Dunscombe thought, when he
took an hour polishing them. ' I willingly
forget the occurrence ; and I am obliged to
your lordship for giving me an opportunity
to thank Mr. Acland for the kind message
his mother sent us through Mr.
Vane.'

Dinner was announced ; Dunscombe
offered his arm.

Will you take Miss Palliser, Hugh ?' he
said.

During this time Grace had held herself
ostentatiously outside the conversation,
showing the whitest, earliest of shoulders,
but the coldest too.

VOL. I. 13

I lia^'e not — er — hum !' murmured
Hugh.

Will you carry your kindness — er —
hum ?' murmured Dunscombe to Mrs.
Saxell.

Grace, my love, Mr. Hugh Acland offers
you his arm.'

She looked up with such freezing power
in her eyes that Hugh shivered. The
others turned — all the room was mo\^ntr.
Those only remained still ; Hugh speechless.


I will take your arm said Grace,
rising, ' but not in sign of forgiveness.'

You can never say anything so hard as
I have said to myself.'

You have said nothing to yourself so
hard as you deserve. I did not know then
what a horrid insult you put upon me. I
have asked since.'

My conduct was foolish and indelicate,
but surely if it had been wilfully insulting

i

you would have felt it so before others told
you.'

This argument seemed to strike Miss
Palliser. She sat down without reply.

I was so pleased to hear of Captain
Saxell's promotion and his cross.'

Grace said nothing, but ate her soup
with a frank enjoyment unusual but delicious
to observe. *I wish I was that spoon !'
thought Huo^h.

He tried again.

Your stay in London was very
short.'

It gave me some experience.'

Which longer acquaintance would
possibly not confirm. Grievous mistakes
are made upon insufficient knowledge.'

A slight knowledge contents me, and
it matters very little whether I make mistakes
or not.'

Be merciful !' Hugh whispered. ' I
implore you to believe in my penitence.'

13—2

She threw a keen look into his eyes, and
softly laughed.

I quite believe you don't like snubbing.
There ! I forgive, because it is not worth
while to resent.'

After that they chatted very smoothly
and gaily. Grace did not conceal her
interest in the dinner, which she criticized
with dainty science. Hugh's ignorance
diverted her.

Don't you love nice things ?' she said.
I adore them all — dress and flowers and
jewellery — in short, all that money will
buy. I was born wicked, and no one has
succeeded in converting me.'

Any change would be for the worse !'
exclaimed Hugh enthusiastically.

You mean by that foolish speech that
my personal appearance meets with your
approval. I was referring to my character,
of which sou know less than nothing.'

Less than nothing !'

Yes, for what you think you know is
all wrong.'

Will you enlighten my ignorance ?'

I am egotistical enough to do so — that's
one point. I am extravagant, frivolous,
really incapable of thought — unless like a
savage, for some object visible and strongly
desired. Then I am as inquisitive as a
monkey; selfish — but I can't remember all
the list at once.'

And the good points ?'

They are all qualified by a negative
condition. I am good-tempered, so long as
nothing puts me out. 1 am kind-hearted,
when not asked to take trouble or to
sacrifice my own pleasure. I am liberal
and forgiving, because I can't look far
ahead nor far behind. And courageous,
because I am a Dales woman.'

I have listened attentively, but I do not
see the weight of your self-accusation.
All the bad qualities you claim are shared

by nine hundred and ninety-nine girls in a
thousand ; and statistics tell us that the
remaining one is an idiot.'

Oh, thank you ! It is such a relief to
find that one is thoroughly commonplace
and ordinary !'

I said that your evil qualities were
shared by all other women. Your virtues
are your own.'

But when I tell you I have none !'

It proves that you have frankness and
modesty — which are two to begin with.
You must know a few girls. Are many
angelic !'

No ; most of them are silly and
cowardly.'

Then you have two more virtues above
the girls of your acquaintance. Two pairs and
a flush is considered a good hand at poker.'

You mean that I should do fairly as a
housemaid ? AVe dilute truth in these
parts.'

'No, indeed ! I hazarded a little jest
drawn from the fashionable game of cards.
It meant that a player blest with your hand
would face any fortune.'

You have an unfair advantage,' answered
Grace, laughing and blushing. ' I
don't know the game. It is one that seems
to lend itself to equivoque.'

Therefore is it called " poker " — an instrument
proper to the cheery fireside, but
the readiest of weapons in a fray.'

Please express your wit in the terms of
cribbage ; there I can follow you.'

Then I decline. There is a hostile
science in your tone, and I feel " one for
my nob " already threatening. Let us
resume the former subject, which had a
balmy fascination for both. You are not
more wicked than is becoming. Miss
Palliser.'

Your impertinent rattle amuses me.
Frankly, Mr. Acland, I didn't think you

so ready. We didn't observe the quality
at Scarsliolme.'

Not many actors could double the part
of Coriolanus with Romeo.'

I don't understand ! But please spare
me the explanation. I'll look it up. Lord
Rainforth has Dr. Johnson's works, I suppose.'


Coriolanus is not Johnson's. It was
composed by AY. Shakespeare Thackeray,
music by Sir John Smart.'

Oh, thank you ! But even in the Park
you were not really droll — not intentionally,
I mean.'

A man is not intentionally droll when
he is frightened to death. But I fondly
thought I had some pleasing conceits.'

I observed the conceit. It was not
pleasing in my opinion. Tell me now, Air.
Acland, how did you find out where we
were staying ? Did Mr. Vane tell you ?'

Does the homing pigeon consult a

weather-cock ? Instinct guides him in a
manner he cannot explain — at least, I
never heard a pigeon give a lucid and
categorical analysis of his method.'

I am quite serious in asking this.
When I forgave you, it slipped my memory.
But I expect an answer.'

Upon your own head be it, then ! Is
your modesty so unsuspicious that you
think people would not notice you passing,
nor speak of you afterwards ? I am afraid,
Miss Palliser, you will find it difficult to
preserve incognito in London. It may be
done in these parts, but not in an appreciative
centre of civilization.'

Oh 1 Then the policeman at the corner,
or a friend at the Club, or somebody told
you !'

I may answer, " Yes." '

You may answer anything. We will
change the conversation. Are you Lord
Rainforth's guest or Lord Dunscombe's ?'

Dunscombe's, and we live disconsolate
at the Peele House.'

So I thought. Now, you wish to merit
forgiveness, as I understand ?'

I merit it already, by all Protestant
doctrines.'

By faith ? It is always an error, I
believe, to try to rule mankind, and more
especially womankind, by theological dogma.
I insist upon works in profane matters.
Persuade Lord Dunscombe to give a tea-party
at the Peele House. He does sometimes
— that is, he has done so.'

It is a small request, and one that does
not depend on me. Impose something
greater.'

I shall be quite satisfied and forgiving
if you succeed. I have never seen the
Peele House — oh dear, there's Lady Eain-
forth signalling, and I have not sipped this
delicious claret; now that opportunity is
lost! How disappointing life is !'

With a rustle of dresses the ladies rose
to leave, but Dunscombe arrested the movement.
He said :

The gardener begs Lord llainforth tolet
him know what colours or combinations
are desired in the bouquets he has to
furnish for Thursday. If every gentleman
will note down the ideas of the lady next
him we shall get the information in two
minutes.'

What is your notion, Miss Palliser ?'
Hugh asked.

Oh, my bouquet should be white and
flimsy, to match Dacca muslin. As transparent
as possible. Tea-roses, azaleas, if
he has any left ; and trimmed with two
tints in blue, light and dark.'

'I quite understand. Whether the resources
of botany run to two shades of
blue is the gardener's question.'

Any respectable milliner would supply
me with two hundred ! Don't profanely

suppose that Nature has a more limited
stock.'

It is the milliner's business, you know,
to meet ladies* fancies.'

And what do you suppose flowers are
intended for ?'

I haven't the faintest notion,' he replied.
Perhaps they are meant to suit the fancies
of humble bees.'

What a wicked thought ! Humble bees
know their place better. Wild flowers are
quite good enough for them, but woman
must have variety and choice. The
wonders of horticulture are meant for
us.'

When the ladies withdrew, Dunscombe
moved to the bottom of the table and
signalled Hugh to take a place beside him.
The notes were handed in, with pleasant
comments.

It seems to me,' said Dunscombe, * that
Miss Palliser has the most distinct idea

what she wants. I could arrange the
bouquet myself.'

*I hope she may get it,' murmured
Hugh.

Is it all made up ?' Dunscombe
whispered.

The offence ? Yes. It was only skin-deep.'


Well then, be satisfied ! I have been
watching you, my boy. Don't get beyond
your depth.'

Why not ? It's mighty pleasant
swimming.'

You may easily push out too far to
return. Miss Palliser is a born flirt, Hugh,
and these unconscious man-eaters are the
most dangerous.'

Miss Palliser is not unconscious. Far
from it.'

I'm glad you can regard her critically.
Leave it to Saxell, among your other ill-wishes
for him, to verify the analysis.'

What has prejudiced you against her ?'

I thought this was all fun, as innocent
for you as I'll be bound it is for Miss
Palliser. But it seems to me that you are
getting serious, and I don't like it.'

Why ?'

In the first place, this young lady is
eno^acred.'

You said yourself that the engagement
must be a farce.'

In one sense, but you have nothing todo
with that. In your interest I have been
talking to Lady Seagrim, who is clever but
not malicious. Miss Palliser can count her
scalps in this neighbourhood. She lends
herself to any degree of admiration, but
when a young fellow follows the natural
course, after so much encouragement, she
is very much surprised, rather hurt, and
thinks it an impertinence. So Lady
Seagrim tells me. Miss Palliser is what I
call an innocent man-eater. She wants to

make a match as big as you please — not
consciously, I dare say, but that's what her
instincts point to. I have seen girls
enough to recognise the style. Take
warning.'

I know you mean kindly, Dunscombe,
and I'm obliged. But don't outrage commonsense
by telling me you have seen one
other girl like Miss Palliser. Honestly
now ?'

I have seen but one handsomer — that's
what you mean, I suppose ? But the
character is not at all uncommon, if you
will allow me to think so. Now I've said
my say, and you will profit or you won't.
These men will begin to think we are conspiring.'


By-the-bye, Miss Palliser is anxious to
see the Peele House.'

Pm not in the humour for tea-parties.
At her next visit.'

Dunscombe rose, and led his friends

to the smoking-room for a cigarette. Hugh
joined the ladies at once, and told Grace
the result. She flushed with annoyance,
and said sharply :

How could you have put it to be
refused ? Every girl in the county has
had an invitation without asking !'

Dunscombe was more in the humour for
tea-parties then, I suppose. It's a merry
frame of mind which certainly doesn't
possess him just now. There's something
noxious in the air of Daneham just now, as
it seems to me ; and the best of dispositions
give way to injustice and violence. We
shall live through it, Miss Palliser, under
a treatment of philosophy and tonics.'

Do you hint a reproach at me, sir ? Oh,
chivalry ! what are we coming to ? I have
a right to be angry, ]mr. Acland, and I will
avenge myself.'

I should not dare to question your right.
But a young lady's vengeance, as I have

always understood, is an explosive of the
deadliest character, which plays the mischief
in all directions. I will undertake to find
Dunscombe in a better temper if you can
be patient for a few hours.'

Don't ask him again on any account !
I should be seriously angry, Mr. Acland —
or rather, let me say, I should be humiliated.
It's very well as it is. We shall see.'

The next day, after lunch. Lord Rain-forth
mustered all his guests of the Randall
name, to welcome the bride and bridegroom
at Preston. Hugh was witness to the
struo^o^le that Dunscombe underwent before
he could bring himself to take part in this
ceremony. The honours paid to Ralph
were thought exaggerated even by the
family, and it was not surprising that
Dunscombe resented them as aimed maliciously
at himself. He went to the station,
however, in a mood which bears might
contemplate with envy and despair to rival,

VOL. I. 14

leaving Hugh seated at the window of the
Peele House.

From this elevation he presently observed
Miss Palliser setting out alone for a walk ;
the day was fine, the house dull, Aunt
Saxell in bad temper, and she herself
particularly lively. Hugh descended the
winding stair like an acrobat, and hurried
in pursuit so fast that when Grace turned
she said :

Dear mCj Mr. A eland, I thought it was
a mad bull after me !'

Only an idiotic calf, I assure you !' he
answered, walking beside her.

You are going my way ?'

Yes, if you don't mind.'

On the contrary ! I can put you down
wherever you are going, and resume my
course.'

Miss Palliser, you encourage a very
unfeeling class of wit. AVhat have I done
to be shot at continually in this way ?'

Do I shoot at sou ? It must be because
you bit back so smartly. The dull Dales-women
are not used to be caught up at a
half-word, or a glance, or a tone !'

The men round here must be a stupid
lot, I see.'

'Indeed, you are quite mistaken !' Grace
exclaimed warmly. ' For the county class
they are just the same here as anywhere
else, of course ; but they've character, which
Southerners haven't — generally. And as
for the others, I can tell you that there's
more intelligence and more fun in a cottage
of our North country than in a village of
the Midlands, or a Parliamentary district
in London.' Calming, she added, ' But weare
not quick in the sense of smartness — I
admit that.'

Any facts you are good enough to
impart, I treasure in my deepest soul,'
Hugh answered, ' and especially if they
concern your friends. I have now a much

14—2

more exact conception of the Border
character. But you failed to listen attentively.'


You said the Dalesmen Avere a stupid
lot!'

Pardon me ! My remark was that I
now saw they must be a stupid lot, evidently
referring to the context.'

This sort of thing is quite in their way of
humour '

Oh, indeed ! Thank you, Miss Palliser.*

I didn't mean that ! Their jests demanda
lot of time and attention, that's all. I
forget the context.'

Please don't embarrass me "udth more
explanation, then! — oh, must I ? The cue
was " caught up " — you said the Dalesmen
were not quick at that exercise with
3'ou — and then I — this is torture, Miss
Palliser !'

So it is, poor boy, and I'm ashamed of
mj-sclf. Thank you kindly all the same.

Now I'll tell you something ; I have heard
from Miss Acland.'

In his utter surprise Hugh blurted out,
after a thoughtless way he had, ' What
on earth — er — I'm so awfully pleased, that
I don't find pretty expressions ! How did
this delightful event come to pass ?'

Did not Mrs. Acland tell you that when
we were in town — you don't forget that
time, perhaps ? — she sent me a very kind
message through Mr. Yane and aunt ?

Then this is what Mrs. Saxell referred
to last night ! My mother did not mention
the incident ; but she is always doing kind
actions. It slipped her memory, no doubt
she has never seen you. I am overjoyed
—well ?'

Well, auntie delivered the message, and
after thinking about it for some days I
made up my mind that I ought to reply,
and I did. See, this was forwarded to me
to-day from Scarsholme.'

Hnsfh read :

My dear Miss Palliser,

Mamma has instructed me to
answer your graceful note. She congratulates
herself upon the impulse that
moved her to send you an expression of
goodwill, and I am pleased to act as her
secretary. It is agreeable to exchange
messages of esteem during; hostilities.
Mamma is satisfied that Major Saxell is
acting under an assurance of right, and she
does not blame him ; still less his mother,
and still less again yourself. If we should
ever meet, it will be with an expectation
on my side that the acquaintance mil be
pleasing.

Yours sincerely,

Edith Acland.'

Isn't it just what such a letter should
be under all the circumstances — so pretty,
and nice, and cool ?'

To Hiii!-h, however, it su^-o-ested a e'ood
many reflections. Once again his mother
had thought fit to take a step, without
consulting him, without even mentioning
the subject, that might well prove important
and must certainly interest himself. This
was irritating and alarming.

But, on the other hand, what a gracious
step it was ! By her delicate and becoming
advances, Mrs. Acland had bridged the gulf
which seemed to keep the families asunder.
And the letter ! Huo-h could imagine the
laughing diplomacy by which his sister had
been coerced to write it, not unwilling:.
Grace would reply, no doubt, a correspondence
would follow, and then — who could
say what might happen ! All this the
doing of a mother whom he reproached with
want of confidence ! Hugh felt ashamed.

Do you think,' Grace continued, ' that
I might venture to write to Miss Acland
direct ?'

Most certainly ! Letters are written to
be answered — especially by young ladies.'

What a very cheap little witticism ! If
ever the records of primeval man turn up, I
shall expect to see that sort of thing in his
copybooks. Yes, I know 3'ou don't mean
anything ; but you should not get into the
way of repeating commonplace without
even the excuse of meaning it. Have you
]\Iiss Acland's photograph ?'

Hugh took the locket off his chain and
presented it ; whilst Grace indulged raptures
of admiration over the portrait of his
sister, he devoured with his eyes the beauty
not less exquisite, though less spiritual,
which bent over the likeness. It did not
offend him to be called ' boy,' nor to be
patronized and schooled. Hugh's conceit was
superior to that feeling. The memory of her
engagement jarred upon him painfully from
time to time ; but, as Dunscombe said, India
is a long way off, and a ' l)oy ' may be

I

capable of upsetting a boy-and-girl attachment.
Hugh did not think of the treachery
would you have done so, reader, at his
age ? Would any man that ever lived outside
the covers of a story-book ?

This is Mrs. Acland, I suppose ?' Grace
said, looking at the photograph opposite.
I think you are the luckiest youth in the
world to have such a mother and such a
sister.'

If I only get a wife to match — as
beautiful as Edie, and as good, as bright,
and high-spirited as my mother ! I cannot
be called a happy youth till then !'

Surely you haven't thought of marrying
yet ?' she answered mischievously. ' That's
quite a grave, grown-up amusement !'

'Grave amusement is a very happy expression.
I have thought a good deal about
it lately.'

Grace was evidently cogitating other
matters.

Tell me now,' she said, ' may I take
Mrs. Aeland's kind expressions sincerely —
and Edie's too ? I may call your sister
*'Edie"?'

Yes, as a beo:inninfi^ !'

Beixinninof of what ?'

Why, of friendship : what else ? Presently
it will be " darling " between you !
Then you will kiss at brief intervals, and
grow to one another like Siamese Twins.
And all the younii' men of the neighbourhood
will be attacked by jaundice, and fade
in green despair.'

Nothing fades green except old clothes ;
but all green things fade — leaves and caterpillars
and boys ! You have not answered
my question. Does Edie really and truly
feel kind towards me ? AVould she like to
be my friend ? I have never had a friend
except silly schoolgirls ?'

If Edie sa's so, it is true.'

She doesn't say so ! I want to ask her,

and I aren't ! Will you ? Say I am not
wicked, nor stupid, nor vulgar, nor ugly,
and I long' to love her !'

I will write this afternoon.'

That's kind ! What shall you say ?'

May I tell you ?' he asked, warming
suddenly.

Please do !' But when Grace looked
up in his face, she coloured, and added with
a little smile, ' No ! I'm sure you will put
the request nicely, and that's enough.'

I shall say, Miss Palliser '

You will say very pretty things, no
doubt, which my modesty would be shocked
to hear !'

How do you know ? I shall say '

I would rather not, really !'

I shall say '

Don't tell me, I beg !'

When Miss Palliser was decided, a rare
mood because she had rarely occasion, her
manner forbade doubt. Hugh obeyed with

.some trepidation, but in two minutes they
were chatting merrily again.

The party had returned when they got
back, and ]airs. Ralph was holding a levee.
Hugh retired to the Peele House, and wrote
an enthusiastic letter, be":2;infic Edie to make
definite overtures.

Next afternoon occurred the banquet, to
be followed by a ball, or rather two balls,
for the tenantry had their own. All the
country-side, of every degree, accepted Lord
Rainforth's invitation. As Dunscombe and
Hugh sat in the Peele House, watching the
line of carriages and o-isfs and tax carts
mounting the hill, the former muttered :

How these creatures flock to the trough !
In better days, nothing but an alarm of
Scots on the Border would have called such
a crowd to Daneham.'

The less important folk assembled in a
large marquee, between the Hall and the
Tower, where public enthusiasm could not

disturb the aristocrats. The host, his two
sons, and all the guests bearing the name of
Randall, sat out the early dinner of the
tenantry, and made the usual speeches.
They withdrew in time to dress for the
fashionable entertainment, where the discourses
went through a second edition.
Dunscombe's handsome face was sullen ashe
heard the cheering for his younger
brother. It was, in truth, an exaggerated
welcome for a cadet who had done nothing
since his birth to merit honour. People
even asked in whispers what the demonstration
signified.

Immediately after dinner, the aristocrats
visited the marquee, now cleared. They
danced a miscellaneous and amusing quadrille
; then the ladies retired for their own
ball. It is quite needless to tell how lovely
Grace appeared in her robe of Indian muslin
and blue silk. How and when it should be
paid for was a question that did not cross

lier mind, though it qualified Mrs. Saxell's
admiration. Hugh, of course, lead secured
as many dances as Miss Palliser's rather
vague sense of etiquette allowed, to the disgust
of other bachelors. Foremost among
his rivals was a young Artillery officer on
leave of absence from Meerut. He had
served in the Afghan War, he knew X 3
Flattery as well as his own, and Major
Saxell was his most intimate friend, as he
declared. Upon these credentials he claimed
privilege in addressing Grace, and she
granted it readily enough, until the young
man had told all he knew about Dick.
Ashen he showed signs of exhaustion, and a
Avish to deviate from this topic. Miss Palliser
did not pretend more interest.

Supper was announced for midnight, and
Huu'h had obtained the favour of escorting:
Grace. As the crowd pressed out of the
ball-room, she said, ' I should so like another
breath of air before going in !' and they

I

strolled through an open window. The
summer night was radiant, though the
moon had almost set. Gaily talking the'
passed round the wing and gained the
broad terrace at the back. Upon one side
stood the tent, prettily warm with lights
inside, and still resonant with music, though
the guests had nearly all departed; solemn
and still in front loomed the grey Peele
House, its small lower windows faintly
aglow with colour, those in the top story
shining white in the moonbeams. Suddenly
interrupting herself, Grace exclaimed :

Oh, Mr. Acland, now you can take me
into the Tower without the knowledge of
that disagreeable Lord Dunscombe! There
is no one about !'

Ask me anything else, but '

I ask you nothing but that ! You
won't ? Then I shall go by myself ! You
are bold at following, I know !'

The taunt was successful. Huirh closed

A Good J later

this arm on hers and led the '\va3\ ' You
promised never to refer to that — that incident
a2:ainl'

Did I ? Then it was on the understood
condition that you never offended me again

Your promises are not straightforward.'

It depends. I should keep my word
under proper conditions.'

What are they?'

It is not worth while to tell you. Do
you know, Mr. Acland, you are not nearly
so entertaining as you were at first !'

I am not so lisrht-hearted.'

Then pray throw something overboard,
and resume your buoyancy ! What an odd,
]pretty, awful entrance! These are the
only stairs ? I feel as if I was going to
execution ! — oh, how charming: — how ! —
what ! ' and so on.

Grace was delighted with the hall and
its perishing. Hugh followed her about
impatiently. Some of the younger guests

hat talked of dancing in the marquee, now
almost empty, after supper, and the danger
of discovery was imminent. But Grace
would not listen to hints.

At length Hugh spoke out in despair.
Don't play with that dagger, Miss Palliser !
It is edged and poisoned as scandal !'

She understood his emphasis and his look ;
her animated complexion paled, her eyes
dilated. ' Oh, how silly I am with all my
cleverness ! Let us go immediately ! Why
did you not tell me it was wrong ?'

I am afraid you would not have listened.*

Perhaps not at first, but afterwards !
Go on, and see if anyone's about.'

The terrace was vacant, but shadows
swiftly turning chequered the canvas sides
of the marquee. They slipped in unperceived,
and Grace instantly recovered all
her spirits. She called for a country-dance,
and the ring of her happy laughter told that
care was forgotten.

VOL. I. 15

It was very late when Hugh sought the
Tower, leaving broad day outside. 
was smoking moodily in a flare of
candles. He had resisted with great effort
the display of his ill-temper through the
evening, hut it now had full possession.
At Hugh's entrance, however, he tried to be
pleasant. They talked of Miss Palliser, and
Dunscombe renewed his warning.

It's too late to advise me !' said
Hugh.

So bad as that already ? No champagne
in it ? I hope the morning light will brig
3'ou clearness of vision.'

The morning light was broad enough
when I came in to show my fate.'

Confound these summer mornings ! One
can turn gas off when it becomes too knowing.
Well, you sympathize with me at
last, Hugh, or you soon will, unless I am
mistaken.'

AVhat do you mean ?'

What I have already hinted.'

That she is a flirt ? Excuse me, my
dear Dunscombe, but the suspicion is preposterous.'


Of course ! But there is something else.
Did you observe her with Henderson? —
idiotic of me to ask ! When he was talking
of Meerut and Afghanistan and cliota hazard
and 'piikarow and all that, apropos of Major
Saxell, the young lady looked as if she
could have kissed his ugly face. It may
have been acting, but I think not. If she's
really constant — that is, if she believes herself
to be — so much the better for you.
You're young enough to get over a broken
heart before the shooting. By-the-bye, how
old are you exactly?'

Twenty-three last February. Why?'

I was only wondering what was the
difference between your age and Miss
Acland's.'

She is nineteen on December 10th.'

15—2

'What will your sister say when she
hears you have deserted to the enemy?'

Oh, she's half disarmed towards Miss
Palliser. You know mv mother sent a
polite message, which Grace prettily acknowledged.
Edie replied, of course, and a correspondence
is about to begin. I think it
such a charming incident!'

You would, of course !'

Ashen a conversation runs into sneers,
it's time to go to bed. Six o'clock, by
Jove !'

A pleasant hour ! I promised to tell
you the story of Pack Randall, and this is
just the time. We'll turn in at seven precisely.
In Pack's day, the brothers of our
family were not so devotedly attached as
they are now ; I don't quite know when it
Alas. Pack, the eldest, had quarrelled with
his father about politics, and with his
brother Steeve about a young cousin who
lived at Ascham, in the old Manor House,

for the Castle vas not built. The family
took different sides, of course, in some
trouble; and one day there was a skirmish,
or a battle, or something. In the evening
Pack came to this tower secretly, and he
sent a message to his cousin begging her to
come to him. She was not a prudent
3'oung person, and she did so. While they
were talking, in this room, Steeve appeared,
and with remarkable presence of mind drew
his sword, stabbed Susan Randall to the
heart, and charged at Pack. I don't know
why he did so, but the historians of the
time seemed to think such conduct quite
natural; and I am not sure that they were
wrong, in the abstract. Whilst Pack defended
himself, Steeve dropped his sword
suddenly, and fainted. You may imagine
that the lady had Pack's first attention, and
when he remembered his brother that individual
was found to be dead. So, in process
of time, was Susan, My excellent

forefather was tried for murder ; but it was
proved that all Steeve's wounds had been
caused by firearms, in the late engagement
probably. So he got off ; and in the final
result, here I am. If Pack had been hanged,
it is thought most probable that I should
have been somebody else, and what a
disaster for the nation that would have been !
Rainforth did his best to get a conviction,
however. AVe were a merry family in those
days, and we keep the tradition so far as
altered circumstances Avill allow.

That is the reason why there are restrictions
on the intercourse between the
Castle and the Peele House. Xow, we have
three-quarters of an hour yet before surrendering.
Let us discuss this stores, and
I'll tell you another.'

Your legends and your temper are
equally grim. I don't feel equal to discussion,
even if I could keep awake.'

Go to sleep in your chair, but don't leave

me alone ! Look ! There's Steeve's sword,
with the blood still upon it, they say. If I
wasn't so confoundedly timid about hurting
people's feelings I'd have the rusty old thing
cleaned.' He approached the embrasure to
take it. ' Why, here's Miss Palliser's
bouquet! Oh, guileless youth, do you
thus trifle with the love of the war-worn
soldier, and go to bed with a smooth conscience?
Here's a subject for discussion that
will rouse you ! Keep on reciting the circumstances
until I implore you to go to bed !'

Hugh's face betrayed him. In a changed
voice Dunscombe said:

Miss Palliser has been here ?'

Hugh could not find a word to urge.

1 would not, I could not have believed
that you were capable of such a breach of
hospitality.'

Hugh coloured with anger and shame,
but sat speechless.

You knew our rules, and you knew

what we are. If my father learns this, the
consequences will be most serious to me.
It is shameful, Acland !'

I have nothing to answer ! Put my
apology into the most abject words you
please, but spare me your insults !'

I have not insulted you.'

'No? Then I won't wait till you
begin.'

Hugh took up his paletot and quietly
out into the joyous splendour of a
summer morning



MR. BEAVER.

Y DEAR HUGH,

Don't be so confoundedly
touchy. If I spoke harshly,
make allowance for the surprise, and for
family annoyances which have been upsetting
me, as you know. I apologize
most sincerely. Write by return of post,
like a good fellow as you are, and say you

know I am

Always yours,

Buncombe.

Observe that this is written within ten
minutes of your departure.'

General Randall indulged a lifelong practice
of inspecting every department of a
household in which he might chance to reside,
that fell within male province. He
also took brief and incidental but vigorous
forays into the feminine realm ; for a long
presidency of regimental canteens had
brought a miscellaneous store of domestic
matters within his purview. On the morning
after the ball he was up at his usual
hour, and found a superb opportunity to
examine the field-state and the general returns
of Daneham. I can quite understand
that an old soldier u23on holidays may be
detested by servants. He is restless, up at
all hours, and if inclined to pry no penetralia
are sacred. Then he knows so much,
and he is so painfully direct in questioning.
Woman's business is no mystery nor taboo
for him. Dear old General Randall, who
made no use at all of his discoveries, was
dreaded like a plague at Daneham.

On this occasion he questioned and advised
everyone about the place. And at
noon, with Lord Rainforth's permission,
he visited the Tower. Dunscombe was
still in bed, but he would insist on seeing'
him.

Are we summoned to chant a madrigal
under Ralph's window?' his lordship asked,
yawning.

I have called upon a serious matter,
Dunscombe. Do you know that young
Acland brought Miss Palliser here last
night ?'

Well ?'

Did you know ?'

You mean to ask, did the governor
know ? I presume you have seen him before
coming here?'

I mean nothing more than I say. Did
you know?'

I know that a breach of the family regulations
was committed. Acres f

I was not thinking of your father for the
moment, but of the scandal. It makes a
certain difference, of course, if you were informed
of Miss Palliser's visit.'

I didn't know she was under your
charge, General. You have a serious responsibility,
it strikes me.'

Miss Palliser is not in my charge, but
the honour of a brave soldier absent on
duty to his Sovereign is the care of any
man worthy the name. I ask once more,
did you know of this business ?'

I regret I'm too sleepy to answer.
Would you kindly pull doAvn the blinds
before you go ?'

'No, I will not, Lord Dunscombe!' and
the General stalked out.

No whisper of her foolish doings had
reached the public ear when Grace came
down to breakfast. She left with Mrs.
Saxell immediately after, and among the
gentlemen who thronged to say good-bye

Grace smiled sarcastically to note Hugh's
absence.

He meantime walked to Preston. The
curious look of passers-by warned him
that dress-clothes, buckled shoes, black silk
stockings, and a white tie are unusual on a
North-country road at seven a.m. Before
reaching the town he had made up his
mind to visit AVolfingham ; the key of the
mystery lay with Mr. Beaver, so Mrs. Acland
thought. Hugh did not propose to call on
him, of course. Such an idea could not
enter his head after late experiences. But
it miofht be desirable to know what the
gentleman was doing. Any way, a run to
AVolfingham could do no harm, and he
would have the melancholy satisfaction of
beholding the scene of his father's death.
They would not expect him home for some
days.

So Hugh bought clothes at Preston, and
in the evening he reached the village of

Wolfiiigliam, put up at the Royal Beaver,
and invited the landlord to have a glass of
wine after dining.

An odd name you have chosen for your
house,' he said, to begin conversation.

Gentlemen mostly think it odd, but I
didn't invent it, sir,' the landlord answered.
All this country belongs to Mr. Beaver ;
and he says, leastwise his forefathers used
to say, that the crown of England was
theirs by right. So the inn here has been
called " The Royal Beaver " time out of
mind.'

I am most agreeably surprised to find
such comfortable quarters in a small village
like this. It's quite a large hotel you've
got, landlord, with stabling for a troop of
cavalry, as it seems to me. And excellently
managed, too! Adhere do you find
your customers ?'

Ah, that's a story', sir. You see, when
Mr. Beaver was a young man, he had a deal

of company, more than his house could
hold — ay, and more than this inn could
hold, into the bargain. Besides the
stabling you see, I've pulled down a
matter of twenty boxes, with servants'
rooms and all that.'

Mr. Beaver hasn't much accommodation,
I suppose ?'

The landlord laughed with intense
amusement. ' That's a good un sir! — you'll
excuse me, but that is a good un, that is I
Ashy, you might almost put my house into
the old hall at Beaverlowe, and the chimneys
wouldn't touch the roof; and what they call
the new hall is bigger than that. As for
stables, lord bless you, sir, it's a cavalry
barrack !'

But I've heard Mr. Beaver doesn't entertain
so much now?'

That's where it is, and my house is
empty in consequence. But I don't complain,
sir. Though there's never a soul

besides the neighbours comes nigh the
place, it's kept up just as it always has
been — equal to give a duke his supper and
his bed, if one should come this way.'

The house seems quite new.'

]\Iv father built this one : but the name's
been here, as they say, ever since the stream
ran. Do you chance to know anything
about our stream, sir ?'

I have very sad associations with it.'

Excuse me, sir, but I was sure of that
when I saw your face. Your name will be
Acland ? Ay, I remember you a baby, sir,
and I could almost think I was a boy again
myself, talking to your father. The likeness
is extraordinary. And Mrs. Acland,
sir ? I hope the poor lady is well ?'

Very well. You remember my father's
death ?'

As if it was yesterday ! A sad circumstance,
sir ! They still talk about it in the
village. He was riding our old horse, you

I
I

know, which had crossed the ford a
thousand times — aye, and more than that !
How that horse came to miss the road none
of us can make out.'

But you don't doubt my father was
drowned ?'

Ah no, poor gentleman ! But it was an
extraordinary thing. There's no doubt of
his being drowned, is there, sir ?'

None at all. Is Mr. Beaver at his house
now ?'

He never leaves it. Mr. Beaver did all
his gadding when he was young. If you'd
like to see the ford, I'll show you in the
morning-with pleasure — that is, I'll show
you, sir.'

The landlord was called away, and Hugh
found himself alone, with several hours to
set through before bedtime. He tried to sit
and think, a process that seems easy to dull
mortals, easy also perhaps to philosophers
and men of stupendous nature, but mighty
VOL. I. 16

difficult to persons of average intelligence.
Giving up the effort, he rose and went down.

The passage was occupied by a number
of .men, and going out, Hugh Alas aware
that they looked at him keenly, though
with the side-glance of politeness. It
occurred to his mind that if those fellows
could be led to gossip, they might possibly
give him useful information, and he returned
shortly.

No bagmen visited this hamlet, and the
landlord, with a rare intelligence, had refrained
from entitling his parlour the
commercial room. More than that, since
farmers did assemble there pretty' often, he
had painted ' Farmers' Room ' upon the
door. But the occupiers at that hour of
the evening were not precisely agriculturists,
though at such a place every inhabitant
has an interest in the soil. Huo-h
thought to recognise such characters as a
lawyer's and a parish clerk, a churchwarden,

a schoolmaster, a doctor's assistant,
a butcher, the keeper of the post-office, and
so on — ten altogether. Most probably he
quite mistook their avocations, but for convenience
we may identify these worthy folk
by the functions Hugh assigned them. Anyway,
he saw that all were residents, and all
of an ao;e to recollect his father's death.

The blank and sudden pause that followed
his entrance told more plainly than
words the subject of an animated conversation
that had been proceeding. But in the
remotest village nowadays some travelled
person may be found who tries, at least, to
cover an awkward incident like this. The
lawyer's clerk said promptly, ' Good-evening,
sir. I hope I see you well.' And the
parish clerk added in emulation, ' I was
just about to drink, sir, and I humbly put
your health in it !'

The others muttered approval, and
dipped their noses to the toast.

16—2

'I am obliged,' said Hugh, 'and I'll
drink your healths heartily as soon as I can
get the means. But I don't flatter myself
that this kind reception is due to my own
merits. You recognise rae, and you are
good enough to transfer to me the kindly
feeling you had towards my father.'

This little speech produced an effect.
The lawyer's clerk — a man of humour evidently
— choked behind his hand ; the
butcher flushed ; the parish clerk blew out
his cheeks ; the churchwarden assumed an
air of sternest scrutiny, as suspecting irreverent
sarcasm; the schoolmaster looked as
if he would like to get out of this : — in
short, each after his fashion plainly expressed
his repudiation of the theory.

Hugh coloured with indignant embarrassment.
' You seem to have a less pleasant
recollection of my father,' he said, 'than I
had hoped. I will not intrude upon you.'

No indeed, sir I' exclaimed the lawyer's

clerk. ' We only remembered that your
father was a gentleman, and didn't mix
with the like of us '

And the cockerel pipes as the old cock
crows !' muttered the butcher.

It isn't likely, sir, that Mr. Jones here,
nor yet Mr. Brown, not to name the
rest of us, would wish to hint anything
unkind. Pray sit down, sir. We're
heartily glad to see you !'

That's what we are !' everyone protested,
and truly enough, doubtless, for a
sensation equal to this had not enlivened
their village since the great event of 1862.

Hugh seated himself, after a moment's
hesitation. ' Now, gentlemen,' said he,
quite in a friendly way, among ourselves,
what were your grievances against my
father?'

They sat silent, not for Avant of matter
evidently, but in embarrassment.

Let it rest, sir,' said Mr. Brown at

length. * AVe all of us recollect you kindly,
if you're the little chap mr. Acland used
to carry on his saddle. And we should
like to hear how you've got on.'

But T want to know. I want you to
speak out, and I promise not to take
offence. Did my father harm any of you,
or yours ?'

All said ' Xo,' but with a reluctant air.
AVhat do you mean ?' cried Hugh, warm-inch.
' Did he ?'

He ran over Johnny Tubes in one of his
fits !' muttered somebody.

But the child was little hurt, for I
attended him,' Mr. Brown answered. ' And
Mr. Acland gave his father twenty pounds.'

AVell, is that all ? Did he owe you any
money ?'

That he did ! — but we've been paid.'

Then what is it ?'

You can see pretty well, sir,* said the
doctor's assistant. ' Mr. Acland didn't

give himself pains to make common people
like him.'

Common people ?' murmured the churchwarden
indignantly.

You have desperately long memories
here ! I hope they're as good for cherishing
kindnesses as for slights. When the
offender was drowned at your doors, and
near twenty years have passed, random conduct
might be forgiven and forgotten !'

But if it comes to that,' growled the
butcher, ' was he drowned — eh, Mr.
Williams ?'

What do you mean by that ? ' Hugh
exclaimed again. ' Does anemone here
doubt it ?' He had identified Mr. Williams
by the general glance turned on him ; it
was the schoolmaster.

This isn't right, Mr. Grubb,' he cried,
in vexation and alarm. ' I have never said
it was Mr. Acland I met — never ! I defy
any gentleman here to charge. me with it'

Hugh calmed at once. ' There is no
question of charging you, Mr. Williams,' he
said quietly. ' Pray let me hear what you
fancied you saw.'

The schoolmaster was persuaded to tell his
story at length : the facts were few enough,
but circumstances and incidents and explanations
made a long narrative of them. In
the winter of 1862 he was suffering from
sleeplessness and nerves, and he went to
some friends at Laystone. On the night of
December 9th he had not shut his eyes for a
week or so ; thinking that the open air might
relieve him, he rose quietly and left the house.
It was about two a.m., very dark and misty.
Passing the post office, where there was a
lamp-post, he saw, to the best of his belief at
the time, Mr. Acland, who dropped a letter
in the box and walked on. It struck him
as curious that a gentleman should be out
at such a time, but much less extraordinary
in the case of Mr. Acland than of any

other person he ever heard tell of. On returning
home Mr. Williams fell asleep, the
first time, if you would believe his solemn
word, etc. He slept and dozed all that day,
and it was not till evening that they told
him of the drowning. In the excitement of
the moment he disputed it, telling what
he thought he had seen. Of course it was
fancy — no one could be so well convinced
of that as himself. Mr. Williams appealed
anxiously to his habitual audience to confirm
the declaration that he had never pretended
otherwise.

They all admitted the statement of fact,
but with glances suggesting that they knew
better than Mr. Williams himself what he
had seen. The parish clerk whispered,
as all rose upon the stroke of ten : ' It was
your poor father's ghost, sir ! He was not
one to rest in his grave, and much more at
the bottom of the river ! Good-night, sir!'

Hugh begged Mr. Williams to stay, and

he remained most unwillingly. No more
information could he give. He had not
observed Mr. Acland's dress, or anything
about him. He did not believe that the
figure was a ghost. The incident Alas a
common case of mistake.

Hugh passed a wakeful night. The feeling
of these honest villagers, who knew his father
well, and remembered him bitterly, was distressing.
That trouble he must keep to himself,
but the story of Mr. williams was no
such simple question. Under the new circumstances,
it had quite a new significance.
Hugh had gone further than prudence
advised in hinting to the schoolmaster that
it was not thought impossible by some, the
man he saw mio-ht have been Acland himself;
but all the more earnestly Williams
protested that his eyes had deceived him.
Huo-h could not doubt that he would
declare the same in a court of justice, if
called upon to tell his tale. And so, after

painful thought, he resolved to keep this
secret also against his mother and all the
world.

Under the landlord's guidance next day
Hugh visited the melancholy spot. Scarcely
twelve inches depth the water had that
bright summer morning. Boys were playing
there, laughing and calling to one
another. A brood of ducks swam to and
fro beneath the alders ; cattle stood knee-deep
in the river, whirling their tails restlessly.


It doesn't seem the place for a strongman
to drown,' said the landlord; 'but
there's a power of water in flood time. The
horse landed there betwixt the alders.'

Anyone standing on the bridge could
see the whole breadth of the ford.'

He was thinking of Peake's statement.

As for that, sir, it was near nine o'clock,
and I was abroad myself that night. You
couldn't see your hand before you.'

Peake had a light, perhaps.'

Not that I ever heard of. He heard a noise
of splashing and shouting — that was all.'

You forget. Peake saw my father
washed under the bridge.'

I don't remember that,' he continued
dubiously; 'and I heard him tell the story
above a time or two before he left these
parts. No doubt you're right ; but if he
did, he must have carried a lantern.'

The landlord thought over this idea
silently for awhile, as they turned back.

Ah, well,' said he at length, ' it's a long
while ago. You were speaking of Mr.
Beaver yesterday, sir. He was in the house
at that moment, drinking a glass of ale at
the bar in his pleasant way.'

Did you mention me ?'

I didn't, sir, because ' he hesitated.

But some of them did.'

You thought he might not care to hear
mv name ?'

I

Why not, sir ?'

You should know better than I.'

Well, he might not, of course I

don't know anything about it. But, as I
was saying, some of the ren did name you.
You're so like your father, you see, that all
the village has been talking. When I came
down from your room, sir, he spoke to me
about you.'

What did he say ?' Hugh asked eagerly'.

He asked how you looked, and how
Mrs. Acland was, and that. Always civil
and good-hearted is Mr. Beaver, though
people who don't know him don't like him,
I dare say. Ten to one he will call to-night,
coming from the cattle-show at Battle.'

Hugh had intended to leave in the afternoon,
but nothing pressed, and the chance
of seeing Mr. Beaver, perhaps of speaking
to him without formality, made a strong
temptation. He wrote to Mrs. Acland, and
hunir about the inn.

Late in the afternoon a gentleman rode
up, two grooms behind him. The village
women wreathed themselves in smiles ; the
grocer and the linen draper ran to their
doors, and bowed and rubbed their hands
with an expression of beatitude. No need
to ask who the Squire is when he rides
through his own hamlet. Huc^h saw a
slight, wiry man, who carried his years
jauntily.

The face was very handsome, in a highbred
style, but very keen ; the smile
ready to his thin lips had something sarcastic
; but a pleasant-looking gentleman,
and the sweetens: of the villagers seemed
warm. Hugh observed nothing to justify
his mother's strong expressions. Mr.
Beaver's dress Alas not so quiet as it might
have been. A loose scarlet necktie, with a
jewel in it that glitters superbly, is not the
usual costume for elderly gentlemen who
visit cattle-shows; and a pair of grooms,

mounted on thoroagli-breds of pedigree,
might be thought pretentious.

Mr. Beaver dismounted at the inn door,
and Hugh went downstairs. Two or three
farmers returning from market stood outside
the bar, and nth them Mr. Beaver had
instantly begun a merry conversation. He
looked up sharply as the youth went by,
watched him lounge to the doorway, and then
entered the bar. Presently a servant came
to Hugh and asked him to step inside. He
did so. Mr. Beaver was alone. He did
not offer his hand, but began at once,
standing —

I should have known you, Mr. Acland,
wherever we met. Many pleasant memories
of mine are associated with your face, and
some which I do not care to dwell on. I
presume you have come here about a matter
of which Mrs. Acland has twice written ?'

I had no fixed intention whatever in
coming.'

Well, I called this evening to see you.
I can say to a son what I was embarrassed
to write to a mother. Mrs. Acland seems
to fancy that this Raises, who claims to
have been your father, was Harry Hard-wicked
— of that I know nothing, of course,
one way or other. But ]airs. Acland thinks
that I can tell something of Hardwicke.
She is quite mistaken. The circumstances
of his departure from Laystone are probably
unknown to her. On that night, after
Hugh Acland had dined with him, the
Rector happened to call, and found Hard-wicked
drunk. He had at least more judgment
than to apply to me after that disgrace.'


I don't see why you should feel embarrassment
in telling my mother this, sir.
She wrote twice.'

It is not that. If I took any part in this
inquiry, I should be obliged to speak the
truth. And that I am very unwilling to do.'

It would be unpleasant for us ?'

It would. Acland told me that he
meant to desert your mother.'

When did he tell you this ?'

On the nio^ht he carried his resolve into
effect,' Mr. Beaver answered, with a steady
searching look.

Will you speak frankly, Mr. Beaver ?'
said Hugh, after a pause.

I will speak frankly, so far as I know.
But in confidence.'

'Do you believe that Raises was my
father ?'

I supposed you were going to ask that,
and I qualified my promise. Whether
Raises was Hugh Acland I cannot possibly
say, but it does not seem to me improbable,
and no one knew your father so well. This
is in confidence ; but you may tell your
mother, with my kindly Lavishes, that if I
have not answered her it is because I can

VOL. I. 17

do your cause no service. When I can
help her I certainly will.'

He motioned to go. They had not sat
down, and both went out. As Hugh
passed the bar window, he heard mr.
Beaver resume his laughing talk with the
farmers.

Mrs. Acland did not get her son's letter
in time to prevent grave anxiety. For
Dunscombe's note, carried to Preston by
a groom, travelled with Hugh to town, and
was delivered the same nisrht. His signature
upon the envelope naturally perplexed
the ladies. The morning post brought a
second letter, bearing Lord Eainforth's
autograph on the outside. And meantime
arrived Hugh's servant, expecting to find
his master at home. All he knew was that
]\Ioore, Lord Dunscombe's man, told him to
pack and follow Mr. Acland, who had
left. Seriously alarmed, Mrs. Acland telegraphed
both to Rainforth and Dunscombe.

The latter did not reply j the former
answered :

Lord Rainforth presents his compliments
to Mrs. Acland, and desires to inform
her that Mr. Hugh Acland was Lord Duns-combe's
guest. Lord Rainforth is not
acquainted with his movements.'

This harsh reply increased the consternation.
Grave measures impended, when
Dunscombe called with the telegram, which
had been redirected to him in town. He
admitted that Hugh left unexpectedly, and
his embarrassment suo:o'ested all kinds of

(Do

suspicion. If all was right why did he
not explain ? Dunscombe took himself
away precipitately, and forthwith Mrs.
Acland opened Lord Rainforth's letter :

Sm,

I understand by common report
that last evening you escorted a young-lady
through the Peele Tower, without

17—2

asking my consent, nor, I believe, my
scan's. You may be ignorant of the laws
of propriety, or indifferent to them ; but
on arrival here you "were made acquainted
with the customs respected in a family that
had received you With kindness. I trust
myself to say no more.

Your obedient servant,

Rainforth.'

They sat aghast.

It was Miss Palliser ! Oh, these people
are our Fates, mamma !' Edie cried. ' And
I was befifinninff almost to like her. Let
us read Lord Dunscombe's letter !'

That relieved them somewhat. Hugh
was not lying in Daneham woods with a
bullet through him. And next day came
his letter from Wolfingham, which they
read together.

The landlord forgets that Poke had
a lantern said ]airs. Acland. ' He was

a cow doctor, and had been visiting a farm
in the neighbourhood.'

I wish Hugh would rest quiet, and
leave things to wiser heads !'

He acts according to his nature, my dear,
and we have no cause to complain of that
upon the whole. There are few boys of high
spirit and quick temper who have given
their friends so little annoyance. I think
we need not speak to Hugh about Lord Rain-forth's
letter. I will put it on his table.'

He has done nothing wrong, mamma,
I'm sure of that ; but he's so very thoughtless
sometimes. And the dear, silly fellow
seems to have found a kindred spirit. Don't
you begin to think, mamma, that Hugh's
admiration for Miss Palliser is becoming
rather grave ?'

I have no secrets from my children,
dear. The idea struck me long ago.' »

And in the same breath you declare that
you have no secrets!'

Distinguish, my child ! I did not say
that I have no thoughts which I keep to
myself. Life Avould be intolerable if Ave
told all that passes through our minds.
Many ideas occur to me which you would
not like to hear.'

I don't believe it ! Try me!'

As a mere idea, I could wish you were
married to this man or that whom I dare
not suo-c'est.'

GO

'You unnatural mother!' cried Edie,
blushing.

You see ! It does not answer even to
hint all one thinks !'

Name one man in particular.'

No, we have gone quite far enough.
Let us return to Miss Palliser.'

I believe, mamma — I have always suspected
— that you would like to see me engaged
to Lord Dunscombe I'

Then you yourself do not confide every
thought to me?'

You do not deny it ?'

I cannot control your wild ideas. But,
to sjoeak seriously, since you have introduced
the subject, you know I would not
interfere with your choice. I have the
most perfect confidence in my daughter's
judgment. But there are few men or
Avoient who secure the grand prize.'

I understand what you mean. But,
indeed, I don't ask for so much.'

Only all the virtues combined with all
the graces ! Sad experience has taught me
to understand men ! You would not accept
a Christian hero if he presented himself
— not one, at least, of the type generally
understood. Don't stare ! I will explain.
You demand, before choosing, certain qualities
which are not correlative, as the word
goes, with others that you exact — that is
to say, I never met them together.'
' Explain the explanation, dear.'

It is difficult — hardly possible, perhaps,

for your inexperienced comprehension.
You demand a handsome man. Oh, not
the tailor's type — much less the hairdresser's
; but one a good deal more difficult
to find. Then the hero must be bright
and quick, but at the same time firm ;
enterprising, yet gentle ; self-confident and
modest ; brilliant and clever, but pious ; a
very fascinating creature, and not too
young, but never in love till he saw you.
Such a being may exist, for the possibilities
of human nature are endless ; but, so far as
I have had opportunities to judge, half the
qualities you ask are not to be reconciled
with the other half. Xow, Lord Duns-combe
has merits, but he is very human,'

I should not be afraid, so far as that
goes, to take him with his faults, if I loved
him. My self-conceit goes as far as that,
for I quite admit that he has merits, and I
believe he is fond of me. But who could
love a man who cannot go straight by his

own will ? You do not wish me to marry
him?'

That is going much too far. I see you
have thought about it, and that's enough ;
I mean, that you have considered the matter.
Let us return to Miss Palliser. Have you
kept her letters ?'

Yes, they're so odd !'

She read them aloud, with judicial deliberation.
How astonished would Grace
have been to hear the sentences, put down
as fast as heedless pen would follow eager
brain, thus weighed and analyzed.

What is your opinion, mamma ?'

I should think her what they call a smart
girl — that is, quick, thoughtless, worldly,
amiable enough, good-tempered, particularly
Avell aware of her fascinations. Not at allan
unprofitable friend for my brooding little
daughter if circumstances permitted ; and, I
must say, not an impossible sort of bride
for my son. I should not be inclined to

condemn her unheard. Hugh might fall
into hands very much worse.'

I am not sure about that, but I should
have liked to know her. Of course, it is
impossible now !'

Why, darling ? We know that they
have acted very foolishly, and we are not
surprised. To desert Miss Palliser would
be a kid of admission that they were worse
than foolish. Do not drop your correspondence.
I am afraid the poor girl will suffer
for her imprudence, and a letter from you
would be a comfort.'

How kind and thoughtful you always
are! But really, when Huo'h is in love
with her, is it judicious?'

It just occurs to me that we are talking
foolishness indeed ! Miss Palliser is engaged
to Major Saxell. ]mr. A^ane told me
so. Probably Hugh is not aware of that.'

Engaged ? Then she is no friend forme,
mamma. That settles the question.'

I don't see how, my dear. If she has
been flirting with Hugh, that is another
matter. But engagement does not cure
sill girls of their silliness, unfortunately.
Wait at least until your brother comes.'

I will if I can. You are quite too
calmly good-natured, mamma.'

When Hugh reached home, very late in
the evening, his elaborate explanations of
the sudden departure from Daneham were
cheerfully admitted, and he thought himself
vastly clever. But this pleasing sensation
was dispelled at sight of the letters
on his dressing-table. He answered Lord
Kainforth at once :

My Lord,

For the offence I gave without premeditation
I apologize. I venture to think
that it did not justify the words addressed
to me, but if they afford your lordship
relief I must not complain. Lord Duns-combe

knew nothing of the matter, ami
when he heard, he expressed sentiments so
nearly akin to yom* lordship's that I left
his roof then and there.'

To answer Dunscombe was not so easy,
and Whilst Hugh meditated Mrs. Acland
tapped at his door, in the prettiest of caps
and the freshest of peignoirs.

Now, dear,' she said, ' tell me all about
it.'

About what, mans, for gracious'
sake ?'

Oh, about one matter I can guess as
much as is necessary. You have been
to Wolfingham ? AVhat happened there ?'

Hugh told his meeting with Beaver, and
gave the message. Mrs. Acland listened
thoughtfully. '

So that is what has changed you?' she
said. ' Oh, don't trouble to deny it, my
boy. Beaver is still my enemy? AVell,

the right will triumph at last, but it's
cruel to make a son distrust his mother.'

I distrust you !' he cried, with a growing
emphasis on every word. * Not if all the
Beavers were translated, and spoke with
the tongues of angels ! But I begin to
think, dear, that we may have been mistaken.'


And I tell you we are not, Hugh I' Mrs.
Acland exclaimed, with sudden vehemence.
That falsest and most cunning of villains
has succeeded so far ! He has made you
doubt, and that was all he dared at present.
But we may look for more developments of
his ingenuity !'

We can so easily disconcert him, mother,
with a bold resolution.'

By admitting that Hardwicke was Hugh
Acland — by allowing their hate to beat us
at last ? Never ! I would rather die here,
now, than give them such delight ! But I
am very wrong to show temper! We will

talk pleasantly and gravely. You propose
to give up your property because Mr. Beaver
does what he can to support Mr. Hard-wicked's
imposture ?'

It will not be our fortune, mother. We
shall still be rich. And the fact that Peake
is evidently exaggerating had more weight
than anything: Beaver said.'

*I forgot that. Peake carried a lantern,
and he always said so.'

That, if proved, would change the case
entirely ! It is stated in his first deposition ?'

No doubt. I have the local newspapers,
which referred to the accident. There you
will find it. Is that all ?'

That is quite all.' He had made up
his mind to keep silence about the ghost
Williams had seen, and his mother's heat
confirmed the resolve. But that heat bewildered
him. Hardwicke's jealous disappointment
flaring up in death might, ina
sense; be understood ; but why was

Beaver supposed to be implacable ? What
grievance had he ? And why did Mrs.
Acland, so calm and easy-going and reasonable,
flash with anger at his name ?

If her keen eyes observed Hugh's indecision,
she did not remark upon it. ' Will
you be satisfied now, Hugh,' she said, ' and
leave all the matter to me ? Twice you
have interfered in a delicate and painful
inquiry — how many more times I do not
know. But on both these occasions grave
disputes have arisen between us. If your
confidence in me is restored, promise that
henceforth you will let your mother conduct
the affair.'

I promise faithfully,' Hugh exclaimed,
not without relief.

I register that vow, and we will talk
of pleasant matters — Miss Palliser, for
instance ?'

I am in love, mans, and she and I have
got into a scrape.'

.1 Good Hater.

Are you certain the young lady is
free?'

You have heard something, then ? It
is absurd to suppose that there can be a
serious engagement between Grace and
Major Saxell, when they have not met
since she was a child.'

Before I decide about that, tell me what
has passed.'

I recognise your quiet sarcasm there,
mans. If Miss Palliser is so fast now, she
may have been precocious enough to fall
seriously in love at ten years old ! But,
indeed, she is unlike other girls.'

As the mother of a girl, I cannot
pretend to regret the difference excessively.
But let me have her story, which will not
be put in the worst light by you, I conclude.'


It is not quite a laughing matter, I
fear !' said Hu!2:h.

To own one's self wrong is pleasant than

to own one's self weak. He accepted so
much more of the responsibility for a joint
escapade than belonged to him, that the
account might easily have been understood
in a sense very different to the truth. But
Mrs. Acland was not deceived.

You do not use the privileges of your
sex,' she said, with smiling bitterness.
The world will be quite ready to throw"
all the blame on Miss Palliser !'

Poor child ! Yes, I have been thinking
of that. Couldn't you. write to her
kindly ?'

I'm afraid,' she said, ' that would be
rather injudicious and scarcely dignified.'

Well, Edie might ! They have been
corresponding, and she owes Miss Palliser
a letter, I think.'

You are aware of that ?'

Of course ! There was no harm in her
showing it me, was there ?'

There is no harm, I hope, in anything

VOL. I. 18

my son allows. It may be difficult to
persuade Edie, however.'

Oh, I think she would give her life for
you, mans, and almost for me. She puts
little value on it herself, poor dear ! I can
persuade Edie.'

Well, I have no objection. Suppose
you sketch your idea of the letter which
would comfort Grace.'

Hugh wrote a draft, not without hesitation,
nor abundance of erasures. When it
was presented Mrs. Acland laughed.

Why, what is this ? So far as I can
understand plain English at a late hour of
the niofht, it is a warm invitation to take
refuge in Eaton Square if things turn out
uncomfortable at home ! Edie will never
transcribe this, Hugh, and I should not
allow her ! Let us dismiss the subject fora
while. In the morning I will try my
own ability. Now, have you answered
Lord Rainforth ?'

Hugh showed the letter.

It is very well,' said Mrs. Acland. ' I
should add the expression of a hope that
Lord Rainforth will accept the apology on
his son's account. Put that in a form as
dignified as you please !'

It is all owing to their silly, musty
practices at Daneham ! You are very
anxious, mans, to exculpate Dunscombe
with his father.'

One of my chief employments lately has
been to undo the mischief my boy has
wrought. Have you answered Lord Duns-combe
?'

I think I shall not answer at all. To
tell the truth, this affair comes in very
timely to relieve me from an embarrassing
position. Dunscombe has fallen into a
habit of making me the confidant of his
feelings towards Edie, though I have never
encouraged him. It is a good opportunity
to break off.'

18—2

I do not encourage him myself. But
you are well aware, Hugh, that I should be
pleased to see Edie regard him with more
favour.'

Oh, mother, you don't know '

I know more, perhaps, than you ! Lord
Dunscombe is not an ideal husband. But
his faults are not vices, and they would
vanish for ever if he had a wife whom he
loved and respected, as he does Edie. I
should not hesitate to trust my child to
him. Put romantic notions aside, Hugh,
and compare Lord Dunscombe with other
young men who would stand a chance of
acceptance from her. She will marry
neither a prig nor a rake, neither an outsider,
nor a commonplace man, nor a
vulgarian, nor a Philistine, nor an aesthete.
The range of choice is very limited, for
Edie is not even indifferent to good looks,
and the youth whom I should call average
horrifies her. Can you name one among

those likely — that is, not wholly unlikely —
to succeed in the lonsf-run, against whom
there are not arguments as strong as
against Dunscombe, while the advantages,
of any sort, are not incomparably less ?
Look at it in that way

I can't, mans ! It is not that Duns-combe
is conspicuously fast as men go, but
that he is so fast whilst declaring and protesting
himself in love with Edie. If regard
for her is not able to keep him straight
now, when he has all to lose, how can you
hope that it will be strong enough when he
has secured her ?'

The argument is good as an exercise, but
it is not borne out by experience of men.
Dunscombe is one of those who could reform
without an effort, if summoned, but do not
trouble to resist temptation day by day with
no distinct purpose before them. I know
what you are going to say, but remember
that I proposed to drop romantic ideas.

However, this talk is all in the air. I shall
not interfere with Edie by even a hint.
What I ask of you is to accept Lord
Dunscombe's apology, and resume, in appearance
at least, your old friendship.'

Well, I obey. But you do not expect
me to be cordial ? I will meet Dunscombe
courteously, but I'll see no more of him
than I can help.'

So that was decided. Hugh wrote a
cold letter of forgiveness, and went to
bed.

At the very earliest hour next day he
waited on his mother, claiming her promise
to draft the comforting missive for Grace,
which Edie was to transcribe. It was
drawn up, not without laughing but eager
disputes ; and then came the greater difficulty.
His sister refused downright at
first, but gradually yielded to Hugh's
coaxing and Mrs. Acland's light-hearted
way of putting the matter. But she would

\

take no suggestions, and wrote in her own
style :

My dear Miss Palliser,

My brother has returned, and he
has given us your nice messages. After
hearing from Hugh all that passed, mamma
desires me to say that she still desires to
make your acquaintance when Mrs. Saxell
can spare you.

In haste.'

Do cross out " still," darling, and make
it a little longer and a good deal more
cordial. Say that you share the mans'
wish, and end " affectionately," or " very
truly," at least. You are not " in haste,"
and why say so to minimize the kindly
effect ?'

I won't write in any other form, Hugh,'
she answered, and signed her name ' sincerely.'


I will try to believe all you say about

Miss Palliser. If circumstances had been
different I dare say I should have liked her.
But as it is, I don't care to see her more
than any of the rest.'

Later in the day Hugh asked for the
newspaper paragraphs to which this mother
had referred. They were very vague, mere
rumours of a ' supposed accident at Walsingham,'
with no mention of Peake's name ;
only the report that ' a man crossing the
bridge is said to have witnessed it.' Nothing
about a lantern. But Hugh did not care
to point this out.

THE CONSEQUENCES.

grace PALLISER had known
few troubles in life, and her
facile disposition had easily
shirked those which befell her. Sulks, and
even tears, were not unknown in Mrs.
Saxell's household, but only surface-deep.
It was not temper, however, nor calculation,
nor mischief, nor a bored craving for
excitement which melted the young lady
one day, a week after the ball. And with
no faltering severity her aunt observed the
deluge. She was as stern as she looked.
I cannot now pretend to blame those

people who have slighted you. Lady
Rainforth's reply to my demand for an
explanation is not at all unkindly under
the circumstances. You have actually no
excuse ! Mr. Acland is a mere boy, and, I
believe, a boy of fairly good principles. It
was not to be expected that he would
refuse when you pressed him, being a
stranger to the usages of Daneham ; but
your conduct showed the extremest impropriety
! And I have to say that of the
girl on whom my son has bestowed all his
gallant heart !'

Oh, don't tell Dick !' Grace sobbed.

I dare not keep the secret. You know
too well that the country-side is talking,
and scandal would carry it if I were
silent!'

He would not believe anyone else !
Dick is so good.'

The more reason I should tell him the
truth.'

Oh, aunt, I implore you ! I will write
you shall see the letter.'

I have decided which is the path of
duty.'

Angry resolution shone in Grace's eyes
also, tear swollen though they were, when
she looked up.

You know, aunt, that Dick will never
forgive me, if you repeat what those people
are saying. But I hope and I think he
will not forgive you either. I shall not
bear all the blame.'

She left Mrs. Saxell glowering and
speechless. The old lady was outraged in
every feeling, but prudence warned her that
the hint was not injudicious. A charge
against Grace might finally bring about
disagreeable consequences. Her sense of
duty changed, and she waited only for
some pretext to yield in a manner dignified
and creditable.

But Grace never thought of trying former

arts. She began a confession to Dick, and
to her thus engaged Edie's letter was
brought. Grace hardly read it before
dashing off an answer :

I was at my wits' end with penitence
and bewilderment a moment ago ! You
are too tender-hearted to say what you do
not mean, and I accept, oh, so thankfully !
Mrs. Saxell can spare me now. May I
come at once ? Please, dear bliss Acland,
remember how anxiously I shall expect
your reply!'

In due course it arrived — from Mrs.
Acland :

It is not my habit to say more than I
mean. Your visit would be gratifying tome,
but I must tell you that we are going
abroad immediately after the season. If
that should not deter you I will write to
Mrs. Saxell.'

She will never accept that cold-blooded
invitation,' said Hugh dolefully.

My belief is,' Edie answered, ' seeing
how Miss Palliser took my note, that this
cold-blooded invitation of mamma's will
bring: her bv next train !'

And the guess was not far wrong.
Grace could not flatter herself that the
Acland ladies were burning to make her
acquaintance, but she made the best of it,
wrote an acceptance with gratitude, and
waited curiously rather than anxiously to
see how her aunt took the business.

Mrs. Saxell glared over a letter which
came two days afterwards.

What is this madness ? "What on earth
does the woman mean?'

Mrs. Acland asks me to stay with her
until she goes abroad, and I accept!'

You shall not go !'

I will !' Their eyes met, and it was
not Grace who faltered.

I cannot believe you serious. To visit
Mrs. Acland after what has passed would
be another scandal, and a worse!'

I know nobody else who Avould have
me. We haven't any friends, aunt !'

You do not deserve friends !'
If so, it is unkind of yours to visit my
faults on you.'

Why do you want to go away ?'
'Oh!'

There was length and depth enough in
that ejaculation to supply a whole paragraph
of answer.

I have not written to Dick,' said Mrs.
Saxell feebly.

'I have!'

The long and the short of it is that }'ou
shall not quit my roof, if I have to use
force to prevent you.'

Don't be silly, aunt.*

With this astounding observation Grace
left the room — and nature was not convulsed.

She wrote presently, announcing her
arrival within three days. And then she
became very busy, running in and out ot
the house. And so it chanced that the
gardener's boy, carrying a letter to the
post, was met by Grace, who relieved him
of the duty, and forgot to fulfil it until the
eve of her departure.

It is needless to describe the phases of a
domestic struggle which ended, of course,
in victory for the more reckless combatant.
The power of the purse was all that Mrs.
Saxell could count on practically, and that
failed her. Grace had enough for the
journey. She did not look beyond. Her
aunt, or her guardian, or somebody, would
supply the needful, of course.

Mrs. Saxell was not waiting in the
breakfast-room as usual on the last morning,
and after half an hour she did not
appear. Grace actually brimmed with affection
that day. She said to herself that to

leave without good-bye would be agonizing,
and so ran upstairs.

Oh, please, please, dear !' tapping at the
door — ' a kiss and a kind word, please!'

The pretty coaxing tone was too much
for Mrs. Saxell's sternness. She thought
the rebel had given way, and opened her
door, submitting to impetuous caresses.
But in the midst thereof, Grace exclaimed:


There's Miles's dogcart, auntie. It's
such a relief to part affectionately.'

]airs. Saxell pushed the girl away.

You are a heartless, hypocritical creature !
Stay with those people — they're of your
own sort. Don't return here.'

Oh, darling auntie, don't begin again !
Good-bye.'

The announcement of Grace's arrival
caused a sensation, rather stupefying for
the moment, in Eaton Square. Even
Hugh stared before he sprang ujj and

kissed his mother. Edie said, with colour
heightened :

I have accepted all you told us, Hugh,
about Miss Palliser's innocence and impetuosity
and the rest, but this is really
indelicate. I cannot believe, until I have
seen her, that any girl in possession of her
senses could be so thoughtless. The best I
can say for Miss Palliser is crushing to
your hopes, Hughie.'

'How?'

If she felt the very smallest interest in
you, she would certainly not run away to
your mother's house after what has passed.'

Hugh saw it, and his face lengthened,
but he made an effort to defend the young
lady.

Then where is the indelicacy?'

In forcing herself upon us. I never
dreamed that the invitation would be taken
seriously. Did you, mamma?'

I hoped to have heard from Mrs. Saxell,

VOL. I. 19

certainly. But we must make her welcome
now.'

She will make herself welcome, mans !'

Just so,' said Edie, ' and I shall bear the
brunt. ]\ramma can escape her at any time.'

Escape her!'

And you, of course, will only meet heron
show. All the penalty falls on me, who
must be friendly and gossipy day and night !
I detest her !'

My darling princess ! There are forms
of blasphemy which rouse pity, not anger.
I shall ask your revised opinion this da'
week.'
■ Then came Mrs. Saxell's letter :

Madam, — I am used to speak frankly.
Your invitation to Miss Palliser is an impertinence.
What your motive may be I
do not try to guess. If you are not aware
that she is engaged to my son, I give you
the information. She has something less

than £5,000 for her fortune. It would be
superfluous, probably, to add that I cannot
allow her to accept your kind invitation.'

I'd glad you asked her now, mamma,'
said Edie quietly. ' This explains a great
deal.'

You are a little angel !' her brother
rapturously exclaimed.

Miss Palliser arrived in due time. Hugh
was embarrassed, Edie grave, Mrs. Acland
cordial but restrained. Grace, alone, was
perfectly at ease — used to admiration and
liking from all she met, of high courage,
thoughtless as a kitten, she did not know
what shyness is. When Hugh introduced
his sister, Grace blushed beautifully, and
her eyes widened with pleased surprise.

How could you utter such a calumny,
Mr. Acland !' she said.

What calumny ?'

To say that I — never mind ! Would

19—2

you kindly see about my boxes? — I am
glad I did not know you, Miss Acland,
before I invited myself so impudently. I
should not have dared.'

Am I so formidable ?'

Not formidable — at least — will you ever
let me kiss you ?'

Whenever you please,' Edie answered,
smiling, but un enthusiastic.

I will try hard to deserve it ! When I
do, will you tell me? How stupid brothers
are ! Mr. Acland said we should run into
each other's arms, and grow together, like
Siamese twins! Oh, thank you! yes, the
boxes are all risrht.'

I have no time to detail the course of
little events which brought the girls to intimacy
within a fcAv days, admiring on both
sides, protesting on Grace's part, kindly
tolerant on Edie's. At the end of a week,
the latter gave her opinion shortly.

She is beautiful as a dryad ! If Grace

possessed a soul, she would be the dearest,
brightest girl alive. Until she finds one, if
ever, she is not responsible.'

Can you help her, dear ?' asked Mrs.
Acland.

It's one of those cases, I think, mamma,
where a woman's powers of magic are very
limited ; and I'm afraid Hugh would not be
more successful even if he had a clear
course.'

Does she speak of her engagement ?'

Certainly. One can see that Grace
regards it as a settled thing, and she has
evidently a very great affection for Major
Saxell. Whether she loves him in the way
a girl should love her husband is another
question.'

If she did, I suppose that she would
have what you call a soul ?'

Of course, if it were real love. But
Grace's affection is quite a sisterly affair,
and marriage seems to mean nothing

besides freedom and fun and every sort of
amusement that money brings. At the same
time, she has it firmly fixed in her mind
that Major Saxell is very poor.'

And does not try to reconcile the ideas ?
That is carrying thoughtlessness to the
verge of stupidity', and Grace is not stupid.
Doesn't it occur to you that she may be
reckoning on Major Saxell's success in his
claim ?'

Oh, mamma ! The girl is as honest
and loyal as possible ! She could not think
of that Avhen living with us.'

I don't really believe she does. A
curious character.'

One thing is quite certain. Hugh is
falling deeper and deeper in love with her,
and he is quite capable of a serious passion.
Are you not anxious, mamma?'

Not very, dear. He will not break his
heart. Lovely as Grace is, and gifted with
more attractions than we women can ap-prelate,

she is not the girl for whom men
suffer lifelong agonies. I should think
that Hugh will get over his disappointment
in a few weeks, but I hope not.'

I know you are as wise as affectionate.
But why do you hope not ?'

Because I think that he is going
through an invaluable education. Hugh is
very young in character, but headstrong,
suspicious rather, and jealous of direction.
If there were the slightest chance of his
marrying Miss Palliser, I would do my
utmost to stop it, for she has very much of
his own disposition, and before they reached
the altar they would have laid the foundation
of a hundred quarrels, misunderstandings,
tiffs, which might become serious afterwards.
When both are older, and have had
experience, they would be not ill-matched.
The very best experience for Hugh will be
this disappointment, not too painful.'

I am sure you are right, if only it prove

to be not too painful ! And meantime,
mamma, there is a consideration which,
perhaps, you have not thought of.'

What is that ?'

Hugh has quite ceased to trouble
himself about the claim ! He has not even
talked of it for a week.'

I did not consider that, you shrewd
child ! But it is very true. We have not
had any alarms or excursions lately.'

And my clever mamma had not observed
that, until her silly daughter pointed
it out! You don't do me the injustice —
oh dear, how ought I to put it ? You
don't do me the injustice to suppose that I
do not do you more justice than that ?
That isn't neatly expressed. What I mean
is, that I could almost believe you had foreseen
the course things have taken since
Hugh began to hope that bliss Palliser
would come here, and had arranged accordingly
— there !

All the suspicious nature of my offspring
is not concentrated in Hugh, I see,'
said Mrs. Acland pleasantly. ' But my
plots are very harmless !'

Don't I know that, kindest and best of
mothers? If only Hugh's passion is as
light as we trust it is !'

Grace was as happy as the day is long,
counting it at the full twenty-four hours.
The season died in a crush of gaiety. Mrs.
Acland took the girls out a good deal, and
a score of eligible chaperons were delighted
to replace her at need. Opportunities
of distinction in society are few, and
the fame of a lady who had charge of two
girls so notably beautiful was made for
the night, possibly even for the morrow.

They very often met Lord Dunscombe,
and he called in Eaton Square quite as
frequently as the laws of decorum admitted.
Grace soon got over the embarrassment of
meeting him, for he laughed at her outrage

on the Kainforth traditions. She observed,
however, that Dunscombe and Hugh were
not as friendly as they used to be, and
boldly asked of the former if she was in anyway
the cause.

So far from that,' he answered, ' no one
is as well qualified as yourself to restore
our understanding.'

Then the quarrel must have been about
me ? I am very clever in setting people by
the ears, but not in smoothing them over
afterwards. What shall I do?'

Persuade Hugh to forgive me heartily.
I behaved like a ruffian to him once.'

Won't Edie or Mrs. Acla'nd mediate ?'

I could not ask them, and I implore
you not to do so.'

It is my duty, I suppose,' she said, and
promised.

But the opportunity did not come. AA^'ith
all her carelessness, the girl felt this task
awkward, and time went by. It became

necessary to consider what she would do
when Mrs. Acland and Edie went abroad.
Grace took it for granted that the only
course for her was a return to Scarsholme,
and she did not repress her droll lamentations.
Edie said one day, ' Do you think,
mamma, that Grace means to hint that she
would like to go with us to Italy ?'
I'm quite sure she does not.'
And so am I. So let us ask her,'
I did not like to suggest it, but you.
really want a companion now. I shall be
very busy and preoccupied until this affair
of Major Saxell's is finished.'

And then you know, dear, Hugh is not
going with us. He would hardly have
kept away from Scarsholme when he recollected
that Grace was sitting; there in
tears and dishevelment longing for a comforter.'


Do not put your cunning schemes to my
account,' said Mrs. Acland, laughing.

So it was decided, and Miss palliser lost
her ill-regulated senses with joy and surprise.
Mrs. Saxell wrote that if she delayed
returning any longer, she need not take the
trouble to return at all ; but Grace only
laughed, and said nothing to her host.

Riding up Grosvenor Place one day with
Hugh, they met Lady Kainforth and Madge,
who bowed distantly.

I don't think I deserve to be treated so !'
said Grace meekly, though her colour
heightened.

Don't regard those people ! They are
animated mummies, with a modern coat of
paint.'

Grace laughed. ' But we were both
wrong, Mr. Acland! I own it, and I
submit to the penalty. So should you!'

I will submit to anything in your company.'


Then make it up with Lord Dunscombe.
He is so anxious to be friends !'

I have no ill-feeling towards him. Let
us talk of something else. When you are
leaving in a few hours we might find a
topic more interesting than Lord Duns-combe.'


'But I must have this off my mind!'
Her beautiful eyes pleaded earnestly.

Say " Forgive him for my sake," and I
will love him.'

I must not say that, Mr. Acland !'

But that is what you mean ? And why
should you not say it ?'

Frankly, I don't know why not. I will
ask Edie.'

Oh, Edie will give you reasons enough.
If you feel, you must have an impression at
least.'

Hardly. Perhaps a girl is not right in
asking personal favours.'

That would depend,' he answered, pressing
his horse closer ; they had reached
Rotten Row, and the crowd encompassed

them. ' If Edie thought you'd ever consent
to be her sister she would approve anything
you did.'

That I don't believe, Mr. Acland !
Under the circumstances you funnily
suggest, Edie would regard me and all my
doings with the extremest disapproval.'

She knows that I love you, and that
would be enough for her if she did not love
you herself.'

Pray be more careful, Mr. Acland.
Some one will overhear us, and may misunderstand.'


They could not, for I am speaking
quite plainly. I ask you to be my wife,
Grace!'

Your But you know I am

engaged ?'

There cannot be love between two
persons who do not know each other by
sight '

Why not as well as between two

persons who don't know much of each other
except by sight?'

Then you don't love me?'

Oh, what an unfortunate girl I
am!'

Misery is very tolerable when other
people bear all the sting of it ! You cannot
have been ignorant that I adored you from
the first moment, and you have been playing
with me !'

I have not, indeed. Until this very
instant, I never thought of you but as a
kind, light-hearted friend.'

Can you think of me gravely now ?*

Yes — sadly ! If I was to blame, I beg
you to forgive me !'

I am not quick at forgiving, you. know.
If you possessed the common feelings of
womankind you could not have deceived
me in this manner!'

Grace answered mildly:

I sometimes think I haven't ! But I am

woman enough to regret this misunderstanding,
bitterly !'

The real thought in her mind could not
be expressed. It was astonishment at his
presumption. Other young men admired
her ; all did, in fact. But she could not
marry all, and she felt no inclination to
make a choice. She liked Mr. Acland certainly,
as she liked others who were bright
and generous and warm-hearted and amusing.
Why should he single himself out
among the human race as destined for the
prize? Grace did not feel complimented,
but vexed and indignant.'

Perhaps Hugh saw the truth.

You don't regret it,' he said roughly,
for you don't comprehend it.'

They rode home silently. Mrs. Acland
came to Hugh in his dressing-room.

I have news that will relieve your mind,
my son. Mr. Yane has written Major
Saxell, advising him to drop his claim.'

Oh, mother, I am so glad ! Then he is
satisfied ?'

Yes,' Mrs. Acland answered, smiling.
As a cool, disinterested lawyer, Mr. Vane
accepts evidence which, does not convince
my son — - — '

Mother !'

It is not yom* fault, dear ! You have
tried hard, I know, but I see you cannot
believe — something, perhaps, you have
heard which has not been trusted to me. I
cannot tell that ; but 1 can read your face.
jSTo, dear, darling Hugh, don't tr}^ to explain,
since things have turned out so.
The crisis is over. We will be quite happy
and confidential again. Now, let us go to
lunch.'

Grace had not learned, probably she
would never learn, to hide a real feeling,
and Hugh did not attempt it. Within
three minutes Mrs. Acland and Edie knew
as well as if they had overheard that those

VOL. I. 20

two had had an unsatisfactory explanation.
And so they exerted themselves to make
talk. After lunch the brother and sister
remained alone. They congratulated one
another on the issue of the question sofar.


Now,' said Hugh, ' I can start on my
travels.'

Where do you think of going ?' Edie
asked, without surprise or alarm.

Anywhere, so long as there's big game
and savages in the neighbourhood.'

You don't really mean that ? Oh,
Hugh, she is not worth your honest heart
nor our tears.'

I know her better than you, and I can't
help it. I must get away, darling ! Help
me to persuade my mother.'

If it is so, I will help you ! My poor
little brother !'

I beg of you, dear, not to allow this to
make any difference in your behaviour towards

Miss Palliser. She gave me no
encouragement wilfully. And I'm not
hopeless, Edie. Grace cares no more for
Saxell than for me, and it would be best in
my own interests to leave her for awhile,
even if I could keep up appearances,
which I can't. You will ignore all this ?
You will not let her suspect anything
of it?'

Edie promised.

Dunscombe entered the room the next
day before Hugh was dressed.

We cannot continue on these terms,' he
said. ' Let us have an explanation.'

I will give it you frankly, for I am
going to the west coast of Africa for twelvemonths
at least. Before you used words
that could hardly be forgiven, I had heard
remarks here and at Daneham which caused
me to ask myself whether our intimacy was
consistent with my honour. You had
fallen into a habit of alluding to your

20—2

admiration of my sister, and I had fallen
into a habit of listening. At all times
I have warned you that if need arose —
there was no need and there is none now —
but if it arose I warned you that my
influence would be used against you. But
that is not enough. There are matters of
common report which compel me to take a
stronger course, and therefore I was not
sorry to have an opportunity of breaking
off our former terms. You see that the
case is beyond remedy.'

Dunscombe Alas white ; his mouth
quivered.

May I ask,' he said, in a changed voice,
whether you have transmitted these
common reports to the ladies of your
family ?'

I have not. But before I go I shall.'

Without another word, Dunscombe withdrew
to his own house, and summoned
Moore, his valet.

Mr. Acland sent you a while ago to
make acquaintance with Mr. Vane's clerk.
What sort of man is he?'

Mr. Davis is not a superior person, my
lord. I should think he would be pleased
to make himself useful for a trifle, if that is
what your lordship means.'

He is a respectable sort of man, of
course ?'

Quite respectable, my lord.'

And obliging ?'

Very obliging, my lord, I should say,
when a matter is put before him with consideration.'


And money?'

That is what I mean, my lord.'

Then find him this afternoon. I have
some annoying business, which I would not
ask my lawyers to conduct. If you are
sure that Mr. Davis is trustworthy, bring
him here.'

When Dunscombe returned to dress, the

man was waiting. It is easy for one who
leads a fast life to find work for a legal
agent of the indefinite class. Diinscombe
invited Mr. Davis to sit down, showed a
number of letters referring to a claim which
he desired to compromise, discussed the
matter thoroughly, and offered a large
percentage. Not till Mr. Davis rose to
go did he say casually :

It was my man who named you to meas
an able and discreet adviser. I lent him
to Acland on the occasion when he made
your acquaintance. Moore guarantees your
silence and trustworthiness in this case.
You will not give a stranger the address of
anybody concerned in my affairs?'

Indeed I will not, my lord,' said Davis,
much flurried. ' That was such a very
trifling matter which Mr. Moore questioned
me about.'

Well, you will not forget that there are
no trifles in my business ! By-the-bye,

how does the claim of Major Saxell progress
?'

It has come quite to a standstill, my
lord. Mr. Vane has made up his mind that
it will not hold water, as they say; and
he is writing to India by next mail, advising
Major Saxell to drop it.'

This is very pleasant news ! I am
particularly interested in this case, not for
the money question, but on account of some
collateral issues that seem to arise. You
understand me ?'

I am not sure, my lord,' said Davis, with
hesitation.

It is not much of a secret that I admire
Miss Acland,' Dunscombe replied steadily,
but with an effort. ' Certain hints have
reached me that cause a vague uneasiness.
You understand now ?'

Your lordship thinks that there is something
which might influence him in the idea
of marrying Miss Acland ?'

Quite so.'

Might I ask what those hints were ?
Possibly I could relieve your lordship's
mind.'

Why,' said Dunscombe angrily, ' about
Hugh's birth in the first place.'

]mr. Hugh is legitimate — doubly so, I
may say

That's it ! — there is a mystery. What
was the date of Mrs. Acland's marriage?'

In the latter part of 1857, nominally '

And he was born in February, 1858?'

Allow me '

Your explanation is not enough. And
what is the connection of Mrs. Acland with
Julius Beaver?'

As for that, my lord, I'm sorry to confess
that we know nothing certainly. But
Mr. Yane is quite satisfied with her refutation
of the innuendoes made by Sergeant-major
Raises.'

In such a grave matter I cannot accept

Mr. Vane's opinion any more than yours.
Now, Mr. Davis, unless I have been misinformed,
Raises or Acland or Hardwicke, or
whoever he was, preferred certain charges
against the lady, which Vane most properly
suppressed. I am deeply interested,
as you perceive, in knowing what those
charges are, and in ascertaining for myself
the facts. It is needless to give you my
word of honour that they will not be
divulged. Could you obtain me a copy, ora
sight, of the statements which Raises
made ?'

Davis hesitated no longer.

It is a risk, my lord,' he said.

'You may name your own terms.'

Your lordship wishes to marry Miss
Acland, but before committing yourself you
desire to learn the truth of certain scandals
against the family. Very natural and
proper, if I may be allowed to express an
opinion.'

You are perfectly right.'

Your lordship's confidence flatters
me ! But mr. Vane, perhaps, would
not acknowledge my right to assist
you.'

My gratitude shall be all the more substantial.'


I might probably be dismissed !'

Let me have those papers for half a
day, and I will hand yx)u three years' salary
down on receipt.'

That is enough ! A poor man, my
lord, cannot always venture to follow a
good impulse, however strongly his better
nature may commend it to him. But
assured against the consequences, he can
give himself fair play. We are just now
transcribing all the evidence on either side,
to be sent to India, with Mr. Vane's remarks.
By a little management and good luck,
I might obtain possession of the documents
your lordship wishes to see. rout I beg

you not to keep them more than half a
day.'

^ Have you read the things yourself ?'
asked Dunscombe jealously.

Not exactly, my lord. Mr. Yane keeps
them locked up. But I have confidentially
transcribed Mrs. Acland's answers, intended
for Major Saxell personally.'

So the case in itself falls to the ground?'

Absolutely. Sergeant-major Raises was
the Rev. Henry Hardwicke. as sure as I

am James Davis and your lordship is

what your lordship pleases to call yourself.'

Let me have a copy of Mrs. Acland's
reply also, if possible. When Major Saxell
drops the question, if he should, his claim
passes to Mrs. Saxell, as I understand ?'

Yes, and she's an ugly customer, my
lord. But so far as scandal is concerned,
her son has written Mr. Yane to destroy all
the matter he suppressed, before handing
over the evidence, if Mrs. Saxell should

besoin proceedings ; and Mr. Vane told me
he would have done so on his own account,
without authority.'

That's rather a bold step, isn't
it?'

Very bold for a poor man, my lord.
Mr. Yane would do it, if necessary, however.
But the lady will not know these
things, and if counsel ask about the mutilated
diary the chances are that they can
be satisfied without much trouble.'

If the case is as plain as you describe,
how could Hardwicke possibly have hoped
to carry his fraud through?'

Our case is that he didn't hope. In
all the years he was writing slander against
Mrs. Acland, and pretending to himself
that he was her husband, Raises never
made a move. AVe insist a good deal on
that. But when the game was up, and
he lay dying, it seems to have been a
satisfaction to him to do something at last

which would make matters unpleasant for
those who survived him. And if Major
Saxell hadn't been a chivalrous sort of
a gentleman, Raises would have succeeded
with a vengeance, whether the Major gained
his case or not. Your lordship will judge
for yourself. Though it's all lies, a lady in
the upper circles would have found an
inquiry very unpleasant. Perhaps your
lordship is not aware that he intended atone
time to write all his story about her
mother to Miss Acland — and most likely he
did so!'

Xo, by heaven ! I had not heard that !
How do you know?'

We found the rough draft of a letter
addressed to her among the things at
Meerut.'

'Was there a date? What did it contain
?'

It contained all the charges, put as black
as possible. We judge that the date would

be somewhere in 1S78. Your lordship is
agitated, naturally !'

What an infernal scoundrel ! This is
worse than I ever thought.'

• If we hadn't stronger evidence,' said
]Mr. Davis, * the fact that Raises was a
scoundrel would not prove him not to have
been Acland, my lord.'

Send what you have promised as soon as
you can. Good-evening.'

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, Gl'ILDFORD.

S. d H.



OF Thou

N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

V.2

FREDERICK BOYLE,

AUTHOR OP
CAMP NOTES,' ' LEGENDS OF MY BUNGALOW,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

jaublislicrs in Wrbinivrg tff ^cr ^ittiijcsto the ^uccn.

1885.

[All Rights Reserved.]

v:

CONTENTS OF VOL. 11.

CHAPTER

I, AT Meekly

II. MRS. SAXELL LEARNS HER RIGHTS

III. AT THE Bagnio DI LUCCA

IV. DICK SAXELL

V. RETURN TO Scarsdale

VI. MR. JULIUS BEAVER
VII. BEAVERLOWE

Vii A CONFESSION





lU





CHAPTER I.

AT MEERUT.

HERE are two bungalows in the
Artillery lines at Meerut specially
afFectioned by officers of
taste. They stand near the Mess House,
divided by the fashionable Mall from other
quarters — from the barracks, the stables,
and the dusty parade-ground. Very small
they are, the prettier the smaller of the two.
It is painted a lively and martial hue,

VOL. II. 21

V%^

approaching scarlet ; lout the untrained
foliage, the dark Hue flowers of the Jack-mann,
the Bougainville and a dozen other
creepers hide its walls. The porch is charming
when filled with plants. Outside steps,
leading to a flat roof, all weather-stained
and weed-grown, delight the appreciative
eye. Compound and stables, unusually
large, show that the tiny house was built fora
man of wealth.

The present occupier cannot do his
pleasant quarters justice. Creepers sprout
and bloom as freely for Lazarus as for
Dives, but the little porch is are of flowerpots,
the gardener has withdrawn, the
stables are hardly occupied, swithin the
building luxury is not sought, and necessaries
are curtailed. There is no matting
on the floor, no picture on the walls. The
furniture may be inventoried in few words,
since only one room is occupied.

Items : A cliarpoy, or native bedstead,

hung with mosquito-curtains. A tiger-skin
on the floor beside it.

Two tent-tables, consisting of a square
board set in X tresses.

Three wicker chairs, costing 4-Jd. each.

Three uniform-cases — tin.

Four bullock trunks, raised on bricks
above the cemented floor.

A tin basin, and camp washhand-stand.

A water-jug and glass.

A moderator lamp.

Nothing else whatever in the way of
sticks.' The tables, the bullock trunks,
are heaped with papers, books, and maps.
Upon the wall hang diagrams of cannon ;
calculations of trajectory, etc., are scored in
charcoal.

The inhabitant of this deceptive little
villa is Major Saxell, V.C, R.A. It is lent
for the remainder of his term by a comrade,
gone to England on long leave. Major
Saxell is seated now in one of the 



chairs, studying a professional journal.
Three brother officers louise in, with
that sapped and listless air which young
men affect, and old cannot escape, during
the hot season. Saxell rises quietly and
seats himself on a bullock trunk, whilst
they take possession of the chairs.

'Out with it!' he cried, laughing ; 'you
look like members of a hanging jury, tired
of the business. What's the charge ?
Murder ?'

Not murder exactly,' said one. ' It's
business. Now, O'Brian, you talk !'

AVell, Major, the fact is that an Agnostic
and Radical Government has abolished
Simpkin and Co. ; it would abolish the
saints in heaven if they did not belong to
the Staff Corps.'

Well ?'

'Simpkin and Co. appeal to the British
soldier, who always fronts a foe and backs
a friend. With the zeal of martyrs they

refuse to cease from doing good, if we will
lend them our prayers — and a few superfluous
rupees. Meerut lias heard the call !
Battery X 3 turns out at the bugle.'

My dear fellows, you all know quite
well I have no money for gambling.'

Call it a subscription to uphold our
rights,' Dallas cried. ' Lieutenants or subs,
or whatever we be, we are all majors in the
eye of the law, and we are not to be instructed,
like schoolboys, how to spend our
pocket-money.'

Call it a sacred duty to support the
beneficent powers,' said O'Brian. ' By my
conscience, it's no less than flying in the face
of Providence to suppress Siskin and
Co!'

You may be quite right, but I haven't
ten rupees even for a holy cause.'

The moral effect of the whole thing
is spoilt if you refuse,'

Everyone has ten rupees,' urged Prynne

It's only change for a quid, minus
deterioration of the currency.'

'For the honour of X 3 K.A.!' Dallas
pleaded. ' It won't occur again !'

Before a multitude of counsellors there
is wisdom in submitting. Take my rupees,
and may a distracted [Major's malediction
consume together the Agnostic Government
and the pious Simpkin !'

Good !' said Prynne, booking it. ' Xow,'
he added gravely, 'if there's any money
certain on the cards, Saxell's horse will win
the Leger.'

Bless you ! When do I come into my
fortune, and what's it worth?'

Well, the Leger Sweep is not so big
as the Derby, of course. Last year I think
the prizes were 80,000, 40,000, and 20,000
rupees.'

I shall be quite satisfied with the third.
And what do I do next ?'

You can pray, if so inclined ; no other

form of outpost duty is recommended under
the circumstances. Simpkin and Co
manage everything. Early next month
they Avill inform all the world who has
drawn what horse, and then, as you are
sure to get a favourite, Locke of the 59th
B.C. will doubtless open negotiations. He
represents the Syndicate here.'

What Syndicate ?'

It is shameful that a man so ignorant
should be promoted in a scientific arm of the
service ! The Syndicate, sir, is composed
of persons solvent and high-born, who have
turned their great minds to the pleasing
labour of extracting certainty fi'om chance.
They are acquainted, personally acquainted,
with the invisible and mysterious Simpkin.
Tt is possible they have met the still more
mysterious " Co." Their representatives
are present when the drawing takes place,
and they telegraph immediately to the
holders of likely horses, offering a certain

sum calculated on the betting — oh, here's
the mail, by stove ! If I received such a
heap of" letters as that, ^lajor, I would
meekly save trouble by retiring into bankruptcy,
and handing the notes to my creditors
on account.'

They withdrew.

It Alas a big parcel, but the letters were
not many — one from Grace, one fi'om ]airs.
Saxell, two or three from friends — a mass
of documents fi'om Yane formed the bulk.
He turned to Grace's missive.

In a former letter she had told of her
adventure in the Peele Tower, touching
with so light a hand that Dick laughed in
reading the story. The explanation of her
visit to the Aclands Alas not so easy, for
there Alas much to be concealed ; but though
the incident annoyed Dick, with a vague
sense that all Alas not told, he did not
become anxious. For Mrs. Saxell made no
fuss about it Avhen she Avrote next mail,

and he naturally looked to her for the
protection of his bride. Dick contented
himself with uro-insf Grace to return home.

This letter was full of enthusiasm about
Mrs. Acland's kindness, Edie's beauty and
charm, Hugh's brotherly affection ; Dick
ran through it and opened his mother's.
That was dreary and complaining, but it
did not make any charge against Grace.
Then he addressed himself to the despatch
from Vane. There were many enclosures to
his long' letter : •

o

My dear Saxell,

It is wisest and kindliest to relieve
your mind at once. My mature conviction
is that Sergeant Raises was an impostor,
and I have admitted that conviction to Mrs.
Acland, as you wished ; but I have not
formally withdrawn your claim. There is
no need to be hasty.

'Enclosed you Avill find the facts and

declarations that satisfy me, which I have
fitted into a rough narrative. But Mrs.
Acland desires to justify herself fi'om that
man's calumny before all things, and I put
her statement first.

You are prepared to hear that Sergeant
Raises was not Hugh Acland, but Henry
Hardwicke, Acland' s friend and bitter
enemy to his dyinii: day. His motive in
assuming Acland's personality — though
perhaps he believed it himself at last — was
the desire of vengeance timon his widow,
who, according to Raises's account, had
jilted him at Oxford. Uj^on this matter ]airs.
Acland states solemnly that she was never
engaged to Hardwicke, nor encouraged him
to hope that she would consent. His hatred
was mere spite and malice.

Mrs. Acland does not believe that
Hardwicke cherished these feelings at the
time — not, at least, in a high degree. I
think it possible myself that Hardwicke

determined from the first to make mischief,
though he did not see, of course, how
it could be done. For on an occasion long
afterwards he told Mrs, Acland, in the
presence of a friend surviving, that Hugh
would avenge him — an expression which
showed his feelings.

Upon no other supposition can his conduct
be explained in performing the ceremony
of marriage between the pair, when
he was only in deacon's orders. It was
no inconsiderable risk he incurred. Miss
Belford did not know that her wedding was
informal, and we may charitably believe,
if we like, that Acland was as ignorant.
But Hardwicke certainly knew what he was
doing, and the danger to himself. It was
not without an object that he broke the law.

Mrs. Acland is eager that you should
understand how it was that she came to be
unacquainted with a rule of discipline which
other girls perhaps knew well. Her parents

belonged to a sect, of which the father was a
minister, that ignored and derided the laws
of the Church. She was aware that Hard-wicked
was ordained, but the distinction
betwixt priest and deacon she had never
heard of, and the necessity for witnesses
was equally unknown to her. It is not
true that Beaver or anyone else was present
at the first weddings.

Acland himself told her the truth, before
his son's birth, and proposed a second
marriage. That took place, as you know,
in the end of 1857, at Lay stone, when
Beaver, Captain Randall, and Mrs. James
were present. And Hugh is legitimate, of
course. Hardwicke performed this ceremony
also, being curate of Laystone.

It is obviously' false that Acland was
jealous of Beaver at this time, since he
borrowed large sums from that gentleman,
and lived Avitli him on a most familiar
footing. For the other venomous falsehoods

which Raises put forward, as they are mere
assertion, without facts or dates or collateral
evidence, Mrs. A eland rebus them
with loathing. She bitterly understands
now why her husband was estranged towards
the last, and Why he assaulted
Beaver ; it was Hardwicke's coins:. But as
for the scene described before Hugh set out
on the fatal ride, there is not a shadow
of truth in it.

This cannot be proved to demonstration,
as Hardwicke well knew ; but he
mentions also that Hugh Acland was
desperate at the time, having exhausted
money and credit, and alienated Beaver.
This is a matter of fact which we can prove
untrue, and the most serious motive allowed
for his pretended death and real flight thus
drops to the ground. He had spent all his
mother's fortune, and tired out his relatives ;
but a man of that sort could not be ignorant
that by assuring his own life and his heir's

he could raise a very considerable sum
on the reversion of his uncle's estate. That
Acland was not ignorant of this resource
is plain, since Mrs. Acland fortunately
preserved a letter from Messrs. Twist, Aver,
and Co., solicitors, addressed to her husband,
offering' a loan on such conditions. She
thought that it miu'lit be useful in the
future. On applying: to that respectable
firm, I learn that ■]\Ir. Aver recollects the
circumstance. Nothing came of it, but they
were prepared to advance the money ; and if
Acland did not close, it was through no
difficulty they put in his Avay. The fact is
that this matter dropped through because
he died. When he rode out that afternoon,
therefore, Acland was in no straits for
ready money ; and thus, as I have said, the
strongest motive asserted fails.

Mrs. Acland desires me to say that
although she finds herself unable, after such
a lapse of time, to disprove categorically

all these vile charges, she can appeal to her
whole life in refutation. And on this point,
my dear Saxell, I myself can bear evidence.
I have known the lady since I was quite
a boy, when she came to lodge in the house
of an old pensioner of our family. Her
circumstances were poor, for General Acland
made her but a small allowance ; but then
as now, at all times, under all conditions,
Mrs. Acland was as bright, as frank, as
guileless, and as honourable as woman
could be.

Now we come to the broad facts. At
4 p.m. on December 9, 1862, Acland rode
out to dine with Hardwicke at Laystone.
His Avise was lying down, and he made
no remark in particular upon leaving. It
appears by the statement of Mrs. Thomas,
enclosed, with whom Hardwicke lodged,
that he left her house after dark, about
6.30 p.m., as she thinks. Half an hour
later, or thereabouts, the Rector of Lay-stone

called upon his curate, and found him
drunk.

It is likely that Acland Meas in much
the same state, for ]airs. Thomas declares
that hotly men drank to excess. In this
condition he met Mr. Beaver — as is understood,
for we have no direct evidence —
excited himself further by an altercation
and a struggle with that gentleman, and
rode off to cross a dangerous ford. It is
very much to be regretted, though not unnatural,
that Mr. Beaver refuses all information.
The next news of his proceedings
is supplied by James Peake.

That witness was crossing' AYolfino-ham
Bridge, about nine o'clock, when he heard
cries for help. The night was dark, but he
had been attending to a sick cow, and he
carried a lantern. By its liixht, Peake saw
a white horse struofsfli^c; in the flood, and
though he will not swear he saw a man —
for the stream was running like a sluice —

he heard gurgling cries swiftly approach,
and they swept beneath the arches of the
bridge. Running to the other side, he
heard no more ; his impression is that the
man struck the brickwork and lost consciousness.


Now (1) Peake may be perjuring himself;
or (2) some other person, riding a
white horse, may have been drowned at the
same place that night. The latter supposition
I name only for argument's sake ;
nobody was missing in the neighbourhood,
and that the horse which Aclnnd rode had
been up to its neck in water is proved by
the condition in which it reached the stable.
The other suggestion remains.

I have made close inquiry about Peake,
^vho has been in London for many years.
The only point to be made against him is
that his means of living are unknown, but
no one suspects that they are other than
honest. The paragraphs that appeared in
VOL. II. 22

the local press at the time were very meagre.
But so far as they go they corroborate
Peake's story. I enclose some cuttings
from the file, but they are almost worthless.

Since no body was found, and none of
Acland's relations bestirred themselves, sofar
as the widow knows, no inquiry was
held. Under the shock of the news, she
was prematurely confined next day, and as
soon as she could travel left the neighbourhood.
I have satisfied myself that there
was never any serious question at Walsingham
of Acland's death.

We may now return to Raises and hit*
declaration. By that account he (Acland)
did not enter the flood. He led his horse
to the brink, drove him over, and waded
back, shouting as if in distress. Following
the stream a few hundred yards down, he
thrust his cap into a bush overhanging it,
crossed the bridge, took the London train
at Brentwood, and enlisted on the third day
after his arrival — that is, on the 12ih.

In a story where dates are important,
the shrewdest of men is apt to make a slip,
if he be not speaking truth. The records
of the Adjutant-general's Office show that
John Raises enlisted on December 14, the
fifth day, not the fourth, after the accident.


It would not be very strange, under the
circumstances, if a man forgot the precise
date of an action, however important, after
twenty years. But in this case, Raises
forgot either the day when he performed a
trick long meditated, of the utmost concern
to his future life, and also the time which
followed, or else he forgot the date of his
enlistment. I may appeal to you, as a military
man, whether the last idea is admissible
; and common experience tells me that
the first is not to be accepted if any other
explanation can be found. And in this case
there is a strong one.

On reference to the Rector's statement,

22—2

you will find that he dismissed his curate
on the 10th ; and on reference to Mrs.
Thomas's statement, that Hardwicke left for
town next day. The date of the enlistment
of John Raises' is consistent with the time
of Hardwicke's departure from Laystone,
but not with Acland's — that is to say, the
third day after his arrival in London.

Another oversight of great importance
Mrs. Acland points out. How did Kaikes
know, as Acland, that his child was a
daughter, named Edith? It is expressly
allen-ed that he had held no communication
with his people. He could not even have
been assured that his wife survived her
confinement, but on that I do not insist.
By no means short of a miracle coukl
Acland have learned the other fact if his
movements were as Raises describes them.
But Hardwicke may aa'cII have known it.

On the morning of December 14, 1862,
Sergeant Major Digges was in Parliament

Street, when a young man stopped him and
asked to be enlisted in the Royal Artillery.
Digges replied at once that he was
too old. Now Ac] and at that date would
have been barely twenty-six years of age,
and he did not look it; Hardwicke was
twenty-eight. The recruit declared that he
was only twenty-five, an assertion which
Dio:2:es did not credit for a moment: but
seeing that the man was well set up, and
educated, he took him to the office. This
was John Raises.

Digges has left the service, and he occupies
a respectable position at Dartford, as
head of the river-keepers to Mr. Fuller. At
his suggestion we have questioned Sergeant
Wallace, Gunner Jones, Drivers Adams and
Smithson, all retired from the service, and
filling good positions. In their statement
you will find a number of facts not
weighty in themselves, but very significant
upon the supposition that Raises was Hard-wicked.

All agree that his nickname was
'' Parson " at Woolwich, and Wallace explains
that he was so called because he once
dropped a letter addressed to the Rev.
Somebody. It i^^ probable that this nickname
still remains in your hattery.

I have been unable to trace Hardwicke's
family, who might have information which
would put all doubts to rest. Mrs. Acland
says that he was always reticent upon that
subject.

In the same manner I have found it
difficult to obtain any specimens of his
handwriting other than formal signatures
and the like, at Oxford and elsewhere. I
confess that the examples, so far as they go,
have little or no resemblance to the 
rising of Raises's diary and letter. This
you will take for what it is worth, in conjunction
with other matters proved. If we
believe that Hard wicked had long meditated
til is deception — as I frankly declare I do —

he would hardly fail to practise Acland's
writing ; but I must say that he was not
particularly successful.

That is the case, my dear Dick. I have
gone through it carefully, and examined
such witnesses as I could reach. Speaking
as a barrister, I have no doubt at all that
a jury would think the identification of
Raises with Hardwicke quite strong enough,
as the evidence stands at present. If you
could prove that A eland was not drowned
it might make a difference, certainly; but
unless you could do that, it would be madness
to proceed. You were naturally struck
by the minute knowledge Raises seemed to
show of Acland's affairs, which in the main
has proved to be accurate. But the fact is
explained by Hardwicke' s intimacy with
him from their school-days.

You will judge for yourself, I have
not used the authority you gave me to
throw up the claim at once, but I advise

you to think most seriously before taking
steps.

As this is a business letter, I close it
without reference to matters that could distract
your attention.'

The honest soldier of fiction, though
sometimes wise as a serpent, is always as
guileless as a dove. It is not my experience
that the intimate acquaintance with menthe
enforced study of character, the endless
incidents, scandals, and charges which a
man must needs observe and often investigate
in the small world of a regiment, tend
to blunt his natural sagacity. Dick Saxell,
at least, was shrewd enough to see that
Mrs. Acland's influence had overshadowed
his friend — to what extent he could not
judge. But as he studied the documents,
any faint suspicions vanished. With such
rebutting details before him it was no
wonder Vane accepted the lady's general

theory. The supposition of fraud, had it
even occurred to Saxell, would not hold,
for Peake's evidence was contemporaneous
with the event, and Raises had condemned
himself out of his own mouth.

Not till that hour did Saxell perceive
what wild hopes he had been cherishing.
Good news had seldom come to the poor
fellow, but he had never felt so downcast as
that day. Again he was a poverty-stricken
^lajor of Artillery, with an extravagant
mother, and a lovely but thriftless bride
awaiting him. Saxell came to a resolution,
or indeed two, in the sleepless night that
followed. He would lay the whole matter,
saving those details personal to Mrs. Acland,
before Major St. Paul, his co-trustee, and
by his decision would be guided. And he
would break off his romantic enofasrement
to Grace. She must not sacrifice her youth
waiting for a soldier who could not offer
her a home till both were old. In days

before the war, Saxell had felt this obligation,
but he hoped to win rank as well as fame
when the chance turned up. The chance
had come and gone, however, bringing him,
as men said, exceptional luck, but showing
more particularly how very long he would
have to wait. It was terribly hard. Other
men who had enjoyed no stroke of fortune
were married comfortably, and had money
saved besides ; but their mothers were not
like his. So Dick Saxell made up his mind,
and only delayed announcing it to Grace
from a delicate fear that she would connect
this news with the other disappointment, or
with his disapproval of her visit to Mrs.
Acland. This matter he did not understand
at all, but it irritated him. Grace referred
to her motives for leaving Scarsholme
in the lightest manner, and Mrs. Saxell,
while plainly showing her disapprobation,
was not much more explanatory. Perhaps,
though he did not realize it to himself, this

j

J

incident was not without weight in causing
Dick to review his engagement.

Meantime, strengthened by the backing
of their clients — horse, foot, dragoons and
artillery, collector Sahibs and sub-commissioners,
1 bankers, clerks and tradesmen, nay,
judges and chaplains, if scandal might be
believed — pipkin and Co. had set Government
at defiance. Their lists were issued
in due time. Only one subscriber of Battery
X 3 was credited with a starter, Major
Saxell, y.C, who drew the outsider, Blue
Cross.

Thereupon X 3 plunged. Was ever
gambler not superstitious ? X 3 made up
its mind that Blue Cross would win the
Leger, and put its last rupee on the chance.
For some days there was no encouragement,
but suddenly Captain Locke made his
welcome appearance. On the part of the
Syndicate he offered 5,000 rupees for Blue
Cross. Saxell refused. Two days later,

the bid ro:;e to 10,000 rupees, and so on to
20,000 rupees. But the holder only replied,
My dear fellow, if I wished to go into
retail business, I should not choose gambling
as my sphere. If this horse wins, I accept
the stakes, having stood my shot. Your
offer is final, and so is my refusal.'

The eve of the Leger arrived, a nervous
time for many, and especially for Battery
X 3. The Major in command and Brevet-major
Saxell were dining with the General,
and the ' youngsters ' had the table to themselves.
They discussed their betting-books,
weighed their favourite oracles of the Press,
and enthusiastically toasted Blue Cross.
Pellew said :

If there's truth in proverbs, Saxell's
ought to win, anyhow. He is not lucky in
love, from what Henderson writes.'

What's that ?'

'Oh, he says — where is it? "Talking
of Daneham, I met a lovely girl there in

the summer, Miss Palliser, who is engaged
to Saxell of yours. Between ourselves, the
young woman is taking the privilege of a
grass-widow prematurely. You know that
Saxell has a sort of lawsuit on with a man
named A eland who was at the ball. Whilst
she ought to have been dancing like a well-conducted
person of her sex and sears, Miss
Palliser was sitting in an uninhabited tower
with Mr. Acland ! There was a good deal
of talk about it, and what do you think she
did then ? Left her home with Saxell's
mother, and went to live with Mrs. Acland,
the other fellow's mother !" That's all
Henderson says. Don't you think Blue
Cross ought to win ?'

I wonder whether Saxell knows all this !'
said one.

If he doesn't he ought to be told,' observed
two or three reflectively.

You're all mighty obliging when it comes
to giving a fellow bad news,' grumbled

O'Brian. ' But if my horse was made first
favourite for the Garrison Cup, what would
ye do ? We'd come in your thousands and
advise me to hedge, and we'd all accommodate
me at two points and a half under
the market rate.'

Then grasp the moral, Tim, and reform,'
Pellew answered. ' For my own part, I
should be glad if somebody would tell
Saxell — provided he doesn't know. But if
he does, he would be rio^ht in thinking it
confounded impertinence.'

Of course he would,' said everybody but
Dallas. ' Now let us get to whist !'

Then, by Jove, I'll do it myself!' Dallas
exclaimed.

Do !' said everybody. ' But meanwhile,
cut for partners!'

What a cynical lot you are ! I am
ashamed to belong to the battery.'

You are not so entirely wrong,' said
Pellew, ' as those who speak in their haste

proverbially are. What were cynics ? —
philosophers ! And so are the officers of
X 3. Observe the irony of life. You and
I are partners.'

In the devil's books only !' answered
Dallas, laughing. 'I'm a much better man
than you.'

You are younger. The only good thing
that improves with age is a bad one — wine !
Hearts ! Perpend, Lieutenant Dallas, and
keep silence !'

The men there were as kindly and as
true to one another as may be found in any
service. But they had been long enough
in India to learn that lesson which military
life teaches more thoroughly than any other,
unless it be the actor's — to mind their own
business. The same prudent impulse which
deterred them — very rightly — from telling
Saxell what the home world was saying,
deterred them likewise from counselling
Dallas to hold his tongue. Pellew made

no remark when asked for Henderson's
letter at the break-up of the party, but
shruo^o^ed his shoulders and gave it.

no o

Dallas rose early, and before going to
stables wrote a line :

Dear Major, — ' The enclosed letter ig
from Henderson of P 2 at home. I have
Pellew's permission to show it you. If I
am wrong in so doing, pray believe that my
only motive was sincere friendship.'

Saxell received this note in bed, and
wondering opened the enclosure. It astounded
him I Within twenty minutes he
reached the cavalry lines, and entered
Captain Locke's bungalow.

If your offer is still open,' he said, * I
take it:'

For my own part, my dear Saxell,'
replied that gentleman, putting down the
ream of papers and telegrams he was studying
over an early cheroot, ' I need not ask

whether you have received private information.
But this is business, and I have
partners. Just give me a line to that effect
whilst I telegraph. So far as I know the
circumstances, your money will be forthcoming
by ten o'clock.'

Qui veut la Fin veut les moyens /' muttered
Saxell, as he sat down.

Four hours later Locke brought him the
cheque. Dick sought out the letter in which
Grace had given her account of the visit to
the Peele House ; never before had he untied
that packet without kissing it.

Dearest Dick,

I hope you will read my letter before
any other, because I have a story to tell,
and I should like you to hear it first from
vie. Don't be frightened by this preface.
I am awfully pressed for time, as the mail
leaves to-day.

You recollect the Peele House at Dane-vol.
II. 23

ham Castle ? 1 have wanted to see the inside
of it for years — wanted dreadfully ! But you
know that it is Lord Dunscombe's property,
and no one is allowed to go in when he is
not at home. Lord Dunscombe isn't often
at home, and I have had no chance to ask
him until last week, when they gave a ball
to celebrate Ralph Randall's return with his
bride. She .isn't pretty a bit, and Ralph is
not more like Solomon than he was before
he married — perhaps he isn't married
enough !

Lord Rainforth made a great fuss on
the occasion, which vexed Lord Dunscombe.
He behaved quite rudely. So when I asked
him to let me see Peele House he refused.
I must tell you Mr. Acland was staying
there — Lord Dunscombe's own guest. You
recollect what an absurd distinction there is
between the Castle and the Tower visitors.
Mr. Acland asked permission for me, but
could not fact it. So on the ni<j:ht of the

ball curiosity carried me away, and I ran
into the Peele House without invitation.
Mr. Acland took me in. Have you ever
seen the great hall ? Nothing in the world
is so quaint and pretty, I do believe. I
could have stopped an hour looking at all
the odd and beautiful things Lord Duns-combe
has collected, but Mr. Acland is not
romantic, and he wouldn't let me stay.

Well, it appears that Lord Rainforth
heard that a guest of Its — hoe where Jm
guests, you know — had entered the Peele
House, and he is terribly angry. Everybody
who want? to j^^^y court at Daneham
tells everybody else that Miss Palliser
behaved very improperly. And auntie does
not take my part as she should.

So that Scarsholme —-dear Scarsholme ! —
has become very uncomfortable. I should
like to leave it for awhile, if I could think
of anyone who would have me. You will
make allowances, kind, thoughtful Dick, if

23—2

I seem to feel that your mother has not
been nice to me in this little trouble. I
have cried my eyes out. But she declares
she will repeat to you all Lady Rainforth's
ill-natured tittle-tattle, though she does not
pretend to believe I did anything wrong.
Is it not unkind to both of us? I could

have borne anything else!

Oh, the very strangest thing has happened
! Whilst I was writing that no one
could have me for a visit, the postman was
delivering an invitation at our door ! sirs.
Acland sends a message by Edie, her
daughter, asking me to come at once, and
stay as long as I like ! Was ever anything
so fortunate ? You know I have been corresponding
with Miss Acland ? I seem to
know her and her mother like old friends.
Of course, I accept, and I have asked them
to receive me immediately ; so my next
letter, I hope, will be addressed from Eaton
Square.

Good-bye, Dick. It is post-time, and I
shall be so very busy to-night. I hope you
will read my letter before auntie's.
Your own little sweetheart,

Grace.'

Though vexed and puzzled, Dick had
smiled on reading this. He hoped to
receive enlightenment from his mother, if
not from Grace, in due time, but none came
to hand. His annoyance, however, was
only roused by the gossip to which his
cousin had subjected herself, and by the
flight from Scarsholme ; Hugh Acland's
part in the affair he hardly noticed, and as
for jealousy, or suspicion of Grace, that
could never have occurred. Henderson's
letter gave him a shock of the keenest bitterness.
His mother and his bride were
both deceiving him, from motives equally
incomprehensible. He made up his mind
to go home forthwith, upon the money

Locke offered, and wrote for a year's
leave.

When St. Paul learned this idea, he
showed a friendly sort of annoyance.

No one deserves a holiday so well as
you,' lie said, ' and no doubt it will be
granted. But I fear — believe me, I'm
awfully sorry ! — that it will be cut short.
Dawson tells me I must get away as soon
as possible, and I meant to send in my
application to-da3\ I'll tell you what I'll
do, Dick, to show I'm not unworthy to
command such a lot of crowd fellows as
belong to X 3, and the best of them in
particular. The application shall not go in
till this day month, by which time, I hope,
you'll be half-way to England. Then they
must allow you six weeks after landing in
such a quiet time as this.'

I must make the best of that,' said
Saxell patiently. ' It's probable enough
that six weeks will quite satisfy me.'

If you've any interest in proper or improper
quarters you might easily get your
full time, under all the circumstances.'

I have no interest whatsoever, good or
bad.'

Well, I'll do all I know for you.'

Saxell received his furlough promptly,
and started within two hours. Blue Cross
did not win the Leger, and Battery X 3
was ' broke.'

MRS. SAXELL LEARNS HER RIGHTS.

AM extremely obliged to your
lordship, not more for this
liberal treatment than for the
goodness you condescended to show me in
returning the papers so promptly. They
were not missed. Your lordship may be
assured that no one will ever suspect what
has been done.'

Mr. Vane is satisfied that his friend has
no ground to stand on ?'

Oh, quite ! He feels actually certain
that the Major will withdraw.'

That is a happy conclusion. Good-day,
Mr. Davis,'

When Dunscombe found himself alone,
he admitted that the conclusion was by no
means happy for his purposes. If Edie
could be influenced in his favour by the
knowledge that he was acquainted with old
scandals attaching to her mother, which he
disregarded for love's sake, more than half
of this sacrifice would vanish when the
danger that it might be tried by a public
inquiry had lapsed. Dunscombe's conduct
would not be ]less noble in the abstract, but
Edie might think it sufficiently repaid, in
her easier frame of mind, by an abstract
admiration. Fortunately, he had a resource,
which could be brought into play if Saxell
failed. Pending the announcement of his
decision, Dunscombe kept quiet. Mrs.
Acland and the two girls left for the Italian
lakes ; Hugh also went out of town.

It came by return mail from India, and

Mr. Davis broui^lit the news. After, consultation
with Major St. Paul, Saxell absolutely
threw up this claim. Forthwith
Dunscombe travelled north, and in due
time called at the Scarsholme cottage.

My mother desires me to express her
regret for the hasty letter she sent you two
months ago,' he began at once. ' We were
all out of temper at Daneham, I think, and
snapped people's heads off at every opportunity.
Lady Rainforth Means to laugh at
the whole affair, but she cannot do so without
your forgiveness and Miss Palliser's.' .

The mischief cannot be undone, my
lord. I forgive the Countess, as it is my
duty to do, and I recognise her extreme
courtesy in sending such a message by your
hands. But my niece made this the pretext
for quitting home, and going to reside with
our enemies.'

Do you consider Mrs. Acland as an
enemy ?'

Not for the sake of the paltry money,
my lord — Heaven forbid ! But as a mother
I cannot but resent the way she has imposed
upon my son, and robbed me of my
niece. These are the acts of an enemy.'

You are quite certain that Major Saxell
is imposed upon?'

• Can you doubt it ? The matter was
put into Mr. Vane's hands, whose first act
was to persuade my son to keep his rights
secret from me. I cannot forget that. It
is the key to all that has followed.'

Dunscombe followed up this idea, though
anxious to disclose his own purposes.

I understood that your son made it a
condition with Vane, in his first communication,
that you were not to be informed of
the legacy H's

So it is said. But I ask of your lordship
— could any mother believe that ?
Richard has never had a secret from me,
bis natural adviser; and I am not to be

persuaded that he woidd have acted thus,
in a matter of the greatest importance,
unless some sinister influence interposed.
But there is conclusive proof. You know
that by Mr. Vane's advice he has abandoned
his claim under Mr. Acland's will?'

So I have heard. You are not satisfied,
apparently ?'

They do not think it necessary to
consult me. Certainly I am not satisfied ;
or rather, since Mrs. Acland's fascinations
have no effect on me, I am quite satisfied —
quite!'

Then ' Dunscombe paused to think

hurriedly.

That Mrs. Saxell was ignorant of her
rights he had never suspected, believing
that if she did not use them it was for lack
of money. So far, things stood better than
he had hoped ; but, on the other hand,
this would be a more desperate ally than he
Ravished — one, perhaps, avIio could not be

bought off, when the moment came, at a
reasonable figure.

You are thinking of something grave ?'
said she, and Dunscombe threw the dice.

I was wondering why you yourself do
not take up the matter, since you are so
confident.'

I ? What voice is allowed me in it, my
lord ?'

Rumour is inaccurate as usual, no
doubt!'

What rumour ? Pray explain yourself!'


It is understood that the legacy passes
to you, in case of your son's refusal.'

'Oh!'

Mrs. Saxell could say no more, but her
faded e^'es sparkled, and her hands
clenched.

You had not been informed ? Then
depend upon it there is an error somewhere
!'

I have heard nothing of it. Is your
lordship certain ?'

Quite the contrary ; but such Alas the
report. Mr. Yane could tell you, of
course,'

I will write at once. If it turn out so,
there has been a conspiracy to defraud me
from the bef^innino^ — no less than a conspiracy
!'

Oh, the reticence can be explained, no
doubt. May I call to hear Mr. Vane's
answer ? By-the-bye, I had better give
you his address ; he is staying at Upton's.'

I am most grateful to your lordship. I
would not have ventured to ask you to
call again, but it will be another kindness.
I have no one to advise with, now that my
trust in Mr. Vane is shaken.'

'Command me in any way, dear madam.'

At his next visit Dunscombe found the
old lady in great agitation. Vane's letter
admitted her reversion. Since his silence

had been requested by Major Saxell, he
awaited instructions before breaking it.
Mrs. Saxell must recollect he was her son's
friend — not his lawyer, nor hers.

Having laid his match, and seen it take
a good light, Dunscombe was anxious to
get out of the explosion. He said,
gravely :

I fear, Mrs. Saxell, that an old-fashioned
regard for justice and fair play has led me
to commit an act which in another point
of view will be held unfriendly and indiscreet.
I have been on terms of intimacy
with Mrs. Acland for some years, and I
confess that an interruption of those terms
would be painful. What I have already
done would be misconstrued, perhaps; but
I rely on you to keep it secret.'

But you will not abandon me like this,
my lord !' cried Mrs. Saxell, sorely
aggrieved. ' Pray give me your advice
what should be done next !'

That is very simple. Put the affair
into a lawyer's hands, and instruct him to
take the proceedings usual in such a case.'

What lawyer ? I must say, my lord, it
is very inconsiderate to desert me in this
manner.'

I should be sorry to give that impression,'
said Dunscombe gently, ' but pray
recollect that I have no interest one way or
other. Your son will shortly be here, and
he is your best counsellor, of course.'

My son ?'

One of the directors of the P. and 0.
arrived at Daneham yesterday, and he
mentioned that Major Saxell's name is
telegraphed as a passenger by the Colombo.
He took it for granted that this was your
son.'

Quite impossible ! Would your lordship
entrust this very delicate affair to a
Preston firm of solicitors ?'

I will tell you what I should do,' said

Dunscombe shortly, rising. ' I should go to
Doctor's Commons and see the will, which
has ozone through all the formalities before
this. If I found that it runs as is said,
I should go to the London agents, probably
a large firm, of the best lawyer in Preston,
and tell my story. But I should be very
particular indeed, now, and then, and at
all times, to avoid mention of Lord Duns-combe's
name.'

You may depend on that,' Mrs. Saxell
replied, in alarm. ' I will go to town tomorrow.'


So she did, and the slow machinery of
law was set in motion. It paused at a very
early stage, since Major Saxell's renunciation
was not legally drawn up, and Vane
refused to answer any questions now that
one executor was journeying home, and
the other would follow shortly.

Mrs. Saxell had grievances against her
son, and his return, which she could no

VOL. I'l. 24

longer doubt, though not a word had he
written, was imprudent, inconvenient, and
indeed unfeeling. The old woman was
not troubled by a dread which would have
agitated most — she never thought that Dick
might be ill. But after all, she Alas a
mother, and her heart rejoiced tumultuously
while her spirit grumbled.

Among the party assembled at Daneham
for the shooting, it soon spread abroad that
the case of Saxell versus Acland was not
closed, as the Society papers declared, but
had entered a new phase. When General
Randall heard it he cried :

The old war-horse engaged, is she ?
Then I sincerely hope she won't cry " Ha,
ha !" when all's over. A right-minded
person always takes the soldier's part, but
whilst it lay between Dick Saxell and young
Acland I wasn't quite decided. Hugh's a
nice lad, and his sister is almost as beautiful
as her mother was.'

Our modest generation is satisfied with
an inferior article,' said Carruthers.

I should think Mrs. Acland was one
of the most charming types of womanhood
when young,' said Lady Madge.

Goodness gracious, my dear ! Do you
think that types of womanhood wear outwith
years ?' the Countess exclaimed.
Not when they are made of sterling
metal !'

I should have said " is," mamma. But
I've been told she was not in society,
General. Where did you meet her ?'
I was hunting at Laystone.'
Hunting at Laystone ?' cried Carruthers;
where on earth is that ?'

You young fellows think the fox a
quadruped of most scanty distribution,
peculiar to half a dozen spots in the British
Isles.'

• Is it a good country, then ? One gets
so tired of Melton and the rest.'

24—2

You get tired of everything that's

good.'

lyell then, we lean to virtue's side ;
one must have followed a practice long to
jet tired of it.'

Did you meet Acland as well ?' asked
Prentice, Q.C,

I knew him from a boy, slightly.'

And what opinion have you formed
about the great case ? It's my impression
that you will be subpoenaed, General.'

I ? There's not a man at the table
knows less than I do about it.'

Pardon me ! You knew Acland, and
the jury, unless I mistake, will be particularly
anxious to hear whether a man
who knew him thinks it impossible that he
could have acted as Raises says he did —
whether, in short, Raises might have been
he — so far as conduct and character
goes ?'

In strictest confidence I declare before

this intelligent jury that I have not an
idea !'

And the plaintiff's counsel sits down at
once, satisfied with that admission.'

What admission ?'

That you do not think it improbable
Acland could have played such a part.'

What perverse scoundrels you lawyers
are !' cried the General, in bewilderment.

The news of Mrs. Saxell' s proceeding-reached
her antagonists as they travelled at
pleasant leisure from the lakes towards the
Bagni di Lucca. September was drawing
in when they reached their destination,
a quiet old-world spot, if it have not changed
since my time. Probably it has, not for
the better ; but as I have no information on
the subject, to make that background which
a painter loves to have appropriate, I shall
speak of it as I knew the place.

The season was well advanced. Such
dissipation as Tuscan love urged its mild

career by day and night. Xot so guileless
as it looked, perhaps, was that procession of
fair ladies up and down beside the river ;
not so accidental always the meetings on
the little squat bridge, when aristocracy
went shopping to the other side ; not so
unmeaning the light laugh and gossip as
they sipped ices at the Caffe della Posta.
Florentine society leaves not its cares
behind, when it gads away for the villeggia-
turn ; and its cares are mostly affectionate.
Othello is not quick to choler there. If
jealousy may not be evaded, he displays a
tragic rage ; but as a general thing, the
mote in his own eye obstructs his view of
others. And the world wags pleasantly,
charitably, giving and taking.

The English girls were charmed, Grace
in especial. A true daughter of the North-country,
she loved ' the oak and the ash
and the bonny ivy-tree ' better than olives
and vines. Here she found a sparkling

river, fussy and petulant, making more
noise and foaming more eagerly in its
foot-death of stream than do Thames or
Tiber with the world's business and the
world's history upon their currents. Little
white threads of ' forces ' came tumbling
through wet fern, and chattered to the
purple rocks dabbled with lichen.

Fells were there, quite real, only planted
with vines instead of growing heather at
their own sweet will. Grace could not
honestly make up her mind whether or no
the difference was an improvement.

Mrs. Acland had taken a pretty house,
overlooking the promenade beside the
river. She did not lack acquaintances, for
it had been her yearly habit to spend some
autumn months in Italy, returning to meet
Hugh on his school holidays or his autumn
vacation. It is needless to tell the public
excitement caused by Edie and Grace ina
quiet aristocratic retreat. vii the population,

even the good-natured beauties of the
colony, were agitated. Those young cavaliers,
so very much alike of hair and eye
without distinctive peculiarities elsewhere,
did not rush at them, however. An impression
generally ruled that these English
signorine did not rival Aphrodite in loveliness
more conspicuously than Pallas in
wisdom and Artemis in decorum. Young
Italian gentlemen are diffident in their way.
When they called, they chatted constrainedly
with Mrs. Acland, and gazed at her companions.
They danced with them at the
Casino balls. They took off their hats
enthusiastically. But they did not talk ; it
is true their expression was so eloquent
that words could not be needed.

It was all Grace asked — or rather, felt
the want of ; and more than Edie cared for.
The three ladies were perfectly happy, after
their late troubles. What sides of Grace's
character would have shocked her scrupulous

companion lay quiescent here. Incapable
of affectation, whether for a good or a selfish
object, she displayed a hundred pretty and
endearing qualities. Edie, affectionate but
thoughtful and clear-sighted, could not
understand the contradictions of such a
nature. Her theories were perpetually upset.
One day, as the girls sat on the terrace, she
observed Grace for a quarter of an hour
with keen interest.

'What a lovely creature you are!' said
she at length.

It was a weak and very feminine termination
to a course of philosophic scrutiny.

Grace looked up from her novel.

I know I'm not witty, dear,' she answered,
with a charming pout, ' but
you need not degrade me to a mere
echo.'

I spoke without thinking. That subject
does not interest you more than it does me,
I really believe.'

Indeed it does not ! — unless somebody
finds something new to say about it!'

I can quite understand though,' said
Edie, following her own thoughts, ' that
when a girl is in love she distrusts her
beauty. And then it must be pleasant to
be reassured.'

Unless we fell so deep in love that we
lost our wits altogether, you and I could
not enjoy that delight. Oh, darling Edie,
one of the best pleasures my looks will ever
give me is to have a friend to whom I can
say such things as that! I never dared
talk frankly to any girl until I met you!'

The last remark was certainly not fitted
for general conversation. You couldn't
imagine yourself diffident before — Major
Saxell, for instance?'

'Dear Dick! Not a bit! I should as
easily feel diffident before my glass!'

He is your own image ?'

That's how I think of him — but not so

shallow. Of course, Dick is a brave, noble
soldier, but he is mine.'

That's a dangerous way to regard a
lover, I think. It entails a great revolution
when the lover becomes the husband.'

Not in our case — that is, I have never
looked so far ahead. He was my slave
since I could first recollect. And I wasn't
a very pretty child!'

Perhaps he loves you for other qualities.
Is Major Saxell handsome ?'

Here is his photograph ; auntie would
not give me a locket to put it in, and I
saved up all my pocket-money for a year
I was at school then. Isn't it a dear
face !'

I think that is just the word — though
one could fancy it stern in battle.'

Say cross — Victoria Cross ! What's the
matter ?'

I am very stupid ! Your words give
me a little chill sometimes. How could

you make such a silly pun upon your
lover's gallantry !'

'Why not? That is to say, I admit it
silly and vulgar, but there is no harm in it.
You think there is ? Then I will never doit
again, for I'm sure you're right.'

That portrait was taken some years ago,
I suppose?'

Yes. I have a later one, not so nice.
Poor Dick has gone through a great deal
of trouble, you know. He has little besides
his pay, and everything he can raise goes to
auntie. She is not economical — runs into
debt without thinking, just as I do ; and she
is indignantly surprised when people want
their money. You must have laughed had
you heard her going over the bills and
things. She Avould quarrel with all the
servant about sixpence, and before the
evening placidly run twenty pounds in
debt. Life was very droll at Scarsholme
sometimes.'

You take the view of a disinterested
spectator all round, Grace — of men and circumstances,
griefs and joys.'

Do I ? Well, you see, dear, I could not
alter things. But I was very sorry, thinking
of Dick.'

Did he complain ?'

Xot once ! Sometimes, at the commencement
of a letter, he would give a very
gentle hint : but before the end he was
brimming with penitence, dear fellow ! And
if it possibly could be done by sacrificing
his dinner for a month, he would conclude
by saying that he added a few pounds to
his remittance. Oh, I have cried over many
of his bright, loving letters, which were full
of fun!'

No wonder you love him — a hero in the
field, a self-denying gentleman at home!
Though you cannot feel diffident, it must be
delightful to think you can reward him in
some measure.'

Grace laughed. ' Don't you think he
will be satisfied ?'

If beauty is all he asks, he will be more
than satisfied; but you say he loved you
when you were not very pretty. Such a
man may have ideas beyond good looks.'

Don't make me uncomfortable, dear ! I
have little to give besides.'

If you think that, there is much more
somewhere. Only encourage your better
self, darling, and when Major Saxell comes
he will find a soul as beautiful to match the
body.'

I would give some of my beauty to belike
you, thoughtful and considerate and
unselfish. I don't hastily say which points
of beauty — that demands reflection — but
some. It's your nature, and it is not mine,
unfortunately. How am I to cultivate such
feelings ? There's no room for them !
With you and dear ]airs. A eland I am
simply happy in my own way, all through

the livelong hours. What am I to be
thoughtful about — or considerate — or unselfish?'


Well, about Major Saxell !'

Oh, my good resolutions won't stretch
so far as India ! If Dick would come home
he would find me better than gold !'

You don't seem to look beyond his
coming. But when he does arrive, he will
make you his wife, as I understand.'

Everybody says so ; but I don't seem
to feel it.'

That's just what I meant. Do you not
love him as you should love a husband ?'

I don't know. It's so long since I saw
him. And, Edie, has not every girl a right
to a proper proposal ? It must be deliciously
exciting to hear a man plead and
beg with all his heart in his throat — that is,
if one means to answer " Yes." And to
see his joy when '

Oh, don't, Grace !'

Am I wrong again? Well, I can't forgive
Dick for robbing me of these improper
but natural sensations.'

They are not improper in any sense.
But I think that to draw a picture in cold
blood of what should be the tenderest feeling
a girl can experience is profanation.'

Like my reference to the V.C. ! I fear
I am not good enough for Dick.'

Why, he knows what you are !'

How should he ? But I know what he
thinks me ! And that is a fair-haired, blue-eyed,
gigantic Edie Acland!'

Be serious, dear ! He has had a better
opportunity of learning your mind than
others have. And he has practically shown
his opinion.'

By offering to marry me ? I am not
sure. You have still to learn the most
terrible of my sins. Prepare yourself !
Bring up all your reserve of charity ! It
was I who proposed! oh, before you

speak, let me urge that it was three years
ago! There were other extenuating circumstances.
The schoolmistress read out
before us all, in the newspaper, how Captain
Saxell had distinguished himself as a volunteer
at some place — I forget the name — where
he was shooting, when a row broke out '

You forget the name ?'

Yes. All the girls talked of it. So I
wrote him that afternoon, asking him to
marry me ! I did ! Was it awful ?'

Not at fifteen years old. "Well ?'

He answered in grave fun, accepting
me! And we wrote upon those terms,
mail by mail, until the joke dropped off,
and in all seriousness we spoke of our engagement.
So I have never been proposed
to, even by letter.'

But ycu are bound to regard the matter
all the more seriously, since it was your
own offer. And you don't regard it seriously,
Grace ?'

VOL. II. 25

Well, dear, I will confess. How is it
possible to think seriously of anything that
cannot take place for years and years, if
ever ? — I can't help laughing when you
stare like that, but the matter's sad enough.
We have no money.'

Is that a consideration for a girl in
love ?'

I think it is, unless she has lost her
reason. So far as Dick can calculate we
shall not have more than five hundred a
year to spend, unless auntie Avill economise,
which she never will. So what's the use of
thinking seriously?'

I won't argue that. Major Saxell
pointed it out to you ?'

Yes.'

And what did you reply ?'

What was the use of replying ?'

You let him go on believing you were
still in love, though you made up your mind
then that you could never marry him?'

Oh, darling Edie, don't be so stern ! I
am in love with Dick, and I always shall
be!'

But you think it quite possible you may
marry somebody else ?'

Grace turned a little sullen. ' I have
never thought about that. Is it not possible
to love some one without marrying him ?
If Dick had any means at all I would
choose him before all the world.'

I think we are talking at cross-purposes.
That is my excuse, dear, and I apologize.
Let us drop the subject.'

Grace's brow cleared instantly. ' I know
you are kind and wise and good, and it is
for me to apologize. Don't let us drop it.
Ought I not to love Dick until I see a
chance of our marriage ?'

If you did love him you would not ask
the question — love him, I mean, in the
sense I was referring to. Now, tell me
what is your idea of a husband ?'

9:1 ■-)

'Major Richard Saxell, V.C., with ten
thousand a years* she answered, promptly.

But you can put him outside the question
personally, can't you? AVhat should
be the leading qualities in your husband?'


I must be proud of him, as I am of
Dick. He must be brave and clever. People
must look up to him, as they look up to
Dick. I don't care a pin whether he's
handsome or not — I'm by no means sure
about Dick. And — that's all !

Character?'

Such a man must be good-tempered and
generous.'

But riches are essential ?'

Not riches, but means enough. I should
love to be rich — who wouldn't ? — but that
is not essential.'

I wonder where you draw the line ?
Xow I quite understand one thing. You
are not in love with Major Saxell or anybody

else. You don't know what love is,
in the sense I mean.'

What an unnatural girl I must be !'
Grace said, lauo^hino;.

Did you ever think how you would feel
if news came that Major Saxell was engaged
to some one else?'

Never I Dick is the slave of loyalty !'

Think of it now!'

I do ! I am possessed ! Remark my
eyes and my teeth and my back hair!
I draw a stiletto and cut her into
morsels ! '

And then you wash your hands and goto
dinner? And you would make us laugh
with a description of the carving process?
So I thought!'

You mustn't take the jest seriously,
dear. Perhaps I shouldn't suffer as you
might under the same circumstances, if it
were possible you could be jilted, for I have
not your depth of character ; but '

Depth of character is not needed here —
What is it, mamma?'

Mrs. Acland entered at this moment in
great agitation.

'Oh, Edie!' she tearfully exclaimed;
Hugh writes that he is going to the West
Coast of Africa, with ]viator Prince and
Mr. Holmes!'

You will not let him go, mamma! He
has never disobeyed you.'

He says his mind is made up, and he
begs us not to make difficulties.'

'Be firm about this, mamma, for all our
sakes. Where is the letter?'

Come with me, dear ! There is one for
you also, Grace!'

She tore it open eagerly as they left the
room.

From Dick ! It is true he is coming
home! He writes from Suez!' she read on.

When the others were alone, Mrs. Acland
put the letter into Edie's hands. Her face

changed as she read it silently. ' I am
afraid to draw a conclusion, mamma! What
does it mean?'

Hugh will not stay to support us under
the trials approaching. Since Mrs. Saxell
is pursuing her son's claim, he prefers to go
out of the way.'

Oh, mamma ! Hugh is not a coward
nor heartless ! He says that he wants to
forget Grace!'

But you saw at a glance what he meant.
Our boy is wiser than you or me, or Mr.
Gorman or Mr. Vane or Major Saxell, or
anyone in the world — except Mrs. Saxell !
He does not believe in proofs that satisfy
everybody else. He has assured himself,
he alone knows how, that Sergeant Raises
was his father, and since we won't admit it,
he leaves us to fio-ht alone.'

You are not serious ? I could tell him
forbid it outright, mamma !'

For all our sakes I must not. We have

dangers enough without treachery in our
own camp. Hugh has already suggested tome
to give up the case and the money in
dispute. We must let him go, Edie, and
pray that Heaven will bring him back safe,
a wiser man.'

How horrible it is that you should use
such a tone and he should deserve it ! But
I know you are right, mamma, and I say
no more. He will come to say good-bye,
or do we go to him ?'

You did not read. He is coming immediately;
and he brings Mr. Holmes with
him — as a shield, no doubt. Now, darling,
dry your eyes. We shall have time enough
for weeping in the future. Oh, Edie, that
it should have come to this !'

They wept together. Then Mrs. Acland
roused herself again. * Let us return to
Grace, and hear the news of Major Saxell,'
she said.

They found that young lady in great

distress, not unmixed with temper, standing
by the window, whilst her letter lay on
the floor.

'Oh, Edie!' she cried, 'Dick gives me
such a lecture! There, read it, dear, and
tell me if there's anything more awful than
I saw. I got as far as " dreadful that you
should deserve reproach," or something like
that!'

You really ask me to read Major Saxell's
letter to you?' said Edie, flushing. 'I declare
this passes all allowance!'

Is it a liberty ? I beg a thousand pardons,
dear ! Forgive me !'

'I really must give you up, Grace!' she
answered, with a faint smile. ' We shall
never train you into a proper young lady.'

I fear it's not in me !' Grace said disconsolately.
' You see, my instincts are
always shocking. When I have time to
collect my company ideas I can pass muster
sometimes, but when I act on my own

natural impulses it is always wrong*. Dirk
says, in his gentle way, that I have misled
him about that wretched affair at Daneham,
and he's coming all the way from India to
take me home. Oh dear!'

Does he know where you are?' Mrs.
Acland asked.

He says, " I write to the Poste Restante,
Florence, as you told me in your last letter;
but I hope to find you at Scarsholme, in
your proper place, with my mother. If I
am disappointed, expect me in the shortest
delay possible, wherever you are." And
then he begins! How honos would be the
shortest delay possible, Mrs. Acland?'
Are you so anxious to leave us?'
Oh no ! Quite the other way !'
After that speech, Grace, you will hardly
venture to keep up the fiction of devoted
love for Major Saxell !'

Indeed I did not mean it in that way.
I would travel a thousand miles to see

Dick. But he is coming to lecture me, and
to take me away ! How could one be eager
for that?'

It makes all the difference, of course. A
fair-weather husband is delightful, but no
girl can be expected to put up with disagreeable.'


Oh, please don't be sarcastic, dear !
When do you think he will arrive, Mrs.
Acland ?'.

Let me calculate. Your letter probably
travelled in the same train with Major
Saxell, If he goes straight through he will
reach London tomorrow morning, and
Scarsholme tomorrow night. How long
he will stay there I cannot possibly guess.
But if there were no delay at all, he might
arrive here in four days.'

But auntie won't let him return at once !
And then he has clothes to get ! — Oh, say a
fortnight, dear Mrs. Acland !'

I will say it to please you, for really I

have no knowledge whatever on the subject'


Yes, a fortnight at least ! I'll write
to him, and say we expect him in a fortnight
!'

AT THE Bagnio DI LUCCA.

*Major Prince had served in
the Gold Coast War of 1873-4,
and there he had heard legends
of a country where gold and elephants
abounded beyond Telaga, which itself is a
realm mysterious enough. He collected all
the stories of the coast, read all the books,
not many, that treat of Houssa-land, and
so bred a hobby. I do not mean it to be
understood that Prince had any fantastic
visions about this unknown territory. He
knew our black brethren too well to expect
wonders. But the consistent rumour of a

state densely peopled, busy and industrious,
fascinated him Inheriting" a handsome
fortune, he left the service forthwith, and
prepared for his journey. A meeting with
Miss Acland caused delay. Poor Prince
forgot his dreams of exploration, content to
live at home for ever under that spell. But
it was broken softly, kindly, and in despair
he turned anew to the old love.

Bob Holmes, formerly his subaltern, had
long since been enlisted for the adventure.
A tower of flesh and bone and muscle was
that pleasant youth. As is the case with
many of his build and fliir complexion,
Holmes had no beard at twenty-five years
old. The smiling, kindly mouth, the resolute
jaw, were bare. Men, women, and
children, all who knew Bob Holmes liked
him, excepting those who feared. For
goodness of heart was not more plainly to
be read upon his features than were shrewdness
and outspoken courage to denounce a

humbug or a fraud. Xo man of his years
better knew the wicked world, or found it a
more genial residence; and to none would
a mother entrust her boy with a more
assured conviction that he would not lack
help in any danger, though he might not
be zealously warned against it. It was for
this reason that Hugh had begged the
reluctant Holmes to accompany him to the
Bagni di Lucca on his farewell visit.

He expected remonstrances and entreaties,
but they were not pressed, even by Edie.
The ladies were not less affectionate, nor
less passionately regretful, but constrained
in manner. And Hugh understood very
well why they were so. If Grace had not
been there he would probably have thrown
up his plans at the last moment, spite of all
the troubles and complications which he
foresaw. Never had he felt more love for
his mother, and more pity for her, than
when leavings her thus in secret distrust.

o

After dinner they had as much explanation
as was necessary, whilst Bob escorted
the young ladies to the Casino. Hugh did
not pretend any particular fancy for the
West Coast ; the mysteries of the wilds
beyond Telaga left him indifferent; but
nothing else turned up at the moment so
agreeable, and he wished for some travel,
where new thoughts and new cares would
distract his mind. At length Mrs. Acland
said :

You will not tell a falsehood, my son,!
I ask a plain question. Do you suspect me
of producing false evidence to persuade
Major Saxell that Raises was not mj'
husband ?'

Heaven forbid, mother ! You have been
the dearest, kindest, truest parent ever man
could have. We love you, I think, Edie
and I, beyond the common love of children.
It is with the best intentions you have kept
us out of this inquiry. But if I stayed,

dear mother, I should be obliged to take it
in hand, and you know that I am not
satisfied on some points. It is much better
I should go.'

Yes, it is better,' said Mrs. Acland,
with a stony calmness. ' We will not
discuss the matter further. Perhaps I
should have done wisely for the happiness
of all if I had taken your first hint, and
paid these people what they asked. We
should not have been the first unfortunates
who were robbed. But it is too late now.'

Why too late ?'

Because your confidence is gone, Hugh !
Let us say no more ! I beg you, my son,
not to refer to this matter again. N^o, not
with explanations even, or assurances of
love! It is never to be spoken of!'

After a pause, he said with embarrassment
:

There is something more, mother. You
know that I love Grace. I cannot over-vol.

II. 26

come the feeling ; she haunts me day and
night, always!'

'On all accounts, then, it is better you
should go,' Mrs. Acland replied, with quiet
bitterness. ' If I could ever contemplate
the possibility that Grace might become my
daughter-in-law, I should not think it worth
while to try until my son is more likely to
win her.'

Major Saxell is on his way home.'

That incident need not distress you.
The jealous fits you indulge should injustice
be disconnected with Major Saxell.'

Don't speak to me in that tone, darling
mother! You mean that Grace does not
love him?'

He is not rich enough — you are not old
enough, experienced enough, wicked enough
to catch her fancy.'

Wicked enough ?'

Oh, I do not mean that Grace has any
liking for depravity. But the manner and

the ways which will attract her, combined
with a handsome fortune, are not to be dissociated
from a finished career of rakishness,
according to my experience.'

Then my best way to win her would be
to transform myself into a fast man ?' said
Hugh, with an uncomfortable smile.

I am glad to think that my son does
not understand any better than Grace herself
would. I referred to results, not to
visible processes. By the time you come
back, Hugh, she will have learned something,
and if your passion survives — which
I neither think nor hope, to speak frankly —
you will run a better chance.'

I don't dare to imagine that Grace will
be free then.'

It is more than probable. If there is
no romance in her nature, there is a great
deal of self-esteem and caprice. She will
not make a marriage simply mercenary. I
should think that Grace is almost as likely

26—2

to die an old maid as nine ugly girls in ten.
But-we have talked quite enough of her,
since we cannot alter facts. Tell me exactly
your plans, my son.'

The constraint of all parties made it a
dreary leave-taking. Mrs. Acland and Edie
often wept, but they hid their tears ; and
Hugh had not confidence enough in his
own resolution to show all he felt.

Holmes and Grace were embarrassed
by domestic mysteries which they did
not understand, and kept apart. It was
not pain unalloyed for any of the party
to recall, though their hearts ached, that
this state of things must be brief.

Hugh was determined, however, to have
another word with Grace before he left, that
she mifi:ht know at least what feelings he
carried away. Edie helped him to an explanation
the afternoon before he left, taking
her mother and Holmes ahead as they all
walked to the Casino.

I love this road,' said Grace. ' With
the bare rocky slope on one side, birches
and alders overhead, and the river tumbling
below, it makes me think myself in the
North-country.'

You love your home with enthusiasm ?*

Everyone loves the North-country, but
especially, of course, those who live there.
And everyone loves home except Mr. Hugh
Acland.'

It was an opportunity unlooked for.

I forgive you,' Hugh replied. ' Our
forefathers always forgave the executioner.'

Meaning me ?'

You cannot pretend to be ignorant why
I am going ?'

No, I cannot, because I have not an
idea, unless it is that you want to travel,
and that's hardly a reason.'

Really, you cannot guess ?'

Really, I cannot guess !'

She met his eyes frankly, and Hugh saw

with vexation and dismay that it was the
truth.

I used to think myself awfully clever,'
Grace continued, as he did not speak, ' but
modesty comes with years. Will you explain
?'

I am going because of your answer the
other day.'

What answer ?'

In Hyde Park, just before you left England.'


Oh ! Pardon me, ^h\ Acland, but

that's ridiculous ! I mean, if you're not
joking! Of course, you're joking?'

Indeed I am not !'

And you are putting Mrs. Acland and

Edie to this grief because I am not

sure that you could explain why.'

Because you cannot love me, Grace.'

Is it their fault — or mine ? The reason
does not seem very reasonable.'

You can argue about it coolly, and so

could I, perhaps, if it were another person's
case. But I suffer, and I want to get
away. Is there no hope, Grace ?'

I am engaged to marry my cousin, and
you know that now. It was all a misunderstanding.'


So are many accidents from which people
don't recover. I don't believe you love
Major Saxell, but it is too evident you don't
love me, and I worship you, Grace ! I will
not say more — it is useless. But recollect
that while I am away, and when I return,
so long as we live, my love will be just the
same, whatever has happened. It will
never change.'

His voice impressed her with its passionate
ring.

This is dreadful !' she murmured. ' I
am not worth the pain you give to Mrs.
Acland and Edie ! There are a thousand
girls as nice as I !'

But I care only for you !'

Oh, I shall never be happy again !'

Grace hid her face in her handkerchief, to
the extreme astonishment of two young
Marchese riding past, their heels Avell
pointed, perpendicular as Don Quixote, who
raised their hats with a flourish.

You knew what I was,' Grace continued
vehemently. ' I have never hidden my
faults I I liked you very much — I like you
now. How could I suspect you mistook
my feelings ? You laughed and talked
nonsense up to the very time, the very
hour ! It is a shame to accuse me !'

There is a little path branching off the
promenade, which winds down to the river,
amnii: rocks and ferns and brush. Huo^h
led her down, and she followed without
attention. Here, under a shadow of green
leaves, the bubbling water at their feet,
they could talk unseen.

I accuse you no more, Grace,' he said,
not even in my heart ! Your love is still

to be won, and happy that man will be who
Avis it. 1 only asked you to remember
that he will not love you more devotedly
than I do now. Do not forget me, Grace ;
and do not give your hand lightly, for it
holds my heart. Neo man could love you
more than I — accept none whom you loveless
! If you promise that, I shall not be
quite hopeless — will you ?'

With many failings of the voice, and
pauses of emotion, Hugh pronounced this
speech. He was pale, but his tones had
a manly resolution new to Grace and to
himself !She listened with head downcast
at first ; but when the appeal was made,
her tearful eyes, suddenly raised, had a look
indescribable. There was a sadly humorous
question in it, as he thought afterwards, and
a wistful prayer ; as though she would say,
I am so very sorry, so very grateful, and
I will be sure to recollect — only, please
don't ask more than I can grant !'

That interpretation came afterwards, for
lier look haunted Hugh. But it was so clear
then to his instinct that he did not expect
an answer in Avoids.

He gave his arm, and they ascended
silently.

I am quite forgiven ?" Grace whispered
at the top.

Quite ! I have your promise ?'

No ! You half frightened, half fascinated
me in the shadow down below. Here is
broad daylight, men and women, not
creatures of romance ! I am not sure that

1 know what you mean, but I have promised
to marry Dick, and that is enough. Oh,
1 didn't mean to hurt you, Mr. Acland !'

He could not pass it off.

And I am not sure, ]\Iiss Palliser, that
you could be so triumphantly successful in
giving pain if 3^oa did not operate in all
gentleness, with the best intentions.'

Oh dear !' she sighed with contrition,

I am very sorry, Mr. Acland ; but allow
me to say that this tone is much more
comfortable than the last — more the sort of
thing I am used to.'

Heartless girl !'

That in effect Alas Hugh's leave-taking,
for they did not S23eak another word in
private.

The others were seated under the vine-roofed
annexe of the Caffe della Posta, when
they rejoined. Half a dozen carriages
occupied the little square, ladies therein
daintily regaling on granite and corbett and
such feminine dissipations, whilst a score of
gentlemen faultlessly attired waited on them.
Others moved from table to table, turning
commonplaces in the most graceful manner
upon the most vapid subjects. A sensation
stirred this pleasant idling crowd when
Grace came up to support her friend and
rival in loveliness. She bowed to a
numerous acquaintance, who all, women as

men, had a frank glance of admiration and
a smile of welcome.

How pleasant and smooth life is here!'
said Edie once more. ' It is the reverse of
serious, and of sincere, I dare say, but
it is very nice.'

I hope it isn't sincere,' grumbled Hugh
jealously, ' for some of those black eyes
look as if the enthusiast could eat you up.'

According to Grace's philosophy,' Miss
Acland said, 'that is no more than an
exaggerated form of displaying man's natural
and praiseworthy sentiments towards her.'

Mr. Holmes, I appeal to you as a sportsman.
Is it not a fact accepted throughout
the universe, from a lioness to a hen-sparrow,
that a girl has a right to admiration ?'

• A lioness, I believe, admires her enormously
at dinner-time ; the feelings of the
hen-sparrows are not so clearly expressed.'

Have you joined my persecutors ? You
know well what I mean. Answer !'



'I have always understood that such is
nature's law.'

Then why am I taunted and reproached
for claiming it '

Hugh rose abruptly, and his mother
followed him with a reproachful glance.
As they returned, rather silent, G-race
whispered to Edie.

You know I did not mean what I said,
dear. Somehow I am always giving your
brother offence, and I like him so much all
the time. Will you tell him that ?'

It will be no comfort, I fear, but I'll tell
him.'

She did so, with other words, no doubt,
and Hugh showed himself forgiving. On
this last night Holmes and Grace left the
others alone sitting together in the moonlit
terrace. Holmes had bade good-night and
left when Hugh appeared. He suddenly
took Grace in his arms and kissed her.

Heaven keep you as thoughtless and

A Good Hater.

as fancy-free as you are now till my
return !' he said. ' I should like to find you
just the same, and I almost dare to hope
I shall. Good-night !'

A very harmless sentiment,' Grace
thought to herself ; ' but there was no need
to kiss me. Poor fellow ! he may do it
again if it comforts him !'

But as she did not give that permission
aloud — only because she was not asked —
Hugh left without another kiss.

Mrs. Acland and Edie drove with him
to the station, Grace following with Holmes.
They bade Hugh good-bye with gracious,
tender, womanly lamentations. He broke
down and cried With them. Grace and
Holmes, standing at a distance, felt deeply
miserable.

You will protect him, won't you I'
sobbed Grace, clasping Bob's huge hand.

So far as man may promise, we will all
return or none !'

The train carried them off. Mrs. Acland
and Edie spent a doleful afternoon together,
leaving Grace outside almost as
wretched.

Two days after that Dunscombe called, to
the general astonishment. Mrs. Acland
was pleased to have a distinguished visitor
whose worship of Edie was notorious, and
that young lady herself did not object. She
was not so austere as to dislike the attentions
of a very handsome young nobleman, who
quite understood that his suit was hopeless,
and accepted the situation quand meme.
Hugh had fulfilled his threat of telling
Mrs. Acland the scandal current. But Edie
knew nothing more seriously Wrong about
Dunscombe than most girls in society know
of most ballroom partners important enough
to have their doings canvassed. The guilelessness
of pure ignorance is possible in
our day, though improbable, at Scarsholme ;
but not in London,

His lordship was dawdling through Italy,
he said, killing time until the hunting. In
Florence he heard they were at the Baths,
all alone, and he came thither, hoping to
make himself useful. In that quiet little
home of idleness, where the only public
amusement was a ball given by members of
the Club, and a rare gathering for tea and
lemonade and gossip in the quarters of some
fellow-visitor, a pleasant escort for walks
and rides is very acceptable to young ladies.
Dunscombe fulfilled this duty to perfection.
He lacked neither humour nor intelligence ;
his general knowledge was creditable ; and
he had, of course, that acquaintance with
personages, that self-confidence and assured
composure, which grow with a man's growth
in certain states of life.

A week passed very agreeably. One hot
afternoon he sat with Edie under the trees
by the bridge, waiting for Mrs. Acland and
Grace, who had crossed to shop. A good

many visitors of either sex, cooling themselves
with the sound and sparkle of the
river, divided their honest admiration betwixt
nature's beauties and those of a very
handsome couple.

Hugh sails to-day,' said Edie absently.

Without bidding me good-bye, even
with a line ! I could not have believed
your brother so vindictive towards an old
friend.'

You had been intimate some time before
we met you, I think ?'

Yes, and before that I had a sort of
family interest in you. Mrs. A eland was
married from General Randall's house.
You knew that, of course ?'

Edie shrank, the tiniest movement. She
shaded her eyes with her parasol.

I found it out casually, and it gave me
singular satisfaction. I like to recall that
our people were friendly in the last generation.
The General has not seen Mrs.

VOL. II. 27

Acland since, but he is still enthusiastic
over her beauty and the prettiness of the
wedding.'

Mamma is not looking Avell now. Has
it not struck you ?'

I can understand that the reappearance
of a trouble, which she had hoped was
finished, disturbs her sadly. ]airs. Acland
has not confided to you, of course, all her
cares and anxieties ?'

What anxieties ? You do not doubt
the justice of our case ?'

She looked at him full, and he met her
eyes steadily ; they flickered and drooped.
Edie knew then that this was no idle talk.

I am not referring to the case. Mrs.
Acland should feel little uneasiness on that
score ; but there are other matters with
which, perhaps, you are unacquainted ?
Hugh certainly is, and it's fortunate he has
gone.'

I cannot tell unless you mention them.'

I see that Mrs. Acland has toil you
something '

Never !'

Then you have learned by other means,
as I have ?'

Speak out, Lord Dunscombe ! What do
you charge against my mother ?'

Charge, Miss Acland ? You may be
well assured that if my life hung upon it I
would not make a hint of those forgotten
miseries ! It is to prevent the publication
of them that 1 am here, if it can be done.
That was my motive for sounding you;
it would be most painful and delicate to
speak to Mrs. Acland, and we could concert,
if you allow me, without letting her
know.'

Edie did not answer, playing with the
trinkets at her waist ; but her whole attitude
was strained expectancy.

That I do not believe these statements
I need not say, but they will be made,

27—2 .

and they will produce their sad effect if
Mr. leaver is examined, as he certainly
must be ; for lie was the last person who
saw your father living. The quarrel that
then took place must needs be inquired
into, and the investigation will not stop
there. I speak thus frankly, because I am
eager and determined to serve you. May I
take on myself to act ?'

You are sure of success ?'

Quite.'

By what means?'

It is not necessary that you should
know that, if you can make up your mind
to give me the privilege of aiding Mrs.
Acland.'

You mean,' Edie said, with slow bitterness,
' that you will buy that woman out ?'

'By some means or other I belie ^ I

can silence her.'

This kind action would be disinterested,
of course ?'

I declare to you, on my honour, that at
no time, under no circumstances, will I
remind you of this conversation, or of
anything that follows from it ! You believe
that assurance. Miss Acland ? Your mother
is approaching. If you permit me to act,
drop your parasol !'

Edie raised it high, and saw her mother's
kindly handsome face. She hesitated a
second, and dropped the parasol to her
knee.

The others arrived, parched with their
stroll, lono^inof for a cool drink and a cool
chat. It was easy for Dunscombe, with his
practised skill and the large manner — not
to say it offensively — which grows on a
man born to his position, if he be intelligent,
to cover E die's silence. After a time they
walked homewards along the shadowed
promenade, the girls ahead.

So soon as they had left the crowd Duns-combe
began :

A Good Hater.

Hugh threatened to reveal to you before
he left some scandal which circulates about''
nie. I don't know whether he did.'

Yes. I was shocked to hear it '

Mrs. Acland, I do not deny that scandal.
You know how deeply, passionately, I have
loved your daughter these two years past,
for as soon as I dared I told you my
feelings. And you know how I despaired,
for you were my sympathizing confidante.
I have never ventured to express one hint
of my devoted love to Miss Acland, for that,
as you warned me, and as I felt, would
have ]been final. I was wretched, and
temptation came to me. But on the day
when it seemed dimly possible that I might,
in the future, be heard with patience, I
broke out of that entanglement. And I
pledged ray honour that henceforth T would
deserve Miss Acland's esteem, even though
1 failed to gain her love.'

I am sincerely pleased to hear this, my

lord ; it is what I should have expected.
But may I ask what grounds you have
or had for thinking that Edie has changed
her mind ?'

Pray don't ask that. May I hope that
if things turn out as I vaguely, timidly dare
to think they may, you are still on my
side ?'

Do not exaggerate the value of my
support.'

But you wish me well ?'

I could not do otherwise. I know that
you love my daughter with your whole heart,
and I would entrust her to you, if she loved
you, with implicit confidence that she would
be honoured and happy. You have heard
enough of our affairs of late to gather
that my life has not always been so smooth
as now. Bitter experience long ago taught
me to know men, Lord Dunscombe. I
judged you at the first; and what Hugh
told me — to declare the plain truth — was

no more surprising than is what you tell
me now, if, rightly or wrongly, you have
ceased to despair.'

Thank you for doing me justice, but you
have used me to sympathy. Will you
speak to Miss Acland ? Not at once, but
presently.'

If 3"0u wish. But words have little
influence with her. 1 hope you have better
grounds for hope.'

I would rather hear your report first.
Miss Acland must needs have such respect
and love for you that she will display her
inmost feelings.'

The mother smiled doubtingly. But
next day, cleverly using an opportunity,
she spoke of Dunscombe's long attachment.


Has he set you to ask me already? I
mean, mother, that I am not prepared for
this. Did Lord Dunscombe beg you to
speak ?'

I think Lord Dunscombe knows your
wilfulness too well, my dear !' she answered,
smiling. ' Why do you suspect that ? jt
is not quite a new subject between us.'

N^o.' After a thoughtful pause, Edie
said, 'It is a fine thing to be Countess
of Rainforth, mamma, isn't it ? I wonder
what is the proportion of girls who would
hesitate!'

You might narrow that calculation.
How many girls would hesitate even of
those who love another man — which you do
not ? And how many would hesitate even
among those who disliked Lord Dunscombe
which you do not? So few, I believe,
that you would find no encouragement in
the figures.'

She listened absently.

And you think that they would net feel
ashamed ?'

Without speaking positively, my dear,
about young ladies with whom I am unacquainted,

I can safely predict that none
of them would feel ashamed to be Countess
of Tamworth.'

I have often said I do not dislike Lord
Dunscombe,' Edie continued. ' He is very,
very far from the ideal I have sometimes
talked of. But I can gauge his passion not
by its height but by its depth, and no
doubt he loves me. You are sure of that,
mamma ?'

There are not many facts of which I am
so perfectly certain.'

Yell, then, a girl must marry. Putting
other things aside — which are not essential,
of course — Lord Dunscombe is one of the
handsomest, one of the cleverest, and quite
the most eligible man I ever met. And
then, as I said, it is a fine thing to be
Countess of Rainforth. Let it be so ! As
well to-day as next month or next year,
provided that he — yes, I will many him,
mamma !'

You know how glad I am to hear that,
darling ; but I don't like the tone.'

Tones are not among the essentials,
surely ?'

Not at all,' said Mrs. Acland, ' but
they are significant of grave facts. If you
accept Lord Dunscombe on this reasoned
process, it seems possible that you may
change your mind upon another line of
argument. And, therefore, I am not overwhelmed
with delight.'

But surely reason is the soundest guide
in choosing a husband?'

If the chooser is reasonable, doubtless.
But I have observed that it is a very feeble
and flickering guide for romantic young
persons, who take up commonsense just as
they take up any other caprice, which presently
they lay down and forget. If I were
Lord Dunscombe, I should not feel much
encouragement.'

How very shrewd you are, mamma !

That describes Grace, and rae too, perhaps,
sometimes, but not in this matter. I have
made up my mind ! I am tired of heroics
and dreams. We live in the world, and it is
hard, cruel, prosaic, selfish — business-like.
Henceforward, I will be a woman of the
world !'

Henceforward, I will have wings ! My
darlings child, if I thought that this resolution
would alter you, or anything would, I
should be very much distressed. But my
little Edie will not be transformed by becoming
a Countess. I hope and believe
that it will be only an incident, and a happy
one, in the development of her loving
character.'

Grace entered with a letter from Dick,
dated Paris. At Brindisi he had found a
telegram from Major St. Paul, announcing
that the doctors pronounced he must leave
India at once. Under these circumstances
Dick must expect to be recalled, unless, he

added bitterly, some ornamental personage
at home would interest himself for a soldier,
which was grossly improbable. He was
going straight to England and Scarsholme,
to return forthwith to Italy and bring Grace
back home, if he did not find her there
already.

Whilst the' were discussing this, Duns-combe
called, and Grace appealed to him
forthwith. He laughingly pretended that
this influence at the Horse Guards was a
minus quantity. But when the girls had
withdrawn to put on their habits, and Mrs.
Acland had told as much as was delicate
and proper of her conversation with Edie,
he said:

I make no question that Saxell would
be permitted to enjoy his leave if the case
were properly represented. Meerut is a first-class
Artillery station, and there are half a
dozen men there who might be appointed to
the temporary command of X 3 without

inconvenience to the service or annoyance
to themselves. But I have an unreasoning
sort of impression that the sooner you get
him away from Europe the better for your
interests — I hope I may say, for mine.'

I do not see that,' replied Mrs. Acland
thoughtfully. ' It appears to me that Major
Saxell would be likely to dissuade his
mother from following this preposterous
claim.'

It may be so, but I have a superstition.
Are you sure that we should do prudently
in bringing this unknown factor into the
calculation ?'

I cannot be sure, and therefore to abstain
is wise, as you suggest. Let us not interfere
one way or the other.'

So it was decided. But in the meanwhile
Grace had been urfrinsr Edie to use her influence,
and as they returned from their
ride she asked Dunscombe, coldly and cautiously.


You also !' he exclaimed. ' I recognise
the hand of Fate, and I obey it. So far as
my interest goes, it shall all be exerted.'

How Dunscombe worked the strings at
the Horse Guards does not matter; there
are, there needs must be influences, not to be
declared, at the headquarters of a great
army. If they be not such as we may
reasonably suspect under the conditions of
society which rule in England, they will be
of another sort, not less powerful, and
assuredly more mischievous. Dunscombe
sent off some lengthy telegrams that night,
received some brief replies, and waited.
Three days afterwards he carried to Edie an
assurance, unofficial as yet, that the matter
was arranged.

He had been waiting impatiently for that,
his lordship continued, before undertaking
the grave and delicate negotiations which
she had authorized him to conduct with
Mrs. Saxell ; having brought the smaller

affair to a successful issue, lie proposed to
leave for Scarsholme direct that afternoon.
And so, not without tact and feeling,
Dunscombe worked his way to a proposal
in form,

Edie was neither embarrassed nor doubtful.


We understand each other, I think,' she
said quietly. ' You do not ask love of me,
my lord, for I frankly declare, so far as a
woman can forecast her feelings, that T shall
never have it to give in the sense I understand
by that word. You offer to make a
certain sacrifice, or to run a certain risk forme,
and I am not ungrateful. Since you
estimate that at a price, I accept the terms
as solemnly as such circumstances will
allow, and with the conditions understood
between us. Is that agreed?'

o

Dunscombe was white.

You put it cruelly,' he muttered.

It was you who offered the conditions.'

And I take you even on those terms,
for they give me a right to win your love.
No one knows so well how difficult that
task must be, but I do not despair.'

If I am capable of love I have never felt
a sign of it. I can give you that warning
or comfort, my lord.'

He smiled faintly.

I accept it as comfort unalloyed. For
some man you must be able to feel what all
feel for you, and if I am not that man, Edie,
I will never confess it, and never abandon
hope, even to myself.'

They had risen. Dunscombe held her
hand, and she looked at him, not shyly nor
constrained, but with a curious interest.

II Signor Maggiore Cavalier Saxell
richiede permesso di videre la Signorina
Grace !'

Both turned with a start. Embarrassed
and red beneath his mask of bronze, Dick
Saxell stood in the doorway.

VOL. II. 28

DICK SAXELL.

ND what did you think of him ?
quick !'

I could form no opinion.
As soon as he heard you were out, he said
he would call again, and left with Lord
Dunscombe.'

But you saw him ? How provoking
you are, Edie ! Is he nice ?'

I did not see the laughter in his eyes
you spoke of. His moustache has some
grey hairs.'

Oh, if you looked as closely as that, you
could tell ever so much more if you liked.'

I don't remember anything else, really.
You will see him at five o'clock. Have
you prepared all those pretty excuses ?'

I have prepared nothing. I hope when
Dick sees me he mil forget all unpleasantness,
dear fellow ! May I borrow your
maid to make myself as nice as possible?'

Certainly. But you had much better
dress up your speeches.'

That isn't in my nature, dear. I should
only make a mess of it'

So, with confidence in her fascination,
doubtful only whether this or that dress
would have the better effect, Grace impatiently
waited for five o'clock. She was at
the door when Saxell made his appearance,
punctual to the moment.

My dearest, bravest, noblest, darling
Dick!'

Forthwith that luckiest of gunners found
himself clasped in shapely arms, lovely lips
close to his, not inviting but demanding'

28—2

kisses ; loveliest eyes, wet with joyous excitement,
imperiously claiming their slave.
No wonder that Grace triumphed for a
while. Dick was astonished and bewitched
by her beauty. This perfect creature clung
to him with an innocent confidence that
would have disarmed a sworn tormentor.
Saxell had grave things to say, but at the
end of an hour he had onh' laughed and
kissed and. talked nonsense.

Grace left him to summon Mrs. Acland
and Edie.

Well,' asked the latter, ' did your charms
silence the judge?'

'Don't ask me!' Grace answered with a
blush. ' I am ashamed !'

Edie descended with her mother, and
renewed acquaintance with ]viator Saxell
under decorous conditions. He said, with
that flush by no means unbecoming to fair
men when unaccompanied by other signs of
embarrassment, ' I have to apologize for

an unceremonious intrusion to-day, Mrs.
Acland. Lord Dunscombe very properly
insisted upon seeing such a suspicious
character off the premises.'

We have been expecting you a longtime,'
said she pleasantly. ' This is a much
more agreeable meeting than either of us
looked forward to a little while ago.'

Saxell's face clouded.

Pray don't mention that ! The whole
story is so painful that I venture to beg
you will not allude to it, unless it be necessary.
Let me thank you most warmly for
your kindness to a wilful girl, whose only
claim was the persecution you had received
from her adopted brother.'

She has a claim upon us now quite her
own. You will stay dinner, Major Saxell ?
I believe it is ready.'

Dick accepted, of course ; they passed
into the other room. Mrs. Acland continued
:

I Iiope you are not going to deprive us
of Grace yet ? She is the life of our small
household.'

I am very sorry to admit that I came
for that ]uu-pose. The wife of an old
comrade is now at Florence. She returns
in about a week, and Grace can go with
her. It is a chance we cannot afford
to lose, Mrs. Acland, if you do not
object.'

But you do object, don't you ?' Grace
exclaimed. ' Oh, Dick ! How could you
take my kisses with this wicked treachery
in your mind ?'

I did not understand that they were
bribes,' he answered, laughing ; ' and I returned
them, didn't I ? I am afraid Grace
is not much wiser than I left her, eight
years ago and more.'

Knowledge will come soon enough,
Major Saxell. Don't be in too great hurry
to stimulate her intelligence. Remember

how Eve changed when she made the great
discovery.'

The laughing glance which Grace had
mentioned and Edie had failed to catch,
reappeared in Saxell's face.

The change may have been disagreeable
to Eve, but it was a very lucky thing for
Adam. How" very silly life would have
been to him, after, say, a thousand years of
honeymoon ! Imagine an eternal wife,
perfectly innocent, perfectly childish ; and
nothing to do ! Very young people find ita
bore to think and work, but they don't
remain young long.'

Mrs. Acland said : ' You overlook the
express statement that Adam and Eve
would have been eternally happy.'

If so, they were not human beings, and
the whole question falls to the ground.
Even Grace could not look forward without
distrust to an everlasting round of billing
and cooing.'

All I understand about it is,' said
Grace disconsolately, 'that you think Eve
was turned out of Paradise for her own
good, and so you want to take me home.
Do you wish to part with me, dear Mrs.
Acland ?'

Certainly not, dear Grace !'

And you, Edie ?'

• I should be lost without you !'

Then, Dick, I won't go ! There ! I
won't ! Xot 3'et, I mean ; and you will
stay with us ?'

I will certainly give you time to reconsider
your decision. AVhat a pretty,
quiet place this is, Mrs. Acland.'

So they talked of things Italian and other
in stereotyped phrase, such as intelligent
persons repeat almost unconsciously, whilst
thinking of other matters. But Saxell
presently raised the conversation to another
level. Mrs. Acland said something of the
public buildings in Florence.

Upon that subject he replied, ' I am a
heretic or an evangelist, I am not sm'e
which. But for my eye, used to the monuments
of India, these edifices are more or
less graceful and pleasing only by comparison
amongst themselves. They all stand at an
immeasurable distance below Mahometan
architecture of the same period.'

Edie looked at him surprised.

I never heard that !' she said.

I dare say not, but it is by no means
original. The British soldier, and even —
though it seem incredible — the British
Civilian, is shy about this matter. From
his earliest years he has read of this and
that building admitted pre-eminent for
beauty in all ages and lands. Throughout
the list India is ignored. When he stands
before the Taj Mahal, the Jumna Musjid,
or Sender Sacri, admiration confuses and
alarms him. The Bandits who laid down
his law in questions of architecture did not

even allude to these examples, which his
eye tells him are supremely" beautiful.
Therefore, he distrusts it. The revered
authorities of youth cannot mistake, or
what certainty is left to the Briton in
matters of taste ? It is very well known
that he is incapable of forming an opinion
for himself, Germans and Italians, and
even Frenchmen, have the power, but he
has not. Cowper or somebody declared
that only

" One wholesome curb is laid upon his pride,
To fear his fellows, fearing none beside."

That was written in an anaesthetic age.
AVe now recognise several curbs, one of
Avliich is a constitutional inability to recognise
the truly beautiful when we see it.
That is sorrowfully admitted without question.
A young man's first impulse, when
he catches sight of the Taj Mahal, as I did,
in the moonlight, a silver splendour rising

above the trees, as the train winds clattering:
past — a youth's first impulse is to declare
that the pure gods themselves could not
have fashioned by human means a building
more holy, more ethereal. But his mere
enthusiasm warns him. Either there is
something inherently wrong, perhaps immoral,
in this structure, or he must confess
himself a barbarian born, with a shameful
love for barbaric art. If it be not so, how
could the learned possibly neglect what
they could not possibly overlook ? — and
rave about St. Peter's or St. Mark's, St.
Stephen's or St. Paul's, Notre Dame, the
Kathhaus here and the Signora there, with
never a word for an edifice which seems to
his incapacity the very crown and glory of
human genius ? Reflecting on these things,
though the youth secretly cling to his
opinion, he holds it more prudent to keep
silence. Soldiers are modest as a class.
Miss Acland.'

But is there anything in India like —
Cologne Cathedral, for instance ?'

Nothing whatever. India does not
challenge comparison in the Gothic style.
Some desperate persons may suspect, as
the' observe the majesty and stateliness of
Achber's Palace at Agra, that the architect
who planned that building could have
emulated Gothic workmen had he thought
fitting. Perhaps it did not occur to him —
perhaps he disdained ; but assuredly the
great principles of the Gothic were not
unknown nor unconsidered by the Pathan
who desired that castle.'

I have seen photographs of the Delhi
Palace,' said Mrs. Acland. ' It is very
beautiful.'

The Mahratta, the mutineer, and the
genius of British restorers have left that
only a supreme display of interior decoration,
so to speak. The outline is gone, if
that were ever worthy of the fittings. But

such as it is now — the terraces, the mosques,
the baths, the two halls of audience — it is
just as perfect in human beauty as is the
Taj in divine purity. I am an impenitent
heretic, Mrs. A eland ! So far as I have
found time to glance at the dicta of connoisseurs,
and critics, and cognoscenti — it
is significant that we call them by foreign
names — I have found such, in the plainest
English — duffers ! As a rule that has
hardly an exception, those who have enjoyed
the means and the brain and the
opportunity to know, have more profitable
employment than to criticize in big books —
But you have started me upon a hobby. I
do not often mount the few I possess, and
therefore, like chargers that don't get
exercise enough, they are apt to run away
with me.'

We are deeply interested, I assure you,'
said Edie. ' How long is it, I wonder, since
a new thought was suggested at our table ?'

I should fancy that ]viator Saxell has
plenty more.'

I fear I have,' Dick answered, laughing,
but that is not a subject of gratification
by any means. The man of new ideas is
to be pitied and also blamed, for he is a
perpetual annoyance to himself, and a bore
to others.'

Explain that, pray.'

In this case he has fallen upon a sympathetic
audience ; but observe Grace ! She
represents the world, and the world is very
properly impatient of unfamiliar thoughts.'

How can you say so, Dick ! I am
listening with the greatest attention.'

He looked at her with merry shrewdness.


^ There is nothing romantic about it. I
had been detached for several months, and
returned unexpectedly at night. Young
Loftus was eating cold beef in the mess-room,
when, coming up behind him, I put

my hands over his eyes — it was in my first
year of service. Loftus forgot his knife,
and suddenly raising his hands to mine,
he scored me across the knuckles. That's
all.'

All what ?' cried Mrs. Acland, in perplexity.


All the story of this scar, which Grace
has been pondering while she listened
intently to my views upon Indian architecture.'


This is conjuring !' the girl exclaimed.
Tell me what I was thinking of.'

Perhaps you would not own it if I
guessed right,' he answered, and Grace was
silent.

After Dick had withdrawn to his hotel,
she demanded Mrs. Acland's opinion of
him.

A man to love and admire and respect,'
said that lady, ' but not one to trifle with ;
rather careless, but deplorably keen-sighted.

You' will have to make up your mind
quickly, Grace, and hold to the resolve.'

After she had withdrawn, Edie said :

Lord Dunscombe asked me to marry
him to-day, mamma.'

And you answered ?'

Like a woman of the world — I said
I would.'

I am glad to hear it, darling — doubly
glad. It is the best news I ever expect to
hear. His sudden departure is connected
with this ?'

I* suppose so.'

Next dav Saxe) took his cousin for a
walk.

Now, let us talk seriously, Grace, and
get business finished. Mrs. Temple will be
ready next week, ai""^ oO, I am sure, will
you.'

There's no hurry. I dread to go back to
Scarsholme. Mrs. Acland will be returning
to England soon, and I will return with her

It is not an argument I like to use,
that you will be too late to bid me 

/ 'It's an^a|-gument that would be irresistible,
de9J?-©ick ! But you have nine months'
leavQ^certainJ '^u may stare as much as
you like ! stalked Q;5cer-EdiB-iiito asking
Lord Dunscombe, and he heard yesterday
tha\i-t was settled.'

You are the dearest, cleverest of all
girls alive ; and Miss Acland must 'ne no
less than an angel, after all the annoyance I
caused her. I shall have a winter in
England after all ! Grace, I want to kiss
you!'

So do I. Nobody's looking !'

After this relief Dick remembered Duns-combe's
share.

It's putting me under an obligation, but
I like him — don't you ?'
' Oh, he's an awfully good fellow, generally.
But you know, Dick, if Lord Duns-vol.

TI. 29

combe had not been so disagreeable at the

time of the ball '

We will finish the other subject,' interrupted
Dick, with sudden gravity.

Oh, do let us talk pleasantly !'

I am looking forward to that, darling,
when we have done with business.'

Oh dear ! How long will you give me,
monster, to make up my mind ?'

To pack, you mean ?'

No ; that comes afterwards.'

Well, I will give you till Monday.'

And if I am not ready ?'

Remember that I had only two days
with my mother after so many years'
absence. If you cannot make up your
mind by Monday, I must wait for you at
Scarsholme.'

Dick, do you love me ?'

You know I do.'

By that tone I know you don't. For if
I am not ready by Monday you will
leave me.'

We shall not have to start at an hour's
notice, I hope. Mrs. Temple is not hurried.
But be reasonable, dear Grace.'

I will. And you, Dick, be nice and
amusing. Did you say anything to aunt
about her claim against Mrs. Acland ?'

That is a subject neither nice nor amusing.
But we had better speak of it
briefly. Until she told me, I did not know
that my mother had taken any steps. She
showed such feeling, Grace — it is necessary
you should understand this ! — that I resolved
never, under any circumstances, to
allude to the matter again. So you will be
cautious, dear.'

What shall you say to Mrs. Acland ?'

Nothing. I hope she will not mention
it. I have done with the business utterly,
and forgotten so far as may be. In every
way the subject is most painful and embarrassing


That night Grace wrote to Mrs. Temple,

29—2

whose existence she had not been aware of
forty-eight hours previously ; told how
unwilling she was to leave the Baths just
then ; begged sirs. Temple to delay as long
as possible, and prayed her to keep this
communication secret. So, on the Monday
morning, Dick received a letter, announcing
that the lady had resolved to stay a fortnight
longer, and perhaps more.

It was annoying, he said to himself; but
when necessity drives, a vase man endures
his fate as cheerfully as may be. And
Dick found life very pleasant. The girls
had their horses from Florence, and before
leaving, Dunscombe had put his at Dick's
service for escort duty.

It did not seem needful to tell Grace that
the time was prolonged. She unmasked all
her batteries of fascination, and every day
had its mood more charming than the last.
On the Monday afternoon, as they all
walked to the Casino, Dick said :

The time for reflection is up. When
shall we start ?'

Grace felt that all her pretty arts had
been wasted.

Girls are not soldiers !' she exclaimed.
Ready, aye ready ! Don't you find it
agreeable here ?'

Good girls obey like soldiers dien duty
calls. When is it to be ?'

I don't know. Oh, is it possible you
frowned ? What a wicked thing to do !'

Dick could not but laugh at her shocked
expression, and then the case became hopeless.


Mrs. Temple wishes to stay a fortnight
longer,' he said, ' and so you are allowed so
much grace. Don't give me the credit
of it.'

There is no danger of that mistake.
But have you quite forgotten, Dick, certain
engagements which 1 entered into quite
gravely? Perhaps it is not correct for the

lady to allude to such a matter, but when
the gentleman persistently keeps silence,
usual conditions are reversed.'

I have not forgotten, Grace ; but the
tenour of our more serious conversations has
not led up to that subject.'

Oh ! Did you want encouragement ?
Suggest a form, and I'll repeat it now !'

Such words are suggested by circumstances,
-and we had better wait our chance,
Gracie dear !'

They had reached the Casino, and Mrs.
Acland was waiting at the steps With
Edie.

If the chance does not come soon, Dick,
it must be dragged in.'

No more passed for several days. Grace
drew herself rather apart, with an air of
uncomplaining injury which was charming
as pathetic ; but she felt in her shrewd
little soul that this device was not more
successful in hoodwinked: her lover than

the fascinations had been. Often she caught
his eyes merrily fixed on her, and if she did
not return the glance it was because artistic
amour propre and sense of fitness interposed.
The engagement was dropped without
explanation, though that had to come, of
course.

Dunscombe returned within the fortnight.
He said to Edie :

I think I may announce that all is
finished. The lawyers can manage the
rest, and then, darling '

Then I shall be grateful,' she answered
coldly. ' I have always understood that
the lawyers have a great deal to say in
the marriage of persons of quality.'

I am patient, dear, in the hope that you
will regret that speech sometime.'

Dick had received notice that his furlough
was extended, and he thanked Dunscombe
warmly.

I should like to do more than that,' said

his lordship ; ' if you catch the train tomorrow
you "will he in time for a great
shooting at Daneham, and I put the Peele
House at your disposal Say yes, and you
shall have my father's invitation by telegraph.'


He was a good deal disappointed to hear
that this arrangement was impossible, and
the proposal or the disappointment urged
Dick to cut his visit short.

Next day the young people rode to a
convent on the other side of the river, where
a few old monks were still allowed to carry
on a manufacture of rosalie. The question
of Grace's leaving now turned up with
urgency, and she met it in the Griselda
style, which had been her fancy of late.
The bridge del Diavolo, which they had
to cross going and returning, is mighty
uncomfortable to traverse, but it made
a welcome interruption on the outward
journey. I do not know a structure more

trying to the nerves of one who is not
thoroughly familiar with his horse. It is a
block of solid masonry, spanning the stream
some miles below the Bagni, pierced by
a round hole at one side for the flood to pour
through. The roadway, two feet broad,
mounts to a steep ridge and descends as
steeply. Its pavement is smooth slabs of
stone, worn with centuries of traffic, and
bare of parapet. Fifty feet below, in that
autumn season, the narrow torrent foamed
among dry rocks and ferns, and withered
reeds and bushes. Edie dismounted, sending
her horse over with the groom. Duns-combe
escorted her on foot, as was becoming ;
and Dick, though he confessed himself
afraid, rode with Grace, who had more
courage.

In returning, since the subject of her
departure was obstinately renewed, she
made a counter-attack :

Let me understand by what authority

A Good Hater.

you speak in this tone, Dick. Circumstances
strongly suggest an explanation
now.'

You understood on the very night of
my arrival, Grace. ISTo more explanation
was needed.'

That is to say, you wish to break off
our eno^ao'ement ?'

Let us have done with this pretty acting,
dear ! As you looked at me that first night
you decided '

That I loved you truly and tenderly,
Dick.'

Yes, I believe that ! But it occurred to
you that the man you could not love only,
but also obey, must be younger and more
brilliant than the grey-haired soldier fronting
you.'

I love your grey hairs, Dick, every one
of them !'

As I love your gold — dear little sister!'

Oh, Dick !— little sister ?'

Dearest little sister in the world ! Do
you refuse the title, Grace ?'

I do ! I will never consent ! My title
is your wife!'

Are you determined to put us through
an explanation as unnecessary as distressing
? You know better than I, dear, that
the happiness we looked for can never be
ours '

I do not know it, and that is the reason
I ask why you break off.'

It was untrue. Grace had been aware
for a long while past that the marriage
would not take place — I say aware, because
she had not consciously admitted so much
even to herself. But in her brief season of
triumph in town, without choosing any of
her admirers, or fancying herself in any
position as a wife, she had persistently
imagined such circumstances as marriage
with Dick could not possibly bring her.
And he had read this in a thousand looks

and actions, so that he hoped Grace would
meet him half-away, and with a few words,
a little sad but not too grove, they would
quietly drop into those relations of brother
and sister which would be tenderly cherished
by both.

The selfish demand of an explanation,
for the amusement of embarrassing him
as Dick thought, caused some little irritation.


I will state the facts, then,' he said ;
for sentiment, after all, depends on facts,
though one is not alway's able to trace the
connection.'

Leave out the philosophy, Dick ! The
question is simple. You wish to break our
engagement. Why ?'

Let us recall the facts. We love each
other dearly ; for all that has happened, or
may happen, we shall continue to love each
other just the same — no more and no less!
That is so, Grace, is it not ?'

But she was much too shrewd to walk
into that artful trap.

You forbid me to love you more!' she
said,

Put it so — the man must bear the
burden. But, in that case, you will not
love me less, will you ?'

'Goon!'

I know you will not, little sister, and so
I find courage. When I was a boy and
you a child, we loved each other just as we
do now '

You did perhaps, but I '

Yes ?'

I did not mean to interrupt!'

Oh, my dear little Grace, is it worth
while to play this melancholy and distressing
game any further ? You know that if
I did not take it on myself '

Please continue your explanation.'

It is cruel, but I obey. We parted on
the terms of brother and sister. In the

A Good Hater

earliest time possible I was sent to India,
and in the earliest time possible, by supreme
luck, I won an advantage over comrades
more worthy than myself '

'Don't say that!'

It's true. I felt it at the moment, and
whenever the thought has recurred I have
asked myself what claim have I to be
singled out — but that is beside our point.
You. heard of my distinction, and it moved
your gallant little heart. When that letter
came to me I was full of hope and courage —
thrown off the balance of cool reason by the
great prize of fame that had come to me. I
thought I saw then why fortune had chosen
me — it was to give me a chance of winning
the dearest and the loveliest bride on earth.
It seemed possible and more that in no
long time I should be able to offer her a
position almost equal to that my love
thought worthy of her. But the years
passed on, and I could no longer credit that

fond fancy ; for they brought me no nearer
to you, and in life he who stands still loses
ground. What was taken from me, you
gained — in beauty and admiration and
brilliant prospects. Had you grown up
plain and homely, I vow, Grace, on my
honour, the thought of surrendering you
would never have crossed my brain '

Why ? The expenses of housekeeping
with an ugly wife are just as great as with
an angel.'

Perhaps, if you put it in that businesslike
form. But I spoke of surrendering.'

I see. With the poor homely thing
you would have stood to your bargain, but
because I am not so fortunate in my personal
appearance you throw me over.'

Is it possible, Grace, that you can speak
so — roughly ?'

Quite possible evidently, since I do. It
does not seem to me that there is much
poetry in our situation. You are wandering

round and round the point, Dick — let
me put it in my rough way. You heard
about my silly conduct at Daneham, from
aunt or somebody — from young Henderson,
perhaps. And you believe their story against
me. Now, Dick, deny it if you can!'

I deny in the most solemn form that
your conduct at Daneham brought me to
this resolution. I had made it before I
heard of that. Your photographs, and your
bright letters, and the reports that came tome
of your successes were the cause.'

That was all ?'

Yes.'

They had reached the foot of the bridge
attain. At the farther end an ox-wajriTon
was halted, its driver having noticed them
in time. They crossed in silence, and the
creaking vehicle got under way forthwith.


The break gave Grace a moment for
thous-ht.

Perhaps you are right, Dick — I know
you are ! We should ask too much of one
another — you in a noble spirit, I in my
selfish and thoughtless way. You understand
now why I insisted on this explanation
? If you had broken our engagement
because of the wicked scandal they spread,
I — I don't know what I should have done !
But you give me your word that it was not
that ? Then you are again my dear, dear
brother '

A sudden cry, ' Dio mio !' made them
start and look behind. Upon the other
side Edie was galloping towards the
bridge, and just below its apex, filling all
the width, the bullock cart was lumbering
up. Quick as the glance that showed this
peril Dick leapt down and ran. As he
climbed past the cart the ring of hoofs
upon the pavement told that Edie had
failed to check her horse. On the very
crest of the steep ridge it saw the obstructed.
II. 30

tion, tried to stop, caught a leg in the
dangling reins, fell sliding, clattering down
the roadway. In his efforts to make room
the driver had only succeeded in dragging
his oxen sideways — the horse fell on them,
struggled, and with one bullock tumbled
over the edge ! The boom cracked and
parted, but the trek-rope held. The other
bullock was dragged across — the cart
wavered and swayed — then all went crashing
down too-ether on the rocks beneath.

But Edie lay swooning across Saxell's
body — Grace upon one side, Dunscombe on
the other, bent over them, white and awestruck.


Is she all right ?' asked Saxell. ' Pray
see, Grace, darling.'

But you, Dick — are you hurt ?'

A little, I fear. Help Lord Dunscombe
to carry her off the bridge. I beg you todo
this, Grace.'

Her strong arms were quite able to carry

Edie without assistance. When Grace had
put her by the roadside, she flew back.

How are you hurt, dear Dick ?'

'• The brute kicked me with his foreleg,
but there are no bones broken. Send the
groom for a cab or something. How is
Miss Acland ?'

'Insensible, but I don't think she's
seriously injured.'

Grace ran back.

Will you be good enough, Lord Duns-combe,
to help the man who saved Edie's
life ?'

Dunscombe rose unwillingly, and aided
the groom to move Saxell to the roadside,
but he did not lay him very near to Edie.
Then he mounted to fetch a doctor, leaving
the groom on guard. Half an hour passed,
Grace distributing her cares between the
victims.

Do you think, dear,' said Dick, ' you

30—2

could cut my boot off? It would relieve
me.'

I am sure I could !'

Here is a knife. But observe that all
my toes are now complete, ten in number.
If any are missing when you have done I
shall know who amputated them!'

My brave, darling hero ! If I cut off
your toe I should treasure it as a relic!'

Don't make me laugh ! Gently ! You
are operating on my leg !'

Indeed I am not ; but the leather is so
tough. Get some water, Giacomo ! Edie
is waking!'

Miss A eland raised herself, looked about,
and saw Dick watching her with a smile.
He called :

You are not hurt ?'

Oh ! what can I say to express my
gratitude ! I remember it all ! You risked
your life to save me !'

Of course I did ! If you wish to say
something, say you are not hurt !'

I think not,' Edie answered, rising ;
'but you are! Oh, Major Saxell '

Yes, yes ! I*^ow if you are quite sound,
you may relieve this young student of
anatomy who is dissecting my leg.'

You do not mean that, Dick ?' Grace
asked, her eyes full of tears.

No, darling !' Saxell answered low.
You are doing it beautifully, but I want
to shut Miss Acland's mouth.'

She painfully rose and approached. By
this time a little knot of rustics had gathered,
showing their sympathy in gentle earnest
tones. One of them presented a keen-edged
knife, and Edie set to work. Hurt and
miserable, Grace drew aside. The tears ran
silently down her cheeks. Saxell bore the
change of operators for a time, his teeth set.
Then he exclaimed, in tones sharpened by
agony :

Pray let Grace finish, Miss Acland !
Your hand trembles, I think !'

I am afraid it does,' she answered sorrowfully.
' I am not so strong as Grace,
nor so brave. And she is not the cause of
this ! Oh, Major Saxell '

Instantly relieved from pain, under
Grace's steady hand, Dick interrupted in
cheerful tones : ' We have not yet learnt
how it happened.'

A dog frightened my horse, and it
bolted. AVhat a '

Now you can slip it off, cannot you,
dear ? Ah, that's a relief ! And the toes
are all rii>-ht ? You have not abstracted
one to hang upon your chatelaine ? I am
so grateful, most precious of Graces — Faith,
Hope, and Charity combined in one sweetest
young surgical practitioner ! Xow, can you
ask one of those sturdy organ-grinders out
of employment to help me to the nearest
cottage ? They arc making an eleemosynary

exhibition of us. You can walk with Grace's
arm, I hope, Miss Acland ?'

So they set off. And presently Duns-combe
came galloping to announce the
doctor, who followed in a carriage. Saxell
would have no inspection there. He was
put into the carriage with Edie and the
doctor, and drove off slowly. Grace and
Dunscombe followed on horseback.

'You must not go to the hotel!' said
Edie. ' Indeed, Major Saxell, you will
grant me this trifling favour. We could
not rest, we should be ill, if you who '

I am an old soldier, Miss Acland, getting
grey. That means I know good quarters
and love them! But I resist all temptation
unless you make me a promise.'

Oh, anything to show '

1 will accord you tranquillity of mind
on condition that neither you nor Mrs.
Acland ever allude to this adventure !'

It is unkind '

It is selfish, yes. Drive to the hotel.'

I promise, if you insist.'

Mrs. Acland was spared all anxiety about
her daughter, who carried the worst news
herself. A room on the ground-floor was
hastily prepared, whilst Dick underwent
examination. Very serious bruises in the
foot and lee; would forbid his moving for a
fortnight at least, but, as nothing was
broken, he refused to go to bed. The
servants carried him to his room, attended
by Mrs. Acland and the girls, who devised
all manner of uncomfortable comforts, which
he received with grim amusement.

Two hours afterwards Edie found Duns-combe
smoking on the terrace.

I thought you had gone ! Mamma is
just writing you a note to say we dine in
Major Saxell's room, and begging you to
excuse us.'

Is it to be a general rule ?' Dunscombe
asked, smiling constrainedly.

Oh, lie will be able to join us in a few
days. Then you will be invited.'

I'm glad to hear that the injuries aren't
serious. Wouldn't he have been as comfortable
at the hotel ? I find the people
most attentive '

Are you jealous of the man who saved
my life ?'

Of what man in the world have I so
good right to be jealous ? If he had died I
should have envied him ! Instead of that,
he takes up his dwelling with you. You
will nurse him and amuse him, and sing to
him all day long. It was my good genius
that warned me against getting his leave
secured !'

Then I am your evil genius ? In truth,
I think I am ; if you will only see it.'

He flushed with sudden passion.

What you are to me, Edie, I have not
words to tell, and you would be shocked to
hear. Mine is not love, but worship — I am

like those savages who adore both good and
evil. If love were crime and ruin, I should
feel not one shade of difference.'

Suppose it was ridicule, what then ?'

The notion is humorous ! People
might have varied feelings for the husband
of Edie Acland, but she would never give
them cause to laugh !'

Well, perhaps we shall see. You must
reconcile yourself to Major Saxell's stay in
this house for a time — until he is quite
well.'

Don't drive me to despair, then. That
too lucky fellow has the girl he is in love
with to attend on him : recollect that the
man who is in love with you is boring
himself to death in this hole, and take pity
on him. I will give you a week to set the
patient on his legs, and spend it myself at
Florence. Very soon, you know, I must
return to England, set matters quite straight,
and then come back for my reward !'

He kissed her as passionately as he dared,
and left.

A merry dinner that was in the invalid's
room. Practice makes perfect in braving
pain and supporting discomfort as in other
things, and Dick had learned his experience
under conditions mighty different to those
that surrounded him now. He had dined
cheerfully, swathed in bandages, when the
thermometer dropped below zero, and the
frost, not to be excluded, made his wounds
tingle and shoot. He had dined cheerfully
when his mattress of hay seemed afire, and
the flies covered him like a garment. Judge
then if he was happy, with lovely eyes
watching his least signal of uneasiness,
lovely hands eager to aid, pretty girlish
voices cheering him with bright talk, A
thousand memories of wretchedness, agreeable
now, recurred to him. Saxell was
all himself, as Grace remembered him, but
with the quietly masterful tones formed by

a habit of danger and command. A very
pleasant evening.

The girls' rooms adjoined, with a door
communicating, and their foolish practice
was to chat until they dropped asleep.
When the maid had been dismissed, Grace
joined her friend ; and in peignoir, with hair
loose, a sight to drive a painter to despair,
they talked of the day's events. After
rendering honour to Dick, quietly but
amply grateful on one side, extravagant on
the other, Grace said :

This romantic adventure will end
properly, I hope. There is no need to
consider me in the question.'

What do you mean ?'

We have had explanation enough. Dick
does not love me a bit, and though I love
him desperately, I am not going to make
myself disagreeable. Xo one will wish you
joy more heartily when the time comes.'

I don't affect to misunderstand, though

it's a bad joke, Grace. Do you mean that
your engagement with Major Saxell is
broken off ?'

Well, it hangs by a thread until one of
us has the resolution to cut it.'

How can you talk so unfeelingly ? Have
you no heart or no eyes ?'

As for heart, I don't know, but my eyes
are too good. Dick had made up his mind
before he came. Why, doesn't matter much.'

Doesn't matter ? I should have thought
it a most painful position, if only to your
self-respect.'

I don't feel it so. If I had the slightest
thing on my conscience it would be different,
of course, or if Dick had ceased to love me.
But he hasn't done that — he has only ceased
to wish to marry me.'

And that's nothing ?'

No, it is not nothing.'

A relief, perhaps ?'

I don't know how I feel. Anyway,

there is no obstacle to interrupt the natural
development of the romance begun today;


I shall not waste time by discussing
the taste of your remarks,' said Edie, in
grave offence. ' It is enough to tell you
that I am eno^ai^^ed to Lord Dunscombe.'

Engaged ! Really, for good ? What
astonishing: delightful news ! Is it really
true?'

'I don't think most girls accept an
engagement on trial. You are an exception,
Grace.'

'Am I?' said she doubtfully. 'But
never mind me. I am so ver' glad, darling.
It spoils the romance prematurely,
but perhaps — as I said, I don't quite understand
how I feel about that. It's quite
certain that there never was a Countess of
Eainforth so lovely and so good, and there
never was a Dunscombe so lucky. When
was it settled ?'

Our engagement isn't public yet. I
have told you, dear, because the matter
arose out of your careless talk. But understand
that there is no secret. You may
mention it to anybody who would be
interested to know.*

May I mention it to poor Dick ?'
If you like. There ! Good-night,
darling ! I'm sleepy.'

CHAPTER V.

RETURN TO SCARSHOL^IE.

then Dunscombe made his straws
tegic withdrawal from the Bagni
^^"'^'^^^'^^ di Lucca, he did not foresee that
Edie would become head-nurse to the invalid.
It was certainly not her wish, nor
perhaps Grace's. If Dick had been really
disabled, needing strong and tireless help,
the latter would have kept her post, alike
by force of circumstances and by choice.
But the announcement of Edie's eno;ao;ement
quite changed the aspect of things for that
heedless young lady. She saw, in the first
place, that she must go home ; in the

second, that she could not amuse a man
of intellectual tastes, "who was confined to a
sofa; in the third, that Edie did it to
perfection; and, in the fourth, that both
parties concerned found their relations very
pleasant. Grace was glad to make them
happy by shirking a task irksome to herself,
and it could not signify since Edie was
engaged. But she forgot to mention this
fact to Dick for several days.

Meantime, assured that there was no
danger of misapprehension, Edie allowed
herself the moral luxury of showing her
gratitude without restraint. She sat with
the wounded man all day, eagerly listening
to discourses, philosophic and other. It
was a new sensation, as it would be for
most girls of society, to sit under the
cathedra of a man still young, whose
thoughts had been enlarged by study, and
corrected by experience, hardships, knowledge
of the world, and practice of affairs.

VOL. II. 31

Edie was not even used to the private ministrations
of the Church. If Dick had known
more of the little world, and had found
therein subjects for small-talk, he would
not have dropped into a habit of lecturing ;
but they had no topics for gossip, and when
she sat beside him Dick was bound to seek
refuge in facts. In the hands of a clever
man, anxious to make talk, facts shortly
lead the way to principles. It is not to be
supposed that the conversation was dull,
though sometimes o-rave. Grace looked
into the room several times, hearing laughter
and merry voices, but she found the drollery
beyond her depth, the point of the jokes
associated somehow with dull books of the
schoolroom. So she wandered out again
presently. Mrs. Acland did the same.

It certainly had not occurred to Dick
that such an entertainment would delight a
young lady. He would gladly have kept
up a flow of commonplace, could he have

hit upon it. In that case, Edie would not
have been impressed by his happiest efforts.
She had met clever men by the score, and
humorist much more diverting than Dick
could ever be — had heard them, laughed,
admired, and forgotten. The new style of
talk roused and interested her to touch
degree that she would certainly not have
forgotten it, even if gratitude had not kept
alive her recollections of Major Saxell.

When Dunscombe returned from Florence
for a day or two, before starting for England,
he was irritated and perplexed by the
state of things. Though Edie gave him
neither cause nor opportunity for outspoken
complaint, he felt that she was
changed — less patient in her resignation.
And when he showed a sign of the jealousy
that possessed him, she withdrew. Mrs.
Acland did her best to reassure him, but he
brooded.

Dunscombe's appearance suggested to

31—2

Grace that she really must confide his
engagement to Dick, and forthwith she did
so in her way.

If mrs. Temple is ready, we ought to be
going at once.'

I heard from her to-day. She can't wait
beyond the 12th, and I am glad to see you
are impatient.'

Oh, I'm not impatient a bit, but Edie
would rather be alone, I suppose, now Lord
Dunscombe's here.'

Is there any particular reason?' Dick
asked, with a slight effort.

Well, I don't know the reason, but
engaged people like to be alone, I understand,'


Good heavens!' The exclamation meant
astonishment, but the pause that followed
had another significance.

Of course, I would have given you a
hint, Dick, if I'd known. It must have
been arranged since Mr. Acland left, for he

was not good friends with Lord Duns-combe
; but I can't tell when.'

Dick remembered the scene his first arrival
had interrupted. * That matters
nothing,' he said steadily. 'As you say,
we had better leave at once! It's just a
little trying,' he continued, to himself, ' that
I shall miss the hunting I had looked forward
to for nine years, and had expected to
look back upon for years unknown. I had
made up my mind to the loss, accepting a
winter in Italy for exchange, but now that
prospect vanishes. Rather hard.'

So that is the idea which has kept you
quiet lately ! I must point out, dear Dick,
as you pointed out to me, that your parentis
anxious to see you. In the second place,
nothing forbids your wintering in Italy, if
you are disposed.'

If those sharp wits of yours had been
trained to some useful purpose '

Like E die's !' Grace murmured.

As you say, they would have distinguished
you like Miss Acland.'

I am not sure. My wits aren't so very
deep, and they only seem to be pointed for
the occasion, like our pencils at school.
Shall you be able to start on the 12tli? I
think it is absurd to talk of such an early
date.'

I shall start,' Dick answered, and he
warned the doctor presently. That excellent
personage laughed ; but seeing that
his patient meant every word, he appealed
to the ladies, who lodged an unanimous
protest. Dick had no courage to name his
further design of moving to the hotel. But
within twenty-four hours he made his appearance
in the drawing-room, a crutch
under his arm, Grace supporting him on
the other side. Dunscombe, who was
leaving the same night for England, significantly
observed :

Miss Palliser has not yet vacated her

place towards the hero of the hour, you see,
Edie.'

I am not thought worthy of it she
answered.

Pray don't embarrass us,' Grace cried.
A stout young Salesman who has
nothing else to do puts her biceps at the
hero's disposal. Edie lends him her brain
when necessary. Which is the worthier?'

The more useful one, I should say; but
which that is. Major Saxell only knows.
Prima facie one would think that a man
does not want brains at the Bagni di
Lucca.*

I certainly have not brains enough of
my own to understand what this is all
about. Can you explain it, Miss Acland ?'

I am as much puzzled as you, but perhaps
Lord Dunscombe will unfold the
mystery if we withdraw. Come, Grace.'

I am glad of an opportunity,' said Duns-combe,
when they had left the room, ' to

ask you before I go what is your opinion
and what line you propose taking about
Mrs. Saxell's claim ? The matter has been
discussed between you, I suppose?'

I shall answer you frankly, as I should
answer ]Mr. Acland if he were here, for I
believe you have a similar right to ask. Is
it not so?'

I have the right of Miss Acland's future
husband.'

That is enough. My first duty, Lord
Dunscombe, is towards my mother. When
she told me, on arrival in England, that she
had taken up this most unfortunate legacy,
I was distressed, and I appealed to her.
Since then I have made up my mind to
take no part whatever in the dispute.' •

But nobody knows so well as you where
the right lies, and you are the cause of all
this trouble ! Do you think it becoming a
gentleman to stand aside and let the mischief
go on?'

Nature has placed you in such happy
circumstances, my lord, that you can take
a very abstract view of gentlemanly conduct.
We, who have to submit to conditions,
find it necessary to ask not what we
should like to do, but what we can do.'

You can dissuade your mother.'

Dick made no reply, and after a pause
Dunscombe urged feebly:

You see, of course, that it is most unpleasant
for me?'

I confess I did not put your lordship's
feelings in the front rank, but Mrs. A eland's
distress and that of her children have not
escaped me.'

And you Avon't do anything ?'

I have told you that I can't do anything,'
said Dick sternly. ' If I could I
should need no pressing. Let this end,' he
added, seeing that Dunscombe was about to
reply. ' I am at least as well able to judge
the situation as your lordship.'

That depends, sir, I think, upon the
point of view.'

Dunscombe withdrew in good order, but
he sincerely regretted his interference with
Mrs. Acland's style of diplomacy. He confided
the business to her, and left in bad
humour.

Dick was in no condition to travel with
comfort ; but when the 12th drew near his
determination was fixed. On the last evening,
while the girls lamented in their own
room, Mrs. Acland sought an interview
with Dick.

Lord Dunscombe told me what passed
between you,' she said. ' I hope you will
reconsider your decision.'

Believe me, Mrs. Acland, if there was
the slightest hope that a word or action of
mine would be other than harmful, I would
go through any annoyance. My mother is
preparing anxieties and troubles and disappointments
for herself only second to

those she inflicts. Perhaps I was injudicious
in keeping the matter secret from herat
the commencement. She is now influenced
by a sense of wrong, which would be
only strengthened by any arguments I put
forward. The time has not come, but you
may be perfectly assured that I shall grasp
the first opportunity of persuading her to
drop this unjust action.'

I have the utmost confidence in your
judgment as in your friendship, Major
Saxell. Allow me to say that if this trial
was to be laid upon me. Fate chose the
gentlest and kindest instrument for its
purpose. I draw a happy augury from
that.'

So far as I can control events, it will
not fail you all through.'

Why, if the trial had been laid upon us,
as I say, we should not have made Grace's
acquaintance, you would not have come
here to fetch her, and at this moment I

should have been mourning for my
child.'

'It Avould not be judicious in me to
examine the chain of consequences too
closely,' said Dick, laughing, ' if you are
satisfied. I acknowledge at least the benevolence
of Fate in choosing me to do Miss
Acland a service.'

She approached at the moment and overheard.


The benevolence of Fate was exerted on
my side exclusively,' said Edie, ' unless you
reckon wounds and pain as an abstract
good. I Avish to tell you again, ^lajor
Saxell, how fervently grateful I am.'

I am assured of it even to embarrassment.
Miss Acland ! Please don't repeat it
any more.'

Words seem so colourless?'

I don't find it so. They turn me red allover.
Seriously, I beg you to spare me.'

I wish we could show our feeling in

deeds said Mrs. Acland, as she withdrew
to the small room giving on the terrace,
which she used as a study The others
remained outside in the balmy autumn
night. Dick lay in a lounging chair, his
injured leg stretched out, and Edie sat by
his side.

Woman's gratitude nowadays,' she said,
is the feeblest what do I mean ?'

You mean, perhaps, the most fruitless
impulse of nature.'

You always understand, but of course
you will pretend to disagree.'

To the expression " nowadays " I object,
not to the general thought. Woman's
gratitude is just what it always was.'

There w^s a time when she could prove
it like a man, but what can she do now?'

How can man show it, substantially, but
by payment in one form or other ? That
course is open to woman if she is rich or
influential.'

But we read of a time when acknowledgments
freely and openly offered were
accepted in the same spirit. If I had been
a great lady two hundred years ago I could
have obtained ^lajor Saxell his lieutenant-colonel,
and he would have taken it without
any sense of disgrace.'

Granting that, what does the spirit of
your observation come to ? Xot that
woman's gratitude was feebler in past
times, but that man's pride and independence
are stronger now — quite a different
proposition. Though your historical reference
is correct, we know that some men
declined such payment, and we are free to
believe that many did so. Perhaps I should
have been one of those exceptions if the
Countess of Rainforth had offered me promotion.'


Oh, Major Saxell !'

I beg your pardon ! Words slid out in
argument that one regrets, so soon as persons

are introduced. Let us cling to the
abstract. The only reward which a self-respecting
man could take from a lady in
any age was that which romance always
granted him — impossible here.'

May I speak of Grace ?'

I was about to name her. I came here,
Miss Acland, to take her away; but I am
doubly sorry now that she is going. My
mother is good and kind, but no companion
for a rebellious, high-spirited, feather-headed
girl. Grace urgently needs the influence
you have been exerting over her. Upon
this subject I shall speak frankly to my
mother. If I can persuade her, may I say
that your friendship is not exhausted, and
that you will not be deterred by the
annoyance her aunt's obstinacy causes you
from receiving Grace again in process of
time ?'

You may put it in the warmest words
you are master of. But Grace has

said something to me in her heedless way !
Will you not undertake her training, with
the prospect of a great reward ?'

I am not old enough in one sense, and
too much experienced in the other. It is
my best hope that Grace will marry a good
fellow of her own age, whom lie will love
with all her innocent impetuosity, and I
shall be the bachelor uncle of her children.'

Your best hope ? What is the other ?'

I spoke carelessly ; but you know what
features of her character alarm me sometimes
for the future ?'

They are only impulses ! I have no
right to speak to you on this subject, Major
Saxell, but I am sure you are throwing
away Grace's happiness and your own ! It
would not be difficult for you to win her
heart; and when that is secured all the rest
will follow, as true steel follows the magnet.'

The illustration is loose, Miss Acland,
and so, for me at least, is the train of

thought. Grace's shrewdness understands
the situation better. For myself, I shall
never marry.'

That means only that you cherish an
ideal lovelier and better than Grace — which
you will never find.'

Saxell paused a moment.

I have met it !' he vehemently exclaimed;
too late ! I have known the woman who
fulfils every fancy of my heart !'

I have heard you say that exceptions
are a class. If you have found one such
woman you may hope to find another.'

Exceptions are a class, but some combinations
may be unique. Perhaps there
are others as beautiful and true and pure,
but you alone have every gift, and every
grace, and every virtue.'

Hush — hush ! Do not drive me from
you to-night !'

I shall say no more — forgive me ! Your
words roused a sudden madness ; but it is

VOL. II. 32

true. You will not think more of it? I
suppose we shall not be likely to meet, and
never again with the familiarity you have
allowed me here. These days have been
the brightest of my life, to which I shall
look back in years to come as a foretaste of
happiness too deep) for me in this world.
But whether we meet or no, you will
regard me and trust me as a friend, will
you not ?'

A long pause.

Will you deny me that comfort ?' he
urged. ' But the hesitation is answer enough.
You do me injustice, Miss Acland. If I
love you, and always shall, it is with a
passion as calm as friendship, which asks
nothing and hopes nothing besides a calm
return. In Lord Dunscombe's presence
'

She got up suddenly, and leaned over
the balustrade, her lack to him. AVith
painful steps he followed, after an instant.

Edie turned and caught his hand. ' I
accept your friendship humbly,' she whispered,
and brushed past him down the
steps into the garden. Dick caught a
glimpse of her tearful face, and withdrew to
his room, pondering miserably, yet conscious
of wild thoughts in his despair.

Next day he left with Grace, who cried
from the moment she woke till they reached
Florence. She sadly replied to Dick's
consolation :

I know I am doing what is right and
wise, but I leave happiness behind.'

Edie was pale, but composed ; Mrs.
Acland smiling, thoughtful, considerate as
ever.

'It is a short good-bye, I hope,' she
said to Dick ; * we propose to reach England
as soon as the wholesome frost sets in,
like the woodcocks.'

Dear Mrs. Acland is always the same,'
sobbed Grace affectionately, as they started.

32—2

Her son said once that if her house was
b-blazino^ she would not forget to send for
b-beer for the f-firemen I'

Mrs. Temple did not observe those
qualities in Dick which had made him so
popular wherever X 3 R.A. had been
quartered. And though she admired Grace
with enthusiasm, she did not find her good
company at the beginning. But late experience
suggested an explanation. ' They've
been overdoing the Old Masters,' thought
good Mrs. Temple.

I suppose there's a fine gallery at the
Bagni,' she said, ' but I'm glad it's not
mentioned in ]murray. He is so judicious,
isn't he ? So English, I call him !'

Who?' Saxell asked. •

Murray. AVe really could not have
stood many more Old Masters. It's a
mistake to go behind Murray. I have
always found it so. And now just look at
yourself and Miss Palliser You have

overdone it through going behind Murray,
and you are saying the penalty !'

We are ? How ?'

Why, you are quite fagged out and
overcome with admiration ! So are we
indeed, though we didn't see the capo
maestro at the Bagni di Lucca. But
perhaps we visited more churches than you.
And I am older, these children younger.
I am so glad Murray does not allude to
that collection.'

Grace became hysterical when she understood
this hypothesis. The pernicious
influence of the Old Masters had quite
vanished by the time they reached Turin;
but the idolized companion of Mrs. Temple's
little girls was not quite that heedless,
wilful Grace who used always to speak
before she thought, and generally to act
before she spoke. A glimpse of the great
world had changed her, not by modifying
or strengthening or improving her character,

but by showing more clearly to herself
what lie wanted for happiness. It had
ripened her as only years or care would
have done at Scarsholme.

Grace understood now the principle
which instinct had taught her to act upon.
She had never taken account with love in
her own scheme of existence, as though it
was to play the leading part in her destiny.
Among the adorers who would not fail to
offer her a choice unlimited, she would take
the most charming, with whom life would
be a round of delights. The girl had not
hitherto put into words, or even admitted
to her thought, that he must needs be very
rich and very distinguished to jilay this
role, but much was taken for granted unconsciously
from the beginning. Experience
had destroyed the missing link of the
problem. She knew and confessed that
her husband must be wealthy and great.

It was the growth of this consciousness

amidst the joy and excitement of her first
season which revealed that Dick was not
the fated man. In earlier days Grace had
confounded military distinction with those
other qualifications necessary, and, cherishing
enthusiastic memories of him, had felt
no doubt that this marriage was ordained
to realize her ideal. It was a certain shock
to abandon the project, but when he showed
unwillingness she met him half-way.

It is not to be supposed that the girl was
mercenary. She would have married no
man for his money, but money was an
essential condition in the man she would
marry ; not for itself, but for the style of
existence she must lead with him. The
error of the argument lay in an utter
ignoring of love. Grace did not feel such
an impulse herself, nor understood it in any
other sense than admiration, amusement,
pleasing companionship. One would be
rather puzzled, perhaps, to define the senti-merit

in other words ; but most people
recognise something more, and very nearly
all are capable of learning, at their cost
probably, that there is a difference. Whether
that was to be Grace Palliser's fate only
time could show, but she was not to be
persuaded as yet that more could be asked
between husband and wife than the conditions
she was ready to grant on proper
appeal, and determined to exact.

During the long journey Mrs. Temple
mentioned, of course, the letter in which
Grace begged a delay. Dick could hardly
credit a step so bold and so underhand;
and when, on appealing to Grace, she
simply owned the charge, he hastily let it
drop.

But ]airs. Temple was roused. She
had notions of discipline, and that sense of
personal dignity which is not unusually
fostered by garrison life.

I am glad to have been of service to
you, Miss Palliser,' she said seriously, ' but

I confess it was clone under a misunderstanding.'


You were none the less kind, and ever
so many people are grateful. The delay
cost Dick another most honourable wound.
It saved Mrs. Acland her daughter's life,
and Edie her own, and Lord Dunscombe
his bride's. Mr. Acland in West Africa,
thousands of miles away, will love you
when he hears of it. There never was such
a happy misunderstanding.'

I rejoice that so many providential
results followed. But we are told. Miss
Palliser, that we must not do evil that
good may come.'

I don't think my orthodoxy would hold
out when it was a question whether Edie
should break her neck or not. Oh, darling
Edie! The idea!'

Mrs. Temple's argument was not touched,
but she did not quite see how to meet this.
A certain coolness afterwards reigned between
the ladies.

Scarsholme Alas reached at dusk, on a
warm, moist, autumnal evening. Leaves
still hung dripping above the road ; the
fells were dank and dull, the burns ran
like chocolate under a crest of muddy
foam.

Grace remembered how bright were the
Italian hills, flaming with the red leaves
of the vine. How gay was the little square
before the Caffe della Posta, its oil-lamps
twinkling in the radiant dusk, its line of
carriages ranged round, its groups of
pleasant people laughing softly. How delightful
all she had left behind ! How sad
everything here !

Mrs. Saxell did her grim best to welcome
the truant kindly. All sorts of North-country
dainties were spread for her, and
perilous topics were banished. But Grace
had no appetite. An over-powering resolve
to escape for good and all fixed itself in her
mind that night.

When mother and son meet after a separation

of nearly nine years, with some disagreeable
questions, some secrets, and some
grievances open between them, they may
well find a difficulty in establishing an easy
tone of conversation. On the matter which
occupied the thoughts of both — Mrs. Saxell's
claim — they had come to a prudent understanding
at Dick's former visit, and resolved,
after some unpleasant words, that it should
never be referred to again. A lengthy
report of the accident, and a discussion of
its consequences in a surgical joint of view,
were grateful themes, and then Mrs. Saxell
asked with feeling what her son proposed
to do.

I hope,' said she, ' that you found Grace
all that you desire. With me she is wilful
and insubordinate, but her nature is good.
I hope, and I think, Richard, that if you
take trouble with her she will grow into a
charming girl, before you leave. Of course
you do not think of marrying for some
years yet ?'

We do not think of it at all, mother.'
Mrs. Saxell did not like surprises, especially
in her own household. She bent
her dark brows while Dick proceeded to
explain all that had passed, and the conclusions
he had drawn. The news in itself
roused conflicting sentiments. Mrs. Saxell
had a natural objection to the marriage of
either, unless her financial interests were
consulted, and especially she disapproved a
marriage between the two. The engagement
was satisfactory, however, since it
kept each from the fascination of strange
loves, and she resented the rupture.

I am surprised and shocked, Richard.
Grace has been brought up under my eye.
If I had not been sure that she was worthy
of your love, should I have consented to
the engagement ? She is proud, in the
sense becoming a lady, and I quite understand
the spirit which leads lier to pretend
a cheerful acquiescence in sour unkind and

ungracious proposal. I should have done
the same myself. But you may depend on
it she loves you, and is broken-hearted — in
tears at this very moment, I will be bound
to say '

Don't let us go beyond that fact, mother,'
Dick answered, laughing. ' Will you knock
at her door and see ?'

What a very indecorous proposal !
Really, Richard, you seem to have '

Just before this time, Grace had finished
alike her unpacking and her reflections.
She came down resolved to make life as
pleasant as possible at Scarsholme whilst
the trial lasted, and cheered herself with a
merry lilt of the ' Laird o' Cocked ' as she
ran downstairs. I do not know whether
this incident convinced Mrs. Saxell, but it
naturally stopped the discussion.

It was on the same night that Lord
Dunscombe drove to a pretty little house
in Mayfair, and entered with the air of one

at home ; half an hour afterwards a lady
arrived.

His lordship is waiting, ma'am,' said the
servant ; and she ran in with a joyful cry,
tossed a bouquet to the floor, and caught
him round the neck from behind.

You precious oligarch, to surprise mein
this manner ! I didn't expect you for a
month at least. What does this resurrection
of your better nature mean ?'

I have come to say good-bye, Maud.'

She looked at him with fixed inquiry,
holding her breath.

You knew from the first that this hour
must come.'

She picked up the bouquet, took off her
wraps and bonnet, smoothed her hair at the
glass, and seated herself opposite, pale and
watchful.

You are going to be married ?'

Yes.'

To Miss Acland ?'

Yes

I forbid it !'

Be reasonable, Maud ! A scandal will
do you no good.'

Have pity on us both, Dunscombe,
and on her! No one will love you as I
do!'

She sprang up, and wound her arms passionately
about him.

I am very, very sorry, but this is useless,
and you know it. Let us talk of the
future.'

Yes, I know it !' she answered, re-seating
herself. ' You are as cold and as hard as
ice. Let us talk of the future ! In the
first place, put Miss Acland out of your
calculations.'

Yes, there is no need to mention her,'
said Dunscombe kindly. ' Tell me what
you would wish to be done.'

I said, put Miss Acland out of the calculation
in your future. And I will tell

you why. You know me as Maud Dangers,
but I have an alia.'i, like other bad characters.
Some people call me ]diary Peake. Does
that suggest any connection with Miss
Acland ?'

Why should it ?'

I think, by your face, that it does a
little. James Peake is my grandfather.
It was generous, Dunscombe, and like yourself,
to warn me long ago that you had no
heart to give. I did not listen, for I loved
you and felt confidence. And you loved
me — you do now, do you not ?'

The sudden vehemence of the question
startled him.

I do, Maud, tenderly ; but '

Thank 3'ou ! I knew what my grandfather
lead seen from AVolfincfham Bridge,
and so the name of Acland was familiar.
It was I who pointed out to him the advertisement,
asking James Peake to communicate
with Gorman, the lawyer.'

What does this come to ?'

It comes to the fact that you cannot
marry Miss Acland ! It comes to the fact
that lier mother employed my grandfather
to collect evidence in her favour ; and when
he could not get it satisfactorily, bribed him
and half-a-dozen more through him to
perjure themselves ! You suspected this,
Dunscombe ! I see it in your white face !
And still you would marry that woman's
daughter ?'

What have you in support of this
infernal lie ?'

Support enough ! James Peake kept
every line Mrs. Acland wrote, and got
proof enough from the others to hang them
all. When Yane threw up the case, I stole
those papers, and I have them !'

Show them to me ?'

There is no need, for you know I am
speaking truth. But give me your word
of honour that you will not marry Miss

VOL. II. 33

Acland, if I show that her mother is
guilty, and I will put them into your
hands.'

The struggle that betrayed itself in
Dunscombe's face she watched with such
keen eyes that he turned away.

When ?' he asked,

Now ! You promise ?'

I promise on my honour !'

Maud unlocked a desk, and handed him
a packet of letters. He ran over them,
growing more haggard as he read, and put
them in his pocket.

I don't believe one Avoid of this. The
plot is as simple as spiteful.'

You are a bad actor, Dunscombe !'

Why did your grandfather take the
trouble to write this stuff ?'

I will answer any question quite frankly,
but on this point my grandfather is himself
hazy. He thought the .stuff might be
useful.'

And does anyone else know about it ?'

Mr. Julius Beaver knows, for he sent
for grandfather, and it was then I took
the letters. Grandfather couldn't find them
when he came back, and he's fled the
country. But I know where to find him.
Is there anything else before we return
to business ?'

He told this man Beaver ?'

Yes. Beaver hates the name of Acland
better than you love it. I have saved your
friends from him, and they ought to be
grateful.'

You snake ! Keep out of my way !
Never let me see you again, or hear from
you !'

You are carrying off my papers,' she
said, following him to the door ; ' but you
leave your honour behind. I make allowance
for your temper, Dunscombe, and I
love you too well to mind rough words.
Think it over, but don't try to play me

false. I warn you that the snake has some
poison left, if you irritate her.'

He answered only with a look fill of
threatening and despair.

MR. JULIUS BEAVER.

FEW days after Saxell's return,
General Randall called :

This is not the way,' he
began abruptly, ' that a soldier who has
been distinguished by his Sovereign should
revisit his native county. The modesty of
courage we know and admire, but when
he has been singled out as an example to
others, a man so honoured has not the right
to shirk the duties attendant. It had been
arranged that a ffuard of honour should
meet you at Preston, and escort you in one

•of the Earl of Ptainsforth's carriages — or six
if you liked — to Daneham. Then the
volunteers were to make their exhibition,
all the old people were to bless you, and the
young to dance. Why have you slighted
her Majesty's distinction by evading these
ceremonies ?'

Is it reason enough, sir, that they were
not put into general orders?'

Why, no. There are cases when propriety
suggests the right course.'

Then I would point out, sir, that the
county took no steeds to let me know
what was contemplated.'

There you hit our weak point ! And
how are you, Saxell ? We have heard of
your cavaliers and romancing in Italy.
The damage is made good, eh ? I hope so,
for Lord Rainforth sends his invitation —
here it is ! — to pack your gun and join us at
the Castle. He's determined to let off
something in your honour,'

I am very much obliged. But, General,
I may speak frankly?'

As between two soldiers — say what you

like.'

Then, sir, there's a certain difficulty.
My cousin, Miss Palliser '

Of course. The Countess will send
her an invitation to-night, and to Mrs.
Saxell naturally. Now tell me all the news
those confounded papers leave out. Why
is old Stevens transferred from Bundlepore
to Ragabad ?'

Dick repeated the gossip.

Ah ! And what's the real truth about — '
this man and that ?

So for an hour the General pursued that
endless inquiry about men and women
and small events which the presumptuous
outsider calls tittle-tattle. How can he
understand the memories that such talk
recalls to the old Indian ? Smith to the
one is but a name, his connection with a

certain regiment or district but an historical
fact of minutest value. To the other that
name brings back days of youth, perhaps
the comrade who stood by him in deadliest
peril ; or the rival in beauty's favour ; or
the man who beat him in that tremendous
struggle ! The cantonments of Dusty pore
are to one an unmeaning geographical
expression ; to the other a home of years,
weary and hated then, but now glowing
with the tender radiance that fills the day
of youth. And Mrs. Smith ? Ah, how
different our lives had been if we two
had not quarrelled that day of the G}'mkana !
Brown dead? He Alas a good fellow.
Did }■ ou ever hear Jones named 
? We went out together

half a century ago, and so through

it all.

There is a difference between Indian recollections
of this sort and others. In the
East Indies we are a few, banded among

millions. When we have known a man we
never lose sight of him whilst he remains
in the service. If he pass beyond our view,
inquiry brings him to light. Love and
hatred are kept alive, interest does not
weary. This is the case, in especial, with
the men of a former generation. It will
recur, happily, in full force when India has
once more an army of her own.

Mrs. Saxell came in, of course, to do
herself the honour of entertaining; a chief of
the Randall clan, and received the verbal
invitation graciously.

I have quite made up the little misunderstandings
through Lord Dunscombe,'
she said, ' who conveyed the Countess's
explanation in the most generous tone.
We shall be happy to accept.'

Without prejudice, I suppose ?' asked
the General significantly. ' Of course weare
all anxious to see Dunscombe married,
and from what we gather he has shown

better judgment than could have been
expected, and had infinitely better luck
than he deserves. If you can smooth any
difficulties in the way the family ^N'ill be
grateful, sirs. SaxelL' And the General
departed.

You had not mentioned Lord Duns-combe's
visits, mother,' said Dick.

'They had reference to matters Which
you decline to talk about with me,' she
answered drills, and left him revoking many
things.

In the evening Lady Rainforth's note
arrived, and Grace wrote an acceptance
under protest, to which she hardly troubled
to give a serious turn. Smiles of jo' rippled
about her lips, while she tried to look
solemn and anffj^rieved.

The society gathered at Daneham Castle,
in this month sacred to the pheasant, was
more imposing than that the ladies had
found earlier in the year. The county

people had assemblies of their own, and
Lord Eainforth's guests were mostly her
ladyship's, personages of the London world.
Thoijjgh not so important in the scheme of
the universe as the territorial magnates
Who were entertaining at home, they made
vastly more show. Mrs. Saxell felt herself
neglected from the outset. Though Grace
caused almost as much sensation as she
could have wished, it was not the right
sort. These dames and demoiselles were
above all astonished that such a lovely girl
had never been presented, and from that
fact they obviously drew the conclusion
that she must be quite out of the world.
None of them were anxious to take up the
part of Columbus, and their admiration was
of a distant, patronizing sort, as if they felt
afraid of committing themselves. Grace
laughed, content to bide her time, and too
high-spirited to suffer under small annoyances.
But Mrs. Saxell fumed. She had

accepted the invitation under a belief that it
was meant to recognise Avithout formality
the Countess's appreciation of a service
she had agreed to do her son — and the
disappointment gave another sting to her
wounded pride.

Dick, of course, had his own position,
highly honoured. He suspected nothing of
his mother's small humiliations.

One fine afternoon all the young people
were abroad, the gentlemen shooting and
the ladies not yet returned from lunch.
Lady Rainforth, Mrs. Saxell, and Lady
Farrer, wife of a southern baronet, sat
working. The two aristocrats kept up an
endless purr of gossip about ]people and
events whereof Mrs. Saxell had never heard.
She sat silent perforce, but boiling with
a desire to remind them alike of her presence
and of her importance. The opportunity
came when Lady Farrer observed that Lord
Dunscombe paid much attention to Miss

So-and-so. When the Countess made no
direct reply, Mrs. Saxell struck in :

His lordship tells me that his choice is
quite fixed in another direction.'

Lady Farrer looked blandly interested
and astonished. The Countess frowned
slightly.

The news is not public yet,' she said.
But it is hardly a secret that my son has
been attached to Miss Acland for some
years.'

Of course, I should not dream of mentioning
it.'

There were some difficulties, of a business
nature, but they have all been settled
now.'

I do not know,' said Mrs. Saxell sharply,
that all has been arranged. In fact,
nothing has been done actually, I think.'

Among persons of condition, an understanding
is enough,' replied the Countess
severely. ' Do you not agree with me ?'

A servant entered and gave Mrs. Isabella
card.

Mr. Julius Beaver,' she read. ' I don't
know him.'

Dear me !' exclaimed Lady Farrer. ' Can
it be Mr. Beaver, of Beaverlowe ? One of
the oldest and wealthiest families in my
neighbourhood, dear Countess ! He has
called to see one of us, no doubt.'

The gentleman wished to see Major
Saxell, my lady,' said the servant. ' When
I observed that Major Saxell was out, he
instructed me to give his card to Mrs.
Saxell.'

At a whisper from her friend, the Countess
said : ' Thompson, tell Mr. Brown to attend
upon ]mr. Beaver if he desires to wait for
Major Saxell.'

Mrs. Saxell found her visitor in the
library; Lord Rainforth's collection was
famous, and rarely before had it been examined
with an air of supercilious curiosity.

I have come, madam,' said Mr. Beaver,
u23on a meddlesome errand ; you have
observed, perhaps, that good-nature is
generally meddlesome. Fortunately, I can
put it into very few words. Certain papers
are lost, which may possibly have been
conveyed to your son by the finder. As I
Alas passing through this neighbourhood I
called at Scarsholme to ask whether he has
received anything of the sort in these last
few days, and they referred me here. Can
you give any information ?'

I don't understand, sir. '

It is not necessary to go into detail.
Your son would have mentioned the matter,
I think. He has not done so ?'

Not that I recollect, but really this is
very strange. Richard will return in an
hour or two.'

Good-nature will not carry me so far as
to wait,' he said, smiling, with a glance at
the books. ' Will you kindly give Major

Saxell my address at the Preston Hotel,
and implore him to take the trouble of
writing me a line if he has anything to say
upon this matter ? But on no account
if it would be a fruitless exertion for us
both.'

He Avill be pleased to write. I may
presume you are the Mr. Beaver whose jj

name appears often in the case with which
I am concerned ?'

Your presumption is justified by the
facts, madam. But I did not understand
that you were directly concerned m that
case ?'

My son having withdrawn, the legacy
passes to me, and I have taken steps to
claim it.'

Indeed, indeed I May I ask whether

I think I have no right to trouble Major
Saxell for a letter when at much less
inconvenience I can wait ami see him
here. I thank you, madam — good-morning!'

He calmly dismissed the lady with
a bow.

There are very many questions I should
like to put to you, Mr. Beaver, since we
have met in this providential way.'

I hate questions, and on second thoughts
I will go at once.'

Let me ring for the house steward,' said
Mrs. Saxell, as the last hope, and that
functionary, on the watch outside, entered
at the instant with Lady Farrer's compliments,
and a request that Mr. Beaver would
not go without seeing her.

He refused with cool politeness, and
followed Mrs. Saxell out. Some of the
younger ladies 'severe passing at the moment,
and among them Grace, looking divine.
Mr. Beaver fixed his eyes upon her with a
stare that was only not insulting, because it
had no expression whatsoever. He turned
upon the house steward. ' Be so good as
express my acknowledgments to Lady

VOL. II. 34

Farrer, and say that I will wait on her
forthwith.'

Her ladyship is with the Countess, sir ;
if you will kindly follow me.'

At the door of the drawing-room, Lady
Farrer was waiting.

Mr. Beaver !' she cried, ' I had not hoped
for this distinction ! It shall be entered in
the archives of the family. Do you know,
it is nearly twenty years since I saw you to
speak to ?'

She led him towards the Countess.

By my feelings, dear lady, it seems an
age ; by your looks, a moment ! I envy
you the precision of mind which can exactly
fix a date.'

When the presentation was over, Lady
Rainforth observed :

I am told that mine is the first house
mr. Beaver has visited for years. Though
the compliment was not addressed to Dane-ham,
it touches me obliquely.'

I did not dare to offer it direct Mr.
Beaver answered. ' Your ladyship must
recollect low far Daneham is from Beaver-lowe.'


Mr. Beaver regards his house as an
island encompassed by savage realms,' said
Lady Farrer. ' I am fortunately old enough
to recollect when all the fun and gaiety of
our neighbourhood came from thence.'

That is why I sit in sackcloth and
ashes now. Remorse is a heavy load, I
assure your ladyship, when one has nobody
to share it.'

If you have nobody to share it, that
must be your own fault.'

No, indeed; I was born an orphan. My
suffering's are all due to that'

o

Lady Rainforth glanced in his face, which
was quite serious.

Why have you not founded a generation
of your own ?' she laughed. ' Orphans often
do when they grow ujd.'

The idea has occurred sometimes, but
really the more I looked at it the graver it
appeared. I know that some people do not
regard thing's in that li^-ht. IMarriao-e is the
best joke they can perpetrate. But I can't
help thinking of it seriously, more or
less.'

That's just the way he used to talk,
Countess !' exclaimed Lady Farrer. ' "We
were never quite sure whether Mr. Beaver
was in earnest or joking.'

'Is it surprising, then, if I gave up
intercourse with my neighbours, when the
tenderest feelings of m}* nature were liable
to outrage ? Believe me, the lot of the
orphan is hard,'

He bowed, as if taking leave.

We may hope,' said the Countess, ' for
the pleasure of seeing you often whilst you
remain in this part of the country? I did
not hear where you are staying, I think ?'

At the Preston Hotel just now ; but my

intention was to start homewards tomorrow.'


I am glad to hear you put that intention
away into the past tense. In this unceremonious
season of the year, might I venture
to ask you to dinner tomorrow?'

The very enjoyment of life is its surprises.
I shall be overcome with gratification.'


And you will stay several days ? Having
made such progress with your conversion, it
would be a pleasing duty to take care you
do not relapse.'

I burn the gods I have adored, to worship
at your shrine henceforward.'

Grace was standing beside Mrs. Saxell.
Mr. Beaver stopped to speak. '■ If your son
would wish to see me, I shall be pleased to
make his acquaintance tomorrow morning.'
He looked so hard at Grace that Mrs. Saxell
introduced him, not without her little sense of
triumph. He bowed very low and departed.

Mr. Beaver made a topic for the day.
The ladies agreed, old and young, as soon
as they heard a vague suggestion of his
rent-roll, that he was quite deliciously odd,
with such a high-bred air of cleverness and
originality. Grace alone had courage to
say, what many thought probably, that his
manner was an offensive compound of
vanity and cynicism. Mrs. Saxell rebuked
her sharply. For the visit of this distinguished
and interesting personage had
altered the lady's position immediately.
She was appealed to for information, cautiously
invited to tell the motive of his call,
and otherwise made much of. And Mrs.
Saxell enjoyed the never sensation.

When Dick heard of this visit, he was
annoyed, perplexed, and amused, but ver*
unwilling to call on Mr. Beaver. Whatever
these missing documents might be, they
were evidently connected with the lawsuit,
and his agreement with Mrs. Saxell forbade

him to concern himself with them. But
she implored and insisted; curiosity was
roused by the gossip and interest of all
the guests, and Dick rode over in the
morning.

Mr. Beaver's question was soon answered,
but he courteously declined to explain it.
The affair is none of mine said he, ' and I
should not be justified in speaking, even if
I knew. So you have thrown up your
legacy, Major Saxell?'

Unreservedly, after satisfying myself
that Raises was an impostor, as malignant
as cunning.'

From what Mrs. Acland wrote me, I
understood that she inclined at that time to
argue that 'Raises was Henry Hardwicke.
Did it prove to be so?'

The evidence proved it conclusively.'

I always thought him a very bad lot,
but if anyone had told me that our old
accomplice was capable of such lasting

spite, I would not have believed it. His
nature strengthened, I suppose, under the
healthy discipline of the service.'

You thought him too weak-minded for
such obstinate hate ?'

Yes. Harry always seemed to me rather
above the average of wickedness, but in a
commonplace way. If he had all that go
in him, how very gravely sometimes he
must have revolved the holy right of
private vengeance ! That thought gives
interest to the question even now, when, I
suppose, it is practically settled. But if
Raises was Harry Hardwicke, have you
found out what became of Hugh ?'

Why, of course, he was drowned!' Dick
answered in astonishment.

Where ?'

Under Wolfingham Bridge that night!'

Hugh was not drowned there nor then.
I still keep a note from him which bears
the Laystone postmark of December lOth.'

Great heavens ! But he may have
posted it overnight ?'

I don't think so. But since you have
no information let us drop the subject. A
solitary Hfe, I find, has developed the gossiping
inclination to an extent which I
should not have believed possible.'

Dick hesitated. ' No !' he said, at length.
'Since you have begun, and the matter
anyway makes no difference now, pray let
us go on. You yourself are sure that
Acland was not drowned ?'

Quite sure. Hugh had faults, to put it
charitably ; but he would not have written
a challenge when he could have delivered it
by word of mouth.'

A challenge ?'

Yes. He offered me satisfaction for
some violent words uttered that nio'ht —
mark you, that night when he is supposed
to have been drowned. Since he rode
straight from Beaverlowe to the ford, after

the scene in question, it is evident that his
letter was written afterwards.'

But he gave an address for you to write
to him ? Where was that ?'

At his London chin.'

You Avrote ?'

No,' Mr. Beaver replied, with the faintest
possible quiver of the eyes. ' I was ill ; but
as soon as I could I sent there. The hall
porter had an impression that Hugh called
some weeks before to ask for letters.'

In that case his name would be entered
in the hall-book ?'

Xo, for it had been struck off for nonpayment
of his subscription. But please
don't tempt me to run on in this unprofitable
manner.'

I may ask, for my own satisfaction,
what is really your opinion ?'

And I answer, to my own dissatisfaction,
that I have none. Your claim has
passed to Mrs. Saxell, she tells me ?'

Yes, and you will pardon me for saying
that I regret your confidence extremely.
What am I to do about it ? Is it my duty
to tell her?'

Take example by the distress of a man
who is convicted of speaking heedlessly 1'
cried Mr. Beaver. ' Our talk has been confidential,
as you say !'

I do not remember that you made that
stipulation,' said Dick coldly ; and in spite
of Beaver's protests he left, undecided.

But reflection told him that as a man of
honour he had no choice ; and in the brief
and dry account he rendered to Mrs. Saxell
these new statements had their place,
qualified by all the doubts that arose to
his mind.

You cannot take an unprejudiced view,
Richard,' said she, with more calmness than
he expected. ' From the beginning your
sympathies have lain with Mrs. Acland.
It was on the evidence she furnished, and

nothing besides, that you submitted, for I
cannot see that ]mr. Vane made a serious
effort on his side to check that evidence.
Why do these facts only come out now, by
accident ? Because they were not looked
for. It will prove that Raises was Hugh
Acland whenever the question is traced
out by business-like and unprejudiced inquirers.'


AVell, mother, I have obeyed you in
seeing this man, and I earnestly wish I had
not. I have told you what passed, and I
almost wish I had concealed it. Now we
will let the question drop for ever, as
between you and me.'

There is something I could tell, Richard,'
said she, after a moment's hesitation, ' which
might convince you that I am not unjustified
nor unreasonable in proceeding.'

Then tell me, mother, for it will be a
relief.'

Lord Dunscombe,' she answered, after

another pause, ' has offered me a large sum
to withdraw a suit which he knows must
be successful.'

Ah ! Dunscombe is engaged to Miss
Acland — and you refused, of course?'

I did not ! The prohibition to compromise
does not apply, and I was glad to
spare everybody's feelings.'

Everybody's feelings ? Not mine, nor
Mrs. Acland's, nor anyone's besides Duns-combe's,
who dares not face a lie and beat
it ! — but I am sick of this, mother. Go
your own way!'

In the afternoon Mr. Beaver arrived, and
in a few moments found his way to the
conservatories. Lady Farrer sought him
there, but he said :

Pardon me. I am deeply engaged with
Mr. Stevens. I congratulate his lordship
on possessing such an excellent adviser in
the business of life,' with a bow to the
superintendent of the Daneham orchids.

I thought you were only looking at the
plants.'

Only — only ? Lady Farrer, I perceive
that you are a trifler. Pray what do you
propose to discuss ?'

Why, you know we have an election
shortly, and your influence '

My influence ! If you can show me
what influence will produce a variety of
Cattle like that, I will listen like a child.
But if not, dear lady, spare me. The
serious aims of life are here — the rest is
vulgar phantasmagoria !'

Still eccentric !' laughed Lady Farrer
uncomfortably ; but he had plunged again
into abstruse discussion with the gardener.

There were great personages staying at
Daneham, but when Mr. Beaver entered the
drawing-room every eye turned on him.
His dress was quietly perfect, in the old
fashion which suited so well the clean-cut
features, pale face, and keen, superior smile,

which gave Mr. Beaver an air of distinction
in any company. A ruby of great size
fastened his collar, a second held his shirt-front,
and a third, pierced in the Indian
style, hung from his fob. Solitaires of the
same gem adorned his wrists, and his shoe-buckles
were rubies and diamonds. Women
stared with envy ; men looked at one
another and smiled. But no one could
frankly despise such a show on a man
whose birth, position, and fortune were
unquestioned.

General Randall, however, if he did not
despise the jewellery, hated its display. He
only grunted when Mr. Beaver recognised
him courteously, with an air suggesting
that they had parted last week. Then he
made his way straight to Mrs. Saxell,
beside whom Grace was seated. Observing
a demonstration which suggested that Mr.
Beaver was going to sit in her lap, the
latter hastily made room.

You will allow me he said to Mrs.
Saxell, ' to devote myself to Miss Palliser.
It is a maxim of mine that we should
always keep the society of the young, and
there is no privilege of the sex which I
envy more than their constant association
with childhood.'

Yours is quite an abstract maxim
laughed Grace. ' They say, Mr. reader,
that you avoid both old and vouns;.'

That is the doing of the unspiritual god
Circumstance, as Byron calls him. If I
have sought the wrongs course I have
always known the right, and at the first
opportunity I reform. From you, ]\Iiss
Palliser, I hope to gain life.'

And what will you give in exchange ?
Life, they say, is priceless.'

For those who know its value. But
the savages of Australia hated the golden
sand which troubled their streams. I can
teach you how to enjoy life, and it is a fair

exchange ; mine is the more agreeable part,
yours will be the more profitable.'

I trust,' said Mrs. Saxell, ' that you
will teach Grace to take a graver view of
existence, if you give yourself the ungrateful
task of instructing her.'

I snatch at the sanction you are kind
enough to hint. Miss Palliser, I will
ground you in the true principles of beauty,
on which are based the higher aims of man;
remembering always the profound axiom
which utilitarian Socrates combated — that
in the presence of beauty, all things become
beautiful. This is the very essence of
wisdom, and because it is not understood,
but rather reprehended, the earth is rather
dull and — I think they are rising ! Shall
we go ? — and miserable.'

Somehow Mr. Beaver had got Grace's
arm, and he moved on, talking. But the
conversation bored her already, by this
sample.

VOL. II. 35

I believe,' she said, ' that Mr. Winthrop
takes me in to dinner.'

At this moment of confusion a youth
came up, rather red, and muttered something.


You are under a mistake, sir,' said Mr.
Beaver, With grave courtesy. ' It is my
privilege to guard Miss Palliser through
the dang-hers of this strategic movement. '

Indeed it is not !' Grace began, stopping
resolutely. But Mr. Winthrop was an
unconsidered personage in society, and he
had already turned, looking disconsolate.
Mr. Beaver carried Grace away The house
steward, in alarm, made an effort to put
things straight, but his whispers were
ignored. Mr. Winthrop came to unexpected
promotion, escorting Lady Farrer,
who was speechless with rage. Lord Rain-forth,
fortunately, did not know what was
going on ; the Countess frowned, hesitated,
and laughed.



Mr. Beaver kept up his affected strain
until Grace said frankly :

I don't understand this talk. It makes
my head ache. I am not at all clever, you
know. Pray let us get to persons and
things.'

You are much better than clever.
What persons or things shall we talk
about ?'

Oh, I don't know — yourself ! Why
have you shut yourself up all these years,
and why have you come out now ?'

I shut myself up because I was disgusted
with the ugliness of life ; and I have
come out because I saw you in the passage
yesterday.'

Really ? That is what you call a pointblank
compliment, isn't it ? Do you expect
me to be offended or flattered ?'

Simple truth is colourless. You asked
- a question. Miss Palliser, and I answered.'

We are always told that girls should

35—2

not ask questions. What was the particular
ugliness in life which disgusted you ?
There! I am questioning again. Don't
answer ! Tell me about Beaverlowe. Is ita
nice place ?'

Now let us be explicit. I represent,
unworthily, the oldest line in England, and
my house, not unworthily at all, is the
oldest in the kingdom. What do you
mean by a " nice place " ?'

Oh dear me ! I think I meant lots
of things ! Has it a ghost? Is it comfortable?
Have you a lot of armour, and old
portraits, and cosy rooms, and a cannonball
of Cromwell's, and a locked chamber,
and trap-doors, and secret passages, and a
ball-room where one could dance — not too
narrow, that is — and things like that ?' -

If they make a nice place, Beaverlowe
comes up to the description. My personal
fancy suggests a chatelaine as indispensable.
What do you think ?'

I

If she is indispensable, you must have
led a very imperfect life hitherto.'

I never quite understood what was
wanting, but a vague sense of deficiency
oppressed me.'

Something short in the conveniences or
the charms of Beaverlowe ? I should think
that deficiency was the easiest of all to
fill up.'

You really believe that V

I believe I should if it were worth while
to think about it.'

I must have supreme loveliness, the
faultless beauty which is above doubt or
criticism, like the frame in which I would
set my picture. Now, do you encourage
me to imagine that I could secure
that ?'

Grace shot a keen glance at him, inquiring,
merry, and mischievous.

No,' she said shortly, ' I do not!'

Supreme beauty would not consent to

put a pinnacle, as I may say, upon the
niceness of Beaverlowe ?'

I don't know that this is good taste, Mr.
Beaver, but I'm sure it's good fun. Have
you never tried?'

Never. When I was a younger man,
I did not see that my house wanted a
pinnacle. But when you pointed it out, I
felt the want instantly.'

I ? Such a notion could not possibly
have occurred to me !'

An unconscious suggestion, perhaps !
But you seriously think, upon the whole, I
had better be contented with my ghosts ?'

Decidedly ! Yours are amiable ghosts ?'

I suppose so. They never give any
trouble.'

Then be content with them, and change
the conversation ! Not too abruptly, however.
You represent the oldest line in the
kingdom, and Beaverlowe is the oldest
house. How old is that ?'

I have no idea. As old as the forsaken
gods!'

Dear me ! Which are they ?'

Strength and beauty. They have their
last home with us.'

'I am just clever enough to know that
this is very extraordinary, but quite too
stupid to understand it. What are the
modern gods?'

Legion, by whom the. swine are possessed.'


Let us change the subject abruptly this
time,' said Grace. ' I have lost my footing
altogether.'

Lord Rainforth had been waiting an
opportunity to interrupt. He said, leaning
forward : ' Farrer tells me, Mr. Beaver, that
if you could be induced to exert your influence
it would give us two seats, at least,
in his part of the country. I hope we
shall persuade you to feel more interest in
politics.'

Now you see,' Mr. Beaver murmured to
Grace, ' something of what I mean bv the
ugliness of life.' Aloud : ' I fear not,
unless you have a new party, The last
time I looked at a newspaper I found the
Conservatives too mean and the Liberals
too vulgar for an honest gentleman to take
part in their differences.'

I agree with you there, and until the
last few months I have been scarcely more
interested in politics than yourself. But
things are coming to such a pass that we
must make the best of bad means to protect
our common rights and honour. If you
have not followed the course of events,
Mr. Beaver '

Heaven forbid !'

You would hardly believe me if I told
you what theories are current, anc^ what
monstrous legislation has already been framed
to give them effect. The very foundations
of property and freedom are shaken.'

They have never been firm in my time,
my lord. Freedom and property can rest
secure on force alone. The other side have
it all their own way when you try to
base them upon syllogisms. And the
force went from us some time back. My
conviction is that we must Avait till the
pendulum swings our way, which will not
happen until things have gone further to
the bad. After making up my mind to
that, I withdrew ; and since you tell me
that public affairs are going on just as I
expected, there is no cause to reconsider the
determination. If I did move, I should
support the Radical with all my strength —
but without seeing him — oh, merciful
heaven ! without seeing; the creature!'

'Do I understand you literally, Mr.
Beaver ?'

i^ot quite, in practice. That would bethe
wise course, the philosophic, and if I
were a young man I should follow it. But

there is a danger that events will move too
fast or not fast enough. The old system
of things, which is tolerable, might breakdown
before I got quite tired of it, or might
drag on until the smash found me too old
to reconquer my own ; or, again, I might
have all the annoyance and die before the
compensation began. So, upon the whole,
as at present advised, I shall rest quiet.'

You take my breath away ! Do I
rightly understand that you expect a revolution
and a social war?'

By the signs that history has recorded
for us, I conclude that it is not far off; but
one life is an instant in the long; struors'le.
I have not the slightest fear that things
will not last my time, and the only question
is Whether it would be worth while to
hurry the crisis.*

For your own amusement, do you
mean ?' asked Lord Rainforth, lauorhinfr
but bewildered.

Yes. A Gracchus, a Catiline, a Caesar
could force the pace now, as they did once
on a time. But I have not their inducements.'


Now I see,' Grace interrupted in a low
voice, ' that to set a pinnacle on Beaverlowe
is quite a sudden idea !'

Oh, wise young judge !' he answered in
the same tone. ' I confess that I had not
yet combined the new idea with the old.
These events might fall hard on the pinnacle
?'

I should like,' said Lord Rainforth, ' to
hear your views at length on this point. I
don't catch the bearing of them at present,
beyond the fact that you expect a revolution.
Do you think when the struggle comes,
property will be able to resist ?'

I am quite sure, my lord, that we should
have a much more exciting time of it than
we have at present. Beyond that I have
not looked.'

But the country — civilization — humanity?'
interjected Sir William Farrer.

Words — words ! An ancestor of mine
threw his sword on the king's table, when
They asked his title-deeds. He did not
trouble about humanity, but the act had
its share, and a great one, in the making
of English history. He only meant to
defend his own wealth, his own enjoyments,
his own pride. For the same motives I
might draw his sword again; but for claptrap
abstractions '

Mr. Beaver closed his eyes with contempt
beyond affectation,

I feel sure that we misunderstand you,'
said Lord Rainforth.

It will be my misfortune to rest under
that fate, my lord.'

CHAPTER yil.

BEAVERLOWE.

R. BEAVER'S hours and movements
were not regulated by
common laws, but by the
exercise of patience and watchfulness Mrs.
Saxell intercepted him going to the conservatories
next day. She began at once :

My son has told me the surprising facts
you mentioned yesterday. Might I venture
to ask why you did not confide them tome?'


Mr. Beaver's look expressed emphatically
that she might not, and that the impertinence

of the suggestion amazed him. But
he said :

I have only one good quality, madam,
which is frankness. I did not confide them
to you because my sympathies were with
Mrs. Acland at that time. I simply wished
to know, as I said, whether Peake's memoranda
had fallen into your hands.'

Peake's ! This is another revelation !'

Mr. Beaver smiled without reply. After
a pause she continued :

May I take it that your sympathies are
now transferred ?'

You may take it that they are in the
balance.'

What can I do, sir ? Only tell me I'

True to the good quality I have claimed,
I will speak out. It was my intention to
ride back to Preston that day, and thence
home, having finished the business that
brought me to this neighbourhood — not
the business you suppose ! My intentions

were upset, perhaps all my life will be
changed, by an incident that occurred in
your presence, Mrs. Sax ell !'

In my presence ?'

As we left the library, we met Miss
Palliser.'

Oh ! What ? Am I presumptuous in
concluding that you admire my niece ?'

Presumptuous, madam ! Mine is the
presumption — not for admiring her, since
that is the special purpose for which she
was created, which she fulfils so exquisitely !
In marrying that ideal perfection my existence
would be completed and rounded off !
I should have lived my day to the uttermost.'

It is a great honour,' said Mrs. Saxell,
when she had recovered breath. 'I may
tell you that my niece had a childish
eno^ao-ement with Richard ; but as soon ashe
returned both saw that they did not love
each other in that way. Grace is free in
heart and promise.'

Ah ! I should have asked that, of
course ! I am glad to hear it. You understand
now ?'

Your sympathies depend upon Grace's
answer? Be assured I will do my best.
Now, Mr. Beaver, will you tell me one
thing?'

If it relates to orchids, all my knowledge
and experience are at the service of any
inquirer. But I should rather recommend
you to apply to Mr. Stevens, whom I shall
be pleased to introduce to you. He is a
master of the art which absorbed my mind
till lately. I used to think, Mrs. Saxell,
that perfect beauty was found only there,
or in roses, but of a type immeasurably
lower in that case. Orchids never deceive
you with impostures, nor irritate with that
dreadful a peu pres which is the curse of
human life. Since you are one of the adepts,
I should find great pleasure and advantage
in discussing the merits of your niece's
peculiar beauty '

I am not an adept in such matters, Mr.
Beaver, and I can only say that Grace's
temper is not less '

Ah !' he interrupted with a shudder.
This is Mr. Stevens, from whom I hope to
gain volumes of knowledge ; but he has no
information about the temper of his orchids.
Good-morning' !'

Mrs. Saxell sought Grace forthwith, and
^ sounded ' her, in this gentle fashion :

My dear niece, I have a most extraordinary
and delightful thing to tell you.
Prepare yourself for news which the noblest
girl in England would be overjoyed to hear.
Do you guess what it is ?'

You have just left Mr. Beaver ? Yes,
I could make a guess, aunt.'

Oh, but it is nothing about business.'

There I think you mistake. But what
is it?

Mr. Beaver is in love with you, my
child. There !'

VOL. II. oG

Did he say that ?'

Not in those words, I think '

No ; he called me a supreme effort, didn't
he ? and he wants to add me to his collection.
Let us say no more about it, aunt,
and the fancy will pass.'

But, my dear Grace, you must not give
way to foolish romantic notions. ]Men
have different ways of expressing the same
idea. It was not necessary for Mr. Beaver
to tell me how much he loves you, but you
will not find him remiss at the proper time.'

Grace replied so emphatically that Mrs.
Saxell was shocked and alarmed. Controlling
her temper, she said :

You do not understand how important
this is, my dear. mr. Beaver has information
which will set at rest the questions
disputed between Mrs. Acland and myself
Take time to consider. Don't refuse pointblank,
or he will never part nth his
secret.'

That is not a reason, aunt. My sympathies
are all with Mrs. Acland ; and if
I liked Mr. Beaver, I would kill him rather
than see her distressed asj^ain ! As I dislike
him particularly, you may guess what I
should say if he spoke to me !'

That would answer my purpose quite as
well,' said Mrs. Saxell spitefully, 'or better.
When he learns that you insult and despise
him because you love the Aclands, I think
he is a man to take Avhat vengeance he can
find. So do just as you please, Grace
Palliser. I brought you up tenderly and
prudently, devoting myself to you, and
until these people came across our path you
were fairly obedient and grateful. Since
then, you take pleasure in thwarting me at
every turn. With your help they have
seduced the affections of my son ! Oh, it's
very well ! But if I am a lonely and
neglected old woman at home, I am not
helpless — ho ! We shall see who has the

36—2

best of it at last — who has been honest
and open all along, and who has been found
out in her cheating. A child and justice,
they say, against the whole army of wickedness
!'

Oh, aunt, you cannot think that either
Dick or I have lost our affection for you ?
A\''e think you wrong in this matter, and
we are sorry to see you so prejudiced; but
we love you, dear !' Grace caught the grim
old woman in her arms, and forcibly kissed
her.

You can put it that way if you like,'
Mrs. Saxell replied, breaking loose. ' You
may call it love, but that only shows that
you don't know what love is. I understand
very well, and these demonstrations only
irritate me.'

As soon as she could get word with Dick,
Grace told him what had happened. He
said:

'My mother gave me some hint of thrust

now, but I paid little attention. Of
course, the idea is absurd, and almost
offensive.'

I can't see that, Dick !'

Why, a cat may look at a king, but
it is at least no compliment. Tou are not
fascinated by his eyes or his money,
Grace ?'

Not a bit. But remember what aunt
said.'

He's spiteful enough. And Mrs. Acland
has declared all through that if anybody
could give the true story of these mysteries
it was Beaver. A man who can tell the
true story has great advantages in telling a
false version, if he's a scoundrel. I'll tell you
what, Grace ! As soon as I've taken you
home I'll return to the Bao-ni, and let Mrs.
Acland know that Beaver has come forward
at last with a vengeance.'

Oh, Dick, what a happy excuse !'

Excuse ! What do you mean ?'

If Edie was not there, wouldn't a letter
do just as well ? My poor Dick ! Do you
imagine I have not seen honos ao^o that you
love her ? Everyone at the Bagni knew it,
except the blind beggar on the bridge, and
I dare say he suspected. Is not Lord Duns-combe
there ?'

Dick tried to strua:i:!:le, but it was too
hard for his frank loyalty. After hesitations
and protests, which Grace heard in
smiling silence, he confessed.

But my feelings,' he added, ' have
nothing to do with this determination, for
1 will not see Miss Acland if it can be
helped.'

Fortunately, it can't be helped ! slay I
venture to say something which I know
isn't proper — though why it isn't I have
not the least idea.'

He was going to say no, but she hurriedly
went on :

I hope you will see Edie looking so

beautiful and so good that decorous Dick
will lose his head ! And I hope Edie will
suddenly perceive that Lord Dunscombe is
a bad bargain, money and title and all,
when she may have a hero who Worships
her ! And then the persons I love dearest
in all the world will marry, and we shall
be happy as the day is long ! Is that improper
?'

How can you suggest that Miss Acland's
ensrao-ement is a baro-ain ?'

That's the result of education on the
fells ! We never learn to speak prettily.
What should I call it ?'

If you don't know to the contrary, you
should believe that every lady marries for
love. And in the case of Miss Acland '

'Well?'

In the case of Miss Acland, it is monstrous
to suppose that she is guided by unworthy
motives.'

So I think, indeed, Dick ; but if Edie

doesn't accept him for his rank, or something
of that sort, what is the fascination ?
She doesn't love him, I'm quite sure, for we
used to talk quite frankly once.'

Let us return to ]Mr. Beaver. You
detest him, don't you?'

Why should I ? He's a great personage,
and everybody is jealous of me. That's nota
reason for detesting him.'

You make me nervous, Gracie. "What
are 3-our own real feelings?'

Irritation, mostly, I think. I feel like
a slave put up to auction, and fancy him a
buyer. '

And it's very near the truth in that
fellow's point of vicar. But surely that's
reason enough for disliking him ?'

How strangely bright his eyes nre,
though they look so cold. Have you observed
that?'

I observe that he has impressed you
much more than I like. It cannot have

entered your mind as a possibility to accept
him?'

You give me credit for too much foresight.
I shall not give him an opportunity
to ask, and he leaves for Beaverlowe tomorrow.'


With this answer Dick. had to be content,
and he saw that Grace acted up to it through
the evening. Next day, as they drove off,
Mrs. Saxell observed : ' We are leaving
earlier than I intended, Richard, in order to
see that all is comfortable at home. I have
asked Mr. Beaver to stay the night.'

Xo one replied, but Grace flushed. Alone
with Dick in the garden at Scarsholme, she
exclaimed : ' He has come to ask me ! I
shall refuse downright !'

And then he will certainly take his
revenge on poor Mrs. Acland. Put him
off.'

What nonsense ! That's what they say
in books, and it is so silly. If Mr. Beaver

asks me a straightforward question, as he
Avill, I can no more avoid a straightforward
rejDly than you could. It would not be
prudent to refuse him, you think ? Then I
shall go to bed.'

And she did, before dinner-time. Mr.
Beaver arrived, showed graceful disappointment,
and set himself to entertain his hosts,
since no better might be. Mrs. Spellbound
him most amusing and instructive,
and Dick, from his prejudiced point of view,
saw too clearly that he was a formidable
foe. But to neither would he live a hint
upon the matter that engrossed their minds,
and left next day with the kindest and
frankest messages for Grace, who ran downstairs
as his carnage drove off. Mrs. Saxell
glowered at her, and smiled maliciously,
but uttered no rebuke. Later in the day
Dick announced his departure, and set off
half an hour afterwards. Again Mrs. Saxell
submitted without a word.

As the ladies were sittiiio- clown to dinner
a carriage drove up. A wild idea seized
Miss Palliser.

Aunt,' she exclaimed, ' if that man is
coming back, I shall go to bed again!'

As you like, child ! Whether you accept
him or offend him, my object will be
equally served, I hope.'

Before Grace could frame her indignant
reply, Mr. Beaver was announced.

You were good enough to assure me,
dear madam,' he said smilingly, ' that I
miofht return to this enchanted land if circumstances
permitted. I have given battle
to circumstances, and this is the hero's
reward,' possessing himself of Grace's hand.
You feel quite all you look, Miss Palliser?
robust as an immortal?'

My niece has been telling me how well
she is — a relapse now would be mere wilfulness.



A charming trait in the stage of existence

Miss Palliser has reached,' said he, sitting
down. ' Younger, it is almost impertinent;
older, it is annoying. But all weaknesses
are graceful at eighteen.'

Even a headache, I suppose ?'

A real headache amon ladies is not
generally wilful, and pretence may always
be made diverting. ]\Iay I ask after Major
Saxell?'

He left an hour after you, for London.'

Your son has disappointed me, madam.
I hoped to persuade him to undertake the
pleasing duty of escorting you and Miss
Palliser to Beaverlowe within the shortest
possible time. Does he stay long in
town ?'

I should think not. Your invitation is
a compliment which will surely bring him
back. What do you sa', Grace?'

I am too much overcome for words.
Are you going to keep open house at

Beaverlowe again?'

If you wish it.'

Oh, I am perfectly indifferent. Of course,
we cannot go.'

It would be more comfortable, no doubt,
to travel under the care of Major Saxell.
But, if his absence is indefinite, could you
not venture alone ?'

Certainly we will,' Mrs, Saxell replied.
^ We long to see such an interesting house
under such flattering circumstances. I
speak confidently for my niece.'

I can speak for myself,' cried Grace
impetuously, ' and I do not care to see
Beaverlowe.'

Then that decides it,' Mr. Beaver
answered calmly. ' I used to calculate
that I had room for twenty-five guests
handsomely, and forty-eight at a push — in
the shooting season, for instance. ye'll
wake up the old echoes! All the county
shall be asked, and the county will rush
in, no doubt of that ! You asked me the

other night, Miss Palliser, if there was a
ball-room at Beaverlowe. You shall see.
I am not vain of my ancient place. I can
regard it quite dispassionately; for, whatever
my faults, there is none of the vulgar
pride of birth about me. But, regarded
dispassionately, Beaverlowe is to Daneham
Castle what an altar-piece of RafFaelle's is
to a French print, what an oak is to an
espalier, a man-o'-war to a penny steamboat
— a Beaver, in short, to a Rainforth.
History of England was made there, and
it is written on the walls, inside and out.
My forefathers were great men in a great
da', and they stamped their character so
deep on the home they loved, and the race
they continued, that no scion of it can help
but be great. I say continued, for the
memory of man does not record its foundation.'


A'^astly astonished at this outbreak, Grace
replied, with feeble sarcasm :

We are flattered to see its representative
eating cheese-straws at our modest table !'

Mr. Beaver laughed frankly, and for the
first time Grace remarked that he had
beautiful teeth; she shot another glance,
and perceived that he was really a handsome
man.

I did not quite explain myself — the
lonely habits I have been indulging for a
long while past, make me rather elliptical
in speech. A Beaver must be great, because
he inherits from great men, however stupid
and contemptible he be himself, a position
unequalled in the realm. Not one has
forfeited this dignity, and I am the last. I
believe. Miss Palliser, that my tenants would
think twice before refusing if I called them
out now to resist some mischievous project
of government. And I am quite sure that
one word of mine would seat or unseat two
members.'

Then you are loved by your tenantry,

sir?' said Grace, with a tone of inc credulous
interest. ' It is because you feel sure of
your own position that you talked to
Lord Rainforth as you did the other
night ?'

Yes, my tenants love me, for they know
me. They are honest and simple and
straightforward, as I am. They hate humbug,
and when they recognise it they knock
the thing down. I am forbidden that mode
of expressing myself, and so I have fallen
into an ugly trick of meeting humbug with
its own arms of affectation, tempered by
sarcasm. Tell the truth, Miss Palliser.
You thought me a little conceited the first
time we met?'

Yes, indeed I did.'

The heartiness of this assent seemed to
astonish Mr. Beaver. He said :

So appearances deceive. I did not do
yoii quite justice then. And perhaps, after
so many year of seclusion, I can do myself

justice only at Beaverlowe. You will not
refuse me an opportunity?'

AYe will talk it over,' Mrs. Saxell interrupted,
' and give you an answer tomorrow,'


Might I ask, timidly,' said Grace, ' in
what point you failed to see all my deserts
at a glance? A hint from such authority
might be priceless to an inexperienced but
aspiring girl.'

I am afraid you would find it rather
mischievous than useful. The student who
has got so far as to despise and distrust X,
Y, Z, is a mighty unsafe teacher of the A,
B, C. He could hardly furnish hints that
must be valuable to the modest young
person in her aspiring career. For ambition
means a wish to rise among the vulgar;
culture does not understand the impulse.
But in this case, Miss Palliser, there is no
question of philosophy. I only meant that
sad experience has not taught us to look
VOL. II. 37

for strong character and brilliant intelligence
under such an outward form as yours.
Our delight is all the keener because unexpected.'


Grace said * Thank you,' carelessly, and
added, ' True culture is rare, isn't it ? Are
there any public professors? I have heard
you never perform out of Beaverlowe ?'

There is not one, nor ever could be.
The professor is necessarily a barbarian,
whatever the subject on which he holds
forth. I have gathered, I know not how —
for I never read newspapers or books of the
day — that there are beings who claim to be
apostles of culture, who teach it and write
about it. !N^o further evidence is needed to
convict them of unfitness.'

That is quite my notion,' observed ]airs.
Saxell, with complacency. ' It is ridiculous
and offensive of those people to lay down
the law to other persons of respectability.'

Quite so. Since persons of respectability

are all savages together, it's monstrous to
draw any distinction. We who are truly of
the elect, stand aside.'

Mr. Beaver is mocking you, aunt !'

Indeed, no ! If there be a sad subject in
the world it is this. Mrs. Saxell perceives
her side of it clearly, but she has not
hitherto regarded it as a whole.'

May I ask you, Mr. Beaver, whether it is
your serious opinion that educated people
are all savages?'

Certainly it is !'

And then, the people they call savages
are really the cultured?'

Emphatically, yes ! They do their
business and don't talk ; they leave the
world to take care of itself, as most English
people leave the stomach ; they think of
nothing, and care for nothing but what is
tangible. And so, without seeking, they
find beauty, which is the supreme good, the
only good. The naked man shows taste

37—2

and knowledge unconsciously in all he does,
or makes, or fancies ; we have schools where
blind masters put out the eyes of their
pupils, who the more they study, the further
they wander from intelligence. It is a
commonplace which an observer like you,
Mrs. Saxell, has often remarked, that all
the old things that remain in England are
charming — architecture, instruments, arms,
music, songs — above all, speech and turn of
thought. And all the new thing's are
hideous. Why is this, you ask? And you
reply at once, that education is the cause !'

I am quite sure that aunt never asked
herself such a question ; and if she had, she
would never have found that answer.'

I beg yoLir pardon, Grace ! It has often
occurred to me, as Mr. Beaver says, that an
old ruin is very picturesque, whilst the
houses they build nowadays are disgraceful.
Still, there must have been a great want of
conveniences formerly, I think !'

The human mind sought higher things
than convenience, madam, and rose above it.
At my house of Beaverlowe, in the oldest
part, there is no suggestion of comfort. If
I put a tramp into the chamber which was
occupied by warriors and dames whose
greatness is English history, he would cry
for the casual ward; and if I kejDt him
there, with the beautiful furniture those
high and puissant personages used, he
would die of rheumatism or something in a
week. Instead of the high delights our
forefathers knew, we have conveniences —
and complaints.'

Their high delights, I believe, were
slaughter, and plunder, and crime, and
sudden death.'

Yes. They are all banished now, excepting
the last, which is translated from
an euthanasia sung by poets into a dreadful
railway accident reported in the papers.
Our ancestors' nerves were strung to great

deeds and bright fancies by hourly danger
and fierce joys ; we have civilized away the
true interests of life, and replaced them with
the goody-goody raptures of talk, and sentiment,
and decorum, and art, and worth,
and benevolence. Everyone twaddle of
these things now, but he does not exhibit
them. For greatness of all kinds we must
seek examples in the past, the days more or
less uncivilized. We are nothing if not
good, but it was our forerunners of the dark
age who founded the charities and schools in
which we are taught to look down upon them.'
This extravagance interested Grace a
little. She had too small sense of reverence
to feel shocked, and certain unconscious impulses
of her own were not hostile to it.
A young lady who knows herself beautiful,
and confidently expects a great career, is
ait to be scornful of a world that suffers
her to remain in neglect at a small village
of the North country. Moreover, some of

Dick's observations recurred to Grace. If
an ordinary mortal had talked thus, though
much more brilliantly, she would have been
bored to begin with; and in a very short
space would have found sharp objections, if
not logical. But Mr. Beaver was no ordinary
mortal.

Mrs. Saxell felt herself called upon to
reply, and she said vaguely, having caught
one expression :

I understand from Lady Farrer that
your collection of art in various shapes is
unrivalled.'

Art, madam ? There is nothing so
futile! My collection is as nearly perfect
as circumstances allow, and I hate it.
Every object has a fault, and most of them
a dozen. By a fatal instinct my eye fixes
upon these, and lets the beauties pass unobserved.
If it is so in my gallery, where
every work of every kind has merits of the
highest, fancy what the study of art must

be to the man of taste ! But he proves
himself to be wanting in taste if he engages
in it. For one cannot single out the masterpieces.
AVe must wander through miles of
oppressive mediocrity or worse, during hours
of torment to find them. Xo man whose
perceptions are delicate could endure that.
There are individuals, as I have gathered,
who make a livelihood by visiting and inspecting
and reporting upon pictures. I
have sometimes wondered, as I looked at
my own, how much they received as wages
for this exercise. Whatever it is, it is a
dead loss to those who pay it. For if those
individuals be worth employing, not starvation
would induce them to go through

the ordeal '

I have heard, Grace,' Mrs. Saxell interrupted,
' that Mr. Vane used to be art-critic
to some newspaper before he got into
reputation. His articles on the Academy
were much admired.'

What do you think of the Academy, Mr.
Beaver?' Grace asked.

I think that one of Heaven's kindest
privileges to me is immunity from any
knowledge or recollection of modern English
art. When I was young, I saw a very
little of it, just enough to assure me that of
all perilous spectacles to be avoided — sofar
as human prudence avails — that is the
gravest. The Academy is a chambre ardente
to which Mr. Vane was remanded for torture,
perhaps.'

But you make us fancy that there are
no pleasures in this lower world for you !'
Grace said.

On the contrary — quite the contrary !
My life is all pleasure, of the keenest
because intelligent. In this matter of art,
I have a few examples that are faultless. I
keep them locked up beyond the reach of
profaning eyes and vulgar misapprehensions.
You may say, with thoughtless good-nature.

that I should display them for the improvement
of my fellow-creatures. But experience
and reflection tell me sadly that my
fellow-creatures are hopeless. They were
born Philistines, and all the elect can do is
to avoid them.'

You have a very limited society, I conclude,'
Grace answered drily; and he repaired
the slip in anxious haste,

You are right in a sense, but "wrong in
the general application. Our congenial
society is limited, but we find sport among
the Philistines. For some years now I have
sought it in the rustic class, not unsuccessfully.
But the chance Which procured me
the delight of your acquaintance has broken
that habit. I have issued invitations to all
the world; I have made up my mind to
open Beaverlowc. It shall be bright and
noisy as of old, and I trust the Queen of
Beauty will not think it an unworthy residence.'


Grace neither smiled nor answered. But
if it had been Mr. Beaver's object to impress
upon her vaguely that he ruled a
mysterious domain, now first to be thrown
open in her honour, he succeeded.

They passed into the drawing-room,
and Mr. Beaver suddenly displayed a new
character. Without invitation he seated
himself at the piano, and sang half a dozen
bright little chansonnettes, French and
English. His voice was thin, and it already
betrayed just a suspicion of a quaver; butin
the old-fashioned ditties he chose, light
and sweet and sparkling as the champagne
of their era, the weakness seemed appropriate.
.Grace was tempted to sing, a very
rare exercise for her in public. She chose
ballads of the North-country, in which her
fine voice had no need of the art it lacked.
Mr. Beaver expressed his delight in the
most agreeable manner, and when bedtime
came Grace was astonished, and rather

annoyed, just a very little, to find she had
spent rather an agreeable evening. Before
she returned from her early walk, the elders
lead come to an understanding. And at
breakfast-time she learned, without protest,
that the visit to Beaverlowe was arranged.

I trust to you now implicitly,' said Mrs.
Saxell to her guest, as he was leaving.

And I have every motive to exert
myself. Rely upon a man who has seldom
failed.'

Mr. Beaver's farewell to Grace was an
elaborate act of homage, just a little too full
of respect for a shrewd girl's belief. She
laughed to herself many times, Avliilst preparing
what she called her outfit. But the
servants all noticed that Miss Grace had
quite recovered her old spirits.

Dick wrote from Italy that he did not
mean returning for the present, and to
Grace he confided the reason. sirs. Acland
was ill. Lord Dunscombe had suddenly left

her, and things, in short, looked so uncomfortable,
that he would not desert the
ladies. Meantime, the day of departure for
Beaverlowe approached. Upon the very
morning a lady was announced to Mrs.
Saxell, who cried: ' I can see no one! Tell
her to leave it.'

The servant came back. ' It is not a bill,
ma'am. The lady says her name is Peake,and
she wishes to see you on pressing business.'

Show her in at once!'

Maud Danvers entered, with something
of the port, and a great deal of the fashion,
of a duchess.

Mrs. Saxell exclaimed at once: ' I best
your pardon, madam. The name misled
me. I must ask you to state your business
in the fewest words possible.'

That is my intention. I have only to
hand you this packet, of which you will seethe
importance when you find a moment to
glance at it.'

Oh ! I am deeply obliged — immensely I
Will you sit down? Xow we shall see!
How did you get possession of these
papers ?'

I took them — stole them — from my
grandfather for my own purposes, which
have failed for the moment. Xow I give
them to you.'

I repeat that you have done me a
service, for which you may confidently
expect payment at the proper time.'

I am paid, thank you. Good-morning!'

One moment ! This is very abrupt.
Who has paid you? ^b\ Beaver?'

I have paid myself. Good-morning.'

Tell me, at least, madam, to whom I
may address any communication necessary.

None will be necessary.' And she went
out.

In the evening Mr. Beaver's guests arrived,
and he met them at the station. sirs.
Saxell was so flurried by the morning's

incident, and so eager to take counsel about
it, that she could hardly contain herself
Awaiting the moment of confidence. ' I hope
it is not a contrive she said to Mr. Beaver.

You are almost at my gate.' And in
fact they entered the avenue forthwith, but
it seemed endless. Grace expected to seethe
mansion looming ahead at every turn,
but half an hour passed.

I beofin to think that this is an Arabian
Mghts' entertainment,' she said to Mr.
Beaver ; ' and the genie has carried your
house into the wilds somewhere.'

We have the genie under control. Do
you begin to see a faint glow above the
trees ?'

Oh yes. Have you got up an illumination
in our honour?'

I did not dare. That is the electric
light in my palm-house. You see how fast
it spreads and brightens. There is the
archway of the approach. I do not care for

those straight avenues which show one's
destination at the start. Surprise is an
agreeable feeling, I think, even though it be
attended by disappointment. Welcome to
Beaverlowe, Miss Palliser'

Oh !' Grace could find no other observation.


Mrs. Saxell said impressively: ' All that
taste and wealth and antiquity can furnish,
Mr. Beaver, are displayed here.'

They are. Critics may dispute, and the
envious may sneer, but if show be not a
crime in itself, nothing can be urged against
the magnificence of Beaverlowe. The building
is early Tudor, modified somewhat,
enlarged, and decorated in the style of
Elizabeth. The great square tower which
stood at one angle now makes part of the
facade, by the addition of a wing. On the
ground-floor of the earlier building is a hall
open to the roof, with a gallery round it,
and a score of little cupboard bedrooms,

I

hung, as one may say, upon its massive
arches ; their doors open on the gallery,
from which a narrow staircase descends into
the hall itself. The superb roof of oak
bears a shield of arms, properly coloured, at
every joint ; but so high is it, and so dim in
its hoary darkness, that they can only be
seen from the gallery. At the end of the
hall farthest from the tower are four staterooms
looking on the garden, very low and
narrow, but carved and painted and adorned
in endless fantasy. BeloAv them lie the
ancient kitchens and offices, almost as
curious, transformed now into an armoury.
There are no servants' rooms in this part.
The cupboard chambers above the hall are
evidently an addition, and the style of them
shows that they were meant for guests from
the outset. We must suppose that body-servants
of old made their beds in the corridor,
outside their master's room, and
others mays have slept in the bare kitchen.
VOL. II. 38

The mass of" retainers occupied the tower,
no doubt, wliicli has a large guard-room,
with racks for weapons, and four chambers
above, occupying the whole width. These
all give direct upon the narrow staircase of
stone, and they never had doors. Tradition
says that the women used the three uppermost.


Such arrangements were not suited to
Elizabethan days, though her majesty's
room is shown in this part of the building,
where every panel and every bit of
furniture bears her initials, and the crown.
It was the royal complaint, as the story
goes, which induced Sir John Beaver to adda
wing. This is the part inhabited nowadays,
though the hall-rooms are found convenient;
and in his wild time Julius had
assigned the bedstead, if not the bed, of her
sacred Majesty to fair lady guests. The
newer portion is comfortable, as superb
in architectural beauty. Here, also, the

ground-floor is a hall for the most part, but
it has a stately entrance, a grand flight of
stairs, and fine chambers above. This hall
is not so big as to be unsuitable for dining
when many guests are staying in the house,
and for a small company there is a side-room.


This is a very bald sketch of the mere
ground-plan ; but if I made a catalogue of
the treasures and beauties and trophies
therein, the fretted walls, the renaissance
sculptures, the works of art, and the relics
of old time, I should lose my story, and the
reader would not profit. We are only concerned
with the feelings of Grace Palliser,
as she saw Beaverlowe that night. Upon
either hand, apart from the building, rose a
lofty dome, radiant as twin moons shining
in a palm-grove. Each lofty frond therein
glittered icily, and threw a long shadow backward,
to mingle on the house front, where
the glow, thus dimmed, gave an effect of

38—2

hoary stains and shadows between bursts of
light. So clear was the glass, that tropical
folia£i:e seemed to belong to the enchanted
landscape. Both halls were lit from within,
and their windows, of mellow tone, beamed
softly, with many a spark of gold and blue
and crimson. The fine archway was dark,
but around it stood a group of servants,
motionless and bareheaded, their liveries
sheeny with gold lace and brilliant hues.

Grace had just time to view the picture.
Then suddenly the doors were thrown
open, a blaze of light streamed through, the
servants bustled, the carriage pulled up
with a jerk, and she found herself on ]mr.
Beaver's arm, entering the vestibule. More
servants stood there, beside the suits of
armour; an organ, of which she had been
already conscious, breathed soft, joyous
notes of welcome ; an elderly dame, in cap
and cutch, advanced.

Mrs. Blair will take charge of you for

the present,' said the host, drawing aside
with a low bow ; and they passed up the
staircase. Mrs. Saxell's room was one of
state, glorious exceedingly, its black shadows
ruddy in the flare of a pine-log ; a
turret morning-room led from it, which had
been an oratory Beyond this lay a small
chamber, a nest of flowers and bright costly
trifles. Mrs. Saxell's gratification expressed
itself in several stately remarks, but Grace
had not spoken a word since that inarticulate
but eloquent ' Oh!'

The dressing-bell will ring as soon as
you have unpacked, madam,' said Mrs.
Blair. ' Mr. Beaver ordered me to put two
young women at your service, and I trust
you will find them satisfactory. They are
outside.'

'Ring the bell at once!' Grace cried.
Are there many people here — staying in
the house ?'

Not many, madam. But we expect the

Duke and Duchess tomorrow, with Lord
Worcester probably, and the Earl of Fair-acres
next da'. The lively times have
come to lieaverlowe again,' said Mrs. Blair,
with a respectful smile.

The appearance of the ladies in the
drawing-room made a sensation which they
could hardly have misunderstood. There
Acre several gentlemen of title, and ]mr.
Beaver presented the foremost of them to
]\Iiss Palliser, whilst offering his own arm
to "Sirs. Saxell, for he had so chosen his
guests that no dame there could exact precedence
of her. Before Grace had recovered
from a trance of admiration caused by the
magnificence of the drawings-room, she was
struck speechless again by the magnificence
of the dining-parlour.

Daneham Castle is fine, but vulgar and
cheap to this,' she said to herself. ' It is,
indeed, a showy French i3rint beside an
altar-piece of Raftaelle's.'

Sir Edward Somebody, Grace had not
listened to his name, led her to a place
beside the host. He paused several times
on the way to observe a work of art or a
picture, delaying the procession behind ;
then moved on, dropping his glasses with
an invariable exclamation, ' Monstrous !'
When they had taken their seats he leaned
across to Beaver :

You are an enormous man !' said Sir
Edward gravely.

That is a figurative expression of my
friend's,' Beaver laughingly observed to
Mrs. Saxell. ' It means that I have
afforded him a harmless gratification.'

Harmless ? If envy and malice and all
uncharitableness are innocent emotions I
may congratulate myself! I would sell my
soul for the contents of this room alone.'

Beaver smiled, and turned away.

You have not seen these treasures
before?' asked Grace.

I have known leaver in the Iiuntm<^-
field ever since I can recollect. But you
know the Louse has been shut up practically,
Miss Palliser. If you have any
influence, entreat that enormous man upon
your knees to make me free of his galleries
!'

Grace laughed and blushed, but her eyes,
sparkling before, actually shone.

I am sorry I have no influence, for your
devotion would give it an exceptional
value.'

Oh, but you have ! A man who has
been brought up in the midst of these
monstrous things could not resist i/oii.^

Monstrous things ? Is that a compliment
?'

I call them monstrous because they are
beyond the bounds of supremacy — decent
supremacy; and because they are chucked
about, just where they happen to fit, in a
manner that rouses modest men to fury.

Remorse would be cheap, if one secured that
picture there, or that candelabrum, or that
anything in the room, for the mere cost
of extinguishing its owner ! Do you know
that he is going to give a ball? I shall
not wait to see it. I could not go for my
soul's sake ! For they say that the incredible
objects here displayed will seem
nothing when he shows what he can do
upon occasion. I should not dare to trust
myself at supper with knives so handy.'

So Sir Edward raved all the time, while
the host was so deeply interested with Mrs.
Saxell's conversation that he hardly spoke
to Grace. Quick as she was, it did not
occur to her that Sir Edward might have
been chosen as her cavalier because he
would be likely to talk in this strain. But
if any such shrewd calculation had been
made b}- Mr. Beaver, it proved correct. All
her sensuous nature rejoiced in this antique
and tasteful luxury, and she met the young

Baronet's enthusiasm half-way. Everyone
seemed to understand the meaning of her
presence, but this did not prevent Grace
from making a request when opportunity
served. AVhat connection is there between
the two facts ? she would have argued
with perfect sincerity. I want something,
and is it to be urged that I must not ask
for it — a matter quite disinterested — because
it is likely to be granted ? There was a
crystal hardness of reasoning in this young
lady's mind which her sex rarely displays.

Accordingly, when a chance was offered
after dinner, through a general conspiracy
which might have disconcerted some girls,
Grace spoke :

A person named Peake brought aunt
some papers to-day, which she thinks very
important. Averse the' those you were
searching for?'

Peake ? I am surprised !'

It was a lady — Miss Peake.'

Ah ! That had occurred to me as possible.
Very curious. Probably those are
the papers.'

I want to know, Mr. Beaver, what they
are — what is the effect of them ?'

I may venture to say that the effect will
be most annoying to poor Mrs. Acland.'

So I feared, but aunt will tell me nothing.
They are strong evidence in her favour ?'

Very strong.'

I want to know more. I am not suspicious,
Mr. Beaver, but it has sometimes
passed through my mind — in fact, will this
new evidence be more than disagreeable to
Mrs. Acland ?'

It may be, in unfriendly hands.'

Then prevent aunt from using it !
Please do ! I love Mrs. Acland, and I
love Edie more than all the human race
besides !'

Happy Edie ! But what can I do ?' he
asked thoughtfully.

That I don't know, but you are so
clever and so rich, I believe you can do
anything.'

It is a case in which actually not one
idea occurs to my mind. But you give an
order, do you not ?'

I only beg.'

Your whisper is a command. It shall
be executed. How, I have not the faintest
notion; but executed it must be. Shall we
stroll through the picture gallery ?'

Mrs. Saxell, who was impatient for her
confidential talk, came up, and nth several
guests accompanied them to the gallery.
All one side of the beautiful corridor was
occupied with portraits ; the other with
masterpieces of all schools.

When I was a boy,' said mr. Beaver,
it seemed incredible that Sir Julius there,
who was killed at Marston, charging with
the Ironsides, was the grandfather of my
great-grandfather, then alive, a hale old

man, and that his own father had fought
at Killiekrankie. History seemed so close
that it quite overawed and bewildered my
young imagination. We are a long-lived
race. The father of Sir Julius — observe
him — who looks, as I used to think, a
pensive ruffian, was something very like a
pirate in the Spanish wars, and our illustrated
records open with his father, the
Holbein yonder. Only nine generations,
including Sir Thomas and myself, since we
became so civilized as to leave our portraits
behind, or had portraits to leave ! The
reigning Beaver is represented with his
lad' at intervals, you see, and the ninth
has a blank beside it. I was like that
twenty-two years ago.'

They stood before the picture, Grace on
her host's arm ; she glanced from the living
man to his presentment,

It is very like. But you have lost the
sneer, which is an improvement.'

If you think so I Avill try to rei>-aiii it
at once.'

I meant just the contrary, but gi-ammar
is not my strongest joint.'

An assurance quite unnecessary, however
charming grammar may be.'

The space next your portrait is not
blank,' said Grace hastily. ' Is there a
delightful mysterious picture behind that
curtain ?'

Not at all !' He pulled a cord, and she
saw herself reflected in an antique mirror.
That used to hang in Queen Bess's room,
which you shall see, and I keep it covered
from the most sordid motives.'

Mr. Beaver's air was perfectly guileless,
but his guests smiled and exchanged meanings
frances.

A CONFESSION.

iN the meanwhile Dick reached
Florence, whither Mrs. Acland
had withdrawn. She was sitting
with Edie and Dunscombe, when the
servant brought his card, and all three
showed emotion, which was not wholly
surprise. Edie flushed, Dunscombe frowned,
and Mrs. Acland made a feverish start.
She had not been well of late.

Each tried to receive him gaily, and
Dick exerted himself to the utmost ; but
soon they became embarrassed. After a
few minutes of conversation, all talk and

no listening, Edie retired, her heart full.
Dick was pained to see the change in her
look, which he attributed to anxiety for her
mother's health. Mrs. Acland's face had
lost its comely roundness ; her large eyes
seemed furtive, worried, and questioning;
her brow was wrinkled with the lines of
nervousness. But the perfection of feature
was not injured, and the soft charm of voice
remained. For the first time Dick confessed
that she had possibly been as beautiful as
Edie.

There was a change in Dunscombe also.
He had a fixed look of annoyance, and his
eager questions why Dick had returned in
the first weeks of the pheasant-shooting
made no pretence of mere curiosity.

^ If you have anything to tell Mrs. Acland,'
he said, when Dick hesitated, ' remember
that we have no secrets, and out with it at
once.'

I can see there is something,' the lady
interposed. ' Pray tell it.'

I fear I shall distress you.'
Then we know partially what it is.
Do not be afraid.'

I have had an interview with Mr.
Beaver. He called upon me at Daneham,
and saw my mother.'

Indeed ! With what object alleged ?'
Some papers have been lost of importance
to your case; I do not .know what
they are.'

'We do,' interrupted Dunscombe roughly.
Let me explain, Major Saxell. Mr.
Beaver bribed Peake to commit a number of
forgeries, showing that he himself had told
falsehoods, and had induced others to tell
falsehoods in my favour, and at my instance.
After executing this honest commission
Peake went into hiding, probably abroad,
and all those he had implicated did the
same, as it appears, for we have not been
able to find any of them. But they were
too prompt in escaping. By an extrados.
II. 39

ordinary chance the forgeries prepared came
into the hands of Lord Dunscombe. Peake's
granddaughter stole them for her own
purposes, and gave them to him. mr.
Beaver's anxiety to recover documents for
which he had paid a heavy price, no doubt,
is very natural.'

This was said steadily and easily ; but
she frowned just a very little when Duns-combe
got up in an excited way and stood
at the window. His action had an embarrassing
air of protest.

Dick continued :

Mr. Beaver's object alleged was to
ascertain whether we had received those
papers. In fact, I suppose, he came to
make my acquaintance; unfortunately, he
made my mother's also. And he has led
her to believe, Mrs. Acland, that it lies
in his power to decide the question at issue
once for all — against you, I presume.
Whether he trusted to these pajDcrs, not

knowing that they had reached your hands,
or to something else, I cannot say. Whatever
his grounds for confidence, they had
not been disclosed, I understand, when I
left. But there is a fact, as Mr. Beaver
asserts, which he named to me himself.
He has a note in your husband's writing,
with the Laystone post-mark, dated
December 10, 1862.'

Mrs. Acland showed deep emotion.
It is impossible ! — impossible !' she
cried.

Dick could not forbear to say : ' Why, if
Mr. Beaver instigated the forgery of affidavits,
it is not unreasonable to suppose that he
might instigate the forgery of a post-mark.'
Dunscombe gave him a gloomy look, but
Mrs. Acland was lost in thought. Her face
brightened at length.

It was a story in Wolfingham,' she
said, ' which suggested this new device. I
see now ! One of the villagers fancied that

39—2

he recognised Hugh under the lamp at the
post-office of Laystone, early on the morning
of the 10th. Peake told me of this,
and Mr. Gorman, at my desire, sent a person
down to investigate. The man declared

freely that but I have Mr. Gorman's

letter ! Will you be so good as to hand
me that despatch-box ? Here it is ! and
here is the passage !'

Dick read :

My clerk, Mr. Pearson, has made the
inquiries at AVolfingham, It is quite true
that Enoch Williams did fancy, at the time,
that he saw Mr. Hugh Acland under the
circumstances named ; and that he mentioned
his belief when the news of the
accident first reached him. But it was
only the impulse of the moment, which he
has regretted ever since, for the people
tease him about the " ghost." Enoch
Williams is a nervous and retiring man, and
he dislikes this notoriety. Mr. Pearson

found it difficult to get a clear statement
from him ; not because he has any superstitious
feeling, but because he avoids the
subject, I have his statement, however,
which disposes of the matter conclusively.
It was very dark and misty ; he did not
pass near the man who was putting a letter
in the box, did not look at him particularly,
and could not have sworn to him, even
at the moment. As soon as the general
excitement which his thoughtless speech
caused had led him to see its importance,
he retracted it, and since that day he has
declared upon every occasion that he spoke
hastily and foolishly. The incident maybe
dismissed.'

That report of Mr. Gorman's relieved
my mind,' said Mrs. Acland. ' I had
forgotten the story, in fact, until this
moment. Now you see, Major Saxell, how
]mr. Beaver works. He had heard this
gossip, and when the occasion arises for an

iiiiscru2:)ulous enemy to do me hurt, he
takes advantage of it. Mr. Beaver is such a
man as he who said that if any scrap of paper
were given him with writing on it, he could
contrive to hang the innocent writer. What
an enemy !'

She sat fixed in thought.

You believe,' said Dick, after a while,
that his hate would carry him to the
length — to the risk also, and the trouble —
of preparing such elaborate frauds ? They
would amount to conspiracy in law.'

He is not afraid of the law!'

Dick could not accept this. A man
of Mr. Beaver's disposition might commit
dreadful deeds of wickedness, secret wickedness
too, upon sufficient provocation, but
such a small, mean act as forging: a
post-mark did not seem consistent with his
character. And, after all, what was the
provocation ? Dick had not heard, except
through Vane's concise report, what Mrs.

Acland had to say in explanation of this
point.

Dunscombe broke in on their reflections.
Turning suddenly from the window, his
face white, he exclaimed :

Let me marry Edie to-day, Mrs. Acland,
or fix the time this moment ! When she is
mine, to go through it with me, I don't care
what happens ! For all our sakes, command
her !'

Dick was so astonished that he sat still.

Mrs. Acland's eyes showed a moment's
hesitation.

My marriage would be an answer and a
defence to any charge,' Dunscombe continued.
' I have known almost from the
beginning what you have to fear, and
I accept the worst — with Edie. She will
obey you if you speak as you can !'

I thank you, Arthur ! Don't go, Major
Saxell ! You are a true friend, disinterested
as steadfast !' Dick drew to the window.

and she continued to Dunscombe : ' If I
thought it possible Edie would consent to a
marriage nov, it would be a temptation
almost irresistible. To remove all part of
the anxiety from her shoulders I would give
my life ! But it is too late. She demands
to know what reasons or circumstances
caused Maud Danvers to confide in

you '

Is that the meaning of her coldness ?
You knew my misfortune when you consented.'


It is useless to talk. If Beaver is
moving he will strike quick. Oh ! ]viator
Saxell, did you believe him ? did he seem
to be telling the truth about my husband's
letter ? The thought distracts me, and I
cannot express my meaning !'

Dick came forward.

Did Mr. Beaver seem to be honest in
crediting: that your husband was not
drowned ? I must say that he did ; but my

conviction of your truthfulness is not shaken
in the least. It would not become me to
speak with the warmth Lord Dunscombe has
aright to show ; but I shall not be less firm
to support you if the opportunity arise. '

Mrs. Acland thanked him with grateful
earnestness, but Dunscombe interrupted :

I cannot bear this fever without stronger
grounds for hope. Edie accepted me while
the trouble was hanging over you. I am
eager now to take her, though the crisis
seems to be at hand. If it comes, I will
sustain you through it to the very end.
Why should we delay ?'

I am almost afraid, Arthur, that your
resolution would not support your courage.
But as for the cause of delay, that is a very
needless question.'

It is not needless, pardon me. I can
find only one answer. Edie has changed
her mind — she does not intend to fulfil
her promise ! That has occurred to me

often, Mrs. Acland, and I have struggled
against it. She told me in the beginning
that she did not love me, and she has
repeated it. A man's endurance will bear
only a certain degree of torment. He must
break away, though it cost him his life !'

A servant entered with letters. Duns-combe
impatiently crushed his together,
then caught si":ht of a handwriting, and
tore open the envelope sharply.

Dick seized the occasion to escape, and
bade Mrs. Acland good-morning with tones
and looks of warm sympathy. She replied
with feeling, but her e3'es were fixed on
Dunscombe, whose face had crimsoned
suddenly, and then paled as he read the
letter. Something had happened. With
the sheet in his outstretched hand he
approached Mrs. Acland, and Dick hurried
away. But the chambers of an Italian
palace are of stately size, and before reaching
the door, these words struck him :

They were copies that Maud gave me.
She has the originals, and intends to '

Dick heard no more.

An hour later Duns combe called at his
hotel.

I am going,' he said. * This worry is
more than I can stand! If Edie would
marry me, even now, I could bear anything;
but she refuses to be hurried, and
Mrs. Acland won't insist. Don't think
that I give up. To every word I said just
now I stick ; but when Edie won't hear me,
what's the use of stopping? Every day
brings some fresh complication,' he cried,
and I'm falling ill with it !'

Lord Dunscombe seemed to expect a
reply. Dick said:

If you can do no good, you might as
well be away, I suppose. But your
presence must be a comfort to Miss Acland,
at least.'

Not now,' he said, with hesitation.

We were not so guarded as we should
have been, and somehow Edie learned —
what I hoped she would never have suspected.
But as for her mother's indignation,'
he continued, with sudden rage, ' it's
all cant. I'm just the same as other men
who have less excuse. And she knew
about it.'

I've no wish to be informed about
your private affairs,' said Dick, with cold
distaste.

Well, I'm going. But there's no reason
you should leave them, for you won't be
in danger of going distracted. Yours is
simple, straightforward friendship, isn't it?'

It could be nothing else under the
circumstances,' said Dick steadily. ' But,
let me understand : there is something
new ?'

jew enough and bad enough ! ]\Iaud
writes that what she gave me was only a
copy, and that she proposes — I mean, she

I

is determined to hand the originals to your
mother. By this time, perhaps, it is done,
the train is fired, and from moment to
moment we may look for the explosion ! I
can do no good here, hut at home possibly
I may still put a stop to it.'

It is I rather who should go,' said Dick,
but without enthusiasm.

Mrs. Saxell pays no attention to you
Dunscombe replied fretfully. ' Did she tell
you she had written me, refusing certain
proposals I had made, and she had accepted
? No ? Then you see what your
influence is ! I shall start to-night ! You
are a good fellow, Saxell, as keen and as
true in honour as in the field. The first
moment I saw you I recognised that. I
put Edie in your charge ! Do not let her
misunderstand me ! Don't let her think
that I am running away in despair, or
because I suspect Mrs. Acland. Make her
keep faith with me, as I vow I would keep

faith with her, at this moment and for ever,
if she would permit me ! You promise?'

No ; low could I ? bliss Acland '

But you will do your best ? I have
your word for that ?'

It is not necessary to promise that I
will not encourage her to think badly of
you '

That is enough from Major Saxell !
Now I am going with an easier mind. I
shall write to you, and on the first hint of
good tidings I will return ! Remember that
I trust to you!'

Dick had not course to call ao^ain that
day, but patiently sat out a long ojDera at
the Pergolo — one of the large class popular
in Italy, which English people find so
wearisome. He did not consciously hear
a note of it, nor see a limb that whirled in
the ballet afterwards. Presenting himself
in the morning, Edie received him. Mrs.
Acland was unwell, but she sent a message

promising to drive out in the afternoon if
Major Saxell would escort the ladies. In
delivering this harmless communication
Edie was abrupt and preoccupied. She let
Dick go, after some conventional talk ; but
when he had bidden good day she rose
quickly and intercepted him.

Tell me what it means. Why did you
come ? I know much more than enough
to make me miserable, but not all. Mamma
is too ill to be questioned. I implore you
to tell me !'

Consider, Miss Acland ! When your
nearest friends keep silence what right have
I to let you into their confidence?'

You understand me and they do not.
Let me tell you what I think I know. Mr.
Beaver has invented some new plot, which
makes it appear that mamma committed
perjury, and bribed others to commit it ;
and an actress was connected with his
scheme, who told Lord Dunscombe. Then

he came here, and wc have been miserable
ever since. Now you have come. What
is it all ? Do they say that Sergeant Raises
was my father ? I know he was not,' she
added, shuddering. ' Explain it, I implore
you! I have courage to bear anything,
except uncertainty.'

I am sure you have ! Go to Mrs. Acland,
and repeat what you have said to me. If
she consents, I will tell all I know, but
that is very incomplete. Don't urge me.
Without Mrs. Acland's authority I must
not and will not speak I'

She hurried from him, and returned as
quickly. ' Mamma says that if you think
it right and best, she consents ! Now.'

So Dick made a full confidence. He was
not a man to deceive with half - truths
though he had wished, and the events of the
last few hours suggested a tone of doubt
which would have seemed monstrous when
Mrs. Acland first explained the charge



against her. Edie listened without interruption,
but her small fists clenched, and
her eyes settled to a gloomy sternness.
When the tale was done, she said :

I shall not discuss these statements now.
But you believe them ?'

Not in the sense you suspect '

In what superfine sense then?'
I fear your mother may have been deceived
'

You cannot meet my eye in saying that.
You could not repeat it to a man ! Follow
Lord Dunscombe, Major Saxell. If he
believed the charge, he was willing to face
it, on conditions ; you admit it without a
struggle. Leave us alone. We want no
such support as yours.'

I will not leave you ! Yes ; I have
begun to think it possible that Mrs. Acland,
knowing the truth and justice of her cause,
and seeing the difficulty of establishing it,
may have countenanced unlawful means !
VOL. II. 40

But I am assured also that she is not guilty,
morally and consciously. What woman
will not do a little wrong that great good
may come? I swear to you, Miss Acland,
that I do not suspect your mother of one
bad thought in acting as she may have
acted at the very worst '

I cannot feel much interest in these distinctions,
Major Saxell. It will distress me
to meet you again !'

Lord Dunscombe begged me to protect
you, and I promised. If for no other reason,
I shall not abandon you.'

Lord Dunscombe chose an excellent
and a worthy deputy. But I refuse his
protection and yours. Henceforward weare
free! My mother and I have confidence
enough in ourselves to decline such qualified
and philosophical friendship.'

Perhaps you will do me more justice at
a future time. I shall patiently wait for it
here.'

I

She turned away, and he withdrew.

Florence is a dull place for men who have
no absorbing interest in art, do not readily
fall in love, and are indifferent to the small
excitements of society. Before evening
came Dick saw that he must make himself
an occupation, and for the true soldier that
is no difficult task in a garrison town. He
called upon the General commanding, and
asked his sanction for a study of the artillery
system ruling in Italy. It was granted
nth warmth, and Dick presented himself to
his brother gunners. He had brought his
uniform fortunately, as prudent soldiers do
nowadays when they cross the Channel ; he
spoke the Italian of Dante, which amused
while it gratified his hosts ; and the time
passed with j)i'c>fit and occasionally with
pleasure.

Dick was by no means sure that true
friendship enjoined him to stay at Florence
rather than go home and try to be useful

40—2

there. He felt, however, though he did not
confess, that Dunscombc's means of influence
were much more likely to succeed.
And when, after writing" a full account of
Beaver's treachery, he heard in a stiff reply
from Mrs. Saxell that the ladies were meditating
a visit to that gentleman, Dick saw
how useless any protests or prayers of his
would be. Mrs. Saxell did not give herself
the trouble to argue when he expressed disapproval
of her visit ; she simply ignored
his remarks. But Grace's letters comforted
him. Though there was little beyond
brightness and fun therein, they showed
unabated love and respect for Mrs. Acland,-
and unbounded enthusiasm for Edie. She
could not be brought to see, however, why
these feelings should prevent her from
amusing herself at Beaverlowe when the
chance came.

]airs. Acland did not improve in health,
but she sent no message, and Dick never

saw either of the hides. Presently a long
letter arrived from Grace.

Beaverlowe, Wednesday.

My dearest Dick,

We got here on Monday night. It
is the loveliest and the grandest old house
in England, and I should think, in the world,,
almost.' (We may skip that.) . ' Last
night there was a ball, but before telling
you what happened, there is something you
ought to know. Perhaps aunt will tell you,
but perhaps she won't.

You recollect that Mr. Beaver came to
Daneham to look after some papers. Well,
the morning we left Scarsholme a girl
brought them to aunt. She was very beautiful,
the servants said, and her name was
Peake. I have not seen the papers, and I
don't exactly know what they are, but it
appears that they are decisive — if true, of
course.

Aunt showed them to Mr. Beaver yesterday,
but I had been beforehand with her.
I told him how ill Mrs. Acland is, and how
kind she had been to both of us, and I
begged him, if possible, to discourage aunt.
He is as clever as a lawyer, Dick! When
he had read the things, he said : " I am not
prepared now, of course, to say whether
these are forgeries or not — that will require
the most careful scrutiny. But it is unfortunately
clear that if they are not forgeries,
they upset your case altogether, ]airs.
Saxell."

Those were his words, as he repeated
them to me, and you may fancy aunt's
indignation. He continued: "If Mrs.
Acland induced these men to commit perjury,
and Major Saxell, in withdrawing his
claim, was influenced by their false statements
— as I understand — his withdrawal is
obviously invalid. He returns to his original
position, and you to yours."

Aunt was so angry that she declared she
would leave the house at once, but he
calmed her down, promising to send for his
own lawyer. So that's how the matter
stands. But Mr. Beaver is quite certain
that the law is as he says, and it seems
common sense ; so we may consider that
business settled. Poor Mrs. Acland will
never learn, I hope, what infamous things
have been said against her.

So I was able to fix all my powers of
enjoyment on the ball. If it had not been
for a distant sound of hammering sometimes,
and a greater number of servants
hurrying about, one would not have known
there was anything particular in hand. It
is glorious to have such a house, and so
much money as Mr. Beaver has ! Fancy it !
He had asked two hundred people, all the
greatest of the neighbourhood, of whom
thirty and more were to stay the night,
besides those already here; they were to

dance in one room, and to sup in another ;
and the household went on just as usual,
not a sign of excitement or flurry! You
know that aunt is not imaginative at all, but
she said that this was indeed wealth beyond
the dreams of luxury. I think I have heard
something: like that before.

The Duke and Duchess and the young
Marquis came in the afternoon. It is humiliating
to think what small account persons
of that class made of me at Daneham.
Indeed, I was never asked to meet even a
marquis there ; but, if I had, he would only
have stared and flirted de habit en has, I
suppose. Here it is very different. I feel
like a queen, and they behave as adoring
subjects.

Half a dozen guns and guesses of the
heaviest calibre arrived before dinner-time,
and it was glorious! Ashen we went to
dress, aunt took me into the rooms which
are Mr. Beaver's own, and there I saw — oh,

Dick, such a display! The Duchess had
been talking at dinner about Mr. Beaver's
family jewels, which have not been seen
since his mother wore them. He promised
to show them to her next day, and gave
aunt and me a private view overnight — but
only his confidential man was there. I
could not have believed that a private person
owned such treasures ! They were
positively demoralizing! I had meant to
put on my pearl brooch and bracelet, but
after seeing those things I should have died
of shame. It is ridiculous to wear jewellery
unless one wears a fortune, as Mr. Beaver
always does when he wears any. Do you
recollect his rubies that night at Daneham?
So I put on the Lucknow bangles you had
made for me, slipping them above my
elbows, and tied a white ribbon round my
wrists.

It was eleven o'clock when we entered
the ball-room, which was the old hall,

boarded, and painted with wreaths of lilies
the floor I mean. They were blurred and
defaced already, for dancing had begun an
hour before; but in the corners you could
see how beautiful the painting had been.
That alone, aunt says, must have cost hundreds.
Then, the old armour and horns
and other things had not been removed, but
they stood out from a wall of flowers sewn
on silk, and fixed over the old wainscot.
The scent as we stood by them was delicious.
These who had to sit near complained that
it made them faint, but I don't believe that;
and why did they go to a ball ?

If I described half the wonders of this
room, and the supper — which was held in
the new hall — I should write a volume.
Aunt says it was downright awful, and soit
was — for superhuman things are awful,
however delicious, aren't they ? I should
have called it divine.

All the best men were really anxious to

dance, and I condescended to gratify as
many as I could. Mr. Beaver doesn't
dance, but he claimed the right of entertaining
me, as he called it, every time I sat
down. I don't expect you to believe it,
Dick, but he is really interesting ; if I dared
express my own opinion I should say very.
It's not only his wealth and the rest of it
which give him what I call a masterful
tone. He must have been quite fascinating
when younger. . . .'

Dick replied upon the instant, begging
and urging Grace to beware. Though he
could hardly bring himself to credit that
she might by possibility be won through
mere lust of the eyes and pride of life to
marry such a man as Beaver, he could not
neglect the patent evidence that her fancy
was caught. But whilst writing, Dick
knew too well that Grace would do just
what she liked.

Then he went to call on Mrs. Acland,
the first time for three weeks. She received
him at once, lying on her sofa, with gentle
but observant warmth, asking no explanation.


After inquiring about her health as if
nothing had occurred since their last interview,
Dick told his story with perfect
frankness. He said, in conclusion:

From what I have seen of Mr. leave I
should think that he was a fair authority
on legal questions of this nice sort. Besides,
as Grace says, his opinion is also commonsense.
We may drop all uneasiness, therefore,
since the new matter lately introduced
falls to the ground.'

AVill you put it quite clearly, please ?'

Why, it's a simple dilemma. Peake
asserts, or somebody for him, that the
evidence upon which I withdrew my claim
was in great measure false, invented to
please you and to secure a reward. If he

is telling the truth, since I retired under a
misapprehension, fraudulently produced by
these men, my withdrawal is itself withdrawn
; I resume my original position.
But if Peake's latest story is false, no one
can take any advantage from it, naturally.
I alone, therefore, have an interest in
proving that it is either truth or the
reverse. And I have quite made up my
mind to let the matter rest anyhow.'
Even if you suspected it to be truth ?'
Most certainly, in that case.'
After a pause Mrs. Acland said :
I adjure you to be open with me.
Major Saxell. You do suspect it to be
truth?'

What does it matter now ?' he answered ;
but Mrs. Acland kept her eyes upon his
face, inquiringly. ' I am afraid, then, from
the evidence of a thousand hints, that those
men imposed upon you. But I am sure that
you had no notion of their dishonesty.'

I beg you to call again tomorrow,' said
she, turning away. * You have not visited
us for three weeks. Am I wrong in thinking
that some quarrel with Edie kept you
away ?'

Not a quarrel ! Miss Acland asked me
the question 3'ou have just put, and she
resented the same answer I have given
you.'

Will you call tomorrow about this
hour ? I have many things to reflect
upon.'

Next day Dick was there ; Mrs. Acland
was again alone, but sitting up, and apparently
stronger.

Your generosity, Major Saxell,' she
began, with glittering eyes and feverish
warmth, ' has conquered even my fears.
All that has been charged against me is
true! I did suborn Peake, strengthen his
evidence where it was wanting, and I did
employ him to get testimony in my favour.

But it was he who proposed it and urged it
on me. I might have guessed by whom
he was incited ! Beaver saw his way to
revenge after twenty years, and with that
cunning a devil might envy which is his,
he sent Peake to me. I am not offering:
excuses, Major Saxell, but explanations !
I may say, therefore, that it was not the
love of money that tempted me, but the
dread of revelations which are no secret to
you. Hugh would not have submitted
without a struggle, in which my girlish
error must have been published. I have
told you the true story of that ! As I hope
for God's forgiveness, I had no suspicion
that our first marriage was unlawful, nor, I
am confident, had my husband ! But think
how terrible the explanation must have
been from a mother to her children!'

I beg you to say no more ! That is
enough!'

The temptation was greater than I could

resist. If you had been in England or followed
up the matter yourself, you must
have detected me. Even mv son learned
enough in one careless visit to Wolfingham
to rouse his suspicions. If I could but
persuade you to give up your claim, all was
won. You did so, nobly, and my remorse
began ! Your conduct yesterday broke the
spell. I acknowledge cour rights ! So far
as it can be done at once, I will transfer
ni' husband's fortune to you, and I will
summon Hugh to return and complete the
act of justice.'

But you rush at conclusions, Mrs.
Acland. Though these men lied, it does
not follow that your husband was not
really drowned, and much more that Raises
was he !'

I am sure of it ! If he did not die, the
other aro-uments are nothing. Huo-h was a
man of violent and bitter passions. Twenty
years in India, among rough comrades

bring him to the likeness of Raises.
I can follow the change which brooding and
the desire for revenge would work in his
nature. Kindly let me rest now, Major
Saxell ! I beg your forgiveness once
again !'

It is granted with all my heart ! I
shall have something to say, very earnestly
and firmly, the next time you can see me.
In the meantime I urge, and if need be
I insist, that you take no steps in the
matter.'

Deeply reflecting he left the house. His
course was clear, and that neither perplexed
nor grieved him ; but there were by-points
interesting in another way which would not
be ignored. He could not forget, though
he tried, how cheerful and frank Mrs. Acland
had seemed during his stay at the Bagni di
Lucca, when, as she now hinted, her remorse
was acute. Dick had made his quiet studies
of human nature ; an intelligent man must

VOL. II. 41

needs pursue that science in the small world
of a regiment. Could any mother, he thought
unwillingly, keep such feelings secret when
the man she had wronged had just saved
her child ? Dick tried to shrink from the
conclusion, and disowned it.

Thus pondering uncomfortably, he did
not hear hurried steps behind.

Miss Acland begs 3'ou to return a
moment, sir,' a servant panted.

Dick returned, his heart beating.

Edie awaited him in the small saloon.

I flattered myself too much, Major
Saxell,' she began, ' and I did your shrewdness
injustice '

Let me accept the explanation without
more words,' he interrupted, with an angry
flush. ' It is quite unnecessary to refer toit
now.'

Edie faltered.

Perhaps I put my meaning inconsiderately
'

My shrewdness is not equal to judging
of that. It only enables me to draw conclusions
from what I hear and see.'

She broke down altogether.

Oh, you are unkind !'

And you, Miss Acland ? Did you not
force me to speak out ? And when you
dismissed me for obeying you, did I
complain ? You refused me the pleasure
of seeing you and of consoling your mother.
I submitted. What offence has provoked
this last rebuke ? That it is just I will not
doubt ; but I have the right to be told my
involuntary crime.'

I meant no rebuke. It was my duty to
ask pardon for my conduct the other day,
which was insulting and wrong. But the
task was embarrassing, and I did not find
the words I should have chosen.'

I sympathize with your embarrassment
so far that I would rather drop the subject,
Miss Acland. It is a very painful one to me.'

41—2

Will you make no allowance ? The
mother whom I have cherished and
honoured owns herself guilty. May not
that discovery excuse some unconsidered
words ? Indeed, I am sincere in begging
your forgiveness.'

Pardon me if 1 cannot make up my
mind to believe that frankly. Since we
have come to this tone, I also must speak
out. Though you are sincere in asking
my forgiveness, you yourself do not forgive
me.'

I do not, when I bitterly and humbly
acknowledge you to have been right ? Pray
give me credit for reason, at least !'

It is an unprofitable dispute. Allow
me to withdraw ?'

He had reached the door, when Miss
Acland suddenly broke into passionate
tears. Dick ran to her, and took her hand.

What has arisen between us ?' he cried.
There is something. Hoar is it possible

that we could have exchanged such words
and tones? Tell me, Edie, I adjure you!
Think how I shall suffer if you let me go
without even a hint !'

He had fallen on his knees beside her
chair, and unconsciously clasped her waist.
Unconsciously Edie yielded to his arm.

It is no act of yours !' she sobbed. * Oh,
let me go !'

Not mine ! But there is something
new between us? Is it — can it be that he
refuses to carry out his promise now? I
see it is ! What a mean and cowardly fool !
I will Avrite to him, Edie, and assure him
there is no danger. Be comforted, for
these troubles are under my control again;
and if it were only to secure your happiness
I would suppress them. That I
swear !'

My happiness ? Let him go his own
way ! My one comfort in all this misery is
the assurance that he rejects me !'

But — you love him T

Never — never — never ! Oh, go, Major
Saxell!' she exclaimed, drawing herself
away suddenly. ' I was hysterical, as
foolish girls are when over-excited and
nervous. Now I am well, and very, very
grateful. You have quite forgiven me ?'

There was nothing for me to forgive,
but '

Oh yes ; I was sullen, and you reproached
me justly. I do not understand
myself how I felt.'

I never could reproach you; but if you
thought I did, that shows into what an
unnatural position we had drifted. It can
never recur. 1 shall not leave Mrs. Acland
yet ; and you allow me to call ?'

You are too good and too generous !
Come to her as often as you can. I am
frightened at the change in mamma since
that letter came to-day. Oh, it is dreadful,
and there is no hope of escape!' Edie

broke into tears again, and all his arguments
did not comfort, though they soothed.
I know,' she sobbed, ' that if pity and
friendship could save us, we may be sure
of them. But Fate is our enemy !'

There is something stronger than pity
or friendship,' he said, at length, ' and that
also you have.'

What is that ?'

'Love and innocence! Trust to them,
Edie, and they will master even Fate !'

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

S. & H.

OF Thou

N 1 Verity

or Ill Noise


V.3

FREDERICK BOYLE,

AUTHOR OF
CAMP NOTES,' * LEGENDS OF MY BUNGALOW,' ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,
^xibliskcrs in (Drbimtrg to ^cr ^titjtstg the Queen.

1885*
[All Digits Bcse7-ved.]

V, 3

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

AT C M A S S I E.

H, I admit that the digression
would be interesting ! But it
will cause a great loss of time,
Hugh.'

The object of travel is — see formula.'
Yes, I know. But the journey we have
undertaken had a very definite idea — for meat
least. To visit this legendary kingdom
would take us far astray. It lies off the
trade route.'

VOL. III. 42

That's the merit of it ! AVhat do you
say, Robert Holmes?'

They tell me there are elephants there
don't hanker after kinds much — seen too
many of 'em, mostly beasts. But elephants
fetch this subaltern.'

AVell, I am not downright objecting,'
said Prince, 'But low about presents?
You must recollect that this king is not a
nigger.'

'That's what simplifies the question!'
Bob exclaimed. ' We may drop the beads
and the Brummagem to concentrate our
minds upon brandy and fireworks. A
damsel or two might be found gratifying.'


I think you are hard on the fellow,' said
Hugh. ' He must have brains and spirit
to have won his kingdom and to keep it
between Ashanti and Dahomey.'

Well, he is probably not wiser than
Solomon, nevertheless. But we will present

him with a telephone and a photographic
apparatus, or an azimuth and a logarithm,
if you like. Those articles might
amuse the children, so far as they could be
made to go.'

Bar chaff, then, it is decided we visit
Quantiahah Kootlah before starting for Te-lags
?'

Saving error in the report of elephants,
it is.'

The three travellers were seated in an
alcove which looked upon the main street
of Coomassie the Golden. Evening approached.
The nearer half of the roadway,
thronged with people, lay in heavy shadow.
Below the red houses opposite, a clamorous,
eager crowd made a very kaleidoscope of
colour, not brilliant of tone, but rich and
massive. Every building had an alcove
similar to that they occupied, a square
opening in the house wall, which was handsomely
adorned with stucco bas-reliefs.

42—2

Two or three steps led up to it. Each was
filled with people, draped in spotless cotton
robes, with a coloured pattern, or in sombre
silk. They sat upon the benches roimd,
or leant over the mud parapet hidden b}^
trailing stuffs. The theatrical effect was
charming?. Two or three feet below circulated
the populace, idling, laughing, criticism,
exchanging news and gossip, or
hurrying about their business. All ranks
were there, fi*om the field-slave, almost
naked, black from exposure, to the great
caboceer with his train of a hundred armed
retainers, stalking beneath a huge umbrella,
silk or velvet, golden-fringed, which a staggering
servant held behind him. Women
were there, glancing boldly, but not immodestly,
at the spectators on either hand.
Confidential slaves, busy and important,
displayed their mistress's wealth in gold
and beads. Preceded and followed by a
guard, a silken litter urged its way towards

the palace. A herald went by with his
gold plaque and wand of office, the clapper
behind him, to call silence, and a rabble of
naked children at his heels. Young nobles,
gracefully dressed, crushed through the
throng, their slaves clearing a road. Many
a sharp cry of pain, many a biting jest and
scandalous comment followed them. The
Ashantis are an unruly people, and their
King, like other despots, finds it necessary
to bear free speech in his capital, if he would
rule in peace.

Of course, we ought to be moving,' said
Hugh. ' But for my own part I don't tire
of this scene. What infinite potentialities
of romance are moving before us!'

Potentialities is a sort of word that appertains
to Under-secretaries of State, and
Radical leader-writers. It sounds at once
vaguely majestic and judicial.'

You know what I mean. There goes
old Moumpoun to attend the King in state

array. He was a black Don Juan in his
youth — so Coffee says — a second Caesar in
manhood, and a rival of Machiavelli in age.
His career involves what I should call endless
potentialities to dream over. AVe know
all about our European Don Juans, and
Caesar, and Machiavelli, but how did that
nigger emulate their good deeds ?'

Well, in the first place, you don't know
that he did. And anyhow, there's no mystery
about it. The old scoundrel made
love, made war, and now is making money,
under the disguise of politics. Everybody
does the same everywhere.'

Oh, you are hopelessly prosaic ! No
doubt his aims and objects are commonplace
enough, but what were his adventures in
pursuing them? They were not like an}-
we know, or can easily imagine. Can't you
understand the potentialities. Bob?'

I suppose I can understand what you
mean. But nigger heroes are duffers. Their

women aren't worth having, and their
battles nobody heard of,'

There I don't agree with you,' said
Pringie. ' Everyone Moumpoun ever heard
of knows all about his victories, and gives
him honour for them. Did Napoleon have
wider fame? And I don't doubt that
people fall in love here much as they do in
Europe. For that matter, there are pretty
girls in Coomassie, Bob — heaps of them !'

Excepting two or three in the King's
harem, I've not seen any. And those came
from the interior, of course. How can black
women be pretty ?'

Oh, you are actually blind with prejudice,
you dear old Bob ! There isn't a black
person in sight at this moment, unless it bea
slave, sunburnt and unwashed.'

This goes beyond potentialities, Hugh.'

Well, look for yourself. I'll give you
three minutes !'

This is a useful warnings said Prino;le

meditatively. ' Bob is almost as intelligent
as some people, but what a very misleading
report he would give of the Ashantis after
staying a fortnight at their capital!'

Egad, you're right !' holmes frankly
exclaimed, after a moment. ' These niggers
are yellow, and brown, and chocolate. What
an odd thing! And, as you say, they're
not ill-looking after a fashion.'

Here comes our relief guard, and we
must go in, I suppose. It's the prettiest
part of the show when the lamps are lit, and
the Mohawks go by with their torches. I
don't believe there's any danger, really.'

The quick tropic night had fallen. On
either side, up and down the vista, the
alcoves began to ^Icam with lanterns and
candles. The crowd was dispersing fast,
for the hours of darkness have a special
dansfcr at Coomassie.

Half a dozen louisa soldiers marched
up in decent style, and grounded their rifles

before the house where Hugh and his
friends were seated. The officer commanding
saluted with a friendly grin, signalling
the foreigners to go inside. They rose to
obey, unwillingly. But at this moment a
door in the house facing them burst open,
and a crowd rushed forth, yelling, whirling
torches. Though in disorder and crumpled,
their robes were handsome, their bracelets
and ornaments sparkled in the flare. All
carried arms, and all showed those marks
of yellow paint upon the forehead, which
told they were ' out for the night.' It
is a custom of Ashanti thus to warn peaceful
citizens, when young blood sallies for a
spree.' If an accident occurs when the
precaution has been used, if people get hurt
in a drunken broil, it lies with the complainant
to show that he did his best to
avoid collision, or that circumstances prevented
him from noting the admonitory
sisrn.

Tumultuously the throng ran out, some
dozen young chiefs, followed by slaves and
retainers. They perceived the Houssa
guard, burly Moslems, standing quietly to
arms. It may be believed that this new
body of troops is not popular amongst
Ashanti braves. They clustered round,
with unkindly merriment. One who displayed
more gold than any of his fellows —
more drink also — roughly addressed the
officer, who answered with respect. The
chief seized a torch and waved it, looking
into the alcove ; his wet brow glistened, his
large fierce eyes shone redly. Some offensive
remark he bawled, which those around
him chorused wdtli rude laughter. And
from the outskirts of the group a torch
came hurtling, whizzing, discharging a train
of sparks. It violently struck the inner
wall, and rebounded.

That was the signal for a storm of
missiles, harmless enough, pebbles and

refuse of the street. Amidst a din of
laughter and invective, rang out the word
of command, 'Fikbarnta !' and the bayonets
flashed. The restorers drew their swords,
and raised the war-cry; but they where not
so drunk as to rush in disorder on the
Houssa rifles. The street was alarmed.
From back-courtyards to which the heads
of families had mostly withdrawn, they
hastily came forth, with arms and lights
and slaves. The fray would have ended
then, no doubt ; the Mohawks would have
retired to seek less perilous diversion. Buta
new incident caused respectable householders
to vanish with extreme celerity.
For a halo of ruddy light, a pillar of smoke,
had been approaching unperceived. Ashen
the young chiefs looked round they saw
the leading files of a small army within
a hundred yards, i^.bove the flame, looming
through the smoke, rose a vast umbrella,
like a tent in motion, its gold fringe glittering,

its colours flashing and obscuring.
They recognised it and ran, throwing away
their torches. So did all those hastening
to learn the purport of this disturbance.
The alcoves, which had suddenly blazed
again With lights and thronged with spectators,
as suddenly fell into darkness. In
two minutes the street was deserted.

Orderly and silently, with the rustling
tread of many bare feet, the grandee's
retinue marched past. Of five hundred
men and over, it consisted. Swaying and
gyrating the umbrella advanced, and stopped
suddenly opposite the house. The captains
cried, ' Halt !' and ran about with sticks.
A lane was formed, and torch-bearers
hastened to the front. Aloft, down the
flaring avenue, a weakened potentate was
borne, sitting in his armchair, supported
on the heads of two gigantic negroes. A
thin, imperious voice broke the dead stillness.
The Louisa officer slipt his blanket

to his waist, and threw himself upon the
ground. He spoke submissively, and the
caboceer's Bracelets clashed as he struck
his hands together. The slaves carried
him farther towards the alcove, his umbrella
above him. The Englishmen drew to the
parapet, bowed respectfully, and listened to
a brief harangue. They had no interpreter;
he, we may be sure, was trembling and
perspiring in the darkest corner of the
house. But the general purport of the
speech was intelligible without his aid.
The caboceer expressed regret and indignation,
declared the incident should be inquired
into, and wished the strangers goodnight.
They bowed once more, and he
was carried back; the retainers closed in,
the torch-bearers resumed their station, and
with a muffled tramp the procession marched
away down the silent street.

Positively, comparatively, superlatively
superb !' cried Hugh, as they sought the

inner yard. ' Did you remark the faces —
the effects of light ? It was worth a
journey half across the world to feel that
sensation !'

At school I felt sensations dimly resembling
it !*

Resembling what ?'

Why, the sensation which an object,
well delivered, will produce upon the human
frame en ricochet.^

I say,' said Bob, 'that caboceer was your
friend of the potentialities, wasn't he ?'

Yes, old Moumpoun. I wonder what
he said to us ! Hi, Coffee, you nigger !
Go catch them Houssa man one time !
Tell them what them caboceer man tell
when he tell ! Oh, this Fanti pigeon-talk !
How awfully clever people must be to
understand one when one doesn't understand
one's self. It would have been so
much easier to teach the guileless negro
plain English.*

great battles and triumphant processions —
an immense reserve of make-believe is
needed for comprehension of the design.

Personages of rank occupied the alcove,
recognised by their costumes and ornaments
; they stood up respectfully, and
bared their shoulders, with eyes downcast.
One of the arched portals opened, showing
a large courtyard, roofed along each face,
but open in the middle. Though all the
length of one wall was occupied by an
enormous cooking-range, so to call it,
many valuable and handsome objects hung
on pegs, and the floor, where sheltered,
was strewn with mats and cloths. Going"
on, the visitors traversed an inner court,
surrounded by a colonnade, from pillar to
pillar of which native curtains were jealously
drawn. Beyond lay a similar court,
but here the handsome draperies of silk
were tied back, and servants, neatly robed,
stood in double file all round. Moumpoun
VOL. III. . 43

sat opposite the entrance, in an armchair
covered with leather, adorned with brass-headed
nails as thick as they could be
driven. Beside him, in a similar chair, sat
a ver' dark young man, with a white cloth
round his head, and a robe of tartan silk,
which the strangers recognised as the royal
colour. Two Arab chiefs, in large turbans,
occupied lower seats. All the others present
stood or squatted on the ground.

Moumpoun did not rise, but he smiled
with majestic goodwill, and held out his
hand to shake. So did the young man
beside him, who, moreover, remarked in
good English, quaintly emphasizing every
word :

How do you do, gentlemen ? I have
been away from Coomassie since your
arrival, to my great regret.'

You are Prince Ekmo ?' asked Prince.

Yes. These poor people call me Prince
Cudjo Ekmo. I am a true friend of the

Englishman. I was educated at Sierra
Leone, by my dear friend the late Bishop :
requiescat in pace !'

He must have been proud of his pupil,'
said Hugh.

'Yes, he was proud. I have been to
England also, but not much. Now, his
Highness the Caboceer Moumpoun has
something to say to you, gentlemen, which
I shall be pleased to translate.'

Moumpoun then delivered a speech,
which Ekmo interpreted sentence by sentence.
He said :

" The Ashanti nation is brave and honourable.
Those who visit us with clean
hearts are assured of welcome. Several
English gentlemen have been here before
and since our late king was betrayed into
war with the invincible John Bull, and
they have never known trouble. Last
night, for the earliest time, visitors were
insulted by a parcel of roughs. If his

43—2

Majesty the King hears this, his royal spirit
will suffer damage. He will be very vexed.
I beg, therefore" (says his Highness the
Caboceer Moumpoun), "that you will not
complain to his Majesty. If my own son
was guilty of the offence he shall be
punished severely. This I promise on
my strong oath. Furthermore, if the English
gentlemen will be led to my way of
thinking, I offer them gratitude."

This is what his Highness observes,'
continued Ekmo. ' Your honours are
probably not unsuspicious that his son,
Quamina Arkom, ringleader the proceedings
last night. His Highness has not
spoken privily. These men round hear
what he says. He desires, in his way, to
apologize, as we call it, for Quamina
^Vrkom. AYhat say you, gentlemen ?'

AVe say,' Bob cried, ' that there is no
occasion for such a fuss. AVe aren't hurt!'

The Ashanti prince did not like this

careless tone — his face betrayed him. But
Prince and Hugh expressed themselves
more diplomatically, and Ekmo recovered
his composure. It amused them to observe
how he sustained the royal dignity, though
his education and his travels told him that
the Englishmen must be laughing in their
hearts. ISTo doubt he translated their courteous
words with many a fanciful addition.
Moumpoun grimly beamed upon them with
a benevolence quite touching.

Then they talked of other things, whilst
girl-slaves handed coffee. This hospitable
ceremony was performed in the Arab style.
The cups, indeed, were little calabashes,
bound in gold ; the filigree stands, of ruder
workmanship than they produce along the
coast, were native ; the coffee was wild
and bitter ; the napkins of home-spun silk,
only four inches wide. But the mode of
service was precisely imitated from the
Arab, and the trays were enamelled copper

brought from Egypt. All round, in flint,
Arab influence displayed itself. Salis
dangled overhead ; Moumpoun was dressed
in Arab style, saving that bis turban had
not the dimensions fashionable with true
believers on this coast, and that he declined
wearing trousers.

Whilst sipping coffee, the travellers mentioned
their design of visiting Quantiahah
Kootlah. Ekmo was startled.

May I beg to ask if you came to my
country with that design?'

No. Our object, so far as we had any
beside amusement, was to explore Telaga.'

Ah, Telaga ! A very interesting realm.
These Arab gentlemen have just gone
through it. They will give you much
information.'

AYe only heard of Quantiahah Kootlah on
the journey up,' said Hugh. ' A visit to
his territory' will not take us much out of
the way.'

You may leave me to calculate this,
gentlemen,' said Ekmo. ' It is an unheard-of
thought. His Majesty must ponder.'

Is he really white?' asked Bob.

Yes, Quantiahah Kootlah is white. I
will tell nothing more at present. We
must think.'

Moumpoun asked what was in dispute,
and all those who had authority to speak
in his presence eagerly discussed Prince
Ekmo's reply. After a time the visitors
prepared to leave.

I want to ask one question. Prince,'
said Bob. ' Are there elephants in Quanti
Kootlah's country ?'

I have heard it. They are very dangerous
animals. You may grant me the honour to
expect a call this evening, gentlemen.'

As soon as they reached home, the interpreter
Coffee was summoned, to repeat the
opinions expressed by Moumpoun and his
chiefs upon their project. He said that all

the retainers opposed it. Quantiahah Kootlah
was an enemy of Aslant, and what advantage
could come of allowing Englishmen

O Do

to visit him ? The Arabs argued fiercely
that it was news of the late check the
Ashanti Kino: had received in his invasion
of Quantiali's country which had brought
these strangers to Coomassie.

They think,' said Coffee, laughing,
gentlemen bring trade from sea, bad
business for them I'

But Moumpoun asked impatiently what
harm the English would do, when they did
not care to keep Coomassie the Golden, after
takins: it? Ekmo held the same view. He
said, by Coffee's report:

Don't hung no man's cattle. I talk to
them King. We make business — ^}'es, perhaps
so, outside them circumstance.'

That the Ashantis had lately sent an expedition
against the white chief was news.
Coffee was charged to learn all he could

2D

about it, and before evening further particulars
came to hand. The invading force
had been commanded by Quamina Arkom,
eldest sono Moumpoun, and their assailant
of the night before. That young chief conducted
the operations very skilfully and
secretly, surprised Manfi, the principal town,
and narrowly missed capturing Quantiahah
Kootlah himself. But the expedition did
not end so successfully The King re-collected
his troops, destroyed several marauding
parties, and besieged the Ashantis in
Manfi. They cut their way out finally,
but with very serious loss. All the plunder
was re-captured, and all the slaves, excepting
Quantiahah Kootlah' s two children, who at this
time were resident in Moumpoun' s harem.

Whilst they still chatted over this rather
disconcerting intelligence, Ekmo came instate,
with his pages and body-guard. After
the usual greetings, he broached the subject
in which they were interested.

I know,' he said, ' that your honours
just Avish to talk to the white caboceer.
What business would you make with him ?
I understand all that, but our poor people
are suspecting. You are fixed to go ?'

Quite fixed,' said Bob.

If his Majesty does not decidedly object,'
Prince added.

Our poor people tell me they have been
good to you on the whole. The King gave
strict orders. And Quamina Arkom has
fled to the bush.'

His majesty and everyone has been
most kind.'

Then, if you go to Manfi, you will give
returns, is it not? The King is very vexed
and disappointed with Quantiahah Kootlah.
He prepares to crush him at this very time.
Jut the royal heart loves friendship more
than war. If Quantiahah Kootlah will cease
to do Wickedness, and learn to do well, he
shall be made a great caboceer. In council

lie shall be high placed, and he shall command
10,000. That his Majesty promises
on the royal word. And your humble
servant will make much of him, for I love
the white man. Will your honours endeavour
persuading Quantiahah Kootlah ? I
tell you by my strong oath, as these poor
people say, that if he not accepts he is dead,
or no better.*

We will carry the message willingly,'
said Prince, ' if your people and his will
let us through,'

No fear of that. You will fly the
Union Jack — no fear at all. You will tell
him that a second-rate caboceer of Ashanti,
with his own men, took his metropolis and
burnt it. How, then, if the King goes to
fight?'

Your Highness, in fact, wishes us to
travel as ambassadors of Ashanti?'

Yes. Then you go through safe, with
the royal heralds and the Union Jack.'

This becomes a more serious business,'
Prince observed. ' You Avill let us consult.
Meantime, pray tell us who is
Quantiahah Kootlah, and how he became a
king?'

He is not a king. I will explain to
your honours. Quantiahah Kootlah was a
clerk in the office of Charley and Simmons,
at Cape Coast. There was war one time
between the King of Abra and other Fanti
caboceers, and the road was stopped. Ashanti
traders could not come and go. Just now
the head merchant of Charley and Simmons's
office died, and Kootlah made business.
He got vexed because the road was
stopped. So he told Ashanti traders waiting
at Cape Coast, and with them, some others
too, he made a run, beat the King of Abra,
and killed him. He took many goods to
Praise and made great profit; but there
was trouble with the government. Then
Kootlah came up to our place, and his

Majesty, the uncle of his present Majesty,
who was then on the throne, made much of
him. They were very affectionate. He
fixed Kootlah as grand caboceer, and sent
him to take care of Manfi. Things went
well there. Much money and trade came
from Manfi. Then, after years, we made
unhappy troubles with England. His
]majesty Coffee Kalcalli was then reigning.
Kootlah knew nought of the troubles, for
he was fighting Dahomey, taking many
goods, which he sent to the King. So his
Majesty did not call him to fight in that
unhappy circumstances.

When the English had gone away things
were bad. Many chiefs revolutionized;
Ashanti was left entirely naked. Quantiahah
Kootlah showed himself of a bad heart ; he
revolutionized too. But one after one we
have conquered those rebels, and brought
them back repenting or dead. He only
stands against us. And if he not makes

this business with your honours, surely he
shall be destroyed, he and all his people.
But if he will listen, he shall be very
happy.'

Do you know his real name ?' asked
Bob.

I think it is indeed Kootlah — C-u-t-1-e-r.
I have never seen him, for I was at school.
He is an Englishman, but bad.'

Don't you think,' Hugh observed, ' that
if we took with us the children whom
Quamina Arkom captured, it would have
a good effect?'

That has been talked of in council.
You shall have the children. And his
Majesty gives you '

I think }'0u are all going much too fast,'
said Prince. ' Our only object is curiosity
and sport. A diplomatic mission is not at
all in our way ; and if it comes to taking
charge of two babies, I, for one, propose to
abandon the idea entirely.'

They are not babies, sir. The boy is
eight years of age, I estimate, and the girl
twelve. You saw them to-day at his
Highness the caboceer's house.'

They were two pretty fair children ?'
cried Bob eagerly. ' I think it is our
duty, Prince, to rescue such jolly little
creatures if we can — half English, too !'

There is something in that. Subject to
reflection, Prince, I should like to hear
what his Majesty proposes.'

He gives you 200 soldiers of his Houssa
guard, and 500 slaves to carry — our poor
people call them slaves. It is, as you
would say, labouring men.'

'Oh, upon my soul. Prince!' Bob exclaimed,
' I suppose it is your labouring
men who volunteer to have their heads cutoff
at the Customs ? '

It is painful, sir '

Very much so for the labouring men!'

1 say, sir, that this business is painful.

I have lived with white men, and I understand
what they think. I have explained
all that to his Majesty, and he understands
just now. But there is business even in
England which you cannot make, because
the people are ignorant. Not all one time.
I say, Mr. Boobah, it is not gentlemanly to
spoil talk with supercilious remarks of
national fancy.'

I apologize, Prince,' said Bob gravely.
You know Englishmen so well that you
can excuse my thoughtlessness. AYe are
frank, but well-meaning, like Ashantis.'

So be it, sir. I have forgotten the
circumstance. Your honours are going to
dine? I realize a smell of Irish stew, which
was gratifying formerly.'

His Highness stopped to taste it, of
course, and to drink a handsome share from
the cherished bottles. "Alien he left, the
proposals of the Ashanti King were even
more liberal than first offered. His envoy

doubled the guards, the carriers, promised a
dash ' of a thousand ounces, and begged
the Englishmen to stop and share his kingdom.
In the course of the evening they
resolved to see this business through, and
to start so soon as their escort was ready.

VOL. III.



CHAPTER 11.

THE WHITE CABOCEER.

this is pleasant!'

My dear Hugh ! The happiest
illustrations of irony lose
their point when circumstances are too
downright for oblique reference. I prefer
to say what I mean in plain English. Our

situation is beastly '

What's that ? A tarantula, by the
fiend ! He's gone your way ! I shall
follow Bob's example. It can't be more
wretched outside!'

An invasion of tarantulas settles the
question. I'm With you.'

They left the soddened hut which made
their quarters for the night, carrying
lanterns. Rain fell on their heads with a
weight as of buckets tilted, hissing and
roaring like a cataract, between dread
bursts of thunder. A blue glare of lightning
hung over the spot, and quivered,
scarcely pausing. As in unnatural daylight
through a blurred but translucent
glass, they saw the roof of leaves,' the
broken walls, the brushwood beaten down
and crushed, the tall trunks draped with
parasites, the tendrils hanging like cordage
of a wreck. Then a deeper darkness fell
for the space of a pulse-beat. The earth
seemed moving, inches deep in water ; the
forest howled, and flamed again.

'Bob! where are sou?' Prince shouted,
above the clamour.

Here ! Looking at you ! Come round
the tree!'

In the next burst of darkness they 



served a shrouded glow, traced it, and
discovered Bob, sitting, almost dry, between
the buttresses of a cotton-tree. Behind him
young Juma was faintly outlined, blowing
at a miserable fire.

You monster of selfishness ! "Who built
this palatial abode?'

I say, there isn't room for a squadron.
The children made this shelter for themselves,
not for a crowd of grown-up
ruffians.'

Clever little kids ! Let us throw a tent
over the roof, and enlarge their dolls'
house.'

Xot a slave nor a soldier answered to
their shouts. These also had found a
refuge fi'om the storm, and they would turnout
for no master who dared not take their
heads oflT. The young men found a tent,
unpacked it, laboriously stretched it from
wall to wall of the buttress-hut, and pegged
it down. Beyond reach of the deluge without,

they could light their pipes, strip off
their dripping clothes, and enjoy a Turkish
bath, muffled in waterproof.

I say, officer of the night,' Hugh began,
isn't it advisable to make your rounds ? I
don't expect there's a single sentry at his
post.'

Oh, we run no danger,' said Bob. ' Let
the poor devils shelter if they can.'

We crossed the frontier to-day, and
until old Kootlah communicates we should
take precautions as in an enemj^'s country.
Besides, the amount of danger is no consideration
for the officer of the night. Let
him do his duty. I believe it rains. I
have reason to think there is mud in the
neighbourhood. When I was on duty last
night it didn't rain, and there was no mud ;
but I behaved like a man. Captain Prince,
emulate your comrade.'

I don't want any spurring, Mr. Acland.
The hour approaches, and the man is ready.

It strikes me there'll be a parade for punishment
tomorrow. It's odd, by the way,
that old Kootlah has not answered our
messenger yet.'

Perhaps he's preparing a swell embassy.'
Perhaps he's coming to meet us.'
That's the real solution, gentlemen !'
said a strange voice from the darkness.

They all sprang up ; but two soft-skinned
creatures burst through them, with inarticulate
screams of delight. A sound arose
of hugging and kissing, and broken, joyous
exclamations. The lanterns, hastily' turned
outwards, showed a tall man bent over the
children. His white hair fell in dripping
tangles over their crisp heads. Behind, in
dusky shadow, stood a score of negroes.

With an arm about the neck of each
small captive, "which they held and fondled,
the stranger advanced :

Under any circumstances, you would
have been welcome, but I thank you from

my heart for restoring these foolish little
savages. May I come in?'

Certainly !' they exclaimed, making way.

One of the attendants began to blow the
fire.

The officer of the night will perhaps
explain this intrusion, agreeable but irregular,'
murmured Hugh.

You are Quantiahah Kootlah ?' asked
Prince.

Yes. I have been waiting three days at
my frontier village, intending to present
myself formally. But when this storm interrupted
your march, and my scouts told
me that the camp was unguarded, I could
not resist a paltry little impulse of astonishing:

the Ashanti

If the officer of the night '

'Oh, shut up, Hugh!'

As the rain is ceasing, I suggest that
you come over to my quarters, which are
but a mile or so farther on. The road is

not very difficult, and you will have a comfortable
night's rest. It would be droll if
the Houssas found you spirited away tomorrow
morning.'

Suppose they loot our property and turn
back in panic ?'
■- 'I will take care of that. What say you ?'

Of course they assented, and silently filed
off into the darkness, shading their lanterns.
A sturdy negro marched beside each of
them, and another behind; no useless attendant,
for the mud was slippery as ice to
booted men, and the path full of roots.
Quantiahah Kootlah went ahead, carrying
his little girl, whilst her brother followed at
his heels holding on to his robe. All three
chattered without ceasing. At some distance
beyond the outer line which sentries
should have occupied, they drew out their
lanterns, travelling became easier, and in
an hour's time they reached the village.
Outpost duty was no fair-weather business

in Quantiahah Kootlah's army. Again and
again they were challenged. With some
nati-al jealousy, Prince expressed his
astonishment that an enemy should have
surprised the chief town when a mere camp
was so well guarded.

Ah, that is a story,' said Quantiahah Koot-
lah. ' Here we are, gentlemen,'

There was no need of warning. The
rain had stopped, the clouds were rolling
away. In that instant a deluge of moonlight
burst over the scene. They had left
the forest. On either side the track lay an
expanse of broad, silky leaves, smoothly
stretched, or rolled perpendicularly ; the
moonbeams silvered their wet edges. Delicately
they lay spread, tremulous, softly
broken, like wavelets in a dim green sea,
as far as the mighty forest verge. It was
a plantain orchard of one year's growth: the
old trees had been levelled, doubtless, by
Ashanti raiders.

Low and grey, vague but faintly luminous,
the village wall traversed it, an uninterrupted
line of houses, pierced for
musketry, but windowless. The pale soaked
roofs glistened above, the abattis sparkled
below, hung with rain-drops. As they
drew nearer, a gate opened, between flanking
redoubts, and soldiers lined the approach.
Naked they were, saving the
breech-cloth, the belt, and cartridge-box ;
but they marched fairly well, took their
intervals without chattering or confusion.
Their arms and their polished skins shone
in the moonlight.

Quantiahah Kootlah set down his little girl,
and smilingly begged the travellers to close
in. Half a dozen of his body-guard pressed
forward simultaneously, so that the children
walked unseen. The soldiers presented
arms, they entered the gateway, turned to
the left along a curtain wall, loopholed,
and suddenly found themselves beneath the

shadow of a great tree, the African caoutchouc.
It stood in the middle of the roadway,
upon high shouldered roots, which
made a natural seat all round. Beyond its
heavy mass lay the village street, one side
white in moonbeams, the shadow on the
other red in a flare of torches borne to and
fro. Many hundreds of soldiers and townspeople
were there, thronging in picturesque
excitement. They all fell back, as the King's
party came into view, and stood beneath the
huts in an attitude of respect. Here and
there the lights concentrated in a sheaf of
smoky flame, which showed the mouth of a
pitch-black alley, crowded with people.
The dark faces and white eyes, the smooth
shoulders redly gleaming, the stalwart forms
of the men, and the shapely girl-figures half
withdrawn behind them, made a picture
delightful to observe.

At fifty yards' distance stood another
tree, beneath which was drawn a company

of soldiers, in clean grey bast with blue
facings, and belts covered with leopard skin.
Picked men were these, of unusual height.
The officer in command, who stood under
his umbrella, was a giant, and the subalterns
almost rivalled him. They had the
fairer skin and more graceful features of the
negroid, but their chief was as black as man
can be. He showed much excitement. The
point of his sword made little coruscations
and sparkling circlets in the air, so violently
his hand shook. As they passed
opposite his station Quantiahah Kootlah
stepped forward, and the children sprang to
the front.

At that revelation, the giant officer made
one bound — his sword flew this way, his
cap the other. He threw himself upon the
earth, laughing and crying, clasped their
little feet and rubbed his head against them,
sprang up, and danced and howled. The
soldiers also, forgetting discipline in their

colonel's frenzy, broke rank and fell into
maniacal contortions of delio'lit. It was
pretty to observe the behaviour of the children,
how they laughed, with tears running
down, patting now this man and noah that,
calling him by his name, appealing to their
father. Quantiahah Kootlah's face glowed.
Hugh felt a sob in his throat. Bob Holmes
whimpered; and the judicious Prince said:

This is really affecting ! Who would
have thought it!'

All the people of the village were soon
crowding round ; the noise and disorder,
heat and smell, became annoying. The
King raised his hand, and a dozen clappers
vigorously swung, overpowered the din. In
dead silence, then, Quantiahah Kootlah spoke
a few words, and every eye was fixed upon
the Englishmen with gratitude that could
be read. The people answered in sharp
cries. ' Fall-ina, men — fall-ina !' commanded
the giant officer. They obeyed, and

marching in advance, turned up a broad
street to the left, and halted at a portal
much handsomer than those around. Beneath
the coating of stucco, it was probably
a square doorway; but its mud arch, of the
Moorish style, was graceful and fantastic,
its columns were painted, the walls displayed
a system of decoration in relief quite imposing
under the moonbeams. A number
of slaves stood round, who prostrated themselves,
and led the way indoors.

I need not describe the architecture of his
little palace, which was built on the Ashanti
model, with courtyards leading one into
another, and alcoves all round them. Arab
influence showed even more strong than in
Coomassie. All the courts were lit with
candles of great size, in candelabra quaintly
and painted.

Quantiahah Kootlah led his visitors to a
small side court.

You will find dry clothes, and a bath in

the recess,' lie said. ' For this one night, I
fear you will be obliged to dress in native
style. There are slaves waiting outside,
but I hope all your wants are provided
for. Supper will be ready in half an
hour.'

When he had gone the travellers looked
at one another.

Well, I'm bio wed !' said Bob impressively.


Hugh turned it over in his mind, found
no expression more appropriate, and added
So am I !'

Prince frowned, pondered, and accepted
the formula.

I am blowed, thou art blowed, he is
blowed ! Let us say no more about it, but
get dressed.'

They had long since appreciated the cool
and graceful fashions of the land for indoor
use. The Ashanti robe is only a sheet,
rather stiff, of cotton generally, with most

elegant devices in blue or red. The under-cloth,
rarely seen, may be extravagant of
material or trimming ; and the scarf is
generally silk, if the wearer claim any
position. But the outer garment is invariably
plain. Very beautiful it is, nevertheless.
No one who has the means to buy
native stuffs, or has slaves to make them,
Avill wear European silks or cottons, vastly
cheaper but beneath comparison in every
respect. The draping of the robe is an art
which Ashanti gentlemen carry to the
utmost pitch of grace.

When they were ready the slaves led
them to a larger court, more highly ornamented
and more handsomely lit. A
number of chiefs and officers stood round it,
the orient colonel towering over all. The
King received them formally, and gave
them chairs covered with leather, studded
with brass nails, such as are appropriated to
great caboceers. There was even a table,

rudely but effectively carved in some blackwood,
with plaques of gold at intervals.

A clear view of their host did not, frankly,
prepossess them in his favour. The white
chiefs skin was evidently very fair beneath
its many coats of sunburning, and the
features had been handsome. They were
thickened now and suffused ; the large eyes
Avere bloodshot, the lij^s relaxed, though
the expression of the jaw was hard almost
to ferocity. The type is not uncommon
amongst those who live recklessly in constant
danger ; so frequent, indeed, that one
may suppose it correlative with the disposition
or the qualities that lead a man into
such conditions of existence. Prince's
experience brought him to a conclusion on
the spot.

A drunkard,' said he to himself ; but
further observation shook the idea.

The younger travellers did not suspect
this, but they felt disappointment. On the

VOL. HI. 45

journey up they had fashioned an ideal image
of Quantiahah Kootlah, the bulwark of freedom
and all that against the murderous
Ashanti ; — which he quite failed to realize.
The fierce eye, the sensual mouth, were not
heroic. Every glance betrayed energy and
resolution, but nothing of a higher tyj;)e.

These were appearances, however. In his
tone and address and deportment, the King
was royally courteous, grave without formality,
masterful but easy. He lost nothing
by comparison with the high-bred chiefs
of Ashanti, whom they had lately admired.
His voice was slow and soft, like that of a
man pleased to talk a foreign language, but
compelled to think of every word. His conversation,
therefore, as Bob said, resembled
somewhat a clerical lecture admirably delivered.
He who would rule a superior
negroid race must be as dignified in speech
as shrewd in counsel and firmly prompt inaction.


The King was dressed in native fashion,
with fine golden ornaments ; a circlet of
gold confining his rough grey hair was the
only trace of European influence. His
chair had plaques of gold and silver alternately,
worked in repousse.

The dressing and the serving of the
meal were Arab. Hugh remarked upon the
influence of that people.

I try to keep them out of my dominions,'
said the King, ' but it is hopeless. All the
civilization, all the direct trade which
reaches us, is Arab. In a very few years
all these territories will be converted to
Islam, unless Europe bestirs herself I
don't mind confessing a belief, in your
company, gentlemen, that the change will
be an unmixed good.'

I suppose that Islam is better than no
religion.'

Of that I am not quite sure, but as
these people are destined apparently to be

45—2

converted to some sort of creed in no lone;"
time, the choice lies between that and
Christianity; and to you, who are not
missionaries, I judge, I venture to say that
for their happiness and success in this
world the Mahometan dogma would be far
the most suitable. As for the other world ^
not knowing anything about it, I am notable
to give an opinion.'

Have you ever felt inclined to turn
Mussulman yourself, King ?' Prince asked.

I had no object. On the contrary', any
Mussulman who enters my realm without a
safe-conduct loses his head.'

And how would you treat a Christian ?
That is rather an interesting question for us.'

If you were missionaries, I would send
you back ; and if you persisted I'd take
off your heads, by Jupiter ! — with extreme
regret, of course.'

Prince looked grave, and to turn the
conversation,

Pardon the remark, King,' said Holmes.
You have kept up your English wonderfully,
after so many years in the bush.'

I try to do so. I talk English to my
children, though they don't understand
much.'

Perhaps they won't try with you. We
got along with them quite easily. Bob,
who is their special favourite, used even to
tell them stories.'

They have gratefully reported all your
kindness, gentlemen ! I want words to
thank you !'

Pray don't dwell upon it ! May I ask
if their mother is alive ?'

She has been dead some years.'

And do you never think of returning to
civilization ?'

The idea gets hold of me strongly sometimes.
If I could have transported gold
enough to make a decent excuse for twenty
years' residence in the bush, I should probably

have yielded before this. But Ashanti
blocks the way.'

Is there no other road to the coast ?'

Yes, several. I have visited both
Whydah and Cape Coast Castle. But we
could not take heavy baggage.'

Then we may understand you have
made your fortune, King ?' laughed Bob.
If the hostilities With Ashanti alone forbid
you to realize it, we are commissioned to
remove that difficulty.'

I know. And a very few hours since
I had made up my mind to give you an
emphatic negative. But the sight of English
faces, the sound of English talk, have
almost undecided me.'

It would be a shame to let those jolly
little kids grow u^) as savages,' said Bob.

That is no consideration with me,' the
King answered, smiling. ' I rather agree
with the opinion of that hero — what was his
name ? — that Tennyson wrote about. '

'"Locksley Hall"' Hugh said; 'but
you have rather forgotten the argument.'


'And you, my boy,' laughed Prmgle,
have rather forgotten the facts. Then,
King, after such experience as few men
have enjoyed, you think that a savage life
is comparable for happiness with a
civilized ?'

No ! For I believe that if all classes
and characters are taken together, the
savage enjoys such a vastly higher average
of happiness that there can be no comparison.
But for persons of intelligence his life wants
interest. Now, my boy will be a king,
a fighting king, a conqueror, I hope. He
will certainly be busy, with a thousand
cares, excitements, hopes, alarms, ambitions,
intrigues, triumphs, and disappointments.
AVould any position he could expect to
reach in Europe bring such keen interest ?
I would say more than that ! Is there a

king in Europe at this day who has my
responsibilities, my changes, and my
delights ? Unless the world has changed a
good deal since my time, there is none.
And that is the life which brings a man
happiness ! No ! If I considered eTuma I
would never return !'

They were silent. Upon the journey
Prince had ascertained that these young
folks had no ideas of religion beyond a
vague but amiable form of Deism. But
that matter could not be broached, evidently.


Bob observed :

What you say may be true for Juma.
But little Yini ? Her existence will not be
very grand, nor very interesting, in the
harem of a negro king, with a thousand
comrades.'

There you hit me ! It would be hard
to part with my darling girl just now, after
so many months of distress j but if an

opportunity arose to-night for sending her
to England, I would snatch at it.'

How do you reconcile that feeling with
the belief that your subjects don't want any
religion, and that Islam is the best for them
anyway?' Pringie asked.

The two ideas are not to be reconciled,'
said the King. ' Old prejudices interfere.
My head tells me that Yini would be at
least as hap^^y, or would run as good chance
of happiness, in the harem of such a man as
I should choose for her as in an English
home, with the parson to advise her in
things spiritual, a drawing-master, a piano,
and a worthy young stockbroker to make
decorous love on Sundays after church.
But no man can throw off the influence of
early training. That unreasonable sentiment
struggles with mere knowledge and
gets the best of it.'

Perhaps because the sentiment might be
called an instinct,' said Pringie.

I have no objection. Instinct is inherited
prudence, ^vhich teaches us the best course
under circumstances that have been growing
up for generations. I have one set of
instincts; my subjects have another. Since
they are so much less removed from the
natural state of man, I conclude that their
instincts are more natural.'

You are fond of an argument, I think,'
said Prince, brightening up. ' This is one
of the most astounding propositions I ever
heard! If your subjects are less removed
from the natural man than you, that means
that they are nearer the brutes. And you
arc content to be ruled by the animal
instincts ?'

We are discussing Yini's happiness, not
my inclinations. Her instincts at present
are those of the people round her. For the
rest, in dealing with men and women, the
only common impulses on which you can
i-ely are those which come to them from the

animal. Go upon these, and you will never
make a mistake, unless by an error of knowledge
or calculation. I speak,' he added,
smiling, ' with some experience, gained at
the risk of my life, and you may depend
upon my words. When a ruler takes account
of fancies and characters, or allows
his own character play, he is on the wrong
track — but as for argument, I think I
always hated it, and certainly I am not
equal to it now. May I ask wdiat your
projects are?'

We are deviously journeying towards
Telaga, the mythical city, of which perhaps
you can tell us something at your leisure.
Upon our way up, we heard of the white
King of Manfi, in whose realm are elephants.
And we turned aside.'

Are there really elephants in your
country?' asked Bob.

Many, and I make you free of all game-laws.
Negro potentates have game-laws, I

assure 3^011, though in my peculiar case they
are not required, and therefore I have not
made any myself. We may start for Manfi
tomorrow afternoon, if you like, when I
have brought up your baggage, and settled
the Houssas comfortably. It would be best,
if you do not object, that they return to
^lolikassi, on the Ashanti frontier, and
await you there.'

Our disappearance has been found out,
I suppose? What a row must be going on
in camp !'

So my scouts report. I have sent a
message to quiet the Houssas. We will goto
them first thing tomorrow, and we
must be early, if you please, or our droll
adventure may end in a fight. You will
find a nightcap in your quarters. Goodnight
!'

The King withdrew, mounting the steps
of an alcove curtained Avitli silk ; an outburst
of joy told that his children were still

awake. In their own courtyard the travellers
found a calabash, gold-mounted, full of rum,
and three gold-rimmed cups. For an hour
they sat exchanging views upon the situation,
which I need not repeat; but their
opinions about the King should be cited.

He's a gentleman by training, though an
odd one,' said Bob, ' that's clear enough !
His adventures will be worth hearing.'

Not the man for confidences, I should
think,' Hugh observed. ' Did you remark
that he never uttered a word of cant, as
these sort of fellows do — nothing; about his
duty or his mission? I like him for that.'

Have you met many of this sort of
fellow?'

A good many — in books.'

Books ! People who write describe men
by the looking-glass !'

I fancy,' said Pringie, ' that he doesn't
talk about his mission because the idea of
one has never entered his head. You would

hardly expect cant from a man who lets his
children grow up little heathens, and is
prepared to cut missionaries' heads off.'

Well,' said Hugh, ' the King's a fine
fellow though he's not orthodox. His
subjects worship him evidently, and I
imagine that's no bad testimony to character.'


Christian virtues are not indispensable
to a good negro monarch, I suppose,' said
Bob. * It seems to me that our friend
distinguishes rather carefully between his
official conduct and his private ideas. talking'
as a kini!^ he's dignified enough, but I
suppose other potentates allow themselves
a private opinion about private matters. I
haven't any experience, but it seems likely'

My belief is,' Prince summed up, ' that
this man has been so peculiarly lucky as to
fall into that exact situation where his best
qualities come to the front. Quantiahah
Kootlah is a hero, but I should fear that

Mr. Cutler may have left memories not
agreeable at home.'

Before dawn their clothes were brought,
and the Kinff awaited them in the outer

o

courtyard.

If you have fallen into native vices, here
is toddy fresh drawn, as sparkling and
almost as harmless as soda-water; or, if
you prefer it, wild coffee.'

They set out for last night's camp,
preceded by the body-guard, who were distinguished
by stature and by belts covered
with leopard-skin. The rest of the troops
had been keeping watch all night in the
jungle to resist any hostile movement of
the Houssas. The tumult and excitement
reigning in camp were audible at some
distance. The position of these Ashanti
mercenaries was terrible, if anything had
happened to the white men in their charge ;
and loud were the cries of joy when
sentries rushing in announced their approach.

Officers hurried to meet them,
pale under their black skins, quivering with
excitement. The communication they made
roused Quantiahah Kootlah to fury, repressed
but dangerous. He Gave orders to his
chiefs about, who prostrated themselves and
ran.

Your people have vanished,' he said,
after rifling your goods. If they have
gone back by the Coomassie road they are
dead men by this time, for the Houssas
sent their swiftest runners in pursuit soon
after midnight. But I fear the scoundrels
were not so ill-advised as to take that road.
There is another which would serve their
purpose as well, though more difficult, running
through the Obiye country to the
Volta. But then, how should Mantis
know it ? The Houssas are mustering
your slaves. We shall see.'

In rank across the narrow space the
carriers paraded, and their head-man called

the roll. One was missing, a driver, an
Obiye Fanti.

That explains it,' said the King. ' If
he knows the country well, I fear your
property is lost. They have a long start.
Let us see what is missing.'

Things mie'ht have been worse. The
fugitives had taken all the cash they
could find, and a number of miscellaneous
articles, arms, and so on. But the King
made very light of money, and enough of
arms remained. The only serious loss was
a notebook of Hugh's, probably carried off
by mistake.

Intimidated by a misfortune for which
they Avould be held responsible, the Houssas
made no objection when ordered to retire
and wait at Molikassi. They begged only
that the command should be in writing,
and that a copy of it should be forwarded
to their King for Prince Ekmo to translate.
So it was done, and the soldiers packed up

VOL. III. 46

their very modest equipage. The carriers
retired with them, and Quantiahah Kootlah
undertook to feed this little army. Then
his slaves shouldered the baggage and filed
away with it.

These various matters arranged, the
Houssas set off in one direction, the Englishmen
in the other. Before midday they
regained the village, where Quantiahah Koot-
lah's people were ready to march. After
dinner, a pipe, a chat, and merry conversation
with ' the kids,' as those royal infants
were irreverently called, they followed
when the noonday heat had passed. Handsome
man-baskets, borne upon the heads of
giant slaves, were ready for them, but they
preferred to walk. Quantiali Kootlah
smilingly explained that etiquette forbade
him to go afoot, and lie was carried up
aloft, under his umbrella, surrounded by
pages and officials of the household in due
array, as befits a negro monarch. His

train, though very much less numerous
than that of the Ashanti King, was scarcely
less splendid in gold and silk and fantastic
equipment. The children also had their
suites, and the huge colonel of the bodyguard
was seldom far from Yini's cradle
litter. Though she sat high-poised upon
the heads of stalwart bearers, his bloodshot
eyes, like those of a fierce but faithful
bull dog, met her animated glance upon a
level

Very dubious for a while was the
colonel's expression towards Bob, whom
Yini imperiously summoned to march upon
the other side. But jealousy is not a common
failing of the negro jure blood ; and
when little Yini, cramped by the position,
demanded her usual seat upon Bob's
shoulder, after an astonished pause the
giant lifted her slight body in his great
black hands, stretched above the slaves, and,
almost without effort, lowered it to the new

46—2

resting-place. And thereafter he beamed
upon Yini's favourite.

At sunset they reached Kiamaduna, and
lodged in a sylvan palace, hastily run up
of bamboos and palm-thatch. The servants
starting in food time, had huns the interior
with cloths, set the camp furniture, and
prepared the meal. Avery interesting was
the talk with Quantiahah Kootlah that night,
and I regret that space forbids me forgiving
a report. I may mention only those
remarks which bear upon the action of my
story.

You will find, gentlemen,' said the
King, ' that your visit to ]\Ianfi is no such
digression as you thought. The Ashantis
would never have allowed you to reach
Telaga. There are a hundred reasons,
political and commercial, which makes it
imperative in their eyes to prevent Avhite
men from visiting that country. The
people of Telaga are not only first in manufactures

and enterprise, they are most
dangerous also in war. Atlantis are brave,
so are all the populations of the tableland
about. But the men of Telao;a have no
equals for military virtue of every sort.
Their trade with Europe passes through
Coomassie, excepting a small part which I
have diverted towards Addah and Whydah.
Traffic in arms and powder is sternly forbidden.
All Telaga receives in that way
comes through the Arabs. There is little
of it, and that bad. My interests, of
course, are identical with those of Ashanti
in this respect ; but I understand your
object in travel, and,' he added, smiling,
the difficulty for private individuals of
opening up this commerce. Since you
destroyed Coomassie, for the release of
some missionaries who were not even English,
and withdrew, the Atlantis have been
bewildered. Their ideas of your policy are
upset. They regard England as a dangerous

lunatic, who may sacrifice thousands
of lives and millions of money for a whim.
In brief, therefore, they would have contrived
to impede you at every movement,
and finally to stop you. I will help you
through.'

We are grateful, King. Is it far ?'

The traders who reach me at Manfi.
count the distance three months ; to
Coomassie two months. This difference of
time may be explained by the condition
of the roads. It has not hitherto been
Avorth while to put my roads in order on
that route.'

The one we travelled to-day was excellent,
if only it had been a little Aliter.'

Allow me to say that your remark
shows that want of experience and knowledge
of the native which liavc caused such
waste of time and money and temper in the
dealings of the European with the negro.
If I made my roads broader, they would

be ruined in a twelvemonth, for the native
Avill walk in sinoie file. Put a man with
a stick behind him, and he will not, I think
cannot, by instinct, march abreast Avitli,
another. On a wide road the people turn
and twist, treading in one another's footsteps,
and the bush springs up between
with such rapidity as one would not credit
who had not observed the marvel. My
roads are straight, so narrow that men
cannot straggle, but so smooth that one
does not follow in another's footsteps, and
thus they are preserved.'

Can you give us guides to Telaga ?'
A hundred, from my body-guard alone.
The colonel himself shall accompany you.
He was sold me as a slave, but in his own
country, near Telaga, he was a great caho-
cheer. The private enemies who defeated
and took him have been ruined. So traders
report, and they offer me a great price for
jMoosa Abram : have I mentioned that the

people there are all ^lahommedan ? Moose
is free, of course, but he will not go.'

When would you advise us to start ?'
Prince asked.

The sooner the better.'

How many elephants do you think it
necessary to destroy, Bob, for your happiness
in this world and the next ?'

I must have twelve tusks. Then, with
an easy conscience, at peace with man and
beast, I will accompany you to Telamon

the march next day, they stopped
for a picnic breakfast in the forest, and at
night reached another bamboo palace. So,
journeying pleasantly and easily, they
reached ]\Ianfi on the fifth da^^

CHAPTER III.

AN ELEPHANT HUNT.

DO not remember anything of
special interest to report concerning
Manfi. The resident
population may be almost as large, and as
well-to-do, as that of Coomassie. But there
are no town-houses of great feudatory
chiefs ; no retinues of a thousand or ten
thousand armed men pour into the streets
of a morning. The two cities are alike in
general character. The white King of
Manfi had not tried to introduce European
fashions, and in that neglect he showed
wisdom. It must be borne in mind, however,

that the Ashanti model in itself is an
immense improvement on the barbarism of
the coast negro. But for his own comfort
Quantiahah Kootlah had made innovations of
a practical sort. The palace is surrounded
by walls, decorated on the outside with
battles and state ceremonies, as is usual.
The system of courtyards is unchanged.
The Kin2:'s own lodo^ino:, however, is a
house, with rooms, windows, doors, after a
civilized design. Ashen the Ashanti
monarch seeks privacy in the daytime, he
can only draw the curtains of his alcove, or
clear the yard. A bedroom he possesses
truly, hung with silk, its door covered with
gold plates, its furniture a wealth of gold —
that is to say, he has such an apartment, if
the perishing of the new palace bears
comparison with the old, which we blew
up. But it resembles a long cupboard ; its
single window is not two feet square.
During daylight the heat must be intolerable.

Quantiahah Kootlah had a house of
his own, shared only by his children and
the domestic slaves. He lodged his visitors
in an outer court beside it.

The sovereign's return, here as in other
lands, was signalized by a grand reception.
The chiefs present at Manfi and those of
the neighbourhood danced before their
King upon the market square. Such a
ceremonial the Englishmen had seen at
Coomassie, but they observed a striking
difference in the appearance of the cabot
These were mostly young, or in the
prime of life, warriors all. The fine dignity
of the Ashanti nobleman, conscious of ancestors
and traditions, was almost lacking.
In appearance and form the Manfi dignitaries
could not compare with those
courteous cut-throats. But the wealth displayed
was surprising. In a scene like this,
when active exertion was required, chiefs
did not wear more gold than they could

carry. But to compensate for this sacrifice,
they decked their favourite slaves with
nuggets, stringing them round chest and
arms until the unfortunates could scarcely
toddle.

The reception finished, Quantiahah Kootlah
announced his intention of hunting, and the
air rang with jubilation. One after another
the caboceers declared that this resolve was
the single blessing for which they had
craved, that pernicious beasts would extinguish
themselves when they heard of
it, did they not long for the honour of
death at his Majesty's hand. Little Yini
translated these remarks in her funny Avay
quite gravely.

You people arc great shikaris, it seems,'
said Hugh, as they walked homeward beside
the King's chair, amidst a dancing, yelling,
volleying crowd.

Quite the contrary. AVe have a class of
hunters, but neither chiefs nor populace

understand the Englishman's love of sport.
Those observations were quite conventional.
They do not really think I mean to hunt —
and there they are quite right. Your arrival
is a mystery on which they lay awful
significance, and the popular notion is, I
suspect, that we are going together to the
woods for the performance of some unutterable
ceremonies which will knock Ashanti
and Dahomey into two cocked-hats.'

I wish we could for their sake,' said
Prino^le.

Your caboceers are a rough set, but
manly, I should think.'

They would not hold their positions if
they weren't. We have no room in ]\Ianfi
for ornamental aristocrats. Most of those
fellows have been slaves, promoted for good
behaviour in the field. I kicked out my
Ashanti dandies years ago. If I had not,
they would long since have solved our
political difficulties in the Borgia manner.'

I should not have supposed that such
masterful people were addicted to those
practices.'

We have an idea in England that brave
men are straightforward in policy and
action. If that were true in any sense of
Christians, it is not a maxim to trust in
Africa. I have lived five years under risk
of assassination from hour to hour. Against
the knife I take precaution, but they have
means more effective. The knowledge of
these people in herbs is astonishing, and
their methods of using the knowledge
diabolically ingenious. I could tell stories
of patient craft, of deep-laid combinations
minutely thought out and varied under
circumstances as they occurred, which you
could scarcely parallel. Ashanti herbalists
are not limited to killing and curing. They
can affect a man's mind. From the composition
of a love-philtre to a lotion for dyeing
hair or restoring it, they are adepts.'

You bear your anxieties well, King.'

Not Avell, Alien I think about them.
AVho was it said that a prisoner could
always escape in the long-run, because he
must be always thinking of getting out
whilst his gaolers would not always bethinking
of keeping him in ? It is not
true, anyhow. But my case is just the
reverse. I have guards incorruptible and
devoted. I have the cleverest of all the
Gri-gri women in the country, who is responsible
for what I eat and drink and
wear, and almost see. But sooner or later
the enemy will break in.'

The King was agitated, and Prince
changed the subject. But after awhile it
recurred.

I should like to see your Gri-gri woman, ^
said Bob.

Memi Gisha ? She would seem to you
the most amiable, motherly negress in the
world. I have the utmost respect and confidence

in her for all that relates to my
family and my interests. But she has
terrible secrets. She is an awful woman!'

Would you mind telling us wdiat you
know of Fetish worship ?' Prince asked.

As a worship, it is nonsense so gross
that no human being could heed it. The
missionaries see no further, and their simple
souls are amazed. Politically, the thing is
not a worship, but a system, based upon a
consummate knowledge of herbs, a profound
acquaintance with human nature, and a
fearful familiarity With those mysteries we
used to call at Oxford — what was the word ?
Electric '

Electro-biology,' said Hugh. ' So you
were at Oxford, King?'

I have passed through many mills !
A ]\Iiss Eagle, there, astonished us with
her tricks. Memi Gisha would smile at
them.'

She is a "white witch," I suppose?'

Towards me and mine. What she
does outside I don't ask, and, indeed,
I aren't. Such power is a fearful temptation.
This I know, that it kills the moral
sense.'

But you are not afraid of treachery ?'

Little Yini is her idol. My child protects
me. But pray let us drop the subject,
gentlemen.'

At the evening meal he gave his visitors
much useful information about elephants in
that part of the world.

Our hunting,' said the King, ' is very
different from the Indian. We have only
too many elephants in the part to which I
shall take you. My hunters always know
where to find the biggest tusks, and their
trouble is to isolate the old bull. Men
armed with spears, you know, must get
close to the game before attacking, and
African elephants charge if they find themselves
pressed. Then the spearmen help

VOL. III. 47

one another, but accidents are terribly common.'


I wonder you have not tried to tame the
beasts if they are so numerous,' Prince
observed.

That question touches one of the stock
arguments which prove the negro's stupidity
to us superior beings ; but in fact it
proves our thoughtless ignorance, nothing
more. If you travel With my men as far as
Telaga, I'll be bound you will see cause to
admit that they are shrewd and ingenious
enough for their purposes. They know
that elephants may be tamed, but what
would be the use of them to us? AVhat
should I do with one, much more with a
stableful ? Men must reach a point in
civilization before they can utilize the elephant.
Where there are no roads, no steady
commerce, no public works, no room for a
pitched battle, even horses are in the way.
If you urge that these deficiencies prove the

negro to be stupid, I could meet you there,
if it were worth while. But that's another
argument, anyway.'

It's obvious enough when you come
to think of it,' said Hugh. ' But allow me
to say that I am thinking what a strange
life yours must have been.'

Do you find your own so strange ?'
Ko such luck up to this.'

But you may win a kingdom just as
easily as I did, if you choose. I don't admit
anything extraordinary about it, beyond
the first step of embarking to seek a fortune
on this coast.'

Would it be improper to ask if you had
any ambition of finding a kingdom when
you came here ?'

I had a firm intention of amusing myself,
that's all. And I have succeeded.'

Quantiahah Kootlah's manner was not encouraging,
but the young men felt too
much curiosity to let this reference slip.

47—2

West Africa is an odd place to seek
either fortune or amusement,' said Prince.

That is probably the reason whv I have
found both. Without asking your own
motives for coming here, I trust you maybe
as successful.'

A clean hit, Prince !' Hugh laughed.
But Prince Ekmo told us that you were
settled at Cape Coast.'

The King flushed angrily. ' He told you
I was in business? — behind the counter,
perhaps? No one knows better than Prince
Ekmo that my trading career was an adventure.
Chance brought me here. I
happened to fall into a scrape, happened to
meet the captain of a steamer who was an
acquaintance. He happened to be sailing-next
day, and invited me to accompany him
as a guest — but I paid my fare. The steamer
happened to be going to this coast, and one
of the passengers asked me to stay with
him. The idea struck me as droll. I

accepted, meaning to go on in a few weeks.
But things were lively at Cape Coast just
then. The Ashantis had crossed the Pray,
and business was downright exciting, I
plunged into commerce in a very uncommercial
spirit, but I succeeded in making it
pay when other people were ruined. Some
of them caused questions to be asked in
Parliament. The Governor of Cape Coast
was an excellent fellow, but wanting in the
courage of his opinions. I saw that there
is no career for honest enterprise within
the reach of an emasculate and hysterical
legislature, and very cheerfully I took refuge
among savages, who are men at least.'

That is rather a favourite notion of
yours, King, isn't it ? You think that the
nearer a man approaches the brute the more
human he is?' said Prince.

Such questions, sir, need a fineness and
a variety of distinction which I don't think
they deserve for their intrinsic importance.
They bore me.'

But please explain this particular instance.
I ask it in the name of hospitality.'


That is sacred with us savages — is it
sacred with 3'ou? Briefly, then, I hold that
those acts of mine which irritated and
alarmed the English Government, and
English morality, and Heaven knows what
else, were very proper under the circumstances
— such as men in a healthy frame of
mind regard as so natural that it would nota



occur to them even to think before acting.'

They were done to further your advantage
?'

Yes, sir.'

I do not mean to give offence. You
will admit that a story so strange as yours
lends an interest to the observation of its
hero's character which will justify inquiry.
And you are in a healthy frame of mind,
King, I hope ?'

Quantiahah Kootlah laughed. 'A good

point. Yes, I am in a healthy frame of
mind when I recollect myself, but old prejudices
arise now and then. I thank you,
Captain Prince, for the hint. Go on with
your studies.'

I don't ask what the acts were '

But I will tell you. I waged private
warfare.'

And killed people, I suppose ? With
the object of furthering your own purposes,
which, as I understand, were partly to
make a fortune, but more especially to
amuse yourself ?'

Hugh was shocked, and he cried out ; but
the King smiled.

Yes,' he said. ' That is what it came
to. In the pursuit of their own fortune
and amusement certain persons got in the
way of my enterprises for the same object.
They would not have been so unreasonable
as to complain of my proceedings; they
simply resisted them. And if the result

had been otherwise, I should not have complained
of theirs.'

Allow me to say, King, that my researches
thus far tend to persuade me that
you are a very fine example of an anachronism.'


So I used to think sometimes, I remember,
when I was a boy and used long words.
At present I am not so certain as I should
like to be of the meaning of " anachronism." '

Bob Holmes had been listening with the
quaint gravity habitual to him. Said he :
The hardest word they gave me to spell at
Sandhurst was " logarithm." Let me call
your attention to the fact. King, that neither
Hugh nor I have taken any share in this
impertinent examination. You are going
to summon the executioners, of course.
Please impress upon them that Ave are
guiltless '

I shall not foil to draw a distinction
when the time comes. Captain Prince is

diverting me quite as much as himself.
Pray don't discourage him. What is the
next question, Captain Prince ?'

Have I carte blanche under your sign-manual,
sir?'

You have. Say what you please.'

Your career must have had many
thrilling incidents. King ; and from the
glimpse you show us of your character, I
see that you could tell them in the most
interesting way. May I hope that some
day we shall hear the legend ?'

Perhaps — but not here.'

I should particularly like to gather
something, if it may be suggested without
offence, of your early life among the degenerate
sons of men in England — not of
your family, of course, King, but of your
training.'

'What do you imagine? Was I in the
service ?'

Not for any length of time, I think.'

Why not?'

You are too irregular in your ways of
thought.'

Could you believe I had been a clergyman
?'

Yes, I think I could believe that. Decidedly,
if I am to choose among the professions,
I should say you joined the Church —
and didn't agree with it.'

The King laughed heartily, and seemed
willing to pursue the subject. But at this
moment little Yini interrupted them, bursting
in with petulant clamour. She ran to
her father, and volubly upbraided him. A
child more quaintly pretty could not well
be found even in Europe. The Ashantis
had treated lier kindly, and made a distinction
by allowing her to wear a robe. Buta
slave little Yini had been for months, and
lier face had darkened by exposure. The
natural hue of the skin was golden bronze,
and the only distinct sign of negro blood was

visible in her hair, which, though not exactly
woolly, might be combed out straight to a
surprising length and made to stand horizontally.
It had a reddish tinge, so pronounced
that the sunshine sparkled in it.
The features were round and more fleshy,
perhaps, than those of a pretty English girl
at the corresponding age. The nose wanted
prominence ; the lips were gathered and
folded like a half-blown rose. An expert
will recognise these marks not unfrequently
amonjr white o:irls, who would be astonished
at the hint of negro parentage in some remote
generation. The eyes were large and grey,
full of roguish intelligence. And the figure,
of course, was perfect in slender, lissom
grace.

Yini sprang upon her father's knee and
hugged him, whilst arguing and coaxing
without a pause. Her arms were bound
with strings of snowy shells, and coils of
nuggets, very light, mere strips of metal.

suspended on a cord. That form of
jewellery is as quaint as charming of effect,
but ill-adapted for caresses. Quantiahah
Kootlah grimaced while he laughed, and
tried to push his little girl away ; but the
more he struggled the more tightly she
clung, the more impetuously she talked and
kissed, whilst nipping his flesh among a
thousand small machines of torture.

There, there!' he cried at length, 'you
shall go. Only get up.'

With a final twist of all the excruciating
appliances at her command, she bounded
off.

I say, you fellows Bob !' she cried, ' I
go !' and vanished, while the King sat
ruefully smoothing the back of his neck.
When the laughter had subsided, Prince
observed :

Surely that child is not even half
black?'

No. The mother came from the farthest

inland country, so distant that the Ashanti
slave-dealers did not recognise her tribe-mark.'


May one ask how you found her?' asked
Hugh. ' We are all interested in your
children.'

Their mother's story is a common one.
She passed from one slave-dealer to another,
as a baby, and she remembered actually
nothing of her people. I bought her on
my first visit to Coomassie. — Now I will tell
you my plans. I have some business in a
district where elephants abound, and I
propose to take you with me. Some part
of the way we have a passable road, that
leading to Telaga; by-the-bye, orders are
issued to mend the bush-path as well as
time allows. I have a small country house
on Bozo Hill which wee will make our headquarters,
if it is not beyond repair. Starting
tomorrow afternoon, we shall reach our
hunting-ground on the morning of the

third day. I shall leave you and the
children for twenty-four hours ; after that
I will stay a couple of days. And if you
are not satisfied then, I must return without
you and arrange accordingly.'

We are most fateful, Kino 1 Your
export of ivory is very large, I suppose?'

If it were, the game would not be so
plentiful. You see, gentlemen, I have no
trade. At certain intervals, my friends on
the coast send me gunpowder and arms and
such things, but they take payment only in
gold. Ivory is cumbersome merchandise,
and it invites attack. If I dared make the
expedition, whilst Ashanti threatens my
flank, I could clear a trade route to the
Volta, and then this country would see
changes.'

Listen to our overtures then, and makepeace
with Ashanti ! — You keep hunters,
however ?'

The caboceer of Bozo furnishes me with

a hundred leopard-skins a year, and he hasa
staff of shikaris. They kill elephants
also, for our small trade.'

Next afternoon they started on the
Telaga road. The giant colonel accompanied
them, with two hundred of the
body-guard. Though the King marched in
little state, an army of slaves and carriers
had preceded them. Yini and Juma rode
in their man-carriages, with a retinue of
women and girls, nurses, servants, and
playfellows. At the evening camp, huts
were ready and supper prepared. After the
early march next day they left the highroad
for a bush-track, hastily set in order
for the monarch's use. Signs of elephant
were plenty before evening, and continued
to increase as the travellers approached their
destination. Villages became less frequent;
as for cultivation, that of course lay hid, if
it existed, behind a mask of trees.

The third morning: brought them to

Bozo Hill, upon the crest of which they
found a substantial house, in great need of
repair. Slaves Avere patching it up in haste.
The caboceer of the district awaited them.
He reported that his men had singled, out a
herd, containing an enormous tusker. Its
noon resting-place could be foretold by
these experienced trackers in the morning,
and they would lead the party straight upon
it. meantime, other herds would be driven
off, so far as possible.

The King purposed to leave at dawn,
with the greater part of his retinue.

There is not the slightest danger,' he
said — ' not, I mean, under these walls. Bat
in the bush you must depend upon yourselves.
Elephant-hunting is no sport for
cripples ! I confess that I am not without
anxiety on your account. Remember you
will find no support in my negroes. They
could not help you if they would, and they
will certainly not try!'

After the King's departure the hours
were all too long. At ten o'clock the
shikaris arrived, and little Yini translated
their report, which was most satisfactory.
With her girl suite she accompanied them
down the hill, but halted, like a good child,
at the place her father desired.

The elephant down there,' she said, ' not
far. I wait, listen — boom — boom! Goodbye,
Bob I Bless you ! Take care of yourself!'

She kissed them all, hugged her favourite,
and started some noisy game with her
comrades.

Hush, dear!' said Bob, turning. ' You
will frio-ten the fj^ame !'

Oh no I I ask the hunter-man ! He
tells wind strong. Be off, you fellows !'

So far as they understood the arrangements,
which the King had explained before
starting, a body of negroes would circle
round the elephants at such a distance as
would set them moving down the wind,
VOL. III. 48

without alarming them. The direction of
their retreat was guessed with tolerable
certainty, and to make sure, scouts posted
in the trees would send a message. Negroes
accompanying the hunters were to lead them
across the track. The Englishmen thought
that such great beasts would hardly fail to
give ample warning of their approach, even
in that dense jungle.

The march was toilsome and uncomfortable.
They had to make their way through
jungle matted and interlaced, among leeches
and ants underfoot, stinoinii" flies in hi<j:
mud nests upon the brandies. The negroes
slipped through the undergrowth like
shadows, skirting a place impracticable
but never losing the direction. For two
hours they struggled on, soaked with
perspiration, bruised and irritated. Then a
scout met them, and they badly felt the
absence of an interpreter. His animated
whispers were unintelligible. ]sob grew

tired of pantomime. Eagerly and impatiently
he signified assent, and they resumed their
way. Presently the negroes, who had been
growing more and more excited, paused,
listened, and consulted below their breath.
One pushed ahead so quietly that the
branches did not even rustle. His comrades
waited silent, trembling with expectation.
In a few moments he returned, softly as he
went. His eyes rolled. Putting his mouth
to Hugh's ear he whispered hastily, nodded,
gesticulated, and stole away. The others
followed, vanishing among the brushwood ;
left the Englishmen staring in bewilderment
! They stood close together. No
sound was heard but the soothing and
rustling of the wind at a giddy height
aloft. Suddenly, above his head, not five
paces ofi', Hugh saw a grey shadow
behind the green. Under the excitement of
the moment, startled, forgetting all prudence,
he threw up his gun and fired. A roar

48—2

like an earthquake mingled with the report ;
the timber crashed, Hugh Alas caught round
the shoulders, snatched high in air, hurled
smashing through the boughs ; and simultaneously
rose screams and trumpeting on
every side — the forest bent and swayed
with awful clamour. The wounded elephant
stood still, roaring incessantly, seeking for
his victim with trunk upraised and glaring-eyes.
He had stepped out and towered
over Bob and Print-le, showing all his
mighty carcase. They both fired, and their
balls tore ragged holes in the dun mass. It
stood a moment swaying to and fro, then
fell as a house falls, with a thud that shook
the earth, snapping one of its great tusks,
kicked spasmodically, and lay still.

They ran to pick up Hugh, whilst the
din of the elephants escaping echoed into
the distance. He lay stunned, bleeding
from cars and nostrils. The negroes reappearing,
looked in horror, and vanished.

Bob saw the movement, and tried to catch
one of them, but vainly. Prince and he
were left alone with their senseless comrade.
Inexperienced Avoodsmen as they were, they
knew the peril of this situation. Firing
guns at intervals, they made a litter of
boughs and strips of clothing, placed Hugh
upon it, and set back the way they had
come. Prince took the lead, with a painful
sense of responsibility, for on his eyes their
lives depended. And they failed at starting.
Before he had gone a hundred yards along
the trail he had lost it. Setting down the
litter, they searched, thought they regained
the trace, and proceeded onward a few yards,
only to prove themselves lost indeed. So
they wandered.

Nobody answered their shots, but time
after time they felt a consciousness of
human presence, as if men looked at them
from hiding stealthily. The sense of
passionate bewilderment, so near akin to

madness, was rising in their minds. They
struggled against it, Jut each saw his own
wild impulse reflected in the other's pallid
streaming face and feverish eyes.

For near three hours they had been
roaming helplessly, unconscious of fatigue
or hunger, Avhen they thought they heard
faint cries echoing in the hot stillness of
the wood, and answered hoarsely. Nearer
and nearer drew the voices, shrill and
girlish. Presently a child came out, the
glints of sunlight sparkling on her naked
shoulders and bent head. With eyes fixed
upon the ground, she was following their
steps. In an instant little Yini sprang
to the front, threw herself into Bob's arms,
screaming with delight. He devoured her
with kisses, and passed her on to Prince.
But the sight of Hugh stretched upon his
litter struck her with dismay. They took
him up and set forward, guided by the
slave-girls, who followed the trail slowly

but with confidence towards the spot where
the dead elephant lay.

When Yini understood what had
happened, she explained her own sagacious
little doings. One of the negroes who
bolted came to warn those who had stayed
with their princess. The repeated shots
had already drawn her back to the rendezvous,
and she heard the negroes report
that the white chiefs were all killed.

I tell that a great big lie.' Yini recounted,
when we hear guns. But them hunter-men
say King make all dead, because you
dead. Not listen to me. They run away
all right, every man Jack. So I pack
up with them girls, and here we are. All
right, you fellows Bob ?'

Thanks to you, darling little heroine !
Where have the hunter-men gone to ?'

Don't know, don't care ! My father
take them heads. I tell him girl fetch
slaves. And here they are. Hurray!'

A number of the royal servants appeared ;
"with eyes rolling in alarm they saw the
procession. Yini directed them to take the
litter, and they strode off with it. From
that moment the small princess gave u])
her functions of utility.

Come here, you fellows Bob, I am
tired. My little feet ache ! Xone of your
cheek ! Take me up !'

After some grateful, laughing kisses Bob
shouldered the feather-weight and bore her
along, chattering. Messengers sent on
warned the household, and all was ready
when they got in; the old women doctors
had their liniments prepared and their
medicines brewing. Hugh Alas undressed
and washed. Iso bones Avere broken, the
women declared ; but all their science could
not bring back consciousness. After many
hours' effort they despaired, and fetched
Yini from sleep to explain that ^lemi
Gisha must deal with this serious case. A

runner started instantly. In eight hours
the summons should reach Manfi, and by
next midnight Memi Gisha should arrive,
travelling in one of the royal litters, with
frequent relays.

Throughout the day there was no change
in Hugh's condition, excepting that his face
swelled and darkened. The women-doctors
showed readiness and self-confidence, but
there were complications that perplexed
them. With much anxiety the coming of
Memi Gisha was expected. In the morning
she arrived ; an elderly negress, with a
grave presence, tattooed on forehead, chin,
and cheek-bones. Hitherto there had been
no Gri-gri work done, at least conspicuous;
but on entering' the house Memi Gisha fixed

a

strings in the doors and knotted them.
Other ceremonies she performed before looking
at her patient. Locks of human hair —
her own wool, probably — were tied round
his great toes and thumbs. But these

formalities were brief, and she proceeded to
a minute and intelligent examination.
With a razor ground to the keenest point,
she opened a vein in Hugh's temple. As
the blood flowed, the features seemed to
contract. Not a Avoid was spoken until,
after binding up the wound, ^lemi Gisha
retired to the courtyard, and began to
search onions; her baskets. Yini then
questioned her, and translated the replies.

Him woman tell Hugh's head hurt.
Lie give him thing. To-morrow he turnout
mad. Him fever catch poor Hugh.
Plum woman tell, oh, he's in a bad way.'

The King returned early, for news of the
accident had reached him. ]\Iemi Gisha's
report became more intelligible under his
interpretation. She said that Hugh was
suffering from concussion of the brain.
Unconsciousness would end in a few
hours, but brain fever might probably
ensue. His state, already perilous, was

aggravated by an attack of the country
fever. Things looked very bad indeed.

The result was that predicted. Hugh
opened his eyes and spoke, but not intelligently.
He rambled in a drowsy, melancholy
way, shedding tears, displaying no
violence. After two days in this misery
the King demanded a frank report. Memi
Gisha declared there was little hope. Hugh
might waste away and die without recovering
his senses, even if the fever did not
turn to jaundice, nor settle into coma.

A week passed ; the King could wait no
longer. All returned, to Manfi, Hugh
neither suffering nor mending for the
change. Memi Gisha was unremitting in
her care. Once, when Prince lamented
they had no English doctor, the King said :

Do not let that thought increase your
anxiety. The best of European science
could not save him if Memi fails. I have
had much sad experience on the coast. I

have seen many men die under a doctor's
hand, but very few in the hands of these
old negresses. They have secrets good and
evil, which would amaze our science.'

Hugh got weaker and weaker. His skin
took a yellowish hue, his eyes evidently
pained him. He seemed to be relapsing
into insensibility, which this time would
be the coma, the fatal symptom. Yini had
ceased to plaj^; she beat her little brother,
finding him busy at a game of death and
burial with his playmates. Memi Gisha
declared that the time had come for desperate
remedies, to prevent the sick man
from falling into stupor, when he must
perish. They gave her authority to do
what she thought best. A dose of strong:
herbs was administered. Half an hour
afterwards Hugh roused himself, laughed
feebly, and talked in eager whispers.

Now,' said the King, ' if he sleeps presently,
the crisis is past — we may hope.

If not, if he shows signs of stupor, another
dose must be given, and that can scarcely
fail to kill with a violent inflammation. It
is the only chance, however. By morning
we shall know.'

When his excitement had worn off, Hugh
fell quietly asleep) for an hour. He woke, and
though almost dying, smiled recognition of
his comrades before domino; off ao-ain. Then
Memi Gisha pronounced that the fever had
left him. With the troubles and perils ot
his convalescence she felt herself able to
cope. In the grey of dawn the friends
sought their mats and thanked God fervently
aloud. Yini had kept beside him
through the night, curled upon the floor.
She looked from Bob to her father, as they
spoke.

Thank God for this great mercy,' she
repeated. ' What thank God?'

The lung's dark face coloured, and he
looked away.

From that time Hugh began to mend.
Prince and Bob returned presently to Bozo
Hill, and shot several elephants. For, at
their earnest entreaty, the King had sent to
the shikaris' hiding-place, beyond his frontier,
assuring them of pardon, and declaring
that no harm should befall them, even incase
of another accident. But when his
comrades returned, Hugh had made little
progress. Memi Gisha confessed that all
her knowledge could not set him on his
legs for a month, nor could he hope to
travel for three or four. Under these circumstances
Hugh begged the others to
leave him. The journey to Telaga and a
quick return would occupy six months or
thereabouts. He could amuse himself very
for that time in (^uantiah Kootlah's
domains. The elephants owed him a revenge,
and in other parts giraffes, leopards,
endless big game abounded. And at length
the\- i»"ave wa', setting; off into the wilderness,

pursued by Yini's tearful adieu to her
dear fellows Bob.'

# # # #

It was about this time that Grace Palliser
visited Beaverlowe. When, at her request,
Mr. Beaver ceased to countenance Mrs.
Saxell's projects, that lady was anxious to
leave forthwith. But Grace had never
been so comfortably established in her own
element, and by the exercise of that diplomacy
which came so natural and so simple
to her mind that she could not have believed
it reprehensible, the difficulty was
overcome. Mrs. Saxell perceived that it
would be silly to quarrel with her host
because he expressed a disagreeable opinion
on a point of law. She consulted him in a
friendly manner as to the next step, and
found him ready with advice.

On the evening of the same day, Mrs.
Saxell told Mr. Beaver that her lawyer was
instructed to communicate with the executors

of Raises's will, Major St. Paul and
Dick, demanding why they had not carried
out their duties, and threatening a motion.
She had also written to the authorities of
Chelsea Hospital, inviting them to cooperate.


I am so grateful for your kind hint,' she
said, ' and you see I have acted on it at
once.'

Don't exaggerate, my dear madam. I
only pointed out a course which your own
lawyer would have recommended without
hesitation. To speak frankly, it is because
he would do so that I made the suggestion.
My sympathies, as I have already said, go
with Mrs. Acland.'

I could almost envy that woman one
quality. She fascinates all who come
within her reach.'

Yes, it is an interesting character. I
am often reminded of her in observing your
niece.'

I hope Grace Palliser has better principles,'
Mrs. Saxell said, drawing herself
up.

N^o doubt. Her intelligence and her
spirit are of less subtle type than Mrs.
Acland's. There is the same pleasing unconsciousness
of artificial rules, but Miss
Palliser would be saved from any act of
meanness or disloyalty by a sort of courage
which I should call virile.'

Sir, do I understand that the qualities
belonging to her sex would not save my
niece, in your opinion?'

Ah, you scarcely understand me — it is
a nice distinction. I may display my
meaning practically. You are aware that
1 was anxious to persuade Miss Palliser to
accept me as a husband in the first
moments of our acquaintance. Further
study of her character has not changed
my wish, but has greatly strengthened it.'

You have been so good as to assure me

VOL. III. 49

of this before, and you know my feelings.
For all Mrs. Aeland's fascinations you
would not have offered her that honour ?'

I should have liked to do so twenty
sears ago, but I should not have dared.
In the choice of a wife, a Beaver cannot
follow his inclinations against his judgment,
and, young as I was, I understood
]airs. Acland. The most charming of
women, but devoid of what is called moral
fibre. I am deeply interested and concerned
to see what she will do under the
circumstances that have arisen.'

I can tell you that by woman's instinct.
She will brazen it out to the
last.'

I think not. It is a matter which has
occupied my thoughts a good deal. Your
charming studies of female instinct do not
bear on such a case, perhaps.'

AVhat do you think, then ?'

If I had not done my very best for her,

it would distress me very much to speculate.
I am always frank, Mrs. Saxell ; and besides,
I took my measures before I had the
pleasure of your acquaintance. When those
perjured witnesses are sought, they will not
be found, I hope. That relieves my mind.
Whatever happens, I have worked and run
some risk to divert the mischief

You have sent away the witnesses ?'

Many weeks ago. Pray don't argue
the right or wrong of that action — moral
logic is thrown away on me. We had more
than a small share in making the laws
which the world obeys, and it is not unnatural,
perhaps, that we should think ourselves
superior to them — not unreasonable
even, to our ideas.'

Mrs. Saxell controlled her indignation
with a great effort, aided by the assurance
that it would do no good at all. After a
pause she said :

Was not that a criminal offence ?'

49—2

'I rather incline to think it was!' he
answered indifferently.

The visit drew to an end. Grace had
been brought to express a wish to circumnavigate
the Beaverlowe property, and next
day, after lunch, she rode out alone with
her host. He was complimentary as usual,
until Grace interrupted.

But I know it all, ]mr. Beaver ! I am
Aphrodite Anadyomene, Venus of Aries,
Milo, Medici, and Borghese — but improved
on the last. j\Iy eyes recall the azure of
the sky that overhangs Paradise. M}'
mouth is an oyster '

Excuse me — an oyster ?'

Why, yes. It contains pearls, and it is
food for Olympians. Now, will you take
the catalogue as read in future, and talk of
drainage or something ?'

Most precious gem of the gynaceum,
when the afflatus rises into his soul the
prophet cannot discourse of drainage.'

Well, I gathered from those interminable
lectures which Dick bestowed upon my
darling Edie, that when a Brahmin wishes
to express ideas of respect and admiring
devotion unspeakable, he says briefly,
Om." That monosyllable conveys to the
initiated an overpowering sense of Everything.
I allow you to employ the sacred
forms of the Brahmin.'

I cannot '

Cannot is not the word for Aphrodite.
Tremble and obey.'

What an '

'Om!'

How could '

'Om!'

I submit. Your eyes — om ! om ! om !
What do you wish me to talk about ?'

About your estate. I have enjoyed
myself so intensely at Beaverlowe, that I
feel an interest in every acre of it. Those
acres are the means, I imagine — the apparatus

by which you perform such extraordinary
feats of legerdemain. Are we
going round the conjuring table, so to
speak ?'

I'm sure I don't know. If I have been
performing conjurer's tricks it was under
an inspiration. You, Miss Palliser '

Don't drive me to say " Om !" '

No, I am serious. It is not a compliment
I am going to pay you, but a mere
statement of truth.'

Now, please, Mr. Beaver !'

It has been on my lips for a month past,
and '

Oh, keep it there!'

Beaver frowned impatiently.

I am old,' he said ; ' unfit for a young
girl's love ;' and paused as if for a contradiction.


You have the philosopher's stone Grace
answered, thoughtlessly.

Yes. I can make you happy. That

power comes to me through a combination
of accidents and qualities. I could astonish
the universe, and I will, to give you pleasure.
Don't interrupt, please, but think of
"what I say. Imagine life with the average
young man of average means and average
ideas, whom your commoner instincts might
tempt you to love. Fancy your own eternal
dissatisfaction, fruitless longings, and desperate
regrets — fancy his complaints of
disorder and extravagance — the commonplace
children, the commonplace friends,
the commonplace husband growing fat.
AVould love hold out ? and if it did, would
it console ? Would you not recall this day
sadly, and the old conjurer who offered
such a different lot ?'

You give me credit for more imagination
than I possess. Perhaps you are right —
that I say frankly and heartily. But I am
unused to thinking. Will you kindly
change the conversation now ?'

As long as we live, whatever you
resolve, I will do what a man may to please
you. How long do you ask — a month —
two months ?'

Grace was astonished, rather vexed possibly,
expecting him to grant only an hour
or a day. Her tone showed the feeling.

Two months, please! This is the 10th;
on the 10th of February, if you are still
anxious to hear, I will give a reply !'

So let it be !' he answered gravely, and
through the afternoon talked history and
agriculture, without a single reference to
the topic. He gave droll little family
legends, sketches of character, projects of
improvement, and so on. Grace felt somehow
that he claimed her and meant to take
her. It was an influence so subtle that she
could only resist it by pertness, and then
Mr. Beaver was so gravely concerned, so
anxious to understand exactly what was
meant by a meaningless sneer, that she felt

ashamed. Before they reached home, an
understanding "was accepted — light as air,
not recorded in one syllable — that at the
end of two months Miss Palliser might consent
to be mistress of the acres they had
traversed. And in the evening the Duchess
congratulated her, with such delicacy and
discretion that Grace could hardly have
rejected the kindly words without an explanation.
She was just a little impatient,
a very little vexed, rather proud, and immensely
flattered. Under these mingled
feelings Grace found no answer at all, and
before bedtime, as instinct told her, every
woman in the room was envious, and
almost every man thought Beaver's luck
stupendous.

NEWS FROM THE COAST.

Junior United Sennce Club,
'December 10,

'Y DEAR DICK,

I have received a letter,
enclosed, which, as far as I
understand it, suggests that our trouble in
re Sergeant Raises's will is not over yet.
The hall-porter has shown me the correspondence
waiting here for you, and I think
there is ii facsimile of my despatch among it.
Will you kindly let me know what this
means? And as quick as possible? I have
not overcome my early horror of lawyers'

letters, and this seems almost more ominous
than most.

Yours,

'J. L. St. Paul— Major.'

Florence,

'December 14.

My dear Major,

The lawyers' communication surprised
me quite as much. It is, in brief, a
summons to the executors of Raises's will
to execute the trusts thereby imposed on
them. I have written the hall-porter to
forward my letters, and no doubt, as you
say, I shall find a facsimile among them.

The meaning of it is plain, though I
am not well informed in such matters. My
mother has no share nor interest in the
considerations which induced me to abandon
the legacy, and ladies are said to be more
tenacious of their rights than men. I will
tell you frankly that I did not wish my

mother to prosecute her claim, and I thought
she could not whilst I refused. The lawyers
are too many for me. This notice charges
us to give effect to Raises's injunctions, or
to show cause why we should not do so.

I don't see my way at all, but you will
have neither trouble nor expense. Your
course, I suppose, is clear. Acknowledge
the letter, referring those people to Gorman,
Solicitor, Lincoln's Inn, and expect me
within a day or two. Don't bother yourself
about it.

Yours,

Richard Saxell.'

Dick now called daily on Mrs. Acland,
and often escorted the ladies. No news
came from Dunscombe or of him ; he seemed
to have quite vanished from the story.
Dick was astonished, therefore, to meet him
in the street, as he returned from posting
his letter to St. Paul.

How is she ?' asked Dunscombe abruptly,
taking his arm. 'Well? Thank Grot! It's
all over, Saxell! Hugh is killed on the
West Coast. Now we can surrender everything
to your mother — shut her mouth, and
be happy !'

Good heavens ! I never saw Hugh, but
T am very grieved. He was your friend —
your greatest friend, I understand?'

The reproach made Dunscombe colour.

At one time,' he answered with embarrassment.
' Not lately. I would have
done anything to save the poor boy — anything
— but he is dead. I cannot help
thinking what a relief it will be as soon as
they recover the shock. I must break it
cautiously. There will be a sad scene.'

Ay, until they admit the relief. Are
you quite sure that the good news is
true ?'

I've the paper with me. Come into this
cafe. Look here !

" Cape Coast Castle,

" November 28.

" Two Fantis who were eno^ao-ed at this
]place by Messrs. Prince, Holmes, and
Acland for their expedition to Telaga have
been recognised at Addah. They state that
those gentlemen were massacred in the
kingdom of Manfi, three months ago. The
authorities at Addah have detained the men.
The Governor has sent a gunboat from this
place to bring them in."

It's official, you see. Poor Hugh !'

Allow me to break this news, Lord
Dunscombe.'

It's not the sort of mission one would
grudge a friend generally, but I am the
proper person, I think.'

As for that, I do not know ; but if you
are the proper person, yours is not the
proper spirit,' said Dick firmly. ' We will
go together, if sou like.'

I do not like, and with permission I will
decline your company.'

Dick made no reply, but walked on
sharply towards the house. Dunscombe
kept beside him, and after awhile broke
out : ' I left Miss Acland in your charge, sir,
under the guarantee of your honour. How
have you fulfilled the trust?'

I accepted no trust, and I have not
concerned myself to think what you
meant.'

No ! You have remained here six weeks,
paying her attentions, and undermining her
regard for me.'

This is very childish, Lord Dunscombe !
I hope the passers-by don't understand.'

Why have you remained here ?'

I might say, because I chose. But it
would be a pity to check this engaging
spirit of inquiry. The doctors forbade me
to hunt this season, and I find Florence
agreeable quarters.'

I am better informed. You are in love
mali Miss Acland.'

Dick shrugged his shoulders contemptuously.


I insist upon an answer.'

I have heard no question ; but if you
insist, of course I submit to your lordship.
I love Miss Acland, and I hope that God
will be so merciful as to grant me her
love.'

Not whilst I live !' Dunscombe cried,
with a great oath.

I cannot admit that condition,' said
Dick. ' It seems unlikely that the designs
of Heaven "vvill be influenced by your life,
and much more by your death.'

You see how 1 suffer ! If you have any
feeling, man, speak out — let me know the
truth !'

That is a more becoming; tone for such
weakness as yours. What do you ask?'

How does Edie feel towards me ?'

'■ If her feelings are guided by reason,
she thinks of you as a man who did
not dare to stand by her in trouble.
You failed her, Lord Dunscombe ; refused
her, I should say, when disgrace
threatened '

I did not. You heard me urge Mrs.
Acland to let us be married at once.'

A bold impulse. But reflection melted
your resolve. Now that you think the
danger past you return. That's how the
truth strikes me, and I hope that is how it
will strike Miss Acland.'

You hope ? You know it.*

She has never mentioned your name,
nor have I. Here is the house. Will you
go in with me ?'

Dunscombe caught him by the arm,
struggling nth his excitement so painfully
that Dick was touched, and he spoke
more gently:

This news must be broken to Mrs.

VOL. III. 50

Acland, and I cannot trust you. What
was your hope in coming ?'

I don't know ! I wanted to see her,
but now I dare not ! You have robbed
me, Saxell !'

Now, go to your hotel, my lord, and
compose yourself; I will come to you
presently. '

After a moment's frowning hesitation,
Dunscombe turned, and with broken steps
hurried down the street.

Mrs. Acland and Edie were both there.
After some grave, pleasant talk Dick led
the conversation to the subject of rumoiu's.
He had half a dozen cases in his own experience
of men reported dead who reappeared
to learn with amazement the story of their
tragic fate. Every man who has served
in active warfare can recall such instances,
and Dick summoned all his dramatic talent
to make the unvarying termination as bright
as could be. ]airs. Acland listened with

interest; but Edie, as the tales succeeded,
put down her work and fixed her eyes,
rounding with alarm, upon the speaker.
He answered with a significant glance ; she
rose quietly and stood by her mother's chair.

I give you my word,' said Dick, ' that
every one of these examples I know to be
true. You will admit that they justify an
utter disbelief in bazaar reports, as we call
them. Soldiers or servants who desert
naturally invent such stories when they
come back without their master. If, for
instance, we heard that some of Hugh's
people had been recognised at Cape Coast,
I should confidently expect them to declare
that there had been a fight, and the white
men were all massacred, and they had
escaped after terrible adventures. It stands
to reason, doesn't it ?'

It would, mamma,' said Edie quietly,
putting her arm round Mrs. Acland's neck ;
and we should not be frightened. Thank

50-2

you for preparing us, ^lajor Saxell, if such
an event should occur.'

Mrs. Acland looked from one to the
other.

It has occurred then ?' she asked, in a
hard voice.

I am only surprised,' said Dick lightly,
that it has not happened before. This
sort of thing makes the objection to interesting
travel. You have no means of verifying
a report at the time, and you can
only wait patiently and confidently, after
putting the deserters in prison — which
the Governor of Cape Coast Castle has
done, with a promptness which shows
that this is not the first occasion of the sort
he has met with. In a few days we shall
hear that the travellers have sent to accuse
those scoundrels of desertion and probably'
of theft.'

Where is the paper ?' Mrs. Acland
asked.

I will get it and return,' Dick answered,
rising. ' But,' he added, seeing the lookin
her face, ' I give you my honour that
there was nothing more than I have told
you.'

Why did you not bring it ? Surely
that is strange.'

To tell the whole truth,' said Dick, not
quite unembarrassed by an attack he had
not prepared for, ' I met a man in the street
who showed it me, and in the excitement of
the moment I did not ask him for the
paper.'

He went out, but before reaching the
bottom of the stairs Edie came flying
down.

I shall never cease to be grateful, Major
Saxell,' she cried. ' It would have killed
mamma, I think, but your anecdotes took
away the sting. We are quite cool and
almost confident. But who was the
man ?'

A new arrival from England.'
His name ?'

Lord Dunscombc'

It was kind of him to entrust you with
the news. Did he come from England for
the purpose ?'

I did not ask.'

Tell him, Major Saxell, that I am
grateful. Will you come in this evening?'


Be sure I will. Is there no other
message for Lord Dunscombe ?'

Xone.'

He has probably an intention of
calling.'

It is impossible he could think of
that.'

Not quite, perhaps. If he should think
of it?'

You have reason to believe he vdW ?'

I have a suspicion.'

Then tell him — if he hints it — that

I beg he will never recall by his presence
the misery I have endured.'

Dunscombe was in his room, feverishly
waiting, and he gave up the paper without
thought. When Dick told frankly how he
had contrived to tell the sad news without
causing despair, he proposed to take advantage
of this composure forthwith. It
was not till all other means were exhausted
that Dick repeated Edie's message word for
word, pitilessly.

'It's a lie !' Dunscombe cried, approaching
with menace. ' A lie — a lie !'

You had better calm yourself, my lord,
and listen to prudence. If you strike me
I shall hurt you. If you ingeniously compelled
me to fight, in this foreign country,
where my uniform forbids me to exercise
my English commonsense, I should certainly
shoot you or run you through, as the
case might be. Think over that, and if you
are wise go home. Good-day.'

Dunscombe thought it over, but he did
not go home ; an hour afterwards he calledon
Mrs. Acland, and Edie fled at the
announcement of his name.

He was not more dull of feeling nor
more heartless than circumstances made
him. A young aristocrat, removed from
the common daily cares of struggling
humanity, grows to take a very abstract
view of other people's troubles, unless hebe
exceptionally sympathetic. So many
persons are killed every day, so many
tears are shed, that an individual case, however
melancholy, does not seem overwhelming
to one who takes the larger view. It
is a great event for common folks, whose
circle of acquaintance is narrow, to learn
that somebody they knew has died by
violence. But for men in Dunscombe' s
position it is not extraordinary ; the thing
happens every week. In reading a list of
casualties in the field they recognise name

after name, and in the general distress they
feel they can hardly appreciate the shock
which each individual case must bring to
some obscure friends and kindred -, — though
they feel their own as vividly as any when
fate strikes in their home circle.

So, after a proper display of feeling,
Dunscombe brought the conversation to the
practical consequences of this incident.

May I advise you now?' he said. ' Edie
will not object to the surrender of her fortune
to Mrs. Saxell. Let the woman have
her pound of flesh; let me have Edie, and
we shall all be happy at last.'

I have already made up my mind to
surrender,' Mrs. Acland calmly replied.
For the rest, that is ended, as your lordship
well knows.'

It is impossible Edie should forgive me ?
Will you not use your influence?'

Xo ! Through my fault and my sin
Hugh is dead ! My darling boy, whom

I shall never see again in this world or the
next !'

The sudden outbreak of grief struck
Dunscombe with dismay. But in his confusion
he tried again, and Mrs. Acland burst
forth : ' Let it finish ! Edie abhors and
scorns you ! Oh, for Heaven's sake, leave
me! Go, go!'

It was all over. Dunscombe declared to
himself that he would have satisfaction from
the man who had supplanted him. But he
didn't. The thought of bravoes occurred
to his mind, a race said to be not extinct
in Italy, nor even elsewhere — occurred
so persistently, in such varied combinations,
as he paced up and down the Lung'
Arno, that at length he rushed .to the
hotel, ordered his man to pack and follow,
and took the train for England. What
were Dunscombe's agonies on the road no
man could tell. Jealousy is the supreme
torture which may' be endured by man.

When Dick called in the evening, Mrs.
Acland was not visible. He told Edie what
he had done, telegraphed to the Colonial
Office and to friends in town, sent a message
forward to St. Vincent, and prayed that it
might be despatched at once to the Governor
of Cape Coast.

Within ten days,' he continued, ' if we
have the luck to catch a vessel going direct,
it will arrive, and we may hope to have an
authenticated contradiction of the report in
twenty days or so. It is for you to decide
whether I should go to London in your
interests or stay here. My only object is
to do what will be most useful and comforting
for you.'

You have accustomed us to expect that,
but we are none the less grateful. Oh, what
should wee have done without you ! Mamma
is so strange that I could almost think she
believes the worst.'

I would not tell what I thought a falsehood

even for your consolation, Miss Acland.
Assure your mother on my honour that
there is no cause for more than uneasiness.
But uneasiness to a mother is dreadful.'

Twice Edie looked into the bedroom
before midnight, but Mrs. Acland was
writing, too much occupied to talk. At
length she closed her desk.

Let me sleep with you, dear,' Edie
beo^o-ed.

DO

Xot to-night, darling. Don't press me !
I have very much to think of to-night.'

In the morning Edie stole into the room.
]Mrs. Acland was still asleep, and she went
away to dress. Her maid brought a letter.
Mrs. Acland left this with Giulio,' she said.
To be delivered to you first thing, miss.'

Wondering, Edie opened it.

My darling Child,

I write to you last of all. You
know how I love you, and yet I abandon

you. For months back I have foreseen this
hour '

With a wild cry Edie ran to her mother's
room. She was resting quietly, as it seemed.
Beside her bed lay several letters, addressed,
and a small bottle.

A doctor!' Edie screamed, and the house
broke into commotion. ' Mamma ! Mamma !
Send for Major Saxell! Oh, mamma, how
could sou have the heart !'

The maids flocked in crying and screaming.
Edie sent them for help, and two
doctors arrived in haste. They recognised
a case of narcotic poisoning, and made preparations
with much sympathy but little
hope. When Saxell came, terribly alarmed,
Edie was waiting in the passage, moving up
and down, wringing her hands. ' Mamma
used chloral — I know that!' she exclaimed.
Trouble had made her sleepless, and last
night she took too much ! The doctors are

with her ! Oh, you do not think she meant
it? Mamma would not have left me here

alone ' the words of the letter recurred,

and silenced her.

Dick took her hand with an expression
that needed no language to interpret. ' You
are not alone, Miss Acland. Regard me asa
brother.'

I do ! I sent for you ! They Avill not
answer me. Go to them and let me know
the truth!'

He went in. There was some slight
hope, said the doctors, but not enough to
justify them in encouraging bliss Acland.
A very short time would decide. Dick saw
the letters, and brought them away. One
was addressed to himself, one to Mrs.
Saxell, and one to Messrs. Gorman, solicitors.


Edie clutched him by the arm, and looked
in his face with speechless inquiry.

We must wait,' he said, putting the

letters in his pocket. ' Let me take you to
your room. I will stay here, and I promise
to bring the first news, good or bad.'

She obeyed, clinging to him. ' Yesterday
my brother, and now mamma ! Oh, we
have not deserved such punishment !'

You have deserved nothing but honour
and respect.'

Ah, you do not know ! It is that which
makes me despair.'

See the tells-rams I have received. The
Colonial Office states that the Governor of
the Gold Coast does not attach importance
to the report of the Fantis, which he is
investigating. And St. Paul says, '' Cheer
Mrs. Acland with the story of MacNab of
ours." I told you that yesterday.'

Ah, but the report has done its work !
What comfort you gave, Lord Dunscombe
destroyed; and this is his doing. I hate
him!'

Forget him now,' said Dick soothingly.

Try not to think of causes or consequences,
but patiently wait the issue.'

I will try to do whatever you bid me,
but it is so hard to rest here while mamma
is struggling between life and death. Oh,
go to them, and let me hear the first hint
they give.'

Long before the doctors were prepared
to speak, Edie hurried back to the corridor.
She could not remain in her room, nor
stand still, but feverishly walked up and
down with Saxell, making broken confidences
which explained many secrets that
had puzzled him. He gathered that Eaikes
had actually sent the letter, of which a
rough draft had been found, addressed to
her. And he understood why Edie had
been so firmly convinced that the man who
wrote that Meas not her father.

At length the doctors gave a hesitating
verdict. Mrs. Acland would not die at
once ; to Saxell they confided that she

must expect a long and hazardous convalescence,
at the best. She was hardly yet
conscious, and for many days she might be
unable to hold a conversation. Under
these circumstances, Dick was puzzled what
to do about the letters. He guessed their
contents, and since Mrs. Acland might well
repent, so soon as she recovered her senses
completely, he locked them up and
waited.

Da3''s and weeks passed, bringing very
slow improvement. Gradually the sick
woman recovered the use of her faculties,
but she was broken down, permanently,
as the doctors said. The long
anxiety, perhaps remorse, which brought
her to despair, had sapped the life within
her wasted frame, but not her nerve nor
her resolution. With growing eagerness
she asked Edie for news, not about Hugh,
but about the lawsuit. At length she
whispered an inquiry of the doctor, touch-vol.
III. 51

ing some letters. He could give no information,
and Mrs. Acland demanded to
see Saxell.

During this time Major St. Paul had
been growing more and more anxious. The
suit was filed Saxell versus Saxell and St.
Paul, executors ; and though the plaintiff
consented to wait, at Dick's earnest entreaty,
legal proceedings went on in a formal way,
and St. Paul was naturally alarmed. It
became absolutely necessary that Dick
should do something in defence of his case,
or should give it up. At this crisis Mrs.
Acland's summons was very welcome to
him. In the moment of obeying it a telegram
came from the Colonial Office.

We have received a despatch from the
Gold Coast, of which the following is a summary
: The Fantis arrested at Addah have
been examined by the Judicial Assessor.
Their stories disagree in important points,

and the magistrate at Addah reports that
articles of value bearing the names of
Messrs. Prince and Acland have been
fomid in possession of their friends. There
is no doubt on my mind, the Governor
adds, that these men robbed their masters
and escaped. For communication to Mrs.
Acland.'

Dick flew to her lodgings, and placed
this in Edie's hands. Her eyes, heavy and
lined with care, sparkled again.

Almost your very words,' she cried.
jSFow, mamma will recover. Leave us for
an hour.'

He strolled about, full of happiness, and
returned at the time fixed; Edie was not
so joyous.

I need not say that mamma is grateful.
But she does not take it just as I expected,
and she is more than ever anxious to see
you. You will remember how weak she

51—2

is. I have a fancy that she has something
to beg of you.'

I have something to beg of her, Miss
Acland, at a proper time; and you may be
sure I shall set a good example of compliance,
if your fancy is correct.'

Whatever you ask we shall think it
happiness to grant,' said Edie, leading the
way. ' It is the impossibility of making
any acknowledgment of your kindness
which sometimes embarrasses me.'

I note the " we," ' said Dick joyously.
Remember it.'

He was shocked at the alteration in ]airs.
Acland. If before she had looked strangely
young for her age, she now looked
strangely old. And her face was set to an
expression of weary resolve.

When they had briefly discussed the
good news, Edie left them, and Mrs.
Acland spoke in a tone of greater interest.

I wrote some letters, Major Saxell,

before taking that grave step, which I am
sorry to say has failed. Do not offer me
the commonplaces of religion ! I am
familiar with them, and I know better than
you what they are worth in a moment of
real despair. To you, Major Saxell, I will
mention that I have promised Edie not to
recommence, and I shall keep my word.
But as for those letters. Do you know
where they are ?'

They are in my possession, unopened.'
All ? One was addressed to yourself.'
I put that away with the others. You
can have them back immediately.'

Noble spirit !' Mrs. Acland murmured.
I thought that I could not bear my life
after those letters were delivered, but that
is part of my just punishment. Will you
post them ?'

I have ventured to make a guess at their

contents '

To you, to Mrs. Saxell, to my lawyers,

and to all the world I confess my fraud
without extenuation. And in my own
name and my child's I surrender everything!'


But your son ? There is very much I
could urge without reference to him. I do
not believe, and nothing that has been
proved shakes my conviction, that Raises
was not your husband. But I will put
that aside. The assurance of Hugh's escape,
which has come to-day, sets it out of your
power to make this renunciation.'

My son is dead ! I did not distress
Edie by telling her so ; but I know it, I feel
it. He pays for my sin, poor boy, and his
father's. I cannot argue that, Major Saxell.
Will you post the letter to your mother and
Gorman ?'

If you insist upon it, I must ; or rather,
with your permission, I will deliver them
myself. Believe me, they have no legal
value.'

They bind me and Edie, at least. I
have instructed Gorman to realize such property
of mine as lies in his hands, sufficient
to make up the sum we inherited. Hugh's
proportion will stand over, of course, until
his fate is proved. I think that you make
no claim for interest?'

Good heavens, Mrs. Acland ! do not lay
this — I must say this folly! — upon me.
Raises's bequest has been the curse of my
life — no, not that, for it gave me the happiness
of knowing you and yours ; but if weare
to talk seriously of your proposal, treat
it as addressed to my mother. She alone is
interested in that sense.'

I am not ungrateful,' she answered
wearily ; ' but it matters little now. I
want to pay to the uttermost, and rest.'

Then I will start tomorrow. But we
cannot tell what the issue of this step maybe.
Possibly, a misunderstanding might
arise even between us. I leave a hostage in

your hands dearer than anything in the

world to me, and I ask for a pledge in

return.'

Mrs. Acland did not speak.

I loved your daughter from the first
instant I saw her. She is now free.'

She was always fancy-free, Major Saxell.
There was a mystery about her engagement
which I had never time to trace, but
I think Lord Dunscombe would not have
secured his bride. For the rest, I have
long known your feelings. If events had
happened as I intended, in a little while
you could have comforted and consoled her.
It was that assurance which gave me
courage. But I am living find disgraced.
Prepare yourself for a long struggle, which
I fear will be hopeless. But ask Edie, if
you please. My sympathies are with
you.'

I will ask her to-day. If you support
me, I have a strong ally.'

The weakest and worst possible. But
you will see.'

She rang for Edie, who came in with an
anxious face, but the joy of the morning's
news still brightened and flushed it.

*We have arranged our business pleasantly,'
said Mrs. Acland. ' Major Saxell
is leaving us tomorrow, and he has asked
permission to escort you for a last walk.
It will do you good, child. Put on your
hat.'

Edie's colour rose suddenly. She glanced
from her mother to Dick, and went out.

Is it not a little abrupt ?' he asked
in perturbation. ' I shall not dare to
speak.'

You may find another opportunity in
the course of the day,' said Mrs. Acland,
with a wan smile. ' I do the best I can
for you, believe me!'

I am very dull. As how ?'

Taken unprepared, Edie would certainly

refuse — and never change her mind. I
think she will refuse now, Whatever her
feelings. But your only chance lies in the
bewilderment of reflections this sudden call
may throw her into.'

What a woman!' thought Dick to himself
once more, with a feeling that was not
all admiration.

He stood at the Window, and tried to
calm his mind with the diplomatic humour.
Edie came in, ready for the walk, and they
set out for the Casting. Neither said a
word beyond commonplaces till they
reached the central space. The silence
became unbearable.

I heard from Grace yesterday,' said
Edie. ' She finds Scarsholme dull after
Beaverlowe.'

I wish she had never seen that house
nor its master. They have an unwholesome
fascination for her.'

From other friends we hear that her

eno-asfement to Mr. Beaver is common talk.
Does Grace confide in you ? What does
Mrs. Saxell say ?'

Grace confides in me so far that I
understand Beaver has proposed, and that
she has not accepted — yet. My mother
does not allude to the subject.'

It is horrible to think of!'

Have you written that to her ? Grace
thinks much of your opinion.'

Not in this matter, I'm afraid,' said
Edie, with a flush. ' She answers ironically.
Grace is not like other girls.'

You mean that she cares only for the
material part of things — looks on marriage
as a kind of investment ?'

Many girls do that, they say. Grace
only seems to think of the magnificence of
Beaverlowe, the antique romance of its
story, the position of its owner, and the
glitter of his eccentricity.'

Is not that much the same thing ?'

I think not. She does not consciously
associate those ideas either with money or,
much more, with a person. She does not
feel that she must sacrifice her own self,
body and soul, in order to enjoy them.
She does not seem to think of herself at
all. I can hardly express my meaning,
but I am sure I know her frame of
mind.'

It is too subtle for me. Grace has at
least her share of self consciousness, and as
much sense of her own interest as is necessary.
It is characteristic of you to make
excuses for her.'

Prudence enjoins us to be charitable,'
she replied bitterly.

You give me courage, Miss Acland. I
have to make a great appeal to sour
charity. Through my misfortune you have
undergone dreadful sufferings, and perhaps
a heavy loss. But I ask more than forgiveness
— I beg for your love.'

Oh, Major Saxell ! You have been so
generous, so chivalrously kind '

Allow me to interrupt — on that ground
I hope I have no claim. If I had not loved
you, I should have known it was my
duty to stand by Mrs. Acland, believing,
as I did and do, that her cause is just.
Let us not talk of that. Give me an
answer on my own merits, Edie. I cannot
plead my cause. I can only say again and
again that I love and respect you, not less
but more for all that has happened or may
happen. It is my very life itself I offer,
and all the rest is unimportant. Come
what may, I shall be the same. In any
condition of life, if you had been a princess
or a beggar, I should have loved you. If
you were a criminal I should love you still,
for I should know that you were a victim
judge the depth of my devotion, since
you are all truth and purity and goodness.
I will be patient. I must be, for my love

will not change. Give nne hope and I will
wait years, as long as we both live; but
give me hope, Edie!'

She had been collecting herself, but the
reply was difficult. ' I might answer that I
am not free, but that would be unworthy of
us both. I am free, but so I must remain forever,
Major Saxell. I cannot give you hope.'

Because of these troubles ? Say that,
Edie, and I shall be content. When they are
over, as they will be, I may ask you again ?'

Because of the disgrace. in which I bear
my part ! I speak frankly, for there is no
possibility of escape. It can never be, and
I am confident of myself ; therefore, I tell
you that your words have thrilled my heart.
We will be dear friends, Richard, for life —
such true and faithful friends that this
matter will never rise again between us.
If you cannot submit, let us part now. I
could not bear another scene like this !'

It shall be as you wish,' he answered, in

i

deep, still joy. ' I understand that if circumstances
change I may speak once more,
and you will not repulse me?'

Circumstances cannot change. Give me
your word, or let us say farewell, sadly, but
for ever.'

You accept 'the understanding ?'
Oh, what is the use '

I give you my word loyally on that condition.
Is it admitted?'

I cannot '

Is it admitted ?'

Yes,' she whispered. ' Oh, now it is
dropped for ever, Richard ! But let us go
back.'

No ; your adopted brother has a thousand
things to say and hear, and he is going
to take you for a long, chatty walk.'

The sun was setting when they returned,
and Mrs. Acland had gone to her room.
The manner of Edie's good-bye showed
their relations after that long talk.

You must come back as soon as you canto
escort us to some quiet place away from
English people. We can't afford a courier
now, and you're so clever, at languages,
Dick, that we shall want none. What will
become of us when you return to India,
goodness knows! Give my love to Grace,
quand meme ; and don't be too angry with
her tliou2:h she should be obstinate. If
she will not take your advice, recollect
that it is she who must pay the penalty.
Good-bye, my dear, dear brother!'

MARRIAGE.

iN passing through London Dick
sent by hand the letter addressed
to Mr. Gorman, and then calledon
Vane. This general confidant had not
been left in ignorance of late events, and by
sirs. Acland's desire he was now thoroughly
informed. The friends then waited upon
mr. Gorman.

I must say,' began that gentleman, ' at
any sacrifice of my professional repute, that
this letter astounds me. Ah ! The longer
I live the more clearly I see that my grandfather
was no fool, and he always said that
VOL. III. 52

astonishment was the sign of a weak mind.
Of course, you gentlemen know what Mrs.
Acland has written to us. She admits a
series of frauds in her evidence, and proposes
to give up the money in dispute.
Her presumption is that Mr. Hugh is dead,
which Ave may hope is incorrect ; but anyhow,
proof of his death is absolutely
wanting. Miss Acland is not of age. To
raise the necessary funds the consent both
of her son and daughter would be required,
and neither of them can grant it. Mrs.
Acland is a very clever woman, very, but
she does not understand business.'

Miss Acland will sign anything,' said
Dick.

Quite right, when it makes no difference.
If I could relieve a friend's mind by assigning
him the National Debt, I don't see why
I should refuse. This letter will be preserved
amongst our confidential papers, but
I shall trust you to answer it.*

I am glad,' said Dick, ' to have your
confirmation of my own views.'

Are you ? Well, I thought Mrs. Acland's
letter the most surprising thing I ever heard,
but you beat it hollow.'

I was right in delaying to post the letter
addressed to my mother,' said Dick, when
he had left with Vane ; ' I shall give it to
her myself.'

The wedding is next month, isn't
it ?'

The wedding! What wedding?'

We heard at the Club last night that
Miss Palliser was going to be married next
month.'

To Beaver ? Next month ? What an
astounding rumour !'

'Are you sure it's false? I rather suspect,
Dick, that they have kept you out of
various little secrets.'

Very likely ; but Grace would not have
kept me out of this. It's quite too much to

52—2

believe her capable of; and besides, I have a
voice in the matter.'

Then raise it at once ! I understood
that Mrs. Saxell was sole executrix.'

So she is, but Grace is my cousin. You
believe this report?'

To tell the truth, I do. There's no legal
reason for informing you, if the ladies
thought right to leave you in ignorance.'

But it's monstrous !'

N^o doubt ; but so are Beaver's settlements,
they say. Where are you going?'
Yane added, as Dick called a hansom.

Straight to Euston ! Good-bye!'

He reached Scarsholme in the evening* :
Mrs. Saxell received him with dignity.
Grace with enthusiasm ; but she was a little
embarrassed when Dick possessed himself of
her left hand, and examined it.

I am not too late,' he said, ' unless you
have dispensed with the ring amongst other
old-fashioned customs.'

I told you, aunt, that I would not
take the blame ! It was all her doing,

Dick!'

I am alone responsible. But you would
have heard in time, Richard!'

Leave us a moment, Grace. I have
another matter to discuss.'

When she had left the room, Dick carefully
and patiently explained the situation,
interrupted by many snorts of triumph at
first, which changed to indignant and
scornful dissatisfaction when Mr. Gorman's
views upon the matter were set forth.

I have here,' he concluded, ' Mrs. Acland's
admission of her efforts to support a just
cause by unjust means. She wishes to
make full reparation. That, I am glad to
know, lies beyond her power ; but you will
generously acknowledge her goodwill, and
meet her half-way, won't you, mother?'

Do you ask me to believe, Richard, that
this woman, being what she is, did not

know her confession was useless while she
wrote it? But let me see the letter.'

I could give final proof that she did
not,' he answered. ' Oh, mother, think more
kindly of an unfortunate creature, who has
been terribly tried and tempted !'

Mrs. Saxell read the letter slowly twice
through.

I find nothing here,' she said severely,
^ which compels me to change my opinion.
If you have that final proof, what is it?'

After writing that, and others to the
same effect, Mrs. Acland took poison.'

He thought it conclusive, and for a
moment his mother was shocked. After a
pause, however, she replied :

I understand that Mrs. Acland is not
dead, nevertheless ? Xo, Kichard, and she
never meant to die! I respect her cleverness,
of which this is the final stroke.
Finding herself driven to the last resource,
she confessed and offered reparation, knowing

that it would be worthless, and she
obtained credit for the manoeuvre by taking
just enough poison to alarm you — if it was
not all a fiction together. Then we come
to Mr. Gorman's share in the trick. He is
probably in league with his client. It is
absurd to tell me that if the woman wishes
to do justice at length, she cannot find some
means ! I shall take other advice.'
But you are not interested, mother.'
I am so far interested that I can compel
you and St. Paul to take steps ! You must
follow this case up, Richard, now, or withdraw.
In a few weeks' time, it must come
to an issue.'

Mother! I love Edie Acland!'
Is that an argument ? Not in her
mother's favour. You will be obliged to
give her up, as Lord Dunscombe has been.'
Let me appeal to your love. I have

tried to be a good son '

And you have been, Richard ! The best

and noblest of sons. I love you too well
to let you marry the daughter of Mrs.
Acland, or to be the victim of her cunning.
For whom am I struggling against your
weakness? Who will enjoy this fortune you
won by bravery and devotion ? I am firm
for your sake. And for you, my son, I
will be firm to the very end.'

If that is the motive, give it up at once.
For I will never accept one farthing, and I
will marry Edie, when she consents to take
me, if her mother were improved to be the
wickedest woman living. But it is not for
my sake, mother. You want this money
for yourself — to do you know not what !
But I know it is useless to talk now. I
must think what is the next step.'

Have you finished ?' cried Grace, opening
the door. * I want to show you my presents,
Dick.'

She carried a little tray, piled with boxes
of jewellery.



These are the family diamonds I told
you of. I ought to wait for candlelight,
but I can't. Aren't they — oh, scrumptious
darlings !'

When is the day, if I am to be allowed
to know?'

Of course, you are to give me away.
The day is the twentieth of next month — ■
five weeks hence. Look at that ! and
that!'

Magnificent ! Aren't you enjoying these
treasures rather prematurely?'

Oh, Julius sent them to show me, after
being reset. They go back tomorrow.'

Mrs. Saxell had left the room.

'I shall not give you away, dear,' said
Dick kindly, with his arm around Grace.

Oh, why not ? I shall be miserable if
you are not there!'

Because I will not countenance a wedding
that would degrade my little cousin
and ruin her life.'

It is needless to repeat the arguments
Dick used against mercenary marriages.
He found nothing very new to say, and
after a while, though Grace Hastened patiently,
her eyes and her thoughts wandered to the
diamonds upon the table. Dick had no
fulcrum to bear on, for the girl liked her
promised husband, and her ideas did not
travel beyond that. He interested her — he
had always something new to say. to give,
or to propose, and kept her mind expectant.
Grace asked no more ; but, in the absence
of a passion she did not understand, would
have accepted no less. Dick's invective of
mercenary matches would have come home
very strongly, had she felt any disinclination
towards Mr. Beaver ; in fact, the situation
could never have arrived in that case.
Jilt, under the circumstances, she did not
see the point of all this reproach. Such
motives had nothing to do with the business.
She liked Mr. Beaver, who was possessed

of certain attributes which appealed
to her fancy strongly. He asked her to
marry him, and why should she refuse ?
What are girls born for?

Prepared in some measure by Edie's
hints, Dick saw this at length. He acquitted
Grace of mean ideas, hoping only
that she Vv-as incapable of love — an unlikely
notion — or that she would never meet the
man who, too late, would open her e3^es.
The character of Mr. Beaver was a question
hardly to be touched upon. He could
say nothing of his personal knowledge,
nor could anyone, unless it were Mrs.
A eland.

Well, dear,' Dick said, ' I can only fall
back upon authority, which you were never
prone to recognise. I disapprove of your
marriage, and I will not be present — that's
all.'

Oh, I'm so glad you've done, Dick,
because really I've not understood much

of what you've been saying, only I tried to
be nice and obedient. As for not attending,
you won't be so unkind as that, I
know. You mio^ht have married me yourself,
if you had liked, and it would be
monstrous for you to play dog in the
manger. Now, tell me all about Edie and
Mrs. Acland. Edie has written only little
scribbles for a long time.'

Did you hear about Hugh before m}'
letter came ? The report is contradicted.'

Dick Watched rather curiously, and he
saw a passing trace of emotion.

We saw it in the paper, and I cried.
He was such a nice boy I But I remembered
what you wrote so often from
Afghanistan — that we were never to believe
reports of an accident happening to you. I
am so glad it is contradicted, though. Tell
me, is there anything new about the lawsuit
? Was it that you were discussing so
warmly with aunt?'

Dick told as much as he thought fitting,
and Grace's remarks were so sensible, so
full of sympathy, that he was led on to
confide the whole. After a warm display
of feeling she said :

It's horrible to think of door Mrs.
Acland in court ! The first thing to dois
to stop the public inquiry. Don't you
agree with me, Dick?'

• Certainly I to !'

If aunt had Mrs. Acland face to face
she would not be so spiteful, I think.'

Perhaps not !'

Well, then, you are determined never
to claim your legacy. Why not withdraw
now for good ? Perhaps they might come
to some arrangement.'

You are a puzzle, Grace ! A girl of
such intelligence and good heart should
really know better than to marry Julius
Beaver !'

I don't see the connection, but that

subject is all in a fog. What do you
think ?'

I think it a very sensible idea. But
what arrangement is possible ?'

That they may discuss in a friendly
way, which will be a most important
novelty". Things will remain as they are
till Hugh comes home, at the worst.'

AVhat a clever little brain ! Vane didn't
think of that simple manoeuvre. I will
write him to-night, get m}' withdrawal put
in due form, and surprise my mother with
it. I wish you would show yourself as
thoughtful in your own affairs, Grace.'

Perhaps Grace fancied that the action
was not less shrewd there than elsewhere.
She only laughed. With some hesitation
Dick referred to Hugh's proposal long ago.

1 gather that he loved you, dear, and
you liked him. Think what the poor
young fellow will suffer I'

She blushed, and answered warmly :

I have nothing to reproach myself with.
I never misled Hugh ; he knows my feelings,
and long before this he has forgotten the
matter. Have done, Dick ! You admit
that I am not silly, and I have made up
my mind.'

After that there was no more to say.
Grace recovered her temper on the instant,
and all evening she talked chifonsi with
Mrs. Saxell, appealing to Dick's taste continually.
Nothing was said about Mrs.
Acland's affairs. Two days afterwards
Vane's letter arrived, enclosing the document
they wanted. Dick handed it to his
mother.

I am obliged to you,' she said graciously.
' This simplifies the matter. I
have written Mrs. Acland, since she thought
it becoming to write to me, and we may
now come to a distinct understanding.'

What have you written ?'

I told her that the proposals she made

of handing your legacy over forthwith
could not be carried out, as ]mr. Gorman
declared. And I invited her to make a
practical suggestion.'

I hope you did it kindly, mother ?'

As kindly as the circumstances allowed
in a business communication. I will now
inform her that our relations are direct,
owing to your consistent but unreasonable
action.'

You would not accept this legacy,
mother, if you did not think it honestly
yours ? Does it not occur to your mind
that I am likely to be a better judge of that
than you ?'

Emphatically, Richard, it does not, but
very much the reverse.'

The next day came a letter from Mr.
Beaver, announcing a sudden visit. Mrs.
Saxell instantly conceived an idea that the
jewels had not arrived safely, and in a few
minutes she identified the thief, tried him,

and sentenced him to penal servitude in its
unmitigated form. Grace laughed at her
terrors.

I am the lost diamond,' she said.
Julius has not seen me for ten days, and
he fancies some one may have stolen me.'

Dick rode over to Daneham Castle, where
Lady Rainforth confided that her son was
going on in a sad way. He had not fallen
into the power of Maud Danvers again, she
hinted ; but he was ruining his future life.
His infatuation for that poor girl, Miss
Acland, was stronger than ever, though he
had more sense than to marry her. Dick
asked, rather sternly, where the evidence of
his wisdom came in, and learned that Duns-combe
had found out something discreditable
— he did not say what.

If Lord Dunscombe has so little delicacy
as to allude to the subject,' said Dick,
honour and self-respect should have urged
him to add that the matter in question

VOL. III. 53

no more touched Miss Acland's stainless
innocence than his own conduct touches
your ladyship's.' And with that he rode
away, fuming.

Beaver reached Scarsholme, and sought
an interview with Grace forthwith. After
expressing his passionate admiration — for
it was that which he called love — he said :

You ask me, peerless one, to withdraw
from your settlement so much money as
mil enable Mrs. Acland to satisfy your
aunt. Have you any idea how much that
will be ?'

x\unt knows nothing of my proposal,
of course. But in conversation we have
mentioned £10,000 as a reasonable sum,
until Hugh's return.'

Reason is an abstract quantity in logic ;
Mrs. Saxell understands the term to mean
abstracted. Very natural in her point of
view. In ours I should say it must be
contracted.'

You may fix it as low as you please by
negotiation. Aunt has no shadow of right
to a farthing.'

We must not talk of right, my treasure,
or where will you be landed ?'

What do you mean ? That I have no
right to use the money you give me for my
own pleasure ? If that is your meaning,
Julius, I refuse any money at all — and —
the rest !'

Beaver's face changed.

There never was such a delicious binding
to such a prosaic work !' he said, with a
forced smile. ' That was not my meaning,
for all I have is unworthy of you ! But
tell me why you are going to make me the
happiest and the proudest man living ?'

Because I like you ! If you do not act
by my wishes I shall not like you, and
there will be an end. Now, will you
arrange this ?'

I will, if it's possible. There are great

53—2

difficulties, or perhaps I should say great
niceties to be observed. Mrs. A eland would
not accept our help — you will admit there
is no reason why she should. It must be
done without her knowledge, but mv
lawyers may be able to manage that. If I
invest it from your settlement, however.
Mrs. Saxell, as your trustee, must needs be
acquainted with the fact. And that you
would not wish ?'

It would spoil all, of course. But you
are so clever, Julius, that I can leave the
how and the why in your hands, so long as
the result comes right. I said in my letter
that you must not lend the money yourself,
because '

Because ?'

Several considerations ! I love sirs.
Acland — why did you frown ? Oh, 1 see !
Well, I like jars. Acland, and she does not
like you nor you her. I don't ask why.
That's ancient history, and I never felt any

interest in that. But so it is, and I would

not have you lend what she would be pained

to accept, if she ever knew it. That's all.

The thing must be done in my name, with

my money.'

Regard it as done, my queen, and say

no more about it. That shall be your

morgen-gapes

My morgen-gaps

Our forefathers loved to show that they

did not cease to be generous givers when

they had secured their bride. The present

most valued was that offered after marriage.'
It's a pleasure to give you tasks, Julius.'
How much greater to fulfil them !'
But greatest to see them fulfilled.'
Never ! A proverb in every tongue

assures you of that.'

Well, I am glad to hear you are happy,

being quite satisfied myself. You will put

this business in hand at once ?'

Mrs. Acland's lawyer shall be told

within forty-eight hours, through an unsuspected
channel, that a benevolent person
is Cavilling to advance some thousands of
pounds in a good cause on personal security.
That will be the first step.'

Rather roundabout.'

I can trust my agents to work the circle
into a straight line very quickly. Depend
on me !'

I do with blind confidence. There !
Lunch is ready, and Dick not returned from
his ride.'

An hour afterwards Mr. Beaver left.

Dick thought it best to remain in England
whilst the negotiations were proceeding.
Mrs. Acland wrote to him that she was
trying to make an arrangement, and in
reply to Mrs. Saxell asked how much would
be accepted as an earnest. That lady
named £10,000, and after a time Mrs.
Acland ventured to hint that she might
possibly raise the sum. Dick knew generally

the tone of the correspondence, but no
one save Grace and Beaver had the faintest
notion whence the money was to come.
Sorely irritated and ashamed was Dick, but
he could not interfere lest worse things
should happen.

Aimless and out of temper, he drifted to
London. Many good houses were open
to the distinguished young soldier, but for
the first time in his life he hated society,
and for the first time he bored a friend — r
Vane. That gentleman said at length :

My dear fellow, I quite incline to think
with you that this Miss Danvers knows
more than she considered it needful to tell
your mother. But we have discussed the
possibilities of the situation in every form
many times, and we have proved once
more the old maxim, " Ex niliilo, nihil fit
Suppose you were to call on Miss Danvers,
and ask her to suggest some material
ground for our future arguments ?'

By Jove, I will T

Without further reflection Dick jumped
into a cab, and then discovered that he had
not the address. Vane could not give it,
but he thought that ]milroy could ; and to
him, an old schoolfellow and a friend, Dick
proceeded.

I can furnish you with Maud's address
said Milroy, ' but it's not likely she will
receive you. Since Dunscombe began to
carry on so fast lately she sees no one.
He never goes near her, you know, and the
girl was very fond of him. But here you
are !'

Dick's card gained him admittance. Miss
Danvers was not less beautiful than formerly,
but a sullen impatience had made
its mark on face and tone.

Your name is familiar to me,' she
began. ' I suppose you have come on
business. Major Saxell ?'

I have an appeal to make. Some months

ago you handed certain papers to my
mother. If you know more about the
question to which they referred I entreat
you to disclose it. Those papers have
caused great misery, without, as I understand,
effecting quite all the objects you
desired. If it is in your power to give
more information, some persons who are
now suffering bitterly will be grateful.'

'You mean Mrs. Acland and her daughter?
I do not see how it will help or comfort
them to know that they are wrong in those
points where they are not fraudulent. I*
hear that you have finally given up your
claim under Acland's will. It was very
grand, but very silly. You are your
mother's heir, of course, but those interesting
ladies get precious little advantage by
the act.'

You know what is going on ?'
'It is my only business now to watch.
Mrs. Acland has raised £10,000, at most

favourable terms, on her life and her
daughter's, and Julius Beaver has lent the
money. Yes, I know what is going on.'

You are sure ?' cried Dick, starting
up.

Quite. I am glad to have given you
a little " further information." Good-morning.



Dick galloped to a telegraph office, and
wired Mrs. Acland :

Most important. Do not conclude any
arrangement until you have seen me, I
am coming by mail.'

And he took the Continental train, ran
through to Florence Avdthout halting, and
drove from the station to Mrs. Acland's
lodgings. She had left for England three
days before, travelling by easy stages, and
]her letters had been forwarded to Paris.
His telegram was still waiting the lazy

padrone's convenience. Dick groaned in
despair.

He could not learn where the ladies
proposed to stop on their way. Tru stingo
the effect of Edie's beauty, he inquired
at the chief towns, and easily traced them
to Turin. Beyond that point, no one had
remarked her on the Dijon route, nor,
when he tried back, at Nice. After losing
several days, Dick made for Paris, in despair.
At the hotel given, Mrs. Acland's
letters were waiting. He returned to
England, and went straight to Scarsholme,
arriving early on Grace's wedding-day.

Mrs. Saxell sent down word that she
would be with him immediately, but Grace
ran out in her dressing-gown, with her hair
loose.

Oh, you dear Dick ! I felt sure you
would come at the last moment ! In the
very church I should have looked for you
with confidence. For you know I have

not behaved badly or unkindly to anyone,
and you Avould not put a slight
on me ?'

I believe you do me no more than
justice,' said Dick honestly. ' But I have
been Worried.'

He told his story.

Well, dear,' said Grace, ' suppose Mr.
Beaver has lent this money, what then ?
It must have been borrowed somewhere,
and I don't think ]airs. Acland will
find us more disagreeable creditors than
others.'

But you know that they hate each
other, Grace. Why did Beaver put himself
forward ?'

Because I asked him, dear ! It is not
his loan, but mine.'

Oh, what have you done ! In a few
hours it will be his, and he Avill make
Mrs. Acland's life a burden and a scandal.
Don't you see that a woman's property

is her husband's, and this debt is property
'

But we have arranged all that '

How ?'

Oh, I don't know how, but it's settled
that this is my own exclusive affair !'

You have been matching your wits
against a man much too strong for you,
Grace. The understanding is void if you
marry Mr. Beaver.'

He shall put it right, or I won't marry
him.'

That resolution would give me more
pleasure than almost anything that could
happen. But we are in a dilemma. If
you refused to marry him, he would still
hold Mrs. Acland in his power, and his
hatred would be increased. But if you
could give him up so lightly, for Heaven's
sake do so even now !'

I did not mean it, Dick, because I know
this will all come right. Go and see him.

But you will return when it is arranged,
and give me away, 'vvon't you ?'

Dick promised to return, and sought Mr.
Beaver at the hotel. He frankly declared
his suspicions.

You are right,' said Mr. Beaver, with a
courteous smile, ' in thinking that Mrs.
Acland does not love me. And on my own
part I formerly — many years ago, that is —
cherished a grievance against her; but at
no time, I hope, would it have tempted
me to do a cruel action. Grace told you,
no doubt, that it was her own idea to
lend this money. I consented, not without
pleasure, for such revenge as that does not
ill become a gentleman. Grace is Mrs.
Acland's creditor.'

Do you mean that the bond, or whatever
it is, is made out in her name ?'

The actual deed stands in my lawyers'
name ; but I have their assignment of it to
Grace Palliser, which I can show you.'

He produced a legal document, which
Dick read with care.

It was necessary,' Mr. Beaver continued,
'to keep the lender's identity a secret, for
reasons which you apparently understand.
Are you satisfied now ? Then I will finish
dressing for this supreme ceremony,'

A number of ladies had arrived at the
cottage when Dick returned, dignitaries of
the neighbourhood, headed by the Countess
of Rainforth. Grace's brilliant marriage
had won her honours already. Before
starting for the church she whispered
hurriedly :

I see by your face it is all right. Oh,
Dick, I half wish you had quarrelled !' and
suddenly breaking into tears threw her
arms round his neck, regardless of her
veil.

My darling! I will quarrel now, if you
like. Say the word if you repent.'

I don't ! Why should I ? But your

dear face reminded me of something. Oh,
I did not think to be married in this cold-blooded
way !'

My dear !' said Mrs. Saxell, who was
sombrely gorgeous nth diamonds — the
first-fruits of her legacy.

Yes, aunt, I'm ready.'

Dick performed his duties mechanically,
like a turn of service. He had assisted at
many weddings, more or less diverting,
but none so distinguished. Grace was
divinely beautiful. Beaver's keen face and
square, upright figure looked a model of
patrician bearing. He had no groomsman,
but a duke of his own age supported him,
and a young marquis Alas in attendance.
Under such stimulus the affair went off
brilliantly — the ladies all excited and interested,
the parson embarrassed with sheer
delight, the school-children quite wild with
joy. Grace had recovered her presence of
mind, and she was coolest of the company.

It was Dick's function to propose the
health of the bride and bridegroom.

I am a mouthpiece for you all,' he said,
in wishing health and happiness to the
wedded-^:av. As for Mr. Beaver, I need
say very little. His happiness is a patent
fact — we see it in his face — and all we can
Avish him further is health to enjoy it. Why
my little cousin should have made up her
mind to quit these fells, where all know her
and love her, is a question I ask myself in
vain. They tell me that Beaverlowe is ah
ancient house, kept up to the highest pitch
of modern refinement. Its owner worthily
represents it. But I think it a disgrace to
Scarsholme and the North Country that an
outlander should have carried away our
beauty. Our forefathers made a famous
Pilgrimage of Grace, and mightily fluttered
the Southerner. In these degenerate days
there is not one Dalesman, apparently, who
will show battle to the invader. But when

VOL. III. 54

we refuse to fight, the only course open to
gentlemen is to submit loyally and cordially'.
Grace's health, like Mr. Beaver's happiness,
is self-evident. It needs no toast. Therefore,
I invite you to drink her happiness
and Mr. Beaver's health.'

What an odd speech !' they all whispered,
laughing, and eagerly looked for the
answer.

My friends,' said the bridegroom, in
honeyed accents, ' I am obliged to Major
Saxell for the discrimination he has used in
proposing this toast. It prevents the confusion
of ideas which makes such a task as
mine vapid and commonplace in abler hands.
You are told that it is unnecessary to wish
health to my wife, or happiness to me, since
each of us respectively enjoys that gift of
Heaven. Such is the objective view, but I
naturally take the subjective. Speaking in
this neighbourhood one has no occasion to
apologize for the use of those recondite

terms, since you all, of course, are intimate
with the works of their great discoverer.
In the subjective view the situation appears
to me in a light just reversed. My wife's
happiness is so certain, and my own health
so well assured, that I feel your good
Lavishes, though gratifying, are needless.
What follows? The conclusion is painful,
but reason has no bowels. Major Saxell's
speech, though well meant, was superfluous.'


The table burst into laughter and applause.


But, as I think,' Mr. Beaver continued,
that there is a misapprehension somewhere,
I put aside objective and subjective, and
thank you heartily.'

Dick came round and shook hands.

A man should rehearse his jests carefully
before trying a fall with you,' he
said.

I am like a rusty sword, which will

54—2

throw off a spark when struck, but will not
flash. Here is the armourer who will polish
me again,' Beaver added, taking Grace's
hand, as she rose to withdraw.

You mean to re-enter the world — to go
into Parliament, perhaps ? That is the
report.'

I hope we shall not want distraction fora
good while yet. It is my fond fancy that
Grace and I can enjoy ourselves together,
and I have not looked beyond that time.
You must thaw a frozen man gradually.'

Dick wondered whether Grace knew the
prospect before her, and his look perhaps
betrayed the thought. Beaver suddenly
caught it with such triumphant, good-natured
cunning in his glance as gave an
answer without words. Then Grace came
down, radiant in beauty and smiles. They
departed.

The gentlemen withdrew for a cigarette
whilst their dames were gossiping, and the

carriages waited. All talked of Beaver,
except the Duke, who sat observant and
courteously dumb, as is the second nature
of dukes.

He was always reckoned the cleverest
fellow in the county,' said Sir William

Farrer, ' until that affair with Mrs.

hum . Then he lost his head. But I

understand he means to enter Parliament.'

He is going to take the hounds,' said
the Marquis.

Mrs. Beaver is to set up what they calla
salon, I'm told,' said a third.

His tastes all run towards art. I believe
we may expect something imperial in the
way of entertainments.'

The town house has been refitted in a
style positively incredible.'

But country life will always keep its
hold on a man who loves horses and
orchids. I know Beaver means to have a
racing stud at last.'

So they went on, all speaking 'VN'itli the
confidence of private information. When
the Duke's carriage Alas announced, Dick,
standing near him, said :

Opinions are rather contradictory as to
what Mr. Beaver will do. What does your
Grace think ?'

I think that Julius is a very clever
man,' said the Duke, rising. ' He has
always meant to marry the prettiest woman
in England, and he believes he has got her.
And that's all.'

This very clever man will rest satisfied
for ever afterwards?' asked the Marquis.

Yes. If he has any enemies, he has
forgiven them to-day; if he has any friends,
he has forgotten them. Beaver closes his
accounts with the world.*

It's rather rouo^h on his younger wife to
close hers also.'

Perhaps she'll open a new series,'
muttered the Duke.

DEATH.

Three months after the departure
of his friends, Hugh had quite
recovered. Making his headquarters
at Manfi, he rambled further and
further into districts imperfectly known
even to the King, finding sport and interest
everywhere. There is no tropical region
more healthful, there are no populations
more curious to observe, than those in
which Hugh found himself, and only at the
Cape is there an equal show of game. In
some future day the African tableland will
be a seat of mighty empires, ruled by one

or other European race. Before that
happens the whole world may be convulsed
with misery and bloodshed; but when the
remote day comes, life in Europe will be
revolutionized. The northern zone, explored
and dug and harvested for so many generations,
cannot bear the rivalry of those richer
lands when once they enter the competition.
Our whole system of existence, our ideas
and standards of value, will be upset. Gold
must fall to the price of silver, silver to that
of copper, and copper to a quotation such
that European mines must close. Agriculture
will not be worth pursuing. Nothing
will be left to those who remain in England
but coal and iron, seamanship, great traditions,
stout arms, and restless minds. Our
manufacturing advantages will presently'
disappear. Wealth will fly the land, and in
its company high pressure, dilettantism,
hysteria of all kinds. Our ships and our
iron, strong bodies and eager souls, will

abide with us in poverty, as they abode
with our forefathers when they harried the
Litmus Saxon. And wdiat then ?

These are reflections that seem far-fetched
and extravagant to one sitting after a
comfortable dinner, studying his bank-book
with complacency, reading with enthusiasm
last night's speech, wherein the earth is
represented as an appanage of Europe, and
Europe as the jealous admirer of England's
greatness. But they rise unbidden to a man
by the camp-fire. He has stepped outside
the problems that bewilder folks at home by
daily changes and chances. He can estimate
the growing future coolly, with useful
illustrations from the barbaric world, wherein
he temporarily abides. The formulas
and philosophies which have become
commonplace error — or laws sacro-saint,
as antagonists differently regard them —
will seem to him very feeble barriers against
the perils to come. When the old system

of life and the old circumstances have
utterly passed away in the realm which
was once Merry England, what will take
their place ? Will they leave a blank,
perchance, and Nihil rule? A man mays
meditate and argue for a lifetime, and in the
end his work wall be nothing but a guess
at best. The means of solution are found
amono^ naked savages.

Hugh pushed to the confines of Dahomey
on one side, to the marches of Houssaland
on the other. He saw people contented
and merry, though their lives were in peril
from hour to hour. He saw men industrious
and women chaste ; both honest and both
truthful, though constantly robbed and
oppressed in this world, and unsustained
by hope of another. Hugh had been
taught to believe that mankind is naturally
wicked ; but many of the Christian virtues
flourished in the jungle, without teaching
or reward, an inheritance from primeval

times. This puzzled him. He grew to
think that the dangers and the mischiefs
which threaten civilization are the offspring
of civilization itself.

Hugh's observations did not stop at this
point, fortunately. He presently remarked
that these blameless people were not unaware
of evil, nor indisposed towards it. If they
gained a position which secured impunity,
men who had lived decorous till that time
suddenly ran riot. When, by the aid of
a very independent sort of interpreter whom
Prince Ekmo sent from Coomassie, and by
his own studies of the common dialect,
Hugh found himself able in some measure
to understand the purport of conversations,
another puzzling fact appeared. The talk
of persons, male and female, young and old,
was full of gross and dishonest suggestion.
To watch their actions one might have
supposed them innocent as lambs ; to hear
their talk one would have pronounced

them obscene as goats, rapacious as
vultures.

It was long before Hugh caught the
secret of these mysteries. He perceived at
length that the virtue of savages is just
that which bees or ants might practise —
possibly do ; personal prudence, experience,
consideration for the general welfare, have
in the course of ages established an instinct.
Within the community certain rules have
force greater than law, but without an
individual application, if I may so speak.
The man named Caboceer is as a bee that
quits the hive. He becomes free of law in
separating from the community, and, having
no law of his own, he follows the mere
appetites of nature, which, in truth, sometimes
lead him towards good, but in the
vast majority of cases transform him into
an evil brute. So with the foulness habitually
prevalent in speech. The impulse
which urges every animal to pursue its

own enjoyment has full power with savages.
They restrain its practice, commonly, without
effort visible, but they see no cause
to check its expression. Ideas shameful to
morality and good faith are of ordinary
discourse among them ; but a breach of
practical virtue such as we dare not rank
among legal crimes is there visited with
death.

The strict veracity which Hugh admired,
and which must always, however it be
analyzed, remain an agreeable and a worthy
trait, has no sounder basis. The caboceer
drops it at once when responsibility and
cares give him wider interests. The people
tell truth because that is certainly the
human instinct, as it is to march straightforward
rather than to waltz. Lack of
habit, poverty of invention in following an
unaccustomed track, lead them to speak
honestly. There is no sense of right or
wrong about it. If the thought occur to

them, they lie ; if they have time for reflection,
they lie well and circumstantially.
]put the idea seldom occurs ; so seldom that
one does not think of doubting when a
bush nigger,' a ' wild Kaffir,' affirms that
such and such is the case. Upon the other
hand, one never believes a ' coast nigger '
or a ' colonial Kaffir.' The black boy who
has been educated at a missionary school is
commonly the most zealous and enthusiastic
liar under heaven. Why is it so ? The
rule holds good of all peoples and countries.
That is the grand failure which drives our
missionaries to despair. They bring up a
boy or girl with infinite pains in the simple
tenets of morality. When they leave
school, he probably, she almost certainly,
would be shocked by such language as is the
vernacular of their untaught brethren.
Jut these, in action, are scrupulously correct,
while the practice of their educated fellows
is usually so imperfect that white people

decline to have them in the house if they
can avoid the necessity. It may be that
more than one or two generations are
needed to implant individual morality,
though the spirit of social or convenient
morality disappears at once with the state of
things that bred it.

Enough of philosophy. Other odd facts
of various sorts Hugh pondered on his
lonely expeditions. They were not useless
to him in after-life. It is good for a youth,
if he be intelligent and observing, to dwell
with savages awhile. He learns the key
of old problems ; he exercises himself with
new ; valuable ideas sink into his mind,
to harvest at a later date. But the majority
of readers may be more than satisfied
already.

He saw much of the King at intervals,
and came to understand him, so far as a
bright youth can understand a man of
violence and craft, full of dark experience.

Avhose easiest moods were perhaps the least
natural. Hugh, at least, suspected them.
Remembering a hint which Quantiahah
Kootlah let fall once, he thought to recognise
the unfrocked priest in this smooth
dissimulation, and more particularly in a
certain bitterness against all that is termed
respectable ' by worthy folks — the commonplace
virtues and proprieties of life. Xone
of them did the King: outrage himself, so far
as his guest perceived; but he hated them,
and upon such matters no doubt spoke
frankly, but Hugh felt no such assurance
about any other.

And yet he liked the man. Features
of character which Hugh could not have
developed under any circumstances, though
lie had Ravished, appealed to his imagination.
The King might have taken Strafford's
motto, ' Thorough,' and the quality which
it implies is that which strikes a youth
of the day most forcibly. It is the natural

reverse of his own temper, full of doubts
and questions and hesitations. Quantiahah
Kootlah regarded the universe as a field
wherein he had license to disport himself
unchallenged, with the indubitable right
to evade, to deceive, or to strike down any
influences that opposed his will. He did
not understand moral responsibility. The
suofo-estion irritated him like the babble of

Doa

fool. If men or things got in his way,
he removed them. Had Hugh studied Mr.
Beaver's character, he might have remarked
a similarity in contrast betwixt the two.
One represented the active form, the other
the passive, of a similar frame of mind.
Beauty and idealization were Beaver's
gods ; excitement and enjoyment the
King's. But they are much nearer related
sometimes than appears at a glance.

Hugh perceived, however, that any long
stay at Manfi was not welcome. He had
been quite unused to feel that his presence

VOL. III. 55

bored a host, but in this case he could
not deceive himself. Quantiahah Kootlah was
pleased to see him arrive, showed interest in
his reports, and concerned himself actively
in making his guest comfortable. But
after a day or two he grew weary, and
betrayed the fact. They had neither
topics nor sentiments in common. The
King was always busy ; with audiences and
administration by day, with secret conferences
and mysterious sorties by night.
Though Hugh never saw an execution,
he heard cries of pain not unfrequently,
and he knew well that the government
was not conducted upon such humane
principles, nor was the King's life so
blameless, as appeared. But, ujjon the
other hand, he knew also that Quantiahah
Kootlah was regarded with enthusiasm by
his people, and abstained from judging
him.

On returning to ^lanfi from a j^i'olonged

I

excursion, at the last halt a royal messenger
informed Hugh that Prince Ekmo was
approaching the capital with an embassy.
He found the streets full of Ashanti
caboceers and soldiers, who behaved with
the most com-tous propriety. Pursuing
his way to the palace, in the outer court
he met little Yini on the watch. The child
grows prettier every month, he thought,
and said so, as he lifted her upon her elbows,
and kissed' her.

Don't, Hugh ! See, this kid in palaver
frock ! What do you think of that for a
tea-party?'

You look like a jolly little China
image ! AYhat have you there ?'

Letters from them fellows Bob and
Prince. And look here ! Letters from
home, what Prince Ekmo brought!'

At this moment little Juma came bounding
in, laughing with delight and fun,
springing into Hugh's arms.

55—2

Juma loves me ! Some little girls
don't !'

Juma not had him hair done — not got
some hair, poor chap. I kiss you day after
tomorrow !'

Hugh took his letters eagerly. They
enveloped in silk, and tied vnih that
cord of many strands which is a thing of
beauty in itself, woven by the ladies of a
negro monarch's harem. Closely attended
by the children and their suite of little
slaves, he sought his quarters, and to get
rid of them employed himself in getting
out their presents ordered from the coast.
They were not many nor varied, but costly.
The girl had one of those cases made at
Birmingham for the West Coast trade, containing
a looking-glass, a comb, and other
articles. They are sold by the gross, at a
shilling each. But this one had passed
through Mahometan hands, which had
plated every article with gold, and made

?i facsimile in ivory of the papier-mace case.
For Juma he had a leaf-shaped knife, welded
from the lump . without regard to time or
trouble, with gold knobs beaten in, and a
gold hilt. These gifts were received with
enthusiasm, but not for their intrinsic
value. Gold was the commonest of metals
to those children.

Hugh opened his packet of home letters,
the second that had reached him in three
months. Those of earliest date were
pleasant enough, but every page urged him
to come home. Edie's latest was written
just after the news of his death had been
reported. It spoke of great trouble impending,
of Mrs. Acland's illness and despair,
of the intolerable anxiety in which
they lived. And it implored Hugh, almost
fiercely, to return at once if surviving.

We are deserted by all !' Edie wrote,
even by you — except Major Saxell. He
supports us. He has convinced me that

you are alive, but I am not sure mamma
believes. Oh, come to us, Hugh — come on
the instant! Something dreadful is about
to happen — I know it, and I have neither
courage nor strength. Come to my help,
brother ! Oh, if you are dead, I almost
hope I shall soon be with you !'

Distracted and remorseful, Hugh turned
back, and in earlier letters gathered smatterings,
rapid but intelligible, of the situation.
He rose to seek the King, who
entered at that moment, welcomed him
home, and sat down. iSJ'ot seeming to
notice Hugh's agitation, he said :

Prince Ekmo ^Yil\ send for you shortly ;
etiquette forbids him to call. You must
know that his visit is an answer to m}'
message demanding a safe-conduct to
Coomassie in order to talk with the King.
I expect that he will try to find out from
you what I want. Ekmo is as cunning as
any of them, but you will enjoy the advantage

of having nothing to hide. I
mean to surrender the independence of this
kingdom, on terms which Ashanti will
accept, I hope.'

You give up the struggle ? I am sorry
to hear that ; but you know best, and what
you do will be wise.'

My courage has failed of late, and my
mind is unsettled; but that is not all.
When I revolted, Ashanti seemed to be
broken up and finished. All its feudatories
broke away at once, and it was certain that
they would quarrel among themselves as
soon as they had made good their independence.
I hoped to re-establish the
empire, to conquer Dahomey and Hussar
to rule from the Atlantic to the
Great Desert. Then the world would have
talked of me ! I had dreams — but I have
awakened!'

You thought to civilize the people ?'

I thought to found an empire, perhaps ;

anyhow, to enjoy a bout of the grandest
game human beings can play. If I ruled
at Coomassie I should own the gold mines,

and then ! Ah, delightful visions !

They have all faded, but I have had my
time ! Now my best hope is to withdraw
in peace.'

Ashanti is too strong for you?'

Yes. And perhaps the visit of you
gentlemen has upset me. Now, let Prince
Ekmo worm out that such are my ideas,
but convey to him also that the embassy is
waste of time. Unless the King will swear
on his great oath to receive me in audience
and pass me safely on, I would rather die
fighting. And there is something more — I
will not have my people butchered.'

Oh, I am glad to hear that condition,
King!'

I don't talk philanthropy, and I don't
practise it. But you make a vast error in
thinking that I would desert a friend '

Indeed, I never thought that.'

The King laughed.

The assurance is not unwelcome, since
I purpose returning with you if all go well.
Now you understand.'

A note came presently.

My dear Friend,

We to hand by this favour, and I
hope it is well with your honour, as with
mine. I cannot do myself the favour to
wait on you, for I am, as they say, his
Majesty's own individual. But my bowels
yearn towards my friend, and I suppliantly
implore you.

I am, dear, sir,
Your most obedient, faithful servant,
His Highness Prince Ekmo.'

Hugh went over to the shed of branches
and bamboos, where the ambassador was
lodged, and underwent an hour's shrewd

questioning, for which the African temperature
at noon is ill-adapted. Ekmo was
vexed at the suggestion that his embassy
should return at once. He held full powers
to treat, and he was certain King Mensa
would not grant his enemy an audience.

Our poor people think he has magic —
what they call fetish. They would not let
his Majesty hear him tete-astute. I tell you
that what Quantiahah Kootlah knows. He
don't mean it. The King will be angry
to hear such palaver.'

I am sure,' said Hugh, ' that Quantiahah
Kootlah is sincere. If the King' ^^iH errant
the conditions asked, he will go away to
England never to return.'

Indeed ! I am sorry our poor people
are so ridiculous. But Quantiahah Kootlah
is acquainted with them, and he should not
act futile. Tell him I have full powers.
At the audience tomorrow he will see the
Grand Herald.'

When Hugh carried back this report, the
King laughed.

'I have seen his Grand Herald, and recognised
him for an impostor — a fraud, I
should say. It's a silly trick to play on
me.'

Mensa has dressed up some one in the
insignia ?'

Yes — a common practice of Ashanti
diplomacy. That also shows what I may
expect. Well, we shall see.'

I am sorry I cannot wait,' said Hugh.
There is trouble at home, and I must leave
you at once.'

You must tell me about that, if you
will. But I cannot allow you to go until
the others arrive. It would be very
dangerous just now. I cannot hear
of it.'

Quantiahah Kootlah spoke with authority,
and Hugh submitted perforce. But the
refusal did not incline him to answer questions

about his private business, and he
withdrew.

Next day Manfi awoke in excitement.
Quantiahah Kootlah's umbrella was planted
at dawn upon a frame of hurdles in the
market square. Opposite stood the insignia
of Prince Ekmo. The umbrellas of the
caboceers stretched in line on either side.
At sunrise their processions began to move
through the crowded streets. So excellently
timed were they, the lesser nobles first
getting into motion, that spectators saw an
unbroken stream of chiefs in silk and gold,
slaves in spotless cloth, armed retainers.
The great caboceers took place on their
gold-bound stools, with the gold-bound
spittoon handy, the calabash of toddy gold-bound,
the silver-plated pipe, and all the
rest of their magnificence. Ten minutes
later Quantiahah Kootlah arrived, as did
Prince Ekmo, step for step. Before them
marched the heralds, shouting the * strong

names ' of each, only used at times of ceremony.


Exactly at the same moment, monarch
and ambassador took their chairs of state.
The Ashanti heralds marched across, and
announced to their Manfi colleagues that
the deputy of their dread sovereign had
arrived. This news was formally delivered
to Quantiahah Kootlah, who declared the
embassy welcome. Prince Ekmo then
advanced, and the King rose from his chair.
The former was attired in a cotton robe
of the Ashanti royal colour, tartan. His
bare brown arms were cased in gold ; he
moved with a deliberation not quite voluntary
under the weight of his golden sandals.
Carelessly' , as if by chance, he did homage,
letting the silk scarf fall from his left
shoulder as he stood before the King, and
bent low. It was such a ceremonial as
Hugh had often played his part in, saving-greater
magnificence and the absence of

A Good Hater.

a royal harem. Little Yini, seated on the
ground at her father's knee, was the only
female creature who took part.

Then the King spoke a few words, and
simultaneously began the fusilade of joy,
and the bawling of the heralds. Prince
Ekmo seated himself, and the ' dash ' of :
his sovereign was borne across by slaves.
It consisted of arms, powder, silk cloths,
beads, and, above all, gold, in the shape
of ornaments and dust. The clamour of
the people was deafening. Then the
caboceers of either party danced. So the
formal audience ended. Quantiahah Kootlah'i
dash ' was set out before the palace gate,
with oxen and sheep, under protection of
the body-guard. Presently they bore it
to the ambassador's quarters.

At early morning Prince Ekmo waited
on the King, attended by his heralds.
Compliments were exchanged, toddy drunk,
and the Kola nuts, the sacred exchange

of friendship, paraded in gold basins, but
not yet cut. After quaffing his bowl of
toddy, Quantiahah Kootlah handed it to the
Grand Herald, coldly and firmly looking in
Ekmo's face the while. It was a formal
declaration that he did not recognise the
status of that office. The Ashantis seemed
to be stricken with paralysis, and the herald
let fall the bowl.

That is a clumsy cup-bearer your King
has,' said Quantiahah.

What does this intend ?' Ekmo
stammered.

It intends nothing. This man has
imposed on your Highness. He is no
herald, but a slave. I might punish him,
it is my right; but he did not deceive
me. Avenge your own honour. Prince !'

Ekmo's face showed conflicting passions,
and he hesitated. But the herald knew
what befalls a lump of clay betwixt the
hammer and the anvil.

Melinda Cormantin !' he roared, throwing
himself flat before the King. ' Spare
me, great chief ! I confess ! Spare me !'

The Ashantis dared not strike him,
protected by the great oath of Cormantin,
which saves the most helpless criminal if
he can utter it before the blow falls. Both
parties, with swords drawn, glared at each
other.

Take him away and keep him safe,'
said Quantiahah. ' Xow, Prince, owing to
this unfortunate mistake, your embassy
becomes informal, and worse — your life is
in my power. But we are friends. Let us
talk as friends should.'

Ekmo recovered himself promptly, and
smiled.

AVill you grant me the honour to flay
that blackguard alive ? He has insulted
our sovereign. I pray you burn him at
least.'

His fate is very unimportant, and we

have serious business. Breakfast is ready.
Come and take pot-luck, in the English
way.'

They withdrew together on the pleasantness
terms, held a long consultation, and in the
cool of the day Ekmo departed. He bade
Ins host and Hugh farewell with effusive
cordiality. But when Hugh congratulated
the King, he smiled grimly :

I have only scored one trick, and he has
many more cards to play. See now, Acland,
I will be frank. You are vexed because I
won't let you go alone. In the first place,
it would be a very serious risk; but I
should not venture to forbid you on that
account. Whilst you stay here, your
presence shields me, in some measure,
against the treachery of Prince Ekmo and
his followers. That is my real motive.'

To that I submit cheerfully. Say no
more.'

It may be in my power to do you a

VOL. III. 56

service that will make up for the present
anxiety. I think so.'

We won't talk of compensations if the
delay is useful to you ; but I cannot see
how it should.'

The Ashantis will hardly dare to strike
me openly, unless they strike you also.
And that is so much gained.'

Though Huo-h was not the least bit
sorry to perform the service of a target
for his friend, he thought the manner of
the avowal rather cynical.

A week afterwards he started to meet
Prinsfle and Holmes at the border of the
kingdom. They travelled back in leisurely
fashion, with pleasant sport by day, and
endless talk at night ; but when Manfi
Alas reached, no news had yet arrived from
Coomassie, but disquieting rumours enough.
The Ashanti monarch was said to be raisins
an army. Quantiahah refused to let them go.
In a long talk after supper, he gave his
reasons, with which Hugh was acquainted.

As soon as war breaks out, if it should,
I promise to dismiss you instantly,' he said ;
and added, laughing, ' I cannot have war-correspondents
with my army.'

After leaving the King's room they withdrew
to their quarters in the courtyard.
Little Yini cried through the curtains as
they passed :

Good-night, you fellows ! Pleasant
dreams !'

Ten minutes later arose a dreadful outcry;
they seized their arms and ran. Beneath
Quantiahah's alcove a crowd of slaves
struggled and heaved, some waving torches,
some brandishing arms. As the Englishmen
appeared at the one entrance of the
court, the body-guard filled the other, their
giant Colonel in advance. He crushed
through the press — his great arms rose
suddenly above it — and a carcase, black and
shining, whistled through the air — fell with
a crash against the opposite wall. At the

56—2

same instant the huge head towering aloft
suddenly vanished.

Hugh was foremost — the Colonel dropped
across his feet. Against the wall, fronting
that maddened crowd, stood a slender youth.
His eyes glared white in a blood-bedaubed
face. One blow of Hus-h's stron^i^ staff
knocked the sabre from his hand, another
felled a soldier who was rushing in to kill.
Bob and Prince sprang upon the youth
and held him, whilst Hugh kept back the
slaves. Officers pressed through and took
the prisoner in charge.

Then Yini's voice and Juma's were heard,
calling for help in tones hoarse with screaming
and fright. Bob tore aside the curtains
of the alcove, and Quantiahah Kootlah's body
was discovered lying across the mats, his
head on Yini's knee. He was alive and
quite conscious, regarding his friends mali
a wistful glance ; but a dark stream poured
from his side.

I

Carry me into the house!' he said, and
they did so, passing through a horror-stricken
crowd, and laying him upon his
bed in the small, close room. ' Send for
Memi Gisha ! Where is Yankra — the
Colonel?'

'Dead, I am afraid!' Hugh answered.

Ah ! Tell them to bring in that
Ashanti.'

Soldiers brought him, nearly dead. But
he found strength to raise himself, and
opened his eyes defiantly. Murderer and
victim regarded one another with equal
firmness.

Who are you?'

Quamina Arkom, the son of Moum-
pour !'

You were imprisoned ? They let you
out for this ?'

As he spoke, Memi Gisha entered, cool of
appearance, as usual. But her hands shook
as she performed her ceremonies, and when

she regarded the King in his eyes, a violent
trembling seized her.

I thought so !' he said. ' Do what you
can, Memi, to keep up my strength to the
last.'

She crooned an inarticulate charm or
lamentation as she dressed the wound. The
screaming, the yells outside, were unearthly.
All the inhabitants of the palace rushed to
and fro ; the town was afoot in wildest excitement.


'Muster the guard and stop that din!'
said the King. ' Take out the Ashanti.
Cut his head off before the palace.'

Without visible emotion the murderer
was borne away.

Quantiahah held his sobbing children to
his heart.

Hush, little ones !' he whispered. ' Bring
me the box yonder, Prince ! AVill you
gentlemen leave me with Hugh a moment?'

They retired.

After a pause the dying man spoke :
I am your father, Hugh. I had m-
tended to return with you to England.
Perhaps it is as well for all of us that
things have turned out otherwise, for I
have not forgiven No, by the Almighty!'
he cried with sudden vehemence,

I have not forgiven ! You will take

these children home, Hugh. The Ashantis
will certainly let you pass. I know you
will be kind to them.'

Is it possible you are not delirious ?'
In this box which I give to you is all
the evidence necessary. Yini, darling, this
is your brother ; teach Juma to love him.
The boy is rather a wild cat, Hugh. Now
call the others in, and I will repeat my
words.'

If this is true, have you no message for
my mother?'

None ! As a man sows, he reaps. I
complain of nothing. I hardly regret — but

I do not forgive ! No ! But you are a
good fellow, Hugh, and you love her.
Read no more of the papers you find here
than is needful. Give me your hand !
Good-bye, my boy ! I have lived my day,
every hour of it, and it's not been such a
short one. Ah ! that's a consoling thought
now ! Call the others in !'

They entered.

Gentlemen, my name is Hugh Acland,
and this is my son. I beg you to take
these little ones to England. ]\Iy treasure
is packed. Memi Gisha will arrange everything
here, and I have named you three
executors and trustees of improperly in a
document you will find in that box. You
must start in the morning?. The Ashantis
are waiting news of my death, and you will
meet them on the march. They will not
harm you. Old Moumpoun commands.
Make what terms you can with him for
my people. Call Memi Gisha.'

She came in, and listened to his last instructions.
The King grew fainter.

Are the caboceers waiting?' he asked.

They crowded the small room, making
its atmosphere faint, their eyes wide, their
weapons gleaming.

Protect these Englishmen to the Ashanti
camp, as you value your own lives. If
harm happens to them you are lost ! Swear
it on your strong oaths !'

The King explained, in brief, that to
fight was hopeless now ; the Englishmen
would negotiate for their surrender.

Now I have done,' said he. ' Good-bye,
Hugh. Don't grieve, my boy ; it is well
for you ! This is death !'

He fell into the native speech, talking to
his children, who answered with sobs and
cries, though he hushed them almost
smilingly. Then his voice broke and
paused in convulsions of choking ; presently
his head fell on his chest. He died

Avithout another word to Hugh, or another
thought to the past. But the children
clung to his body, screaming, and Memi
Gisha cried hysterically as she tore them
away.

His grave had been dug whilst the King
Alas yet living. Women of the household
wrapt the corpse in silk before it was cold,
laid it on a man-carriage of state, and slaves
bore it along shoulder-high. All the female
population ran ahead, howling, tearing their
naked flesh. The males came behind with
torches and yells, and incessant blaze of
ijuns. Their Kino: was laid in earth under
a tree, without religious ceremony, the giant
Colonel at his feet. Prince stepped forward,
and repeated such prayers as he could call
to mind, while the negroes listened breathlessly;
then the riot broke forth again.
That scene dwelt in the memory of all
whilst they lived. The foliage above, black
against the calm blue sky, ruddy in the

flare of torch ; the crush of glistening faces ;
the white, distended eyes and shining teeth ;
the roar and scream ; the volleys of musketry
and the curling smoke ; the tramp of many
feet, pounding a shapeless roll of silk beneath
the ground.

All through the night the uproar never
stilled. When they had packed their baggage
the Englishmen lay down for an hour,
and in the grey, misty dawn, they started.

An imposing cavalcade it was which the
risen sun displayed. All the great cabot
had taken refuge under the English
flag, and their households, their women,
guards, and carriers numbered many thousands.
The head of the column was miles
in advance when the travellers fell into
their place, and it streamed miles behind.
Their own party contained five hundred
slaves, each bearing a weighty load, with
soldiers of the body-guard interspersed.
Memi Gisha watched over them jealously,

riding aloft in a chair. Following her came
the children's litter ; but Yini sat on Bob's
strong shoulder, wetting his neck with
tears.

The caboceers fulfilled their promise
eagerly. At every halt the royal camp was
formed, as though Quantiahah Kootlah had
been present, and guards were set. On the
sixth day scouts reported the enemy within
touch ; their advance had been signalled
long before by flying villagers. The Englishmen
pushed on with their party, and encamped
across the road. In a few hours
an Ashanti herald with his train arrived,
brino^ino" a note from Prince Ekmo. It
guaranteed a safe passage for the English
and all their people. Bob Holmes accompanied
the herald back, to declare politely
that his friends would not clear the way
until they had made terms for the population
of Manfi. He found the Prince and
Moumpoun in a leafy town, a wilderness

of sheds and huts run up beneath the trees.
Not one of them had been felled, nor a
stick of brushwood cut for the mere purpose
of clearing the ground.

The Ashanti camp,' said Bob, * reminded
me of those swarms of ants which carry
green leaves aloft as they hurry to and fro
in millions. There are no roads. The
trampling of countless feet had beaten
down the lower brush, but the stronger
saplings remain and form a screen masking
every group of sheds. How many thousands
are there I have not the least notion,
for one cannot see five yards, even from
Moumpoun's hut.'

Prince Ekmo received him, and gravely
condoled over Quantiahah's fate.

We were not pals,' said he, ' but we
respected ourselves. Very sad ! In middle
life we are in death. His Highness the
caboceer Moumpoun is remarkably vexed
that his son should have made such a

business. You gentlemen are off home,
now ?'

'■ When we have carried out poor
Quantiahah's instructions. He begged us to
secure favourable terms for his people.'

Oh, that shall be so, certainly. I give
you my word.'

The conditions are that no one shall be
molested for past events, and that the province
shall be reunited to Ashanti on the
same terms of homage and tribute and
military service which it used to pay before
the revolt. We must have Moumpoun's
pledge for that.'

Oh, I get it at once !' exclaimed Prince
Ekmo, and passed round a screen of bushes.
Bob called up his interpreter and followed.
The Ashanti generalissimo was
sitting outside a barrack of boughs, just
round the corner as one may say ; his
officers stood at a distance, and Ekmo was
eagerly discussing with the old man.

Moumpoun very mad,' whispered the
interpreter. ' He say so, sir. Prince say
you gone to England, what business the
palaver?'

They caught sight of Bob ; Moumpoun
scowled, then smiled.

His Highness say done with you — it's
all right!'

But Bob was prepared. He read the
conditions aloud in the Ashanti tongue,
and the officers standing by raised a
clamour of protest. As soon as they
paused, Bob produced a pocket-book,
clasped and locked.

This is my fetish,' he said, still using
the native speech, ' and I summon the
caboceer to swear upon it by his strong
oath.'

Another roar from the officers, who
pressed in. Prince Ekmo, very flurried,
drove them back.

This is not necessary, sir ! These poor

men are superstitious. They do not understand
your fetish, and his Highness will
not swear.'

They would not be persuaded nor coerced.
Bob gave it up at last.

'AVe shall not move our camp,' he said.
And your chiefs will be very ill-advised to
pass by it. One of us will go on to Coo-massive
and see the King.'

The great caboceers drew together, sat
down, and bes-an a warm but dignified
debate. Bob returned. Later in the day
Prince Ekmo arrived with proposals which
were unacceptable. Three days the palaver
lasted, but with the aid of Memi Gisha's
shrewdness, the Englishmen were able to
disconcert every evasion. None of the
Ashantis went past. At length Moumpoun
gave way, swore his strong oath on Bob's
pocket-book with visible distrust, and the
Manfi caboceers waiting swore fealty to King
]\Iensah. Whether the terra have been

kept I know not. These men did what
they could.

The long march by Coomassie to the
Atlantic had no worse accidents than fever
and mud, caprice of barbarous potentates,
escape of carriers, and pilfering of baggage.
A liberal ' dash ' secured King Mensa's
friendship, and the treasure arrived almost
intact. The slaves were set free at Cape
Coast.

Memi Gisha refused to leave her country.
She felt no interest in England nor in things
English. The wonders of civilization did
not astonish her — they were all ' white
man's fetish,' with which she had no concern.
Her love for the children remained,
no doubt ; but they had now passed from
her realm, so to put it, had left the negro
world, and joined ' the other.' Memi Gisha
bade them calmly adieu.

VOL. III. 57

NEMESIS.

*RS. BEAVER will be home in
an hour, madam.'

I asked to see your master.'
He perhaps misunderstood, ma'am. I
will inform him.'

The footman went, and returned.
Be kind enough to step this way,
madam.'

]airs. Acland entered the quaintly luxurious
room Which Beaver called his own;
he stood there cool and easy and courteous.'
I hojDC you have come in friendship,
Margaret !'

I have come to ask an explanation at
last! My son is returning, and this long
mystery must be traced out. What part
do you intend to play?'

That I have always played — a disinterested
witness, with a leaning in your
favour.'

Then God help me ! I owe you ten
thousand pounds, of which I owe an account
to my son.'

Do not let that trouble you, so far as I
am concerned. It was a little present I
made my wife.'

Oh, I know you well !'

Let me hope I have not changed, for I
have not very much to reproach myself
with. As for the money, I pledge my
word of honour that it was lent with no
secret design — but upon excellent security,
by-the-bye.'

Then with what design did you cause

57—2

A Good Hater.

me to be informed who was my creditor on
the day of your marriage?'

Make allowance for my theatrical instincts,
Margaret,' he answered, smiling.
I was never one to do good or ill by
stealth. Having effected my little coup,
there is nothing to fear from me.'

I know you too well, I say ! And I expect
the worst when you sheathe your claws
and speak softly. Oh, for heaven's sake,
spare me, Julius ! Why do you hate me?'

You have hated me so long and so
bitterly, Margaret, that you think I must
needs return it. That is a common case.
You ask an explanation. I loved sou very
deeply long ago, though I knew you to be
false and cowardly.'

Oh, we are alone ! What is the use of
lying?'

Why, shall I recall the story? It does
not move me now, but you may be pained.'

'Tell it!'

I need only refer to the end. When
Hugh got jealous did I not implore you to
leave him ? Did I not offer my life, and
all that is mine, and you would not ?
Then I kept away, but not in anger. You
suggested to Hardwicke that he should
propose a visit to Wolfingham, among my
own people, at my door, and you persuaded
Hugh to accept!'

It's false ! But go on ! Let me understand.'


Then you asked me to take you away,

and I begged you to wait. Let us forget

these old memories, Margaret!'

No, finish!'

You made up I know not what tale —
with what object you alone could say. It
did not deceive Hugh, for your misfortune
was to fall into the hands of men cleverer
than yourself, which was a strange chance.
You ruined all our lives, and brought this
revenge upon yourself years after. Hugh

lay in wait for me like a coward — but he
deserted you that night. Where is the
wrong I did you?'

He speaks as if he believed himself I I
will not say one word in answer. Then
that is why you hate me?'

Put it in the long past. I have forgiven.'

Since Avhen?'

Since I saw my wife, for that happiness
I owe to you indirectly. But if I had not
forgiven before that, I had learned to think
of you good-naturedly. Whether you were
alive or dead I did not ask. Your letters
asked what I could not give, for whether
the sergeant was Hardwicke or not I had
no information. But I could have proved
that Acland was not drowned, and therefore
I did not reply.'

You disturbed my son's mind ; a mere
telling blow.'

Again, I must ask you to make allowance
for character.*



I do not make allowance, but I recognise.
And you set Peake to tempt me ?'

I rather suspect, Margaret, that you
have begun to doubt my offences. Why
this demand for explanations else? I never
tempted Peake, nor suggested anything to
him. If I took the trouble to learn what
was going on, did I turn my knowledge to
bad account?'

Others did, at your instigation.'

Then I must beg you to believe my
word of honour, which you can trust, I
think? Thank you! Upon my word of
honour, I had never heard of Maud Danvers,
nor would she ever have had mv information.
I was vexed to hear what she had
done. Do you know who sent the witnesses
away ? I did it, as soon as I understood
that danger threatened you. And I gave
myself the pains to call on Major Saxell at
Daneham, when I was in the neighbourhood,
as you know. There I saw Miss

Palliser, and my interest in human affairs
collapsed. That's all !'

On your word of honour ?'

On my word of honour ! But that is
hardly needed. For, if you remember me
3^011 know that I should not only have done
30 u ill, but having done it should have
proclaimed it, had I been so disposed.'

Yes, I know that. I thought you had
wronged me, and I did not expect you to
forgive.'

It is a sound old rule on which 3-ou act.
Having wronged me, you did not forgive.'

So we have differed !'

On a misunderstanding,' he said, with a
bitter smile. ' I misjudged the situation
twenty years ago, it seems, and so did you.
With unpleasant consequences for both.'

And now the past is forgotten ?'

You may put it so.'

I may count upon your friendship?'

Yes ; what is it ?'

My boy is coming home, Julius. I
wished to learn how you would act towards
him.'

And now you know, I hope. He will
never receive a hint from me, through
business or any other means, of our relations.'


Thank you. As for the money, it will
be deducted from the sum we pay to Saxell,
and I will find means to hand it over
privately.'

Then you are satisfied that Raises was
Acland? I'm not, but it is no question forme.
You propose to pay the whole, and
you think Hugh will consent?'

I am sure he would in the end ; but my
object is to avoid inquiry as far as possible.
A large sum accrued during his minority,
and Hugh lives within his income. Edie
will marry Major Saxell, or she will not
marry at all. We could bear the loss of
cash with no feeling worse than annoyance.'

A Good Hater.

Beaver listened with smiling attention.

You know your children's character, of
course,' he said. ' Then I may understand
that the purpose of this visit to me is
to stop inquiry on PI ugh' s part, somehow?
How, you will explain.'

I shall not attempt to conceal anything
from you, Julius. That was my great
motive ; but lately I had begun to think
that I might be wrong about your sentiments
towards me, as about so many other
things.'

Then you were playing a part at the
beginning of our interview ? Well, speak
out now.'

Hugh would have surrendered long
ago ; he guessed the truth. But no doubt
of my poor husband's drowning ever
entered my mind, and of course I resisted.
Even now, Julius, I cannot see that I was
morally wrong !'

Beaver laughed.

I am a very sympathetic representative
of the public. What does all this come to,
Margaret ?'

If I can lay before Hugh conclusive
evidence that Major Saxell's claim is
established, he will be glad to let the
subject drop, and never allude to it again.
But if that is not done, in some manner
beyond question, he will examine for himself,
of course, if only as a matter of form.
You understand me ?'

In such investigations he would discover
what — what there is no need for him to
learn. That unhappy affair of Peake's, for
instance?'

If Hugh heard all that, Julius, he would
despise me — and my boy's loving trust is
my dearest blessing !'

I see all that, and I feel for you. You
have a project ?'

I solemnly declare that I acted honestly
and conscientiously all round. It was not

my wish to defraud Major Saxell of ibis
rights, but I felt certain he lead none.
Hugh will not believe that. He is proud
and sensitive and suspicious, as boys are.
My payment to Mrs. Saxell, when the
report of his death distracted me, would
offend him. Though you declared, and
Grace confirmed it, that I did not know
who lent the money, he would not believe —
at least, his confidence in me would be
shaken. And" I will do anything rather
than suffer that !'

What you propose to do at present, as
I guess, is to find — that is, putting it
roughly, to make — some additional evidence
so strong that it will satisfy your son
upon the spot ; in order that he may not
look closely into the back records. That
is it?'

Yes. Hugh will come back as he went,
hating the subject, and eager to put it out
of sio^ht and mind for ever. He would

go more than half-way to find an excuse
for that.'

Well, I am a very sympathetic representative
of the public, as T said. It would
be impertinent, and futile besides, to urge
that you are meditating another action of
the sort which has caused you trouble.
But hunting experience tells me, Margaret,
that there is danger of falling into the ditch
if you shirk the leap.'

There is no danger — not the least !'

I am unable to judge of that. But
you wish me to help in some way, and I
must take precautions. What is it you
ask ?'

Only the use of your name. Hugh is
prepared to believe that you could give
testimony which would settle the question.'


Beaver went to his desk, laughing,
scribbled a few lines, and handed them to
her. She read :

" My dear Mks. Acland,

" The object you propose seems to
be harmless. It is neither my business nor
my Avish to know what steps you will take,
and I am willing to let }'ou use my name.
But you distinctly understand that I am
influenced only by friendship, and I refuse
all risk. If the means you choose threaten
to bring me into difficulties or scandal, I
shall produce this note, which I beg you to
endorse."

You know me better than to think,' he
continued, ' that I should hesitate in doing
what I here propose. Take the permission
or leave it, but don't doubt that I shall
throw you over if the occasion arise.'

The occasion will not arise, and you have
given me your word that you are friendly.'

She wrote:

" My dear Mr. Beaver,

"'I understand the condition, and I
accept it implicit." '

Is that quite all, Margaret ?'
Quite,' she answered, colouring.
Very good. My wife is not at home
just now, or I would ask you to meet her.
Mrs. Sax ell and her son arrive to-day.'

I should have liked to see my enemy,
and Major Saxell is our truest friend.'

Frankly now, Margaret, have you never
felt a qualm in accepting that honest fellow's
confidence ?'

No, for I never had it. Major Saxell
tried his very hardest to trust me, but
he could not succeed.'

You were born out of your time !' Mr.
Beaver exclaimed, in admiration. ' An
Italian grandeur of the best period hangs
over you !'

He rose, plainly inviting her to say goodbye,
and she submitted. But in the meanwhile
Grace had returned with her guests,
and they met in the hall. Needless to say
that Mrs. Acland was seized with impetuous

delight, presented to her foe, and retained
for lunch. Beaver could not resist, but
lie graciously protested, in reply to his
wife's remonstrance, that he had done his
utmost to keep the visitor, sirs. Acland
did not accept the hint, and withdrew to
take off her things.

Grace threw aside hat and mantle to lead
Dick up and down the house in childish
glee.

It is astonishing; !' he said attain and
again, with just a touch of sarcasm. ' To
think that you should have dropped into
such a home of poetry ! The story' of
Beaverlowe is epic, the beauty lyrical ; is
the master didactic ?'

I don't know what you mean.'

These are different schools of poetry,
my dear. You supply the dramatic, and
the property is pastoral. So you live
surrounded by every style.'

You forget one,' she answered.

'Do I? Which?'

The satiric'

That was not recognised by the Greeks,
our masters,' said Dick gaily. ' Where
does the satire come in ?'

You bring it — cruelly ! Oh, Dick, I
am so bored !'

What ? In two months ! It is not
possible !'

If Julius would only leave me alone,
or give me something to take charge of,
I should be happy. But he doe's not regard
me as a human being. I am his supreme
work of art, to be admired all day in
different lights, shown up, and studied
and discussed. He will not talk to me ;
one does not talk to a picture but at it, with
interjections and raptures ! Oh, I am so
tired, Dick ! If I speak, he raves about my
lips, and never hears a word. If I am
silent, he gets into ecstasies on my eyelids !
You would not believe it possible that a

VOL. III. 58

man could find so much to say about a
girl's appearance. sly husband's variety
of critical expressions is astonishing, but
they drive me mad. I have broken out once
or twice, and then he has been excruciated
with the change of " tone " or " character,"
or something ; but I firmly believe he did
not distinctly knoAv I was angry!'

It's a hard case,' said Dick, laughing,
but I have understood that such extravagant
admiration doesn't last with husbands.'

It will last, with Julius, as long as my
beauty lasts. He will not tire of that, anymore
than of his Titian and things. Then
his remarks ! They are ingenious, most
ingenious and clever variations of "Pretty
dear !" Never by chance anything but
that ! And the very worst of it is that he
expects me to sit contentedly upon the
pedestal for him to worship. I may have
whatever I fancy. If it were the Koh-i-noor,
he would not argue, but would set himself

to get it. Statues and pictures are quite
happy if you put them in a Hight and under
circumstances which show them at their
best, and Julius does not regard me in any
other point of view. He does not love me,
myself, Dick ! He loves my beauty, but
for the rest he does not know it, does
not recognise it. If I lost my beauty he
would forget me, just as if I had died,
and return quite contentedly to his orchids.'

Dick was at a loss. It occurred to him
that Grace had not much regarded the
individuality of the master of Beaverlowe
before she married him. Fate brings these
revenges.

We have not seen a creature since we
returned here. Julius has caused it to be
known, he has told me so, that callers will
not be welcome. My card-tray is filled
with the best names in the county, but nota
soul has been allowed to enter. How
long is this to last ? 1 have no idea !

58—2

Julius has some paintings which he keeps
in a room of his own, and has never shown
to anyone. Mankind is not worthy to look
on such perfection. Am I to be another ?
You know, Dick, I never was vain, much
more a flirt. If Julius would give me
something to employ my time, I could find
patience. But he won't ! ]\Iy business in
life is to be admired — by my lawful o^-ner
and to lend myself to studies in art. I
can't endure it, Dick ! If Julius won't
listen, I'll make him feel ! I'll break something,
and compel him to hear me !'

Though Dick was grieved and puzzled,
he could not but laugh.

Yours is a difficult position. But sofar
as I understand it, Grace, you really love
him all the same ?'

I don't know. He interests me, and he
is perfectly kind. Perhaps that's as near to
love as I could get. But I shan't be able
to stand much more of this, Dick.'

He could not forbear to say :

It is a dramatic Nemesis. Who would
have believed that our Grace could get sick
of her beauty, and long for employment !
All you prayed for is yours, and much
besides. Your wishes have been too well
fulfilled — and you can't stand it.'

Grace was struck.

Put in that Avay, it's odd,' she said.
But T never meant that I should like such
admiration as this.'

And you never meant such wealth or
such position, which compel you to be idle.
You have got too much of what you asked
for, and that is a very comfortable sort of
unhappiness, if you will only regard it in a
proper light.'

Do you mean, Dick, that I was all
wrong from the beginning? If I was,
if I'm just a commonplace girl like others,
only a little prettier and a little more silly
in a less ordinary way, why, then — it's a

bad prospect, very! I don't kno\Y what
may happen.'

I do — if you are a commonplace girl.
You will reconcile yourself to Beaver's
peculiarities, which don't seem to be disagreeable
altogether, and become happy ina
commonplace way. That's what you
have to do !'

When they returned to lunch, the two
elder ladies where chatting, and Mr. Beaver
was observing them with amused interest.
Mrs. Saxell had tried to combine an air of
virtuous superiority over the convicted
criminal and an air of pitying sympathy
with one whose fortune she had triumphantly
annexed; but Mrs. Acland did not
seem to recognise her guilt, nor to accept
commiseration. She spoke easily and
frankly in her pleasant way.

Edie has let our correspondence drop
long ago,' Grace exclaimed. ' She only
wrote me a little contrite note on my

marriage and never replied to my answer.
But I don't bear malice. How is my
darling Edie ? Now that we are all friends
again, Julius, I shall ask her here. You
will come, Mrs. A eland ?'

Edie is well, but she has not quite
recovered my long illness. And Ave are
just now terribly overworked, furnishing a
new house.'

You are not going to leave Eaton
Square?' cried Grace thoughtlessly.

As soon as we can. But the house
belongs to Hugh, on a long lease; and
until he returns, since it is such a short
time now, we shall remain there. You
know,' she added kindly to Mrs. Saxell,
covering any awkwardness that lady might
have felt, ' my boy is nearly twenty-five,
and he will marry soon, no doubt. So weare
making ready to submit without inconvenience.'


When is Hugh comines ?' Dick asked.

We seem to be such old friends, and yet I
never saw him.'

He has the same feeling towards yourself,
I assure you. His last letter is dated
Coomassie, where they had just arrived on
their way home. One of the King's runners
carried it, and they hoped to catch the next
mail. We are anxiously expecting news
from Madeira, which Edie will forward tome
here, if it should arrive to-day.'

A servant entered With a telegram.

Suppose this should be it,' said Mr.
Beaver. ' Yes, by Hercules ! " Mrs. Ac-land,
Beaverlowe." I congratulate you
warmly !'

Mrs. Acland's eyes were wet, as she read
the despatch :

" We are coming on by the mail. All
well." My dear, dear son! Thank God!'

Grace jumped up and kissed her enthusiastically.


There never was such a blessed telegram !

You have one from Edie, too. If she does
not send her love I will denounce her as a
heartless thing !'

Spare her ! See for yourself. " Give
my love to Grace !" My day has been
thrice happy ! I have corrected a long
misunderstanding with an old friend ; I
have made acquaintance with a lady to
whom I owe much consideration, and I
have recovered my son ! Allow me to go
now, Mr. Beaver. I am too full of thought
for conversation.'

He rang.

My wife spoke with such charming
vivacity, that I forgot to put in a word —
these distractions are pardonable to a man
who has been married only two months.
Believe that I sympathize with your joy,
Mrs. Acland, and that I feel a peculiar
delight in thinking the good news reached
you under my roof

My congratulations are simple,' said

Dick, ' but I assure you they are heartfelt.'


I have the strongest sympathy,' Mrs.
Saxell added, ' for I have a son.'

Thank you — thank you all !' said Mrs.
Acland brokenly. ' I cannot help crying,
for I have not deserved this kindness.'

Beaver took her to the carriage. Through
her tears, Mrs. Acland whispered :

I think I see how it can best be done.
You will hear from me.'

Remember the conditions,' he returned,
and subject thereto count upon me. Goodbye!'


The ladies discussed their late guest.
Mrs. Saxell admitted her to be a woman of
amiable character, but deplorably weak ; to
be austerely excused, however, by the very
charitable, upon the grounds of maternal
love.

I am not sure that Mrs. Acland is
weak,' said Grace thoughtfully. ' AVliat do

«

you think, Dick ? AVliat do you think,
Julius? You have known her so long!'

I quite agree with you, my dear. Perfectly
charming !'

All I do or say is charming !' cried
Grace pettishly.

Let us hope that opinion will last,' Mrs.
Saxell said.

It is founded upon evidence indisputable,
madam.'

When dinner was finished that night,
Beaver said :

• I have not quite recovered from bachelor
habits, Major Saxell, and I regretfully allow
the ladies to withdraw. That observation
Avill not be construed as a hint, I hope.
But it seems to me, since I returned to
society, that men do not enjoy their vine
as they used, when they knew they had
time before them.'

I have observed the same thing,' said
Dick, 'judging by my own narrow experience

after nine years' exile. It seems tome
that they tr}- to consume their old-fashioned
allowance in a hurry ; and if they
can't get it, or don't come up to time, they
retire to the club proportionately early, and
abuse their host.'

What a brutal suggestion !' Grace cried.
As if we had not improved on the horrid
habits of our grandfathers.'

You see I have not yet taught my wife
philosophy,' laughed Beaver.

Oh, I know your opinions very well.
Fancy, aunt! Julius declares that human
nature has not changed, nor ever will, from
the time when we ran about on all-fours,
and our for — for '

Foramen magnum, dear.'

Yes, our foramen magnum was situated
at the back of our heads. Isn't it absurd ?'

Both absurd and wicked too, in my
opinion.'

He says that circumstances and habits

have influenced us, but that every healthy
and intelligent person is capable of the
most awful barbarism that ever was heard
of.'

Upon this Mrs. Saxell thought it time to
withdraw. The butler then produced two
magnums of claret, opened both, and from
each poured out a glass.

I warned you,' said Mr. Beaver, ' how
very quietly we live. You understood me
literally, I hope?'

Quite so, and it was a great relief. I
don't care much for the society of casual
acquaintances, and strangers are a downright
bore. 1 have always felt a secret
sympathy for the Briton who heaved half a
brick at foreigners.'

I should have cherished that man !' cried
Mr. Beaver eagerly. ' You are a kindred
soul, Major Saxell !'

In former times, however, you kept open
house, as I hear?'

Yes. It has interested me a good deal
to analyze my feelings at that date. I did
not enjoy the crowd nor the racket. It was,
I think, an abounding physical vivacity and
a thirst unquenchable for the to kainon, the
new pleasure — which never turned up — that
led me to these freaks. Does report tell
that I seldom asked the same people twice ?
They came, but I neither invited nor wanted
them. After an hour they were all bores,
men and women.'

I see. Your brimming health kept you
always eager and hopeful of amusement,
though the means always failed ?'

You have a quick perception. That
was it, 1 suppose.'

He touched a gong exquisitely musical of
tone. The butler entered, uncorked two fresh
magnums, filled clean glasses, and withdrew.

To give up society, therefore,' resumed
Mr. Beaver

By Jove!' Dick interrupted; 'I have

heard of this story, but I always thought
the hero a Frenchman and a myth! Do
you open a fresh magnum for every guest,
and drink only one glass?'

Certainly not ! I am by no means an
extravagant person, nor a fool who scatters
pearls abroad. This is my habit after
dinner when I am alone, but the magnums
reappear at lunch. — I was saying that tc
give up society under those circumstances
was no hardship. I had learned by experience
that it was useless to expect amusement
from my fellow-creatures

You ought to have joined the service.

In one point of view you are right. I
should have been constantly interested and
constantly happy in a force like your Indian
Guides. But one cannot get a commission
there for the asking, and the preparation
would have bored me. Then, there are so
many mechanical duties in a soldier's life,
even if he be on active service. No, I

thought of it carefully. Remembering what
Gibbon says, I tried an experiment in the
yeomanry. I'm glad you don't laugh,
]viator Saxell, for that shows you understand.
It was not for me to throw up my
commission within twenty-four hours of
joining, but I longed to do so. That experience
was enough. Your friend Lord
Dunscombe regrets, as he admitted to me,
that he did not try the yeomanry before
joining the regular service.'

'I do not think that Dunscombe could
be properly described as a friend of mine.
What is he doing ?'

Getting deeper and deeper into mischief,
I understand. As we passed through
London I met General Randall, who is
o^oino- to live abroad.'

Good-bye, Dunscombe ! But he was
Worthy of better things !'

Fresh magnums and fresh glasses were
produced.

I have had more than my allowance,'
said Dick, ' and you need not fear that I
shall abuse you at the club.'

I want you to do a service to your
cousin, Major Saxell. She is dissatisfied
with the quiet home life we lead, and must
lead in future. Within the limits which
necessity imposes on me, nothing, actually
nothing, will be denied her, nor even
questioned. But we cannot mix in society.'

Did you tell Grace so before marriage ?'
Dick asked, in astonishment.

No, but I did not promise anything of
the sort.'

Since you invite me to interpose, may
I ask, for information only, why j^ou cannot
go into society?'

I will be quite frank with you. My
heart has been affected for many years, and
it does not grow stronger. What energy I
have to spare is all devoted to hunting.'

I am astonished and shocked, Mr.

VOL. III. 59

Beaver. Surely it would be less risk to
give parties, and even to attend them, than
to hunt ?'

No doubt, but I love hunting '

And your wife loves parties,'

AVell, then, I will go a step further, in
confidence. Since my life is doomed, I
hope to cheat Death by meeting him upon
the field unexpectedly. I am sure you will
spare me reflections. That is my notion.'

Why not tell her this yourself ?'

Tell Grace ? Good heavens ! I show
my regard for her by mentioning the secret
to you, but it is in the strictest confidence.'

Grace would submit, I'm sure, for suevi
a reason; but otherwise '

Otherwise, you think, she will not
attend to your advice ?'

You will discover for yourself I fear
not. To speak frankly, she may well have
entertained very different ideas of her life
at Beaverlowe, and I don't see any arguments

at the moment to convince her that
they were not reasonable. Better let me
tell the truth.'

That 1 forbid, whatever happens. I will
not bear to be made ridiculous.'

But surely a mortal disease is not
ridiculous.'

Mr. Beaver showed a dry irritation.

I have remarked,' he said, ' that the
sense of humour is not keen in your
estimable character. Not ridiculous to
preserve the semblance of a man when one
is inspired, not by a soul, but by doctor's
stuff ! The spectacle is not funny, perhaps,
but I know none more bitterly absurd.'

Then death must be most ridiculous
of all?'

Under certain conditions which, please
Heaven, will not befall me. When the
moment comes, I hope it weill be forced
by some great excitement, when my horse
and I fall together. Nobody will laugh

59—2

then. Nobody will recollect me in a nightcap.
I shall die as I have lived, totus and
teres. So you hope to fall by a bullet, like
a soldier ?'

I see all the more plainly that Grace
outfit to know this, Mr. Beaver.'

And I insist upon your silence towards
her and towards everyone.'

I must submit, but in that case I can
hardly serve you.'

I asked you to serve your cousin,' said
Mr. Beaver, rising.

With forebodings of evil, Dick approached
the subject when an opportunity occurred
next day. So soon as Grace understood
that her quiet life was no passing annoyance,
but the fate to be expected henceforth
she did not stay to hear arguments.
Running to lier husband's study, she
breathlessly announced an intention of
returning the neighbours' calls forthwith.
He tried to dissuade her with promises and

gifts, as one diverts a child ; but her anger
grew.

Wait till tomorrow, at least !' Mr-beaver
urged at length, and since the day
was wet Grace consented triumphantly.

After lunch on the morrow the gentlemen
rode out, and she ordered a carriage.
The servant returned to say that both coachmen
had gone to Laystone by Mr. Beaver's
orders, and taken the key of the stables.

Break the door open !' Grace cried, in
full revolt; and she ran down to superintend,
heedless of her aunt's appeal. Her ponies
had vanished ; Mr. Beaver's two grooms
had accompanied their master, and the
stable-boys could not find a livery.

Harness the blacks ! I will drive myself,'
she cried — and did so.

But to call on the dignitaries ot the
county in this fashion lay beyond even her
indignant courage, and after a long circuit
she returned.

The gentlemen had already got back,
and Mrs. Saxell, pale With agitation, told
what had happened.

An amusing freak of the child's,' said
Mr. Beaver calmly.

'I don't think it a joke at all!' Dick
exclaimed.

Neo ? I have already ventured to remark
your deficiency in the sense of humour.'

If you will not tell Grace the truth, it is
natural that a girl of her age and spirit
should resent the lonely life you propose.
I don't blame her !'

I have not invited your opinion on my
wife's doings !' he answered, with a dark
look ; and withdrew.

I don't understand it,' began Mrs.
Saxell, in her most austere manner.

It's easy to understand that there are
going to be unpleasant scenes. It is too
late for us to interfere. That should have
been done before marriage.'

Who could have thought that Mr.
Beaver would be so unreasonable!'

It is no good to discuss that now.'

Grace's conduct was unladylike.'

You have known her since her birth.
Will it be any use arguing with her?'

I almost fear it will not.'

Then let us shorten our visit and go
tomorrow.'

'Whereto?'

Since we are here, to London. Hugh
Acland should arrive in a few days.'

Perhaps it will be best.'

Grace entered.

We have been saying, my dear, that in
your interest we had better leave you alone
with Mr. Beaver for a time.'

She made no effort to keep them. Mrs.
Saxell delivered a homily, which lasted at
intervals till bedtime ; Grace heard it without
impatience, sitting stolid and sullen.
Mr. Beaver showed perfect tact, treating his

wife with a grave and kindly deference
which made her temper look brutal.

Before they went in the morning, Dick
found an opportunity to say a few words of
commonsense tenderly. Grace broke into
tears.

I know what I have done now, and
what is before me ! He's pitiless as a tiger,
Dick ! I'm afraid — of him and myself.'

Look at the other side, dear ! Your
husband is thoroughly kind and generous,
a pleasant companion, brilliantly clever,
large-minded even in his faults. AVhat
proportion of young wives who come and
go as they please would not change places
with you!'

But I am worth love, Dick, and I could
give love ! All that you name was offered
me once, and love beside. I refused it, and
he is avenged!'

A cab drove up to take them to the
station. Grace opened her mouth to exclaim,

at sight of that homely vehicle, but
said nothing. Beaver whispered to Mrs.
Saxell aside :

I regret to send yoa from my house in
this respectable but unostentatious manner.
The fact is, I have found it necessary to
part with all my carriage-horses !'

HUGH RETURNS.

PASS over the demonstrations
of affection and delight "which
welcomed Hugh Acland home.
Heartfelt as they were, a certain embarrassment
possessed all the party ; both mother
and son were relieved when Edie left them
after dinner, and the moment of explanation
came.

I have something very grave to tell
you,' Hugh began, ' which I would not

write '

You are married?'
He smiled.

If it isn't so grave as that,' Mrs. Acland
continued, ' let it rest till I have told you
how the lawsuit stands '

I am curious to know that.'

I have given way, Hugh!'

What can you mean ? You acknowledge
that Sergeant-major Raises was my
father?'

It is proved conclusively. I did Mr.
Beaver great injustice, for in declining to
help us in the beginning he meant kindly.
I can show you letters which Hugh wrote
him from India. In short, we cannot dispute
the evidence, and I thought my son
would not wish to have his father's indiscretions
and his mother's sad story told in
public. Was I not right?'

Of course — under the conditions you
mention. I begged you to yield when I
believed them. And what has been done
so far?'

I have undertaken in your name to surrender

the personal property. AVe shall
still be rich.'

I must say at once that 3''ou have been
precipitate, mother, though right in your
point of view. Those letters which Mr.
Beaver produces are forged. My father did
not go to India, and he did not enlist.'

AVhat? You speak as if you knew!'

He went to the West Coast, and there I
have lived with him for months !'

'Hugh!'

He took the name of Cutler, which the
natives transformed into Kootlah. Xow
you understand.'

That negro king was Hugh? Oh, where
is he?'

Dead, mother !'

And you gave me no hint !'

I did not know him till the last. On
his death-bed he acknowledged me in the
presence of J Single and Holmes, and gave
me his papers.'

You have read them?'

Yes.'

Pale and trembling, Mrs. Acland paused
a moment.

What is in them?' she asked.

Very little about his early life, mother —
only an outline. I will bring them.'

When he returned Mrs. Acland had gone
to her room, and he carried the papers to
her.

Good-night, my darling boy !' she said ;
and Hugh was conscious that she sought
his kiss with dumb anxiety, as if to learn
from it whether his love and respect were
still unchanged.

Good-night, dearest mother !' said he
passionately, taking her in his arms.

Brother and sister sat long, talking of
the past, exchanging explanations and confidences,
before Hugh found courage to tell
their father's fate. But after the first outbreak
of wonder and dismay, Edie listened

quietly, holding her brother's hand. When
the tale was finished, she said :

I knew in my heart that the man who
wrote to me from India was not my father.
But sometimes I almost doubted '

Raises wrote from India ?'

Yes, four years ago. I had just left
school. Oh, what misery I suffered !'

You told no one?'

I could not speak of it — how could I ?
The charges were so vile against mamma,
and he claimed to be our father. I think,
HuHi, that I have never been the same
since that letter.'

What fiendish hatred ! I don't ask
what the charges were, dear. They were
false as himself We may forget them
now.'

Yes,' she answered, but without spirit.
i I think I Avill saps good-night now, my
dearest brother.'

There is something,' he said, as they

stood hand in hand, ' You have not mentioned
Miss Palliser all this time. She is
married ?'

She has married Mr. Beaver, dear.'

Well ! Good-night, my tender little
Edie!'

Next day Mrs. Acland came down very
late.

You have read it all ?' asked Hugh.

All that you gave me. Was there no
more ?'

No more, I vow.'

After a long silence Mrs. Acland murmured
:

Did he speak of me, Hugh ?'

Hardly. It was so sudden and so
awful that neither of us could collect our
thoughts.'

He did speak ? You asked him for a
word for me? Did he beg your forgiveness
and mine ?'

No, mother !'

Did he speak of forgiveness ? Did he
say he forgave me f

*No!'

I am glad he spared himself that
mockery on his death-bed ! He said he did
not forgive me ?'

I hope I misunderstood him, mother !
You torture me and yourself with this
questioning ! It will be less painful to tell
you how my father died, though that is a
terrible story.'

No, no ! I do not wish to hear ! It
was a violent death ?'

Assassination !'

Poor PI ugh — poor Hugh ! He often
said that a man should die in battle ! Let
us never speak of this again — it makes me
faint ! Poor Hugh ! Was he happy in
his savage kingdom, do you think ?'

I must own, mother, that he seemed
quite happy. Danger and plotting and
fighting were his element'

Yes, Hugh found the life that suited his
character ! It was not the fault of either
that we were miserable, perhaps. You see
that now, Hugh ?'

I see it, mother !'

He knew you or guessed who you were
at the first meeting ?'

I suppose so.'

And said nothing ? No feeling betrayed
him ?'

It is likely that he was forewarned.
His correspondents at Cape Coast Castle
may have reported that we were travelling
up the country.'

But you lived with him for months.
He saw his son at the point of death, and
made no sign ?'

Indeed I have thought of all this,
mother ! It is distressing to dwell upon.'

I have an object. Hugh refused to
forgive me ! Remember what sort of manit
was who dared to speak so of his wife

VOL. III. 60

when dying — a secret, violent, suspicious,
brooding, treacherous man, Hugh !'

Oh, let us forget all this now ! He is
dead !'

But he left an accusation behind ! I
appeal to my son and his to judge between
us ! Me you have known from, your
earliest recollections — him you know now !
Look into my eyes, Hugh, and say which
you believe — the mother who suffered and
held her peace, or the father who outraged
and deserted and calumniated her?'

You, a thousand times, ni}- dear, dear
mother ! I have never doubted you ; but I
know also that my father was betrayed by
those scoundrels, Hardwicke and Beaver.
They caused the trouble between you, and
one at least has put himself in m}' hands.
I have to ask an explanation of Mr.
Beaver.'

What explanation ?'

He has brought himself within the lav

at last, I hope. Those forged letters deal
with a title to property, and they are
criminal. I shall take a legal opinion, and
if it be what I hope, he shall be prosecuted.'
But Hugh ! what grievance have you
against Mr. Beaver ?'

I say he was the cause of all your
troubles, and in the second generation he
still tries to do us injury. I will avenge
my father, and you, and myself, if it be
possible.'

Wait, dear ! Don't do anything rash.
Promise that you will consult me at every
step.'

I will do that, but my mind is made

up '

A footman announced Major and Mrs.
Saxell.

Tell them I will be down instantly
said Hugh. ' They have come for their
money, perhaps. It would be a good scene
if I was a clever actor.'

60—2

Don't see them, Ilug'Ii, I implore jour

Why ? I will be gentle as a dove, you
may be sure, mother. They only want
a trifle of cash which does not belong; to
them. These are honest people. I will
bear it in mind.'

Heedless of entreaty he left the room,
and Mrs. Acland sat stunned, confusedly
revolving the peril. Then she ran to the
bell — but no one came for a few minutes.
In that time the mischief had been done.

Allow me to shake hands without
introduction,' said Dick cheerfully, ' and to
congratulate you on your return, Mr.
Acland !'

Hugh submitted in silence.

I heartily join in that congratulation,'
said ]\[rs. Saxell; adding politely, with a
glance at his black clothes, ' I trust that
you have found no loss in your circle.'

I am in mourning for my father, madam.'

'Indeed!' she ejaculated in astonishment.

It was very sad — he died in my son's
arms.'

Pardon me. Time person who died in
yom' son's arms was Sergeant-major Raises
of the Artillery.'

What is this, sir ? But I see you have
not yet been informed of the discoveries
made in your absence.'

On the contrary, I am aware of those
and of much more. My father died three
months ago on the West Coast of Africa.'

Control yourself, mother !' cried Dick,
but it was useless.

We have had much more than enough
of this!' Mrs. Saxell cried roughly. ' It is
not to be supposed that because we have
overlooked your mother's conduct '

For Heaven's sake !' Dick cried, in pain
and shame.

What conduct do you refer to, madam?'

Probably Mrs. Acland has not told
you that she is convicted of suborning

perjurers", sir; men who swore that Kaikes
was not her husband but somebody else.
Oh, she confessed it, for we had the
proofs ! And you — you bring forward
another tale ! It's too much ! You want
law, and you shall have it, with police as
well.'

Come away, mother !' Dick exclaimed,
passionately seizing her.

Fine feelings he must have when his
first word is another falsehood I' But
Mrs. Saxell was more impressed than she
would admit by Hugh's sudden faltering.
He roused himself to ask in a changed
voice :

You had evidence besides mr. Beaver's
letters, Major Saxell ?'

I know nothing of ]mr. Beaver's letters,'
said Dick. " Believe me, I regret this painful
scene more deeply than I could tell.
If you will allow me a few moments' talk
when we are calmer, I might do something

to remove the distress you are suffering.
I am heartily glad you have found proof
which ends this deplorable controversy.'

Mrs. Saxell was roused again.

Speak for yourself, Richard ! I can feel
for this young man, if he is really deceived ;
but '

A maid entered.

Mrs. Acland is taken suddenly ill, sir,'
she said to Hugh, ' and begs you to go to
her room.'

No wonder !' exclaimed Mrs. Saxell,
before the door closed. ' Your story comes
a little too late, sir ! I have received ten
thousand pounds '

Dick took her forcibly by her arm, his
face set, pale as in battle, and drew her out.
In astonishment and alarm she submitted.


Hugh went upstairs mechanically. Edie
sat beside her mother, who sprang up,
her eyes feverishly questioning.

AVell ? What has passed ? You were
gentle with him !'

I will send a doctor, mother I' said
Hugh, and turned.

I am not so ill ! Those people have
said something that disturbs you ! Tell me
the worst !'

Do I know it, mother?'

He went out, but Edie swiftly followed,
and drew him into her own room.

I guess what you have heard, brother,'
she whispered. ' Come back at once.'

Did you know it ? Is it true ?'

Our mother has been weak and wrong,
but she is the truest and tenderest of
mothers to us. You must bear with her,
Hugh, as I have, remembering what she
has gone through. All the world will
accuse, but her children must comfort.
Come back at once !'

But is it true ? Have you nothing in
excuse ?'

Oh, do not argue, but come to her ! I
know all you could say ! I have suffered
for years ! Oh, don't hesitate, or you may
mourn it in vain as long as you live !'

What is it you fear ?'

Everything dreadful Must I speak

out? She may kill herself !'

He gasped incredulously. Edie's face
was stamped with the horror of her thought,
and Hugh ran back, fell on his knees beside
the chair where his mother sat dully gazing,
and cried :

Whatever has happened my love is
the same ! Nothing shall ever shake it,
mother!'

She dropped her head upon his shoulder.

You do not know yet. Bless you for
that word, Hugh ; but will you repeat it
when I have told you all ?'

I will repeat it daily and hourly. Weare
going to take up our life just where we
left it, in cheerfulness and love. I refuse

to hear anything, or to remember anything,
or to touch this business again. And to
that I solemnly take a vow.'

]\[rs. Acland had found a relief at once,
and her tears flowed easily and happily.

My dear, dear son 1 I thought I was
acting for the best '

I will have no explanation !' Hugh
cried, in shocked bewilderment. ' We love
each other, and that is enough. This afternoon
I will make arrangements to convince
those people that they are mistaken.'

^[rs. Acland's maid entered.

]\[ajor Saxell begs to see you, sir.'

Don't go ! It can do no good,' Edie cried.

You are right. Beg Major Saxell, with
my compliments, to excuse me.'

The maid withdrew.

No !' exclaimed sirs. Acland. ' Let
Edie go!'

Mamma 1'

It would be kinder, l^ray see him,
dear.'

I cannot ! How could you propose it,
mamma ?'

Well,' said Hugh, ' it's too late by this
time !'

How very distressed the poor fellow
will be!' sighed Mrs. Acland.

Edie hesitated another second ; then
hurried downstairs, very red but resolved.
Dick was just leaving the house.

I hope Hugh's message was delivered
correctly ?'

It was very good of him. Mrs. Acland
is not seriously unwell, I trust?'

Only upset. You will call again?'

It will be a farewell visit which I could
not refuse myself. I am recalled, and I
start on Saturday.'

'Oh, I had forgotten that wretched
India ! Must you go ?' She led the way
to the breakfast-room. ' I can hardly
believe that we are going to lose our only
friend just when Hugh comes back. Will
it be for long?'

Many years, I am afraid. But a time
has come which you fixed. Your mother
has escaped her troubles, and her son has
returned. You promised to answer me
then?'

Our troubles are not over,' she murmured.
' I have no answer.'

You can see the end of them. There
is little difference between to-day and tomorrow,
except that I shall be so much
nearer the parting.' She was silent. ' You
thought the time fixed would never come?'

I feared not,' she whispered, and Dick
suddenly stretched out his arms to clasp
her. But the sad fixity of Edie's eyes
checked him. ' I fear not still ! — Mamma
will be grieved. Give us as much time
as you can, but do not speak of this
again.'

That is impossible, Edie !'

Then say good-bye now, for I could
not bear it.'

No, I consent, trusting to your goodness.
Oil, Edie, I have such a little while
with you, and India is so far!'

I do not forget that,' she answered
sadly. ' Till this evening !'

Mrs. Saxell, meantime, deserted by her
son, had driven to the lawyer. She had no
doubt at all that Hugh's tale was another
fraud, and urged her adviser to do something
— anything, to secure her full rights
at once. He vainly pointed out that she
had no rights for the present ; but at length
a communication was sent to Mr. Gorman,
inviting' him to state what Mrs. Acland
proposed to do in settlement of the claim.
The answer arrived within twenty-four
hours. The evidence of his father's life and
death in West Africa was deposited by ]mr.
Huo;h Acland at Mr. Gorman's office for
inspection, and a copy would be supplied
immediately.

Mrs. Saxell began to be alarmed, not by

the thought that Hugh's story might be
true, but by the suspicion that it might be
too well concocted. Dick absolutely refused
to give advice beyond counselling her to
pay back the money forthwith. The indignant
scorn which greeted this proposal
made it easier, as more pleasant, for him to
spend as much time with Edie as propriety
and good feeling allowed, ]airs. Acland had
told Hugh how matters stood between those
two, so far as she possessed the information.
He did not approve, but he liked Dick ;
Saturday Alas very near, India very far.
So Hugh made his guest welcome.

A trouble arose over Yini and Juma
which no one had anticipated. When, with
great delicacy, and an embarrassment that
grew as Mrs. Acland's face darkened, Hugh
told of their existence, for the first time
since he could recollect he saw his mother
in a passion She would not hear of them,
blamed Hugh severely for bringing them

home, declared it an insult to herself. She
forbade him to undertake any sort of
charge ; if that were an implied condition
of his share in their father's property, Mrs.
Acland insisted that he should give it up.
Hugh had high principle and sensitive
feelings, as such qualities go, but his
system of ethics was distinctly moulded
by the influences of the day. Without
consciously admitting that the existence of
these children was a circumstance natural
and therefore excusable, he thought his
mother foolish as well as unkind for objecting.
ISTo practical difficulty arose, however.
A rich maiden aunt of Prince's was overjoyed
to receive the children. In deference
to his mother's feeling, Hugh abandoned
without regret his third of their large
fortune, but he would not abandon the
guardianship in concert with Prince and
Bob Holmes.

Dick resolutely kept his last day for his

mother, and bade Edie good-bye on the
Friday night. Not a hint of question had
he let fall until she stood with her hand
in his for the last time, and no word on her
lips.

AYill you let me go thus ?' he whispered.


If a word will comfort you I will say it,
but that is all.'

The word that would comfort me means
all that makes life worth having! Say it
then, Edie !'

She murmured, drooping her head :

I love you !'

I am content now. Earth has no more
to offer. In your own time, Edie, you will
say more, will you not?'

How can I, when you are going away
for years I'

She broke into sobs.

Can you not bring yourself to write,
darling? — For both our sakes?'

I will, Dick — every mail.'
And presently will you say that all
your hesitations are past — that I may
come home to claim you?'

They will never pass ! We can never
be more to each other than now!'

Despair caught him, more cruel for his
late joy. To argue was impossible.

Darling,' he whispered, ' I think I
understand ; but give me a sign. You
fear that Hugh will not forgive your mother
when he comes to know all ?'
She sobbed.

He will abandon us, as our father did !
No, I do not mean that,' shuddering.
You will not ask me also to desert
mamma ? I never could — not even for
you!'

I will not ask you, but we cannot limit
the mercy of Heaven ! And there is something
more, Edie — I know that. Your
tender conscience feels the weight of wrong-vol.
III. 61

doing in which you had no share. Hugh
will relent presently — I am patient, and
you are young. Ashen that happens, remember
what I tell you now — that I guessed
the truth long ago, and loved you and
reverenced you all the more. Then, will
you not recall me?'

If the time should ever come, Dick, I
will'

That is a promise, and on it I rest, love,
with a good hope.'

By the mail next night, Dick started for
India, without another interview. ]airs.
Saxell forgot all her grievances in that
hour, and wept over her son with yearning
love. He also forgot every memory that
might have jarred at the parting; but he
looked eagerly among the crowd. And
presently his eye distinguished a veiled
figure in black, standing beside a young
man lean and sunburnt. On the impulse
of the moment, Dick ran to them.

I knew you would come to cheer me at
the last ! Thank you, Edie ! Mr. Acland,
I shall never fail to recollect your kindness
in escorting her!'

He had but just time to press their
hands.

When Dick had gone, the brother and
sister returned to their carriage in silence.

Put me down at the Rhadamanthus,'
said Hugh to the coachman.

Won't you dine with us ?' Edie asked.

No, dear ! I called for you this evening
because I had promised. I must tell you,
Edie, that I went to Beaverlowe to-day,
and saw that man.'

Ha ! Is that the reason you will not
come home?'

Yes. Perhaps you know or suspect
what he told me — and proved ? If not, I
shall not say. Don't argue, Edie — don't
appeal ! I love our mother still, and I pity
her, but I can't forgive — not yet ! I have

61—2

not had time to think ; but in the morning
I shall go to Worstanan, and you will hear
from me.*

The carriage stopped.

Oh, Hugh, this will kill mamma with
grief!'

^o, darling ! I understand our poor
mother better now. If I allowed myself to
be persuaded, I could not always restrain

my feeling, and then Good-night, my

dear, dear sister! I leave an angel to comfort
and console her!'

Edie submitted, having foreseen this, and
knowing that opposition would but inflame
a wound that Time alone could heal. The
sorrow of Dick's departure was forgotten in
this keener and more pressing trouble. To
hide her passionate despair lay beyond Edie's
art, and Mrs. Acland easily drew out the
secret. Though bitterly painful, the revelation
was no surprise. She had been
aware that of necessity Hugh was learning

various matters, though he tried to fulfil
this promise and ignore the past. The
lawyers, of course, would not suppress any
information they had, and Beaver, she knew,
would instantly use the weapon of defence
she had provided. Mrs. Acland had seen her
son grow daily colder and more preoccupied.
It was almost a relief when the worst befell.
she collected herself, when the first outbreak
of grief was past, and began to revolve
the means of bringing; Huo^h to forgiveness.


He meanwhile had found no acquaintance
in the morning-room of the Rhadamanthus
and took the paper which a servant was just
laying on the table. A heading in large
type caught his eye. He read the paragraph
in feverish excitement. A friend came up
and greeted him ; but Hugh started away,
found a Bradshaw, and looked out the trains
to Laystone. He was just in time to catch
the last. A great fear possessed him. At

midnight he reached his destination, and
found the report too true.

That morning: Huofh Acland had travelled
the same line on his way to Beaverlowe.
What were his intentions he could not have
said. The wrongs of two generations fired
him; but above all, he was racked with
jealousy of the man who secured Grace
Palliser. This youth was not more dignified
as a hero, nor more submissive as a Christian,
than the rest of us.

Mr. Beaver received him at once, bowed
smilingly', and motioned him to a chair
without speaking; when Hugh paid no
heed, he rose and leaned upon the mantel,
quietly observant.

Here is the receipt, sir, for the money
you lent my mother. Having repaid it, I
wish to ask some questions.'

It was not necessary to take so much
trouble,' Mr. Beaver answered, curling the
receipt between his fingers, ' but I am the
more complimented.'

Why did you lend it?'

Because my wife asked me,' he replied,
without a trace of surprise.

That was not your motive.'

Indeed ! Well, perhaps I had some
kindly feeling towards Mrs. Acland.'

That's a falsehood !'

Beaver started and flushed, but he said
pleasantly :

I stand open to correction. What was
my motive?'

To finish the work begun when you
ruined my father. I am going to prosecute
you, Mr. Beaver!'

That's rather grave ! I have almost a
right, perhaps, to ask what for ?'

For the two letters you furnished to my
mother purporting to come from India.
Broken hearts and shattered homes and
dish-raced lives are not to be avenged at
law, but for the attempt to divert money
from the rightful heirs there is justice.

And you shall be brought to the dock, Mr.
Beaver.'

I am interested in your story. Pray
suppress the embroidery, Mr. Acland, and
let me understand the prosaic facts. I gave
certain letters to your mother, purporting to
come from India. Have you got them ?'

No. But I mean to have them !'

Well, if you succeed in getting possession
of that correspondence, I would venture
to advise you to put it in the fire as quickly
as possible and say no more about it.'

What do you mean ?'

I was not afraid of your father, sir, and
much less should I be afraid of you. He
assaulted me unprepared, but you will not
have that advantage. Listen, and take a
brief hint. I have never heard of those
letters.'

You also accuse my mother !' Hugh
cried, stepping forward, his hands clenched
and his eyes aflame.

Mr. Beaver drooped suddenly, catching
at the mantel-board ; but he raised himself
on the instant, though pale and changed.

It was not my intention,' he said, ' to
end this curious conversation so abruptly,
but circumstances are our masters.' Moving
slowly to his desk, he brought out a paper.
Of the matters you refer to I know nothing,
but this document may throw light upon
them.'

My dear Mrs. Acland,

The object you propose seems to

be harmless. It is neither my business nor

my wish to know what steps you will take,

and I am willing to let you use my name.

But you distinctly understand that I am

influenced only by friendship, and I refuse

all risk. If the means you choose threaten

to bring me into difficulties or scandal, I

shall produce this note, which I beg sou to

endorse.

Julius Beaver.'

The case seems to have arisen,' continued
Mr. Beaver. ' You will observe
that Mrs. Acland quite provided against it.

Dumb with horror, Hugh read :

^Iy dear Mr. Beaver,

I understand the condition, and I
accept it implicitly.

Margaret Acland.'

I think that these notes will relieve us
from the necessity of further explanation.
I beg you to let your mother know that I
used them most unwillingly. Good-morning.'


He rang.

This is another forgery ! When I have
proved it to be such, you will hear of me
again with '

I shall be pleased. — Graham,' he added
to the servant, ' I am always at home to
this gentleman.'

Hugh was stunned. He had not the

slightest doubt that Beaver was speaking
truth, and his only conscious feeling was
eagerness to hide his shame.

When he had hurried out, Mr. Beaver's
valet entered.

Thompson is to take the horses round
now, sir he said.

Let him wait two minutes.'

The man hesitated, looking at his master
curiously, as though alarmed by something
unusual in his air ; but at an angry glance
he left the room. Beaver carefully poured
himself some drops of mixture, arranged his
dress, and followed.

To dispose of the carriage-horses was
effectual, in the sense that it put a stood to
Grace's project of visiting her neighbours,
but in no other. It stirred the reckless
spirit of the girl like a challenge, to betaken
up in any lawful manner.

The riding-horses had not been sold, and
she called out her groom at all sorts of

hours, in all sorts of weather. Beaver
made no objection, and he accompanied his
wife so often that her lonely rides did not
look odd. His manner remained the same,
admiring, caressing, humorous sometimes,
always quaint. Whatever traps Grace laid,
however sudden her movements, he was
always at the hall-door to lift her into the
saddle if his own horse was not paraded.
She never could enjoy the satisfaction of
escaping without her husband's knowledge
and declared approval. This irritated her
Sadly. And when they rode together no
caprice disturbed his even temper. It is
difficult to keep up an easy flow of talk
Avhen one party in the tête-à-tête refuses to
bear her proportion, but Beaver was equal
to this also. If Grace proved really sullen,
which was uncommon, he delivered a bright
little essay upon any subject that came
uppermost, illustrated by odd learning and
caustic observations. So interesting were

they that she could not forbear to listen,
and so amusing that she often laughed.
The mischief had not gone very deep.

But the announcement that Dick's leave
was shortened brought on a crisis. Grace
longed to bid him good-bye, to tell her
griefs, and ask sympathy. But her manner
of begging permission Alas not conciliatory.
Beaver was sorry to refuse, but she almost
challenged him to do so, and, besides, he
was really afraid to escort her to town.
It is injudicious for an elderly man, afflicted
with heart disease, to marry ; but if he does
such a foolish thing, he should choose a
bride who will not disturb his calm ways
of life. From this rule of prudence Beaver
had gone astray almost as widely as he
could, and the natural consequencesfollowed.
Alarming symptoms warned him of mischief
which his wife did not in the least suspect.

The notice had been so short, and Dick
had so much to do, that he could not run

down to IJeaverlowe. When Grace learned
this definitely, she came to a resolve, sent
a portmanteau to Laystone Station, and
ordered her horse at a minute's notice.
This was on Friday, and whilst she put on
her habit Hugh was holding his conference
with Mr. Beaver. Of his visit Grace knew
nothing. She had many reasons, not all
selfish, for hoping that her husband would
not be warned this time ; but when the
horses appeared his was there, and he joined
lier in the hall. Beaver stood a second,
talking kindly and lightly, before they
mounted, and then suddenly called the
groom to help her to the saddle — a service
which he had jealously kept for himself
hitherto.

Grace did not change her resolution,
but it was real kindness which led her to say,
before they had gone a hundred yards :

I am sure you are not well, Julius.
J I ad you not better return ?'

Thank you, dear ; not unless you
wish it'

I do wish it.'

Then give the word, and we will return
for a quiet evening.'

I can go on alone.'

Very well. This ride will clear my
complexion, if you are distressed about
that.'

I want to ride fast.'

•' Then we shall be home sooner. It is
but a little way, if you do not propose to go
beyond Laystone.'

Perhaps I do. Why do you mention
Laystone ?'

You sent a portmanteau to the station
this morning, I think? And it seemed
possible that the fact had some connection
with your ride.'

Do the servants report my doings to
you?'

They report their own, dear, that's all !'

A Good Hater.

She reined up and faced him, all her
sympathy gone.

I am going to bid my cousin good-bye,
Mr. Beaver. You refused to take me when
I asked like an obedient wife, and now I
shall go like a disobedient slave ! Expect
me back by the last train.'

Absolutely and superbly divine !' he
muttered, eyeing her passionate face.
What futile inexperience it shows to say
that blonde beauty loses refinement under
the extravagance of ano^er ! — Let me bess of
yoa, Grace, to give up this notion !'

It is much too late. You have shown
the way you mean to treat me, and I shall
show you as clearly that I will not submit
to it. Vou should have taken the precautions
Turks do before trying to manage
your wife like a Turk. I am free, in the
open country, mounted on one of your own
horses, and the whole English army could
not catch me.'

Indeed, I can hardly belive that such a
perfect creature is mme!' he murmured to
himself. Then aloud, smiling, ' I shall not
call out the British army, dear, unless you
ask me. In that case it shall be done,
of course ; and if the British army does not
obey, it will be no fault of mine.'

You guessed I was going to London ?'

It occurred to me that the whim was
not impossible.'

'And how do you propose to stop
me?'

She drew her horse aside, and made him
plunge, as if to show alike her skill and his
spirit.

Believe me, I am distressed to interfere
with any caprice of yours.'

What have you done ?'

With the utmost regret, I detained your
portmanteau, dear.'

Let me understand. Is that all ?'

Quite all.'

VOL. III. G2

Is it possible you think I dare not travel
in a habit ?'

It was a pleasing fashion in its day,' he
said, complacently. ' sly grandmother
always wore a habit when she paid visits
in a carriage. She was married in a habit.
But the uneducated would stare very unpleasantly
nowadays.'

And you really think that a woman
would be afraid of vulgar stares when she
had made up her mind to do something?
Your taste is too refined, Julius, to be a safe
guide in dealing with ordinary mortals.
You shall see.'

She dashed off full gallop, and Beaver,
shocked, astounded, afraid that the horse
would bolt if he heard hoofs clattering
behind, reined in for a moment. Ashen he
gave chase the fugitive had a long start.
Two miles were covered at a headlong
gallop, and then, in the vista of a straight
lane, appeared the level crossing, by Lay-stone

Station. The near gates were closed,
but Grace did not see, or her horse had
broken out of hand. Wildly Beaver and
his groom shouted to the gate-keeper.
Though she had half a mile before her, it was
passed in a moment, and still the high gates
stood fast, barring the road. Beaver saw
his wife borne up to them at a furious pace
the wood flew — he dropped in a heap
from the saddle.

But the gates were unfastened, and Grace
burst through with a scream, sped across
the rails, and vanished on the other side.
She passed the station, and a few hundred
yards beyond ; then the frightened horse
submitted. Though horror-stricken at the
instants Grace would not seem to give way.
She cantered back looking for her husband,
and prepared upon due apologies to return
with him. But no one appeared when the
porter came to hold her horse. Leisurely,

62—2

then, she took her ticket and Event on to the
]platform.

The crossing lay well in sight, two
hundred yards up the line ; a man there
was vehemently signalling to a group of
navvies further on. The people of the
station watched with some excitement, and
Grace joined them.

AVhat is the matter ?' she asked.

Looks to me, i'm,' answered a porter,
as though there'd bin a accident in the
lane!*

Run at once and see !' she cried, in vague
but awful alarm. ' Run!'

The train's due, i'm. But there's
something up for sure, for William hasn't
shut his gates, and we'll have another
accident if he ain't sharp.'

The navvies had been approaching, and
they suddenly ran down the lane, whilst the
keeper shut his gates. At the same moment

the train whistled, and all was bustle on
the platform.

You are^oing to London, Mrs. Beaver?'
asked the stationmaster, touching his cap.
That is your train. You had a narrow
escape just now, i'm !'

What has happened at the crossing ?'
I will go and see when the train has
left. No luggage, i'm ?'

Oh, I can't go till I know what it is.'
While Grace stood thus in distraction,
she saw the navvies reappear, carrying a
burden shoulder high. They waited outside
until the gates should be thrown open.
Vague was her glimpse of the scene, but
it filled Grace with dread and agony. She
leapt off the platform, a yard before the
starting train, and ran towards it.

Is he dead ? Oh, my poor husband !'
In embarrassment they looked to the
groom, who held his master's head, and did
not speak. She tore at the barrier, shaking

it, whilst the man in charge drew the bolt
with faltering hands. Grace rushed through,
but that still figure daunted her, and she
stood with wide eyes.

Aye, Mrs. Beaver 1' the groom said
passionately, ' with your airs and tricks,
you've killed the best man and the kindest
master on this country-side !'

ENVOI.

Die S LETTER.

'May 4, 1884.

EAR MAJOR SAXELL,

I am more than sorry to
learn by your last letter that
you have not received mine. The news I
gave was all so monotonously dull that it is
painful to repeat it, and I have no better to
add about ourselves. Hugh still persists in
refusing to live with us, and mamma has
aged sadly under the distress. You know
all our affairs, and I am so well assured of
your sympathy that I can write to you
as I might talk to my brother if he would

hear me. Mamma did wrong, but she has
paid bitterly ; and is it for her son to punish
her?

I have just seen Mrs. Saxell, who called
With Grace whilst I was writings. Your
mother looks better in health and spirits
than when I saw her such a lonsr time ao^o.
You know, of course, that they have been
living abroad since Mr. Beaver's death.
Grace is royally beautiful, but graver than I
ever thought she could become. She
declares she can never forget Mrs. Saxell's
kindness and sympathy in the time of
her troubles; but your mother cannot
resist home-sickness any longer, and they
are ffoino- to Scarsholme for a while at
least.

You will not be surprised to hear that
Grace contemplates this prospect with a
little dismay, though she only admits so
much to me in confidence. Mamma was
present, lying on her sofa, and she brightened

into something of her old spirits as we
talked. I must tell you gratefully that
Mrs. Saxell was most considerate. She
spoke of Hugh, whom they met abroad ; I
thought Grace was just a little interested
when his name was mentioned, and mamma
grew excited, of course. She begged them
to pay us a visit this season, and they
promised to come next month. You can
fancy mamma's delight. She hopes that
Hugh will not resist that temptation when
we-know how he is longing to forgive and
to be forgiven. If he only saw mamma
there would be an end of our troubles.
But the poor dear fellow is well aware of
that, and he is obstinate. How we shall
love Grace if she brings us together !

By-the-bye, you know Captain Holmes,
whom everybody calls Bob ? He is on
leave, and Hugh told Grace that he wants
to marry Yini. I have never seen her, but
everyone declares her charming : scarcely

sixteen yet, but quite a woman. Her
brother, Juma, is to enter the service.

I must tell you something curious and
painful that occurred the other day. A
very old lady called and sent up her name
as Mrs. Hardwicke. Fortunately, as things
turned out, mamma was not so well, and
James reported to me. I saw her. It was
a distressing interview. If she had heard
what was going on in those dreadful days
past, or we had discovered her existence,
what misery Avould have been spared us!
It was Hardwicke's mother. Somebody
told her a few days ago that we had been
inquiring for his friends, and she came as
soon as she could. I questioned the poor
old creature cautiously. She knew her
son's enlistment under the name of Raises,
though he had never communicated with
her afterwards. And she knew also how
he hated mamma. She told me, weeping
bitterly, that it was a terrible relief when

he went assay, for she had lived in fear that
her son would be tempted into some awful
crime by jealousy. What a fiendish spirit
his must have been ! Our father, Hugh
says, was very keen and suspicious; Mr.
Beaver was hard and bright as a diamond ;
mamma has the cleverest and quickest intelligence
I ever met ; but Hardwicke
deceived them all. He served in the Artillery
twenty years, and passed for a quiet,
good-tempered soldierly comrade. The
revelation of such a man's true character,
by accident as it were, suggests horrid
thoughts, which I cannot quite master. I
fancy your calm, convincing tone in analyzing
the facts, but I cannot fancy your arguments.
It would be a comfort to hear
them, for I am painfully bewildered.

May 5.

In beginning this letter I said all our
news was miserable, but to-day it is all

glad. I was sitting with mamma when
James called me out, and led me in mysterious
silence to the breakfast-room. Hugh
was there I You are able to imagine the
joy of that meeting after two years. AVe
had written so constantly that there was
nothing new to tell, but you know that he
would not let me plead with him to return.
Fancy how I broke out at this opportunity I
Xo praying was needed, however. Hugh
had come to ask forgiveness, and he was
almost as deeply moved as I. As soon as
I could trust my face I went back to prepare
mamma, but her quick eyes read it
at a glance. " My boy is here!" she cried,
and hurried to the door, calling Hugh. I
supported her, and cried too. Then he
ran in, and I left them in each other's
arms.

Hugh slept in his old room last night,
and he will live with us again just like
old times — no, not just like, for we are all

changed ; but not to be less happy, I trust,
after this chastening.

'And now, Dick, I keep my promise.
Come home!'

THE END.

Biting AND SONS, PRINTERS GUILDFORD.

S. tC- //.
