mmmmmmmmfmmmtmmmimtamimmmmmimtammmmmmamas

The Treasure
OF Thorburns

BY Frederick Boyle

ii



^i !

3 i ;

^

W«IfW v iWt-

OF Thun

Diversity

or ILLINOIS

SZ3

V.J

VOL. I

AT ALL THE Libraries

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

author of ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' &o. 3 vols.

COULD HE DO BETTER ? By Arthur A. Hoffman,

Fac OBI'S AVIFE. By Adeline Sergeant, author of

'No Saint,' ' An Open Foe,' ' Beyond Recall,' &c. 3 vols
Catherine. By the author of * Lauderdale.' 3 vols.
WEEPING FERRY. By George IIalse. 2 vols.

Burst & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

TREASURE OF THORBURNS

A NOVEL

BY

FREDERICK BOYLE

AUTHOR OF
A GOOD HATER," " LEGENDS OF MY Bungalow'' " CAMP NOTES," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I

LONDON

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET



All Kisrhts Reserved

TILLOTSON AND SON, MAWDSLEY STREET

BOLTON

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME

Charter

I. — THE Kings

\ IT. — A OI.IMPSE OF THORIUTRNS j.

*1

III. — A CONFIDENCE .

IV. — GEORGE Genet.

xJV V. — FILJIRSFONTEIN

*^ VI. — ON 'I've VELDT



\\\. — THE SECOND PROPOSAL

^vj VIII. — ACCEPTED








CHAPTER I.

THE Kings.

"On the nth inst, at Mrs. Boarder's Establishment,
Cheltenham, very suddenly, Captain Eldred Earl
Thorburn, of Thorburns, aged 72 years."

*' Papa ! Captain Thorburn is dead."
'' Impossible ! What ? — give me the

paper !" Miss Esking handed him the

Standard.

They were sitting at breakfast in the

house called Little Thorburns, which had

once been the bailiff's cottage. Mr. Esking

VOL. I. B

bought it ten years before this date, and
he had not yet ceased to enlarge the
small but substantial dwelling. The space
before it, originally a bare courtyard, was
nearly covered with buildings, which left
but a narrow drive to the front door.
The cabbage garden behind, and a croft
adjacent, were now a delightful pleasaunce,
stretching to the wall of Thorburns the
Great. No impulse of hospitality moved
Mr. Esking to extend and beautify his
house. Though liberal, and even extravagant,
in entertaining such guests as paid
him a visit, they were so few that the
bailiffs cottage would have been almost
large enough. He simply wanted space
for his "collections," and as they grew,
or were brought from mouldy cellars at
his former residence in Shuttleton, rooms
were built to show them off

The result was a congeries of roofs and
walls, not uncomfortable to live in, but

mighty puzzling to the strange visitor.
Oddest freak of all was the central building,
a tower In the Byzantine style, more
or less designed, as Mr. Esking said, to
pull the shapeless mass together. It contained,
among a thousand odds and ends,
such pictures as he had gathered in a
miscellaneous sort of way ; for painting —
and architecture evidently — were the only
arts he did not study. This is not to
say that the antiquarian knew nothing of
them. In the point of view he took, few
authorities ranked higher. But it was the
history he understood rather than the
practice. From this tower Mr. Esking
could survey the grounds and the house
of his neighbour. Captain Thorburn, when
he chose.

It may be guessed that this was a man
of character. He had made his fortune
in a manufactory at Shuttleton, and those
who had no occasion to observe him in

another light quoted his diligence, shrewdness,
and exactitude in trade as a model
to the younger generation. At middle-age
he was rich in hard money, and yet
wealthier in those collections that had
given him fame throughout Europe. No
one knew their value or extent, for, unlike
most of his class, Mr. Esking seldom
attended meetings of the learned, and
still more rarely displayed his treasures.
When he did exhibit anything, it was a
treasure indeed.

An archaeologist in the widest sense was
he. Nothing in that line came amiss, but
his deepest enthusiasm was given to early
English art. His gallery of drawings, his
cabinets of china, ivories, carving in all
materials, plate, smith's work, and whatnot,
were envied and admired by the
savant of the British Museum. He
travelled widely in youth, at a day when
such things were hardly valued, and all the

money he could spare, after scrupulously
and anxiously providing for the needs of
business, was devoted to the purchase of
what friends and rivals alike called rubbish.
The prices paid seemed ridiculous to those
worthy folks ; they seemed ridiculous now,
but in another sense. His accounts, posted
up for nearly half-century, showed an
expenditure of shillings, and even pence,
where now a hundred pounds might be
refused not injudiciously.

The first love of this great collector
was that which comes last to many of his
sort — coins. It led him to the search for
historical "rolls," which, in turn, developed
into a hobby for illuminated manuscripts.
Thence he naturally came to feel interest
in very early engravings, specially illustrations
of artistic work. Letters and
autographs followed ; then ornamental
armour, mediaeval jewel-work, plate, and
I know not what besides. No fancy was

dropped as another came Into prominence ;
all went on simultaneously, and as occasion
offered, he made Incursions Into every field
His Rhodian china, for Instance, and his
Tanagra figures, could not be matched In
any gallery of Europe. Little Thorburns
was a museum. But, as I have said, the
earliest arts of England had Mr. Esklng's.
warmest love.

He had bought this cottage and a few
acres of land, some ten years before my
story opens, and had withdrawn from trade
shortly after. The purchase confirmed his
friends In their opinion that he was "daft."
Little Thorburns Is situate fifty miles from
Shuttleton, where Mr. Esklng's Interests
and acquaintance lay. If there be a district
still remaining In England where
modern Ideas and conveniences do not
rule, it is that. Even the yeomen have
a pride of ancestry, a scorn for trade, and
a distrust of outlandish pursuits. It was

pointed out to him that the neighbours
would not be friendly, to say the least,
and that the difficulties of reaching that
sequestered hamlet would deter elderly
contemporaries from seeking him out.
Ladies suggested, also, that if Mr. Esking
were indifferent to these considerations, he
should think of his daughter, who, in
process of time, would want companions
of her own age. But no argument moved
him. He sent the child away to spend
her earliest youth in the family of his
sister, Mrs. Fanshawe, and went into
banishment.

Things did not prove so bad as was expected.
Captain Thorburn, of Thorburns,
who sold him this little property, shared
in a vague and muddled way the tastes
of his new neighbour. They had met
from time to time for many years past
in auction rooms, or at those small and
dusty shops in a back street where odd

things used to be picked up half a century
ago. The dull squire of long descent
was pleased in a condescending way to
make acquaintance with the keen and
thoughtful tradesman. He fell into a habit
of consulting him by letter, and after due
time he begged advice upon his private
business. This led, after many years, to
a visit, and from that date his respect
for Mr. Esking as an authority in art
was supplemented by a high opinion of
his capacity in affairs.

Captain Thorburn had succeeded to a
small estate, loaded with charges and encumbrances.
During some careless years
in the service he had added to them, and
when age brought increasing difficulties,
his attempts to make money swelled the
burden. Mr. Esking lent him small sums
on due security, and as things grew worse
he gradually bought such objects as suited
him from the collection at Thorburns, at

a good market price ; for his nature, if
cold and self-absorbed, had no taint of
meanness. These relations brought them
into such familiarity as was possible betwixt
men so unlike. But all this was
unknown to the good folks of Shuttleton.
When Mr. Esking bought Little Thor-burns
from the ruined owner, that gentleman
still made a certain show, befitting
the oldest family In the county. If not In
England. The estate had passed from
father to son, as popular belief went, from
times earlier than the Conquest. The
Thorburns had left no record In history,
but their ancient dwelling proved that they
once were rich. It was almost a ruin now,
but so extensive that the squire found accommodation
for his small household under
roofs still whole, behind windows unbroken.
Financial disasters did not wreck the Importance
of a family like this, In such a
neighbourhood. The greatest people still

paid respect to its representative, and attended
the small entertainments he gave ;
which, in an essential point, the Duke
could not rival, for Captain Thorburn had
not yet sold his ancestral wines.

Mr. Esking could not have been persuaded
to show himself on these occasions,
but of necessity he made acquaintances, of
a sort, among the county people. They
recognised him — nothing beyond that, of
course. When the rumour spread that
personages of European fame called at
Little Thorburns, they even felt some
small curiosity about the new owner. Mr.
Esking did not encourage this sentiment.
If the county folk were inclined to qualify
their scorn for the Shuttleton manufacturer,
he still felt scorn unmixed for them, as a
rule. Mr. Esking judged a family, qui
family, by its name. He admitted all that
are found on the Battle Roll, though no
man was keener to suspect the interpolations

of that document. An entry there
proved at least that the gens was important
enough to buy or compel a forgery In very
early days. He accepted also the Roll of
Caerlavroch, and incidental notices, of course.
For all other families, unless their names
showed them to be purest English, Mr.
Esking despised them. His own patronymic,
the "son of the ash tree," contained
within itself reams of mystic lore.
No further evidence was needed to show
an antiquity and an Importance which the
oldest and grandest of Norman stocks could
not approach. That he and his forefathers
had been in trade, so far as the brief records
of the family stretched back, was a fact
utterly Insignificant and beside the question.
But shortly before Hilda Esking returned
to her father's house, an interruption of
this Intimacy with Captain Thorburn occurred.
The Squire suddenly shut up his
house, realised everything he possessed.

and vanished from the scene. This catastrophe
had been long expected, for his
embarrassments were notorious. It was
vaguely rumoured that Mr. Esking kept
him going, but no one knew. Captain
Thorburn had long since deserted county
lawyers, putting himself into the hands of
a Shuttleton solicitor. Everyone knew,
however, that he had sold and given up
his last acre, saving possibly the house
and grounds — it had no park. He withdrew
to London, and presently to Cheltenham.
Thorburns stood empty, In charge
of an old sailor.

So at length we return to that announcement
by Miss EskIng which so
disturbed her father ; but a little more
explanation is needed before we can take
up our narrative.

Of Mr. Esking's wife I have no particulars.
He never spoke of her, perhaps
because the subject was painful, but more

probably, I fear, because the Incident was
almost forgotten. The child remained with
her father until he withdrew to Little
Thorburns, when his sister took charge of
her. Mr. Esking made a very liberal
allowance, and showed himself thoughtful
for his daughter's interests, as for all things
else that demanded his attention. Nothing
of the thriftless student about him. Each
summer, Hilt — as she was christened,
though everyone added an ''a" — paid
a visit, and she spent Christmastide at
home.

Mrs. Fanshawe was the widow of her
brother's late partner, left with an only
son. When Mr. Esking drew all his
money out of the concern it was a heavy
blow. Mr. Fanshawe, a careless, pleasant
fellow, always used to wealth, made no
reduction in his handsome establishment
or his liberal customs. The loss of Mr.
Esking's brain was more important even

than the loss of his capital. The business
struggled on amidst Increasing difficulties,
of which Mrs. Fanshawe knew nothing.
Then her husband died, and his affairs
were wound up at a time when Mr. Esking
was on the Continent. New men came
in, who covenanted, upon very weak
security, to pay the widow a large sum
by Instalments.

She was naturally anxious that her boy
should marry his cousin, but neither of
the children took that view. Hubert Fan-share,
the elder by seven years, fell in
love with a pretty, penniless girl of the
neighbourhood, and after a feeble resistance
his mother submitted. Very few weeks
after marriage the crash came, and Mrs.
Fanshawe lost everything except the money
settled on her. She withdrew to a small
house, where Hubert and his wife came
to live ; for the young man, bred to no
business, was incapable of earning a livelihood.

And Hilda returned home at fifteen
years of age.

I am not sure that Mr. Esking saw her
loveliness as such, but he recognised with
satisfaction a type as true, in the ethnic
sense, as could be found. Not Rowena,
daughter of Hengist — whom he called
Riven, daughter of Hengist — showed less
mixture of alien blood. English was Disdain
every point, English of the pure old
stock. She grew up tall, white, blue-eyed,
flaxen, deep-bosomed. If her movements
in the house were languid, it was assuredly
not for lack of health, or strength, or
spirits. If her laugh did not come readily,
it was not that she wanted intelligence.
If her speech was low and careless, no one
suspected her of feeble character.

Mr. Esking had feared that this young
girl might interrupt his calm and studious
life ; but he soon found his alarms to be
baseless. She did not interfere with him

at all, nor show the slightest discontent
for their lonely existence. Her single wish,
long restrained, was to have two ponies
for riding ; and as soon as her father
perceived this he granted it. With a fresh
mount for the afternoon, Hilda was quite
happy. Between whiles she lived in the
garden, or, if the day was very wet — cold
did not signify — sat under the verandah,
which, as we shall see in good time, made
the only communication from the living-rooms
to her father's study. As for education,
that stopped point-blank. Riven,
daughter of Hengist, did not know French
nor play the piano ; but upon the other
hand she led an open-air life like Hilt.
Captain Thorburn had just retired at the
time of her arrival, and even such limited
excitement as his visits might have caused
was lost. In the first twelve months of
her residence no stranger called, excepting
a few persons of scientific distinction and

venerable years. Even the rector and
curates stayed away, for though Mr.
Esking attended church with methodical
exactitude and was liberal enough with
his cheque-book, he did not welcome the
clergy. But Hilda was quite unconcerned.
After the twelve months a certain change
happened. She began to reach an age
when young men notice a girl, and some
parents of the neighbourhood observed
the interests of their sons without discouragement.
The rector found his high
pews better filled than of yore, in the
season when youthful scions of the squirearchy
are at home. Then people recollected
that they had met Mr. Esking at
Thorburns, and bowed. He answered
with formal courtesy, but showed so little
appreciation that few had the courage to
go further. But one family persevered.
This was Genest, of the Warrenage, father
and son. The old gentleman had been a

VOL. I. C

great ally of Captain Thorburn's, one who
could sympathise feelingly with his desperate
situation. He Introduced his heir,
a young graduate of Brasenose, who had
already won honours, and was zealous, as
both declared, in the arts and tastes Mr.
Esking followed.

The archives of Thorburns, which the
owner preserved with care, though he
never read them, nor could, had been
open to his friend, who spent much time
among them. There Mr. Esking found
evidence that the claim of the Genests to
ancient lineage was not so mythical as
that of others more prosperous at the
present day. Though he did not find the
name In those '' rolls " mentioned, Mr.
Esking accepted the warranty ; and George
Genest was a young man to take advantage
of any opening. He could not win
familiarity with father or daughter, but he
secured toleration, and made the most of it.

Two years had passed since George
began his approaches ; he was now a
Fellow, a barrister, and great things were
expected of him in the county. 'something
" even was thought possible by his
acquaintance in town. With Hilda he had
not advanced an inch apparently, but no
one else had entered the field, and she
was now eighteen. Most people thought
that he would carry off the belle of the
neighbourhood. So we finally return to
the first page of this history.

Mr. Esking read the paragraph twice,
laid the newspaper aside carefully, and
resumed his meal. A stranger would not
have observed any sign of disturbance
beyond surprise. The grey-haired, handsome
old man discussed his breakfast with a
fine appetite. There was no sign of trouble
in his kindly eyes. But Hilda knew him
well. Deep pondering of vicissitudes in
history, combined with the experience of

prosaic life which a great business confers
had destroyed the sense of mere astonishment
in Mr. Esking. The death of a friend
would not have moved him in that way,
whatever the circumstances, nor, in truth,
would almost any incident. Hilda concluded
that there were matters beyond her
cognisance in the relations of these two
men. But the question did not interest
her.

I think I'll go to Shuttleton, my dear,"
said Mr. Esking, at last.

"Will you be able to return this evening ?''

By the last train, perhaps. Oh, you

are thinking of Hubert's arrival ? Well,

I daresay you would be more comfortable

without me."

*' I don't know much of Kate, papa."
*' Ladies make acquaintance very quick."
No more was said. An hour afterwards
Mr. Esking drove to the station.

This visit had been hinted by Mrs,

Fanshawe for a long while, upon Kate's
suggestion — though she did not suspect
that influence. Hubert's wife was terribly
disappointed with the result of her marriage.
She loved her husband in a way,
as much, perhaps, as she could love, but
his wealth and position had been great
inducements. Kate felt the longing for
*good society," so common with her class,
in its most virulent form. She had hoped,
through her own charms, set ofT by Hubert's
money, to make her way among the county
people round Shuttleton, and in town to
be paragraphed in the society papers. That
pleasing vision escaped before the honeymoon
ended.

The blow was dreadful ; to exchange
the luxury of Grosvenor Villa and a house
in Chester Square, Hyde Park,,^for a mean
residence with her mother-in-law in a bye-street
of Shuttleton, exceeded the pains of
any martyr. Moreover, this was not all.

Mrs. Fanshawe took the religious craze
under pressure of her misfortunes. She
joined a local sect of Brethren — I forget
their spiritual name — and held prayer
meetings at her house. Hubert asserted
himself — he did not want firmness on occasion
— but his wife could not resist. The
one comfort she felt when this state of
things developed did not last. The head
of the sect in position, though not by any
means in influence, was Mr. Mendel, of
Mendel Hall, the great banker of Shuttle-ton
; but socially he did not recognise the
Brethren, and Kate soon found that her
hopes of getting into society again through
his means were desperate.

Under these circumstances, Little Thor-burns
became a sort of Promised Land,
where, if she could make good her footing,
pleasures delightful might be enjoyed. They
had very vague notions in Shuttleton about
Mr. Esking's place in the county. None

of his old acquaintance had been asked
to Little Thorburns. But he had been a
personage too important in the town to
be forgotten. They talked much of him,
especially, of course, at Mrs. Fanshawe's
small tea parties, and legends were current.
Kate naturally fancied that he held some
such position in the county as he had
held in Shuttleton.

Another motive in which her husband
took part was the chance of a legacy. Mr.
Esking had a great fortune to leave, and
It would be only just to give a fair slice
of it to Hubert, since his withdrawal from
the factory had ruined the young man's life.

For three years, therefore, the Fan-shades
had been endeavouring to get an
invitation to Little Thorburns, as a first
step towards various objects. With Mr.
Esking they failed utterly, but a short
time before, Kate had addressed herself to
Hilda, and the appeal succeeded forthwith.

In the afternoon of this day they arrived.
Hilda was pleased to see her cousin, who
had many good points. A very big man
he was, not handsome, nor clever, nor
good, but resolute and absolutely fearless.
She liked that side of his character so
much as to overlook the other.

Kate was sympathetic in no way. Though
perfectly pretty In face and figure, the
unprejudiced eye of her own sex remarked
a sharpness of nose and style in general,
a smartness of dress, and a familiarity of
tone very unprepossessing. She had not
the slightest notion of tact In pursuing
her one aim of life — selfish advantage ; nor
did her manner promise that she would be
scrupulous about the method of securing
it.

How you've grown !" Kate exclaimed
at once. '' Why, she's almost as tall as
you, Hubert! What a funny room! Now,
what do you call this .^"

'' We call it the breakfast - room, or
sometimes mine."

*' Well, uncle did not consult you about
the furnishing of it, I should think. I
never saw so many pictures out of a shop."

"They are drawings of the old English
school. Papa changes them sometimes."

'the oftener the better, you think, don't
you ? My ! what horrid daubs ! Uncle
hasn't spent much on the frames either !
You don't mean to tell me that these
belong to the collection I've heard so
much of?"

Papa has many thousands of them —
of the French and Italian schools also.
Their value does not lie in the frames.
Will you take off your bonnet, Kate .^"

'' Let us go round the place first."

Patiently Hilda led the way into Mr.
Esking's old study, used now for a diningroom,
which was walled from floor to
ceiling with huge portfolios, neatly labelled.

'' They are all full of sketches like
those you have seen," she explained.
But Kate rushed to the mantelpiece, wherein
a large glass case a variety of odds
and ends In gold and silver were displayed
; around and above it many priceless
bits of china and miscellaneous objects
too precious to be cleaned.

*this is more like what I expected.
How awfully pretty that coral Is! It was
yours, I suppose ?"

No, Indeed ! That was made for a
French prince many hundred years ago."

"It would suit a modern English baby
just as well, if I had one. And that buckle,
hey ! They are diamonds, I suppose ?"

*' I really don't know."

"Certainly they're diamonds! If uncle
gave me my choice of anything in the
room, 1 should choose that buckle."

Hilda led the way back. " Is there
no more on this side ?" asked Hubert.

*' Yes. We are going to papa's new
study, which he calls the Charter Room."
She opened a door that led into the
garden, and passed along a verandah.

'' You don't mean to say you are
obliged to go out of doors when you
want to get from one room to another ?"

Unless we go through the kitchen.
This is the way to the Charter Room."

'well, of all the idiotic houses " she

interrupted herself suddenly, warned by a
sharp squeeze from Hubert. " But I admit
that this is worth a promenade to see !
It's the drawing-room, I suppose ?"

We never have occasion for one. This
is where papa sits generally. All those
old chests are full of manuscripts and
wonderful things."

Kate felt no interest in such matters,
nor pretended. All round the large apartment
stood glazed cases, which Mr. Esking
kept full of pretty things to amuse and

occupy a visitor who might have to wait
there — or to amuse himself. The least
was valuable. Kate ran over them with
inarticulate exclamations of surprise and
delight, trying to raise the lids securely
locked.

"What funny curios, and all so lovely!
Are those real diamonds ? Oh, oh, oh !
Uncle will spare me some of these
things, surely ! I would take great care
of them ! Do you think I might ask
him ?"

"It would be very Injudicious to suggest
such a thing," said Hilda, with grave
significance.

"Oh! Well, we may admire." But I
suppose Mrs. Fanshawe did not care to
admire long, when she had no prospect of
possessing. Very soon Hilda found her
ready to go.

Hubert had been surveying the windows
with interest.

'' I don't see any shutters. Is it possible
that these things are left unprotected at
night ? Why, that case of gems alone " —
pointing to a large glazed tray, which
stood in front of a screen — " must be
worth thousands !"

"It's a fancy of papa's that shutters invite
a burglar. You see the windows are
double, of the thickest plate-glass, and we
have three dogs close by."

They went round the garden, visited the
stove, greenhouses, and so on ; but Mrs.
Fanshawe did not care for flowers. Her
interest suddenly revived in the orchid
house, where she picked some miscellaneous
samples without asking leave.

Do you keep any horses," Hubert
asked, 'besides the pair that met us .^"

"Oh! yes! I have one, and there's a
dear old creature for the dog cart, which
Jennings rides when he goes out with me."

*' Then you ride ! What a pity uncle

hasn't two hacks ! Perhaps he might hire
one for me."

I'm sure he will try, if it would give
you pleasure."

They returned to the house, and Hilda
secured an hour's respite while Kate
dressed for dinner. She foresaw annoyance,
not on her own account alone ; Mr.
Esking would revolt, and if his niece
asked him for any pretty trifle that had
its place in his collection — as, almost
certainly she would — his reply might be
rude.

Kate was amused by the odd old things
that appeared upon the dinner table, and
then she began to ask questions about
her uncle — why he had gone to Shuttle-ton
this night of all others, and so forth.
Hilda mentioned Captain Thorburn's death.

*' Is he gone ?" cried Hubert. " Then
uncle has made a good thing of his
annuity after all ?"

"What annuity?"

"Oh, he didn't tell you, I suppose?
You're not in all his secrets, Hilda —
mum's the word with me, then !"

"Oh! no, it isn't. Not with the wife
of your bosom, my dear. If you know
a secret, out with it."

Hubert looked round ; the man-servant,
Armstrong, had left the room for a moment.

"Well, we're tiled here," he said. "It
was Jackson informed me. He says that
uncle settled an annuity on Thorburn,
with the condition that he takes all the
old chap has to leave at his death. I
suppose we shall find you the lady of
Thorburns next time you come, and
blazing with diamonds.

"Why diamonds ?" Kate echoed, jealously.

"Oh! the Treasure, my dear! Of course
uncle will find it. He's just the man. His
life has been a regular apprenticeship to
the business of hunting out such things."

I don't believe a word of that nonsense.
Do you, Hilda?"

I haven't an idea what you're talking
about."

''Oh! indeed! Then we'll drop the
subject."

I am quite serious. Who is Mr.
Jackson, to begin with ?"

"Thwaite's managing clerk, and Thwaite
is uncle's lawyer. I meet him sometimes."

Their encounters took place mostly in
the billiard-room of the "Greyhound," when
Hubert could secure an hour's freedom at
night.

Armstrong came in, but in reply to a
significant glance Hilda said, aloud, " Now,
tell me what you mean about a treasure?"

'' Do you really pretend you have not
heard of it ? Come now !"

'' I don't pretend it, and I should very
much like to hear."

*' It's all nonsense, of course," Kate

broke In, 'but your servants know the
story I'll undertake." She addressed the
butler in her familiar tone, '' Don't you ?"

Armstrong looked at his mistress, who
nodded.

'there's talk of such a thing on the
country side, i'm," he said, respectfully.

Of a treasure at Thorburns ?"

Yes, miss. The story goes that some
gentleman buried it a long time ago, and
died."

"Without telling anyone where he had
hidden it, you know," Kate said.

"How very strange! Does papa — I
wonder whether papa knows this legend .^"

"Of course he does! Don't he, Armstrong
?"

After another look at his mistress, the
butler answered, cautiously —

I should think Mr. Esking may have
heard tell, madam."

"You may depend on It," said Hubert,

VOL. I. D

'that Jackson was well-informed. Uncle
paid old Thorburn an annuity in order to
get the place at his death and look for
the Treasure himself."

'but where is it?" Hilda cried.

"Ah! that's just what the Thorburns
have been trying to find out for ever so
long. Jackson says they've dug the whole
property over one time or another. The
great hall is in ruins, isn't it ? David
Thorburn did that. He was brother to
the old chap just dead, and they quarrelled
about it."

"A telegram, miss," interrupted Armstrong.


"shall not be home till tomorrow
afternoon at the earliest. Give my best
love to Hubert and Kate !' "

Captain Thorburn's death will cause
uncle a deal of business, of course," said
Kate. " I don't believe the silly old tale,
but I hope he'll begin to dig at once.

What fun if he discovered the Treasure !"
With this interesting topic to discuss,
the evening did not prove so wearisome
.as Hilda had feared.

A GLIMPSE OF THORBURNS.

Mr. Thwaite, the first solicitor in Shuttle-ton,
was a tiny little man, thin-lipped,
square-jawed and lean; quick, and watchful
of eye ; but these tokens of character were
masked to the unobservant by a genial
smile. He received Mr. Esking warmly.

I was just going to write. You have
heard the news, I suppose ?"

'• Yes. Take the proper steps at once,
and push your formalities through as
quickly as possible."

"Well, that's easily done," Thwaite replied,
in a tone of some astonishment.
*' Everything is en regie, and if it were not
for the look of the thing — and my own

little interest," he added, laughing, '' we
might as well burn your agreement."

"Burn my agreement! What do you
mean r

'* Well, I rather thought there was a
misapprehension. What have you heard 1"

Captain Thorburn's death. Is there
anything else ?"

**Thorburn dead? I follow you now.
Unfortunately, my dear Esking, I have a
stranger piece of intelligence for you.
Read that !" He handed a letter. Vaguely
alarmed, Mr. Esking looked at the postmark,
*cape Colony."

'* Is it from those other people T he
asked.
^ "Yes. Read it."

'' ' KiMBERLEY, GrIQUALAND, WeST,

'* March 23.
' Sir,

"'My brother, Captain Eldred

Thorburn, writes me that he has mortgaged

the remainder of his estate to a
Mr. Esking, through your agency. The
sum borrowed, he says, Is four thousand
pounds, and the deed gives Mr. Esking
a right of entry If this amount be not
repaid, with Interest at five per cent.,
within thirty days of my brother's death.

' Captain Thorburn tells me also that
he Is seriously 111. Since the matter Is
evidently pressing, I enclose a draft for
four thousand pounds

"Great Heavens! Does he enclose It .^
Have you got It ?"

Yes. The money Is lying at Mendel's
Bank this minute'"

"This Is " Mr. Esking caught the

solicitor's eye fixed on him with a curious
expression. He made an effort. "This Is
very surprising, Thwalte — and annoying, as
you are aware. I had hoped to place my
collections In a building worthy of them.
But there Is interest for three years and

a half — compound interest ! The capital
sum is not enough. And Thorburn died
on the nth — this is the 14th. In twenty-seven
days, unless these people remit the
balance, I may take possession, eh ?"

"It is not necessary to discuss your
legal status in that event. Read on."

'' ' I am not informed how long the
interest has been running, nor what proportion
of it, if any, remains unpaid. To
provide against all contingencies, I send,
by the same post, a credit for five
hundred pounds to Messrs. Mendel, with
whom you may discuss the amount of
Interest due, and who will pay you that
sum down if so much is owing. Furthermore,
to meet the chance that still larger
arrears have accumulated, my agents here,
Messrs. Myers, send to Messrs. Mendel an
authority to draw on them for the balance,
whatever it may be.

'' * I shall be glad to hear at your

earliest convenience that all is satisfactorily
arranged. '

"your obedient servant,

'' ' David Thorburn.' "

Mr. Esking was a man of exceptional
coolness and self-restraint ; but his face
turned white, his hands trembled in refolding
the letter, and he looked round
for a seat. Thwaite pushed a chair
towards him, without a sign of meaning ;
but his eyes were on the watch.

'' And this money also is right ?" Mr.
Esking asked, with a hard tone.

Quite right. You may receive every
farthing due to us in five minutes, and
carry it away in your pocket."

Mr. Esking sat, turning the letter in
his hands, so absorbed in thought that
the silence was uncomfortable.

"This David Thorburn is not the heir,
I believe," said Thwaite, at length.

"Eh? No, not unless the family of the

elder brother is extinct Why, what

right has he to interfere then ? I'm not
bound to take anybody's money !"

*' You are bound to take your own
though, and to release the security. There's
no way out of it, Esking. David Thor-burn
may be acting for the heir or heirs.
Do you know who they are ?"

Mr. Esking had seen in a moment that
his objection was worthless, and fell into
thought again. He roused himself discontentedly.


"Thorburn had two brothers; David was
the younger. He quarrelled with both at
the same time, and they went to the
Cape. Ralph married there, and had children
; David, so far as I know, is a
bachelor."

He must have made a good thing of
emigration

"That puzzles me! I thought they were
all very poor in cash, though they had

sheep and ostrich feathers and all that to
any extent. Thorburn told me so."

Perhaps David has found a Koh-i-
Nor — he writes from the diamond fields.
Did you ever hear what the quarrel was
about ?''

'' I didn't ask. The disputes of kinsfolk
are not generally interesting to outsiders."

'* A stupid story is current that the
two younger Thorburns undermined their
brother's house, looking for treasure, and
he resented the liberty."

'the point is, Thwaite, what can I
do?"

I can only suggest that you take the
money, and look out for another building
worthy to shelter your collections."

You have not cashed the draft ?"

Not yet."

'think the matter over. I had set
my mind upon getting possession of Thor-burns.
There is no other house in

England which would suit my purpose so
thoroughly, even if I could secure it.
The resources of chicanery will furnish
you with some pretext for delay."

'ewe are not very skilful in chicanery
at this office, Mr. Esking."

Don't haggle over words, Thwaite,
when a client is so deeply interested.
Call it 'form,' and charge what you like,
so long as we succeed."

"Well, but how could you profit by
delay ?"

This fellow David might die meanwhile,
and if you had not cashed the
draft, his heirs might repudiate it."

"They couldn't. The money has gone
from his hands already. Delay could give
you no advantage, even if it were possible
to make out a case, and I don't see
any chance."

Think it over, man !" repeated Mr.
Esking, irritably. " Dine with me tonight,

and perhaps between us we may
find some means."

"I'm engaged, unfortunately. And there's
another point to consider. If the draft
was made payable to you, of course you
might do what you will about the matter.
But it's made payable to us, and we could
not leave four thousand pounds of a client's
money at Mendel's unclaimed."

'' Oh ! your objections ! For Heaven's
sake regard the matter from my point of
view and find a way out ! I will call in
the morning."

Mr. Esking went to his hotel, saluting
unconsciously a dozen old acquaintances in
the street, but unheeding their attempts to
exchange a word. He sat an hour in
reflection, interrupted by many a burst of
impatience ; then he ordered a carriage
and drove to the moor, where, in times
past, valuable inspirations had come to his
mind. But none occurred to-day. His

money was repaid, and he had lost the
cherished hope of his later years. Gradually
Mr. Esking reconciled himself to that
disappointment In a way, and his thoughts
took another direction. The idea that arose
was exciting apparently. He got up from
his couch among the bracken, and walked
quickly. The driver called, In his rough
north-country way, and received an angry
order to go back to Shuttleton. Two
hours afterwards Mr. Esking returned, and
as he passed the telegraph office he sent
the message Hilda had read.

It Is difficult to entertain such guests as
Hubert and his wife under any circumstances,
but In this case the task was
actually desperate. The Esklngs, as has
been explained, had no friends nor even
visiting acquaintances In the neighbourhood.
If Mr. Genest came to Little Thorburns
neither father nor daughter had entered the
Warrenage. And Mr. Genest, senior, only

called when his son was at home. A
visitor who took an Interest in things antiquarian,
or was free to admire Hilda,
might have found the day too short in Mr.
Esking's house ; but these people had no
such resource. Luckily, the topic started
overnight suggested some employment for
one morning, anyhow.

Said Kate at breakfast, " Let us go
over to Thorburns and see the place."

'who knows?" Hubert added. 'perhaps
we may come across the Treasure."

"Yes, indeed. It belongs to uncle now,
and how delightful it would be to surprise
him with a chest full of pretty old curios
worth something fabulous, when he returns
this afternoon."

You're converted, then ?" said Hubert.

"Oh, no! It's only my fun! But what
do you say, Hilda?"

Why, this Treasure, like others, is
guarded by monsters. The man in charge

is a dreadful old sailor, and he has a pack
of dogs almost as savage as himself — huge
beasts. I meet him with one or two of
them nearly every day, as he goes home
from the public-house at Burnside."

'' What do you call a pack ?" Hubert
asked.

Two, to be specific. They are great
mastiffs of the Thorburn breed."

'' Well, I'll take a bigger stick than
usual. If we can find such a thing.
What time does he go to the pub ?"

"About eleven, I fancy, in the morning,
and about three In the afternoon. Betweenwhiles
he goes to sleep."

'' Then let us start at half-past eleven."

''Oh, yes," said Kate. 'rit's absurd to
suppose the dogs will attack well-dressed
people."

Well, perhaps there Isn't much danger
at that time, if we don't go up to the
house. One can see it all from the tower,

and there's a long avenue. I've been
thinking that we should not speak of the
Treasure before papa. If he knows the
legend, and has never mentioned it tome,
he has some reason, no doubt."

"He wants to give you a surprise when
he digs it up."

'that's not papa's way at all. We had
better not refer to the subject."

''Oh, dear me! If uncle is so particular,
I shall be putting my foot in ita
dozen times a day ! Perhaps you will
kindly write out a list of topics to be
avoided."

There's only one — gossip ! Papa doesn't
feel interested in other people's business.
He never spoke of this Treasure, I expect,
because he thinks it a silly old wife's tale."

I'm not of your opinion," said Kate,
decidedly. "Uncle is not that sort of a
man. He did not talk about it because
he thinks of it a great deal. Mark my

words. As soon as he takes possession
of Thorburns he will begin to search."

Armstrong's entrance checked the rather
warm reply that Hilda was about to
make.

'converted was not the word," said
Hubert, laughing. "You pass at a bound
from unbelief to fanaticism, Kate !"

Because I have thought It over. I
neither believe nor disbelieve on hearsay."

When Armstrong had withdrawn, Hilda
spoke. " I think, Kate, that you have
never seen my papa ?''

Mrs. Fanshawe was disconcerted just a
little. Hubert snatched a newspaper to
conceal his grin.

I have not seen him, of course, but
I have heard a great deal from mamma,
his own sister. And for anyone who Is
quick at catching a hint, as I am, this
house, and the things in it, give information
enough. Why, the mere fact that you

VOL. L E

can't get from one room to another without
going out of doors or through the
kitchen, contains a volume."

Hilda had resumed her calmness. She
only answered : " Recollect that papa is a
many-sided man, and don't venture far
upon the strength of your shrewdness.
Then, if you like, we will set out for
Thorburns at half-past eleven."

They started punctually. Though the
wall of Mr. Esking's garden marked the
confines of the Squire's narrow domain on
this flank, it faced the side of his house.
They had nearly half-a-mile to walk along
a very winding lane before reaching the
gates ; — in fact to skirt the whole property.
There was no village, not a dwelling insight
; they did not meet a soul.

'well, I've heard mamma wonder," said
Kate, at length, "that uncle should have
gone to live in a hole like this, but I'm
sure she had no notion what it really is !

You might as well be on a desert Island.
Suppose one were 111, or the house took
fire ? Where do you get your things ?
That's rather a pretty dress you have on,
Hilda."

*' I am doubly complimented, for I made
It."

"Good gracious! Does uncle keep you
so short ?"

Quite the contrary," she answered,
laughing. '' He believes my things come
from Paris, and he Is a good deal
astonished, when he thinks of It, that
French milliners are so slow to send in
their bills. But 1 shall have to tell him
soon, for he begins to talk of demanding
Madame Rosalie's account by return of
post."

*' I don't wonder that uncle believes it
to be the Paris cut," said Hubert. '' I
never saw such a becoming dress."

He received a look, warning him of

^^<:^

^^utf^^

retribution in store. '' Oh, they make
ugly things in Paris," replied Kate, "just
as often as pretty ones — I don't mean
that for you, Hilda, of course. Here weare,
I suppose."

They had reached an antique gateway,
which barred an avenue of immemorial
elms. Its massive pillars were deeply corroded,
and the sculptured figures crowning
them had no trace of outline. The gates,
of elaborate workmanship but broken, and
devoured by rust, hung back, half-hidden
by coarse grass and weeds. Across the
open stood a paling with a wicket. So
dense grew the herbage in what had
formerly been a drive, that only the line
of trees on either hand showed its direction.

'they haven't many callers here," said
Kate. " Good gracious ! I feel quite
creepy !"

'' And the man in charge doesn't use
this way on his visits to the pub," Hubert

added. '' Nobody has been In or out this
year, I should say."

'' There's another entrance, for servants,
which we have passed. But the wicket
Is unlocked, you see."

Really, Hilda, I don't like to go In
after all. It reminds me of the picture of a
haunted house I once saw. And we shall get
ourselves wet through in this long grass."

"I don't care to turn back," said Hilda,
resolutely passing the rough gate. " You
are not less ready for an emergency than
you used to be, Hubert, I suppose ?"

'' Marriage has not taken all the fight
out of me," he answered, with a grin and
heave of his broad shoulders.

'rit's a comfort to have a husband
sometimes," said Kate. " How much further
have we to wade through this jungle?"

Not far, I should think, but the trees
are so close here that one can hardly
judge, looking down on the avenue."

*' Do you mean to say you have never
been here before ? Well, you are an extraordinary
girl !"

I never thought of doing so. Captain
Thorburn had left the neighbourhood before
I came. Papa has several drawings and
plans and engravings of the house Indifferent
ages, and I am quite satisfied
to look at them. It's little better than a
ruin now."

Thorburns was a fine place once?"
Hubert asked.

A very curious place, at least. It had
a great square courtyard In front, paved,
I suppose, and a fine tower on each side
the entrance gateway. We can see them
from our house, and — there they are !"

The towers stood before them, their
outline lost In a tangle of Ivy ; one had
a pointed roof, and a large clock, the
other was square. A massive portcullis,
dropped half-way down, gave a strong

hint to visitors that admittance through
the antique portal between them was forbidden.
The walls of the court had been
levelled, and a few flowering shrubs run
to waste bore evidence that the area
Itself had been transformed into a garden
long ago. A circular drive, overgrown
with weeds now, passed round the towers
on either side, and skirted the housefront.
The building itself was straight and
plain, with narrow casements, but upon
one side stood the bare facade of a very
handsome wing, probably Elizabethan —
the sky appeared through its shattered
windows. On the other hand lay a terrace,
solidly constructed on ground sloping
so abruptly that the crown of large trees
rooted below made a thicket impassable
on what had once been a pleasant walk.
That ruin was the banqueting-hall,"
said Hilda, in whispers ; so still and impressive
was the scene. 'ein the hollow

there, beneath the terrace, Hes a very
deep pond that reaches almost to our
garden. Why It was dug "

A clamour of dogs interrupted her.
Two very large mastiffs of the old Lynn
breed broke suddenly from the corner of
the house, and galloped towards them
open-mouthed. The girls screamed with
terror, and Kate fell upon her knees.
Hubert quailed for an instant, but recovered
himself.

'pick her up, Hilda, and lead her back!
Don't run !"

He had only his stick, and nerve.
Whilst Hilda, nearly paralysed with fright,
followed his injunction, Hubert went to
meet the brutes. Some men, not remarkable
for courage in other circumstances,
have a strange fascination over dogs ; he
possessed that gift, and a fearless spirit
besides. They came at him straight,
baying savagely, but at a few yards

distance their note changed, they parted,
and circled round. If he had flinched,
Hubert was a dead man. Keeping both
in view as well as he could without
turning, he moved deviously towards a
tree close by ; the relief was almost
sickening when he found his back against
it. The mastiffs sprang and rushed to
and fro, but they did not pass a certain
limit. They clashed their teeth, the foam
flew, they spurred themselves to attack,
but dared not. Suddenly one turned aside,
and howling with triumphant fury shot by
the tree. Hubert heard a scream, and a
fall — he ran out. Hilda lay on the ground
within a yard of him, the dogs just closing
on her. A thrust with the point, well-directed,
pierced one through the eye, and
he threw himself upon the other, dragged
its huge foresaw back with his left hand,
gripped its throat with his right, and,
struggling to his feet with that enormous

burden, pinned it against the trunk while
hammering Its body with fist and knees.
No human strength could have borne that
exertion for more than a moment. Hubert
hurled the dog aside, gave it a kick withall
his force, and left it panting. He
understood brute nature. The mastiff got
up presently, and slunk away, growling
vengeance, but subdued, whilst Hubert
looked to his cousin.

I am not hurt, Hubert," she said,
rIsincT with his assistance. " How brave

o

you are and how strong ! They would
have torn us to pieces! I owe you my life."

*' Yes, you wouldn't have been much more
than a mouthful for those brutes. But what
were you doing here ? Where is Kate ?"

Safe, I hope. I could not leave you
alone in such danger. Oh, don't laugh !
If a girl cannot help a man who is fighting
for her, she can stand beside him."

My wife takes a more reasonable view

of her duty," he muttered. '' Well, I think
we have seen enough of Thorburns for
once. Let us get back."

'* Is that poor beast dead? How hideous
it looks !"

Hubert kicked the body, and put his
foot upon its neck to withdraw the cane.

'' Dead enough, but not too much," he
answered, giving It another kick. '' For
my own part, I thought it much more
hideous when it was alive."

They had not remarked a short, thickset,
ill-favoured old man, who was approaching
as fast as his infirmities would
allow, breathless with fury and excitement.

"Hi, you trespassing thieves, what d'
ye mean by it ? Who are ye ? I'll have

law for this, ye " blank, blank, blank.

*' Gie me your names and addresses, or

I'll Oh, it's Esking's girl, is it ?

You've come to survey the property, have
ye, miss ? Well, and I hope ye like it.

But the dogs was mine, and ye shall pay
for 'em amongst ye, If there's justice in
England. They were mine, d' ye hear ?
You, Miss Esking, and your father didn't
have them in his swindling bargain " — and
so on.

Now, old man," said Hubert, grimly,
'your mastiffs didn't frighten us with their
teeth, and we aren't afraid of your tongue.
Shut up !"

I've got a something noisier than a
tongue and sharper than teeth, you lout !
Just stop a minute !"

I should like to see that instrument.
Go on, Hilda; I'll catch you up."

Don't hurt him ! He's old."

The veteran had stumped away, swearing
to himself, but he heard this remark
and turned.

''He hurt me? If yon tramp isn't off
the premises when I come back he'll
want a doctor."

I won't give you the trouble to return,
my ancient. Lead the way."

With a laughing reassurance to his
cousin, Hubert followed. They passed the
clock tower ; by its low-browed entrance
lay the door in splinters and an axe
beside it. The room was full of tools
and broken furniture.

'this is how you protect your master's
property, is it?" said Hubert. "You chop
up his doors for firewood, eh ?"

"I'd like to serve you the same, and
maybe I will presently !" But there was
more spirit in the words than in the tone.
Simmons began to quail as his dogs had
done.

From the other tower, of which the
door had been already burnt, came savage
growls, and as his enemy passed, the
mastiff sprang out, bristling with rage and
vengeance.

Haven't you had enough, you thickheaded

lump?" Hubert cried, impatiently,
and ran forward.

'* Loo, Hector! At him, good dog! —
Loo, Loo !" cried Simmons, ferociously.
Hector tried to nerve himself, barked and
bayed, but did not advance. As Hubert
came within reach, he faltered, turned, and
slunk away, his tail between his legs.
A heavy kick sent him howling into
space.

Now, my good man, show me this
terrible thing you speak of, quick. The
ladies are waiting."

Simmons went on, muttering to himself,
and reached the house. Then he paused.

'' Will you oblige me with your name,
sir, or will you not ?"

I won't ! Now then, don't keep us
all day."

Well, I know where to find you,
that's a comfort of its sort. You're a
friend of Esking's, and them as want you

know where to look. Now, just you be
off, will you ?

"Poor old chap!" said Hubert, taking
him not ungently by the ear. " Is that
all ? There, don't excite yourself again,
it's not becoming at your age ! Ta-ta !"

He went off laughing, while Simmons
trembled so with rage that he was obliged
to lean against the wall ; with that support
he shook a fist at his retiring adversary.

The ladies had halted at the turn,
finding comfort in a view of the roadway,
lonely though it was.

"Thank Heaven!" cried Hilda, when
Hubert reappeared. 'ewe have been expecting
to hear a gun every moment !"

Kate Fanshawe did not show her feelings
thus. She addressed her husband
with fierce reproach.

How could you leave me alone, you
great brute, in this disgusting place, half-dead
with fear ? What have you been

doing all this time ? Tell me at once, I
insist !"

Let us get home, Kate," said Hilda.
Hubert will tell you his gallant conduct
on the way."

I can't walk all that distance back,,
and I won't ! Let us get out of this
dreadful wilderness, and then we'll sit
under a hedge whilst Hubert fetches the
brougham."

'rit would take so long, dear. You'll
find the distance nothing while you listen
to the tale of your husband's bravery."

'' I saw nothing of his bravery ; he kept
it all for you ! I know he deserted mein
the most cowardly way when there
were all sorts of horrid dangers prowling
about. What have you to say, Hubert
You can't justify yourself — I know that !"

The young man told his story as they
walked along. He did not take pains to
avoid the contrast between Hilda's gallant

rally to his side, and Kate's helpless submission
to fate, and the latter grew silent
and lowering. She disliked her cousin
from the first, Instinctively, but this event
gave her a motive.

Neither of the ladies appeared at lunch,
so, with a bottle of champagne to nerve
him, Hubert told his adventure all over
again to Armstrong. It lost nothing by
repetition. The Idea that brave men do
not boast Is a nursery legend. One would
not easily find a soul as gallant as
Hubert's, nor a greater braggart.

The host returned about five o'clock.
His daughter was keeping a look out, tO'
secure the first word, but, as it chanced,
Hubert met him at the gate. I have
remarked that this distinguished satan
had a gentle look. He was a handsome
old man. None but a close observer
would have marked the lines of resolve
in his well-cut mouth, and the keenness

VOL. I. F

of his pleasant eyes. Mr. Esking had no
sign of the type conventionally accepted
to denote the archaeologist. His hair was
not long, his manners the reverse of
abstracted, his dress particularly neat. If
anything could be noticed about his
clothes it was their decorous uniformity.
Winter and summer, morning and night,
he wore broadcloth, a large shirt front,
and a black satin tie. His address was
thoughtful and ceremonious, but always
ready.

The lesson Mr. Esking had drawn from
his long and deep studies was a philosophy
of Paganism. The usages of every age
are equally right, or equally wrong, as individual
preference may decide, since there
is no principle therein. Arts and sciences,
morals, habits, are no more than historical
facts belonging to a certain epoch. The
customs of one age are not to be lauded,
still less to be rebuked, in comparison with

those of another. They appertained to a
certain era In the development of man
under certain conditions. After thoughtfully
Identifying an equal stage, so to
speak, In the history of two races, one
may compare them. But such points of
contact are rarely found. For the rest,
there Is no good and no evil In the story
of mankind. Therefore, everyone should
follow the prevailing Impulse, and avoid
above all things singularity.

Mr. Esking greeted his nephew with
warmth and led him Into the garden.
Hubert was rather astonished, for Mrs.
Fanshawe, senior, had Impressed upon him
that her brother was reserved to all, and
specially towards his relations. He showed
himself quite otherwise, asking the young
man's pursuits, entering Into his amusements,
laughing at his stories, and telling
Incidents In his own life of which his
acquaintances had no suspicion. Hubert

was delighted. 'who would have thought
him such a jolly old cock ?" he said to
himself. '' He'll certainly lend me that
five hundred as soon as I ask him !"

Under this encouraging belief the
nephew's spirits rose ; he talked with
frankness of his tastes and comrades.
Mr. Esking, on the other hand, dropped
Into sympathetic monosyllables when he
had set the stream flowing, and gave no
more reply than was needed to keep It at
the level. They walked for an hour up
and down, and in that space Hubert had
revealed his character to an Intelligence
much less acute than the antiquarian's.

Hilda had begged him not to speak of
the day's exploration until she had prepared
her father, and for a long time he
followed her advice. But they were so
cosy and confidential that he could not
keep the secret. At the first word, Mr.
Esking showed Interest, and hurried the

narrative along. When it was done he
shook Hubert's hand warmly.

"You are a fine fellow! I'm proud to
be your uncle ! Did Simmons appear to
know of Captain Thorburn's death .^"

I feel sure he does not."

But he was burning the doors, you
say ? The clock-tower used to be his
quarters."

He lives in the main building somewhere,
I feel certain. Both towers are
choked with odds and ends of furniture."

'rand you killed one of his dogs?
They have been the terror of the countryside.
We are all deeply grateful. That's
the dressing-bell. I say again, Hubert,
that I am proud of you."

"Egad, it may run to a thousand yet,"
the young man thought to himself

A CONFIDENCE.

At dinner, Mr. Esking was equally bland.
He complimented his niece upon her prettiness,
which indeed was well worth notice,
and listened kindly to her foolish observations.
Kate triumphed.

*' I felt sure we should get on nicely,
uncle, because I take so much interest in
all these charming things around. There's
a buckle-brooch in your study which is a
perfect love."

'then no young lady could wear it
more becomingly than you, my dear," he
replied, with a bow.

Oh, uncle ! I am overpowered !" with
a malicious glance at Hilda. " It's most

extraordinary how anyone could fail to see
that you're as generous as clever, and
above suspecting mean motives. I shall
treasure that brooch more than anything
I possess, but not for its value — though
that's considerable, I suppose ?"

'rit has value enough to be worthy your
acceptance," Mr. Esking said.

Hilda was astonished. Her father had
no tempers and few moods, in her experience
at least. She knew them all, and
it had been her dread, since the visitors
arrived, that he would be disgusted with
them in ten minutes, and too probably
give them the hint to leave in twenty-four
hours. Mr. Esking was quite capable of
such an act, in his cold, courteous and
resolute way. Instead, he talked cordially
with Hubert and paid deference to Kate!

This incomprehensible humour was sustained
until the ladies rose, and then Mr.
Esking sent for a particular vintage, only

produced when great personages dined.
Hilda began to think it possible that he
meant to "do something" for her cousins.
And the fancy pleased her.

When uncle and nephew were left alone,
Hubert found himself getting on so well
that he ventured — the wine invigorating
him — to make allusions which he had only
contemplated as a vague possibility in a
future dim and remote. He breathed the
word "embarrassments." Some speculations,
of a serious and substantial class, had
turned out unluckily, and he could not
speak of them to his mother. Mr. Esking
showed a warm interest, and was not too
inquisitive. 'these little troubles," said he,
*will occur when amateurs compete with
men of business. The latter have bought
their knowledge dear, and they sell it at
a price enhanced. As a rule without
exception, practically, a man neither gives
nor lends for nothing. He seeks a profit

of some kind. I, myself," Mr. Esking
continued, with a genial smile, "have had
transactions which puzzled my acquaintance.
They asked where my advantage lay,
and not perceiving it they gave me credit
for disinterested charity. But I may confess
to you, Hubert, as a lesson in life,
that I never made a loan or a gift, of
any importance, unless I saw my way.
If you were a judge I could show you a
variety of fine things I secured by means
which, to the outside ring, seemed purely
philanthropic." Then he told a story or
two.

This tone chilled Hubert's confidence
sadly. He began to think that his mother
might be not wrong, after all, in her view
of Mr. Esking's character. It was a relief
when he rang for coffee and cigars.
Armstrong brought them, announcing that
Simmons was below, 'every rough," demanding
to see the master.

*' Certainly ! Show him up ! He has
not brought both dogs, eh, Hubert ?"

The veteran began to roar his grievances
before entering the room. *' I want compensation,"
he cried, "and I'll oh,

there's the young man as refused his
address when he was a-trespassing on my
master's property and beating my dogs !
You can hear what he's got to say for
himself! I ask fifty pound, Mr. Esking;
and the law will give it me."

*'A moment, Mr. Simmons. You talk
of your master. He is dead."

'ris he ? You think your time's come,
eh ? I have much pleasure in informing
you, sir, that my master is alive, and
perhaps you'll soon find him kicking."

Hubert exclaimed, " He isn't near enough
to protect you, my man, unless you keep
a civil tongue in your head."

"This is your master, Mister ,"
cried Simmons, producing an

old pistol. " It'll protect my tongue, civil
or no ! Now, Mr. Esking, sir !"

'' Be quiet, Hubert. Sit down, my goodman,
and take a glass of wine, and don't
talk nonsense. Am I to understand that
you have a new master .^"

I won't sit down, but I'll drink Mr.
Eldred Thorburn's health in a glass of this
'ere," pouring himself a bumper of whisky.
'' Here's long life to him and confusion to
his enemies."

'' I join you in that sentiment, if there is
such a person. You are well assured of it ?"

"Assured? There's his handwriting to
speak for him. You may read the letter,
if you like."

Mr. Esking took it, and examined the
post marks — "Cape Colony" and "Burnside,"
the nearest ofhce in England.

"You received this to-daye*"

"Yes, I did, if it makes any difference
to you — at one o'clock this afternoon, or

thereabouts, as I went to Rowley to consult
my lawyer. He told me of poor
Captain Thorburn's death. And he says
fifty pounds isn't enough compensation for
my dogs ; — so I warn you."

Mr. Esking made no reply, but opened
the letter. Hubert was dull and slow, but
he could mark a quiver of still excitement.

' FiLLJIESFONTEIN, NEAR TaUNS.

'' ' Mr. Simmons,

"captain Thorburn writes to
his brother, my uncle David, that he Is at
the point of death. I am the heir-at-law
of Captain Thorburn, and I come Into all
his property by a will he has sent to my
uncle David. I am the son of his elder
brother, Ralph. I mean to come over as
soon as I can fix up my business here.
"you will keep the place for me, as
you have done for my uncle. I authorise
you to draw for any sum up to loo — one
hundred pounds — which may be necessary.

through any agent that will advance the
sum. (Mr. Esking smiled a little here.)

'' ' There is a man In the neighbourhood
who has lent money to my uncle, Captain
Thorburn, upon the security of the farm
[farm crossed out and ' property ' substituted].
I am to tell you that the loan
has been paid off by my uncle David,
residing in Kimberley in these parts. You
will produce this letter as evidence, if
needful, and you will not allow that man
to take possession, if Captain Thorburn
dies before I get home — which the Almighty
forbid !

*' ' That is all. I expect to get away In
six months or thereabouts.

'' ' I am, your master,

' Eldred Earl Thorburn.' "

Hubert sat grinning, but aware. Instinctively,
that this was a grave matter
somehow. Mr. Esking folded the letter
carefully and returned it.

I am glad to hear that the ancient
line is not extinct. Thorburn of Thor-burns,
Hubert, is a standing memorial of
English history. Now, Simmons, about
the compensation due to you. My nephew
had no right to trespass on the property
in your charge, and still less to kill your
dogs. But you will remember that they
attacked him, and, as I learn, had pu
my daughter into jeopardy, before he
struck them. It is no case for exaggerated
damages. Fifty pounds is monstrous.
I will pay you fifteen pounds, or, if you
like, I will refer the matter to arbitration
of the magistrates in quarter sessions,
or any individual among them, if you
prefer that."

"I won't have no arbitration! It's fifty
pounds I ask, and fifty pounds I'll have,
one way or other."

"Well," said Mr. Esking, after a moment's
thought, '' I am anxious to do what Is

right and to behave kindly towards a
neighbour. But you ask too much. I ama
tradesman, and I know the worth of
money. Say twenty-five pounds — but remember
that is my last word !"

*'I say fifty pounds, and that's my last
word ! There !"

"Very well. I expect a jury will give
you nothing, especially when you refuse a
liberal offer. Indeed," he added, speaking
to himself, " I can't understand why I
made it. Good evening, Simmons."

'' Good evening, as you're so polite ; and
pleasant dreams."

'' I suppose you're the man in the neighbourhood
who lent Captain Thorburn
money ?" asked Hubert, after a pause.
His nephew isn't grateful."

"We don't expect gratitude in business.
I wanted his house. I was ready to pay
for it. This young man prefers to keep
it, and repays my loan. Very well."

*' I understood you had settled an
annuity upon old Thorburn ?"

Mr. Esking showed neither surprise nor
annoyance. " I wished to do so, but he
would not consent. Shuttleton gossips
generally get hold of a stick by the
wrong end. Captain Thorburn desired a
mortgage, and I submitted, thinking it
would come to the same end."

'rand David Thorburn has paid it off?"

"Yes."

Hubert didn't like to go further. "That
was an odd communication, wasn't it ?"

"The heir's? Yes, it's odd. This young
fellow has a character, I judge. There's
simplicity in his expressions, but vigour
enough in his meaning."

"How many repetitions of 'Uncle' and
Captain Thorburn ' were there ?"

A good number, certainly. That is a
trick I should expect from a young man
of his upbringing."

"Was he educated at the Cape?"

*' Ralph Thorburn married a Boer's
daughter, and his son was born there.
Eldred is more than half-Dutch, I should
fancy. Continual allusion to relations Is
characteristic of primitive society, In the
pastoral phase especially. Kinship, my
dear Hubert, Is almost the only bond
where population Is scanty, and where
men stand In dally peril from a slave or
servile class. It Is cherished accordingly.
The early history of our own people Is
not to be understood In Its proper sense
If the great Influence of the blood-tie be
not kept before the mind."

But In Cape Colony men do not
stand In dally peril, do they ?''

*the time when they did Is not far
back, and habit survives circumstances.
Besides, Eldred Thorburn writes from
Fllljlesfontein, near Tauns. I am not
so devoted to antiquity that I neglect to

VOL. I. G

read the daily papers. Tauns has been
often mentioned of late. I don't know
where it lies, but the name is associated
with the fillibustering expedition of the
Transvaal."

I wonder whether Arthur Mendel will
come across him?" said Hubert.

"Is young Mendel in South Africa?"

'eyes. He got leave from his father on
the pretext of looking up the position of —
what d'ye call them ? — the Kaffirs, you
know. But I fancy Arthur was bored to
death with the brethren and the prayer
meetings."

"Very likely. He's a young man who
doesn't know his own mind. Did he mean
to visit the fillibusters ? Then I suppose
he may meet Thorburn, who seems to be
one of them, pending his transformation
into an old English gentleman."

What a ruffian you will have for a
neighbour !"

"It does not follow, perhaps. His
morality is Boer, I conclude, and the
most respectable Dutch families sympathise
with the fillibusters. Prima facie, indeed,
I should expect them to do so."

'' Well, the heir runs a good chance of
being killed, anyhow !"

'' I have thought of that," Mr. Esking
calmly answered, as he rose. " Now,
Hubert, I pass my evenings in the
Charter Room. Make my compliments
to your wife, and acquaint her with my
habit. If you would like to bear me
company, I shall be pleased."

Kate was in a small room upstairs examining
the thousand and one things, and
questioning her cousin. She graciously
approved Hubert's proposal to keep their
host company. Hilda smiled consent.

Mr. Esking was smoking a long 'churchwarden,"
and sipping a mild glass of
whisky, whilst collating two volumes in

crabbed manuscript, more mysterious even
than Greek to Hubert. He put them
aside, pointing to an old armchair, and
made preparations for a chat.

You are surprised to see me using
this old-fashioned paraphernalia," motioning
with his churchwarden. " In the first
place, I am fond of ancestral habits ; In
the second, which is a more serious consideration,
I have found that our forefathers
were wise In their choice of a
pipe as In other things. I have tried
nearly every form of smoking, and for
my purpose none compares with the long
clay. I rest It on my arm, you see,
when reading or writing ; I hold It when
talking or moving about. The smoke of
a cigar gets Into one's eyes and keeps
one's hand busy. A nargullleh I must
lay aside if I wish to cross the room.
There is nothing like the churchwarden
for a studious man."

I will smoke nothing else henceforward
!" Hubert cried, obsequiously.

•'Are you going to turn studious? But
perhaps I wrong you. Are you studious,
I should say ?'

"Well, I've had no encouragement,
uncle. If I stayed with you long I think
I should take an interest in your occupations.
What are those old books ?"

"This," said Mr. Esking, with a sly
smile, "is a very early transcript of Archbishop
Alfric's Vocabularies, and this other
is sent to me by a friend at Brussels, who
believes it to be that copy of the same
work which was in possession of Rubens
the painter, missing ever since his death."

Hubert thought he might venture, "And
is it ?"

I incline to fancy that it is still
another edition. You remember, of course,
that the Rubens copy was transcribed by
Junius, whose work is preserved at the

Bodleian Library. My friend should have
sent this to Oxford. I rather think it
will be found to differ considerably from
the Junius edition, as it does from my
own, which, I cherish a fond fancy, is-the
original. If so, the Brussels copy
has great value. Perhaps you would like
to hear, as an introduction to your studies,,
upon what ground I base my pleasing
confidence that this manuscript of mine is
Archbishop Alfric's original composition ?"

I should like it very much indeed,
uncle," said Hubert, in wild dismay.

Mr. Esking gravely spread out the
volumes, opened his mouth with a solemn
air, and laughed silently.

*' No, my dear boy, I will not take
advantage of your foolish remark. Young
heroes are not the sort of men who care
for old English vocabularies. We will talk
of matters in which you are really interested.
Choose your subject."

"Well," said Hubert, vastly relieved, "I
should like to hear something of Thorburns.
What a funny place It Is !"

"Some parts are the oldest In England,
I think, of such buildings as could properly
be called a house, still occupied. The
Thorburns had held It from time Immemorial,
as people said, when De Warren
Earl of Surrey and Regent of Scotland,
took a fancy to the site. Edward Thor-burn
refused a good price, and a liberal
exchange, so the Earl accused him of
treason ; he fled Into Scotland, and was
killed at the battle of Falkirk."

Was that the man who Is said to have
burled all his valuables ?" Hubert remembered
too late Hilda's caution, and
awaited the reply In alarm. But Mr.
Esking was quite composed.

"Yes; Edward Thorburn. De Warren
pulled down his house, and built a hunting
lodge. The greater part of the back

premises, which you could not see, are his
construction ; the main block Is of Henry
the Fourth's time, mostly, and that fine
banqueting hall, which Ralph and David
Thorburn undermined some forty years
ago, was Elizabethan. The family always
kept a portion of their estate, and they
recovered the house itself at De Warren's
death."

You don't mind me talking of the
Treasure, uncle .^"

'not at all — why should I?"

I don't know, indeed. Are you sure
it has never been discovered in all these
centuries ?"

'' Quite sure. The Thorburns of every
generation have been looking for it."

'' The old fellow died without telling his
secret ?"

** His eldest son knew, perhaps, but he
was killed with his father."

'' But is it impossible that some thief

or the workmen, perhaps, employed In
all these alterations, came across It ?"

"As nearly Impossible as a thing can
be. They were closely watched, no doubt,
and the ground shows no trace of disturbance."


'bless me, uncle! You talk as if you
knew where It lies .^"

'eyes, I know."

Hubert was unbounded. After staring
an Instant, he blurted out, "And where
is It?"

Mr. Esking laughed, rose, crossed the
room, and unlocked one of the ancient
chests. He took from It a sheet of vellum,
with heavy seals attached.

This Is a deed of gift to the Chantry
of Burnside, bestowing certain lands on
condition that a dally mass be served forever
on behalf of this same Edward
Thorburn, etc. It Is dated just before
Warrennene dispossessed him. At the time

of the Reformation, John Thorburn expelled
the priests, pulled down the Chantry,
resumed his ancestor's gifts, and
deposited this with other deeds In his
Muniment Room. Captain Thorburn gave
it to me — or sold it, with the vocabulary
and many other things."

Hubert took the parchment, examined
it In every point of view, and said,
bewildered : —

But what has this to do with the
Treasure, uncle ?"

"You see now the value of my pursuits.
Thorburns innumerable have looked at this
manuscript, probably, but since none of
them took pains to learn old English —
or anything else that is useful — they may
have said like you, ' What's the use of
this musty thing ?' I will show you,
Hubert."

A tap at the door Interrupted them.
Mr. Esking took the scroll and put it

in his pocket before saying 'come in!"
It was Hilda and Kate.

'you are not conspiring, uncle?" cried
the latter. " I give you warning that my
husband tells me all his secrets, like a
good boy, and if it's anything treasonable
you are concocting, I am a loyal subject.
I shall denounce you remorselessly unless
my silence is purchased at an enormous
price."

"Name your own terms, my dear. I
throw myself upon your mercy."

Well, for the present, seeing you have
given me that charming brooch, I will
not be hard. It's only a horse I want
oh, not to buy, but just to hire, whilst
we stay here. I am longing to ride with
Hilda."

That is granted, if I can find one.
Anything more ?"

"Oh, you good uncle! It must be very
pretty, remember."

"And very quiet, please," Hubert Interrupted.


Don't give people the Idea that I can't
ride, you silly fellow ! But I should like
him quiet, of course. Would It be asking
too much If I begged a mount for my
husband also ?"

"Not at all. I think I know where to
look."

Hilda, meantime, had sat down, with the
air of one who Is used to bid good night
In a leisurely way, and to talk things over
before going to bed. Hubert was on
thorns. Before remarking that action of
his host's, which seemed to give such importance
to the charter. It had dimly and
vaguely suggested itself to his mind that
Mr. Esking might have some motive In
granting him so much confidence. When
he observed the cautious pocketing of the
scroll, his suspicion was confirmed, and he
was eager to pursue the interrupted talk.

*any horse will do for me, so long as
It can go, uncle," he cried. 'your conditions
are granted, dear!"

Kate looked at him with astonishment.
The tone of Impatience was not to be misunderstood,
and under different circumstances
she would have demanded an
explanation there and then. Hilda said : —

*' Mr. Genest has some young horses,
papa, which he means to send to bottomless
Fair. Perhaps he would let us have
two meanwhile."

I will write him a note In the morning.
What do you propose to do v/Ith these
young people, my dear ?''

I have no notion," she replied, calmly.
*' Do you fish, Hubert?"

I don't care much about It, but with a
horse I can always amuse myself. Don't
trouble about me."

"And I," said Kate, "propose to
rummage all your collections, uncle, and

Improve my mind awfully. There's occupation
for a month In every room of the
house."

Hilda looked up anxiously, but Mr.
Esking made no protest. He answered
smiling : —

I will put together a special bunch of
keys for you. Your husband also has
developed a sudden taste for archaeology,
and I shall be proud to direct your
studies."

This was all so extraordinary that Hilda
felt anxious to get away, and think it
over. But Kate, garrulous under such
encouragement, began a long story of her
childhood ; how she found a Queen Anne's
farthing ; how she loved, and how she lost
it ; proof of an essential devotion to things
antique. Mr. Esking listened patiently,
and showed Interest at the proper times.
Hubert thought they would never go, but
Hilda befriended him. At the first opportunity

she kissed her father and bore
Kate from the room.

'ras soon as the door was closed, he
resumed : " You were going to show me
how that charter is connected with the
hidden Treasure ?"

Mr. Esking drew it forth, and pointed
to a few Ones upon the back. The ink
was much faded, the writing uneven,
shaky, and so entangled with flourishes
that an unskilled person could not make
out a letter — a curious contrast to the
neat and formal penmanship of the charter;
though that was no less unintelligible to
Hubert.

'rit looks," said he "as if somebody-had
dipped a rabble of string in ink, and
pressed it on the vellum."

"A very good comparison. In itself
this writing has value, for we possess
very few examples of what may be called
familiar correspondence of that date. I

imagine that Edward Thorburn or his son
wrote it — the latter, probably. How it
happened that they chose this document
to make a note upon we cannot possibly
tell. Perhaps the priest was in their confidence
— we know that he died just about
this time. If Thorburn trusted him, the
back of a charter, most jealously preserved,
no doubt, was a safe thing to
write upon. Or, they may have intended
to place their Treasure under protection,
as it were, of their former good deeds.
Whatever the motive, the result answered
their purpose. No one has read this
memorandum for a matter of five hundred
years."

Hubert did not care to discuss mysteries;
he wanted to get at facts. 'rand what
does it say, uncle ?"

I never had so much trouble in deciphering
an inscription. You see, we are
accustomed to the contractions and flourishes

of clerkly penmanship. They are conventional,
and as soon as one has learned the
rules it is easy to make out individual
peculiarities. But this, practically, was a
hieroglyphic."

I should think so. There's not a letter
in it, so far as I can see."

And I was so much puzzled at first
that it took me hours to decide in what
language it was composed. Had there
been a signature I should have guessed, for
an old yeoman family like the Thorburns
would certainly use English in writing a
note. But there is none, and 1 had, of
course, no suspicion of its purpose. To
read that short memorandum, Hubert, was
the hardest mental labour I ever went
through."

'rand what does it come to .^"

"You are very anxious to learn," replied
Mr. Esking, with a queer smile. " Listen."
He read the words.

VOL. I. H

''If possible, I am less wise than before,"
said Hubert, staring.

"Yet it is English. I give the ipsissima
verba to show my frankness. If you want
a translation as well, I must be more
discreet. Take it thus : —

' Under protection of Our Lady, of
Holy St. Cuthbert, St. Dunstan, and St.
Thomas of Canterbury, and all the Glorious
Company of Saints and Martyrs, I have
this day hidden my goods under the house
built by my forefathers, from which the
oppressor has driven me. I pray God to
curse him and his for ever !

' My son and I dug the ground, and
repaid the pavement. By morning it was
finished. In the middle of the floor dig
down. A blessing on him who finds it
if he spring from my loins ; every devil
who abides in hell, and every spirit that
lurks among the world of men, torment
him who takes my wealth unjustly.' "

"That's good talk," said Hubert,
admiring the vigour of the sentiment.
But I don't see how it tells you very
much more than all the Thorburns seem
to have known."

I said that my translation was discreet.
I have left out four words. It is
curious indeed," he added, thoughtfully,
'' how the key of the secret was, so to
speak, handed down by tradition. Whig
Thorburn, at least, knew where to look
if only he could find the place."

'that's a contradiction, isn't it?"

"Not at all. If I tell you there's an
apple on the greenest tree in my orchard,
you know where to look ; but you have
still to find the greenest tree. Hig was
the only clever man the family ever produced.
He knew that the Treasure lay
under the house built by Edward's forefathers
— that is, the oldest part, if any
trace of it still remains."

'' I understand. Then, uncle, you meant
to dig In a place you know as soon as you
got possession of Thorburns ? What a
disappointment !"

Mr. Esking turned away to lock up the
charter. Coming back, he said, abruptly —

I ask only a few hours, a stout young
fellow like you to help, and It's mine still."

Good Heavens ! But — but, uncle, would
not that be robbery ?"

No ! These things, of Inestimable value
to science, have lain In the earth for
centuries. They will He there for centuries
more, or If found by accident they will
probably be dispersed, melted, wasted ! I
have discovered where they are, by my
own labour, skill and patience ! I bought
them with four thousand pounds and more
of money, hardly earned. They are mine,
and I will have them !"

'' But the curse, uncle ?'' urged Hubert,
feebly.

"The curse! It applies to robbers, and
I am none ! I will pay Eldred Thorburn
the full value if it can be reckoned. He
shall have every farthing in money — possession
is enough for me."

Hubert saw his way to change an embarrassing
conversation. '' I don't understand
these matters, but such curious old
things as you expect to find fetch an
enormous price, don't they?"

"Well, I could raise a hundred thousand
pounds with the contents of this room
alone, and I would, for the purpose of
securing them !"

''A hundred thousand pounds! Why,
what do you think old Thorburn buried .^"

'how should I know? It was all he
treasured most, plate and jewellery, of
course, but no one can guess what besides.
If it prove to be uninteresting in the
archaeological point of view, I shall pay
so much the less, or Edward Thorburn

will be welcome to it. But that Is unlikely.
How many examples of plate can
be found through the length and breadth
of England dating from the fourteenth
century ? I only think of four — the
Coronation Spoon, the Lynn Cup, the
Salt-cellar and the Enamelled Cover at
All Souls' College. It gives a thrill only
to imagine that there may be one piece
surviving within half-a-mlle of us. But
there may be a score — two score — and of
date still earlier ! I will have them,
Hubert, and you shall help me! Ask
what conditions you will."

The word was out. For some minutes
past he had been expecting to hear It
sooner or later ; but the sudden proposition
startled him. And Hubert had made
up his mind to refuse, not consciously,
upon principle or argument, but by Instinct.
His courage was not of the sort
which dares a;n adventure like this. If

it had been a question of braving all the
Thorburn clan in arms, he would not
have hesitated, but law, the irresistible
moral force of constables, solicitors, barristers,
ending with the judge who passes
sentence, Hubert did not even think of
defying. He had temptations. Those
embarrassments called speculations were
gambling debts in some variety. While
resolved not to bear part in this mad
scheme, he was anxious not to quarrel
with a relative who kept a hundred
thousand pounds lying idle in odds and
ends, and to get present relief, if possible.

'will you allow me to think it over,
uncle?" said he, "and if you like we will
change the subject. I wish to consult
you about my own affairs."

My dear boy," replied Mr. Esking,
blandly, "it is too late for discussing
those topics to-night. I have given you
my confidence, and we can speak with a

frankness that would have been unfitting
previously. I have just returned from
Shuttleton, where I took pains to learn
so much as is publicly rumoured about
your affairs. They are not supposed to
be in that condition which your wellwishers
could desire. No, don't interrupt,
because it is late, and you have a fortnight
before you to correct any misapprehension
on my part. I shall be pleased
to help you, both now and in the future,
beyond what you would ask. But it must
be on my own terms, and what they are,
you know — some hours of manual labour
which a navvy would think well paid at
a shilling the hour."

Not if he saw a chance of penal
servitude at the end of his night's work!"
Hubert answered, incautious in his disappointment.


And therefore I didn't offer you a
shilling an hour,, nor a thousand pounds

an hour. Consider the proposal. I need
not tell you to keep the secret from your
wife. Though you should refuse in the
end, I shall still think of you with a
certain kindness if you hold your tongue ;
the refusal, I mean, will pass out of
my recollection, and we shall resume our
former relations. But if you chatter,

Hubert, expect nothing but ill-will from

I"
me !

The tone was significant. Hubert vowed,

not only to his uncle but to himself also,

that Kate should not hear a whisper of

their conversation.

GEORGE Genet.

Mr. Esking's note was sent to the War-menage
early, and the groom brought an
answer that Mr. George would call as
soon as he was up. This message Armstrong
delivered at eleven o'clock.

'good gracious!" Kate exclaimed, "and
Mr. George — whoever he may be — is not
here yet ! The rural population seems
very sophisticated in these parts."

Mr. George Genest is not a rural personage,"
said Hilda, "but not townified
either."

A nondescript ?''

On the contrary, he is the ideal of an
Oxford man in one of his varieties."

'' Oh, jolly and Impudent, and full of
go ? I'm so glad he's coming !"

'not at all — not In the sense you mean,
that Is. Mr. George Genest gets up at
ten and makes a tremendous effort to
overtake the early risers. And In general
he's not far behind by lunch time."

*' You mean he Is fast ?"

'not at all, again, If I understand you.
But here he comes."

The ladles were sitting In Hilda's room,
which looked on the ■ approach. Mr.
Esking had gone for his after-breakfast
walk, and Hubert accompanied him. Kate
ran to the window and peeped.

The distance between road and hall door
was not fifty yards, measuring round a
clump of evergreens and flowering shrubs
which occupied the central space. Mr.
Genest, however, broke Into a trot, after
pushing the gate open, reined In smartly
at the portico, and leapt down, throwing

his leg over the pommel — so quick in
every movement that Kate formed only a
rapid notion of an eye-glass before he
vanished and the bell rang a carillon.

"What a jumpy young man!" she
whispered, returning. " His horse i^

covered with lather, and a parched pea
could not hop against him !"

*' Walk her about for half-an-hour ! —
See he does it, Armstrong, will you ?" a
high-toned voice was heard to say outside,
-and the door opened on the instant.

"Mr. Genest," the butler announced.

My dear Miss Esking, I am commissioned
by the authorities to express our
exquisite delight in finding an opportunity
to serve you."

My cousin will acknowledge the service
more gracefully than I could. Mrs. Fan-share
— Mr. George Genest."

He bowed swiftly, as he did all else, but
not roughly. Kate marked a tall, slender

figure, well-built and active ; a good-looking
face, though sadly wanting In repose, and
twisted slightly, as In the effort to keep
an eyeglass In Its position ; an air which
was all Intelligence, all brilliancy of mind,
with little depth or resolution. The nervous
temperament In excess Kate might have
recognised, had she been a judge.

In cut and style Mr. Genest's costume
was admirable, and he had that look of refinement
and assured position which young
men In Shuttleton conspicuously lack.

He also made his observations, and
summed up Mrs. Fanshawe at a glance —
pretty, vulgar, a bore.

'' It Is on your account Mr. Esking has
applied to us ? Our state Is the more
blessed. You little Imagine, Mrs. Fan-share,
what a happy chance your request
disclosed to my father — I dare not mention
myself Would you not wish to see our
horses, and choose ?"

*' I should love it — with my husband's
advice."

"Certainly, certainly! Any other man
would be crushed by his feeling of responsibility
to the universe in directing you.
Suppose Mrs. Fanshawe were run away
with, trusting to male discretion in that
confidence which sits so pleasingly upon
her sex ? If she could not take it out
of her husband, what remorse would consume
the unhappy bystanders, and what
an outcry would be raised by the public !
I shudder at the thought."

Kate found this very complimentary and
very agreeable, but Hilda understood the
contemptuous tone.

"We heard you were in London," said
she.

I should be. Instinct guided me to
the paternal roof last night, and instinct
urges me to keep that roof in view, though
Miss Esking tries to divert my attention.

Since you would wish to choose a horse,
Mrs. Fanshawe — aided by your husband's
sound judgment — the way to gratify that
judicious wish, as it seems to me, is to
visit the Warrenage. I am authorised,
more, I am commanded, to invite all the
party at Little Thorburns to luncheon.
You cannot refuse this time, Miss Esking."

'' It has never been a question of my
refusal. You must persuade papa."

'ris that a function becoming the male
sex ? To persuade is a feminine art, for
which Nature has given you the most
special advantages."

"They have not succeeded hitherto, you
know "

'don't mock me. Miss Esking! I am
too sadly assured that they have never
been exerted. But I have an invaluable
ally this time. Mrs. Fanshawe would be
irresistible alone, I should think, but acting
through you, there lives not the man with

soul SO dead that he could struggle against
her influence."

*' I should certainly like to see the horses,"
Kate remarked, with her usual clumsiness.

"Then it is seeded," said George, rising.
** I shall speed back to relieve the paternal
anxiety. At two o'clock of this whitest
day in our calendar, the event so long
talked of will certainly come off. Till
that time I live on air, like a chameleon."

'' Pray recollect," Hilda said, with some
earnestness, '* that papa is very unwilling
to go abroad. He may be touched by
Mr. Genest's readiness to oblige in this
matter, but you have earned his gratitude
on former occasions without moving his
passion for retirement."

'ewe had not the assistance which I
confidently expect now. Till two o'clock,
mesdames !"

Hilda rang, he bowed, and hastened
from the room.

"A very agreeable young man, indeed,
and quite a rattle!" said Kate. 'you
gave me a very false idea of him."

Did I ? You read character at a
glance, Kate ; perhaps I am dull."

I see that Mr. George Genest thinks
a great deal of you, my dear''

Hilda did not reply.

'ris he rich?"

He's heir to a good estate in land, I
believe."

"You believe? In such a case as this?
I should have thought you would know
all about everybody in the neighbourhood.
Is there any other young man in whose
affairs you are more interested ? Come
now, my dear, I am your cousin, and
except mamma, your nearest relative — and
married too! Confide in me."

Hilda did not even flush, but she
looked impatient.

"There is no young man in whom I

VOL. I. I

take any interest at all. Pray don't talk
in this way again !"

But, my dear child, girls are born to
marry, and you especially must look out
for yourself. There is very little choice
in this dead-alive vicinity, and uncle don't
take you about. Of course you are very
much attached to him and all that. I
know what it erst me to leave home,
though I was an orphan. But you'll
allow me to say, dear, that few parents
are so independent of their daughters,
so to speak, as uncle is. He would
hardly miss you, I should think."

*' If he would not — which I don't admit,
Kate, not in the least — it is unpleasant
to be told so."

'well, if the subject is disagreeable
for any reason, I will not pursue it.
But what are your interests, Hilda ?
What do you care about ?''

'* Nothing — and everything."

'' That means, I suppose, that you Hve
from day to day without a purpose ?
Now that is wrong, my dear. You
might do worse, no doubt "

"Yes, I hope I might do worse. What
were your interests before you married ?'''

'soh, I don't know "

"Why, then!"

Don't snap me up ! I mean that I took
so much notice of all that was going on,
I was so ready to bear a part In it, that
my sympathies were too general for a
particular object. But I never lost sight
of woman's proper mission."

You were fortunate In knowing what

It IS.

Instinct tells every one of us. I
cannot admit, my dear Hilda, that you
are an exception. If you never think of
marriage, I can only conclude that you
have suffered a disappointment."

Hilda flushed angrily, then laughed.

'* Conclude what you please, but drop
the subject. I think that is papa's ring."

Kate was greatly offended at this tone.

'' Recollect, Hilda, that I am older
than you, and have vastly more experience
— to put it on that ground alone.
If you will not listen to a friendly
remonstrance, I may find it my duty to
speak to uncle."

'for Heaven's sake, don't, Kate!" she
exclaimed, too much alarmed by this
proposal to heed the impertinence or the
absurdity of it. " Papa is quite capable
of telling you to mind your own business,
in the plainest words possible."

'' I am obliged for the advice, but I
think I know him better. At the first
convenient opportunity I will speak."

Then I forbid you to do anything
so silly. If you persist after that "

-What then?"

I advise you for your own sake,

Kate ! What a stupid conversation we
have drifted into !"

I want to know what you will do if
I persist ?"

'why," Hilda answered, laughing quietly,
I shall tell papa that I don't welcome
your interference, and then he will be
simply amused."

"We shall see." But when Kate thought
the matter over in cold blood, she saw
how foolish she had been. This little
quarrel and check increased her dislike
for Hilda, and put her into a spiteful
frame of mind for the day.

Mr. Esking cheerfully consented to
lunch at the Warrenage, and ordered the
barouche. Hilda did not care to drive
at any time, and she expressed her
intention of riding.

"The next time you go out," said
Hubert, " I hope to have the pleasure
of escorting you."

"And me, I presume," said Kate.

*'Of course, my dear. But you will
have to practise a little."

'* Not all alone, I hope, whilst you go
careering about the country with Hilda.
If that's the notion, I give it up at once!"

Hilda left them, disgusted. When she
came down presently in her habit, Hubert
did not conceal his admiration. She
looked a Goddess, he said, and invited
Kate to sympathise.

This semi - masculine costume suits
some people," she replied ; "I like a more
womanly dress myself."

By-the-bye, my dear, have you reflected
that you don't possess a habit, so far as
I am acquainted with your wardrobe ?"

It was ridiculous, but she had not,
and the inquiry struck her dumb for the
instant. Kate's influence with her husband
was based in great measure on foresight
and shrewdness displayed In little things.

She dared not confess. "Of course, I
have reflected on such an obvious matter,
and I know what to do," she answered,,
sharply. But the only way out of this
absurd difficulty that occurred to her was
to reject every horse In the Warrenage
stables.

Mr. EskIng was summoned, and they
started, Hilda riding by the carriage.
The horse was as beautiful as Its mistress
to a connoisseur's eye, and as superb In
its proportions. For when Mr. EskIng
gave his mind to do anything he did it
thoroughly. If his daughter wished to
ride she must have the best animal in
the market. Cupid was gentle as

strong, and kind as good, but he had
been two days In the stable ; he knew
that his high spirits would not alarm,
and allowed himself to follow his inclinations.
Kate's knowledge of horses was
vague and theoretical. She saw this fine

beast tossing his head, champing and
jerking at the reins, dancing with unequal
steps about the road, now before and now
behind the carriage. She remarked Hilda
patting his neck in affectionate sympathy
and kind assurance of a gallop when they
reached the turf, not as Kate read it, in
timid deprecation of his vicious Impulses.

It shocked her to observe Mr. Esking's
calmness while his daughter was thus exposed
to peril. In truth, the antiquarian
was almost as ignorant about horses as
herself, but he was used to see Cupid's
playful humours, and probably fancied. If
a thought he gave to the matter, that
such is the nature of ladies' hacks.

*' There! I knew how it would be! That
dreadful creature has bolted !"

'not a bit of it, my dear! They are
both enjoying a gallop. How well Hilda
rides, uncle."

Mr. Esking took off his glasses, surveyed

the graceful form vanishing far ahead, and
observed —

'' My daughter does everything well. A
girl of her type could not be clumsy. Had
Hilda been born, as she should, fifteen
hundred years ago, I have no doubt she
would have been a Shield Maiden."

'what was that?"

'' Ah, there is no subject more interesting
in our early history. Shield Maidens were
a corps of free-born girls who fought
beside the men, but kept aloof. Sometimes
they made an expedition on their own
account, and they were always regarded
with especial dread for their desperate
courage and ruthlessness. Some scholars
think that the allusions to them which
abound in saga and ballad are allegorical.
The name ' Shield Maiden ' was certainly
applied to the Valkyries, but it seems tome
quite evident that there was also a
class of living women who bore it."

'but, uncle," Kate exclaimed, "you do
not mean to say that Hilda would have
been a blood-thirsty Amazon if she had
lived in those times ?"

I think it likely. She has the perfect
physical type, the courage also, and the
instinctive longing for a great excitement.
The small pleasures and troubles of our age
do not move her. She walks in her sleep."

"Does she .'^ How dreadful!"

I spoke figuratively," he replied, smiling.
Hilda is too sound in nerve and body
to know what somnambulism Is. I believe
she never dreams."

But about the Amazon ?" said Kate,
pursuing her Idea. " You think that your
daughter could possibly have been so unwomanly
as to fight and kill people, and
all that ?"

I don't quite know what unwomanly
means. The Shield Maidens were women
assuredly. Under the different training

which her forefathers have undergone for
so many centuries, Hilda, Hke the rest of
you, has acquired many artificial notions.
But at heart we are all the same as our
ancestors were. Long and varied circumstances
make the outward divergence."

'' But religion, uncle, duty towards our
neighbour, morality .^"

Venders, my dear ! Human nature
never has changed, though, I admit, it
seems to be different in different races of
men. Whereby hangs another tale."

Well, I am very much distressed to hear
this report of Hilda. You ought to know."

Mr. Esking laughed.

'' I fear I have been talking a little
above your head, Kate. Don't carry away
the idea that your cousin is a monster.
In this nineteenth century she is a gentle,
listless girl ; I speak only of what she
might have been fifteen hundred years ago."

Kate gave up the mystery, but her

husband had been making a great effort
to follow Mr. Esking's train of thought.
Said he, hesitating —

Hilda was always just what she is
now ever since I can recollect. Do you
mean, uncle, that she might be stirred to
great passions ?"

I mean that, among other things."

She reappeared, still galloping along the
turf, but upon the other side of the highway.
Antique posts and a worm-eaten
rail obstructed her path ; the carriage was
approaching fast from one direction and
Cupid from the other. "Get out of the
way," Kate screamed. "Oh, she will be
killed before our eyes !"

But Hilda did not swerve. Laughing
merrily she steadied her horse, and cleared
the railing — sped on a few yards, then
wheeled and overtook them, not a hair
out of place, but her face flushed and
eyes shining in pleased excitement.

'bravo, bravo!" cried Hubert. 'you
are a finished horsewoman, my dear !"

The Genests are an old family, and
their mansion, the Warrenage, stands upon
a site which they have occupied for many
generations. But the love and the care
for antiquity have never been their characteristics.
Several times has the dwelling
been pulled down so zealously that nota
stone remained, and a new one has
been built. The Warrenage existing is a
very model of the commonplace, not remarkable
even for convenience. It has a
charming view, and for that reason possibly
the spot was selected by an ancestor
more tasteful than his scions ; they did not
change it only because so much building
material lay ready to hand. Mr. Esking
identified ornaments of the fifteenth century
in walls of the nineteenth.

Mr. Genest came out to receive his
guests — a hale old man, with a cunning

and vulgar expression. He had good
manners, of course, for though a churl
innate, and well able to hold his own in
the shifts to which embarrassments urged
him, he held an historical position in the
county. His grand resource was horse-breeding,
but he came so nearly under the
less dignified class of dealer, that in a
district less remote the Excise officials
might probably have insisted that he took
out a licence.

Many compliments did this gentleman
pay to Mr. Esking and his daughter
before lunch was announced ; but Kate
received hardly a word, and her husband
hardly a glance. Mr. Genest eagerly
pointed out a few pictures of interest on
the modern, stupid walls, and a few
memorials, preserved for their oddity alone,
displayed in glass cases. But he showed
such ignorance that George interrupted
him, colouring with vexation.

The young man did not cease to chatter
all through lunch, in a high-pitched voice,
too frequently broken by a strident laugh.
His talk was smart, but, if one may be
allowed to say so, naturally affected. He
would not utter a commonplace. If circumstances
compelled him to speak in a
straightforward sense, he would try, at
least, to find a roundabout expression — I
refer, of course, to his company manners.
It was an instinctive habit, but none the
less wearisome.

When they went to see the horses
paraded before the hall door, Kate found
it much easier to play the part she had
resolved, in the humour which her host's
neglect created, or, rather, intensified.
Without hesitation, she objected to every
horse as a groom led it past, and so spitefully
that the bystanders quickly perceived
her mind was made up to refuse whatever
might be offered. Mr. Genest had loudly

declared that he would take no money
from a friend for the mere loan of a
horse ; that he was no dealer, and still
less the keeper of a livery stable : but in
his soul he hoped that profit would come
of the transaction somehow. This silly
mood annoyed him, for he was guilelessly
unconscious of offence.

But it was Hilda who first showed impatience
; she walked away, and George
followed her. Mr. Esking stood quietly
observant, regarding Kate with a fixed
smile. The Squire turned from her abruptly,
and invited his guest to see a few
ancient books which had been preserved
by chance, and they also withdrew before
all the cavalcade had been inspected.
Kate stood rather aghast.

*' But, uncle," cried Hubert, "you were
good enough to say that I also might
choose a horse !"

'' Certainly ! And, Mr. Genest, since we

have put you to so much trouble, I ask
leave to buy the animal my nephew
selects."

The Squire's brow cleared at once. "If
you really wish it, of course I am pleased.
Make your choice, Mr. Fanshawe ; Mr.
Esking and I will come to terms very
easily." He went indoors with that gentleman.


I never was treated so rudely before,"
Kate whispered, pale with rage. "If I
am not to ride, you shan't go flying over
the country with Hilda — I say you shan't."

Hubert did not know what to do ; the
groom was smiling maliciously. After a
minute's hesitation, he said, '' Then we had
better follow the rest, my dear. Perhaps
you will explain to uncle .^"

"I won't! How dare you ask .'^"

"Then I will!" and left her.

Hubert !"

But the outrage was too gross. He

VOL. I. K

asked a servant where the gentlemen were,
and followed him, while Kate, furious and
bewildered, turned into the lunch room by
herself.

Mr. Genest was talking eagerly in
whispers, when Hubert interrupted them.

"You've not been so long in coming to
a decision, Mr. Fanshawe," he said, rather
impatiently. " Which is it ?"

'why, the fact is that my wife dislikes
the idea of stopping at home whilst I ride
about. So, uncle, I am much obliged by
your kind offer, which I regret to decline."

I hope you won't suspect that we
have enjoyed your hospitality under false
pretences. Squire ?" said Mr. Esking.
'' But to avoid all mistake, I shall beg
my nephew to choose a horse for me.
The class of animal I want is expensive,
I fancy — quiet in harness but strong and
fast. Jacob gets rather old for the dogcart.


'* I have the very thing, but, as you say,
she is rather expensive. Come along, Mr.
Fanshawe. You shall report on her without
prejudice, while we leave Mr. Esking
to his studies."

Meantime, George had been making
such progress towards intimacy as he
could. Hilda had known him for several
years slightly, and though not caring for
him in the least, he was the only young
man she ever spoke to. Instinct will have
its way. Hilda saw his absurdities quite
well, and felt no interest in his character ;
but male admiration was not disagreeable.

It could not be questioned that the
youth was clever. He had taken honours,
he held a fellowship, he wrote occasionally
for a leading newspaper, and he worked
hard at the bar, with prospects already
opening. This was his theme at the
moment when, after some airy sarcasms
directed at the uncertain temper of foolish

women, through the particular Instance
of Kate Fanshawe, he began serious
conversation.

'' Do you know, Miss Esking, I meant
to call at Little Thorburns to-day, without
a pretext avowable, when your fathers
blessed note came to my relief. In fact,
that was my purpose in running down. I
return to-night."

"Indeed!" Whether the exclamation
referred to his Intention or his departure
was left unexplained. George took It as
applying to the former.

'eyes," he continued. ''I used to think
that I did not want sympathy, and for the
case of failure I still cling to my opinion.
I have tested It often enough."

"We understood that you never failed."

I have encouraged that Idea by concealing
my disasters, but they have been
numerous, comparatively. However, when
a piece of unexpected luck befell me yesterday,

I found myself quite as weak as other
people. The judge complimented me

In open court, Miss Esking, the bar
congratulated me, and the solicitors made
an emphatic note. They say In the
Temple that my fortune Is made."

I am very glad to hear It. So you
came down to tell Mr. Genest ?"

'' Yes, and to carry the news to Little
Thorburns. It Is a pilgrimage for

sympathy. Miss Esking. Do I find

It ?"

Certainly you do. We have hardly
any friends, and to learn that one of them
has made a success Is doubly gratifying."

"Will you drop the plural, then? Mr.
Esking Is always good and kind. I would
rather hear that you feel an Interest."

The earnest tone was not to be misunderstood.
Hilda had Iouq- known that
his regard for her was growing Into passion.
Girls we read about but never see —

I speak from my own experience — would
have found an opportunity to let the young
man understand that his suit must be hopeless.
Hilda did not seek it, nor even
desire it ; perhaps because her nature was
still unawakened, and she did not comprehend
the importance of the matter. When
the opportunity came, a hint seemed
enough. Looking into his troubled eyes,
which the everlasting glass could not make
ridiculous under this excitement, Hilda said
calmly : —

I shall always feel interest in your
good fortune, Mr. Genest, whether at the
bar or in your private affairs, even though
we should never meet again."

"Why do you put it so? We shall
meet again — frequently. Your condition
makes me uneasy."

I have no reason to think that you
will not find me at Little Thorburns,
whenever you like to call, from this

time until I die, and I am always
pleased to see a friend."

"You don't think of leaving it, then?"
'' No. I don't see why I ever should."
George had a reason to urge, most
potent in his eyes, and he was about to
press it, disregarding the hint. But Hilda
had made use of his preoccupation to
turn, without attracting her companion's
notice, and at this moment they came in
view of Mr. Genest and Hubert at the
hall door, scrutinising a powerful young
horse.

My cousin has a good eye," she said.
"That's a fine creature, but it looks
vicious, doesn't it ?"

"Why, it's Bay Leaves! Do you care
much about your cousin's cervical vertebrae,
Miss Esking? The governor forgets
that it is not a case of sale, and the
maxim caveat emptor does not apply.
However, if you wish, I will interfere."

'certainly I wish! Is Bay Leaves
dangerous ?"

Not In harness, though very Hvely.
But the sight of a saddle distracts her."

'then pray Interfere! I am not unconcerned
about Hubert's neck, but my
own Is quite an abiding anxiety with me.
Cupid Is not to be trusted when Psyche
or, In English, Bay Leaves — becomes
distraught."

Mr. Genest explained that the new horse
was not to be ridden, and If speed and
power and good looks only were essential,
a finer or a better animal could not be
found. When the merits and faults of
Bay Leaves were Impartially explained to
Mr. Esking by George, he did not hesitate
to purchase. "We will settle the price
by ourselves, If you like," said the Squire,
exchanging a glance with his son. And
the elders withdrew together.

It Is needless to describe the mood In

which Kate was found. George Genest
apologised volubly, Intermixing a few
remarks, sharp as thorns, emphasised by
the quizzical glass. Hilda was silent and
Hubert sullen. In a few minutes Mr.
Esking arrived, and they set off back.

"Well, father'' George asked, eagerly,
as the carriage drove away.

'' He listened, my dear boy, and If I can
read expression he Is not unfavourable."

But he said nothing ?'^

"No. It was evidently a new Idea. I
am not dissatisfied by any means. And
what did you make of the girl .^"

Nothing ! She gave me to understand
that the thought of marriage had never
occurred to her",

Then you are not dissatisfied either,
I suppose. If you did not put the business
more distinctly than we resolved? It's just
the answer r^ young lady should make."

"Yes, but Hilda meant It, and meant

US to understand it, as serious. If you'd
seen the resolute look in her lovely eyes
you would not doubt that. How divinely
beautiful she is, father!"

"I go with you there. But Esking hasa
calm, unembarrassed manner in drawing
a cheque for three figures which is even
more agreeable to my elderly taste. Don't
lose heart, George ! You have the field
to yourself, and the parent is not unkindly,
to say the least." But George was not
reassured.

On the drive back, Mr. Esking talked
quietly of things archaeological connected
with the Warrenage. He made no remark
on Kate's evident temper, nor asked a
reply from Hubert. Father and daughter
left them by themselves till dinner-time,
and during the meal they kept up an easy
conversation, with only formal reference
from time to time to their guests. Such
conduct in a man grave and thoughtful,.

like Mr. Esking, was, In effect, a congo.
Hilda understood it so, and she felt certain
that unless Kate apologised he would
express his meaning plainly within a short
time. Hubert also understood It, but he
had not the tact to avert impending mischief
After the extraordinary proposal of
last night, Mr. Esking could not afford
to quarrel. So Hubert indulged his own
vexation and sulked.

Hilda rose immediately after dinner.
When they entered the drawing-room Kate
threw herself Into a chair and sobbed
hysterically.

If you will tell us what is the matter,
dear," said Hilda, 'ewe will do anything we
can to cheer you up. Are you unwell ?"

I have been insulted by those Genests,
and you saw It, and uncle and everybody
saw it, and nobody stood by me or took
my part, or said a civil word. It's shameful
!" she sobbed.

I am sure, Kate, neither papa nor I
saw you insulted. You gave Mr. Genest
a good deal of trouble, and put papa ina
false position. But I think he got out
of it very well."

"Got out of what?" she cried, fiercely.

I say out of a false, ridiculous position.
At papa's request, for your convenience,
Mr. Genest brought up all his young
horses, a very handsome lot, as Hubert
admits, and you pettishly refused everyone."


Finding intimidation did not answer,
Kate returned to tears.

'' I did not refuse everyone, but you all
walked away before I could make a choice !
I say it was shameful !"

"And I say, Kate, that such a word
was never addressed before to my father
or to me. Think seriously of what I tell
you now. My father is very indifferent
to conventionalities and forms. I can see

that your conduct has offended him deeply,
and unless you explain he will certainly
pronounce his opinion In strong terms.
Come now, Kate, It Is easy to make an
excuse ! Only say that you were unwell
and Irritable to-day, when you came down
In the morning, and papa will accept It."

"I shall tell no falsehood! It Is for
you to excuse yourselves."

*' If you take that line " Hilda

paused.

'ewe had better leave the house, you
mean :

I really think you had ! Good night !"

An explanation hardly less decisive had
been reached in the Charter Room,
whither Mr. Esking retired when the ladles
had gone. He plunged Into business forthwith.


'' Have you thought of the matter I
hinted at last night, Hubert .^"

'about the Treasure at Thorburns ?"

'' Yes."

I have considered your suggestion,
uncle, and I don't like It at all."

'you are quite right. It was a passing
fancy, which, of course, does not bear a
moment's reflection In the light of day.
I mixed my whisky a little too strong
last night, perhaps. Tell me, nephew,
does your wife often Indulge the humour
she showed to-day ?"

Kate has rather a quick sense of
personal dignity, and the Genests were
quite rude, uncle."

"Were they? I did not observe. My
cheque-book tells me that her resentment
fell a little heavy on me."

I thought you wanted the horse."

I wanted a horse, but not at Mr.
Genest's figure. But you have not
answered my question ?"

"My wife has a warm temper, I
must admit."

"And you cannot control it? How
often do these outbreaks occur, on an
average, in the fortnight ?"

*' What do you mean, uncle ?"

I mean that this is a quiet, studious
house, nephew. That life is short, and I
cannot waste half a day in executing
commissions for a lady who is not grateful,
but quite the reverse. I mean more
than that. It is unpleasant to observe
that one of my family has so little
command in his own household that a
member of it can venture to behave as
your wife did to-day."

"You are very hard upon me, sir!
said Hubert.

I am vexed at the loss of money,
for needless expenditure is loss ; and I
am disappointed in you. After that gallant
action with the dogs I thought my nephew
a hero, and I find him a hen-pecked
husband. For the sake of your own

happiness in the future I recommend you
to drop the part, but in any case, if you
stop the fortnight with me, take care we
have no more demonstrations of this sort."

*ewe do not wish to stay in any house
on conditions, uncle."

'* Very well. But understand that I do
not mean this unkindly. I shall not bear
any malice, nor alter the arrangements I
contemplated in my will, as advised at
present. But if your submission to your
wife causes me any annoyance I shall
take what steps I may to punish her and
you."

His tone was impressive, and his look
made Hubert understand. The proposal
of the night before was to be kept secret,
on pain of forfeiting all interest in his
uncle's property. He did not reply, and
left the room.

FILJIESFONTEIN,

'' I THOUGHT I recognised your figure a
mile away! Glad to see you again, Eldred,
after a twelve months' separation. Is it
by accident we meet here ?"

Petrus Ericsen out spanned at my farm
this morning, and told me you were on
the way. So I rode out to surprise
you.

"That's a good boy! Is there any
danger .^"

Not a bit. And how are you. Uncle
David ?"

Old, Eldred. I wanted to see you
again, badly, before I grew older. You're
well ?"

VOL. I. L

I'm an elephant ! There's nothing
more :

Isn't it enough that I longed to
behold my nephew and the future head
of the family ? He would not come to
his uncle, so his uncle goes to him."

Indeed I am happy. You know weare
desperate anxious for news here, and
I thought you had heard something,"

Not of the kind you expect. Nobody's
coming to hang you all yet, so far as
I know."

"There'll be shooting when they come."

"I'm sorry to hear you say that. Aren't
you disgusted with the freebooting lot .^"

I've nothing to do with them, uncle.
There's no district In the Colony quieter
than this, so far as I know. We have
a Veldt-Cornet, but he never comes near
me, and the Kaffirs seem friendly
enough In my neighbourhood. Anyhow,
as for filllbustering, Uncle David, the

whole country from this to Simon's Bay
belonged to the niggers at one time,
.and I don't know that there's any Boer
in It, English or Dutch, who has a
better right to his lands than I have.
Some Christian took them, and sold them
to another — whether It was a century
ago or last year makes no odds. I've
bought every morgen I have, fair and
honest. Let every man settle his own
score ; I answer for mine."

'all right, my boy! Don't get warm
before we've shaken hands !"

'we'll do It now, Uncle David — this Is
the last outran before you get to my
place. All I mean to say Is that If any
meddling people come here to rob me of
my lawful property, I'll fight, whether
they're English or Transvaal."

The creaking wagon stopped. Eldred
Thorburn dismounted, unsaddled, 'cast his
horse loose, and watched It roll in the

sand ; then turned to shake hands with
his uncle, who had clambered down.
They offered a curious contrast. The
younger was very tall, almost gigantic,
and big in proportion ; his dress of homespun,
loose and flowing, had a colour
indescribable. Under a torn felt hat of
unknown antiquity, his hair, nearly white
with bleaching of the sun, fell in tangled
ringlets below the shoulder, twisted by
the wind of a long gallop round an ostrich
feather, which princesses would have admired.
The sunburnt features were very
handsome, the unkempt moustache, almost
snowy by contrast, did not quite hide a
firm but pleasant mouth ; the eyes, of
palest blue, had a falcon's keenness and a
falcon's calm. A combination he presented
of Dutch and English types by no means
uncommon in South Africa among those
families which have good blood on either
side.

David Thorburn, on the other hand,
was small, neat and dapper ; good-looking
for an old man, well-dressed, sharp of
expression. Though his skin was tanned,
of course, it had not the roughness which
an open-air life produces in that land of
burning plains and everlasting whirl of
dust ; the hands, small and shapely, bore
no mark of toil. One recognised the
successful trader at a glance.

It has been mentioned incidentally that
the two younger brothers of Captain Thor-burn
had completed the ruin of his old
house — the finest part of it, at least — by
burrowing in search of the Treasure.
They chose the Banqueting Hall for the
scene of their operations, guided by some
remains of a structure vastly more ancient,
which a local archaeologist identified at the
base of the Elizabethan walls ; — family
traditions recorded that nearly every part
of the mansion had been explored at one

time or another, and when this enthusiast
wrote an account of his discoveries, It
seemed to Ralph and David that they had
found the secret at last. The Banqueting
Hall had crumbled in part already, and
their researches so weakened the rest that
it fell with a crash one stormy night.

Captain Thorburn was on foreign service,
and they did not wait his return.
Borrowing from anyone who would lend,
they sailed for Cape Colony, where a kinsman
had some status in the public service.
He did what he could ; set Ralph to
manage a farm near Carleton, and found
David a place in the Post Office. Both
did fairly in a modest way, taught prudence
by disaster. Ralph bought some
land presently, and then married the heiress
of a Dutch wine-grower. Only one child
survived out of many, the heir-presumptive
of Thorburns.

To him was given the very best education

that could be secured in South Africa at
that time — no great thing, In truth. The
most useful study he made was a good
knowledge of English. Ralph insisted on
this above all things, and took pains himself
to use good language before the boy.
In later years Eldred forgot his careful
training, but when need arose he unconsciously
slipped back Into early habits.
David also did well, gained the confidence
of his chiefs, and had laid by a
few hundreds when the Diamond Fields
were discovered. The authorities appointed
him to be Local Organiser at Slip Drift ;
and then he found his opportunity. Too
wise to Invest In digging, he turned over
his few hundreds every day In the
purchase of gems, and In bringing upcountry
such goods as were saleable, at
an enormous profit. Within three months
after organising the department he resigned
and gave himself to trade.

David sent for his brother, but the
invitation found him on his deathbed.
After setting his father's affairs, Eldred
went up, but with no idea of trafficking.
Both uncle and nephew held, as an article
of that law which regulates the eternal
fitness of things, that the heir of Thor-burns
must not deal in money. He might
work with his hands, shear sheep, gather
grapes, make wine, and sell the results of
his husbandry. But he must not trade.

Eldred was put into a first-class claim
at Gong-Gong, then at Dutoitspan, and
then, as the diggings opened out, at New
Rush. He worked hard, and made a deal
of money, all of which was handed to his
uncle. He refused to call it his own. This
young fellow, in fact, did not understand
the value of any coin above the useful
shilling. To talk to him of making a
fortune was to speak an unknown tongue.
He had land and a vineyard at home, horses

and oxen. Of what use is cash to one
granted these advantages by Providence ?
Diamond-seeking has no permanent interest
for one who holds such views.
When the novelty of the scene and the
employment were worn out, Eldred Thor-burn
experienced a new feeling. He
began to be bored. Fast life, as it is
known upon the Diamond Fields, had
not the slightest charm. He disliked sitting
to drink, and an uncongenial habit
he would never seek to acquire, as so
many do, at the cost of suffering. Even
gossip at the bar-counter was wearisome,
for Eldred did not understand half the
allusions, and to lounge idle under a roof
annoyed him. For cards he had the
strongest aversion, not on principle, nor
even because, in his secret soul, he thought
it would be much more amusing to grab
the stakes and fight for them afterwards.
More serious was the fact that men sat

down to play generally at an hour when
he wanted to sleep, and the cards multiplied
this inclination a thousand fold.
They compelled his attention, and he
was not used to attend ; losses and gains
do not excite a man to whom sovereigns
or counters are equally conventional. And
there was no other sort of fast life in
that desert which appeals to one who
knows himself the heir of a line immemorial,
and respects himself as such.
Eldred Thorburn enlisted in the
Diamond Fields Horse, and served a
campaign. That was a most valuable
experience in every way, but it did not
produce the abiding effect which Uncle
David hoped. He learned to speak
English better — or rather, more silently —
and he picked up some knowledge of the
world. It did not shock this young man
to serve as a trooper, under command of
persons who, to say the least, held no

such position as belongs to the heir of
Thorburns. He did his duty loyally and
obediently until the day the force was
disbanded ; then, a free citizen once more,
he punched the heads of half-a-dozen
personages who had not shown him due
respect. It was done without violence,
just so emphatically as to point the moral.
But from that proceeding certain consequences
followed, which made a longer
stay on the Fields disagreeable. After so
many months of an exciting life, Eldred
disliked the notion of returning to his
sleepy home at Carleton. One of the
Bechuana Fillibusters chanced to pass,
through at the time, and from him the
young man bought a farm, granted partly
on compulsion and partly on sale, by the
chief of the unfortunate Batlapins. The
freebooter's name was De Villiers, but he
would have been much surprised to hear
anyone pronounce it otherwise than "Filjie."

Eldred did not sympathise with the
filHbusters; his views upon the sacred right
of property were as strong as could be.
Only, in a general sense, he did not admit
that laws apply to niggers, and for this
case in particular he did not trouble about
the question, after satisfying himself that
his title deeds were correct. A person
duly authorised had put Filjie in possession
; another person who habitually performed
such acts had countersigned the
transfer ; Filjie sold his rights, the sale
was registered and stamped by somebody,
who took his fees ; and Eldred inquired
no further. He would not have robbed
the blacks himself, but after paying for
land acquired by means which were no
affair of his, he meant to keep it against
all interference.

The scene around those two is sadly
familiar to South African travellers ; if few
have beheld that very landscape, they

have seen others precisely similar day by
day for weeks, or it may be months. A
rolling expanse of earth, which would be
called sand elsewhere, stretched, unbroken
by tree or thicket, to bare flat-topped
hills. It was covered with grass, but the
blades sprang so thinly that the red soil
showed between, and fierce sunshine had
burnt them to a dull, grey hue. That
was the tone prevailing everywhere, on
earth or in the sky, for its blue was
obscured by the radiation of a heat
scorching and keen as the flame of a
blow-pipe. The season was near midsummer,
and few flowers appeared, though
the dry stalks and withered tassels on
every side bore token that the desert had
been a parterre some weeks ago. Columns
of light sand danced over it now, rising
suddenly, waltzing a hundred yards, and
sinking mysteriously as they rose. All
round the horizon spread mirage, which

seemed to reflect the hills in a sheet of
pellucid water, with sedgy, shallow banks,
or wooded Islets dotted over it. A mile
beyond the halting - place stood Flies
Kloof, where the rocky barrier closed in
With a sweep from either hand, leaving a
narrow pass between two crags. Naked
they were at summit as the towers of a
giant fortress, as square against the sky
and as abrupt in outline ; but round their
feet lay massed a pile of debris, fallen in
the course of ages, densely clothed with
thorn-bush and withered grass, which
filled every interstice of the huge boulders.
On all sides antelopes were grazing, many
thousands of them, hundreds within pistol
shot.

To such a view David Thorburn had
been accustomed for many years, and it
did not strike him. Some kinds of game,
rare now in the Colony, attracted his eye
for a moment. " Those are wilde-beasts

playing yonder, I suppose ?" he said, carelessly.


'eyes, I shot one," Eldred answered in
the same tone, 'for your breakfast, uncle,
before starting."

"The kloof is a dangerous bit of road,
isn't it T' David continued, with more
interest.

Dangerous enough if it were held inforce.
An army could not pass unless they
had guns."

"You've not chosen a safe place for your
farm, Eldred."

"As safe as any other round about. The
kloof does not count for much any way.
If the Kaffirs wished to attack me, they
would advance against the homestead.
They might sit in the kloof till Doomsday
for all I care."

But they would close the road, wouldn't
they ?"

"And what then?" Eldred answered,

laughing. "You are thinking of your
post-carts, Uncle David. We don't use
such conveniences in this neighbourhood.
I've received your letters by hand, three
in nine months, and the men who carried
them were the only visitors I have had till
Petrus Ericsen came In this morning."

'three letters? Why, I've written to
you every fortnight!"

"Ah, they're lying somewhere on the
road. But I'm just as much obliged to
you, uncle, and I feel ashamed to think
how seldom I have answered you."

Then you haven't any suspicion, perhaps,
why I have come ? It's a long and trying
journey for a man of my age, Eldred."

I had not thought enough of that.
Upon my word, uncle, I could not be
more pleased to see you, but I feel more
grateful. What's the news .^"

That I'll tell when we get home. I
thought you did not pay enough attention

to my letters — or you might be dead or
ill. Coffee's ready. How far is your place
beyond the kloof?"

'' Not an hour."

They drank coffee, and smoked a pipe,
talking of the fields and life there, of
politics, English and Colonial, so far as
they concerned Eldred's position. His
uncle took a larger Interest, of course,
but the world of Europe was utterly
foreign to this young man. Thorburns
made a subject of which he never tired,
but his mind did not accept it as connected
with England —-england and Europe
at best were connected with it.

Then the oxen were yoked, and David
climbed back to his mattress spread In
the wagon. He travelled comfortably with
his 'leader" from Mozambique, his Hottentot
driver, his body servant and cook,
coolies of Madras, two led horses and
two Hottentot grooms. David had been

VOL. I. M

rich now, and considered, for half a dozen
years or more. Old ways of thought had
returned, and he took to himself such
luxury as befits a Thorburn, though of
late generations they had not enjoyed
it.

Eldred mounted and led the way, his
rifle slung behind him. He had no fear,
though the kloof, as they approached It,
seemed more and more convenient for
an ambuscade. David had Imagined that
the filllbusters, and those who bought,
their lands, lived In hourly peril, and so
imagining, it was really a gallant act to
pay this visit. Rumour assured him that
Monotone was arming, Montsola was In
the field. He had reason to know that
these alarming statements were not wholly
false. But his nephew on the spot, who
was no simpleton, did not seem to recognise
the slightest danger Impending ; the Kaffirs
might rise, no doubt, since they had provocation,

but nothing threatened for the
time. David's wagon was a perambulating
armoury ; a safe conduct from Monotone
lay handy in his pocket. He resolved not
to mention these precautions.

They passed the defile safely, and on
the other side found a scene exactly corresponding
to that in the rear — the same
rolling waste encircled by mirage, with
hills above, the same crowd of antelopes,
as it appeared, grazing, sporting, curiously
pausing to look. The single difference was
that the fiat - topped barrier of cliffs did
not close in ahead, so far as one could
see, and the desert bore signs of human
occupancy. A herd of sheep and goats,
commingled, disputed the antelope's pasturage
; a little group of brood mares, with
their foals, stood by a dam ; some oxen
grazed in the distance. The homestead, a
mud cabin whitewashed, had a patch of
green around it.

'' It doesn't look grand at all," said
David. " I don't think of the beginnings
of Rome when I survey your property,
Eldred."

He laughed. '' If that fact doesn't
distress you, uncle, I vow it's all the
same to me! I'm busy, and I shall get
something for the place when sale day
comes." Eldred had never entertained a
doubt that Thorburns would fall to him.

The time Is very close," his uncle
replied, significantly.

They reached the homestead, which
proved to be even rougher than David
had thought from his distant view of it.
There were but two rooms, of twelve feet
square or so, the only ornament whitewash,
and the only furniture a bed, a
board on tresses, and a seat which had
been a box. The first chamber was
Eldred's, not to count a pair of lambs ;
that behind was occupied by an old

Hottentot woman. The workhouse stood
a few yards away, and therein slept
the two Bastard labourers who were
regularly employed.

"I'm glad you've brought your servants,"
Eldred said. " My housekeeping is little
better than a Kaffir's, and not so clean."

There were things in the wagon that
speedily transformed the bare hut. In a
few minutes its walls were hung with
cotton cloth, the box seat was dismissed
to the other room, the lambs followed.
For his own lodging David had a tent
well-furnished, and he spared enough of
its perishing to make his nephew's
chamber habitable for meals. The madras
cook meanwhile took possession of
the wilde-best's carcase, and in due time
served a variety of excellent dishes. Then,
over a cigar, they got to business.

'* I heard from my brother just after
you left the Fields," David began.

''So I gathered in a letter that reached
me.

*eyes, the first time for thirty-eight
years, though he wrote to your father,
as you know. By-the-bye, did you get
an answer to your communication mentioning
his death ?"

Not a word."

'well, he wrote me pleasantly enough —
I have all the letters here, and you may
read them for yourself. They show that
my brother has been ill for a long while,
and in sad embarrassments. I sent him
money at once. In acknowledging it he
told me his affairs in part, but it is only
of late that I understood exactly how he
stands. A Mr. Esking, who bought the
cottage they call Little Thorburns, has
advanced him four thousand pounds on
mortgage of the old place and what land
remains. It was a liberal arrangement, sofar
as I can gather the circumstances, butin

effect, Esking gets possession of the
house at Eldred's death unless, which is
utterly impossible for him, the mortgage
be paid off!"

'good Heavens, uncle!"

And the event is not far off by last

reports. So I did what was necessary,
and came to seek you, as you did not
reply to my letters."

"But — Thorburns gone! Why, it is
mine at Uncle Eldred's death! I thought
by English law he could not leave it away
from me, if he wished !"

"The property has never been entailed.
He could leave it or sell it, and in fact he
has sold it for four thousand pounds, if
that sum isn't repaid with interest within
a certain space of time after brother dies.
I don't know how long."

I will sell everything I have, Uncle
David ! If that's not enough, you will lend
me the balance, won't you ?"

"It would be very much more than
enough, my boy. The proceeds of the
diamonds you found and gave to me, I
have always regarded as your property, and
how much do you think it stands for now,
in my books ?"

** I never thought of it as mine, but the
sum must be a good deal if you let me
regard it in that way. Five thousand
pounds, perhaps, with the value of the
claim."

Nineteen thousand, six hundred and
forty-nine pounds, seven shillings, and sixpence,
Eldred ! I have used the money
and turned it to good interest. But that
is beyond the matter. What was needful
I have done on my own account. By
the last mail, before starting on my
journey, I sent to your uncle's solicitor
who is Mr. Esking's solicitor also — a
draft for four thousand pounds, and an
authority of my agents at Capetown to

draw one thousand pounds for Interest.
So that Is right, even If poor Eldred
dies suddenly, as his last letter gives us
to expect."

Yes, that's right — I mean about the
cash. But won't you go home now,
uncle ?"

** I am too old ; but you must go."

'' Without you ? I think 1 should pine
for a breath of the veldt !" He pointed
through the open door. "Is there anything
like this In England ?"

David laughed. *' Nothing In the very
least like It, but there are compensations.
Now, my boy, In his last letter Eldred
sent me a copy of his will, leaving all
to you "

Then, If the mortgage Is paid off,
there's no hurry for me to go."

'' I fancied you loved Thorburns almost
as much as we do ?"

If It was only that, I'd walk all the

way. But England, uncle, and Englishmen!
I've seen plenty of them, you
know, and they're poor creatures to live
with."

''If I must answer seriously, I should
say that you have never seen them in
their proper surroundings. But it's silliness!
I'll tell you, Eldred, why you must
leave at once with me."

'why, what is to become of my farm
and stock ?"

Bosh ! You may drive the cattle along,
and we'll sell them as we travel. Now,
listen. You know that one of your ancestors
buried a Treasure at Thorburns
which has never been found .^"

"Oh yes, I know that!"

Read the letters presently. You will
find that Eldred thinks this man Esking
had a purpose beyond friendship in lending
the money. He is what they call in
Europe an antiquarian, one who studies

old things and puts them together. I
know the sort. Eldred has a notion that
Esking knows, or thinks he knows, where
the Treasure Hes, and that Is why he
wants to get Thorburns Into his possession.
Now, my brother seems to be dying, poor
fellow. There's no time to lose. He
urges me to pay off the mortgage, If
possible, but though that Is done, we
must not leave the house unoccupied for
an hour ?"

'' Is It unoccupied now ?"

"An old sailor has charge of It, but I
know nothing of him. Esking is riches
could buy up an army of caretakers.
Besides, he may die. You must go, and
there's an end of It !"

Eldred was discontented with the prospect.
The abstract idea of going 'home"
pleased him continually, but he would
have liked to keep It always abstract. The
Treasure did not appeal to his Imagination.

Though It had been hard cash, Eldred
would not have felt excited about It ; but
for old things — from his youth up he had
wondered silently what all the fuss was
about.

This was a typical Africander, of the
best sort, and David knew how to deal
with such. The Instinctive sense of
property Is a leading trait among them.
Interference with an owner's right stirs a
passion of jealousy. Upon this feeling
David worked, not In vain. If he did not
rouse his nephew to excitement. It was
only because Eldred could not fancy that
a man In his senses would try to steal a
lot of antique rubbish ; nor a wealthy man
would risk penal servitude for a store of
old coins. Imagination must be founded
on knowledge in such a case. The
Africander Is Incapable of understanding
the antiquarian. Therefore, though the
suggestion of robbery moved him, he could

not feel much alarm. However, it was
resolved that they should start next day.

Eldred wrote the letter to Simmons,
which we have seen in an earlier chapter,
and sent it to the nearest post-office,
fifty miles away, or thereabouts, in the
Free State. One of his uncle's grooms
carried the missive, with a Bastard guide
from the homestead. Then Captain Thor-burn's
letters and will came under discussion,
and so the day passed

Next morning there was game to shoot
for the day's provision — a care which
might have seemed superfluous where a
buck may be shot at any moment from
the doorway. But human nature is the
same everywhere. An Englishman does
not think of offering his guests a battue
of sparrows, and the Africander regards
common sorts of antelope in the same
way. He seeks the rarer species, which,
in truth, are better eating ; and they are

few and shy. It cost Eldred a long
gallop and some hunting craft to secure
a harte-best, while David looked on with
interest. They rode back with fine appetites,
the disembowelled carcase slung
behind.

The Mozambique came in, while they
ate, to announce that a horseman was
approaching at top speed from the north.
Such an event had not been paralleled
since Eldred's arrival ; he got up at once
to see.

"It's Petrus Ericsen, uncle! From the
way he is risking his neck among the
mercat holes, I should fancy he has some
news !"

The Batlapins have risen !" cried
David, hurrying out. " I know it !

Inspan, James! Saddle my horse! Look
alive !"

Eldred laughed. " More likely, someone
is hurt at Beaujeans, and Petrus is galloping

to fetch old Groethode. He'll want to
change horses ! Send one of the Toties to
bring in my grey, James." But he did
not feel quite easy. Petrus knew that
veldt, and was aware that the part through
which he rode at a headlong gallop was
undermined by marmot and mercat. It
must be grave news of some sort he
carried.

-By ! He's down!"

Eldred was looking away at the moment
he turned quickly and ran. Ericsen's
horse was struggling to his feet, but the
rider lay prone, a huddled figure. Eldred
knew too well the meaning of that attitude.
In a few moments he reached the
spot. Petrus was dead — his neck broken.
What was the alarm that made him risk
such a fate would never be told in this
world.

David came up panting as the young
man rose from his knee.

'didn't he say a word? This is
terrible !"

*' We have only to bury him. Poor
fellow !"

Bury him ? There's no time for that.
The Kafirs have risen, I tell you, and
there are more than he lying stark on this
veldt ! Quick, James !" David shouted.
Leave the tent and everything. Inspan
the wagon as it is !"

'' But, uncle "

I know they have been buying arms,
and — look at the dead man's hands !
They're covered with dry blood ! And
his horse is wounded — see !"

He ran back, whilst Eldred examined
the corpse. There was no trace of a
wound upon it, but the backs of the
hands were smeared, as if a plastering of
blood had flaked away on that desperate
ride. He looked at the horse which
stood quiet with its head down, breathing

with deep and hurried exhalations ; upon
his hind legs and withers trickles of gore
were conspicuous, proceeding from a tiny
puncture which Eldred's experience declared
at once to be a rifle-shot. He
returned thoughtfully, the horse following.

The Hottentots were Instancing ; the
coolies bustled about ; David stood by
the stirrup, calling Impatiently.

Let your people follow with the
wagon, Eldred ! The grey Is saddled —
we'll go ahead ! Quick, man ! The
Kaffirs are up !"

It may be so, uncle, but there area
thousand other chances that would
account for what we see."

"I tell you I know! Don't argue,
but mount !"

Eldred looked round. It was hard to
leave so suddenly the small crops just
ripening, the cattle, the hut lately rebuilt,
which he would never see again. But

VOL. I. N

David grasped him feverishly by the
hand.

Beyond that cursed kloof I'll listen
to you ! Come now !"

With a sigh the young man clambered
into his saddle, and rode on, leaving the
wagon to follow them.

ON THE VELDT.

They rode quickly towards the defile,
intending to await their baggage on the
further side. David Thorburn had no
experience of peril from the blacks, after
two score years of residence in Cape
Colony. He was nervous and impatient.

'• Can't we avoid that infernal kloof,
Eldred ? Is there no way across the
open veldt ?"

'' There is, but if the Kaffirs have
risen — which, mind you, uncle, I don't
believe for a moment ! — the other road
will be more dangerous."

"How stupidly obstinate you are! Did
Petrus shoot his horse himselfe"

'' There are plenty of skellum niggers
who would take a long shot at a Boer."

*' But would he have galloped over a
veldt he knew to be rotten to tell you,
if it had been no worse than that ? No,
we're In an ugly mess ! I had more
than a suspicion before I set out !"

'how good of you to come, uncle!"

At every outran they reassured me,"
he answered, impatiently. " My affairs
are pretty straight, Eldred. If anything
happens, you will find the books and my
will and statement of accounts, which I
carefully drew up for you, at the Standard
Bank in Slip Drift. You'll be a rich
man, nephew. Thorburn of Thorburns
will hold up his head again. Don't look
for the Treasure, unless Esking or some
man like him advises you ; and don't
seek it under the house, anyway. Too
much mischief has been done already."

Don't talk in that tone. If the Kaffirs

are waiting yonder we will both get
through or neither !"

I know your loyalty. But if you seeme
killed, Eldred — if you're certain of it,
ride away — don't trouble about my body !
They may carve it as they like ! You
are the last of the old line. Remember
that countless ancestors are watching you
perhaps," he added, with a pallid smile.

If they are," said Eldred, firmly, '' I
will not disgrace them by riding away
when my uncle is down."

But dead — I said dead !"

Then I will avenge you ! Say no
more ! You see it's needless, for the
kloof is empty."

They were just entering its mouth, and
the distance before them was but two
hundred yards. It did not follow, as
Eldred well knew, that the Kaffirs were
not there because they had not yet
opened fire ; — thousands might be lying in

that dense shrub. But he felt confident
there was no cause for alarm whatsoever,
and comforted his uncle with the first
argument to hand. The latter shook his
head, and glanced from one steep and
broken eminence to the other.

They went on, trotting briskly — It was
but a few minutes. David's heart was In
his mouth, to use that saying of old
experience when people drew an Image
from their own daily sensations. The
sandy path, clothed with burnt turf and
dry flower-stalks, turned sharply to right
and then to left ; — the view of the veldt
beyond opened before them — and nothing
happened. They passed the gates, and
saw a plain stretching miles away, lost
In mirage at an horizon unseen with a
pale shadow of hills above.

Though Eldred had not credited the
peril, his nature was sympathetic enough
to feel for another's terrors. For a hundred

yards beyond the kloof he kept
silence ; then turned, laughing : — " You
see the "

As he spoke, David fell forward on
his horse's neck, and the same instant a
ball spun close by Eldred's ear — two
shots resounded. He caught his uncle,
and dragged him across the saddle-bow.
There was no need to look twice — a
bullet had entered beneath the neck-piece
of his sun-hat, and passed out by
the mouth. He was dead.

Eldred let the corpse slide gently down
to earth — turned, and rode back full gallop,
doubling as he went. Two bullets sped
by him, but the evidence of smoke curling
upward from points almost on a level with
the veldt was not necessary to assure him
where the murderers lay. That ball which
killed David came almost horizontally, not
from above.

He sprang off his horse at full gallop

after receiving the shot — an accomplishment
which every Boer possesses — and
running under its cover gained the foot
of a narrow sheepwalk, which led deviously
towards the summit inaccessible on his
left hand. Casting the steed loose, Eldred
mounted, under cover of great stones and
bushes, but exposed from time to time.
At his fastest pace he clambered up the
steep, panting and groaning under the
terrible exertion, but supported by the
stubborn firmness of the Boer. These
Kaffirs, or what they might be, would try
to escape, probably, since they were but
two to one, perceiving that the avenger
had reached round above their hidino^-
place.

In a few moments he gained a level
spot some three feet square, whence the
slope below was commanded ; in following
a goat once he had discovered this path.
It was just time — two ragged blacks,

carrying guns, had torn themselves free
from the lowest thorn-bush, and were
doubling back along the defile. Eldred
unslung his rifle, drew a heavy breath to
still the trembling of his hands, stood firm
as Iron for a second — and the foremost
dropped without a cry.

Quick as thought, the young man reloaded,
but too late; — the remaining Kaffir
threw himself behind a rock, and left
not a trace. Eldred also took shelter,
keeping watch. So they remained for
nearly half-an-hour. The murderer could
not crawl away, for all round him, as It
chanced, there were bare openings, and
Eldred dared not quit his post of observation.
He waited for his servants to
appear, but they had heard the shots
and were wrangling In noisy panic.

At length the big Mozambique showed
his face, pallid and working, at the bend.

Take care !" Eldred cried In Dutch :

but as he spoke a rifle cracked, and the
burly form staggered out, returning to
shelter In an Instant.

'' Are you hurt ? Is any one else
there ?"

'all here, baas!" replied one of the
Bastards, " James shot through the neck.
What we do ?"

"That's Hendrick, Isn't It .^ Come up
here to me, you and Johannes, by the
track you know." In briefest words he
explained the position.

"All right, baas! We's coming." Twenty
minutes later, the two herdsmen joined
him, crawling on their stomachs. Eldred
gave them instructions, and they went
downward by the path he had ascended.

Then, after awhile, smoke rose upon
the other slope at the entrance of the
kloof A brisk wind was blowing, and
the flames roared along. Sparks flew as
though some great firework were blazing.

and in three minutes the whole incline
had taken light — a fiery furnace from the
tall cliff above to the road below.

Run, you others !" Eldred shouted
above the clamour. He was in deadly
peril himself, for the flames had caught
here and there upon his own side and
spread faster than a horse could gallop,
though it was more sheltered. But the
avenger stood his ground for moments
that seemed ages, until, through the smoke
and hurrying fire, he saw his enemy rush
forth. Then the watch was ended. He
did not even wait to mark the success of
an aim that never failed, but ran headlong
down. Scorched, blinded, his hair and
beard singed, his clothes a-fire, he reached
the veldt and rolled upon it.

The Bastards were there, chuckling in
contortions of delight.

"That Kaffir roasted, baas! Vultures
won't find a mouthful on him ! And, baas,

David gone, too! Him lie there!" The
sone death seemed not less humorous to
these strange beings than the other.

Eldred went to his uncle's body, which
lay doubled up, as it had fallen from his
arm. There were no tools to bury it, and
days must pass before the wagon could
push through that red-hot defile— even if
it had escaped. He laid the dead man
out tenderly, removed his arms and his
papers, carried him to a deep dry suit,
a water-course, and sought a bank there
above the reach of ordinary floods. The
quest led him far, while his Bastards
followed, grinning and nudging one another.
They meant no harm — it was but their
way to show interest and emotion.

The grave Eldred chose at length
would assuredly be washed away before
next spring, even if the jackals did not
find it ; but he had no choice. Laving
the corpse along, he kissed it tenderly,

and with his knife, his heavy boots, and
the barrel of his rifle, broke the soil
down upon it. That task was not long.
And then he looked to his own safety.

The horses had fled, and the antelopes
also, far beyond range. He was alone
upon the veldt, no white man nearer than
twenty miles, and he did not question
now that the Kaffirs were moving. Those
two men might be scouts of a force on
its way to occupy the kloof, through
which families returning from up country
would pass. If so, David's servants were
no better than dead men.

This idea passed through Eldred's mind,
but he paid no attention : had he been in
their case he would not have expected
others to think of him. It is needful
to show this young man's character as
training and events and mode of life had
formed it. I sketch only the people I know,
and the hero of romance, whose innate

chivalry Is unaffected by circumstances,
Is a being I have not yet encountered.
Certainly he will not be found among
people who have been bred to danger from
their youth up. The teaching of that
school is emphatically, every man for himself
He neither gives help to an able-bodied
comrade at his personal risk, nor
asks It. This Is not selfishness, and
assuredly not cowardice — but a simple
return to those laws which guide brute
nature when the conditions of human life
revert to the brutal form. One wild
animal does not aid another ; he saves
himself. But for his mate and for his
whelps he will die ; even for a helpless
comrade sometimes. Man goes a step
beyond. Including a wider circle of those
who may demand the sacrifice of his life.
No terrors or sufferings would have driven
Eldred to desert his uncle living, but for
the servants, though they had been

white, not so much as conscious pity
could be expected of him. Had they
asked his good wishes or his prayers,
such would have been granted willingly.
But, in the absence of a request, Eldred
did not even think of those unfortunates.
I say again, that my characters are not
heroic, still less romantic ; but actual men
and women, behaving and feeling as
human creatures do under the circumstances
made for them.

It was still early in the day, not yet
noon, but a false start in that waterless
desert might cost the wanderers their
lives, though the enemy did not overtake
them. The Bastards had taken rifles
and ammunition from David's armoury,
and had brought them off Whether
they would fight or no, it was impossible
to say — that might depend on the
humour of the moment. Starvation, therefore,
was not to be feared, though drought

was. The nearest neighbour, Groethode,
dwelt in his wagon ; he had built a
*adam," of course, but no hut. If the
old man had taken alarm, and treked
away, he would let off the water, no
doubt, to inconvenience pursuers, so far
as might be. At that season, all the
streams, hollows, and almost all the rivers
were dried up, and where his next drink
was to come from Eldred had no idea.
Water there must be within such distance
as antelopes can travel, but that is a
very long stretch ; and neither he nor
the Bastards knew in what direction to
seek it.

Eldred resolved, therefore, to push on
towards Groethode's camp, some twenty
miles to the south-east. Three hours he
marched steadily, observing not a sign of
human life upon the waste, then halted,
shot a spring-bok, and devoured the flesh
half raw to check his thirst. Another

long Stretch brought them within view of
the spot where Groethode's wagon stood
■ — It was vacant ! The burning heat, the
dust, the anxiety, had withered Eldred's
tongue so that It rattled as he swore a
deep oath of horror and disappointment.
The Bastards were In better case, for
they had drunk the antelope's blood.

The cool and dusk of evening had set
In when the dam was reached. A hole
had been cut though It but the mud
was not yet dry, and shallow pans of
water lay here and there In the middle.
Eldred stripped and waded towards them,
but the slime was too deep. He threw
himself full length In Its black and foetid
surface, and took a mud bath. Inexpressibly
grateful, whilst the water, draining
into the hollow he made, promised him
drink.

He had not looked round carefully
before plunging in — the veldt for miles
VOL. L o

was bare, and he assured himself only
that no Kaffirs appeared in sight. The
Bastards, less eager, were more observant.
Among the herds of game at a distance
they remarked the two horses, still saddled,
grazing peacefully. A glance and a grin
were signals enough ; — when their master
lay down, losing sight of them, they
stole away.

The horses would not be caught, however
; after trying for a while, driving
them away from the dam, the Bastards
ventured a call. It was low and wary,
but Eldred heard and understood — heroes of
romance probably would not. Struggling
to his feet he regained the solid earth
and seized his rifle, which the blacks,
armed already, had not thought to remove.
They were just grasping the reins,
Ave hundred yards off.

'' Bring them in !" Eldred roared. '^ Gallop,
you dogs, or I fire !" He covered them.

"Yes, yes, baas!" cried the distant
answer.

'turn this way! Gallop!"

One of them mounted and obeyed — the
other busied himself on the far side the
horse, moving along.

"Stop where you are, Hendrick!" — but
the Bastard still ran on, under cover of
the animal's flank.

"Stand!" Eldred shouted again. "One,
two — will you stand ?"

Johannes came up. "Hendrlck's a skellum,
baas! He's gang to Kaffirs at Tauns !"

In fact, a rifle, a saddle, and a horse
made temptation too strong for resistance
by any Bastard, when troubles in the
neighbourhood promised him impunity.
Hendrick had more nerve than his comrade.
He trusted to the protection of
the animal's body, but more to the fading
light, and kept moving away. Neither
help availed him with a man who could

shoot to a hand's breadth at five hundred
yards. The horse plunged violently and
bolted ; Hendrick lay on the veldt with
both legs shattered.

"See to him, Johannes!" Eldred cried,
and started, naked as he was, in pursuit
of the flying steed. It was his favourite
grey, happily, which obeyed the master's
voice as soon as the moment's panic had
subsided.

This Bastard dead stuff to-morrow
midday," said Johannes.

It was evidently true, unless a surgeon
came to his assistance ; and an angel's
visit was more probable. They carried
him to the dam, bound his wounds up,
left him some food, his rifle and ammunition,
and rode away. Neither reproaches
nor prayers were uttered during
these operations. Such is the fortune of
war.

The others rode on till midnight with

brief outspans ; then they slept two hours,
Eldred making his grey He down, and
reposing beside it. The full moon enabled
them to travel almost as fast as by day.
They thought the danger had been left
behind now, since the Kaffirs doubtless
were advancing from the north-west, if it
was their movement which Petrus Ericsen
had ridden to announce. Groethode also
was retiring in the opposite direction, for
his wagon-wheels guided the horsemen on
their midnight ride through the trackless
veldt. But a sudden discovery enlightened
them.

In the clear, calm radiance of the
moon, distant objects are almost as conspicuous
as in the brilliant sunshine of
South Africa. A long way off Eldred
remarked two forms ahead, like black
stones, lying directly in his front. Very
soon he made them out, unslung his
rifle, and advanced cautiously, pausing at

a little distance. There was no reply to
his shouts nor movement. "Dead fellows!"
said Johannes, relieved.

Dead they were, and mutilated. Eldred
recognised his uncle's groom and the
guide he had furnished to show that
Hottentot his way to the Free State
post-office. They had been murdered,,
and within a very few hours. In returning
from their errand, no doubt. Horses,
arms and clothing had vanished.

Kaffirs up, baas !" Johannes exclaimed
his small eyes rolling. "They're on this
road ! See, baas ! Groethode's wagon pass
before them fellows killed — see ! they's He
thwart the track !"

Groethode Is driving his sheep and
oxen," said Eldred, thoughtfully. "Dirk
must have met them, and he'd talk with
the herdsman. Why didn't he stop ?"

Dirk don't foot a trail. He cross
any veldt straight as lines. As like as

not he's travel by Bean's kloof and
strike road right here."

'bean's kloof? Of course! Do you
know that track, Johannes ?"

I's gone it once with Dirk. Bad

country for wagons suits deep ! But

horse travel easy if him fetch right line."

'rand how far is it to Weenengrond
by Bean's kloof?"

Six hours, baas !"

It would have been useless to ask why
Johannes had not suggested this road
before ; amazing as is the instinct of the
Bastard Hottentot, his proceedings are
unaccountable.

Then go ahead !" Eldred exclaimed.

They left the wagon track, heading for
the misty and mysterious hills upon their
left. But very soon the young man paused.

Do you hear anything ?" he asked.

Shooting yonder," Johannes replied,
calmly. " I hear it good while."

"Where? How far off? How many
guns r

'' Three mile, maybe — straight ahead on
old track. Half-dozen, I think, baas !"

Eldred hesitated. Old Groethode was
no friend, but he had a wife and children.
*' I think," from a man of Johannes'
race, is enough to go upon with confidence.
If the assailants were so few, it
would not be charitable only but judicious
to disperse them. The thought of the
children decided Eldred. He returned to
the road and galloped on.

It was more than three miles, but the
Bastard's notion of distance is vague, and
his expressions vaguer. The firing reached
their ears now distinctly, but it was rare
single shots at a few moments' interval.
Presently they came in sight of the
wagon, its stained and ragged tilt gleaming
silvery in the moon. Eldred drew
up to reconnoitre, marked two or three

flashes at the level of the ground, and
one from the vehicle. Then there was
a pause, and he advanced, trotting gently.
On a sudden the fire re-opened, much
nearer the wagon, and several rifles
cracked simultaneously. He guessed the
position, and charged, shouting. Three
Kaffirs sprang from the earth and fled ;
three more, almost under the wheels, crept
out, following with savage cries of dismay.
Eldred threw himself off his horse, and
before they were lost to sight dropped
two, remounted and approached.

'' I am deeply obliged to you, sir ! Do
you speak English ?"

Eldred was astonished to see a gentlemanly
young fellow descend from the
wagon. He answered with a question.
'* Where's Groethode ?"

He rode away and left me."

'' But his wife and children ?"

'' They all rode away, begad, and my

Kaffirs as well, on my own horses. I
thought it was all over with me, sir !"

"Why, for that matter it was, in about
two minutes, I should think."

'not quite so soon," the gentleman
replied, rather indignant. " I have kept
them off for an hour.

''Do you think you hit any of them?"

I hope so. I am a good shot."

Eldred had the Africander's profound
contempt for English marksmanship, and
this young man was emphatically English.

There were six who ran away," he
said.

Indeed ? I thought I had disabled
three."

"It was those three who had crept
under the wagon, and were just climbing
into it."

"You don't say so! Really, I'm very
grateful ! You have saved my life, sir !
May I ask to whom I am indebted ? My

name is Mendel — Arthur Mendel and I
am travelling for amusement."

The tone was not affected, though It
seemed so to Eldred, but such as birth
and training form In a certain class of
English gentlemen. He answered Impatiently,
" My name is Thorburn. Did
you sleep well last night ?"

"Very well, thank you," Mendel replied,
astonished.

*' Then perhaps you could keep watch
whilst we lie down for an hour ? Have
you any water ?"

Plenty, and spirits, too !"

'water is what I asked for."

Mendel anxiously brought forth a beaker
and a tankard, silver, engraved with arms and
inscriptions ; Eldred's contempt increased.

"The name of Thorburn is familiar tome,
somehow — oh, yes, I recollect. A
distinguished acquaintance of ours — Mr.
Esking — bought a property from Captain

Thorburn, of Thorburns. A relative,

perhaps ?"

My uncle," Eldred answered, briefly.
The name of Mendel was familiar to
him also, and he remembered, at length,
that David had consigned his money to
Mendel's Bank at Shuttleton.

After a deep draught — how blessed only
he could fancy who had gone through
some such labours and anxieties as had
befallen Eldred that day ! — he made his
arrangements, cautioned Mendel to keep
awake, to report any movement, and to
have an eye on Johannes ; then threw
himself upon the sand and slept.

Long before sunrise they were astir,
riding towards Bean's kloof. " I am sorry
to dismount your man," said Mendel.

"He is used to be dismounted, but if
you're so kind it's easy to ride and tie
with him."

*' I will," the other answered, simply,

and Eldred looked at him with interest,
though It was contemptuous. In truth, such
generosity towards a Bastard is absurd.
Johannes would have walked the horses
very nearly to a standstill if necessary.

The moon was still bright enough to
travel by In safety. Half-a-mile on the
back-track, Mendel said —

•' There's something yonder, Mr. Thor-burn.
Isn't it a man lying down ?"

'' Very likely. The Kaffirs ran In that
direction."

Then — oughtn't we to go and see
what it is ?"

'' Quite unnecessary. That Kaffir will
not trouble you any more."

'' You think he is dead .^"

"Or badly hurt." Speaking In Dutch
he asked Johannes, who replied, " Dead,"
promptly. Eldred repeated the Bastard's
opinion.

But shouldn't we go to see ? He maybe

only wounded, you know, and if dead,
it's our duty to bury him, I suppose."

'' Bless my soul and body !" cried
Eldred in amaze. '' Do you recollect that
this man was killed in the attempt to
murder you ?"

'' Oh, yes ! But he's our fellow-creature,
you know, although black."

This was silliness beyond comprehension,
but Eldred recognised the spirit of it,
.and replied, without mockery, '' How do
you propose to bury him ?"

"Ah, I forgot that! But I think there
are spades in Groethode's wagon."

Feather head and good heart made a
combination new to Eldred's experience.
A fool he knew, and even a humanitarian,
but the two characters in one
person had not hitherto presented themselves
to his notice. He remarked the
phenomenon with curiosity, and said,
carrying Mendel along —

If that Kaffir had succeeded in his
attempt a few hours since, do you think
he would have buried what was left of
you ?"

Oh, no, of course ! But gentlemen
should set an example."

I understand that your servants ran
away and stole your horses ?" He did
not point the connection more sharply,
and Mendel didn't see it.

'eyes. Mr. Groethode and all his
family set off without saying one word
to me, and my men followed. I could
have shot them, I was so vexed !"

'' Do you intend remaining long in this
country ?"

'' I think not. The fact is, Mr. Thor-burn,
my people take great interest in
South African affairs, and late events
have excited them. I came here partly
for my own amusement and partly to
observe upon the spot the disgraceful

proceedings of the fillibusters. I have seen

quite enough to " He caught himself

up hurriedly. " Do you live in these
parts ?"

'' My farm adjoins Groethode's," said
Eldred, gravely amused.

"Oh, I thought the fillibusters were
all Boers ! But as I say, I have seen
enough ; and I've had some good sport
also. I shall go home now."

''If we get through safe, I think you
had better." It was not meant unkindly,
but Alfred felt that the conclusion was
abrupt, and he began to feel considerate
towards this young man. His amendment,
however, did not correct the slip.

'the fact is, Mr. Mendel, that you
are too good for this frontier. I should
advise you to return to your comfortable
home without delay, where, if a man
murders you, he will be duly tried before
execution, and buried in consecrated

ground afterwards. By - the - bye, does
Groethode speak English ?"

"A little."

"Ah, enough, apparently! And I suppose
your Kaffirs knew enough to follow ?"

*' They spoke very well Indeed. But I
don't see quite what you mean ?"

Why, to put It frankly, I suppose
they thought as I do, that you had
better leave the country. Only they were
not particular how you left It."

'you mean that I'm a greenhorn?
Really, Mr. Thorburn, I don't think I
am.

"Then I'm satisfied to take your word
for It," said Eldred, kindly.

Anyhow, I won't be a greenhorn anymore."


"That's a serious change. There's no
harm In greenness, but a deal, may be,
In the other thing. Where do you live
In England ?"

VOL. I. P

''My father is head of the principal
bank in Shuttleton. Mr. Esking I spoke
of is one of our cents."

''A man of worth?"

''Mr. Esking? Oh, quite! We are
all proud of him."

"And rich?"

Very, I believe. Not being connected
with the bank I cannot say precisely,
but, on the other hand, I am free to
talk."

This was good news. "And Mr.
Thwaite, of Shuttleton. Do you know
him ?"

Perfectly — the first solicitor in our
town. We have some acquaintances in
common, it appears ?"

I don't know those gentlemen."

Eldred's tone did not invite his comrade
to persevere, and they rode in
silence. By this time it was daylight,
and the sky began to glow. In a few

moments it shone with tints of opal
from the zenith to the horizon. There
was no need to look behind for the
sunrise. Their backs were warmed as
with flame, and their lone shadows fell
blue and clear ahead.

'that's Bean's kloof, baas!" said Johannes;
Vasson's homestead yonder!"

Eldred pulled up and looked keenly in
the direction suggested.

'give me your hand," he said to
Johannes in some excitement. " Put your
foot in my stirrup. Now look !"

I think Kaffirs burn Vasson's place,
baas !" This talk had passed in Dutch.

Now, Mr. Mendel — you're wounded."

"Only a scratch. What is it .^"

"Well, if you're a greenhorn there s
good stuff in you. Come, I'll do as you
please. The Kaffirs are plundering that
house down yonder. It isn't necessary
for us to interfere with them," — he asked

Johannes. "No, It Isn't necessary! Now,
give the word."

I say ' Charge !' "

"So be It!"

They galloped. A column of smoke
was rising, and a score of Kaffirs busied
themselves about the homestead. As the
horsemen appeared, they ran, firing long
shots.

Don't reply, Mr. Thorburn. Pray
don't."

I'm under your orders."

"No, I forgot ! Blaze away !" and
Mendel began to shoot ; Eldred did not
follow his example. The hut was blazing
at every point when they reached It.

Vasson got away safe ; there are his
wagon tracks ! and he took his cattle
with him. Now, If we get through the
kloof, Mr. Mendel, we are well out of a
scrape."

The Kaffirs don't seem to be In

such numbers, and they don't fight as I
expected."

Batlapins are a Bastard lot. But 1
suspect that all these parties are loafers
of the neighbourhood. The main body
is far behind."

"Killing and burnings Let us go
back !"

Eldred laughed heartily — a very frank
and pleasing laugh, which to Mendel
sounded curious upon such a theme.
Then he recollected his uncle lying
beneath the load of soil, and grew
serious.

They passed the kloof, and reached
Weenengrond, a tiny settlement on Free
State territory. Deep excitement reigned
there, for Vasson had arrived with his
report of the outbreak. At the postoffice
they dismounted, amidst a little
group of Boers, who had been listening
in gloomy silence, as their manner is, to

his tale. Eldred told what he knew, In
Dutch, of course, whilst Mendel stood
beside him. Suddenly the latter fell
forward.

"Why, he's sopping with blood!" cried
a bystander; 'look at his boots!"

They carried him indoors, and examined
him. A ball had passed through his leg
from side to side, and the back of his
head was gashed by a bullet. He had
bound up his hurts, but the bandages had
slipped. Eldred saw the wounds were
not dangerous in themselves, but they
caused a great bleeding.

He looked at the insensible figure before
him. Very young Mendel seemed,
very slender, fairly good-looking, but quite
the reverse of manly in the sense that
Africanders accept. Gentleness and refinement
were the characteristics prevailing.
He remembered faces of that type among
English officers with whom he had served.

They knew Eldred at Weenengrond,
and In virtue of his prowess rather than
his military experience, they offered him
the command of their laager — It had been
decided forthwith that the people of the
settlement must go Into laager on the
veldt near by. Eldred ridiculed the
notion. 'there Is no danger," he said.
"Go about your business In peace! The
Batlaplns will have had fighting enough
before they threaten Free State soil. I
shall remain with this young fellow until
he can sit a horse again."

Mendel had recovered from his fainting
fit. "Oh, thank you, Mr. Thorburn," he
whispered, " I wish you would come home
with me !"

Why, that Is likely enough, If you
can pay a visit to KImberley on the
way. I am bound for England, but there
Is some business I must transact before
starting."

'' I will wait with pleasure, but don't
leave me. These fat giants with their
great beards, and long hair, and hard
little eyes, are more awful than Kaffirs !"

I think I am the biggest here," said
Eldred, laughing, "and I have the biggest
beard and longest hair" — he forgot his
recent singeing.

"Ah, but you are an English gentleman
under disguise !"

"All right, my boy! Go to sleep! In
three days you will be able to start for
Kimberley by wagon. A week there will
suffice, I hope, and then for England !"

THE SECOND PROPOSAL.

When Hubert Fanshawe came down, on
the third morning of a visit which was
to last a fortnight, Mr. Esking was
alone in the breakfast - room. He asked
after Kate with becoming warmth, and
listened with interest to the reply. Hubert
thought all was forgotten, and recovered
his spirits ; but in due time, after fulfilling
the claims of hospitality, Mr. Esking
proceeded with undiminished calmness
: —

It has occurred to me, Hubert, that
the sudden departure which you proposed
last night may be inconvenient "

'• I proposed nothing of the kind, uncle !"

'didn't you? Well, let us put It, the
sudden departure that suggested Itself."

'Mt didn't suggest Itself to me ! I don't
wish to leave you ! Quite the reverse !"

*then I will make no qualification,"
said Mr. Esking, with a smile which
showed, If I can analyse It, good-natured
composure, a little Impatience for his
nephew's dullness, and firm resolve. " It
has occurred to me that your sudden
departure might cause Inconvenience to
yourself, or to Kate, or to my sister, or to
all three. I should be distressed to think
that the visit had resulted In any shape
or form of annoyance Therefore, my
dear nephew, I beg your acceptance of a
little present which will enable you to
pass the time elsewhere with more gaiety
than we could possibly have offered you."

Hubert's brow was heavy with passion;
but he glanced at the cheque Mr. Esking
offered, and it cleared considerably.

"Your hints are not to be misunderstood,
uncle. May I hope that you
bear no ill-will towards us for my wife's
behaviour yesterday ?"

Not in the very least ; why should
I ? Mr. Genest was quite reconciled as
soon as he got my money ; he would
be delighted to entertain your wife everyday
on the same terms. There is no
ill-feeling in that direction, and I really
wanted a horse ; the price was a little
heavier than I could have wished, but
that's not serious. Oh! no, Hubert! I
have been much interested in your conversation,
and Kate's also. We part with
the kindliest feeling on my side."

Hubert did not understand.

*your feelings towards you, uncle," he
said, "are quite as warm. Under those
circumstances, is it necessary to part ?''

It will be better, I think. We have
made a pleasing acquaintance, and our

mutual sympathy will not be lessened by
distance." Mrs. Fanshawe appeared. " I
was saying, dear Kate, that the purpose
of your visit has been fulfilled greatly
to my satisfaction, and Hubert is good
enough to say to yours also. This is a
very dull house at any time, but especially
at this season, when seaside places and
others are so gay. I should think Scarborough
must be charming now."

Kate had entered the room with an
air evidently expectant of circumstances,
prepared to smile and be friends in a
triumphant way if overtures were made ;
or to sulk over her injuries if Mr. Esking
persisted in his displeasure of over-night.
Nothing worse could possibly be expected,
for she had persuaded herself that Hilda's
warning was ridiculous, and her husband
had not ventured to tell her his uncle's
remarks. Therefore, this abrupt suggestion
made her gasp in amaze.

*' But, uncle ! Do you mean to turn us
out ?"

Turn you out, my dear ? Certainly
not ! I think you will really find Scarborough
more agreeable for a fortnight— -
but you will choose for yourself, of
course. Indeed, I should prefer the
Lake District personally, and your husband
is furnished with means to ensure comfort
wherever you go."

Her face became so threatening that
Hubert hastily presented the cheque.
'* See how liberal our uncle is, my
dear !"

Kate was not so angry that she could
not glance at the figure, but, handsome
though it was, the utmost money could
do was to check the full expression of
her rage.

"You are turning us out, Mr. Esking,"
she said, with an evil smile. "And I
am only grateful that you do it so

graciously. I shall never forget It — never !
Hilda, my dear, you were quite correct,
and I beg pardon humbly for doubting
your thorough knowledge of your papa's
character. We are turned out — with a
cheque ! And we're going to Scarborough
to enjoy ourselves for the time we were
to have passed here !"

'that's very judicious!" said Mr.
Esking, with cheerful composure. "You
must not think that I recommended the
Lake District. There are many trying
incidents that may befall a tourist there.
Bring in breakfast, Armstrong. The
weather alone," he added, rising, *ris so
uncertain, and the company one meets
seldom proves agreeable on a wet day.
Scarborough, I have understood, is always
pleasing to ladies. A kidney, my dear ?
And when do you propose to start ?"

Kate was suffering. She dared not trust
herself to answer, daunted by the firm

and hard resolve, the recklessness, the
indifference to anything which she or all
the world might say, of a man from
whom they had great expectations — for
Hubert had told so much of the conversation
last night. He answered for his
wife sullenly : — •

''If Kate approves of Scarborough, we
must go early, I suppose ?"

'' Perhaps you had better. It is a
broken journey, though not far in a beeline.
Armstrong, fetch the Bradshaw."
Though Mr. Esking never travelled himself,
his rare visitors, always persons of
distinction, had constant need of Bradshaw.
And with the methodic thoughtfulness belonging
to his disposition, he subscribed to
the great railway authority, and received
his volume every month.

'' I think," said he, turning over the
pages with skilled rapidity, "you had
better catch the train for York at Rowley,

11-15 ^•^' What time Is it? That will
be a little too early for Kate, perhaps.
The next suitable is 1-30 p.m. Will
you decide for the 1-30 p.m?"

Kate could endure no longer. '' Please
let us decide the order of our going for
ourselves, sir ! We will not cause you any
further trouble !"

The scene was inexpressively painful to
Hilda. In the long days and nights,
scarcely broken by an incident, of the
last three years, she had learned to
understand her parent — in his outward
manifestations of character, at least. Those
studies had not been conscious. She
neither watched, nor Inquired, nor reflected
; but the brain gathered knowledge
without effort. A father more absolutely
kind did not exist. He refused nothing,
spared himself neither trouble nor cost
to meet any wish of his daughter's ; In
truth, they had been very few and very

trifling. Demonstrations of affection Hilda
did not expect or miss, and perhaps her
affection was rather increased than lessened
by a coolness of tone when, in deeds,
love was so clearly proved.

She knew Mr. Esking, therefore, to
be hard of will and obstinate. That he
should turn out guests who offended him
was to be expected, but this cynical ease,
courtesy, and good humour shocked her.
Hilda would have expected a stern rebuke,
and an expulsion carried through In
another manner — more open, as one may
say. She could hardly have explained
the feeling, but It was a consciousness
that her father had depths under the
smoothness of his calm and resolute
bearing which she had not suspected.

But the proprieties must be observed
on her side.

Papa does not understand these
matters, even so well as most men,
VOL. L Q

Kate," she said. '' I shall be happy to
assist you in packing."

I want no help of yours !" Kate
answered, wild with spite.

Mr. Esking said, gravely, as he rose
from table : " With my daughter's assistance
or without, I trust you will be
ready in time."

** Really, uncle, I protest "

'' And I bid you remember, Hubert,
what I said last night. I spoke with a
full comprehension of your unfortunate
circumstances, and the revelations of this
morning add nothing to my knowledge
of your wife's disposition. Therefore,
between us, nephew, things remain the
same. It will be your fault if I change
my arrangements. Remember that!" He
left the room.

''Oh, Kate, I am so sorry!" Hilda
could say no more.

I am not. I am glad to leave the

house of a madman, and a boor ! What
fun It will be telling this story in
Shuttleton ! But no one will be surprised
.a bit, that's the worst of It !"

'' I really think uncle Is not quite
right, Hilda," Hubert said. '' That's the
only excuse I can make for him."

'' He does not want one luckily, for
that's quite wrong. But we won't go
into the question, please. I am very
sorry this has happened, and so Is papa,
I'm sure."

I should like to make him sorry, and
you too ! Perhaps I shall find a means
in good time."

'' Don't blame Hilda, dear."

'' Oh, of course ! Perhaps you would
like me to invite her to our house ? Oh,
certainly ! Pray come, dear Hilda, and I
will try to make you as comfortable as
your father has made us. Do ; and stop
a fortnight ! Trust my husband to see

you are not turned out in three days if
he can help it."

I have expressed my regret, which is
sincere, but I will say that your conduct
" she interrupted herself. " Goodbye,
Kate ! Good-bye, Hubert !"

"Won't you give me a parting kiss "

Hilda left the room, longing for the open
air to blow away the influence of a woman,
silly and vulgar as malicious, and to re-string
her jarred nerves. She ordered Cupid.

So their cousin was not present when
Mr. and Mrs. Fanshawe left. But Mr.
Esking was, eager in a grave way, full
of solicitude for the visitors departing.
Hilda, preoccupied, had taken Jennings
with her, forgetting that he would be
wanted. Mr. Esking asked severely why
the coachman was not there, and when
his absence was explained, assured Kate
with emphasis that he should reprove his
daughter for her thoughtlessness in taking

him away ; meanwhile, they were perfectly
safe with young Talbot, the groom.
And so on. Kate really believed him to
be mad or irresponsible, at least, but she
did not forgive on that account.

Hubert was more cheerful. For when
he penetrated to the Charter Room, announcing
that they were ready, Mr. Esking
proved to be very agreeable. He had
been thinking of the small embarrassments
into which his nephew's unfortunate 'speculations
" had led him, and, having some
loose cash at the moment, he was pleased
to lend a round sum upon a note of
hand. The transaction did not occupy
hive minutes ; impatient as she was, Kate
observed no delay. But in that time her
husband obtained relief from pressing cares,
and Mr. Esking locked an I.O.U., payable
at sight, in the security, not of an
antique coffer, but of a modern safe,
warranted to resist anything.

Mr. Esking smiled cordially, and bowed,,
and shook hands again through the
window. So they left Little Thorburns.

Lunch was a meal unknown in that
household, unless some stranger were
present. Hilda did not return till late.
After a walk and a survey of his glasshouses
and garden, Mr. Esking retired
to the Charter Room, not to emerge
till dinner was announced, as a general
thing. He occupied himself in cataloguing,
arranging and annotating his collections.
This great work was in progress when
Hilda came back to her father's roof,
and it had been continued without interruption
ever since ; but the results were
hardly yet perceptible, Mr. Esking's plan

in this matter was as thoughtful, his
execution as firm, as in all things else he
undertook. Assuredly he never 'tottered."
But the task would have found employment
for a half-dozen industrious and
learned scribes. Nothing he had ever
studied did this man forget, and each
article in his museum thought worthy a
place in the catalogue suggested reference
to others.

From breakfast to dinner time, after
the stroll of inspection, Mr. Esking was
thus occupied daily. Few girls, even
good ones, could have endured the
loneliness, but Hilda did not seem to
feel it. She read no novels, which
indeed was a happy abstinence ; she did
not propose to help her father, she paid
no more visits to the housekeeper's room
or the kitchen than was necessary. But
if anyone supposed that her life was
dull, or she was stupid, it would have

been a ridiculous mistake. Hilda dwelt
in the open air — winter and summer, wet
or fine, made no difference. When the
day was so bad that she could not leave
a shelter without annoyance more keen
than the enjoyment to be obtained, her
chair was set in the roofed passage leading
from the older buildings to the
Charter Room. There she sat, possibly
read, or, less possibly, worked, content to
feel the wind and the dank vapours of
the garden.

For these, when the sun did not shine,
made her delight — or rather, her subsistence.
She did not *' revel," or disport
herself on the brightest day. The open
air was a necessity, not a luxury — that
is, it did not excite her, but without it
she could not live. Having it in full
measure, the girl could well dispense with
'' occupation."

This peculiarity interested Mr. Esking

in a high degree. It was in his mind
when he said Hilda would have been
a Shield Maiden, perhaps, had she lived
fifteen hundred years ago. It matched
her fine figure, exquisite complexion, large
blue eyes, and wealth of golden hair ; it
belonged to the thoroughbred English
stock, so very rare among us now-a-days.
Had the instinctive want of open air
been missing in his daughter's character,
Mr. Esking would not have regarded her
with such pride as a specimen. That
present, he felt assured that all the other
virtues of the antique strain which he
valued much more deeply than the mongrel
race of his contemporaries, would
appear on due summons. What these
were, to his conception, will be displayed.
At dinner he announced that Mr.
Genest had paid a call, bringing the
new horse. Hilda told what George had
said, how Bay Leaves could not be trusted

But when Armstrong had withdrawn,
the serious purport of Mr. Genest's visit
was declared.

*' It seems, my dear," said Mr. Esking,
"that George admires you very much."

I know that, papa," she answered,
calmly.

** Indeed? And what did you reply?"

I had no occasion to reply exactly.

I let him understand that I did not care
for him in that way."

I am sorry to hear it, my dear, if
you really meant that. It is a compliment
to a manufacturer's daughter.
Everyone would like to see the Genests
of the Warrenage occupying their old
position."

*' I should like it, certainly, for one,"
Hilda said, smiling, "if the restoration
were not be carried out at my expense."

'' But George is a fine young fellow.
He will make a position for himself,
anyhow, and with the help you could
give, my dear, it would be a great one.
Think of it. You do not object to him
personally ?"

*' No, I don't object. What do you
mean, papa — that you wish me to marry
Mr. George Genest .^"

You may put it so. Yes. He is
coming down shortly, and I should like

lily to be here a good deal, so that we
may observe him. I have Httle doubt
what the consequence will be In your
case."

Nor have I, papa !"

"Don't make up your mind beforehand,"
said Mr. Esking, with a little Irritation.
'you will resist your own Instincts, I
know. If you do. Remember, I wish you
to like the lad, and give him the opportunity
of pleasing your fancy. That's all.
As I say. If you do that, Hilda, I have
no fear of the result."

"Then It goes further than a wish with
you, papa ?"

Not at present. Let the future take
care of Itself I distinctly desire you to
allow George Genest a chance, to think
of him as a possible husband, and to
treat him accordingly. Behave on that
understanding, my dear, and we can discuss
the matter in due time."

He retired, leaving Hilda in astonishment
and some distress.

The subject was not mentioned again.
A fortnight passed, and the young barrister
came home for the long vacation, which
he had hitherto spent upon the Continent
mostly. The day after his arrival he
called. It was an embarrassing moment
for Hilda, who suspected that he knew
Mr. Esking stood on his side, while she
remembered the words that had passed
in the grounds of the Warrenage. But
George Genest had many instincts of the
gentleman ; he was very deep in love, and
timid in this presence. His only action
which could possibly be thought to betray
a knowledge of the understanding between
their parents was a certain unusual assiduity
in visiting Little Thorburns ; and that
Hilda must needs pardon. Her feeling
towards him did not grow warmer, but it
did not grow more cold. The "jumpiness,"

which used to Irritate while It amused, was
repressed In some measure, as an abiding
interest took possession of his mind.

Setting the presence of her lover aside,
as she could easily do, Hilda found the
new state of things agreeable. George was
quick, well-informed, and rather droll In
conversation ; always ready to divert himself
and others, prepared at a moment's
notice to suggest 'something to do." It
will be understood that such a faculty
would not hitherto have been useful in
Mr. Esking's house, but a change came
over It at this time. The antiquarian
almost abandoned his catalogue, spending
half his day with the young people,
driving to houses and scenes In the
neighbourhood, in charge of a picnic
basket, while they rode, listening with a
bland smile to the youth's rattle, justifying
his own presence from time to time, as
It were by a little lecture upon the points

of historical interest which made the pretext
of their excursion.

Several weeks passed in this manner,
and Hilda began to form acquaintances
in the county. For they met a number
•of people by accident, all of whom George
knew, of course, and most of whom were
rather gratified by an introduction to the
rich and famous archaeologist, or to his
beautiful daughter, or to both. They
penetrated at least the outer wall of the
county circle, lunched with a peer of the
realm, and entertained a baronet with
pigeon pie, foie gras and champagne,
under his ancestral trees. George was
not jealous — in truth, he had no cause ;
but Hilda was surprised to mark that
these casual presentations were rather
sought by Mr. Esking. If the idea had
not been too absurd for acceptance, she
would have thought that her father actually
wished to get into society.

One evening, as they entered the gate
of Little Thorburns, after a long day,
Simmons passed. He touched his cap to
George, scowled at Hilda, and grinned
maliciously at Mr. Esking, who was
seated In the carriage.

*' By-the-bye," said George, as he dismounted,
" I had a talk with that cranky
old fellow a day or two ago." He
paused to help Hilda from the saddle.

'' Did he say anything about the
threatened lawsuits" Mr. Esking asked.
'' I am getting anxious."

*'Oh, he has made up his mind to
leave that business until Thorburn's return
home."

"Is he really coming?" Hilda inquired.

"Quite seriously. Simmons heard from
him last week. His uncle Ralph is dead,
and he's only waiting to nurse a sick
friend at Kimberley. Then, Mr. Esking,
as Simmons hopes, he will let you know

what's what ; — the ancient mariner will be
rather pleased to learn what's what himself,
I Imagine, for he seems very vague
at present."

George was staying to dinner, and he
entered the house.

'' Did you observe that Simmons had
no dog with him, Miss Esking ? The
solitary specimen which survived your
cousin's onslaught was heart-broken, so
he says — good for nothing ; and he
shot him."

'what a brutal old man!" Hilda cried.

He's wept tears of rum ever since,
and his only consolation Is that young
Thorburn will certainly add this Item to
his general account against you, sir."

Hilda withdrew to dress.

Simmons had no exact Information
about the time of his master's arrival ?"
Mr. Esking asked.

I'm sorry I did not pay more attend

I. R

thon — the matter interests you, of course.
Egad, sir, I'll run after him, if you like.
There's plenty of time, for an able-bodied
snail would give the old fellow a start on
the road from your gate to Thorburns."

I should be obliged. Dinner will
wait your return, of course."

But George was back without delay,
and he told his news at table, "I've a
whole budget," he began. " In the first
place, David Thorburn was killed by
Kaffirs. Doesn't that shock you. Miss
Esking .^"

Shock me ? Men are killed everyday
and every minute. Why should it .^"

I don't know, I'm sure. The ways
of ladies are unaccountable — perhaps I
should rather say that their fashions are."

How do fashionable women behave
when they hear that somebody they never
knew is killed by Kaffirs ?''

I believe they say generally, to begin

with, ' Poor fellow ! How sad ! How '

Well, there they end."

I can repeat all that — It's words !
What do they do ?"

"Oh, they do nothing at all! As you
say, it's words! ' Pon my soul. Miss
Esking, you convince me without an
effort !"

'convince you of what?"

Of the silliness of women in General !
Why should anyone think it necessary to
cry out because David Thorburn is dead?
I will carry the news round tomorrow
morning, and observe with a sweet smile
how our ladies take it."

Please recollect a certain difference. I
was not affected on hearing of the sudden
death of a man whose existence was unknown
to me a few days ago. People
acquainted with Mr. David Thorburn will
naturally and properly feel more concern."

Oh, I quite understand ! There are

plenty of ladles in your case. I'll direct
my attention to them."

But when is Mr. Thorburn coming
home ?' said Mr. Esking.

"It seems that this friend also was
hurt — In the same affair, I suppose, which
cost David his life — and he is lying at
Kimberley, young Thorburn nursing him.
He expected to get away in a week
from the date of his letter, but the
wounded man must travel slowly. It
might be a month after Simmons received
it that he would arrive "

"And when did Simmons receive it?"

"On Wednesday last. He has orders
to put the stabling into repair at once, so
that it may be dry when the heir comes,
and to do up the house. Thorburn
means to take his friend home before
entering into possession, and Simmons is
to hold himself ready to meet them at
Southampton."

I hope we are not to be invaded
by an army of bricklayers and decorators
from Rowley," Hilda said.

"Oh, no! Except the stables, nothing
is to be touched in the way of repairs.
But Simmons is to clean and whitewash,
and all that."

A dangerous commission to give to
an old sailor," Mr. Esking said.

'ewe must not speak of Mummies and
Corinth in a lady's presence "

"Why not? I see the application."

Another accomplishment! I was lost
in admiration already."

"To change the subject, George," said
Mr. Esking, "read the note which I
found waiting with Sir Philip Bohun's
card."

An invitation to lunch at the Castle,
and survey it at leisure. Very ingeniously
turned ! I recognise the head of the
governess in her ladyship's composition.

Lady Bohun will be uneasy until she
receives the assurance that an authority
so distinguished as Mr. Esking Is not
satisfied with an outside view of her
house. This refusal of an Invitation to
see the Interior will lead Lady Bounty
suspect the genuineness of various
memorials In which she has believed Implicitly
hitherto.' Very good for you, sir ;
and you, Miss Esking, have your little
paragraph. Tf Mr. Esking can prevail
upon his daughter to accompany him, he
will Introduce the fascination of youth to
the charms of antiquity !' Dear dame
and dearer governess !"

"That is magnanimous from you, Mr.
Genest," said Hilda, "for I do not observe
that you are invited."

"Oh, I am enfant de la maison at
Bohun Castle" he replied. " It would be
rather a slight to ask me. I hope you
will pfo, sir."

** I will go with pleasure one day, but
not just now. We'll see about it."

Hilda rose, and the gentlemen passed
into the Charter Room.

Your father will be distressed to
hear of David Thorburn's fate, George."

Miss Esking's wise remarks give me
courage to speak frankly," he answered,
taking a cigar. '' Why should my father
be distressed ? All the Thorburns were
idiots, or next thing to it, except old
Hig, and David was peculiarly imbecile,
as I gather. This young fellow will
prove to be a curiosity, I expect — a
mixture of the fool and the boor."

'' My old friend Captain Thorburn
was very reluctant to speak of his
brothers "

'• Naturally, if he accepted a certain
text of Scripture in its literal sense. A
man could not respect the wisdom of
kinsfolk who burrowed under the foundations

of his home and brought half of It
to the ground. Why, David ThorDurn
had not the Intelligence of a working
bricklayer !"

It's rather odd that we never chanced
to speak of that incident, George. Do
they talk of the Thorburn Treasure In
the neighbourhood .^"

Oh, yes, and awful nonsense they
talk about It."

"People believe In It, then?"
"Some do, some don't; and both are
equally absurd, to my thinking. In a
matter of which nobody has any information,
It's only a fool who believes or
denies."

A very judicious frame of mind."
The only good quality I claim," he
answered, laughing, " Is judgment. Why
should there not be a treasure at Thor-burns
? Such discoveries are made everyday.
If it Is asked, upon the other hand,

why there should be, In that old house,
rather than in the Warrenage, for instance,
I can only say that the tradition of
centuries has declared that there is a
treasure in the former place and not in
the latter ; the circumstances are remembered
— probably you know them, sir ?
and they are a sufficient reason in
themselves. But then, again, tradition is
a notorious liar. So, until better informed,
I keep an open mind."

And you have done wisely up to
this. But I can give you that better
information. There is a treasure at Thor-burns,
and I know precisely where it lies."

You don't say so, sir !" George cocked
his eyeglass with an extra twist, and
listened, not breathless at all, but interested
and yet more amused.

I have in my possession the original
record of its deposit. I could drop a
plumb-line into the very middle."

"Really! This becomes exciting! You
have the original record — how you must
long to drop that line — with a hook at
the end !"

'' Don't you ?"

"If I had your knowledge and your
tastes, sir, I should go out of my mind.
As it is, I would give something to be
present when the excavation is made.
You will tell young Thorburn, I suppose ?"

"He has robbed me, George — or rather,
his uncle did. I lent Captain Thorburn
a large sum, and maintained him till his
death, on the agreement that his house
should fall to me. At the very moment
when I was to enter into the rights I
had bought, David Thorburn repaid the
sum with interest — and I am swindled !"

George saw the passion in his face, and
he had sympathy enough to understand
how bitter the disappointment must be.
The Treasure is not cash, I suppose, sir ?''

*' I feel sure it isn't — a fugitive would
take cash with him. It is the plate and
the household valuables of a rich yeoman
five hundred years ago. There is no such
find on record. It will supply a new
page in history. The money's worth of
it I meant to give to the Thorburns, to
the utmost farthing and beyond."

There is still a law of treasure trove,"
George murmured.

"I will reckon with that. Now, George
listen. Don't interrupt till I have done.
You love my daughter, but you will
never marry her even if I stand merely
neutral. At my request she would marry
you, and I will command, if need be —
upon conditions. It would be possible
to remove this Treasure without Simmons'
knowledge, though he were in the house,
but one day, soon, he will be absent for
twenty-four hours at least — probably much
more — when he goes to meet Eldred

Thorburn, I mean. We want only a
pick-axe and a spade, a pocket full of
cement, and perhaps two hours without
interruption. I could do the work myself,
but two persons will be better. 1 say
that Eldred Thorburn shall have the
money-worth, every penny of it ! I am
rich enough. And if you help me you
shall have Hilda !"

"This is an amazing proposal Indeed,
Mr. Esking! It amounts to burglary!"

'' To take something from a man who
does not know he possesses It, and who
could not value It If he did, is not
robbery. If Thorburns had fallen tome,
as It would have done but for an
accident, the Treasure would have been
mine legally. Where is the difference,
when I am ready to pay three times
four thousand pounds, or six times, if
necessary ?"

Without arguing that curious thesis,

sir, I must declare that the law would
see an immense difference."

The law is blind ; incompetent to
deal with such a case. As you say, we
will not argue. It is to take or to
leave, George Genest. If you think of
the risk, think also of the prize."

Armstrong tapped at the door. " Your
horse is ready, sir," he said.

'' You do not expect an answer now ?"
George said, rising.

''Oh, no! We have a month before
us, I daresay ; a week certainly. Ponder
it well ! Good night !"

ACCEPTED.

'George Genest was shrewd and practical,
but his father's son could not be chivalrous,
and exclusive culture of the brain
does not produce a harvest of principles.
Right and wrong were not feelings with
him, but questions for cool, unprejudiced
argument. To such a mind Mr. Esking's
proposition was not shocking, beyond the
ugly possibility of vengeance from outraged
law ; — this made a consideration
grave enough, but it might be put aside
until the means came under discussion.
For the abstract idea George could find
several pleas. It is a pity that things
of high historic interest should lie buried

in the earth. If Thorburn got them, he
would probably make no good use of
his luck. The money-worth Mr. Esking
was eager to pay, more than content
with the value of the objects in their
artistic and antiquarian point of view.
The Treasure of Thorburns thus became
a public question, superior to the paltry
detail of ownership — and who had such
right to take it in hand, as trustee for
the world of scholars and students, as
Mr. Esking?

But George did not dwell long on this
aspect of the proposal, either. He reflected
at some length upon the likelihood
of the story. Mr. Esking might well be
*' cracked" on this subject, or he might
have misunderstood the antique evidence ;
or, still more probably, the Treasure might
have been removed. This was no small
matter. For to dig upon private property
in search of buried valuables is not less

criminal, of course, whether the things
sought be found or no ; but the illogical
mind of man might accept as a silly freak
in one case what it would punish severely
in the other. George decided that the
chances ran in favour of Mr. Esking's
theory. Knowing where the Treasure had
been deposited, he had assured himself,
doubtless, that it still remained there.
Nor was he *' cracked " upon the subject ;
nor could it reasonably be supposed that
such an authority would misread an old
inscription.

Leaving these matters for future deliberation,
George turned without effort to
the practical bearing of the idea. For
the reward or payment offered he would
have risked a deadly peril. But, in the
first place, was it quite certain that
Hilda would submit ? In the second,
was it absolutely needful to pay the
price .'^ George was conceited; not stupidly,

but thoroughly. He did not think himself
handsome or fascinating in an unusual
degree, but for '* all round " capacity to
interest a clever girl he recognised no
superior. And, then, deep In his secret
soul lay an exaggerated estimate of the
distance between a Genest of the Warren-age
and a manufacturer's daughter. He
had been refused once, but many things
had happened since then. George had
a right to think that his society was
not unpleasing. In fact, before this proposal
he had begun to hope that Hilda
would reconsider her decision. If so, what
need had he to engage in an adventure
perilous, disagreeable and discreditable ?

It did not escape this young man's
observation that Mr. Esking might avenge
himself for a refusal by curtailing his
daughter's dowry If she married against
his wish ; or even by discarding her —
the parent who could offer such a bargain
VOL. I. s

must be capable of anything. But whatever
his first notion in paying court to
Hilda, he now sought the bride for her
own sake, and the thought of consequences
only occurred to be dismissed. More
serious was the reflection that Mr. Esking
might give his daughter a command not
to engage herself without his consent, and
this chance he finally prepared to meet
by a frank disclosure of his intentions.
Not without profit had George studied
mankind at the University and in the Law
Courts. He recognised that to deceive
Mr. Esking would be a dangerous essay,
and resolved to appeal in straightforward
terms.

Accordingly, next day, he took an
opportunity to declare himself. The old
gentleman was poring, as usual, over one
of his cases, notebook in hand, pencil in
mouth, and a sheet of foolscap beside
him, half its length turned down as

margin for observations and references.
He looked up with a benevolent smile.

I am reviewing In mature age the
evidence of youthful folly, George. It is
irritating, but not quite painful."

'your follies of youth, sir, were more
prudent, I suspect, than the wisdom of
most veterans."

I think they were. Now, here is a
case of gems which I bought thirty years
ago, at a price I could very 111 afford, as
antiques. The last time I examined them
some doubt arose ; that was twelve years
since. Now I am certain, and they go
up to town for sale to-night. But see
how exquisite they are, George ! I think
better of myself because I was taken in
so thoroughly. For if I had bought them
a bargain It would have been no credit."

I understand. Since to be taken in
was not a disgrace, under the circumstances,
you are almost proud to think that you

made such a sacrifice to art. Shall you
lose much, sir ?"

'' Quite the contrary. I said the review
was not painful. Gems that deceived meas
a boy will be passed by the highest
connoisseurs. Have you anything to say
about our topic of last night .^"

'' I wish to speak frankly, Mr. Esking.
We have a month before us. Will you
promise not to influence your daughter
one way or the other during that time ?''

'' I promise with pleasure, but it is
unnecessary. I should never interfere,
excepting the conditions referred to. You
wish," he added, smiling, "to win Hilda,
if possible, on your own merits, without
aid from me T'

'' I wish to try, sir."

'* Very well. But since it will cause
some little embarrassment in the future
if you try too openly and fail, I advise
you to study her carefully, to look into

her tastes and her character before risking
much. If you do so, with the intelligence
and thoughtfulness which I believe you
to possess, we may all be spared some
trouble."

You mean that there are reasons inherent,
in Miss Esking's case or mine,
which forbid me to hope for success
without your assistance ? Pray speak out,
sir, remembering always that your words
may be used against you, as the policemen
say.

I willingly submit to that in the
interest of us all. Speaking out then,
George, you are a smart fellow, and
clever, and good-looking — but I appeal
to your artistic instincts — are you the
match, physically or mentally, which my
daughter would recognise ? She has no
silly ideas upon the subject. Whether
marriages are made in Heaven or elsewhere
is a problem which, I'll be bound

to say, has never passed through her head ;
but assuredly Hilda feels, though unconsciously,
what kind of man would be
her natural helpmate. Regarding the
question without prejudice, can you think
that you are he ?"

Perhaps I am unable to regard it
dispassionately, but I can listen to your
exposition, sir, with absolute composure.
What class of man, in your judgment,
would Miss Esking recognise as her
fated counterpart ?"

'' It is not difficult to see. My
daughter is an extraordinary instance of
'throwing back,' as you sportsmen say —
an English girl of the pure ethnic type,
who would have been quite at home in
the Cells of Hengist. You understand
me, I'm sure. I speak of her nature,
which artificial restraints and acquirements
have overlaid in some degree ; but the
substance remains."

** I quite understand. Well?"

*' But if you understand, you can answer
the question."

*' I am not so familiar with old times
and old habits of thought as you. Pray
continue."

I would say, then, did you ever hear
that one English maiden of that time
was attracted by the charms or the arts
of a Roman wooer .'^ He stood immeasurably
above her level, doubtless ;
perhaps it was on that account she failed
to appreciate him. But as a matter of
fact she did not find her match there."

'' Then I ask again, sir, what species
of male animal, gems homo, would Miss
Esking recognise as a fitting helpmate?"

"If I am right in my view, history
tells us. He should be as big as possible,
bearded, resolute, masterful. A man who,
if I declined his suit, would carry my
daughter off if he could, without inquiring

her wishes very carefully. In short,
George, everything most unlike yourself."

But you have drawn a savage !"

"My outline is rough. It .is not to
be supposed that such a being has no
virtues. All that belong to courage — truth,
honour, kindness of heart, steadfastness,
and many more, are his."

And I trust you do not think, sir,
that I am wanting these ?''

'' Certainly not, for I hope to welcome
you as a son-in-law. But you fail, I
think, in those other qualifications needed
to attract my daughter's instinctive fancy.
Probably you do not believe a word of
all this. Consider it, nevertheless, George,
and make your studies, with the hint I
have given, before taking a decisive
step."

But if Miss Eskimo: entertains such
views," he interrupted.

'* Not views. She has never thought

upon the subject. I speak of unconscious
inclinations."

Well ! But are you certain that your
influence would be strong enough to overcome
them, if It were exerted ?"

"Just as certain of that as of the other
points I have suggested."

*' Then I may take it that you have
made a study of Miss Esklng's character
all round ? Forgive the confession that I
thought you were absorbed in antiquarian
investigations."

But that is a reason for studying
Hilda ! She is a survival, as I say. In
observing her habits and ways of thought
I am led to a comprehension of most Important
details of history. Don't laugh,
George ! You must have wondered what
the maidens and matrons were like who
bore no inconsiderable part in the story
of the Conquest. Watch Hilda, and you
will understand."

'' My knowledge of the story Is not
equal to that pleasing task, I fear. Let
us return. Though Miss Esking has an
unconscious inclination for a savage, she
will dutifully submit if the parent chooses
another sort of husband. You feel sure
of that ? Very good, sir ! I will bear
your remarks in mind, but meanwhile you
will allow me a fair field .^"

'that is understood."

George thought these notions silly. But
they caused him to regard Hilda with an
intellectual attention which he had not
hitherto thought it needful to bestow upon
a lovely girl, however curious her ways.
Mr. Esking gave him every opportunity.
It was not novel to remark that she
showed indifference to the small cares,
topics, likings, aversions, and fancies generally,
which are cherished by the young
of her sex. No house was better ordered
than Little Thorburns ; George had observed

with hopeful complacency the smoothness
of domestic life there, a striking contrast
to the state of things at home. But
Hilda seemed to take no interest in her
duties, and certainly no pride in them.
He never heard an order given, nor a
point discussed, nor an explanation asked,
much more offered. She was unquestionably
mistress, but the arrangements worked
by machinery as it were.

Hilda was listlessly impatient of theories,
enthusiasms, abstractions. She cared nothing
for sentiment. All the modern talk
of woman's place in society, her peculiar
duties to Heaven and mankind, were
words, and tiresome words also. She did
not seem to recognise any difference of
sex with regard to ideas or employments.
That implied, as George told her one
day, a sympathy with a certain school of
feminine philosophers ; but Hilda did not
see anything to found a school upon, and

dropped the subject, bored in two minutes.
The only poetry she could read, or bear
to glance at, was such as stirs the blood ;
and her taste there was so exacting that,
in effect, her literature of this sort was
confined to the old ballads of love and
war. Mr. Esking seized an occasion to
make her confess that she had begun
the study of " Anglo-saxon " in order to
enjoy the Lay of Brandenburg and
Common's rendering of the Scriptures.
These observations led George to
understand why and how Mr. Esking
had come to entertain such an odd fancy
about his daughter's character. But they
did not persuade him that the fancy
was correct. A lonely and eccentric old
student might thus interpret the signs ;
a young man who had lived in the
world could not accept such an explanation.
Hilda was unlike other girls, no
doubt — so much the worse for other

girls: — but to talk of her as a 'survival"'
and all that, was simple rubbish.

One peculiarity, however, he found very
curious. That desperate love for the open
air puzzled him. How could it possibly
be reconciled with commonplace notions —
or, for that matter, with the proprieties,
and dignities, and responsibilities of a
British housewife ? The weather changed
soon after he began his scrutiny, and their
rides were interrupted. But he learned by
chance that Hilda went out all the same,
her escort furnished with a waterproof, but
she unprotected. And whenever he called,
though March winds had returned unanimously,
she was in the garden, or, at
best, seated under the verandah, quite
comfortable. The most extraordinary fact
of all was that her skin did not show the
cold. The hands, of perfect shape, small
and soft though sunburnt, were never red ;
the fine complexion took no unusual colour.

Sitting at work, but more generally idle,
Hilda was the same in appearance whether
the glass stood at ninety in the shade or
beneath the sixty. And Mr. Esking assured
him with grave emphasis that twenty degrees
more either way made no difference perceptible.


The result of his pondering was that
George lost what self-confidence he had
fostered up to this. He felt himself at
sea in judging a young lady to whom
the rules of ordinary womanhood did not
apply, Hilda stood above or below them,
and, being a sensible fellow at bottom,
he admitted that her unconcealed amusement
in his society was not necessarily
encouraging. Nor was the loneliness upon
which he had counted in a certain degree;
for, more watchful now, he remarked
that no incidents affected her. The earl
had been diverted by those glimpses of
county people who came in their way

during the pic-nic season, as she called
it, but her Interest lasted only just so
long as they remained in sight. She
did not concern herself about the visit
to Bohun Castle. If it was remembered,
it did not cause more thought than any
other appointment that might be inscribed
on her ''agenda."

Nevertheless, seeing what a grave price
he would have to pay for Mr. Esking's
support, George determined to risk a declaration
; after all, since he was unable to
guess Hilda's feeling towards him it might
possibly be kind. Therefore, one day, a
fortnight or so after the conversation with

o

Mr. Esking, he seized an opportunity as
they walked in the grounds. So brief were
the words exchanged that I need not record
them. Hilda showed surprise and a little
impatience. Nothing had occurred, she
said, to change the views with which
Mr. Genest was acquainted. He would

not have dared to press the pointy
though her answer had been less resolute.
They returned to the house, not unfriendly.
The task of persuading her
must not be made more difficult for Mr.
Esking.

That gentleman was busy in the Tower
where, had he chanced to look, all the
little scene could have been observed.
To overhear is scarcely needful in such
cases. As George mounted to ride away,
Mr. Esking descended from his elevation,
and pressed him to dine on the morrow.
He accepted.

Before they withdrew to the Charter
Room that night the compact was made
by interchange of look. George began
at once : —

'' Let me assure myself that you quite
understand the risk — we can speak safely
here ?"

'' The windows are double, of the

thickest glass ; the inner door steel-plated,
and the outer locked. Say on."

'' Do you see that you are risking
penal servitude .^"

'' No judge would pass more than a
nominal sentence."

'' On you, perhaps not ; but your assistant
— whom they would call your accomplice
— would not get off so easily.
But I am ready to stand the chance, sir,
on conditions. In the first place, Thor-burns
must be quite empty when we make
the attempt "

Of course ! I have reckoned on that.
Let us complete the former question. You
are justified in supposing the worst, George,
but I have this to say. By a will which
I ought to receive from my lawyer tomorrow
for signature, one half of all my
property is left to Hilda, and the other
half will be yours."

"Not if I am sentenced as a felon !"

VOL. I. T

'' That would make no difference under
the circumstances. The other half, I say,
is left absolutely to her husband, yourself.
Now, if It would relieve your anxiety, and
to show In practical form my absolute
trust, I will execute a deed of gift,
which I will hand to you upon the
evening appointed. Fix the amount yourself."


*' I do not lend my assistance for
money, sir! Positively, Mr. Esking, you
seem to take no account at all of the
disgrace which I, at least, shall feel ! But
let this pass. Obtain your daughter's
consent that evening — I accept nothing
more !

"The time is short, and I suspect you
have made my interference more delicate
than it should have been. But you may
trust me, George, as I trust you. Is
there anything else ?''

"Yes. I must have a pledge that you

will not examine this Treasure, If we find
it, for twelve months !"

"That I cannot admit. You have your
reward — the Treasure Is mine ! Not examine
It for twelve months ! I might die
within the time, and I could not rest In my
grave, George ; I should return and haunt
yoQ !" While he spoke, his excitement
cooled ; the last words were almost smiling.

My condition Is Insurmountable. If
we stand In the dock. It shall not be even
hinted that we shared plunder like housebreakers.
The chest, or what It may be,
shall be found untouched."

"But why twelve months? That's much
longer than Is necessary — or shorter."

Because In that time I shall be" married,
I hope. No, sir ! Give me your
word of honour on that score, or no
temptation shall Induce me to act."

"Well, It Is unreasonable, but I give
my word — solemnly."

And I accept It solemnly. Upon that
stipulation, If Miss Esking promises to be
mine before or on the night you fix, I
will abet you In this crime."

"So be It! Now, I must tell you,
George, that I have opened communications
with Simmons, and we are on good
terms. He has heard again from Eldred
Thorburn, definitely fixing the 7th of next
month for his arrival at Southampton —
provided, of course, that the Union steamer
Is punctual. Any way, Simmons leaves hereon
the 6th, and I propose to do our work
that night. There Is not the shadow of
danger. We shall be quite beyond view
from the high road, and If by miraculous
chance any labouring man should be about
at such an hour he will think us supernatural
beings. The Treasure, I feel certain,
will not be heavy ; Edward Thorburn was
rich for a man of his class, but the household
perishing of a duke at that day was

not grand — In things he would bury, I
mean. Leave all details to me. We shall
not return along the road, I hope, but
make our way to the door in my garden
wall, enter the house through the verandah
outside this room, and deposit the thing
In one of my manuscript chests yonder.
No servants' windows overlook the grounds.
It Is not humanly possible that our doings
should be observed."

I see that, sir. One might think that
you had built this house expressly for
the enterprise."

After a moment's hesitation, Mr. Esking
cried, with a deep but still excitement :
"I did arrange It so! And take comfort
from that assurance, George! It Is a good
many years since I discovered where the
Treasure lay, In a memorandum noted on
the back of an old charter which Captain
Thorburn sold to me. My first Impulse
was to make an agreement with him ; but,

first, he would not listen to a hint upon
the matter, and then he ingenuously let
me understand that my share would be
nothing, not even honour. At that time
his difficulties were not hopeless, or he
would not believe them so. I knew his
situation better, but not the whole truth.
It seemed likely that he would be obliged
to sell Thorburns, and then It occurred tome
so to contrive the additions which I
found necessary In my own house that
they should give me a strategic position.
The Tower Is useful to store my collections,
but besides that It commands a
view of the part of Thorburns In which
I am interested. The garden door was
appreciated by my poor friend as a polite
convenience ; but It enables me to reach
that part unobserved. People laugh at my
guileless system of architecture, when they
observe that no one can enter this room
unless by passing through the kitchen or

the garden. But you see now, George,
that the architect is not such a fool in
common matters as common folks think."

"What a revelation! You should have
been a diplomatist, sir, or a soldier."

*' I am content! Then came the smash.
Poor Thorburn's debts were small, but
his creditors were small. I bought everything
he still possessed that was useful
to me, and lent him four thousand
pounds on the conditions you have heard.
I rested easy in the assurance that
Thorburns must fall to me. Treasure
and all. You know the story of my
disappointment. Believe me, George,
thoughtfulness is seldom wasted. The
preparations made long ago are of priceless
value at this moment."

Genest sat in wonder. Until quite
lately he had thought this scheming,
resolute old man, a harmless, amiable,
rather foolish, student of futilities.

'' You see why I tell all this now ?
I desire to give you a practical assurance
that every step in our enterprise has
been pondered, every danger forseen "

Including discovery ?"

'' That also I have considered, but it
Is a chance so remote, when Simmons has
lost his dogs, and he himself quits the
field, that I have ceased to think of it.
Now, George, I will tell you the plan.
Sir Philip Bohun's invitation comes in very
well — if you can contrive to suggest that
he ask us to dinner, and he catches the
idea."

I think I could manage that," said
George, gloomily. The more he heard of
the project, treated in such a cold-blooded
way, the more bitterly ashamed he felt.
Was it possible that this cunning, ruthless
old man could be Hilda's father ?

We shall come home late, and you,
having accompanied us in the brougham,

return to the Warrenage in my dog-cart.
You conceal It behind the trees by Thor-burns
gate, in a place I will show you,
and wait for me. In half-an-hour I join
you. The tools will be found where they
are wanted. In two hours at the utmost
we shall stand in this room once more,
the work done, the Treasure deposited
safely in that chest. Then you drive
smartly home. Whether to take any precautions
by way of accounting for the
interval between leaving here and arriving
at the Warrenage is a matter for your
consideration. It may be done with ease,
if you think such a measure prudent —
damage the cart, and lead your horse."

I don't think that will be necessary,"
George replied, his disgust growing stronger
and stronger.

'well! And next day, when you call,
we will talk of marriage."

The young man rose hastily ; it was a

change of subject so abrupt as to be
actually painful.

If Miss Esking has not retired, I will
wish her good night, and go," he said.

'' You will find her upstairs, no doubt.
You approve of the arrangements ?"

''Oh, yes! Good night, sir!"

I will write to Sir Philip Bohun first
thing in the morning, and send the note
by hand. If you call on her ladyship tomorrow,
and induce her to invite us for
the 6th, it will be excellent time, I should
think. Good night, George. Tell Hilda
I am busy and don't wish to be disturbed
till she goes to bed. My Dutch friend
wants his vocabulary back, and I have not
finished with it. The manuscript really
proves to be an unique edition of Archbishop
Alfric's Dialogues — ah, I forgot !
It was with Hubert Fanshawe I discussed
that matter. Good night, George !" Mr.
Eskimo sat himself down to collate the

o

crabbed scroll with an air of benevolent
composure, not affected in the least.

George observed him. " What a terrible
man !" he said to himself.

Hilda was seated by the open window
of the drawing-room, gazing idly on the
moonlit garden. She looked up in

surprise. "Is anything the matter?"

Not at all. I have only come to say
good night — and to warn you, by-the-bye,
that Mr. Esking is busy. He does not
wish to be interrupted till bed-time."

I am not used to these attentions,
Mr. Genest, that's why I fancied there
might be something wrong. My father's
visitors do not invade the gynacoeum
after dinner."

'' Gynacoeum? What a scholar you are !"

'such a scholar as a parrot is!"

'' But my Intrusion does not annoy
you ? I selfishly came to get the taste
out of my mouth — the taste of whisker

and tobacco, I mean ! Are you really
content, Miss Esking, to sit from dinner
till bed-time without exchanging a word ?"
Quite content, Mr. Genest."
Might I hint a timid feeling of wonder?"
"You might, for it chimes in with the
thoughts that engaged me just now."

Then possibly you may be persuaded
to tell me what they were ? It is generally
understood that a young lady sitting
at the window by moonlight is meditating
on love."

'' That subject did not occur to me. I
was thinking how unutterably mean and
small our life is, how unimportant we are,
how miserably silly it is to pine, and strive
to assert ourselves. And I was thinking
that men were happier in the blessed times
of ignorance, when they found a reassuring
consolation in believing that the moon
rose, and shone, and sank at the impulse
of a being like themselves. We know

better now. The man in the moon is a
grotesque old fable ! And this discovery,
like others, seems humiliating to me."

'' I feel what you mean. The blind
forces of nature are dreadful to contemplate.
I have been struck with the same

idea " George found himself getting

beyond his depth, and paused abruptly.

Indeed ! But the idea did not daunt
you ? You studied law not the less assiduously,
hoping for briefs and a silk gown
and the commendation of your fellows !"

*' I assure you my ambition soars higher.
These things are only a means. I hope
to win a place in the government of my
country."

'' Dear me ! And what do the blind
forces of nature care for the government
of your country ? I think, Mr. Genest,
you did not work out that idea of yours.
If a duke, and a judge, and an archbishop
stood with a ploughboy on the lawn

yonder, would the moonbeams shine less
brilliantly on him than on them? It is
likely that the ploughboy would be the
finest figure of them all."

I readily confess that you carry the
argument above my reach. May I ask
to what conclusions you are led .^"

To none — or rather, to conclude that
it Is not worth while to draw conclusions."

'that's a sad creed. Miss Esking, If I
understand you right. Men are such contemptible
beings that It doesn't matter what
they do. Is that it .^"

Near enough."

I think I begin to follow. It's not
worth while to have any ambition or wish
or choice about anything?"

"And much more to talk!"

"That's a strong hint. It seems to me
that yours are very woeful sentiments fora
young lady, and I rather fancy that the
orthodox would not approve of them.

What becomes of Everything In your
philosophical system ?"

Everything returns to Its true shape,
and becomes Nothing."

More and more dreadful ! I must beg
the Rector to Interview you ; or I will
summon my friend Hawkins, of Balliol,
to demonstrate, as he can so ably, that
Ritual Is Everything. Even If he should
not convince you, I defy you to satisfy
him that It Is Nothing. If I may
venture to speak seriously, I should say,
Miss Esking, that you live too much
alone. These are odd fancies for a girl,
and — you will not be offended ?"

"Commonplace never offends."

*' I drop such a prickly subject. Goodnight
! You have given me food for
reflection that will last."

George was going to say that such
views are perilous. The more he thought
of them the more clearly he saw that

they led to the negation of all conventional
proprieties. But a young man in love
subordinates all questions to the interest
of his suit, and in this point of view
Hilda's wild philosophy was encouraging.
He understood now that Mr. Esking might
probably succeed in persuading his daughter.
A earl who feels that it is not worth while
to have a choice about anything might
reasonably be expected to submit, even in
such a case as marriage, if her father
urged her, and she had no strong objection
to the youth proposed. Upon that
score George was easy. Hilda liked him
very well.

But these agreeable thoughts could not
honos detain him from consideration of the

o

price exacted for his bride. Though the
explanations and the plan Mr. Esking
offered seemed to remove all danger from
the enterprise, George had a feeling more
powerful than conscience — the sense of

gentlemanly honour. Yet, though he regarded
the prospect with dismay and

misery, to withdraw never entered his

mind.

It was no delicate task to suggest to
Lady Bohun that she should invite Mr.
Esking and his daughter to dine. Her
only hesitation, when George hinted it,
was a doubt whether they would accept.
She proposed, at length, to call, in reply
to Mr. Esking's note, and introduce the
idea gracefully. So it was decided and
accomplished. Next day Sir Philip and
his lady drove to Little Thorburns,
inspected the treasures of art which Mr.
Esking freely displayed, and marvelled
over them ; but above all, they were
struck with Hilda's beauty. Her ladyship
conveyed the invitation with some neatness.

We dare not show you our trivial
collection in cold blood, after this," she
said. 'your courage must be quickened
VOL. I. u

by artificial means, Mr. Esking. Suppose
you came to dinner on . the 6th ? We
shall be alone — my family, and no one
else." .

Mr, Esking consented graciously. And
so the execution of the plot began.

END OF FIRST VOLUME

TILLOTSON AND SON, PRINTERS, BOLTON

C3*

mmmmimmmmmmtmmmm wMM %\ wnw \ \m \\i \ m i ii m ■*na»-,>.^ j

The Treasure
OF Thorburn

BY Frederick Boyle

^

WWM<J»| ll i H H«"»1«H

SUHimSl

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

8 A3
B6 9 4*
V. a

VOL. II

TREASURE OF THORBURNS

A NOVEL

BY

FREDERICK BOYLE

AUTHOR OF
A GOOD HATER," " LEGENDS OF MY BUNGALOW, ' " CAMP NOTES," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II

LONDON

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET


Ail IvJoJifs Kcscrvcd

TILLOTSON AND SON, MAWDSLEY STREET

BOLTON

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME

cmaj'tp:r

I. — THE TREASURE

II.— ELDREI) THORHIIRN's RE'ITIRN

III.^MEETINC^S

IV. — MRS. Godsend

V. - SOME Correspondence E

VI. — GEORGE CONVAI.ESCEX'I-

Vn. — Restorer

VIII. — GATHERING rT.OtlDS

I













CHAPTER I.

THE TREASURE.

Mendel's " Is the great bank of Shuttle-ton,
a house so well established that the
Joint Stock Companies have not yet injured
it. The head of the firm at this time,
called '' Jim" by that irreverent population,
was recognised, of course, by the county
families ; could he have been persuaded
to join the Church, his position would
have become regular forthwith. For besides
his acknowledged claim, Mr. Mendel kept
the harriers, and gave handsome entertain-vol.

II. B

ments. But this gentleman, rather simple
in other matters, had one crank. He
belonged to the Brotherhood of which Mrs.
Fanshawe was a member. The rough
craftsmen and struggling employed of
Shuttleton liked this persistence. '' Old
Jim " was still one of themselves so long
as he attended the ugly, mean little chapel,
though his carriage had a crest and his
horses were thoroughbred.

Arthur Mendel, however, had been
trained in the modern school, which was
so little satisfactory to his father's partner,
that he insisted that the young man should
take no active part in the business. This
resolution was conclusive proof, had any
been needed, of Mr. Brown's shrewdness
and insight. For there was no harm in
Arthur Mendel. He had not a single
bad quality apparent, whilst showing the
rudiments of several virtues ; rather a
muff — not very much of one, but inclined

that way — the fast youths of the neighbourhood
thought him. His father made
a Liberal allowance, and he spent it freely
in little '' games " of various sorts, but
never had he overstepped the bounds of
decorum.

Mr. Mendel did not exact much of his
son — not even attendance at the chapel.
Though he allowed himself to be reckoned
among the Brethren, Arthur seldom appeared
in their midst. Of late years, however,
he had grown less patient, and the
idea of a trip to South Africa was not
unconnected with the proceedings of the
Elders.

Shuttleton felt a good deal of interest
when it was announced that old Jim's heir
was returning, after adventures mysterious
as awful. There was some talk of triumphal
arches, but commonsense rather than
enthusiasm is the prevailing characteristic
of the borough, and it dropped unperceived.

The Brethren, however, made up their
minds to receive the traveller in state, and
Hubert was appointed to represent Mrs.
Fanshawe. Her family and Mr. Mendel
were the only persons of standing who belonged
to the small connection.

This lady dwelt in a large, cheap, old
house, flat and square, away from the
haunts of business, though in the town. I
have little to say about her, for there is
little to tell. What character she had, ina
secular point of view, seemed to have
been knocked out by the wreck of her
fortune.

Hubert and Kate had returned home by
this, with an ingenious explanation ready to
account for the transfer of their visit from
Little Thorburns to Scarborough ; and it
was backed by a diplomatic note from Mr.
Esking. The old lady accepted it, as she
accepted other things, not satisfied, but
uncomplaining.

Those worthy Elders had always regarded
young Fanshawe with strong disapproval,
and by the commission above-mentioned
he was delivered into their hands. They
knew much more of his proceedings than
his mother did, and In the meetings
summoned to decide what steps should
be taken to welcome Arthur Mendel, their
thunders broke upon Hubert's head. He
could not be reproved at chapel, and
besides, It would be injudicious to risk
offending their second-best convert. Now
was an opportunity of rebuking the backslider,
and they adjourned time after time.

He stood fire very well, sustained by a
lethargic temperament, good-humour, and
utter Indifference. Mendel's return was a
pleasing event, and for his own reasons
Hubert would have wished to take a
leading part In the welcome. He reconciled
himself to the annoyance as well as
might be. The fact is, that Arthur had

furnished a pretty regular Income to his
associates. Though he would not play
high he played often, and with bad luck as
extraordinary as his want of skill. Hubert
trusted that those halcyon days would return.
Mr. Esklng's loan — which he regarded
as a gift — had enabled him to pay almost
all his debts. There are few things In life
so properly to be termed "comparative"
as embarrassments, and the burden which
may seem crushing to a young man who
has no resource beyond a mother's allowance,
would not be grave, perhaps, to one
who enjoys an equal Income of his own.
The only creditor yet unsatisfied, whose
claim might be annoying under certain
conditions, was Mr. Thwalte's head clerk
Jackson. This good-natured fellow did
not gamble himself, but he had a pleasing
readiness to lend upon such security as
young gentlemen can offer when their
parents are solvent and pious and reasonably

affectionate. It is not to be understood
that Jackson was a usurer or a
bill-discounter. If his transactions were
published, he had very little to fear. But
In a friendly way, with the good-will of
everyone concerned, he got an unusual
Interest for his spare cash.

This gentleman had not been paid, but
the omission caused no uneasiness. It
was understood between them, without the
formality of a promise, that the accumulation
of various small loans was not to
be demanded until 'something turned up."
Hubert, therefore, felt not the slightest
thrill of alarm when he met his creditor
on the evening of the 6th, after an
impressive stance with the Elders.

'you're back in time for the great
day," he said, cheerfully. "Arthur Mendel
comes home tomorrow. We've just had
a telegram. He brings a friend, it seems."

I can give you further information.

The friend is Eldred Thorburn — perhaps
your uncle will be pleased to hear that,
perhaps not. Are you on corresponding
terms with him ?"

'with my uncle?" Bless you, we areas
thick as thieves !"

'' Are you ? Well, I want my money,
Fanshawe, and I should be glad if you
could get it from him or somebody."

I say, this is sudden ! What's the
meaning of it .^"

I can't see that any explanation is
needed. You owe me nearly a hundred
in notes-of- hand. I want it back, or
security. That's all !"

'' No, I can see It isn't all. The
money's right enough, and you were ascertain
about that fact as I am before
you went on your holiday. Are you
going to get married ? I say, ' Don't !' "

Jackson hesitated a minute. He was
a good fellow and loyal In his way.

*' Look here, Fanshawe," he said, at
length. " Your mother has her Income,
but you will excuse me If I put It that
she's a desperately good Hfe — better than
mine or yours, I daresay. I can't reckon
much on her. Then there's your rich
uncle. If you're as thick as thieves, just
get a trifle from him to go on with. I
don't want to be hard. Say you give
me five pounds a month for the next
two years. There !"

'' I cannot ask the old boy just now.
He gave me a handsome present the other
day."

'' Did he ? Then let me have my share,
come !"

I've paid It all away, Jackson, on my
honour ! Yours Is the only debt left. Ask
the other fellows that used to bother me.
They'll tell you."

That's how a good-natured chap suffers !
Well, you can afford five pounds a month.

I'll draw up the agreement, and you shall
sign It tomorrow."

"I'm sure you've heard something !
Come, now, we've been friends a longtime,
old man. Tell me honestly."

'' Well, I'll say there's a report that
you've quarrelled with Esking, or he with
you."

"What a monstrous joke! He gave mea
magnificent cheque when I bade him
good-bye, and told me outright I'm down
for something handsome In his will."

Bless me," said Jackson, and hesitated.
He really liked his debtor.

*' What do you mean ?"

Why, It's a fact, as you say, that
we've been friends a long time, Fanshawe,
and we've done a deal of business one
way or another. I'll tell you so much —
you should have stuck tight to the magnificent
cheque, for It may be the last
you'll get from old Esking."

'great Heavens! I say he told me at
the last moment ! Do you mean that I'm
not in his will ?"

'' I mean just what I said. I've no
confidence in your uncle as security for
my loan. There! Good night! If you
see your way to pay off that little sum
more quickly I shall be pleased to accommodate
you. But five pounds a month I
must have."

This isn't fair ! Is uncle ruined ?"

Lord, no ! If he was, should I tell
of a client ? Good night !"

Jackson would say no more, but when
Hubert came to put his hints together,
dull though he was, the conclusion formed
itself plainly in a few moments. Thwaite
had drawn up a new will for Mr. Esking ;
Jackson had seen it — hence his motive to
get in the debt, for Hubert Fanshawe took
no interest under that deed. The idea of
regaining his uncle's favour did not occur

for one Instant. Stupid Indeed the man
must have been who, knowing Mr. Esking,
thought to soften him ; and Hubert was
not stupid In this way. Besides, he had
no opportunity.

The blow made him savage, and the
prospect of paying five pounds a month
for two years was actually desperate. But
spite and malignity were foreign to the
man's nature. He could not be unaware
that the incautious disclosure of Mr. Esking's
plans gave him a certain hold, but
beyond deepening his sense of injustice and
treachery, the recollection had no effect.
Hubert would have given a good deal for
five minutes' quiet talk with his uncle on
the subject, ending with a steady, quiet
'one from the shoulder," In satisfaction of
his wrongs ; rage carried him no further.
But there was another spirit in his household
circle.

The news that Eldred Thorburn accompanied

the hero of the hour spread fast
through the town. Mr. Esking had been a
great manufacturer, and more than that, a
great notoriety of the place; his withdrawal
to Little Thorburns did not chill the public
Interest. When somebody heard about
'the Treasure," and told the legend of it,
with surprising scope of detail, at the tea-parties
of Shuttleton, It had great success.
Popular Instinct — so seldom wrong, though
popular knowledge, taste, reasoning, and all
else popular Is rarely right — connected Mr.
Esking with the story In a moment. And
thus it happened that the folks of a busy
town fifty miles away, of which his ancestors
had never heard, perhaps, were familiar
with Eldred Thorburn's name and family
history, to some degree.

Kate was excited, of course. After
telling her mother-in-law, all over again,
Hubert's battle with the dogs, and sketching
with a lively fancy the aspect of

Thorburns In its decay, she went out to
call, with the pleasing assurance of
exclusive information. When Hubert got
back to supper— for Mrs. Fanshawe kept
the early and virtuous hours of her youth
she had but just returned. What Kate
said, what Mrs. This and Miss That
replied, with excursions suggested by the
circumstance, furnished conversation of a
sort. The old lady took little share
therein, and her son none at all, beyond
giving the i^eplique ; but his wife had
stores of talk enough for half-a-dozen.
Her eyes were as sharp as her tongue,
however, and she saw that Hubert was
pre-occupied. In fact, he had a desperately
unpleasant task before him. If
five pounds a month must be deducted
from his allowance for so long a time,
it was absolutely necessary to give Kate
an explanation.

Supper ended, Mrs. Fanshawe went to

bed, and Hubert withdrew, as usual, to
enjoy a cigar in the street — or elsewhere.
His mother had points of humane intelligence,
and she recognised that a
young man must have some freedom —
showing therein the commonsense of an
elder generation, for Kate did not willingly
make the allowance. But this evening,
Hubert returned after an absence not
longer than may reasonably be granted
for smoking a cigar, and then she knew
that something was wrong.

In the security of their bedroom, he
confessed his trouble, with the slight deviation
from truth that he referred Jackson's
debt to the expenses of a time in which
Kate might feel a gentle interest — his
courtship. But she did not believe a
word, and flew into a violent passion, upbraiding
him for his habits of drink and
play, vowing she would let Mrs. Fanshawe
know what hours he kept, and so forth.

Hubert had not meant to tell In the same
day his present difficulty and Mr. Esklng's
treacherous conduct, but a troubled Imagination
did not suggest any other theme to
divert the torrent of abuse ; out It all
came, and the manoeuvre was successful.
Kate's sentiment for Mr. Esking, and for
Hilda also, was no less than hatred, and
she turned her wrath on them for the
moment. So Hubert was led, acting unconsciously
upon the strategic principle of
pushing by the line of least resistance,
to tell what he believed now was the
secret reason of Mr. Esklng's Ill-will — his
refusal to aid In stealing the Treasure.

Kate could not believe her ears. She
declared It must have been a dream. Not
till all the circumstances were repeated In
detail, and Hubert recalled his impatience
that night when she and Hilda lingered
in the Charter Room — Impatience for which
he had been vehemently rebuked on going

to bed — not till then would she admit the
truth of his amazing story. But when
convinced, she sat up, laughing with fierce
content.

"Dear uncle shall rue the day he was
such an ass as to trust you with a secret !
We have him now ! It's all clear as daylight
! When he heard how you killed
the dogs, he thought, ' Here's the man
for me — brave, and strong, and a fool !'
Then you refused, and to keep you quiet
he promised to remember us in his will.
I see it! How could dear uncle suppose
you would find out that he was lying ?"

"It is a strange chance, isn't it? If
I hadn't owed Jackson that money he
would never have told me about the
will."

I don't grudge him five pounds a month
now. It's cheap for all he has done! Oh!
uncle shall repent his behaviour !"

But, my dear, what can you do ? Of

VOL. II. c

course, he has given up the idea now
young Thorburn is coming home ?"

Of course he has clone nothing of the
kind! If I saw the new will I could tell
you who is going to help him in your
place. But I know ! It's young Genest,
and he's down for a thumping legacy — or
for a wife ! Yes, that's it ! I saw how
he was in love with Hilda. Leave me
alone! Go to sleep, my dear! I've got
something to think about."

But be careful, for Heaven's sake, Kate !
You may bring an awful scandal on the
family, and put me into a most unpleasant
position. Uncle has only to deny it, and
where are we ?"

"He won't deny when we prove it !
Go to sleep, I tell you !"

But, my dear, young Thorburn is
coming home. What are you to prove ?"

'* He's coming, but he hasn't come yet.
At this very moment, I dare say, your

dear uncle and George Genest are at
work !"

Kate was wrong as to time. At that
moment, Mr. Esking sat, beaming with
intelligent placidity, in the drawing-room
at Bohun Castle.

George had arrived before the hour of
starting, and found him dressed in the
Charter Room.

I have fulfilled your condition," said
Mr. Esking, taking his hand. "We may
congratulate each other, George, shortly."

Hilda consents ?"

'' You may learn for yourself, as soon
as she comes down, if there Is time."

I couldn't to-day ! It is a horrible
bargain — on my side, though not, I hope,
son hers. What did she say i^"

'every little — In fact, nothing, after I
had explained my wishes."

But what was It ?"

'' Why, to speak frankly, she said she
did not care for you in that way, George
that is, she corrected herself, the idea
had not passed through her mind. But
if I desired it very much, she had confidence
in my affection and my judgment.
Most marriages seem to be very unreasonable
and very silly. She hopes hers will
not be so bad as some, and she thinks
it will not. That was all that passed."
-All?"

"Actually all, upon my honour! Then
she kissed me, and went to dress in good
spirits."

'' I have to win her love yet ; but, please
Heaven, I will ! I could not speak now,
even if there were more encouragement.
Let it remain there for a time."
*you are satisfied, however?"
'quite satisfied. I will pay the price.
I would risk ruin in this world and the
next for Hilda!"

*' And I for knowledge ! Then we'll
start If she's ready."

They found her In the breakfast-room,
looking out of the window. She turned,
showing no embarrassment, but colouring
slightly as she took George's hand. Her
eyes met his with a strange expression —
curiosity, and doubt, and frank good-will
were Its leading motive, perhaps.

They set off at once. Mr. Esking talked
pleasantly, and the others replied at such
length as was needful. George recovered
his spirits In Hilda's presence. He was
a man who could direct his brain to the
future, but his soul lived In the present.
Before this type of absolute loveliness,
George remembered only that she had
promised to be his. The view of the
reward obscured the sacrifice.

Sir Philip Bohun and her ladyship, their
sons, and daughter, and governess, their
antique abode and Its memorials, would

deserve a note had I room for it. They
were all astonished at Hilda's beauty, seen
now for the first time under circumstances
that displayed it to perfection. Mr. Esking
was never indifferent to his daughter's
dress, but he made no remarks so long
as it was fresh and graceful. Two years
before, he had instructed Madame Rosalie
to fulfil any commission from her, and he
took it for granted that these pretty things
came from Paris. Few of them appeared
in the bill, but when Hilda let it be
understood that she paid cash for common
dresses, Mr. Esking asked no question.
He complacently wondered how she found
the needful, but kept his wonder to himself.
The robes of ceremony, however,
Hilda would not undertake, and these
were actually supplied from time to time
by Madame Rosalie. Miss Bohun was
astonished, and not pleased, to note that her
dress was as exquisite as her face and figure.

It was near eleven o'clock when they
drove away, after inspecting the treasures
of the Castle. Heavy rain had fallen, but
the moon shone brightly now, almost at
the full. Unaccustomed to adventures of
this kind, George had not given a thought
to the chances of the sky, and this brilliant
radiance, recalling painfully the work
in hand, filled him with dismay. He
hoped for a moment that Mr. Esking had
forgotten also, and would give up his
plan ; but a glance in that smiling, calm,
cheerful face dispelled the pleasing hallucination.
His spirits died out blankly ; a
sick excitement gripped his heart.

On arrival at Little Thorburns, Hilda
went to bed at once. George stayed only
to hear again, in an impressive whisper
his instructions, and drove away. He had
made himself acquainted with the spot
where his dog-cart was to be concealed,
near the gate of Thorburns, and there —

with a mind perpetually recurring to bolt
at full gallop — he waited.

It was not long, or he might have followed
his idea. Within twenty minutes a
figure, white from top to toe, came gliding
through the shadows of the avenue. There
was no man on earth more disposed by
nature or training to disbelieve in ghosts
than was young Genest, but conscience
and terror are our masters when they get
a hold. He stood paralysed an instant —
his flesh bristled ; but before he could turn,
Mr. Esking's low voice reached him.

"What's the meaning of this?" George
asked, angrily.

I forgot to tell you ! Here is your
ghostly equipment, son-in-law."

The title produced its effect. Sullenly,
but obediently, George took the robes.

'you see," Mr. Esking continued, ''I
reckoned with the moon — come under the
trees! In the first place, it enables us to

dispense with a light, and In the second,
it transforms us, with the help of a tablecloth
judiciously arranged, Into supernatural
and awful beings, not to be
meddled with, irresponsible and unaccountable.
Thus legend is made." His tone
was almost joyous In its ease. George
felt the influence, but he could not speak.

They walked on, beneath the shadow,
to the tower archway. "It is here," said
Mr. Esking, who betrayed excitement at
last. "And here are the tools. I've
measured the distances exactly. One hour's
work, or perhaps not that — and then !"

From amidst the ivy he produced a
pickaxe, two besoms, a crowbar and
two spades. "We may break one," he
muttered.

Through the open doorway and the
latticed, broken windows of the clock tower
the moonlight streamed, giving a misty,
solemn glow to the vaulted room. It was

half full of rubbish and discarded Implements,
but they stood against the walls,
leaving a central area. Mr. Esking stood
in the very middle, measured the space
thoughtfully once more with his eye, and
struck his crowbar on the worn pavement,
which resounded under the blow.

"This is the spot! — Now!"

George no longer hesitated. '' Le vin
est third il faut le boire /" he said to himself,
and the old proverb droned In his ear
with monotonous iteration, keeping time to
every movement, In the long hour that
followed.

The cement was hard, but when in
ages long gone by, at the date of Edward
Thorburn, that pavement was laid, the
imagination of builders did not go beyond
rough flints for material. They were worn
smooth upon the surface, but when the
first, embedded half Its diameter, had been
forced out, the rest was easy. Mr. Esking

worked like a young man ; those night
sounds which made George's heart leap
had no effect on him.

A space two feet square was uncovered,
the pebbles ranged neatly alongside, in
the order of their extraction, for relating.
Then George took a spade, whilst his
companion loosened the earth around.
They dug twelve inches, eighteen, two
feet — and Mr. Esking became anxious.
*' It cannot be much deeper," he muttered,,
'' Edward Thorburn was in haste ! What's

that r

He seized a bit of some material, not
earth, which George threw out. " Old
metal ! Now we are on it ! Be careful
be careful !"

There's a hollow here — yes, and something
like a box !"

Mr. Esking pushed him furiously aside,
and fell upon his knees, scooping at the
soil. "It is a box, but not wood, nor

metal ! Oh, what a fool I was not to
think of leather ! Oh, what a fool !"

What do you mean ?" George asked.
But the old man laboured unheeding.
Tough and firm as the day it was
burled," he murmured to himself. "In
this dry place, protected by a casing, it
would last to the Day of Judgment !
Well, well ! I have it at last !"

'but you remember your promise? For
twelve months it is not to be opened."

You have my word of honour, sir," Mr.
Esking replied, irritably. " Now let us get
it out — quick !"

That was very difficult, for though the
leathern chest was small upon the surface,
it was deep and heavy.

'' Don't be so rough," George remonstrated.
" You will break it." The other
paid no attention, but the material held.
Gradually they worked it out, and at
length deposited the rude old kist, shapeless

with earth and mould, upon the
floor.

Mr. Esking fell upon It. 'eat last! At
last !" he exclaimed, passing his hands round
It lovingly, eagerly.

'* Don't make more noise than can be
helped," George cried. " See, you have
knocked off great flakes of soil. Let us
fill up and get away, In Heaven's name —
If It Isn't blasphemy to speak of Heaven
here !"

He would not allow the further search
which Mr. Esking desired, but threw In
the rubbish passionately. There was not
enough to make the ground even, and they
collected such broken tools and things as
lay to hand, swept the earth over them,
spread a layer of cement, and embedded
the pebbles neatly. George had not
patience for this. He wanted to fly the
spot. But Mr. Esking tolled on methodically,
and would not desist till his eye

was quite content. Then he strewed dry
dust above, brushed it with his handkerchief,
to smooth out the footprints, and
surveyed his work.

Now, George, we will go. A Red
Indian would not suspect that this ground
had been disturbed."

They slung the chest upon their crowbars
and hastily made off, following the
narrow, weed-grown path that led to the
garden door, and through it. The moon
was low by this time, and they kept beneath
the shadow of the wall and shrubs —
reached the verandah, crossed it and gained
the Charter Room. Not a word passed
until the Treasure had been deposited in
one of those capacious chests and locked
securely.

'now it is safe!" Mr. Esking whispered,
"and I am the happiest man in England!
To you I owe it, George, and believe me,
if I could not pay the debt, my gratitude

would be painful. Here Is whisky — take
a full glass and go ! Heaven bless you,
my boy !"

"How shall I go?" said George, pausing
with the bottle In his hand, as a thought
struck him suddenly. " Not by the way
we came ! No, not If my salvation depended
on It !"

I will go with you."

"No, no!" He drank greedily and filled
again.

I tell you I dare not ! Let me out
through the front door."

"Well, well! Go quietly, though there's
no danger."

They went out, George almost reeling
with the excitement and the strong
liquor. Mr. Esking unlocked the door
stealthily.

Good night, my dear, dear boy ! You
will come In the morning ?"

It was morning long ago, but not dawn.

George hurried along the road, fragrant
with the perfumes of summer night. An
intense relief, a horror of remorse and
dread, a wild triumph in the thought that
Hilda was won, tumultuously mingled in
the confusion of his spirits, which the
drink had stirred.

He found the dog-cart safe where it
had been left. Bay Leaves threw up her
head and snorted as he touched her,
quivering with impatience. At another
time, knowing the mare so well, George
would have recognised these symptoms ;
he recognised them now, indeed, but paid
no attention After leading her out and
soothing her, he tried to regain his seat,
but the moment her head was free, she
broke into a sharp trot. This manoeuvre,
repeated several times, roused the young
man's passion. He jerked the bit and
struck her. After this correction Bay Leaves
stood like an efhgy until he turned —

then, his foot upon the step, sprang
forward. George fell headlong backwards,
and the wheel passed over him.

VOL. II

ELDRED THORBURN's RETURN.

The travellers reached Shuttleton in the
afternoon. A number of miscellaneous
friends were assembled on the platform,
conspicuous among them the group of
elderly Dissenters in whose ranks Hubert
Fanshawe seemed peculiarly out of place,
for the others present belonged mostly
to what may be called the harrier set,
among whom he was properly numbered.
Though he could rarely now secure a
mount, and almost as rarely the compliment
of an invitation to Mendel Hall,
he kept up his former acquaintance, sofar
as it went, with the gilded youth of
the neighbourhood. It was a position of

embarrassment, betwixt the mocking salutations
of his friends and the jealous
vigilance of his partners.

Old Mr. Mendel bustled about, more
and more nervous as the time drew nigh.
He put the Elders forward, immediately
behind himself, muttering, " I should wish
my son to receive his first welcome from
Christian and accepted persons."

So, when the train drew up, Hubert
stood near Arthur Mendel's carriage, and
since he towered by the head above his
godly comrades, the traveller first saw
him, and waved his hand cheerily.

The general welcome was so loud that
Mr. Mendel's tearful greeting could not be
heard. He motioned towards the Elders,
who prepared to deliver the oration they
had drawn up. But Arthur turned, and
presented to his father a young giant who
descended after him. This brief ceremony
performed, Mr. Mendel again called his

son's attention to the Christian and accepted
persons waiting. But Arthur had
learned much good and bad in the course
of travel. He nodded to them pleasantly,
and pushing through, seized Hubert's hand.

'' You look as jolly as ever, old fellow,
but how do you feel ? Your nose is put
out of joint, eh ? I've brought home a
bigger man than the champion of Shuttle-ton.
Thorburn, let me introduce to you Mr.
Hubert Fanshawe, whom I used to think
a son of Anak until I visited Cape Colony."

Thorburn shook hands with grave kindliness,
whilst Arthur recognised his friends
of unrighteousness. Mr. Mendel, sadly
distressed, begged the deputation to have
patience. But the leader said, in a voice
that trembled : —

'ewe feel out of our sphere, sir, In this
company. I hope to see Mr. Arthur at
chapel on the Sabbath." And they marched
off, leaving Hubert.

Young Mendel saw the move, and called
after them without effect.

"Is Mr. Coffin offended, father? I'm
sorry, but the sight of all these familiar
week-day faces overpowered me. " Can't
you persuade the Elders to return and pray,
or whatever It was they meant to do ?"

'' The gentlemen made an appointment
for Sunday at chapel," said Thorburn, with
grave humour ; and all the unregenerate
around took to him.

'' Oh ! — I hope you have asked this enthusiastic
throng to dinner, father ? I want
to tell everybody, in public, how I owe may
life to this noble fellow here."

All looked for a modest disclaimer, but
Thorburn made no sign. It was true ;
why not mention the fact ?

'' Most of them are coming to dinner, I
think," said Mr. Mendel, embarrassed.

Arthur drew him aside. '' Have you
asked Fanshawe ?"

No, my boy. You recollect that he's — "

I recollect that his face was the first
I saw just now. May I ask him ?"

If you wish it."

Arthur took the enforced permission, and
acted forthwith. But Hubert saw there
would be trouble at home, when Mr.
Coffin recounted his treatment in the tone
that pious personage would adopt. Though
perfectly innocent in the matter, Hubert
felt that he would be accused of aiding
and abetting in the humiliation of the
Elders. To propose dining with the culprit
would be quite too audacious.

I'm afraid I can't have the pleasure
to-night," he said. " My wife and my
mother expect me."

'ris that all ? You live on our way, I
know. Go ahead and tell them we're
coming to call."

Mr. Mendel heard with amaze, but he
could not speak then ; Hubert saw his

chance to secure not only a good dinner
and introduction to a house he seldom
visited, but also a means of neutralising
Mr. Coffin's malevolence. The ladies would
not resist the gratification of receiving a
call from Mr. Mendel — on this great
occasion, moreover.

He hurried out, took a cab, and galloped.
Arthur had collected a museum of curios
in South Africa, and to verify the packages
occupied some time, to superintend
the loading of them on half-a-dozen vehicles
yet longer. Mrs. Fanshawe and Kate had
digested this delicious news, had changed
their dresses and put on an air appropriate
before the visitors arrived.

It might be said by the most conscientious
reporter that all Shuttleton was in the
streets when Arthur Mendel drove through
for that was the hour when the factories
closed. But if the crowd was due to accident,
most of those comprising it were

glad to be there. They cheered half-ironically,
and quite as much for Eldred Thor-burn
as for the nominal heir of the day.
His great shoulders and his grave, handsome,
determined face, seen above the
hood of the barouche, moved the imagination
of those puny, nervous craftsmen,
acquainted, as so many of them were, with
the legend of his family. So if the cheering
did not quite mean all that the
Mentes understood, it was long and continuous.
The Fanshawe ladies heard the
roar approach, and their spirits rose in
thinking that the hero of this great day
was about to pause at their street door,
and render them justice at length.

"If only," said Kate to herself, 'mamma
won't say anything disagreeable to Mr.
Mendel, we shall get to know the county
folks after all."

For Mrs. Fanshawe, mild as she was,
cherished a grievance. During her prosperity,

when the business of the firm was
no unimportant matter to Mendel's Bank,
she had been a frequent guest at the Hall.
But since the disaster, not once had an
invitation come, though she saw Mr.
Mendel every Sabbath.

As for that gentleman, he did not say
a word during the short drive. This son
who came back was not the youth who
set out upon his travels with the object,
avowed, of investigating the wrongs of the
Bechuana, and generally of priming himself
on a political question. Still, Mr. Mendel,
though perplexed, was not dismayed He
also had two characters — the mild sportsman
and the zealous pietist.

The visit was brief and formal, of course.
Mrs. Fanshawe graciously consented to endure
Hubert's absence for the evening upon
this auspicious occasion ; then she discussed
Chapel matters with her elderly visitor.
Arthur, meantime, was boisterous In his

conversation with Kate, as many young
men are apt to be when struck with the
appearance of a pretty woman. Hubert's
wife saw his feeling clearly, and played
with it. She gave the most of her attention
to Eldred, describing Thorburns and
chattering of her uncle ; but she looked
at Arthur from time to time, and her eyes
flattered him. In ten minutes they rose
to go.

"You are leaving Shuttleton immediately,
I suppose .^" Kate said to Eldred.

''Oh, no," Arthur interrupted. Pray don't
encourage him in such ideas, Mrs. Fan-share.
He is going to stay a week with
us before paying a visit of inspection to
that ancient and interesting, but uninhabitable
house of his forefathers. I hope we
shall have the pleasure of seeing you ladies
at the Hall before he goes."

Kate looked at Mrs. Fanshawe, and
then at Mr. Mendel, in such a way that

he felt obliged to back his son's suggestion.
Then they withdrew.

Hubert had not thought it judicious to
be present during the call ; he came in
now to talk things over. Mrs. Fanshawe
did not think Arthur improved by any
means. She was not dull, nor so interested
in her grave discourse with the
father as to miss observing his admiration
for Kate ; but not so suspicious either as
to think of it in any way but as an indication
of character. Eldred, upon the
other hand, won high favour.

''A very fine young man, silent and
composed. I should have confidence in
his principles. Mn Mendel gives me to
understand that he has a fine fortune. I
think it not at all unlikely he may marry
your cousin Hilda."

"Very big men," said Kate, "don't
fancy tall girls, I think, and Mr. Thorburn
is a monster."

*' As for his principles, mother, uncle
told me that he was one of those fillip
fellows we hear so much about."

''Ah! Dear me! How deceitful appearance
is ! Let my mistake be a warning
to you, children ! A fillibuster ? Really !
Pray, Hubert, what is a fillibuster ?"

'why, I'll ask Thorburn, if you like."

Better not, perhaps. If it's anything
disgraceful, he would not like to be asked,
and we may hope he has repented — indeed,
I feel sure he has, by his look. I'll inquire
of Brother Coffin."

I wonder when we shall receive an
invitation to the Hall!" said Kate. "Aren't
you longing for it, mamma ?"

I hope I could not long for any earthly
pleasure, my dear, but it will be gratifying.
The Hall was familiar to me once, and
it is painful to be struck out of society
through no fault of one's own. But you
must not dwell too much on that prospect.

Mr. Mendel has neglected us so long,
when he had a double reason to keep up
an acquaintance — which was not especially
flattering to our side in former times —
that I do not expect much cordiality now.
It was Mr. Arthur who asked us."

Kate felt assured that Mr. Arthur would
keep his parent up to the mark. '' Now,"
she said to Hubert, '' it's almost time to
dress. I'll put out your things."

She had not accustomed him to such
attentions and he was flattered. But when
they reached the dressing-room she dropped
this pretext. While Hubert made his preparations
without assistance, his wife talked
low and earnestly.

"Arthur Mendel says that Mr. Thorburn
is going to stop a week. I want you to
find out exactly how that is."

"Why, what does it matters"

Never mind ! Do what you're told,
and don't interfere. I want to know

whether this gigantic young ass Is going
to waste his time here, or to attend to his
own affairs. It Isn't a difficult task to
ascertain so much."

No ; but I won't help unless I know
your object. That's flat !"

When her husband spoke thus, Kate
knew It was useless to argue or entreat.

''I don't wish to keep my object
secret," she replied. "It Is simply to
get Mr. Thorburn home as quickly as
possible. If I could trust my big, stupid,
honest Huby, or if I could get a word
with the man himself, there would be no
trouble. What I wish to know first Is
whether he Is, or Is not, going to fool
away his time at the Hall."

'' Why do you want him to get home ?''

Because, you dull fellow, every hour
that Thorburns Is unoccupied must tempt
uncle more and more. We don't wish to
have a scandal that would disgrace the

family, as you said last night ; and I
agree with you. But we do want to give
uncle as much annoyance as may be,
short of that, don't we .^ If Mr. Thorburn
stops away, it will get beyond a joke.
You see now ?"

'' No, I don't see," answered Hubert,
slowly. " Suppose he means to stop ?
What then?"

"Then," Kate replied, vexed that he
should be so quick on a sudden, " then
we must consider what to do !"

Now, let us have an understanding.
You will not act in any way unknown
to me ? Not in any way whatsoever ?"

There was no escape. Kate promised
solemnly.

"Then that's all right! Would you wish
me to say anything that might hurry Thor-burn,
if he doesn't seem inclined to move ?"

"Good gracious, no! Just get the information,
and then we will consult."

Hubert pressed her no further. To
oppose his wife was disagreeable, and on
her promise to take no steps without concert,
he gladly dropped the subject. A
dull man, who has any knowledge of the
world. Is apt to take a larger view than
the shrewdest woman who acts on feeling,
whether kind or spiteful. No purpose
could be served by hostile action against
Mr. Esking, w^hlle it might, and probably
would, give great annoyance. Upon the
other hand, If this matter was left to Itself,
or judiciously directed, some advantage
might follow. Hubert's testimony alone
might be worth just the value of the
difference betwixt conviction for a criminal
offence and peaceful enjoyment of the comforts,
studies and delights concentrated at
Little Thorburns. Therefore, he resolved,
after meditation, to await events. Unfortunately,
he did not explain this reasoning
to Kate.

It has been hinted that brisk young
fellows of the county used to find Arthur
Mendel something of a wet blanket, at
the foot of his father's dinner-table at
former times. Whatever the topic might
be, he wanted to discuss it, to talk it
out and understand it, not by lengthy
expositions of his own, indeed, but by
thoughtful questioning.

"If you pass a joke within Arthur's
hearing," said Ralph Dempster once, ''he
asks you to spell it, and he won't laugh
till he's sure there's no mistake."

This frame of mine, due to nervousness
and chilly blood, had quite vanished.
Assured now of his position as a traveller,
who had seen perils and had brought home
a very striking and romantic personage,
Arthur went to the other extreme. From
the dulness of embarrassment he flew to the
dulness of a foolish vivacity. It was the
same disposition, relieved of certain fetters.

VOL. II. E

I would not have It understood, however,
that he was a fool.

So there was a great deal of noise,
laughter and talking, across the table at
his end of the room. Eldred looked and
listened with grave curiosity, understanding
not much, but gathering a stronger conviction
that Englanders are feeble folk.
When questions were put to him he
answered rather as one answers a child.
More striking contrast there could hardly
be than that of Arthur Mendel, small,
slight, garrulous, and his stalwart guest,
whose look was so firm and speech so
rare. Hubert was seated next to the
latter, and he lost no time in fulfilling
Kate's Injunction.

'' I don't know," Thorburn answered.
*' They ask me to stop here until Arthur
can come away to my homestead."

The curious expression led Hubert to
perceive that this stranger might feel the

want of a friend, English-born, in establishing
himself on his own patrimony. He
said so.

'eyes, that was my thought," Eldred
replied. " But I have not undertaken,
and I don't know."

As the champagne circulated wit broke
loose, and the clamour grew. Mr. Mendel
and the Elders round him looked on and
listened with disapproval ; but while the
host sat helpless, his contemporaries could
do nothing, of course. The young men
had drunk Arthur's health several times,
'coupling with it the name of Mr. Eldred
Thorburn," and their courtesy had been
acknowledged in bumpers. Upon the
latter, used from childhood to the heady
wines and the hourly supjes of strong
spirit which prevail in South Africa, these
potations had actually no effect, but Arthur
and others were proving confused. Things
came to a crisis when Ralph Dempster

got Upon his legs, before dessert, to propose
the hero of the evening in formal
terms.

"Sir and gentlemen," he began, bowing
to Mr. Mendel and the Elders, "at this
end of the table we find ourselves unable
any longer to restrain the expression of
our great happiness and joy in seeing
our old friend, Arthur, back in his place,
not only well but lively, not only uninjured,
but marvellously improved by a
course of travel "

Pray, Mr. Dempster," the bewildered
parent broke in ; " don't disturb the
arrangements."

Oh, if there are arrangements I sit
down, of course ! The word gives me a
prophetic shudder. Anyhow, Arthur, pending
the formalities, here's your jolly good
health to go on with !" and nearly all the
younger men broke into cheering.

Eldred's face was so significant that

Hubert whispered, '' Dempster is an unruly
fellow, and nobody minds him much."

It will be understood that the ceremonious
speech which a bald-headed
gentleman of acres and repute was commissioned
to deliver went off tamely after
this. The juniors had not grown less
obstreperous as bottles went round. Their
inattention and impatience, though not
rough, of course, distracted the orator ;
he got confused and sat down abruptly.
Mr. Mendel looked as if a good cry
would have comforted him.

Then there was tremendous uproar, the
whole party rising — knocking their chairs
over mostly, and smashing a percentage
of the glass in their enthusiasm to sing
'' For he's a jolly good fellow." After
that exercise, repeated several times, they
cheered indefinitely, and then rushed in
tumult to shake Arthur's hand. There
are lively scenes in the north country,

when a liberal host cannot control the
spirits of his younger friends, and Mendel
Hall had often witnessed such ; but never
so extravagant as this.

Arthur rose to reply. A worse speaker
could hardly be found than he was at his
best, laborious of expression, distracted in
thought, loading every sentence with qualifications
and digressions In which he generally
lost It, and asked aloud, '* What was
I saying ?" Upon this occasion, naturally,
he was bad beyond belief, until, breaking
away In desperation from himself, he referred
to Eldred Thorburn. The Incidents of that
night upon the veldt were branded on his
memory, and his later companionship with
the man who saved him had not lessened
but increased the feeling of weirdness, of
terror, of something strange to his comprehension
of human beings and human
experiences which possessed him then.
Arthur told the story straight, never pausing

for a word to frame his meaning, for
his meaning was absolutely clear to himself.
And that being so, he found expressions
picturesque enough, and striking
enough, to impress a much more critical
assemblage than that before him. The
laughter ceased ; in thrilling silence all
listened ; those who had drunk more than
was prudent were the most eager hearers.
Mr. Mendel left his chair, and gradually
crept round the table.

Then Arthur told how his preserver had
escorted him to Kimberley, and nursed
him ; there was no sign of falling off in
the description of his gratitude and Eldred's
devotion, but the trance of the audience
ceased so far as they could look at the
hero of the tale, and wonder at his cool
expression ; still they were enthralled. Had
the speaker known but the elements of an
art which he was practising with such
success, he would have dropped the effort

then, and put all his remaining strength
into a heart-felt peroration. But Arthur
Mendel had no such science. He began
to talk of their home journey — and among
the conventional ideas of that scene lost
himself upon the instant.

It was but a beginning, forgotten a
moment afterwards by those unskilful
listeners. For Mr. Mendel, guided by instinct,
felt that the supreme point of interest
had gone by, and restrained himself no
longer. He had worked his way unnoticed
to the back of Eldred's chair, and, at the
first sign of break in the emotion, threw
his arm round the young man's neck,
gripped his hand, and sobbed —

'' May God bless you, sir ! God bless
you and lead you to happiness for your
goodness to my boy ! I did not know
what I owed you ! Forgive me !"

Had a painter been there he would
have marked with enthusiasm the dignity,

the gentleness, of Thorburn's attitude and
face at this sudden appeal ; had there
been a real actor, the man who feels
and understands human expression, he
would have been struck with the curious
conflict that face displayed. Eldred had
not been in haste to form, a conviction
that his friend was a fool, but, having
decided the question early on this evening,
his speech did not alter it. Mr.
Mendel's demonstration was absurd under
those circumstances. With difficulty Eldred
restrained himself from saying, in his
impatience, that he would have done as
much for a Hottentot. Perhaps it was a
consciousness that the statement would not
have been true which checked his tongue.
He behaved very nicely, however, since
reverence for age had been instilled asa
great principle of conduct from his
earliest youth, shook the old man's hand
warmly, then Arthur's, and then those of

all the guests. But when they returned to
their chairs, and sat expectant, he looked
about him calmly. " We're waiting for a
speech from you," Hubert whispered.

I have no speech to make."

Ralph Dempster clicked his glass, and
the others imitated him.

Is that for me ?" Eldred whispered,
audibly.

*eyes. They are getting impatient!"

He rose, frowning and slow. The
whole room echoed with applause. With
an air of utter contempt he surveyed them
all, turned his back and left them.

Some laughed, rather uncomfortably ;
some took offence ; all were bewildered fora
moment. Then Arthur jumped up and
ran after him.

"I think," said Mr. Mendel, 'that Mr.
Thorburn sets an excellent example. Shall
we go ?''

They adjourned to the drawing-room.

where the travellers were found just
lighting cigars, for In that house people
did anything everywhere. There was no
trace of Irritation about Eldred, but the
others kept at a distance, talking of his
extraordinary behaviour.

Mr. Thwalte approached, coffee cup In
hand. '' I was delighted to make your
acquaintance, Mr. Thorburn, but our friend
Arthur's report doubles my gratification.
Perhaps you would wish to see me tomorrow
?"

"Yes, as early as Is convenient."

I am at your disposal for any hour."

Arthur laughed. " Allow me to Interpret

between you. Thorburn would understand

five a.m. at latest. Better fix the time,

Thwalte."

Indeed ? What shocking hours we
keep In this country ! And yet early
rising foreigners don't seem to gain much
advantage over us In the day's work

generally. I don't mean that for you, Mr.
Thorburn, of course. Shall we say ten
o'clock, then ?"

*' Let it be so."

'' In the assurance of an interview tomorrow,
I shall venture to bid you goodnight
now, sir. My wife objects to late
hours on my part, and she gives me no
opportunity of retaliating. I hope, Mr.
Thorburn, that you will do us the honour
of dining at our table before you leave
Shutdeton."

I am sorry to refuse. After we've
finished the business tomorrow I shall
depart."

Really ? I understand But, goodnight,

sir. You will find everything ready
for you at ten o'clock."

Arthur had left him ; Hubert was standing
near in conversation. When Mr.
Thwaite quitted his seat, Eldred beckoned
to him.

'* I understood from your wife, to-day,
that you are Mr. Esking's nephew, and
you have seen my home. Would it be
comfortable to go with me tomorrow fora
few days ? I am wanting a guide in
this country."

Hubert was startled. "Ton my soul,
I don't know ! A married man must
consult his wife in these things. Tomorrow
would be too soon, any way —
but, in fact, I couldn't promise."

"When could you say? I'll wait some
days for your convenience."

I should enjoy it, Mr. Thorburn ; that
you may take for a fact. But really,
before consulting my wife I cannot even
think of it."

Then go home and consult her, I
pray you."

"By Jove, I will!"

Eldred's natural shrewdness had certainly
not been blunted by observation of life ina

thrifty, selfish village of the old Cape
type ; It had been strengthened by experience
of mankind upon the diggings
and In military service. He recognised
Hubert from the first as a loafer of the
respectable class.

After quitting Mr. Thwalte tomorrow,
I will call at your house. We shall find,
I hope, some reward for this friendly
doing, If your wife says yes." Hubert
bade his hosts good night forthwith.

Kate w^s anxiously awaiting her husband.
She had sent the servants to bed. His
news bewildered her. When all was told,
she said, thoughtfully, '' I cannot make up
my mind to-night. Uncle would not like
you to go down, I suppose, but we have
not to consider him. What would mamma
say f

'' She seems to have taken a great
liking to Thorburn. I think the old lady
might be brought round."

But there are so many things — my
brain won't carry them all ! However,
now go to bed, Hubert. I'll close the
house."

But that was not her first care. After
thinking intently for a moment, her pretty
face drawn in anxious calculation what
bearing this new incident might have
upon her plans, Kate rose, took a letter,
written beforehand, from the secret drawer
of her desk, and glided into the kitchen.
There hung an old bonnet and shawl.
She opened the back door quietly, slipped
out, posted the letter and returned. It
was an affair of but six minutes, and
Hubert did not notice the delay.

At ten o'clock punctually, Eldred was
closeted with Mr. Thwaite. There was
something hurried and needlessly decisive
about his manner. He explained how all
his fortune had been transmitted to
Mendel's bank, and instructed the lawyer

to invest it forthwith in government
securities. Mr. Thwaite was astonished
when he heard the sum.

'* I suppose you will rebuild Thor-burns,
sir," he said, when business was
finished. ''A natural ambition. My client
and your neighbour, Mr. Esking, has
several views of the old house, I understand."


Mr. Esking takes a great deal of
thought about my homestead, doesn't
he?"

'' You mean he is interested in it ? Yes,
you will find him a great archaeologist, as
we call persons who concern themselves
with old things."

*' What have you heard about the
Treasure ?"

'' Just so much as everybody else has.
Let me earnestly advise you, Mr. Thor-burn
"

Then everyone talks about it ? Do

you mean in Shuttleton, or round Thor-burns
?"

"Why, both, I should think."

'' Could you say anyone in particular
who would be likely to write to me upon
the subject ?"

'' The subject of the Treasure ? No, I
could not name anyone In particular, but
our ' hands ' are romantic and fanciful beyond
what a stranger would believe. Has
such a letter been addressed to you
already ? Perhaps if you would allow
me to see it I might advise you."

Eldred paid no attention to this hint ;
he rose to go.

Let me recommend you at least, Mr.
Thorburn, to beware of anonymous communications.
You have not so much
experience of them, probably, as we have
Whatever this letter may be, and whoever
wrote it, you may safely conclude that
he has a mean object of some kind.

VOL. II. F

Our people are fanciful, as I have said,
and it must be owned that since my
client, Mr. Esking, went to live in your
vicinity, they have talked a good deal
of the Treasure. Mr. Esking was well
known and much esteemed here. But if
we Shuttletonians are romantic, we are
sharp and hard-headed in a greater degree.
Be sure that the man who would set you
digging for the mysterious hoard hopes to
get an advantage in some clever way,
whilst diverting himself."

I will bear your advice in mind, sir,"
said Eldred, gravely.

From Mr. Thwaite's office he went to
Mrs. Fanshawe's, where Hubert was expecting
him ; the ladies did not yet
appear.

"If you still keep to your kind proposal
of last night," said Hubert, '* I shall
be happy to go with you tomorrow,
provided, that is, you can persuade my

mother. We have not yet named the
idea to her, I warn you."

"That is too late for me; my luggage
is at the station, and I shall take the
next train. But if you will come on tomorrow,
I shall be pleased."

"Then I'm your man! Here is the
old lady ! I say, Thorburn, couldn't you
say something about the missionaries
and the benighted Hottentots, and all
that ?"

Eldred laughed grimly.

Mrs. Fanshawe had, indeed, taken a
liking for the gigantic young Africander,
and it was the warmth of her expressions
at breakfast which tempted Kate to
leave the matter in his hands.

I am pleased to see you in my
house again, Mr. Thorburn," she began,
seating herself in the favourite chair.
There is very much I wish to
inquire of you. What a pity that Mr

Coffin is not with us ! Perhaps, sir,
you might be inclined to help in a
Godly cause ? Our poor congregation is
in debt. A lecture from you upon
Christian prospects in South Africa would
certainly command a large and liberal
audience. Could you be tempted to aid
us :

I am no lecturer, madam, but if you
would accept a sum of money it is at your
service, the more freely because I also
have something to ask."

Then he mentioned his invitation to
Hubert, pointing out how lost he would
be without a counsellor in his new old
home. Mrs. Fanshawe assented, and after
awhile the young men set out for the
station.

'' I must tell you," Eldred said, as
they walked, '' that I have received an
odd letter this morning which hints
that somebody may be trying to steal

my property — the Treasure which old
people say is buried at Thorburns. Now,
from what I have gathered at various
times, the person most likely to do such
a thing is your uncle. I shall look into
it."

Hubert was aghast. He vehemently
suspected Kate. Who else could possibly
have suggested such a monstrous suspicion ?
Yet she had promised. He resolutely
forbade himself to doubt her.

I thought it proper to tell you," added
Eldred, presently.

'' It's ridiculous ! But all the same, one
doesn't like to visit a man who proposes
to look into a charge of felony against his
uncle."

'' I see that. So we will leave the matter
undecided. If you come tomorrow, I shall
be pleased to see you."

No, I must give it up !"

Hubert did not speak again until his new

friend had left. He began to feel, as Kate
put it, that his brain was not large enough
to hold all these complications.

MEETINGS.

Sense returned to George Genest In the
chill hour of dawn, but he was aware of
nothing beyond an awful load upon his
brain and dull racking agony in his foot.
As the sun rose in tender effulgence, consciousness
strengthened — he felt himself to
be lying on the bare high road ; but to
move was horrible. Gradually the incidents
of the night before came to his
mind, the guilty work he had shared, the
stealthy escape from Little Thorburns, and
the accident. But it was all confused. In
the fever that possessed him, Mr. Esking's
face was eternally present, distorted in endless
variety of fiendish satisfaction. Pilgrimage

did not once return to comfort the
victim, nor even the thought of her.

No human being passed along that
solitary road until the sun was hot. Then
George heard a horse's hoof resounding,
faint and far away. He raised his head
with pain, and saw a big grey trotting
briskly towards him, a fluttering habit
and a velvet cap with white plume above
its neck. With a strange mingling of
dread, distaste and eagerness he recognised
Hilda, and the shout on his lips
died away.

She approached quickly, drew up with
a cry of astonishment, seeing the body
stretched In her path, and came on again.

"// is you, Mr. Genest ! What has
happened ?" Hilda sprang down and bent
over him.

"That brute of a horse knocked me
down last night. Don't ask questions,
please, but ride on and bring help."

Can I do nothing before I go ?"

'' Nothing — only make haste !"

She remounted and galloped off. A few
hundred yards beyond, a party of workmen,
employed by old Simmons, were
hurrying towards the Hall. They ran
with her, and at George's command dispersed
to find a gate which would serve
as a stretcher.

'' You had better let them carry you
to our house," said Hilda. '' I will go
back and see all Is ready."

The thought of meeting his tempter, of
staying under that man's roof, was Intensely
disagreeable, and Hilda's presence
had lost Its charm. But his aches grew
terrible. George answered, peevishly —

Don't trouble to ride back ! Fetch
Bowring at once, or any surgeon you can
get." She departed, full speed.

The men returned with a gate, and as
gently as they could, lifted George upon

it. His is not the nature that bears pain
well — he screamed so loud and piercing
that the cries reached Hilda's ear.

They carried him straight to the avenue
of Thorburns, and entered it.

'not there!" George exclaimed, shrilly.
'ego on to Mr. Esking's."

"Couldn't do that, sir," one replied.
*' We've our work here, and it's late
already."

Don't know where Mr. Esking lives,"
another grumbled. " You'll be as comfortable
yonder as anywheres until the doctor
comes."

George cursed and raved, but it was
useless — to offer money did not occur to
him. As they passed the Clock Tower,
the chief said, "This is as good a place
as we'll find, mates. Let's put the poor
gentleman down here, and leave the boy
with him." It's the hand of fate, George
thought to himself, and protested no longer.

When they laid him across the very
spot, whence the Treasure had been stolen,
he felt no surprise but a curious interest.
The sequence of events that had
followed his crime was no chance. Those
higher powers that avenge guilt were
shaping them visibly to ends unknown but
fixed.

In the submission of despair, George
looked around, marking with fevered eye
a scene but half-displayed in the solemn,
hazy glow of moonlight — the groined roof,
the small windows blocked with ivy, the
squat pillars of stone, the broken tools
and boxes and worn-out furniture piled
against the wall. Sunshine streamed
through the doorway and gilded the dusty
pavement. George remarked, with strange
composure, that if any traces had been
left of their night's work, the men's
trampling footprints had defaced them
already. But it was a mere observation.

Destiny asks no such aid for achieving
her purpose as the constable requires.

He sent the boy out to watch the
high road, and lay In solitude. What did
it signify ? Though weak of character,
childishly irritable and nerveless under
pain, Genest was intelligent above all.
Convinced that these things were ordained,
he waited the result.

Within half-an-hour, Hilda came to him,
announcing the doctor on his way. The
men had spread such clothes as they could
spare upon the gate, and made a sort of
pillow. Hilda asked if she could do
more, and, on his petulant reply, ceased
to trouble him. She sat upon the fragments
of a box, looking through the
door, whilst scratching figures with her
whip in the dust. George observed her
with feverish indignation.

I thought girls were so eager to nurse
people," he said, presently. "You're not!"

I shall be glad to do anything I
can. What is it you want ?"

He made no reply beyond groaning.
After awhile Hilda spoke again —

'* I am very sorry to trouble you, Mr.
Genest, but if you will tell me what todo,
I say I shall be glad to relieve you."

"Very sorry to trouble! I'm very sorry,
for my part, that I can't bow my acknowledgments.
By the bye, where is my hat ?"

Shall I go and look for it ? I mean — .
Really, Mr. Genest, I pity you from my
heart ! I would take one half of your
pain ! But talking is no good. Tell me
what to do, and there's nothing I would
hesitate to try."

'' To do ! Always something to do with
Hilda Esking — to act or to suffer, never
to be ! What a lovely animal you are !"

'' I am a strong animal, at least, and
courageous, I think, if you set me a task.
Ah, here is Dr. Bowring ! If you want

help, doctor, I shall be close by, on the
terrace overlooking the dam."

Dr. Bowring was not unused, in his
thickly-peopled district, to make a diagnosis
under circumstances even more extraordinary
than this. He promptly examined the
patient, and sought Haldane

bones broken," was his report,
'' unless, perhaps, a small one in the foot.
Very severe contusions of the head, and
such intense inflammation up to the knee
of the left leg that I cannot feel quite sure
what is the matter. George is a bad
patient."

I heard," she simply replied. " What
is to be done ?"

"It would be best to take him to the
nearest house. But I must tell you. Miss
Esking, that wherever he is carried, there
he will remain for some weeks, at least."

My father would be distressed to think
that anybody who met with an accident

in leaving his house should be taken elsewhere.
Had I not better ride home and
get a mattress or something ?"

Why, he's getting rather light-headed
already. It's a short distance. We'll carry
him on the gate, if you will find porters'*

Hilda went into the house, conscious
as she did so of a curiosity that seemed
unfeeling under the circumstances. The
low archway opened Into a black hall,
occupying the whole width of the building
; on the left hand, however, a screen
very heavily carved, emblazoned on each
panel with coats of arms and heraldic
figures, divided it virtually Into two
apartments. The low ceiling still displayed
an exquisite pattern in mouldings, graceful
as intricate ; the mantelpiece was a wonder
of grotesque carving in stone ; but the
furniture, gathered in a heap and covered
with sheeting, made a very scanty show.

Here the workmen were busy, scrubbing

and cleaning. Under their hands the
gold and the colour, hid with dust, reappeared
almost brilliant on a background
dark as ebony. The golden bramble of
the Thorburns, cut in massive oak and
gilt, glimmered at regular intervals. Above
the mantel it stretched to the ceiling with
the motto ''I lost," and a date, 1534 a.d.

The men were unwilling to leave their
employment. 'we've still the next room
and the corridor to clean up, miss," said
their chief. "Just look at it!"

He passed through one of the doorways
in the screen, and pointed out a
desperate spectacle of dirt and disorder.
This part of the hall was decorated in
the same fashion, but hardly a trace of
ornament or colour could be discerned.
The floor lay an inch deep in dust, the
furniture, a few chairs, stools and a table,
were grey and shapeless with cobwebs.

*' There's a sight for a gentleman

coming home from foreign parts, isn't
it, miss ? Mr. Simmons says his master
may turn up any moment, and we have
our work cut out if he's to find things
any way decent in the next three days."

I see that," said Hilda, " and so it
can't signify much if you leave it for an
hour. I'll give you five shillings each,
and it will be a good deed."

"Well, there's something in what the
young lady says. An hour don't count,
mates. A good deed at a fair rate of
pay is better nor charring."

Hilda saw them begin their preparations,
and rode off to warn her father.
He was greatly moved, anxious to hear
the full report of George's injury and his
mental condition. He warmly applauded
the idea of lending him shelter, and did
not think it wise to alarm Mr. Genest
pere until they could send him definite
news. A bedroom was got ready.

VOL. II. G

Mr. Esking stood at his gate to receive
the wounded man, and when the
party came in sight he advanced a few
yards to meet them. George groaned
piteously, lying with his eyes closed, but
as the old gentleman approached he
opened them suddenly, glared, ejaculated
'' You devil !" — and seemed to fall into
half-unconsciousness again. Bowring and
Hilda were much surprised.

*' He's wandering, I conclude !" Mr.
Esking whispered to the doctor. "How
very sad ! Only last night poor George
was in such good spirits. He accompanied
us home from Bohun Castle."

The patient screamed terribly as they
carried him upstairs. Mr. Esking watched,
but offered no advice. As soon as the
men had laid their charge upon the bed,
he paid and dismissed them eagerly.

'' We can undress him ourselves, doctor —
there is no necessity for Armstrong to stop."

"You needn't be alarmed, sir!" George
broke out. " I am not wandering —

but these d pains Oh ! Go

away !" he cried, after a pause of inarticulate
moaning. " Go away, or I
can't hold my tongue !"

This is very strange and dreadful,
Bowring!"

You had better go," said the doctor.
'your presence seems to excite him."

'' You will come to me in my room as
soon as you can ? I am sadly distressed."

He repulsed Hilda almost roughly and
shut himself up. Half-an-hour afterwards
Bowring came in.

'rit is just as I thought. The metacarpal
bones of the left foot are badly
bruised and the ankle Is sprained. Beyond
that, nothing but an awful headache. Speaking
professionally, I must say that our young
friend Is more frightened than hurt."

I am more delighted than I could say.

No risk of delirium ? But how strangely
he talked!"

Ah, I've known poor George from a
baby. He's all nerves and brain. They
re-act upon each other. You've offended
his taste, or something, and in this excitement
he sees double. That will pass ina
few hours. But, Esking, I spoke professionally
just now, you understand.
Though there's not much the matter with
George in that point of view, he will certainly
keep his bed for a fortnight, and
won't leave the house for a month. It's
for you to consider the bearing of that.
I may tell you that my patient would not
be a morsel the worse if you despatched
him to the Warrenage this moment."

'' I should not think of doing so ! Your
report has given me great relief. I shall
send to Mr. Genest at once."

But there was no occasion to send. The
arrival of Bay Leaves at her old home had

not been remarked so early as it would
have been in a better regulated household.
But towards 7-30, a stable boy discovered
her cropping the grass by the lodge gates,
Mr. Esking's dog-cart still hanging behind
her, though shattered. After a lengthy
consultation in the yard, it was resolved to
inform Mr. Genest of this alarming incident.
He rose at once, but to leave home
without breakfast did not even occur to
him ; so that it was nearly ten o'clock when
the father reached Little Thorburns.

Bowring's assurance calmed his fears,
and he scarcely noticed the doctor's hint
that there would be no danger in removing
George. Mr. Genest was proud of his
boy and liked him quite sincerely ; but
he thought it would be much more comfortable
for everyone whose interests he
had at heart — for himself, that is, and in
less degree for George — if he passed his
convalescence in somebody else's house.

Bowring returned to the patient, and informed
him that his father had arrived.

Send him back ! I don't want to see
anyone," George cried. " This stuff of
yours is doing me no good! I'm burning
alive, and they're battering my head with
hammers ! Give me opium !"

'bear it Hke a man, George!"

''I do ! You would have me bear it
like a machine !"

The doctor had reason to suspect what
were his sentiments towards Miss Esking.
He said, " Remember, my boy, that there's
a young lady in the house. Girls expect
a man to show courage."

'' Is this a time to talk of girls ? Do
something, you infatuated old pedant !"

Sometimes cursing and raving, when exhausted
groaning without cessation, George
passed the day and great part of the
night. His room was separated from
Hilda's by the length of the straggling

house, but in going to and fro she heard
him, and her Hps curled in scorn. There
was no suggestion of her attendance in
the room, of course, but she diligently
superintended the execution of such orders
as the doctor transmitted.

Next day George woke a Httle better,
and he made less noise. Hilda restrained
her wild longing to quit the house until
after luncheon, when he was reported
to be sleeping. Then, in joyous relief,
she ordered Cupid, summoned Jennings
to escort her, and set off for a long ride.
Thus it chanced that she was not at
home when a very tall, fair young man
demanded to see Mr. Esking. " I'll give
my own name," he said.

"Very strange, Armstrong. Is he a
foreigner ?"

"He speaks rather queerly, sir."

"Well, show him in here." And Eldred
entered the Charter Room.

A Startling visitor for one who had a
secret on his mind. The Africander had
been trimmed and dressed and civilised
to the average pattern long ago, so far
as appearances went. But the sunburning
was fixed upon his skin for life ; the
frown, not unsightly nor unbecoming, which
men — and women, too — gain at an early
age on the veldt, would never be smoothed
out now. The large, pale blue eyes
looked strange at any time in that dark
face, but now they had an air of stern
inquiry.

Mr. Esking possessed the strong nerve
of a phlegmatic disposition and an untroubled
conscience ; but he felt slightly
disconcerted.

'' I wish you good-day, sir," said he, in
his old-fashioned manner, and waited.

My name is Thorburn, sir, and you
are Mr. Esking ?"

'' At your service, Mr. Thorburn. Allow

me to congratulate you on your safe return
to the house of your forefathers." He took
Eldred's hand, in which his own was lost,
and shook it. " Your uncle was a great
friend of mine, and I hope you will allow
me to transfer my regard to his nephew.
Pray sit down."

Eldred kept his eyes fixed upon the
speaker.

*' Before I sit with you, sir, I have an
explanation to ask. There is a door in
your garden wall that opens into my
property. When was it used last ?"

'' I really could not say. I have not
used it myself for years."

'' Where is the key ?"

'ein the lock, I daresay."

No ; it is not there."

'' Then I could not say where it is."

What is the key hanging yonder ?"
He crossed to the window and took possession
of it.

'' Of course, that's it ! I had forgotten.
What does this come to, Mr. Thorburn ?"

** My uncle suspected you, sir, of a design
to get hold of the Treasure which
is said to be hidden at my house. Other
people suspect you, as I have reason to
know, and they warned me to come down
here instantly and take precautions. I
find that the path leading from your garden
door through my grounds has been used
within the last two days, or three at most.
I believe that it was used at night, and
I have evidence that somebody connected
with your establishment was one of the
persons who used it."

Mr. Esking was very pale, but he did
not flinch in the slightest.

This is a very strange tale, sir — I will
not call it a charge at present. How do
you know these facts, if facts they are .^"

'' We mark signs on the veldt. On
arriving here two hours ago, I examined,

looking especially towards your house, sir.
The path we spoke of is overgrown with
weeds and scrub. I find the branches
broken all along, and footprints in the
earth. They point your way, and so does
every break in the twigs, every blade of
trodden grass. I trace the steps of two
men, who returned from my homestead
through your garden door."

"This is very absurd, Mr. Thorburn.
People have been working at your house
for days past."

But they do not wear such boots as
these men did. I shall show you the
casts I have taken as soon as they are
dry. And they were not about the place
at night "

Oh, these mysterious persons visited
your premises at night ? How do you
know that .^"

"They walked Irregularly, one behind
the other. By daylight they would have

been more careful. I believe that they

carried something — the prints are deep.

I ask you for an explanation of these

things, Mr. Esklng."

'' 1 have none to offer, but every

inquiry shall be made."

Inquire about a young man with

small feet, who wears dress boots of an

evening."

"What do you mean by that?"

'' I tell you I have had casts made —

the workmen had plaster handy. People

tell me, sir, that heavy rain fell the

night before last for the first time in

some weeks — none has fallen since. I

conclude that the trespass was committed

after midnight on Tuesday."

I say, sir, that Inquiry shall be made."
I will send you moulds of the casts

tomorrow. Your garden tools, Mr.

Esklng, are branded with an ' E,' I

think .^"

I know nothing about it."

*eat the door of your garden, leaning
against the wall, I found a besom so
marked."

Most extraordinary ! " Mr. Esking
muttered.

'* I have it safe for your inspection.
One of those men laid it down to unlock
the door, and forgot it."

I am bewildered, Mr. Thorburn.
These extraordinary statements must be
sifted. If any of my people have been
trespassing on your land I will dismiss
them, whatever their purpose may have
been. You will allow me to say that it
could not be very criminal, for there are
no valuables at Thorburns now."

'' Except the Treasure, sir, there is
nothing."

"You constantly return to that subject,
I must say that it becomes offensive."

"You may well think so. It's my

belief, Mr. Esking, that my uncle was
right. You have long known where the
Treasure of Thorburns lay, and when
your scheme to get possession of it
peaceably failed, you stole it. Let's have
no error, sir. I charge you with theft !"
His eyes glowed, his great frame
thrilled. The sense of ownership, and the
indignant hatred of one who violates that
sacred right, are absorbing passions with
the Africander, as I have said.

Mr. Esking had courage beyond proof
in moral danger, but this young giant
towering above him in the might, not of
justice only, but of overwhelming force
and rage, almost inspired a physical
dread. He answered, '* I hear you, sir!
What steps do you propose to take ?"

'' I am not to advise with you ! You
have no explanation ?"

'' I can only say once more that inquiry
shall be made."

Have done with that ! The key of
your garden door hung there, In your
room, and it had hung for such a time
that you forgot where it was ! I am
satisfied now !" He left the room.

When that tremendous figure of retribution
visible had gone from his sight,
Mr. Esking recovered his calmness. He
seemed to gather himself up, to concentrate
his limbs, as his mind, for earnest
thought. The mistake George had made
in leaving such evidence behind did not
stir him to Irritation. He blamed himself
How could he possibly have forgotten.
In putting his tools away, that
they had two besoms ! It occurred to him
now that he had taken but one at first,
and then returned for a second. That
accounted in a measure for his oversight,
and the mind of this man was so framed
that the explanation of an error relieved
him. So with the footprints ; who could

foresee that evidence ? Only a man trained
and used to savage life.

Thereupon, excusing himself, he dismissed
all this to weigh the probabilities of action
on Eldred's part. That was no novel
subject for speculation. Mr. Esking had
contemplated the possibility of some damaging
evidence coming against him, and he
saw no course the young man could follow.
** General search warrants" have been abolished
for a hundred years past, and if not,
the magistrates would refuse to grant one
in this case. But he perceived also very
clearly that this was no common antagonist
he had to deal with. The one thing certain
about any steps Thorburn might take was
an assurance that they would be unconventional.
Mr. Esking did not think for a
moment of breaking his word to George,
though every glance at the coffer made his
blood creep with a feeling more dignified
than curiosity. The leathern box must be

preserved intact for twelve months to the
moment, though there was no telling what
this young savage might do.

Then he recollected the remark that
people had warned Thorburn to come down
instantly, and take precautions. Who could
they be ? Mr. Esking did not know that
he had gone to Shuttleton, for Simmons
was only informed that his master might
not travel straight to Thorburns. He
reviewed his enemies thoughtfully. Such
a man does not make his way to fortune
without raising ill-will, and he had jealous
rivals in science. But in neither one class
nor the other could he identify the man
who would take such means to indulge his
spite, even if he had the knowledge required.
And Mr. Esking never thought
of women. Finally, he concluded that if
there was any foundation at all for Eldred's
statement, it was exaggerated.

Above all things, he congratulated himself

VOL. II. H

that George Genest was safe under his rooftree.
No one could take advantage of his
weakness there, and before he met Thor-burn,
the remorse evidently praying on
his soul might probably have vanished. No
fear that George would be unequal to any
emergency when he had all his wits about
him and the marriage with Hilda was
arranged. It occurred to Mr. Esking,
also, that Destiny was active in his affairs,
but he took a view of its proceedings just
contrary to that which his accomplice perceived.
No man can blame Fate justly
for the results of his own carelessness ;
but the accident which had delivered
George into his hands at a critical moment
was pure benevolence of the superior
powers.

Bowring's afternoon report was more
favourable than he had ventured to anticipate.
As Armstrong announced the hour
for dressing, since the bell was silenced,

Hilda came In hastily and ran upstairs.
When they met at the dinner-table, Mr.
Esking was struck with her brilliant colour
and the light in her eyes.

You have had a pleasant ride, I see,"
he observed, kindly.

Oh, yes, papa ; and an adventure
besides ! Can you suggest the name of
a young man. Immensely tall and strong,
dressed In tweeds ? He Is as dark as a
Neapolitan, but his eyes are blue and his
moustache almost white."

Mr. Esking replied with perfect calmness
: " That Is Mr. Eldred Thorburn,
beyond mistake !"

''Oh! What a strange-looking man he
Is ! Well, I was riding h§>me quickly, and
In the lane, close by the gate of Thor-burns,
I saw this gentleman stretched on
the bank, asleep as I fancied, and I was
rather startled. He looked so very big —
like an alligator, I thought. It was by

the corner, you know, and just as I was
passing, old Simmons came staggering
up, more tipsy than usual. He actually
caught hold of my bridle, and began
raving. I don't know what he said, for
Cupid plunged dreadfully ; but it was
something about his master's coming home,
and how our games would be put a stop
to, and all that. Before I could free
myself, or Jennings could come up, Mr.
Thorburn leapt to his feet in one bound,
and hit Simmons with the back of his
open hand. It was no more than a fillip,
but I really believe it knocked him off
his legs ; anyhow, he tumbled in the hedge,
as if he'd been shot, and lay there stunned,
I think. It's awful to see such strength,
but how grand a man is who possesses
it, papa !"

'' And what happened then ?''
'' Nothing at all. I suppose I said
Thank you,' and I hope I said it

politely. Mr. Thorburn offered no remark
that I heard — didn't take off his hat or
anything, but stared, and I rode on
as quickly as possible. Have you seen
him ?"

''He called here this afternoon."
"And what sort of neighbour will hebe

r

A very rough one, I should think.
Mr. Thorburn shows his best, perhaps,
in knocking people down."

'i'm sorry to hear that. He didn't
look like a bully though."

Perhaps because he is not one consciously.
In the wild life of fillibustering,
and digging diamonds, and fighting Kaffirs,
that tremendous strength you admire is in
its proper element."

"Has Mr. Thorburn gone through all
that? Oh, papa, how can young men
stop in dull England, when there are
still opportunities for adventure left in

the world ? By-the-bye, how is Mr.
Genest ?"

Mr. Esking was annoyed at this careless
tone, for Armstrong had not yet left
the room. He threw a significant look
at Hilda, who coloured slightly.

'' George is much better than we could
have expected. His pains in the head
are almost gone, and we may hope to
see him downstairs in a few days."

'' I am very glad to hear it," she
replied, and they spoke no more until
they were alone.

That incidental way of asking after
George was not kind, my dear," said
Mr. Esking, *' nor considerate to your
father. You authorised me to promise
you would marry him but two days
ago. I am not to suppose that my
daughter is indifferent to her pledged
word — and mine ?"

"Of course not, papa!" Hilda answered,

reddening again. " But I must say that
George has not taken up my word, and
his manner both to you and me since the
accident has not seemed to show that he
valued It."

The poor fellow was light-headed."

I think he was not, and he declared
he wasn't. Making all allowance for the
state he was In, his manner to me when
I found him on the road was offensive.
He called me a lovely animal, papa — and
he called you ' Devil !' Perhaps I am an
animal, but It is not an affectionate expression
; and ' Devil ' is not a kind word
for one's father-in-law."

** Then the mere facts show that he was
delirious."

'' But that I don't believe. What he
meant towards you Is beyond explanation,
but towards me I think that he was expressing
his inmost conviction, brought outby
pain which he bears so childishly."

'' You are prejudiced by that, Hilda.
George's nerves are very highly strung,
and he feels more keenly than others."

'* I dare say, papa. But it comes to the
fact that he loves me and respects you
only when his high-strung nerves are in
order."

Mr. Esking had understood long before.
The glimpse of a man such as she had
never met up to this, who, in appearance,
at least, was something like the ideal of
her fancy, had upset Hilda's thoughts.
He knew his daughter too well to suspect
that she had fallen in love with
Thorburn. His image probably occupied
no place in her mind. But it had
kindled a spark at the very moment when
George's contrasting weakness made her
susceptible. Hilda recognised instinctively
the type of man she could love and
honour — not the man himself, but his
attributes.

This was another trouble, but It had
its solace if George really should prove
to have lost his passion under the
blow. Mr. Esking's word was so sacred
that he did not dream of violating it ;
no danger or temptation could have
brought him to contemplate that possibility.
But if George refused, and Eldred, ashe
did not doubt, should fall in love,
peace might be arranged on terms satisfactory
to all parties. He said, therefore,
without irritation —

"In a very few days George will be
able to explain himself. Until that time,
things will remain as they are. He asked
my daughter's hand, and with her consent
I promised it. That is the situation, is
it notes"

That was the situation, papa. Mr.
Genest has now released me, I understand."


*' If so, my dear, very well. But I

think you will find, when he can express
himself more clearly, that you misunderstood
him."

MRS. Godsend.

When Hilda had galloped on, with a
blush, a bow and a murmur of thanks,
Eldred stood looking after her in a maze
of thought. All his passions were deep,
swift to take fire, but unquenchable. He
had never known love, not even of that
dull, incomplete form which prevails among
youths and maidens in a border village.
Girls who were but feebler reproductions
of their male kindred, with some very
slight and mean ideas of housekeeping in
addition, simply bored him. They were
imperfect men, not different beings. And
the ladies he had chanced to meet hitherto,
though of another type, were hardly more

interesting. It may be said that Hilda
was a revelation to him, lovely and wonderful,
not only for herself but also as
representing a new sex, a new idea in life.

Simmons lay where he fell, watching
from the corner of his eye. Eldred picked
him up roughly.

*' Who was that ?" he asked.

'* Miss Esking, sir. Old Esking's
daughter."

Go after her and beg pardon. Bring
me a line from Miss Esking or from her
father that you're forgiven, or don't come
back to Thorburns."

-I'm if I do!"

'' Then off you go ! Get your pack and
quit. I give you ten minutes."

He walked on and Simmons followed.
It's hard, sir, after serving you faithful,
and taking care of your house for four
years or near it "

'that'll do!"

*' But what's to become of me, sir ? I'll
go after Miss Esking and beg her pardon
on my knees, if you'll overlook it."

'' Hold your tongue."

Simmons persisted with a sailor's obstinacy,
until Eldred turned in menace, and
he fell back dismayed. But the expression
of his face was black and murderous.

The upholsterers of Rowley had sent ina
cook, a housemaid, and a charwoman todo
what was necessary until matters should
be arranged. After paying Simmons his
due and instructing the servants to watch
him off the premises, Eldred looked
through the old house, which he had not
found time to visit hitherto. It had been
his intention to examine it minutely for
traces of the spot whence his Treasure
had been removed ; but this idea had
faded. The resolve to get justice was
still firm, but he could not fix his mind.
After surveying every one of the quaint,

old rooms, and inspecting the outside as
well as the failing light would allow, he
remembered not a single observation.

Returning by the main entrance, Eldred
found Simmons there, seated on his trunk.
'ram I really to go, sir?" he said. 'i'd
thought to end my days here."

"You're more likely to end them in a
jail !"

"Then you won't look over it? Well,
Mr. Thorburn, if I end my days in a
jail, or on the gallows, I'll know what
for." He shouldered his box and went.

Eldred dined thoughtfully, and sat in
frowning meditation to an hour very late
for him. He smoked a prodigious quantity
of tobacco in a very large pipe. At
another time, this situation so long expected,
this room so often described by his
father and his uncle, would have impressed
him deeply. It was all clear now, the
black walls had regained their polish, the

carvings stood out, the armorial bearings
and the golden bramble glimmered in the
light of two oil lamps. There his forefathers
had lived for ages uncounted, and
when a boy he had pictured the scene with
enthusiasm, not very intelligent, and hardly
romantic, but intense of feeling, because it
rested in the base of hard, literal fact. At
present other thoughts distracted him. He
found a strange significance in the motto
I lost," which stared from the great
entablature above the mantelpiece. Eldred
also had lost something at the moment of
recovering his own.

It was the struggle in his mind that
kept him waking until past ten o'clock,
for this young man was unused to mental
conflicts. Hitherto he had said 'eyes"
or '' no " at once or after reflection ; but
when said, it was established as the
firmament, not to be changed. He was
not stubborn on principle, but after coming

to a resolve it never occurred to
him to alter it. Just now he had told
Mr. Esking that he suspected him of
theft, and meant to prove the crime.
Nothing had happened since then to
make him doubt the charge or abandon
his vengeance. But he had seen Hilda,
and passionately longed to see her
again, to talk with her and hear her.
His desires were incompatible. Either the
parent must be allowed to escape or the
daughter's acquaintance must be foregone.
Hence a conflict, of which the bitterness
could be understood only by natures as
passionate and as single-hearted.

At length Eldred took his writing-case,
and in a large, firm, schoolboy
hand indited a letter to Hubert Fan-share.


** My Dear Sir,

'' I believe you went back
on your promise to pay me a visit

because you understood that I was going
to take steps against your uncle. I have
changed my mind about that for the
present. If you can come to me, I undertake
that nothing disagreeable shall
happen while you stop. Take it that I
promise this for a certainty."

He read it over. Fanshawe won't come,

he thought to himself, and considered for

an instant the prudence of re-writing his

invitation. But in the first place, to make

a fair copy of a letter was inexpressibly

repugnant ; and in the second, he did not

see how his meaning could be put more

exactly, without violation of the truth. Soit

was left over night. Reviewing the

terms at dawn, Eldred found nothing

which he could alter conscientiously —

addressed it, stamped it, and found his way

to Burnside post-office in time for the

morning mail. Thence he went on to

Rowley, breakfasted, and paid a visit to

VOL. II. I

the Upholsterer, Intending to furnish his
house from top to bottom In the course
of the forenoon. For the young man
understood only necessaries — a certain
number of tables, and chairs, and beds,
and things like that. He did not think
even of carpets.

But when the delighted tradesman
carried him through the show rooms, a
virgin note-book In hand, Eldred saw In
an Instant that this would not do. The
fine things there could not be made to
match with the solemn antiquity of Thor-burns.
A sense of fitness was Innate
with him, as with most men of strong
character who have led his kind of life.
Had the house been modern and bright,
the most staring of satin furniture might
not have revolted his eye, nor the most
flimsy of gimcracks. It was the Incongruity
he felt, not the doubtful taste. So
his notion was carried out more literally,

perhaps, than he had intended. Eldred
bought a pile of articles, the plainest and
most solid he could find for the bed-chambers,
gave carte blanche for the
kitchen, but chose not a thing for the
living-rooms.

Then he called upon a horse-dealer and
purchased two handsome creatures for
driving ; but to show a hack sufficiently
powerful, young and faultless, lay beyond
the resources of the stable. One was
expected in a few hours, of course, but
Eldred declined to wait. The choice of
a '' cart " and a brougham, harness and
such stable fittings as he had not found
at Thorburns, employed him until lunchtime.
Then he recollected that he had
no groom ; but the saddler found him one
to go on with, who was charged to bring
the horses, and the carriages, and other
things in the afternoon.

Such essential matters decided, Eldred

sought an architect. That professional
gentleman, to his ideas, was only a builder,
with more extensive knowledge than his
fellow at the Cape has need to learn.
He would grasp in a moment such a
simple matter as the reconstruction of a
banqueting hall, and would raise an Elizabethan
structure, or any other sort which
could be desired, just as easily as a barn.
It was Eldred's good fortune to hap upon
a man who was stupid at his profession,
and knew himself to be so, but honest,
frank and original. He said, after hearing
the brief explanation of his client's wants —
This business of yours, sir, would cost
you five thousand at least ; my fee would
be five hundred, besides expenses and
trifles. Now, I decline that money, sir ;
but not to waste our time, suppose you
were to give me a five-pound note, and
I'd return you some advice that is cheap
at the figure."

Eldred quite understood this way of
talking. He produced the note.

'* Thank you, sir. Now, I tell you this.
Don't employ any architect here, nor any
in London, until you've quite made up
your mind what it is you want. Go to
some of the antiquarian gentlemen who
know what an Elizabethan banqueting hall
was. Get a sketch from them that pleases
you, or travel about the country and look
round. When you're decided what sort of
building it is to be, I'll put it up as well
as any man, and I'll be glad to see
you here again. By-the-bye, there's your
neighbour, Mr. Esking. He's as good an
authority as you'll find, I understand."

Eldred thanked him and withdrew.
When he reached home, late in the afternoon,
the servants greeted him with enthusiasm.
They had no experience of
masters who left the house at sunrise,
without breakfast, or even a word of warning

; and In alarm they had sent the charwoman
to Little Thorburns, asking news.
A polite answer she brought back. Mr.
Esking shared their anxiety, and desired
them to let him know if Mr. Thorburn
had not returned by nightfall. Eldred was
pleased, against his will and against his
judgment. He despatched the charwoman
once more, in the servants' name, to
announce that all was well.

That evening seemed more lonely, in
the sense that Eldred had lost something
of his excitement — though his feelings were
as deep as ever — and that the day's events
had shown him clearly how unfitted he
was, as yet, for the situation in which he
found himself. The upholsterer had casually
referred to "calls," which the very best of
the county people would be making shortly ;
to dinner-parties ; to the position which
Mr. Thorburn of Thorburns would naturally
fill. This was disconcerting. The attention

he roused, both In the Rowley streets
and in the country lanes, told Eldred that
people recognised him as strange. The
perplexity he felt, though no one could
have suspected It, In discussing common
matters with the tradespeople, betrayed
his helplessness to himself. Only at the
horse dealer's had he been quite comfortable
and master of the situation, though
the mystery of European harness and
European carriages was annoying. These
things gave him a new motive to desire
that Hubert Fanshawe would come down
at once.

His letter reached that gentleman almost
In company with an Invitation from Arthur
Mendel to spend the evening at the Hall
with a few of his particular friends, since
the Governor was obliged to go out. It
was needless to add that cards would be
Introduced after dinner ; Hubert took that
for granted. And the prospect of winning

a little money, whilst renewing acquaintances
In a higher rank of society than he
had lately enjoyed, did not predispose him
to accept the office, as he called It, of
bear-leader to young Thorburn.

But Kate took a different view, and she
was mistress. The assurance that Eldred
did not contemplate any Immediate hostilities
against Mr. Esking decided her. She
longed to understand.

"You must go tomorrow, Hubert, and
find out what he Is doing."

I've had quite enough of it. Leave
Thorburn to manage his own affairs. He's
sharp enough."

'' I should say he's as sharp as they make
them In his country, but that's not a superior
article. Something has turned up, or why
does he say that nothing is to be done for

the present while you stop ? There's

no risk of the sort we fear, and I'm anxious
to know what Is going on."

Hubert had not alluded to the anonymous
letter Eldred spoke of, but he broke silence
now.

'' I tell you, leave It alone, Kate ! Somebody
— I don't say It's you, and I don't
think it — but someone has been meddling
in his affairs already, and that's the reason
I didn't go before. There ! you have It
now."

How dare you speak to me In that
tone ?''

Why, If you think there's much I dare
not do, on provocation, you've not studied
your husband, my dear, or you're less clever
than you think yourself If I hadn't a
clear promise that you would take no steps
without consulting me, I should say outright
that it was you who sent Thorburn that
anonymous letter !"

^'What letters" Kate asked, subdued.

*' The one that made him hurry to his
old barrack by express train !"

"Oh, you can't think, Huby, that I would
break my word to you ? Is it possible ?
Oh, I can never trust your love again —
never !" she cried very prettily, or made a
very pretty seeming ; until Hubert apologised,
half-laughing, half-earnest. And at
the end of the scene Kate triumphed.

'' How long am I to stay at Thorburns ?"

'' Why, dear, we shall see. Write at
once !"

Next morning, Eldred learned that his
visitor would arrive in the afternoon. The
wagons of furniture came early, with troops
of artisans, who forthwith produced paper
caps and hammers, whilst the foreman
begged respectfully to consult his employer
each five minutes. Eldred fled.

He went to the stables, but his temporary
groom had gone out, after locking
all the doors ; in savage temper, for he
was unused to walk for choice, the master
of Thorburns set off for a stroll.

Some distance from Mr. Esking's house,
he met a Httle girl, very pretty, neat and
intelligent of eye. She looked at him so
wistfully that his ill-humour vanished, and
he said with a smile, '' Do you wish to
speak to me, little maid .^" Eldred's smile
was so kind, his face so handsome, and
his figure so powerful, that every child
took confidence.

"If you please, sir, are you Mr. Thor-burn
?"

Yes, little one. Here's something to
remember me by." He gave her a shilling
; It might have been a sovereign had
Eldred enjoyed an English training, but
shillings represent money at the Cape.

Thank you, sir. But please would you
come to see Granny ? She heard you're at
Thorburns, and she says it would ease her
to see one of the old family again."

'' Then I'll come. Who Is your granny.'^"

She's Mrs. Godseff, sir," said the child,

turning, '* who was nurse to Captain Thor-burn,
and Mr. Ralph, and Mr. David."

That's a long while ago. Granny must
be very old."

Ninety-five, sir. She's not my grandmother,
but my grandmother's mother.
We're a long-lived family."

'rand you live with her alone?"

Oh, father lives with us. I was going
to take him his dinner when I met you,
sir."

So chatting, they walked back half-a-mile.
" That's where we live, across the
field," said the little girl, pointing. "Oh,
and there's Mr. Jennings, with a basket !
Miss Esking must be inside, sir."

Eldred thrilled. He could not find a
reply at the moment, but strode on.

It was the picture of an old cottage,
unhealthy, I dare say, perhaps uncomfortable,
but charming. A vine, centuries
old, covered the upper front, and climbed

Its roof In two great bare stems, thick
as a man's leg, descending on the other
side. The pretty lattices were lowered in
honeysuckle, and a rose to match the
vine clothed the porch and the walls
adjacent.

'' Granny says there have been Godseffs
In our cottage ever since there were
Thorburns at the Hall, sir. It nearly
killed her when the property was sold,
but Sir Philip Bohun is very good, and
he comes to see us now and then."

They entered the little old-fashioned
garden, and the child ran ahead. Jennings,
sitting by the porch, had recognised
the stranger by description, and stood
respectfully.

'* Granny presents her duty, sir, and
she will feel It an honour if you'll walk
in," said the little girl, returning.

With a beating at his heart, such as
no danger nor anxiety had ever caused,.

Eldred followed. The porch gave directly
on the living-room, a small, low apartment,
with a vast fireplace, a huge whitewashed
beam overhead, and a variety of
antique furniture. By the hearth stood
Mrs. Godseff's chair, of carved oak, bolt-upright,
unpadded in the seat, the bare,
lean arms, or the straight back. But the
dame had risen, and stood leaning upon
Hilda, with a crutch-stick in her left
hand. A striking figure of age, in mob-cap
and bed-gown, with a shawl pinned
across her chest. A man of true imagination
would have been interested in her
face, but the sentimentalist could have
nothing in his way there. Mrs. Godseff
had been very tall, and broad in proportion
; a masterful woman, no doubt.
Her features and her eyes had been
large, but seared, as it were, with passion
now stern and harsh. She looked at
Eldred searchingly, though her frame

trembled with emotion. He gave one
glance to the lovely girl on whose arm
this aged creature leant, and recognised
such an odd expression, so keenly observant,
that he was glad to fix his attention
on Mrs. Godseff.

I bid you welcome, sir, and I thank
the Lord I've lived to see this day !
You take after your grandfather and your
great grandfather. They were big men
and fair, but not so big as you. There
was never a little Thorburn until your
uncles were born, and I trust in mercy
the old luck will come again too, with
the old complexion. Will you sit down,
sir ?"

'' Give me your kiss and your blessing,
mother," said Eldred. It is a form among
the simpler class of Africanders, and he
had used it to other venerable dames.
The ease of his tone, therefore, and quiet
gesture, made natural and impressive a

speech that might well have seemed
affected. Hilda was touched as the young
giant stooped respectfully and kissed Mrs.
Godseff on the forehead.

My kiss you shall have, Eldred Thor-burn,
with all my heart !" — and in speaking
she released herself, and threw both her
feeble arms round his neck. The motion
was too violent, she was obliged to cling
to him, and the young people helped her
to regain her chair. Their eyes and their
hands met.

"Ay, I'm a poor old woman ! You must
kneel for my kiss, Eldred. Bless you, my
boy ! I feel that the old line is starting
afresh. I do that ! But for blessing,
Eldred, it don't become me. Us, Godseffs
have lived with you Thorburns, and eat
your bread, and died for you when needful,
these many hundred years ! It don't become
one of us to be blessing one of you."

I am content with what you said just

now in the fulness of your heart, mother.
Are you comfortable in this cottage ?"

"Ay, comfortable enough — as comfortable
as an old body can be when strangers and
new people own the house over her."

I will see to that. Sir Philip Bohun
bought it, your granddaughter told me.
In other ways you are easy ?''

''Oh, ay! Mr. Esking pays my pension,
and this good girl comes to see me by
times. A bonny lass, Eldred, and I could
wish her was a Thorburn. She don't
get tired of my stories, though they're
old."

Up to that time they had not exchanged
looks, saving the hurried glance when their
hands touched. At this informal introduction,
Eldred sought her eyes and smiled ;
she smiled also, though blushing. Neither
one nor other was so burdened with self-consciousness
as to see more in Mrs. God-serfs
allusion than she meant.

VOL. II. K

I live upon old stories, dame," said
Hilda, and her sweet, strong voice, heard
now for the first time, was another revelation.
" There are no new ones to match
them."

** That's a sign you're fancy free ! There's
a new tale every young maid loves to hear
when her time comes. Eh, dear ! And
you've been raised in foreign parts, Eldred ?
Your mother was an outlandish lady."

But so near an Englishwoman that
she'd have used the very same word
talking of you — ' outlander ' my mother
would have said."

I ask your pardon, sir — meaning no
harm. Will you come in one day, and
tell me about Ralph and David ? Ralph's
dead, I reckon ?"

"Yes; there's not a Thorburn living
now beside me. I'll come, mother," he
added, rising, "and listen till you're weary
of talking. There's a thousand things I

want to know which you can tell me, and
no one else."

'ray, but make haste, lad! My memory
is pretty fair for ninety-five, but it begins
to be skeary, and there's things, as you
say, no one could tell you beside me.
Good-bye, Eldred ! I'm the happier fora
sight of your brave thews and comely
face. Come soon. Miss Hilda, I'll rest
now, and thank you !"

It was a hint unmistakable, accepted
with a smile. The young people went
out together, and naturally they walked
through the garden side by side, Jennings
following with his empty basket. Just
beyond lay a stile. It is but a trifling
matter when a decorous young man helps
an active girl over an obstacle of this
sort ; but Eldred found another revelation
there. His notions of the female foot
were linked beyond unravelling with veldt-scion,
the roomy and shapeless gear of

South African maidens. He had seen
ladles' boots, of course, often enough, but
never under circumstances that drew his
attention. Hilda's foot struck him as
something beyond human grace.

They had not spoken, for Eldred could
not guess how far Mr. Esking had confided
in his daughter, and she also felt a
certain small embarrassment ; but when a
youth and a maid of character like theirs
fall in company it is the latter who begins.

'i'm afraid I did not thank you
properly for your gallant interference the
night before last, Mr. Thorburn. Let
me do so now, heartily."

The man was a servant of mine, and
I was bound for him. I may say he's
not my servant now."

Have you dismissed old Simmons ? I
hope it was not on account of that ?"

Not exactly. I am expecting Mr.
Fanshawe to-day."

'' Hubert ? How strange !"

I met him at Mr. Mendel's, and he
was the only young man there who
seemed to have any wits, so I asked
him to put me through with my Incoming
— furniture, and servants, and such
things."

''Oh! Well, I hope you'll find my
cousin useful ! Kate is not with him, I
suppose ?"

Eldred took grave alarm at the suggested
possibility. " I couldn't think to
invite a lady ! Mr. Fanshawe will find ita
rough camp. But, Miss Esking, the
furniture keeper at. Rowley said I might
expect folks calling soon. Is that true ?"

"I should fancy so. Indeed, they certainly
will, when they learn you are ready
to receive them. Your family holds a
high position, Mr. Thorburn, and your
own story is romantic, if you ,will allow
me to say so".

I don't know quite what you mean,,
but say anything you will. What like
of folks are they who will come ?"

Hilda was not skilled in such matters
herself. She named Lord This and Sir
Something That, at random, among the
grandees of the county, and threw in the
Bishop. She added, " I ought not to
mention my father in company with all
those great people, but he will return
your call, no doubt."

Thus abruptly brought back to the
subject of his brooding thoughts, Eldred
broke out, " Did he say so ?" The
question surprised Hilda, of course, but
not so much as his bitter tone and sharp
voice.

Mr. Esking did not say so, but I took
it for granted. People in England usually
return a call."

He noticed the change of manner, but for
the instant he was absorbed in different

reflections. Mr. Esking had not named
the charge made against him, even to
his daughter. It could not have occurred
to Eldred that a man accused should be
silent for delicacy or shame. Upon the
veldt he knocks his accuser down, if
innocent and strong enough of fist ; if not
strong enough, he appeals to Heaven and
his neighbours. Mr. Esking might have
dilated on this idea. The veldt practice
is a survival of the antique English compurgation
an interesting subject for the
antiquary.

Unconscious that he was deciding on a
code of ethic principles so old that it is
known by the unfamiliar name of '' Dooms,"
Eldred threw aside his last hesitation.
One who could sit dumb and patient under
such a charge must be guilty.

But when this conclusion was reached,
he felt Hilda's eyes upon him with a look
of growing bewilderment and disquiet.

Perhaps you did not mean a call ?
You came on business ?"

Yes, I came on business," he replied,
at length.

Oh, then, of course that's different.
Don't let me chain you to my slow pace,
Mr. Thorburn."

Please recollect how lost I am among
your customs. What did Mr. Esking say
when he named the matter ?"

"What matter?"

"Of my call."

'' Really, this is very strange !"

I beg of your goodness ! How did
we fall on this ? I am sore perplexed.
Miss Esking !" He turned his eyes upon
her earnestly, and the conflict of feeling
there, the frown of passion, and the quiver
of anxiety, Impressed her.

What Is this mystery, Mr. Thorburn ?
I shall ask my father."

'don't, I entreat!"

** But you compel me, sir ! My father
did not attach the importance which you
evidently do to that meeting, or visit, or
what it was. I must tell him."

'' He does not attach importance to it ?
Then I mistook. Treat it as a call ! I
will look on it so ! If I thought otherwise,
that is at an end. Tell Mr. Esking
or, no, do not speak of our conversation,
but say that I shall be pleased
to see him when he returns my call."

*' I cannot keep the secret, Mr. Thor-burn.
Whether my father understands or
no, I must warn him that you regard
your visit the other day in some extraordinary
light."

Eldred's love, growing each instant, had
a- last struggle with his fierce eagerness
to regain the Treasure or to have
vengeance. It triumphed. He saw clearly
now that Hilda or retribution must be
sacrificed, and decided.

*' If you speak, Miss Esking, say only
that I will come again in all loyalty and
goodwill." He added no more, for the
rush of antagonistic passion silenced him
with a foam of words that might not be
uttered.

'' I think I see a little now. You
resented the condition of my father's
loan to your uncle! It is impossible for
you or me, Mr. Thorburn, to understand
the intensity of his longing to possess
what is old, like Thorburns. You do
not mean to hint that the terms of the
loan were unjust or improper?"

*' No," he answered, gloomily.

Remember, Mr. Thorburn, that he did
not know you. All we heard was — forgive
me for saying it — that you were one
of the fillibusters whom we read about. If
my father imagined you a bloodthirsty,
drunken ruffian, the newspapers are to
blame. For my own part, I shall never

trust ' Our Special Correspondent ' In
future."

He looked at her, beaming, and she
hurried on, with a blush for her heedless
compliment.

His wish to get possession of Thor-burns,
therefore, was not only Innocent,
but an act of benevolence towards
the neighbourhood. If my father had
known" — feeling herself In peril once
more, Hilda closed the sentence briefly —
"one motive would not have Influenced
him."

'' You have said enough, Miss Esklng.
I will look upon your father as a benefactor
henceforward." The tone was
sarcastic, and both felt it.

"Then If you are sincere, come in now,"
Hilda answered. "This Is Little Thor-burns
! Ah, Doctor Bowring ! How is
your patient, doctor ? Let me Introduce
Mr. Thorburn."

I have heard of your return, sir, and
I congratulate you warmly. Old people
round here say that there's something
wanting on the country - side where a
Thorburn of Thorburns is not well to
the fore. My patient is doing very
nicely, Miss Esking ; you may enjoy the
pleasure of nursing him in a day or
two. Good day ! Good day, Mr. Thor-burn.
I hope we may have a cordial
acquaintance uninterrupted by professional
visits." Doctor Bowring jumped into his
brougham.

"You have somebody ill here?" Eldred
asked. The question would be exacted
by mere politeness in South Africa ; indeed,
to omit it would be thought unfriendly.


'eyes; Mr. George Genest, who had an
accident in the lane on Thursday and was
brought to our house. Will you come in
and see papa ?"

Not now. Give him my message,
please. I must go to meet your cousin."
He would have found it impossible to
face Mr. Esking then without danger of
committing himself. Hilda's eyes showed
dissatisfaction ; but they parted on good
terms. Jennings, who had followed at a
discreet interval, confided to the housekeeper
and Armstrong, when they met at
tea, that "he never seed two young
people who found so much to say to one
another on almost their first acquaintance,
as Miss Hilda and Mr. Thorburn." The
good man referred to intensity of talk
rather than to quantity, but, failing to
note the distinction, he perplexed his
gossips. For Miss Hilda was emphatically
not talkative, and Mr. Thorburn did not
look so.

Eldred returned home more savage than
he left, though there had been moments
quite blissful meanwhile. The temporary

groom also had returned, drunk and Insolent.
After a very few words his master
struck him, as he struck Simmons, with
open hand. Like Simmons, he fell backwards,
knocked off his legs, but the ground
was soft ; and amongst the tumult of his
pressing thoughts Eldred found time to
marvel at the feebleness of Englanders,
who tumbled like girls at a slap. He
harnessed the pair himself, and drove to
Rowley Station.

The train was punctual, and It brought
Hubert. Of the events and the conversation
that night, It Is only needful to
record that Eldred asked, casually, who
Mr. George Genest might be.

'the son of a raffish old horse-copping
Squire In the neighbourhood," Hubert
answered, not forgetting how disastrous
had been that visit to the Warrenage.
My wife thinks that he's going to marry
Hilda."

If the evening threatened to be dull
before, it became quite gloomy after
that.

SOME CORRESPONDENCE.

Hubert wrote to his wife the same
evening.

'^ . So you see it's not a
cheerful crib. Thorburn may be a very
good fellow on his native heath. I daresay
Arthur Mendel found him all that
the heart of man — in a desperate funk —
could wish, when it came to bowling
over Kaffirs, like rabbits, by moonlight.
But he's not lively company at home.
I am bound to say, however, that the
fellow has sensible ideas, and doesn't
express them badly. He tells me that
I'm to have something handsome for
bear-leading him. The worst of it is

that I shall have so little to do, for as
soon as he knows what is the proper
thing, Thorburn will settle in half-a-dozen
words, and cheques to match, I
warrant. We're to go shopping tomorrow,
and I expect to be halfway
through the business by dinner-time. . . .
I took an opportunity to ask him what
was doing in the matter that interests
us. He gave a black look and didn't
answer, so I reminded him that he had
spoken to me about it.

' I beg your pardon, ' said he, ' if you
like, we'll pay Mr. Esking a friendly
call tomorrow.'

'' I could get no more information. He
declined to talk upon the subject. What
do you think of that ? . . . By-the-bye,
George Genest is lying ill at Little
Thorburns. My host has met Hilda, it
appears, and he asked who Genest was.
I rather fancy he winced, when I told

VOL. II. L

him that you thought Genest was to
marry Hilda.

Kate replied : " All I can imagine is
that Mr. Thorburn has fallen in love with
your cousin. That's the single guess that
occurs to me after reading a letter of four
pages from my dear old stupid Huby. I
wish I was there to observe for myself!
. . .

It's disgusting to think that perhaps
Hilda will have a choice between Genest
of the Warrenage and Thorburn of Thor-burns,
county people both. One's an ass,
and the other's a brute ; and I don't know
which would make a sensitive girl most
miserable. But Hilda isn't sensitive, and
either of them would raise her into society,
with the money uncle can give. They
say now, too, that Mr. Thorburn is rich.
How disgusting ! . . . Write at full
length about the call, if it came off today.
I don't know what to think of

matters now, and I hope you will use
your dull old eyes. Coming back Is not

to be thought of at present

Mr. Mendel and his son have been here.
There Is to be a party of the Saints to
welcome Mr. Arthur, and they came to
ask us — I should say, to press us — for we
had our regular Invitation this morning.
Mamma made up her mind to accept, but
I meant to be 111 at the last moment. It
wouldn't be like dining at Mendel Hall,
if Brother Coffin and the rest were there.
But Mr. Arthur implored her to have
mercy upon him. He was almost pathetic,
and almost amusing, whilst mamma and
Mr. Mendel were whispering pious scandal.
So I believe I shall go. It's the first step,
you know. I told Mr. Arthur quite frankly
what I meant, for he's such a boy, and so
good-natured, too ! He vowed that if I'll
consent this once, the next time we shall be
invited to meet the county people. . . ."

This letter crossed one from Hubert.

. I told you Thorburn would
not waste time in furnishing his old barrack,
but he goes it with a vengeance. ' What
do I want at the upholsterer's ?' says he,
'and the jeweller's, and what else?' It
was all put down, and then we started to
choose. You'd have laughed to see the
inventory I made out, but when we got
home again just now there were not many
things amiss in the list of our purchases
I think. We haven't any riding-horses
yet, for Thorburn weighs near sixteen stone
in his stocking soles, and you don't find
the sort of animal he wants at Rowley.
But there isn't a man in England can give
him a hint in horseflesh. At this rate of
progress, I shall have earned my money in
two or three days at the outside. What
do you think he'll reckon it at ? Isn't the
business odd, altogether ? .

'* He's not a fool, you know. All we

bought at Rowley, or ordered, were things
that I could advise him about as well as
anyone ; plain, good furniture, wine, plate,
glass, linen and all that. By-the-bye, he
means to entertain like a prince, judging
by the quantity he's bought. When the
shop-fellow pointed out that anything might
be wanted In the way of plate, for Instance,
and I approved, ' Let me have a dozen,'
says Thorburn, ' or two dozen.' It was a
lark to see the men stare. I've a lot of
good stories for the folks of Shuttleton.

But he didn't go a step beyond necessaries
on a large scale. The black old hall
and the dining-room and the drawing-room
will be just as bare as ever. Thorburn
doesn't understand these things, and he has
the confounded Impertinence to see that I
don't understand them either. Even the
repairs and the re-building, roofs, outhouses,
and general touching-up, are to be only

tinker's work. The upholsterer has found
us a butler who's never served anyone
beneath a duke before ; they had a housekeeper
to match, but Thorburn seems to
have some Idea of his own about the housekeeper.


"We got back to lunch — for this beggar
is all over the shop by sunrise — having
spent, as near as I can add it up, eight
hundred and fifty-seven pounds, paid cash,
and exacted all the discount we could
get, besides ordering for at least four
hundred pounds more. There's money in
this digging, my love. I wanted a nap
bad, but I should have been ashamed to
confess it. Fancy my astonishment and
relief when Thorburn stretched his great
carcase along on a worm-eaten old chest
in the dining-room, and went to sleep
there and then without a syllable of
apology ! I can't find anything comfortable
to sit on, much more to lie on, so I

retired to my bed. Half-an-hour afterwards,
before I'd fairly dozed, he was
hammering at the door ! What anti-human
creatures they must be at the Cape,
if this is a fair sample ! But I told him
an English gentleman can't get to sleep
as easy as tossing off a glass of wine,
and he laughed. It almost seems to me
sometimes that Thorburn hasn't a proper
respect for the ' fine old English gentleman.'


"It was near four o'clock when we
got to uncle's house. He received us in
the Charter Room, just as cool and
friendly as ever, confound him ! I fancied
Thorburn was not at ease ; but the
fellow's so silent that one could not tell
for certain. Hilda did not show. I
asked after our friend George ; he'll be
downstairs tomorrow or next day, they
expect. We talked art and antiquities,
with particular reference to Thorburns,

and then uncle asked me to step outside
for a few minutes. I did so, of
course, and laid the old gentleman's
grapes under contribution for a .
When I got back, Thor-burn
was saying — ' Whatever be the Issue
I shall take no further steps unless something
else turns up. This Is the engagement.'
I was opening the door as
quietly as I could, but uncle stopped
him, and then he handed over some
drawings as If they were what Thorburn
had been referring to. What do you
think of that, my dear ? They are cool
hands, both of them, but they seemed
just a little excited.

Anyhow, it appears to be a fact that
nothing Is afoot In the matter we talked
of. So I suppose I may come home as
soon as Thorburn can dispense with my
valuable services."

It Is necessary to show the context of
the observation which Hubert overheard.
Mr. Esking brought out some views of
Thorburns, as it had been at different
dates, and, while Eldred pored over them,
asked his nephew to withdraw. Then he
spoke.

'' I suppose, Mr. Thorburn, that this
visit is intended as an acknowledgment
that you did me injustice?"

Eldred did not speak. For the first
time in his life he felt embarrassed — not
by doubt of his own meaning, but by
want of words to express it.

It is in that spirit I meet you, sir,"
Mr. Esking went on, after a pause. " I
can make allowance, and at my age,
occupying such a position as I do, I
can dispense with a formal apology. If
you wish for a renewal of the friendship
which existed between your uncle and
myself, I shall be flattered to grant it."

Eldred's lip curled, but the words did
not come. He rose and leaned against
the mantelpiece. Mr. Esking waited, with
the kindly smile upon his face just a little
drawn.

'' You give me a hope, sir, that what
I am going to say will not necessarily
break off the feeling which led me to pay
this second visit. For my suspicions, I
am bound to tell you that they remain
just what they were. What has happened
to change them ? Nothing that I know
of. The weeds have grown in my garden
walk, and the footsteps are smoothed out,
but I saw them and I traced them. Here
are two moulds from the castings which
the workmen took under my directions.
You may study them, and if they lead
you to identify the trespasser, I shall be
delighted beyond words. Then I will
apologise humbly. Here is the key of
your garden door. I have had a facsimile

made of it. Have you any explanation
?"

'' Then I must ask, Mr. Thorburn, why
you are here ?" The tone was not indignant,
but, upon the other hand, Mr. Esking
did not quail. This contradiction puzzled
Eldred, but he had other matters to view
just then.

I am here, sir, because — because I
have met your daughter. For her sake,
I abandon my resolve, and, so far as I
can, upon the evidence before me, my
suspicions. I let the matter fall "

This is a very strange proposition !
What am I to understand .^"

'' Understand that I mean to make an
effort to win your daughter ! With that
intent, I throw aside, I sweep out of
memory, the charges I made against her
father. They are done with ! I cannot
quite rule my intelligence, but I can
disregard it ! And that I do henceforth."

And you expect me to submit to
this?"

I Invite you."

The condition Is that my daughter
consents to be your wife ! I must "

'' No condition ! Whether Miss Esking
Inches to me or not, my word is given.
But, mark, sir, aofaln. Whether she consent
or no. If at the last moment new
evidence Is thrust upon me, I am bound
to receive It, and, If need be, to act. I
shall not seek such evidence, be sure ! I
would gladly join with you to suppress It,
If I could do so unknowingly. But when
It comes. If ever, against my wish, to prove
that you have done what now Is only a
suspicion, no hope and no fear will check
me."

I am amazed at your Insolent proposal,
Mr. Thorburn !" He was amazed,
In truth, but strongly inclined to agree.

"Think of it," said Eldred.

"In the first place I must inform you
that my daughter is engaged "

It was a moment before Eldred could
speak, and his voice was harsh. " I am
not quite sure that I understand. She
is engaged to be married .^"

Yes. But though Miss Esking were
free, that could not affect my own position
in the unheard of proposal you make.
Do you reckon me as nothing ?"

'you must put your own estimation on
your feelings, sir. I can do no more.
What you tell me is a shock, but I
withdraw not a particle of my engagement.
Let us meet on friendly terms,
and I ignore what is past. Think it
over, and if you accept, send me those
drawings of my house presently. Thus we
shall have no occasion for words — never
again, I earnestly hope, upon this question.
I shall put it out of my mind. Whatever
be the issue, I shall take no

further steps, unless something fresh turns
up. That is the engagement "

Here Hubert interrupted them, and
Mr. Esking made a gesture. He replied,
*' Under these circumstances, Mr. Thor-burn,
you bearing in your memory the
hints I have given, I put the drawings
at your service." Shortly afterwards the
visitors withdrew.

The next communication I insert was
never forwarded. Hubert wrote it after
receiving his wife's letter, from which I
have made some extracts.

''Thorburns, Saturday.

"My Dear Kate,

"Something happened this
morning which I must tell you at once.
When the postman brought your letter of
Friday, Thorburn was In the avenue,
and he took it. I saw him examine
the address carefully, and then he went
upstairs, returning with an empty envelope,

which he handed me, together with your
letter, saying, ' I believe that these are
both in the same handwriting.' They
were, but the empty envelope was
addressed to him at Mendel's. ' That's
the cover,' said Thorburn, 'of the anonymous
letter I received at Shuttleton.
The person who wrote it writes to you,
and I ask you who it is ?'

'' I denied it, and he dropped the
subject. But it was the same hand. You
did write, after promising not to act in
any way without my knowledge, and you
did deny that you had done so with
tears and protestations. It was a falsehood
from beginning to end ! We aren't
good people, and we don't profess to be;
but you might have trusted every word I
ever spoke to you, and I thought myself
equally secure in trusting your words tome.
I shall know better in future."

Hubert's temper rose more hotly as he

declared his grievances, and It led him
to conclusions not altogether unreasonable,
perhaps, but far beyond the circumstances.
A woman who tells falsehoods to her
husband may be capable of anything ;
the sequence Is not assured, however.
But this young man had learned certain
principles of savoir vivre which men
wiser and more experienced do not
always take to heart. It Is foolish to
show your hand In life, as at the
card-table. Angry words serve no good
purpose ever, but often enough they lead
to a catastrophe. If you learn another
person's secret, keep It vigilantly until
some occasion for profitable use turns
up.

These maxims are not practised by menin
dealing with a wife they love, even
by those who follow them religiously as a
rule of life. If Kate had been at hand,
her husband would have expressed his

Opinion of her conduct without regard to
prudence. But the postman did not call
again at Thorburns till evening ; before
that time Hubert had destroyed this letter,
and composed a fresh one, short and dull,
which made no reference to the incident,
'' Mendel Hall, Thursday.
My Dear Mrs. Fanshawe,

I have very sad news, which
I beg you to communicate to Hubert's
mother. My father was struck down an
hour ago with a kind of fit, which I am
afraid is apoplexy. This note will be carried
by the groom, who is going for Doctor
Lovegrove. I am in the deepest distress,
but I do not forget that you had promised
to honour us with your company tomorrow,
and I take the very earliest opportunity
to warn you, with deep regret, that the
pleasure I anticipated must be postponed.
Most sincerely yours,

'arthur L. Mendel."

VOL. IL M

*'My Dear Mr. Arthur,

'' We were grieved indeed
to get your note. You will not misunderstand
if I sent the groom back without
the answer he waited for ? An apoplectic
fit is a terrible thing — my poor father
died of it. Mamma is in a sad way.
Mr. Coffin has been here, and he prayed
beautifully for poor Mr. Mendel. I hope
the prayers of the congregation, or Dr.
Lovegrove's medicine, may do him good,
and that the pleasure which we anticipated
may not be long deferred.

"Sincerely yours,

Kate."

'' My Dearest Huby,

*' Mr. Mendel was seized with
apoplexy this morning, and so our presentation
at the Hall is put off. They say
to-night that it is a dreadful attack. Doctor
Lovegrove has not left him all day, but
he has not been able to bring the poor old

fellow back to consciousness. If he dies,
Mr. Arthur will make the money spin, I
fancy. Our first dinner at Mendel Hall
may be livelier than we expected. And
I hope I shall have my dear old stupid
Huby beside me.

'' Mr. Thorburn is a very tiresome man.
I don't understand a bit what he's after,
excepting that he's fallen in love. Even
so much wouldn't be clear If I hadn't taken
it for granted from the first that Hilda's
gigantic charms would fascinate him. What
could they have been talking of when you
came In ? Not about the drawings, I feel
sure. But it was uncle who asked you
to go outside. If Mr. Thorburn had done
so, one might guess what he wished to
speak about. It's horribly puzzling. I
am certain that his observation was connected
somehow with the Treasure, or with
Hilda, or with both. But how, I can't
conceive. .

Don't think of coming home yet, dear.
The longer you stay, the greater the obH-
gallon you put on Mr. Thorburn, since he
regards the matter in such a sensible point
of view.

Thorburns, Sunday.

'' . . . We went to church to-day at
Burnside. I didn't want to go, of course,
but Thorburn was quite astonished. He
doesn't pretend to be devout — and that's
judicious, for he's told me some stories
that would set Mr. Coffin's hair on end.
But it has never occurred to him that
shooting Inconvenient people is not becoming
to a religious man, and he could hardly
believe me when I said I felt no inclination
to go to church. So you may be
sure I patched the matter up In a hurry,
for it would never do to let him think mean
unsafe guide In the proprieties. The
bell had hardly begun when we arrived,
and we looked round the funny little building.

Thorburn has a big pew there, and
the walls are lined with his forefathers'
tombstones — a lot of them on the floor, too.
But there was not a single figure — statue,
I mean, and he got quite vexed about
it.

Mr. Esking came in, and Hilda, and
old Genest, and some big people. Thor-burn
never took his eyes off the parson,
but everyone else kept their eyes on
him. We had our backs to Hilda. I
didn't listen to the sermon at first, but
Thorburn's face warned me. The parson
never had such a chance before, and he
preached a sort of treatise on the resources
of Cape Colony, the fight at
Majuba Hill, the filllbusters, the Innocent
blacks, and I don't know what. It was
meant to be complimentary to Thorburn,
I suppose, for when we got outside he
came flying after us, and introduced himself.


'' ' I left a card at Thorburns,' said he,
bowing.

'' ' I will leave a card upon you, sir,'
said Thorburn.

' I hope we shall make acquaintance,'
said the parson. Thorburn turned, without
even a look, and wished uncle good
morning. I asked afterwards why he was
so cool. He said that the man talked
nonsense about the Cape, and he disliked
to hear a parson talk nonsense about
earthly things, because it might lead
people to think he talked nonsense about
religion. It's very plain to me that this
fellow is much the reverse of an ass. I
can't suggest any explanation of the
curious remark I overheard the other
day, but in a general sense you may
take it for certain that he knows jolly
well what he's about.

** Old Genest had joined uncle, and those
three walked on, Hilda and I following.

George will be up on Tuesday, and I
can't but think that the scene will grow
a little livelier then. I talked of Thor-burn,
but if Hilda has anything to say
about him, she keeps her own secret. All
I discovered is that she admires his strength.
It appears that Simmons, whom you
recollect, once stopped her horse and
behaved offensively, gave Thorburn an
opportunity of showing it. He was passing
at the time, and knocked the scoundrel
senseless with a flick of his open hand.
This seems to have impressed Hilda
awfully, but if she had any other feeling
in particular I couldn't make it out.

'* Old Genest tried a stroke of business,
though it was Sunday. His dog - cart
followed us to the gate of Little Thor-burns,
which he entered with uncle to visit
George. His last words were, ' Then I
shall hope to see you tomorrow ?' and
Thorburn agreed. The ancient leg has a

young horse, which, he says, will carry sixteen
stone Hke a bird. He shan't have
our money if I can help it, but I'm afraid
Thorburn will take no man's advice in
that matter. We go to the Warrenage
tomorrow.

'' After leaving them we turned back, to
visit an ancient pensioner of the Thor-burns'
— she's a hundred years old or thereabouts
— who nursed bygone generations of
the family. It seems that the cottage was
sold to Sir Philip Bohun awhile ago, and
Thorburn has been trying to buy it back
again. Sir Philip is not willing to sell,
and my eccentric patron has formed the
idea of taking this antique creature into
his service, to keep house at Thorburns.
She didn't laugh when he named it, but
sat trembling. Her grandson was there,
an honest-looking fellow, and he, of course,
highly approved the notion — it's the sort
of thing any honest grandson would like.

They went into it, the old woman sitting
silent. Godseff — that's the fellow's name —
declared that his grandmother could direct
an army of servants, and manage the
economy of a palace from her bed,
especially, he hinted, jf there was a
handy sort of chap beside her. Thorburn
said he had considered all that, and
offered Godseff the place of stud-groom.
There was a little girl also whom he
would educate.

So the men settled it, but the old
witch didn't jump at the offer. She said
she hadn't thought to see the old house
again, though it tempted her sadly to
die where she was born. And then we
were treated to a lot of stories about
one Thorburn and another Godseff, one
Godseff and another Thorburn, until I
got perfectly mixed. But her hero, it
seems, is a certain Hig — one can't forget
that name. I mean, a Hig Thorburn.

He ruled the roost when she was young,
and ruled it nobly, as I gather. It appeared
that Whig had something mysterious
to do with her acceptance of the proposal,
but what it was, neither Thorburn nor I
could make out. In the end, however,
the worthy centenarian decided to think
about it, consulting the spirit of Hig,
perhaps. She'll go, I bet. . . ."

*' My Dearest Huby,

'' Mr. Mendel did not recover
from the fit ; he never regained
consciousness, and died this morning. I
enclose Mr. Arthur's note to mamma.
You see what he asks. Mamma has
consented, of course, and we are just
going to the Hall now.

'you will come back in time for the
funeral, which, as at present arranged,
is tomorrow week. Don't leave Thor-burns
till the last minute. No time for
more."

Enclosure : —

*' Mendel Hall, Sunday.

My Dear Mrs. Fanshawe,

You have heard the sad
news. I am utterly lost, having no

relatives at hand to advise me, and so
many arrangements to make. Would you
come up ? I am most anxious to do
what my poor father would have wished
about the funeral. I think he would have
liked to be burled In the Parish Church,
after the Brethren had performed their
service here. Don't you agree with me ?
I am most Impatient to hear your opinion.
Pray come at once If you can.

'arthur L. Mendel."

'' My Dear Kate,

"I'm awfully sorry to hear of
old Jim's death. He was an amiable fossil.

'' Mother wrote me, as you know, doubtless,
on Sunday evening. I have not the
least objection to your stopping at the

Hall as long as you please. Make yourselves
as useful as you can, but leave
the consoling business to your elders, my
dear. Mother fondly thinks that Arthur's
heart Is touched with grace and all that.
She says he will be a shining light of
the congregation henceforward, and the
meetings of the Brethren will be held in
Mendel Hall — that will be their headquarters,
anyhow. I rather think the dear
old lady Is mistaken. But It will be your
fault If we don't gain a footing there.
Arthur can't cut us after this, and he
Isn't the man to try. You'll have your
wish yet, and mix with the county people.
As for the funeral, I need not wait
for that before returning home. The
whole business you are anxious about has
frizzled. Thorburn looked Into It, no doubt,
and found It a mare's nest. He's on
friendly terms with uncle, as I told you
yesterday — we walked from church together,

and they talked quite cheerfully. So dismiss
that matter. It's done with ! When
Thorburn has made up his mind, nothing
will move him. As for Hilda, I haven't
an idea how that goes on. We met heron
horseback to-day, coming back from
the Warrenage, and her gigantic charms,
as you call them, were more gigantic, sofar
as the charm goes, than ever. Thor-burn
jumped down — it's amazing how
active his great carcase is ! — and went to
her. I couldn't hear what passed, but
they laughed a good deal, and they kept
me waiting ten minutes. I asked him
afterwards, and he said they were talking
of old Genest. That venerable copper
made a good thing to-day. Thorburn
bought his horse, and ordered two more
upon the sample. I should have liked to
find something against it, but the animal
is a real beauty and no mistake. If I
had a mortal foe, who was not the best

rider in the world, I should like to see
him on its back ; but one couldn't mention
temper to Thorburn

'* By-the-bye, I forgot to tell you the
only words I overheard when Hilda and
he were talking. As he bade her goodbye,
he said, out aloud : ' Then I shall
be on the road tomorrow about this time,
and you can judge him for yourself.' He
was referring to the new horse, I suppose.

*' I want to get home, dear, and really
it's no use at all to stop. The Treasure
returns to its former mystery, until uncle
presents it, perhaps, as a wedding-present
to his son-in-law. We have done furnishing,
so far as Thorburn means to go at
present. I shall take the first opportunity
to tell him that I can be of no further
service."

Tuesday.
'' The friend who wrote
Mr. Thorburn at Mendel Hall did not tell

all he know. Ask Mr. Hubert Fanshawe
what his uncle proposed one night."

Eldred twisted this communication, lit a
match and burnt it. But his face was
dark.

GEORGE CONVALESCENT.

George Genest was a sort of a man to
drive doctors to despair at any time, but
the nature of this illness made him
peculiarly disagreeable. When the headache
had vanished and the bandages
had been removed, there was nothing, he
declared, save Bowring's obstinacy, to
prevent him leaving his bedroom. Two
men, or two stout women, could carry
him downstairs, and a sofa on the
ground floor is as wholesome, as comfortable,
as one on the upper storey,
and much more pleasant ; but the doctor
would not let him try it. This was
grievance enough, but worse remained.

Armstrong shaved him daily, and dressed
him down to the waist as completely as
if he had been going for a stroll.
George insisted on this, hoping every
hour that Hilda would pay a visit ; but
she never crossed the threshold. A
polite inquiry through the closed door,
morning and evening, was all her attention
to the patient. He wanted to tell
her that he was clothed, presentable and
bored to death, but he remembered
enough of their interviews after the
accident to feel a difficulty in assuming
a jocular vein. Besides, she knew the
fact very well. In his impatient rage,
George begged Mr. Esking to come up,
but when that gentleman arrived, his
presence was irksome, and his discourse
not amusing. Neither spoke on the subject
nearest their hearts, and the antiquary's
handsome, placid face irritated
George terribly. As his love for Hilda

VOL. IL N

returned with growing force, his hatred
for her father increased. So Mr. Esking
did not pay many visits.

The young man could have raved and
shouted In a paroxysm of nervous temper.
At no time are persons of his character
inclined to read for the sake of passing
dull hours away ; a distinct purpose
only compels their attention. Mr. Esking
had some law books, and George tried
to study, but his nerves were all ajar.
It would be almost possible, I think,
to upset such a mind completely If
circumstances like these were sufficiently
prolonged ; but the worthy Bowring was
no student of psychology, and he did
not abate an hour of prison.

The day came at length when George
was carried downstairs, and laid on the
sofa in Hilda's room. He had feverishly
pictured a scene of welcome. She would
amuse him and perhaps nurse him ; his

fancy was not too extravagant, and he did
not imagine Hilda much in the character
of a nurse. But she would be about,
passing to and fro, reading to him, possibly,
and talking. At the least, he would see her.

But when Armstrong and a gardener
had borne him down — George, manfully
resisting the temptation to curse their
clumsiness — Mr. Esking stood alone at the
stair foot. He offered his congratulations
with bland warmth, and led the way backwards,
anxiously advising the carriers. The
breakfast room also was empty. Before
they closed the door, George broke out,
^' Where is Hilda?"

Bowring had the inscrutable face of one
who holds many secrets, but he made a note.

'' I thought she was at home," Esking
replied, 'until they told me that Jennings
would be unable to assist you because he
had gone out."

'' That's a euphemistic way of putting it

that Miss Esking is off for a ride, I
suppose ? Confound it, Bowring, my leg
was right enough until you meddled with
it ! Now I experience the eternal fire
which is fed by good intentions !"

Not eternal, my boy, happily ! Send
him to bed by dusk at latest, Esking.
There's a deal of fever hanging about my
patient." The doctor withdrew.

"Hilda went out to avoid me! She
has avoided me ever since I entered your
house !"

*' That is not exactly surprising, George.
From what I learn, your manner towards
her was almost as strange as towards me
when you were struck down."

Oh, you and I understand each other,
Mr. Esking ! I want to know whether
Hilda's proceedings are suggested by you?"

'' The question would be offensive if I
did not see Bowring was right. You are
feverish."

*' Never mind that ! Answer !"

The only answer necessary is a question.
Did you ever hear that I broke
my word, or swerved from it one jot ?
They would tell you at Shuttleton that
bonds are a needless form in dealing with
me

We are not discussing transactions in
cotton ! I want to know why Hilda behaves
in this extraordinary way when she has promised
to be my wife ?"

And I say that you should know why
better than anybody. My daughter has a
spirit which you cannot even understand.
You insulted her, and she resents it. Take
care that you don't repeat the offence, or
you will have a final disaster."

The steady look, and the threatening
determination of the tone, impressed George.
He had half forgotten the view of Mr. Esking's
character which struck him so forcibly
on that memorable night. The same conviction

returned now, that this was a man
of iron, not to be influenced by threats, or
fears, or entreaties, one who saw his course
and followed it, though laws, human and
divine, forbade. There is no frame of mind
which so daunts and dominates the nervous
temper.

George replied, with weak irritation, "If
you tell me I'm In fault, I'll try to gain
pardon. I may count on your good-will,
sir :

"■ I have passed my word ; to repeat
it is useless. Hilda is my child. If you
can get her to forgive your silly and
offensive conduct, she will not draw back.
I don't say she will forgive it ! You have
a longer and harder task there. / don't

forget, George ! but the engagement

was made, you fulfilled your part, and it
is not a foolish word that could break it."

This cold-blooded reasoning moved him
to deeper disgust, but he was overawed.

'how shall I win Hilda's forgiveness?"
he asked, suddenly.

Not by explanations or arguments.
Throw yourself on her mercy, apologise
and apologise, until she cannot resist
your humble prayer. Subdue that womanly
temper of yours and give your brain a
chance ! Believe me, George, to use
brain is the only way to happiness or
success in the small affairs of life — keep
temper and thoughtlessness for great
occasions. The public forget and history
forgives, but your wife never overlooks a
sign of feebleness. To be anxious or
humble when you have given offence,
does not seem weak to a girl, but to
reproach her hysterically does, whether
you be right or wrong. Now I will
leave you. Hilda will return to lunch,
no doubt."

She did, but not punctually, and to
change her habit required more time than

usual. George meanwhile had pondered
Mr. Esking's old philosophy and mastered
it, for his intelligence was shrewd and
clear beyond the average, even of clever
men. Thus summoned, it proved equal
to the call, and he resolved that if abject
submission might restore him to his former
place with Hilda, it should not be wanting.
But he felt an eager curiosity to learn
Mr. Esking's history, the circumstances
which had formed his character, and the
experiences which had made him what
he was. George thought there must be
strange records in that life. But for my
part, I imagine that Mr. Esking had led
the commonplace existence of a tradesman,
successful beyond most, and certainly with
larger, more intelligent interests, than is
usual ; but no extraordinary facts, or
deeds, or sufferings had influenced his
mind in the way George thought. Such
as he was, so he was born. For the

lonely habits which had nursed a strange
disposition were innate.

Hilda came down at length, so majestic
in her young beauty that George felt the
task of begging forgiveness would be
simple, so far as he was concerned. She
congratulated him without embarrassment,
just as cordially as it might have been
in the days of their friendly acquaintance
no more and no less, took a seat, and
began lunch with frank and hearty appetite.

'' I hope you had a pleasant ride ?"
George commenced.

Very pleasant. Mr. Thorburn joined
me on his new horse. It's a beauty, but
rather vicious, I fear. How is it that your
father's horses are so queer-tempered, Mr.
Genest ?"

'' That's a tremendous question. I can
only say that we set them a pattern of
gentle bearing and philosophic composure
under the gravest of trials."

Mr. Thorburn bought his new horse
from the Warrenage ?" asked Mr. Esklng.

Yes. Do you know, papa, he means
to rebuild Thorburns according to the
sketches you lent him, to restore the
courtyard, with its buttressed enclosure,
the banqueting hall, and everything ; and
he's going to make Mrs. Godseff his
housekeeper."

She is a genuine antiquity, at least.
The other projects are of doubtful taste.
Does he intend to complete the wall as
it originally stood, with corner towers to
match those at the gateway ?''

So I understand."

Mr. Esking did not pursue the subject.
Presently George said, " Wasn't Mr.
Thorburn a fillibuster at home ?''

'' No," replied Hilda, without emphasis,
he bought some land from a fillibuster
and lived on it."

That nice distinction would not be

accepted in law, I'm afraid. Somebody
told me also that he had been a private
soldier !"

Volunteers they were called, I believe."
Hilda's tone of unaffected coolness could
not rouse jealousy, but George thought
it too indifferent. He felt a shadow of
suspicion that she did not consider him
worthy to debate the career and character
of Mr. Thorburn.

'' Anyhow, he's a very fine fellow, I
hear."

"A very big fellow, George," said Mr.
Esking, and if he has any good in his
composition there must be many cubic
inches of it up and down. I should say,
without hesitation, that Thorburn owns a
variety of qualities most useful to one who
buys land in an enemy's country and lives
there. I do not know how they will
serve him as a country gentleman in our
peaceful neighbourhood."

'' I should think," said Hilda, calmly,
"that it's a good thing in itself to be
brave, and strong, and ready of resource,
whatever a man's circumstances may be."

"No doubt. But those virtues unredeemed
are apt to make a man a bully,"
George answered.

Then his soul does not match his
body, and he is not brave in the sense
I meant."

Mr. Thorburn, I suppose, is complete
harmony — body, soul and spirit ?"

Hilda looked at him. " Why do you
suppose so ?"

Thus fixed, he laughed uncomfortably.
It was a stupid way to put a question.
You know, Miss Esking, people of the
county who are unacquainted with the
new-comer may well feel curious about
him. I only wished to get information."

We are all in your case." said Mr.
Esking, "but he is a man not easily

understood. Don't you think so, my
dear ?"

I have not thought about It," Hilda
replied, briefly. " But it seems to me
that one could not readily find a simpler
character."

'then expound it for us, dear child."

I meant that it was easy to read, not
to define." Both men silently agreed to
drop the subject.

'' I hope I shall see you occasionally now,
Miss Esking," George resumed. "The
cheering effect even of your voice is lost
in transmission through a key-hole."

I intend to pass the afternoon at home.
If Dr. Bowring allows you to lie in the
verandah I will amuse you as well as
I can."

Bowring is desperately stupid if he
does not understand that your society will
do more good than a hurricane or an
arctic frost could do harm. Send for

your myrmidons, Mr. Esking, please. I
am going for a promenade on my sofa."
But he was not pleased. It would
be impossible to speak to Hilda as he
wished in view of passing gardeners, and
overheard perhaps by a lingering housemaid.


The men carried him out, and presently
she rejoined him. Mr. Esking went to
his studies, and Hilda seated herself,
perfectly idle, beautiful and composed.
Other girls would have brought work, ora
novel at least, if only to give themselves
a countenance in bearing company with a
young invalid of the male sex. Such a
thought did not occur to her. She needed
no occupation ; and as for countenance,
never in life had Hilda felt such anxiety
about herself, or care what others might
be saying, thinking, or judging, as to fear
embarrassment. She sat in calm content,
eating the air," as Orientals say, absorbed

in the joy of perfect health and mind
untroubled.

The embarrassment was all on George's
side, and as he watched her it grew painful.
To possess such a lovely creature, so
strange and so noble of disposition, was
well worth the risk of life. He had received
her promise but ten days before, and had
thrown it away in a fit of madness ! What
abject words could he find to recover the
lost position ? For George did not mistake.
She took it quietly for granted that the
brief and inchoate engagement had come
to a silent end.

*' I have to beg your forgiveness for my
conduct that day. Miss Esking. I was
delirious with pain."

"Then don't recall it."

'' But I must, to set myself right before
you. I said what I did not mean ; what
I would have died rather than say, If I
had possessed my reason ! It was no less

than madness ! I to insult you, Hilda, to
drive you from me, when a few hours
before "

I think it is unnecessary to mention
that."

I feel indeed that I am not worthy to
mention it until you pardon me ! How can
I move you ? You do not believe I could
so act or speak if in possession of my
senses ?"

''If you are serious in asking that, Mr.
Genest, I am bound to declare that your
memory seems astonishing under the circumstances.
I have understood that persons
do not recollect, after regaining consciousness,
what they said or did in a delirium."

*' In some cases memory remains to
torment the sufferer."

'' We will consult Dr. Bowring on the
question."

Can you mock me ? It is more than
enough to refuse forgiveness."

But I do not refuse, Mr. Genest. I
forgive you with all my heart."

** But — no more than that ?"

'' I don't pretend to misunderstand you.
Please say no more."

I must ! If you really forgive, we
resume the position towards each other
which you granted that night before going
to Bohun Castle."

Then if you insist, I must say that
the position was destroyed by your own
act— -

But unconsciously, Hilda !"

A rough voice interrupted him. " Could
I have a word with you, miss ? Sorry to
intrude, I'm sure, but yon Armstrong
wouldn't show me in regular. Good afternoon,
Mr. George."

It was old Simmons. 'rare you quite
sober ?" Hilda asked.

** Oh, ay ! Ain't tasted a drop since
you know when, miss. A sailor man's

VOL. IL o

never too old to learn, and I had a
caution that day. I'm come to beg your
pardon humbly for the same, and to
swear I was out of my senses, or I'd
never have spoke so to a young lady as
is beautiful as a hanged and better nor
gold."

'* What's this ?" George asked.

Hilda answered gravely, but with a
laugh in her eyes. " Simmons was rude
to me the other day, and he urges in
excuse that he was delirious or something.
Very well, Simmons. I accept the apology."

Thank ye, miss. It's what I expected
of your good heart. But there's another
thing."

Again ? Well ?"

*' Mr. Thorburn's dismissed me, and he's
cruel hard. I've served him and his, faithful,
this five years, and I've lost property,
as you know — them dogs. But he won't
make no allowance. ' You be off,' says

lie, ' and here's a month's wages, and goto
the devil !' Ay, when he'd knocked
me down for it, too ; a blow as could
drop a bullock, which I feel it now, in
the buzzing of my head all hours of the
day and night likewise. It ain't just to
hammer a man and give him the sack
afterwards. I ask you, Mr. George, asa
counsellor."

'the law does not admit two punishments
for one offence." He was glad to
escape further reference to the analogy
between Simmons' case and his own.

There, miss ! You hear what the law
of the land says ! Mr. Thorburn has no
right to go again' the Constitution."

*' I don't think he cares much about the
Constitution. What do you want me todo
?"

'just to tell him I've asked your
pardon humbly, and you've been so good
as to say I'm kindly welcome — that is "

I'll do that, when an opportunity
occurs."

'' And to ask him to take me back, as
porter — he'll want a porter from all I hear
or anything an honest, well-conducted
sailor man can do."

I have not the slightest claim to
make any request of Mr. Thorburn. To
forgive is my own affair. But that's
all."

'why, miss, he wouldn't refuse you,
not if you asked for Thorburns, he
wouldn't. Make your mind easy about
that. Just a word, or a look might doit,
and I'd be grateful, miss. I would
indeed ! It's starvation for a poor man
to be out of work, and I've no friends
here. Come, now. Miss Esking, do a
good turn for once !"

'you clumsy scoundrel!" George said,
bitterly laughing. " Here's half-a-sovereign
for you. Now go. Of course, Miss

Esking cannot ask such a thing of a
stranger."

"Armstrong will give you another half-sovereign
if you apply to him this
evening."

'you won't help me, miss?"

'' Not in the way you ask."

Simmons argued the matter again,
but uselessly. George grew angry, and
threatened to summon a gardener insight.


"You mind your own business, George
Genest ! Well, I'm going! Take back
your forgiveness, miss, for I take back
my apology. We start fair again — the
score's rubbed out. I say no more nor
that ! Maybe we'll re-open the account
one day, if we live !" He then withdrew.

"A desperately ill-conditioned veteran,"
said George. "You must give up your
lonely rides so long as he stays in the
neighbourhood, Hilda."

The tone and the Christian name implied
a peculiar interest, almost a right
to advise her movements, and it was not
used unconsciously. She made a resolute
protest.

I have given up my lonely rides
already. Don't misunderstand, Mr. Genest,
if I beg you to resume your former way
of speaking to me now you are almost
convalescent."

That is to rob me even of a desperate
hope "

If so, it would be better."

They sat silent for awhile. '' How horribly
calm you are !" George broke out.

"I try to set you a good example,
Mr. Genest."

Armstrong arrived with the cards of
Sir Philip Bohun, his lady, and their
eldest son.

'ego and tell Mr. Esking," Hilda said,
as she rose.

'' I beg pardon, miss, did you authorise
Simmons to ask me for half-a-sovereign ?"

'eyes, to-night."

"He spoke very unhandsomely of you
and master, miss."

'' I dare say. Give him the money when
he calls."

May I tell Armstrong to invite these
people to join us here ?" said George.
*' They are very old friends of mine."

'' But not of ours. However, bring Mr.
Genest's message, Armstrong, when I have
received them. We thus escape responsibility,
you know."

She withdrew, but returned presently
with the visitors. While they greeted
George, and asked after his health, chairs
were brought.

Now, tell us all about it," said Sir
Philip, seating himself. " Miss Esking
doesn't appear to know how the accident
took place."

"appear' is a weak expression," said
her ladyship, merrily. " So far as I can
judge. Miss Esking has not an Idea upon
the subject."

George saw what It meant, young Bohun's
presence aiding his shrewdness. That
gentleman was not fond of paying calls ;
he had submitted for an object. And,
again, he was not quick nor enterprising ;
but If It were made quite clear that Hilda
had not troubled to bear In mind the
details of an accident In which a lover
had nearly lost his life, the dullest of
human beings could draw the conclusion
that her heart was fancy free in that
direction.

This Is the first day I have seen Miss
Esking," George said, "since I entered
the house."

It was an explanation, but Hilda spoilt

it.

"The fact is. Lady Bohun," she said,

"that I'm prosaic beyond anything you
could imagine."

*' Oh, prosaic !" Sir Philip interrupted,
gallantly, and his son snorted.

"I am indeed! When I find a man
upon the highway with a broken head and
a damaged foot, who tells me he was
thrown out of a trap, further questions
seem unnecessary to my mind. I do
what I can for him, and I ride to fetch
a doctor."

'* How very curious !" smiled Lady
Bohun.

I should call yours a practical mind,
not prosaic," Sir Philip observed.

'' And the practical mind is everything !"
his son added.

But afterwards ?" said her ladyship.
'' When the doctor has reported, and the
patient gives no further anxiety, you do
not feel inquisitive at all ?"

Mr. Esking had arrived.

I don't think my daughter exactly
knows what you mean by inquisitive,"
said he. " Not by her own experience,
at least."

** Oh, paragon and phoenix of the age !"
Sir Philip exclaimed. " In the presence
of my wife, Mr. Esking, I cannot forbear
to say that 1 envy you such a
daughter."

"It may comfort you to learn that she
has the defects of her qualities, as the
French say."

"Only a father's eye can see them,"
replied her ladyship, politely, and young
Bohun snorted once more ; it was his
way of expressing assent when words
failed him.

Hilda felt that this subject had lasted
long enough. She said —

Now that the question has been
raised, Mr. Genest, curiosity overwhelms
me. How did it happen ?''

George would have dearly liked to
punish her in some pretty way that
would not have been painless by any
means, to make her sympathise with
his irritation and suffering. But all
pressed him to tell the story — of course
he had it pat.

While the party discussed this Incident,
Armstrong re-appeared, announcing Mr.
Thorburn and Mr. Fanshawe.

"Oh, we are thrice favoured!" Lady
Bohun cried. "This is quite the most
charming day of my life !"

Shall I ask them to come here ?"
Mr. Esking said. " Hubert Fanshawe is
a nephew of mine."

"If I may speak, I would implore you
to entreat them ! All the county Is
excited about this young man. Sir
Philip has called, for we have some
business relations with Mr. Thorburn, but
he was not in. A most extraordinary

person, isn't he ? The Thorburns were
always odd, Indeed."

Eldred's appearance stopped her ; a
glimpse of his huge frame made her
ladyship finish with a smothered ''Oh!"

George watched as keenly as circumstances
allowed, for the gentlemen had
risen, but he saw no grounds either for
comfort or dismay. Eldred was not yet
at ease in presence of a dame so conspicuously
fashionable as Lady Bounce
bowed on introduction with a grace
and composure beyond cavil, as young
men well-proportioned and untroubled with
self-consciousness must bow. But it
seemed equally natural to hold out his
hand, and though the lady's astonishment
was hardly perceptible, though she promptly
laid her palm in his with cordial frankness,
he noted his own error. Such slips
are felt by men of Eldred's training,
with whom the code of etiquette, however

rough, is gravely regarded. Though
his sunburnt face betrayed no emotion,
the incident disturbed him, and his eyes
had not the look, when he turned to
Hilda, which perhaps they might have
worn.

I trust, Mr. Thorburn," said Sir
Philip, 'that I was the first neighbour to
welcome you home, so far as a card can
express welcome."

I think you were, sir. My house is
not yet fit to receive visitors."

"The representative of your ancient
family need not trouble about his house,"
said Lady Bohun, courteously. " I hope
you are not going to make much alteration
.^"

Not a stone nor a stick, madam ! I
shall rebuild the parts that have been
taken down — no more."

Mr. Esking said : " You propose to
restore the courtyard and the towers ?"

That is easy, but the banqueting hall
perplexes me. I came to ask whether
there are not old people who remember
it."

Plenty," Sir Philip exclaimed. '' Pve
been through it many a time in your
grandfather's day, and I'm not the oldest
inhabitant of these parts. It was In bad
repair, but the walls and the roof stood
almost perfect then."

'ein these restorations you may find
the Treasure yet," said Lady Bohun,
laughing.

Thorburn looked at Mr. Esking carelessly.
That gentleman's smile was unconstrained
and benevolent as ever. Then,
as It chanced, his eye fell on George ; and
it rested.

The latter was physically unable to repress
the display of emotion. Conscious
of embarrassment, he cried —

Suppose you put down your recollections

of the banqueting hall, Sir Philip ?
Here is paper and pencil."

I am no artist, my boy ; but I think
I could manage that in a fashion. The
door stood here. There was a large window
at this end, looking on the Gate
Towers and the lawn — you know, Mr.
Thorburn, the courtyard had been turfed,
long before. At the other end — let me
see ! That looked down on the Pool Dam.
I remember so much "

Why, of course It did, Philip, if the
one end gave on the Court."

"Yes; I'm not sure about the window
there. And I remember a gallery — over
the door. Yes ; it was over the door —
at least, I think so. And opposite to It
were some windows, I couldn't say how
many, but several. They were a good
height above the floor. Some worm-eaten
tables stood beneath them ; I'm sure about
the tables, because they had names and

dates carved on them — all the Thorburn
boys, for I don't know how long, had kept
a registry there. I don't think there was
any more furniture. Ton my soul, Mr.
Thorburn, I'm afraid my reminiscences won't
help you much !"

*' And they are not quite exact even
so far as they go," George said, laughing.
" The pictures prove that there
were three windows at the courtyard
end."

'' But Sir Philip's recollection is not
untrustworthy," said Mr. Esking. *' The
three windows were so close together
that they produced the general effect of
one."

*' We will comfort ourselves with that
explanation," said her ladyship, rising.
Philip, I charge you not to commit yourself
further. Failure of memory on a
husband's part reflects upon his wife, when
they are well-matched in years, and as

for that scrawl designed for a sketch, it
is unbecoming in the last degree. Good
day, Miss Esking ; Mr. Thorburn, I
trust you will not wait until your own
house is furnished before coming to see
ours."

The Bohun party withdrew, and Mr.
Esking attended them to the gate. When
he came back, Hilda had gone Indoors,
and Hubert was keeping up a desultory
conversation with Genest. Eldred rose
to meet him, and they strolled down the
garden.

^' I find, Mr. Esking," said he, "that
people's memories cannot be trusted in
this matter. Mrs. Godseff lived nearly
fifty years in my house, and she entered
the banqueting hall every day, perhaps,
during that time ; but her description is
not much more useful than Sir Philip's.
You didn't see it, I believe, but everyone
tells me that there's not a man on the

VOL. IL p

country-side who knows so well what it
was likely to have been. With the drawings
and the bits of recollection I can
gather, you might be able, perhaps, to
make it out."

I shall be pleased to try. Come and
dine with us tomorrow. We'll talk things
over." Eldred hesitated.

Or any night," Mr. Esking added.

One night is the same as another,
sir, if we know how we stand. Among
people where I was raised, to break bread
jn a man's house is no light matter.
Circumstances may still arise betwixt us
two which would make it uncomfortable
for me to think I had sat to meat under
your roof."

I quite understand," said Mr. Esking,
with a smile. '' If you accept the invitation
it is without prejudice — a legal
phrase which exactly fits your situation."
'well, I thank you. But you should

know that the person who wrote before
is not letting the matter rest. I have
heard again."

'rand what does he say."

'' I shall not act on his hint. If information
comes to me I have no choice, as
you perceive ; but I shall not seek it.
That's how we stand."

A strange position, Indeed ! If my
conscience were not clear I could not
endure It, Mr. Thorburn ; but a man
assured of his innocence can laugh at
your singular way of dealing. Therefore,
I repeat my Invitation. It appears that
I have a more bitter and more unscrupulous
enemy than I had thought.
The best way to baffle him, as I am
vain enough to think, Mr. Thorburn,
is to make you acquainted with my
character."

'' It is a great pleasure to dine at
your house. If you ask me again, sir,

knowing exactly my views, I shall not
decline."

*then I expect you tomorrow."

RESTORED.

Will you let Armstrong prepare me for
dinner in the Charter Room ?''

Certainly — a good idea ! By-the-bye,
I have asked Thorburn to come in tomorrow
night. You will keep us company ?"

I hate the lout ! No, my bedroom is
the pleasantness place when he is on the
premises."

Nothing more was said until the sofa
had been carried into Mr. Esking's
sanctum, and George, with Armstrong's
assistance, had made himself neat. Then
he told how Hilda took his apologies.

Mr. Esking was not much alarmed.
' I think I can persuade her," he said.

It's unnecessary to counsel you as to
your manner to-night. Leave us early."

George was a good actor when he could
forget his self-consciousness, and very little
make - believe was needed here. The
bearing, thoughtful and timorous, but not
undignified, which touched Hilda somewhat,
was not affectation. He would not
have behaved so if Mr. Esking had not
given him a hint, but when summoned
to reflect, George saw at once the line
that would become him. Soon after
dinner he retired.

'' I did not think you such an unforgiving
child," Mr. Esking began, pleasantly,
when father and daughter were alone.

'' About Mr. Genest ? I forgive him
freely, but no more. He asks me to
forget, and I can't do so."

But, dear, when I join my entreaties
to his?"

** No, papa ! I don't talk as girls do

in books. I think I couldn't if I tried.
But to marry Mr. Genest would be to

tell a falsehood. I don't love him

that doesn't matter seriously, perhaps, for
few women love their husbands "

'really, Hilda! But go on."

'' Why they can't unless they're idiots !
How many women do you know, papa,
who could possibly have loved their
husbands, beyond liking, if that ? I don't
know one ; but my acquaintance is small."

'' You are acquainted with Kate, my
dear."

"Oh! It's my belief that her warmest
feeling for Hubert is just not dislike.
But we may let romantic devotion go.
I could not honour Mr. Genest, and to
obey him is a ridiculous idea. Therefore,
papa, it would be all a falsehood together,
and of course I reject it."

Mr. Esking felt relieved now ; Hilda's
sentiment upon the matter did not go

beyond disinclination. " But you saw all
this before ?" he said, smiling.

No. I took it for granted that he
was brave and resolute, worthy to be
honoured and even obeyed. As for love,
I had reached my conclusion on that
point long ago."

'' I hope it has not changed ?"

There was the faintest possible hesitation
in Hilda's reply, as though the
words struck her with a new thought.
But she answered, " Not at all."

It comes to this, then, that you do
not find George as strong and as determined
as you would wish ?"

'' I find him far beneath that. A
healthy girl would be ashamed to give
way as he did, to cry out and swear,
and lose all sense of dignity, because he
had a headache and a sprained ankle."

You have appealed to my acquaintance
with human beings. I am very sorry to

confess, my child, that most men would
act as George did — or worse."

Hubert would not, papa — nor Mr.
Thorburn."

So you think ; but remember that
you would not have suspected George of
such weakness. It's a sound rule to give
no man credit as an exception until you
have proved him to be so."

Do you mean that Mr. Thorburn
could behave as Mr. Genest did under
any circumstances ?"

I stake my experience of life that
he would."

"I can hardly believe you, papa! What
wretched creatures men must be !"

After a moment's pause, to give this
blow its effect, Mr. Esking resumed —

"They are wretched creatures, Hilda.
If you wait for the husband whom you
can honour for bravery of this sort beyond
the average, you will never marry. Love

and obedience we have agreed to put by
as mere conventional ways of speaking.
I believe you like George ?"

"Oh, yes, I did formerly — as well as
anyone, that Is.

'' Then, my child. If I ask you on
my own account. In fulfilment of a very
earnest wish of mine, to put aside these
views of fanciful Inexperience, to replace
George Genest in the position you granted
him but ten days ago, will you refuse
me :

But, papa — are you really anxious I
should do so ? I would rather not, Indeed
very, very much rather not !"

The victory was won. It Is needless
to pursue the conversation further. When
Mr. Esking left her Hilda had consented,
and George, lying sleepless upstairs, received
the brief assurance at midnight that
all was re-arranged. Next day, before
lunch, she confirmed the report, at his

trembling Inquiry, but It was done In few
words, delivered from a distance, without
a blush. Hilda could not speak on such
a theme with eyes downcast or looking
aside. She met his gaze full, but then
her glance wandered absently to the sunlit
lawn beyond. If the former assent had
been listless, the renewal was cold even
to scorn. After giving it she left the
room, and George saw her walk down
the garden path, weariness in every line
of her graceful figure. He vehemently
cursed once more the accident which tied
him to a couch. So ungrateful man
ignores the kindly ways of Fate. Had
George been able to plead upright, with
the expressions and gestures which the
use of the limbs allow, to stop her In
leaving him or to follow, the consent
would never have been given, or would
have been ruthlessly withdrawn.

During luncheon, as it chanced, Mrs.

Godseffs little girl came to beg Hilda's
presence at the cottage, and thus she
escaped for the afternoon. It was a dull
day for George, and worse than dull, for
he could not flatter himself that the engagement
was willingly restored. Coyness
does not go such lengths, and moreover,
Hilda was not coy. He knew that honour
and even prudence commanded him to decline
an enforced consent, but his was not
the nature to follow such counsel against
his feverish desires. She loved no one
else ; he could and would make her love
him.

After waiting hours In the verandah,
George abandoned hope for the day, and
caused himself to be taken upstairs. He
was no longer jealous of Thorburn — not
actively, at least ; but he could not bear
to meet that gaze of stern Inquiry, and
the chances of a reference to the Treasure.

The guests arrived, and dinner was

always punctual, exact, and orderly, and
handsome, like all else in Mr. Esking's

household. He had received that day a
communication from one of the first authorities
in Holland, a satan of European fame,
and it was not vanity which led him to
display it at the table. The letter had
reference to a comparison of dialects ; it
was written in Dutch patois, but even
Hubert could understand it almost, so
near the words approached to English.

Eldred was interested, but the compliment
to Mr. Esking unfortunately did not
have the desired effect on him. He had
never heard of this great personage, and
life upon the veldt does not foster an
impulse of reverence for abstract distinctions.
But it led him to talk, and ina
grave way he talked well.

Hubert was utterly at sea all evening.
He could listen with delight to stories
of shooting and fighting in South Africa,

such as Eldred told sometimes to amuse
his guests, but debates on the ethics,
language, or sentiments of the Boer or
Kaffir were profoundly wearisome, and soit
came to pass that he drank a great
deal of wine. Mr. Esking had produced
his finest vintages, and Hubert had a
fatal gift of appreciation there. When
they rose after dinner to discuss the
business of the evening, he was in that
lively mood when the wit is out.

Hilda had left them a few minutes
before ; she was coming down as they
passed the stair foot.

"You are going into the garden?" Mr.
Esking asked.

'eyes, papa. It's such a dreadfully hot
night."

I felt it so, indeed," said Eldred.
'will you allow me to walk out with
you ?"

If you like," she answered, laughing

softly ; the expression was so like that
of an honest groom paying court to a
nursery-maid pour le don motif.

Mr. Esking did not approve. " Pray
remember, Mr. Thorburn," he said,
sharply, 'that I am waiting to talk
over your project."

"I do not forget, sir," and Eldred
strolled off into the garden. The others
sought the Charter Room.

When an uncle in bad humour, and a
nephew possessed with a grievance who
has taken too much wine, fall into talk,
they should be careful about the topic.
That which turned up seemed innocent
enough at first. After lighting churchwardens,
Hubert spoke of Mr. Mendel's
death, bragged of the singular respect
which the heir was paying to Mrs.
Fanshawe, senior ; mentioned that he
was going to the funeral, and perhaps
would not be able to visit Little Thor-burns

again. Then he diverged to
Eldred, making no secret of the fact
that his visit was a business transaction,
for which he expected liberal pay, and
cheerfully demanding how much he thought
Eldred would give.

'' I hope, at least," said Mr. Esking,
viciously, "that It will be enough to enable
you to discharge something of the I.O.U.
I hold of yours."

Hubert flamed up. '' I understood, sir,
that the I.O.U. was to be reckoned for
the benefit of your estate against the
legacy I am down for In your will."

I never encouraged such an Idea."

'' Perhaps you will say that you never
encouraged the belief that a legacy was
left to me ?''

I never said such a thing."

'' You told me distinctly that you had
provided for me In your will — handsomely !"

*' Well, and have I not ?"

'' No, you have not ! It doesn't matter
how I know. My name is not mentioned
in the document from beginning to end !
I see your game clearly enough, uncle !
To keep my mouth shut about a proposal
you made in this room, the hope of a
thumping legacy was held out to me, and,
to close it tighter, you lent me money on
an I.O.U. I don't mean to pay it, and
I defy you to bring the matter into
court."

'' You do ?" Mr. Esking returned in a
low voice, white with passion. " Then I
take up the challenge."

'' I'll meet you half way ! Thorburn
shall hear to-night "

The door burst open and Hilda appeared.
*' Mr. Thorburn is hurt, papa ! Send for
the doctor at once !"

There's no hurry, Mr. Esking. I
would rather you turned out your people
if you have any stout fellows at hand,
VOL. II. Q

to look for Simmons, who has given mea
little cut."

While bells rang and servants hurried,
while Eldred took off his coat with a
smiling apology, and Hubert examined an
ugly wound in the very joint of his
shoulder, I may tell what had happened.

The young people began their stroll,
walking up and down the terrace. It
was a lovely night, very warm for the
season, moonless, but clear. The lights
from Charter and dining - room, threw
flaring streams across their path at either
end. They spoke of the stars, naturally.

"I suppose," said Hilda, "that our sky
is not less dull at night to you than at
noonday ?"

I do not see any difference on an
evening like this. But in South Africa
we expect such a glow, and here It is
the exception, I think."

'' What a strange life you have led .

Mr. Thorburn. Doesn't It seem curious
to feel that you are beyond the reach of
peril and adventure now, absolutely safe
whether you walk abroad or go to sleep ?"

I confess It does not. No man
prefers a life of danger— that Is, no man
who was brought up to It. We were
amused a good deal by the young officers
who came out during the war. They
were so anxious for a fight, or what
they call a sensation. All had enough
for their lives, I think," he added,
laughing to himself, "before It was over."

She remembered what Mr. Esking
said the night before. " I thought all
men liked peril — at least, all true men."

'' I do not know very much of men,
other than those I have lived with. I
think they were true — at least, they were
brave, and they had been In danger
night and day for a great part of their
lives. And we did not like It, Miss

Esklng. We took what came, and we
defended our goods, but we would much
rather have dwelt In peace."

Like shopkeepers."

'' Like honest men. We had our
families and our affairs. It Is that, Miss
Esklng, which newspaper writers and
other Englishmen do not understand.
They say we killed people needlessly —
why not carry on war In a civilised and
chivalrous fashion ? Simply because we
wanted to get It over In the first place;
and In the second, because skellum Kaffirs
marauding round upset our arrangements
for a quiet life. We put them out of
the way."

I understand. You went Into danger for
profit, and fought on business principles."

'that's it."

She looked up In his face as they
traversed the zone of radiance from the
Charter Room, where Hubert was just

then discussing the result of Mr. Mendel's
death, and said : "I can hardly believe
it, Mr. Thorburn. You, at least, had the
excuse of an adventurous spirit, or why
did you leave your village ?"

Because I was young and inexperienced,
like those English officers I spoke of —
or, I may say, like you, Miss Esking.
A man learns to understand himself
quickly when every day brings its lesson,
and every night tells him what a poor,
helpless creature he is."

"Then you were afraid — that's what
you mean ? I would not have believed
it!"

Perhaps they would not believe it on
the frontier," he said, smiling. " But I
tell you the truth. I wished myself out
of the scrape just as regularly as nightfall."


"Then why did you not leave?"

I couldn't say. Because it was not

worth while to pack, I think. Imagine
such a night as this upon the veldt, alone
with servants who might be the first to
shoot you from behind, encircled, perhaps,
by foes who close in, crawling from
shelter to shelter in the withered grass —
oh, it was grand !"

"Then it was grand?"

At first ! But when the risk was
hourly, it became a dull and familiar
nuisance. We felt tempted to dismiss it
as a bore, but now and again we had a
bloody warning that kept us alive. And
then we could not be always on the
watch. One must sleep, Miss Esking."

Yes, for a woman it would be terrible,
but I cannot believe you were afraid."

You mean that none of us were afraid T

No. I have learned that some men
are cowards, or nervous, at least. But
you are not."

Eldred's face glowed, but they had left

the terrace, unconsciously, and were strolling
through the dark shrubberies.

I cannot be persuaded," Hilda went
on, " that you will live contentedly at
Thorburns, like Mr. Genest at the War-menage,
or Sir Philip at the Castle."

'' I should live content there for ever,
with you beside me !"

Mr. Thorburn !" She could say no
more. She did not even turn, but hurried
forward, so utter was her surprise.

'* This is no sudden thought. I could
have said so much at our first meeting,
had I dared. And it is no passing thought.
Whatever you reply, I shall love you, and
only you, as long as I live. No one
knows so well that I am unworthy of you,
Miss Esking. I am only a rough Africans,
without manners or accomplishments
that should become a gentleman of
my name, but I can love and, perhaps,
in the hope of winning you, I can change

myself. I will, if you give me the
hope."

I would not have you change, Mr.
Thorburn — but I have no right to speak.
I must not listen, either, for I am not
free."

'' Not free ? Your father said something !
Well ! I am too late ?"

She did not reply.

I suffer, Miss Esking ! But I mean
that your husband shall be my friend, if
he has need of friendship. My life is yours
without exchange. I gave it, not asking
return, and this answer makes no difference."

You shame me with your nobleness !"

*' Don't say that ! It is foolish to suppose
that I can prove my words. The husband
you have chosen is above any help of mine.
Will you tell me who he is ?"

Hilda could not name George Genest,
it was too humiliating. " Don't ask me !"
she cried, passionately.

You do not think I mean him harm ?
I vow to you, Miss Esking "

"I do not suspect you Oh, don't

press me !"

Eldred pondered. " I know you are
incapable of speaking falsely, even from a
kind motive. But your father approves,
as I understood ? He must be more worthy
than I am ! Why will you not give his
name ?"

'' I'll give you the name, sir, if that's a
service. George Genest it is !" Simmons
came out from the shrubbery.

What are you doing here .^"

"No offence, Mr. Thorburn, I assure
you ! I snowed Miss Esking takes a walk
here by nights, and I just ventured to ask
her respectful had she give that there
message ? The young lady will tell you
herself."

This man asked me to let you know
I forgave his conduct the other night."

There was more nor that. Miss "

"Which I refused to denver, Simmons,
and I refuse again."

Well, It makes no odds ! Miss Esking
grants me pardon, sir, and I humbly ask
you to take me back."

"It seems to me you are a desperate
scoundrel, and I advise you to leave this
country-side quick. You are here for no
such harmless object as to ask this lady a
question. Be off!"

''Be off! That's the word. Is It .^"

'' Perhaps he Is armed ! Oh, let him go,
Mr. Thorburn?"

'' Didn't you say just now that there
was no danger here, day or night ?"
said Eldred, smiling, and advanced towards
the sailor who was standing a few yards
off.

Don't come near me ! Will you ? Then
have It !"

Something gleamed In the starlight.

Eldred started as with a blow, and rushed
on. But Simmons vanished in the shrubbery
; the clash of boughs died to a rustle,
and silence followed.

What was it ?" Hilda cried, catching
Thorburn's arm.

Gently, please. Is there any way for
him out of the garden down yonder ?"

'' Yes. Are you hurt ?"

'' Not much, I think. Turn your head
a moment." He kept his right hand
curiously doubled across the left shoulder.

Though she averted her eyes, Hilda
watched with beating heart. She saw
him grip something firmly, and with a
great wrench drag it out. A low, sudden
cry of agony reached her, and Eldred
staggered.

*' Oh, you are terribly wounded ! What
can I do ?"

It's all over, thank you, except
bandages. What a blessed chance it was

that I accompanied you ! We had better
go in now."

"Yes, yes! Lean on me! A blessed
chance ? Oh, now Indeed you are cruel
in your generosity !"

Don't take advantage of my dulness
just now. It seems greater luck than
falls to men that I was able to protect
you."

*' At such a cost ?"

"Pardon me. Miss Esking. I don't
l^now myself what the cost Is, and I
really can't believe that you are better
Informed ! But of one thing I'm sure,
that this Is the happiest moment of my
life !"

'rand the most wretched of mine!" It
was at that moment Hilda burst Into
the house.

She waited outside a feverish quarters
an-hour, until Hubert came to tell
her all was finished — the servants returned

with basins and linen. Eldred was
dressed, though his left sleeve hung
loose ; ghostly white, but smiling — she
remarked how strange his pallor seemed
beneath that mask of red and brown
which was burnt into his face. As Hilda
entered he looked round carefully, to
make sure, as she knew, that no tell-tale
signs had been forgotten.

'' I am going home now. Miss Esking,
and I wished to relieve the anxiety
which you kindly feel. To-morrow I
promise to pay a visit, and if you are
going for a ride I shall be too happy tO'
escort you,"

You must not stir out, Mr. Thorburn,
I entreat you ! Papa and I will call first
thing."

'' I have the advantage of getting up
before sunrise. Good night, Mr. Esking.
By-the-bye, your men found no trace of
Simmons ?"

The antiquary's moral courage made
light of any shock, but blood affected
him ; he was pale and distracted.

I forgot to send them, but the
scoundrel had escaped, no doubt."

We must find him, sir, for he's dangerous.
The trick of throwing a knife so
cleverly was not learned at school, I warrant.
Where did my uncle pick him up ?"

I never heard."

He's passed a good many years with
Americans of the most desperate sort,
that's clear. We had some Yankee jugglers
of that kind In the Diamond Fields.
If you like. Miss Esking, we'll take our
ride tomorrow In the direction of Rowley,

and give notice to the 1 don't know

what he Is here, but we should call him
the veldt-cornet. Good night."

Good-night, Mr. Thorburn, and may
God bless you ! The doctor Is coming,
I hope?"

'we'll wait up for him."

When the young men hrd gone, Hilda
cried, " What was his hurt, papa ?"

'' The knife entered his left shoulder at
the joint, and stuck there."

"Mr. Thorburn pulled It out himself !
Oh, how grandly brave he Is ! With that
dreadful thing In his flesh he laughed and
comforted me !"

Fllllbusters are used to It. I hope
you will take the warning, Hilda, and
give up these walks at night — your lonely
rides by day also."

Used to it ? Then I wish every man
in this country went through the training
of a fillibuster ! Good night, papa !"

Eldred had refused the offer of Mr.
Esking's carriage, preferring to take the
garden path. Before he reached home
his wound, roughly bandaged, began to
shoot. He ordered a great fire In one
of the small rooms, and sat down beside

it to await Doctor Bowring. Neither drink
nor tobacco were wanting. Late events
had sobered Hubert, so far, at least, that
he felt that this was not a time to tell
the secret he had threatened. Eldred also,
a little excited, was more free with his
recollections than usual. But hours passed
away and while the sense of prudence
weakened, Hubert's feelings of resentment
against his uncle grew strong again. At
length, half - unconsciously, he began the
revelation.

Eldred listened with the instinct that
made such a large part of his character
a jealousy of ownership and a fierce
indignation against one who violated it.
But when he understood that this was a
grave charge, no hearsay, but actual
evidence, another impulse caused him to
revolt.

"Not now!" he exclaimed, decisively.
** I could not hear you now !"

'i'm cool enough ! I know what I'm
saying !"

"Yes, I was warned there was something
you could tell me if you chose.
But leave it now, Fanshawe. It's terrible
to think of that business to-night."

'how did you hear that I had anything
to tell ?"

"Another letter "

"From the same person?"

You have a right to ask. I answer, yes."

They sat without exchanging another
word until the doctor came. Before the
bandages were taken off, he cried, "What
an incredible piece of foolhardiness, Mr.
Thorburn ! You have been sitting in this
state, and smoking, and drinking whisky ?
Well, it's you who have to pay for it !
These bandages are soaking now !"

I can spare a good deal of blood,
doctor. What's the report ?"

"You must go to bed and stop there."
VOL. II. R

I have to call on Mr. Esking early."

You can't keep that appointment. Oh,
I don't presume to forbid you — circumstances
will make my interference quite
unnecessary."

Eldred laughed, but when he woke in
the morning it appeared that Bowring
might be almost right. His arm was
terribly swollen and painful. To dress
was out of the question, and nobody
would be up for hours. Eldred resigned
himself with the calm commonsense which
a life of adventure teaches, and went to
bed again. His shoulder seemed to enlarge,
and his aches to grow more racking
from minute to minute.

Hubert was leaving by an early train,
and at eight o'clock he entered his
friend's room.

"Armstrong is below," said he, "with
Mr. Esking's compliments and Hilda's.
How do you find yourself"

I find myself an ass. Tell Armstrong,
for Miss Esking, that I must
put off my call for a day or two, but
all Is well."

When Hubert returned, Eldred said,
'' I suppose Bowring will be here shortly.
Let's get our business done. Take this
cheque for your services, please."

It's very handsome, Indeed, Thorburn.
If there's anything else you wish to ask
of me, say It."

There's nothing. I leave the matter
to Fate."

Well, If Fate doesn't help you, apply
to me."

"One thing I will ask," said Eldred, with
an effort. '' Do you think that the young
fellow Genest was concerned In the affair ?''

'' I don't know It, but I feel quite
certain that he accepted Esklng's proposal
when I refused, and I guess what bribe
tempted him."

The blood rushed to Eldred's pale face,
and his great fist clenched. "You do
not imagine," he said, after a pause,
hoarsely, 'that Miss Esking knew?"

'• I'd stake my life she has not a
shadow of suspicion. I've known my
cousin, Thorburn, since she was a child.
There's no girl living purer or more
honest."

They went down to breakfast, the
wounded man in pyjammas, to the dismay
of his household. He sat in meditation,
deep and frowning ; Hubert did not
interrupt, and took his meal in silence.
When he rose to go, Eldred said —

There are two facts I have to ascertain.
If Miss Esking is to be sacrificed,
I shall act at once. I must find out
whether she is really engaged to Genest
that's the first point. And then, whether
he is guilty. If so, I shall apply to you.
Curse this wound !" he added, savagely.

It's rather odd you should both be
laid up at the same time. As for the
fact of Hilda's engagement, I should not
wonder If Bowring could tell you — and
here he comes. The other matter is more
difficult."

I don't think so," Eldred said, with a
grim smile.

*well, I shall rather confidently expect
to hear from you shortly."

He left as the doctor entered. " It's
madness to go on like this, Mr. Thor-burn.
Doesn't the pain tell you to rest
quiet ?"

I will be a lamb henceforward, doctor.
Cure me as quickly as possible. I give
you a week."

Five minutes more, I beg," said
Bowring, sarcastically, whilst he unwound
the bandages. Then, after examination,
'' I must honestly confess that neither the
whisky last night nor the promenade this

morning has done much harm. What
healthy flesh yours must be, Mr. Thor-burn
! Was this wound actually caused
by throwing a knife ?"

"Actually! I'll show you how it's done,
if you like."

"In a month hence I shall be pleased
to see the exercise. You pulled the thing
out yourself? Ah, if all my patients had
your nerve ! — but I suspect the strong
nerves and the healthy flesh go together,
and that combination means ruin for the
doctors. If George Genest were a manlike
you, Mr. Thorburn, he would be
hobbling home now with a stick."

Perhaps he finds his quarters too
pleasant. I hear that Mr. Genest is engaged
to Miss Esking."

The doctor looked up shrewdly ; but it
is not among Boers and savages that a
man omits to learn the control of his face.
Bowring observed no more than careless

curiosity in his patient's expression, and
replied with confidence.

I think I may venture to say the
report is true. An excellent match it
seems, doesn't it ?"

'' For Mr. Genest."

Bowring looked up sharply again ;
Eldred was smiling.

'' Perhaps he's not the sort of youth a
romantic Providence would have chosen to
match Miss Esking. But she's an odd
girl."

'ras how?"

The doctor's suspicions were all asleep
by this time.

"Why," said he, ''Hilda takes no real
interest in anything, including specially herself.
I recollect telling her father once that
she had caught his malady in another form."

I don't understand."

Nor did Esking. I can't explain
myself, but the idea is right."

'pray try, doctor."

'' Well, it seems to me that Esking
has upset the girl's natural sense of her
importance in the world by his contempt
for modern things and people. He makes
up for his feeling by an exaggerated
interest in past times, but Hilda thinks
all life vulgar, and trivial, and silly. Men
and women are born and they die ; what
happens to them or what they do between
whiles doesn't matter ! There,

Mr. Thorburn ! Now, lie down and don't
move, except to go to bed, for the
next week, and I guarantee a miraculous
cure."

I mean to give you every chance,
doctor. So you think it likely that Miss
Esking accepted this man to please her
father, because she doesn't think enough
of herself to refuse ?"

Bowring noted the change of tone
instantly. " It's not my business to speculate

in such subjects," he said. " I have
been talking heedlessly."

Now, order me as you think fit. I
am only anxious to recover."

GATHERING CLOUDS.

"My darling Huby! Mamma said she
could not spare me, but I was determined
to meet you. The carriage is
here."

'' What carriage ?"

*' Mr. Arthur's. He offered to come
himself, but mamma thought it would
hardly be decorous before the funeral."

"But are you still staying at the Hall?
I thought Mendel's aunts were comines to
relieve you."

'' Oh, but one of the old creatures Is
ill, and the other cannot leave her. Mr.
Arthur declares he is not sorry a bit, for
we have taken all the trouble off his hands."

'rand where am I going?" Hubert
asked, by the carriage door.

To the Hall, of course. Now, dear,
tell me what happened at Thorburns."

'' Lately?"

'' Yes."

Old Simmons threw a knife at Thor-burn
last night, and "

'* Good gracious ! He's not dead ?"

'' Not a bit !"

'' Then never mind that. What is he
doing about the Treasure?"

*' Nothing. He dined with uncle yesterday."


'' Oh, the man is a downright fool !"

'' No more a fool than I am, Kate."

She glanced at him sharply ; the
words were trivial, but the tone sullenly
threatening.

'how much did he give you ?"

Enough to quiet Jackson for many a
month."

'' Hubert ? What does this temper

mean ?'

"It means that I'm most seriously
offended with you. You disobeyed my
orders, told me a falsehood, disobeyed
again, and I've no doubt would tell
another falsehood if there was any chance
of deceiving me."

Please explain, sir."

I told you not to act without consulting
me — you wrote an anonymous letter
that night ! Then you denied It so
strongly as almost to persuade me — and
this week you wrote again."

'' Indeed, I did not !"

'' I know you did, and Thorburn knows."

Where is the letter ?"

'' In his possession."

Oh, very well ! If you accept Mr.
Thorburn's suspicions against my solemn
word, there's no more to say. I shall
not repeat my denial."

'' It would be useless."

They sat silent until reaching the avenue
of Mendel Hall. Then Kate exclaimed —

"If you are resolved to be disagreeable,
don't make us both ridiculous here. Keep
up appearances, at least."

'' You need not be afraid."

The fact is that Hubert began already
to lose, not his convictions nor his indignation,
but his self-command. Kate looked
vastly pretty in her half-mourning, and he
loved her quand meme,

Arthur received them at the Hall door,
and took his friend to the smoking-room.
He was really grieved by the death of
an indulgent parent ; but emotions are
not proof against brandy and soda. Ina
short time they were talking briskly
of Eldred and Thorburns. Arthur proposed
to invite himself there as soon as
the ceremonies were finished. The report
of Simmons' achievement interested him

greatly, and when the butler entered, for
the sixth time at least, to ask Instructions,
he found the young men practising the
mystery of throwing knives against a
cabinet, and for the sixth time, at least,
he was referred to Mrs. Fanshawe.
Hubert perceived with no small astonishment
that his mother was de facto
mistress of the Hall. In reply to his
remark, Arthur declared with enthusiasm
that he could not possibly have got along
without Mrs. Fanshawe's assistance. But
Hubert knew her capacity too well, and
he could not believe that Arthur failed
to see who was really the personage so
judicious and useful. His feeling did not
go beyond amused annoyance, however.

He kept up appearances with his wife
all the evening. When the ladies had
withdrawn, after dinner, time hung rather
heavily, until a philosophic discussion of
the uselessness of grief made it plain to

the conscience both of host and guest,
that a rubber at dca^^te would not bethought
unbecoming by enlightened spirits.
So the minutes passed swiftly to an hour
when Kate was fast asleep.

Brother Coffin and the Faithful were
early next day ; when they had performed
their rites, those more Important friends
who had been asked to the burial began
to arrive. The procession to the Parish
Church was Imposing, and every 
agreed that a ceremonial so satisfactory
all round had never been witnessed
In their experience. The feeling conduct
of Mr. Arthur roused general admiration ;
Hubert alone, perhaps, speculated how
much of this distress was grief and how
much the result of late hours the night
before. But the reader Is not to accept
his conclusion blindly. Young Mendel was
weak as water, flighty as a kitten ; but in
presence of the corpse his sorrow was intense,

even to despair. He could not bid
his guests adieu, but sent a note to Mrs.
Fanshawe, thanking her warmly.

On Monday, however, he paid her a
call in his usual spirits, bringing a Bible,
the costliest edition extant, and a handsome
mourning ring ; carried Hubert back
to luncheon, and took him for a long ride.
In the course thereof, Arthur asked permission
to give Mrs. Fanshawe, jun., a
remembrance of her kindness in the hour
of his trouble. It should take, he suggested,
the form of jewellery. Hubert
consented. The mere notion of presents
In general fascinated him ; and besides, he
was glad to please Kate for various reasons.

The public walks are a boast of Shuttle-ton.
Her wealthiest citizens have contributed
to adorn them, and amongst these
the late Mr. Mendel was conspicuous.
Kate passed through them at a certain
hour every week — that day she paid her

household bills — at an hour as punctual as
could be expected of a lady. Whether
young Mendel knew this habit does not
appear ; she might have named it by
chance during her visit. Anyhow, upon
the Wednesday ensuing, they met on the
*' promenade," and neither showed surprise
but I do not mean to hint anything.
The walks are public, though deserted at
that hour.

I have Hubert's permission," Arthur
said, after greetings, "to offer you a little
souvenir. I give it with all my heart,
Mrs. Fanshawe. The trifle does not express
my gratitude, for that would be
impossible, but it shows that I feel it."
He put a morocco case into her hand.

Kate turned towards him — and the
action enabled her to glance behind —
there was no one in hearing.

If you have my husband's authority I

need not hesitate to accept, but really

VOL. IL s

Oh ! How magnificent ! What exquisite
taste ! Oh, I never saw anything so lovely !
Mr. Arthur, has Hubert seen this ?"

'' I must confess that I haven't yet
shown it to him. But the only reason is
that the little thing arrived this morning
from town."

"Little thing! It seems so big to poor
people like us that I must ask you not
even to mention it to Hubert. Take it
back, please. He would not understand a
souvenir of this description." She offered
the case, not pressingly, and Mendel
neglected to put out his hand.

"What do you think your husband
would allow, then — the prettiest object ?"

Oh, his ideas don't go beyond neatness
! One diamond might pass, but
certainly not more than three. Let me
look at the poor, dear, glorious little thing
again ! Ah, it's Heavenly ; much too good
for me! I should be afraid to own it."

'allow me to try Hubert, at least."

'rit would be useless — and worse. Weare
not on very good terms just now —
I mean, there is a little trouble between
us. Take it quick, Mr. Arthur, I aren't
trust myself!"

Mendel was not enterprising nor self-confident.
He hesitated to grasp such an
open suggestion as this. His voice was
assured in saying —

"Would it be improper, Mrs. Fanshawe,
to accept this trifle on your own account,
knowing how much you comforted me ?
Hubert cannot possibly understand what
I owe you. I might offer something less
valuable in mere money, which would meet
his views of my debt."

She had made up her mind from the
first to take the present, and Arthur's
diffidence warned her that further objection
might be disastrous.

If you really think that our friendly

services would not be paid too high — it is
wicked to tempt one so, Mr. Arthur! —
I'm afraid I ought not! People are so
mean and suspicious. They would not
believe that this superb present meant no
more than gratitude. Really, Mr. Arthur,
I must beg you to take it back !"

Of course he did nothing of the sort,
and it's useless to set forth a conversation
of which the result is foreseen. Kate
reached home later then usual. Before
they parted — long before that indeed — she
knew that if people should suspect Arthur
of a feeling more warm than gratitude,
they would not be wrong. But in her
philosophy the motive did not signify.
She had secured a jewel fit for a duchess,
and if the donor expected more than
thanks he would be cruelly disappointed.
In the afternoon he called with a pretty
ring, and offered it publicly.

But things took the course usual

when a young bachelor and a young
matron have a secret between them.
Kate traversed the public walks everyday
almost, and she no longer used the
'promenade." Shuttleton Is a very busy
town, but its Inhabitants display as much
shrewdness In observing their neighbours
as in mercantile affairs. Kate thought
herself wondrous lucky in never meeting a
soul except tradesmen's boys or mechanics.
Under such circumstances, she thought, if
by chance an acquaintance should see her
once, he would attach no importance to
the Incident. But, in fact, some people
were always whispering that young Mrs.
Fanshawe and young Mr. Mendel found
a good deal to talk about by themselves.
A week had passed since Hubert's return.
One morning came a letter from
Mr. Esking, who announced the approaching
marriage of his daughter to Mr.
George Genest. He said that neither

Hilda nor himself had any experience In
such matters, and begged his sister to
come at once.

Dear me !" Kate exclaimed. '' How
useful we are, mamma ! Our services are
invited to arrange a funeral one week
and a wedding the next. But to think
that Hilda is going to marry among
county people after all !"

'' I don't see that you are asked," said
Hubert.

Of course uncle Includes us. I wonder
who on earth will be the bridesmaids.
Hilda does not know a single girl, I
should Imagine."

If uncle includes us, we shan't go.
That's flat."

** Speak for yourself, Hubert, please.
If mamma will take me with her, I, at
least, ought to accept."

'eyes, I think so," said Mrs. Fanshawe.
** There must be marrying and giving in

marriage so long as this world endures,
but I could not go through with it,
Hubert, unless Kate came with me. Why
do you object ?''

Hubert had no reason he could give.
Because we are not asked," he said,
sullenly.

"That shall be remedied at once. I'll
write to Hilda."

'' Let me speak to you, my dear "

'ein a moment, dear. I have just time
to catch the first post." And in his
mother's presence he could not insist.

Kate's letter opened with warm congratulations,
and a pleasant reference to
her own foreboding when she first saw
Mr. Genest. It went on to hope that
the invitation extended to herself and
Hubert, since Mrs. Fanshawe could not
bear the responsibility alone. Some
sportive remarks about the bridesmaids
ended it.

The old lady sighed when the congratulations
were read out, and almost
demanded a reference to the vanity of
human bliss ; but Kate reminded her that
such warnings are expressed much more
forcibly than she could put them in " The
Ring and the Snare," by Brother Coffin,
a copy of which Mrs. Fanshawe might
address to the bride. So the letter was
sent as it stood.

"Now, dear, what is it?" said Kate.

Hubert was savage, but he could not
speak out then. '' If my wife's presence
will be any comfort to you, mother, and
if you feel you ought to go, I am
delighted to spare her, of course."

I ought to go, Hubert, and it would
be out of the question for me to go alone.
But why do you say you will spare Kate ?
Why not accompany her ?"

Because uncle and I had some disagreeable
words the last time we met. I

must tell you, mother, that he spoke most
unkindly of my idleness, as he called it,
as if filial duty was a reproach. I think
you would not accept an invitation which
your brother only sends because he wants
you, if I told what he said."

"Ah, John is worldly! I know it but
too well !"

It was a miss-fire. A marriage appeals
to the instincts of every woman ; certainly
not least to the devotee who feels the
fascination of it in two capacities. Hubert
understood such phases of human nature
as he had found occasion to study, and
recognised that Mrs. Fanshawe had made
up her mind.

'' Well, that's the reason I said I would
spare Kate. I will not go myself."

It's painful to us, dear, of course ;
but we won't press you under these circumstances,
will we, mamma ? Uncle
doesn't mention the time, but he appears

to be in a hurry. You'll come to the
wedding, Hubert, at least ?"

He left the room without reply, and
chance led him to the public walks, where
he met Arthur Mendel — it was Wednesday.

Arthur was surprised and the least
thing embarrassed, then .overjoyed ; they had
not seen each other for two days, since
the proprieties of bereavement must be
observed. Linking arms, the young men
strolled towards the Bank, where Arthur
had a pressing appointment ; though he
seemed to have been going the other way.

'' I've settled my affairs, and now I am
free to pay Thorburn a visit. I wrote
him this morning to announce myself for
tomorrow. The poor dear old beggar has
no engagements yet, I suppose ?"

*' If you wait twenty-four hours you can
escort my mother and Kate. I shall be
obliged. Hilda Esking is to be married,
and they go to see her through."

'' I shall be proud," said Arthur.
Don't you travel with them ?

They parted at the Bank door. Hubert,
returning, saw his wife at a distance, but
he did not feel inclined to join her.

The result of this meditation was a
letter.

'' My Dear Thorburn,

'' I don't wait your demand
to tell what passed between Mr. Esking
and me, on the occasion we referred
to, the night before I left your house.
Conscience pricks me.

"My uncle asked me to help in a project
for stealing the Treasure which was said
to be hidden on your premises. He
knew where to look for it, having found
the description in an old parchment
Captain Thorburn sold him ; but he was
too cautious to tell me the place. I
gathered that it lay in the oldest part of
the building, but that's all.

I refused, of course, and then, unless
I am mistaken, he invited young Genest
to help him, who consented. That
accounts for the marriage of which we
have just heard officially.

'this is in the strictest confidence.
You are too honourable to make any
use of the information which would
betray me. Such further details as I can
supply are at your service on that condition,
but I think I have told all I
can.

I hope you are all right again.
Yours most sincerely,

Hubert Fanshawe."

Eldred received this letter as he stood
at his hall door, waiting Hilda's arrival ;
she came daily to ask after him before
starting on her ride. He might have
given a personal assurance of his health
several days before, but Eldred felt the
warrior's dislike to show in public maimed.

Not until he could sit a horse without
a sling more conspicuous than that which
a buttoned coat affords would his pride
suffer him to meet Hilda. The feeling
seems incomprehensible to us, who have
lost so many virile impulses, but it becomes
a man.

As he finished reading, the boy posted
to look out signalled the visitor's approach.
Godseff brought up his horse, and he
clambered hastily to the saddle, meeting
Hilda in the avenue.

Mr. Thorburn ! This is the best
answer to my inquiries ; but aren't you
imprudent ?"

Bowring would say so, perhaps, but he
has a very limited knowledge of mankind.
Anyhow, Miss Esking, confinement was
doing me more harm than the open air
could possibly do. You understand that ?"

She had turned, and they rode backside
by side.

"How Is Mr. Genest ?" he continued,
observing her.

'almost well. He left us yesterday.
Really, Mr. Thorburn, I cannot let you
accompany me this morning. I must ride
quick. We are very busy at Little
Thorburns." Her manner was excited
and restless.

'' I have heard you are going to be
married ?"

'eyes."

"To Mr. Genest?"

"Yes."

"It Is of your own free-will, Miss
Esklnof ? You love him ?"

How can you ask such a question ?
It Is Insulting, Mr. Thorburn !"

You know I could not Insult you. To
answer Is easy. When girls love, In that
country where I have observed them,
they are not offended If an honest man,
who means nothing but respect and friendship,

asks whether they are sure of themselves."


Have you tried them ?" She had
quickened her pace, and they were riding
fast.

Let us have done with this ! I warn
you. Miss Esking, solemnly, that events
you could not imagine depend on your
reply. You know how I feel — at least, I
told you something that night. But it is
no question of my feelings now. I ask
you simply whether you love the man you
are to marry, because my conduct in a
very different affair will be governed by
your answer."

She only urged her horse, turning from
him, but his big chestnut kept beside her
easily, throwing up its head in impatience.

I give you my honour that I am
speaking mere truth, and I will take your
word as implicitly as you may take my
assurance. Nay, listen to this, Miss

Esking ! If you tell me you love George
Genest, I stand aside — you will never hear
of me again. But if you say, or lead me
to think, that you do not love him, then
come what may I will act, and your
marriage shall be broken in the crash
that follows. I am so honest as that,
because I know that you could not tell
a lie — nor even act one. With a word
you can save your Genest, and I know
not what else of anxiety and disaster."

It is no easy thing to speak so distinctly
that every word falls clear, when the horse
beneath one is galloping and fretting, the
lady keeps her head away, and a groom
behind must not overhear. Many useful
lessons are taught by South African training,
and Eldred, who could spring from
the saddle at full speed, and shoot true
the instant his feet were planted on the
earth, found this a simple matter.

She caught every word, and doubted

not that it was true. The mystery of
Eldred's visit to Little Thorburns in the
first hours of his arrival at home — the
visit which he defined so oddly when
they first spoke together at Mrs. God-self's
cottage — had occupied her mind ever
since. Smaller incidents confirmed Hilda's
suspicion that there was a charge of some
sort against Mr. Esking. She thought it
had reference to the loan ; and, knowing
her father so well, she did not feel such
trust as a child should have in a parent
as to reject the idea of wrong with absolute
incredibility. Some dubious act he
had committed— not for money, but in the
interest of science. But if a word might
save him she could not utter it — could
not tell a falsehood though she wished.
Her only refuge was temper.

I repeat, sir, that your question is
insulting ! Ride on, and I will stay, or
stay and I will ride on. Only leave me !"
VOL. n. T

*you understand what this comes to,
Miss Esking ? I shall take it that you
will not reply because you are not marrying
for love but for another reason, which I
know better than you. I will rein in.
Heaven bless you ! Whatever happens,
fear nothing for yourself or your father's
good name with the public !" She made
no answer, but sped forward.

Eldred was utterly unused to think that
a horse could keep a will of its own,
though it made the attempt, when he was on
its back. But the grass-fed, clever animals
of South Africa are mighty different
to an English three - year - old thoroughbred
taken from the stable after a week's
idleness. When he tightened the snaffle,
his huge chestnut plunged madly, seeing
the others go by ; he touched the curb,
it reared upright ; his left arm confined,
Eldred lost his balance, and then the
brute raced along: before he recovered

control, the bit between its teeth. It
passed Jennings and then Hilda, causing
their horses to join the bolt, but Eldred
saw there was no peril. He turned, laughing,
and cried, *' This pace will last to
Rowley Bridge, I think ! I shall rest there !"

Recollecting that he had one arm disabled,
and was scarcely yet well, Hilda
followed in some anxiety. She kept him
in sight for a mile or two, and could
have screamed when a big wagon almost
blocked the narrow road. But Eldred
drew his horse aside by main force and
left the carter staring. Then he passed
beyond her view.

But by Rowley Bridge she found him
again, seated on the parapet, whiter than
herself, and holding his horse, quite subdued
now and panting desperately. Eldred
looked up, a laugh in his eyes. " I rode
on even quicker than you wished, Miss
Esking."

Oh, I am so distressed ! Please don't
mount that dangerous creature until you
are strong again, at least."

He's quiet enough now, if Jennings
will hold him whilst I mount. Please goon,
if I may accompany you."

'you will not refer to our talk .^"

'there is no need, if you acknowledge
by silence that the opinion I've formed
is right."

"Then I bid you good day," she
answered, flushing suddenly. " Jennings,
help Mr. Thorburn to mount."

"Good day, Miss Esking ! My mind
Is made up now."

On the next morning, Mrs. Fanshawe
and Kate left Shuttleton for Little Thor-burns,
under escort of young Mendel.
The elder lady was displeased when she
heard of this arrangement. Arthur had
given her cause to hope, whilst they
stayed at the Hall, that he would succeed

his father in the high — ■ and precious —
position which the latter had occupied
among the Faithful Few. But never once
had he attended a meeting, and, moreover,
he had denied himself to Brother
Coffin on three occasions. There was talk
of special prayer for him already.

And Kate also professed displeasure,
perhaps real. She enjoyed the dangerous
amusement of flirting with a young man
whom all the maidens of the town regarded
with interest, and their mothers
with hope. But it had gone far enough.

Arthur appeared, however, with a valet
in attendance, and a footman, who took
charge of their baggage. Mrs. Fanshawe
was by no means scornful of the distinction
which a seat in "the Hall barouche" conferred.
Their modest cab was resigned
to the servants, and they drove to the
railway in state. Hubert bade them goodbye,
leaving the question of his presence

at the marriage unsettled, and went back
alone.

For some days he enjoyed his freedom.
Kate wrote him letters which grew warmer
at least, less cool — but their contents
will be explained In the narrative. As
time went on, Hubert wearied a little of
his bachelor liberty, and he began to find
illogical excuses for his wife. He would
have liked to rejoin her, but to ask an
invitation from Mr. Esking — or even to
accept one — might not be thought of
Thorburn had not replied to his letter, but
that omission was not necessarily discouraging,
Hubert began to think of
proposing another visit ; It demanded consideration
however.

Jackson had been absent from town for
nearly a month, attending to his employer's
business. He came back some ten days
after the ladles' departure, and on the
morrow Hubert called.

*' I am obliged to you," Jackson said,
*' for sending that cheque. It was handsome
and business-like. The money was
welcome just then, and I shall not forget
your readiness to pay more than was
agreed, when a chance turned up. You're
all alone, I hear ? That's imprudent fora
young married man— and imprudent for
his wife, too."

"Oh, I can trust myself," Hubert
answered, laughing, '' and Kate is in no
danger at Little Thorburns."

*' That's all right. But Big Thorburns
is not far off, I believe."

"And the fillibuster ? Oh, Lord, that's
a joke !"

I hadn't the fillibuster in my mind."

You're not talking seriously, Jackson ?"

I hope not. But are you aware that
Mrs. Fanshawe, junior — mind you, I'm
only repeating as a friend what I heard
last night. I've a regard for you, and

I put myself In your place. If people
were talking — not charging nor suspecting,
I'm sure, but talking — of my wife, I
should be obliged to a friend who told
me of the fact."

'what on earth do you mean? Speak
out !"

"You'll take It friendly, Fanshawe ?"

Yes, I will. If you tell me straight
all those fools are saying ! But, If not

his face was livid, and his eyes

full of savage threat.

I mean to speak, for one good turn
deserves another. Are you aware that
Mrs. Bashaw used to meet Arthur Mendel
every day In the Walks before she
left ?"

"Who says so?"

Everybody. There ! I know nothing
beyond that, and It Isn't very serious as
the case stands. If they met In the Walks
it's proof that they didn't meet In a

private place, I take it. Now, be calm,
Fanshawe ! I made up my mind to tell
you, because you've acted on the square
with me, and our good neighbours are
too canny to meddle with other folks'
business. Don't prove that I'm a good-natured
ass and you're a pig-headed fool !"

"No, I won't! I'm obliged to you,
Jackson ! There's nothing in it, I
know "

'rand so do I, upon my honour! But
when a woman does a silly thing, it's the
duty of honest people to tell her husband.
That's my idea ! If I were you, Fan-share,
I would go to Little Thorburns."

Hubert did not take this advice. He
returned home at once, locked himself in
the bedroom, and tried every key he
could find upon those articles of furniture
in which Kate stored her "things." The
locks were not elaborate, and he contrived
by one means and another to open all

save one. That defied his Ingenuity, and
after fruitlessly overhauling every object in
the drawers, Hubert did not doubt that
the criminating letters must lie there, if
anywhere. He had made his studies of
the female nature in books, as so many
do, not reflecting, of course, that novelists
in general have no more experience than
their readers, probably not so much. The
guilty heroine of tales always writes compromising
letters, and always receives
them. Hubert did not ask himself why
Kate should engage in correspondence
when she met her lover every day, by
hypothesis. He sought for letters with
such singleness of mind that if his wife
had placed the only bit of evidence
against her in the receptacle where she
kept her linen, it might possibly have
been unnoticed.

To overcome this rebellious lock, Hubert
went out to buy a skeleton key. In

theory that Is a very simple matter, and
he had not hitherto found occasion to
try it himself. But when he named his
purpose at the roughest ironmonger's to
be found in Shuttleton, curious difficulties
arose at once. The showman wanted to
know this and that, and Hubert was unprepared
with replies. He would have liked
dearly to quit the place, when the man
summoned his employer. That person
knew Mr. Fanshawe, of course, but the
utmost concession he would make was the
offer of a trusty workman to do "the
job." Hubert declined.

It is a grave matter to break open a
wife's private drawer under any circumstances,
but in this case there were
special considerations. Kate had a fierce
temper ; her influence with mamma was
probably as great as her husband's, and
on this question, if nothing were found,
it would certainly have the preponderance.

And then, most serious of all, he
loved her.

Hubert dined with some spirited young
fellows; played afterwards with such conspicuous
luck that one of them quoted the
old proverb, and went to bed miserably
irresolute.

He could not sleep. Jackson's report
came back on him, every word, and
mixed up with it the careless saying of
his antagonist, that a man who has such
luck at cards should expect disaster in
love.

In the early morning he rose, and
with a big knife cut through the bottom
of the drawer. Half an - hour's feverish
work sufficed. He introduced his hand,
scratching it badly, but the pain was
unnoticed for awhile. The groping fingers
searched in vain ; at length they touched
a solid object in one corner. With
difficulty Hubert worked out a morocco

case. So fixed was his expectation of
discovering letters that he put It aside
until convinced that there was nothing
else.

Then he opened the case — stared In
wild dismay — threw It from him with a
bitter oath. After a moment of blank
pause he dressed himself, packed a bag,
laying the jewel carefully therein, and
took the next train for Rowley.

It is to be observed that this discovery
was made nearly a fortnight after Kate's
departure.

END OF SECOND VOLUME.

The Treasure
OF Thorburns

BY Frederick Boyle

xSTjKaraBPB^v^ ■

OF THE.
U N IVE.R5 City
or Ill Noise

V. 3

VOL. Ill

TREASURE OF THORBURNS

A NOVEL

BY

FREDERICK BOYLE

AUTHOR OK
A GOOD HATER," " Legends OF MY BUNGALOW,' " CAMP NOTES," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Ill

LONDON

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET


All KiiiJits Reserved

TILLOTSON AND SON, IMAWDSLEY Street

BOLTON

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME

CIIAI'TKK

I. 'IHR Grows. Ol THTTNOER

II.— A rilUNDKRliOIT

III. A RUPTURE

IV.— A SUNDAY LUNCH AT THORRURNS

V. — WACE ONST.OW

VI. — CLOSING IN

VII. — CRASH

VIII.— THE OPENING OF THE TREASURE

I












CHAPTER I.

THE GROWL OF THUNDER.

*' Eaton Square, Friday.
'* Dear Sir,

I am sorry that important
business forbids me the pleasure of seeing
a house which has often been referred toby
your learned neighbour, Mr. Esking,
in his valuable communications to our
Society. May I add that the circumstances
which forbid me the pleasure of
making acquaintance with one who represents
such an ancient family are not less

VOL. HL B

regretted ? I venture to hope for that
distinction at a future day.

As you say that you have pressing
need for advice, I will send my son down
on Monday, unless I hear to the contrary.
You will find him as competent as
'' Yours very faithfully,

Richard Marlow,

Pres. Soc. A. A."

This was the reply to a letter which
Eldred addressed to the President of
the Society of Archaeological Architects.
When deserted so suddenly at Rowley
Bridge, he went to the police station, to
ask news of Simmons, not on his own
account, of course. His belief was that
the sailor had been bent upon some mischief
at Mr. Esking's house, to wound
Hilda or break in, when their chance
stroll in the garden diverted the project.
No charge or information had been laid
with the police, and they knew nothing

of Simmons. After telling his story, and
warning the authorities to keep a special
eye on Little Thorburns, he called upon
the architect with whom he had already
made acquaintance. That gentleman referred
him to the Society of Archaeological
Architects, to which, accordingly,
Eldred wrote, mentioning that he had a
particular wish to learn what might be the
oldest part of his old house. He assured
Sir Richard, now, that his son would be
most welcome.

On Thursday afternoon Arthur Mendel
arrived, met by his host at Rowley
station, where Mr. Esking's brougham
was waiting the ladies. Eldred renewed
acquaintance with them, and stood patiently
whilst Arthur superintended the removal
of their baggage.

The latter were in great spirits as they
drove to Thorburns. The journey had
been pleasant. "Mrs. Fanshawe, senior,

behaved like an elderly angel and repeated
hymns to herself all the way," Arthur
said. And the wildness of the country
delighted him. " It's not so much of a
change for you, Thorburn ; barring the
trees, and the green, and the narrow view,
you might fancy yourself upon the veldt."

Barring the colour, and the features,
and the size, I might fancy you a
Kaffir," Eldred replied.

No, for you leave out the intellect,
the noble essence which distinguishes
civilised man, and me in particular.
Now, it is just the essence of the veldt
which I noticed here, and I disregard
details. Have we reached the beacons of
your homestead yet ?"

'ewe have long since passed the
beacons which my forefathers claimed,
but my estate is about two morgen, as
near as I can measure it with my eye."

Bless me, that's four acres, isn't it ?

I say, Thorburn, isn't it confoundedly
unlucky your uncle didn't die a few
months earlier?"

'* We don't care for jokes upon a subject
of that sort on the veldt. But what
do you mean?"

"Oh, I beg your pardon!" Arthur
replied, sobering with a shock. " I meant
about Miss Esking. She's a lovely girl,
they say, an only child, and I happen
to know that her father is immensely
rich. It's a shame she should have been
snapped up before you could enter for
the stakes."

Eldred was accustomed to thinking that
a friend's privilege comes near the bounds
of sanctity ; he turned his black looks
away.

"When is the wedding to take place?"

I know nothing about it !"

Nor did Mrs. Fanshawe until she got
a note the day before yesterday. It seems

odd. This fellow Genest is quite a proper
match, though, I understand ?"

*' I have only met him once."

Arthur was sharp enough. He dropped
the subject, but Eldred revived it after
a while.

Those ladies are coming up for the
marriage ?"

'' Oh, yes. They are asked to help Mr.
Esking with the arrangements — for the
wedding dress and breakfast, I suppose.
You're not asked ?''

'' Not yet."

*' But you stand on good terms with
Esking, don't you .^" There was anxiety
in his tone.

'' Quite, so far."

They reached Thorburns, already changed
from the dilapidated barrack which Hubert
described. Though the plans for rebuilding
had not been made out, and the works
up to this time were by no means ornamental,

ladders and scaffolding, piles of
brick and slate, masons and hodie gave
at least an air of life to the scene once
desolate. It was not a condition of things
to which an English gentleman would invite
a guest without apology, but Arthur
had asked himself, and besides, Eldred
saw nothing objectionable. He was up
long before the workmen came, and their
noise would not have irritated him anyhow.
Mendel said nothing, of course, but
his valet looked on with blank dismay.

At the Gate Tower they alighted, for
Eldred was clearing and levelling the
space beyond which would be once morea
courtyard. Mrs. Godseff stood in the
hall, resting one hand on her great-granddaughter's
shoulder and the other on a
crutch-stick.

I'm glad to see you down, mother,"
he said. "They told me you slept well."

'ray, sir. Though it's strange for me

to have my bed in the drawing-room of
Thorburns, I slept easy under the old
roof ! Ah, me ! What changes !"

'' I want you to tell me, mother, how
these rooms were furnished, so far as you
can recollect. I shall try to restore them
just as they were."

Arthur found nothing to interest him
in the conversation that followed, but
abundance in the carvings, cognisance,
mottos, and odd fancies deeply sculptured
on the oaken walls. Being an intelligent
young man in his way, he amused himself.

"The golden bramble is your crest, I
suppose ? If you had to pay duty on
each of these insignia, the assessed taxes
of the year would almost show an increase,
Thorburn. What's the story of your
motto, ' I Lost ' ?"

*' Mrs. Godseff could tell you, perhaps.
The legends of the family are preserved
by her, if at all."

*' I don't know nothing of what the
motto means," she said, with some warmth.
'rit was there afore my time."

'' Do you think it refers to the Treasure
we've all heard of.'^" Arthur asked. "If
so, I earnestly hope, my dear Thorburn,
that you're the man destined to change it."

*' That's my hope, also," answered
Eldred, sternly.

'' Don't be setting him on, young
gentleman," Mrs. Godseff cried. "There's
nought but mischief has ever come to
a Thorburn for seeking the Treasure !
Don't you think of it, sir, for the Lord's
sake! I've seed a lot in my time, but
all the trouble and misfortune sprung
from digging and delving and prying for
what don't exist, and would — Why was
your own father turned out of the old
house, Eldred, and why is it little better
nor a ruin when you come back ? Because
of that cursed Treasure !"

** May I ask, sir, where I am to put
Mr. Mendel's things ?"

The Interruption was welcome. To
turn from Mrs. Godseff's excited face
and the old-world thoughts her passionate
tone suggested, to the highly respectable
physiognomy of Mr. Bland, made a distinct
relief. The valet wore an air of
dull and resolute discontent. He found
himself, as he expressed It, In a monument
under repair. Inhabited, so far ashe
could judge, by lunatics. After
waiting longer than self-respect commanded,
the baggage piled behind him,
he interposed.

Certainly," Eldred said. '' Will you
give directions, mother? I'll show Mr.
Mendel round the building."

I have not described Thorburns, though
I should dearly like to give a chapter
to that theme. Some, perhaps, may
recognise a house which is not now

used for the first time as the scene of
a story, from the few hints given ; the
legends which cluster round it were not
exhausted in a single volume, half-forgotten
now. I have taken but one of
them, which closes the annals, as it maybe
put, for our modern day. Those
whose have studied the ancient Manor
Houses of England, may find a suggestion,
in the next few lines, if one is still required.
Eldred was a shocking cicerone ; as badin
fact, as bad could be, unacquainted with
the stories of his own house, and also
with the records of past times in general.
But he loved the subject, and he had
given all his mind to the mastery of
those sketches and references which came
in his way. If Arthur did not learn much
about the building as it stood, he heard
an exact description of its appearance at
various times, when a picture had been
taken of it for editions of the county

history. The truth is that Thorburn was
bored and annoyed by this visit, at a
moment when he specially wished to be
alone ; but since hospitality was with him
a sacred function, he put constraint upon
himself, and talked a contre coeur.

Many pauses for dissertation they made
before reaching the further end of that
pile of ruin which had been the banquetting
hall. As they moved on at length
to pass round the house, Arthur drew
back in astonishment.

What an awfully dangerous sheet of
water ! Why, 'pon my life, Thorburn, one
might tumble head first down here and
break one's neck before so much as a
splash gave the alarm ! What's the depth ?"

They say the bank falls sheer as deep
beneath the water as high above. It looks
so, doesn't it ?"

A real murder trap ! There are awful
stories connected with this pool, I suppose .'^"

'' I haven't heard any, but it's rather
deep and ugly. You see, the other bank
as far as the corner is just as steep as
this. Beyond, it turns suddenly and
shelves down. The hollow seems to be
artificial — a cut through the hill."

'' I never beheld such a ghastly pool !
and the terrace has but a foot of parapet.
There are bones at the bottom, I'd lay a
thousand pounds !"

The Pool Dam, if I can make my
description understood, skirted this end
of the building, and a fine antique terrace,
which clung to the house wall on three
sides, overhung its black depths along
this face. But the water stretched a
hundred yards beyond, turning abruptly
to the right at that distance, where all
view of its further course was blocked
out by shrub and trees, unpruned for a
generation.

'' What lies beyond the turn .^" Arthur

asked, gazing with the fascination which soso
many possibilities of tragic legend roused

The dam runs almost to the garden
wall of Little Thorburns, if that's what
you mean. There's nothing particular on
this bank — except a path which my uncle
made for his convenience in paying visits
to Mr. Esking."

*' Then there's a door in the wall, I
suppose ?"

'eyes."

The evening passed heavily. Eldred
had engaged a good cook, and his wines
were excellent, but the dark old diningroom
had scarcely more furniture than a
table and high, moth-eaten chairs. The
young men found a common topic in
their South African experiences, but for
the rest Arthur was less sympathetic to
his host than even Hubert had been.
And Eldred was pre-occupied besides.

At breakfast he said, *' I have to pay

a call this morning. Can you amuse
yourself till lunch ?"

'* Oh, yes! I'll call on Esking. Never
mind me."

At the Warrenage that forenoon, Mr.
Genest and his son were engaged in
reviewing the settlements. Said the
former : 'i'm making a sacrifice, George,
which you know I can't afford. Esking
is desperately hard in business."

** But he's liberal on his own side,
father. I shall be able, I hope, to refund
privately all the allowance you agree to
make. In a few years, anyhow, I shall
have a practice."

'you mean to work, then?"

Harder than ever !" he cried. " I
couldn't exist without work !"

"upon my soul! I should have thought
that with such a wife, a young fellow
would scorn the idea of business — for a
few months, anyhow !"

'* You don't object, sir ?" George asked,
sullenly.

Oh, not at all — just the reverse ! I
admire you !"

A servant announced Mr. Thorburn to
see Mr. George. The latter coloured
suddenly, and a flurried look passed over
his face. '' I can't see him ! Tell the
fellow I'm not well enough."

'why, what's the matter, my boy?"
said Genest. "You look upset. There's
been nothing disagreeable, I hope, between
you and Thorburn ?"

No, but I hate him !"

The servant came back. He asks, sir,
when you are likely to feel well enough,
for he's determined to see you — that's what
Mr. Thorburn said, sir."

George looked round in feverish agitation
and perplexity.

*' It's an odd thing for a man to say —
very odd," Genest remarked, regarding his

son. '' But If Gore has the message right
you'd better receive him, George. When
Thorburn's determined he has his own
way mostly, if I can read character."

George was pale now. *' Then show
him in !" he said, hoarsely.

Would you rather I went or stayed,
my boy ?"

"Stay — stay! I can't imagine what the
brute means."

Eldred entered, and both Genests felt
overawed, though the father had no guilt
upon his conscience ; so huge was the
avenger's bulk and so significant the sternness
in his eye. No greetings passed.
Eldred moved to the table littered with
documents, and said, regarding George
steadily —

'you wish your father to be presents"

It was not courage young Genest
lacked ; physical danger would have been
a relief. He steadied his working features,

VOL. HL c

and replied with spirit : — '' Why should
not my father be present ?"

'' It's your affair. Do not interrupt us,
then, sir. You know why I have come
here ?"

The moral terror overpowered him
again. For a moment he could not speak.

"What Is this?" said Mr. Genest.
'' Answer, George !"

"It Is unnecessary — his face answers.
Where is the Treasure you stole from
my house ?"

"Sir!" cried Genest, springing to his
feet.

"Leave us alone, sir! You are the
only witness now, but the whole country
may hear before long. Where is my
Treasure ?"

I don't know what you are talking
of ! You are a madman !"

Compose yourself, whilst I tell Mr.
Genest how you did it."

How my son stole your By

G , Mr. Thorburn, if you say another

word "

Summon your people if you like. I
answer for it," he cried, with a heave of
his shoulders and the light of battle in
his eye, '' that they, too, shall hear before
I quit this house ! Look at your son,
sir, before you call more witnesses."

Genest looked and quailed, but he made
a last struggle.

"My son has a nervous disposition, and
he is ill. It's brutal to attack him now."

"The hurt he took that night, and it
is the beginning of his punishment. It
was the night I arrived in England, when
the man in charge of my house went to
meet me at Southampton. Mr. Esking
had asked another person to help him in
the robbery."

"Mr. Esking, too! Oh, you are mad!"

I say that Mr. Esking had asked

another person to help him. I have
that person's statement. He refused, and
Mr. Esking turned to your son, who
accepted — making a bargain !" A darker
look passed over his face, and he turned
to George.

'' You dined with Mr. Esking that
night at Bohun Castle. Returning about
midnight, you accompanied him to a place
he knew, on my property, going by the
garden path, through the door of which
he has the key. You dug up my
Treasure, and between you carried it
the way you came to Little Thorburns.
By the garden door you left a besom,
branded with Mr. Esking's initials, which
I found two days afterwards. Then, the
theft complete, you started to go home,
and justice gave a hint by throwing you
from Mr. Esking's dog-cart at the gate
of my avenue. That is my charge, Mr.
Genest — and there is the confirmation of

It, every word !" — pointing suddenly at
George's face.

The small discrepancies had given him
confidence enough to prepare an emphatic
denial — so curious are the developments of
character ; and Genest had brightened ashe
marked the spirit returning. But this
abrupt action disconcerted him again —
the great hand seemed retribution visible.

It's a lie from beginning to end !"
But the tones which should have been
indignant and forcible had dropped to an
agonised mutter.

I am a magistrate, sir," said Genest,
in an uncertain voice. " Even if there
were anything in your accusation of my
neighbour, Mr. Esking, which it would
be monstrous to admit, you have nothing
beyond assertions of my son's complicity."

'' I think, sir, your brother magistrates
will ask little more, when the time comes,
than your son's own features. But if you

will compare a print of his foot in dress
shoes, with the cast of steps I found in
my garden, I might rely on that evidence
if I chose."

'' Cast of steps !" cried the father, loudly.
'' I am a magistrate, I tell you ! How
will you prove your casts ? The thing is
laughable !"

'ris it ? I shall prove them by the
men who took them, who put their names
on the cement, and carried two other
casts to their employer !"

It is the deepest pain of a nervous
temper that intelligence is not crushed by
the most overwhelming embarrassment ; —
wherein it differs from the cowardly.
George saw the case against him, its
weakness in a court of law, but not less
plainly the maddening fact that he could
not defend himself. Experience in his
own profession taught him this with
doubled force. How he himself could

play on such an accused, were he the
prosecuting counsel. How hopeless would
be the task of the defender who sought
to persuade the jury against the evidence
of their own eyes !

These thoughts flashed brokenly through
his mind, distracted with the struggle
betwixt physical weakness and intelligent
resolution — if nerves can properly be described
as physical. He saw that his
father was overmatched. Hot with perspiration,
white and draggled as a rag, his
hair lank, he looked up with desperate
resolution — trying to fix his glass with
hands that trembled like a sot's.

"I deny every word — every insinuation!
It is a monstrous falsehood that I had
any hand in the theft of your Treasure, if
there has been a theft ! What was your
purpose in coming here ? If you believe
this accusation, why did you not send
the police .^"

'' My purpose is to get back my own."

'* Then apply to Mr. Esking if he has
it."

''If Mr. Esking and I come face to
face," said Eldred, with a rush of passion,
"he and you will stand in the dock. I
wish to avoid that. It lies in your power
to divert a horrible— a horrible catastrophe.
That is why I have come here."

Genest stood quivering with anxiety.
He could no longer doubt that his son
had committed this offence, but to confess
it and to deny was equally terrible. He
dared not speak, and George, revolving
the situation in a tumult of conflicting
thoughts, could not. Eldred went on,
after a pause.

'' I must be honest, sir, especially with
a thief. By your confession, I shall get
back my property, I trust, and in that
event I shall not concern myself further
with you. But all this shall be put into

the fire," he touched the legal documents
upon the table. " Your marriage with
Miss Esking is broken off."

Never !" George cried, panting, and
Genest saw a deceptive gleam of light.

'' Then this is the secret of your infamous
charge !" he cried.

"You have the bravery," Eldred returned,
disregarding this interruption, "to
face me in a criminal court, knowing as
you do that conviction will follow, scandal
and sorrow and disgrace for your friends,
misery for Miss Esking, and penal servitude
at the end for you and for your
accomplice — rather than give her up ?"

This again was an appeal to courage,
and George answered, boldly, " I defy
you !"

"Then I do you honour in a sense,
as I have done honour before now to a
scoundrel I killed. Bethink yourself !
These things will happen ; and Miss

Esking will never be yours, whether you
defy me or submit. Do you hope to
marry her secretly ? I shall be on the
watch, and at the altar you will see me
with a warrant. Make no mistake, George
Genest ! As sure as there's a Heaven
above us for honest men and a hell
beneath for knaves, I will have my rights
and you shall not marry that innocent
girl !"

Feather and son were mute.

*' I have made my appeal!"

Eldrecl strode out.

Is It possible," Genest said at length,
that this accusation Is true ?"

'not one word of It!"

'' Then If he brings the story Into
court I hope you will show more spirit,
George. I know that the charge Is
ridiculous, but If I were not your father
I should not be certain !"

George had recovered his wits. Laughing,

painfully, he answered : " Why, just
consider what it all rests on ! Our
clerk would refute this ruffian at the
first word ! He declares that I have
stolen his Treasure. Let him show, to
begin with, that he ever had a Treasure!
Where was it — what was it? If you can't
try a man for murder unless the body's
found, you certainly can't charge a man
with theft unless it's proved that there was
something to steal."

"Egad, that's very true!"

The huge brute fascinates me ! I'm
not afraid, by Heaven! but there's something
in his look that repels and upsets me.
You know I'm terribly nervous, father !"

"It's a pity we didn't think of the
point you have just mentioned at the
time. It would have shut him up !

You're certain he could not prove that
his Treasure existed ?"

"Think for yourself! This fellow of

course had not seen It. His father and
his uncle in South Africa did not know
where it was, for they pulled down half
Thorburns in seeking it. Captain Thor-burn
was as poor as a rat, so it's clear
he didn't find it. The thing is evident !
This man has heard stories of a Treasure,
and he has a suspicious disposition. Coming
home, resolved, no doubt, to dig the
whole property over, he finds some traces
that seemed to him odd. I don't give
any opinion about them, for it's not
worth while to think of such trifles.
Upon no better evidence he builds up an
accusation against Mr. Esking and me —
why ? Because he has fallen in love
with Miss Esking!"

By Jove ! It's as clear as daylight !
Why on earth didn't you put it before
him in this way, instead of blanching and
cringing so that your own father almost
doubted that the charge might be true !"

"I say," George replied, irritably, 'that
Thorburn confuses me ! When I first saw
him I felt as people do when they meet
a snake."

'well, it's very unfortunate. What are
you going to do ?"

"To see Esking, of course, and tell
him all about it."

Is that necessary ? Wouldn't it be
best if I wrote to Thorburn, showing him
what a fool he is ?"

"You might do that," said George,
"but I'll tell Esking all the same. There's
that matter of the besom which should be
investigated."

Very well. You'll stay lunch there, I
suppose ?"

The brougham was ordered, and George
limped to the hall door, while his father
sat down to compose a letter which should
knock Eldred's case into a cocked hat,
as he triumphantly phrased it. Not that

Genest quite — or nearly — believed his son
innocent. He seized the means of showing
that the accusation would not hold good
in law, and for the facts, he put them
outside the question. Not punctilious nor
chivalric at all was the Squire of the
Warrenage.

George asked for Mr. Esking, who
received him in the Charter Room ;
traversing the verandah, he saw Kate and
his promised bride in the garden with a
strange young man, who was clearly
making himself pleasant.

Mr. Esking looked up with his usual
air of mild benevolence ; it did not exactly
change, but hardened suddenly when George
began —

'' Thorburn has been with me to-day,
sir "

swell?"

I thought, perhaps, you could guess
what his business was."

'' Something about a loss he asserts,
for which he holds me responsible ?"
'then he has spoken to you about it?"
On the first day of his arrival here."
And you gave me no warning ?"
"Why should I? In the first place, he
has not a leg to stand on ; in the second,
you were in no state to discuss the
matter ; in the third, you are not connected
with it."

"He has gone a step further now. He
accuses me of helping you."

"Ah! That's bad! And how does he
prove it .^" George knew they were safe behind
the double windows and the guarded
doors, but he drew close before answering.

By the impressions of my feet "

"Hush! Avoid the habit of using direct
words in a business of this kind ! By
the impression of certain feet ? I have
heard of that. And how does Mr. Thor-burn
connect them with yours .^"

Some workmen there made casts of
them, and took other casts to their
employer."

'rand has he got your shoes — you were
wearing shoes that night, I think ?"

''No."

"Then I would advise you to change
your boot maker, George."

It was the sort of advice a quick-witted
man would offer, if inexperienced
in the science of criminal prosecutions.
But George had the advantage here.

That would be fatal," he said, impatiently,
"if the thing ever comes before
a jury." His face quivered at the thought,
remembering how he had failed to meet
Eldred's examination in this earliest stage.

But if Mr. Thorburn has not got your
shoes, how does he prove the casts to be
evidence ?"

"He has not gone so far yet — that's
all! Oh! the ruffian is no fool, sir! He

works upon the antique maxim, is fecit
cii protest, and, since I am to marry
your daughter, he argues back that the
casts will fit my shoes. Did you ever
ask any other person to help you in this
affair ?"

Then Mr. Esking's face changed. A
telling point had been made against him
at length, if this suggestion bore the
meaning it seemed to carry.

Did Thorburn say so ?" — he dropped
his ceremonial *' Mister," which was one
of his conspicuous habits.

"He said so, and he declared that the
person had made a statement in writing,
which he possesses."

"That's bad, George! With a few
more slices of luck, and a few more
instances of stupidity on our part, he
might get a case ! But the C7'ux remains
for the present, and we have only to be
careful. Thorburn cannot prove that he
VOL. in. D

ever had a Treasure, much more that
we took it."

May I ask who that person was ?"

I recognise your natural anxiety," Mr.
Esking answered, with a smile, though by
no means so free and kindly in its
humour as was common with him. " It
may suffice to say that he was a married
man."

I would rather hear his name."

"That is unnecessary, my boy! You
have trouble enough to keep your
countenance already — let us not add
another disturbing factor. The person
may be dismissed."

But he has made a statement to
Thorburn .^"

I can induce him to disavow that
statement — put it aside ?''

'' Then the question is, what shall be
done ?"

"It's easy to answer. Nothing! Thor-burn

has not, nor ever could have, a
charge against us that would bear one
moment's examination. No magistrate
would grant a summons for a missing dog
on the best evidence he could show."

'' I see that, sir, but we have no common
enemy. One does not know what
a savage may do. Is the thing still
there ?" pointing to the antique kist.

"Yes, and there it will remain until the
year I promised to keep it untouched, is
out. But if you choose to release me,
George, in five minutes its contents shall
be distributed so that no one could trace
them, and the leathern chest shall be
destroyed."

This idea caught the young man's fancy
for an instant, but he was too well trained
in practical logic to fall into the trap.

It would be worse than useless. If
Thorburn can ever formulate a charge it
will be for theft in the abstract — ugh !

horrible ! It Is the scandal we have to
fear, and we should not escape because he
failed to describe or identify any of the
objects. I ask you, sir, is it worth while,
at this tremendous risk, to keep things
that certainly don't belong to us, though
Thorburn's property in them might be
disputed by casuists ?"

Show me the tremendous risk, George."

The disgrace of a prosecution is enough
for me !"

*' How weak nerves betray a sound intelligence
! Have we not the certainty
that Thorburn cannot even lay an accusation
?"

"Not now; but I repeat, sir, that there
is no telling what such a man might do !"

"As how?"

"He is capable, I firmly believe, of
breaking into your house in search of his
property."

"And then," said Mr. Esking, with a

calm smile, " suppose he got into this
room, which is not easy — suppose he
selected this kist, out of all the number,
broke it open, and found what is there
acres ? My house is full of treasures."

*' I see that, sir," George replied, unwillingly.
'' But," he added, with sudden
relief, "is it not almost certain that the
things there are stamped with the Thor-burn
crest, or a name or something that
could be identified T'

I Imagine that Edward Thorburn had
no crest — he was a rich yeoman, without
claim to nobility. But if he had, if his
name appears on every article, I possess
a quantity of plate that belonged to
generations of Thorburns. The late man
sold me all he had, and there are names
and crests in variety. Some of them I
have exhibited to savant — some I have
submitted to the Goldsmith's Company.
If I keep the oldest of them in a curious

antique box, is that suspicious ? Dismiss
your fears, George ! There's the bell !.
You will stay to luncheon ?"

A THUNDERBOLT.

'well, I must say, Hilda, that yours is
the most extraordinary wedding I ever
heard of! No bridesmaids! I don't believe
it's legal, unless you're going to be
married at a Registrar's. Is it, mamma ?"

'' Legal in the court of Heaven it is,
and the rules of man are unimportant."

But did you ever know such a thing
in your experience of life ?"

'' I honour my niece for breaking away
from vain customs."

'but does she .'^ Aren't you going to
have a veil, and a cake, and presents,
and all that, dear .^"

I don't know. Nothing is settled yet."

It is to arrange these things we have
been Invited, Kate, as I understand. Then,
dear, nothing Is fixed even about the day ?"

Nothing at all. I shall not have any
bridesmaids, Kate, because I haven't any
friends unmarried. If a wedding was
illegal on that account, girls like me would
never have a husband."

*' Yes, your situation is very strange, I
know. Well, who is to be asked .^"

'* Papa and Mr. Genest are discussing
the invitations."

Good gracious ! Are you certain
there's to be any marriage at all ?''

Hilda did not reply.

"A lamb is not more ignorant of its
approaching fate ! Mamma, do you approve
such extreme resignation ^

I don't approve the frivolous way you
put it ; but certainly, Hilda, in an event of
such Importance to your future life. In this
world and the next, indifference is sinful."

I am not indifferent. Kate asked who
is coming to the breakfast."

'rand you don't know?"

Papa does not consult me when he
invites people."

"Dear, dear!" sighed Mrs. Fanshawe.
"This tone is distressing. You don't see
any particular difference between a dinner-party
and your wedding-breakfast, Hilda?
Recollect, my dear child, that you are
going to enter the holiest of estates. I
don't agree with the Church Service in
many points, but it treats of the duties
and the responsibilities which a bride is
undertaking, in no unworthy terms."

"If every married couple are in the
holiest of estates," said Hilda, with quiet
bitterness, "there is more virtue roundabout
the world than I should have supposed."


Man is a fallen creature ! Each of us
has to work out his own redemption, and

marriage is one of the stages. Many fail
■ — nay, almost all — but each should enter
on this solemn bond with the hope and
the resolution to make of carnal love a
stepping-stone to higher things. That is
your case, Hilda, I trust ?"

** Should — should!" she cried, angrily
impatient. " Do not talk of ideals, aunt !
I am a very common sort of girl, and
these things are too high for me. We
shall be as happy as most other people,
no doubt It's a dull world, and nothing
in it is worth a fuss. Now, Kate, why
did papa send for you? Is there anything
to be done ?"

"Well, I never! Didn't he consult you
about inviting us ?''

No. But I am very pleased to see
aunt and you."

Perhaps we had better ask him," said
Mrs. Fanshawe, with grave dignity.

*' Don't do that. Papa meant kindly,

I'm sure, and, indeed, I am glad you
have come. Have we anything in particular
to discuss, Kate ?"

Looking at it in a strictly business
way, and observing the singular conduct
of the bride, my dear, I should think it
prudent to discuss the wedding dress to
begin with. Have you made any arrangements
about that .^"

''Oh, yes! I wrote to M. Worth, and
he will send everything."

'' From Paris ? You left the whole
business to a Frenchman — not even one
of your own sex ?"

'eyes, he knows exactly what is wanted."

I can only say again, most emphatically,
'Well, I never!' Did you, mamma?"

I am puzzled. Before things go any
further I must have a few words with you,
my poor girl. This passes insensibility."

Oh, no, aunt ! Words are nothing,,
and actions not much. Don't tease !"

*' Tease ? Then It's clear that the
person I should speak to is your father."

I don't mean to be rude. Talking tome
is no use, for I cannot feel your
arguments. Come out of doors, Kate,
before dinner."

She added, as soon as they reached
the garden, " Don't say another word
upon the subject, please ! I am going to
be married, and I'm very glad to see
you, and that's all !"

Kate was Interested, and observant, and
curious to that pitch that she held her
tongue about the marriage. A topic that
seemed yet more absorbing under the
circumstances was Mr. Thorburn. It did
not altogether please her to remark that
Hilda spoke of him freely. In Kate's view
of things psychological, a girl who loves
one man, being engaged to marry another,
avoids the mere mention of his name.
She could not imagine a being so Innocent

as to be unconscious of her own sensations.
And, therefore, Kate reached
the conclusion that if the bridegroom
was not loved, at least, he had no rival.

Hilda told with spirit how Simmons
issued from the bush she pointed out,
and the events that followed. Her
admiration of Eldred's courage was outspoken.


Dr. Bowring says that the pain of
dragging out that knife must have been
awful — in fact, I heard Mr. Thorburn
groan, but when I turned he was smiling.
I almost think Hubert might be capable
of such heroism in his way, but how few
others ! You must love your husband !"

If Kate had not been prejudiced by the
notion I have suggested, she might have
drawn an obvious inference ; but her mind
was made up.

''If one's husband could always keep up
the heroic attitude, it would be charming

to marry a hero," she replied. " I daresay
Huby would behave like a Paladin if
anybody struck him with a knife. But
that sort of thing is not an everyday
occurrence, and perhaps a woman feels
more at home with a more ordinary
being."

'you also?" said Hilda, without surprise,
as though, in truth, a fact disagreeable
but expected had been admitted. " It's
something for a man to be brave, however."

** I was not referring to Huby, of course.
In general, my dear, heroic characters are
not satisfactory in a tete-astute. They
seem stupid to women."

Perhaps that's because we're not upto
their level," said Hilda, thoughtfully.
'you are right, I suppose, but it's a
pity !"

"What is ?"

•' I don't think I can explain myself.
You recollect Hubert fighting with the

dogs ? How we thrilled to see him, and
how grand he was ! Now, Hubert is
always capable of a gallant act like that,
but we don't always keep up our emotion.
We forget so far that he seems almost
commonplace sometimes ; and yet Hubert
is the same."

That's what I said. You would have
the Dark Ages back. A wife had no
opportunity to forget, then, that her husband
was courageous, for he was tried
daily."

And she respected him ! What difference
is there now-a-days, between — between
young Mr. Bohun, for instance, and a
showman who is educated ? Some shop-men
are more gentlemanly, I should think,
and quite as brave. But in the Dark
Ages, a Bohun was a very different
creature."

"A brute, probably!"

sewell, a man!"

The subject bored Kate, who did not
see the unconscious drift of Hilda's feeling.

"Where shall you live after the wedding?"

The bride's face coloured. •* In London,"
she said, shortly.

Indeed ! I took it for granted that
you would rent some pretty place in the
neighbourhood, within reach of your
father's, being both only children."

"No. Mr. Genest is going to work
hard at his profession."

'' But, my dear, there is a business
aspect of these matters which your friends
must not allow you to overlook. You will
have a sufficient Income ?"

'' Yes."

*' Forgive me for pressing you. Is It
so much as a thousand a year ? Well,
well. If you don't know, tell me something
else. Where is your house to be ?''

Papa thinks of Eaton Square."

'^ Oh !"

Kate's interest in the wedding, and
consequently her tone, were vastly changed
by this announcement. An invitation to
Eaton Square, perhaps in the height of
the season, offered itself as a radiant
possibility to be secured by any means,
if it might be. She became suddenly
confidential and sympathetic.

"Ah, you've lucky, Hilda, believe me,
even if you do not feel a passionate
admiration for Mr. Genest ! Love doesn't
go far when there are no other compensations
for a girl. I married for love
and I'm jealous of you now.

That's kindly meant, I'm sure, but I
don't understand."

"Why — we can talk freely, can't we?
You seem to have romantic notions that
you almost repent a most sensible resolve.
That's how I read it, and if I am mistaken
you will correct me without offence,
won't you ?"

VOL. in. E

I am not offended at all. Pray go

I"
on !

'' That's kind ! You know I'm only-anxious
for your happiness, dear. You
accepted Mr. Genest in what I should
venture to call, since you won't mind mea
lucid interval. You saw that there isn't
much choice round here, and he's a very
pleasant young fellow, of brain and standing,
likely, moreover, to make a good
position for himself. When all is settled,
of course you look at things in the other
point of view. Mr. Genest is not such a
fine man as Mr. Thorburn, nor even as
my Huby ; and then, you don't think so
much of your prize. But, my dear child
I am not hurting your feelings, am I ?"

Every nerve in Hilda's body quivered.
If there had been the least grain of truth
in this explanation she could not have
listened ; but since it was false and foolish
in every particular, her irritation was not

unbearable. She answered calmly, desiring
to hear the rest.

'' I find it difficult to understand myself.
Pray go on."

I meant to say that, if you will
consider all the circumstances, you have
made an excellent match. One cannot
have everything, whether in marriage or
any other affair of life. We were talking
of heroes, and you were good enough
to call my husband one. I loved him
certainly, and I do now, of course, withall
my heart. But 1 am not sure that
I should have accepted him, with my
advantages, even as a girl, if I had
known how things would turn out. We
were to live in London, you know, with
a fine income and a position — just such,
in fact, as you will certainly have with
Mr. Genest, for his money is derived
from land, and uncle's investments are
safe as safe could be. But poor Huby's

0^

,.X^-^^^

circumstances were very different. Within
a few days of our marriage the smash
came. We were recalled from our honeymoon
— the London house so beautifully
furnished — ah ! beautifully, Hilda ! In
Chester Square ! — It vanished like a
dream — and we were only too glad to
find refuge with mamma. I've lived

at Shuttleton ever since, you know, and
not even In good society. Fancy tea
with Brother Coffin, and prayers afterwards
for a treat ! Oh, when I think
of my life, and how different It might
have been, I am almost ready sometimes
to throw It all up !"

"What?" Hilda exclaimed, not much
alarmed, though she understood the words
in a dreadful sense. '^ To kill yourself?"

"Oh, I was exaggerating foolishly.
But I've opened my heart to you, dear,
for your own good. Take warning, and
return to the sensible frame of mind

which led you to accept Mr. Genest,
and when you're a happy wife in Eaton
Square, with a carriage and lots of fine
people on your visiting - list, and half-a-dozen
parties every night to choose from,
don't forget me, darling, who gave you
good advice when you wanted it. Now,
let's change the subject. I suppose, since
you're on such good terms with Mr.
Thorburn, the door yonder is often
used."

"Oh, no! It's locked, and papa keeps
the key, as usual ! Now we must go
in to dress."

Mrs. Fanshawe had resolved to impart
her fancies and impressions to Mr. Esking,
in the matter of Hilda's engagement. A
good woman she was, stupid and weak
in the business of life, but firm as steel
when she saw a duty. It was one of her
strongest feelings that union betwixt two
persons who do not love each other is a

deadly sin. She did not cordially approve
of marriage, even under the best conditions,
thinking that it leads to a misapplication
of time, which should all be
devoted to piety ; but if some words of
Scripture encourage this view, others lend
countenance to the belief that a sober,
thoughtful partnership in good works should
be tolerated. That cannot be without love,
and Mrs. Fanshawe had reached the conclusion
that Hilda was influenced by other
motives.

Upon such a frame of mind the explanation
which Kate had worked out so
satisfactorily to herself, would have been
thrown away — and worse. Kate understood
this, and in a few words that she found
an opportunity to say before dinner, quite
another tone was used. They had so
much effect — Mrs. Fanshawe being very
unsuspicious — that her mood was calmed.
She did not address her brother in that

peremptory style which would have been
used — for mild women, stirred by a feeling
of duty to attack, or even to persuade,
are apt to assume a hostile manner. The
old lady understood from Kate that Mr.
Esking was not responsible in the sense
she imagined. He thoughtlessly permitted
a thoughtless girl to follow an unworthy
impulse. This is faulty, but excuses maybe
offered for a male parent, and especially
for one so absorbed in futile but harmless
studies. Mrs. Fanshawe persevered in the
decision to appeal to him, but she felt
that the strongest battling must be directed
against Hilda.

Mr. Esking prided himself upon finding
conversation for all comers, and not unjustly.
There were no flashes of silence
nor of wit at his table, but in smooth,
easy style a dialogue rolled on, in which
everybody was invited to take part. For
the tone did not rise above everybody's

capacity — that is to say, nothing original
was suggested. In the art of conversation,
as of so many others he had
studied, Mr. Esking put forward no idea
of his own. It was artificial all through.
This evening, for instance, he took the
Primitive Church as a theme in which
his sister would be interested. That is
no inoffensive subject under certain treatment,
and Mr. Esking knew both sides
of it, no doubt ; but he chose the
commonplace, and meandered along as
blandly, as harmlessly, as a bald and
learned curate. Mrs. Fanshawe was "edified
" as she called it, and passed a
'fruitful time." Her brother, she thought,
had turned his reading to piety at last.
The change of position which Kate's
observations had begun to work was
finished. Had she not made a resolve
to charge Mr. Esking with some responsibility
for the engagement, she would

simply have advised and consulted with
him. A father inspired with such excellent
sentiments could not possibly wish his
daughter to make a loveless marriage. It
is possible that in selecting this topic Mr.
Esking foresaw some such result.

He took her to the Charter Room
immediately after dinner and began —

"There are a thousand points connected
with the marriage of a girl, my dear
Ellen, in which a lady's assistance is
indisputable, and I could find no one so
well-fitted as you to advise me, putting
your relationship to Hilda aside."

'' You are very kind, John. But before
entering on those matters I wish to
speak about the marriage itself"

"Certainly! George will be here tomorrow,
I expect, and you will form
your opinion of him. I have no doubt
that it will be favourable."

I feel sure of that, so far as my

Opinion goes. But young girls are not
always influenced by the qualities which
strike their elders. John, I am afraid
that Hilda does not love Mr. Genest."

"Indeed.'^ Then why did she accept
him ? This is a strange notion."

I cannot explain why, but it seems
evident that love was not the motive.
Of course, brother, you have used no
compulsion ?''

Really, Ellen ! Why should I compel
her, or how should I ? Hilda was brought
up by you ; character is formed at fifteen
years of age — at least hers was, I fancy.
You should know it very well, and ask
yourself, is she a girl to be driven ?"

Mrs. Fanshawe was not clever at all,
but she had instincts more useful in some
cases than brain-force. They told her that
the argumentative style is not natural when
a father hears it suggested that his child
is about to wed a man she does not love.

Hilda was not easily driven, John, I
admit, when I studied her character ; but
she was easily led. The fault against
which I strove was Indifference. Her
commonest expression was ' It doesn't
matter !' And when I broke that habit I
am afraid the feeling remained. So far
as I can judge, it has gained strength."

But you don't mean to urge that my
daughter is an idiot, Ellen .^ She would
not carry her principle into an affair so
serious as marriage ? That is too heavy
a demand on my confidence in your
judgment ! Please take the match as
settled, with love on both sides, and a
most hopeful future. And let us get to
business."

But Mrs. Fanshawe did not so much
as think of giving way when conscience
urged her ; ignoring the proposal to drop
the subject, she continued —

'' I am not sure that under certain

circumstances Hilda would not commit
even such a crime as marrying without
love, if she thought, for instance, that you
had set your heart upon her doing so, John."

But I say it is her own act ! What
motive could I have, except her happiness,
even if you read the girl's disposition
correctly ? My daughter is a match, both
by fortune and beauty, for young men
higher placed than Genest of the .
I believe she has an alternative
now. Birth is a very trifling matter in
these days, but even on that score I am
no longer John Esking of Shuttleton. My
name is familiar through Europe. Have
done with those sentimental fancies."

All I say is," she replied, somewhat
shaken in argument, but steadfast for the
point, 'that before considering the details
of the ceremony, I must be satisfied that
the wedding is approved by Heaven, as
far as weak mortals can guess its designs.

I am not satisfied now, John ! All you
could say would not persuade me that
Hilda loves this young man, against the
evidence of my own senses. Perhaps I
am wrong. If so, I shall be delighted to
assist you in any way. But I must have
my doubts cleared up, and I should have
thought that you, her father, would have
been quite as anxious to be assured that
Hilda is marrying for love, and no other
reason."

Mr. Esking had sought refuge, as embarrassed
men do, unconsciously, in his
pipe. His back was turned, filling it, as
Mrs. Fanshawe declared this ultimatum.
She could not see his look of savage
annoyance, and when he turned it was all
gone.

'most certainly, my dear sister! I beg
you to satisfy yourself and me also ; for
your suggestion is alarming. Will you
speak to her now ?''

'' I think I will wait an opportunity
when the subject arises of itself."

Make it as soon as possible, please,
for we are sadly behindhand with the
arrangements." Mr. Esking settled himself
to work, and his sister left the room
presently, not offended, but grievously
perplexed.

Next day, towards one o'clock, Arthur
Mendel called, announcing frankly that his
host had gone out for the day, and he
was bored to death. Hilda had not seen
him since they were both children, but
early acquaintance made their relations
easier. This type of young man, though
frequent, was new to her experience.
George Genest used to rattle in former
times, but his liveliness was intellectual,
if not witty ; brain suggested itself all
through. But Arthur had high spirits
now, and nothing beyond. He talked
a tort et d travers, foolishly very often,

but with contagious merriment. Hilda
found herself amused, and if she laughed
at, as often as with him, at least she
laughed more heartily than she had done
for a long while. Mrs. Fanshawe was not
present, and Arthur had no need to recall

lis mourning.

It was a terribly hot day, and Kate
foretold a thunderstorm of the most awful
violence. She could not be induced to go
out of doors, until Armstrong entered to
set the table. Then, finally, with a large
umbrella which made a theme for Arthur's
easy jokes, she wandered down the garden
with him and Hilda. It was at this
moment George observed the party.

They were seated when he came in, at
Mr. Esking's invitation, for lunch. Mrs.
Fanshawe had rejoined them, and she
watched the meeting of the lovers with
peculiar vigilance. George was lame — in
fact, barely able to walk ; but Hilda did

not go to aid him. Her face, still bright
with the reflection of Arthur's silly, buoyant
fun, coloured suddenly.

I did not know you were in the
house," she said, giving her hand.

After greeting Mendel warmly, Mr.
Esking introduced the young men. In
the presence of Mrs. Fanshawe, Arthur
turned almost as grave as a youth should
be, whose father was buried a few days
ago. And George, remembering how
Hilda laughed just now in the garden, did
his best to show such spirits as became
a youth engaged to marry a beautiful
girl then present ; — so the I'oles were
exchanged.

*' Has your husband discovered the
horse you fancy, Mrs. Fanshawe .^ We
have been much exercised about it at
the Warrenage. My father persists that
the C7^ux of the problem lies on the outside.
You want, he thinks, a steed

mysteriously beautiful In hue and texture,
akin to samite or kendal !"

The subject was disagreeable, and perilous,
also, for 'mamma" knew nothing of
Kate's sudden desire for horse exercise.

"What Is samite or kendal?" she asked.

"Ah, Mr. Esking could tell you that,
perhaps. Am I to understand definitely
then, that you don't know what you
want ?"

I'm not clever enough to follow your
wit, and the day Is too hot, besides. Isn't
It awful, mamma? And Hilda declares
that she can't feel anything extraordinary !"

A thunderstorm would not be extraordinary
In September!" Hilda said.

"That depends, my dear! We shall see
before long. My sensations never deceive
me."

Unnecessary to say that, Mrs. Fan
share, for your sensations must be always
honest. How Is your husband ?"

VOL. in. F

Nothing was meant beyond a smart
commonplace, but Arthur did not Hke
the sarcastic tone. He interposed.

That's a noble horse Thorburn bought
of your father, Mr. Genest. He's riding
it to-day, but I don't envy him. That
sort of beast is most comfortable when
the thermometer stands at zero — it's
warranted to keep the rider warm."

*' Mr. Thorburn's weight would tame
a wild elephant, I should say," Kate
observed.

But those big Africanders learn to
ride light ; they have to, for Thorburn
is not reckoned a giant there. In a
long journey they halt every half-hour,
unsaddle, and let the horse have a roll."

''If your friend follows that practice
here, our rustics will think it odd.
Fancy their astonishment to see the
Squire of Thorburns gravely dismount
twice between here and Rowley, set his

horse spinning on its own axis in the
high road, re-saddle and gravely pursue
his way ! He is not used, perhaps, to
thoroughbred animals."

'' Thorburn wouldn't call it a ride to
Rowley," cried Arthur, with warmth. " I
undertake that he will astonish you gentlemen
when the hunting season begins."

It will be a pleasing novelty for us,"
George replied, in his supercilious tone.

He'll give you sensations enough of
that kind. Can your county show a
sportsman who will harness a pair of
unbroken three-year-olds as leaders, and
drive four-in-hand ?"

'' The description is confused, but I
think I may say that neither Mr. Thor-burn
nor anybody else could do that on
an English road."

I'll bet you a thousand even that he
does !"

My dear Mr. Mendel !" Esking exclaimed

; Mrs. Fanshawe's look was more
eloquent than words ; George smiled with
contemptuous superiority ; Kate evidently
thought it a spirited proposal ; Hilda
looked interested but impatient.

"I never bet," George said, 'rand
emphatically not in thousands. From the
little I have seen of Mr. Thorburn I
should be willing to leave the question
in his hands with confidence, provided
only that he has no wish to break his
neck. That condition I bar."

Arthur felt that he had spoken foolishly,
and In bad taste also. He replied with
sullenness,

''I have seen him do It!"

Genest's air was so frankly scornful,
and his eye-glass so provocative, that Mr.
Esking interposed.

"I am no sportsman," he said, "but
It's plain that feats In driving which are
possible for a consummate whip on the

bare veldts of South Africa would be no
less than suicide In our English lanes."

Oh, yes, I admit that ; but I can't
admit any bound to Thorburn's nerve, and
strength, and skill. He's a hero !"

This was growing desperate. Mr.
Esking, quickened by his own suspicions,
remarked that Mrs. Bashaw was observing
Hilda. He said, smilingly — the
first idea that rose to his mind —

'you must recollect that you are a
banker now, Mr. Mendel, senior partner
of a firm in which I hold a certain
stake. It Is somewhat alarming to hear
you propose a bet of thousands."

Only one, sir," Arthur cried, disconcerted,
but making the best of It, "and
that upon a certainty ! Of course, if
Thorburn declined to undertake the feat,
our wager would be off, but if he accepted
I'm sure he would win."

I saw something," Hilda interrupted

suddenly, ''of your introduction to Mr.
Thorburn. It was in the Shuttleton
Jo2trnaiy

"Oh, yes," cried Kate. "Please tell
her the story !" and Mrs. Fanshawe remarked,
with thoughtful deliberation, " I
should like to hear it, Mr. Arthur, from
your own lips."

Mr. Esking could not make head
against this phalanx of petitioners, especially
since George lent no help — quick
though he was ; an utter ignorance of the
circumstances made him indifferent here.

We cannot ask Mr. Mendel to repeat
such a long narrative after lunch, in such
exhaustion weather too ! Let us reserve
it for a dinner chat one day, and meantime
I will look out the number of our
SJl littleton J oil i ital.

Oh, it's both a duty and a pleasure to
tell how I owed my life to Eldred Thor-burn,"
cried Arthur, " And "

But you will not deprive me of the
amusement of hearing you ?" said Mr.
Esking, as he rose in a last despairing
effort to suppress the tale. " I am sorry
to say that I must leave you now."

'' Oh, I have mentioned that it is my
duty to repeat it ! I shall be glad to tell
you all over again at the first opportunity,
sir."

'' Why not print it in cheap form .^"
George muttered.

Mr. Esking had forbidden himself even
such usefulness as he might have found
in commenting on the narrative. No
resource occurred to him. He withdrew,
and Arthur began.

In telling the story to divers audiences,
he had gathered some principles of art,
some skill both of suppression and emphasis.
Certain features, too crude, were omitted ;
others lightly slurred ; or, again, the horrors
of the adventure were exaggerated.

Arthur took the cue from his audience.
He had learned to make It effective, however
told. In this case his leading Idea
was to avoid shocking Mrs. Fanshawe,
who could hardly be persuaded that to
shoot a " poor African " was an excusable
offence under any circumstances. Of course,
Arthur did not quite succeed, but he
managed to confine the old lady's indignation
to stern but dumb shaking of the
head.

For the others, George was furious,
observing the still excitement In Hilda's
eyes. He suspected now why Mr. Esking
had wished to silence this enthusiastic
story-teller. That Hilda's love was not
his, he knew too well, but did her
father dread, cold, shrewd and calculating
as he was, that It might be given
to Thorburn ? From the moment that this
fear entered George's mind he heard no
more. His unquiet soul showed in his

eyes, watching the girl he loved, too intent
to notice.

But Kate was not so much occupied.
She saw, and triumphed maliciously, for
George had given her offence. With the
object of tormenting him, she induced
Arthur, by judicious questions and exclamations,
to dilate upon such incidents
as showed Eldred's character in the
grandest light.

When the end came, George rose
suddenly. "You have obliged us with a
very romantic narration, Mr. Mendel. It
shows what possibilities of adventure still
exist in the world for a civilised manif
he goes among savages to look for
them. I didn't perceive any other moral.
Good day !" He bowed to the ladies,
took an agitated leave of Hilda, and
limped from the room.

'' I must be going, also," Arthur said.
'' This is the most unconscionable visit

that was ever termed a morning call.
Thank you very much for your patience,.
Miss Esking."

But you mustn't return by the road
must he, Hilda? The storm is just
going to break."

''Oh, if you have a balloon handy, I
shall be delighted to make use of it!"

We have something more convenient.
Don't you think that uncle would lend
us the key of the garden doors"

'certainly. I'll ask him."

They heard the brougham drive away,
as Hilda went on her errand.

"What do you think of the bridegroom
?" Kate asked.

I think," Arthur replied — " I think —
well, he seems to be very lame."

"What a profound remark! I meant
intellectually and morally, and all that ?"

"And so did I."

They laughed knowingly, but in presence

A THUNDERBOLT. 75

of Mrs. Fanshawe, who sat thoughtful In
her place, no further explanation could be
ventured. Hilda came back with the key,
and a few moments afterwards the young
people walked down the garden.

"You won't mock my sensations now,"
said Kate. '' I'll venture another prophecy.
In five minutes the storm will burst."

Indeed, I think it will. Pray give me
the key. Miss Esking."

The lock was rusty. Whilst Arthur
struggled with it, a flash of lightning
blinded them, and at the very instant
such a roar of thunder burst forth that
the ground shook. Kate screamed, threw
herself on him, clutching in an agony of
fear.

Run in, I beg ! I'll shut the door,"
he cried, putting Kate into Hilda's arms.
And they did so.

The brougham was a mile beyond
Thorburns when that crash broke overhead.

George did not hear. For, quick
as it followed the lightning;, the bolt had
done its work. Horses, carriage and
coachman lay in a heap !Jupon the road,
and presently smoke began to wreathe
among them, and keen little jets of flame
crept about the shattered timbers.

CHAPTER III.

THE RUPTURE.

•' What has happened ? — Mr. Thorburn !"

'eyes, I am Mr. Thorburn. You have
had a narrow escape, sir !"

'' I can't remember ! What is this
smoke ?"

Your carriage blazing. Now, Mr.
Genest, you must let me take you up,
for the rain will catch us before we get
home. Which is your bad leg ? But I'll
kneel for you to mount, like a camel."

'' I could not allow it on any account !
The rain "

But Eldred grasped him by the body,
lifted him to his shoulder, rose, and
galloped off full speed in the direction of

Thorburns ; nor did he stop till reaching
the front door.

Arthur was just coming out. "Thank
God!" he exclaimed. "Your horse was
found in the avenue just now, and we
were terribly frightened. What's the
matter with Mr. Genest ?"

"He's been kidnapped," George answered
for himself, sullenly; "that's all he knows.
Mr. Thorburn will explain now, perhaps."

"Your carriage was struck by lightning,
sir, the coachman and horses killed, and
you would have roasted to death, if I had
not chanced to come up."

Good Heavens !"

Perhaps you can understand my feeling
towards Thorburn now, Mr. Genest ? I
say, they'll be giving you the Humane
Society's medal if you go on like this !
Here comes the rain !"

They entered the hall, and Eldred put
his burden down gently.

'' I have no words to thank you, Mr.
Thorburn."

Don't make too much of It." he
replied, significantly. "If you feel what
words could not express, deeds may serve
your turn. If not, remember that I make
no claim. I did not know who was In
the carriage when I opened the door."

"And burnt yourself!" Arthur cried.
'^ Let's see !"

A mighty small hurt !"

"You have such grand ideas. What
do you think of It, Mr. Genest ?''

Don't distract him with trifles. You
quite understand me, sir ? I attach no
importance to this Incident, and, of course,
I don't expect you to do so."

I understand," George replied, gloomily.
Generosity becomes a winner ! Now,
Mr. Thorburn, I can't walk home, but
am anxious to get there."

I will have a cart round at once."

The expression, used In all Innocence,
struck George as painfully meaning under
the circumstances.

Arthur laughed, observing his face.
'' That's the Cape word for a fashionable
vehicle, as opposed to the plebeian wagon."

*' Of course ! I beg pardon !" said
Eldred, ringing.

** I think a medical man of experience
would prescribe brandy and soda in this
moment of gratitude and excitement."

*' Certainly !"

George was parched and his head swam.
He drank the mixture at a breath, and
it may be truthfully urged for that
noxious but fascinating compound, that
no medicine clears the brain so quickly.

'' I don't comprehend my situation yet,"
said George. *' Was I struck by the
lightning ?"

I should say emphatically that you
were not. The bolt passed through

your coachman, stripping every rag from
his body, killed both the horses, and
entered the ground close by their heads.
You were knocked senseless by the concussion,
or something. I've seen a hundred
such cases, at least."

^'A hundred?"

Quite that."

Why," said Arthur, " in the short
time that I passed in the veldt, I saw — ■
nine — two — one — twelve men, in all,
killed by lightning — and a horse. It's an
accident they reckon among the chances
of life for assurance."

'' Poor Jones is dead, then .^"

Your coachman ? Yes. He was sitting
on the box when we left."

'' Ah ! And the flash set my brougham
alight ? I should have been burned to
death if you had not come up ?''

'' Barring other chances, I must suppose
you would — or stifled with the smoke."
VOL. III. G

What an existence yours has been,
Mr. Thorburn !" George said. " Of those
hundred cases had you an opportunity to
save one Hfe ?"

'' Not one. The circumstances in this
instance were exceptional."

So I thought ! One in a hundred
deserves to be classed as a Special Providence
! Well, we shall see the result ! I
don't talk of gratitude. What I can do,
I will."

'' Here is the carriage. I shall be back
in half-an-hour, Mendel, or thereabouts."

'' Are you coming with me ?"

'* Only so far as the place I brought
you from. That poor fellow, Jones, must
be picked up — what's left of him. Tell
Mrs. Godseff to let me have a couple of
new blankets," he added to the footman.

Arthur begged to be taken, but he was
laughingly refused, on the plea that the
rain, descending now as from an opened

sluice, would drown him. As they went
along, George said, after giving Eldred
an opportunity to speak : '' Have you
really no motive in coming out besides
helping us with Jones ?"

None. I have said all there is need
for."

Will you explain your feeling, then.
It seems that I have done you injustice,
Mr. Thorburn. I should not have thought
you would trouble about a dead man."

I don't know what you understand
by troubling. It is the duty to see that
the corpse of a Christian is decently
buried."

'you speak so lightly of death that to
care for the dead seems a contradiction."

I can't argue about my feelings,"
Eldred answered, roughly. He added,
after reflection, " It may be, sir, that weare
used to reckon with the chance of
death by violence. It stands among the

probabilities of the day. But when the
chance has fallen its victim is sacred."

The brougham was a blackened, sodden
heap of rags and shapeless timber, in the
midst of which lay a body, charred
beyond recognition. Eldred swathed it in
the blankets, and reverently disposed it
on the seat before George.

Not inside !" he muttered, shuddering.

Not outside, in the rain !" Eldred
sternly replied.

But I'll go with you if you like," he
continued, resuming his seat. *' Think,
Mr. Genest, what a narrow shave you
had of becoming such an object yourself."
It was said with an easy smile.

*' I am ashamed. No, since the rain has
stopped don't let me keep you." But he
paid no attention and George was relieved.

'' Yours is a strange character, Mr.
Thorburn."

"Why," he asked, laughing, "That's

what I should say of yours, since you
suggest the thought."

I may venture to declare that you're
mistaken. My character is very common."

*rand so Is mine in South Africa, I
should suppose. Perhaps we are each
what circumstances make us. I notice
among English people a peculiarity called
nerves. You are uncomfortable now, with
that poor thing rubbing against your
knees. So Mendel would be, and so
would most others in this country. But
there's an exception, I grant. Mr. Esking
would not be inconvenienced. He does
not recognise nerves. If I challenged
him to put his hand out so, and swear
by the object underneath those blankets
that he had not robbed me — why, sir,
he would do it ! Could you ?"

George writhed. '' I have said as well
as I can that I am grateful, Mr. Thor-burn
! How I show it you will see!'

"That's honest enough! If I seem to-have
laid a trap, the temptation was
irresistible. I rule you out of this fray
henceforward, Mr. Genest. For I don't
doubt that you are speaking truth, and
in due time I shall hear more from you."

"I could not tell more!"

I don't ask more now. Compose
yourself! If your gratitude holds firm, I
may make a further call upon it presently,
but for the matter I challenged you upon,
you are ruled out, Mr. Genest. You

have nothing to fear, unless That's

the lodge of your house, I think. Will
you let me put you down, with the
remains of this poor fellow ? There will
be a fuss when the story is told, and
your fusses irritate me. No talking will
bring the dead to life."

George was too much distressed, too
miserable, seeing the way things tended,
to remark on this system of philosophy.

Eldred helped him into the lodge, and
after a single word of explanation to the
gate-keeper, carried the body in. He
did it with the air of tenderness and
respect that had struck George before.
And then, shaking hands, drove back.
The outburst of the storm gave Mrs.
Fanshawe an opportunity, more promising
than she could have hoped, for a talk
with Hilda. Kate found refuge in her
bed, with all the pillows tucked round
her face. Mr. Esking did not stir from
the Charter Room, nor suspend for an
instant his studious occupation ;— thunder
and lightning are no unusual phenomena.
The old lady herself regarded this event
as a summons and a warning addressed
to all mankind ; for her individually it
signified that she must not neglect a
duty. Hilda was quite indifferent, physically,
but the electric disturbance jarred
her temper, perhaps. Anyway, Mrs. Fan-share

needed to summon all her authority
before she could get even a hearing.

It would not become me, though I
were able, to repeat a conversation which
was long and broken ; for the old lady
had not a quick wit, and the young one
was irritable. The former doubted not
by this time that her suspicions were
correct up to a certain point. Hilda did
not love Genest — she felt a dawning
interest In Thorburn. Her father desired
the match, but even though he wished
he had no means of compelling her.
And yet she was going to marry !

If Mrs. Fanshawe had not known the
girl from her earliest years she might
well have thought that these opposing conditions
could not be reconciled except
upon the supposition of a dull helplessness
that approached idiocy. But she had the
advantage of a minute acquaintance with
her niece's character, and that knowledge

led her to form a vague theory that
would have been ridiculous If applied to
other maidens. She thought It almost
possible that the secret explanation lay
in a fault that had given her deep
anxiety In former years — an unselfish carelessness
which made Hilda Indifferent to
the gravest matters where she alone was
concerned. The Insignificance of human
actions, human fate, was always present
to her mind. She carried this Idea sofar,
as a child, that the nurse had strict
orders to keep her within sight, lest she
should give away her clothes to the first
beggar who asked for them ! a request
was necessary, for In the logic of her
young soul, Hilda perceived that If her
own comfort was Immaterial to the
universe, so was the discomfort of the
beggar. It had happened once that she
came home without hat or jacket on a
frosty day.

Remembering this strange peculiarity
which had been a continued distress and
bewilderment to the dull but worthy dame,
Mrs. Fanshawe entertained an idea that
seemed monstrous. Her niece, it might
be, consented to marry George simply
because Mr. Esking wished her to do
so. She had not paused to think what
marriage signifies ; perhaps even now her
thoughts went no further than the legal
bond. If it were so, the unconscious inclination
towards another love which Mrs.
Fanshawe suspected would not cause her
to break a promise. And the task she
set herself was, to learn whether Hilda
grasped the conditions to which marriage
compels a woman ; if not, to enlighten
her.

Not without sore impatience was the
girl brought to show her mind, but step
by step, gathering certainty of the truth
as she persevered, Mrs. Fanshawe came

to the assurance that her notion was
sound. And then she undertook a more
painful duty, knowing what would be the
result. But it was not exactly what she
imagined. Her eyes sparkling, Hilda
cried —

'' I will never forgive my father, aunt
—never ! He knew ! I told him I did
not care for Mr. Genest, and he laid a
trap for my silliness!'

Recollect yourself! Such words are not
to be used by a child towards her father
under any provocation, and there is none
here ! No man could believe that a girl
was so innocent. My brother acted ashe
thought best for your welfare, and
when you accepted this young man, he
could not suppose that you did not know
what you were doing. I am ashamed of
you, Hilda !"

"Don't say that! I can never forget
what I owe you, aunt, and if you tell

me that papa was excusable, I'll think so.
But it's dreadful."

Ask pardon for your words from on
High, niece. I have been an instrument
in the hands of Almighty Benevolence to
save you — give no credit to me ! Remember
this escape daily and hourly, at
every instant of the day, and render
thanks ! Now, child, what shall you do,
speaking humanly ?"

I shall take the earliest occasion to
tell Mr. Genest that I will not marry
him."

"Of course! And towards your father?"

Towards my father ? I will do as
you advise."

Her point gained, her duty done, Mrs.
Fanshawe suddenly perceived that John
would not be gratified by the upset of
his plans. And Hubert's interest must
be thought of

I don't know," she said, irresolutely.

'that there is any need to speak to my
brother until you have had an explanation
with Mr. Genest. He would break the
news, and make your task easier so far.
Perhaps John might say no more about
it — I mean, he would not press you."

'' I don't think I ought to leave him
in ignorance for a moment."

"If you have that feeling, child, Heaven
forbid I should urge you to resist it.
Only, be quite sure you have overcome
the unreasonable excitement you expressed
just now. Speak lovingly and dutifully."

I will, aunt !" She kissed the old
lady in warm gratitude, and went down.

The manner in which disagreeable news
was conveyed did not signify much to
Mr. Esking. Hilda kept her promise, but
had she reproached and threatened, that
would have made very little difference.
Never till then had she beheld her
father in a passion. He did not flame

at first, trying the effect of humorous
persuasion ; but so soon as the conviction
formed Itself that Hilda knew her own
mind this time, he raged against such
foolish perversity. The words were coarse,
but prudence forbade him to name his
suspicions of Thorburn.

Hilda sat pale and shocked, but resolute.
Strange thoughts, not arlslnof for the
first time, now possessed her. She said,
at a pause —

'' I have been silly, but not perverse.
If I had known what I was doing I
should never have accepted Mr. Genest.
Why do you wish me to marry him,
papa ?"

His last resource lay in a qualified
frankness. Calming himself by a turnup
and down the room, Mr. Esking
answered —

I cannot tell you all ; but this I will
say, that George Genest helped me loyally

In a certain business, and when that help
was to be given he confessed his love for
my daughter. Gratitude Is my motive,
and nothing more — beyond regard for your
happiness."

Hilda replied, after a moment's thought*'
The business was concerned In someway
with Mr. Thorburn ?"

'' I may go so far as that !"

'rand therefore he called on you within
a few hours of his arrival at Thorburns .^"

"Yes, I will say further, that If George
takes offence against me he might avenge
himself, though I am well assured he Is
incapable of such an act."

'' Avenge himself through Mr. Thor-burn
?"

Mr. Esking passed the question by.
'' Think over this, Hilda. I have a
serious desire for the marriage, but no
object would tempt me to risk your welfare.
It is because I know that George

could and would make you happy that I
consented to plead for him."

'' I hope so, papa," she said, rising.
"But there cannot be happiness in marriage
without love, for there cannot be self-respect."


What a sudden change of sentiment a
little teaching of life brings to girlish
philosophy !

I shall not try to picture Mr. Kings'
frame of mind after a conversation which
ruined his plans. At dinner he was composed
and amiably pleasant, as usual, to
Mrs. Fanshawe's great relief. Mendel had
sent a note, before alarming rumours could
reach Little Thorburns, telling the accident.
It mentioned neither the death of the
coachman nor the burning of the carriage,
but simply that Thorburn was passing at
the time, and carried George out of
danger. Thus curtailed of the facts most
terrible, most romantic in a feminine point

of view, and most disconcerting to Mr.
Esking, it supplied Mrs. Fanshawe with
a pious moral, and the rest with an interesting
theme for talk.

At an early hour next day, George
called, but he did not announce himself to
the ladies ; an omission which Kate declared
to be no less than a stupid insult,
when they were so curious to behold a
fellow-creature who had been struck with
lightning. He limped straight to Mr.
Esking's room.

*' My dear boy," that gentleman cried,
What an escape ! Pray tell me all about
it!"

I came for that purpose, sir, before
you started for church."

Yes. How pale you are ! We understood
you were not hurt at all ?"

Did you hear who saved me ? I was
struck senseless, my brougham took fire
in all parts, and I could not have escaped,

VOL. III. H

maimed as I was, even though I had
recovered consciousness !"

Yes ; I know who it was."

The tone was curt and sharp.

Thorburn pulled the door open, burning
himself severely, and dragged me out."

'how very "

Mr. Esking checked himself in time,
but he was not quick enough to substitute
a word. The stars in their courses fought
against him.

'how very unfortunate!" George bitterly
finished the exclamation. " I could almost
join with you there, whatever your meaning
was. Fate or Providence has put an
end to my hesitations, sir. I cannot any
longer bear my part in keeping Thorburn
out of his rights."

You are grateful, my boy, as is becoming
; but excited, also, which is never
a sound condition of the intelligence. Let
us talk the thing over quietly and reasonably.

What change has this Incident
made In the situation ? Thorburn acted
on his instincts. I dare say he did not
know who was In the carriage. That Is
the fact ? Then summon your Oxford
logic, George ! Suppose It had been
another person ! Would you think yourself
bound to quarrel with me, because
Thorburn, with his savage readiness and
savage strength, had rescued Sir Philip ?
I think you will admit that this is conclusive."


Why," said George, accepting the
challenge so cunningly offered, with a
feeble smile, " It would be conclusive In
the abstract. But this is not an abstract
question. Argument must be addressed
ad hominem In such a case. But we may
have done with argument, Mr. Esklng.
I have felt for a long time, from the
very first suggestion. Indeed, that we were
doing wrong, emphatically wrong ! I don't

judge you, sir ! Every man is judged by
his own conscience, and mine utterly condemns
me. I will have no further share
in this — concealment."

'' But think, George ! Do you feel
yourself so strong that you can throw
over my influence in another matter, not
unconnected with our enterprise ?"

I know what I risk. If Hilda breaks
off it must be so."

There's no conditional ! It will be
so."

'' Then so be it, sir."

The thought of betraying his tempter
had not arisen in George's mind. Mr.
Esking noted this fact, and took a more
gentle tone.

'' This is a sad rupture, my boy. You
will not do me the injustice to think that
I could withdraw a promise freely given ?
I shall not say a word to my daughter."

Resentment might suggest to George

ideas now unformed, and he guarded
himself beforehand.

"Thank you, sir. Oh! when you are
so honourable in one point, will you persist
in refusing mere justice in another ?
Thorburn is generous. I undertake that
if we restore his lawful property he will
forgive."

I remember that we discussed the
morality of our action before we engaged
in it, and reached a decision. That
decision has been upset in your mind,
George, by an incident purely personal.
Thorburn has not pulled me from a
burning carriage ; if he had, my intellect
is too evenly balanced to see in that
heroic action any bearing whatsoever on
our point. Pray don't urge this private
consideration upon me, for it's a waste
of time."

"You refuse to give up the Treasure
on any conditions I can obtain from

Thorburn ? He would go far, I think"'
George added, with a sudden pang, ''to>
end the question peacefully."

I refuse. The rules of commonsense
and common law are not abrogated by
a flash of lightning. The matter lies just
where it did before this accident, so far
as he and all the world, excepting you
and me, can see it. I still deny in public,
if necessary, that Thorburn ever had a
Treasure. I challenge him to show that
anything has been abstracted from his
house, and much more, that I abstracted
it. When he can prove the first two
points we may join issue on the last.
And now, George, what are you going
to do?"

"God help me! I don't know!"
'' Ah, I was not referring to that
question. The ladies are waiting, no
doubt. Will you come with us to
church ?"

'' I cannot ! Are you going, sir ?"

'certainly. By-the-bye, If Mr. Genest's
brougham Is destroyed, how did you get
over .^"

In the phaeton."

'well, suppose you take Hilda. Four
persons have to sit rather tight In my

carriage I was just proposing, my

dear, that George should drive you to
church, while I took our visitors."

Hilda found nothing to reply. She
had shaken hands with George, whose
pale, wistful face touched her.

I am very sorry to see you looking
so 111. The shock must have been
doubly awful In your helpless state."

He was used to reserve on her part,
even when she showed compassion for
his sufferings ; but the keen ear of love
recognised a change.

If you permit It, I will send my man
on with you, and drive Hilda myself."

This did not accord with Mr. Esking's
designs, and he objected. But George
declared himself quite equal to any demand
on his biceps, and Hilda suddenly
intervened. So it was decided, on condition
that they kept close in rear of
the others. The concession was not
very grave, for Burnside Church could
be reached in twenty minutes, and when
of two young persons the male is embarrassed
with love, and the girl embarrassed
by an obligation to let him
understand that the marriage arranged
must be broken off — under such conditions
they do not say much commonly in
twenty minutes.

But that idea is based on the assumption
that the youth will begin — if the
damsel take the conversation in hand
much may be decided in a shorter time.
And so it happened now. As soon as
they started, Hilda spoke —

I have never deceived you, Mr.
Genest. I never professed to regard you
with greater warmth than King, and so
much I feel at this moment — I hope I
always shall feel. I have not been
brought up like other girls "

*' For God's sake, don't linger! What
does it come to ?"

'•'My aunt has taught me the difference
between liking and love. I cannot marry
you !

'' Your aunt has done this — without
the help of another teacher ?"

The beautiful face beside him coloured,
but it was under the surprise of his tone
and suspicious look.

She explained to me," Hilda answered
gently, "what other girls know perhaps
without telling. And in the result, George,
though I feel for you, though I am
ashamed of myself for unconsciously leading
you to believe that something would

happen which I know now to be impossible
and shameful to think of, I
must declare the truth — the unalterable
truth — I cannot marry you !"

He had known all along that if she
reflected such must be her answer. Any
chance of winning this girl's love was
lost when he behaved so madly and so
hysterically that time she found him
lying on the road.

George was too quick-witted, even in
distress, to make a futile expostulation.
He took his fate with a groan. For
this had he forfeited his self-respect and
borne a share in crime !

** When you think, George," Hilda continued,
'you will not blame me so much.

I "

*' I do not blame you now ! You never
pretended to care for me, and my only
hope was to gain your love after marriage.
I would have deserved it, Hilda ! But

the hope is gone. You will see me no
more after to-day. The last word I speak
is a terrible warning — beware of your
father !"

'why?" He kept silence. "Oh, explain
to me ! Strange thoughts have risen
in my mind, but I know nothing. What
is this mystery between you and my
father and Mr. Thorburn ?"

The church was in view, but George
did not speak. His face was racked with
emotion.

Tell me, I implore you ! When you
give such dreadful advice there must be
danger ! What is it ? Where shall I look
for it?"

At length he found the words. ''Thor-
burn has been wronged. Persuade your
father to do him justice, or I know not
what may happen !"

"Ah! It is that I feared; but how?"
I must not tell you,"

'' And Mr. Thorburn knows his wrong ?"

*eyes! No more questions, I entreat!
We say good-bye, now, Hilda! God bless
you ! You are not for such a feeble
fellow as me, but no man will ever love
you more tenderly !"

They reached the church door, and Mr.
Esking came forward to help his daughter
down — a glance told him that the explanation
had been made. It mattered
very little now.

'won't you attend the service, George?"

I am not in the mood, sir !" His
groom mounted, George raised his hat,
and drove away.

A few hundred yards behind he met
Eldred and Mendel walking, and in the
impulse of the moment cried, as he passed,
*' Good-bye, Mr. Thorburn !"

That's an odd fashion of wishing a
man good day !" said Arthur.

'' What do you make of it ?"

Why, one might almost think that the
fellow was leaving the neighbourhood.
He'll return for his marriage, I suppose ?"

It was not the words only that made
both the young men attach importance to
this little incident. Genest's face seemed
to show that more was meant than a
casual oddity of greeting. Not a word of
the service did Eldred hear, nor perhaps
did any one of our characters, except Mrs.
Fanshawe.

The sun was bright as they left the
church, the lane almost dry. Mr. Esking
proposed to walk home, dismissing the
carriage and his sister.

'* Let me make another proposition,"
said Eldred, '' Come to lunch at Thor-burns.
If Mrs. Fanshawe, in passing, will
inform my housekeeper, she will be prepared,
I hope. I must beg of you also,
Mrs. Fanshawe, to wait our arrival, if Mr.
Esking approves."

'' It is a very pleasant idea," he
answered, " if the ladies will consent."

"I do not go from home on the Sabbath,"
said Mrs. Fanshawe.

'then leave the message at Thor-burns,"
Mr. Esking cried to his footman,
impatiently.

And the others set forth, Mendel and
Kate walking in the rear. They gradually
dropped back, out of earshot.

By-the-bye," she said, after a while,
** uncle asked at breakfast for the key of
his garden door. What did you do with
it ?"

"In the excitement of the moment I
put it in my pocket, and my man found
it there."

You don't happen to have the thing
about you ?"

Why, it's as big as the key of the
Gates of Gaza, or thereabouts. Bland
would give me a month's notice if I

carried such a ponderous article about
with me. But your look is distrustful,
Mrs. Fanshawe ! Why .^"

Oh, ladies don't like to know that an
enterprising youth has the key of their
garden gate in his possession. We shall
be easier when it's safe in uncle's hands
again."

Enterprising youth ! I'm about as
enterprising as a pet lamb, if you can
possibly mean me. I only wish I could
muster some courage."

'what for?"

'' To say, for one thing, why I haven't
courage to do something."

'' That's a very complicated speech !
All that I understand Is that the sooner
we recover that key the safer we shall
feel."

*' If it comes to that, I am distressed
to say that you will be no safer than
before. Thorburn has a facsimile which

lies upon the mantelpiece of the diningroom,
where anyone could take it."

'' Dear me, that's alarming ! Hilda and
I will be afraid to continue our evening
strolls."

'' Why, I thought they were abandoned
after the ugly encounter with Simmons ?"

"We keep in the light, that's all. The
house is so dreadfully dull at night —
worse almost than Shuttleton ! Oh, young
men are lucky ! They have all the fun
of life!"

'' I can assure you that Thorburns is
not lively after dinner. My host is the
finest fellow alive, you know, but his
charm does not lie in talk. He sits
thinking and smoking — scarcely utters a
word, whatever one may do to rouse
him, and at the stroke of ten marches
off to bed. His expansive time is 5 a.m.,
I understand, when he returns from a
stroll about the place, for early coffee !"

'' How very like Hilda! But she goes
to bed at nine, and mamma thinks it
such an excellent practice that she has
taken to it religiously. Uncle retires I
don't know when, but he remains shut
up in the Charter Room — and there am I !"
'rand there am I, a few hundred yards
off, in exactly the same case ! Oh, if I
could find a little courage !"
What for, I ask again ?''
"To — to borrow Thorburn's key!"
How dare you suggest such a thing,
you impertinent boy !"

At this moment the others stopped to
be overtaken.

VOL. III.

A SUNDAY LUNCH AT THORBURNS.

To allow Mrs. Godseff time for preparing
lunch, Eldred took his guests
round the building, and pointed out the
alterations he designed. No entertainment
other than this could have drawn Mr.
Esking from the cares and anxieties
which pressed upon him, though in heart
as in face he preserved his cool courage.
Eldred also found a warm interest in
the lore which his guest poured forth,
and the ideas he suggested. Thorburns
had been a sacred thing to the Africander
from his earliest recollection, and assuredly
it was not less absorbing now, when he
had undertaken to renew its former

glories — feeling desperately ignorant himself
and advised to distrust the conventional
authorities. As a matter of fact,
Eldred knew better what was required
than nine hundred and ninety-nine in a
thousand of young Englishmen who might
have found themselves In his position.
He had tact also, that instructive appreciation
of the fitting, which belongs to a
man of intelligence who has not been
corrupted by the barbarism of civilisation.
Mr. Esking commended all his ideas for
reproducing the appearance of the house
as It stood three centuries-and-a-half ago ;
that date was chosen because it was the
earliest In which any sort of description
could be found. A vast deal, of course,
Eldred had been obliged to reconstruct
from his moral consciousness, and it was
flattering to learn, from an antiquarian
so distinguished, that he had made no
serious error. Mr. Esking was a good

deal concerned about the Gate Towers,
which he described as unique. Not a
stone should be touched there, inside or
out. Eldred agreed with him, and when
his concurrence was established, Mr.
Esking's approval of everything suggested
became enthusiastic.

Kate and Mendel were frankly bored
by this learned talk and the pauses for
dissertation. They wandered afield, exploring
the neglected shrubberies, inventing
grotesque legends, and laughing loud
at their own fancies. They reached the
Pool Dam suddenly, and Arthur was
rewarded by an outburst of surprise
quite as pretty and as clamorous as he
had hoped. In fact, the view of that
black water sleeping fifty feet below,
unseen behind a mask of trees which
grew on the very edge of the precipice,
was startling to nerves more robust than
Kate's.

Oh, how awful !" she exclaimed, with
eyes rounded and lips parted in unfeigned
horror. 'what a ghastly pit! Oh,
Hilda! Did you know of this?" She
turned and ran with graceful impatience
towards the other party.

*' Mrs. Fanshawe has discovered our
Pool Dam, I suppose," said Eldred.
"Come and look at it, Miss Esking,
from the stoop — terrace, I mean."

They clambered over the ruins of the
banqueting hall, which had fallen outwards
on this side, whilst Kate breathlessly
described the dreadful chasm she
had seen.

Here It is," Eldred said. " I confess
that this ornament to my grounds is
rather a disconcerting object to come
upon unprepared."

It is, Indeed ! I have often seen it,
you know, from the Tower, but a near
view is much more striking. Why, Mr.

Thorburn, I wonder that none of your
ancestors had it drained, If only to find
the Treasure. It must He there."

'* Tradition says not. And, besides, I
understand that the pool was not dug at
that time. Is It not so, sir ?"

'' I should not care to say, positively.
Legend does not tell who made It ; at
least, your uncle did not know."

Indeed !" replied Eldred, thoughtfully.
I took it for granted that this work
was done not so very, very long ago.
My father thought so, I fancy. Anyway,
Miss Esking, the Pool Dam was never
associated with our Treasure."

Kate had warily descended the steps,
Arthur In attendance, of course. She
came up just In time to hear this
observation.

Do you really believe that funny old
tale ?"

Most certainly, Mrs. Fanshawe."

'' Dear me ! Are you going to hunt
for the Treasure ?"

As soon as I can get some necessary
information."

May I ask what the information is ?"

'' Certainly. I have to find out which
is the oldest portion of my house. I hope
to succeed tomorrow."

Eldred felt himself bound by the convention
to lay no trap for Mr. Esking
before hostilities were resumed ; and, much
more, not for a guest. He did not even
look towards him, until Hilda said —

Papa could tell you that, I should
think."

The blow was so sharp, suggesting that
a clue had been found at last, her father
could not quite command his face. The
smile upon it became a wiry distortion,
and his voice was harshly irritable.

'' A mere student in architecture could
tell Mr. Thorburn this wall behind us

is de Warrennene's erection. The lower
windows remain almost perfect — rare
specimens of domestic building in the
fourteenth century."

Eldred looked at them. His excursions
into antiquarian science told him
that the statement was probable, and he
glanced thoughtfully beyond towards the
walk, unseen from this point of view,
which led to his neighbour's garden.

'' Well, I hope to know soon," he
replied, moving on. Mr. Esking longed
to ask how, but dared not. He hoped
somebody would put the question, but
Kate interrupted. She understood partly
what was going on, and began to feel
alarm at the troubles she had raised — a
physical discomfort, not repentance.

Mr. Mendel says that the water is
fifty feet deep. Can that be true ?"

So they say."

And not a boat on it, is there ?

Suppose Hilda or I were to fall in !
What could you do ?"

'' Heaven forbid ! For myself, Mrs.
Fanshawe, I could only drown with you,
for we have no opportunity to learn
swimming in South Africa."

*' That would be chivalrous, but hardly
consoling. Pray get a boat, at least, Mr.
Thorburn."

*' Let me suggest a drag or two, and
a cork jacket, and a copy of the Humane
Society's rules for the treatment, etc," said
Mendel.

I will have them all tomorrow,"
Eldred replied, with energy. 'rand I'm
most grateful for the suggestion. There
was a boat here formerly, I believe ; it
is lying full of water in the shallows,
almost beneath your garden wall, Mr.
Esking. Very thoughtless of me to overlook
the chance of accident. For God's
sake. Miss Esking, come away from the

edge ! Here Is my man to announce
lunch at last."

I was wondering," Hilda said, as
she turned, *' what could possibly be the
object of digging such a pit. It's quite
artificial, isn't it, papa ?"

'quite. The bed of the brook is
raised, half-a-mile higher up, which makes
a little waterfall. I imagine that when
this pool was dry, the cascade lay within
sight, or hearing at least, of the banqueting
hall yonder, and it has gradually
worked back."

''A proof that the Treasure isn't there,
sir! In the fourteenth century people
didn't care much for waterfalls."

'' A shrewd remark, Mr. Thorburn ;
but I am not sure that it is safe argument.
Anyhow, to make a cutting through
a hill, fifty feet deep at least, and, as
you believe, a hundred, is a work which,
in later ages, would cost an enormous sum

of money. Only eccentric millionaires could
dream of such an undertaking now, and
I may observe without offence, that your
ancestors have always been too much of
the country gentlemen to have millions at
command."

'rand what then?" Arthur asked.

"Why, then, it follows that the Pool
Dam could only have been made by
labour more or less forced — by corvde.
If the work should be proved later than
the abandonment of villeinage, it must still
be of that very early date when wages
were little more than nominal."

"Unless," said Hilda, "the Thorburn
who did it had an overpowering motive.
He might ruin himself with the object of
making a death-trap."

The very word I used," Arthur cried,
eagerly. " Depend upon it that ugly pond
was sunk for the purpose of murdering
somebody !"

They had reached the hall door. " I
am glad to cut short these speculations,"
said Eldred, laughing. '' They reflect
upon my blameless forefathers to a degree
quite embarrassing."

'' Oh, I beg your pardon, Mr. Thor-burn,"
Kate began.

*' Don't name it — I was joking ! Will
you ladies take off your bonnets ?"

Mrs. Godseff was standing in the hall
to receive her master's visitors with due
honour.

I am curiously interested in your Pool
Dam," Hilda said, after greeting the housekeeper.
'* May I ask Mrs. Godseff what
people used to say of it in her young
days ?"

By all means ! I hope you have a
dreadful legend, mother."

The Pool Dam ? Ay, there was talk
of it, miss, when I was a girl. The old
folks shook their heads and put us off,

but now I'm an old woman myself I'm
fain to think perhaps they didn't know
more than others."

'' That doesn't promise, Miss Esking.
Now, mother, will you send a maid to
show these ladies to a room ?" But Hilda
had already taken off her bonnet without
glass, and Kate unwillingly followed the
example.

The lunch was so odd that Mr. Esking
noticed it, though he had even
greater perplexities upon his mind than
before.

I cannot forbear to say, Mr. Thorburn,
that you have found an original sort of
cook," he observed. " I am hardly acquainted
with the science of antiquarian
cuisine, but it vaguely seems to me that
these are the kind of dishes I read
about."

Arthur exclaimed, ** I'm so glad to hear
someone say that ! The extraordinary

flavours and combinations I have met within
this house will never be effaced from
memory."

The point with me is, are they nice ?"
Kate said. "You gentlemen who travel
and study are judges of the eccentric,
but we know as well as anyone what's
good, and I protest that these rissoles offish,
if rissoles of fish they be, are quite
the most delicious things I ever tasted.
What do you say, Hilda?"

*' I agree heartily. If this is the
antique style of cooking, papa, pray find
me some recipes for my book."

Perhaps it's South African," said Kate.

"Something like it, I admit," Eldred
replied, "but vastly superior. I seem to
recognise the pure form of our fricadel
in the dish you are good enough to
praise, Mrs. Fanshawe. But my housekeeper
is solely responsible."

Ah, Mrs. Godseff is a practical arches

If Mr. Thorburn permits, we will
have a long talk presently."

And after lunch, whilst the gentlemen
smoked at table — Eldred had not yet
learned that English ladies are supposed
to dislike the smell of tobacco — she and
Kate sought the venerable dame in her
quarters. The drawing-room had been
assigned to her, a small apartment off
the hall, with its window looking towards
the front. In old times it had another,
blocked up centuries ago, when the banqueting
hall was built. So roughly had
the work been done that naked bricks
and mortar stared one in the face on
entering, at the back of a deep recess.

Dear me !" Kate exclaimed, sarcastically.

It's not that Mr. Eldred don't care
about my room, madam," said Mrs. God-self,
answering her thought indignantly.

'' He'd fill the blank with gold if I
wished it."

'' But I understood this was the 
formerly?" Hilda remarked.

'' Ay ; look at the ceiling."

It had been whitewashed and repaired,
as well as a country upholsterer could doit,
before Mrs. Godseff came into occupation.
But Kate only saw an old-fashioned
arrangement in plaster.

'' What are we to look at in the
ceiling ?'' she asked, innocently.

That's took to be the finest work in
England, madam, executed by the Italian
artists who carved the mantelpiece in the
hall. And I can recollect when every
bit of furniture and perishing in the
room matched it. Ah, sad changes ! For
the old window-nook there, it was filled
with a book-case, that poor Captain Thor-burn
sold in London for seven hundred
and twenty-five pound, not counting the

books in It, which your papa bought,
miss."

*' Well, the good times have come
again, Mrs. Godseff, and that must be a
great comfort to you. I want to hear all
you know about the Pool Dam, and other
things. Now, sit down and tell us stories."

'' But where are we to sit ?" Kate
asked, disconsolately, looking at the worm-eaten
chairs, clean now, but colourless
with ages of dust and neglect.

They're quite safe, madam, and If old
bones can sit easy on 'em, young ladies
should be comfortable."

"Of course, Kate! And Mrs. Godseff
has her own chair which I used to admire
at the cottage. Now, begin."

I must say that circumstances less
favourable for the proper enjoyment of a
ghost story were never designed ! How
could one possibly thrill and all that at
3-30 p.m., sitting bold upright like a
VOL. in. K

poker on wires ? Tell us, Mrs. Godseff,
which is the oldest part of this awfully
venerable building ?"

The oldest part ? Why do you ask ?"

'' Mr. Thorburn wants to know," Hilda
said. "We were talking of it."

And why does he want to know ?"
Mrs. Godseff seemed strangely interested
in the question. She tapped her stick
upon the floor imperiously, and her features
worked with senile anger.

Dear me !" said Kate again, but with
another significance. '' Mr. Thorburn

seems to think," she added, watching
the dame, "that the family Treasure is
buried under the oldest part of this
house."

"Ah, Miss Hilda, he'll listen to you!
Beg him, for the Lord's sake, to put
that out of his mind. The Treasure has
been ruin to his forefathers, and will be
to him ! Ruin it was to the man who

had it ; ruin to the man — to every man
who searched for it — ruin, ruin, ruin to
all ! Don't let Eldred go the way so
many of 'em have gone ! Ask him, Miss
Hilda, for your sake, to throw it off!
I look back over a many years, and us
Godseffs have served Thorburns faithful
from father to son, mother to daughter,
since there was Thorburns in the land !
Never nought but mischief came of the
Treasure! I beg of you, Miss Hilda, to
put it so before him, in the words you
could use! He'll heed you!"

Dear me !" Kate exclaimed, for the
third time, with yet another tone.

Hilda did not blush nor pale.

I do not understand, Mrs Godseff,
why you should suppose that Mr. Thor-burn
would heed me. I know absolutely
nothing of the matters you refer to, and
if I did it would be very impertinent to
offer advice."

The old woman made no reply for a
moment, gazing In Hilda's face — then
shook her head gloomily.

"What must be, must! I've said my
say, Miss Hilda, and you've heard.
What was It you asked, madam ? Oh,
ay, about the Pool Dam."

'' When was It made, and why ?"

'' I have heard 'twas a John Thorburn
who did It, and If your father has got
the family tree as used to hang In the
hall, he could tell you when he lived.
Things have happened In the Pool, but
the lady there "

'mrs. Fanshawe," Hilda suggested.

'' Yes, miss. She would like something
by way of a ghost story. Thorburns
was never folks for such. I've heard Lord
Roxton say, in this room, that It's odd
there shouldn't be the ghost of a ghost
about such a ghostly old place as this —
that was the grandfather of his lordship

now. But there Isn't so far as I've been
told."

The Thorburns have always been
quiet, virtuous persons ?" Kate said.

Nay ! Enough of 'em have been
wicked, and enough of 'em have come to
an awful ending to people the neighbourhood
with ghosts. There was Ralph
Thorburn, as I was just thinking of.
He manned a ship and fought again the
Spaniards, and the Queen knighted him.
Then he asked of Her Majesty's grace
to give him the heiress of Genest of
the Warrenage, who, as was well be-known,
loved a young man of the Bolus.
But the Queen gave her to Ralph, for It
was the custom of those times that an
heiress belonged to the Crown. And
three days after the marriage her body
was found In the Pool Dam."

"Good gracious!" Kate exclaimed. 'did
she drown herself.'^"

''Of course she did, madam! But there
was talk, and in the end Ralph restored
the Warrenage property to the heir-at-law.
He went to sea again and was lost in a

fight."

"A three volume novel in half-a-dozen
sentences ! You are an excellent storyteller,
Mrs. Godseff. Pray let us have
some more."

'rit was before Ralph's time, I think,
that the heir — I don't mind his name —
was playing on the terrace with Jim
Godseff, who was one of us, but not my
forefather. They fell over. Eldred Thor-burn
stood by, talking with Sir James
Bohun. He jumped in, caught young
Godseff, and brought him to the steps,
forgetting that the children were dressed
alike, being foster-brothers. When Eldred
saw his mistake, he pitched Jim back as
far as he could throw ! Sir James Bohun
saved him, but the heir was drowned."

*' Decidedly I withdraw my opinion
that the Thorburns have always been
quiet and virtuous. Please go on !"

"Haven't you any prettier legends?"
Hilda asked.

Not that I mind just now, miss — of
the Pool Dam, that is. Oh, it's told that
a young lady was sitting on the parapet
I don't know who she was, nor when
It happened. The wind snatched off her
top-knot and dropped it in the Pool.
Hig Thorburn was standing beside her.
He plunged, and in doing so, or afterwards
some way, put his foot out of
joint. He brought the top-knot back, but
was lamed for life. I suppose doctors
couldn't cure him."

But he married the young lady, I
hope ?"

I never heard of it."

"Then," Hilda exclaimed, "I feel sure
it's a true story !"

'what an odd name — Hig! It's short
for something, I suppose?"

"No, madam. There have been several
His in the family. The great grandfather
of Mr. Eldred who is now, was
christened so."

"He was very fast, wasn't he .'^" said
Hilda. " I think I have heard that the
ruin of the family began with him."

"It's true, miss! Eh, dear! What
wild times they were when I first come
to help my mother in this house !" She
paused in dark reflection.

"Mr. Thorburn's great grandfather?
Why, he must have been very old when
you were very young," Kate said.

Old in years, but the devil kept him
young for mischief! His son. Miss Hilda,
was a weakling, and so was his grandson
— that's Captain Thorburn. No one
dared say nay to Hig. And so it all
came about."

What came about ?"

'why — the devilry, for short! The
younger grandsons, Ralph and David,
had spirit. They looked down on their
elder brother in a way, and when they
got short of money they dug for the
Treasure, and knocked half his house
down."

'' Why didn't you stop them, Mrs.
Godseff?"

'' I was a wife then, miss, though I
hadn't to change my name, marrying my
cousin. And we was living far from this
neighbourhood, in Leicestershire. It was
when my husband died I came back, and
Captain Thorburn gave me the cottage.
Ah, I little hoped to be housekeeper at
Thorburns again !"

You belong to the place like its ivy.
All these legends and recollections will
be lost when you go. They should be
written down, Mrs. Godseff, and I wish

I could help. We must leave you now,"
Hilda added, 'grateful for a most interesting
talk. I have to ask at the same time
for another sort of recollections. We are
all delighted with the old world dishes
served at lunch, which, Mr. Thorburn
says, are your making. Weill you let me
have the recipes ?"

'' Certainly, miss, and with pleasure.
They were my mother's and her mother's,
and back time out of mind. I can't make
'em as they should be made, for our cook
is not up to the old fashion ; and, besides,
I haven't the herbs and things by me yet.
But the recipes are at your service. And,
Miss Hilda, I don t ask you to do it
again, but if the chance comes, or if you
can strain a point, beg of Eldred to leave
the Treasure alone. Do, now !"
But why not urge it yourself ?"
"Ah, he's a Thorburn, every inch ! D'ye
think he'd mind me ? It would be a

laugh and a joke first — If I went on he'd
walk off — and then a black look and a
sharp word. But he'd mind you."

Hilda blushed now, and retired without
giving a promise.

They found Eldred and Mendel alone.
The former said, '' Mr. Esking could not
wait, and he entrusted us with the pleasing
duty of escorting you." Just a little surprised,
Hilda put on her bonnet.

The truth is that Mr. Esking could not
repress his anxiety to learn by what means
Eldred proposed to find which was the
oldest part of his house ; how he had
come to suspect that the Treasure lay
there might be a question deferred. Not
many authorities were capable of pronouncing
— if on authorities he relied. The
Clock Tower might well be overlooked,
for Its upper floor and roof had been
rebuilt many generations since, and the
more ancient courses of stone were mantled

with Ivy. Mr. Esking could think of one
man alone In England who might pronounce
at a glance, and one other alone
who would detect the truth to a certainty
if he gave his full attention.

There was no need for finesse In ascertaining
what method Eldred designed.
He said at once, in answer to a circuitous
suggestion —

"I'm expecting a gentleman tomorrow,
whose name, I understand, is known to
you, since his father refers in a note to
my learned neighbour's valuable contributions
to our society.' Does that give you
any hint T'

''I am very dull. What is the name?"

'the father's is Sir Richard Onslow —
I am not yet acquainted with the son's."

All would be over in twenty-four hours !
Genest had deserted him, and if he had
not gone over to the enemy his support
could not be relied upon. And Wace

Onslow was at hand. Within twenty-four
hours he would be prying round, his
musings aided and accompanied by that
everlasting cackle of laughter which antiquarian
savant knew so well. About this
time on the morrow they would rise from
lunch, probably. Mr. Esking saw the
whole incident in his mind's eye. Wace
Onslow would not overlook the Gate
Towers. Within an hour the pavement
would be up, or if Eldred waited till
the workmen left, it would be up before
dinner. And then — how could he have
been so reckless as to bury odds and
ends of rubbish in filling the hole ! The
whole fabric of Mr. Esking's defence
broke up and dissolved. If it was not
yet proved that Thorburn had a Treasure,
the evidence would suffice to show that
somebody had been digging on his ground
within a recent time. And then, all the
testimony of recent footmarks, of the

besom, and the rest would come in !
Thorburn had a case at last, and George
Genest was not trustworthy. It was
nearly all over indeed !

Not even Mr. Esking's nerve was
proof against this terrible threat. He
could not command himself, and after a
few efforts to sustain the conversation,
rose suddenly, complaining of illness.
Eldred fetched the key of the garden
gate, and took him that way home. He
said, as they went, in a grave and
gentle manner —

'* If you have anything to propose,
Mr. Esking, anything ! — that I can
accept, it is not too late now, nor
ever will be, so long as I can control
events ! I ask only my own !"

''I have nothing to say!" They parted
at the door.

As the party of young people strolled
along the lane, they fell into the order

which had become almost habitual — Eldred
and Hilda in front, Kate and Mendel far
in rear. Each couple found an absorbing
topic, but we are concerned only with the
former.

'* Do you know," Hilda began, " that
the dear old soul you call ' mother ' Is
very anxious about you ? She let us see
as much to-day, and I think It neighbourly
to tell you, Mr. Thorburn."

Eldred looked down at her with stern

Inquiry, but to suspect this pure and noble

being was impossible. His brow cleared.

I know she is concerned about my

interest in the Treasure. Is that it .^"

Yes. She says that it has brought
ruin, ruin, ruin to all of you, and if that's
the case, wouldn't it be wiser to leave
the thing alone ?"

Clearly !" he said, laughing. '' But
the good old creature refuses to show how
a thing which has never been discovered

has brought ruin to anyone. I have Invited
her to make out her case often,
but the evidence Is not forthcoming. Did
she lay it before you ?"

I must confess that I took her assertions
for granted. She knows so much,
that I did not think of doubting."

'' Persuade her to tell the facts that bear
upon this matter. I assure you, Miss
Esking, that I have no wish to be ruined.
On the production of any reasonable case,
showing that to look for my own property,
left by my forefathers to a descendant
who must hand it down to future generations
of his name — If It can be proved
that this object, which seems to me laudable,
and indeed a duty, is mistaken, I
will give It up. But not till then ; emphatically,
not till then !"

You have a strong sense of your
rights, Mr. Thorburn !"

He knit his brows again, seeking If

there might be a purpose in the remark.
Her eyes met his this time, not faltering,
but replying. He answered, gravely —

I suppose that men who have led
my life come to regard their rights as
doubly sacred and their wrongs as doubly
grave. In a poor country, Miss Esking,
where many foes surround one, these
things are not mere questions of law
and property, as in England. Life depends
on them sometimes, and always the
means of existence. So perhaps we come
to take what happier folks would call an
exaggerated view of things."

I understand that," said Hilda, in a
tone of relief unmistakable. After all,
perhaps, this grievance against her father,
which George in his excitement suggested
as so grave, was a matter which English
people would think trifling.

Eldred recognised the change, and pride,
loyalty, resentment, all took alarm.

VOL. in. L

Don't make too much of what I
have said with regard to any special
instance. Perhaps I might be too exacting
in certain circumstances, but there is
no such case here."

Hilda caught him up. " Where .'^" she
asked, eagerly. Eldred paused, disconcerted.


I believe, Mr. Thorburn — •! have been
told — that you charge my father with
taking advantage of you ?"

I am grieved and surprised that you
should have heard any such thing. May
I ask who was so indiscreet and so
heartless as to tell ?''

My father had the right to do so,
and since you associate Mr. Genest in the
accusation, I am grateful to him for confirming
my suspicions. Now, I come to
you."

*' But if you know, what occasion is
there to ask further ?"

I do not know ! They gave me hints,
but nothing more. Tell me all the truth."

'but, think! Would it be becoming
in me to make a confidence your father
refuses ? I cannot say a word, Miss
Esking. Don't press me, I beg. It is
impossible !"

Now, tell me this. You make an
accusation — you assert that my father has
wronged you seriously, and yet you go to
his house, you entertain him, you talk
and laugh together. Explain that."

It will suffice, perhaps, to point out
that Mr. Esking knows the charge, yet
he comes to my house, he entertains me,
and we chat together. Ask the explanation
of him."

"No! He may have motives; you can
have none. He may wish to keep on
terms ; but you are the accuser ; or, as
I believe, he may think your idea too
absurd for serious attention."

"That Is not the case. It was I who
proposed that we should be friendly. I
felt the motive."

'what was that?"

"I let you see It once, Miss Esking ;
and It vanished. But the compact remains
until I am In a position to prove my
words. The end may come shortly now.
To-morrow, perhaps, I shall be able ta
do so."

"To-morrow? To-morrow you are hoping
to find which Is the oldest part of
your house — where the Treasure lies ? Is
there any connection between that fact
and the charge you make against my
father ?"

He was silent, bitterly regretting his
careless speech.

"If you do not answer, I shall know
there Is."

"What Is the use of this, Miss Esking?
Within a few hours probably all will be

cleared up. I will say this — if the trial
I expect tomorrow fails, I will not pursue
the matter further. I stake all on that,
for I have suffered and I suffer keenly
now."

'you accuse my father of stealing the
Treasure — that is it. Deny, sir, if you
can ! You cannot ! And with this suspicion
you dared to say you loved me, the
daughter of a thief?"

I would love you," he said, with a
gust of passion, ''if you were the daughter
of a murderer."

"Then I understand it all now, for I
understand you, Mr. Thorburn, and I
despise you. You charge my father with
theft ! Viii, whose sense of honour is
so dull, that, accusing him as you do,
you are willing to ally yourself with him,
to condone his infamy, and treat him
with respect for the sake of a girl ? It
is enough! If I could suppose for a

moment that he was guilty, this would
show the truth."

'' It is but a little time to wait !
Eldred answered, pale and fierce. '' Rut
I must correct you in one point. It was
never suggested that I gave up my rights,
or abated one tittle of them, if I won
you !

"What? You would still have prosecuted
my father ?"

Prosecuted, no ! But I did not put
you in one scale and justice in the other."

'call it what you please! If the proof
you expect is forthcoming, though at
that moment I had promised to be your
wife, you would have gone on ?"

"How could I do otherwise?"

And what part was I to play under
those circumstances ?"

I know not — but my duty was plain."

They had reached the front door of
Little Thorburns, and parted without a

word. Hilda learned that Mr. Esking
had ordered the carriage at once, and
started for the Warrenage.

WAGE ONSLOW.

George Genest had so peremptorily forbidden
himself to callers, that the servant
would not take in Mr. Esking's name,
and Mr. Genest, senior, was out ; so the
visitor returned, raging in a fashion most
unusual with him.

But by dinner time his composure was
restored. Even such nerves could not
quite sustain the part which Mr. Esking
liked to play at his own table, learned
but genial, with a word upon every subject,
suggestive of deep reading, but not
beyond the capacity of any guest. Feeling
himself unequal to that cheery, dignified
converse, he prudently took another line,

and chattered in high spirits. Hilda noted
the revolution with anxiety that approached
despair. She had time to think In the
interval betwixt' parting with Eldred and
meeting her father.

Her indignation, that is, her confidence,
gave way; a thousand recollections harassed
her. George's warning came back with a
bitter force she had not recognised at the
time. Eldred's conduct in maintaining
friendly terms was monstrous, but he, the
accuser, might trifle with dignity and
good faith ; her father, accused, would be
shamefully weak to endure a truce. And
he was not weak ; no such comfort could
his daughter lay to her soul. For the
new possibility put forward in her
passion, that Mr. Esking must regard
the charge as too absurd for resentment,
Hilda could not sustain that to
herself on reflection. Most distressing of
all was the memory of her father's embarrassment

when Eldred declared that
within a few hours he hoped to know
where his Treasure lay. It was, perhaps,
after further explanation, that Mr. Esking
left Thorburns hastily, alleging sudden
illness ; but on reaching home, he drove
forthwith to the Warrenage ! And now,
instead of that recueil lenient which even
a guiltless person might display when the
test approaches, he was almost noisy.
Hilda felt sick at heart, she did not even
ask after his health, nor did Kate. The
excuse was transparent.

After dinner, Mrs. Fanshawe took an
opportunity of referring to the matter of
their conversation.

*' I was sinfully gratified to see you
drive away with Mr. Genest. What
passed between you was unbefitting a
Sabbath morn, I fear, but I trust that it
led you to avoid a heavier sin. Do you
feel now that you could have married

him, Hilda, conscientiously, before Heaven
and man ?"

'' I have not to ask myself the question
it answered itself. I am deeply grateful
to you, aunt. There is no further talk
of my marriage."

Then I give thanks, child ; and you,
do not forget the overruling Providence
whose instrument I am. If you had found,
on reflection, that you loved this young
man, I should have been happy. His
leanings, I understand, are not evil, though
worldly ; his position is good, an old
family, and the prospect of a career.
But if you do not love him these
things are naught ! I rejoice that it is
broken off. We will say no more, but
remember your devotions, Hilda. And
now, what are we to do, Kate and I ?
Does my brother yet know what has
happened ?"

Papa knows that I cannot marry Mr.

Genest, but I have not yet told him that
we have come to an understanding."

Do not delay. Tell him to-night —
at once. How do you think he will
take it ?" Mrs. Fanshawe added, weakly.

He will not say much, I think — he
is prepared."

No, my dear, but what will he do ?
What is to be our position ? We were
invited to see you through your wedding,
as it were. John may consider that since
the wedding is off we should return
immediately."

'' I am quite sure he will not, aunt.
I shall ask him to let you remain as
long as you please, and he will certainly
approve."

'well, Hilda, I hope so. This easy
life, in a house well-appointed and well-controlled,
is a sort of relief to me. I
must say you manage the servants and
everything most admirably. The Elders

might declare me self-indulgent, but they
are not brought up to such things as I
was. A man-servant is vanity — this handsome
furniture and the strange, costly
things around, might be a temptation to
the flesh. They are not so to me,
Hilda. It is in a chastened spirit I
regard them, as familiar pleasures once,
now gone, as all earthly things must.
I find fruit for meditation not unprofitable,
in observing such lusts of the flesh
and of the eyes once more."

The philosophy was confused. Hilda
could not help smiling, and Mrs. Fan-share
plunged yet deeper in the effort
to reconcile a harmless satisfaction in the
luxurious comforts of life with the ethics
taught by her creed. Kate's arrival was
welcome to both.

Hilda went down to the Charter Room.
She found the door locked, and Mr.
Esking did not open it for some minutes.

He had been engaged in a longing,
desperate examination of the leather
chest. Never, through a life not uneventful
In temptations of the kind, had he
felt such a maddening desire to break his
plighted word !

Very briefly Hilda told her tale. It did
not surprise Mr. Esking, of course, and
at the point to which things were hurrying,
it scarcely annoyed him. If Wace Onslow
displayed the acumen which he almost
surely would, within twenty-four hours the
crash must come. That was not a reason
with Mr. Esking for the breach of his
share In the agreement, but if George
released him, very good. He turned at
once to another combination.

How Eldred had come to learn that
his Treasure lay in the oldest part of
Thorburns had occupied very few moments
of thought. Mr. Esking saw at once that
Hubert must have told him in a spirit of

revenge. While waiting for his carriage,
he enclosed the I. O. U. in a letter to
Thwaite, directing him to proceed with
the utmost rigour of the law ; and dismissed
that question. Matters vastly more
important than revenge occupied his mind,
but in passing he dealt a blow at an
enemy.

"Well, my dear," he said, smiling kindly,
"if you and George have settled it, I can
only hope that you know best where your
happiness lies. I have my daughter fora
few months more, and that is so much
gained in my point of view."

"A few months, papa?"

I dare not hope more than that. A
father must not expect to keep the loveliest
girl in England, who has a handsome
fortune too, even in a lonely place like
this, much beyond her nineteenth birthday.
There is compensation also, when
one comes to think of it, in our friendlessness.

The rupture of your engagement
will not get into the papers — it will hardly
be talked of in the county. By-the-bye,
there is no occasion to detain your aunt
any longer."

'' I should like her to remain, papa —
and Kate."

*' Very much? Then let it be so. It
Is not actually impossible, perhaps, that
we may have to summon them again
before long."

'what for?"

My dear, I cannot conceal from myself
that you had two strings to your bow — ■
that is, another string lies ready to your
hand, if you please to take it up. Don't
look so preternaturally guileless ! You
must know that Thorburn is in love with
you ?"

'' I know it, for he told me."

"He went so far as that ? Well, my
child, to speak of another suit in the same

day that one is broken off, might be pronounced
indelicate by Mrs. Grundy, so I
will say no more."

But I want to know, papa. You
regard it as possible I might marry Mr.
Thorburn, though assured that I will
never marry now without love ?"

Hem ! He is one of the finest young
men In England, and handsome too. A
deal of romance hangs about him. He
did you a striking service the first time
you met — allow me my little joke to
enliven this grave subject. He has done
a number of fine things since in the
finest way, such as facing a desperate
sailor, pulling a knife out of his arm,
rescuing a gentleman from a blazing
brougham — very original that situation—
and I don't remember what besides.
Then, he has a most interesting old
house and a pretty fortune. Moreover,
his character so singularly matches yours,
VOL. in. M

that, if weddings are made In Heaven, one
might piously think you were intended
for one another. Yes, upon the whole,
my dear, I regard It as possible you
might marry Mr. Thorburn."

"Oh, what monsters men are! Forgive
me ! I was thinking you both hold
the same view — Mr. Thorburn who
accuses my father of theft, and my
father who Is accused !"

'' What — what !" For once Mr. Esking
was taken aback ; but before she could
answer he recovered himself, and continued,
smiling, 'did Thorburn tell you
this grotesque story ?"

I made it out from what you said,
papa, and George said, and Mr. Thor-burn
himself said to-day ! I have known
for a long while that there was something.
Oh, challenge him to the proof,
appeal to the law, take any steps ! Don't,
papa, oh! don't sit down under this charge,

and keep on terms of acquaintance with
the man who dares to lay an infamous
charge against you !"

'' Hilda, I have passed many years of
repute among men, and respect towards
myself. My name is known widely, and
wherever known it is honoured. I am
sorry, deeply sorry, that this foolish tale
has reached your ears, but when you
consider my position, and that of the
young man who makes this charge, you
can understand that I laugh at it. Eldred
Thorburn has a host of good qualities,
but no experience of civilised life. He
is used to think it not possible only, but
probable, that a neighbour might steal.
Though the soul of honour himself, as I
feel very sure, existence among dishonourable
and reckless men has given him
suspicions out of place here. What does
he know of my stainless reputation ? I
am but a neighbour, like others, and

neighbours In his experience, as I have
said, steal when they get the opportunity.
This is not suggesting that Thorburn
belongs to that class. He feels himself,
and Is, I repeat, an exception. But it
explains my conduct under the circumstances.
I understand, and I simply laugh.
Why should I not keep on terms of
acquaintance with a young fellow who acts
honestly enough in his mistaken point of
view .^"

Mr. Esking gave just time enough to
realise the force of his argument, not to
summon the arguments contra.

'' Now go, dear," he said, pleasantly,
*' Dismiss all these anxious Imaginings.
Remember always that I do not blame
Thorburn for acting according to his
lights. He Is a noble fellow, as keen on
the point of honour as gallant, and big
enough to contain all the virtues in a
proportion quite abnormal." Laughing

cheerfully, he bade Hilda good night, and
led her to the door. The change in his
face, as he stood filling his churchwarden
after she had left, was finely dramatic.
Thus many an applauded actor, with death
at his heart, abruptly resumes his pains
and terrors at the wing.

Next morning came a note from George.
After an apology, he continued : " But
I cannot see what good purpose an interview
would serve now. Miss Esking has
told you what took place. From the other
masters I withdraw. If I am questioned by
'anyone who has authority to ask, I shall
tell everything, and bear the consequences."

Mr. Esking paled with scornful anger,
thought awhile, and dismissed the groom
with a message that he would follow
immediately.

Mr. Genest was sitting with his son,
and he scowled so savagely that the
visitor spoke first to him.

Things have taken an unfortunate
turn, sir. I perceive, or I Imagine, that
you know enough of the circumstances to
understand my position and your son's."

'' I understand nothing at all !" replied
the Squire, hastily, mindful of the penalties
incurred by an accomplice after the fact.
But I see that you and your daughter
have almost killed my boy. Look at him !"

George was a wreck indeed. His
nervous temperament had collapsed under
these trials and anxieties ; his face was
drawn like that of a broken old man,
his eyes, unnaturally shining, had a
hunted look. Mr. Esking was shocked.

"I feel for you deeply, believe me!
George, you must go away. Dismiss all
this business from your mind, and regain
composure with health. I should recommend
a German spa, or, better still, a
long tour In Italy."

*what d nonsense! You know he

couldn't go alone, nor cheap, and I could
as soon raise two thousand pounds as two
hundred !"

You must allow me to help you.
Don't cry out, George ! I feel myself
responsible for this unfortunate state of
things. Let me arrange it with your
father."

"I would rather starve!"

"But consider my feelings! I can bear
the consequences of my act with calmness
so far as they touch me, but to
think that you were suffering would be
exquisitely painful. I put it on that
ground alone, as a favour. You can
enter into my feelings, Mr. Genest .^"

*why, yes, George. Who breaks, pays.
Mr. Esking is the cause of all your
misfortunes — as I have been led to understand
— and he only does what is right
in proposing to remedy the mischief."

Then, George, besides the question

of health, think how desirable it is you
should go away."

"I cannot go with your money!"

'' I must tell you that the crisis is at
hand. This evening, in all human probability,
the case in defence, we have so
often considered, will break down "

Mr. Genest rose suddenly. '' I don't
want to hear your private business ! Let
me see you before you go, sir!" He
left the room.

This evening, George," whispered Mr.
Esking, drawing close to his ear, " Thor-burn
will find out, and will be able to
prove that a hole has been dug in his
property, and something abstracted within
a short time back. He will be able, at
length, to connect what evidence he has
against us with the removal of that
something. The strong part of our case
fails. Proceedings may be taken, and
they will !"

The hunted look turned to agony ;
perspiration sprang to the tortured face.

'' And what shall you do ?"

'' Nothing, if you are reasonable. I ask
you to let me break open the chest and
secure its contents. Then we are safe."

"I refuse ^ — ^I refuse — never! I will
write to Thorburn — tell him all, and
trust to his mercy !"

Mr. Esking did not try to persuade
or to threaten. He saw that another
word might drive the youth to this
decisive act upon the spot.

Then the alternative is to go away
within an hour. Leave me to fight. I
swear that you shall never be brought
under suspicion. If things come to a
risk of that, I will confess all. That I
swear, George, and my word was never
broken till this day."

Mr. Genest put his head into the
room. "Is it settled ?"

'' Yes. You must start in an hour.
Poor George's health is reason enough.
Put aside all business, Genest, and get
him away. Buy what you want as you
travel." He slipped a piece of paper
into the Squire's hand, whispering, " If
you leave an address, don't hurry to get
there. Good-bye, George. Dismiss all
your cares. I am responsible, and only
I!"

Limp as a rag, George faltered, " I
rely on your word of honour !"

"And you will not be deceived. Goodbye,
Genest."

So he went, and by the afternoon
father and son started. They left England
by the night train, and they vanish
from my story.

Wace Onslow had given no intimation
of the time he would arrive. At the
hour of lunch, Eldred, with Mendel, was
looking from the front door. They saw

a lean, tall, black-bearded young man,
carrying a small portmanteau, who briskly
walked up the avenue, and they went
to meet him.

"Mr. Onslow?" said Eldred, offering his
hand. " I am sorry I did not know what
time to expect you. You've had a long
walk."

Delightful ! Your village of Burnside
is a chapter of archaeology !" The stranger
laughed, a curious, creaking laugh, "from
the mouth outward " ; a sound familiar to
learned men all over Europe, reverenced
by the accurate and conscientious, hated
and dreaded by those who rush into
theory before mastering their facts.

Burnside is no longer my village.
You see very nearly the whole estate that
belongs to the Thorburn family to-day."

Mr. Onslow laughed thoughtfully and
softly, eyeing the Gate Towers ; — to avoid
repetition of a habit which was inseparable

from the character, It may be taken for
granted that he made this strange, cackling
noise after every observation of another's,
and before every one of his own.

'' I always understood that Thorburns
was the most interesting house in England.
Once on a time, my father and I meditated
a visit on our way north, but they told
us it was guarded by a human Cerberus,
with much more than its due proportion
of dogs' heads, and we passed by. What
a sad ruin !"

"It was the banqueting hall, which I
propose to rebuild, with the assistance of
your knowledge."

*'Ah! I don't say you are wrong!
An archaeological fanatic might declare
that florid Elizabethan matches badly
with this facade of the very earliest
Tudor style. But I have never held that
history should fit itself to architecture.
The porch, nevertheless, makes too great

a demand on my charity. I couldn't
tolerate that."

'' Doesn't It belong to the period of
the house ?''

''A very bad attempt at imitation by
some country builder in the eighteenth
century! Ah, an excellent hall! If my
father came here we should have warm
words about the screen. He would almost
break It up for firewood rather than let
It stand."

"Do you mean this beautiful oak wall?"
Arthur asked.

'ewe call it a screen. It marks the
time when your grandfathers, Mr. Thor-burn,
ceased to dine with their household
at a common table. They then found the
hall too large, and divided It. Fifteen
hundred and thirty-four!" he remarked, the
date in gilded figures. " Curiously late for
an alteration of this kind, when the hall
was still the living room as here. It tells

that your ancestors stood in the vias antiqttas
much longer than most people of their
station. Very curious. I would go so far
as to reopen the other doorways, though."

Which doorways ?"

'' Why, there were three, you observe,
originally, closed with curtains, perhaps.
Yes, there are the hooks, but they are
later, I see. The Thorburn who put
up this screen could not find it in his
heart to break from old usages entirely.
Though he divided the hall, it was more
for appearance' sake than for a real partition."


I thought it a solid structure," said
Eldred.

'not at all. We have the date of
the original division, fifteen hundred and
thirty-four. It consisted simply, to use
plain words, of the upper part and these
four pillars. The son of the first innovator,
probably, began to fill the openings, and

very pleasingly he did it, you see. An
addition made, I should think, about the
time of the Common-wealth, still farther
closed or narrowed the doorways, and the
curtains were hung. But the actual blocking
of two out of the three gaps, which
had now become mere doorways, was not
done until — yes, until the early Brunswick
period. They were filled in with oak
boards, observe, hardly panelled. I should
take them away, Mr. Thorburn !"

'' It shall be done forthwith, Mr. Onslow!"
Eldred was delighted with his visitor.
Used to distinguish between mere self-confidence
and that higher form which
springs from assured knowledge — as every
farmer must be, more or less, but especially
the farmer in wild countries — he saw that
this young man understood his business
exactly.

They lunched, and while eating — drinking
also — with robust appetite, Mr. Onslow

kept his eyes about him, eager, quick,
inquisitive as a bird's. He marked everything
around, identified the armorial bearings
at a glance, translated a mysterious
sign here and there — read the storied walls,
in short, like an open book. Very early
in the repast, Eldred sent for pencil and
paper. He learned more about his house
and his family in half-an-hour than any
Thorburn perhaps had known.

Arthur Mendel had not been as bright
as usual that day ; so abstracted and
thoughtful in fact, that Eldred had asked
after his health. But this antiquarian
lecture roused him. He could not believe
that a man who laughed in that extraordinary
fashion could be an authority,
and showed in his boyish fashion his
distrust. Wace Onslow was much amused,
and began to smile — quite another sign
of feeling. With the air of an amiable
person who instructs a child, he explained

and illustrated his views. Mendel was not
convinced, of course, since he could not
follow the argument, even to the ABC,
but he was shut up, and therefore, as
might be expected, took offence. So It
happened that he remained Indoors smoking,
when the others rose to enter on
that survey for which the visitor had
been asked. Eldred had been rather
puzzled to find a means of getting rid of
him.

Mr. Onslow went through the house,
and round It, with extreme Interest, declaring
again and again that every foot
was history In stone. Nowhere did he
hesitate a moment In fixing a date or a
purpose, excepting In the case of the Pool
Dam. That extraordinary cutting did not
puzzle him exactly, but It stopped his
coherent sequence of cause and effect, so
to speak.

This," said he, after regarding It In
VOL. in. N

every point of view, '' must be put down
to eccentricity, or to a personal object.
It was not made for defence, nor, so far
as we can judge, for decoration or amusement.
The instincts of men never change
forms only are varied. There was no
general purpose in digging this pit, or
what you may call it. The idea was
individual, and for such things it is useless
to ask an explanation." So that
feature was dismissed.

Eldred offered no suggestion until the
long examination was finished, but he
called particular attention to the windows
and substructure overlooking the Pool
Dam, which Mr. Esking declared to bede
Warrennene's building.

"Of that period beyond doubt," said
Mr. Onslow. " I had forgotten that my
eminent colleague lived so near. He is
an audacious antiquarian, but very sound
a dangerous man to contradict."

Eldred looked about him with a vague
sense of disappointment, yet, mingled with
it curiously, a great relief. After his
guests left, the day before, he had made
a close scrutiny of this part. The big
flat paving-stones of the terrace had not
been moved certainly, and the rooms
within, unoccupied for generations past,
had their locks so rusted up that he was
obliged to break them open at his first
visit, weeks before. He had examined
them cautiously, too, before meddling with
them, and assured himself they were intact.
Either the Treasure had not been hidden
there, and Mr. Esking deceived his
nephew — in which case the clue was lost
again — or it had not been discovered, and
his suspicions were ridiculous. The latter
supposition he could hardly entertain, recalling
events, though he would have liked
to do so. And the former was distasteful.

They spent a long time in the circuit.

Reaching the front door again, Mr.
Onslow said —

'' Now, let me know exactly what you
want, sir ?"

*' Simply, which part of my house is
the oldest ?"

"The south angle, beyond question.
We will view it from the inside, if you
please."

They did so, traversing the hall, where
Arthur still sat disconsolate.

"When you've done," said he, without
moving, " I shall be grateful for a little
human company."

Our business, to-day, is with the rats,
sir," said Mr. Onslow.

"You do not think these pavements
have been disturbed ?" Eldred asked, when
they penetrated into the small, low-vaulted
rooms.

"Not for many generations, I should
say, with confidence."

"Then," after all was examined, "you
are quite certain this is the oldest portion
of the building ?"

"Quite! Now, Mr. Thorburn, with
your leave I will visit the Gate Towers.
It seemed to me, in passing, that they
or one of them, at least, is unique."

"Hows Not for antiquity"

"That is one point. I should think it
possible, speaking at random, that the
Clock Tower may date from the twelfth
century, probably longer."

Bless me, Mr. Onslow, v/hy didn't
you say that before? Come along."

"I didn't understand. The word 'house'
does not generally include out-buildings,
except for legal purposes. I beg your
pardon."
" It was my fault. Say no more."

Eldred's heart beat as he led the way
hastily. " I knew there were ghosts
here !" Arthur cried, as they passed

through the hall, observing his face.
*' Come back and tell a fellow all about
it."

Mr. Onslow made a thorough survey
of the outside, humming a little tune to
himself In deep excitement, whilst Eldred
followed Impatiently. Broken sentences
escaped him.

*' Anglo-saxon! Yes, positively! — touched
in part by very early Norman. They
added a little ornament to the top of the
window there, you see — perhaps damaged
in a siege. This, I take it, was the
burgh of Thuringia or Thornton.
There should be walls round It."

'' There are — or the foundations. They
enclosed the courtyard until a recent
date !"

''Ah, we'll look at those presently.
Now, let us go inside. The door entirely
rebuilt, you see. But not a stone moved
in the Interior! Unique, Mr. Thorburn,

unique ! Where are the stairs ?" He
began to throw down the heaps of timber
piled against the wall. " You must have
this cleared, Mr. Thorburn, and the ivy
cut away. It's a monument ! I'm glad
my father isn't here — he would be seized
with a fit in sheer delight ! Yes, steps
perfect, like all the rest ! Wonderful —
wonderful ! Blocked, are they ? We must
have those beams out at once, Mr.
Thorburn ! I saw some workmen — but
stay ! I must look at them too ! Don't
be in a hurry !"

Eldred was vexed to delay, but the
visitor's tone made him laugh — there was
as much of cackle as of speech in his
excited soliloquy.

"I'm in no hurry to clear the staircase,
I assure you," he said, "but very
anxious to follow up the matter for which
I invited you down."

Mr. Onslow calmed suddenly. " I am

at your service, sir. Regarding this Tower,
my report is that it must be more
ancient than are Warrennene's buildings by
four centuries — I speak of this vault. It
may be five, perhaps six, not improbably
seven. There are too few examples of
the sort remaining for precise comparison.
If you excavate — as I sincerely trust you
will — it may prove that a burgh stood on
these foundations twelve hundred years
ago."

'' You are staying the night, Mr.
Onslow, and, in fact, as long as you
please. From tomorrow morning I give
the Clock Tower into your hands, and I
will find what labour you want."

'' Oh ! Will you allow me to send for
my father ?"

Send for whom you like, but give
me your attention now. I have reason
to think that a Treasure was buried by
one of my ancestors under the oldest part

of his house. This is the oldest part,
you say. Now, attend to the point."

Mr. Onslow, with a qualified interest
the legend of a Treasure was but a
commonplace excrescence on a real romance
" How long ago?" he asked.

"At the date when William de Warrennene
dispossessed us for a time. You know
when that was ?''

'' Excellent, indeed ;" but his air was
politely sympathetic, not warm. " No
possible circumstance other than that
could increase the delicious fascination of
this building! Have you any further
details?"

None."

"In that case, let us clear the pavement
to begin with. Prima facie, we look fora
buried object in the middle of the room
after that in the corners. So human
nature works. Can you find a besom ?"

'' In a moment."

Eldred returned with the implements.
Onslow was shovelling the dust away
with his feet and hands, more thoughtfully
than when he left. Taking the
besom silently, he cleared the space which,
so far as he could guess, would be the
centre of the vault.

'' Yes," he said, at length, " it is as
I feared ! Somebody has been before us,
as usual in these cases. The stones have
been neatly repaid, but you observe these
bits of Roman cement cropping up ? They
betray the anachronism. Ah, a sad pity,
if a Treasure was buried here."

'' Wait, sir," Eldred said, pale with
anger and excitement. "It is five o'clock.
The workmen are going away. In a few
minutes we will settle the question."

Mr. Onslow cheerfully resumed his survey
of the outside, while Eldred stood
silent by the door. The masons, plumbers
and carpenters had already begun to gather.

In a few minutes they passed down the
avenue. He brought a pick and a shovel.
They set to work.

It was an easy task to dislodge the
stones so lately moved. Within five
minutes the secret was out — the bits of
wood, tools and rubbish which Mr.
Esking had filled In, reappeared. Eldred
put them carefully aside.

Neither spoke, saving a few brief words
about their labour, until Mr. Onslow
said —

We have come to the original soil.
Now, sir, be careful." He knelt beside
the deepening pit and watched every
shovelful of earth, dry as desert sand,
after ages of shelter from the rain.

That's metal — that's the remains of
wood ! By Heaven, perhaps there really
was something burled ! Go slow, Mr.
Thorburn !"

'you can't doubt It," Eldred answered,

fiercely, 'when a thief has evidently been
digging here !"

What does that prove ? Simply that
other people had heard your legend! But
I begin to think "

They had sunk beneath the level at
which Mr. Esking had found the chest.
Every turn of the spade threw up bits
of wood, crumbling with dry rot, and
fragments of green corroded metal. Mr.
Onslow became deeply excited. "There
are the remains of a box," he said, low.
Gently — gently !"

But presently Eldred worked through
the deposit, and struck bare soil again.
For an hour he persevered, widening
the mouth recklessly. But nothing more
turned up.

"You may give over, sir," said Mr.
Onslow. " We are below the Treasure.
It has been removed — and not long ago."

You will swear to that ?"

'* I will swear that such is my confident
opinion — and see !"

He held up a fragment of newspaper,
torn and black.

CLOSING IN.

When Mr. Esking returned from the
Warrenage, he wrote a letter : —
My Dear Thwaite,

The young people have
come to the decision that their marriage
would be a mistake, my daughter Informed
me last night, to my Intense
astonishment. I have just returned from
an interview with Mr. George Genest, who
is terribly cut up, and goes abroad immediately.
He submits to Hilda's resolve,
however, and so the match is broken off
I do not regret It, of course, if my
daughter is correct in thinking, as she
says, that their tempers are Incompatible.

'' Under these circumstances, you will
destroy the settlements, and besides that,
I must alter my will ; for I Imagine that
when the settlements are destroyed, Mr.
George Genest stands simply as legatee
for a large sum. Draw up a new one,
repeating the former disposition In all
points, except the references to Mr. Genest.
I leave my daughter sole legatee of the
remainder, after the bequests appointed in
my late will. To make all secure, I
shall draw up a codicil to that effect,
and enclose it in this envelope.

'you will put the instrument Into
legal form, and return It to me. Upon
second thoughts, I would rather have a
new will made out, embodying the codicil
which you will keep safely, however,
until receipt of the fresh document duly
signed, etc. Pray lose no time.

*' In that new will, I desire you to
insert, at the place fitting, these words : —

'' * It Is my earnest wish that my
daughter should marry Mr. Eldred Thor-burn
of Thorburns. I do not make this
an obligation in any sense, though Mr.
Eldred Thorburn should press her ; but
it is my earnest wish.'

*' I write hastily. If you think that
another form of words would convey
the same meaning more appropriately, use
it."

After writing this letter, Mr. Esking
drew up the codicil, summoned Armstrong,
and Jennings the coachman, to witness
his signature, enclosed it, and sent off
the missive registered.

Later in the day he met Kate Fan-share
at the foot of the stairs beside
the Charter Room, which led to the
Tower. She had no probable occasion
to be there, and Mr. Esking, keen-eyed
and suspicious, like all "collectors," asked
bluntly what she was doing. Such airs

of innocence as Kate could summon did
not impose on him.

"Looking at the view? It is not very
attractive."

'' I should be sorry to say that, uncle,
when it's the only one you have," she
answered, pertly.

'come in, my dear!" Mr. Esking
opened the door of the Charter Room,
and most unwillingly Kate entered.

I rather think," he began, " that you
and my nephew could explain some
circumstances which it is needless to
mention, that give me — or threaten to
give me — a certain amount of trouble.
I say that's my impression, Kate, and
unless you can advance any strong
arguments to prove that you are disconnected
with them, you had much
better hold your tongue. For Hubert's
share in this business, I have taken
steps to punish him. For you "

VOL. III. o

Let me hear about Hubert first,
uncle ! What are you going to do ?"

Mr. Esking smiled gravely. "It is
too late to warn you in this instance.
But such junctures may arise again in
your life, and then you will do prudently
to recollect how ill-fitted you are
to attack a man. Beware of temper,
Kate. If I had not known you guilty,
that first word would have betrayed
you.

She was cunning enough to feel her
imprudence almost as she spoke, and
intelligent enough to see that exculpation
would be useless now. Gentle submission
was the only thing remaining.

It is most unkind to say that, uncle.
You threatened Hubert, and without
waiting to hear the reason, I simply
asked what you meant to do ?"

Very well ! I mean to proceed at
once on an I.O.U. I hold of his."

Oh, you could not, against your
nephew !"

I said I mean to do it — if you prefer
the form, I will do it, that is the same
to me. I put the matter in my lawyer's
hands yesterday. The result will be,
according to my information, that your
husband, my nephew, will be ruined —
also, he will be proved a gambler, a
frequenter of low company. It may turnout,
if things take an unfavourable course,
that he will seem to be a sharper in a
small way — that's as it chances. So much
for Hubert."

Kate felt how unequally she was matched
against a man like this.

It would break mamma's heart !" she
sobbed.

I am sorry for my sister, but guiltless
people are generally the victims. Hubert
should have thought of her before."

And this morning you could ask us

SO kindly to stay, when you had this
project in your mind !"

I don't see the connection. My
daughter wished you to remain. I did
not object, but her innocent fancies have
no relation to business. Now, Kate, for
yourself. I am quite sure that Hubert
would not have acted in this way unless
you had set him on."

'' I did not, uncle ! I declare I did
not !"

*' I must take the privilege of kinship
to say that I don't believe you, my dear.
Now, I have to ask myself what you
were doing just now in the Tower.
Admiring the view, you tell me. The
only notable object to be seen from thence
is Thorburns, and the only thing I can
imagine that would interest you there is
a person "

How dare you say so ?"

'' My eyes still serve my turn very well.

I have remarked Arthur Mendel's expression
and your repHes. Understand me,
Kate ! I do not believe there is anything
wrong on your side ; if I did,
though you could no more affect my
daughter than me, I would dismiss you
from my house at once. But that young
fool is in love, and you know it, and you
do not check him. I might take harsher
revenge than a simple warning. I might
allow events to run, tolerably well assured
that if you persist in trying to stand on
a smooth and slippery incline, you will
drop over the edge. But there will be
disgrace enough to the family name when
Hubert is examined in bankruptcy. I
content myself with that."

You are sure that my husband will
be made a bankrupt ?" She was white
and panting with rage.

I am quite sure, unless " Mr.

Esking paused, and added, significantly,

'' if he Is not, he will be punished more
bitterly In another way."

** You have nothing else to communicate,
uncle ? Then I'll go, please !" and she
left the room.

Mr. Esklng's suspicions were justified.
Things had come to the pass that Arthur
Mendel ventured, the day before, to ask
an interview with Kate ; not yet proposing
that It should be secret, but declaring in
plain terms that he could secure the key
of the garden door at any time. Her
indignation was not feigned. She never
intended that a flirtation should go to this
point, and she spoke with the freedom of
her character and breeding. But Mendel
was not so stupid now. After bowing to
the storm, he announced his resolve to lookout
for a signal from the Tower next
day, when she had thought over his request
in cool blood. This impertinence
roused another fit of passion. If Eldred

and Hilda had not been so deeply interested
in their own concerns, when the
gate of Little Thorburns was reached, they
could not have failed to note the signs
of disturbance between the couple following.

It was one o'clock that Mendel had
dared to name as the hour when he
would look out, and Kate allowed herself
the malicious gratification of visiting
the Tower at that time. She saw him
hanging about the entrance of Thorburns,
turning pretty frequently towards her
station. After enjoying his disappointment
for awhile, she came down, and at the
foot of the stairs met her uncle.

So matters stood then. But the conversation
that ensued changed her frame
of mind. The thought of Hubert bankrupt,
disgraced, perhaps expelled from his
mother's house, certainly condemned to a
miserable existence there, put, as Kate
phrased it, the last drop of bitterness in

her cup of life. It was wretched enough
now, by comparison with her desires and
wants, with the hopes she had formed in
marrying him. Not avowedly to herself
did the wife admit that if Mendel would
not aid her on loyal terms, the worst
that could happen was preferable to the
best she might look forward to if he
refused. There was no need to push
inquiry so far. Kate had such assurance
of her self-control, of Mendel's pliant
spirit, and his careless generosity, as to
feel confident that in distress of this kind
he would give help without asking return.
Money would be forthcoming to meet the
claim, and all her uncle's schemes of
vengeance would fall to the ground.

The difficulty lay in re-opening communications.
Kate knew business well
enough to be aware that the process on
an I.O.U. is summary. Mr. Esking
had put the matter in his lawyer's hands

already, and by this time, doubtless,
Monday afternoon, steps had been taken.
There was no room for delay. She must
send Hubert the cash at once, or rather
concert with Mendel how to arrange ina
manner that would not rouse suspicion.

It may be imagined that Kate was
pre-occupied at lunch, though nobody
remarked it save her uncle. Hilda also
was distracted, and Mrs. Fanshawe had
no eyes for such a trifling matter as the
whims of young people. But Mr. Esking
observed her thoughtfully, and some short
time after lunch he sent for Hilda, meaning
to give a hint that she should pay
her cousin more attention than usual since
Kate seemed dull. But the idea occurred
too late. Hilda had gone for a ride,
with her groom in attendance. Mr.
Esking dismissed the subject.

Kate hoped that Thorburn might call
and bring his friend. But the day passed

on. Towards five o'clock she abandoned
that chance, and sought other means. It
was desperately puzzling. She could not
write. To walk abroad would be dangerous
when her uncle had already his suspicions,
and a meeting with Arthur was too unlikely
to justify the risk. In the end,
Kate threw herself on mere luck.

Hubert had given her a ring in the
days of their engagement with " Oui "
inscribed in diamonds on a ground of
rubies. Mendel had observed it several
times, making some easy fun out of this
general assent to propositions. He would
recognise the costly trifle. It happened
that she dropped it in their run through
the garden that day of the thunderstorm,
but Hilda and Mendel alone knew her
loss, for Kate dared not mention it to
Mrs. Fanshawe. Next morning she found
the property, but Hilda, little concerned
in such matters at any time, had not asked

about it. Mendel alone was acquainted
with the recovery.

When the gardener had left, Kate
slipped this ring under the door, trusting
to fortune. If It were found and given
up by a stranger, she had her explanation
ready, which. If it were found and kept,
would justify a hue-and-cry.

About the time when Eldred and Wace
Onslow ceased their excavation, Mendel
grew desperately tired of his own thoughts.
He strolled down the avenue, and Eldred,
fearing an Interruption, came out of the
Tower. His address when excited was
apt to be rough, as is the unconscious
wont of men who have lived in peril.
Not touchy by nature, and used to
deference towards the man who saved
him, Mendel turned in another direction
without offence. Meanwhile, the others
carefully built a shield of timbers over
the hole.

There were not many comfortable walks
about the house, for Its grounds still
resembled the garden of Sleeping Beauty's
chateau. After strolling round, Mendel
naturally took the path which lead to
Mr. Esklng's wall, which had been
cleared. At the end of It, just beneath
the door, a sparkle caught his eye. His
kisses and raptures I need not describe.

But 'soul," though consoling, was a
very vague expression under the circumstances.
When he so far overcame his
tumultuous delight as to think, Mendel
could not see his way. The closest
examination of the ring gave no hint of
time or conditions for a meeting. In
despair, at length, he wrote "nine" on a
slip of paper, and thrust It under the
door ; before reaching the house he took
fright, hastened back and removed It ;
after more pondering replaced It, and
again returned to take It away. In the

end he came to a decision. There was
no such hurry. Next day he would call,
and meantime, towards nine o'clock, he
might hang round this neighbourhood,
armed with the key.

But all his calculations were upset by
a change in Eldred's habits. They dined
in the hall, as usual, but events did not
take their usual course afterwards.

Wace Onslow is an interesting guest to
thoughtful persons, and Eldred would have
found him agreeable company at any time.
He read character too shrewdly to fear
that this young man would let slip any
reference to the work they had lately
been engaged on ; but since he himself
could talk on no other theme — his mind
was so full — it might well happen that
Mr. Onslow would mistake his general
remarks as an invitation to express himself
about the missing Treasure. Therefore,
he gave a hint, which was readily

understood, and conversed at ease. It
was unnecessary to hide from Mendel,
he said, or the servants, that a Treasure
was believed to exist ; they had only to
avoid reference to the discovery of the day.

So they spoke of such things freely,
and Onslow had a series, unending, of
tales and legends upon the subject of
Treasure-trove. In such chatter everybody
can join, and Arthur took his share.
He said presently —

I want to know what Thorburn might
expect to find, if ever he unearthed this
mysterious deposit ? Would it be money ?"

'' I don't know the circumstances,"
Onslow replied.

"No one does, I suppose. The tradition
is, as my father and my uncle told me,
that Edward Thorburn was dispossessed
by William de Warrennene, Earl of Surrey,
who wanted his house, or the land, fora
hunting box."

'ran early filllbuster !" Arthur muttered.

Hem ! Egad ! Hold your tongue,
Mendel ! Edward Thorburn could not
resist, but he appealed to the Crown,
and In the course of a generation or two
we recovered the property. Meanwhile,
however, my ancestor was killed In
Scotland. Before giving up the house,
he burled all the valuables he could not
take away. And that's the end of the
story, so far."

*' You have no Information about Edward
Thorburn, his wealth, or status, and that
sort of thing ?"

'none whatever. He was a rich yeoman,
I believe."

Then I should not know — I could not
form an Idea what to expect. In the
present day, such articles as one could
not take when leaving home would be
very big or heavy. But there were no
roads to speak of then. In this part of

the country, at least. A man flying from
William de Warrennene, the most powerful
noble of his time, could hardly venture
to take even a pack-horse. Moreover, he
would have to run the gauntlet of robbers,
outlaws, and small barons, who were little
better than highwaymen. Therefore, what
Edward Thorburn burled was not necessarily
furniture and such like. Any cash
he had he would take with him, of course ;
but It Is quite possible that his wealth
consisted of things much more precious
than money."

Then I wish you a speedy prospect,
as our Kimberley friends said, and luck !"
Mendel drained a bumper.

Yes. But on the other hand, Edward
Thorburn's status, whatever it may have
been precisely, was so unimportant that
de Warrennene could venture to dispossess
him, propria niotn, at his own will, fearless
of the consequences. Is It likely that

he had much that we should think valuable ?
This county was always the poorest and
the loneliest in England, as it is now.
Though your ancestor were the richest
man in it, what would he hide, at a
guess, what should we expect it to be,
I mean ? A mazer bowl rudely carved,
a Samian dish found in some Roman
grave, a few pewter pots, arms of the
roughest make, if steel, would be treasures
for him — and reasonably so, since money
could not replace them, perhaps."

Bless me, Thorburn ! I don't withdraw
my toast, but anticipation may be
more pleasing than reality."

'' I don't say that it is so, of course.
We know too little of the perishing ina
yeoman's homestead at that period in
districts less remote than this, and many
details or references that have survived,
forbid us to make a rule. It is but a
question of probabilities, and people read

VOL. III. p

them differently. To show what I mean,
I will undertake that a friend of my
father's would give you five thousand
pounds down for your Treasure, if it lay
with bolts or bands, or what its defences
may be, untouched, on this table."

The market is looking up again,
Thorburn !"

"This gentleman believes that a large
freeholder of that date, such as your
ancestor was, apparently, invested all his
cash in silver, which was easily hidden ;
and I confess that if he did not, I
cannot suggest what investment he found
for it."

'but had he any cash?" Mendel asked.

Why, if there were no other evidence,
the distinct statements we possess of
tortures and cruelties exercised upon the
yeomen so early as Stephen's day, tell us
that he had money's worth. The barons
would not have wasted their time in

hanging people by the heels, suffocating
them, thrusting them into awful dungeons,
and so on, if there was nothing to get.
It is not necessary to speak of their
feelings ; though, for my own part, I see
no reason to think that feudal barons had
not their average share of human nature.
Furthermore, the wool trade must have
circulated a vast amount of ready cash
in the fourteenth century, and men like
Edward Thorburn, who had all their
wants supplied on their own estates, food,
clothing, utensils, everything, must have
gathered money from generation to generation."


'well, then?"

Well, then, the question is what they
did with it. I don't know. It appears
to me that if silver plate and jewels are
easily hidden, a bag of coin is easier
still. Upon the whole, Mr. Thorburn, I
should have no idea whether to expect a

lot of horn-spoons, or a priceless trouvaille
of argenterieT

'' This makes the speculation still more
interesting," said Mendel. " It's like
shares in a gold mine, bought for a
song, which may return ten thousand percent.
I'll risk another bumper on the
chance."

By-the-bye, Mr. Esking showed a
glorious mazer to the Society some time
ago, which, as I recollect now, he had

bought from Captain Thorburn- "

How long since T Eldred asked,
feverishly.

'' Oh, not less than six years. It was
of the fifteenth century, or perhaps later,"
Onslow added, with quiet emphasis. '' I
remember also, now the incident recurs,
that he told me he had many other things
of great artistic value, which Captain
Thorburn sold to him. But Esking is
the very cannes of collectors."

'' What do you mean ?"

'' He loves his treasures for their own
sake. Most of us cackle when we have
found something good, like old hens that
have laid an Ggg. Esking is just the
reverse. No one knows his choicest bits
no one has seen them. In conversation,
he has let fall hints of things that
made us stare, but if we ask to get a
glimpse of them, he just smiles benevolently
and changes the subject. Those
who don't know the man are apt to think
him a humbug. But he isn't — not by any
means. Quite the reverse."

This new topic excited Eldred afresh.
Time was going on. Arthur looked at his
watch — it marked 8-30, and there were
no signs of retirement to the other portion
of the hall, beyond the screen, where they
usually sat, allowing the servants to clear
away. The key of the garden door lay
on the mantelpiece, within his sight.

Cigars had been introduced long ago. He
still sat in hope.

Mr. Esking is regarded as a great
antiquarian ?" Eldred asked.

Over all Europe. He is the greatest
authority, living or dead, upon some subjects,
especially antique plate and glass ;
but in everything connected with archaeological
history his opinion is respected.
It is enthusiasm that does it. Mr. Esking
is not what you would call a highly
educated man. Indeed, one might go
further. His ignorance of the learning
that books teach is quite curious. For
instance, say, you asked him who William
de Warrennene was, he could not tell you
what age he lived in, or anything about
him ; I use that example of my meaning,
you understand. But show a coin, a
manuscript, a piece of plate of that era,
and Esking would identify it as no other
man living could. The devil would have

an easy task in catching his soul. To
get your Treasure, Mr. Thorburn," Onslow
laughed, "he would sign away the salvation
of mankind."

Eldred caught the idea eagerly ; it had
been exquisitely painful to think that
Hilda's father might be capable of mean
theft.

'tell me all you know about him.
Seriously, can you believe he would steal
in pure enthusiasm for science .^"

"Really, that's a grave question!" Onslow
observed, smiling. " Such things have
been done, often enough. In my own

experience " The topic was launched.

Mendel foresaw that it might last for hours.

For an instant he thought of purloining
the key. But Eldred sat facing the
mantelpiece, and however absorbed he
might be, any movement in the room
would attract his eye. Mendel knew that
and gave up the idea.

He waited till the last moment, then
rose in despair and carelessly strolled out.
The night was pleasant for the season,
but chilly. Kate had followed the same
reasoning which made Arthur choose nine
o'clock as the hour most probable for
their meeting, both guided by a knowledge
of their neighbours' habits. She found
no difficulty in escaping, but uncertain
whether the message had been received,
the dank air depressed her spirits sadly.
After strolling by the door for ten
minutes, which seemed an hour, she was
just withdrawing when Mendel's low song
reached her. Then he tapped lightly.

'' Who's that ?" she asked, in muffled
tones.

Oh, I'm so glad, Mrs. Fanshawe !
Aren't we two clever people ?"

Not so loud. I wish to speak to
you on business."

"And I couldn't take the key to-night.

Dreadfully annoying ! We have a visitor,
and he talks like a machine."

Kate was really delighted. '' Oh, well,"
she said, "we can talk through the
door. There's no one about on your
side ?"

'' Not a soul ! Do you know the story
of Pyramus and Thisbe ?"

Yes, a lion ate him up for talking
nonsense. Now, Mr. Mendel, I have
nothing of that kind to say. It is

business — strictly business — that brings me
here."

Then let us begin with that. But
there are no lions in this neighbourhood."

There are dragons everywhere. I
want you to do my husband a favour."

Mendel was not so experienced as to
repress a tone of disappointment. "Oh!
consider it done, Mrs. Fanshawe."

I knew you would be so kind. It
is a matter of money. I want you to

take back that ornament you gave me,
and lend us the cash for a time. I
shall tell Hubert to ask you for a loan,

and there's Armstrong with a lantern !

I will write."

'' No ! To-morrow, at the same time
She heard his whisper, and hurried to
meet the servant.

'rare you looking for me?"

Mrs. Fanshawe sent me, i'm. She
is quite anxious."

I wanted a breath of air. It's a
charming night, Armstrong."

'' Yes, i'm."

*' I was just going in. The wind is
rather fresh."

'eyes, i'm."

What other replies a well-bred servant
could offer it is difficult to suggest, but
Kate did not like the tone. As a
matter of fact, Armstrong had not the
least suspicion. Hilda's habits had used

the household to think that young ladles
wanted fresh air at all hours. Mrs.
Fanshawe had no such experience, but
she querulously accepted the excuse of a
sudden faintness.

Hilda was sitting with her aunt, abstracted
as she had been of late. When the missing
cousin arrived, she got up suddenly, bade
them good night, and withdrew ; but not
to bed.

The door of the Charter Room was
locked again, and again Mr. Esking
delayed a few moments in opening it.

'' Good night, my dear," he said, on
the threshold, kissing her ; but Hilda
entered.

Do you know, papa, that George left
the country this afternoon with Mr.
Genest ?"

I knew they meant to do so. George
wants change of air sadly, after this
series of distressing incidents. Now, my

child, I am busy to-night." He kissed
her again.

'* Oh, papa'" she cried, clinging to him.
'' Tell me all the truth ! I know so much
that is dreadful to think of. Mr. Thor-burn's
suspicions, and George's anxiety, and
I must tell you, papa — George warned
me against you ! You were with him this
morning, and now he has gone, leaving
no address, the servants say. What does
it all mean ?"

Did you ask that of George, when
he dared to warn you against your
fathers"

'* I had no time. Trust me, papa.
Whatever you have done, the worst will
be better than this horrible anxiety ! I
will stand by you ! Perhaps — I am not
stupid, and I have courage — perhaps I
could help you !"

For a single instant Mr. Esking hesitated.
His daughter could help him indeed,

if she chose. But the time had
not come. Discovery was not yet certain.
When the blow fell, if it did, he might
summon her aid. As for yielding the
Treasure, that thought did not so much
as occur to him.

"I do not see, Hilda, how things have
changed since our last conversation, when
I desired you to throw off these foolish
fancies. Now, I command you ! Let me
hear no more of it. I have nothing to
tell ! Thank you for your loyal affection,
darling. I never doubted your love or
your courage, and if any occasion arose,
I would appeal to them confidently ; but
not in this matter, I trust !" he added,
smiling. '' Now, leave me, dear child.
No, don't repeat your prayers for an explanation
when I have really none to
give. Mr. Thorburn suspects me of purloining
his Treasure, as you know. I
told him, and I have told you, who, at

least, should take my word, that the idea
is ridiculous. There it rests. I cannot
condescend to take notice of such a silly
charge."

Hilda yielded, and went away in silence;
but her lovely face was drawn and set.
That momentary hesitation convinced her
beyond further doubt. He had stolen the
Treasure — it was in his possession now,
and he would not give it up ! She knew
her father ! If the police came he would
rather burn his house and all in it than
submit — excepting, perhaps, herself. It
remained to think what she should do to
save him.

Mr. Esking sat awhile, smoking in
deep meditation ; then he rose, assured
himself that the door was locked, and
opened the antique kist. It was filled
to the brim with yellow, faded, mouldy
parchments, unrolled, each perforated at
two corners. Methodically he affixed them

by these punctures to two nails, headless
and smooth, driven into the side
of the kist ; so that one movement of
the hand spread the whole heap over
any object that lay below. This master
of thoughtful craft did not rely wholly
on bolts and locks. It has happened
that men forget to turn a key when
excited. If an Interruption came, a touch
would throw that mass of rustling parchment
above the thing he wished to
hide.

When the last had been hooked up, a
leathern case or chest, metal-bound, with
some rude ornament on the ligatures, was
revealed. Within the last twenty-four
hours he had cleaned it so far as to rub
off the mould and decay of centuries.
The spot where it had lain was dry,
and an oak case protected it, doubtless.
Though rotten in parts, and the metal
gnawed by rust, it held together, and the

fastening defied such attempts as could
be made in that narrow space. It was
too heavy to Hft unaided. He surveyed
the box once more with klndhng eyes.
George's flight absolved him, In a sense,
from the promise. Since he had under
taken all the risk, all the penalty, he
might claim the prize. But no argument
could dispel the superstitious reverence
with which Mr. Esking regarded his word
of honour. He looked and thought out
his case until. In a moment of desire
ungovernable, he wrenched at the steel
bands. They held firm ; a lever was
wanted. He rose to find one, and in the
break so caused, his scruples came back.
There was time, after all. If this trouble
blew over, George could release him — too
glad to destroy all connection with a
painful and degrading story. If not, legal
investigations against a person of his
standing are not made by summary process.

There was time enough. He threw
down the parchments feverishly, and locked
the kist.

VOL. III.

CRASH.

At ten o'clock next morning, Eldred announced
himself at Little Thorburns, and
was cheerfully received ; very, very slightly
pale was the antiquarian, and his firm lips
had the tiniest quiver as he smiled a greeting.
Neither offered to shake hands.

*' You raised three questions, sir," Eldred
began, abruptly, " when I first spoke of
the Issue between us. In the first place,
you demanded proof that I had a Treasure ;
in the second, that it was stolen ; in the
third, that you were concerned in the theft.
I am now prepared to show, in my turn,
firstly, that you believed there was a
Treasure hidden under the oldest part of

my house ; secondly, that the soil where
you supposed It to lie has been disturbed
within a few weeks ; thirdly, that you
are one of the persons who disturbed
it."

Then we may concentrate our minds
on the third point. Let me hear your
case on that."

George Genest, your intended son-in-law
"

'' Allow me to interrupt. This opening,
carefully prepared, as I remark, and dramatically
effective, doubtless, to judges of
that sort of thing, is incorrect in the last
detail. George Genest is not my intended
son-in-law."

The hit was well timed and well -
delivered. It disconcerted Eldred at the
outset, in the, sense that new ideas
irresistible came surging to his brain, and
shook the single purpose that had filled
it. When he resumed, his tone was less

resolute, not because the will failed, but
because the thoughts were not so focussed.

'' I do not wish to speak of Mr. Genest
more than is necessary, unless or until
you compel me. You know what evidence
he can give, not better than I, but as
well. The fact that I can summon him,
and he will not refuse to speak, is enough.
But unless I mistake, it would not be
needful to make the demand. I can
appeal to the law upon plain facts."

So be it, sir! But in that case it is
useless to appeal to me."

By no means. I lay these things
before you, Mr. Esking, in the confident
hope that you will see the grave risk of
persevering in your obstinacy, and will
restore me my own. I understand now
that you are no thief, or I should not
talk thus. It is a harmless feeling carried
to extravagance which moved you—
the law will take no cognisance of that,

but I may and I do. Observe, sir, how
hopeless the struggle is. You risk a
terrible penalty and to no good. George
Genest will confess "

'you speak very confidently of George
Genest ! Perhaps you know he has left
the country ?"

'' I do not know it, but the fact is

unimportant. He can be found."

i.

"You don't do justice to yourself. A
nervous young man might well be overpowered
in your presence — such muscles
and such a reputation might daunt him,
especially when he was ill. But it is not so
certain that in cold blood, at a distance,
he could be influenced to swear falsely."

'rit would become Genest to answer
that taunt, not me. Now, sir, I ask you
for the last time. Yesterday, with the
assistance of Mr. Wace Onslow, I found
the spot where some persons had dug
upon my ground and had removed something.

They filled the hole with rubbish,
among which this fragment of newspaper
was buried. He displayed a cutting
stained with prints of soil, but perfectly
dry and legible.

"And what may that be?"

'ran extract from the "Shipping Intelligence"
of August list, sir. It announces
the departure of the vessel in which I
sailed from the Cape."

How do you connect that with me ?
I never knew when you sailed. Nonsense!"
The objection was weak. This new fact
made Mr. Esking quail for the moment.

I imagine that Simmons cut it out and
dropped it in the Clock Tower. What
you did was to preserve this damning bit
of evidence."

I have had much more than enough
of this, Mr. Thorburn. If that newspaper,
which you cut from a file "

Very well !" said Eldred, rising. " I

will say only that Mr. Onslow found it,
not I. Heaven knows how grieved I shall
be, sir, but if you will not listen, if you
are determined to keep me out of my
own, I must act. I must and I will. Is
it indeed your very last word, Mr. Esking ?
I implore you to think."

'' I have no need to think. This is a
monstrous imagination. That is my last
word !"

*' Then the law must judge between us !"

He left the room, paler now than the
man he charged, with despair at his heart,
but inexorable resolution also. At the front
door he met Hilda ; — her courage had all
broken down, her eyes, red with sleeplessness,
glittered in a white face.

'' What is decided ?" she asked, piteously,
throwing off all concealment now. He also
forgot that this girl should not know the
facts.

Your father is immoveable. Use your

influence, Miss Esking ! I will wait till tomorrow
— longer, if you wish !" Eldred left
her there. Presently she went to the
Charter Room, but she was repulsed with
brief, harsh words. Well Hilda knew now
that it was useless to plead.

Left to himself, Mr. Esking began his
preparations to meet the crisis. Things
were not quite so desperate in one respect
as they seemed. Against the circumstantial
evidence of trespass he must offer such
defence as arose. George's threatened confession
did not alarm him very much ;
when the young man recovered strength
he would think twice, and again. The
Treasure itself remained. Mr. Esking
judged it possible that a search warrant
might be granted on Thorburn's application
; and he felt sure that to apply for
it would be one of his earliest steps. He
dared not send the contents away at short
notice ; to hide them where this half-savage

tracked could not find them would
be desperately difficult. The thing itself
was too heavy to move in bulk. A puzzling
situation under ordinary circumstances.

But, as Wace Onslow mentioned, Mr.
Esking had bought many objects from
Captain Thorburn, manuscripts, plate,
books, miscellanies. Some of them were
known to archaeologists, some engraved
in journals of art, some described and
recorded in the proceedings of one society
or another. It was notorious, also, among
savant that he possessed a quantity which
had never been made public, and these,
as was rumoured, the most curious and
valuable. Herein lay his protection. He
resolved to copy afresh all those pages
of his catalogue which referred to things
bought from Captain Thorburn, leaving
blanks here and there to be filled with
the rough description of such articles as
might be found in the leather chest,

which, thus hidden in the Hst of objects
he was known to possess, would require
no explanation.

The scheme was easy, as ingenious.
Many pages of the little volume which
dealt with his purchases from Captain
Thorburn had already been published and
printed, but by transcription. The original
copy had never been submitted to a
living soul ; and whilst the extracts would
prove that some portion was genuine,
nobody could dispute that the whole was
genuine also. Then, the manuscript recopied,
with blanks, and the former
volume destroyed, the Treasure might be
broken, and its contents roughly catalogued
in the vacant spaces. For the leathern
case, no one could identify it — he had
two others not unlike.

A few hours' toil would put an end to
that danger, anyhow. Mr. Esking set to
work forthwith.

Eldred's guests were by no means early
risers ; when he reached home they sat
at breakfast. Said Onslow —

'' I have been thinking, Mr. Thorburn,
that if you are good enough to repeat,
in this calm and thoughtful hour of the
morning, that my father would be welcome,
I had better go to fetch him. Otherwise,
I fear that no description by letter would
move my parent to the exertion necessary.
He would feverishly long to come every
half-hour of the day, but every half-hour
he would put it off."

The suggestion relieved Eldred of an
anxiety which had been pressing on him.
'certainly," he replied. "Suppose we fixa
day that will give Sir Richard all
the time needful to make up his mind ?
I will write a note, asking him for
this day week." The crisis would be
past then, his action against Mr. Esking
would be lodged, or the question

dropped, and the pavement of the Clock
Tower relald.

*' I am obliged to you," said Onslow,
just a little surprised at this proposal for
delay. "Then I'll return by the 1-30 train."

"The carriage shall be ready. You'll
pardon me if I don't accompany you to
the station."

Mr. Onslow has only a portmanteau,"
Mendel Interposed. "If you can trust me
with your horses, I'll drive him to the
station."

Better and better ! Thus rid of both
his guests, Eldred resolved to take a long
ride. He assented cheerfully.

In due time they left, and he went to
don his riding-gear. A sound of hoofs
upon the gravel drew him to the window,
in time to see Hilda spring unaided from
her horse and ring the bell.

Eldred felt a deep unwillingness to see
her alone. If she had proposals to make,

0/

they might be offered in writing ; if she
had none, but came only to plead and to
entreat, an agonising duty lay before him.
But he was unused to shirk the pains of
life. Dressing hastily, he met the servant
who brought Hilda's request for an interview.


She stood in the hall, such a type of
beautiful despair that Eldred bowed without
speaking, and led the way to a small
room beyond the reach of eavesdroppers.
"We are safe here," he said. "I earnestly
trust. Miss Esking, that you bring good
news ?"

"I bring none! I have come to throw
myself on your mercy, Mr. Thorburn,
when my father rejects me ! I know he
is guilty. I confess for him. Spare us, sir !"

You have authority to confess ?''

'*No. He persists in defying you. That
is why I am here."

Then ask yourself, Miss Esking, how

can I take a daughter's word against her
father ? Pardon me ! I did not make
this situation — It Is forced upon us."

But you can unmake It, If you will.
Think how terrible It Is. You would bring
my father to the dock. If he were a thief
I could find no excuse for him, but it Is
enthusiasm. He sees no right or wrong
In such a question, thinks neither of you
nor me, nor himself, nor Heaven ! You
could not understand it, nor do I, but I
know! My father Is rich. The value of
this thing he has taken Is nothing, but
to get and to keep it he would sacrifice
life itself!"

'' No, this Is not news to me, Miss
Esklng. Like you, I cannot understand,
but "

'' You know it ?" she cried, bursting
into tears. "Then my last hope is gone!"

Eldred was scarcely less agitated.
'what can I do? Only show me! I

must recover what my forefathers transmitted
to my charge. From the bottom
of my heart, I wish the Treasure had
been lost, ages ago !"

"I can plead no more! Have mercy
on me, then !"

"It would be mercy to myself — Heaven
knows how blessed ! Show me what I
can do In justice, and I will thank you
from my soul."

Hilda raised her face, white and quivering,
but firm.

'ein justice, you can do only what you
intend. My father has no claim upon your
mercy, nor I. I offer all I have — myself!"

He made no reply, but his eyes burned
with feverish questioning.

I offer myself In atonement ! I will
be your slave, your wife, what you will !
Spare my father !"

Give me your hand on that !" She
gave it and it did not tremble. Eldred

bowed down, took her hand softly, and
let it fall.

"I yield," he said, 'but not upon a
bargain ! Never will I refer to this, nor
think of it otherwise than as an impulse,
nobler than poetry or legend recall. If I
desert my duty, it is for such a reason
as no man could ever plead. I submit,
Hilda, but on my own terms. The words
you spoke are a holy memory between
us — no more, not a bargain !"

Hilda blushed now — her lovely face was
scarlet, as she turned it aside. But she
found resolution to murmur —

"That is as you wish — I am bound!"

In sudden passion, Eldred caught her
unresisting, but his firmness returned.

I do not accept ! I never will —
never ! — I mean — it is not as a slave-wife.
I have longed for you, Hilda! I — oh,
go now, I will call to-morrow — to-day I
could not — and tell your father that I

withdraw my claim, and rights, and everything,
but my love for you ! May I say
that, without suspicion of hinting at the
bargain ?"

The tone was joyous, though the manner
forbade doubt of a serious meaning.
Hilda blushed again, and smiled a little,
as she gathered her habit-skirt.

I could not presume to suspect."

Again ? You lovely witch, I have

requested you to be off! Obey, or "

He kissed her hand with sudden gravity.
'' Good-bye, Hilda — till tomorrow."

*' Good-bye, sir !" And they kissed
frankly, laughing.

Assuredly she had no intention that
her offer should end thus. She did not
know she loved when it was made — her
soul was filled with one thought of saving
her father. But when things took this
turn, when the words had been spoken,
and had wrought their effect, all at

VOL. III. R

once her hidden love broke out gleefully.
Constraint fled, the recollection of her
anxieties passed with the danger. They
chatted like tender friends as Eldred led
her to the door and lifted her on horseback.


The conventional young lady would not
have behaved as this girl did at any
single point of the interview ; — but then,
the conventional young lady's father would
assuredly have been brought to the dock,
with such result as Heaven willed. She
could never have tempted Eldred Thor-burn
to give up his plain and sacred
rights.

He could bear no company that afternoon.
When the master reached home
at six o'clock, the grooms observed his
brightness of eye and alacrity of step ;
but the big chestnut had enjoyed a real
''bucketting." Eldred was not likely to
observe that the key of the garden

door had been removed from his mantelpiece.


Hilda had permission to tell her father
that he might dismiss his fears, but the
details were so singular, so embarrassing,
in fact, that she felt a timidity, half-humorous,
in approaching it. Mr. Esking
relieved her by calling, through the closed
door of the Charter Room, that he was
too busy to be interrupted. Hilda put
off her intention until the moment of
saying good night.

But that did not serve. He was
evidently tired when they sat down to
dinner, spoke little, and drank deep — for
him ; that is, he took a glass of claret,
or it may be a glass and a half, beyond
the usual allowance. And his spirits rose
in proportion.

Don't disturb me to-night, my dear,"
he said to Hilda, kissing her, as she
passed to leave the room.

I want to tell you, papa " — the others
had gone — "that I saw Mr. Thorburn
to-day, and he said "

** Never mind what Mr. Thorburn said.
It's vastly unimportant, and what he does
Is little better. Good night !"

But, papa, if you are anxious "

I am not In the least anxious. Runaway."


After all, it did not matter. She withdrew.
Mrs. Fanshawe's society was not
sympathetic at any time, and to-night
she showed unusual drowsiness — possibly
Kate knew why. Before nine o'clock,
Hilda retired to her room.

Mr. Esking was the least bit surprised
to find the door of his study half-open ;
but in a moment he recollected ordering
a fire. A careless housemaid had been
In to look at It, doubtless. It did not
signify. Every paper of his work was
safely put away, and though they had

all been exposed no one could make
anything of them.

The use of the fire was to burn the
old catalogue when re-copied.

After a glance round, Mr. Esking rang
for Armstrong, and strictly commanded that
no one should interrupt him again. Then
he sat to finish his labours. It was done
within the hour — the new catalogue of the
Thorburn collection, with its blanks complete,
the old one destroyed. He smoked
a pipe whilst thoughtfully reviewing the
situation in its every phase. All that
man's cunning could do, under desperate
circumstances, had been done.

Towards ten o'clock he rose, and took
the instruments prepared beforehand, unlocked
the kist, carefully removed the heap
of parchments, useless now, and laid them
on the floor. Lever in hand, absorbed
in the task before him, he sought the
weakest place in those steel fastenings.

Then, from the shelter of the screen, a
low, misshapen figure issued crouching,
swiftly but noiselessly, and crept up
behind.

When Eldred and his remaining guest
had told the little incidents of the day —
the one his riding adventures, the other
his visit to Rowley — and all had been
said that they suggested, silence ensued.
Neither was dull — on the contrary, each
had an air of still excitement, and when a
topic arose, they discussed it in higher
spirits ; — but after an exchange of lively
observations it dropped. So very quiet
they grew, when dinner and cigars were
finished, that Eldred went to sleep. When
he awoke, Mendel had vanished.

Not surprising," he thought to himself
with an inward laugh, "if a host sofar
forgets himself. I must really break
off my savage habits, rising at four and
sleeping whenever one feels drowsy. They

don't become a Thorburn of Thorburns
at home."

He took a fresh cigar, and sat in delicious
reverie for awhile, thinking of those
events which it had not been necessary
to confide to Mendel. They brought him
in due time to the recollection of the
Treasure. The hole where it had lain was
covered, but the Clock Tower stood open.
Eldred thought he would like to see that
all was right, having paid no visit that
day. He rang for a lantern, and passed
into the hall.

'why, Pearson, you have not locked
up ! How is this .^"

Mr. Mendel is outside, sir, I believe.
Mr. Bland, his man, told me so when I
was going to bolt the door."

Eldred thought it a little strange, seeing
that Arthur Mendel did not love fresh air
with a chill in it ; but in a moment more
he had forgotten the trivial circumstance.

The Clock Tower was found just as he
and Onslow left it, and Eldred smiled
ruefully in calling to mind the vows which
passion had inspired only the day before.
How different they from the vows which
another passion now inspired !

He was returning in deep thought, for
the interview next day with Mr. Esking
threatened to be delicate, when a sudden
scream, a shout, and a heavy splash startled
him awfully. Presence of mind is an instinct
that needs no summoning with men
who have led his sort of life. He wasted
no time in seeking an explanation — someone
had fallen, more likely had been thrown,
into the dam. At full speed he reached
the terrace, bounded down the steps, and
leapt into the boat. Beneath its high
banks, overshadowed by trees, the water
lay black — a subterranean pool — darkness
absolute reigned. He had to feel, like a
blind man.

The alarm had been heard. Dimly
above, Eldred caught the sound of eacrer
voices and shouted aloud. Servants appeared
on the terrace with candles, moving
noisily and helplessly.

'follow the bank!" he cried. "Throw
your light down on the water !"

They had to make a circuit, and the
pitchy darkness engulfed him once more.
Though utterly unskilled in rowing, his
prodigious strength and reach urged the
boat swiftly.

When a tiny blaze, reappearing far above,
cast the faintest radiance down below,
Eldred saw something, left his oars, and
clutched it. He recognised a man's dress,
and, with a mighty heave, drew it aboard
the senseless form of Arthur Mendel.
But that was a woman's scream which
preceded the shout. He rowed on, but
nothing more was found.

All the household, excepting Mrs. God-self,

awaited him at the steps. They
carried the body up, whilst Pearson and
others resumed the search. Mendel began
to show signs of life, and, stretched on
the hall table, opened his eyes.

'' Clear the room !" Eldred cried.
'' Now, now, what is this ? Were you
alone ?"

"No! He struck us down together. I
swear before God she was innocent !
Where is she ?"

Eldred did not wait to reply. Running
down the steps once more, while passionately
recalling the men, he loosed the
drag which Kate had suggested with such
strange prescience. The boat approached
in haste — he sprang in, and dropped the
hooks over the stern.

"We shall catch in a piece of timber,
most like, sir," Pearson ventured to observe.
" Better draw in and sink it about
the place where you found Mr. Mendel."

Eldred followed this advice, and, as
near as he could judge the spot, let fall
the drag again. The first attempt succeeded
; Kate's body rose to the surface,
and was reverently lifted. They pulled in
quick, but Eldred knew that no treatment
would bring her back to life.

It was his hope to keep the secret, but
Mendel had staggered out and was waiting
for them on the Terrace. I have no
words to describe that scene. In his
agony of grief and remorse, Arthur could
have flung himself into the pool, but they
carried him away and left him in Bland's
charge. Mrs. Godseff had risen, trembling
and white, but resolute. To her the
corpse was entrusted.

Then Eldred took the garden path. Ashe
expected, the door stood open. The
lamps of the Charter Room shone with
soft radiance through the curtains, but he
tapped again and again without reply.

After repeating the signal louder and
louder, he sought the back entrance. Mr.
Esking had gone to bed, no doubt, leaving
his lights aflame. The barking of the
dogs was more effectual, perhaps, to attract
attention than his cautious knocking, for
he dreaded to rouse Hilda. At length a
window opened, and Armstrong demanded,
angrily, "What's to do there?" He let
Eldred In, and they went to the Charter
Room.

The door was fastened on the Inside,
the key In the lock — they began to suspect
a disaster. Armstrong searched the
bedroom and found It empty — looked Into
the drawlnor-room, and observed Mrs. Fan-share
asleep In the corner. The housekeeper
had overlooked her. Retiring
softly, he reported.

To break that Iron-bound door, as the
butler explained, would be a noisy task
for skilled workmen with all their

appliances. No doubt remained that
something was wrong ; Mr. Esking,
they thought, had been seized with a fit.

Eldred went outside again, meaning to
break a window as quietly as might be,
and thus gain admittance. But when he
reached the front, all was dark, and by
the dim starlight he perceived that a
window was open. Then the truth flashed
on him.

He clambered in, and struck a match.
Every case in the room had been opened,
and its contents laid out methodically on
the floor. Several groups of articles, obviously
valuable, stood close together, as
if for packing. So littered was the space
that Eldred saw nothing beside the miscellaneous
piles of antique treasure. He
satisfied himself hastily that no one remained
in the room, and unlocked the
door.

Armstrong entered with a candle.

'* Good Lord !" he said, awfully, '' here's
burglar's work !" and stood paralysed, whilst
Eldred took the light. Picking his way
among the heaps, he searched, and shortly
found. By one of the great kiss, Mr.
Esking lay doubled up, his right hand
resting in a smaller case, iron bound,
within the open box.

He is here, Armstrong ! Now, collect
your nerves, man ! Speak low !"

The servant, happily, was a true North-countryman,
stout and staunch. Burglary
shocked his instincts as a confidential
domestic, but as a man he was calm.
'* It's old Simmons as done it, sir!" Armstrong
muttered, but no other word was
spoken as they raised the senseless
body. A pool of blood lay underneath
it, oozing from a terrific gash on the
right side of the head.

'' A blow from a knob kerry," Eldred
muttered to himself, using a familiar

term. " The skull is fractured, Armstrong,
but he's alive. We must get him
upstairs. No use to try keeping the
secret now. Call the groom and send
for a doctor."

All the house is up but Miss Hilda
and Mrs. Fanshawe. We'd best wake the
lady."

'' No, no ; are the women outside ?
Then send one of them to call Miss
Esking. Say I want to see her — nothing
more than that, mind. Let the girl leave
the room instantly, after saying so much.
And do you light up the house quick, so
that when Miss Esking comes out she
may find a cheerful scene — this twilight
would double a girl's horror."

So it would, sir. Lord, how thoughtful
you are !" Armstrong busied himself,
lit the lamps upon the staircase and in
the hall, so that the house was bright
when Hilda came forth in her dressing-gown,

with hair loose — and half her
terror vanished.

Eldred was waiting. He put his arm
softly round her, and the remaining half
of her terror melted away in that strong
protection. Before she could ask more
than one breathless question he told her
the truth — enough for the moment.

*' Your father has hurt himself, not
fatally, I am sure. I have sent for the
doctor. Don't lose your presence of mind,
Miss Esking."

'hurt — himself! Why are you here .'^'^

'armstrong and I found him just now.
We are going to carry him to his room.
Will you not withdraw whilst we do
so :

Her suspicion faded as quick as it
arose.

I am not afraid. Let me help you."

Then wait a moment, my brave girl !"
It was the only allusion to their new

relationship that Eldred made for many
a day after.

The women had sponged their master's
head and bound his wound. When Hilda
saw him a moment afterwards, he might
have been sleeping, save for the waxy
pallor. She asked no questions, deferring
them all for an opportunity more suitable.
To her strong sense and strong nerve, it
was enough for the time that her father
lay senseless and wounded. The explanation
could wait.

Eldred carried him up, laid him on
the bed, and turned to go. " I will
come back in half-an-hour," he said,
pressing Hilda's hand in tenderest sympathy.
"Your aunt is asleep — do not
wake her !"

Before leaving, he told Armstrong the
more terrible disaster, and enjoined him
to see that Mrs. Fanshawe was left undisturbed
; she would not fail to summon

VOL. III. s

Kate, and another distressing subject for
anxiety must arise. Then at full speed
Eldred ran home, ordered the close
carnage, and instructed Mrs. Godseff to
get ready. On the way he told her what
had happened, and the service he asked
of her.

She answered, feeble in voice but firm
of soul, 'eat my age, it's hard to
have such a duty laid on a woman. But
I'm grateful you came to me, sir. It's '
• fitting from one of your name to one
of mine."

But part of the task was done before
they reached Little Thorburns. Mrs.
Fanshawe woke, and her first natural impulse
was to scream, finding herself in
darkness. The cry raised an echo, as it
were, over all the house ; every woman-servant
in it gave vent to her wrung
nerves. Within five minutes more the
absence of Kate was discovered ; but

Armstrong held the lady in anxious converse.


To break the awful truth, without causing
more distress to Hilda for the time,
was Mrs. Godseff's duty. She did it by
the mere force of a strong character
acting on a weak one ; compelled Mrs.
Fanshawe to rest quiet, and to seek
relief in prayer. Mendel's name did not
cross her lips.

Eldred waited to hear the doctor's
report, which was very grave but not
hopeless. Then he locked the Charter
Room, and sealed it ; drove into Rowley,
and laid his information before the police,
urging them to look for Simmons. Butin
telling the story of Kate's death, he
did not think it necessary to repeat those
significant words of her companion : " He
struck us down together ! I swear, before
God, she was innocent !" The husband
who avenges himself is punished by the

law ; but in Eldred's philosophy it does
not become a man to denounce him.

When he returned home in the early
morning, Mendel had left without a word.

THE OPENING OF THE TREASURE.

Have you told Miss Esking this sad
news, doctor ?"

"Not yet. I hoped for the best and
delayed."

"But there is no human possibility now
that he will recover his senses ?"

I venture to say, none. The poor
fellow is picking up bodily health too
fast. A few weeks hence he will be
quite strong — a proof in my experience
that the injury to the brain is irreparable.
But take the opinion of greater authorities,
I beg."

That shall be done, but I have implicit
confidence in you. An idiot for

the rest of his life ! He will remember
nothing — not even fragmentary hints of
things?"

Nothing, I should say — absolutely
nothing !"

'when we are assured of that, I suppose
he can be moved ?"

"You might take him to London for
advice tomorrow, or to-day."

I was not thinking of that. The
associations of the house are painful to
Miss Esking, and for Mrs. Fanshawe,
she is nearly as much shaken as her
brother. I should like to get them all
away."

"Ay, its a sad story! The examination
at the inquest was the most distressing
scene I ever beheld. When Arthur
Mendel fainted, it was a relief to me
quite as much as to him. There's no
news of Fanshawe nor of Simmons .^"

None. On our barbarous frontier

murderers don't escape as they seem todo
In England."

That Is Intelligible also. But I should
think, Mr. Thorburn, that nobody Is
anxious to catch Hubert Fanshawe, except
the police."

No. I did not refer to him. A
wronged husband may take his vengeance
as he will and where he will. I do not
say Fanshawe was wronged !"

No one who heard Mendel's evidence
would believe he was. You mean that a
husband has a right to act upon suspicion
reasonable suspicion ? It's a dangerous
view to hold ! Still, I fancy even a judge
would Incline to think with you in his
private capacity."

Eldred changed the subject. "If Mr.
Esking may be removed at once, I shall
propose that we take him to London, and
afterwards, if your opinion Is confirmed, as
I don't doubt, to his sister's house at

Shuttleton. But is there no danger that
Mrs. Fanshawe may fall into something
like the same condition ?"

No. Religious mania is like some
bodily diseases — it may kill by its own
proper force, but it guarantees the sufferer
against other complaints. When should
you start ?" asked Bowring, as he rose.

'' To-morrow, if possible."

Hilda was impatient to escape from
scenes so full of sad and bitter recollections.
Next day Little Thorburns was
deserted.

Nearly a month had gone by since that
awful night. Mr. Esking was able to leave
his bed, and even to go downstairs ; but
we have heard the doctor's report. Idiotic
for life ! There was nothing to shock,
to offend, hardly to pity, in his state.
Habits natural and acquired clung to
him. He dressed neatly without assistance,
shaved himself, and sought the

'Charter Room as methodically as of old ;
sat in the accustomed chair, and fingered
any book or manuscript in reach. But
his eyes did not obey the mechanical impulse.
They wandered unceasingly round
and round the walls, the glazed cases, the
endless array of treasures ; and the mouth
never lost its benevolent smile. Mr.
Esking's hair had turned snowy white in
these few days, almost the only trace of
sickness that would remain shortly, as it
seemed, and this venerable hue gave a
finish to his kindly air that continually
startled Eldred. He had need to recall
again and again the proofs of guilt which
lay in his hands.

The collections were no small anxiety.
Wace Onslow came down and verified the
catalogue — charging a percentage for his
services, by-the-bye, that made Eldred
stare ; but when the things were verified
the question arose what to do with them.

Onslow answered this again, proposing to
take up his abode In the Charter Room
and to be responsible for Its contents during
an Indefinite time, In return for the mere
privilege of study. So It was arranged.

Mrs. Fanshawe accompanied them to
London ; — she seemed to want advice
almost as much as her brother. He had
not once spoken since the accident ; but
her lips were never still, though words
issued rarely — exclamations of rapture
sometimes, but oftener the dread menaces
of a vengeful God who will repay.

The opinion of Dr. Bowring was confirmed
by the highest authority. So far
as human skill could judge, Mr. Esking
would never regain his wits, but health
and strength came back day by day. He
would live, In all likelihood, for many years.

Hilda returned to Little Thorburns
with her aunt to prepare for a definite
removal. Wace Onslow consented to

remain until the lawyers and the executors
of Mr. Esklng's will could decide what
should be done.

That night Eldred was seated in his
dining-room, profoundly meditating, when
a tap at the window roused him. He
took a candle and approached. A bearded
face, with burning eyes, was pressed
against the glass. Not very much amazed,
he waved his hand and strode out. A
black form joined him, and silently they
walked clown the avenue, beyond earshot
of the servants.

'' Where have you been hiding ?''

Up and down — in Ireland, in London
I don't know ! I was going to give
myself up, and then I thought, before
doing so, I would come to you. How
is my mother .^"

'' 111, but in no danger. What am I
to do with you ?"

'what you please."

You know that you stand charged
with wilful murder ?"

'' I saw the newspapers. I read Mendel's
evidence ! If I meet him, Thorburn "

Don't tell me ! I saw him in the
witness-box. Do you mean to say he
lied .^"

No. He told the truth so far."

They stood silent in the darkness fora
long time. Eldred led the way at length
to the Clock Tower.

'rare you afraid to be left alone at
night ?" he asked, by the door.

"No."

"Then if Hilda consents I will do
what I can for you." He walked across
to Little Thorburns, leaving Hubert there.

She was superintending the last arrangements,
and joined him at once. A glance
warned her.

"He has come ?"

"Yes. What shall I do?"

'' Have you not considered this, Mr.
Thorburn ?"

I have reckoned with the probably,
If he were guilty should I not give him
up :

*eyes," she answered, flushing. "Is he
guilty ?"

*' He says Mendel spoke the truth, but
longs to strike another blow. And he Is
in the Clock Tower, with no light, but
not afraid."

Then, what will you do ?"

'' I leave the decision in your hands."

I have none to offer. Act as your
Instincts guide you, Mr. Thorburn, and
be sure that they are mine."

Then we will never speak of this
again, I hope! Good night!" He took
her hand wistfully and withdrew.

The fugitive appeared at his low call.

*' Give me your wrist !" and Eldred felt
the pulse.

"Ah! Now I have one condition to
make. Promise to let your vengeance
rest now! If you meet Mendel by chance,
shun him. Is it solemnly agreed"

I promise — but Heaven protect us
both, if we meet ! I am not mad, Thor-burn,
but if he stood before me, devils
would grip my soul, and blind me,
and guide my hand ! Oh, my poor
Kate ! My darling ! She was a child,
and he tempted her ! She died and he
escaped !"

'' Hush — hush ! Now, here is money —
all I have — enough to pay your passage
to Cape Town. And here is a cheque
on my agent there. Take what name
you please, and I will advise him. Write
to me, and if you are in need I will
see that funds reach you."

God bless you and reward you ! For
the future, if I get clear to Cape Town,
you will not hear of me again. I hope

I may die quick by a man's death ! But
don't think I feel remorse ! If the
moment returned now I would strike as
I did ! But life is unbearable. No
remorse, no ! — but sorrow, Thorburn,
sorrow, and loneliness, and agony, each
hour, each instant that it drags on !
Good-bye ! What, you will shake hands
with a murderer ?''

'ray! Rather with a murderer than
with law-abiding husbands who ask
damages ! Good-bye !"

In the morning a look told Hilda all
that was necessary, and Hubert Fanshawe
was never named again between them.

Just before they started for Shuttleton,
Onslow took Eldred aside.

Do you know that there is one of
the big boxes without a key ? — at least
I haven't it."

"Yes. The key is in my possession."

"Oh, very good! There's work enough
for a Hfetlme already."

Eldred pondered. '' No, I will show
you the contents."

He returned to the Charter Room, unlocked
the kist, and threw it open ;
splashes of blood dotted the inside.

'' Esking was struck while leaning over
this, eh ?" said Onslow, with his eternal
chuckle, which meant nothing, as Eldred
understood by this time.

•' What is the date of that object, do
you think ?" he asked, pointing to the
leaden chest.

I could only say that it seems very
old — several centuries. There is no
work upon it — on this side, at least, to
fix an era. Rudeness proves nothing unless
there are other indications."

Eldred locked it up again. " Are you
aware," said Onslow, "that many things
in the room bear the crest, or the arms,

or the motto of your family, and many
others a monogram which, I suspect, belonged
to a Thorburn ?"

I know that Mr. Esking bought a
quantity of odds and ends from my uncle."

"Yes. I have found the catalogue, but
I thought perhaps you did not know.
Could Miss Esking be persuaded to lend
just that fragment of the collection — the
Thorburn relics ? Everything shall be
treated with the utmost care, and the
exhibition would be a sort of amusement
to her father."

"You must apply to the executors, and
I don't yet know who they are. The
things are curious, then ?''

"So curious that I am unable to class
them. It is only to-day I found the
catalogue. A glance seems to suggest
that Esking himself did not know what
to make of his purchases. After many
descriptions, see, the date is ' ?' "

VOL. III. T

'' And what is your own opinion ?"

I could not venture to express one
where Esking declined to judge. It seems
to me, as to him, no doubt, that many
of the articles in silver are things of rough
country workmanship, showing no style, if
you understand me. Or else they belong
to a period of which we have no other
examples for comparison. In the absence
of even a legend to guide us, I should
say 'query,' also."

"Well, study them, and make the best
you can. I shall be back in two or
three days."

Mr. Esking travelled comfortably and
decorously. Those who remarked him on
the railroad, smiling and easy, would not
have been persuaded that his mind was
vacant ; — and a party to which Hilda belonged,
not to name the gigantic Thor-burn,
could not escape notice. Some
hopes had been felt that the view of

Shuttleton would rouse him ; but it produced
no effect whatever.

In the evening Thwaite called, not unsuspicious
; but after doing his best to
rouse the intelligence which seemed to be
asleep, not dead, he was convinced.

It's clear to me, Mr. Thorburn, that
we must appeal to the Lord Chancellor.
Will you come round tomorrow, early ?
Oh, early by our English reckoning, I
mean !"

'' But I have no position that justifies
me in interfering !"

Indeed ? What, no presumption of a
claim ?"

'' None at all."

*' Oh, well, I must think ! Pray call,
nevertheless." The result of Mr. Thwaite's
reflection was, that he showed his client's
will, so much of it as expressed the
earnest hope that his daughter would
marry Eldred Thorburn.

Breathless, with kindling eyes, the young
man read it, and left the office. In taking
his hat from the desk, he brushed the
little lawyer's chest — no more than that —
but Thwaite staggered backwards and
dropped in a chair that stood luckily
convenient. Eldred went out noticing,
and after a pause of bewildered indignation,
the lawyer rose.

"An item for my bill," he said to himself,
smiling at the fanciful conceit. "'To
assault by Mr. Thorburn !' How much
would be appropriate ? I'll leave the assessment
of damages to the taxing-master,
with a stipulation that he sees — egad, yes,
and measures my client before deciding !"
The joke kept Thwaite in good-humour
all day.

He had furnished Eldred with grounds
for action which the latter despaired of
finding. How could he speak to Hilda
whilst Mr. Esking lay in this dreadful

State ! Though it was no fault of his,
the young man's keen sense of delicacy
made him feel responsible in a way. He
had looked to wait years, perhaps till the
father's death, if no unhoped for incident
should arise.

The proffer Hilda had made was not
to be forgotten so long as life endured,
but he could not take advantage of it,
not by a hint. They had been as brother
and sister during these anxious weeks,
and that relationship Eldred saw no means
of throwing off until Thwaite's confidence
gave him the opportunity. How to use
it was a question. He turned over divers
methods, which all involved reference to
a male person, the lawyer, or the executors
; and from such aid his soul revolted.
But the only woman who could interfere
was the aunt, half-imbecile. Nevertheless,
Eldred took occasion to appeal to her.
But it was no use. Mrs. Fanshawe

would not, probably could not, tix her
attention.

Then he applied to Mr. Thwaite fora
copy of the will, and himself gave it
to Hilda.

"I do not understand this, Mr. Thor-burn,"
she said. " Please relieve me of
business matters."

I shall be glad to do so if you ask
me again after reading it." He seated
himself at a distance, and watched.

The frown of bewilderment and distress
deepened on her brow as she turned the
folios of verbiage in which Thwaite had
buried the plain and simple meaning of
the will and the small legacies that her
father bequeathed — not one to a charity,
nor even for a scientific purpose. More
than once Hilda looked up with gentle
impatience, but he gravely motioned her
to go on.

So she came to the codicil, unexecuted

in this draft, but duly signed and witnessed
separately, as we know. Her face changed,
but not to the expression Eldred hoped.
She burst Into tears.

-Hilda! What Is this?"

'how he loved me! Oh, poor papa!"

The explanation was significant as
pretty ; she ceased to sob upon her lover's
breast, and In the evening he ventured
to speak of marriage — not Immediate, of
course.

The bride offered no opposition, but
when Eldred came to think of ways and
means, he found a serious difficulty. To
be married from Little Thorburns was
out of the question — Hilda shuddered at
the thought— and from Mrs. Fanshawe's
house utterly Impossible. For days and
weeks he pondered, and discussed the
matter at each visit to Shuttleton, but
no Idea occurred. Hilda seemed unable
to suggest anything. More and more

convinced Eldred grew that English ways
are silly. It really seems absurd that
willing lovers cannot be joined because
they have not a home convenient for the
bride to quit.

It is commonly thought that a man
who has been raised in a primitive
society becomes indifferent to forms. That
is a grave error. Impatient he may well
be, but all his instincts revolt from
opposing them. A grave pitch of despair
was marked when Eldred spoke of the
Registrar — and he dropped the suggestion
at once. Hilda would not allow him to
ask Mr. Thwaite's assistance, or that of
the executors.

During this time he came and went.
In the country, when hunting began, he
won great fame. Magnates called, and
invited him to shoot — the legend circulated
that he used a pea-rifle for pheasants.
In short, Thorburn of Thorburns resumed

his position with a lustre unknown in the
annals of the family.

Mr. Esking's health was quite restored,
and his mind quite gone ; but his state
was characteristic. Neat, decorous, always
cheerful of look, he followed certain habits
day by day, but an interruption did not
disconcert him much. Nobody hoped for
an Improvement now.

So Christmas came, and Eldred's perplexities
grew urgent. In a few weeks
longer, the time of mourning would be
passed, and no escape had been discovered.
He reached Shuttleton on the
Eve, and found Mrs. Fanshawe preparing
for a watch night with the Brethren.
He had Hilda to himself.

She had not borne, he thought, a due
share of his distress, and laughingly he
said so. The girl blushed a little, and
smiled a little.

'' But, dear, it's no joke ! In a month

or thereabouts we should be married —
unless you have changed your mind. Is
that the explanation ?"

'' I have not changed my mind yet."
Then kissing ensued.

'' Well, but how is it to be managed ?
A month hence, apparently, we shall be
no further advanced."

I suppose not, but you mistake the
time, Eldred. I could not be married so
soon after "

"I do not press you, love. It shall
be when you will. But let us decide the
how and where. What are you smiling
at ? Really, this is serious !"

"Oh, yes! Was I smiling? Pray goon."


'' But that's where it is ! I can't goon
! If you have an idea, please don't
sit like a mocking angel, but bring
it out. Where shall we be married, to
begin with ?"

I don't know, I'm sure. Is there any
objection to Thorburns ?"

''My house — your own home? Delightful
! But how can It be ?"

'' Our courtship has been so strange,
dear, and all the circumstances so unusual,
that I think it should fittingly end
with an extraordinary wedding."

'' But, Hilda, I'm not certain. You
know English people are so dull. Isn't
it an odd thing to do ? Won't the
neighbours think it strange ?"

I hope so, for then they won't trouble
us so much. Oh, I'm not foolish, dear,
nor thoughtless. You are at home in any
society, but these people are wearisome tome.
I could not bear to mix with them."

Then, darling, the prospect is delicious
beyond words for me. But are you prepared
to live almost alone for years and
years ? Aren't you afraid for your own
happiness .^"

She rose suddenly and threw herself
into his arms. '' I ask no more from
Heaven," she whispered, "than to live
and die alone with my husband."

So, one evening in the springtime,
Hilda arrived at Thorburns, and next
day the little Burnside Church was
thronged. When she drove up with her
father and Mrs. Godseff — whose little
granddaughter was the solitary bridesmaid
— the villagers and school children
raised shouts of admiring sympathy ; but
at Eldred's appearance on horseback,
coming from the Rowley Hotel, the
welcome grew to a roar. Grand as a
couple of the heroic times they looked,
standing before the altar, beautiful as
stately. Directed by the old housekeeper,
Mr. Esking got through his duties very
well, save the speaking part ; he had
not uttered a sound since that night. A
striking finish, indeed, to a singular tale.

Three months afterwards, bride and
bridegroom returned, and presently Wace
Onslow came down with Sir Richard to
superintend the removal of Mr. Esking's
collection to the security of the great
house. The legal steps had been taken,
the insanity of the owner had been
declared, and his wishes were carried
out as though he had ceased to live.
Little Thorburns was appointed his
residence, under charge of Armstrong
and a nurse of skill. All the servants
remained, and the establishment was
kept up with the same easy, intelligent
comfort as before.

Eldred and his wife hesitated long
before dismantling the house, but a series
of careful experiments convinced them that
Mr. Esking would miss none of his
precious curiosities. One case after
another was emptied ; but he remarked
no change. Then they began with the

old furniture, putting a modern article in
place of each as it was carried off.

Mrs. Godseff showed a growing interest
in the operations. A large number of the
antique objects she recognised at a glance,
and told where they had stood in one or
other room at Thorburns. Eldred was
astonished and delighted to recover so
much of his ancestral furniture, and the
hall began to look itself again. He
directed Wace Onslow to put together all
articles of plate, showing the crest or
bearings, monogram, or motto of his
family, and reserved them for the last.

Some weeks were occupied in the removal,
in putting up new cases — for the
old ones were left in situ at Little Thor-burns
— and arranging as they went on,
under advice from Sir Richard. That
gentleman had never passed such an
ecstatic time. All day he employed himself
in noting and studying, whilst his son

attended Mrs. Godseff every night, until
she went to bed, gathering legends and
such hints as she could give. He had it
in view to publish a magnum opus :
Memoranda on the family of Thorburn
of Thorburns, with Description of the
House, its Muniments, Perishing, and
Historic Memorials, illustrated and amplified
by references to the Antiquarian
Collections of John Esking, Esq., F.S.A.,
etc., etc., etc., now in Possession of Eldred
Earl Thorburn, Esq. ;" — volumes on which
he is still engaged.

At length came a day which all looked
forward to. Those articles of special
interest — silver, pewter, leather, wood,
some even of gold, which were thought
to be connected with Thorburns bye-gone
had been polished and arranged in the
unused portion of the hall. After dinner,
Eldred ordered it to be lit up, and
summoned Mrs. Godseff. V/hen that

venerable matron saw the display she
cried out, "Why, law, Mr. Eldred, I
could fancy it was cleaning day in Hig's
time, seventy years agone ! There was
just such a show of plate, but not in
this room ! We used — Bless my heart,
it's the old things themselves ! Yon's the
salt-cellar, and there's the candlesticks,

and " She paused suddenly, remarking

one of the objects that had particularly
interested Onslow.

*' Do you know all these things ?"
Eldred asked.

"Yes; I know them all."

But Mrs. Godseffs cheerfulness had
vanished.

Can you identify any of the monograms
?" Wace asked.

The most part, I daresay. That was
Ralph Thorburn's christening cup — not
your father, Mr. Eldred, but him that
fought with Cromwell. And that's a gold

chalice that Sir Bernard brought home —
what's yonder, Eldred? What's that?"

He had carried in the Treasure kist,
meaning to put It away, but in the
hurry, and the pleased excitement, had
forgotten. The neglect annoyed him, since
the Onslows were present.

"That's old rubbish, mother! Go on
with your explanations."

"Mr. Esking has walked across, sir,"
said Armstrong at his elbow.

It was a common event, but Eldred
turned In dismay. The antiquarian stood
there, smiling with an air of benevolent
intelligence, as usual.

I remember It too well, Eldred !" Mrs.
Godseff exclaimed, with quavering emphasis.
Who dug it up again — the cursed thing ?
Oh, this Is a bad day for us all ! Hide
it ! Burn It !" She sat down shaking. In
his excitement Eldred forgot his guests.

Have you seen it before .^" he asked.

VOL. HI. u

Ay, sir, it's long ago ! Hig and me
took It up by night — how came It here —
the cursed thing ?"

Hilda put her arm round her father's
neck — his eyes were fixed upon the
Treasure chest, but without expression.
It had no meaning for him.

You dug It up ?" asked Sir Richard,

with great Interest. " What was In It ?''
That thing lay on the top !" Mrs.

Godseff replied, pointing to a leathern
Tig, three-handled, heavily bound with
silver. " And that, and that, was underneath.
I say, destroy It, Eldred !"

But why, mother ?"

Why, why ? — ^ because of all the folks
that night In Thorburns, not one was
living twelve months after, beside me !
Men, women, and children, all died — but
the Lord spared me for a witness ! Take
It away, Eldred — take It away!"

"If you will tell me all. It shall be

destroyed — I promise ! Is everything it
contained on the table ?"

She did not look. '' Hig sent the best
to London, and they sold for a great
sum. The money came after his death.
He was took ill next day, and grew
worse hour by hour. I knew what it
was, and I begged him to put the evil
thing back. Hig was a stark man! He
laughed — and he filled it with stones,
and bound it together again, saying he
wouldn't rob them that came after him
of a harmless excitement ; and we buried
it. Ten days afterwards Hig was dead,
and they all followed — all as lay in the
house that night !" Her voice failed in
muttering agitation.

Eldred lifted the kist and took it into
another room, Onslow following in high
excitement. Guided by this hint he
easily found the ligatures of strong wire
that kept it closed, pressed deep into

the mouldering case, and hidden beside
the antique fastenings. He burst them
asunder, and raised the Hd. On the
pebbles beneath lay a faded scrap of
paper, with some words he could not
make out. Wace Onslow took It from
him and read aloud : —

*' Hope Is the sweetest of delights
allowed to man. Content thyself."

Eldred turned. Mr. Esking stood behind
him cheerful and Indifferent, leaning
on Hilda's arm. To her he gave the
paper, whispering : '' Hope, the sweetest
of delights ! Poor Whig ! — Let the
servants carry this away and burn It.
The Treasure of Thorburns has been
reserved for me !"

THE END.

TILl.OTSON AND SON, PRINTERS, BOLTON

W
