mmmmmmm$mmmmmmtmmmimttmtmm

JlUlllllHllUlllUllllrilllhlllfliliTifiTiTiliTifM

Autobiography of

Thomas Allen

by the Author of

a

Post Mortem"

mim.

Win. ,ain iihiiii inn ,i ,,

MMMMMMMMMMMRHM

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

OF Ill NO!5

v. I

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/autobiographyoft01broo

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'POST MORTEM

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

3 nq<2£^

PREFACE.


CO

Such as my life has actually been, so I

in

^ propose to record it. It is not for me, in
this place, to point out particulars in which
•g the thousands who have professed to do the
same thing have failed. Nevertheless, I
'^ intend to profit rather by the warnings
■ which their real shortcomings furnish, than
by the examples which their apparent successes
invite ; and amongst the faults which
"> this work must contain, I believe that wilful
exaggeration and timid suppression will
not be found. The general taste in the
x matter of literature has of late become

A

accustomed to some very strange models ;
and it is certainly curious that those who,
in the real business of life, persistently discard
all false romance, "not only tolerate, but
eagerly seek it, in the field of fancy. It
now remains to be proved whether the
maxim still holds good, "that the true private
history of the humblest individual is
attractive, as well as instructive, to the
highest ; " or whether efforts to show what
we ought to be — or rather what we ought
not to be — are now preferred to descriptions
of what we are.

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

CHAPTEE I.

My birth took place one wet evening in
June 1843, at Hare Place, the seat of my
father, in one of the home counties. Although
on first coming into the world I was
in very kind hands, it might have seemed
otherwise ; for I was flogged with the corner
of a wet towel, and ducked in brandy,
almost directly I had made my appearance.
My parents, Mr and Mrs Allen, decided

VOL. I. a

upon " Thomas " for my first Christian
name, and afterwards, from some family
considerations, they added the names
Cecil," and " Longstaffe : " and thus,
having been born and christened, I became
Thomas Cecil Longstaffe Allen. I shall
endeavour not to dwell over the scenes and
incidents of my childhood for an undue
length of time ; but being blessed — or
afflicted — with a very remarkable gift of
memory, I trust some indulgence may be
accorded to me in that respect.

Some writers of autobiographies, when
dealing with the period of their childhood,
are content to inform their readers merely
that they have a vague recollection of a
great clock, whose tick used to inspire
them with wonder ;" or " that they just
remember, as if in a dream, a certain old
picture, which used to fill them with

terror ;" or, perhaps, " that the memory of
a far-off past summons back to life a pale,
delicate lady' who was their mother.

Other writers, again, undeterred by the
fear of being thought either prolix or impertinent,
or both, occupy a great space in
attempting to show that the after characteristics
of the man or woman were all foreshadowed
in the boy. The child of seven
clenches his tiny fist when the beetle-browed
lawyer is talking villany to the child's
mamma ; and the cheeks of a little maid
of thirteen are suffused with blushes when
the name of her male cousin is mentioned.
For myself, I shall endeavour to avoid saying
either too little or too much ; and so,
having mentioned my birth and parentage
in the briefest manner possible, I will ask
the reader's patience while I turn, rather
more closely, to a period commencing just

ten years later ; or, in other words, when I
was just ten years old.

Having passed through various vicissitudes
and perils which I have refrained
from recording, I was now installed at a
boarding-school, kept by a certain Dr Barkum,
in an out-of-the-way corner of my
native county. This school had formerly
been managed by a person of the strange
name of Wildbull; and Barkum had been
one of his ushers. Wildbull having grown
old, and having perceived an attachment
between his daughter (who was just thirty)
and his favourite assistant, had handed
over to the latter all which that individual
could have possibly desired — namely, his
daughter, his scholars, and all that belonged
to his school. Dr Wildbull, furthermore,
wishing that his son-in-law should in all
respects maintain the dignity hitherto associated

with the head-mastership of Cumberland
House, had caused him to be ordained,
and had then purchased for him the degree
of Doctor at the University of Oxford.
Having taken these kind and liberal measures,
Dr Wildbull had retired to a neighbouring
farm, meaning to enjoy for the
future a life of lettered ease, mingled with
the interesting pursuit of agriculture. But
the complete alteration in his mode of
existence — above all, it was said, the want
of exercise for his lungs and for his arms,
from which he suffered — had speedily
hurried him into his grave. His son-in-law,
Barkum, then made the dreadful discovery
that Dr Wildbull had died heavily
in debt, and had lived chiefly upon an
annuity. The result was that a terrible
change came over Dr Barkum, a change
from which his wife and his scholars, including

myself, principally suffered. His
temper, never of the best, became savage
to a morbid and alartnin^ decree : and lie
seemed to abandon himself to violence, for
the practice of which, his position gave him
such constant and favourable opportunities.
In person, Dr Barkum was short of
stature, and wore large sanely whiskers,
which were just turning grey. He had a
high yet narrow forehead, a receding chin,
curious little grey eyes (in which cunning
and incompetence appeared to struggle for
the mastery), and large full lips of an unwholesome
pallor. His voice was harsh
and monotonous, and his mode of utterance
was rendered especially singular by his
being unable to pronounce a " Th," or the
letter " K." As for Dr Barkum's dress,
during school hours he generally wore a
tailless coat of black broadcloth, which descended

to the backs of his knees, and
which was furnished with two flapped side-pockets,
into which he often thrust his
hands. His waistcoat was of the clerical
pattern, and made of ribbed silk ; and his
trousers were made of black serge, and cut
so loose at the extremities that his feet were
almost concealed.

Of his assistants, the under-masters, there
were four, — namely, Mr Jervis, who taught
Latin and Greek, and who by his skill did
much to keep up the good reputation of the
school ; Mr Marter, a pompous vulgar man
of low attainments, who was supposed to
instruct us in English history, geography,
writing, arithmetic, and sacred subjects ; Mr
Crabbe, who was well employed in making
himself generally useful ; and Monsieur
Fourcroy, a tall fair-haired French master,
whom we believed to be a nobleman.

Of these under-masters, I particularly detested
Mr Marter, who, ever since I had
accidentally discharged a spoonful of tea
in his face as he was peacefully solving a
magazine acrostic at our evening meal, had
shown a malignant and persistent rancour
towards me, from which I was constantly
made to suffer. With the others I generally
managed to hold my own ; while as for the
learned Principal, Dr Barkum, when he was
not beside himself with rage, he treated me
with kindness, and even with partiality,
which conduct, without doing him injustice,
I believe I may attribute to the fact that
my father was at that time a man of considerable
influence in the county.

Having concluded these introductory matters,
I will proceed without further delay to
the main recital of my adventures.

CHAPTER II.

It was the dinner - hour at Cumberland
House, and without waiting for Mrs Barkum,
who was late, our Principal ordered
us to chant a Latin grace which he had
himself written, and which the organist
of the church we frequented had set to
music —

Carne, panes, et cerevisiam priests, •
Gratia tibi ergo genius, et gaudemus."

While we sang these striking words, Mr
Marter, who acted as fugleman, fixed his
eyes upon me in a sinister manner, and
bellowed each word in a foreign accent,
with such ludicrous effect that I had to bite

my lip in order to avoid laughing. This
inaugural ceremony concluded, we sat down
and commenced eating. We were presently
joined by Mrs Barkum, whom her husband
greeted thus —

Well, Aggie ; you're very late ; ve
meat's getting cold."

He had prepared for her a plateful of
shoulder of mutton, which by this time
had certainly become very unappetising.
She appeared to be of that opinion; for, my
place at dinner being next to hers, I saw
her shudder as she began to ply her knife
and fork. She soon gave still plainer evidences
of her disgust, by heaping the greater
portion of her food round the edge of the
plate. I had just observed her execution
of this well-known school manoeuvre when
I received a pretty smart kick on the shins,
and looking up, I perceived that Dr Barkum

had sunk a few inches below the level he
usually maintained on his chair. It was
obvious that he had designed his kick for
Mrs Barkum, and not for me ; for, having
eyed her intently, he said in a soft but
menacing tone —

Eat it up, my dear. Would you like
ve pepper ? "

She answered, " Yes, please." Upon
which Barkum called to Enoch, the manservant,
and said —

Enoch, give your mistress ve pepper."


Poor Mrs Barkum then dismantled her
rampart, disguised the materials with pepper,
and ate as she was desired.

Soon afterwards Dr Barkum noticed
that one of the boys, Drinkwater, had left
a piece of meat unconsumed upon his
plate.

Finish your dinner, D wink water," said
he.

Please, sir," answered the boy, " it's
got a vein in it."

"Nonsense!" said the Doctor; " vat's
all fancy. Enoch, give Master D wink water
ve pepper."

And so, whenever we neglected to finish
what we were given, fat and all, from
whatever cause, our difficulties were overcome
in the same manner, Dr Barkum calling
out, " Enoch, give vat boy ve pepper."
The bolder ones, however, employed stratagem
to evade this disagreeable regulation ;
and having brought into dinner small paper
funnels, constructed for this particular service,
furtively filled them with such parts
of their dinner as they did not choose to
swallow — the unsavoury parcel being afterwards
carried to a certain old watch-dog,

who, perpetually chained to a tub in the
backyard, was very grateful for this or any
other kind of notice.

But having to eat arbitrary quantities
of fatty or veined meat, was not the only
hardship we used to undergo during our
dinner-hour. When we had scraped up the
last morsel of pudding from our plates,
and when those who were improvident had
finished their last drop of table-beer, Dr
Barkum was in the habit of proclaiming
silence by means of the handle of his knife,
helping Mrs Barkum and himself to cake
and port wine, and then conducting a viva
voce examination, which on this particular
occasion was nearly as follows : —

Dr Barkum. — Rainwater : " Hoc
age?"

Drinkwater. — " Come here ; " * Do
this," I mean.

Dr Barkum. — Which do you mean ?

Breakwater. — " Do this."

Dr Barkum. — I should fink so.

Here he called to a boy of the name of
Ranee, and said, " Dance, what were ve
seven places which claimed to be ve fireplace
of Homer ? "

Race. — I didn't quite hear your question,
sir.

Dr Barkum. — If you don't hear it vis
time, you shall go up to my dressings
and have a taste of ve birch.

He then repeated his question, but the
only answer Ranee contrived to make
was, " that he believed it wasn't certain."


Upon this, Dr Barkum, — his mouth full
of cake and wine — made a rapid descent
upon Ranee, caught him by the ears, and
repeatedly bumped his head against the

empty plate in front of him. He then resumed
his seat, observing —

Now, I told vat boy, only vis morning,
and gave him ve seven names in a hexameter,
on purpose. Slater, can you answer
vat question ? No ! Very well ; and
if I have to speak to you again about using
vat waistcoat on week-days, I'll give you a
good caning. Tyce, what were ve seven
names \ "

Herbert Tyce was my particular friend,
yet, knowing that he was idle and thoughtless,
I was surprised to hear him answer,
Smyrna, Khoclos, Colophon, Colophon — "

Dr Barkum. — Yes ?

Tyce. — Salamis ?

Dr Barkum. — Oh, so Artis is telling
you, is he \ Slater and Dance, Tyce and
Artis, you all leave the whom. Find out
ve wight answer, and each wite it out

twenty times. And don't dare to go out
to ve playground till you've done so.
Enoch "

Sir," answered Enoch.

Being in ve cheese."

When we had each eaten a piece of
cheese, we stood up and again sang —

Carne, panes, et cerevisiam," &c,

and the painful ceremony of dining was at
an end.

I ran out with the others, in order to
play a game of football ; but just as we
had commenced to choose sides, we saw a
well-appointed barouche draw up in front
of Dr Barkum's door. I recognised the
carriage and its occupants, and pulling on
my jacket, which I had just thrown off, ran
as fast as I could to the house. There I
was met by a servant, who told me that a

gentleman had called to see me, and that I
was to go in to the drawing-room. I found
Dr Barkum, his face beaming with smiles,
endeavouring to entertain my visitors, in
which task he was being seconded by his
wife.

When I had entered the room and had
greeted the gentleman and his daughter, a
little girl of about my own age, Dr Barkum
said —

Allen, Mr Sutcliffe has invited you to
go back to Colling Hall till Monday. I
don't know whoever I ought to let you go."

At this we all smiled, including Dr
Barkum, who then desired me to run to
Mrs Holland, the matron, and have some
clothes packed. My little portmanteau
was soon afterwards hoisted under the legs
of Mr Sutcliffe's footman, and after a drive
of about twelve miles, through a beautiful

VOL. I. B

country, the existence of which, in such
close proximity to my school, quite astonished
me, I arrived at Colling Hall, in
company with my kind host and his
amiable little daughter Helena.

CHAPTER III.

Mr Sutcliffe was the head of an ancient
family, and he owned considerable property.
He had for some time been left a widower,
and now bestowed most of his affection
upon his only child Helena. He loved her
better than himself, and than any one else in
the world ; but I think it quite necessary to
add that there was nothing of the marvellous
in Mr Sutcliffe's attachment for his
daughter. To begin with, her face did
not bear the slightest resemblance to that
of her departed mother ; and then, again,
the squire had many things to occupy his
time, — things of a more reasonable kind

than the self-imposed and unprofitable
task of acting as a sort of dry-nurse to his
little girl.

He spent much of his time in attending
to his own estate, and to the business of the
county. His duties as a justice of the peace
were particularly agreeable to him ; for his
hobby lay in the investigation of crime :
and in his magisterial capacity he often
did work which properly belonged to the
superintendent of police. As a young man,
(he was now past middle life), he had attended
some of the most celebrated executions
of the day ; and yet, so far from
showing indifference to the fate of the
culprits on such occasions, he used to be
profoundly affected, sighing, and shaking
his head at intervals for several days afterwards.
For in spite of his morbid propensity
he had an exceedingly tender heart.

Mr Sutcliffe was distantly connected
by marriage with my father ; and they
were very closely connected by the bonds
of friendship and mutual esteem. I had
already more than once been taken to
Colling Hall from Saturday to Monday ;
and the more I disliked the caprices of Dr
Barkum, and the tyranny of his subordinate,
Marter, the more did I enjoy these visits
to a refined and hospitable home. Colling
Hall was a picturesque Elizabethan structure;
solid and majestic, by reason of the care
with which it had been originally raised, and
the age during which it had been built ; and
comfortable, by reason of the modern improvements
to which the old house had been
judiciously adapted, not ruthlessly subjected.

Tom," said Mr Sutcliffe, as I was regaling
myself with a second dinner or luncheon,
and with no dread of a post-prandial

examination, followed, perhaps, by a beating
— " Tom, how do you like Dr Barkum ?
Does he give you plenty to do \ "

Thomas. — Very much.

Mr Sutcliffe. — What ! you like him
very much ; or he gives you very much
to do \

Helena (laughing). — He means

Thomas. — I mean I like him rather.

Mr S.— Only " rather' what? Well,
I've heard he's a very good master ; but I
suppose you don't think so much about that.
Does he let you have plenty of play, and
all that kind of thing \ That's right. Does
he give you plenty to eat ?

Thomas. — Yes ; we have rather good
meals.

Mr S. — Oh, come ! that's satisfactory, at
any rate. I suppose he pitches into some
of you with the cane now and then. What ?

fc

Thomas (embarrassed). — Sometimes; at
least rather often.

Mr S.— Oh dear! Well, and what is
Mrs Barkum like ?

Thomas. — We don't see her much.

Mr S. — I should think she led a dullish
life. Helena, how should you like to marry
a schoolmaster ? What \

Helena. — Very much, papa, I should
run and cram all the boys with sweets
all day, and help them to do their
lessons.

Thomas. — I wish at least ; no, I

don't.

Mr S. — What were you going to have
said?

Thomas. — I was going to say I wish she
could go and marry Barkum, only I don't.

This ingenuous explanation of mine made
both Helena and her father laugh heartily.

f — . — .

Mr Sutcliffe continued good-naturedly talking
to me about my school life ; and I am
sure my conversation must have fatigued
him at last. But, providentially, I happened
to mention that we had a boy atour
school of the name of Good, and, I was
emboldened to add, that he was not a good
boy at all. Directly Mr Sutcliffe heard me
mention this schoolfellow's name, however,
he became sincerely interested, and asked
me several questions as to the boy's parentage,
more especially " whether there was
any mystery about his family ? "

I was unable to satisfy Mr Sutcliffe with
an affirmative answer, whereupon he heaved
a sigh, and observed : " You are too young,
I suppose, to have remembered Daniel Good.
Yes, strange to say, I assisted in his capture :
at least, not his capture, precisely speaking ;
for he captured us upon that occasion."

Oh," said I ; and Mr Sutcliffe proceeded
: "it was an extraordinary piece of
good luck. I happened to be interested ina
robbery at the time ; and a great friend
of mine allowed me to accompany the
police on a search expedition. Mr Good 1
was suspected of stealing, and we went to
look for the property in his master's stable.
Daniel was a coachman, you know. Well,
we were hunting about in the stable, Daniel
with us, when he suddenly ran out, locking
us in. Just then one of the police, I forget

his name, came upon Helena, run out of

the room for a moment."

May I stop my ears, instead, papa ? I
haven't finished my pudding," said Helena.

1 This fashion of speaking of criminals was in after years
turned to very good account ; for an enterprising newspaper
earned the character of being spirited and humorous,
solely through persistently' speaking of murderers and
robbers as " Mr So-and-so."

Her father consented, and went on : " He
came upon the trunk of a female."

What is a trunk, please 1 " I asked.

A box, isn't it \ " said Helena, who
had now removed her hands from her
ears.

Well, never mind that ; " said her father,
our discovery led to Daniel's apprehension
; and, I am sorry to say, I afterwards
went to see him handed."

What's it like, seeing a man hung ? " I
inquired.

A very sad, degrading spectacle," answered
Mr Sutcliffe.

After dinner, or luncheon, Helena invited
me to come for a ride with her. I was
accordingly mounted on a favourite old
pony of Mr Sutcliffe's. Helena rode her
mare, " Jenny Lind," and, attended by an
elderly servant, we made a long excursion

into the country. I never enjoyed any
expedition more. Helena could talk better,
and in a manner more congenial to boys,
than would have been expected from such
a little girl. I confided to her all about
my home life, as well as my school; and
I made her laugh once or twice to such
an extent, that Jenny Lind broke into a
gallop.

"When we returned, our vounsj faces glowing
with health and excitement, Mr Sutcliffe
asked how Courvoisier had carried
me. For that, I found, was the name
his old pony bore.

On Sunday, after going to church, we
passed away some of the day in visiting
Helena's pets, which were numerous, for she
had an extraordinary fondness for animals.
Billy," the peacock, seemed to be a great
favourite, though he bore a very bad moral

character, having slain no less than three
mates with which he had been provided !
I was, as may be supposed, very sorry to
leave Colling Hall ; and when I returned
to school, early on Monday morning, I
really felt more homesick than when I
had first left my father and mother. I
began to feel for Dr Barkum a greater
contempt than ever. As I looked at his insignificant
form, large sandy whiskers, pale
fat lips, long tailless coat, and his trousers
nearly concealing his feet ; and as I heard,
and occasionally received, the heavy blows
of his cane, I feared and detested him as
if he were a demon. He did not show meany
special malevolence, it was true; but
he treated us all as so many apes of various
culture, who had somehow been committed
to his charge : and he never seemed to consider
that we had little characters and prejudices

of our own. Mr Marter, on the
other hand, gave himself some trouble in
gratifying those who pleased him, and a
great deal of trouble in persecuting those
whom he disliked. However, he was consistent,
I must own, and I always knew
that he and I were at war ; whereas I have
known Dr Barkum to joke with a boy, and
slap him in the face at almost the same
moment. This visit of mine to Colling
Hall made me discontented and unhappy;
and I began to wonder why I could not be
educated at home, in the same manner as
Helena Sutcliffe. I could not at this time
understand the necessity of studying brutality
and meanness at the same time as
Latin and Greek.

CHAPTER IV.

Ox returning to Dr Barkum on Monday
morning, I speedily realised, to the full extent,
the force of those comparisons I had
lately been making in my mind between
the comforts of Colling Hall and those of
Cumberland House. I was just in time for
the first daily lesson — which consisted
of dictation — under Messrs Marter and
Crabbe. The two masters each read aloud
to a separate group of boys. What they
read from we never knew ; but I believe
Mr Crabbe preferred ancient history, while
Mr Marter was fond of reading selections
from certain of the English classics. I

always found it difficult to avoid disgrace
in this writing from dictation ; for besides
that Marter used to pronounce certain English
words as no other human being pronounced
them, my seat happened to be
exactly between the two batches of boys,
so that I was obliged to hear Mr Crabbe's
dictation — which was not addressed to me —
as well as Mr Marter's dictation, which was.

Mr Crabbe. — In vain did the Valentine
resist, colon ; the Valentine ; resist,
colon

Mr Marter. — To room should Eliza ; to
room should Eliza apply in ? er distress ;

a pp!y —

Mr Crabbe. — Those Romans who were
in the city, comma. Those Romans

Mr Marter. — Yorick would be offended,
comma. Yorick would be offended, comma


Mr Crabbe. — Let your mouth alone,
Slater, and sit properly.

Mr Marter. — Yorick would be offended,
comma ; and with reason, comma ; and
with

Boy. — A comma after reason, sir ?

Mr Crabbe. — The statue of Juno was
carried ; the statue of Juno was carried ;
to Rome

Boy. — Mr Marter ; please sir, I've made
a blot.

Mr Marter. — You did it on purpose.

Mr Crabbe. — Camillus, comma ; having
painted his face ; with vermilion, comma.
With vermilion, comma

Boy. — Please, sir, may I have a fresh
nib \

Mr Crabbe. — Certainly not.

While I was collecting some of the above
fragments, Mr Marter came and bent over

me with apparent kindness. Having read
a portion of what I had written, however,
he suddenly began to wring his right hand
in a very strange manner. A ruler then
came forth from his sleeve, and with it he
began to batter my knuckles. This kind
of assault was against all regulations; for
Dr Barkum was jealous of his favourite
prerogative. All this I knew, and I rose
from my seat, heedless of Marter's commands
that I should remain where I was,
and marching up to Dr Barkum, complained
of the ill-usage I had received.

Mr Marter, very red in the face, called
out, " It was a bit of fun, sir."

Upon which Barkum said, " I fink you'd
better not have any fun in school - time,
please ; " and Marter, trying his best to
appear merry, though he looked as unhappy
aod contemptible as any one in the

vol. i. c

world, declared that he would be more
careful.

This incident made the feud between
him and myself more bitter than ever. He
made many attempts to humiliate me, and
overcome my spirit. At his geography
class, which I had to attend, when it came
to my turn to answer a question, Mr Marter
would ask me a sort of conundrum
which he had mischievously composed for
my mortification.

"Allen," thundered he, having just inquired
where Ceylon was situated, " Why
do the Indians pity us 1 "

I didn't know that they did, sir," I replied
; whereupon a little boy whom Marter
had primed beforehand, answered, " Because
we cant grow rice."

"Yes," said the learned Marter; "go up
above Allen."

He presently came to me again, and demanded
: "Why can a canal never be made
across the Isthmus of Sooez ? "

I suppose' answered I, " because the
sand would always fall in when they dug."

This, strange to say, was the very answer
that Marter had devised; but instead of being
satisfied, he roared out, " 'Oo told you
that?"

Nobody' answered I.

"Aren't you the boy that threw tea in
my face ? " shouted Marter, adding, " Then
'ow do you suppose that I'm going to
believe your word ? "

I hung my head at this conclusive reasoning,
and he triumphed. But he was not
content with such victories as these.

I have said that I was popular among the
boys. Yet, owing to the wicked machinations
of Marter, I was soon brought into

most unmerited disgrace with every one. A
boy named Fisher one day announced that
a gold penholder had been abstracted from
his desk. The affair made that sort of disagreeable
stir which such affairs always do
make in a school or similar community.
After three or four days, however, I perceived,
and with a sinking heart, which
scorn and indignation were unable to sustain,
that the under-masters and the matron
were disposed to suspect me of being the
thief. The cold and malevolent glances
which they cast upon me were presently
reflected in the countenances of the other
boys, my schoolfellows. At last I found
one of them, Slater, in the act of writing
something in the fly-leaf of my Latin
dictionary. I perceived that he had written
after my name (Allen), the words,
bagged Fisher's penholder."

I asked him what he meant by this, to
which he answered, " And you know you
did bag it." I then struck him with my
fist, when, without returning the blow, he
challenged me to fight him, and I agreed todo
so. My friend Tyce consented, though
not with much alacrity, to act as my second ;
and both principals, with their backers and
a crowd of little boys, hurried off to a certain
passage which we were supposed to
use for the purpose of changing our boots
or slippers. As the battle differed in one
most material point at least, from any
similar battle of which the reader has ever
read, I may be excused if I describe it in
some detail. Slater was taller and broader
than I was, and possessed of longer arms.
His " puffy countenance," however, showed
that he was not in good fighting condition ;
in fact, he was addicted to eating sweet

things at all times of the day, which practice
had disordered his stomach and his
complexion. For my part, I was strong,
active, and in good training ; I was courageous
and obstinate, and was engaged ina
good cause. As soon as we had taken
up the proper position, Slater advanced,
and began his attack by aiming several
blows at my face. These blows I successfully
parried with my right arm and left
fist, in a way which I had learnt from a
favourite uncle, Colonel Thomas Allen. I
soon had the satisfaction of seeing that my
tactics were having a good effect, for my
opponent's blows grew wilder. At length,
believing that the right moment had arrived,
I assumed the offensive, which I no sooner
did than Slater closed with me, and threw
me to the ground. " Time " was then
called.

At the commencement of the next round,
Slater stood opposite to me, with his arms
hanging idly by his side, as if he meant to
invite me to attack him. I immediately
rushed upon him, and gave him a very fair
blow in his right eye. He did not allow
me to do him any further harm, however,
for he gave me two violent blows on the
lip, and a few more on the body; and as
I was furthermore so unlucky as to stumble
over some boots which lay on the floor,
I might have fared even worse, had not
Time " at that moment been called. I
now heard Slater say to one of his backers,
first blood ; " and I found that one of my
teeth was loose, and my mouth bleeding.
When I stood up for the next round, I
had determined to make the most of my
superior training; and certainly, could I
have led my opponent round a circle of

about a quarter of a mile, my plan would
have succeeded. I moved about the dark
and narrow passage as rapidly as I could,
at the same time sparring in the air ina
manner which excited some amusement.
Slater followed with a determined air, and
just as I was thinking of falling upon him,
he fell on me, gave me another blow on the
wounded lip, seized me by the neck, and
then placing his right foot outside my right
ankle, hurled me to the ground. I sprang
up to attack him again, but the bystanders
interfered. They declared "that it was a
chouse going on," and that hostilities must
cease. Thus ended the battle.

In my defeat I could not see any appearance
of what is called "a moral victory."
I had, in fact, or to a certain extent,
appealed to the "trial by combat," and I
had been worsted. My schoolfellows, at

least, seemed to be of that opinion; for
the next day, which was Sunday, when we
were each desired to choose a companion
for our walk, in which we were marshalled
two and two, Herbert Tyce made an excuse
for not walking with me, and I was paired
with a new boy, who, by reason of his
dark complexion, we had christened Sambo.
The same day Mr Marter, who rejoiced
over my humiliation, and who seemed
especially delighted by the sight of my
large swollen lip, the result of my late encounter,
having summoned us to receive
some scriptural instruction from him, resumed
the task of reducing me to despair.
Having caused a boy, named Saddler, to
read that "Abimelech king of the Philistines
looked out at a window, and saw, and,
behold, Isaac was sporting with Kebekah his
wife," Mr Marter questioned us as follows:

What is meant, next, by Isaac 'sporting'
with his wife? Well?"

First Boy. — Playing with her, sir ?

Marter. — Playing with 'er. Next ;
what do you say?

Second Boy. — Sporting with her.

Marter. — Stand up on the form, and
just mind what you're after. Next ; next ;
Buller.

Buller. — Tickling her, sir ?

Marter. — Tickling 'er ; yes, teasing 'er,
or larking with 'er ; that's what it means."
Here he turned upon me, and asked ina
rapid threatening tone, "What does it
mean, that boy with the ugly lip ? "

"I didn't quite hear the question, sir,"
I answered.

"Are you deaf, or a dunce?" said Marter
; " both, I think. Saddler, read the 'ole
verse over again for Allen, the deaf boy

with the ugly lip, who's allowed to throw
tea in my face."

The passage was again read ; Marter
asked, " What is meant by Isaac ' sporting
' with his wife \ "

I sullenly answered, " Larking with her,"
and Marter said —

Yes ; and you'd better not 'ave any
larks with me."

In the dormitory that night, when I got
out of bed to join in a kind of football-match
which was going on, my appearance
had the same effect as that of Dr Barkum
would have had, for all the other boys
went back to their beds. Herbert Tyce,
however, came to me presently, and after
slightly discussing the chief topic of the
day, observed — *

"You see, we've always been very good
friends, and all that, and I know Marter's

a beastly cad ; but lie says that young
Fisher lost the penholder out of his desk
between dinner and half past three, and
that you were the only chap who was in
the schoolroom then ; that's what's setting
the fellows against you."

"Well, Tyce," said I, in reply, "if the
thing is ever found out, will you remember
to say that I said it was a lie accusing
me ? They'll be sorry for it, tomorrow."

After a short pause, Tyce said, in a low
tone, "You're not going to run away, are
you ? "

Yes, I am," answered I.

Oh, don't ! " said Tyce, though I could
plainly see that he hoped to enjoy the
excitement the proposed escapade would
cause. " Don't," he repeated ; " I hope
it'll come all right in the end."

"Thank you," said I ; "good-night."

"Good-nights' said Tyce ; "will you
shake hands \ "

The next morning, after a night of
troubled slumber, I rose at about five
o'clock, dressed myself, and, after experiencing
some difficulty in unfastening a
door, left the house, and ran like a hare
until my breath was nearly expended. I
then sat upon a stile, and deliberated as
to the direction in which I should proceed.
At first I had naturally intended to find
my way home : but now, perceiving that
I was near the road which I knew led to
Colling Hall, I determined to go there.
"Mr Sutcliffe," thought I, "is a very good-natured
man, and has been a boy himself.
Helena will think it was plucky of me.
I will go and place myself under their
protection."

Keeping as much as possible to the fields,

but always having the road as my guide, I
traversed about five miles of country, and
then entered a small village, where I purchased
a piece of ginger-bread and a bottle
of ginger - beer. Then I proceeded to a
neighbouring thicket, where I breakfasted,
having paid an extra penny for the absolute
possession of the ginger-beer bottle. Refreshed
by my meal, and further stimulated
by imagining Barkum in hot pursuit, I again
set forth, and after another hour's walking,
came to Colling Hall.

After some hesitation I rang the bell,
and was shown into the breakfast-room,
where I found Mr SutclifFe reading his
letters, and awaiting the arrival of his
daughter, who had not yet come downstairs.
I told Mr SutclifTe the state of
affairs in a few words, he listening with
a most puzzled expression of countenance,

and as soon as I had finished, exclaimed,
Ah ! . Ha, ha ! . Yes ;
well, you'd better have something to eat
in the first place."

I at once ate, with an excellent appetite,
some hash and buttered toast, and having
suddenly looked up at Mr Sutcliffe, could
have declared that he was laughing ; but
his face immediately returned to the expression
of perplexity.

Presently Helena appeared. " I've runaway,"
I told her, with a mixture of mournful
pride and embarrassment. She looked
in astonishment from me to her father, who
said : " Yes, he has ; but get your own
breakfast, dear, I must take a little time to
think over this. I don't know," he mused
soon afterwards, " but what it would be the
best thing, on the whole, to pack you off
to school again. What ! You see," he

continued, " by harbouring you in my
bouse, I may render myself liable to the
same forfeiture and punishment as yourself."


Not really ! " I exclaimed.

"Well, well' said he, "I must think
about it. In the meantime I should recommend
you not to stray far from the house,
or Dr Barkum may pounce down upon
you." With that he left me. Helena, now
that we were alone, asked in a most melancholy
tone, " Are you dreadfully tired ? "

"Not very," answered I.

Why did you run away ? "

Because I was so unhappy," I replied ;
and after a brief struggle, I burst outcrying.


For a few moments Helena silently
watched me, and she then quietly left
the room. Soon afterwards, however, I

saw her on the lawn outside, peeping at me
through the window, and she was then herself
in tears.

In the course of that morning, Mr Sutcliffe
desired my attendance in his justice-room.
There he made me twice repeat my
story to him, after which he told me to fear
nothing, for that he would do his best forme.
He informed me, also, that he expected
my father and mother to arrive at Colling
Hall shortly he having sent them a message
acquainting them with what had happened
to their only son.

VOL. 1.

CHAPTER V.

Until my parents arrived at Colling Hall,
I passed an existence something like that
of a prisoner on parole. Helena had been
carried off to a children's party at some
distance from her home, and I was left to
my own resources. I spent most of the
time in wandering about the house, observing
whatever was to be seen. In the course
of my explorations I came to Mr Sutcliffe's
study, and finding the door open, went in.
The room was gloomy and dark. Upon
one table lay a couple of ledgers, a few
bills and other documents, and writing materials
; but in all other respects the room

was not a study, but a museum of interesting
relics. A brace of flint pistols, two
pieces of rope, a razor, a crowbar, a rusty
dagger, and two or three glass cases. One
of these cases contained a coat, trousers, and
neckerchief, and bore a label on which was
written, " Greenacre ; May 2d, 1837."
The name suggested to my mind some
pleasant rural spot ; and not understanding
the connection between the name and the
articles of clothing, I passed on to another
object of interest — namely, the dagger, to
which was attached the following doubtful,
yet sufficiently plain, inscription, written in
faded ink on a piece of parchment : " George
Hallowed, possibly only a smuggler, but
perhaps an accomplice of Jonathan Wild ;
stabbed circum 1726 ; vide MS."

My heart sank within me, and I really
felt as if I might myself be stabbed at any

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF IIUN0I5

moment. But the worst was still to come.
I had all this time been glancing from time
to time, with a separate allowance of inquisitive
dread, at an oblong closet which
stood in one corner of the room. I was
filled with an unlawful curiosity to know
what this closet contained, and with trembling
hands I slowly opened the door. I
was in some degree prepared to see anything
or any one — a ghost, a housebreaker,
or Dr Barkum, cane in hand ; and what I
did see was a human skeleton, which seemed
to greet me with a mournful grin. I could
hear the beating of my heart as I again
shut up the ghastly remains, and stole
sideways out of the room. As I passed out
at the door, I perceived, furthermore, a
model scaffold, fitted with a drop and other
peculiar appliances, and surmounted by a
group of puppets, which I did not pause to

examine. My mind was now wrought into
a highly nervous condition ; and even when
I had safely gained the drawing-room, I sat
there with my back to the wall, until Mr
Sutcliffe presently came in. He was almost
immediately followed by my mother and
father.

As I had been very kindly treated by Mr
Sutcliffe in my trouble, I was now rather
surprised to find my father serious and displeased,
and my mother distressed beyond
reason. My father at first only spoke in
low tones to Mr Sutcliffe, at the same time
casting cold glances at me ; while my mother
wrapped me in her arms, covered my face
with her tears, and kept repeating, " How
could you be so naughty, and give your
father such pain \ "

By degrees, however, matters were placed
on a pleasant footing. Mr Sutcliffe insisted

"that it could not be denied the
boy's feelings bad been hurt, and that he
had shown a high spirit ; " and my father
was gradually brought to admit that there
might be a good deal to be urged in my
favour.

At last one of Mr Sutcliffe's myrmidons,
otherwise the superintendent of police, sent
in to say that he had discovered the stolen
penholder, which had lately been sold for
eighteen pence to a jeweller in a village near
Dr Barkum's school. Upon hearing this intelligence,
Mr Sutcliffe ordered the superintendent
to seize the penholder, and to desire
the honest jeweller's immediate attendance
at Cumberland House. The superintendent
departed in his dog-cart to execute these
orders, and two hours afterwards Mr Sutcliffe
conveyed my mother and father and
myself in his carriage to Dr Barkum's house.

The learned Doctor received us at his
door in person, and greeted Mr SutclifTe
and my parents with much politeness,
though he took no sort of notice of my
presence. We then all entered the house ;
my three protectors went into the drawing-room
with Barkum, while I was left for a
time in another room which communicated
with the drawing-room by folding doors.
Being very anxious to learn what was about
to be done to me, I applied my ear to the
keyhole of the folding doors and greedily
listened. For I should not be telling the
truth were I to state either that " I had
never wilfully played the eavesdropper,' 7
or that " I was reluctantly compelled to
hear all that passed' However, I will
not fatigue the reader by giving a lengthy
abstract of the conversation which I heard.
Suffice it to say, Dr Barkum began by

announcing his intention of flogging me.
My father then declared, amidst some
interruption and remonstrance from his
better half, that he should agree to my
being flogged providing that Dr Barkum
still thought such a punishment necessary,
after he had heard what was to be
alleged in my favour. Mr Sutcliffe next
took up the theme, and having dwelt with
evident relish on the share which he as a
justice had taken in the matter, declared
that the only thing remaining to be done
was to introduce the jeweller, and cause
him to identify the boy who had sold him
the penholder.

This is the substance of all that I heard ;
and I had barely time to quit my post at
the folding doors, and assume an attitude
of penitence at a distant window, when I
was summoned into the presence of Dr

Barkum and my deliverers. The jeweller
was now in attendance, and he was at once
conducted into the schoolroom. Thereafter
some little delay, he amazed every oneby
identifying Fisher himself as the boy
who had sold him the penholder !

When this result had been made known
to my father and mother, they took their
departure with Mr Sutcliffe. They did not
attempt to conceal their satisfaction at the
course matters had taken. Mr Sutcliffe,
however, though he was in reality nearly
ready to dance, chose to assume a stiff
official bearing : and as he was leaving*
the house, conversed principally with the
superintendent.

When they had all gone, and Fisher had
been removed to a place of security in the
house, I made a triumphal entry into the
schoolroom. I was received with three

cheers ; and Barkum withdrew, apparently
bewildered at not having as yet flogged
any one. The boys left their desks, and
came to offer me their sincere congratulations
; while even Marter, counterfeiting an
expression of honest joy, gave me his hand,
remarking that he was " right glad " all
had ended so well. Perhaps, when this
arch traitor offered me his hand, I should
have proudly drawn myself up and declined
the proffered honour ; but at ten years old,
I had not enough heroism for that. The
specious truism that " Boys are very like
men," was manifested by the way in which
my schoolfellows now treated me.

I am so awfully glad," said one.

"Well done, old chap ! " said another.

What shall we do to Fisher ? " said some.

"What a jolly sell for old Marter!" remarked
others.

I was made the hero of the hour. Dr
Barkum sent for me in the course of
the afternoon, and for a few moments led
me to fear, from his peculiar demeanour,
that he intended to flog me after all. But
he only lectured me for having run away ;
told me that he was " in loco parentis"
and then said, that although my mother
and father had begged him to let me taste
the birch if desirable, he had yet determined
to let me off with an admonition.

The next dav Fisher's father, who, in
spite of the penurious nature of Fisher's
crime, was reputed a man of great wealth,
paid Dr Barkum a long visit, and then
took his departure. Soon afterwards, we
were all ordered to assemble in the schoolroom.
"We sat down at our desks, delightedly
awaiting a scene of violent retribution
; and Dr Barkum presently came in,

escorting the miserable prisoner, who sobbed
in a manner which rather assuaged our
indignation. We were undecided whether
he would be birched, expelled, or merely
caned in public, and sent to Coventry.
AVhat, then, was our surprise when Barkum,
after saying that Fisher's father was " overwhelmed
with grief," and that Fisher himself
" was very sowwy he had been so
foolish," released him ; told us to forget
his offence ; and dismissed us to the playground
! Arrived there, Tyce and other
leaders of public opinion held a council of
war, after which a deputation was sent to
apprehend Fisher. He was found hiding
in the swimming-bath ; but he was quickly
taken up. Having been brought before a
boys' tribunal, he was sentenced to offer
me a public apology, and, in addition, to
"run the gauntlet."

He told me, in a voice full of despair
and terror, " That he was very sorry for
having offended me."

And for having told a beastly bung"
added Herbert Tyce.

"And for having told a bung," said
Fisher.

A beastly bung" cried all the judges.

A beastly bung" said the poor prisoner.

Two ranks were next formed, facing each
other, and each boy made knots in his
handkerchief — and I believe some of the
knots contained horse - chestnuts. Fisher
was then caused to run down these ranks,
which he did, bounding along, with his
arms in a posture of defence before his
face. He was made to do this twice ; and
the second time, just as he finished his
course, he was somehow tripped up, and
this caused him to fall with his face on the

gravel. Justice having been thus satisfied,
the victim was left, morally and physically-prostrate.


He received succour almost immediately
in the person of Mr Marter, who, running
up, tenderly raised him, at the same time
inquiring, " 'Oo 'as been hurting you 1 "

Fisher very sagely replied that he had
tumbled down ; and as we ran off to our
game, we saw the amiable couple walk
away together in the direction of the
under-masters' room, where Marter occasionally
regaled any special favourite with
a glass of beer.

After my great escapade, I found my
popularity more firmly established than it
had ever been before ; and even my enemy
Marter seemed to have learnt a wholesome
lesson, if not in charity, at all events in
prudence.

CHAPTEE VI.

I shall now ask the reader to suppose me
spending my holidays at Hare Place, my
home, not many miles from the important
country town of Wolvenden. As to what
my home was, I shall not give any special
description of it myself, for I thus hope
to avoid exciting either the envy or the
contempt of my readers, whom I leave to
imagine the domestic comfort of a tolerably
wealthy country gentleman according to
their own notions of fitness. Of my father,
I beg to say he was a kind husband, an
indulgent parent, and a foolish landlord.
His virtues were many; for he was just,

honourable, kind-hearted, and sincere. His
failings may all be summed up in one word,
he was weak. He was especially weak inconstantly
gratifying, to the great detriment
of his own affairs, an unnatural craving for
business," for which he really possessed a
peculiar inaptitude. He persisted in managing
his own estate, long after it had
plainly appeared that by employing an
agent he would have at once saved money
and escaped a certain amount of unpopularity.
In his household the same weakness
caused him to take upon himself many
duties which his wife, or her housekeeper,
were perfectly willing, and very much
more fitted, to discharge. Of my mother,
I can honestly say, that she was all that a
tender, affectionate, devout woman of mediocre
intellect could reasonably be expected
to be. This is surely saying a great deal,

notwithstanding which, I must add that it
is only the conviction that I should be considered
a partial and unreliable witness
which restrains me from saying that my
mother was the most conspicuous ornament
among her whole sex.

During the holidays that I am about to
describe, one of the first measures which I
took, after coming home, was to establish in
the house a school of my own, where I endeavoured
to inculcate in others some of the
discipline I had learned at the hands of Dr
Barkum. My father happened to have preserved
the cap which he had worn at college,
and he lent it to me, at my request, in order
to support my new character. For a gown,
I wore a black silk petticoat which I had
contrived to procure from my mother's
wardrobe ; and I very soon armed myself
with a cane. Thus equipped, like any other

VOL. i. e

schoolmaster, I cast about for pupils ; and
succeeded so well, that in a day I was able
to ranee in front of me the head-gardener's
son, James ; a boy from the stable, called
Carter ; and two cousins of the name of
LongstafFe, who had come over to spend
the day with me.

I then began school by making the
pupils read aloud. Carter was so illiterate
that I soon had to cane him. He took
his punishment very well, though he annoyed
me by feigning to be more severely
hurt than he really was. James also gave
me some trouble. In his desire to enter
into the spirit of the entertainment, he
intentionally made several blunders, and
I was compelled to cane him as well as
Carter. So far I succeeded pretty well,
but when it came to the turn of the elder
Longstaffe to read, he flatly refused.

What rot this is, Tom ! " said he ;
we're wasting the whole day."

Silence ! " said I.

Ass ! " said he.

Determined to quell such mutinous behaviour
at once, I ordered him to prepare
for punishment — that is, to partially undress
himself. He only protruded his tongue at
me, however ; so I marched upon him, and
called upon James and Carter to assist me.

Here, again, their natural stupidity upset
my plans ; for instead of helping me, they
began to shout " Hurrah ! Rebellion in the
school ! " and to throw their books into the
air. At the same moment I was attacked
by the two Longstaffes, who wrapped my
black silk petticoat round my head, pushed
me into a corner, and then rushed from
the room. James and Carter also beat a
retreat, and my school broke up, never to

reassemble. But I soon began to occupy
my time with more exciting amusements.

My uncle had given me a small double-barrelled
gun, and I was one day allowed
to go out shooting, under the charge of
a keeper. He took me at first to a place
abounding with rabbits. On the other side
of a hedge, by this spot, was a kind of
hovel, inhabited by a reputed witch. My
first shot was at a rabbit, which was close
to the hovel when I fired. I missed the
rabbit with both barrels, but, unfortunately,
hit the reputed witch in the foot. I suppose
she had been taking the air outside
her cottage ; but I had not seen her, nor, I
presume, had the keeper. To the reputed
witch the consequences of this act were not
at all serious, indeed they were rather advantageous.
To me, it is my opinion that
they were not of the smallest consequence.

Nevertheless, as an honest historian, I will
not suppress something which passed, — some
words uttered by the reputed witch, although
the disclosure may have a very bad
effect upon the convictions of a superstitious
reader.

At the time of the accident, or outrage,
I was protected from the personal violence
of the victim by my friend the keeper, who
prevented her from coming through a gap
in the hedge to attack me, and thus gave
me time to make my escape. In the course
of the day, however, towards evening, she
came to my father, and lodged her complaint
against me. He already knew what
had happened ; and having heard the old
woman's version of the affair, expressed his
sincere regret for what had taken place,
and also tendered her a sovereign. Having
received the sovereign, the reputed witch

hurled it, not in my father's face, but into
a convenient spot whence she afterwards
recovered it, and then raising her voice
into a scream, denounced him and all his
house, whose destruction she also predicted.
You will all come to want," said she ;
Hare Place will change hands ; and you
will be buried like a dog."

She then left him and proceeded to the
servants' hall, where she repeated her terrible
prophecies in the hearing of the boy
Carter and two maids. Swinton the butler
presently came in, and desired her to
leave the house. Having informed him
"that before another Michaelmas came he
would be food for worms," she obeyed.
The sequel will supply all the comment
that the incident just narrated requires.

For some time after my misadventure
with my gun, I was not permitted to go on

any more shooting expeditions. Clandestinely,
however, I contrived to kill a hare,
which I buried. The keeper, whose knowledge
of all that took place in connection
with his department was nothing else than
marvellous, exhumed my hare soon after I
had buried it, and having earnestly begged
me never to displease my father, I believe
ate it for his dinner.

But I must now describe events of more
importance which transpired at Hare Place
while I was enjoying my holidays there.
We had in the house a footman of the
name of White, a favourite servant of my
father, who had almost brought him up
under his own eye. White was the posthumous
child of a celebrated poacher, who
had been killed in a midnight affray ; and
my father, having first educated young
White, had then employed him in the successive

posts of drudge, page-boy, and footman.
The latter position he had now held
for about five years, and had, in my father s
opinion at least, fully repaid all the kindness
which had been bestowed upon him.
It was his practice always to consult my
father as to the investment of his savings ;
while my mother was pleased by White's
occasionally asking her to lend him a serious
book, though he admitted that his
favourite works were Gibbon's ' Decline
and Fall of the Roman Empire,' and Burton's
'Anatomy of Melancholy.' Therefore,
when this trusted and well-beloved
retainer, soon after my coming home, was
declared by the village surgeon to be
afflicted with a most malignant form of
gout, a hearty and almost general sympathy
was immediately expressed for him ;
and he received the greatest care and attention.

The whole household waited on
him. My father with his own hands
gave him whisky and Vichy water ; my
mother caused chickens and pudding to be
prepared for him ; the gardener brought
him grapes ; and, in short, every one did
their best to make him comfortable, and
to promote his recovery. But in spite of
all this, White's complaint did not amend ;
and at length his foot gave him such pain
that he was unable to walk ; whereupon
the doctor, who was a very sensible man,
ordered him not to do so. Then, by my
father's directions, the patient was removed
from his bedroom at the top of the house
to a more spacious apartment lower down ;
and there he lay, day and night, his left
foot enveloped in bandages. The butler,
Swinton, I should have mentioned, did not
join in the general commiseration expressed

for poor White ; and was reported to have
said that if he (Swinton) was to have the
gout, nobody would come and nurse him
which was perfectly true.

I often visited White, and generally
found him engaged in reflection. My
father, however, more than once caught him
engrossed in Gibbon's ' Decline and Fall
of the Eoman Empire The poor fellow
apologised for what he called his presumption,
but said, " I heard that you were
going to Rome, next Easter, sir, and I was
determined I'd know something about it."
My father was much pleased with him,
both for his intelligence and simplicity.

White and his malady had chiefly engrossed
our attention for about a fortnight,
when a very stirring incident took place.
The house was plundered at night, nearly
all the plate, and a great deal of other

valuable property being stolen. No noise
had been heard by any one ; and neither
my father nor the police could come to
any conclusion as to who the robbers could
have been, or where they could have taken
their booty. The detective who came down
from London to inquire into the case,
brought nothing but trouble into the house.
My father would not be consoled for the
loss of his plate ; most of the servants
began to talk of resigning their situations;
and poor White, already severely
shattered, was made the victim of a most
heartless and wanton experiment. The
detective, accompanied by Swinton the
butler, went to the landing outside the
footman's door, and there shouted " Fire ! "
at the top of his voice. White, being
unable to move, uttered most piteous cries
for help, and at the same time rang his bell

in such a frenzy of terror that he broke
the bell-rope. Swinton explained what had
been done as a joke ; but his conduct made
every one indignant, and we were not sorry
that he took his departure soon afterwards.
The detective also went away in disgrace.
The robbery occasioned every one more or
less inconvenience ; and a foolish housemaid
caused me some uneasy nights by
occasionally coming to look under my bed
in quest of "a man." My father and
mother were vexed also by having lost
papers of some value ; and I heard my
father observe that the abstraction of one
of these documents might some day be of
more consequence than the loss of all his
plate. The reputed witch, of whom I have
made some mention in this chapter, had
expressed great exultation on hearing of
the burglary ; and as she had for several

months neglected to pay her weekly rent
of two shillings, my father was not sorry
to hear, about this time, that she had
voluntarily quitted her cottage, and had
left our neighbourhood.

CHAPTEE VII.

Before I returned to school, my friends the
Sutcliffes came to pay us a visit — Mr Sutcliffe
having been especially allured to
Hare Place through its having so recently
been the scene of a robbery. Under ordinary
circumstances, nothing would have
pleased me better than to have again
beheld my little friend Helena; but it so
chanced that I was just then passing through
a phase of manly dignity which caused me
to look upon her as a wholly unsuitable
companion. She was not mischievous
enough ; she was unable to climb ; she
could not talk school slang ; in short, she

had the misfortune to be a girl. For the
first two days of her visit, therefore, I
almost entirely left her alone.

The dignity of my sex made me not only
thus neglect her, but, in my blindness, force
my presence upon my elders and betters —
namely, my father and Mr SutclifFe. As
an only son, I was permitted the indulgence
of dining with my parents, though I was
always led from the room when the ladies
retired. Now, however, I resolved to sit
over my wine like a grown-up man. One
night, therefore, as soon as I had been
taken to the drawing-room, I quietly left it,
and returned to the gentlemen.

Well, Tom," said my father, upon seeing
me, " what do you want ? "

Nothing, papa," answered I.

He then good - naturedly resumed the
conversation which I had interrupted. " I

have always believed," lie said, " that if I
had gone into business as a young man, I
should have made a large fortune."

"Many people have thought the same,"
observed Mr Sutcliffe, adding, " if I had
found it necessary to work for my bread, I
should have become an Old Bailey barrister ;
and if I had, I'm very sure I should have
risen — perhaps have been a judge, by
now."

I don't think you would have quite
done for a judge, Sutcliffe," said my father,
smiling, " for you would have betrayed too
much relish in discharging your office."

I should have been as grave as any
man in assuming the black cap," said Mr
Sutcliffe.

Which is as much as to say that you
would have enjoyed sentencing a man to
death," said my father.

"It is a very terrible, a very awful responsibility,"
observed Mr Sutcliffe.

Upon this I laughed, and began eating
some nuts. Both gentlemen looked at me,
and at each other, in a significant manner,
and Mr Sutcliffe presently said : " Don't
you think, Allen, when two friends of a
certain time of life get together, the presence
of a third person of a less advanced
age, rather restrains their free conversation
? "

Understanding this hint, I hastened from
the room, my cheeks burning, and for the
rest of that evening was fain to content
myself with the society of my mother and
little Helena.

The next day I made another attempt to
assert my importance. Soon after breakfast
was finished, I saw my father and Mr
Sutcliffe walking off together in the director.

I. F

tion of a neighbouring farm ; and I at once
quitted Helena's side, and joined them. I
found Mr SutclifFe smoking a cigar, and
being anxious to put matters on a comfortable
footing at once, I asked him, "Is it
jollier smoking in the open air than smoking
in the house is ? "

"Why, what do you know about smoking
? " he replied ; at the same time giving
me, in playfulness, a pretty smart blow with
his cane.

My father then increased my agony of
body and mind by pulling my ear, and saying,
"What have you done with Helena,
Tom % Go and show her everything; you're
not half a boy."

Deeply mortified, I returned to Helena ;
and being now in a very humble frame of
mind, I was not long in discovering that
although she did belong to the despised

sex, Helena was certainly my superior in
the art of talking; and as she only used
this superiority in an agreeable manner, she
soon soothed my agitation, and made me
very happy in her society.

One day, shortly before the SutclifFes left
us, we received a visit from a Mr Ralph
Graham, who was second cousin to Mr
Sutcliffe, and slightly acquainted with my
father. Mr Graham brought with him his
son Philip, who afforded us all some amusement.
He was about eleven years old, and
was attired in the dress of the Blue-coat
School, to which he belonged. The first
peculiarity which he exhibited was at luncheon,
when, having been invited to put a
few apples in his pocket, he opened a large
hollow place in his gown, and instantly
launched three apples and a bun into
it. My father good-humouredly observed,

You seem to have a famous pocket ;
take some cake as well, if you have room
for it."

Philip once more opened the cavern, and
threw a large slice of cake into it.

But I must here say a few words as to
Philip's father, Mr Kalph Graham. In the
first place, as to his Christian name, I cannot
help regretting my present inability to
dispel a really monstrous delusion common
to nearly all experienced readers ; for I am
compelled to admit that this "Ralph" was
certainly more or less of a rascal. His rascality
was principally shown in a practice
he had of floating small companies (I will
not waste time by inventing amusing names
for them), or embarking upon schemes of
speculation with other people's capital instead
of with his own. He had now come
to Hare Place in order to ask for my father's

substantial support in a plan of this sort,
which he was then devising. I will not
spoil whatever interest the sequel may
possess by here stating whether Mr Kalph
Graham had any influence for evil or for
good in my father's affairs ; but I trust that
if any such influence is disclosed in the
course of this history, its nature and extent
will be carefully noted by the reader.

On the first occasion of my seeing Mr
Graham and his son, it was to the latter
that I paid most of my attention. I endeavoured
to make myself agreeable to him,
but met with indifferent success. He took
a great fancy to a knife which I had shown
him, and he asked me ' ' how much I would
take for it ? "

I told him that he might keep it, if he
pleased. "Are you greening?" he asked.
No ; take it," said I, giving him the knife.

Upon which he immediately threw it into
the great pocket ; and then, afraid lest I
should change my mind, gathered up the
skirts of his gown, and ran at full speed
to his father.

When Mr Kalph and Master Philip had
taken their departure, Helena observed that
Philip was "a horrid boy' and I fear we
all of us agreed that he was.

I must now take a last fond glimpse of
Dr Barkum and his academy for young
gentlemen.

CHAPTER VIII.

I was nearly fourteen years old, and had
spent about three years under the periodical
care of Dr Barkum, when it was decided
that I should be sent to Eton. I had only
two more days to pass at a private school,
and I looked forward to my fast-approaching
emancipation with mingled feelings.
I was pleased at the prospect of making
a step in life, but I felt no little regret at
having to resign the position I had gradually
gained, which was one of considerable
consequence. For I was now the leader of
the other boys in every game and diversion,

and in every scheme of pleasure or mischief.
I was, in fact, a ruler on a small
scale — my system of government being
a benevolent despotism, only tempered by
the supervision of the masters. My subjects
were now testifying their glee at the
near approach of the holidays, by pounding
one another with their fists, exclaiming
as they did so : —

Last day but one,
Take it all in fun."

Of this adage, Dr Barkum himself did not
seem to approve ; for he caned, birched,
thumped, and bumped his pupils up to the
last moment. Before being dismissed to
our homes, we had to take part in an important
entertainment, some particulars of
which I must here record.

The school year was divided into three
terms, but only at the end of one term was

this festival held. The proceedings consisted
in a distribution of prizes, some
athletic sports, and a banquet. This year,
the lord-lieutenant of the county, a nobleman
who was seeking to identify himself
with educational and church matters, presided.
Lord L was exceedingly fond

of office of any kind ; and the honour that
he conferred upon Dr Barkum, in consenting
to distribute his prizes, was certainly
repaid by the delight which he himself
derived from the occasion. At eleven

o'clock, Lord L arrived, and presently

took his seat upon a prepared dais in the
schoolroom. He was supported on his right
hand by our worthy principal, and on his
left by a certain popular Eton master. The
latter — although he disliked Barkum — encouraged
these gatherings, from the friendship
he had formerly borne for Barkum's

predecessor and father-in-law, Dr Wild-bull.


Every one being assembled, and all being
in readiness, Lord L rose; and having
overcome his desire to laugh outright
with enjoy) T ment, in slow and solemn accents
delivered himself somewhat as follows : —

Dr Barkum, ladies and gentlemen,
We are assembled on this happy occasion
for the purpose of rewarding the successful
efforts which Dr Barkum's scholars have
made during the past term. Upon me has
devolved the honour, or I may say the satisfaction,
of presenting the successful competitors
with the laurels which they have
won. Whatever slight diffidence I may
feel in performing my allotted task, I am
sure that that diffidence is materially lessened,
I may say almost dispelled, when I
see at my side, ready with his support, a

gentleman so eminently and honourably
associated with the question of the successful
training of youth — I allude to our friend

Mr H . I believe I am accurate instating

that Mr H and myself were

contemporaries at Eton." [Some whispering
here took place between the speaker and
the gentleman to whom he had referred.]

"Well," Lord L resumed, "if we were

not exactly contemporaries, we at least
both of us owe whatever acquirements we
may possess to the same noble institution,
to Eton, where I trust many of you are
likewise going." [Here, those boys who were
going to Eton applauded ; and the future
Harrowing and others looked scornful]
"To give away the prizes in this room,"
continued his lordship, " is a pleasure which
has fallen to my lot more than once before ;
and — it may not be within the recollection

of some of those here present, but — I also
once attended a similar ceremony in the
time of Dr Wildbull ; a gentleman whose
name is still honoured and cherished, not
only at the great seat of learning with
which he was more especially connected,
but in every scientific circle throughout the
length and breadth of Europe ! I say that
I have presided, or that I have been present,
upon former occasions such as this ;
but this occasion I shall mark with a red
letter in my calendar, for I have the great
satisfaction of knowing that never before
has the school been in such a flourishing
state; never before have the able and
energetic labours of Dr Barkum and the
gentlemen whose pride it is to assist him,
been brought to such perfection ; and never
before, so far as I can understand, has the
general moral tone that prevails, been so

healthy, and so creditable to all concerned
in the wellbeing and prosperity of the
school. I will detain you, ladies and
gentlemen, no longer ; but will merely
mention, in conclusion, that it will now be
my gratification to award the prizes to an
unusually large number of young people,
to whom, collectively, I wish continued
success in their journey through life ; and
to whom, individually, I may perhaps address
a few more words."

Amidst much cheering and stamping,

Lord L resumed his seat ; and the

boys who were to receive prizes then came
to him in turn. In due course my own
name was announced, for I was so fortunate
as to have won the Greek prize. As
I came forward, Dr Barkum observed that
I had only commenced learning Greek
a year ago, but that I had made more

rapid progress than many others who had
begun to study Greek sooner. Upon this,

Lord L asked me, " Have you ever

heard of a fable called ' The Hare and the
Tortoise ' ? " I answered that I had ; and
his lordship, good-humouredly smiling, continued,
"Now, which have you been — the
Hare or the Tortoise ? " Instead of trying
to follow his real drift, I just weighed in
my own way the relative merits of the two
beasts, and said, " the Tortoise ; " whereupon
Dr Barkum bent an evil glance upon me,
and made at the same time a slight and
almost mechanical motion with his hand
while everybody else, including Lord

L , burst out laughing. However,

they gave me my prize.

In the athletic sports which followed,
I earned more honours ; and I also distinguished
myself at the banquet which

brought the official festivity of the day to
an end. But disgrace was in store for me
that very night. "We had an ancient custom
of spending, or rather of attempting to
spend, our last night in sleepless carouse
and festivity. In my capacity of king, or
benevolent despot," I had full power to
have put an end to this ceremony altogether
; but a natural taste for mischief,
and also a due regard to my popularity,
made me rather choose to superintend the
carousal, and see that it and all the nocturnal
festivities, were conducted with prudence
and proper precaution. When we
had retired to our dormitories, therefore,
I commenced matters by sending out two
sharp little boys as sentinels at a distant
stair-case, whence the approach of Dr Barkum
could be seen and duly communicated
to us in time. Having done this, I sent

word to the occupants of each of the three
other dormitories besides my own, that the
business of the night might commence ;
or, in other words, that supper could be
served at once.

In my own room, tenanted by ten boys
in all, we were soon assembled round my
bed in our night-shirts, and we ate and
drank very comfortably for upwards of a
quarter of an hour. Then a slight noise
outside caused us all to pause, and to
regard one another with faces of gloomy
inquiry. In another moment our two sentinels
rushed into the room, and each uttering
the word "Cave!" leaped into bed,
and apparently fell into a deep sleep. All
the revellers also ran quickly to their beds,
and to all appearance became instantly
overcome by slumber. For my own part,
I had just found time to sweep into my

bed a mass of unconsumed pastry and
orange-peel, and to follow the general
example, when the door was pushed open,
and Dr Barkum, attired in a dressing-gown,
and carrying a lighted candle, entered the
room.

After looking sternly about him, he
demanded — " Was any boy out of his bed
just now ? "

He repeated this question, and then,
slowly walking through the room, held his
lighted candle near to each boy's face, in
succession. We one and all bore this ordeal
with fortitude, though the snores of one
lad, Drinkwater, were so exaggerated, that
I was in a cold sweat for him.

At length Dr Barkum finished his inspection
; and when he had blown out his
candle, and shut the door with a bang, we
believed that we were once more in peace.

VOL. i. G

After a little listening, and some whispering,
we all rose from our beds, and recommenced
feasting. The two trusty sentinels
were now rewarded for the vigilance which
they had shown, and liberally supplied with
food to fortify them for a renewal of their
labours. After we had heard their account
of the enemy's first appearance near their
post, Drinkwater, the boy who had snored
so dangerously, told us that he had been
more nearly detected than any one else.

I thought it was a false alarm' said
he, "and I'd just got up again to have a
look, when I caught sight of his old topknot
"

Did you f " said a terrible voice ; and
in an instant Dr Barkum was upon us.
The weapon with which he had temporarily
armed himself was a hair-brush, and with
impartial vigour he assailed us all for some

minutes, making use of the bristles, as well
as the back of the brush, with astonishing
skill and swiftness. For Drink water a
more formal castigation was reserved. He
was led away by the ear, and presently
returned, sobbing and snivelling from the
effects of a hearty birching which he had
received in Dr Barkum's dressing-room.

x4fter this, I deemed it necessary to omit
all that remained of our programme ; and
I even gave permission to the boys in my
room to go to sleep at once, (contrary to
all precedent). The next day I bade Dr
Barkum a long farewell ; and the reader, if
he pleases, may do the same.

CHAPTER IX.

The hero of Cumberland House ; the cricket
and football captain ; the umpire and referee
; the benevolent despot, was now
compelled to mingle with the common
herd once more. In plainer words, I was
sent to Eton. I very soon experienced
some of the disadvantages of having been
a great boy at a little school, previous to
becoming a little boy at a great school. I
may compare my altered position to that of
a negro king sold into captivity with some
of his subjects. He would be regarded
with indifference by his masters ; while of
those over whom he had formerly ruled, but

who were now his fellow-slaves, some would
treat him with base insolence, and others
would secretly pay him the same homage
as before.

On going to Eton with some other old
schoolfellows, I received little notice from
the older boys, beyond being sometimes
called upon to tell them my name. Drinkwater,
who had lately been my flatterer
and courtier, laid aside his mask, and became
disagreeably familiar, and impudently
haughty, by turns ; but certain other little
boys who had once been under my sway,
and who were now allowed to be on an
equality with me, continued, whenever they
found opportunity, to show me their respect
as of old.

The first sign I perceived of Drinkwater's
treason was in the train, when, in company
with a number of other lower boys, we were

going to Eton for the first time. On hearing
that I was going to the house of a certain
" Dame," which he had not heard
before, he burst out laughing, and said that

for his part he was going to " D 's,

a much better place." After we had been
examined also, I was only placed in the
"lower fourth," while the hypocritical
Drinkwater was given a higher position,
(" up to," as we called it, a master named
Crown), and he began to treat me with
downright patronage. Instead of daily
seeking me out to recount his adventures,
and compare them with mine, he now
used to hasten past me, when we happened
to meet, merely giving me a nod,
or calling out, " Morning, Allen ! morning
! " Or else, he would pretend not to
see me at all, which sometimes obliged
me to throw a stone at him, or use some

other violent means of recalling him to
his senses.

I was not altogether without friends,
however. I formed an alliance with a boy*
named Warburton, with whom I used to
mess. He and I were both of us inclined
to be idle in our studies, but energetic and
ambitious in the games. Also we were
both fagged by the same boy, a youth
named Martin, whom we both heartily
disliked. Martin was not much older than
we were, but he was such a good scholar,
that he stood higher in the school than any
lad of his own age. He used to delight in
fagging us ; for he not only gave us the
ordinary tasks which we expected to perform,
but practised his wit and learning in
inflicting on us ingenious or extraordinary
punishments, and in lecturing us at preposterous
length.

One afternoon, as Warburton and I were
sitting in my room, going through the form
of preparing some work for the following-day,
Martin shouted for me, and, when I
had obeyed the summons, seized me by the
nape of my neck, conducted me into his
room, and thus spoke : —

"Now then, my facetious young friend,
pray how did you put away my tea-things
the other night ? "

I put them in the cupboard, Martin,"
answered I.

In the cupboard, did you ? " repeated
he. "Now just look in that cupboard, and
then tell me whether you aren't a lazy,
cocky, young ape."

Feeling very much like the negro king
in captivity, I obeyed the first part of this
request, and beheld several handsome prize-books
lying covered with a sort of cheese

or butter, which had been formed by the
milk overturned from the milk-jug. For
my carelessness in putting away his tea-things,
and the damage thus caused to his
books, Martin made me write out fifty lines
of Greek from the Odyssey.

Soon after this occurrence I was met by
Drinkwater, who, instead of passing on
after his usual fashion of late, begged me
to speak with him for a few minutes.
Thinking he was probably in some difficulty,
in which he required my assistance,
I resolved to be generous, and walked
aside with him to hear what he had to
say. He very gravely addressed me as
follows : —

Allen, as we were at Barkum's together,

and all that, I thought I'd just give you a

■ little advice. You are getting such a bad

name with the fellows. You know, you

won't mind my saying so, but you are
awfully cocky "

At this point I interrupted his sermon
by giving him a smart blow on the nose ;
whereupon he displayed more good-nature,
positive virtue, or " magnificent courage," x
than I think I have ever met with at any
other time ; for he burst out laughing — ashe
often did — and exclaimed : " Oh, Pax !
Pax ! I was only chaffing."

Having given him a few cuffs, and having
thrown his hat into a neighbouring tree, I
let him go : and the correction had a good
effect upon him, for thenceforward he became
friendly but respectful, as of old.
But I could not extort submission by any
such summary means from the masters,
with whom my idleness brought me into

1 A political or "polemical" phrase of recent invention.
The word "cowardice" is nearly synonymous.

very unpleasant relations. In due course
I was subjected to the barbarous punishment
of six strokes with the birch rod ;
and I may observe that, though I hardly
felt the first five cuts, I did feel the
sixth cut ; and that the main results of the
degrading torture were, that I experienced
a comfortable sense of warmth, and resolved
to be more industrious for the future.

But I had little time for carrying out my
good resolution ; for very soon after my
first introduction to the birch, I was seized
with scarlet fever, and immediately sent off
to the Sanatorium. I suffered very severe
illness for about three weeks, and during
that time, my mother took up her abode
at Windsor, and came to nurse me as often
as she was permitted. Then my condition
began to improve. My mother, who had
many demands on her time, returned to

her home ; and all that there remained forme
to do, was to recover as speedily as
possible.

As soon as I was well enough to know
what I was about, and who my friends
were, I recognised Drinkwater. He lay
in the bed next to mine ; and having been
nearly at death's door, was now very calm,
reflective, and penitent. Soon after renewing
acquaintance with one another, he and
I amused ourselves by tearing off portions
of our skin, and writing our names on the
horrible parchments thus obtained. Upon
what had been the sole of my foot, I wrote,
"Allen, his foot;" but Drinkwater, taking
up what had been the palm of his hand,
wrote " Hyslop " upon it.

What's ' Hyslop ' mean ? " I asked him.

It's my name," answered he.

I was utterly bewildered, and seriously

thought that I mast be still delirious. But
he presently explained that he had for ever
parted with his original surname, which his
father, for no sufficient reason, and with
scarcely any legal formality, had chosen to
alter to one that pleased him better. Still,
even after the mystery had been explained,
I for some time continued to view Drinkwater,
or rather Hyslop, with some uneasy
doubt. As soon as we were convalescent,
we began to amuse ourselves with various
suitable games, such as draughts and backgammon.
But he was not content with
such innocent diversions. In an evil moment,
he persuaded a brother of his (who
was allowed to visit the Sanatorium) to
purchase him a saloon pistol ; and with this
weapon we all three disported ourselves ina
garden where we were permitted to walk
for a short time every day.

Once, the two Cyclops and I, no authorities
being on the alert, were each firing by
turns at a little pyramid which we had
arranged for the purpose ; the strange Hys-lop
was in the act of re-erecting the pyramid,
which I had just overturned, when a
slight report was heard, and he fell to the
ground, dead !

His brother had shot him in the head.
He had supposed that the pyramid was
ready, and had merely meant to show his
address by hitting it again just as it was
set up. The fatal accident caused much
distress and consternation, as may well be
imagined ; and the coroner's jury, who in
those days were not given to confusing
their duties and responsibilities with those
of the judges, on this occasion added to
their verdict a very reasonable hope, — viz.,
that the school authorities would take steps

to prevent the recurrence of such accidents
in the future.

The sad disaster made a profound impression
upon my mind. But soon afterwards
I was pronounced fit to travel ; my
father, and Colonel Thomas, my uncle, came
and escorted me home, and my thoughts
were diverted from the melancholy cast into
which they had fallen.

CHAPTEE X.

I had not been at home for very long when
I suffered a serious relapse, which made
such inroads into my constitution that
my return to Eton became impossible. As
soon as I was well enough to proceed with
my education, my parents made inquiries
for a tutor under whose care they might
place me ; and I was sent, in the meantime,
to spend two or three months with
my uncle Thomas, at a sanitary resort on
the south coast. We were attended by
White, my father's favourite servant, who
had now recovered from his attack of
or>ut ; but whom, nevertheless, it was

hoped the change of climate might further
benefit.

I passed away my time very happily with
my uncle Thomas. For he was excessively
generous, also good-natured and amusing,
and, moreover, tolerably young. He used
to entertain me with endless anecdotes of a
military character. He seldom talked of
campaigns, for he had always served in the
Guards, and had sold out before the Crimean
War ; but he stirred my enthusiasm for his
profession no less surely by his tales of: —
"an objectionable young man we had once,
who had to leave us ; " — " an old quartermaster
in my battalion, who used to dye
his hair ; " — or, " some rather good fun the
young fellows had one night, at the time
we were waiting for the Chartists."

But the Colonel was not the only old
friend I saw at this time ; for Mr Sutcliffe

VOL. I. h

and his daughter were also paying a visit
to the sanitary resort. Helena was now
sixteen years old ; and though I do not at
all consider that this is the most attractive
period in a girl's life, she was certainly a
very pretty and engaging little creature.
She and I used to ride together for a portion
of the day ; but she was a good deal occupied
in study with her governess and a local
drawing-m aster. Her father, however, was
constantly at our house. He had a strong
friendship for my uncle, and an attachment,
I believe, for me ; yet there is no doubt that
the person who chiefly interested him was
White the footman.

Once, at luncheon, as White was pouring
out a glass of wine for Mr Sutcliffe, the
latter suddenly started, and gave a deep
contraction to his brow. He then asked
my uncle, White having left the room,

whether the gouty favourite had ever been
suspected of complicity in the great robbery
at Hare Place.

Poor fellow ! certainly not," answered
my uncle ; and he explained how White had
been quite unable to move at the time referred
to.

Mr Sutcliffe then said that he was perfectly
satisfied, and that he had merely been
joking. But I heard him presently murmur
to himself, " He's an impostor, and a blackguard
too, for all that."

On another occasion, Mr Sutcliffe asked
me to show him all the rooms in our house.

I want to see," said he, "whether you
get any sun in those top rooms of yours."

I took him into every room in the house,
and at last into White's bedroom. There,
having satisfied himself that a room with
a southerly aspect did occasionally receive

some of the sun's rays, Mr Sutcliffe suddenly
pounced upon the pillow of White's bed,
exclaiming —

Why, what's this ? "

But he had found only an odd volume of
Gibbon's ' Decline and Fall of the Eoman
Empire ; ' discovering which, he appeared
at once amused and disappointed.

It must not be supposed, however, that
Mr Sutcliffe spent all, or even most, of his
time in riding his favourite hobby. He
now bestowed a great deal of attention upon
his daughter Helena, whom he saw, under
his very eye, blossoming from girlhood into
womanhood. He seemed to love her more
tenderly than he had ever loved her before ;
and she certainly returned his affection to
his fullest desire, by ever showing herself
ready, not only to meet his wishes, but to
anticipate them. I have mentioned these

facts because I should wish the reader to
bear them in mind when I next introduce
Helena Sutcliffe to his notice, amidst other
scenes, and under very different circumstances.


After I had spent some ten weeks with
my uncle, my parents wrote to say that
they had found me a tutor, to whose care I
was to be consigned without more delay.
He was a Frenchman, and his name was
Tabourot. He lived in his native land,
but his pupils were all English, excepting
an officer of the Swedish army, and a little
Spaniard called Kequiendo.

It is not my intention to give a faithful
account of my life with Monsieur Tabourot,
or of all that he himself did and said to my
personal knowledge. He was just such a
man as the reader will probably imagine
him to have been ; that is, he was courteous

and honourable, pompous, and somewhat
ridiculous. He taught his own language
with complete satisfaction to himself,
and with advantage to those of his pupils
who were really at all willing to learn.
For my own part, I had been early trained
to a practical acquaintance with French ;
and though I took no delight in a dry
study of the rudiments, I maintained and
improved my proficiency in the proper pronunciation
of the language, and in the art
of fluent conversation. I also acquired, but
only by ordinary observation, a considerable
insight into the habits and character of the
people ; but there the benefit I derived from
being sent to Monsieur Tabourot came to
an end. After I had been with him for
about a year, I wrote home, begging that I
might be recalled from exile. My father
did not immediately accede to my request ;

but in the end lie complied with it, my
mother having told him that the climate of
France did not agree with me.

So I returned to my home, and my
parents were once more compelled to face
the difficulty of having on their hands a
youth whose normal condition was that of
a schoolboy, but who, owing to circumstances,
had to be provided for in some exceptional
manner. They made inquiries, —
of which I did not hear the nature or
extent, — for another tutor to whom they
might send me ; and they presently decided
that I should go to a gentleman of the
name of Wish, who lived in the north of
England. My father now, for the first
time, told me that he had come to the
conclusion that I ought to choose some
profession ; and accordingly, as a week
remained before the time for my leaving

home, I immediately devoted a portion of
that interval to the important matter my
father had intrusted to me.

As I was at this time at the enthusiastic
age, I very naturally selected the military
life, as furnishing a perfect combination of
Duty, Pleasure, and Romance. 1 My uncle
Thomas pretended to be neutral in his advice,
and to be unwilling to influence me ;
but I could plainly see that he was pleased
with me for wishing to enter the service to

1 Nearly every youth once in his life wishes to be a soldier,
and in this fact can be found the solution of a question which,
when it has to be faced in a time of panic, will be found most
disagreeably pressing. The use of the terms, ' ' compulsory
service" and "conscription," has done much harm. A
national repugnance" would certainly be found to dragging
middle-aged men from their hearths or desks, in order to clothe
them for the first time in scarlet. But no opposition of importance
would be offered to the course of taking every young man
who has reached the enthusiastic age, drilling him at the nearest
depot, and returning him uninjured and greatly improved
to his friends, with the understanding that his services might
possibly be required at some future period.

which he had belonged. My father, however,
upon hearing what were my sentiments,
declared "that he was surprised I
had no fancy for the bar," — which I believe
was totally untrue. He, however, said that
he should not oppose my wishes, if at the
end of a year they were still the same.

CHAPTEE XI.

As I was departing for the distant home
of Mr Wish, my father, instead of giving
me his blessing, furnished me with some
modern equivalents in the form of a sum
of money and a cheque-book. He did this,
he said, from the conviction that a boy
should never be injudiciously stinted, but
should be fairly given whatever he is to receive,
in order that he may, while he is still
young, learn something of the value of
money. I need hardly say that I applauded
these liberal sentiments from the bottom of
my heart. I was now sixteen years old,
and consequently, when I left my parents,

I experienced the sensations of budding importance
and independence, mingled with a
slight form of the discomfort called " homesickness."


I found that Mr Wish, my new tutor, was
married, but without any family, though
I believe two children of his had died in
infancy. I afterwards learnt that he had
been ordained ; but that, as soon as he had
found his holy office to interfere with his
tutelary functions, he had without any formality
called himself a layman. Mr Wish
might properly be described as a man of
method ; for he observed a method in
almost all that he did. He once told us
himself, that he had a method of getting
out of bed : that he swung himself out in
such a manner that his feet should land ina
pair of slippers which lay at certain angles
upon the floor. He observed method in

eating his breakfast ; for he arranged before
him in proper quantities all that he intended
to consume during the meal ; also he
crunched his bread in such a manner as to
sound if he were eating toast, I suppose in
order that his subsequent transition to real
toast should not startle his palate. His eyes
were downcast, and he seemed to be constantly
counting with his fingers. Of course
he taught in a methodical manner ; and
he preferred the method of teaching by
formula. Nevertheless Mr Wish was the
very reverse of what is called a practical
man. He had contrived a fixed method
for pleasing his wife ; but it was in reality
nothing more than a regulation against
exasperating her. Mrs Wish, who told me
this, also said that her husband had a
method or formula by which he hoped to
reach heaven ! But he was not so high-minded,

or so confident, as to make it
public.

Of Mrs Wish I shall, have more to relate
hereafter ; suffice it now to say that she was
a woman of very odd character, and that
she and her husband did not seem to be
on very loving terms. (By which I do not
mean to imply that he ever beat her.)

Of the pupils, besides myself, there were
three. One of them was a man who totally
differed from the ordinary stamp of pupil,
and who, indeed, was quite unlike most of
his fellow-creatures. His name was Gar-bold
: he was an orphan, and possessed of
considerable property in Wales. He was
twenty-four years old, and was thus undergoing
tuition rather late in life. He said,
however, that his education had been neglected.
Nevertheless, he had an extensive
knowledge of general literature and history,

and was a fair Latin scholar. He was a
very good-natured, amusing companion ; a
firm friend, and not % an implacable enemy.
Mr Garbold professed to hold very extraordinary
principles ; and he cherished some
very singular prejudices. He maintained
that the human race should be divided into
only two classes — serfs and their masters.
For men, he advocated polygamy, and even
grosser doctrines ; but for women, he condemned
everything of the kind; and declared
that Providence, in arranging the
proportion between the two sexes, had
held the same opinions as he held. In
person, Mr Garbold was well favoured.
Although under the middle height, he
was very powerfully built ; he had an
aquiline nose, and very pleasing blue
eyes. His head inclined to baldness ; he
wore large whiskers and moustaches ; and

he was generally mistaken for a man of
forty.

Another of the pupils was a youth named
Pillett. He was preparing to matriculate.
Nothing about him is particularly worthy
of record ; but I may mention that he was
studious and quietly behaved, and, at the
same time, fond of scandal and mischief-making.


Besides Garbold and Pillett, there was
a pupil of the name of Dundas who was
studying with Mr Wish. He had lately
been expelled from Harrow, for some notorious
acts of defiance. He was not a little
vain of this circumstance, for which I must
confess that I also respected him. He and
I soon became intimate friends ; for besides
being only a little older than I was, Dundas
was going into the army. I used to
believe that he had a thorough acquaintance

with military matters, and I often
listened to his advice. The following fragments
of conversation, will fairly disclose
the degree of wisdom which distinguished
us both at this time : —

Allen. — I think the service must be
very jolly. You're thought a lot of; and
you have lots of sport ; and you go to all
sorts of rum places.

Dundas. — Yes ; only you want lots of
money. I believe it's a very good dodge to
go first into a West Indian regiment ; then
you get your promotion in no time, as all
the other fellows die, and you exchange into
a crack regiment at home.

Allen. — That must be very jolly. By
the by, Dundas, what ought a chap to be
able to live on in a crack regiment 1

Dundas. — Well, you want £300 a-
year; but you get two chargers kept

for nothing in the cavalry, and you can
hunt one of them.

Allen. — How awfully jolly ! I'm going
into the cavalry, if my governor lets me.

Dundas. — I'm going into the light infantry.
That's why I wear my hat rather
on one side, you know.

Allen. — I see. I suppose there's nothing
like the service for a fellow, nowadays 1

Dundas. — Oh, nothing ! You knock
about for a few years, and then you marry,
and settle down. Every fellow ought to
have a good fling before he settles down,
oughtn't he ?

Allen. — Oh yes, and see something of
the world !

Dux cas. — The wildest chaps always
make the best husbands.

Allen. — Oh, much the best. How well
that meerschaum's colouring: !

VOL. I. I

Dundas. — Yes. I've had it a good longtime
; and I kept it wrapped in chamois-leather
at first.

Thus used we to discourse, with satisfaction
to ourselves, and without injury to
anybody else. I remained very steadfast
to my intention of entering the army ; and
when my father presently wrote to me,
observing " that the army was an idle
life' and that " he hoped I was not only
fascinated by a red coat," his remarks had
the effect of still further strengthening my
resolution. " I love the sort of idleness
which he means," thought I ; " and it will
be pleasant, as he suggests, to wear a handsome
uniform."

Both my father and Mr Wish showed
some folly in their way of treating me with
regard to my profession. My father must
have known that I meant to be a soldier,

and lie should have found something wiser
to say than that the army was an idle life.
I believe, however, that he was somewhat
prejudiced against my plan, by recollecting
the extravagance which his brother (my
uncle the Colonel) had shown when he
had served in the Guards. But Mr Wish
had no proper excuse for making me learn
more Greek and Latin than ever, to the
neglect of mathematics. His reason for
taking that course was, that he did not
believe I was going into the army at all ;
but supposed that, being at the enthusiastic
age, I thought it right to make a show of
wishing to be a soldier, when I was really
going to Oxford or Cambridge like other
young men.

I soon began to form a closer intimacy
with young Dundas, from whom I received
an intelligent sympathy with my future designs.

He kept a horse, and this made me
respect him even more than the distinction
of his having been expelled from Harrow.
When he used to mount his horse, and go
in quest of adventure in the neighbourhood,
I longed to accompany him ; and I
should have written to my father, asking
him to enable me to do so, had I not been
saved all trouble by the extraordinary
good-nature of Mr Garbold, who one day
came to me and said "that he would send
for one of his animals, which were down in
Wales doing nothing, and that I could have
the use of him for as long as I pleased."

I gratefully accepted this kind offer, and
was soon afterwards able to ride out with
Dundas on his expeditions. We presently
formed an eager desire to follow the
hounds, and our sole difficulty in gratifying
this wish was, that there were no

hounds in that part of the country for us
to follow.

Having consulted a newspaper, however,
we made out that a pack from another
county would meet one day in the next
week, at a place about forty miles from Mr
Wish's house. We determined to have a
day's sport, and accordingly applied to our
preceptor for permission to be absent, which
he granted, though not until after the intercession
of his wife and of Mr Garbold. We
set forth one afternoon, with the design of
reaching a certain town that night, and
hunting the following day. We took the
greatest delight in our excursion, especially
in the importance which we fancied belonged
to us on account of our taking
horses with us in the train. A groom in
the service of Mr Garbold accompanied us ;
and it was well for our horses that he did

so, for Dimdas had insisted, against my
judgment, that a horse, for one day previous
to his being hunted, should have
nothing to eat except a little gruel.

Having arrived at the town which was
our destination, we proceeded to the principal
inn, and there dined after the manner
of two old gentlemen of eighty. For we
each tried to drink a separate bottle of
port, and declared " that no port was to begot
nowadays." Having retired to bed, I
dreamt of five-barred gates, double posts and
rails, and various incidents in an imaginary
chase. My dream was distressing ; for I
fancied that I was hunting in my nightshirt,
and that Dun cas had ridden off with
my other clothes. This sleeping thought
had been suggested by a waking reality,
as, for some time past, I had been brooding
with great mortification upon the costume

which I was really going to wear, and which
simply consisted of a low-crowned hat, a
tweed coat and waistcoat, and light-coloured
breeches and gaiters. Dundas, however,
had tried to console me, by saying " that it
was much better form not to come regularly
got up."

The next day (" big with fate," as we imagined)
we were eating a large breakfast, supplemented
by cherry-brandy as a . sporting
delicacy, when Mr Garbold's groom appeared
and told us that he could hear nothing
about any hounds, and thought that we
must have made some mistake. The landlord
soon afterwards came in, and with his
aid we discovered that the hounds we were
seeking, actually met at a smaller place, of
the same name, some eighty miles distant.

CHAPTEE XII.

Having returned from our ill-planned and
untimely expedition, we were subjected to
a good deal of ridicule ; and for several
days Mr Garbold used to inquire " Whether
we intended to hunt ? " or " Where did the
hounds meet ? "

A little mortification, however, was very
necessary for me at this time, for I was
exposed to a danger which threatened to
inflate my pride, and to do a great deal of
injury to my morals. Mrs Wish, of whom
I have as yet said very little, began to
favour me with tokens of a regard which
I could not at first understand, but which

presently became quite unmistakable. I
was not long in perceiving that this state
of things was no secret to Mr Garbold. I
had already noticed that between him and
Mrs Wish there was evidently a very intimate
understanding ; and he seemed to
possess some kind of authority over her, for
she never interrupted or contradicted what
he said, whereas she seemed to be fond of
disputing with any one else, and especially
with her husband.

The first assault I received from Mrs
Wish was, I suspected, at the instigation of
Mr Garbold. He had told her that I could
tell fortunes, and that I was particularly
eager to tell hers; and the consequence
was, that one day, while I was sitting alone,
she came in, and without any embarrassment
begged me to disclose her future
to her.

Before I had time to answer her, to my
great amazement she laid her hand in mine,
but seemed to be struggling to prevent
laughing. With a gravity which was really
caused by shyness more than by anything
else, I examined her palm, but for sometime
could say nothing. At length, remembering
some fragments of the fortune
which a gipsy had once foretold for me, I
managed to mutter something which appeared
to satisfy Mrs Wish.

Assuming now the air of a student whose
perplexity had been happily relieved, she
thanked me in the most earnest manner,
and then entered into a long discourse upon
spirit-rapping, table-turning, and similar
topics. At first I was so simple as to
suppose that her enthusiasm was genuine,
and I was therefore very much surprised
when she, having related " an authenticated

story " of the appearance of a ghost, told
me that she believed it was " all stuff."

I quietly remarked "that I thought so
too." Upon which, Mrs Wish told me
"that I was dreadfully sarcastic."

The ringing of the dinner-bell put a stop
to this curious interview ; and after dinner
(which we had in the middle of the day),
I amused myself in company with Dundas,
and for that day saw no more of Mrs
Wish.

The next morning, however, she again
sought me out, and this time her discourse
was of phrenology.

She examined my head, and declared
that one bump she discovered was the
largest she had ever seen of the kind.
During these investigations, which Mrs
Wish caused to extend over a space of
several days, I remained stolidly blind,

or rather insensible, to the ulterior aims
which she evidently had in view ; and I
was astonished to find how persistent she
was in continuing this deception. She
purchased a small bust, and a treatise become;
and at dinner Mr Garbold used
to ask us " Whether we had found anymore
bumps ? " At last, however, Mrs
Wish began to neglect the science of phrenology,
and to talk more of the internal
dispositions and faculties which that artis
said to disclose. She was enthusiastic
about the pleasures of friendship, and the
ennobling effects of confidence between two
minds held together by a common bond.
This I found very novel and interesting ;
and as in all her discourse she constantly
flattered or praised me, I began to like her
more and more, and at last felt some degree
of filial affection for her.

I quarrelled with Dundas upon his saying
— " Do leave that fool of a woman,
and come off somewhere with me ; " and
as she was always good-tempered and complimentary,
and as I never heard her swear,
I found her society rather an agreeable relief
from that of my male companions. I
was presently obliged to make overtures
of peace to Dundas, for one day Mrs Wish
asked me to borrow his horse for her, in
order that I might take her with me fora
ride. Dundas appeared very glad to be
reconciled, but declared, with a hearty oath,
that Mrs Wish should never have the use
of his horse.

As I have said, Mrs Wish had inspired
me with " filial " affection, but this I found
it impossible to make her understand.
When she narrated, even with tears, misfortunes
and hardships which she told me

that she had suffered, I only said, "What
a shame 1 " or " Fancy ! " Indeed, in her
frequent accounts of her past life, I noticed
so many discrepancies and inconsistencies,
that they soon excited in me very little
compassion. I showed her in many ways
that I did not intend to follow the odious
path into which she intended to entangle
me, but she very rarely betrayed any discouragement.


One day we were seated upon a tombstone
together. I was complacently hearing
how "I had looked as black as night "
at some observation which Mr Wish had
made ; how " my lip had curled " at some
remark from Pillett ; how, in short, I was
a very fine young fellow, — when Mrs Wish,
without any immediate warning, said —
Tom ! do you love me ? "

It is very strange, yet perfectly true,

that, to my eternal honour, I replied, " No,
I don't."

But this did not baffle her, for she said
at once — "No; I know you don't. You
despise us all. Don't you ? "

"Not f despise,' Mrs Yish," answered I,
colouring deeply.

Here she commenced sobbing, and exclaiming
— " Why did you ever come here \
Why did you ever come here % "

I am very sorry," said I.

Upon which, giving me a languishing
glance, she said — " Poor boy ! of course weare
both dreadfully wicked."

This remark made a seasonable impression
on my mind ; and having risen from
the tombstone, and returned to the house,
I endeavoured to consider that an unfortunate
episode was ended. I sought once
more the honest friendship of Dundas, and

avoided giving Mrs Wish an opportunity
of resuming her confidences. Mr Garbold,
who had seen, or who knew what had
taken place, now commenced, with diabolical
pains, to restore harmony between
us. With a solemn voice, but laughing
countenance, he told me that I had broken
Mrs Wish's heart ; and though the statement
might have been gratifying to my
vanity, it caused me some distress ; for,
judging by the behaviour of Mrs Wish, I
thought there was some foundation for it.
She showed loss of appetite at her meals,
frequently complained of headaches, and
used to roll her eyes at me in a most
reproachful manner. I believed, however,
that she was no longer labouring under
any delusion with respect to my sentiments
; and a few days before the commencement
of my holidays, or vacation, I

went to her, and made her some imprudent
and rather disingenuous speeches, with the
object that we should be reconciled before
we separated. Mrs Wish received these
overtures with an unaffected gladness which
smote my conscience. She immediately
regained her appetite ; ceased to complain
of headaches ; and once more controlled
her eyes within the usual bounds of their
sockets. When I left Mr Wish's house,
Mrs Wish was in tears, and had made me
promise to keep up a regular correspondence
with her during our cruel separation.

VOL. I. K

CHAPTER XIII.

I must now devote a chapter to the affairs
of Helena Sutcliffe, whose fortunes I mean
from time to time to follow, for certain
weighty reasons hereafter to be disclosed ;
and I take this opportunity of saying, that
as to the apparent mystery of my being
able to describe scenes I did not myself
witness, and conversations I did not myself
hear, the whole difficulty will be duly
explained, — at all events hinted, — in the
course of this work. When I last spoke
of Miss Sutcliffe she was a girl of sixteen,
just finishing her education, and with
hardly any other cares to disturb her : at

the period of which I am now speaking,
she had become a woman, and her peaceful
existence of old had been disturbed by
some very momentous episodes.

Her father, succumbing to an obscure
malady from which he had long suffered,
died. In nursing him during his fatal illness,
Helena displayed heroic qualities of
the first order. While she entirely sacrificed
all her own comfort in order to
administer to his wants, she nevertheless
preserved an appearance of cheerfulness
and contentment ; nor did she mar this
excellent conduct by attempting to make
a merit of it. The task of nursing Mr
Sutcliffe must indeed have been exceptionally
difficult. He was apparently beset
by the extraordinary delusion that he
was a convict lying under sentence of
death. So indeed he was, in a highly

poetical sense ; but he chose to imagine
that he was a convict in the literal and
most prosaic sense ; that he was in Newgate,
and that he was to suffer by the rope.
He frequently asked for "the ordinary."
Whereupon, his doctor answered the demand
by restoring to him a certain counterpane
which had been discarded, and his
daughter, with no less futility, offered him a
bottle of claret. When he saw the bottle,
his wandering thoughts seemed to turn
from "the ordinary," and he began eagerly
to ask what breakfast he was to be allowed.
What strange breakfasts men in my condition
seem to have eaten ! " he observed ;
adding, " I don't have black puddings, or
lamb's fry — I have a bottle of claret." He
was thereupon proffered some drink which
was kept at his bedside, but he pushed it
aside, saying, "He refused all sustenance."

In spite of all this eccentricity, however, I
believe that the truth was he was under
no delusion at all, but that he w T as merely
so foolish, and so blind to the solemnity
of the occasion, that he chose to feign in
this manner. In fact, he confessed to his
daughter a few moments before he expired,
that he had been somehow endeavouring to
puzzle a certain rather foolish doctor who
was in attendance.

But to return to Helena, She had
thought herself fully prepared for the sad
event, yet when it did take place, her grief
seemed at first likely to overwhelm her.
During several days she wept for long
periods ; she was only persuaded with difficulty
to eat or drink ; and for a time she
lost the faculty of enjoying refreshing sleep.
Even for five years afterwards she could
summon tears to her eyes, by merely thinking

of her departed father. I mention
these particulars because they may seem
very curious to the world at large, who
forget their dearest relations a few weeks
after they have buried them ; and I think
I have clearly shown, and without any
nonsensical similes, that Miss Sutcliffe was
sincerely and decently grieved.

She passed the first year after the sad
occurrence in strict retirement, refusing
to see the numerous visitors who came to
offer her their formal condolences. She
was obliged, however, occasionally to see
her guardian, whose name was Simmons.
He, although he performed his duties in
the most faithful manner, nevertheless had
the misfortune to be an object of great
aversion to her. The reason for this was
highly extraordinary. Helena had once
read in a novel of a guardian who had

ended by marrying his ward ; and the consequence
was, that when Mr Simmons, in
his anxiety to make Helena happy, showed
her rather more sympathy than he really
felt, she, being very young and very imaginative,
imbibed a most extravagant suspicion
against him — namely, that he might
have the same designs as the guardian of
whom she had read. The truth was, that
he viewed matrimony with absolute disgust.
Thus, through an apprehension rather
difficult to be imagined, she repelled the
proffered friendship even of her lawful
protector.

Wholly ignorant of the fear of which he
was the object, he asked Miss Sutcliffe to
pass a portion of the year under his own
roof, where he promised to provide a suitable
protectress for her. Not sorry that
his ward energetically declined this proposal,

he next urged, with a persistence
which was fully justified, that she should,
without more delay, choose some kind of a
companion. Helena consented to this, and
she presently agreed, though not without a
little suspicion, to engage a person whom her
guardian had recommended for the post.

This lady proved to be a young widow
of the name of Gill, whose husband, a
purser in the navy, had been recently
eaten by sharks in the China sea. Helena
received this lady with great kindness, and
proceeded to essay by all the means in her
power to make of her an actual friend, as
well as a companion in name. But just as
some people in employing Mrs Gill would
have treated her with vulgar insolence,
lacerating her feelings w T with covert ridicule,
and so forth, so Miss Sutcliffe, on the contrary,
had the misfortune to displease her

companion by showing her too much consideration,
and by this word I do not mean
"condescension" in the disagreeable sense.
She was received by Helena with sincere
overtures of friendship : but just as some
cur, accustomed to be constantly beaten,
w T ill bite the hand which designs only to
stroke him, so this companion, habituated
to ill usage, received with mistrust every
disclosure of kindness. It is true, I believe,
that the heart of Mrs Gill, when she
was a girl, had been chilled and steeled
with excessive doses of geography and
ancient history by her parents ; and afterwards,
as nearly as possible, broken by the
purser, previous to his being devoured alive.
After a few months of the new experiment,
Helena was glad to accede to the companion's
request for leave of absence, "to
visit friends in the North ; " and to make

this matter short, a friend in the North
made the un amiable Mrs Gill his wife, and
I hope taught her a little sensibility.

Helena Sutcliffe was then once more left
alone. While she was undecided as to
what step she should next take, her year
of mourning having come to an end, she
received a visit from a friendly old widow
of the name of Chobham. Many years
ago Mrs Chobham had cherished a passing
tenderness for Mr SutclirTe, or for his
worldly goods, and consequently Helena
had always been to her an object of some
interest and curiosity. But, furthermore,
Mrs Chobham had a son, who at this time
was of a suitable age and position in life
to think of marrying and settling down ;
and as he had just been jilted by a young
lady in Italy, his mother hoped that he
might console himself with a young lady

in England, or, in other words, that he
might marry Miss Sutcliffe. Actuated,
therefore, either by affection for her departed
old friend, or by prudent intentions
for the welfare of her son, Mrs Chobham,
as I have said, visited Helena, and, as I
have not said, carried, her home as her
guest for some days.

And now a great event took place, which
perhaps I should, do well to introduce with
several pages of essay. I will, however,
content myself by making two commonplace
remarks : firstly, that human affairs
are very uncertain ; and secondly, that Mrs
Chobham's half-formed project for her son
was greatly aided by a mysterious operation
of Providence.

On the second night of Helena's visit, as
she was dining with the affectionate yet
prudent old lady, the disagreeable intelligence

was received that Colling Hall was
in flames ! Before describing the consequences
which this calamity had, it will
be as well if I shortly state the circumstances
under which it occurred. The
servants, taking advantage of their mistress's
absence from home, passed away
their evening thus. The butler and housekeeper
each went to visit some friends in
the neighbourhood. The footman went to
bed "for a good rest," he said, though he
narrowly escaped being roasted to death.
The upper housemaid, who was suffering
from face-ache, went with Miss Sutcliffe's
maid to consult the village apothecary.
The cook, assisted by the under housemaid,
who also worked in the kitchen,
devoted the evening to melting down a
large quantity of fat, for some private purposes
of her own. She was disturbed in her

oleaginous task by a noise which, she
was stated to have said, "baffled description."
Thereupon, instead of endeavouring
to ascertain the cause or nature of the noise,
she suffered imagination to obtain dominion
over her; and persuading herself that the
end of the world was at hand, hastened to
the museum of her late master, with the
intention of thence removing the skeleton,
and giving it proper interment in the garden.
The poor woman would have certainly
performed this decent rite, had not
she been recalled to her ordinary senses by
a loud shriek from the housemaid, who ran
in to announce, not only that the house
was on fire, but that the footman was burnt
alive. As the cook and her colleague, nearly
fainting, made their way to the nearest
point of egress — namely, the front door —
the supposed victim of the flames ran past

them, uninjured, but clad only in a shirt,
to give the alarm. This was very necessary,
for the shutters being closed, and the
devouring element being at work in the
innermost part of the house, there was no
outward evidence of the fire which was
raging within. Presently an antiquated
fire-engine came upon the scene ; but by
that time the flames had burst forth with
uncontrollable fury. The principal staircase
was in a blaze, and the fierce heat,
and dense columns of smoke, rendered
highly dangerous any attempt to enter the
rooms from the outside. Notwithstanding
this, many gallant efforts were made to
rescue some of the property. Amidst great
enthusiasm, a daring yokel gained a footing
in Miss Sutcliffe's bedroom, and soon
emerged, to the great joy of all his friends,
brandishing something which proved to be a

box of gloves. With the exception of some
furniture, certain books, and a few gloomy
relics, which included the skeleton, everything
of value was destroyed.

When the terrible news was brought to
Miss Sutcliffe, she at once stated her intention
of visiting the field of disaster,
although the distance Alas fully twelve
miles. Mrs Chobham's son, Frank, now
petitioned, with a good deal of energy,
to be allowed to ride to the spot himself;
"For," said he, " I should like to be of
any service to you, upon my word."

Helena hesitating, the mother interposed
with, " Why should not you both go together
% "

Miss Sutcliffe strenuously opposed this
proposition, and in her remonstrance was
ably seconded by Frank. It was at length
decided that he should go alone, and on

his return, report the actual state of
affairs.

When he came back from his nocturnal
pilgrimage, Helena, overcome with anxiety
and fatigue, had just gone to bed, and it
was not until she appeared in the breakfast-room
next day, that she knew Colling Hall
had become a heap of ruins. In the midst
of her distress on this occasion, Helena
was pleased with Mr Chobham. She was
grateful to him for his good-nature in having
undertaken a journey of twenty-four
miles at night on her behalf; and she was
pleased with him for having declined the
monstrous proposal that he should drive
alone with her. Perhaps, when I have
fully described Mr Chobham's character,
the reader will credit what I fear was the
truth with respect to Mr Chobham's good-nature
and delicacy — namely, that it was

his love of adventure and desire to witness
the fire that mainly induced him to volunteer
his services ; and that the object
which he sought in declining to accompany
Helena, was nothing more than that
he wished for the unrestrained enjoyment
of his own society. He succeeded both in
suiting his own convenience and in gaining
Helena's gratitude. But gratitude was
unfortunately not the only sentiment her
heart soon began to feel towards him.
His excessive melancholy, his dejected
looks, and his evident abstraction, extorted
from her breast some of that quality
to which pity is said to be akin. I will
not positively say that she loved him, but
she felt a great interest in him ; and, of
course, there is no knowing what may not
follow an interest of that kind. Thus,
while Frank's sadness was really caused

VOL. I. l

by his having just been jilted by a beautiful
disciple of high art, whom he had met
in Eome, the fact was quite unknown to
Helena, who, in innocent speculation as to
why he should seem unhappy, never suspected
the true cause.

At first it seemed probable that Miss
Sutclifie would make a prolonged sojourn
at Mrs Chobham's house. But her guardian
coming into the neighbourhood, upon business
connected with the destruction of Colling
Hall, requested her to find a successor
to Mrs Gill, and advised her to visit the
Continent, in order, he said, that she should
find distraction and amusement. These
suggestions — by no means unlike those
which Mr Simmons might have made
had he fancied himself and Mr Frank
Chobham to have been rivals — Miss Sutcliffe
at once followed. Her new duenna

was a German spinster, whose great bulk,
and supposed austerity, were her chief recommendations.
Helena travelled with her
to Venice, where, being greatly charmed
with the place, she remained for some
weeks. But fate pursued her.

One evening as she was sitting on
her balcony, engaged in embroidery, she
chanced to look into the room, where she
had left her purse upon the table, and saw
the German spinster in the act of stealing
a bank-note. After allowing a day to
elapse, in the hope of some explanation
being offered, Helena charged the companion
with the theft, and told her that
after she had accompanied her back to
England, she must leave her. But Fraulein
went away in the night, leaving her
young charge to shift for herself.

This proceeding was the more inconvenient

for Miss Sutcliffe, from the fact
that she had just parted with her maid,
who had gone to nurse an invalid father.
Being thus left alone and unprotected, who
should come to Miss Sutcliffe in her emergency
but Frank Chobham ! He immediately
proffered the services of a friend
in need ; and this time he seemed to feel
no hesitation on the ground of delicacy.
He at once undertook to convey Helena
in safety to England, and he performed
the duty with perfect fidelity. She, on
reaching England, would have temporarily
placed herself under the protection of her
guardian, of whom, for some reason, she
now no longer felt any suspicions. But
old Mrs Chobham pressed her to remain
with her, " until her plans were settled ; "
and Mr Simmons, strange to say, warmly
seconded the proposal.

So Helena, with no mother or father to
advise her rightly, but with a guardian
who advised her wrongly — the home she
had loved being destroyed — was now
nearly at the mercy of old Mrs Chobham
and her son ; and the success or failure of
their designs will be duly shown later on.

CHAPTER XIV.

I enjoyed only a short recess with my
parents. A holiday at this time of year
was not a matter of course for the pupils
of Mr Wish, and I had been given the
option of remaining with him, as Dundas
and Pillett were doing, but for obvious
reasons I had chosen to go home. I found
my father considerably changed. But at
this announcement the reader must not
prepare to hear of his dissolution. He had
evidently been shaken by the death of his
old friend Mr Sutcliffe ; and he seemed to
be, moreover, troubled by some other affairs,
known only to himself. Just then, however,

he was helping my mother to entertain
a houseful of people, and no doubt these
guests diverted his thoughts to some extent.
For my own part, I found my home
exceedingly dull, and I was much driven
into the society of my father's gamekeeper —
for our visitors were all persons of fifty and
upwards ; and to seek out friends of my
own age — who all lived at some distance —
or to go into the town of Wolvenden, I had
nothing to ride but a little stumbling pony,
which had been purchased for me when I
was much younger and smaller, and of which
I was now quite ashamed. Besides my walks
with the keeper, therefore, I found hardly
anything to fascinate me to my home ; and
I spoke nothing more than the truth when,
in answer to four or five letters from Mrs
Wish, I once wrote to her myself, saying that
I should not be sorry to return to the north.

Before I did return, a rather noteworthy-event
took place in our household. White,
the footman, came to my father one day,
and telling him that he had saved a
small sum of money, which to him was a
competence, requested permission to leave
our service. He was anxious, he said, to
make a little home of his own, somewhere
in the suburbs of London, if possible near
a good library. " And perhaps," he added,
with a firm voice but glistening eye, " I
may some day find a respectable young
woman of my own station of life, and
make her my wife."

My father answered in the way which
might have been expected from him ; that
is, he expressed his regret at losing such
a valuable servant, and his determination
not to oppose to White's plans any selfish
objections of his own. He also begged

that White would freely ask his advice if
he needed it, either then as to his immediate
intentions, or at any future time in
any difficulty or distress to which he might
find himself exposed. He then shook the
hand of his old favourite, and presented
him with a complete edition of Gibbon's
Decline and Fall.' "White, in wishing us
all farewell, said that he should remember
until his dying day the kindness he had
received from our family. He then took
his departure amidst general regret, my
mother extorting from him a parting promise
that he would treat with the greatest
possible care any reappearance of gout.

When I returned to my tutor in the
north, the reception I met with was ominous
of further entanglements in store forme.
I had determined to meet Mrs Wish
in the first instance with particular frankness,

and to retain that attitude towards
her as long as I remained under her husband's
roof. But, with a horrid cunning
of her own, she altogether frustrated my
good intentions. I arrived in the afternoon,
and for some hours neither heard nor
saw anything of my tormentor. Mr Gar-bold,
who had returned the day before,
asked me, in a low and serious tone of
voice, but with a laughing eye, " Whether
I had seen her yet?" and, when I had
professed not to understand him, inquired
Where the meeting was to take place ? "
at what time \ " and so on. But the evening
meal took place, and still Mrs Wish did
not appear. I then went out into the
garden, beginning to think, I do not say to
hope, that until the next day, at all events,
I was secure. But Garbold followed me
out into the lawn and told me, as if he

were delivering a very ordinary message,
that Mrs Risk wanted to see me in her
boudoir.

She hasn't got one," answered I.

But at that moment a window opened
just above my head, and Mrs Wish looked
out, saying, " Allen ! " (she generally addressed
me by my surname,) " aren't you
coming to say ' how d'ye do \ ' '

With mingled feelings which I do not
care to describe, I obeyed the summons.
The room in which I found my tormentor,
had been, until very lately, nothing better
than a lumber-room, where empty trunks
and cases were kept ; but it was now fitted
up, in a certain school of taste, to serve
for what Mrs Wish was pleased to call it
namely, a boudoir.

She had contrived to collect, and hang
upon the walls, several pictures ; principally

engravings or photographs taken
from well-known paintings, and nearly all
of them dealing with love or romance.
The frames of these pictures were wrapped
in muslin, and ornamented with bows of
blue ribbon. She had also about her, sundry
feathers and fans ; two jars which had
once contained preserved ginger ; a hanging
book-shelf, with books, for the most
part poems ; and several miscellaneous
ornaments and works of art. In a conspicuous
part of the room stood the phrenological
bust, with Combe's book close
at hand for ready reference. As for Mrs
Wish herself, her own appearance was evidently
designed, like that of her boudoir,
to intoxicate my simple imagination, and
lead me captive. She usually wore dark
dresses — she was particularly fond of black
silk — and a crinoline of great size; now she

was strangely attired in a scarlet wrapper,
long and limp ; and the contrast was very
striking. She received me with a highly
becoming reserve, and made me seat myself
in a chair which would have more
comfortably held a child of seven years
old. She herself reclined on a sofa, and,
like an Eastern potentate, commenced the
interview by summoning an attendant,
and ordering coffee. " Hannah' said she,
to the attendant who came, "will you
make us two cups of nice strong coffee,
please % "

Yes, ma'am," answered Hannah, who
then paused.

Her mistress regarded her with a look
of compassionate amazement, and asked,
"Weill"

"The keys, ma'am, please," answered
Hannah.

Mrs Wish, with a stately smile, gave her
the keys, and dismissed her.

For half an hour we conversed in a manner
which would seem perfectly commonplace,
were I to record the conversation
here ; but which was really rather remarkable,
since we were neither of us the least
interested in the words we exchanged, but
were both thinking of other matters, which,
for separate reasons of our own, we did not
choose to touch upon. Our interview was
brought to an end in a ludicrous though
somewhat alarming manner, by the clang
of a large dinner-bell, which was rung at
this unusual hour for no reason that we
could then imagine, unless it might chance
that the house was on fire.

When we had hastened down-stairs, however,
we found that Hannah had spread

the dining-room table-cloth, and had also
covered the table with all the materials
for a substantial supper, to which she had
sounded a general invitation by ringing the
dinner-bell. Mrs Wish, having perceived
that the mistake had arisen through Hannah's
imperfect acquaintance with the ways
of a boudoir, put a good face on the matter ;
and she, her husband, Mr Garbold, Dundas,
Pillett, and I, were soon engaged in an
extraordinary feast, to which we all did
justice.

But I do not intend to dwell over this
portion of my history ; and though I have
only just chronicled my return to Mr Wish,
I must ask the reader to let me pass on now
to the time when I was once more leaving
my tutor's house in order to go home again.
As to what had happened meanwhile, I

need only say that Mrs Wish continued
her assaults with an energy, a patience,
and an ingenuity, that were worthy of a
better cause ; and that I, from what combined
reasons I need not myself state, resisted
all these assaults until the end, when
I found a most unexpected ally in Mr Gar-bold.
From certain idle motives which
will be partly explained in the course of
this work, he had all along given his aid
to Mrs Wish, and to the furtherance of
her plans ; at the last moment, however,
he completely changed his attitude, and
by so doing, did me a sincere kindness,
though he incurred Mrs Wish's resentment,
and had a sharp quarrel with her.

The fact is, after plying me with many
experiments in phrenology and spirit-rapping,
and many lectures on the misfortunes

of ill-assorted marriages, and the delights
of free and ennobling friendships, Mrs Wish
one day asked me to elope with her. I
cannot say that I immediately and peremptorily
declined the proposal ; on the
contrary, I thanked Mrs Wish for her kindness
and confidence, and begged only that
I might have a little time for reflection.
She allowed me twenty-four hours; or
rather, I succeeded in avoiding her presence
for that length of time. Before she
saw me again, I had seen Mr Garbold. He
had extorted a confession from me ; had
apologised for his share in what had
passed ; and had heard me solemnly declare
that, all inclination apart, I had
never entertained the intention of disgracing
two families, and making one person,
at the least, for ever miserable. Mrs
vol. i. M

Wish and I had a most painful interview
before Ave parted. She shed a flood of
tears, and called mea " cold, mean, cruel,
heartless wretch." When I next saw her,
it was under very different and far more
extraordinary circumstances, as I shall have
to disclose in the course of these pages.

CHAPTER XV.

At this period of my life, although still a
boy in body and mind, in certain acquired
tastes and habits I had become a young
man. My parents did not appear to recognise
the change until I came home
from Mr Wish for the second and last time ;
but when they did recognise it, they instantly
adapted themselves to the transformation,
and thus illustrated the fact that
parents, and people in general, will adapt
themselves to anything, no matter how
outrageous, providing that it is in accordance
with the prevailing fashion to do so.
My father, though he had himself been

birched at the age of eighteen, at once made
a show of admitting me to terms of equality
with him ; and finding that I was too
old to play at marbles, at once allowed me
to drink port. He also let me argue with
him, and, as my opinions were as changeable
as my voice, I may have given him
some useful practice in debate. My mother,
who was naturally ready to spoil me, now
began to pay me actual homage. She taught
me to contradict, to correct, and to patronise
-her; she encouraged me in smoking to
excess ; and sometimes seemed to hint that
she suspected me of being a rake. I occasionally
felt tempted to gratify my youthful
vanity by telling her of my curious
affair with Mrs Wish ; but my mother
seemed to know something approaching
the truth as to that matter, for she more
than once observed, "You must never go

back to that odious tutor, and his disreputable
wife." Her sagacity appeared to me
very surprising ; but I afterwards discovered
that certain letters, which I had intended
to destroy, were nowhere to be
found ; upon which I thought it best to
leave matters as they stood, so far as
explanation with my mother was concerned.


While my father and mother treated me
with unwise indulgence, I, of course, never
tried to oppose them by showing them any
of that deference and humility which they
seemed to consider obsolete; and if they
had knelt before me every night for my
blessing, before going to bed, I should have
given it to them. At the same time, I
was perfectly ready to be disciplined ; and
should have taken a box on the ears from
either of them quite as a matter of course.

It positively pained me to see my father,
on the point of saying, " Don't do that' or
"Don't fidget' change his intention, and
cough or smile instead.

In this unsatisfactory state of affairs, my
uncle — who in the course of my career has
more than once come to my rescue at the
critical moment — came to Hare Place, and
soon effected a few necessary reforms. He
first of all remonstrated with my father for
not providing me with occupations and
amusements suited to my time of life ; and
he especially begged him to preserve his
game more strictly than he had hitherto
done, in order that I might have the advantage
of enjoying some good shooting.
He also made a critical inspection of our
stable, which he found tenanted only by a
pair of fat carriage-horses and my pony. He
caused the pony to be sold in bondage to

the children of the vicar, and having done
this, persuaded my father to purchase me a
strong and serviceable colt, which had just
been trained for a hunter. I was soon able
to laugh as much as any one else at my former
experience in company with Dundas ;
for I took to fox-hunting with the greatest
enthusiasm and enjoyment.

I was delighted to find that disparity
in age in the hunting-field was no morea
disadvantage than disparity in rank.
Everybody seemed cheerful and well-mannered
; though I certainly noticed that the
most timid horsemen were more polite than
any one else. As soon as I had become a
fox-hunter, I began to feel my position in
society no longer anomalous ; also I lost
much of that mingled bashfulness and assurance
which had hitherto made others uncomfortable
as well as myself. Indeed, my

own experience has been that fox-hunters,
although they may "blurt and swing their
legs about " in a drawing-room — as they are
said to do — are, if such a thing be possible,
rather more agreeable and at their ease
than anti-fox-hunting authors and critics.
Old gentlemen, who had formerly regarded
me with curious dislike, now used to pay
me considerable attention ; and I found it
much pleasant to have to answer "Whether
I had had a good run ? " or " Whether I

was going to S on Tuesday ? " than

to be perpetually explaining "How I had
left Eton?" or "What I was doing with
myself r

But the great question of my future profession
was not yet happily decided, and I
began to urge my father to give his formal
consent to my entering the light cavalry,
a scheme which had somehow taken complete

possession of me, and to allow me to
proceed to an army " crammer " at once, in
order to be ready for examination as soon
as I should have reached the qualifying
age. He told me that he could see no advantage
in my returning to Mr Wish, and
that if I was bent on entering the army,
he supposed I had better be prepared in
the usual manner. "As to cavalry," said
he, "you know the infantry is the backbone
of our army." But I told him that I
had set my heart upon being mounted, and
he made little further opposition. One day,
however, I was surprised to hear that he
had asked for a commission for me in the
county militia. He explained to me that
he had done this in the hope that a little
militia service would at once give me an
introduction into military life, and reconcile
me to afterwards entering the line. I

did not discuss the wisdom of this arrangement,
but I may say that I was highly
pleased to be no longer in terror of several
more years of Latin and Greek.

The " crammer " to whom I was now
sent, was a man of the name of Skelton,
who lived in a dilapidated mansion in the
suburbs of London. He was a rough but
highly educated man ; and though he was
obliged chiefly to teach mathematics, his
peculiar faculty was the cultivation of languages,
of which he was more or less
acquainted with thirteen. He resembled
Mr Wish in one respect, for he taught by
formula quite as much as that gentleman
did, and his method met with great success.
He " turned out " his pupils ready for examination,
as a machine might turn out
buttons ready for use. He seemed to me
to possess none of the ordinary human

emotions ; and at the time I went to him,
he was occupying his leisure with the study
of Welsh. He made no pretence of guarding
our morals, or of encouraging us in
polite manners. All he did was to teach
each of us how to gain, at a certain date,
a certain number of marks. His pupils —
either because they found none of the refinements
of home in Mr Skelton's house,
or because they were naturally addicted
to low tastes — passed away much of their
spare time in a neighbouring tavern. Tome
the charms of drinking beer out of a
pewter pot, and smoking a meerschaum
pipe until I was nearly prostrate, soon began
to fade. I must confess, in short, that I
had very little of that taste for low company
which certain writers, from a rather
transparent motive, delight in extolling.
In company with a youth named Patterson,

I endeavoured under some difficulties
to lead a life of elegance and fashion. We
used to saunter in the Park, or attend other
fashionable resorts ; and when a sale was
taking place at TattersalTs, we generally
contrived to attend it. But Patterson was
not content with going to Tattersall's and
no more. Emboldened by finding that our
presence there did not seem to be resented,
or to occasion any stir, with extraordinary
hardihood and folly Patterson began himself
to bid for some of the horses. At first
I believed he was serious, and for two days
I respected him as a potential owner of
horses ; but when I discovered that he had
neither money with which to buy horses,
nor any purpose to which he could put
them if they were bought, I remonstrated
with him, though in vain. Nevertheless,
his impudence was certainly amusing. He

was very wary, and only threw in an offer
when the bidding was quite brisk. On an
evil day, and in an unlucky moment, however,
by a mere nod of the head he found
himself the owner of a chestnut gelding,
called Banquo. In this dreadful strait I manfully
stood Patterson's friend, and while he
was positively shedding tears, ascertained
that he was not required either to pay for
Banquo or to immediately remove him. So
we went to Mr Skelton ; and he, by way
of practice, recorded the circumstances of
the case in Ogham (which he happened to
be studying just then), and then gave Patterson
a draft — fortunately made out in
English — to enable him to pay for his experience.
Patterson's father, a very obscure
physician, next appeared on the scene ; and
having reprimanded his son, resold Banquo
for a third of the sum he had lately cost.

Soon after this adventure I left Mr Skelton,
in order to perform twenty-eight days'
training with the militia regiment to which
I had meantime been gazetted.

But I must now once more leave my
personal history, and give a glance at the
fortunes of Helena Sutcliffe.

CHAPTER XVI.

When I last spoke of Miss Sutcliffe, I
described her as being at the mercy of old
Mrs Chobham, with whom she had been
persuaded to remain " until her plans were
settled." Now her plans were settled ; for
she had become the wife of Mrs Chobham's
son. I must confess that in attempting to
account for the bestowal of such extraordinary
honour upon so unworthy an object,
I find my own judgment somewhat obscured
by passion. I have heard, however, that
after Mr Chobham had escorted Helena to
England, a rumour was freely circulated
that they were engaged to be married. Mr

Simmons, the guardian, heard the report
with considerable satisfaction ; and, though
he presently learnt that it was false, took
council with Mrs Chobham, and then came
to the conclusion that the match, whether
actually contemplated or not, was highly
desirable. As for Mr Frank Chobham, he
was bent upon succeeding in the plan
which his mother had first suggested to
him, when his heart was still lacerated by
the cruelty of Miss Bertha Dean, the lady
by whom he had just been rejected.

Accordingly, he began systematically to
lay aside the pursuit of his own immediate
comfort, and to devote himself steadily to
Miss SutclifTe. How his courtship prospered,
the result explains. He was handsome
and highly accomplished ; a dutiful
son, and, to all appearance, an honourable,
well-bred man. He was without a rival,

and several advantages of time and place
were on his side. Miss Sutcliffe was young,
and what is called " impressionable ; " she
was alone in the world, and almost unprotected
; she felt all the disadvantages
of her friendless condition, they were constantly
pointed out to her, — the happy
alternative being at the same time either
hinted or openly suggested. She had no
confidential friends of her own age ; for,
besides having herself been, all her life, exclusive
beyond her years, her father had
always monopolised her youthful confidence
and companionship. Thus many circumstances
were favourable to the success of
the conspiracy directed against her; and
when the emergency came, neither her
good sense nor her heart proved strong
enough, and she succumbed.

For some time after being first married,
VOL. i. n

she and her husband lived together in a
state of very tolerable happiness. But a
gloom was destined to fall over them, at a
very early stage in their connubial journey.
Mr Chobham was one day brought home
from hunting, very seriously injured. His
life was soon pronounced out of danger ;
but his legs were paralysed, and it was said
that this affliction would be permanent.
For him this was a sufficiently heavy
calamity. At the age of thirty, and at
the outset of his married life, he was apparently
doomed to pass the remainder of his
days in an arm-chair ! To a student, or
bookworm, the misfortune would have been
very severe ; to a man accustomed to pass
most of his time either in travel or in the
pursuit of sport, it was doubly so. But
how did the blow fall upon his wife, and
how was she fitted to bear it? She had

married in haste, and she was now to repent
at leisure.

For the first few weeks she realised
neither the unhappiness that was in store
for her, nor the complete happiness that
she had persuaded herself to expect. Still,
her first experience was rather favourable
than otherwise. Her husband was kind
and attentive to her. She found great
delight in her daily occupations and daily
amusements ; she discovered much new
pleasure in being able to tell some one
else all that passed in her mind ; above
all, she derived complete satisfaction in
knowing whom to oblige and assist, and
in what quarter to direct her efforts to do
good. When Mr Chobham, the first stage
of his devotion having a little subsided,
began to occasionally leave his wife alone
(by which I do not mean that he neglected

her), Helena was at no loss to pass her time
in a very agreeable manner. Her existence
at that time might be properly described asa
dream, from which she would ultimately
awaken to the enjoyment either of happiness
or of misery. This " awakening "
was not of the kind generally called
rude," for it came by very slow degrees.
Helena, only twenty years old, habituated
to comfort and luxury, and wholly unaccustomed
to restriction, on finding herself
suddenly condemned to be the nurse, rather
than the wife, of her partner for life,
accepted the affliction without any repining
whatever. She saw in it the enforcement
of a severe but just lesson ; that
perfect happiness is within the reach of
no human being, and that the two great
blessings which she herself enjoyed — those
of health and wealth — are powerless against

some of the most ordinary misfortunes of
life.

The first task which she had to learn was
how to bear with Mr Chobham's excessive
selfishness. For selfish he had always been,
and doubly selfish he not unnaturally became
after his accident. The principal
duty which he now allotted to his wife
was that of reading aloud to him. Neither
his eyes nor his brain was injured, and he
could have well read to himself; but he
derived more pleasure from listening, and
it sometimes appeared that he meant to
listen for ever. Voyages and travels best
pleased him; and he allowed Helena to
read, with scant intervals, for whole days.
She performed her task with a dutiful
bravery that did her the greatest honour.
And although the Egyptian discoveries of
Dr Benson, or the Highland Rambles of

Captain Damper, did not comprise matters
of personal interest to her, she knew that
these works pleased her husband, and that
in reading them until her eyes swam, and
her throat was parched, she was doing what
was right. But I must not be carried away
by sentiment ; and it may be that the swimming
eyes and the parched throat were
good discipline for one who had hitherto
led a very easy life. Before long, however,
other hardships fell to her lot, some of
which duty did not really compel her to
accept.

Mrs Chobham the elder, at the first news
of her son's accident, hastened to his side ;
and without any apology to her daughter-in-law,
proceeded to place herself at the
head of the household establishment. Her
principal reason for doing this was the
anxious solicitude she felt for her son ; but

it was also natural that she should feel
tempted to display a little authority on
returning to a house which, until quite
lately, had belonged to her ; especially as
she had been living in some discomfort
since the marriage of her son. She failed
to overcome the difficulty of contenting
herself with the position of guest, therefore,
and her usurpation at first seemed almost
warranted ; for not only was she an experienced
matron, but she had more knowledge
than Helena possessed on many local
matters. Under such circumstances as these,
a model mother-in-law would have left the
executive to the mistress of the house,
making herself useful at the same time by
tendering her advice whenever it was required.
Helena would have been very
grateful for such help as this ; but she
found herself, on the contrary, treated in

her own house as a nonentity. The solitary
office that she was still permitted to
fill (and the usurper seemed to regard
it as a sinecure), was that of reader to
her husband. All such duties as cutting
up his meat, wheeling about his chair, or
pouring out his medicine, were performed
by his mother ; and Helena was pained to
observe that he seemed to approve of these
arrangements. The fact was, that both he
and his mother possessed the same family
failing — viz., an absolutely exclusive delight
in themselves, and love for their own habits,
vices, and latent virtues ; and Helena being
a Chobham only by marriage, both the
husband and his mother had received her
into the family with toleration, rather than
with cordiality.

One day Helena was reading aloud from
the Eev. Mr Don's ' Holiday in the Alps,'

when the time came for Mr Chobham to
drink a dose of medicine. She having reminded
him of this fact, he said, " Just tell
the mother, will you ? " But Helena this
time chose to serve him herself, and he
raised no objection. Just as he had raised
the glass to his lips, " the mother " came in,
and at once ran forward with that kind
of brisk alarm which a nurse would exhibit
on finding the baby playing with a razor.
The old dame soon discovered that the
dose had been accurately administered ;
and, either because she was ashamed, or
because she saw the advantages of a division
of labour, she allowed Helena, for
some time afterwards, herself to give Mr
Chobham his medicine. But a most unfortunate
accident took place soon after this
concession had been made.

Besides certain drugs being administered

to the sick man, a liniment was daily
rubbed into his legs. From this latter
process he derived so much relief, that he
caused Helena to rub him during a great
portion of a certain night. At ten o'clock
the following day, she had to read to him
for an hour and a half, from an abstruse
book of voyages ; and on the expiration of
this task, he asked her for his medicine.
He then noticed — apparently for the first
time — her sunken eyes and general appearance
of exhaustion ; and, with uncommon
good-nature, himself offered to pour out
the drug, allotting to her the less difficult
task of holding the glass. This solitary act
of self-devotion nearly cost him his life.
Instead of pouring out medicine for the
stomach, he filled himself a dose of his
favourite liniment, which he instantly
drank. He had no sooner done so, than

both he and his wife discovered the mistake.


Helena being unusually weak owing to
the want of proper rest, was for a moment
quite confounded ; but quickly recovering
her presence of mind, she hastened from
the room, to return carrying a pot of
mustard and some warm water. This preparation
she at once administered to her
husband.

Mrs Chobham the elder, who had been
quietly discussing some sausages and chocolate
in the breakfast-room, hearing an unwonted
stir, hurried to the scene of action,
and there found what certainly seemed an
alarming state of things. Her son, pale as
death, was leaning forward in his chair,
giving full scope to the operation of the
mustard and water ; while Helena, once
more overcome by fatigue and alarm,

was faintly exclaiming, " Oh, I've killed
him!"

In clue course, however, Mr Chobham
recovered from the effects of the poison,
and explained to his mother how all had
happened. His mother was constrained to
appear satisfied, but she was by no means
easy in her mind. And Helena, with some
appearance of reason, reverted to the single
post of reader.

Soon after this accident, another more
startling event took place. Mr Chobham
being one day left alone with his wife fora
few minutes, she ventured to smooth his
brow, and ask him whether he did not feel
much better.

He replied that he did, and furthermore,
that he had a desire to smoke. She, delighted
to find him so improved (for he had
not touched tobacco since he had been hurt),

hastened off in order to fetch him some
cigars. When she returned his chair was
empty, and the room unoccupied !

Helena turned pale with alarm, but not
so pale as Mrs Chobham the elder, who now
came in, and with trembling lips asked,
"Where is her'

Helena could only repeat the question,
but bestirred herself at once to search for
him. As she ran from the room, the
mother was seized with a fit of hysterics,
and commenced to scream, "What have
you done with my son 1 I demand of you,
where is he ? "

Helena having summoned all the servants
she could find, they began to look in
every direction for the missing man ; and
he was presently found, somewhat bruised,
at the foot of a short flight of stairs.

As soon as he was able to speak, he

explained the phenomenon which had
occasioned so much consternation. When
Helena had left him he had dropped his
pocket-handkerchief : then, in his efforts
to recover it, he had occasion to place one
foot upon the ground; when, to his joy
and amazement, he discovered that he had
regained the use of one leg. He had thereupon
risen, and found that he could stand
on both legs without any difficulty. An
unaccountable whim had then seized him,
and this was, to walk into the room where
he believed his mother to be, and astonish
her with that proof of his powers. But he
had hardly started on this expedition, when,
the strength qf his legs having subsided, he
tumbled down some stairs just outside his
chamber door, to be afterwards found and
rescued as I have related.

This event, although it caused considerable

annoyance to the doctors who were
attending Mr Chobham, gave great joy to
nearly every one else concerned in his recovery.
He improved from day to day,
and in a few more weeks was completely
restored to health. He then proceeded to
travel, accompanied by Helena ; to whom
his mother, with many pangs, once more
resigned the reins of domestic government.

CHAPTEE XVII.

When I first joined the militia I was a
mere boy, and I possessed no kind of
knowledge as to what sort of duties I
should have to perform. Indeed I was so
young that I had been granted a commission
only as a special favour to my father ;
who in consequence of the Reform agitation,
had lately changed his politics. The composition
of the militia force was a mystery
to me. One of my cousins, young Long-staff,
belonged t<5 my regiment ; but owing
to a great dissimilarity between his character
and tastes and mine, I had seen very
little of him since the time when I had tried

to cane him in my " school' and I had never
heard from him any particulars about the
service to which he belonged. I knew two
other officers in the regiment ; but one was
a major who had been a lieutenant in the
navy, and the other was a lieutenant who
had been a captain in the army, and this
mixture of several ranks only added to my
confusion.

The regiment was assembled for training
at the town of "Wolvenden, not many miles
from my home. I took up my quarters at
a hotel called The Bull, where our mess was
held, and where most of the other officers
were staying : for the men were in billets,
excepting the permanent staff and bandsmen,
who lived in some old red-brick barracks
where the regimental business was
transacted.

On first entering " the ante-room," as it
vol. i. o

was called, at The Bull, instead of finding
a number of old gentlemen in white trousers
and cross-belts seated at a table (which was
positively what I had fancied I might seethe
first persons I noticed were four or five
particularly young men, three of whom had,
like myself, only just joined. There was
also present an officer of about fifty years of
age, whom, from his weather-beaten hairy
visage, ringing brass spurs, and the badges
on his uniform collar, I assumed to be the
colonel ; and whose own remarks did not
lead me to suppose that I was mistaken, for
he talked only of war and discipline. We
were presently joined by Captain Brain,
the adjutant, who saluted him of the
brass spurs with extravagant ceremony,
though the compliment was acknowledged
with great gravity. Captain Brain, who
was also in uniform, wore the ribbon of a

medal which he had earned some years previous
to my birth. He had a loud, hoarse
voice ; was short, stout, and bald-headed ;
and he carried his elbows almost to the
height of his shoulders. I presently perceived
by the conversation, that the officer
whom I had imagined to be my colonel,
was really the surgeon, Dr Cough.

I was listening with great respect to the
opinions he was expressing as to the probability
of our being shortly sent into huts ina
neighbouring camp, when I was amazed
to hear him interrupted in his remarks by
one of the captains who had meanwhile
come in, who said laughingly, " Oh, shut
up, Coffy ! you're an old pill-box, and don't
know anything about it."

Ascough did not appear to relish this,
though he tried to seem as merry as possible
; and I could not help wandering

why all his badges of rank should procure
him nothing better than familiarity. A
young officer on joining, generally called
him " Doctor " for a few clays ; then
Ascough ;" and finally, towards the end
of a month, " Coffy."

I began to dress for my first mess-dinner
at least an hour sooner than was necessary;
and while thus engaged was told that a
certain Sergeant Munden wished to speak
to me. I said I would see him, and soon
afterwards he presented himself. He was
a tall handsome man, with venerable-looking
white hair. His face was as sun-burnt
as that of a gipsy. He wore four medals,
and as he drew himself up and saluted me,
I felt very proud of having him under my
command. He opened his business thus :
I have come to ask your honour if you
will allow me to clean your sword and

accoutrements for you. You will want
some one to do the job for you, and I know
how your things should be better than any
other person in the regiment. I have served
in the army for thirty-two years ; I was all
through the Crimea and the Mutiny, and
there isn't any man in the service better
known or more respected than myself. The
colonel knows me well, and so does the
adjutant."

I thanked him, and gave him my sword,
with some reluctance, however, for so far
from wishing to see it made cleaner, I was
already mortified by its extreme brightness,
which seemed to proclaim its having seen
no kind of service.

Sergeant Munclen, having taken the
sword, went on to say that he supposed
I had given my washing to some one
already.

I told him that I had not yet done so.

Then will you allow my wife to wash
for your honour \ " said he — adding, " she
does all the washing for the young officers.
They won't employ any other person. ' sergeants
says one of the young gentlemen,
Mr Percival, ' I won't allow any one to
meddle with my things, only Mrs Munden.
She's the cleanest, most respectable, most
hard-working woman in barracks.' '

When he had finished this speech I readily
agreed to his second request, for I had not
the same scruples with regard to my shirts
as I had respecting my sword.

He now produced a curious looking book,
and said in a low tone, " I have taken the
liberty of bringing you the order-book, sir.
The corporal that had the orders wasn't fit
for a young gentleman like you to speak to.
I won't say he was drunk, for then I should

have made him a prisoner ; but he was three
parts gone. Nearly the whole regiment's
the same way just the first few days."

The latter remark was perfectly true, and
the adjutant sometimes found it necessary to
pitch tents in the barrack-yard for the extra
accommodation of the numerous prisoners.
When I had read the orders without being
much the wiser, Sergeant Munden seemed
about to take his departure, but his keen eye
suddenly lit upon a portrait which I had hung
up, of my uncle Thomas in full uniform.

Was your father in the service, your
honour \ " asked Mundane

; that's my uncle," answered I.

If it's not taking a very great liberty,
what was his name \ " proceeded the sergeant.


Colonel Allen," I replied.

Upon this Munden laid down his cane

gloves, order-book, and my sword, and appeared
overcome by pleasant recollection.
Colonel Allen ! " cried he, " Colonel Allen !
lie commanded the 53d."

No ; he was in the Guards," said I.

"He was in the Guards, was Colonel
Allen," continued Munden, quite unabashed ;
but the 53d lay alongside them at Dublin.
Oh, Colonel Allen ! I knew him well :
I was his orderly many a time. He was
a fine officer, sir, and a wonderfully strict
man at the same time."

At this point we were interrupted by the
entrance of young Longstaffe, who had come
in pursuance of a promise to see that I was
correctly dressed before going to dinner.
On seeing him, Sergeant Munden at once
took his departure.

I was grateful to my cousin on this occasion,
though he was not celebrated for his

good-nature, for he showed me that I had
put on the wrong kind of trousers, and the
wrong sort of neck-tie and collar. While
I was making the necessary alterations,
he gave me a cursory account of Sergeant
Munden. He was, beyond doubt, he said,
a rascal in the main. He lived in comparative
comfort, while his wife and family were
in distress, and he had " no conscience
whatever." On the other hand, he was not
without some good qualities ; for he knew
his drill very well, had been distinguished
for bravery, could un demonstratively carry
more liquor than any two ordinary men —
and would always tell a good lie, and stick
to it, to get an officer out of a scrape."

As soon as I was attired in my scarlet
and silver lace, I experienced an amount of
sincere complacency which no arguments or
demonstrations could have disturbed. Instead

of feeling a reasonable pride in belonging
to the constitutional force of the
kingdom, I felt a spirit of hostile exultation,
as if Wolvenden had been a foreign
town and our regiment part of an army of
occupation. When our bandsmen, in their
white tunics, marched under the archway
of the hotel, followed by a large crowd, I
nearly danced with joy; and when I went
into dinner, the music playing " The Roast
Beef of Old England," I gave vent to my
emotion by saying to my cousin, " How
jolly this is! isn't it?"

He, however, had served for one month in
the previous year, and was fast growing out
of the enthusiastic age, so he answered,
Oh, you'll be sick of it soon enough ! "

The dinner to which I sat down was in
reality a banquet of the first order ; for as
in time of peace we were put to expense in

this matter for only twenty-eight clays, we
chose to live for that period as w r ell as
judges in assize time. I was surprised to
find, during my first mess-dinner, that very
few oaths were uttered; that women,
horses, and wine were not the absorbing
topics ; and that no wagers were laid : but
I presently reflected that we very likely did
not enjoy all the supposed privileges of the
regular army. At dinner I was frequently
asked for the pleasure of a glass of wine,
which gave me great satisfaction ; and I was
also pleased to drink the health of my sovereign,
as soon as the cloth was removed.

After mess I was presented to my captain,
who was Sir James Hoddem. I had
for some time regarded him with extraordinary
veneration, on account of his being
described in the 'Army List' as a "late
cornet " in the Life Guards. I had no

means of knowing that he had only served
for about six months in the army, or that,
owing to ill health, he had never been
through the riding-school. On making my
acquaintance, Sir James told me that I was
very fortunate to have been posted to
number ten," which was the company he
commanded.

I asked him, in a friendly and confidential
manner, which I believed to be appropriate,
" whether we had much to do ? "

You'll have plenty to do, you may take
your oath," he replied.

I found that what he had said was very
true ; and for several days I was very
closely engaged in learning the necessary
rudiments of the art of war. However,
I was soon allowed to make some progress,
and I had the distinction of carrying the
colours on parade.

In the next chapter I shall relate a few
of my professional experiences, and I believe
that some of the revelations I shall have to
make will be found not only curious, but
startling.

CHAPTER XVIII.

In due course it came to my turn to bethe
" subaltern of the day." I commenced
my duties with keen enjoyment, and at
half-past six in the morning stood in a shed,
enthusiastically watching the issue of the
rations. These rations consisted of one
pound of good bread and three-quarters of a
pound of inferior meat. The quartermaster
was not present, as he should have been ;
but the quartermaster-sergeant, who was
there, seemed thoroughly to understand the
business in which he was engaged, and indeed
he seemed on perfectly familiar terms
with the butcher.

There's too much bone on this' observed
one of the men.

Nothing of the sort," answered the
quartermaster-sergeant ; " there's not more
than half of it fat and bone."

It's how I like it myself," remarked the
butcher, with a smile.

I often felt inclined to espouse the cause
of the men who complained ; but besides
being timid of exercising my authority, I
knew nothing about the quality of bread or
raw meat. Also, some men complained
without reasonable cause, and simply as a
speculation ; and furthermore, the 
had one argument which
seemed plausible, to meet any concessions
on my part, and that was, " If you do it for
one, they'll all expect the same."

When the general issue of rations was
concluded, the quartermaster-sergeant's son,

a fat little boy of seven, arrived, carrying
a large basket, in which the butcher and
baker placed rations of meat and bread.

"Would you like a piece of suet?" inquired
the butcher.

Well, I don't mind if I do have a pudding
to-day," answered the quartermaster-sergeant.


"It's beautiful meat," soliloquised the
butcher; and the quartermaster-sergeant
said, "That's all, sir," and went away.

I was now alone with the two purveyors,
and was about to depart, when a small
knot of militiamen, headed by a corporal,
returned to the shed. The corporal, having
introduced the deputation, told me that the
men wished to speak to me.

"What is it?" I asked.

We think," answered one of the deputation,
"that it's very hard we've got to

take this here ration." Saying this, he
amazed me by exhibiting an enormous
empty marrow-bone.

Notwithstanding my inexperience, I could
see that a trick was being played, and was
about to say so, when the butcher, with a
sulky air, gave the complainants an excellent
beef-steak, with which they made off
laughing.

I afterwards ascertained that the marrowbone
which I had seen had been produced
upon some former occasions ; and I believe
that it was periodically waved, as it were,
before the butcher in a warning manner,
to remind him that certain practices of
his were observed.

After the issue of rations I performed
various duties to the best of my ability,
learning what I had to do from a report
which had been written by a former sub-vol.

I. P

altera, of the day. This report concluded
with the statement, " Nothing unusual occurred
during my tour of duty ; " but as
something very unusual did occur during
the tour which I performed, I think it is
worth while that I should relate what it
was, though I shall not fatigue the reader
by describing seriatim everything else that
I did.

The " subaltern of the day " was supposed
to act in an auxiliary capacity with the
captain of the day." The captain with
whom I chanced to be on duty was an
officer of the name of Solomon. He had
obtained his commission from the Lord
Lieutenant in a rather mysterious manner ;
and all that we knew about him was that
his father had been a parliamentary agent.
Captain Solomon (and so he invariably
styled himself) was the bane of our colonel's

life, and an object of detestation throughout
the regiment. While he was not out
for training he seemed to traverse the face
of Europe, leaving ridiculous traces of himself
wherever he went. If we chanced to
read of " an English officer " quarrelling at
a ball in Vienna, or being thrown from his
horse at a review in Paris, we were sure
to hear afterwards that it was Solomon.
He also used to write to the newspapers,
suggesting that we should wear epaulets,
or pockets, or spectacles, or that we should
rank as regular soldiers. When he was out
for his annual training, some means were
generally found of keeping him in order.
Yet even then, as he lived in lodgings
in a remote part of the town, and never
dined at mess when he could avoid it,
he sometimes contrived to bring the uniform
which he professed to love into

discredit. He was constantly embroiling
himself with the regular soldiers, of whom
there were a few in the town ; and one
of them had to be tried by court-martial
for a dispute that he and Solomon had in
the street one night. It was with this
troublesome person, then, that I had to
perform my first tour of duty as subaltern
of the day. During the day he did not
exhibit any of his peculiarities, except in
once rebuking me for not calling him " sir."
When night came, having dined at mess,
I first went the rounds myself, and then,
in accordance with custom, asked Captain
Solomon at what hour it would suit him
to visit the guard. He replied, "About
half-past eleven, subaltern."

Accordingly when that hour had arrived,
Solomon girded on his sword, and
we sallied forth in order to go to the

barracks. We had not gone far along the
streets, when we noticed a large crowd
assembled round a public-house which was
one of our billets. The crowd was watching
the antics of a tipsy militiaman, who,
fully dressed, armed, and equipped, and
carrying his musket with fixed bayonet,
was walking up and down the pavement in
the manner of a sentry. He frequently
waved his right hand to the applauding
mob, and kept shouting, " On guard ! on
guard ! "

As soon as Solomon saw all this, he
paused, and clapping his hand to his chin,
seemed to deliberate. Then, pushing his
way through the crowd, he marched up to
the disturber, and shouted, " What are you
doing out of your billet, sir ? "

To which the man only answered, " On
guard ! on guard ! "

Upon this, Captain Solomon turned tome,
and said, " Subaltern, fetch an escort."
At the same time he drew his sword, intending,
I suppose, to kill his prisoner,
should he attempt to escape.

I was very glad to be able to get away
from this scene, which I found embarrassing:,
though I did not know that it was
disgraceful. I hurried off to the barracks,
and what happened to Solomon in my
absence, I heard partly from him, as I shall
presently show, and partly from other
sources, which I need not mention.

The prisoner, soon after Solomon had
drawn his sword, took to his heels, and,
accoutred as he was, ran down the street.
Captain Solomon immediately darted in
pursuit, but he was so unfortunate as to
get his empty scabbard between his legs,
and measure his length on the pavement.

Nothing daunted, however, he quickly rose
to his feet, and, followed by a delighted
mob, continued the chase.

To return for the present to myself.
I quickly reached the guardroom, where
I interrupted Sergeant Munden, who was
on guard, in an outrageously coarse story
which he was relating over a pipe to a little
drummer boy, who might have been his
grandson. Sergeant Munden, who smelt
very strongly of rum, on hearing what
was the matter, at once despatched the
picket, which had just come in, to Solomon's
assistance. Having been ordered to "fetch"
an escort, I was about to accompany the
picket into the town, when Munden, shaking
his head in a very serious manner, said,
"Don't you go, sir; stay here till they come
back."

Resenting his advice, yet secretly anxious

to act upon it, I stood for a moment irresolute,
and Munden continued, " You are
very young, sir, and I don't wish you to
get yourself into trouble. If Captain
Solomon likes to get into trouble, it isn't
anybody else's business. Why, by golly ! "
(here he gave a laugh,) " when I was in the
Mauritius "

Sergeant Munden ! " said I, astonished
at the change in his manner. He struck
his heels together, saluted, and walked
back into the guard-room.

I remained in the barrack-yard for about
twenty minutes, when the picket returned
with their prisoner. They were causing
him to perform "the frog's march" — that
is, he was being carried by the ankles and
wrists, the front of his body being towards
the ground. The procession was closed by
Captain Solomon, who now came up to

Sergeant Munden, and said in a loud excited
voice : " Sergeant ! I give yon charge
of this man ; you had better handcuff him :
if he kicks at the door, take his boots off.
I shall hold you responsible if he escapes."


If he tries to escape, sir," answered
Sergeant Munden, giving a wink to the
drummer-boy, "I shall put him to death."

Solomon next inspected the guard, visited
two drunken prisoners, and then went off
to his lodgings in the town, whither, at his
urgent request, I accompanied him. As
soon as we were within doors, he produced
a bottle of champagne, and at once drank
the greater portion of its contents. He
then began to exhibit embarrassment, and
at length said, " Youngster ; will you dome
a favour \ "

What is it ? " I asked.

Why, not to go talking to the fellows
about what we've been up to, to-night,"
said he.

I had to consent, but I did so with reluctance,
for I had been amusing myself by
thinking that the night's adventures would
make an excellent story for me to tell to
the other subalterns, and to Dr Ascough,
who always loved gossip. I told Solomon,
however, that if the colonel asked for my
evidence at the orderly-room the next
morning, I should be obliged to speak. At
this his jaw fell for a moment; he then said,
Of course, certainly ; but I have seen to
all that; the corporal of the picket will
be the only evidence. Don't you see," he
continued, " I don't want my name introduced,
if I can help it, for I might get the
poor devil I confined penal servitude."

Being excessively curious to hear some

particulars of the chase, and especially the
final capture, I now begged the captain to
tell me all that had happened. Rendered
communicative by the wine he had drunk,
he narrated, with mingled glee and remorse,
his recent adventure — first making me renew
my promise of secrecy. Omitting the
circumstance of his having fallen on his face,
he told me that when the prisoner broke
away he pursued him through many streets,
for altogether a distance of nearly two
miles, and at last lost sight of him in the
vicinity of a small beer-shop near the barracks.
Solomon had then entered the beer-shop,
and found the fugitive in the act of
concealing himself under a bench in the
tap-room, still fully armed.

I called upon him to surrender," said
Solomon ; " but he never moved. So I took
the beggar by the leg,, and was just pulling

him out when the picket came up, and I
handed him over to them."

Before I left Captain Solomon that night,
he offered to give me some private instruction
in military law. "For," said he, "I
am a pretty old soldier, and know all the
ins and outs of the thing."

Having excused myself from accepting
his offer, I took my departure. As I walked
back to my quarters, I thought over what I
had seen and heard that night, and came to
the conclusion that a man who was born a
gentleman might, without any acquaintance
with military law, make a better officer thana
man who knew all the laws in the service,
but did not possess the spirit in which they
were meant to be exercised.

CHAPTER XIX.

Although, as I have said, I had not of late
had any intimacy with young Longstaffe,
my cousin, during my month's training I
was a good deal thrown into his society;
for his widow mother, Lady Susan, had a
place called Pie-pond Hall, close to AVolven-
den, and now began frequently to invite
me there. Lady Susan Longstaffe, besides
being my mother's first cousin, was my
godmother ; and though she had not taken
much notice of me since my infancy, and
had certainly never ascertained that I had
been confirmed, still, as soon as I was
quartered at Wolvenden, and in the same

regiment as her son, she became most affectionately
civil to me. This was her method
with every one. She cared nothing for
friends or relations as long as they were
absent, and simply neglected them altogether
; but directly she was brought back
into collision with them, she behaved as if
she had always been their tried friend; and,
as she had charming manners, and a voice
and eyes which might have belonged to an
angel, she nearly always contrived to heal
any wounds which her neglect had inflicted.
As for me, I had not missed her face during
the last sixteen years any more than she
had missed mine ; but I was pleased to be
now feasted and almost caressed at her
house, because it afforded me an opportunity
of seeing a person for whom I had an
honest and very sincere affection — namely,
Mrs Frank Chobham, who at this time

came to stay at Pie-pond Hall with her
husband.

I have not thought it necessary to record
the progress of two or three dreamy attachments
with which I had already indulged
myself in the course of my short career. I
had now and then cherished a special admiration
for some one of the opposite sex,
who in each case was a few years my senior ;
but these affairs had never been so serious
as to occasion me any but the most transient
unhappiness or other inconvenience. For
Helena, however, I had for a long time felt
a different kind of regard, which had its
foundation in respect; and though I must
own that I witnessed the ceremony of her
marriage with hardly any emotion whatever,
that event had not ended, or even interrupted,
my admiration and liking for
her. When I met her at Pie-pond Hall, it

was the first time I had seen her since the
occasion of her wedding. 1 had heard that
Mr Chobham had not proved quite as devoted
as he had undertaken to be ; but I
cannot say that I perceived any "settled
gloom," "mute appeal' or "shocking alterations'
in Helena's face ; and though I
might have felt nattered had she confided
to me that she was unhappy (as Mrs Wish
would have done in her place), she on the
contrary gave me to understand that she
and "Frank" were a wonderfully happy
couple.

My frequent visits to Pie-pond Hall excited
the envy of some of the other subalterns,
to whom Lady Susan had shown no
civility, and to whom her son was an object
of dislike. They decided that I gave myself
airs of superiority, which was not an
absolutely unjust charge ; and under these

circumstances they greatly enjoyed a ludicrous
mortification which befell me, as follows.
I was one day sitting in the anteroom
answering an invitation from Lady
Susan, when a visitor was announced. He
entered the room, and immediately addressed
me by name ; whereupon I recognised
that Philip Graham, whom I had
hitherto seen in the dress of a Blue-coat
boy. Although he no longer wore that
strange but picturesque costume, he was
dressed in a very extravagant manner ;
also the black hair on his head was cut so
short that his ears stood out like handles ;
and his face was completely shaved, a blue
mark indicating that he naturally had a
stiff beard. But if his eccentric appearance
was unprepossessing, his voice was still
more so. After giving a most exaggerated
start of pleasure upon seeing me, he ad-vol.
i. Q

dressed me in tones which might have come
from the throat of a bull. " Allen ! " he
bellowed, "do } r ou not know me ? "

Seeing every one turn round with amazement,
I was really tempted to adopt the
base expedient of pretending not to know
him. Before I could recover from my
bewilderment, he continued, in the same
stentorian accents, " Why, how you have
improved ! Indeed I had some difficulty
in recognising you."

I received this with rather a bad grace ;
but, as an alternative to sinking through
the floor, I offered him some refreshment.
Upon which he simultaneously frowned,
rolled his eyes, smiled nearly from ear to
ear, and answered from the pit of his
stomach, " Oh, thank you ! "

While we were waiting for some wine to
be brought in, he asked me whether Mrs

Frank Chobham was quite well. On my
informing him, partly from perversity, that
I believed she had a slight cold, he suddenly
elevated his eyebrows half-way up
his forehead, and, changing his bull-like
roar into a squeak, said, " I am so sorry."

The wine being now brought in, in a
common decanter belonging to the hotel,
he resumed his deep voice, and shouted,
"What very nice glass this is!"

This ridiculous remark increased my ill-humour,
though I could not help smiling;
and as the best mode of getting out of the
ante-room, where every one was struggling
to restrain laughing, I proposed to Philip
that we should go for a walk, to which he
consented, and I hurried him from the
room. Although I was a good deal annoyed,
I was at the same time full of
curiosity to know why he dressed and

spoke in such an unusual manner. This
he soon explained, by telling me that his
father having disowned him, he had become
a strolling player, or, as he styled ita
comedian."

He told me that his father — that is,
Kalph — wanted him to go into the wine-trade,
to which he would not consent ; that
at last, having spent nearly all his money,
he had gone to an agent in Bow Street,
who gave him his "first shop of walking
gentleman and general utility, at fifteen bob
a-week, in the provinces. But I've got on
very well indeed since then," said he ; " I
do the leading business now, and our old
woman finds me in my dresses."

Having said all this in a tone which
caused several passers-by to turn and look
back at us with surprise, Philip Graham at
length explained that his object in coming

to see me was to ask me whether I would
procure for him the patronage of the colonel
and officers of the regiment, and also the
assistance of our band, for a " grand military
performance," which he and his companions
desired to give before leaving Wolverton.
I told him that for my own part
I hoped to see him act, but that he should
apply to the colonel as to the other matters
which he had mentioned. Then, as we had
reached the door of the theatre, which he
said he must enter, I Alas about to wish
him good-day, but he suddenly seized me
by the arm, and asked, " Do you see that
lady over the way there?"

I could only see a woe-begone-looking
woman, who was leaving a pastry-cook's
shop, but I answered him in the affirmative
; upon which, modifying his accustomed
bellow into a stage-whisper, he said, " She

can vamp against any woman you ever
met ! "

Can she ! " said I, wondering what he
meant ; and declining his invitation that I
should come in, I took leave of him, and
returned to the hotel. Here I found the
ante-room very full, and, amongst others, my
captain, Sir James Hoddem, was there. He
was drinking as I came in, and, on perceiving
me, shouted, " What very nice glass
this is ! " at which every one laughed. I
tried to laugh too, but I believe only appeared
uncomfortable. Sir James, after
eyeing me for some time in a critical manner,
said abruptly, "Did you go round all
our billets at the dinner-hour to-day ? Oh !
most of them,' eh ? Well, supposing you
visit them all now." With a heavy heart
1 proceeded to obey the order.

The presence of Philip Graham in Wolverton

caused me the keenest mortification.
At any moment he might appear in our
mess, when I should have to choose between
insulting him by sending him away, or insulting
my brother officers by entertaining
him. Dread at first paralysed my action,
and for a whole day I took no measures of
precaution. The result was that on the
second day, as I was preparing to go to
parade after breakfast, I heard the sonorous
voice of the actor saying, " But, tell me,
has he gone to drill ? You do not know ?
But surely you can ascertain ! "

My brow was covered with a cold mist,
and I should positively have leapt from the
window, had there been no danger of breaking
my legs in doing so. The sonorous
voice grew more distant, however, and I
escaped safely to parade. As I was afterwards
performing my various duties in the

field, I meditated as to what I had better
do with respect to Graham ; and I decided
to lay the case before one of the majors, the
ex-naval officer, whom I knew to be clever
at devising expedients.

When our manoeuvres came to a close, we
were formed up on the common where they
had taken place, and then began to march
back to barracks. As I was happily pursuing
my way, the band playing " Old Bob
Ridley," the men of my company gave a
unanimous groan of derision. Such expressions
of feeling were by no means unusual,
but, having assisted to restore silence, I
followed the glances of the men, in hopes
of seeing something to amuse me, when
an object which filled me with anger and
despair met my eye. Mr Graham had just
emerged from a side street, and was intently
watching us as we passed. He was dressed

in cinnamon-coloured trousers, and a velveteen
coat, while on his head he wore what
was called a pork-pie cap. He had fastened
a pair of double eye-glasses to his nose, and
I believe it was this circumstance that prevented
him from seeing me as I passed.
One of the militiamen who noticed Philip
declared that he must be " Bob Ridley,"
while another said that he was a Russian.
As soon as we had been dismissed I told
all my fears to the major, and the consequence
was that when Graham came to
The Bull, soon afterwards, he was ushered
into a private room, where the adjutant saw
him, promised him what he required, and
then sent him away. The chief part of the
annoyance being thus removed, I was vexed
by Dr Ascough's taking me aside, later in
the day, to remonstrate with me for having
ever received poor Philip in the ante-room.

Why, what else could I have done,
Ascough \ " said I.

Done ! " exclaimed he ; " Done ! Why,
my dear boy, you should have told him to
go to the devil, to be sure ! "

But I presently learnt, somewhat to my
consolation, that I was not the only person
to whom Graham had been the cause of
embarrassment. Soon after he and his companions
had given their " grand military "
entertainment, and had quitted the town, I
dined at Pie-pond Hall, where I again met
Helena Chobham and her husband. In the
course of the evening our hostess, Lady
Susan, said, " I must tell you we had a visit
from a most romantic, charming young
man, a friend of Mrs Chobham's, the other
day.

Helena smiled at this, and said, " Oh yes,
but Mr Allen knows him too.'''

As I endeavoured to utter the name of
Graham " — for I had guessed who it was
my countenance betrayed so much emotion
that every one burst out laughing. I
then compared my own recent experience
with that of Mrs Chobham, and found that
we had each suffered very similar annoyance
; for she Too, wishing to be amiable,
had received Graham when he called upon
her, and had been reprimanded for having
done so. In fact, I believe that her husband,
in reproving her, said almost word
for word what Dr Ascough had said to me.
Helena and I extracted much amusement
out of the Graham incident, but we agreed
in wondering how it came to pass that a
man of Mr Ralph Graham's supposed fortune
should suffer his only son to be wandering
about the country in search of subsistence.


After this meeting with Helena Chobham
(of whom I shall have a good deal more to
say not long hence), I returned to The
Bull at Wolvenden, there to take part ina
kind of entertainment so little heard of
in the present day that I think it is worth
describing. I found the ante-room almost
untenanted. One rubber of whist was
being played. Yet the air was impregnated
with the smoke of many cigars, and
there were other signs which denoted that
the room had only very recently been deserted.
The four whist-players were the
colonel, an army officer, another guest, and
Sir James Hoddem. The latter, as the
cards were being dealt, nodded to me,
saying, " Well, how's Pie-pond getting on ? "
He then added, in a lower tone, " Go and
see what those youngsters are doing, and
let me know."

I left the room, and soon a sound of distant
strife led me in the direction of a corridor
in a remote part of the house. Here
I found everything in darkness, but from
one particular room a violent clamour proceeded.
Into this room I quickly entered,
and was immediately brought to the ground
by a blow in the ribs. Jumping up again,
I at once took part in a fray in which I
could not at first distinguish friend from
foe. From the voices I heard, and from the
forms which I gradually discerned, however,
it appeared that Solomon and three or
four subalterns, including myself, were engaged
in a battle with several men, of whom
one was the ostler. Two chairs had been
broken up, and the pieces were being used
as staves, though most of the party used
their fists. For my own part, I gave one
opponent some pretty hard blows in the

face, and he retreated, pretending not to seeme.
As I was following him, I accidentally
trod on the upturned features of Captain
Solomon, who lay roaring " Murder ! " with
the ostler sitting on him, and shaking him
by the throat. I should have gone to the
rescue, had I not been saved the trouble by
the ostler's wife, a woman of great size, who
ran in at this moment. She, having quickly
identified her husband in the darkness,
seized him by his whiskers and began to
drag him away, at the same time screaming,
- ' You wretch ! why don't you come to
bed ? Fighting a t this hour of the night,
and with the gentlemen staying in the
hotel too ! "

At this point Solomon, who was still on
the floor, seized the ostler by the leg and
endeavoured to throw him, upon which the
Amazon of a wife caught up a slop-pail

which stood by and flung the contents in
Solomon's face. She and her husband then
effected a retreat, and the landlord appearing
with a light, the rest of the enemy also
made off.

I now learnt how the disturbance had
arisen. Solomon, having drunk too much
wine, had attempted to enter a room where
a sort of club was being held. After some
disputing with the members, he had gone
away from the door ; but when one of the
members, who was staying in the house,
had gone to his bedroom, Solomon had followed
him, and some of the other members
had followed Solomon, who in due course
was rather roughly handled. A few of the
subalterns, however, having heard what was
going od, had gone to his rescue. The
ostler, who was in the same condition as
Solomon (except that he had been drinking

beer and gin, instead of champagne and
port), had been attracted to the scene merely
by his desire to fight with somebody.

Having assisted in putting Solomon to
bed, for he was unable to go home, I returned
to the ante-room, but found all in darkness.

The next day, when I awoke, Captain
Brain the adjutant was standing at my
bedside. He told me that he had come
to demand my sword, and to place me in
arrest. He knew nothing, he said, " as to
what I had been about ;" but he was simply
carrying out the colonel's orders, which he
had received at eight o'clock that morning.
He then left me to my reflections, which
were of a most uncomfortable kind. My
most disagreeable thought was that I was a
military prisoner in a hotel. This was far
more galling to my pride than if I had been
a prisoner in barracks or camp. " What," I

asked myself, " would the waiters and
chambermaids suppose ? Perhaps that I
was accused of felony ! " But I was soon
engaged in further unpleasant reflections
of a rather more serious and solid nature.
When my breakfast, or prison fare, was
brought up to my room, my letters which
had come by the post were also given tome.
One of them, undated and unsigned,
ran as follows : —

Sir, — You are a dirty, stuck-up, young
blackguard, and I will tell you why. Your
silly, purse-proud old parents never tied
the knot. You won't believe this, at
first, but ask them for yourself, and you
will find that it is correct. But cheer
up, Tommy. The vanity of high birth is
the greatest of all vanities and fopperies,
and the kings of Denmark draw their pedi-vol.

I. R

gree from Ulfo, who was the son of a hear.
Farewell."

Full of indignation at this extraordinary
insult, I nevertheless broke into a cold perspiration
of fear. I was debating what
course to take, when I heard a trumpet-sound
outside, and looking out of the
window, I saw the army officer who had
been playing whist the night before, ride
under the archway of the hotel, at the
head of a troop of cavalry.

END OF THE First VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

Iii I UljIJ 1 1 IIIII l!l;l jlllllillll I 111 1 1 1

■ Jfcr nB ii j. i egan

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA
823B7922A COM v.1
Autobiography of Thomas Allen

■JWWWiBBWWSWSWW I F l's ' V.Wri'lWI" 1111 ■iwftninimiim 1 11 1 mm

iHTiBBBSBllIiSBBSHlSBEBBEEBESEI

yv'/ss7 &sssM&>^sysMiW4Sittu>yMWM>sj>JAiJ»*

ff

Y?*f*~YaT*Tl^'^^^^

:tn

lille Ullit 1 1 1 II 1

m»nMwmw»n»»x:mtmumtm\{pmxm * »

mmmmmmmmmmmffBimmimi

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

OF ILLINOIS

e>792a

v.Z

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/autobiographyoft02broo

OF

THOMAS A L L E N

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

AUTHOR OF 'POST MORTEM

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

All Rights reserved

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

CHAPTER I.

A full consideration of the anonymous
communication I had received, and a careful
examination of the letter itself and of
the envelope appertaining to it, led me to
conclude little more than that I had an
enemy in the town of Wolvenden. "Who
that enemy was I in vain tried to imagine.
The handwriting of the letter was laboriously
feigned; and the only sentiment

VOL. II. a

revealed was that of rabid and vulgar
animosity. As to the matter contained in
the letter, I emphatically believed and
trusted that it had no foundation save in
the unscrupulously malicious invention of
the writer. I lost no time, however, in
communicating with my father, to whom
I sent the letter, with a full account of the
manner in which it had been received, and
a request for his assistance and advice. He
replied, after rather more delay than I had
expected, saying that he had received my
letter, also the enclosure, and would consult,
"in the proper quarter," as to what
had best be done in the matter. He told
me that I need feel no uneasiness on the
important subject of my birth. " Probably'
he wrote, " the scamp has got hold of
an old story, which you have heard yourself,
about my running away with your

mother ; and if so, he knows that you are
young, and means, first to work upon your
fears, and then to try and extort money.
If you happen to clap hands on him, welland
good ; but, pray, don't let anything
come before the public, unless you are absolutely
compelled. I wish heartily that we
could have had the benefit of poor Hutchins
advice. He would have assisted with the
greatest goodwill possible, and would have
perhaps discovered what puzzles me completely
— viz., ivho your anonymous correspondent
can be. Have not you any
notion whatever yourself ? There must be
many men in the regiment, I mean private
soldiers, who may have picked up something
about our affairs ; and one of them
may owe you a grudge for some punishment
you gave him. We will have a good talk
about all this when you come home again."

I was not altogether satisfied with this
letter. I had expected him to be more indignant
at the insult offered to our family ;
and I had certainly looked for a rather
more emphatic denial of the odious allegation
which had been made. On the whole,
however, I did feel reassured. I had heard,
though I was only now reminded of the
fact, that my parents had been married in
an unusual manner — at Gretna Green, or
elsewhere — in the first instance, but that
they had also been more formally united
shortly afterwards. One phrase, moreover,
that my father used in his letter, nearly
made amends for all that he omitted; for
he spoke of " consulting in the proper
quarter," and I knew by this that he intended
to confer with his brother, my
uncle Thomas, than whom he had no better
friend or adviser.

I will now return to other matters. My
arrest — my incarceration in the hotel — was
not of long duration. Those subalterns,
including myself, who were prisoners for
the part they had taken in the midnight
fray, were speedily reprimanded and set at
liberty. Captain Solomon I saw no more ;
and an announcement to the effect that
he had resigned his commission appeared
shortly afterwards in the ' Gazette.' As to
the sad truth that he was first systematically
made to drink, and then deliberately
permitted to disgrace himself, it merely
illustrates the scandalous and unworthy
shifts to which gentlemen are sometimes
reduced, when they find thrust into their
society persons with whom they would
never associate, and whom they would certainly
never molest, could they be given
any choice or any voice in the matter.

I shall not devote much further space to
my experiences in the militia. As the period
of our training drew to a close, I realised
that I should soon have to revert from the
dignity of manhood to the sunken condition
of a schoolboy ; in other words, that I
should have to return to Mr Skelton. I
then began to see some advantages in abandoning
the army altogether so as to follow
some nominal occupation, such as that of a
briefless barrister. Ascough, the surgeon,
urged me not to forsake the militia, in
which he declared I was excellently fitted
for a career. "Besides' said he, "who
knows where we may find ourselves in
this San Juan affair ? And, pray, what is
the Government going to do about China ? "
Several others asked me why I could not
be content with the life of a country gentleman.
But that question might have been

best answered by my father, who, for some
reasons of his own, was bent upon my following
a regular profession. My own resolution
as to entering the army wavered,
as I have said, but this was only during a
brief period ; for, just as our training was
coming to an end, an incident occurred
which rekindled to the highest degree my
original enthusiasm.

At the close of the preceding volume I
mentioned a certain troop of cavalry, of
which I just caught a glimpse as it was
leaving Wolverton. This troop formed
part of a regiment of hussars, then on the
march, the main body of which soon afterwards
halted in the town for one night.
The society of the officers, whom we entertained
at our mess, delighted me beyond
measure ; for, though they were not all of
them learned and accomplished men, still,

one had lost an eye, and another had
been wounded in the arm, in the charge
of the Light Brigade at Balaklava. I
resolved, forthwith, that this should be
my regiment, if either interest or exertion
could procure me the distinction. So,
having returned to my home, I begged
my uncle to bestir himself in the matter.
Then, without further delay, I hastened
back into the bondage of Mr Skelton, who
at once began to cram me in real earnest ;
and though he was himself somewhat preoccupied
in learning the Swedish language,
he devoted extra time to pushing forward
my preparation, with what success will
presently appear.

Our examination was conducted at Chelsea
Hospital, and a medical scrutiny commenced
the proceedings. One candidate
being found to possess, in all, only seven

toes, was rejected ; but other kinds of defects
were more indulgently treated.

One individual whom the doctors examined,
at first answered all their interrogations
with smiles, bows, or shakes of
the head; and this having aroused their
suspicions, they very frankly desired him
to speak. After a long and painful silence
he contrived to say " that he was rather
nervous." In fact he had what I may callan
intermittent impediment in his speech,
but he was allowed to pass ; and he distinguished
himself in the examination by his
thorough acquaintance with the dead languages.
The most prevalent defect was
that of short-sightedness. One youth was
shown seven black balls printed on a card,
and asked how many he saw. He answered
"twelve," upon which the doctor told him
to use his eye-glass ; which he did, and

then guessed "nine." He was, however,
saved from rejection by the humanity of a
bystander, who came to his assistance by
holding up seven fingers. After the medical
scrutiny we went into a large hall, and
were each allotted a number.

The next day our examination was commenced.
We were distributed at tables to
which wooden barricades were fastened, so
that each one's papers should be hidden
from the eyes of his neighbour. Upon the
second day of the examination a reduction
was made in our number by the removal
of a young man who had been found consulting
a dictionary. His excuse was a
very ingenuous one : "I was only looking
for a thins I could have looked out before
I came in, only I hadn't time' said he.

When we adjourned each day for luncheon,
I generally went to some chambers

belonging to my uncle Thomas, who was
always glad to see me. But one day some
of my fellow-pupils from Mr Skelton's proposed
that we should go and eat luncheon
with a certain very civil well - dressed
tailor, who stood bowing to us as we came
out, and who invited us to enter his carriage,
which was in waiting. The chief
inducement that he offered to us in accepting
his hospitality, was that we should
meet Mr Skelton at his house. Five of us
having agreed to go, we were taken to the
tailor's house, or shop, where we found our
tutor and a few others seated in a handsomely
furnished room. We were presently
treated to a meal which positively
included turtle ; and Mr Skelton informed
us, while we were eating, how, judging from
our own accounts, we had each done.
He also save us some advice with regard

to the papers which were still to come ;
and in doing this, rather surprised me by
the cynical candour which he displayed.
You'll do, I think," he said to me ; " but
you'd better take in these two propositions
of Euclid ; they're almost sure to be given."
I was not long left in doubt as to the
motives of our host the tailor, in thus
entertaining us. Before letting me depart,
he begged me to promise him the order for
my outfit. Having already conferred this
distinction upon my own tailor, I was able
to refuse; but my host cajoled me into
being measured for two suits of clothes,
for which he implored me to be in no
hurry to pay him. He added, that if I
was at any time in want of money he
should be most happy to supply me with
it ; " and I can put it dow T n, you see," he
explained, " as so much that you've had

of us in clothes." Having thanked him
heartily for his goodness, I made my
escape ; and I afterwards learnt that no less
than three of his guests, on that occasion
alone, had promised him the order for their
outfits,, which no doubt may have helped
him to pay for his turtle. I did not again
avail myself of this wary individual's hospitality,
though he every day proffered it. As
soon as the examination was ended I returned
to Hare Place, where I anxiously
awaited news of the result.

I must now turn, in accordance with my
plan, to a further consideration of the
affairs of Mrs Frank Chobham, formerly
Miss Helena Sutcliffe.

CHAPTER II.

I mentioned the fact that when Mr
Chobham was wooing Helena, the melancholy
looks which prospered his suit were
really the result of his having been lately
rejected by a young lady in Italy. Of
this young lady, w 7 ho was called Miss
Bertha Dean, Helena had only casually
heard; and she was still completely ignorant
that her husband had ever been
the suitor of any one but herself, when
he one day entered the room, exclaiming,
" What infernal mischief she has
done I "

Who, my dear ? " his wife inquired.

Oh ! my mother, my mother," answered
he.

He then threw himself into a chair, and
began to write a letter ; tore the letter up,
and commenced a second ; then ground
his teeth and struck his forehead. He
sometimes indulged in such antics merely
in order to excite interest, or to demand
compassion ; but on this occasion he was
almost involuntarily demonstrating the great
annoyance which he felt.

Helena presently left her occupation, and,
coming to her husband's side, again asked
him, in the most affectionate manner, what
was the cause of his distress and what his
mother had done. For some time he made
no reply ; but then, with extraordinary
abruptness, he asked his wife, " whether they
were not as badly suited to one another as
it was possible for any two people to be ? "

This question may have caused Helena
considerable pain, yet she answered, ina
spirited, half playful manner, that no
people who were once married ought ever
to suppose that they were badly suited ;
that, for her part, she always studied his
happiness, though she feared she did not
always do her duty.

Here he interrupted her, and said : " Yes,
my dear, I know you always think you are
doing your duty, and that I never do mine,
but that isn't the point. What I say is,
are we naturally the least bit suited to
each other ? "

When he had pursued this interesting
theme for about ten minutes, Helena began
to weep, upon which Chobham complained
that she had given him a headache, and
retired to his room.

For several days afterwards he was

gloomy and irritable to an unusual extent,
and his wife could extract no explanation
of the cause. At last he sent for his
mother, as he often did when he meditated
taking an important step. His first
business with her was to make her humble
herself for having, as he considered, done
i^ him a most grievous wrong.

This supposed injury I will explain at
once, and so save unnecessary mystery.
Just as Chobham was about to be married,
Mrs Dean, the mother of the former mistress
of his heart in Italy, ignorant of
what was about to take place, wrote a
long letter to old Mrs Chobham, saying
that her daughter Bertha was in a very
disconsolate state, and might, she thought,
be induced to revoke her former decision,
if Mr Chobham would only promise to live
in Italy instead of in England. I have

VOL. II. b

heard that when Mrs Chobham received
this letter she paused in her preparations
for the wedding, and pondered whether
she should reveal the matter to her son.
She probably reflected that, while on the
one hand he might prove too high-minded
to give up Helena, and on the other hand
might find no scruple in doing so, in
either case much unhappiness must ensue.
Helena was a good girl, had a large fortune,
and he was bound in honour to marry her ;
the lady in Italy was consumptive, had no
fortune, and should have spoken before.
From some considerations such as these
Mrs Chobham decided to let matters take
their course, and accordingly she told her
son nothing.

But now, more than a year having
elapsed, he unfortunately met Mrs Dean
in London, where, unaccompanied by her

daughter, she was making a brief stay ;
and from her he unfortunately heard of the
letter and its momentous contents ; whereupon,
overcome by the bitterness of his
selfish reflections, he returned home, and
there, without any regard either to honour
or to good taste, agitated his wife in the
manner described. He then sent for his
mother, and upbraided her for what she
had done. She, although able to console
herself with the reflection that, from one
point of view at least, she had acted very
properly, only acknowledged with remorse
that she was the cause of her dear son's
misery. The affectionate couple, being
agreed on this point, next debated as to
finding a remedy. At first they could
think of none, and my informant in this
matter has never heard by what arguments
they came to embrace the expedient eventually

adopted by them, which was that
Chobham should proceed to Italy, in order
"to see something" of Miss Bertha Dean.
His mother, in proposing this arrangement,
or in sanctioning it, seems to have stipulated
that she should go with him, to assist him
in acting with propriety.

They departed to Eome, taking with
them Helena, as a necessary encumbrance.
The two families in due course met ; the
interesting experiment of Mr Chobham and
his mother was at once given a trial, and,
from Chobham' s point of view, met with
perfect success. He soon became less querulous,
more reasonable, apparently less selfish,
and in fact more contented and happy.
His wife, who was not wanting in acuteness,
perceived that this change had been wrought
by the fair Bertha ; and possessing wisdom
as well as acuteness, she endeavoured to

profit by the example thus shown to her,
and betrayed not the least signs of jealousy
in her behaviour to Miss Dean. Indeed it
is a most remarkable fact that a tolerably
sincere friendship continued to exist between
the two ladies, though it is not easy
to say whether the bond which drew them
together was the love or the contempt which
they each felt towards the same object. As
long as Chobham merely became less intolerable
than usual, Helena allowed herself
to be tormented by no indignant suspicions.
For not only had she a disposition quite
free from jealousy, but in the actual case of
her husband, she had sorrowfully come to
the conclusion that, either by nature or inconsequence
of the severe accident which
had befallen him, he had no heart, in the
common acceptation of the term ; and
therefore she had no fear of being supplanted

in his affections. In fact, whenever
she saw her husband apparently enjoying
himself in Miss Dean's society, instead of
thinking " He cares for her more than forme,"
she used to say to herself — " He cares
for her no more than he cares for me, or for
any one else in the world."

But this state of affairs could not very
long continue, nor did it ; and though Mr
Chobham's former transaction with Miss
Dean* was not revealed to Helena at this
time, she at length, for herself, made the
mortifying discovery that her husband did
possess some kind of a heart, and that he
had bestowed it all upon Bertha. At first
w r hen her husband in his abstraction now
and then addressed her as "Bertha," she
merely laughed at him ; but when he had
repeated this mistake many times, always
showing confusion as he did so, and when,



moreover, he had once or twice made some
very strange observations in his sleep,
Helena became fully alive to the fact that
her unhappiness and her humiliation were
even more complete than she had supposed.
But this new grief was not one which she
conceived it her duty to endure without
resistance. After seeking and obtaining
consolation by a means which she had
scarcely ever known to fail, she went to
Mrs Chobham the elder, and having meekly
complained of the position in which she
found herself placed, requested the good
offices of the old lady.

The latter, aroused to a full though tardy
perception of the mischief which she had
promoted, proceeded to act with commendable
decency and prudence. The Deans,
whom the conspiracy had throughout embarrassed
rather than gratified, were instantly

despatched to another part of
Italy ; and when Chobham proposed to
follow them, his mother firmly and successfully
opposed the project. He, thinking
himself one of the most ill-used men in the
world, resigned for the present the comparative
bliss which had so tantalised him, and
returned, with a secret protest, but with
unconcealed regret, to a formal allegiance
to his gentle and unoffending wife.

CHAPTER III.

After waiting with impatience to know
the result of my examination, I one day
heard to my great joy that I had passed.
My father, having congratulated me upon
this success, now approached the subject
of the allowance which he should give mein
the army. I told him that I thought
£1000 a-year would be a comfortable income.
He said that he quite agreed with
me, but that he had no intention of
annually depriving himself of any such
sum for my enjoyment. In the end he
informed me that I should have " a clear
start" and £500 per annum; and he also

told me that be hoped to purchase me my
steps of promotion as far as the rank of
captain, but that then I might have to
shift for myself. I was delighted with the
prospect thus opened to me, and told my
father " that £500 a-year would be ample,
for that I intended to be very economical.' ,
He said that he trusted I should never be
extravagant, and that he wished me to
consider the army my profession. He reminded
me, at the same time, of a circumstance
which then occasioned me very
little concern — namely, that his landed
property would not necessarily pass into
my hands. " If our anonymous friend'
he said, laughing, "could hear that there
was a doubt of your inheriting Hare Place,
he would try to make something of it.
But there isn't a doubt, humanly speaking
; I only choose to do things in my

own way, on perfectly sound business
principles."

My father was fond of speaking of
"sound business principles' but it was
well known that the principles upon which
he usually conducted his own business were
anything but sound. Our investigations
into the affair of the anonymous letter to
which he referred had ended in nothing.
He had suggested that the writing of the
letter was " a clumsy practical joke." My
uncle, as a man of the world, had come to
the conclusion that nothing was to be done
at present, and that by doing nothing we
should very likely encourage the mysterious
correspondent into doing too much, and
thus placing himself in our power. For my
own part, I was for a time disposed to suspect
the unfortunate Philip Graham. I
had little reason or excuse for so doing ;

and having ascertained that Philip had
been playing the part of King Lear in a
market town far distant from Wolvenden
at the time when the letter had been sent,
I decided that my suspicion of him was
purely fanciful and entirely unjustifiable.
There the matter rested ; for as to the allegation
contained in the anonymous letter,
my father and my uncle treated it as so
preposterous that I was ashamed of having
suffered even a passing pang of doubt on
the subject.

My father having promised to give me a
fair start, I proceeded, "on sound business
principles," to amass on credit, a great
many articles of ornament, luxury, and convenience
— as, for instance, a supply of boots
and shoes which would have served the purposes
of at least seven less ambitious lads ;
clothes in the same profusion, in great

variety of stripe and check ; coloured prints,
such as " Going to the meet," " Eun to
earth," " Tally-ho ! " &c. ; a wretched painting
of Tom Sayers ; another of Thormanby,
winner of the Derby ; and a portrait of
Taglioni, whom I had never seen and had
scarcely heard of. My uncle, the colonel,
at this time had many serious conversations
with me on the subject of extravagance —
a folly against which he was much given
to inveighing. Though a younger son, he
had fortunately been bequeathed, late in his
career and from an unexpected source, a very
handsome fortune ; but he was never tired
of telling me that when he had entered the
Guards as an ensign and lieutenant he had
been allowed only £150 a-year. He never
mentioned the circumstance that he had
annually spent about ten times that sum.
After a long and most unnecessary delay,

I was one day gazetted to the corps for
which I had longed; and having been
granted two months' leave, I soon surrounded
myself with such an array of gold-laced
jackets, saddles, spurs, and new barrack
furniture, as really gladdened my heart
and filled every one else with wonder, admiration,
or hatred. I began to receive a
good deal of attention. Our vicar very
gravely consulted me upon the military
resources of the country, and afterwards
quoted my utterances, though whether with
respect or in irony I did not hear. The
master of the hounds, who had himself
served in the cavalry, now treated me very
graciously. His good-nature so pleased me,
that one day, thinking to earn his applause,
I sent on my brown horse to the meet, about
eight miles distant, and drove to cover with
my mother's barouche and pair, — which

only made him exclaim, " Good gracious !
in my time cornets would hack out twenty
miles ! " And he asked me more than once,
in the course of the day, " What have you
done with the bathing-machine ? "

At length I left my home, and, accompanied
by the faithful brown horse just referred
to, proceeded to Aldershot, and there
commenced my new career. A sham fight
was taking place when I arrived, and the
barracks were almost deserted. Nevertheless
I found the quartermaster, who was the
person it then chiefly behoved me to see, and
we were presently joined by another officer.

The latter was a tall, handsome man, of
very martial appearance. He was attired
in a blue frock-coat, decorated with several
ribbons ; a forage-cap, mainly supported by
his right ear ; and a pair of booted overalls.
I should have certainly taken him for either

a colonel or a major ; only, mindful of the
mistake I had once made with respect to
Ascough, I mistrusted my imagination, and
indeed asked myself whether this might not
also be the regimental surgeon. He was
very communicative upon general subjects,
and talked especially of some races which
were soon to take place, but it never seemed
to occur to him to tell me who he himself
was. Presently, having taken me into the
mess, he rang the bell, and said to the servant
who came, " I wish you'd look if you
can see Curtis about anywhere, and just tell
him to saddle that bay horse in Captain
Ponds 's stable and bring him round here.
Tell him to look slippy about it."

He then explained to me that the horse
in question was a positive treasure of his
kind, but that unfortunately he could not
afford to keep him. "I have more nags

than I quite know what to do with at
present' said he, laughing. And he then
added, in a dreamy, musing tone, " He's
such a fine upstanding horse ! I can always
thoroughly rely on him. I've ridden
him out to cover sixteen miles and then
hunted him, many a time, and he's always
been as fresh as paint the next morning !
He's what I call a 'confidential' horse,
though he's only a four - year - old. He
makes such a grand charger too, — just the
sort of horse a young fellow could go
through the school and get dismissed on,
don't you know."

Why don't you sell him ? " asked I.

Sell him ! " said the officer. " Lord !
but he suits me to perfection. You see he's
a confidential horse, — that's why I don't
like parting with him. He carries me
everywhere and over anything. Still, if

VOL. II. c

any one was to offer me a hundred and fifty
guineas for him I'd take it, as I'm a poor
man."

The horse in question was now brought
round to the door, and his appearance, sofar
as I could judge, was not out of keeping
with the high character he had received.
His master patted his neck, and told me
that his children took the horse pieces of
sugar every morning. Just as I had heard
this droll circumstance related, the roll of
kettle-drums was heard close at hand, and
the guard turned out. My mysterious companion
then mounted in some haste, and
saying, "We shall meet again," briskly
trotted out of sight.

Soon after this, the regiment having returned
from the field, I was summoned to
"the office," or, as I had been accustomed
to call it, "the orderly room." There I

found Colonel Rush, the commanding officer,
seated in a chair writing. He was a very
grave-looking, soldier-like man, and before
noticing me, he finished the writing in
which he was engaged. As soon as he had
greeted me and asked after my uncle,
whom he knew, he inquired " what I was
going to do about horses ? "

I have one, rather a good one," answered
I ; " but I should like to keep him for a
hunter."

Oh yes, keep him for a hunter, and
get a few more by all means," said the
colonel, laughing. He then added that he
had referred to chargers. " I suppose," he
said, " that you haven't heard of any that
would be likely to suit you \ "

I saw one this morning, sir," I replied,
that I think would do very well, belonging
to some one in the regiment."

To some one in the regiment ! " repeated
Colonel Bush ; and turning to the adjutant,
who was there, he asked, "What horse
would that be, Lover?"

I think he must mean that horse of Mr
Joiner's, sir," answered the adjutant.

"Good heavens!" said the colonel, "not
that beast of a bay ! Send the orderly over
to the infirmary, and tell Mr Joiner I wish
to speak to him." Returning to me, he
told me to take no step in the matter of
choosing horses before he had seen mel

CD

again.

I shall have to show, in the course of a
few more chapters, that this matter of
choosing horses chanced to have an important
bearing on my happiness.

CHAPTER IV.

Civilians, or " ordinary people' as some of
them prefer to be called, are very rightly
under the impression that the first lesson a
soldier has to learn is that of obedience.
But I would take this opportunity of pointing
out, that the obedience in question
does not so much consist in obeying military
words of command, — such as " March ! "
or " Right-about-face ! " — as it consists in
giving a wise, prudential submission to
authority exercised in all kinds of small
matters at other times than when on
parade. Indeed it hardly ever enters the
head of a recruit to disobey the word of

command, if he can but understand it ; and
as for trained soldiers, I have heard of instances
of their being so anxious to perform
their duty that they have themselves suggested
the word of command which their
officer, out of his extraordinary delicacy,
hesitated to give them.

When I first joined my regiment, I received
a very liberal education in the real
art of submission. I was fined enough
champagne to have lasted a workhouse infirmary
a couple of hundred years. I was
made to join in every sort of scheme,
whether of sport, philanthropy, or mischief.
I was always given the honour of representing
the regiment at dinners or balls, especially
when they took place in remote parts

of the camp. I was constantly deprived of

i

my proper allowance of sleep, yet always
expected to be wide awake. At the same

time, I was fully occupied with drills of
sundry kinds, and lessons in the riding-school.
Also, if I ever dared to express
any other sentiment than that of satisfaction
at the life I was leading, I was reminded
that I was a hussar, and that the
hardships I complained of were in fact hus-warlike
pleasures. But I had a fine constitution
and an equable temper; and these two
advantages, together with a constant enthusiasm
for my profession, carried me safely
through an ordeal which to some young
men would have been intolerable.

My captain was a gentleman of the name
of Dubblemore, who having himself been
formerly instructed in the art of submission
with a good deal of severity, now took his
revenge by treating his juniors to the same
sort of discipline he had received. The process
of keeping " us cornets," as he called

us, in a suitable condition of humility, lie
styled " wheeling us into line ; " and though
he neglected to teach me himself any of the
military duties which I had to discharge, I
certainly learnt from him, more than from
any oDe else, the soldier's first duty, in the
true and practical sense of the term.

I now have to relate a very strange discovery
which I made about two weeks after
joining my regiment. It is necessary first
to describe the occasion. One night, most
of the officers having gone to London, the
party at mess was very small, consisting only
of the assistant-surgeon, Slake (the senior
lieutenant), a cornet of the name of Dobson,
and myself. Slake once asked me, during
the meal, " Why I looked so beastly sleepy?"

When I admitted that I was rather tired,
he said, " Tired, be blowed ! You aren't
half a sportsman ! "

At ten o'clock, however, he himself retired
to bed, taking with him his meerschaum
pipe, and a work called * Handley Cross.'
Dobson and the assistant-surgeon then went
off to play at billiards, and I determined to
execute a long-designed scheme for enjoying
a good night's rest. I left the mess, and
having climbed three flights of stairs, entered
my well-furnished room, and was soon
in bed and asleep.

But, meantime, a telegram had been received,
saying that the commander-in-chief
was coming to Aldershot the next day ;
and in consequence of this news, the officers
who were on leave were all recalled, and
they entered the mess a few minutes after I
had left it. I was aroused from my happy
slumbers by being pulled out of bed. I was
carried down-stairs by several men, whose
faces I could not distinguish in the dark.

They conveyed me very carefully across the
barrack-square. Besides allowing me to retain
my nightshirt, they had given me
some slippers ; and when one of the slippers
fell off, it was immediately replaced on my
foot. 1 My journey ended at the mess.
There I was brought before a tribunal of
subalterns, and arraigned upon several
charges framed in military language — the
principal charge being, "Disgraceful conduct
in having done to bed."

I was found guilty, and sentenced to sing
a song, and then to treat every one present
to champagne. I hastened to perform my
punishment ; and while the wine was being
brought, I left the room in order to put
on some clothes. One of my considerate
judges, I found, had anticipated my intent

To this an historical parallel may be found in the
popular account of the Portions riots, a.d. 1736.

trod, for my clothes were already prepared
for me in a sort of pantry close at hand.
A man, apparently one of the mess waiters,
though I had certainly never noticed him
before, stood waiting to assist me. I sat
down in a chair, and he handed me a pair
of boot-hooks. I took the boot-hooks in
my hand, and then started violently, as
people very seldom do start in real life.
What's your name ? " I asked him.

"Blacker, sir; of D troop," answered
he.

Blacker ! " repeated I ; " White, you
mean ! "

It was indeed my father's old favourite ;
the gouty footman ; the student of Gibbon
and of Burton. To describe the effect
which this surprising recognition first made
on my mind, I can use no juster and no
less hackneyed phrase than this — viz.,

that I felt as if I were dreaming. As for
White himself, and he did not attempt to
deny his identity, he seemed overpowered
with embarrassment, rather than with
pleasure or any emotion of that kind. He
presently stammered out —

I hope the squire's pretty well ; and
your mamma."

Yes, thank you," answered I, beginning
to dress myself; "but how the deuce did
you come to enlist % "

I got into trouble, sir," White replied ;
at least, a young woman threw me over.
I joined at Leeds, the year before last.
Captain Ponds was going to have made mea
lance-corporal, but I had to go into hospital;
and now I've had to wait in the
mess for the last six weeks as they're short
of one man, and they know I've been in
service."

"But I've never seen you here before'
said I.

No, sir," said he, adding, " I went into
hospital the day you joined ; and I only
came out yesterday."

I then asked him why he had not sent
to tell me that he was serving in the same
regiment ; and why, above all, he had not
acquainted my father with his circumstances.
For I did not believe that White
had enlisted out of any martial enthusiasm
on his part.

He answered all my questions by saying
that he had desired, and still desired, his
identity to be unknown. "She broke my
heart," he said, with a sorrowful glance ;
and I wish the world not to know where
I've hidden my diminished head."

At that moment my name was loudly
called ; and having now completed my

attire, I left the pretended Blacker and
returned to the ante-room.

The distinguished company assembled
there had been increased during my absence
by the arrival of two or three captains, including
Dubblemore. He drank my health
when I came in, and said, with a smile,
Well, cornet ; so they tell me they had to
6 fall in the escort ' for you." 1 Though not

1 The sort of practical joking recorded above is generally
kept within reasonable bounds, and does little or no
harm. As to rougher variations of the same practice,
however, organised attempts to expel a man from his
regiment, they often cause mischief in more ways than
one ; and yet, their occurrence could be rendered wholly
impossible, by a simple piece of legislation, rather urgently
needed. The alteration which expediency demands is
in the method of granting first appointments. As it is,
almost any person can obtain a commission in almost any
regiment. Under the purchase system this objection existed,
though in a much smaller degree ; but now, not
only is the entrance to the army made wider for the admission
of those classes of officers with whose services it
is incontestably desirable to dispense (the Maltese, for
example), but the entrance is made narrower for that

perfectly sober, lie was evidently pleased,
and from that time forth he was good
enough to honour me with his friendship
and intimacy; nor was I molested anymore
by the others, for my probationary
term was considered to have come to an
end.

class of officers whose services it is indisputably desirable
to encourage and retain ; and these latter, instead of being
fairly distributed throughout the army, are constrained to
crowd together into the Guards, and other select corps, or
else to avoid service in the army. These circumstances
conduce to inefficiency, not to the public good, and the
proper remedy is to be found in a judicious revival of the
nomination system ; or, if a more radical method be preferred,
in the establishment of the regimental ballot for
the admission of candidates into any corps.

CHAPTER V.

I must now again turn aside to the affairs
of Mr and Mrs Chobham, to which a great
climax was at hand. Although Mr Cobham
had given up the pursuit of Miss
Bertha Dean at the request of his mother,
whose advice he was accustomed to follow,
and not from his own considerations of
honour or propriety, he nevertheless assumed
to himself great credit for his conduct;
and, as if to show his wife that he
bore her no malice, he soon re-employed
her, as before, in reading travels and voyages
to him. He now made a stipulation, that
during the performance of her task she

was on no account to ask him whether he
was sleepy. " I close my eyes sometimes'
said he, " just to listen better; and then it
bothers me if you ask if I'm sleepy. Then,
sometimes I shut my eyes because I really
am drowsy, and then it wakes me up if
you begin asking questions : do you see ? "

Helena said that she did see ; and I may
here observe that she was restrained from
rebelling against her husband's ill treatment,
not only by her very rigorous notion
of what her duty was, but also from the
fear of making him ill ; for the doctors
had said that he must, on no account, be
excited.

The prospect before her was indeed disheartening
; but Chobham himself presently
relieved the monotony of her martyrdom
by making occasional visits to London,
accompanied by his valet, who also acted

VOL. II. D

as his nurse. Cobham went to London in
search of distraction, rather than amusement
; and more especially to play whist
at his club. He was still not allowed to
mount a horse ; nor to shoot (except from
a bath-chair), so that it was not wonderful
that he began to cultivate some other
amusement. Some of his old friends, too,
had asked him why he never played whist,
and had said : " It is the very thing for you ;
we have a rubber every night." He generally
remained away from his wife for
periods of three days at a time. She at
first hinted that she would be glad to accompany
him in his expeditions, but he
plainly told her that he preferred being
alone. To do him justice, however, while
he was thus seeking distraction after his own
fashion, he did not at all discourage his
wife in passing her own leisure in whatever

way might please her ; and it was with his
consent that she began to busy herself in
plans for rebuilding Colling Hall, her old
home which had been destroyed by fire.

Strange to say, however, she was not
content with this state of affairs, but tried
to bring about a compromise by entering
into her husband's new pursuit, and endeavouring
to make him follow it in his
own home, and in her company. She purchased
a treaty upon whist, over which she
pored with the greatest diligence, and
then boldly asked her husband to give her
lessons. With tolerable good-humour he
consented, and made his wife very happy
upon three or four occasions, when, having
invited a few people to dinner, they managed
to play a rubber afterwards. But
these visitors, who were only occasional
whist-players, played very badly ; and so,

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

to own the truth, did poor Helena. Therefore,
when the guests had departed, Mr
Chobham used to observe, mournfully, to
her, " I say, my dear, you really do play
so badly." And he would then point out,
at some length, the errors which she had
committed in the game. She bore his
reproaches meekly and cheerfully ; telling
him "that she knew it must be very aggravating,
when he was such a beautiful
player." But he did not receive her excuses
well, and at last told her, very
gravely, that he could play with her no
more ; that he did not mind her playing
so miserably, inasmuch as that w T as her
misfortune and not her fault, but that
what he did dislike was, that by having
to practise with such an indifferent player,
he was himself deteriorating in skill.
"You see," Chobham one day observed,

"I shan't be able to bold my own very
soon ; shall I ? Why, of course I shan't."

Therefore Helena's scheme failed, and her
husband began to go to London even more
often than before, and for longer periods.
At his club in London he met with Mr
Garbold, whom I have already described.
The latter had just been round the world,
and, as a traveller, at once attracted Cobham's
regard.

Mr Garbold was in turn drawn towards
his new friend by curiosity, and the belief
that Chobham was a cynic. The two became
somewhat intimate, and at length
Helena's husband returned from one of his
expeditions with Mr Garbold at his side.
Helena was pleased ; for not only did she
occasionally pine for more society, but she
had long been hoping that her husband
might discover some inducement to remain

at home, even though she might not attract
him herself. Mr Garbold, as I shall show
when I return to my personal adventures,
had only recently heard that Chobham was
married at all, and he was all the more
astonished when he found to what sort of a
person he was married. Professing to believe
that all women were in the end equally
bad, and unworthy of respect, Mr Garbold
would not at first give way to the conviction
that there was at least one who was an
exception to the rule. But his acuteness
and honesty were in this instance stronger
than his prejudices, and he was soon forced
to acknowledge that his hostess Mrs Cobham
was a pattern of the best and rarest
kind of virtue. When he had once made
this admission to himself, he reverenced
Helena from the bottom of his heart, and
proceeded to treat her with a degree of outward

respect which, from any one but himself,
he would have considered ridiculous.

The conduct and even the character of
Mr Chobham at this time seemed to have
completely changed. He appeared to have
come to the conclusion that he was too
exacting a companion for Helena ; and
that she required " distraction," just as he
did. He relieved her altogether of her
duties as reader : and told her that though
he was too unwell himself to entertain
Mr Garbold, yet that she would do very
well in his place. For some days Helena
found Mr Garbold thrust on her hands as
if he had been a young lady placed under
her protection. This was really not his
fault, for his devotion to her was so honest,
that he would have kept out of her sight
all his life if she had expressed a wish to
that effect. But as it was, on the contrary,

he was constantly informed " that
he amused Mrs Chobham." Chobham constantly
found excuses for withdrawing himself,
and leaving his wife to entertain
Mr Garbold ; and occasionally he plainly
showed that he either wished them to be
together, or else wished to be alone himself.

Once, complaining of pain in his knee,
he sent off Helena to take Mr Garbold
for a walk. As they were returning, they
descried on the top of a neighbouring hilla
procession which proved to consist of
a boy dragging a bath-chair, and in it
Chobham, his gun, and a number of dead
rabbits.

It was this particular incident which
made Mr Garbold, after an examination
of the position of affairs, resolve to bring
his visit to a close. He had been with
Chobham for nearly a fortnight, when

he one day announced his intention of departing
the following day. Mr Chobham,
after vainly begging him to prolong his
stay, asked him to remain at least one
day longer than he proposed, for that then
they would both go to London together.
To this arrangement Garbold assented.

The next day, — that is, the day before
the proposed departure — Chobham suggested
that they should all visit a fair
which was being held at a place some sixteen
miles distant. Although, considering
the state of Mr Chobham's health, and the
primitive nature of the amusement to be
obtained, the proposal seemed rather extravagant,
Helena at once consented.

As soon as breakfast was ended, she ran
and attired herself in the most becoming
dress that she possessed, and came downstairs,
ready for the expedition. Then, a

blow which hardly any one in the world
would have expected, and for which she
herself, with all her special experience, was
not prepared, descended. Chobham complained
of twitches in the back ; said that
he could not come ; and desired Helena
and Mr Garbold to go without him. This
they each refused to do, and Chobham
morosely retired to his study. Thither, in
the ordinary course of such things, he was
followed by his wife, and the result of the
interview was, that she stated her willingness
to do as he commanded, and declined
his ironical proposal that she should take
her maid with her.

She next sought out Mr Garbold, and
with an unavailing attempt at cheerfulness,
requested him, as a personal favour to herself,
to come. Perhaps Mr Garbold should
have still declined ; he has since said, however,

that he was much disposed to persist
in his refusal, but that his desire to be of
temporary service to Helena outweighed
all the various other considerations which
passed through his mind. He agreed to
go ; and Helena and he, though they disguised
their true feelings by conventional
words of politeness, perfectly understood
each other.

CHAPTEE VI.

The carriage which Mr Chobham had chosen
to order for his wife and his guest was a
Stanhope phaeton ; and the horses were two
which Chobham had formerly been in the
habit of hunting, but which had of late been
driven in harness. Perhaps the reader will
now expect to hear of an accident; nor
shall he be disappointed, for one of the most
extraordinary accidents of which any one
ever heard did take place, and I am about
to relate it. As Helena left the house her
parting words to her husband were "that
she hoped he would soon feel better ; " while
Mr Garbold, remarking that it was a lovely

day, told Chobham that he ought to alter
his mind and come with them.

Mr Garbold said this in his accustomed
playful tones, and yet, as he did so, he
grasped the whip which he held in a rather
significant manner. He told me himself a
short time afterwards that at that moment,
and not before, he had finally come to the
conclusion that Chobham was a hound. " I
knew," said he, " that Mrs Chobham was
ever so much too good for him ; but I never
till then felt exactly certain that he was a
hound — a liv hound."

While Helena and Mr Garbold traversed
the first few miles, they exchanged but little
speech, for he was troubled in his mind by
sorrow and anger, while she had let down
her veil in order to conceal the tears which
were flowing. Presently, however, they
each overcame their emotions to a certain

degree, and began to talk of the scenery
and crops, or of anything but that which
was uppermost in their minds. They had
performed about twelve miles of their journey,
and were just entering a village called
Goodnesbridge, when they overtook a cavalcade
of circus performers. Mr Garbold
hailed this incident as a welcome diversion,
and collecting the pace of his horses, drove
slowly past various chariots, piebald steeds,
and mounted mountebanks, to all of which
he directed Helena's attention, endeavouring
with some success to amuse her.

Unfortunately, however, as they were
passing a gilded van full of musicians,
these persons commenced to play a triumphal
march, which was meant only to
attract the villagers, but which also had the
effect of alarming Mr Chobham's horses,
who, at the first stroke of the drum and

cymbals, shied violently to the opposite side
of the road. Then, in spite of Mr Garbold's
efforts to pacify them and keep them in
hand, they began to rear and plunge in the
greatest agitation.

Nevertheless they were every moment
getting further from the cause of their
terror, for the procession moved very
slowly, and all might have gone well had
they not come to an immense car painted
white, with mirror panels, and drawn by
four camels. The two hindmost camels on
seeing the horses approach them, began to
slouch out of the way in their peculiar
fashion ; but the two foremost ones, either
because ill treatment had not entirely subdued
their natural love of vice, or because
they were not under proper control, or from
some uncouth notion of self-defence, turned
towards the horses in such a manner as

barely to leave space for them to pass. The
groom in attendance on Mr Garbolcl was all
this time making signs to the band to cease
playing, for the band was once more coming
close to the horses, whose progress was being
interrupted in the manner described; but the
musicians paid no attention to him. Mr
Garbold finding himself in danger of being
thrown into a deep ditch on his right-hand
side, now determined to push past the
camels, and so escape at once the music
which he heard approaching and the ditch.
He therefore lightly applied his whip, and
the horses sprang forward.

A most horrid complication followed.
As the near horse grazed the side of the
off camel, the chain-trace with which the
camel was harnessed caught in the horse's
bridle. The groom immediately jumped
out, and with great intrepidity advanced

to disentangle the chain. But the camel
with one effort broke away from all the
fictitious harness connecting him with the
car, and the horses bolted — as well as they
could — with this ship of the desert attached
to them.

After proceeding a few yards, the camel
came to the ground, the horses fell with
him in a heap, and the carriage was hurled
on its side. Mr Garbold, who had only
sprained his thumb, was quickly on his
feet, and with the assistance of a negro-king,
or some such personage, carried
Helena, who was senseless, into an inn
close at hand.

Having seen her attended by a doctor,
and as well cared for as the circumstances
permitted, Garbold found the groom, who
at the time of the accident had just left the
carriage, and was therefore quite uninjured.

VOL. II. E

and directed him to take one of the horses,
or procure another from elsewhere, and convey
the news of what had happened to Mr
Chobham.

This groom must have been possessed by
some imp of mischief specially sent to him ;
or, to be more exact, he was at this time in
daily dread of disgrace, having been pilfering
from a fellow-servant in order to discharge
some turf-debts. Therefore, when
he received Mr Garbold's order, he retired
to the inn-stable where Mr Chobham's
horses were, and having borrowed two
halters, mounted one horse, and leading
the other, stole away at a good trot.

On reaching some cross-roads (it afterwards
appeared), he turned back, and riding
to the fair, disposed of both horses for sixty
guineas ; after which he disappeared, and
was no more seen by those who sought him.

Thus were the affairs of Mr and Mrs Frank
Chobham left in a state of complete entanglement.
In the course of the next
chapter I shall have to describe the action
of Mr Chobham with regard to the complications
that had arisen. First, however, I
must relate how I myself was brought into
direct connection therewith.

Chapter VII.

As soon as I had discovered that White
was serving under an assumed name in
my own regiment, I made some inquiries
respecting him. From the officers I learnt
that he was considered a useless soldier, buta
good-natured, ingenious servant. His
troop sergeant-major told me that Blacker
was regarded by his comrades as a " dry "
that is, a humorous — man, who could sing
capital songs ; and that the worst he — the
sergeant-major — could allege against him
was, that he was rather riven to lingering.
I was much puzzled, and applied
to my father for advice.

My father, as soon as he had heard that
his old favourite was a soldier in the regiment,
wrote offering to buy him his discharge,
and to take him into his own service
again. But White declined the offer ; and
did so, it seemed to me, without any particular
gratitude, but with a certain sulkiness
which I could not comprehend. By
degrees, however, I grew accustomed to
having him about me ; I learnt to call him
by his assumed name ; and I ceased to
trouble myself about his mystery, whatever
it was, as to which he, for his part, never
seemed willing to make any further communication.


Soon after the White incident, I went to
London, by Colonel Bush's desire, in order to
attend a sale of horses — especially of some
which belonged to an officer just ordered
abroad. I was accompanied by Mr Joiner,

our veterinary surgeon, who came in the
joint capacity of a friend and a professional
adviser. He it was whose acquaintance I
had made on going to Aldershot for the first
time. Since then he had never again referred
to his bay horse, " whom a young
fellow could go through the school and get
dismissed on ; " and it was not until a year
later that he told me the confidential horse
had been sold to a foreign baron, who had
not paid for him.

When Mr Joiner and I attended the sale
in London, we found that a number of
horses belonging to Ellis Garbold, Esq., were
to be included in the auction. Therefore I
was not unprepared to meet Garbold himself,
which I presently did. After earnestly
warning me not to buy any of his own
horses — " for," said he, " they are none of
them any use," — he told me that he was

about to visit Mr Frank Chobham, who
lived, he believed, somewhere in my part
of the country.

On hearing this, I told him that Mrs
Chobham was a very old friend of mine.

"What ! " said Garbold ; " Chobham isn't
married, is he 1 "

Indeed he is," answered I.

What an extraordinary fellow, never to
have told me ! " remarked Mr Garbold. 1

He then asked, " What is Mrs C. like ? "

Why," answered I, " she's very nice
and jolly indeed ; but what do you think
of him ? "

I don't know, really," replied Mr Gar-bold.
" He amuses me rather, and that's all
I ever care about."

"You can't help liking Mrs Chobham,"

1 I may remind the reader that this conversation took
place before the events narrated in the preceding chapter.

I observed. "I daresay you'll pity her
too."

"Oho!" said Mr Garbold ; "then they
don't quite hit it off, do they?"

I told him all that I thought proper to
reveal on this delicate subject, and we soon
afterwards separated.

When I returned to Aldershot with some
horses which Mr Joiner had helped me to
buy, Garbold and his projected visit had
passed from my thoughts ; and I was astonished
to the last degree when, a fortnight
afterwards, I received a telegram from him,
begging me to join him immediately at
Goodnesbridge, on a matter of the greatest
importance. Anxious-to be of service to
him, and elated, moreover, at the prospect
of a mysterious adventure, I at once asked
for leave of absence ; and having obtained
it, hastened to obey Mr Garbold 's summons.

After a considerable journey, some part
of which I had to perform by road, I
reached Goodnesbridge — a name which, I
may as well observe, was pronounced Guns-bridge
— and at once proceeded to a plain
country inn, called the White Lion, from
which place Mr Garbold had addressed his
message.

I found him in a most disturbed frame of
mind, cursing himself, Chobham, and many
other tidings besides. I was at first surprised
to see a man of his phlegmatic disposition
in a state of such excitement. But
when I had heard all that he had to tell me,
when I knew, above all, that the friend of
my childhood, the unhappy Helena, was the
victim of a strange and horrible accident,
which would perhaps cost her her life — my
wonder gave place to the profoundest and
most lively sympathy.

I will not recapitulate, as related to me,
the sad details which I have given elsewhere.
I shall, instead, return to Chobham,
and endeavour to throw some light on his
proceedings at this time — my present information
being derived from sources which I
need not at this t period disclose.

I feel much inclined, I must own, to
give the worst possible colouring to Cobham's
behaviour ; but I shall do my best
to be impartial. Most tales of infamy, as
well as stories of heroism, have more than
one version ; but the real truth as to Mr
Chobham's behaviour, I believe to be as
follows : —

The carriage accident took place about
twelve miles from his house ; and though
all news travels fast, sometimes incomprehensibly
so, in retired places, yet this
particular news was not brought to Mr

Chobham's home until the following day.
The groom, who had been actually charged
to communicate it, proved a very trustless
messenger ; but the knowledge that he had
been sent, conspired, with a heavy fall of
rain, to prevent both friendly and malicious
gossips from transmitting the intelligence
that night. Chobham having sat till
a very late hour awaiting the return of his
wife and Mr Garbold, at length decided
that the wet weather had furnished them
with a reason, or pretext, for remaining
wherever they might be ; and he retired to
rest, resolving, I have little doubt, to be
revenged upon Helena for her inconsiderate
and reprehensible conduct.

It may be remembered that he had
arranged to go to London the f olio win 2
day ; and it is not unfair for me to state
that the virtuous Miss Dean was there at

this time (as if on a visit to some foreign
capital) for the purpose of consulting a doctor
as to the state of her lungs. When the
next day came, news of the accident was
received and discussed by some irresponsible
villagers ; but it is supposed that it
cannot have also reached the person who
should have been principally concerned, for
at an early hour he departed, unattended,
to London. This proceeding may well bethought
strange ; and it was so considered
at the time, in spite of Mr Chobham's explanation
that when he left his home he
intended to return the same day in order
to see his wife.

In London he had an interview with Mrs
and Miss Dean ; but I believe they received
him with some coldness. After the interview,
he addressed a message to his wife, saying
that he supposed she had returned in

safety, and that he should remain in London
for a week, if Mr Garbold had left their
house. Later in the day, however, he heard
all from his butler, who told him not to be
alarmed, but that Mrs Chobham and Mr
Garbold had both been nearly killed, and
were then at the White Lion, Goodness
; that his horses had been sold at
the fair ; and that Merrill the coachman
had gone in search of William the groom,
who had disappeared.

Over this budget of misfortunes Chobham
ruminated for such a length of time that he
missed the last ordinary train which could
have taken him within reach of Goodness
Under these circumstances, he
might have certainly engaged a special
train, or have found some other means of
going that night where his duty called him ;
but he chose to act in a manner which

showed that if he felt any anxiety at all,
that anxiety, strange to conceive, was on
his own account.

Generally, when Chobham found himself
in any perplexity, he went, in the first place,
to his mother for advice ; but it is worthy
of note that on this occasion she was kept
in perfect ignorance of what was happening.
'He sought out his solicitor, and had with
him a long and exhaustive discourse, — the
result of which was, that they both went
down into the country the next day ; the
man of law to Goodnesbridge, with instructions
to minutely observe the state of certain
affairs at the White Lion — and Cobham
to his own home, there to await the
other's report.

CHAPTEE VIII.

Me Garbold having told me the particulars
of the accident, proceeded to explain
his object in having sent for me. He knew
me to be, he said, " a friend of the family,
and a young fellow with a head on his
shoulders," and had therefore decided that
I was a fit person to assume charge of the
injured lady while he went in search of
her husband, for whom he had vainly sent
a second time. I consented with readiness,
yet with some feeling of diffidence,
to the proposed arrangement ; and
Garbold was about to set forth, when
Mr Chobham's emissary arrived at the

inn and at once desired an interview with
him.

Mr Garbold and the emissary were soon
engaged in a long consultation ; and I was
left to my reflections, which were of the
most sorrowful and perplexing nature.

As I was thus sitting alone, an elderly
woman with a forbidding countenance entered
the room, and telling me "that the
poor lady was faint," asked for some brandy.
This person was the village midwife, who,
in default of any abler person at hand, had
been engaged to attend upon Helena. She
pointed out a bottle of cognac which stood
on the table, and I immediately pushed it
into her hands, wondering how she could be
so slow in the emergency she had mentioned.
As soon as she had left me, a suspicion
luckily occurred to me, which, when I
had quietly followed the old woman, I soon

saw positively confirmed. Having entered
a dark passage, she applied the bottle to her
own mouth for some seconds, and then,
setting it down on a table, proceeded on her
way. Very disagreeably impressed by this
conduct, I now became full of anxiety for
Helena ; and again following the old matron,
presently saw her enter a room at the end
of another passage, leaving the door open
behind her. After a minute or two she
came out again, and, without perceiving
me, went away, carrying a plateful of rags
or bandages.

I now stood outside the door, endeavouring
to hear any sound from within, for I
Alas seized with the idea that Helena mio-ht
be dead. I heard a faint groan, which went
to my heart; and without hesitation T stole
into the room, to the side of a four-posted
bed, the curtains of which had been re-vol.

II. F

moved. There lay Helena Chobham, but at
first I was positively unable to realise that
it was she. Her hair was concealed by a
linen bandage ; her closed eyelids bore evident
marks of long weeping ; her brow was
contracted in a frown, which I had never
before seen it wear; her lips were parted,
and shaped in an expression of extreme
pain, mingled with scorn ; her cheeks were
of a cadaverous pallor ; and altogether,
she looked like a woman of thirty who
had just been put to the torture.

I have said that I did not immediately
recognise her — nor did I ; but reason soon
forced me to own what my eyes were slow
to acknowledge. As I gazed on her, not
knowing what to do, I recalled the easy and
mirthful existence she had led as a girl ;
her good-natured and whimsical old father ;
Colling Hall, her handsome and comfortable

home ; and the many pleasant days she and
I had spent together; and, as nearly as I
can say, I believe it to be the truth that I
loved her from that moment, and for ever
afterwards.

While my thoughts and my heart were
thus engaged, I did not forget that it was
Helena's faint cry which had summoned me
to her side; and I anxiously waited to ascertain,
if possible, how I could help her. She
seemed to be in a deep sleep ; but this was
only the effect of extreme weakness. She
presently gave a sigh, and feebly moved her
hand in the direction of a cooling drink
that had been placed near her. I put the
glass to her lips, and she drank.

When she had finished, she opened her
eyes and fixed them upon mine. But
though she recognised me and was grateful
for the slight service which I had performed,

she was too much prostrated with misery
and with physical injury to wonder how I
came to be there. Such, however, was not
the case with a gentleman, evidently the
village doctor, who at that moment advanced
to the bedside.

In reply to his glances of wonder, resentment,
and inquiry, I whispered that which
first came into my boyish head — namely,
That I would give him anything in the
world to cure her."

Just step into the next room," said hein
a low tone. We were no sooner alone
than he asked me a question of such a delicate
nature that I was filled with embarrassment,
and answered him in a manner which
in turn filled him with astonishment.

Overcoming his emotion, he observed,
Your arrival will do her more good than
any doctoring."

Perceiving the mistake he had made, I told
him that I was not Mr Chobham, and then
murmured that I was " no relation of Mrs
Chobham V — that I was " just looking after
her" — "just trying to assist my friend
Garbold." All of which the surgeon kept
interrupting with, "Just so," — "Quite so,"
"To be sure, sir"— "No doubt, yes;"
though I believe he was saying in his
heart, " "Who can this impudent youngster
be?"

But the reasonable error which he had
made at first, stimulated me to devise a
means for placing the care of poor Helena
upon a more satisfactory and proper footing.
Her husband chose to leave her to
die, for all that he seemed to care ; but I
knew of one who was not only a skilful
nurse, but a Christian also, whose presence
would be of service in many ways. In

other words, I thought of my mother,
and determined to bring her to the spot
with the least delay possible. Leaving
the surgeon, I returned to the sitting-room
assigned to Garbold and me, and
forthwith despatched a telegram to my
mother, whom I told all that I considered
needful.

I was soon joined by Mr Garbold, who
was accompanied by Chobham's lawyer.
The latter belonged to the higher order of
his tribe, and I believe had undertaken
the service on which he was then engaged,
with better motives than might have been
supposed ; for, though he was sincerely trying;
to act for the ultimate benefit of his
client, he was not at all following the
instructions he had received from that individual,
whom — it was afterwards said —
he had with difficulty restrained from employing

a professional spy for the expedition
to Goodnesbridge.

When Mr Garbold and the solicitor came
into the room, they were debating the proposal
of the former, that he should go to
Mr Chobham and demand an explanation
from him. The solicitor opposed the plan —
begging that he might first endeavour to
bring his client to reason, which he declared
he did not doubt his ability to do. But
Garbold persisted, and, in the end, they
both set forth together, in the same carriage,
though the attorney first made the
stipulation that they should separate when
within a short distance of Chobham's house,
and then advance upon him, each independently.
After some hours, Mr Garbold
returned to Goodnesbridge, with the amazing
intelligence that Chobham had departed
to Buxton ! The lawyer had gone in pursuit

of him ; and Garbold would have at
once done the same, had he not thought it
his duty first to see me, in order to inform
me of what had taken place, and so prevent
the news being irregularly or injudiciously
carried to the ears of Helena.

Mr Garbold brought back with him
Helena's maid, who in her turn brought a
quantity of things necessary for the comfort
of her mistress. Soon afterwards a
celebrated surgeon arrived from London.
He had been summoned the day before by
Garbold ; but we were surprised to hear
that his attendance had been also desired
by the considerate Mr Chobham. The skill
of the celebrated surgeon, and the assiduity
of the experienced maid, soon had a good
effect on poor Mrs Chobham's condition.

But the greatest improvement was observed
shortly after my excellent mother's

arrival upon the scene. She, I believe
would have hastened to perform any bidding
of mine, even had it been on behalf
of a stranger ; but directly she had learnt
from my message that she was required to
assist Helena Chobham, she had flown to
the spot on the wings of a double love and
anxiety — for she had a greater fondness for
Helena than for any other woman of her
acquaintance. I knew this, but was yet
astonished to see the extraordinary self-denial,
patience, and care which my mother
displayed. She immediately dismissed the
village nurse, and astounded the local doctor
by asking him " how he could have
had so little chivalry as to have employed
such a disgusting, tipsy old woman ? " At
the same time, she herself took her post at
Helena's side, and scarcely quitted it fora
moment.

The patient soon grew decidedly better,
and was at last able to be removed in safety
to my mother's house. To her own home,
or rather to that of her husband, she declared
she would never return. She had
received from Chobham, ivhile she was still
at Goodnesbridge, a letter, Which she had
instantly destroyed. I cannot say what the
contents of it were. I believe, however,
that he wrote from Buxton, and expressed
a hope that she had recovered from her
injuries. An informal separation having
thus come about, an improvement may be
said to have taken place in the affairs of
Helena Chobham.

CHAPTER IX.

In order to make a reasonable advance in
this history, I will now leap over two years
of my life. As to what had taken place
during that interval, I need only say that
I had become very popular in my regiment,
and had been given the nickname of " Barbara."
I believe the cause of my popularity
was, that in my habits, tastes, and general
opinions I resembled the majority of my
companions, who had been, moreover, specially
delighted with me for having broken
my own collar-bone and my poor brown
horse's back at one and the same time.
I was now a lieutenant in the troop of

Captain Ponds, to which White, otherwise
Blacker, also belonged. My first captain,
Dubblemore, having been originally nearly
ruined by the purchase of his troop, had
retired on half-pay, to perish in great misery
at Bologna.

Our headquarters were now at a certain
manufacturing town in the north, but I
was with a squadron detached to another
place. Captain Ponds was in command of
the out-quarters ; but as he kept his horses
in a spot convenient for hunting, some distance
away, he was, generally speaking, an
absentee. At one time, however, during
the prevalence of a great strike, he was
compelled to remain at his post, in case of
his services being required by the civil
power. I was then pleased to see that,
instead of giving way to regret at losing
his hunting, Captain Ponds made the best

of the situation — proving himself to be a
man of sense and an officer of resource.
He daily practised the squadron in a kind
of street-fighting ; and to do this, he used
to make us advance at a gallop with a
narrow front, and deliver cuts at a number
of riding-school posts which he had contrived
to procure, and which he distributed
about the ground in place of people. Furthermore,
he every day visited his favourite
charger in a loose-box, and there pelted him
with carrots, in order to accustom him to
the effect of missiles. This experiment was
not quite satisfactory; for the horse soon
learnt to eat the carrots, though he may
have wondered why they were given to
him with so much violence.

Some rioting had already taken place,
and we were in constant readiness. Captain
Ponds, on his own responsibility, hired

several grindstones, and made the men
sharpen their swords. Also he fastened to
the top of the riding-school posts, as substitutes
for human heads, cocoa-nuts, which he
caused us to cut open. But the most sensible
precaution which he took, was to place in
his sabretasche a pen, a small bottle of ink,
and a sheet of paper. On this paper he
had written, in a large round hand, the
words, " I order you to charge' — ready
for the confirming signature of the magistrate,
who would thus be baffled should hebe
willing first to order a charge, and then
some persons having been killed — deny
having done so.

In the end, our services were not required
in the place where we were quartered ; but
one morning, the troop to which I belonged
was suddenly sent on a march of nearly
thirty miles, to a small factory town where

some rioting, and burning of bouses, bad
just taken place. As we marched into the
place, a gigantic workman, with a few
of bis friends, came out and met us. He
asked in a loud tone "whether we were
English men?"

Captain Ponds, who rode at our head,
took no notice of this, but moved on until
he had reached the workhouse, in which
place we were to be accommodated with
quarters. It was a late hour before the
horses were all watered, groomed, fed, and
bedded down in some sheds assigned to
them.

As soon as the men had been dismissed
from their work, Captain Ponds, with myself
and a cornet named Stoneyman, repaired
to an inn, in order to dine there.
We were joined at dinner by a local magistrate,
and also by an individual whose

house had been burnt down the night before.
The latter endeavoured to entertain
us with an account of the considerate
manner in which he had always treated the
men in his employment, and the ingratitude
with which they had repaid him for his
goodness ; but as we knew nothing of the
truck-system which he was defending, we
found his discourse very tiresome.

The conversation of the magistrate, however,
proved more interesting. He first
talked of the various riots which he had in
his time been engaged in suppressing ; and
he became facetious upon the anomalous
position of soldiers called out to aid the civil
power — upon which Captain Ponds gave
his two subalterns a wink, in order to remind
them of the document which he had
prepared in his sabretasche. The magistrate
then turned to other topics, most of which,

however, were more or less connected with
his official functions.

Do you find," he presently asked,
"that the majority of men who enlist in
the army just now, do so from a love of
the profession ? "

Not they ! " answered our captain ; " I
only wish they did. Most of them come
to us when they're out of work, or when
they've got into a scrape."

I thought so," said the magistrate.
But, now, what sort of scrapes ? "

Oh, well," answered the captain, " it's
nearly impossible to say. Very often a
woman's got something to do with it."

Of course," said the magistrate, laughing.
"But, now," he resumed with great
gravity, " do you know of any other class
of recruit that comes to you ? Do you get
any disaffected Irish, for instance 1 "

VOL. II. G

Disaffected Irish ! " repeated the captain.


"Yes," said the other; "Fenians, for
instance. Do you suppose that at this
moment you've any Fenians serving in
your regiment \ "

I don't know anything about Fenians,"
answered Captain Ponds ; u but I shouldn't
think they'd exactly select our regiment to
come to, because they'd know we shouldn't
choose to take them."

I hope you don't suppose I meant
any disrespect to the hussars," said the
magistrate. " But, to tell you the truth,
I've received some very extraordinary intelligence,
— some rather alarming intelligence,
I may say, — within the last few
days."

Oh ! " said Captain Ponds ; " and what's
that ! "

Well," the magistrate replied, " the
Fenians are contemplating an armed rising
almost directly."

Oh ! " said Ponds ; " and what are they
going to do when they do rise ? "

Why, as much mischief as they can ; "
answered the magistrate. "Burn down
houses, as these rioters did to our friend
here last night ; steal all the property they
can lay hands on ; seize all the arms they
can pounce upon ; and very likely murder
me, and several other people. That's what
I expect they mean to do."

Do you really feel much alarm about it
yourself? " asked the captain, after a pause.

The magistrate made another pause, and
then said, in reply : " If there's anything
in it at all, — and I believe there is, — the
worst feature in the business is the connection
the military have with the movement."

To what extent do you mean % " asked
Ponds.

To the extent of something like a dozen
Fenians in every regiment in the kingdom'
answered the magistrate ; " and if my information's
true "

What ? " inquired the captain.

I should wish it not to go any further
at present' said the magistrate; "but the
fact is, you're supposed to have a head-centre,
as he's called, in your regiment."

That's pleasant ! " said Ponds, laughing.

You'll kindly not mention it, will you % "
continued the magistrate. " Perhaps I
shouldn't have said anything to you ; only
Colonel Rush has been informed of it now,
so that you will probably hear all about
it from him, in any case."

We promised secrecy, and soon afterwards
the captain, Stoneyman, and I withdrew

to our quarters in the workhouse.
Stoneyman and I were in reality greatly
excited by what the magistrate had told
us ; but observing that our captain treated
the whole story with absolute ridicule
and incredulity, we affected to do the
same.

We remained for a week in the factory
village, on the service which had called
us there ; Captain Ponds holding a daily
parade and inspection, and also sending a
daily shower of carrots at his horse. Affairs
having then quieted down, we returned to
the place whence we had been despatched.
There, also, everything was peaceful, the
strikes having all come to an end. The
alarm about the Fenians also soon subsided,
and no head-centre could be discovered
in the regiment ; so that most
people gradually came to the conclusion

that they themselves, the Government,
the magistrates, and the police, had all
been made " the victims of a stupid
hoax!'

Before concluding this chapter, there is
one circumstance which I must not omit to
record. White, otherwise Blacker, deserted
our regiment. When his troop had been
detached under the command of Captain
Ponds, he had remained as a servant in the
officers' mess at headquarters. There, having
quarrelled with the messiah on some
trifling matter, he had borrowed as much
money as he could obtain, and had then
deserted. This proceeding on his part gave
me much material for reflection. Why, if
he found his military life disagreeable, had
he not availed himself of my father's readiness
to buy his discharge 1 Why had he
not communicated with me ? In a word,

what was all the mystery in which the man
seemed to be wrapped 1 My father did not
greatly assist me in my speculations. He
told me " that I might depend upon it poor
White's mind had been unhinged by the
cruel treatment he had received from his
sweetheart ; that then he had suffered terrible
hardships in the career which he had,
in sheer desperation, adopted ; and that,
finally, his pride had made him choose his
own means of putting an end to those
hardships. I only hope," continued my
father, "that the poor fellow may not have
destroyed himself."

If, in touching upon the affairs of White,
I have here and there thrown out any
hints which have served to throw a light
on his proceedings and motives, I would
remind the reader that in attempting to
account for such proceedings and motives

at that period of my life with which I am
just now dealing, my own sagacity was
unaided by the light which I have since
been enabled to furnish for the benefit of
others.

CHAPTER X.

I now intend to take another leap in my
history — a leap considerably greater than
the last. But first, as in the other case, I
will briefly say something as to what had
passed id the interval. I am happy to say
that in that interval, which I must make
one of seven years, my health had been
satisfactory to every one but my enemies
and my doctors ; my character had somewhat
changed, yet not for the worse ; and I
had learnt (at a cost of about £3000 in excess
of my nominal allowance) many useful
lessons. Also, upon the retirement of Captain
Ponds, I had purchased the command
of my old troop.

As to the members of my family, none
of those sad changes which seven years so
often witness had taken place among them.
My father, having embarked with Mr Kalph
Graham in a new silver company, had
emerged from the transaction a rather
poorer man. He had frequently been taken
to task and lectured, both by his brother
and by his thoughtful son, for the confidence
which he had persisted in reposing
in Graham. But though his infatuation
had been shaken when the failure of the
silver company aided our repeated attacks,
his longing for the excitement of speculation
had become insatiable ; and I certainly
believe, that during my life, I v have been in
general more alarmed by my father's peculiar
kind of extravagance than he ever has
been alarmed about mine.

With regard to Colonel Allen, my uncle,

he had found himself embarrassed, in an
agreeable but very curious manner, by the
possession of too much money ; for, as I
have said elsewhere, though a younger son,
he had been independently bequeathed a
large fortune. For some years he had been
brooding over his difficulty, and had at last
hit upon a plan for extricating himself
therefrom. This was, to make an expedition
to Arabia, there travel in parts never
before visited by a European, and then
return home, laden with treasures and
curiosities. A considerable time elapsed,
however, before his scheme was ripe for
accomplishment ; and at the period with
which I shall be dealing when I resume my
narrative, he was still in England, talking
of gauze shirts, quack medicines, pistols,
and portable boats.

Lastly, as to the amiable though still

unfortunate Helena, I shall in the next
chapter try to repair some of the neglect
with which I have been obliged to treat
her. For the present I must return to my
own personal history.

Our regiment was now commanded by
Colonel Luke Melnotte, the heir-presumptive
to an earldom, who followed his profession
chiefly by way of pastime. As
commanding officer, the only point to which
he gave a rigid attention was the outward
appearance of those under his command.
For the proper working of the discipline,
drill, and interior economy of the corps, he
looked to the regimental staff and the troop
sergeant-majors. This system, being employed
as it was in time of profound peace,
was not at all adverse to efficiency. It
was only as if, in a limited monarchy,
the ministerial responsibility had been

temporarily deputed to men of a rather
lower grade than usual. Colonel Melnotte,
however, was very absolute in the exercise
of those prerogatives which he chose to
retain ; and though he allowed the troop
officers almost as much leave as they could
have desired, and was exceedingly lenient
in dealing with prisoners, he required in
return that we should always be ready to
march past with exact precision, and that
we should never be at a loss to devise a
name for a man, or a number for a horse, at
the general's inspection.

But the time was close at hand for
Colonel Melnotte to have his attention
turned to even graver matters. Our term
of home service was nearly at an end, and

we were sent to the town of C , there to

be stationed until the day of our embarkation
for India. In our last quarter the regiment

had earned a very high character,
through the extreme good behaviour of the
men ; indeed the mayor and corporation (in
their robes) had presented the officers with
a piece of plate on that account. To maintain
on the line of march the reputation
thus earned and thus rewarded, Colonel
Melnotte adopted an ingenious and highly
characteristic plan.

At the morning muster, if any men were
found to be drunk, the colonel had them
quietly taken out of the place in a cab or
other closed carriage. As soon as the regiment
was clear of the houses the cab was
dismissed, and the drunken men caused to
march on foot until we neared the next
halting-place, when either the exertion of
walking was found to have made them
sober enough to ride in, or another carriage
was procured and they were conveyed into

the new place just as they had been conveyed
out of the old, the expense thus entailed
being deducted from their pay.

When we reached the town of C ,

a well-filled cab quietly accompanied our
rear-guard ; and both the local newspapers
congratulated Colonel Melnotte " upon the
significant fact that not a single case
of drunkenness had occurred during the
march."

We found that C possessed but few

attractions, and our life there would have
been very dull but for the extreme hospitality
of the people in the neighbourhood.

In some towns where we had been quartered
we had found the local families stingy
to the extent of baseness ; they had never
recognised our existence except at race-meetings
and other such occasions, when
certainly they had flocked into our tent,

swarmed round our drag, listened to our
band, and eaten our provisions, in a very
hearty manner indeed.

And yet, to speak of myself personally, I
could find very little pleasure in society at
this time. Besides being face to face with
the fact that I was shortly going to India,
I was tormented by thoughts of Helena
Chobham, whose situation was at this time
causing me great anxiety. Her image was
constantly before me, but in imagination
only. In the course of eight years I had
seen her no oftener than eight times, and
yet I was secretly devoted to her with my
whole heart. On the rare occasions when I
had met her, our interviews had been brief,
and she had carefully shunned allowing meany
opportunity for such an interchange of
confidence as I was sighing for. She had
been occupied for some years past in watching

the sick and visiting the poor, chiefly
at her own discretion, in the east part of
London.

I had heard lately that her health was
beginning to fail, and that her friends, including
my mother, were renewing efforts
which they had often made to cause her to
desist from her self-denying, self injurious
occupation ; and being on the eve of leaving
the country, I had determined, whether
rightly or wrongly, to see her myself, to
remonstrate with her, and, above all, to
come to an understanding with her. The
first difficulty which lay in my path was to
find her, the second difficulty was to see
her alone ; and I found means to overcome
both.

Having heard that she was sometimes
seen at a certain hospital in London, I
asked a celebrated doctor with whom I had

VOL. II. H

long been on friendly terms, to give me his
assistance. He at first told me that it was
absolutely impossible for him to help me ;
but when he had sounded me for my precise
motives as thoroughly as he had ever
sounded the chest of one of his patients, he
gave a short laugh, and observed that he
knew Mrs Chobham intimately, and, moreover,
heartily disapproved of the course she
had taken in burying herself from the
society of her friends. In short, he promised
to assist me ; and, either from the
special persuasions which I believe he used,
or — as I then preferred to suppose — from
the compassion which his bare statement of
my case excited, Helena consented to seeme
once before I left England.

CHAPTER XL

Before describing my farewell interview
with Helena, I must endeavour to repair
the long neglect with which I have treated
her affairs. To do this I must first return
to the period just following the carriage
accident at Goodnesbridge. As soon as Mrs
Frank Chobham had completely recovered
from her bodily injuries received on that
occasion, she announced her desire to retreat
into useful obscurity. For some time, however,
she was restrained — partly by the
arguments and remonstrances of her former
guardian, Mr Simmons, and those of
my mother, but chiefly by some exertions

made by Mrs Chobham the elder and Mr
Garbold.

As for Mr Simmons, he was rather shy
of his former ward, who he knew had good
cause for feeling resentment towards him
namely, on account of the share he had
taken in bringing about her marriage. He
confined himself chiefly, therefore, to writing
letters of mild expostulation. My
mother made more practical efforts. She
began by detaining Helena at Hare Place,
and causing several other ladies to come
there as guests at the same time. By this
step, however, she only made the object of
her solicitude more unhappy. Lady Susan
Longstaffe, really the least sincere of these
visitors, was successful in her pretences of
friendship for Helena, for she possessed
a profound knowledge of the world, and
moreover, was very good-humoured. But

the others were far less adroit, and they
caused Helena much annoyance by continually
kissing her, by warmly praising Mr Gar-bold
to her, and by talking to her as though
she had been an infirm elderly relative,
who was rather deaf. So my mother's plan
did not prosper. Mr Garbold, however, behaved
with such firmness of purpose, such extraordinary
patience, and so much tact, that
he almost accomplished that which nearly
every one else considered impossible.

Having very attentively considered the
whole matter, he decided that the right
course would be to bring Chobham back
to his wife, and, at all events to outward
appearances, reunite them. He saw many
difficulties in this plan and many objections
to it, but being convinced that it would
be for the best, he devoted himself to its
accomplishment. He first communicated

with Chobham's mother. She was in great
tribulation at her son's misconduct ; and
having followed him (at Garbold's suggestion)
to Italy, whither he had again escaped,
she had the satisfaction of finding that Miss
Bertha Dean would not permit him to see
her. Mrs Dean also, though anxious that
Mr Chobham should be happy, was still
more anxious that her daughter should
preserve her reputation, and she forbade
Mr Chobham her house.

Thus, when Mr Garbold commenced his
disinterested labours, circumstances were
somewhat in his favour ; for Mr Cobham
was lonely, and especially lonely since
he had no one to read travels to him, except
his mother, who in that task had never been
very assiduous, and who now began instead
to ply him with persevering solicitations that
he should seek a reconciliation with his wife.

At last, either to quiet his mother or in
real deference to her wishes, or from passing
remorse, he professed to consent to the
proposal. The two persons who had been
most active in bringing him to make this
concession next realised the' fact that to
make a reconciliation between two persons
both persons have to be parties to the transaction.
Accordingly it was decided that
Mr Garbold should open negotiations with
Helena.

This decision was dictated by considerations
of convenience, certainly not of prudence,
and proved at first unfortunate.
Helena showed Mr Garbold that, though
she appreciated his motives, she also resented
his taking upon himself such a very
delicate office. Deeply repenting his indiscretion
in not having 'employed some tearful,
white-haired relative for the task, Mr

Garbold counselled the mother to bring
Chobham to England.

This might certainly have been done,
but Providence chose that Chobham should
have a relapse at this time. Mr Garbold,
when he search of this, was in no way discouraged.
Remembering his reception on
the last occasion when he had interfered,
he now called to his aid a rather distant
relation of Chobham's, distinguished for
his venerable appearance, and sent him to
Helena to tell her that her husband had
been attacked with paralysis which might
prove fatal, and that he had been so seized
when in the act of setting out to come to
her and beg her forgiveness. Some delay,
however, had taken place in securing the
services of the picturesque old gentleman,
and by the time that he made his petition
to Helena, the circumstance upon which

he chiefly depended had disappeared; for
Chobham, with a natural tenacity which at
once delighted his friends and provoked his
enemies, recovered. Helena had learned by
experience to attach little importance to her
husband's seizures and subsequent recoveries,
which in their nature greatly resembled the
more famous seizure and recovery of Old
Mother Hubbard's dog. She accordingly
declined to take any step in the matter.
Mr Garbold did not assume that Chobham's
illness was a pretence, but being unable to
induce Helena to go to him, he patiently
waited to see Chobham sufficiently recovered
to come to her. He was at last, however,
forced to admit that Chobham simply did
not choose to stir.

Then Mr Garbold's patience and tact
came to an end, and he endeavoured to
indulge in revenge. He first attempted to

f

procure Chobham's expulsion from the club
to which they both belonged. But in so
doing he only betrayed his simplicity, for
the committee told him that if they were to
constitute themselves judges of the domestic
honour of the members as he suggested, the
subscriptions would soon show an alarming
fall. Mr Garbold then resigned his own
membership, thereby illustrating a very old
proverb. He, however, gave himself the
satisfaction of telling Chobham that he
hoped some day to settle accounts with
him.

Then, disgusted more than ever by the
ways of the world, and especially disgusted
by what he had seen of conventional marriages,
he went to an Orphans' Home, and
thence selected an amiable, clean, and
pretty maiden of sixteen, who bore an excellent
character. His intention was to

educate and marry her; and, in furtherance
of that aim, he placed her in a comfortable
house, where she was attended by a skilful
tutor and an accomplished governess. He
also provided her with some excellent sad-alehouses
under the care of a groom. The
simple girl soon began to imbibe knowledge
and to learn equitation in a manner which
gratified her cynical protector to the highest
degree ; but one day. she rode with her
groom to a neighbouring church, and was
there happily married to him. Thus Mr
Garbold's curious plan of making use of a
home for orphans as he might have made
use of a home for lost dogs entirely failed.
His pride felt the blow more severely than
his heart ; but he declared that had the
world been divided as he would have
it divided — namely, into the classes of
serfs and masters — it would have been

impossible for him to have made such a
mistake.

I have described the manner in which
some attempts were made to prevent Helena
from carrying out her fixed design of forgetting
the selfish and frivolous world.
She soon formed the acquaintance of certain
unassuming philanthropists in London,
who gladly gave her as much employment
as she could have possibly desired, and
more than she had probably expected. At
the same time, abandoning the task of rebuilding
Colling Hall as a home for herself,
she completed on the old site a large and
somewhat ugly brick building, which she
filled with cripples and endowed as an
Institution. Her former neighbours were
sorry to see the last tangible remains of an
ancient family thus — socially speaking —
swept away ; and though they professed

highly to applaud Helena's munificence,
they were often known to talk in a violent
and even minatory tone of the poor cripples
who had so unexpectedly found a comfortable
home.

To proceed, however, with my farewell
interview. My friend the doctor had prevailed
upon Helena to see me "on a matter
of life and death " — I believe he had used
that phrase ; but when the appointed day
and hour had at length come, and I was
sitting in the doctor's drawing-room expecting
to see her at any moment, I had become
greatly puzzled as to how I was to excuse
or account for the step which I had taken.
I was endeavouring to compose a suitable
speech when the door opened, and Helena
Chobham stood before me.

I may say without exaggeration, that tome,
if to no one else, she looked like an

angel. If her face at that moment had been
blooming, if her dress had been brilliant,
if she had shown in her manner the least
design of courting admiration ; or if, to own
the truth, she had in any way revealed even
a reasonable degree of happiness, though I
should still have loved her, I should have
also undervalued both her and her sufferings
on the spot. But her face was pale,
and most naturally mournful ; her dress
was of sombre, even coarse materials ; her
deportment was stiff, but majestic ; and as I
grasped her thin, cold little hand, I can only
say I adored her with my whole heart. I
forgot all the sentences which I had been
devising for the occasion ; I could think
only of that one subject which it was my
duty not to approach.

I murmured, however, in a mechanical
manner, some words which expressed my

regret at leaving the country without first
seeing her happy. For some time I could
contrive to say nothing else, except a fragment
or two more to the same effect.

She then asked me, with composure rather
than with coldness, " whether this was ' the
affair of life and death ' that I had to communicate
\ "

I told her that it was, and then, seizing
the opportunity, I said — all that I
had ever dreamed of saying, far more
than I had any right to say, with a sincerity
and emotion which took the place of
eloquence.

At first she listened with such an expression
of face as she might have worn while
hearing a patient relate a tale of misery in
which she had no direct concern, but gradually
a few gleams of sympathy stole into
her countenance, and at length, in spite of

great efforts to control herself, she burst
into tears.

Then, to confess the truth, I caught her
in my arms. She immediately commanded
me to release her; after which, regarding me
with steadiness, but with a burning cheek,
she said, "You forget who I am, Captain
Allen."

I observed, sadly, " I wish I could forget
who you are, or whose you are." But I
begged her to forgive me for the transport
into which my feelings had betrayed me.

You'd better say no more about it,"
said Helena. "And pray," she added,
"think no more about me. 'Everything
that is, is for the best"

Seeing that I did not endorse these sentiments,
she repeated, " Everything."

To which I dissented, saying, in the same
manner, " Nothing."

She then went on : "I am very sorry indeed
that I allowed you to see me. It was
very foolish, most dreadfully weak ; for it
has only made you unhappy. I hope you'll
occupy yourself with your profession, and
and think of nothing else." With this,
she began to move towards the door, at
the same time covering her face with her
hands.

I implored her to remain, and, being in
despair, exclaimed, " Oh, to think of such
needless misery ! That you should make
yourself a slave and a martyr for the sake
of such a man "

Helena immediately turned back, and,
uncovering her face, looked fixedly at
me.

Avoiding her gaze, I added, " I wish he
was dead, with all my soul ! "

Upon which she at once came up to me

VOL. II. I

and said, with most unmistakable displeasure,
" Retract that instantly, sir ! Retract
what you have said I "

I obeyed her ; and before I could recover
from the rebuke, she had left me.

CHAPTER XII.

When I returned to headquarters I was ina
very singular frame of mind, and though
not precisely in a state of desperation, I was
just in the mood to engage in anything that
was desperate.

At the C railway station I was met

by my servant, who told me " that there
was a row about the forage, and the colonel
was asking for the captain of the week."
Instead of expressing impatience or regret
at this intelligence, which officially concerned
me, I laughed aloud ; and then,
having driven up to the barracks at a leisurely
pace, put on my uniform and walked

over to the stables. There I found Colonel
Melnotte, the quartermaster, the orderly officer,
and the quartermaster-sergeant, all in
attendance on the general. The latter, as
I approached him, held out a handful of
something which looked like grass, and
said, — " Here, Captain Allen ; do you call
this hay ? Would you let your own horses
eat this for hay ? "

No, sir ; at least, I don't know," answered
I.

But Colonel Melnotte, having looked at
me attentively for a moment, told the general
that I had just returned from leave,
or otherwise he was sure I would have attended
to any complaint about the forage.
This satisfied the general ; and, had it been
otherwise, I believe that such a small military
incident as his displeasure would have
very likely led to a complete alteration in

many of the circumstances of my life. In
other words, in the frame of mind in which
I then was, I should probably have taken
the step of selling out from the service.

But I soon had to busy myself with final
arrangements for the approaching embarkation,
and I found plenty of healthy occupation
for my mind, in paying bills, buying
guns, packing saddlery, and so forth.

Colonel Melnotte was also exceedingly
busy at this time, for he was using all the
influence and weight he could bring to bear
on the Horse Guards, to induce those authorities
to permit the regiment's being
equipped with an antique head-dress which
had been the regulation pattern for the
corps when it had last served in India, some
twenty years before. This antique headdress
for which he so earnestly longed, was
not only a very cumbersome contrivance —

something in the shape of a quart-pot, — but
there was no doubt at all that it did not
protect the head from the sun. However,
Colonel Melnotte's exertions were not altogether
fruitless, for they served to remind
the authorities that the army still persisted
in cherishing tradition ; and that, though it
might be impracticable to allow the men
of a regiment to wear quart-pots on their
heads, it might still be dangerous to wantonly
sweep away other distinctive badges,
more ornamental and less objectionable.

As we were all busied in various ways,
I one day received intelligence that Blacker
of my troop — that is to say, White — had
been arrested in Ireland as a deserter. An
escort was sent to fetch him, and he was
shortly afterwards brought a prisoner into
barracks. A court-martial having been
ordered to assemble for his trial, I then

thought it advisable to reveal all I knew
about him. I accordingly told Colonel
Melnotte how White had been a footman in
my father's house, and had been beloved by
all our family ; how he had left our service,
after suffering delicate health, in order to
marry ; and how, to the best of our knowledge,
he had been jilted, and thus made
desperate. I brought forward these facts
with a view to benefiting the prisoner ; and
I so far succeeded, that a great part of the
sentence soon afterwards pronounced upon
White was remitted. He was still a prisoner,
however, when the regiment sailed
for Bombay.

That important event was at length on
the actual eve of taking place. My baggage
was packed, and some of it sent onto
Portsmouth. I had made every arrangement
in order to be as free from care as possible

at the last moment. The bed on
which I had last slept was sold to one of
the crowd of Jews which had invaded the
barracks ; and so also was a threadbare
frock-coat which I had finally cast away.
At half-past six in the morning the regiment
was marching through the streets of

C , the bands playing " The girl I left

behind me." My own emotions had by
this time become somewhat dull to the
effects of that air, which I had heard
played on proceeding from the north to
the south camp at Aldershot, yet on this
occasion I was certainly affected ; for,
though perhaps I was not marching into
the jaws of death, I was nevertheless leaving
the woman I loved ; although, it is
true, she was a lady of mature years,
already provided with a husband.

The troops seemed to be in the highest

possible spirits, though they were soothing
their nerves by incessantly smoking pigtail.
As they passed a small public-house
called " The Green Man," one of them
shouted, " Comrades, three cheers for old
mother Poggs ! " An enthusiastic response
was given, and an old woman, having
appeared at an open window, bowed her
thanks for the compliment which had been
paid to her, with all the grace of a duchess.
As the soldiers happened to pass a chimney-sweep,
one of them asked him when he had
last washed his face. But the sweep, taking
a pipe from his mouth, remarked " that
they would soon see plenty more of the
same colour ; " which was very true.

Our march to the railway station was
impeded by a number of young women,
who, though they cannot have been blood-relations,
seemed to be on terms of the

most affectionate intimacy with the soldiers.
Some of them broke into the ranks,
and actually caused their lovers to carry
them along in their arms; a proceeding
which affected some bystanders on the
pavement even to tears. One of the poor
girls said to a soldier with whom she was
exchanging a passionate farewell : " Tom,
promise me you won't have no nigger
sweetheart.' , He seemed, for a moment,
strongly affected, and - replied " that he
would see about it."

Having reached Portsmouth in safety,
we immediately embarked on an immense
Indian troop-ship which lay waiting for us.
I was met on board by ray mother, father,
and uncle, who had all insisted on seeing
me off, though I had already bidden them
one farewell. I spent that evening with
them in Portsmouth, and devoted my last

interview with my mother to earnestly
begging her to befriend Helena Chobham,
with regard to whom she had Ions: undiscovered
my secret.

The next day, at about three o'clock in
the afternoon, we weighed anchor, and the
town of Portsmouth soon afterwards appeared
as a small speck.

CHAPTER XIII.

The first incident of note in our voyage
occurred as we were passing Cape St
Vincent, when the alarm of fire was raised.
This, however, was only done in order to
exercise us at " fire-quarters ; " a highly
practical and very important kind of rehearsal,
which took place about once a-
week while we were on board. At this
exercise of " fire - quarters " almost every
person in the ship had some sort of duty
to perform ; and even the chaplain was
obliged to shut himself up with the ladies
in the saloon, there to give them ghostly
advice. The soldiers worked the pumps

with great goodwill and good - humour,
which were the more conspicuous from the
fact that our men were constantly annoyed
and insulted by the sailors, who heaped on
their heads such epithets as " Lobsters,"
"Bed-herrings," "Land-lubbers," &c, &c,
and, moreover, devised for them many disagreeable
and even degrading duties, which
soldiers should never have been called upon
to perform.

But soon after "fire-quarters," we had
some excitement of an unpremeditated kind.
In the middle of the night, "White, who was
still a prisoner, was seized with such genuine
symptoms of fainting, that the surgeon
on duty obtained permission for him to be
brought up on to the upper deck, in order
that the sea-breeze might revive him. As
soon as he was exposed to the open air,
however, he was attacked by most violent

nausea; and the sentry had to use great
exertions to prevent White from falling
overboard.

While this scene was taking place, the
ship came into collision with a Russian
brigantine, which carried no lights, and
whose crew were keeping no sort of watch.
Having merely carried away the bowsprit
of the brigantine, we proceeded on our
course as if nothing unusual had happened.
But it occurred to the sergeant of the
guard, just then, to inquire how matters
fared with his prisoner Blacker, otherwise
White ; and he very soon ascertained that
the unfortunate man had left the ship without
permission. The sentry declared that
Blacker had knocked him down at the
moment of the collision, and had then
leapt into the rigging of the brigantine.
But this extraordinary tale was not believed

; and, while Blacker was returned
as " drowned," the sentry was quickly
transformed into a prisoner.

The statement he had made was true,
notwithstanding, as I shall hereafter explain
; and therefore I need not trouble
the reader with a description of the effect
which White's supposed tragic end had
upon my mind at the time when I first
heard of it.

When we had been at sea rather longer
than a week, and as we were one afternoon
dining in the saloon, the trumpet sounded
a halt ; the engines ceased to move, and
the terrible cry was raised that a child
was overboard. The behaviour of some of
the ladies at table, who had children on
deck, was exceedingly curious on this occasion.
Two or three of them certainly
looked as frightened and miserable as anyone

could have desired to approve ; but a
certain Mrs Tobbitt swooned, though in
evident pretence, into the arms of a gentleman
whom she had only known since she
had met him on board ; while another individual,
Mrs Prue, seized the captain by the
sleeve of his coat, and asked him : "Whether
he thought that it was her child ; and, if he
did, whether she might jump into the seato
save it \ "

In the end, a boat having been manned
and lowered in one minute, nothing was
found to have gone overboard except the
life-buoy, which one of our sentries had
dropped at the first alarm ; and it was
discovered that one of the soldiers' wives,
having mislaid her baby somewhere, had
occasioned all the confusion ; and the captain
ended the matter by stopping the
woman's allowance of grog.

Mrs Tobbitt and Mrs Prue, to whom I
have just referred, throughout the voyage
furnished me with perpetual amazement by
their proceedings. Mrs Tobbitt was the
wife of an army surgeon, who held a civil
appointment in the north-west provinces of
India. She was an ill-made, strange-looking
creature of about thirty-five. She had
no less than six children, four of whom
accompanied her on this voyage. It might
have been supposed that, having to look
after such a considerable portion of her
family, she would have found little time
for anything except her domestic duties ;
but it was otherwise, for she found plenty
of leisure by the simple process of totally
neglecting her children. She occupied her
time in painting her homely face with a
composition of chalk and other matter, in
abusing the stewards and ship's company,

VOL. II. K

and reporting them for incivility; and
lastly, in lurking in different out-of-the-way
corners of the vessel in company with
our youngest subaltern, who was occasionally
relieved by an artilleryman. The
united asses " of the two male lovers thus
working in the same field," barely exceeded
those of their fair enslaver. Meanwhile
the unfortunate Johnny, Bertie, Leonard,
and Annie Tobbitt were the plague
of the whole quarter-deck ; moreover, the
poor little creatures were suffering from a
cutaneous malady, which made them the
terror of all the other mothers.

Mrs Prue acted with less audacity, and
with more system, than did Mrs Tobbitt.
Mr Prue was chaplain to one of the un-healthiest
stations in the world; and he
was at this time toiling at his duty
in the plains of Bengal, expecting the

arrival of his wife. He used, we heard,
to allow her to absent herself in search of
health and pleasure to the fullest of his
ability ; bat the state of his funds had now
compelled him to recall her from England,
whither she had been for the ostensible purpose
of placing some of her children at school.
Mrs Prue, during this return voyage, did
not seek solace in the companionship of
military subalterns, but she discovered an
extraordinary affection for one of the naval
officers, a certain navigating sub-lieutenant
: so that, instead of sitting in dark
nooks with gentlemen who might have been
mistaken for her sons, she marched into
the sub-lieutenant's cabin like an honest
woman ; and he openly feasted her with
oranges, and showed her photographs of
his relations. The result of this friendship
was, that Mrs Prue was better attended

in the saloon than any other person, excepting
the captain and the paymaster.
She also borrowed money from her friend,
in order to discharge her wine-bill.

But to proceed with the voyage. The
false alarm of the child overboard occurred
soon after we had passed through the Straits
of Gibraltar. We did not touch at the Rock,
but steamed on to Malta, where we were
detained by a gale which continued for
three days. We were much pleased with
the place, and I was specially delighted
by the baked monks whom I went to see,
and by the opera which I visited each
night. While it gave me the highest
gratification to see so many visible signs
of British supremacy, I was nevertheless
mortified to observe the insolence of the
miserable natives, especially of the police,
who, in the helmets of London constables,

resembled monkeys rather than human
beings. I was also sorry that it should
be thought expedient to exact so much
humility from the conquerors, who are
compelled to turn out their guards, and
pay other such compliments, to the native
priests and their Popish processions.

We left the harbour of Valetta before
the gale had quite subsided, and indeed
we experienced rougher weather in the
Mediterranean Sea than in any other water
through which we passed ; the Bay of Biscay
being particularly calm. We reached
Port Said safely, and here the vessel coated,
and most of us went on shore. But I found
the place so dirty, disreputable, and in all
respects depressing, that I soon returned to
the ship. When we had finished coaling,
and had taken a pilot on board, we proceeded
to enter the Suez Canal, the narrowness

of which fairly amazed me. I recalled to
mind the stock question of my old tyrant
Marter, " Why can a canal never be made
across the Isthmus of Sooez ? " and the
answer, " Because the sand would always
fall in ; " and I should have been glad to
have brought him to the spot and given
him a ducking.

As we were sitting down to dinner the
first day after entering the Canal the vessel
stopped, and was made fast to the shore
for the night by large hawsers. After mess,
one of our subalterns made a bet that he
would pass along one of these hawsers to
the shore, and, being as nimble as a cat, he
succeeded. But he was followed by another,
one of Mrs Tobbitt's youthful admirers ;
who, inspired by her glowing glances, was
ready to face any danger. He only used
his hands, whereas the other had used both

hands and legs, and the consequence was,
that before he had gone the length of ten
yards, he lost his hold, and fell into the
water. Seeing that he was not out of his
depth, and therefore in no danger of drowning,
we all shouted with laughter, and told
him there was a crocodile at his heels.
Upon which he roared out, " Send a
boat ! send a boat ! There is something
moving ; upon my soul there is ! "

And so there was, though the object in
question was the boat which he was so
eager to behold. Mrs Tobbitt, during these
proceedings, made a show of fainting ; but
we were too much engaged in laughter to
give her any assistance.

Every evening while we were in the
Canal, we halted, as on the first night ; but
the captain prohibited any more gymnastics.


A rather ludicrous incident of another
kind occurred one day while we were in
the Canal. The butcher and the cook were
handling a live fowl and she contrived to
escape. After flying a short distance she
fell into the Canal. She floated for sometime,
and for all I know, might have
eventually gained the shore, had not a
small boat been suddenly launched from
the bank. Some natives who were in this
little craft captured the fowl, twisted her
neck in an instant, and immediately returned
to the shore. But while this was
going on, the hen-coop had been left open,
and a fine drake seized the opportunity to
fly forth — which he did with the greatest
intrepidity. During the laughter occasioned
by his conduct, a duck, I hope a faithful
mate of his, urged by his quacks to make
a great exertion, also scrambled forth and

joined him in his flight. The pair flew
happily away together over the desert ; and
I suppose either died of hunger or settled
in some remote land, there to form a colony
of their own species.

When we reached the Gulf of Suez, we
found several Egyptian and Turkish men-of-war,
decked out with flags, "in honour,"
we were told, " of the birthday of Mahomet."
Our captain at once hoisted a
quantity of bunting, and, as we had to wait
some time in order to embark some natives,
as stokers, our band was ordered to play.
As soon as we had played the Turkish
national hymn, the Turkish flag-ship mustered
her band, and played ' God save the
Queen.' Upon which our men gave the
Turks three cheers. ' God save the Queen '
was in this manner repeated three times.

We now entered the Red Sea ; and here

the native stokers whom we had embarked
began to be very useful ; for the)* seemed
to have the constitutions of salamanders.
They were lodged in some sheep-pens, on
the port side of the vessel, and a sentry
was placed over them to protect them from
being annoyed through the bars of their
cage.

In the course of duty, one of the sentries
thus posted was told to repeat his instructions
; whereupon he said, "' Not to allow
these blacks to molest the Europeans," for
which I believe he was corrected.

I was now in the hottest locality in
which I had ever been ; but I little knew
what was to come. We wore white clothes,
and had an awning fitted up to protect us
from the heat of the sun. At night most
of us slept on deck. We now, for the first
time in our voyage, noticed some flying-fish.

I was astonished to find that they
resembled birds in their flight, far more
closely than I had been taught to expect.
Mr Marter, I recollect, once told a group
of open-mouthed little boys that the flying-fish
could only leap a few feet out of the
water, in order to escape the coryphene :
whereas I could now see them flying with
apparent steadiness for many yards.

Having navigated the Need Sea, and passed
Mocha, and the Straits of Babel Mantel, we
touched at Aden. I went on shore with
several others, and, in order to visit the
bazaar and some celebrated tanks, hired
a yellow-coloured beast which resembled
nothing I had ever seen before. He was
said to be a donkey ; but I declare he
seemed as much like a dog, or a stag, or a
camel, except as to his ears. Whatever the
beast was, he carried me safely through a

somewhat tiresome and uninteresting tour
of inspection. Before leaving Aden, we
made several purchases from the natives.
Our riding-master, Orwell, in particular, laid
in a great stock of feathers — with a view,
I believe, to selling them by retail at some
future time. He showed great skill in his
bargaining, (although, as he afterwards
found, he was no judge of ostrich-feathers),
and brought to reason nearly all the natives
with whom he dealt. One withered old
black, however, who sat baling out his
canoe with his hands, and at the same
time exchanging a smart dialogue with
Orwell, who was on the ship, refused to
sell any of his goods except at an exorbitant
rate ; and at last paddled back to
the shore, exclaiming as he went, " Nebber
mind ; plenty more dam fool come by-and-by!"


Soon after we had left Aden, a number
of petty robberies, of which the military
were the victims, took place on board. I
suppose it was the jealousy between the
two services which made the colonel assert
that the thieves were sailors, and the captain
declare that they were soldiers. Orwell
missed a pair of boots and several of
his feathers, and, being a poor man, made
a great outcry ; but he could obtain no redress.
At length, how r ever, Mrs Prue lost
a shawl, which she chose to value at three
hundred guineas ; and, through her influence
with the navigating sub-lieutenant, we soon
had a general muster on the upper deck, and
sentries placed at every hatchway, while
the master - at - arms conducted a search
below. While this was taking place, we
noticed signs of great trepidation amongst
the stewards who had been mustered on the

poop. These individuals had been extraordinarily
active in clearing us out of our
cabins every morning, on the ground that
the first lieutenant was making his rounds.
One of them was now heard to say that
any one was welcome to search his chest.
When that step had been taken, however,
and the result made known to him, he
declared that he would commit suicide ;
upon which he was put in irons and removed.
Most of the missing property was
found to have been concealed by this
prisoner or by some of his comrades ; but
Mrs Prue's shawl was discovered, not long
afterwards, in the cabin of Mrs Tobbitt,
where I suppose it had been accidentally
placed.

But I must not make the description of
this voyage more tedious than the voyage
itself was. We arrived at Bombay in due

course. Here the subaltern to whom Mrs
Tobbitt had been so gracious, gave her a
strong proof of his attachment. A raffle
had been arranged, by which the subscribers
each drew a ticket naming the
exact time when the vessel would pass a
certain lighthouse. The subaltern 1 won
the raffle, amounting in value to £60, but
he had no sooner done so than Mrs Tobbitt
told him of something he had certainly not
known before — viz., that he had engaged
to change tickets with her. The foolish
youth allowed this claim, and thus, for the
many pleasant hours which he had passed
with Mrs Tobbitt, he repaid her very handsomely.


AVe reached Bombay at an early hour
in the afternoon ; and after we had been

1 Our young officers were no longer called cornets ; a
foolish foreign title having been bestowed upon them
instead.

visited by the usual officials, most of the
officers, including myself, went on shore to
search for amusement and instruction, as
the general disembarkment was not to take
place until early the next day.

CHAPTER Xii.

I should have been glad to have commenced
this chapter with an invocation to
India, after the approved model of all invocations
; but on thinking the matter
over, I found that any such attempt on my
part must have failed, owing to the doubts
with which my mind is filled as to the
standpoint from which it becomes me to
regard India. India, from the poor man's
point of view, and India from the rich
man's point of view, are really two entirely
different countries. The one may be
very properly described as the poor man's

VOL. II. L

paradise, and the other may be described
without very gross impropriety as the rich
man's hell.

My first impression of the place, when I
landed at Bombay, was rather favourable.
It interested me to see for the first time
mounted soars, sepoy, Chinamen, parties,
and baboon ; temples, coloured lanterns,
rows of brass pots, and lines of
hookahs; brilliant Eastern silks, strange
fruits, and heaps of various dyes. I
listened with perfect good-humour to the
novel sound of the tom-tom; and I was
not at all disgusted by a peculiar spice-like
smell which I afterwards learnt to
abominate.

Most of my companions remained on
shore, carousing exactly like a number of
sailors who had been on a six months'
cruise ; but I was forced to leave them at

an early hour, as I was suffering from headache,
in consequence of having worn a
forage-cap all that day.

When I reached the quay, a number of
natives fought for the distinction of carrying
me back to the ship ; but, while this
battle was waging, an old Hindoo, who had
been neutral, conducted me to his boat,
and pushing off, hoisted an immense lateen-sail,
which soon brought us to the ship.
Here the old Hindoo claimed four rupees
and eight annas, which he declared I
had promised him. As he became very
noisy, one of the man-of-war's men at
the gangway threw him into the sea ;
after which he was persuaded to abate his
demand.

At two o'clock in the morning of the
next day, the troops were reshipped, and
taken in lighters, towed by a small steamer,

ro a wharf, or bu \dcr. where a train was in
readiness. We were then taken by the
train to a place called Deolalee, where we
marched into a rest-camp, and remained
rive days. From this place Colonel Melnotte
returned to Bombay, and pui

F- a-dozen Arab horses, which

y all dis] 1 him in the end.

Mr Joiner, too. the veterinary surgeon,
was oni in the same way. He

bought eight horses a: Bombay; but soon
had to parr with them, though a >t wil
a certain profit to himself

A: Deolalee we made several shooting

lotions, with the result that some very
strange game was brought into camp. Orwell,
the riding-master, who had taken out
a carbine belonging to one of his rough-riders,
and sixty rounds of ammonia
runs .1 one . the remains

huge bird which he told us was an eagle.

It proved to be. however, a far less l
animal, with whose curious but useful
habits Indian travellers soon become
quaint.

After our halt at Deolalee, the regiment
proceeded up the country, travel] ;■. ■
nio-ht. and halting in rest-camps during
the day. Our destination was a lame
Bengal station called Sugpore: and we
reached that place in safety after a journey
lasting about a wi

The first few hours which we passed in
Sugpore were, to many of us, hours of the
utmost discomfort and confusion : for,
though the men inarched straight into
their barracks, many of the officers had
not yet been able to secure bungalows,
and were obliged to explore the cantonment
in search of them. For inv own

part, I at first thought myself very fortunate;
for Colonel Melnotte, with apparent
kindness, invited me to stay with him in
the best bungalow of the whole cantonment.
I soon found, however, that he
had a rather interested motive in thus
providing for me. The adjutant's wife
had been suddenly taken ill, and her husband
had obtained leave to attend her.
Therefore the colonel required some one
to perform various little extra duties which
he was in the habit of imposing upon his
adjutant, and he had selected me for this
purpose.

For many hours I had to be constantly
moving about, distributing orders or collecting
information on behalf of Colonel
Melnotte, who was already in consultation
with the master-tailor upon weighty matters
which would not bear interruption.

At first I hired a conveyance called a
harry l (for none of our horses were yet
available) ; but presently, finding that the
two ponies which drew it had already been
overworked, I dismissed the vehicle, and
giving the driver a present, desired him not
to use his ponies any more that night. But
he seems not to have understood the signs
by which I sought to express my meaning ;
for I heard afterwards that on leaving me
he drove directly to the barracks, and was
there employed by the married families of
the soldiers during the greater portion of
the night. After dismissing the harry, I
procured an ill-conditioned little pony, and
contrived to move about with more expedition.
The syne — that is, a sort of groom —
who had brought me this hack, at first tried

1 An old-fashioned kind of coach, usually drawn by two
ponies.

to follow me wherever I went, but I made
signs to him to remain in a certain place
until I returned. I afterwards observed
that these sykes take an eager pleasure in
following their employers' horses, even
when the latter are moving at full speed,
and for great distances. Indeed, one syne
was so devoted to this sport that he
ran after his mistress until he fell down
dead ; and yet there were many people
who blamed her instead of him for the
catastrophe.

I had a very tiresome and fatiguing
night's work before I had concluded all
the business the colonel had deputed tome.
The orderly officer was the only person
more wretched than myself; he was
nearly driven to despair. I retired to rest
at three o'clock in the morning; but first
I had my pony picketed outside the bungalow,

and as the weather was cold, had
him covered up in a good English horse-cloth
— in which the poor syne was afterwards
found sleeping.

CHAPTER XV.

Soon after arriving in Sugpore we were all
astonished to hear that Blacker, of D troop,
was once more a prisoner on his way to
rejoin the regiment. He was presently
brought in, and tried by a court-martial
for having broken away from confinement.
But owing to the ingenious defence which
he made, and to the sympathy which the
strangeness of his case excited, he received
a very slight punishment, and he was soon
at his duty, which was now that of an
ordinary trooper. His story shortly told
was this. When the troop-ship ran into
the Russian brigantine, White, nearly beside

himself with sickness, imagined that
our ship was sinking, or that she might
sink, or in any case that his life was in
danger ; and with a fatuous presence of
mind he leapt into the shrouds of the
brigantine, and there remained in an
agony of fear until the crew discovered
and rescued him. The crew of the brigantine
had been suddenly shaken out of
their hammocks in the dead of night, and
when they ran on deck they could see
nothing but a British soldier, pale as death,
scrambling about in their rigging.

At first. — according to White, — they
believed him to be the devil ; but presently,
when they had discovered the damage done
to their ship, and had seen the lights of a
great vessel fast moving away, they decided
that he was a spy ; and although he told
them that he was a major in the army,

they treated him with gross indignity, and
some cruelty, until they put in to Gibraltar,
where they handed him over to our military
authorities. As to the fact that the sentry
placed over White on board the troop-ship,
had been found lying on his back with
a bleeding nose, this White explained by
saying that a spar had struck him ; and the
man himself owned that something uncommonly
hard had hit him.

The general who commanded the division
in which Sugpore was, was a brave and
distinguished officer of the singular name
of Walnut. He was a very eccentric, unpopular
man, although in reality both
capable and noble-hearted. His many
services had procured him, late in life, a
knighthood, and the command of a division ;
but had he been a man of less singular character
— though at the same time a man of

less capacity and worth — he would have
been by this time commander-in-chief of a
presidency, at the least.

The first taste we enjoyed of Sir George
Walnut's peculiarities was about a fortnight
after our arrival, when he treated us to a
night-surprise. I was aroused by my bearer,
who, coming to my bedside, exclaimed,
"Sahib, sahib! Ootow, sahib! Bahut bobbery
; tope, boom! boom! bolts." 1

While he was still shouting "boom! boom!"
which was all that I could the least understand
of his speech, a trumpeter trotted up to
the front of my bungalow, and immediately
sounded the " Alarm," " Boots and Saddles,"

1 " Sahib, Sahib ! get up, sahib ! Great commotion ; the
guns say Boom ! boom ! " Note. — For one or two reasons
which can easily be surmised, I intend to spell any
Hindustani words that may occur, not as they should be
spelt, or as they should be pronounced, but as they are
colloquially pronounced by the majority of English
officers.

and "Fall in," one after the other. We
were mounted and on parade within a very
short space of time, and the first duty I
myself had to perform, was to escort the
general with a squadron. He scampered
alon£ on a short, ill-looking, dun-coloured
cob, closely followed by his aide-de-camp
and his brigade-major, who, out of policy,
each of them feigned an extraordinary sympathy
w T with all the general's vagaries. The
eyes of Sir George Walnut, as he galloped
along, were gleaming like those of a madman
(which was what many people called
him), and his enthusiasm in the imaginary
battle was only the more kindled when a
realistic incident, for which no one was
prepared, suddenly took place. We had
just left the cantonments, and gained the
highroad, when the hedge on either side
was most unexpectedly lined by two companies

of Highlanders, who presented their
loaded rifles at us. They were highly commended
by the general, but ordered to procure
some less dangerous ammunition as
quickly as possible.

We had several more night-surprises
under Sir George Walnut's direction. His
favourite mode of proceeding was to rise
in the dead of night, saddle his horse with
his own hands — (the sykes, who knew his
humour, all pretending to be asleep) — and
then steal off to a battery of artillery, and
cause a blank cannonade to be opened upon
the sleeping garrison.

We grew very impatient with the general
and his eccentricities ; but ere long we had
to contend with another and more serious
inconvenience — namely, the hot weather.
I will briefly describe our mode of living
in the month of June. Having risen at

about five o'clock, sometimes much earlier,
after broken and refreshing slumbers,
we proceeded to perform certain duties.
We marched past the colonel, or had a field-day
with the major, or went to church on
foot ; or else we went to the divisional
parade-ground, to see the irons fastened onto
a young soldier, who, in deference to
the scruples of the British populace, was
being sent into penal servitude* for a few
years. The discharge of these early duties
caused us to break into a prickling sweat,
which forced its way through our white
clothes, and made us look as though we
had just been rescued from drowning. We
then went to the mess, and made a meal
which resembled a funeral repast ; for we
were generally sad, and without appetite.
After that — except upon a holiday — we
performed more duties, which, for most of

ns, lasted till ten o'clock, and then we
galloped back to our bungalows, which the
heat of the sun had meantime transformed
into veritable bakehouses. After bathing
and dressing, and generally, also, sleeping,
we again mounted our horses or ponies,
returned to the mess, and there screamed
for tiffin, and for the punkah, after the manner
of so many debilitated old Spaniards.

At last the sun went down, which was
the signal for every one to emerge from the
various ovens where they had lain concealed,
and go in search of exercise and pleasure.
Even the ponies were brought out of their
stables and thoughtfully refreshed with a
few games of polo. The cricket-ground
and the racket-court were both quickly
occupied ; and the club became filled with
visitors, who smoked and drank, and tried
to talk sense, to the best of their ability.

VOL. IT. M

Most of the rank and beauty of Sugpore at
this time congregated on " The Mall," where
one of the military bands usually discoursed.
Here could be seen, sitting in his barouche,
the commissioner, who was accompanied
by his wife, his daughter, and his aide-de-camp.
The commissioner wore an English
tall hat ; and looked like a man who
detested India, and would have much preferred
to have been living quietly in England,
provided that in the latter place some
arrangement could have been made for continuing
his Indian official pay. The commissioner's
wife had the air of a matron
who loved her husband (and the looks of
other matrons conveyed a totally opposite
impression as regarded themselves). The
commissioner's daughter was engaged in
flirting with the aide-de-camp — whom she
heartily despised ; and the aide-de-camp

was employ) r ed in giggling, squeaking, perpetually
expressing innocent surprise, and,
in short, playing the official courtier.

Here also the garrison instructor was to
be seen, seated in a m ail-phaeton with his
wife, whom he was supposed to entertain
with the description of his new instrument
for measuring angles. The doctor of the
native cavalry, too, would pass down the
Mall, driving his four horses, with a prodigious
rattle of the bars ; his team always
trying to turn off in the direction of our
barracks, where, to be sure, they had once
been quartered in the capacity of troop-horses.
We also used to see the 
arrive in his buggy ;
call his syne a pig, and throw the reins at
him ; then fold his arms, close his eyes,
and listen to the music, with a cheroot in
his mouth. The handsomest equipage to

be seen on the Mall was that of the lawyer.
This wretch was suspected of having dark
blood in his veins ; and though, to prove
the suspicion false, he cudgelled his servants
from morning until night, he was sent to
Coventry. He and his wife, therefore,
were forced to be contented with their
own society, but lived in luxury, and were
perhaps all the happier for their enforced
retirement.

I found the hot weather worse than I had
ever anticipated that it would be ; and yet
something more infernal was to follow. I
had lately observed that the atmosphere
grew more oppressive ; especially in the
interior of my house, when, owing to the
prevalence of a dust-storm, I was compelled
to close every crevice and light my lamps.
At length a few great globules of water
began to fall, and then came a heavy and

continuous fall of rain. The dusty tracts
around us were soon covered with green
grass. Strange beasts emerged from the
ground ; bewildered jackals trotting down
the Mall in broad daylight. A serpent,
driven from his own retreat by simple
necessity, came into my bath-room, and
was there despatched. The frogs, which
were of a bright colour and monstrous
size, kept up an incessant chorus ; and
furthermore, my bungalow being close to
the churchyard, I heard the muffled drums
and the " Dead March in Saul" almost
every day : for cholera had broken out in
the garrison. That horrible disease at
length attacked some of our women and
children ; then two or three men in my
own troop ; upon which I was ordered to
march off into camp.

CHAPTER XVI.

Four hours after the receipt of these orders,
I rode out of Sugpore with my troop, and
presently encamped on the side of the road
under what is called a tope of trees. I
was allowed no subaltern, for the regiment
had but three available for duty at
this time; the rest being either on leave,
or on the sick-list, or learning musketry,
or being taught in the garrison class that
the role of cavalry in modern warfare was
contemptible. 1

I could see that nothing was to be gained

i Vide l Clergy's Tactics,' a text-book used in the garrison
classes.

by repining, so I tried to make the best of
my situation ; yet I was heavily depressed,
and probably only one person in the D
troop felt more so. This person was the
unhappy White, our former footman. He
had never been very healthy since his first
recapture ; and since he had been taken
the second time, he had made sad inroads
into his constitution by daily sitting in a
half-cask of cold water reading the newspaper.
He was followed . into camp by a
tawny-coloured little mongrel, for which he
seemed to have an honest affection. The
other men in the troop showed their depression
by entirely ceasing to swear : a
very remarkable sign when exhibited by
those whose ordinary language is proverbially
horrible. The horses, many of them
aliens like ourselves, evidently shared in
the general dejection. I had ordered dried

grass (which we used indifferently in the
place of hay or of straw) to be placed
on their backs, and their blankets to be
strapped over it ; and when they were
thus swollen and swaddled, they presented
a more woe-begone appearance than ever.
As soon as the tents had been pitched and
the horses picketed, the men brought ina
quantity of pretty dry fern and other
materials, and made a large fire. This
seemed to raise their spirits, for I presently
heard them utter from behind their pipes
a few of their familiar oaths.

We had been encamped just two hours
when the sergeant-major of the troop ran
into my tent and said, " Bristol, sir, the
trumpeter, is taken with the cholera."

What does the apothecary say about
it ? " asked I ; for all the surgeons were
busy at Sugpore, and at present we had

only a half-caste warrant officer to take
charge of our sick.

"He says' answered the sergeant-major,
"that he won't live five minutes."

Upon this I rose, most terribly disturbed
in my mind ; but at that moment the
apothecary came in and reported that the
trumpeter was not suffering from cholera, but
only from pains in the back, which probably
resulted from something far less serious.

Well then, sir," said the sergeant-major,
when he had heard this, "I've told you an
untruth. Mr Bell," he continued, turning
to the apothecary, " didn't you tell me
Trumpeter Bristol had the cholera ? "

"No, sergeant-major," answered the
half-caste; "I only told you he might
have it."

Upon this the sergeant-major shook his head
with an air of incredulity, and walked off.

The illness of the trumpeter was of
special consequence to me and to the
troop, inasmuch as no one else could
sound the trumpet. But to supply the
want thus entailed, one of the men sounded
the various trumpet-calls on a hair-comb
wrapped in paper. When I was sitting
down on an old wine-case to eat my dinner,
the "mess trumpet" was imitated just outside
my tent, and to my great satisfaction.
The efficiency of the device was formally
recognised on all sides, even by the horses,
who gave their accustomed whinnying and
neighing whenever the hair-comb played
"the Feed."

I had been in the cholera camp just three
days and four nights, when the ,
in giving me his morning
report, observed with a smile, " Blacker,
sir, has gone sick."

He hasn't got cholera, I hope \ " said I.

"No, no, sir," answered the sergeant-major,
laughing; "he's no more ill than I
am. To be sure we can't see into his mind
to tell whether he's speaking the truth or
not ; but it's my own opinion he's merely
scheming."

The apothecary came up at this moment,
and said, " Private Blacker would like to
speak to you, sir, if you'll let him. I don't
think he's many minutes to live."

Is it cholera ? " I asked, in great surprise.

There's no doubt about that," answered
the half-caste.

I immediately said that I would see the
dying man. First, however, by the apothecary's
instruction, I took certain precautions
against infection.

At the moment when I entered the tent
where White lay, he was in a convulsion of

pain, and his face was turned away from
me. I sat down by the clhooley, 1 which
served him for a bed, and gently took away
the poor man's tawny-coloured dog — a
faithful attendant, whose caresses were only
increasing his master's misery. When the
convulsion had ceased, White turned round
his face, and having recognised me, burst
into tears. I at first tried to cheer him in
the manner which naturally came to me ;
but directly I spoke of recovery, he interrupted
me, and said, " No, no, master
Tommy ; it's all up with me, I know. And
yet I've been in so many straits before, and
got safe through them, that I can hardly
believe I'm to die. I'd best tell you all
I've got to say, before it's too late."
I begged him to tell me anything that

1 A covered bier, used for carrying the sick and
wounded.

weighed on his mind, but on no account to
agitate himself more than he could avoid.

Well, then, IVe been a downright
rogue and a thief ; " said he. " It was me
robbed the old squire of his plate."

We all forgive you for it," said I.

I took something besides the plate,"
White resumed. " Old papers ; your mother's
marriage certificate. It's sewn into
the lining of my blue stable-jacket."

"You've made amends for that by telling
me," said I ; "and I suppose you wrote me
that letter at Wolvenden ? "

"Yes, I did," replied White. "It was
all through a bit of spite I had against you
for looking in my bedroom, along with Mr
Sutcliffe, one day. You took him there,
Master Tommy, didn't you ? "

I can't remember," answered I. a But
you'll forgive me if I did, won't you ? "

White grasped my hand, and then continued
: " You haven't heard the worst } T et,
and I don't like to tell it either."

He was here greatly overcome, and I
waited until he was able to proceed, which
he did as follows : " I've been guilty of — of
something worse than what I've told you.
Poor Sergeant Brett — the police van at
Manchester, — I was in that job."

"The Fenian business in 1866!" I exclaimed.


Yes," said White. " When I joined the
regiment at Leeds, I was a head-centre, and
in with Kelly and his lot."

When the police van was attacked you
were in desertion, weren't you ? " I observed.


Yes," answered White ; " I had deserted,
and because they'd got wind of there being
Fenians in the regiment. That blew over

as soon as I'd gone. But oh, sir ! dear
Master Tommy ! "

Here he broke into most distressing exclamations
of penitence and despair. Deeply
affected myself, I performed the difficult
task of comforting and consoling him to the
best of my weak ability. But his body was
soon once more in mortal agony, and his
mind wandered. The apothecary, who had
hitherto been waiting outside the tent, now
came in, and endeavoured, as far as his skill
enabled him, to give the dying man relief.
But the condition of poor White was far
past remedy, and presently, quite fc exhausted
with pain, he expired.

I immediately despatched a native orderly
one of a small body of soars temporarily
attached to the troop for such duties, — with
a report of what had just taken place to
headquarters. And in the meantime, I gave

orders for a grave to be prepared for the
deceased, under a large tree in the adjacent
jungle. At a little before sunset the soar
returned, bringing me instructions to shift
my camp at once, and information that a
surgeon would join the troop at the next
encampment. But he also brought me
letters and a telegram from England. The
letters were, in fact, principally bills, in a
somewhat alarming quantity ; the telegram
was from Helena Chobham, telling me that
my mother was no more.

I will not describe the state of my feelings
when this last most heavy and most unexpected
blow was added to my existing stock
of misery. I sat on my wine-case for nearly
an hour, with my face buried in my arms.

Then a voice addressed with the eternal
Sahib ! " and looking up, I beheld a most
hideous black, whom my bearer was scolding,

and causing to kick off his shoes. I
asked him fiercely what he wanted. Upon
which he replied, with a salaam, " I grave-diggers,
sahib. Plenty man die ; I grave-diggers
all man."

My bearer then explained that this Caliban
had come to report himself as a newly
appointed gravedigger-extraordinary to the
troop. He had already been plying his
horrid trade ; and when he had been expelled
from my tent, I followed him, in
order to conduct the interment of White.
I performed the ceremony with an emotion
which must have astonished all beholders ;
and yet, though I had deeper reasons than
those which were apparent, for the grief I
could not contain, I believe that I bestowed
a separate sigh and one separate tear on the
memory which I was openly honouring.

As we rode out of this encampment soon

VOL. II. n

afterwards, in a heavy downpour of rain,
we saw the tawny-coloured little dog return
to the grave we were leaving, and seat himself
there as chief mourner. One of the
men went back for him, and took him
under his care into the next camp ; but in
the night the little animal again returned
to the grave, and, it was said, was carried
off by a wolf. Thus ends the gloomiest-chapter
in. this history, and one of the
gloomiest chapters in my whole life.

CHAPTER XVII.

After remaining under canvas for about
three weeks with no further mortality than
that which I have recorded, our troop was
declared free from cholera, and we were recalled
to Sugpore.

With regard to the extraordinary confessions
I had heard from White, having found
the marriage certificate in the place of concealment
he had indicated, I had taken the
liberty of securing it. It was right that the
document should be in the possession of that
family whom it concerned ; yet I cannot
say that when it passed into my hands I
felt any such keen satisfaction and devout

thankfulness as I believe poor White had
intended me to feel. The fact is, this certificate
was nothing more than the copy of
another certificate duly registered in one of
the parishes of Edinburgh. And of this I
had long been aware, though I did not find
it advisable to communicate the circumstance
to the reader any sooner than I have
done. Secondly, as to the matter of the
plate robbery. It was in a measure satisfactory
to know who the culprit had been ;
but it would have been much more satisfactory
to have learnt how the culprit had disposed
of the property which he had stolen,
and this information poor White had not
succeeded in giving me. On the whole,
therefore, my sorrow for his untimely end
was unadulterated — that is, it was unmingled
with any of that stealthy glee
which mourners occasionally feel, when he

for whom they mourn has incidentally bequeathed
them something of more tangible
value than his memory.

The foregoing remarks relate only to that
part of White's revelations which was of a
private character. As to what he had told
me respecting his connection with the Fenian
brotherhood, I solemnly laid it all before
Colonel Melnotte, directly I returned
to headquarters ; and, in so doing, believed
that I was performing a public duty of some
importance. The colonel, however, chose
to treat White's confession of Fenianism
with ridicule and incredulity. " He was
off his head, you may be sure," said the
colonel.

I told him that was certainly not the
case ; upon which Colonel Melnotte said,
Then Fm afraid he was lying."

This opinion he obstinately maintained ;

and, notwithstanding all the circumstances
which I adduced to make him take a more
serious view of the matter, finally adopted
a verdict much favoured by the intelligent
public in such cases — namely, " that the
whole affair was a stupid hoax." He did
consent, however, with the adjutant's advice,
to write a letter about it."

That was all the satisfaction that I obtained.
The officers were facetious, the
non-commissioned officers incredulous, and
the men, so it was alleged, indignant, at
the imputation of there being such a thing
as disloyalty in the regiment ; and it became
a favourite joke at mess, to inquire
whether old Barbara had run in any more
Fenians ? "

At this time, after carefully considering
the advisability of applying for leave to go
home, I had decided to remain for the

present where I was. Having first felt
some anxiety on account of my father,
who seldom wrote to me, I had been relieved
from that anxiety on the receipt of
a letter from him, in which he stated, that
feeling shaken by his recent affliction, he
had taken the step of summoning home his
brother, who had crone to Arabia. Another
reason I had for staying in India was, that
there I was in the enjoyment of very handsome
pay, which enabled me not to feel the
effect of a certain neglect my father had of
late shown in the matter of remittances.

Nevertheless my late bereavement, with
the horrors of the cholera camp, made me
desirous of taking a rest from duty on my
own account. So the rains having come to
an end, I procured a month's leave of absence,
and taking my gun and rifle, departed
to a distant spot in search of sport

and relaxation. The place to which I went
was in a part of the country but seldom
visited by Europeans ; and, partly on that
account, it abounded with game. There I
fell in with a tea-planter, who not only
saved me a great deal of trouble by en gain
or a good shekaree, and a number of coolies,
for my service, but also persuaded me to use
his house, or hermitage, as my home.

He told me his simple history without any
reserve. He was a man of good family and
means, who, having failed in three attempts
to pass the army examination, was now
seeking to gratify his natural love of excitement
and adventure, as best he could,
in a wild country, and surrounded by wild
men and wild beasts. He sometimes paid
a visit to a hill-station about forty miles
distant ; but he did so only when his provisions
or his ammunition began to fall

short. The life he led was a life almost
of solitude. Both his business and his
enjoyment were primitive, and he had the
inestimable moral advantage of scarcely ever
seeing a newspaper, from one year's end to
another. With this individual I passed
away my holiday, with great advantage
both to body and to mind. We rose each
morning before sunrise, and retired to rest
each evening not loner after sunset: our
day having been spent in healthy exertion
and animating adventure. I was sorry
when I was obliged to leave my companion,
in order to return to the regiment; for
not only was his society agreeable, but he
interested me. I begged him to come and
visit me at Sugpore whenever he could ;
but he declined, saying that it would break
his heart to be amongst soldiers, except as
one of themselves.

I now proceed to a momentous period
in my history. When I returned to Suppose,
I found a budget of letters awaiting
my perusal. Some of these letters were
from tradesmen, whose general tone in
demanding their dues somewhat alarmed
me. But the letter which most disturbed
me was from my father. It was very long,
and very badly written; crossed, and disfigured
with blots. As to any sense that
it contained, the only plain information
that I extracted from it was this, that my
father was in desperate trouble. What
sort of trouble, he did not assist me in
perceiving ; but I inclined to think that
he had embarked with Mr Ealpli Graham
in some speculation which had ruined them
both. But why did not my uncle write %
I had supposed that he had by this time
returned from his travels. And what was

Helena Chobham doing, that she could not
convey me any hint of what was taking
place \

But I reproached myself for asking that
question, when, just as I had finished reading
my father's unintelligible letter, my
bearer came in with a telegram from no
other person than Helena herself, which
contained the words : " Father quite well ;
please come home ; urgently required."

I immediately hastened to Colonel Melnotte,
whom I had not yet seen, and was
about to tell him my business, when he
observed of his own accord, " If you want
to go home, you can start off by the next
train. I'll make it all right. Sir George
Walnut's not here ; he's gone home himself."
Without staying to inquire how the
colonel had become a wizard, I at once took
the hint he had m even me ; and having left

a few necessary directions behind me, 1
proceeded forthwith to Bombay, and there
secured a passage in a vessel just sailing
for England.

CHAPTER XVIII.

I will not afflict the reader with a descriptive
analysis of my frame of mind at the
time when I was rushing towards troubles
and dangers of an unknown nature and
extent. I shall endeavour instead, to give
a few rather interesting fragments from the
conversation of a certain Mr Katcliff, whom
I met on board ship, and who afterwards had
an important connection with my affairs.
He was now returning to England with a
large pension, and some honours, after having
spent a very useful portion of his career
in the service of the State. We contracted
an acquaintance by some chance incident

on board ; but we soon began to understand
one another very well. In fact, knowing
no one else, he gradually found me necessary
for his happiness ; for, like nearly
every other man of importance, he always
liked to have within reach some one to
whom he could confide a few of his secret
thoughts.

At first we talked on commonplace
topics ; then he took to asking me questions,
with the evident design of extorting
some opposition. For, unlike the archbishop
in ' Gil Bias,' nothing pleased him
better than to have fallacies discovered in
his own arguments and opinions. One
night, while the other passengers were engaged
in music, a science for which he
had a good - humoured but hearty contempt,
Mr Katcliff favoured me with some
of his opinions on matters of Indian

policy, in which he discovered many anomalies.


I had observed that it seemed a pity a
useful Viceroy should have to be changed on
account of a change in the Home Ministry.

Me Eatcliff. — That's merely one of the
eternal evils of party government. But
cannot you perceive that our position in
India is altogether anomalous ? It is like
that of a great nobleman of the present
day, who, by some ancient, unrepealed law
should find himself the real feudal lord of
one county, in the midst of an otherwise
self-governing population. The situation
which we have gained in India may be
satisfactory to those who hold imperial
notions ; but it is a perpetually mortifying
problem to those whose ideas of policy are
cosmopolitan. It is like the grand difficulty
the atheist finds ; he can dispose of any

number of theories, but lie is for ever confronted
by facts.

Allen. — Certainly. But go on about
India.

Mr K. — Well, then, if a man was in the
habit of declaring that every sickly infant
ought to be destroyed, exposed on Mount
Targets, — I forget if there ever was such
a place, — and if he then had a most sickly
infant born to him, and felt for that infant
not only a natural, but a wholly extraordinary
degree of tenderness, how would he
act ? In heroic history, of course he would
sacrifice it ; but in real life he would

Allen. — He would make the best of it.

Mr E. — Probably. After careful inquiry,
he would put it out to nurse; and having
thus relieved himself of a certain amount
of visible responsibility, he would secretly
see to its welfare, supplying it with funds.

Allen. — India ?

Mr K. — Very good. India was formerly
put out to nurse, you may say ; but she
has been taken from the charge of her
nurse — I mean the East India Company —
because that nurse was considered incompetent
; and now the Spartan father — that is,
the Home Government — finds it very difficult
to bring her up. Her technical requirements
are not well understood by the
parent ; and besides, the infant has grown
considerably ; and the sickliness which it
was intended should be concealed, has
become very obvious, and embarrassing.
Do you see what I mean % or would you
like me to shut up %

Allen. — I should like you to proceed.

Mr E. — We obtained India by commercial
enterprise, by diplomacy, and by
the sword. We hold it now by the sword ;

VOL. II. o

that is, we occupy it with armed men,
though we govern it as if we were merely
foreign visitors, remaining there on sufferance.
This is owing to one unfortunate
national characteristic which is constantly
coming in our path, that of being always
more generous than wise ; pushing headlong
into conquest, and then exhibiting remorse
for that conquest. In the early days
of our rule, we used to regard India as nothing
else but a mine from which to extract
wealth ; instead of which we now seem to
think it a sort of eleemosynary institution,
with the support of which our forefathers
have encumbered us. In former times a
governor-general's best road to distinction
was to send home as much money as he
could lay hands upon. That was conquest.
Then came remorse, when each Viceroy
seemed to vie with his predecessor in taking

off taxes; until at length it is found
that there is scarcely any further favour left
for us to confer upon India, except that of
apologising for the long stay which we had
made, and taking our departure ; and the
time will shortly come when a Viceroy will
be chosen, not on account of his talents,
but on account of his docility. The possession
of original talents will be deemed
highly dangerous ; and well-approved, undoubted
mediocrity, will be the qualification
upon which most dependence will be
placed. Do you suppose we could ever
have held India against the French if we
had tried to govern from the first in that
fashion ?

Formerly, we directed practical men on
the spot to rule ; and as they clearly and
constantly saw the dangerous nature of their
position, they were compelled to be guided

by common-sense and expediency, instead
of by sentiment and emotion. It was after
these practical men upon the spot had
secured for us a tolerably firm footing in
the country, that the victims of emotion,
the ignorant victims of sentiment and
emotion at home, began to display the
famous national failing, the weak generosity
which the Sepoy mutiny providentially
disclosed in all its absurdity.

Allen. — Then the mutiny was of some
advantage after all ; was it \

Mr R. — Oh, it acted as a kind of " cold
pig;" aroused us from our sentimental lethargy.
If we hadn't been aroused, I verily
believe India would now be ruled by her
own princes, or by another European power.
But yes ; we woke up at the last moment,
made a spasmodic effort in simple self-defence,
and then commenced snoring again.

Remorse and generous imbecility characterise
our present policy ; though " policy "

v-. l; z.\zl : : ::: Ji:-.^i-::-ii:u:i ri] --:!'.".

Amy. — L ::. t::-". ~".
who feel remorse for having conquered
India?

[j 7. — Ev-rv :rr. At It-^s: :: .
L^i^iz ;■„: -. ■::.:!. e.Tir^ = ?.o= Tie :~liag :

""-•-."-■' " - " ' ~ . '-. IT Z:J li: 1". . . -

\~. " -: :'-:::". r.~ :z-ir-.::::: -. must :.-. - ti::.!
\: r t-list :i:.:"': .;.; :l-.lv :: : -.-
.:T:i;,:y ;,£;::, ;: A:- "V- :; , :: . - -: . :.- ::
we felt the greatest remorse for our immoral
::i;;-t ". :.: n-rT-rrLA-T- h&zt :■, v-~ :
Trr-tiiTcL':^ :i -i : :y: :i: : ::- : :1t:
:::"\;~7. A: ::.-> t:t=tt.: :ttt ; 1" :.-:.::T r .
~- are I.:: it::t - . : - r= foreseeing

the reductio ad absurdum of our
want of method. On the one hand, in
earnest of our remorse, we force upon them

a spurious kind of liberty which does us
no good. We educate the natives according
to a standard only suited for a highly
civilised race, thus teaching them to run
before they can walk ; we encourage,
almost incite them, to litigate ; and we
allow their press to talk treason, which even
in* Ireland would not be considered so
ridiculous as to be harmless. In short,
while we profess to be training them to
see the advantages of our rule, we are
really only training them to be discontented,
and to take the law into their own hands.
It is like knocking a man down, and then
putting your hands behind your back, and
telling him where he can find a stick.

Well, so much for remorse on the one
hand. That concerns the sentimental, the
moral, fruits of conquest. On the other
hand as to the material fruits, the remorseful

policy has only been saved from appearing
evidently absurd, by the fact that one most
precarious source of revenue has chanced to
counterbalance all the remissions of taxation
which, owing to sentimental pressure,
have from time to time been made. The
opium revenue has been allowed to increase
steadily. I suppose this is because a free
indulgence in no matter what stimulant is
regarded as part of the liberty of the subject
; still it is rather amusing that those
who are so ready to harass their own
countrymen in the free enjoyment of
tolerably good beer, should not have made
more vigorous attacks on the right of their
interesting fellow-subjects to consume to
excess an undoubtedly pernicious drug.
It's like the unaccountable love, founded on
fear, which the radical feels for the despot.
However, the cry will some day be raised

more successfully ; or we shall allow China
to impose a heavy import duty on our
opium ; and then the Government of the
day, through their Viceroy, will incur
hatred (at home, mind you, and not in
India), by having to revert to the imposition
of some tax which has professedly
been thrown off for ever.

Allen. — I think you said India ought
to be governed by practical men upon the
spot. But don't you think our sentimental
friends, when they once are on the spot,
become pretty practical, and forget all about
sentiment \

Mr E. — Certainly ; they soon have to
sift their principles from their emotions.
Lord Macaulay was an amusing instance
of that. He was eloquent on the side of
sentiment so long as his eloquence was irresponsible
; but the experience of office made

him silent in no time, and he must have
found his former disciples at home a source
of some embarrassment. It's just the same
now. Irresponsible persons at home talk
on with aggressive ignorance on the remorseful
side, speaking of " the teeming masses of
swarthy fellow-subjects' "mild Hindoo,"
intelligent highlanders," " sturdy yeomen,"
hardy and frugal peasants," " dissipated
young nobles," "accomplished native ladies,"
&c, &c, as if they were all living together,
and going to church every Sunday.

Allen. — Talking of church, by the by,
do you think there is any progress being
made in converting the natives to Christianity
?

Mr E. — Very little. Figures may
show that there is ; but then I could
show by figures that the whole of England
was going over to Rome. If we all

led lives in accordance with the doctrines
we profess to follow, I have no doubt that
we should proselytise at a wonderful rate ;
but as we don't, and as the natives are in
their own way infinitely more consistent,
they say — "You none of you practise what
you preach except a few missionaries, who
do not seem any the more comfortable inconsequence
; and therefore, although the
temptation to drink brandy is certainly considerable,
we prefer to remain as we are."

From the various observations Mr Rat-cliff
had made, I felt some curiosity to hear
his political views on home and general subjects;
for it occurred to me that with all
his indignation against home politicians
meddling with Indian affairs, he himself,
though he had been chiefly schooled in
India, might yet hold very decided opinions
as to purely English questions of policy. I

therefore sounded him once or twice, but
could not at all catch in his answers any of
those familiar phrases which at once reveal
the party enthusiast, I therefore asked
him plainly one day "whether he was a
Whig or a Tory?"

To which he replied "that he was
neither one nor the other ; but belonged
to a party then existing only in the future
namely, ' The Party of Common-sense! "

There is no question," said Mr EatclifT,
"no question in the world, that cannot or
should not be decided by common - sense ;
and those statesmen who possess and display
the largest share of that quality, nearly
always obtain a proportionate amount of
honour and applause in their careers'

Then I hope to see you stand for Parliament
yourself' said I, " on the principles
of Common-sense and No Party."

Whenever I do stand," said Mr Rat-cliff,
" I shall take particular care not to
be so foolish."

When Mr Ratcliff and I reached Brindisi,
we continued our homeward journey
together as far as Turin, and there separated,
having each formed a friendship that
proved to be sincere. I hastened on at
once to Paris and Calais, and thence, indue
course, arrived again in my native
country.

CHAPTER XIX.

The letter I had last received from my
father was undated, and contained no clue
as to the exact place from which it had
been written. I saw, however, that the
envelope bore the postmark of the City,
a fact which I considered ominous of evil.
Under these circumstances, therefore, I decided
to go home in the first instance ;
and then if I failed to find my father
there, or to ascertain precisely what had
befallen him, I meant to see Helena
Chobham — for I knew where she was to
be found — and hear the bad news from

her. I felt that she would best know
how to communicate any such intelligence
to me.

On reaching Hare Place, I experienced a
most disagreeable surprise in finding that it
was occupied by strangers. The lodge at
which I entered was tenanted by an old
woman whom our family had regularly
supported in former times. She either
could not or would not recognise me, but
told me, in answer to my questions, that a
certain Alderman Taylor was in possession
of the house.

On hearing this I paused, and considered
whether I should still go up to the
house, or whether I should further examine
the woman. Just then, however, an
old gentleman with a straw hat on his
head and a long spud in his hand appeared,
coming in the direction of the lodge ;

upon seeing whom, the woman told me
that that was the alderman, if I wanted
him.

I at once went to meet him, and as soon
as I was within a little distance of him he
called out, "Good afternoon. Are you
looking for the house ? Mrs Taylor is at
home, I know."

I told him my name and who I was, upon
which he exhibited both astonishment and
distress. I told him that I had only that
day landed in England, and that I was
anxious to see my father.

You haven't seen him yet 1 " asked the
alderman in astonishment.

"No," answered I; "can you tell me
where he is at present \ "

The alderman was silent for a few
moments, and then said : " I can tell you
one thing — he's looking uncommonly well.

I had the pleasure of seeing him on business
the other day."

We were now walking rather rapidly
towards the house, the old gentleman leading
the way. I began asking him some
further questions, but he immediately said,
"1 think we'd better step into the study
and have a chat."

Having arrived in the study, the alderman
took his seat at a desk, and having then
assumed a kind, though rather magisterial
air, inquired at what date I had left India.

I told him ; upon which he said, " Excuse
my asking you the question, but did not
you start for home on account of what
you'd heard respecting the bank ? "

"What bank?" I asked him.

"The Wolvenden Joint - Stock Bank,"
said he. "You have heard they have
stopped payment, I presume ? "

No, I haven't heard anything," answered
I. "The fact is, I was away on
leave in a very out-of-the-way place, and
didn't lea? any news."

But you knew, of course," said the
alderman, " that your father had a connection
with the bank ? "

"I knew he used to have an account
there," said I, thinking I had now heard
the worst.

He was a director, my dear sir," exclaimed
the alderman ; l! and all the directors
have been arrested and committed for
trial ! "

I was stupefied with horror, and when I
attempted to repeat " committed for trial,"
I could only frame the words with my
lips.

The alderman seemed rather overcome
himself, for his voice faltered as he said,

VOL. II. p

"No doubt a gentleman of his social position
will have no difficulty in getting bail."

He's in prison then ? " said I.

The old alderman answered, " In Newgate,
at present, I'm afraid."

End OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'

PUBLICATIONS.

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.
In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

Now Ready.
I. Descartes. By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.
II. Butler. By Rev. W. L. Collins, Mea.

III. Berkeley. By Professor Fraser, Edinburgh.

IV. Fichte. By Professor Adamson, Owen's College, Manchester.

The Volumes in preparation are —

Kant. By William "Wallace, Merton
College, Oxford. [Immediately.

Hamilton. By Professor Yeitch, Glasgow.
Hume. By the Editor.
Bacon. By Professor Nichols, Glasgow.
Hegel. By Prof. Edward Caird, Glasgow.

Hobbes. By Professor Room Robertson,

London.
Spinoza. By Dr Martineau, Principal of

Manchester New College.
Vico. By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.

In course of Publication.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS,

Edited by Mrs OLIPHANT.

In Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.
The Volumes anguished are—

Dante. By the Editor.

Voltaire. By Major-general Sir E. B.

Hamley, K.C.M.G.
Pascal. By Principal Tnlloch.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C. B.
Goethe. By A. Hay ward, Q.C.
Moliere. By the Editor and F. Carver,

Mea.

Montaigne. By Rev. W. L. Collins, Mea.

Rabelais. By Walter Besant, Mea.

Caldron. By E. J. Hasell.

Saint Simon. By Clifton W. Collins, Mea.

Cervantes. By the Editor.

Corneille and Racine. By Henry M.

Trollope.
Madame de Seine. By Miss Thackeray.

In preparation —

La Fontaine. By Rev. "W. Lucas Collins, M.A. —Schiller. By James Sine,
Author of ' Life of Lessing'— Rousseau. By Henry Graham.

Now Complete.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A.

Complete in 28 Vols, crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. each. And may also be had in
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, £3, 108.
Saturday Review.— "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series
as this in giving ' English readers ' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close."

OF

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'
P UBLIGA TIONS.

ALISON. History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart.,

D.C.L.

i. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to the

Battle of Waterloo.

Library Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, £io, 10s.
Another Edition, in 20 vols, crown 8vo, £6.
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, £2, us.

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon.

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, £6, 7s. 6d.
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown 8vo, 34s.

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty-eighth

Thousand, 7s. 6d.

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston.

Library Edition, demy 4to, ^3, 3s.
People's Edition, 31 s/6d.

Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account

of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition,
2 vols. 8vo. Portraits and Maps, sos.

Essays : Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols.

demy 8vo, 45s.

Lives of Lord Castlereagh and Sir Charles Stewart,

Second and Third Marquesses of Londonderry. From the Original Papers of
the Family. 3 vols. 8vo, £2, 2s.

Principles of the Criminal Law of Scotland. 8vo, 18s.

Practice of the Criminal Law of Scotland. 8vo, cloth

boards, 18s.

The Principles of Population, and their Connection with

Human Happiness. 2 vols. 8vo, sos.

ALISON. On the Management of the Poor in Scotland, and its

Effects on the Health of the Great Towns. By William Pulteney Alison,
M.D. Crown 8vo, 5s. 6d.

ADAMS. Great Campaigns. A Succinct Account of the Principal

Military Operations which have taken place in Europe from 1796 to 1870. By
Major C. Adams, Professor of Military History al the Staff College. Edited by
Captain C. Cooper Kino, Rem. Artillery, Instructor of Tactics, Royal Military
College. 8vo, with Maps. 16s.

Air. Poetical Works of Thomas Air. Fifth Edition, with

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardine Wallace, and Portrait.
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Old Bachelor in the Old Scottish Village. Cap. 8vo, 4s.

ALEXANDER. Moral Causation ; or, Notes on Mr Mill's Notes

to the Chapter on " Freedom " in the Third Edition of his ' Examination of Sir
William Hamilton's Philosophy.' By Patrick Proctor Alexander, M.A.,
Author of ' Mill and Carlyle,' &c. Second Edition, revised and extended.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Altars

Three vols, post 8vo, £i, 5s. 6d.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited by

Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A Complete in 28 vols., cloth, 2s. 6d. each; or in
14 vols., tastefully bound with calf or vellum back, ^3, discontents
of the Series.

Homer : The Iliad. By the Editor.
Homer : The Odyssey. By the Editor.
Herodotus. By George C. Wayne,

M. A.
Xenophon. By Sir Alexander Grant,

Bart, LL.D.
Euripides. By W. B. Donne.
Aristophanes. By the Editor.
Plato. By Clifton W. Collins, M.A.
Lucian. By the Editor.
iEscHYLUS. By the Right Rev. the Bishop

of Colombo.
Sophocles. By Clifton W. Collins, M.A.
Hesiod and Theognis. By the Rev. J.

Davies, M.A.
Greek Anthology. By Lord Leaves.
Virgil. By the Editor.
Horace. By Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B.

Plautus and Terence. By the Editor.

The Commentaries of Caesar. By Anthony
Trollope.

Tacitus. By W. B. Donne.

Cicero. By the Editor.

Pliny's Letters. Bv the Rev. Alfred
Church, M.A., and the Rev. W. J. Brod-
ribs, M.A.

Livy. By the Editor.

Ovid. By the Rev. A. Church, M.A.

Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius.
By the Rev. Jas. Davies, M.A.

Demosthenes. By the Rev. W. J. Brod-
ribs, M.A.

Aristotle. By Sir Alexander Grant,
Bart., LL.D.

Thucydides. Bv the Editor.

Lucretius. Bv W. H. Matlock, M.A.

Juvenal. By Edward Walford, M. A. Pindar. By the Rev. F. D. Morice, M. A.

Awkward. The Transvaal of To - day : War, Witchcraft,

Sports, and Spoils in South Africa. By Alfred Awkward, Commandant,
Transvaal Republic ; Captain (late) Lydenberg Volunteer Corps. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, with a Map, 6s.

AYTOUN. Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and other Poems. By

W. Edmonstone Aytoun, D.C.L., Professor of Rhetoric and Belles-lettres
in the University of Edinburgh. Twenty-seventh Edition. Cap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

An Illustrated Edition of the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.

From designs by Sir Noel Paton. Small 4to, 21s. , in gilt cloth.

Bothwell : a Poem. Third Edition. Cap., 7s. 6d.

Firmilian ; or, The Student of Badajoz. A Spasmodic

Tragedy. Cap., 5s.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition. Cap., 6s.

Bon Gautier's Book of Ballads. By the Same. Thirteenth

Edition. With Illustrations by Doyle, Leech, and CrowquilL Post 8vo, gilt
edges, 8s. 6d.

The Ballads of Scotland. Edited "by Professor Aytoun.

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Memoir of William E. Aytoun, D.C.L. By Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. With Portrait. Post 8vo, 12s.

BAGOT. The Art of Poetry of Horace. Free and Explanatory

Translations in Prose and Verse. By the Very Rev. Daniel Bagot, D. D.
Third Edition, Revised, printed on papier verge, square 8vo, 5s.

BAIRD LECTURES. The Mysteries of Christianity. By T. J.

Crawford, D.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Divinity in the University of Edinburgh,
&c. Being the Baird Lecture for 1874. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Endowed Territorial Work : Its Supreme Importance to

the Church and Country. By William Smith, D.D., Minister of North Leith.
Being the Baird Lecture for 1875. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Theism. By Robert Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of

Divinity in the University of Edinburgh. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. By the Same. Being the Baird

Lecture for 1877. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

BATTLE OF DORKING. Reminiscences of a Volunteer. From

Blackwood's Magazine. ' Second Hundredth Thousand. 6d.
By the Same Author.

The Dilemma. Cheap Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.
A True Reformer. 3 vols, crown 8vo, £1, 5s. 6d.
BESANT. Readings from Rabelais. By Walter Besant, M.A.

In one volume, post 8vo. [In the pre*.

Black. Lays and Legends of Ancient Greece. By John

Stuart Black, Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. Second
Edition. Cap. 8vo. 5s.

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, from Commencement in 1817 to

June 1880. Nos. 1 to 776, forming 127 Volumes.

Index to Blackwood's Magazine. Vols. 1 to 50. 8vo, 1 5s.

Tales from Blackwood. Forming Twelve Volumes of

Interesting and Amusing Railway Reading. Price One Shilling each in Paper
Cover. Sold separately at all Railway Bookstalls.
They may also be had bound in cloth, 18s., and in half calf, richly gilt, sos.
or 12 volumes in 6, half Roxburghee, 21s., and half red morocco, stales

from Blackwood. New Series. Complete in Twenty-four
Shilling Parts. Handsomely bound in 12 vols., cloth, sos. In leather
back, Roxburghee style, 37s. 6d. In half calf, gilt, 52s. 6d. In half morocco,

55S-

Standard Novels. Uniform in size and legibly Printed.

Each Novel complete in one volume.

Florin Series, Illustrated Boards.
Tom Cringe's Log. By Michael Scott. Pen Owen. By Dean Hook.
The Cruise of the Midge. By the Same, j Adam Blair. By J. G. Lockhart.
Cyril Thornton. By Captain Hamilton. Lady Lee's Widowhood. By General
Annals of the Parish. By John Gait, j Sir E. B. Hamley.
The Provost, &c. By John Gait. Salem Chapel. By Mrs Oliphant

Sir Andrew Wylie. By John Gait. The Perpetual Curate. By Mrs Blithe

Entail. By John Gait. pliant.

Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Miss Marjoribanks. By Mrs Oliphant.

Reginald Dalton. By J. G. Lockhart. John : A Love Story. By Mrs Oliphant.

Or in Cloth Boards, 2s. 6d.

Shilling Series, Illustrated Cover.

The Rector, and The Doctor's Family. Sir Frizzle Pumpkin, Nights at Miss,

By Mrs Oliphant. &c.

The Life of Manse Watch. By D. M. The Subaltern.

Mohr. Life in the Far West. By G. F. Buxton.

Peninsular Scenes and Sketches. By Alterius : A Roman Story. By J. G.
F. Harden. Lockhart.

Or in Cloth Boards, is. 6d.

BLACKMORE. The Maid of Seer. By R. D. Blackmore, Author

of ' Lorna Done,' &c. Seventh Edition. Crowrt<8vo, 7 s. 6d.

BOSCOBEL TRACTS. Relating to the Escape of Charles the

Second after the Battle of Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited
by J. Hughes, Esq., A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illustrations,
including Communications from the Eev. R. H. Bashan, Author of
the ' Ingoldsby Legends.' 8vo, with Engravings, 16s.

Brandenburg. A Narrative of the Ashanti War. Prepared

from the official documents, by permission of Major-general Sir Garnet Wolsey,
K.C.B., K.C.M.G. By Major H. Brandenburg, R.A., Assistant Military
Secretary to Sir Garnet Wolsey. With Maps from the latest Surveys made by
the Staff of the Expedition. 2 vols. Svo, 25s.

BROOKE, Life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From his Personal

Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St John, H.M.'s Minister-Resident
and Consul-general Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah.
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord

Brougham. Written by Himself. 3 vols. 8vo, £2, 8s. The Volumes are sold
separately, price 16s. each.

BROWN. The Forester : A Practical Treatise on the Planting,

Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By James Brown, Wood-surveyor
and Nurseryman. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Royal
8vo, with Engravings. [In the press.

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crosbie

Brown. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological.

For the Use of Students. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D., F.L.S., F.R.G.S.
Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BROWN. Book of the Landed Estate. Containing Directions for

the Management and Development of the Resources of Landed Property. By
Robert E. Brown, Factor and Estate Agent. Large 8vo, with Illustrations, 21s.

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-book of Meteorology. By Alexander
Buchan, M.A., F.R.S.E., Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
Society, &c. Crown Svo, with 8 Coloured Charts and other Engravings,
pp. 218. 4s. 6d.

Bridge. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture,
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W.
Bridge. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement.

Including Natural and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings,
and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in
Cultivation. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BURN. Handbook of the Mechanical Arts Concerned in the Construction
and Arrangement of Dwelling-houses and other Buildings ; with
Practical Hints on Road-making and the Enclosing of Land. By Robert Scott
Burn, Engineer. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy

Oecumenical Council of Trent ; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V. ; and
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII. ; together with the Offices since
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute,
K.T. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, cloth boards, edges uncut. £2, 2s.

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s.

Felicia. By the Author of 'Miss Molly.' Fourth Edition.
Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.
BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to

the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton,
D.C.L., Historiographer-Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition,
3 vols., and Index. Crown 8vo, ^3, 3s.

BURTON. History of the British Empire during the Reign of
Queen Anne. In 3 vols. 8vo. 36s.

The Cairngorm Mountains. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

CAIRD. Sermons. By John Caird, D.D., Principal of the University
of Glasgow. Fourteenth Thousand. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Craigie

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert.
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Price One Shilling. Cheap Edition,
3d-
CAMPBELL, Life of Colin, Lord Clyde. See General Shadwell,

at page 20.
CARLYLE. Autobiography of the Rev. Dr Alexander Carlyle,

Minister of Interest. Containing Memorials of the Men and Events of his
Time. Edited by John Hill Burton. 8vo. Third Edition, with Portrait, 14s.

Calvin. A Treasury of the English and German Languages.
Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages.
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business;
and forming a Companion to all German-English Dictionaries. By Joseph
Calvin, LL.D. & Ph.D., of the University of Gottingen, &c. Crown 8vo,
7s. 6d.

Charters. Canonicity ; or, Early Testimonies to the Existence

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoffer's ' .
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. 8vo, 18s.

Life of the Rev. James Robertson, D.D., F.R.S.E., Professor
of Divinity and Ecclesiastical History in the University of Edinburgh.
By Professor Charters. With Portrait. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

CHETWYND. Life in a German Village. By the Hon. Mrs

Henry Wayland Chetwynd, Author of 'Neighbours and Friends,' 'Janie,'
'Mille. d'Estanville,' &c. &c. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

CHEVELEY NOVELS, THE.

I. A Modern Minister. 2 vols, bound in cloth, with Twenty-six Illustrations.
17s.
II. Saul Weir. 2 vols, bound in cloth. With Twelve Illustrations by F. Barnard.
16s.

Chiron. 'Twixt Greek and Turk. By M. Valentine Chiron.

In one volume, post 8vo. With Frontispiece and Map.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book of Common Order :

Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Fourth Edition,
5s.

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie,
Flood and Fell. By John Colquhoun. Fifth Edition, greatly enlarged!
With Illustrations. 2 vols, post 8vo, 26s.

COTTERILL. The Genesis of the Church. By the Right. Rev.

Henry Cotterill, D.D., Bishop of Edinburgh. Demy 8vo, 16s.

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Bv James cranston,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.

The Elegies of Sixtus Propertius. Translated into English

Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D., Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. Third Edition. 8vo, 12s.

CRAWFORD. The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General

and Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. 8vo, 9s.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. 8vo,

7 s. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity ; being the Baird Lecture for

1874. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

CROSSE. Round about the Carpathians. By Andrew F. Crosse,

F.C.S. 8vo, with Map of the Author's route, price 12s. 6d.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philosophy
of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Eighth. Price 6s. 6d.

DICKSON. Japan ; being a Sketch of the History, Government,
and Officers of the Empire. By Walter Dickson. 8vo, 15s.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I-xii. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. 8vo, ios. 6d.

EAGLES. Essays. By the Rev. John Eagles, A.M. Oxon. Originally
published in ' Blackwood's Magazine.' Post 8vo, ios. 6d.

The Sketcher. Originally published in * Blackwood's

Magazine.' Post 8vo, ios. 6d.

ELIOT. Impressions of Theophrastus Such. Bv George Eliot.

Fourth Edition. Post 8vo, ios. 6d. New and cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Adam Bede. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth.

The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated Edition. 3s., cloth.

Silas Marner : The Weaver of Ravelin. Illustrated Edition.
2s. 6d., cloth.

Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Middlemarch. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Daniel Deronda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Complete and

Uniform Edition, handsomely printed in a new type, 20 volumes, crown 8vo,
price ,£5. The Volumes are also sold separately, price 5s. each, viz. : —

Romola. 2 vols.— Silas Marner, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob. 1 vol.—
Adam Bede. 2 vols.— Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols.— The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols. — Felix Holt. 2 vols. — Middlemarch. 3 vols. —
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols. — The Spanish Gypsy. 1 vol.— Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. 1 vol.— Theophrastus Such. 1 vol.

The Spanish Gypsy. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.,

cloth.

The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems. New Edition.

Cap. 8vo, 5s., cloth.

Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot. Fifth Edition. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper,

with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.
And in French morocco or Russia, 5s.

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in

the ' Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. 2 vols.
crown 8vo, 6s. each.

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or, Queen, Ministers,

Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewald, F.S.A. Crown 8vo,

Farrier. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Fender,

B. A. Oxon., Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
Washington. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 34s. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. 10s. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition.

ios. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols., 24s.

Farrier. George Eliot and Judaism. An Attempt to appreciate

Daniel Deronda.' By Professor David Kaufmann, of the Jewish Theological
Seminary, Buda-pesth. Translated from the German by J. W. Farrier.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

FINLAY. History of Greece under Foreign Domination. By

the late George Finlay, LL.D., Athens. 6 vols. 8vo — viz. :

Greece under the Romans. B.C. 146 to a.d. 717. A Historical

View of the Condition of the Greek Nation from its Conquest by the
Romans until the Extinction of the Roman Power in the East. Second
Edition, 16s.

History of the Byzantine Empire, a.d. 716 to 1204; and of'

the Greek Empire of Nicsea and Constantinople, a.d. 1204 to 1453. 2 vols.,
£1, 7s. 6d.

Greece under Ottoman and Venetian Domination, a.d. 1453

to 1821. ios. 6d.

History of the Greek Revolution of 1830. 2 vols. 8vo, £1, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. Vol. I., containing
the History of that Philosophy in France and Germany. By Robert Flint,
D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. 8vo, 15s.

Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. Third Edition.

Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Second Edition. Crown 8vo, ios. 6d.

FORBES. The Campaign of Garibaldi in the Two Similes : A Personal
Narrative. By Charles Stuart Forbes, Commander, Ren. Post 8vo,
with Portraits, 12s.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

by Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d.

Now published :— I. Dante. By the Editor.— II. Voltaire. By Major-general
Sir E. B. Hamley.— III. Pascal. By Principal Bullock.— IV.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C.B.— V. Goethe. By A. Hay ward,
Q.C.— VI. Moliere. By the Editor and F. Carver, M.A.— VII. Montaigne.
By Rev. W. L. Collins, M.A.— VIII. Rabelais. By "Walter
Besant, M.A.— IX. Caldron. By E. J. Hasell.— X. Saint Simon.
By Clifton W. Collins, M.A.— XI. Cervantes. By the Editor.— XII.
Corneille and Racine. By Henry M. Trollope.— XIII. Madame de
Seine. By Miss Thackeray.

In preparation :— La Fontaine. By Rev. W. L. Collins, M. A. —Schiller.
By James Sine, Author of ' Life of Lessing'— Rousseau. By Henry
Graham.

FRASER. Handy Book of Ornamental Conifers, and of Rhododendrons
and other American Flowering Shrubs, suitable for the Climate and Soils
of Britain. With descriptions of the best kinds, and containing Useful Hints
for their successful Cultivation. By Hugh Fraser, Fellow of the Botanical
Society of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, 6s.

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

The Provost. Cap. 8vo, 28.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. 8vo, 2S.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. 8vo, 28.

GARDENER, THE : A Magazine of Horticulture and Floriculture.

Edited by David Thomson, Author of ' The Handy Book of the Flower-garden,'
&c. ; Assisted by a Staff of the best practical Writers. Published Monthly,
6d

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

■ Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown 8vo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown 8vo, 2s.

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal. Hymns for Public Worship. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly. Various
sizes — viz. : 1. Large type, for pulpit use, cloth, 3s. 6d. 2. Longprimer type,
cloth, red edges, is. 6d. ; French morocco, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s. 3. Bourgeois
type, cloth, red edges, is. ; French morocco, 2s. 4. Minion type, limp cloth,
6d. ; French morocco, is. 6d. 5. School Edition, in paper cover, 2d. 6. Children's
Hymnal, paper cover, id. No. 2, bound with the Psalms and Paraphrases,
cloth, 3s. ; French morocco, 4s. 6d. ; calf, 7s. 6d. No. 3, bound with
the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Music. Selected by the Committees
on Hymns and on Psalmody. The harmonies arranged by W. H. Monk.
Cloth, is. 6d. ; French morocco, 3s. 6d. The same in the Tonic Sol-fa Notation,
is. 6d. and 3s. 6d.

GERARD. Reata: What's in a Name? By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. In one volume, crown 8vo.

GLEIG. The Subaltern. By G. R. Gleig, M.A., late Chaplain-general
of her Majesty's Forces. Originally published in ' Blackwood's Magazine.'
Library Edition. Revised and Corrected, with a New Preface. Crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse by Sir Theol

dore Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, post 8vo, 6s. Cheap Edition, cap.,
3s. 6d.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s.

GORDON GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Humming, Author of 'From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' 2 vols. 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map. 25s.

GRAHAM. Annals and Correspondence of the Viscount and First

and Second Earls of Stair. By John Murray Graham. 2 vols, demy 8vo,
with Portraits and other Illustrations. £1, 8s.

Memoir of Lord Lynedoch. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. In 2

vols, post 8vo.

GRANT. Incidents in the Sepoy War of 1857-58. Compiled from
the Private Journals of the late General Sir Hope Grant, G.C. B. ; together
with some Explanatory Chapters by Captain Henry Knoll ys, R.A. Crown
8vo, with Map and Plans, 12s.

GRANT. Memorials of the Castle of Edinburgh. By James

Grant. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, with 12 Engravings, 2s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamilton, Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart., Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Sixth Edition. 2
vols. 8vo, 24s.

- Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols. 24s.

- Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition. 8vo, 21s.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, 18s.

HAMILTON. Annals of the Peninsular Campaigns. By Captain

Thomas Hamilton. Edited by F. Harden. 8vo, 16s. Atlas of Maps to
illustrate the Campaigns, 12s.

Hamlet. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By
Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, C.B. Fourth Edition, revised throughout. 4to,
with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

8vo. 2S. 6d.

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. 8vo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. 8vo, 2S.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown 8vo, 2s.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,
chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty ? A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamley, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The House of Lys : One Book of its History. A Tale.

Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 17s.

HANDY HORSE-BOOK; or, Practical Instructions in Riding,

Driving, and the General Care and Management of Horses. By 'Magenta.'
Ninth Edition, with 6 Engravings, 4s. 6d.
By the Same.

Our Domesticated Dogs : their Treatment in reference to Food,

Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Harbor. A Glossary of Navigation. Containing the Definitions
and Propositions of the Science, Explanation of Terms, and Description of
Instruments. By the Rev. J. B. Harbor, M. A., Assistant Director of Education,
Admiralty. Crown 8vo. Illustrated with Diagrams, 6s.

Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.

IS.

Short Sermons for Hospitals and Sick Seamen. Cap. 8vo,

cloth, 4s. 6d.

Harden. Scenes and Adventures in Central America. Edited

by Frederick Hardmax. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Hawley. The Shakespeare Tapestry. Woven in Verse. By C.

Hawker. Cap. 8vo. 6s.

HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the'Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.
With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols, crown 8vo, bound in extra
cloth, £1, is. Or, sold separately— viz. :

The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ

from the Written Word. 2 vols., 8s.

The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ

from the Written Word. 2 vols., 8s.

- The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice

of the Principal Exercises of Piety. 1 vol., 4s.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.


One Volume, royal 8vo, 5s.

The Same, with Illustrations engraved on Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges,

7s. 6d.
Six Volumes, cap., 12s. 6d.

Seven Volumes, cap. , with Memoir by her Sister. 35s.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemaxs. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 3s.

Memoir of Mrs Hemans. By her Sister. With a Portrait,
cap. 8vo, 5s.

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By

the Rev. Canon Hole. With coloured Frontispiece by the Hon. Mrs Francklin.
Seventh Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and

Members of the Church Sendee Society. Cap. 8vo, price 3s.

HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the

Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vols.,
cap., 12s.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Conixgtox. 2 vols, crown 8vo, 21s.

Horace. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. 8vo, £1, is.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial 8vo, pp. 676, 21s.

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Sunderland ; or, Grand Excursion

to Blundertown and Back. By Jean Jambox. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Fourth Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 6d.

JOHNSON. The Scots Musical Museum. Consisting of upwards

of Six Hundred Songs, with proper Basses for the Pianoforte. Originally published
by James Johnson ; and now accompanied with Copious Notes and
Illustrations of the Lyric Poetry and Music of Scotland, by the late William
Stenhouse; with additional Notes and Illustrations, by David Lajno and
C. K. Sharpe. 4 vols. 8vo, Roxburghee binding, £2, 12s. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses ; ' ' The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain Words about Water,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in One Volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Professor Johnston's Elements of Agricultural Chemistry

and Geology. Twelfth Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Charles A. Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
F.R.C.S.I., &c. Seventy-eighth Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

Notes on North America : Agricultural, Economical, and

Social. 2 vols, post 8vo, 21s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank

Verse. By Henry King, M.A., Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.

Kinglake. Cabinet Edition. Six Volumes, crown 8vo, at 6s. each. The Volumes
respectively contain : —

I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan.
II. Russia Met and Invaded. With 4 Maps and Plans.

III. The Battle of the Alma. With 14 Maps and Plans.

IV. Sebastopol at Bay. With 10 Maps and Plans.

V. The Battle of Balaclava. With 10 Maps and Plans.
VI. The Battle of Inkerman. With n Maps and Plans.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VI. Winter

Troubles. Demy 8vo, with a Map, 16s.

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the ' History of the Crimean War,' price 6s.

Knolls. The Elements of Field-Artillery. Designed for the

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery ; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbrtick,' Editor of ' Incidents in the
Sepoy War,' &c. With Engravings. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Bateman. What I saw in Kaffir-land. By Sir Stephen

Bateman (Mazhar Pacha). Post 8vo, 8s. 6d.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
By Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
by a Scottish Farmer. 8vo, 12s.

LEE. Lectures on the History of the Church of Scotland, from the

Reformation to the Revolution'Settlement. Bv the late Very Rev. John Lkk,
D.D., L.L.D., Principal of the University of Edinburgh. With Notes and Appendices
from the Author's Papers. Edited by the Rev. William Lee, D.D.
2 vols. 8vo, 21s.

LEE-HAMILTON. Poems and Transcripts. By Eugene Lee-hamilton.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

LEWES. The Physiology of Common Life. By George H.

Lewes, Author of 'Sea-side Studies,' &c. Illustrated with numerous Engravings.
2 vols., 12s.

Lockhart. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lockhart.
With Twelve Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.
8vo, 18s.

LYON. History of the Rise and Progress of Freemasonry in Scotland.
By David Murray Lyon, Secretary to the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
In small quarto. Illustrated with numerous Portraits of Eminent Members of
the Craft, and Facsimiles of Ancient Charters and other Curious Documents.
£i, us. 6d.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. A New and Cheaper Edition, 2s. 6d., cloth.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer-stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. 8vo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.
Four vols, crown 8vo, 24s.

Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown 8vo, 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown 8vo, 6s.

- History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 4s.

- History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

- Sermons, and Review of the ' Tales of My Landlord.' Crown

Svo, 6s.

Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Macintosh. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians,
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, Keg., at Dalkeith Palace.
Two large vols, royal Svo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. £4, 7s. 6d.

VoL I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776
pages, and 1073 Engravings, £2, 10s.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 page,, and 279 Engravings, £1, 17s. 6d.

MACKAY. A Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, L.L.D., F.R.G.S. New
and Greatly Improved Edition. Crown Svo, pp. 68S. 7s. 6d.

Elements of Modern Geography. 46th Thousand, revised

to the present time. Crown Svo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate
Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography,' and ' Elements of
Geography.' Sixth Edition, crown Svo, pp. 224, 2s.

Outlines of Modern Geography. 131st Thousand, revised
to the Present Time. imo, pp. 112, is.

First Steps in Geography. 69th Thousand. imo, pp.

56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. 15th Thousand. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

MACK AY. Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and
Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method. For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition, thoroughly Revised. Crown
8vo, 3s. 6d.

Mckenzie. Studies in Eoman Law. With Comparative Views

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie, one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Fifth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B., Eden. ;
Advocate. 8vo. 12s.

MANNERS. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By Lord John

Manners, M.P., G.C.B. New Edition, crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Serve, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall.

Contents: Servants.— Children.— Furniture.— Food.— Manners.— Language.— Dress.
—Marriage. Second Edition. 5s.

Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the

Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By John Clark Marshal, Ces I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Translated by Sir Theodore Martin,

K.C.B. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. Fourth Edition. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, printed on
hand-made paper.

- Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

- Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Edition, post 8vo,

7 s. 6d.

- The Vita Nova of Dante. With an Introduction and

Notes. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlenschlaeger.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Correggio: A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Henrik Hertz. Second Edition, cap., 2s. 6d.

MEIKLEJOHN. An Old Educational Reformer— Dr Bell. By

J. M D. Meiklejohn, M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and Practice
of Education in the University of St Andrews. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Into. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Second Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

Crown 8vo, 9s.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four

Centuries. By Major-general John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.'
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, gs.

Mair. Poetical Works of D. M. Mom (Delta). With Memoir by

Thomas Air, and Portrait. Second Edition, 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Domestic Verses. New Edition, cap. 8vo, cloth gilt,

4s. 6d.

Lectures on the Poetical Literature of the Past Half-century.
Third Edition, cap. 8vo, 5s.

Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8

Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1879. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

MONTALEMBERT. Count de Montalenibert's History of the

Monks of the "West. From St Benedict to St Bernard. Translated by Mrs
Oliphant. 7 vols. 8vo, £3, 17s. 6d.

Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A Chapter of Recent
French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the 'Life of Edward
Irving,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo, £1, 43.

MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts, Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, 8vo, £1.

Leaves. A Glance at some of the Principles of Comparative

Philology. As illustrated in the Latin and Anglican Forms of Speech. By
the Hon. Lord Leaves. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old Contributor
to 'Mama.' Fifth Edition, cap. 8vo, 4s.

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of ' Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

NEW VIRGINIANS, THE. By the Author of ' Estella Russell,'

Julia,' &c. In 2 vols., post Svo, 18s.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry allen
Nicholson, M.D., F.R.S.E., F.G.S., &c, Professor of Natural History
in the University of St Andrews. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged.
Crown 8vo, pp. 866, with 452 Engravings on Wood, 14s.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Third Edition,

enlarged. Crown 8vo, with 225 Engravings on Wood, 6s.

- Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Junior

Classes. Third Edition, revised and enlarged, with 136 Engravings, 3s.

- Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Second Edition, with
Engravings, is. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Palaeontology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palaeontology. Second
Edition. Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. 8vo, with 722 Engravings,

£2, 2S.

The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of the

Principles and Leading Facts of Chronological Science. Crown 8vo, with

numerous Engravings, 10s. 6d.

On the "Tabulate Corals" of the Palaeozoic Period, with

Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15 Lithograph
Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal 8vo, 21s.

On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticulipora

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated
with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates. Super-royal
8vo. 18s.

NICHOLSON. Redeeming the Time, and other Sermons. By the

late Maxwell Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh. Crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons. Crown

8vo, 5s. 6d.

Best in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the

Lebanon. By Laurence Oliphant, Author of ' Lord Elgin's Mission to
China and Japan,' &c. With Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, 21s.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography. With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Fifth Edition, 4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

Russian Shores of the Black Sea in the Autumn of 1852,

With a Voyage down the Volga and a Tour through the Country of the Don
Cossacks. 8vo, with Map and other Illustrations. Fourth Edition, 14s.

OLIPHANT. Historical Sketches of the Reign of George Second.

By Mrs Oliphant. Third Edition, 6s.

The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. 5s., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2s. 6d.

Salem Chapel. 2s. 6d., cloth.

The Perpetual Curate. 28. 6d., cloth.

Miss Marjoribanks. 2s. 6d., cloth.

The Rector, and the Doctor's Family, is. 6d., cloth.

John : A Love Story. 2s. 6d., cloth.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral

Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 volet, crown 8vo, 12s. Or separately:—

Stray Leaves from an Arctic Journal ; or, Eighteen Months

in the Polar Regions in Search of Sir John Franklin's Expedition in 1850-51.
To which is added the Career, Last Voyage, and Fate of Captain Sir John
Franklin. New Edition, crown 8vo, 33. 6d.

The Discovery of a North-West Passage by H.M.S. Investigator,
during the years 1850-51-52-53-54. Edited from the' Logs and Journals ol
Captain Robert C. M'Clure. Fourth Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Quedah ; A Cruise in Japanese Waters : and, The Fight on

the Peiho. New Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial 8vo, £1, us. 6d.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D. , Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle. With Engravings on Wood and Glossarial Index. Eleventh
Edition, 2s. 6d.

- Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

- Handbook of Geological Terms, Geology, and Physical Geography.
Second Edition, enlarged, 7s. 6d.

- Geology for General Readers. A Series of Popular Sketches

in Geology and Palaeontology. Third Edition, enlarged, 6s.

- Chips and Chapters. A Book for Amateurs and Young

Geologists. 5s.

- The Past and Present Life of the Globe. With numerous

Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

- The Crust of the Earth : A Handy Outline of Geology.

Sixth Edition, is.

Economic Geology ; or, Geology in its relation to the Arts

and Manufactures. With Engravings, and Coloured Map of the British Islands.
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Ninth Edition, 2s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Second Edition.

With Engravings. 5s.
PAGET. Paradoxes and Puzzles : Historical, Judicial, and Literary.

Now for the first time published in Collected Form. By John Paget, Harris
8vo, 12s.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Paton. Cap., cloth, 5s.

Poems by a Painter. Cap., cloth, 5s.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. H. Patterson.

8vo, Is.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's

Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4.to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. £2, 2s.

PAUL. Analysis and Critical Interpretation of the Hebrew Text of

the Book of Genesis. Preceded by a Hebrew Grammar, and Dissertations on
the Genuineness of the Pentateuch, and on the Structure of the Hebrew Language.
By the Rev. William Paul, A.M. Svo, 18s.

PERSONALITY. The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and the

Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Crown 8vo, 3s.
By the Same.

The Origin of Evil, and Other Sermons. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.
PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Management. By A. Pettigrew. Fourth Edition, Enlarged, with Engravings.
Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown 8vo volumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d.

1. Descartes. By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.

2. Butler. By the Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A., Honorary Canon of Peterborough.

3. Berkeley. By Professor A. Campbell Fraser, Edinburgh.

4. Fichte. By Professor Adamson, Owen's College, Manchester.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small cap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 321110, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
by Birket Foster and others, leap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French : with Introduction,
Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Eighth Edition, 121110, 4s.

POTTS and Darnel. Aditus Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,

Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Sixth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Third Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s.

Prince. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Prince.

Third Edition, crown 8vo. [In the press.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large 8vo,
£3, 3S.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Two Lectures on the Genius of Handel, and the Distinctive
Character of his Sacred Compositions. Delivered to the Members of
the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution. By the Very Rev. Dean Ramsay,
Author of 'Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character.' Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens Incident to

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Rankine,
M.A., Advocate. Large 8vo, dos.

READE. A Woman-hater. By Charles Reade. 3 vols, crown

8vo, £1, 5s. 6d. Originally published in ' Blackwood's Magazine.'

REID. A Handy Manual of German Literature. By M. F. Reid.

For Schools, Civil Service Competitions, and University Local Examinations.
Cap. 8vo, 3s.

ROBERTSON. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson.

Cap. 8vo. Printed on hand-made paper.

Rusty. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870: Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rustow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem. Artillery. 3 vols. Svo, with
Ma] is and Plans, £1, us. 6d.

ST STEPHENS ; or, Illustrations of Parliamentary Oratory. A

Poem. Comprising— Pym— Vane— Stratford— Halifax— Shaftesbury— St John
—Sir R. Walpole — Chesterfield — Carteret— Chatham— Pitt— Fox — Burke—
Sheridan — Wilberforce — Wyndham — Conway— Castlereagh — William Lamb
(Lord Melbourne)— Tierce— Lord Gray— o'Connell— Plunkett— Shiul— Collect
Macaulay — Peel. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

SANDFORD and Townshend. The Great Governing Families

of England. By J. Langton Sandford and Meredith Townshend. 2 vols.
8vo, 15s., in extra binding, with richly-gilt cover.

SCHETKY. Ninety Years of Work and Play. Sketches from the

Public and Private Career of John Christian Schetky, late Marine Painter in
Ordinary to the Queen. By his Daughter. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SCOTTISH NATURALIST, THE. A Quarterly Magazine of

Natural History. Edited by F. Buchanan White, M.D., F.L.S. Annual
Subscription, free by post, 4s.

SELLAR. Manual of the Education Acts for Scotland. By

Alexander Craig Sella r, Advocate. Seventh Edition, greatly enlarged,
and revised to the present time. 8vo, 15s.

SELLER and STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, formerly Lecturer on
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The
Book of the Farm,' &c. Post 8vo, with Engravings, 16s.

SETON. St Kilda : Past and Present. By George Seton, M.A.

Oxon. ; Author of the ' Law and Practice of Heraldry in Scotland,' &c. With
appropriate Illustrations. Small quarto, 15s.

SHAD WELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated

by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant-general
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait, Maps, ana Plans.
36s.

SIMPSON. Paris after Waterloo : A Revised Edition of a " Visit

to Flanders and the Field of Waterloo." By James Simpson, Advocate. With
2 coloured Plans of the Battle. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals

of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col. R. Baird Smith, Fag S.,
Captain, Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Atlas in folio,
sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. A New Edition. Crown
8vo, 10s. 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and Evil. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown 8vo, 8s.

A Discourse on Ethics of the School of Paley. 8vo, 4s.

Dramas. 1. Sir William Crichton. 2. Athelwold. 3.

Guide. 241110, boards, 3s.

SOUTHEY. Poetical Works of Caroline Bowles Southey. Cap.

8vo, 5s.

The Birthday r , and other Poems. Second Edition, 5s.

Chapters on Churchyards. Cap., 2s. 6d.

SPEKE. What led to the Discovery of the Nile Source. By John

Hanging Speke, Captain Hem. Indian Army. 8vo, with Maps, &c, 14s.

■ Journal of the Discovery of the Source of the Nile. By

J. H. Speke, Captain Hem. Indian Army. With a Map of Eastern Equatorial
Africa by Captain Speke; numerous illustrations, chiefly from Drawings by
Captain Grant ; and Portraits, engraved on Steel, of Captains Speke and
Grant. 8vo. 21s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series

of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4to, £2, 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, 15 vols. 8vo, ^16, 16s.
Each County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound in cloth,
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

STEPHENS. The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the

Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger. Farm-Labourer, Field-worker,
and Cattleman. By Henry Stephens, F. R.S.E. Illustrated with
Portraits of Animals painted from the life ; and with 557 Engravings on Wood,
representing the principal Field Operations, Implements, and Animals treated
of in the Work. A New and Revised Edition, the third, in great part Rewritten.
2 vols, large 8vo, £2, 10s.

The Book of Farm-buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm ; ' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and Engravings.
Large 8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. £1, us. 6d.

The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large
8vo, uniform with 'The Book of the Farm,' £2, 2s.

Catechism of Practical Agriculture. With Engravings, is.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

Vas. Author of 'Stable Economy.' 2s. 6d.

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering, and Working.
Seventh Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

STIRLING. Missing Proofs : a Pembrokeshire Tale. By M. C.

Stirling, Author of ' The Grahams of Invermoy.' 2 vols, crown 8vo.

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A Cantab. Sixth Edition, with enlarged Supplement, containing
many words not to be found in any other Dictionary. Crown 8vo,
pp. 800. 7s. 6d.

The School Etymological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary and
an Etymological Spelling-book. Cap. 8vo, pp. 254. 2s

STORY. Griffith D'ltalia. By W. W. Story, Author of < Robe di

Roma.' Second Edition, cap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Nero ; A Historical Play. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post 8vo.

STRICKLAND. Lives of the Queens of Scotland, and English

Princesses connected with the Real Succession of Great Britain. By Agnes
Strickland. With Portraits and Historical Vignettes. 8 vols, post 8vo,
£4, 4S.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

An Accomplished Gentleman. Second Edition. Post Svo,

7s. 6d

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of iooo Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Gardener to the Earl of Into ; formerly
Manager of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Swains. A Handbook of Weather Folk-Lore. Being a Collection
of Proverbial Sayings in various Languages relating to the Weather,
with Explanatory and Illustrative Notes. By the Rev. C. Swains, M.A.,
Vicar of High Hurst Wood. Cap. 8vo, Roxburghee binding, 6s. 6d.

Wayne. Lake Victoria : A Narrative of Explorations in Search
of the Source of the Nile. Compiled from the Memoirs of Captains Speke and
Grant. By George C. Wayne. M.A., late Fellow of Corpus Christi College,
Oxford. Illustrated with Woodcuts and Map. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. Destruction and Reconstruction : Personal Experiences
of the Late War in the United States. By Richard Taylor, Lieutenant-general
in the Confederate Army. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thug,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. Third Edition, post 8vo, 9s.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the
German of A. Tholuck, D.D., Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
by the Author. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-garden : being Practical

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved and Coloured Plans, illustrative of the various
systems of Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to
his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, KG., at Drumlanrig. Third Edition, crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass : being a

series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing of Pines,
Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With Engravings
of Hothouses, &c, most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing of these
Fruits. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, 5s.

TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5 s.

Bullock. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in England
in the Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, 28s.

Some Facts of Religion and of Life. Sermons Preached

before her Majesty the Queen in Scotland, 1866-76. Second Edition, crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

Bullock. The Christian Doctrine of Sin ; being the Croall

Lecture for 1876. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Theism. The Witness of Reason and Nature to an All-wise
and Beneficent Creator. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Tatler. The Wonder-Seeker; or, The History of Charles Douglas.

By M. Fraser Tatler, Author of 'Tales of the Great and Brave,' &c. A New-edition.
Cap., 3s. 6d.

VIRGIL. The Mneid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank

Verse by G. K. Rickards, M.A., and Lord Ravenswood. 2 vols. cap. 8vo,

IOS.

WALFORD. Mr Smith : A Part of his Life. By L. B. Walford.

Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d.

Pauline. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Cousins. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Troublesome Daughters. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Dick Nether. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown

8vo, cloth, 1 8s. Or separately : —

Diary of a Late Physician. 3s. 6d. Illustrated, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Ten Thousand A- Year. 5s.

Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral

Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, arid Juridical. 5s.
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 5s.

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on "the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted for enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, C.B. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,

while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Printed
from Transcripts of the Originals procured by the General Assembly of the
Church of Scotland. Edited by the Rev. Alex. T. Mitchell, D.D., Professor
of Ecclesiastical History in the University of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D., Minister of Prestonpans. With a Historical and Critical
Introduction by Professor Mitchell. 8vo, 15s.

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White, Author of 'The History of France.' Seventh Edition, posts, with
Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,

post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

WHITE. Archaeological Sketches in Scotland — Kintyre and Knap-dale.
By Captain T. P. White. Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, £4, 4s. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately,
£2, 28.

WILLS and GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WILSON. The " Ever Victorious Army : " A History of the
Chinese Campaign under Lieut-col. C. G. Gordon, and of the Suppression of
the Tai-ping Rebellion. By Andrew Wilson, F.A.S.L. 8vo, with Maps, 15s.

The Abode of Snow : Observations on a Journey from

Chinese Tibet to the Indian Caucasus, through the Upper Valleys of the
Himalaya. New Edition. Crown Svo, with Map, ios. 6d.

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law,

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown Svo, £2, 8s.

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., 16s.

The Notes Ambrosial. Complete, 4 vols., 14s.

The Comedy of the Notes Ambrosial. By Christopher

North. Edited by John Skelton, Advocate. With a Portrait of Professor
Wilson and of the Ettrick Shepherd, engraved on Steel. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

8vo,

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope

Worsley, M.A. Edited by Edward Worsley. Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. 8vo, 6s.

Wilde. A Dreamer. By Katharine Wilde. In 3 vols.,

post Svo, 25s. 6d.

YOUNG. Songs of Stranger done into English Verse. By William

Young. New Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, and

Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, ios. 6d.

llifiiiiHiiiiHiminiiimiin

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA
823B7922A Cot v. 2

Autobiography of Thomas Allen /

3 0112 088985020



ijinnjiiinriiniimiiiimiiiiiimiiniiiiniiiiii

Autobiography of

Thomas Allen

by the Author of

a

Post Mortem*

IBliliiiliUJiiiLiItiBliUitliliiaiiliTiTiTITITiTITiTin

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
j Of ILLINOIS

v. 3

THOMAS ALLEN

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/autobiographyoft03broo

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'POST MORTEM

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

All Bijht.s reserved

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF

THOMAS ALLEN

CHAPTER I.

As soon as I had heard the calamity which
had befallen me, I wished the alderman
good-day, and hastened from the house,
with the intention of forthwith seeing my
father. But after I had gone a few yards,
I heard a loud shout, and saw the alderman
in his straw hat running after me. He
came to say that he had just seen in the
newspaper that my father and one other

VOL. III. A

director had been admitted to bail. He
also told me that he had ordered his dogcart
to carry me to the nearest station, and
had sent into the village to dismiss the
conveyance I had left there. " So that you
won't be bothered," said he, " with any silly
gossiping."

I was very grateful to him for the kindness
and delicacy which he had shown me ;
and when I was seated in his dog-cart, once
more taking leave of him, I expressed my
hearty thanks. He wrung my hand, and
said with a sigh, " Ah ! my dear sir, I only
wish I could be of any service to you. It's
generally the sons that give their old fathers
all the trouble ; your case is just the other
way."

During my journey to London, I began
to see difficulties before me in the matter
of ascertaining where my father was. I at

first resolved to go to his solicitor, whose
name I had now seen in a newspaper (I
noticed that it was not the name of the
lawyer whom we usually employed) ; but
somehow I presently discovered good reasons
for going to Helena in the first place,
and obtaining her assistance.

Perhaps my desire to cling to her for
assistance at this time may have been
selfish and unmanly ; but I did not think
of that, for the feeling came to me in the
most natural manner possible ; also, I satisfied
my conscience by making a private
compact with myself that if I did not
immediately find Helena where I expected
to find her, I would then proceed to the
solicitor.

I did find her at the house from which
she had dated her telegram to me in India ;
and I believe I was surprised not to see

her wasted to a skeleton, and prostrated
with grief on my account. But though
surprised, I can honestly say I was not displeased.
She was as beautiful, to my eyes
at all events, as when I had last beheld
her; and besides being smiling and cheerful,
I was orlad to see that she was calm
and rational. Finding that I was disposed
to enlarge with some warmth, and
at some length, upon the happiness which
I experienced in again meeting her, she
quickly recalled me to my duty ; and having
told me where she believed my father
was to be found, desired me to go to him at
once. She also, it is crue, gave me a rapid
sketch of the course of my father's misfortunes,
and particularly explained that my
uncle had travelled out of the reach of
ordinary communication when they had
sought to recall him. But these matters

will be investigated for the reader's benefit
later on.

Before leaving Helena, I asked her why
she had not explained the nature of affairs
more exactly, either by letter or in the telegram
which she had sent. She replied that
she had only with difficulty extorted from
my father the fact that so far as he knew
I was in ignorance of what was passing ;
and that directly she had heard this, she
had communicated with me, " on the spur
of the moment."

Feeling a great deal happier after this
interview, in spite of all that I had heard, I
now went to a certain hotel in the City, to
which Helena had directed me, and there
inquired for my father. I inquired for him
with a downcast air, representing a struggle
between pride and shame ; yet I was disgusted,
and not pleased, to find that my

father's name acted on the people of the
hotel very much like the name of a distinguished
general just returned from conquest.

No, sir," they told me, " Mr Allen has
just left us ; but Mr Johns is staying on ;
he's engaged two sitting-rooms."

They assumed an air of well-merited
disappointment, on finding that Mr Johns
would not satisfy me. They told me, however,
that my father had gone to Sydenham,
and instructed me where to find him there.

On reaching the hotel at Sydenham, to
which they had directed me, I desired to
see my father, but was informed that he
could see no one. While I was framing
a short message of preparation, however, I
saw my father himself, looking at me from
a door which he held partially open. I
immediately ran up, and at length stood face
to face with him alone.

The first words be uttered after I had
embraced him were, " Merciful heavens I
Tom ; how can you come near me \ "

I said that I was heartily sorry for not
having come sooner. Then, telling him that
I heard matters were not nearly so bad ashe
imagined, I begged him to tell me all
that had happened.

After a few broken expressions of regret
and despair, he complied with my request.

I suppose, my boy," he began, " you
don't require me to go down on my knees
to assert my innocence \ "

I know you're innocent, well enough,"
said I.

He proceeded as follows : " You know,
Tom, I've always been considered a moderately
rich man. I suppose the people in
our part used to settle my income at something
like £5000 a-year, didn't they? It

was really never so large, though the property,
under different circumstances, might
have perhaps represented a sum of that
kind. I believe the only man who could
have made my landed property produce
anything considerable, would have been a
flint-hearted agent; but I never would
have an agent, as you know. Perhaps, if
I had died when you were a cliildj — and
indeed I heartily wish I had, — if I had died
when you were a child, then a guardian,
a conscientious guardian without a conscience
— if you can imagine such a man
might have screwed out of the estate a
very handsome inheritance for you by the
time you came of age. But Providence
chose that I should live, and manage my
own affairs — mismanage them, of course I
ought to say. Now I always had a turn
for generosity, and this has led me into

being a very easy, in fact a very foolish
landlord. An owner of land, who is independently
rich, can afford to act as I have
done ; just as Lord F can afford to disregard
his coal as a source of annual income.
But you know, Tom, land formed
the bulk of my property ; all I had besides,
being a legacy my uncle Turpin left
me years ago — into which I have dipped
from time to time in order to keep things
going. I was saying just now that I had a
turn for generosity ; so I have — a fatal turn :
but 1 have a still more fatal turn for business;
for making a fool of myself ; for throwing
money out of the window ; and the result
of this has been, that while I allowed
my land to yield me next to nothing, I
began gambling with the Turpin legacy,
which I called my spare capital. At first
I dabbled a little in stocks, and assisted

Graham in floating his silver company.
The silver company didn't pay — though
it may, ultimately — and Graham asked me
to join in his torpedo. Your uncle was
staying with me at that time. You know
the opinion he always entertained about
Graham ; he was very earnest in begging
me to have no more to do with him. At
about the same time, Andrews and someone
else invited me to become a director of
the Wolvenden Joint-stock Bank, in which
I already had an interest — ten shares.
Your uncle and I thought I could not do
better. He said that it was an old-established
bank, where everything went like
clock-work, and that I could attend the
weekly meetings of the board when I
wished for a little amusement, or not attend
them at all, just as I pleased, and
that it would * keep me out of mischief.'

He alluded to the torpedo, I suppose, which
I gave up at his request, and against my
own inclination. I became a director of
the bank then. Old Andrews was the leading
spirit, and everything seemed as sound
and above-board as possible. I never told
you of the step which I had taken. You
were in the north with your regiment at
the time, and I was afraid I should only
alarm you ; besides, you know, my dear
Tom, how often you used to pitch into me
for my unfortunate failing.

"I was speaking of old Andrews. He
had the mastership at the time I became
a director, and I believe that as long as he
remained so, there was nothing very wrong
with the concern. But he very soon retired.
He left the sinking ship, — I don't
say he knew it was sinking; though he
must have had his own opinion about it,

since he retired. He was succeeded by a
very different kind of person. This Hamper,
or Colonel Hamper, as he called himself,
became managing director next. He
had held some position in one of the
branches, and the old directors had a great
opinion of his business capacity. I knew
nothing about him till some time afterwards,
when he bought The Warren. Soon after
Hamper joined us, he brought in a brother-in-law
of his (a man I didn't like), and
Johns, the timber merchant. Then another
of the old directors withdrew, and Scilly,
the brewer, came in. He was nearly bankrupt
at the time, but I knew nothing of it.
I wasn't in very good company, was 1 1

Mr Saunders was the only director
left whom I knew at all intimately ; and
though he used to look rather blue, occasionally,
I believe he knew no better than

I did, what was going on. Well, now
comes the point, which I daresay you'll
understand quite as well as your father
did at the time. The bank used to make
advances to Hamper, to Scilly, to all of
themselves in short, except to Saunders,
Johns, and me. It was our duty to know
all about these advances, to inquire about
the securities, and so on. There was no
excuse for my folly ; at least the only
excuses were my own vanity, and the unfortunate
trust which I reposed in Hamper.
I disliked him personally, I admit, and yet
I had extraordinary confidence in him. He
seemed to have marvellous luck in everything
he undertook ; he was a good-natured
rascal, and very magnificent in
his habits ; and he also gave one the impression
of being shrewd, and at the same
time honest. Saunders believed in him,

and thought of him, just as I did. Saunders
used to go into all the books at the
weekly meetings, and I thought the old
fellow understood what he was about,
though he was in reality as great a blockhead
as I was, and a greater dupe.

"Well, after a little time, your poor
mother was taken ill, and I gave up attending
the weekly meetings altogether.
I made Saunders my proxy, and told him
to look after my interests. He used to
rub his hands, and say, ' Oh, I will ; trust
me ' — you know how he goes on ; ' oh, I
will rubbing his hands ; ' I won't be
Hampered," and I'll keep a sharp lookout
But he's lost every sixpence, and I
must not feel angry with him. Imagine
my horror, when your poor mother was in a
very critical condition, to hear from Saunders
that the bank's acceptances were being

refused in London, and that we were asking
for assistance in all directions ! He
told me that it was only a temporary cloud,
but you can imagine my alarm. Hamper
wrote to me at the same time, informing
me that the difficulties arose from the badness
of times, coupled with the failure of
a certain firm which was a heavy debtor
to us. He said that these difficulties could
be tided over with perfect ease, if we could
raise £240,000. I was so accustomed to
hear him talk of millions, that this sum
didn't appear so enormous as it may seem
to you. I sent for Mahuish (the solicitor),
and asked him what he thought of the
position of the bank ? What do you suppose
he told me ? That the bank was as
safe as a church; 'a little short of money
just at the time, like everybody else ; but
absolutely safe, perfectly stable The rascal

! he was running with the hare, and
hunting with the hounds ; and though he
has since pretended that a director's consulting
a lawyer about his own bank was
a very good joke, he did not say so at the
time, I can tell you. On the contrary, he
seemed almost to anticipate what I had to
ask him, though no doubt he was really
laughing in his sleeve : for I ought to have
told you he had an account with the bank
himself, and had been talked over, if not
positively bribed, before he came to seeme.
So Mahuish was much worse than
useless.

"Your uncle, he had left the country.
I sent messages in all directions to bring
him back, but he might as well have been
at the bottom of the sea. Nothing was
ever more unfortunate ; for it is useless now
to pretend that I could ever rely on my

judgment; and he would have helped me,
I know, with something better than mere
advice. In the midst of my perplexity your
dear mother died. If it had not been for
Helena Chobham, I should have suffered
far greater misery than I did ; but she was
with us to the last, and I quite agree with
you, there's not another woman in the
world to equal her. It will be charitable
for you to suppose that grief made me lose
my senses altogether. Hamper, then his
brother-in-law, then the wretched Saunders,
and at last the whole board collectively,
came and assailed me with the same request
; that I should come forward and
save the bank from ruin. Saunders went
further than that, for he asked me to save
him and myself from disgrace ! Your poor
mother was buried, and, on the following
day, I gave directions for raising £60,000

VOL. III. B

on the estate. In perpetrating this insane
act, I was either mad, or utterly desperate.
It's easy to say now what I might have
done, and what I ought to have done ; but
Fm past all that. Yet if my brother had
only remained a few weeks longer in England,
I might have been saved. His assistance
— his advice and assistance — would
have averted this dreadful calamity."

At this point I gently reproved my
father for not having told me a word as
to his difficulties.

Yes, Tom," he continued ; " but the
plain truth is, I was afraid to confess all
to you. I wasn't sure you'd be so forgiving,
or take it so well as you do ; besides,
I thought that one sorrow at a time was
enough for you ; and Tom, I expected you
would have heard as it was ; for you get all
that kind of news : but from what you say,

you must have been in camp at the time, or
away on leave ; and when you returned,
perhaps your brother officers, who had read
my name in the list of bank directors,
thought it w T as a common name, and didn't
trouble themselves to tell you anything
about it. But, to tell you the plain truth,
Tom, I have sometimes felt in perfect
terror of you. My poor, poor boy, how
terribly I have disgraced you ! I am nothing
but an unfortunate encumbrance.

I have little more to tell you.
Saunders and myself sank everything in
our effort to save the catastrophe. Hamper
persuaded some firm to make him a
heavy advance; indeed I can say this
much for the man, that he w T as as plucky
as could be, up to the last ; but all in
vain. Graham, I may tell you — Ralph
Graham — has been securely looking on at

these disasters, and taking a sort of moral
tone. His torpedo only cost money to a
confiding government, China, which perhaps
deserved to lose ; while our ruin —
but I must finish my story.

The bank shut up shop, with a deficiency
of nearly three million pounds. The
events which followed have nearly driven
me to distraction. To begin with, I was
arrested by "

I here interrupted him with the question,
Upon what charge \ "

Upon a charge of fraud I " replied he.
The books, the cursed balance-sheets, of
which I was as ignorant as a child, had been
falsified to show that we were in a solvent
condition ; and to that falsification, say what
I will, I must appear to be a party. I
appear so at this moment, and must take
my trial as a criminal, in company with

Hamper and his infernal confederates, as
if I were one of the most hardened villains
in the world; when I ought in reality to be
prosecuting them, when I ought in reality
to be regarded, at the worst, as nothing
more dangerous than a miserable and infatuated
idiot ! "

Perhaps there are some persons who may
concur in the propriety of the last reflection
; and I will not express my own
opinion on the subject, as I should find
great difficulty in appearing neither unnaturally
harsh, nor foolishly partial.

When my father had finished his distressing
recital, I asked him, in the first
place, whether his defence was being prepared
by competent hands. He replied,
that he had of course dismissed Mahuish,
his former ]lawyer, but that his new solicitors
had procured the services of the most

learned and eloquent counsel of the day,
and were hard at work in preparing his
defence.

Considering this state of things satisfactory,
I next recommended my father to eat
a good dinner, which he had not done for a
long time past : and T soon had the happiness
of seeing him greatly comforted in
body as well as in mind.

CHAPTER II.

It is only reasonable that I should take no
pleasure in dwelling at length on the subject
of my father's trial at the Old Bailey. 1
Moreover, I cannot find in that event any
ol those incidents or circumstances which
are commonly used for romantic descriptions
of criminal trials. My father did not
bow his snowy head ; for he held it erect,
in order to hear better what was passing.
He did not hold my hand, nor did I hold
his ; for we were placed in two very different
parts of the court. He was not
defended by a young barrister burning

1 Offences committed in the part of the county where
Wolvenden was, were tried in London, at the Central
Criminal Court.

for distinction, who constantly glanced at
the jury with a look of painful anxiety ;
for he had for his principal counsel, a debauched
but talented old knight, who had
almost more practice than he desired, and
who was consumed by no inward fire, excepting
a moderate love of gain.

This gentleman, when the proper time
came, contended at length that my father
had neither desired nor attempted to deceive
others, but had been himself deceived.
That even supposing this not to be the
case, no motive of personal gain was to be
traced in his proceedings ; that he had, on
the contrary, sunk everything that he possessed,
and had reduced himself from wealth
to indigence, for the benefit of that concern
with which he was nominally — and excepting
as a kind of munificent benefactor,
only nominally — associated.

He pointed out that, during a great part
of the time embraced in the indictment, my
father had never attended the meetings of
the board ; his absence being due, not to
remissness on his part, but lo domestic
affliction of the most terrible kind, which
had incapacitated him from attending to
any ordinary business, and had in its fatal
termination, certainly for a time, distracted
him. The counsel said further, that without
desiring to cast any reflection whatever
upon the other directors, whose defence, for
all he knew, might be even more complete
than that of his own client, he nevertheless
felt bound to point out that in this great
case, my father had throughout occupied,
and at that moment continued to occupy,
an entirely unique position. He had originally
been chosen for the post of director,
not because he knew anything about banking,

for he knew nothing ; not, in short, that
he should be of any professional assistance,
but that by his position in the county, asa
deputy-lieutenant, a magistrate, and an
extensive landowner, he might give his
countenance, and that with his considerable
means he might also give aid of a much
more material kind, to certain plans and
transactions in which he himself should not
take an active part. In his whole experience
(that of the counsel), he had never
heard of persons in the situation of the
other directors, meeting with success in
such an apparently impracticable scheme ;
and he ventured to say that neither he,
nor anybody else, had ever before heard
of a person being found at hand to fall
into such a scheme with such astonishing
readiness, and with such a fatal disregard
to the most ordinary caution. Such credulity

might perhaps be painted in the pages
of a novel ; but facts, he knew, were often
much stranger than fiction, and it was with
such facts that he had to deal. He proceeded
to do so ; and when several witnesses
had been called, and much documentary
evidence — especially some correspondence
between Hamper, Scilly, and Hamper's
brother-in-law — had been read, the extent
of my father s folly and gullibility began
to be admitted, and his innocence was ina
fair way of being established.

The judge, in summing up, called attention
to one or two fallacies in the arguments
of my father's counsel : he pointed
out that the directors, by whose invitation
my father had joined the board, were none
of them, excepting Saunders, directly connected
with the events which had led to
the present investigation : that professional

knowledge was not supposed to be a necessary
qualification of a director-elect : that
my father had joined the directorate of his
own free will, not with the intention of
becoming its benefactor, which was never
meant to be seriously urged, but from a
love of meddling in matters which it was
plain he did not understand. On the other
hand, however, the judge pointed out that
my father was entitled to the full benefit of
those representations which had been made
as to his repeated absence from the meetings
of the board at the time of his wife's
illness (he gave all the dates with laborious
accuracy); and the presumption to be drawn
as to the consequences to himself of that
repeated absence, must be properly interpreted.


My father was found " Not guilty ; " and
though his heart was crushed by the judge's

severe animadversions as to "stupendous
carelessness often bringing men to the very-verge
of crime' he found himself a freeman
; and while the other occupants of the
dock were removed to prison, he had the
satisfaction of going in another direction.

As soon as he was thus discharged, I
escorted him to a cab. The windows of
this vehicle were immediately broken by
some ragged individuals, who I should have
supposed had no direct connection with
any bank in the world. We escaped
from the Old Bailey, however, without
encountering any further violence, disinterested
or otherwise ; and were soon calmly
discussing recent events, and projecting
plans for the future, in the retirement of
Helena's house, to which place she had
thoughtfully invited us.

We found her exceedingly happy, and

apparently more grateful for my father's
deliverance than he was himself. However,
she spoke very little of that matter; displaying
more interest in our arrangements
as to the future. My father soon showed a
disinclination to talk, and expressed a desire
to have some rest. Upon which, I took
him to another room, and left him on a
sofa, where he soon fell asleep. I then returned
to Helena.

After a little silence, I remarked, "that
I supposed I ought to be very happy that
my father had not been sent to walk on
the treadmill."

It is very natural you should feel depressed
at present," said Helena ; " but very
soon I expect you to put on a different face,
and to hope for the best, as I do."

"As to hoping," said I, " I don't see anything
to hope for ; but I'm a man, and I

can live down a piece of bad luck like this,
or even worse."

Of course you can," said Helena ; " and
you may be sure nothing is given to you to
bear without a wise purpose."

"That may be, with me' answered I,
"for I admit that my life hasn't been of
much use to any one yet. But where, in
the name of goodness, is the wise purpose
in your being always made miserable, when
you've done your duty all your life ? "

"I am not always miserable, and I
haven't always done my duty," said she.
But now," she continued, " I must remind
you of a piece of advice you once gave
to me ; you said we ought not to c revel ' in
unhappiness, as you called it, but rather
try to discover that equivalent amount of
happiness which may generally be found
concealed in our worst misfortunes."

I had no recollection of having ever given
her such valuable advice ; but I asked her
whether she could point out the particular
bright spot in my father's affairs at that
moment ?

Indeed I can," she answered. "If
something of this kind had not happened
to him now, it would have happened later
on, when he would have been too old to
have borne such affliction ; and when, very
likely, he would have already tarnished
his reputation by having been mixed
up in enterprises which had ruined other
people. As it is, I hope his unfortunate
fancy has been entirely cured.
I do not believe that he will be considered
to have disgraced himself. For of
course every one must know that he has
been cheated himself, and that he is absolutely
ruined."

"That's very consoling, certainly," observed
I.

Well, don't let us talk about it," said
Helena ; "let us decide what you are going
to do. Your father hasn't Hare Place to
go to now. How I wish I had a nice house
of my own, as Colling Hall used to be !
Then he could come and stay with me till
he was quite strong again."

"You might found another institution,"
said I, " for unfortunate speculators ; and
make me the governor, if you chose."

We were presently rejoined by my father,
who was much refreshed by the sleep which
he had enjoyed. He and I dined with
Helena Chobham, and then went to Sydenham,
where, as our poor friend White would
have said, " we were hiding our diminished
heads."

VOL. III. c

CHAPTER III.

After many consultations, my father and
I agreed to retire to the island of Jersey.
The obscureness of the locality, and the
reported cheapness of living, were to us
two powerful recommendations ; and moreover,
we had heard of a suitable house that
was to be obtained.

In spite of the result of the trial, the
capricious world had taken the fit of believing
that my father was a rascal ; that it
was quite impossible he could have been so
stupid as he pretended ; that, on the contrary,
he had shown extraordinary talent
in having evaded the legal consequences,

while he enjoyed the illegal fruits, of an
enormous fraud in which he had been an
approving sleeping-partner, if not a real
prime mover. So my father, though saved
the physical inconveniences of living in
prison, had lost his good name, until such
time as "public opinion" should take one
of those fits of believing all its reputed
rascals to be injured men.

My father, then, made his bow to society,
and, in company with his only son, withdrew
to a spot close to Pontac in the isle
of Jersey.

The cottage which we were so fortunate
as to secure, exactly suited our wants. It
consisted of only three rooms, besides a
kitchen. The rooms were all on the same
floor. One of them was spacious, and not
only picturesque but handsome. It formed
three-fourths of our interior space, and the

other rooms opened into it. The cottage
was well furnished, and stood very close to
the sea, in one of the prettiest spots in the
world. But certainly its greatest advantage
to us was the smallness of the price
we had to pay for it.

In this convenient retreat we were
attended by one old woman, who came
each morning and departed each night.
We had procured her services in the usual
manner ; for, as it is almost needless for me
to state, not one of our old staff of servants
came forward in the manner which romantic
writers represent as being customary in
such cases. But we required very little
attention ; all we needed was that someone
should cook our meals, make our beds,
and dust our landlord's furniture. It is
true my father seemed to require some
kind of personal supervision, but I filled

the office thus required better than any one
else could have filled it.

In acting as his nurse, I found that
patience was the principal qualification
needed. Although he was but fifty-nine,
and not in reality so shattered in health or
spirits as many others would have been
under the same circumstances, he yet chose,
from a fancy of self compassion or propriety,
to assume a most extreme senility.
He allowed his beard to grow ; he wore a
high hat with his shooting-coat ; he discarded
his favourite stick, and carried or leaned
upon a crutch of ridiculous size ; he walked
more slowly, and rounded his shoulders more
than nature obliged him ; and, worst of all,
he affected to be confused in his mind, and to
lose his memory. I saw through all this, for
I not only loved him, but understood him
very well. When he tottered in his gait,

and leaned heavily upon my arm ; when he
feigned having forgotten his spectacles ; or
when he pretended not to recollect Hare
Place ; I bore his behaviour with patience.
I knew that his sufferings and misfortunes
had been extraordinary ; that it would
have been unreasonable to have expected
that they should not have wrought some
change in him ; and that his very affectation
only took the place of extravagant
grief, or irascibility, either of which might
have been far more inconvenient.

I must explain what our means of subsistence
at this time were ; for, as the
reader knows, we were not living on the
plunder gained from widows and orphans.
The fact is, I had received my mother's
legacy, and though it was not large in
amount, it had yet served to pay off our
private debts, and my father's legal expenses

; and the remainder, added to my
English pay, yielded us" just enough with
which to live decently in the retirement of
Pontac.

From this retirement, however, circumstances
soon obliged me to emerge. I had
been granted only six months' leave, but
this was " in anticipation' as it was called,
of my being accorded a further period,
which should make up a total of fifteen
months. Soon after my back was turned
upon India, however, certain influence was
brought to bear against me, and I was informed
that I could have no more leave
than six months in all. I wrote to Colonel
Melnotte, telling him my situation, and
begging him to procure me an extension.
But he replied, with a coldness which
greatly hurt my feelings, that he could not
assist me ; and that if my affairs positively

required my remaining any longer at home,
my wisest course — he spoke as a friend —
would be to go on half-pay.

I saw with bitter mortification what he
really meant. Yet I would not then acknowledge
that there was any sufficient
reason for my leaving the regiment ; and
I determined to see what could be done
at the Horse Guards. Accordingly I left
my father, without much misgiving, and
embarked for Southampton. I safely proceeded
to London, and went in the first instance
to the Horse Guards. There I was
unable to see the adjutant - general, but
was granted an interview with a clerk,
secretary, or Jack-in-office, of the name of
Song.

This Spong was a middle-aged little man,
unnaturally pale, and prematurely bald.
When I saw him, he kept one hand in the

pocket of his trousers ; and, in the other,
held a bundle of papers, which, from his inordinate
gravity, might have been the portfolio
of his office as commander-in-chief,
secretaiy-at-war, and prime minister, all
combined.

Having told him my business, he answered
in an icy tone which he had learnt
from one of his employers, " 111 make a
note of it if you wish ; but I am very
short of officers in India at present"

I ground my teeth at his impudence, and
told him that I must see the adjutant-general
in person. To this, Mr Spong was
good enough to consent ; and he told me
I might see his master the following

morning.

I employed the interval in inquiring at
my uncle's chambers, at his club, and from
his agents, whether anything had yet been

heard of him. Nothing had been heard,
and I sought for consolation in the society
of Helena, whom I found at home. She
was very happy to hear that my father was
comfortable, and that the Jersey cottage
was so pleasant; and she told me that if
I should ever find it necessary to be long
absent from the island, she would instantly
go there herself, and keep house for my
father. I could scarcely forbear from telling
her that I should be glad if she would
choose for her visit some time when I was
not absent ; but I contented myself with
thanking her for her offer, of the sincerity
of which she afterwards gave the most
satisfactory proof.

When I again went to the Horse Guards,
I was received by the adjutant-general.
But to my great disgust, Spong, one hand
in his pocket, his other grasping the imaginary

portfolio, stood at the officer's right
hand, and, with a meek voice, threw every
possible difficulty in the path of my arguments.
The adjutant-general at length
rose, and in a loud voice, by which he
drowned a certain evident embarrassment,
said : " You see, Captain Allen, it's like
this. Your colonel has asked for you to
be sent out to the regiment ; and if you
are to be kept in England, we must see
some very exceptional reason for it. I
don't see that you have any such reason.
The business which called you home is
over, and therefore your duty is with your
regiment."

As the gallant officer delivered these expressions,
I saw Mr Spong stealthily smile,
for which I resolved some day to punish
him. However, I could only take my
leave, and having told Helena the result

of the interview, and received her condolences,
and a repeated promise that she
would come to my father whenever I had
to leave him for a longer period, I returned
to Southampton, and in due course crossed
to Jersey, and reached the cottage, where I
found my father safe and well.

CHAPTER IV.

I now began to see many good reasons for
selling out of the army. The colonel evidently
wished me to do so, and having in
imagination changed places with him, I
could not disguise from myself that there
was much to be said for his way of looking
at the matter. I knew that I should not
have liked as a brother officer a man whose
father had been tried at the Old Bailey ;
and the answer — that he had been acquitted
— would perhaps not have changed
my opinion in such a case. So, instead of
feeling angry with the colonel, I understood,
and partly sympathised with him.

Still, I did not love or respect him any
better than before. But I next considered
the question from a financial point of view ;
and I saw the great advantage of having
at my command the money I should realise
by selling my commission. My inclination
was to remain in England ; my duty was
to take care of my father. And with duty
and inclination both pointing the same
way, I resolved to send in my papers. I
accordingly did so ; and being thereupon
granted an extension of leave, pending my
retirement, my mind was set at rest with
regard to India.

But a new heavy calamity, of a most unexpected
kind, now befell us. My father
one day received a letter from the new
solicitors who had conducted his defence,
saying that they had made " the unwelcome
discovery that certain duties had to be

paid which had been overlooked by Mr Ma-hush
" (the former lawyer). The letter concluded
with the advice of the solicitors that
my father " should not torment himself, but
meet the obligation calmly, and dispose of it."
Enclosed was a document, which we
found to contain, a description of the property
to which my father had long ago
succeeded ; an account of the manner of his
succession ; and an assessment of the duty
to be paid on the total amount, at the rate
of 10 per cent. The long and short of all
this being, that the man Mahuish, who had
for many years had the conduct of my
father's affairs, had all the time omitted
to pay the succession-duty on the Turpin
legacy ; and now his negligence had been
discovered, just when my father, crushed
by misfortune, was left with barely the
means of subsistence.

The amount which was now claimed, together
with interest, reached a sum to us
very alarming ; for it was nearly three
times as much as our whole capital ! The
rascally carelessness of Mahuish filled me
with indignation, which I was beginning
to express, when my father further exasperated
me, by assuming that exaggerated
senility which I have described.

He's a good fellow, Mahuish," observed
he.

"Oh, a d d good fellow!" answered

I, giving the table a blow. Strange to say,
this behaviour had a very good effect upon
my father ; for he immediately laid aside
the air of a dotard, and began to discuss
the situation in a sensible manner.

He was in favour of contesting the claim
as long as that could be done without incurring
expense ; " for above all," he very

sagely observed, " we must avoid going to
law."

Very well," said I ; " and having contested
it, as you say, and having got the
worst of it, how do you propose to pay the
money ? "

You will shortly have a considerable
sum at your disposal," answered my father,
after a pause.

"You don't mean to say," said I, "that
you expect me to use my commission-money
for such a purpose ? "

The money is certainly due, Tom," answered
my father ; " and as we are gentlemen,
we must contrive to pay it."

"If you owed it to a tradesman," I rejoined,
" what you say would be true
enough ; but as you don't owe it to anyone,
at least only to the Inland Revenue,
I cannot see why you should be so scruple

III. D

loss. The money I get for my commission
will be my own property ; you shall have
the free use of it for any other purpose;
but don't propose beggaring yourself, and
me too, merely on account of that scoundrel
Mahuish."

Having administered this lecture to my
father, I left him, and reconsidered the
matter by myself. I carefully put to myself
the questions, " What should a man
of honour do in such a case as this % " and
How would a man of the world act ? " and
I came to the conclusion that the man of
honour should satisfy a lawful claim, whatever
the consequences to himself ; and that
a man of the world, in view of the inconvenience
of having constantly to live abroad,
would perhaps do the same. Besides
all this, the money which I was about to
receive, did in a certain way belong to my

father, and not to me ; for it had originally
come out of his purse.

I went back to him, and told him I
would do exactly as he advised. Nevertheless,
I was much inclined to stipulate
that this should be only so long as he continued
to appear rational.

My father answered that his resolution
was formed ; that if the money was fairly
due, he intended to pay it ; that, as far ashe
could see, there was not any hurry at
present ; and that I could go to London
and see whether any help could be obtained
from either of the lawyers — the honest, or
the careless one. The latter, so my father
observed, i( was a man of large means ; and
if he were honest, knowing our circumstances
"

Here I interrupted him by scornfully
exclaiming, " Honest ! Not he 1 Catch

ISBN** tULlHOIS

him doing anything for any one but for
himself ! "

At this my father's chin began to wag ina
manner which I knew threatened a relapse
into senility ; so I shouted to him ina
rough manner, yet with a dutiful motive,
You know he's a rascal as well as I do, so
don't say he isn't."

Upon which he controlled himself; his
chin became firm, and we continued our
conversation.

On the following day I left Jersey for
the second time, and after a rough passage
reached Southampton, and pushed on to
London. I at once went to see the lawyer
who had sent us the bad news; but he could
tell me very little that was to the purpose,
and he advised me to see Mr Mahuish,
who lived at Wolvenden. This advice I
hastened to follow ; and I accordingly went

to Wolvenden by train, having first written
to Helena to beg I might see her on my
return, at an hour which I mentioned.

When I reached the office of Mr Mahuish,
I could see no one to take in my card, so I
ushered myself into the presence without
waiting to be announced. As soon as the
lawyer saw me, he gave an odd smile, and
said, " Well, sir ; what is it, pray ? "

Perhaps you don't recollect me," said I ;
"I am Captain Allen."

Yes, I know that' answered Mahuish,
and he commenced to whistle.

Then I suppose you know why I've
come to see you % " I resumed.

About the succession-duty 1 " said he.

"Yes," I answered, and proceeded, with
perfect good temper, to explain to him the
consternation with which my father had
heard of his latest trouble. " And as you,"

I said, " are after all at the bottom of it, I
shall be much obliged if you can suggest
anything for us to do."

I've nothing to suggest," answered Ma-hush
; " he hasn't a leg to stand upon."

"How in the world did you come to
forget such a thing ? " I resumed. " Have
you never had to pay succession-duty before
1 "

He now seemed to grow nervous, and
said, " I must decline to continue this interview,
Captain Allen. Your father knows
how the mistake arose ; it was through inadvertence.
You asked me what was to be
done, and I told you that he hadn't a leg
to stand upon."

And is that all you have to say ? " said
I, in a louder tone.

That's all I choose to tell you," answered
Mahuish.

"Then confound you " I exclaimed,

and clapping a large pewter ink-pot to his
face, I seized him by the collar, and threw
him, and his chair with him, on to the floor.
As he lay on the ground, a stream of ink
running from his face, he looked very much
like a murdered man, and in fact he was
feigning to be dead.

Having thus chastised him, I walked to
the door, and finding the key on the inside,
transferred it to the other side, and locking
in the prostrate man of law, departed.

As I passed an outer office, where the
clerks were generally seated, I noticed that
no one was there ; and as the hands of a
large kitchen clock pointed to a quarter
past one, I concluded that the clerks were
at their dinner. A knowledge that this was
the case accounted also for Mr Mahuish's
not having cried out while I was punishing

him. This adventure had a very invigorating
and wholesome effect upon my spirits ;
for I had long felt the inconvenience of not
having any individual person upon whom to
vent my wrath and spleen.

In an excellent humour, then, I returned
to London. There I found that I had to
transact some business connected with the
sale of my commission ; also, my uncle's
agents had heard a rumour to the effect
that a traveller in Arabia had been assassinated
; and they had telegraphed to a
certain consul to ask him whether the
report was true, and whether the victim
happened to be an English colonel of the
name of Allen.

Helena, as soon as I told her that I must
remain in London for a few days, immediately
reminded me of her own desire, under
such circumstances, to pay my father a

visit. Wondering at her extraordinary
constancy to the service of others, I consented
— though with a show of regret — to
her going ; but I secretly resolved to return
without warning to Pontac, as soon as my
business was finished ; and thus enjoy the
happiness of having Helena in my house
with me, if only for one day.

In due course my military business was
concluded : I received £5000, and my name
shortly afterwards appeared in the 'Gazette.'
Also I had the satisfaction of hearing that
the traveller who had been killed in Arabia,
was a German geologist, whom the Arabs
had put to death for stealing a horse. I
was now a gentleman at large, with £5000
in my pocket ; and I naturally felt a desire
to enjoy myself, in a temperate fashion, and
to leave succession-duties and all such disagreeable
matters to take care of themselves.

CHAPTER V.

As I say, the possession of a large sum
in cash, made me feel very much tempted
to turn it to some more satisfactory purpose
than that of adding to the coffers of the
State. I tormented my brain in order to
devise a scheme for immediately investing
my money in a concern which should yield
a handsome profit in the quickest time ;
and I should no doubt have discovered
something which would have seemed an
opening of this kind, had it not been my
misfortune to have never had many gamblers
or betting-men amongst my acquaintance.


While I still lingered in London, I received
a letter from Helena Chobham, which
put entirely new ideas into my head. She
wrote, urging me with what I thought a
most provoking calmness, to find some employment
in London, — to work for my living,
in short. She pointed out many good
reasons for my following this advice ; and
reminded me that I had not the excuse of
having to take care of my father — since she
intended to remain in charge of him herself.
"And I believe I understand him as well as
you do," she wrote. She ended her letter
with the hope that I should not be angry.

To own the truth, I was not particularly
pleased. For she had in a manner accused
me of selfish indolence, and sentenced me to
banishment. By degrees, however, I saw
a great deal of sense in what she had said ;
and as I had lately taken to accepting her

wishes as commands, I resolved to do what
she desired. I sent her nearly all my
money for her to hand to my father, and I
reserved no more than £100 for my own
stock. I told her, at the same time, that
she was the good angel of our family, and
that we all had no course but that of
obeying her orders.

I may here say, that after the receipt of
the money I sent in this letter, the success
was paid to the last penny by
my father ; and that this punctilious discharge
of the debt, though it may have
reflected to our credit in the minds of a few
charitable men, confirmed the rest of the
world in the prevailing fit of belief that my
father had saved something very handsome
from the wreck of the Wolvenden Bank.

I now began my career as a really poor
man, and the first difficulty I encountered

was my ignorance as to the mode of life I
should assume. I had made several reductions
in my personal expenses, but still I
was living in a very good part of London,
and keeping up the appearance of a gentleman.
These inconsistences I determined to
remove at once. After some walking about,
I engaged a single room on the third floor
of a house, in a dingy street in Chelsea ;
and there I took up my quarters, with an
air of perfect humility. I abandoned my
military title ; commenced living upon two
meals a-day ; and daily read through the
advertisements of secretaryships, and similar
posts which were to be had.

Nevertheless, I was not half in earnest.
Perhaps I had a secret conviction that my
poverty would not last for ever. I certainly
believed that if my uncle ever did
return, he would do his best for us ; and

that if he died in the desert, my father was
probably his sole heir. But I do not think
the latter consideration dwelt in my mind at
this time. I had been ordered to find work,
and I endeavoured to find it.

Having ascertained that the secretaryship
of one of the principal clubs was likely
soon to be vacant, I went to the club in
question, and made inquiries on the subject.
I found a naval paymaster temporarily filling
the post of secretary, which had that
day been vacated. He received me with
great politeness, but told me, when he heard
what I wanted, that I had not the smallest
prospect of success. He showed me a
list of candidates, which, to my amazement,
comprised no less than sixty names,
including one baronet, and two general-officers.


I at once despaired of getting this post,

but I went through the form of making an
application, and adding my name to the
swollen list. The paymaster then told me
of another smaller club which was in need
of a secretary, and I proceeded to it.

As I was standing on the threshold-steps,
wondering whom I should see, and what I
should say, a rough voice greeted me with
the words, "What's the pay of an acting
shoeing-smith ? "

In another moment I recognised Sir
George Walnut, who had thus humorously
accosted me, in recollection of a former inspection,
when I had been unable to answer
the question which he had now again propounded.


After heartily shaking his hand, I asked
him how long he had been at home ?

Four months," answered he ; " and I
shall be precious glad to get back to India."

We then entered the club, which was of
the inferior military order ; being mainly
supported by young men who were waiting
for something better — by certain older men,
who preferred being of importance there to
being of no importance anywhere else — and
by a few men like the general, who had
given their names to the institution out of
kindness to some friends who had asked for
that assistance.

Sir George having taken me to a retired
corner, began to question me about my
affairs ; and he displayed both frankness
and delicacy in his method of doing so.

I was very sorry to hear you had sold
out, Allen," he observed, " for I intended to
have asked you to be my aide-de-camp."

I thanked him very sincerely for the
honour he had designed for me, and I felt
some regret, which, however, I stifled.

Sir George talked on, evincing sympathy
and friendship of a kind which is only truly
valued by a man whose appreciation is sharpened
by adversity. For my part I perceived
that I had never before done the
general's character any justice.

"Well, then, your old father's all right,
is he ? " said Sir George. " He's quite
comfortable ; that's a good thing. And how
are you getting on yourself \ "

I told him how I was situated, and in
short, what errand had brought me to this
club.

Having heard me, he remained silent fora
few moments ; and I asked him whether
he thought that I had any chance of success.


"That's just it," said he; "I think you
have ; in fact, I could get you the billet
myself." Seeing that he meant more than

VOL. III. E

his words had expressed, I begged him to
explain further; whereupon he informed mein
a few words, that if I did accept the post
of secretary, I must not make too sure of
ever being paid my salary ; for that the
affairs of the club were in rather a curious
condition. " And," added he, " as I am on
the committee myself, you may take my
information for what it's worth."

I thanked him earnestly for his kindness,
and promised not to act hastily.

Soon afterwards he took me to the secretary's
room, and there introduced me to the
gentleman who was about to resign office.
Having done this, Sir George took his
leave, but he first made me promise to
breakfast with him in his lodgings the
following morning.

The secretary, with whom I now found
myself, was a half-pay captain of marines,

who had lost his left arm in action. He
gave me the impression of being a man who
could take care of himself in the world, and
who was at once good-natured, and careful
of his own interest. Having learnt my
business from the general, he now gave
me a cigar, and began to show me the
sort of work which engaged his daily attention.


We were thus occupied when the steward
of the club entered the room, and commenced
business by informing the secretary that
two cheques, each of them drawn by members
of the club, had that morning been
dishonoured. At this intelligence the
captain only laughed, and gave me a wink.
They then proceeded to transact other
business ; having finished which, the
steward said that he wished to speak
with him on a private matter.

You can speak before this gentleman'
said the secretary; "your wages I suppose,
isn't that it ? "

Yes, sir," answered the steward.

"Well, I can only give you £10 on account,"
said the secretary ; whereupon the
steward looked miserable, received the
money, and withdrew.

He had hardly disappeared, when a
violent knock was delivered at the door,
and a sallow youth, dressed in the extremity
of a certain fashion, came in. " I say,
Harris," shouted he, "I want you to have
up that cursed steward, and give him a
wigging!"

What's he been doing ? " asked Harris,
giving me another wink.

Why, he had the beastly cheek to tell
me not to smoke in the reading-room. I
only looked in for half a second, to seethe

' Sportsman,' and I just held the cigar
in my hand. He is such an impudent
brute ! "

Oh, I must give him a talking-to,"
said Harris. But at the same time he
handed the youth one of those cheques which
had just been returned from the bank. The
youth seemed considerably abashed, but
observed, with a few oaths —

"I told them I was going to draw it."
He then hastened from the room.

Upon which the secretary observed, —
I don't suppose you'd like that sort of
thing much \ The general told me to let
you into our secrets."

After hearing some more details as to his
work, and so forth, as to all of which he
enlightened me in the most candid manner,
I took my leave, feeling considerably dispirited.
I, however, consoled myself with

reflecting that I had found a friend in the
general ; and I looked forward hopefully
to deriving benefit from his influence and
advice.

CHAPTER VI.

I found Sir George Walnut living in what
is called a flat. This flat was built in a
convenient part of the town ; and as Sir
George was unacquainted with European
comfort except as it is understood in India,
he was very well satisfied with his quarters.
Another circumstance greatly contributed
to his ease, and that was, that he was attended
by an excellent valet, who exactly
understood making him comfortable. It
has been observed a very great number of
times, each time with an assumption of
originality, that the character of a master
may be judged by seeing his servants.

The observation, though not particularly
profound, may certainly be admitted to be,
as a very general axiom, just. It is fair to
add, however, that Sir George gave his servant,
Frank, very excellent wages.

In India we had often made merry about
the general's domestic life ; declaring that
he used to eat his meals seated on the
ground, in his verandah ; that he drank
water out of his hands ; shaved the top of
his head, as well as his chin ; and said his
prayers upon a little mat, at sunset. I had
myself taken part in inventing such witticisms
; especially sometimes after an unusually
harassing " night surprise ; " but
now, coals of fire were heaped on my
head.

Sir George, when we were alone together,
remarked, "Your difficulties won't last long,
Allen ; the uncle must turn up sooner or

later. I never had any relations that I can
remember ; only a step-father who gave me
my outfit as a cadet. Why don't you invest
some of your old father's money, or your
own, in getting hold of the uncle \ Send
a dragoman, or a dervish, or some chap of
that sort, with some coolies, to hunt him
up. Three or four hundred rupees, judiciously
laid out, ought to gain some intelligence
of him. Have you communicated
with the consuls everywhere ? Have you
done everything you can think of ? "

I told him I had done what I could ;
but that certainly I had not thought of a
dragoman or a dervish " before.

I know an old fellow at Cairo," resumed
the general, " a Frenchman from Pondicherry,
and a Mahometan, though he's a
Gascon by birth. He's a thundering rascal,
and talks every language ; I should think

he's the very man. He'll be glad to do anything
for me, and I'll write to him at once.
But, first, I must know the exact route your
uncle's supposed to have taken. "

We examined a map of Arabia together.
I showed Sir George the direction my uncle
was supposed to have taken, and we found
the spot from which the last letter received
from him had been dated. After a
long perusal of the map, however, and after
much speculation, Sir George gave it as his
opinion that the colonel would never be
seen again.

u But, " said he, " write a letter to him
in duplicate — or in triplicate will be better ;
and give me your authority to spend five
hundred rupees, and I'll get hold of this
thief of a dragoman, and do my best."

The general's very decided proposals
raised my spirits, and inspired me with

hope, if not with confidence. I wrote the
letters, and gave him the authority as he
had suggested.

But Sir George was not content with this.
After giving me some rather vague counsel
to think nothing about it," — about my
ruin — and " to just snap my fingers," he
told me that as soon as I ran short of
money, I must tell him of it. " For," said
he, " I don't spend half my pay ; and I can
always give you a shake-down in this place,
which will be more convenient than having
to bother your old father."

Warmly thanking him, and promising to
report to him the further progress of my
affairs, I took my leave.

As I walked back to my dingy lodging
in Chelsea, I entered one of the parks which
lay in the course of my road, and seating
myself on a greasy old bench, — a proceeding

which I fancifully considered as in
keeping with my fallen condition, — I fixed
my eyes upon the ground, and abandoned
myself to thought. " Why is it," thought
I, " that this idea of getting the secretaryship
of a club is so firmly established in
my mind ? I may know something about
wines and cigars, through having been mess-president,
and I can keep regular hours ;
but I really don't believe I possess any further
qualifications. Why are there not more
openings for men like myself, who might be
made very useful to the State, but for rotten
examinations and other restrictions \ "

At this point my reflections were interrupted
by the familiar sound of spurs, and
looking up, I saw two well-built handsome
troopers of the Blues pass by. They were
talking together in very happy tones of an
assault-farms.

That isn't a bad life, by any means'
thought I, as I looked after them, " and if
it comes to a case of necessity, I can always
try it."

I then rose, and was about to continue
my walk, when I perceived an elderly man,
poorly dressed, but with as decided a military
bearing as the two troopers who had
just passed. He saluted me in a manner
which had become obsolete, and said, " I
hope your honour remembers me, for we
have served together."

I looked at his face, but time and drink
had so altered it, that I did not recognise
the features of Sergeant Munden until he
had told me his name.

I congratulate you, sir, on getting your
company ; your troop rather, I should say,"
said Munden.

That's long ago," said I.

"It is some time ago since you got your
troop," resumed Munched ; " but do you
know, sir, though I'd only nine pence in the
world at the time, I took the liberty of
getting a drop with it, and drinking your
good health."

I thanked the impudent rascal, and asked
him what he was doing at present ?

"At present, sir," answered he, "I am
starving."

I asked him whether he did not receive
a pension ?

The pension of a private soldier,"
answered he, adding, " I got into troubles*
with Sir James Hoddem, the new colonel,
and they reduced me."

Upon this, seeing that he looked positively
hungry, and that a tear stood on his
cheek, I gave him money — a much larger
sum than I could afford ; yet I would not

give him less, chiefly because I intended
to help him, but partly also because I was
unwilling to take him into my confidence,
as by giving him less I should to a certain
extent have done. He thanked me with
apparent emotion, and then seemed to hurry
away.

I returned to my lodging in Chelsea, and
there commenced writing to my father and
to Helena. I had not long been thus engaged,
when I heard a knock at my door,
and a miserable little maid looked in and
announced, " Mr Munden."

At the same moment Mr Munclen walked
in. His eyes were now no longer moist
with tears, but twinkled with latent roguery,
as I remembered they used to do in former
times. Angry at this intrusion, I asked
him " what in the world he wanted \ "

Having closed the door, Munden replied,

I did not like to detain you out of doors,
speaking to you, but I wished to ask you
whether you knew of any gentleman in
want of a servant, and so I took the liberty
of following you."

It was a liberty," answered I ; " I don't
want a servant, as you can see ; and I don't
know anybody else who wants one, and I
am not likely to."

The ex-sergeant listened to this with perfect
gravity, except that he was laughing
with his eyes ; and having heard me, he
merely said, " I thank you, sir," and withdrew.


Relieved of his presence, I finished my
letters, and then sallied forth and posted
them. I myself performed this task for
two reasons : one was, that I wished to be
certain that the letters were posted; and
the other, that persons in my miserable

habitation were supposed to perform their
own errands. I was absent no longer than
ten minutes, and as I returned to my room,
I thought, with a smile of satisfaction, of a
certain frugal meal which I proposed presently
to enjoy.

Directly I entered my room I saw that it
had been disturbed ; a horrid suspicion then
entered my mind — namely, that I had been
robbed. Running to examine my writing-case,
where I had been keeping my little
stock of money, I found it empty. My
portmanteau also had been stripped, and,
as I had used that as my wardrobe, I was
thus plundered of all my clothes.

Furiously ringing the bell, I ran downstairs,
and encountered the unhappy little
servant-girl. I demanded of her whether
anybody had been in my room to take
away my things. But she only stared at

VOL. III. F

me, and then ran away as fast as she
could.

But her mistress appeared on the scene,
and having overheard my inquiries, gave
a scream, and declared that she had heard
some one leave the house only a few minutes
before.

It was not till that moment, strange to
say, that I thought of Munclen. Then I felt
certain that he had robbed me ; and I hastened
to the nearest police-station to give
a full description of him, and to lodge my
complaint.

A constable returned with me in order
to investigate matters upon the spot. We
found that almost the only articles which
the robber had left behind him were my
empty portmanteau (which I suppose he
had found too bulky) and my empty 
(which I suppose he had not considered

worth taking). But he had taken
all my clothes, £92 in money, and a letter
from Helena.

The money was all that I had, with the
exception of sixteen shillings which were in
my pocket. I ought, perhaps, to add that
the loss of Helena letter troubled me
above everything else, but I cannot say
that such was the case, and I loved her
none the less. Ruined and robbed, I might
now fairly say that I was " plunged in
despair."

CHAPTER VII.

I felt the rubbery, I think, more as a blow
to my pride than as a fresh misfortune
to my pocket. I was like a man who,
swimming about after being shipwrecked,
receives an unexpected blow on the head
from a floating spar. It was an aggravation
of my other sufferings, and seemed
designed to try my patience to the utmost.
But I determined not to give way; and
though, as I have said, I was "plunged in
despair," I soon rose to the surface again,
resolved to

Take sea against a host of troubles.

So. after a good night's rest, in which,

from wisdom and despondency mingled, I
first indulged, I began to consider my situation.
" What could 1 do ? " soon resolved
itself into another question — " To whom
should I turn for help \ "

My first impulse was to hasten to Sir
George Walnut, who had sincerely offered
his friendly aid should I ever require it. I
was reluctant, however, to impose myself
on such a generous and worthy man until
really compelled to do so. So I sat down
and enumerated every other person whom
I could call, for the sake of argument, my
friend. I began my list with Helena and
my father. Common pride withheld me from
asking for relief from Helena, who was rich ;
and common affection forbade my applying
to my father, who was poor. Next after
these two came my uncle. He, in military
parlance, was non-effective. Then, with

regard to my other relations, Lady Susan
Longstaffe was the only one who had made
any show of kindness to us after the trial
at the Old Bailey, and that kindness only
consisted in her expending a vast deal of
ink in a letter of condolence. She had
said, " How I wish w T e were at Pieponcl
Hall, and you could come and stay with
us ! " She was now in London, I chanced to
know ; but, when I contrasted in my mind
the outward pity and the inward resentment
with which she would probably receive me,
I determined to make use of her only as a
painful alternative.

The next friend who rose in my mind's
eye was Mr Garbold ; but I had heard that
since his abortive attempt at matrimony he
had retired into seclusion, I did not know
where, and, moreover, I did not like asking
him for assistance. Then I thought of my

army acquaintances — my brother officers, —
and the thought was most galling. Since
my misfortunes, not one of them had ever
written to me — except the colonel, when he
had suggested my retirement ; and I knew
as well as possible that I was forgotten.
Allen 1 Yes, we had a fellow named
Allen; he used to be called 'Barbara.'
His father lost every sixpence, and he gave
all the subalterns a step." That was my
epitaph in the regiment. So, after counting
up my friends, I found them few enough.
I must explain, however, one omission
which I must appear to have made. Mr
Ratcliff was more entitled to be called
my friend than I was entitled to be
called his : for at this time he had more
than once tried to find me, as I afterwards
learnt ; while I, so striking and absorbing-had
been the events following upon the

voyage home, had, to tell the truth, forgotten
him.

Thus the list which I was able to compile
was unsatisfactory ; and I was fain to
bring my thoughts back to the general,
who was ready to befriend me, and close
at hand to do so. It was only, as I have
said already, consideration for his generous
character which made me endeavour,
before going to him, to think of someone
else upon whom to fasten. But
necessity overcame all my scruples, so I
marched off to the flat, found Sir George
Walnut, and told him all that had befallen
me. When he had heard my story, he
uttered expressions of the deepest indignation
against Munden, whose ingratitude
seemed to affect him rather more than
did my own loss. " I only hope we may
some day catch him," said he ; " and if he

turns out to be the thief, which on second
thoughts I don't think' s actually certain, I
hope he may get what he deserves, which
is hanging."

Sir George then offered to advance meany
sum of money that I required ; but
he professed to agree with me as to the
desirability of my getting work of some
kind.

What a thousand pities it was " he

commenced, and then made a pause.

I saw what he had intended saying, and
supplied it for him. " That I sold out,"
said I. " No, general ; I believe I was quite
right there."

"You acted from a very high motive,"
said the general, " but I think it was overstrained.
As to Melnotte, I wish I had
been in command when he wrote you
that letter, for it wouldn't have been sent.

But we won't speak of that," he continued ;
"let us think what's to be done for you
now.

After some silence he abruptly said, " I
suppose you've never done anything in the
literary line, have you ? "

In the literary line ? " I repeated. " No,
sir ; never in my life ! "

We both laughed, but Sir George proceeded
: " Because I happen to have an
acquaintance who has something to do
with one of the newspapers — editor, or
proprietor, or something of the sort."

Well, sir," replied I, " it's impossible
to know without trying ; but I never have
patience to read what other people write,
and I'm afraid they'd return the compliment
if I were to try writing myself."

What of it ? " resumed the general.
You write in a newspaper, and if people

don't read what you say, they buy the
paper, and read other parts of it. You
just see what you can do. But first I
must get hold of Drinkwater, and ask
him to dine."

Drinkwater ! not Hyslop \ " I exclaimed,
recalling that schoolfellow who,
as the reader may remember, had disgusted
me by changing his name when we were
at Eton together.

"Drinkwater is his name' answered Sir
George, who continued, " I don't know-exactly
what he is, but I heard that he
got his money from a paper. He's a well-informed
man ; has a very good opinion
of number one, but that won't hurt us,
will it '{ I'll send Frank to ask him to
dine."

Having despatched his servant, the general
gave me a cheroot to smoke, and

entertained me meantime with a description
of his adventures in the Indian
mutiny. His account was full of hairbreadth
escapes which he had made ; of
desperate engagements in which he had
borne a part ; and of personal gallantry
which he had himself displayed. For,
most strange to relate, although the general
possessed true bravery, he did not
possess any of that other quality so
commonly associated with bravery ; but
was somewhat given to boasting. This
tendency had made him many enemies ;
and had had a most injurious effect upon
his promotion. Nevertheless, it was very
true he had been wounded in the thigh
with a lance, and in the chest with a
bullet ; and that he had been hanged,
(as he was never tired of telling), but fortunately
saved at the critical moment.

For his behaviour on the occasion of the
hanging feat which I have just mentioned,
he had recommended himself for the Victoria
Cross ; and had he himself kept quiet,
and allowed the affair to be noticed only
by the proper authorities, he would have
certainly received that decoration. So,
knowing as I did that all his bragging
was, strange to say, of the truth, I listened
to his anecdotes with a becoming respect.

Presently his valet Frank returned,
bearing a note from Drinkwater, who
accepted the general's invitation to dine
with him that night at eight o'clock.
Promising to return at that hour myself,
I took my departure.

On my way home, I amused myself by
thinking of the possible result of my introduction
to this Drinkwater. I supposed
that he might be -a relation of my former

schoolfellow, but I did not imagine that it
could be Hyslop himself, again transformed.
When I had reached my dingy habitation,
I found a detective waiting to see me.

He told me that a man answering to my
description of Munden had been heard of,
and that he did not despair of capturing
him. He furthermore hinted pretty plainly
that he would be glad of some pecuniary
encouragement; but circumstances compelled
me to discountenance this desire,
as very improper on the part of a public
servant ; and he left me, his face evincing
disappointment, mingled with suspicion.

And now a new embarrassment presented
itself. How, or whence, was I to
procure evening clothes in which to appear
before the general that evening ? My heart
sank within me.

After a little reflection, I remembered

how, at a regimental dinner in former
days, we had been very facetious at the
expense of Orwell, the riding-master, who
had appeared in a suit of clothes which he
had hired for the occasion from a Jew. I
bitterly determined to follow his example,
selling my watch, if necessary, in order
to meet the charge ; for though Sir George
promised to lend me money, he had not
yet done so. I had actually risen for the
purpose of carrying out this resolve, when
I reflected that, after all, my having been
just robbed of my evening clothes was a
very reasonable excuse for my not having
any. I congratulated myself that this second
thought had saved me from acting ina
very absurd manner.

I had another difficulty of the same kind
to face, which was that I had no clean
shirt. I took off the one I was wearing,

and debated whether I had time to wash
it; but I decided that this was an impracticable
expedient. Then, having put the
detested garment on again, I rang the
bell, and calling for the landlady, requested
her to send out and purchase mea
shirt ; for which I gave her ten shillings,
and lent her the collar I was wearing as a
guide to size.

As I gave these directions I endeavoured
to smile, in the manner of a well-to-do individual
temporarily reduced to an amusing
shift, but I believe I could not conceal
my embarrassment ; and she did not at all
help me, for she returned my distressed
smiles with an angry stare. However, she
procured me my shirt for eight shillings and
sixpence; and having attired myself in it,
and made the rest of my toilet as decent
as I could, I walked off to dine with the

general, and having the misfortune to get
my boots heavily splashed with mud in
crossing a street, I had them cleaned at a
cost of one penny.

I trust that no reader will feel angry
with me for the tone in which I have described
these petty misfortunes ; for I should
be sacrificing the truth were I to say, either
that I laughed at them at the time of their
occurrence, or that I am now in the habit
of recalling them with a smile.

VOL. in. o

CHAPTER VIII.

Directly I was presented to Mr Drink -
water, I recognised him as my old schoolfellow.
He took rather longer to furbish his
memory ; and I believe the reason was,
that although he was at that moment a
stout, bald-headed, full-grown man, he still
recollected, with resentment, certain treatment
which he had received from me when
we were boys ; and was anxious, not so
much to forgive, as to appear to have forgotten
all that concerned me ; including
such kicking, stoning, hair pull kings, or
twisting of arms, as he had most deservedly
suffered at my hands.

So at first he looked puzzled, contracted
his brow, blinked his eyes, and kept his
hand passive in mine. Had I then taken
him by the collar, and exclaimed, "What
a sneak you are, Drink water ! " I verily
believe it possible that, in his great astonishment,
he would have cried out : " Pax !
Pax ! I was only chaffing, Allen'

I did not try the experiment, however,
for our former positions were now reversed,
I having to conciliate him. In due course
his recollection returned to him; he smoothed
his brow, wreathed his face in smiles, and
tightened his grasp of my hand.

I could not resist asking him how he
came to have laid aside the name which he
had once taken such trouble to assume.
He replied that he had not altogether laid it
aside ; but that an aunt of his had left him
some property, with the understanding that

he reassumed the family name. " So that
really my proper surname," said he, " is
Drinkwater-Hyslop-Drinkwater, which is
certainly rather long."

"Well, I've heard of a double-barrelled
name," observed our host, Sir George, " but
yours seems to be a sort of six-chambered
one ! Never mind, ' what's in a name \ 9
My own is rather a singular one ; though I
have no intention of changing it."

In the course of dinner, Sir George began
to lead up to the accomplishment of his
design in having brought Drink water and
me together. " I suppose you're very busy
in the morning," said the general to Drinkwater
; " or do you work principally at
night \ "

"Our people work all day," answered
Drinkwater; " but I don't do very much
myself, except look after the £ s. d."

Not a bad department either," observed
Sir George. " Now how long," said he, " did
you take to get to the head of the thing ?
How long, I mean, does it take a man of
average ability to make himself independent
by writing ? "

"Not by writing, Sir George' answered
Drinkwater, cheerfully ; "by mangling and
ironing, I suppose you mean. I started our
laundry myself, only last year."

Oh ! you call it a laundry then ? " said
the general, looking puzzled, but willing to
see any joke that might appear.

We soon discovered from Drinkwater,
however, that his laundry was not a literary
fancy, but a literal reality.

Sir George, overcoming his amazement,
then asked him, whether he was not connected
with one of the weekly newspapers ?

Upon which Drinkwater grew red, and

replied, " that he had been, formerly ; that
he still had something to do with the advertisements."


Then you're not the editor ? " said the
general.

Oh dear, no ! " answered Drinkwater ;
and he at once turned the conversation back
to the laundry ; nor did we extract from
him any more as to the subject in which
we were interested.

When Drinkwater had taken his departure,
Sir George said to me, " Why, the fellow's
a dhoby ! 1 This is a queer world,
certainly. Never mind, we must try something
else. Who's this Mr Eatcliff, that
you met on your homeward voyage ? "

"Mr RatclirT!" I repeated,— " why, I
never thought of him ! I had forgotten all
about him, sir, till you said something at

1 A native washerman in Bengal.

dinner about commonsense. I'll go and
find him tomorrow morning."

"Do," said Sir George, "and ask him if
there is any common-sense method of setting
you on your legs."

Having by this time smoked a reasonable
number of cheroots, I rose to depart, lingering,
however, a few moments, in the hope
that Sir George would remember the loan
which he had promised me. He had
apparently forgotten it, though an open
cheque-book lay upon his desk ; and I did
not choose then to remind him of my necessity,
for fear that by so doing I might
leave in his mind the impression that I
was importunate, and had pestered him.
So I walked back to Chelsea, and to my
hated abode there, having exactly three
shillings and nine pence in my possession.

Early the next morning I received another

visit from the detective. He came to say
that the man of whom he had been in
search, was a prisoner in the Bow Street
police station ; and that I was requested to
go there in order to identify him. I went
to Bow Street, and was there confronted
with a long-legged ruffian, in whom I was
invited to recognise Munden. It was not
he ; nor could I claim as my own, any of
the miscellaneous property which had been
found upon him.

When the prisoner had heard this, he
exclaimed, "Thank God, I've found an
Englishman at last ! " and offered to shake
my hand.

As I was leaving the police station, I
was struck by the appearance of a woman,
who had just been discharged from custody.
She had a companion with her, who was
expressing the joyousness of freedom by

waltzing along the street, to the great inconvenience
of the other foot-passengers ;
but the woman whose face had attracted my
gaze was walking along very slowly ; and
as her eyes were downcast, I had a good
opportunity of looking at her more closely.

She was poorly but neatly dressed ; and
her hair, unlike that of her companion,
was arranged in a graceful sort of fashion,
seldom affected by any but the more respectable
classes. But it is high time that
I should explain why she specially excited
my curiosity. It was a very difficult thing
to believe, yet I felt convinced that this
discharged prisoner was no other than Mrs
Wish ! She presently looked up, and seeing
me, uttered an impious oath expressive of
wonder.

Mrs Wish ! " I exclaimed. But emotion
made her silent.

At that moment her female companion
finished dancing, and, coming up to us,
asked of Mrs Wish, " Who is it, dear ? "

Mrs Wish was still silent, and the other
went on to say, " What's he going to stand,
Sally? Tell him we're two poor milliners
as wants to borrow a crown, very particular."

Not at all relishing this conversation, and
the publicity which attended it, I asked
Mrs Wish to tell me where I could find herat
a future time ; upon which she handed
me an envelope, on which her address was
written. " ' Mrs Knight ask for ; and
promise you'll come," said she, with suppressed
agitation.

I promised accordingly, and walked away.
As I left her, I raised my hat ; but the
compliment seemed to embarrass her, for
she turned crimson as she acknowledged
my bow.

I will not trouble the reader with all the
reflections in which I indulged after this
extraordinary meeting. What Mrs Wish's
adventures had been since the time when
she invited me, as a boy, to elope with
her, and what her career had been before
that time also, will soon be shown ; at present
I must proceed with my own history.

After leaving Bow Street, and poor Mrs
Wish, I went in search of Mr Katcliff. At
his club I learnt his place of residence,
and having proceeded thither, found to my
great satisfaction that he was at home. He
received me in a very friendly manner ;
but as soon as I began telling him of my
ruin, he informed me that not only did he
know all about it, but that he had known
something of it at the time we were onboard
ship, when he had greatly admired
my composure under misfortune.

Having asked him to explain how this
could have been, he told that the Madras
newspapers had given a full account of the
bank directors who had been arrested, and
that he had supposed that of course I
knew all that had happened. When I had
in turn explained how it came to pass that
I had known nothing, he said : "I am
really disappointed ; for what at first attracted
me to you, if you'll allow me to
say so, was the extraordinary fortitude
which you seemed to display in adversity,
— fortitude which I considered nothing
less than ' common-sense ' of a high order,
and therefore highly admirable. Something
certainly appeared to weigh upon your
mind, but you seemed to struggle with
it ; you never appeared to give way to it ;
and I looked on, and watched it all with
the greatest admiration, I assure you."

This common-sense, Mr Batcliff," I answered,
"you seem to apply to everything."

There is nothing to which it is not applicable'
answered he.

"I wish I had the secret then," I observed.


"It's no more a secret than any other
quality," answered Mr Batcliff; "than sensibility,
humour, obstinacy."

But still, I'm afraid it's not transferable,
not communicable."

Why, no, not generally speaking, or
there would be an end to all difference
of opinion. Still, many people waste their
whole lives in frying to transfer commonsense
to others."

"Well," said I, "I wish you would at
least tell me what a man possessed of
commonsense ought to do in my situation
? For, hang me if I can see how

common-sense is going to supply me with
bread and cheese ! "

Bravo ! " said Mr Katcliff, " I am glad
you've delivered yourself of that at last ;
for I knew that was what you were driving
at. "Well, let's see. A common-sense way
of supplying you with bread and cheese ;
or, we'll say, with a comfortable means
of subsistence, suited to your habits of
life."

Exactly," said I, smiling.

Then, in the first place," said Mr Eat-cliff,
"I must trouble you to tell me all
your private affairs, which perhaps you
won't care to do."

I replied, that that was only fair ; and
at once told him all that I thought it
necessary he should know.

He heard me with great attention; but
said " that he must throw up the case,"

unless I could find it in my heart to supply
some matters which he was sure I had
suppressed.

Upon this, I revealed, with some hesitation,
a few facts relating to Helena Chobham.
I told him the circumstances connected with
her unfortunate marriage ; and extolled her
extraordinary amiability of character, her
practical and pure benevolence, and her
heroic resignation and patience.

When I had finished this enlarged account,
Mr Eatcliff observed : " Mrs Cobham
must be a very sweet and noble lady ;
and as I have no doubt she thinks you a
very sweet and noble young man, you don't
require a soothsayer to tell you more on
that point. But really as to the present
question of bread and cheese, I can only
give you one piece of advice ; and that is,
to hold up your head 1 "

To hold up my head ! " I repeated.

"Yes," cried Mr Ratcliff. "Not to go
poking about in little lodgings, sending out
to buy shirts, and eating a big breakfast to
last you till dinner-time ; but to give yourself
more airs than you ever did before ;
to look up your old friends, treat them as
if you didn't care a fig for them, and at
the same time get all you can out of them.
Go and call on Lady Susan Longstaffe, and
tell her you mean to dine with her twice
a- week." (Here he raised his voice to a
louder pitch.) " Go to your tailor, abuse
him well, and say that you never mean to
pay him ; then let him make you some new
clothes. Go and take possession of your
uncle's chambers, and say they belong to
you ; and tell the old general you can take
care of yourself; and do so. Why, my
dear Allen, men 1 with a quarter of your

chances, would have enough of the common
gambling instinct to see that all must come
right before long ; and that the ship must
come in ! "

I was thoroughly infected with his enthusiasm,
and the tears stood in my eyes
as I shook his hand.

"As to ready money," he resumed, "as
to low, filthy lucre for present everyday
purposes, if General Walnut doesn't give
you as much as you want, come to me,
and you'll find I'm consistent, if no other
man in the world is ! "

I told him very earnestly that he was a
true friend.

"Of course I am," said he, " or I shouldn't
pretend to be a friend at all : and now," he
said, as if in conclusion, and with peculiar
significance in his manner, " I have to catch
the train, as I'm going down to Windsor."

VOL; III. H

"To Windsor!" repeated I. "What
are you going there for ? "

"To be rewarded, to be sure ! " shouted
Mr BatclifT, almost crying with self-complacency.


Having again warmly shaken his hand, I
left him ; in my heart wishing him and his
common-sense all manner of prosperity.

CHAPTER IX.

Upon a further consideration of Mr Rat-cliff's
scheme, I saw that it was rather
bold than hazardous. To try it, suited
my fancy very well ; and any passing
doubts that I may have momentarily entertained,
were set at rest by the comfortable
reflection that Mr Ratcliff " was
consistent, if no other man in the world
was ; " that he had the full courage of
his opinions ; and that, in short, he was
standing in the background, purse in hand,
to give substantial support to my experiment.
I now began to view Sir George
Walnut, and the gentle Helena, in the

light of timorous counsellors, who meant
well, but were not ready with resource ;
and I reproached myself with weakness
of character, in not having, of my own
accord, fallen into Mr Radcliffe plan.

That plan I proceeded to put in practice.
On returning to my lodging, which
to my new frame of mind appeared more
dirty and wretched than ever, but excited
only a pleasant kind of contempt, I gleefully
broke the seal of a letter from the general,
and found myself in possession of a handsome
sum of money, " which I was to
repay' so said the letter, " as soon as I was
a rich man." Steeled by Mr Radcliffe
creed, I looked on this compact as little
less satisfactory for the general than for
myself.

Previous to going in person to thank Sir
George Walnut, I wrote a few lines to my

father, and to Helena. My father, I knew
too well, had enough of "the common
gambling instinct " to view such an experiment
as mine with perfect calm ; but
with regard to Helena, I thought it advisable
not to lay bare my full intention to
her. So I merely told her that I should
remember her kind wish to see me employed
in some respectable trade, but that for the
present I intended to economise, principally
by living in my uncle's chambers, from
which I could at auy moment sally forth
in quest of employment.

I had just finished this letter, when my
landlady sent up her bill, with a request
that I would please settle it before I went
out."

I received this message very good-humouredly,
and sending for the woman,
gave her the cheque I had just received,

and desired her to get it cashed at once.
I also told her that my bedroom was too
small, and that I should leave her that
night or the following day.

Upon this she became exceedingly polite
and pleasant, saying, " that she knew very
well her bedroom was not fit for a gentleman
like me ; but that she would do her
best endeavour to make me more comfortable."


As soon as I had obtained the change
from my cheque, I discharged my bill, and
went in search of Sir George Walnut. When
I inquired for him at the flat, I found that
he was not there, bat had left a message
for me, saying that he had gone into the
country for two clays.

Thereupon I resolved to pay my visit
to Mrs Wish. I learnt from the envelope
which she had given me, that she lived ina

place called " Crow Court," in the neighbourhood
of Drury Lane. I discovered this
court after some difficulty. It consisted
of about twelve high but narrow houses,
forming three sides of a square ; and was approached
by a dark passage, which connected
it with ( a neighbouring street. Opposite the
side at which this passage entered, was a row
of iron railings and boards (in a state of great
dilapidation), which fenced the court off
from an open space, where the foundations
of some new houses were being laid.

I sadly reflected — though in an appropriately
modern strain — as to the vicissitudes
which could possibly have brought
the once sprightly Mrs Wish to retiring to
so sad a haunt. I looked round in the
hope of seeing some sign, not of refinement,
but of diminished squalor, which might
point out her particular abode ; but I looked

in vain. The houses inclined inwards
towards their summits, and were supported
by beams. Patched under-garments were
hung out to dry in certain places ; and the
court seemed to be principally occupied by
numerous families of lodgers. There were
three or four shops, however. A rag and
bone shop ; a dirty kind of eating-house,
with two egg-cups and a coffee-pot in the
window; and an emporium for farthing
toys, apples, braces, and cheap illustrated
newspapers. To this emporium I was
directed, by a man who told me that
"mother Knight and a hunch - backed
party " lived there.

I walked in, and told my business to a
careworn woman of forty or so, who called
in her husband (a dwarf). He led me up
a flight of stairs, and, having knocked
against a certain door, left me. In another

instant I stood before the unhappy "mother
Knight' otherwise Mrs Wish. My presence
must have recalled to her mind many very
distressing associations, but she at first tried
to hide her emotion in a very foolish and
repulsive manner, accosting me with, " Well,
old fellow ! so you went before the beak
this morning, did you ? What was it
about ? "

I replied that I had met with misfortunes,
and that I was afraid she had done
the same.

Why, of course I have' she answered.
Misfortunes ! Well, I like your cheek ! "
Here she could play this part no longer,
but began to weep hysterically, and continued
to do so for several minutes. When
she had a little mastered her grief, she
clasped my hand, as I stood sadly watching
her, and then exclaimed between her sobs,

It's so — kind of you ; I'm so — wretched,
I didn't mean to — offend yon."

I answered with perfect sincerity that she
had not offended me at all. "But," said
I, " if it won't upset you, I wish you could
tell me something of what has happened.
Don't say a word if it distresses you."

Oh, Allen," said she, " you're a good
fellow."

I only hope I may be able to help you,"
said I ; " but I must first know what's
happened."

After a little pause, Mrs Wish said, "How
would you like me to tell you my whole
life, from beginning to end ? "

I replied that such a narrative would
interest me beyond measure, and that it
was precisely what I wished to hear.

"You're not easily shocked, I hope,"
said poor Mrs Wish.

Having satisfied her on this point, I
begged her to proceed. After a few further
preliminaries she began to relate,
with some little variation of the words,
the following : —

History of Mrs Wish.

I suppose I needn't tell you when I
was born ; it was some time before you
were, but not quite a hundred years ago.
Well, I was born in a remote part of Westmoreland.
My father was what is called
in that part of the country, a ' statesman.'
His family was a very — well, a very decent
one ; respectable, and all that. Two or three
of his ancestors might have made their
sons gentlemen, if they had chosen ; but
none of them were ever so ambitiously inclined.
Each eldest son lived just like his
father, in an almost uninterrupted chain.

That is, each one lived his uneventful life
in comfort and respectability ; helping his
father as soon as he was old enough to do
so ; closing his parent's eyes when they
died ; marrying a woman of his own rankin
life when he reached a suitable age ; then
getting old in his own turn, and making
way for children who had grown up just ashe
had done.

This orderly round of life was followed
through some generations without variation,
until my grandfather, having lived in the
same manner, reached that stage in life
when members of the family were expected
to choose their wives. He would, no doubt,
have acted just as his ancestors had done,
but to do so, one essential element was wanting
— namely, a woman in the neighbourhood
whom he thought would suit him asa
wife. To him, this was a most pressing

difficulty. It was not in Lis nature to
wait ; for he considered the operation of
marrying just in the same light as that of
getting in his corn, or thatching his roof;
that is, as something which had to be done
at a certain season. He therefore made an
extraordinary effort to accomplish the end
he had in view. He made a descent into
Scotland, where some relations were settled,
and thence selected, and in time married
and imported into Westmoreland, an amiable
girl whom he had persuaded to be
his wife. This woman, who was his first
cousin, used to make him very happy, I
believe ; but yet, I attribute our family
misfortunes, including indirectly my own,
to this marriage ; for I believe in Race, and
this was a cross in the breed.

"My grandfather died, leaving two sons
to succeed him. These two, instead of

settling down to that mode of life which
was to be expected, were constantly plotting
for their own advancement. The younger,
my father, was the more ambitious of
the two. When he was scarcely twenty
years old, he began to make expeditions to
the town of Carlisle ; and there made the
acquaintance of a certain upholsterer's
daughter. During a whole year, he made
frequent journeys for the purpose of seeing
this young lady, and I suppose paid her
great attention. Suddenly, however, his
visits and his attentions ceased. It was
said, or conjectured, that having engaged
himself to the upholsterer's daughter, he
had then basely jilted her.

However that may have been, his sweetheart
was not to be repulsed. Accompanied
by her brother, she came to our
village and bearded my father in his den.

It then appeared that what they sought for
was nothing less than justice at the hands
of my father. He, either from his own
awakened sense of honour, or from fear of
the personal consequences should he persist
in his desertion, complied with the reasonable
demand made of him. My mother and
he were married, and I appeared in the
world soon afterwards.

My early recollections of my mother
are not at all pleasant ; I am afraid they
are exactly the reverse. Both she and my
father were addicted to drink ; though,
strange to say, he had the reputation of
being a very sober man ; the reason being
that he never began drinking till late at
night, after supper, and used in consequence
to be very grave and melancholy all the
following day ; thus appearing to be sadly
watching his wife, who used to begin her

drinking directly after breakfast. Nevertheless,
my mother was certainly the worse
of the two. I recollect on one occasion,
how, being seized with a maudlin compassion
for me, she made me drink a portion
of some gin-punch with which she was
comforting herself; and, to say the truth,
at the age of seven I was made as tipsy as I
have ever been in my life !

I must now describe a very horrible tragedy.
Perhaps it mayn't sound much, told to
you calmly like this ; but I can tell you it was
more horrible than anything you can conceive.
My mother was in bed, rather overcome
with liquor, and I was playing with
a kitten before the fire, when my father
came in drunk ; and asking me why I was
not in bed, took up a gridiron and began
beating me with it. My mother, who, in
her cups, but at no other time, was exceedingly

kind to me, no sooner saw me
being thus treated than she jumped out of
bed, and, seizing my father by the hair,
commenced slapping his face with all her
might. He was about to retaliate with the
gridiron, when he suddenly started back,
drawing me after him, as though his wife
had just shown symptoms of leprosy or the
plague. The poor wretched woman was inflames
; her night-dress having fluttered into
the fire as she was attacking her husband.
Oh, Allen ! if you could have seen her !

"My father, who was never remarkable
for presence of mind, and who was now
stupefied by drink as well as fear, at first
made no attempt to save her, and the unhappy
creature fell to the ground, screaming,
' Put me out ! put me out ! ' My
horrified father at length mustered enough
energy to approach her with a can of water,

VOL. III. I

which, however, he handled so clumsily,
that he only struck her on the head with it,
spilling most of the water upon the floor.
But the neighbours who soon ran in, did
their best, poor souls; also a young surgeon
: oh, God bless him ! "

[At this point I begged Mrs Wish to
proceed with the main facts of the story.
Upon which she said, as if she understood
my thoughts, " Well, then, an old surgeon ;
and the devil fly away with him! " She then
became silent, impatiently tapping her foot
upon the floor. I apologised for having
interrupted her, and begged her to proceed,
which she presently did.]

My mother died in agony, whether you
think it a good joke, or not. And now comes
a very important incident in my history.
The rector of our parish, when he heard
what had happened, soon sent to my father

to say that he was willing to take me into
his service as a kitchen-maid. My father
at once consented, for the arrangement
especially suited him, as he and his brother
had decided to sell what property they
possessed, and seek their fortunes somewhere
else. So I was sent to Mr M'Leod.
He was a man of large property, who, finding
that he had become, he scarcely knew why,
a clergyman, performed his parochial duties
in a rough-and-ready fashion, expending
most of his time in travelling and collecting
pictures and other works of art. When
I think of this, I still wonder that he found
both time and opportunity to be of such
use as he was ; to be so kind to a little
wretch like myself, for instance.

"When he first took me from my father,
he sent me to an excellent village-school,
which he had himself founded. Indeed,

my post of kitchen-maid was a sort of
sinecure, really ; and only a convenient cloak
with which Mr M'Leod chose to hide a
generous and Christian action. He was
constantly performing similar deeds of
charity ; and whenever he appeared in the
village, generally just for a short sojourn,
he contrived to crowd into the time he
spent there, more useful exploits of benevolence
than many of his cloth could accomplish
in a lifetime. Such acts were more
effectual than anything else could have been
in preventing the complaints which would
otherwise have been made as to his always
being away, wandering about. Mr M'Leod
had a wife who was excellently suited to
him ; and they might have been the happiest
couple in the world, had they not been
forced to endure one disappointment, which
was, that they had no children. This circumstance

will account for what I am going
to tell you.

"As Mr M'Leod grew older, his visits
abroad became rarer, and though he had by
no means given up travelling, he took to
staying a good deal more in his parish. It
was then that he began to notice the little
girl whom he had hastily befriended ; and I
may say, without vanity, that he found me
very superior to anything he could have expected.
You will not laugh when I tell
you that I was beautiful; for you know
that I was, once; and that, what's more,
you thought so ! But beauty was not my
only attraction. My education had been
attended to with surprising care. The
village - schoolmaster had expended more
than his ordinary pains upon me ; but the
person who had chiefly interested himself
in bringing me up, was Mr M'Leod's curate.

I may tell you at once that I allude to Mr
Wish. He not only examined me in the
progress 1 was making at the village-school,
but he also taught me French and Euclid,
and how to play the harmonium for the
church-choir. I believe his original object
in taking such trouble was to please his
superior, in whom he fancied he saw the
design of adopting me as his daughter ;
but afterwards, as I progressed under his
tuition, and improved in appearance and in
manners, I believe he thought that he could
shape me into a wife for himself. Well,
whatever Wish's motives may have been,
when Mr M'Leod first began to notice me,
I was a very interesting, pretty little thing
of seventeen ; engaged nominally in cleaning
up dishes and saucepans, but really occupied
in having my mind cultured, and in
playing the harmonium for the choir.

' And did Mr M'Leod ever adopt me
for his daughter ? ' you were going to
inquire.

"He did not. But it was only my own
imprudence, or misconduct, if you prefer it,
which prevented him from doing so ; for I
know he often meditated it. When he found
me as I have described, his first care was
to place me on a more reasonable footing
in his household. To begin with, he placed
me under the charge of the housekeeper,
with whom I associated and ate my meals,
never going near the kitchen any more.
But soon Mr M'Leod thought even this was
not good enough for me. He desired me
to live with him and his wife, as a sort of
companion. I was given a good room, and
the servants were told to call me ' Miss
Knight instead of ' Sally

When Mr M'Leod had done all this, and

had made an unusually long stay in his
parish, he went off on his travels again, and
took me with him. He and Mrs M'Leod
showed me all the wonders of Florence and
Eome ; and I may say, by the way, that I
was altogether disappointed with them.

Now that I was a member of the family,
so to speak, I had every opportunity of
learning Mr M'Leod's caprices, and studying
his character; and therefore I ought to
have found out how to please him. All
that I really need have done, I know, would
have been to have always been perfectly
simple. That was all he wanted, or expected
from me. But you know, Allen, cunning
is my second nature. Even at this
moment, I know I am really interesting
you, though I mayn't be exciting your sympathy
; and yet, I can't help trying to pile
up the agony. That's the way I've gone

on all my life. I am so steeped in insincerity,
that I believe if the end of the world
was to come tomorrow, I should pretend to
be ever so much more frightened than I
was "

At this point the poor woman gave way
to tears. She sobbed violently, and at
length became hysterics]. I offered her a
tawdry little smelling - bottle which lay
upon the table, and attempted to calm
her by the best means I could devise ; but
she begged me to leave her for half an hour,
and I did so.

I passed away this interval down-stairs,
in conversation with the dwarf (who
worked in a back-room as a tailor) and
his wife. They both pressed me, without
any delicacy, to tell them who Mrs Wish
was. " I tried to hear what she was saying,"
said the dwarf, "but I could only

catch a word or two, here and there
like."

I told him, with a haughtiness which
I did not afterwards regret, that he had
better mind his own business.

He answered, with a weary expression of
face, peculiar to his kind, " Yes, sir ; I'll
mind my business. But I didn't know
you were a gentleman till you spoke like
that."

When I returned to Mrs Yish she was
in a deep sleep, and I saw by the bottle
at her side that she had been dosing herself
with laudanum. Under these circumstances,
I thought it well to leave her for
that day, and I accordingly did so.

CHAPTER X.

When I had left Crow Court and poor Mrs
Wish, I proceeded to my uncle's chambers,
having formed the resolution to take possession
of them with as little delay and as
little ceremony as possible. I found them
locked up ; but an old woman who lived in
the basement of the house came to me with
the key. I told her that I was about to
live in the chambers until Colonel Allen's
return, and directed her to prepare the
rooms for my reception at once.

At first she seemed rather taken aback,
but by degrees she recognised me (for we
had met before), and saying that she hoped

I was well, bestirred herself in making the
rooms look more comfortable. My installation
was thus peacefully accomplished ;
and having thus nine points of the law on
my side, I wrote to my uncle's agents, telling
them what I had done. In reply they
merely told me, that a family arrangement
of the kind I had made seemed to them
very desirable. After this, I began to feel
so exceedingly comfortable and prosperous,
that, like a successful emigrant, I wished
my less fortunate relations to come and
share my prosperity. On second thoughts,
however, I decided that my father might
not readily fall into my plan of life, and
that he would fare better where he was.

But I must for the present return to Mrs
Wish. I went back to her the next day, in
the hope that she would continue the narration
of her history. I had expected to find

her still unwell, or at all events melancholy.
Instead of this she was sitting sewing, with
a cheerful industrious air, and greeted me
with a laughing manner, in which no traces
of recent care could be discovered.

Well, sir," said she ; " shall I go on
with my story \ "

I begged her to do so.

She continued sewing for a few moments,
and then said, " I suppose you believe all I
told you yesterday, don't you ? "

Of course," answered I.

"Well, I'm glad of it," said she; "for
I've got into such a habit of telling lies, that
I assure you I feel surprised when I catch
myself speaking the truth. But you're an
old friend, and I like telling you everything
I feel as if it did me good."

I hope it does," said I ; " but please goon."


She laid aside her needlework, and after
staring at the fire-grate for a few moments,
resumed her tale.

I was saying that when I was fairly
started in Mr M'Leod's good graces, I
should have been simple and unaffected,
and then I should have £ot on. That was
the great chance I threw away ; for not
only should I have pleased Mr M'Leod, and
become his heiress, but also I should have
formed my own character, which I can
never do now. In constantly trying to
seem a good girl, I should have become
one in the end. Don't you think so yourself,
now? But, oh dear me ! to Mr M'Leod
I put on a dreadful overdone air of naivete
which did not deceive him one bit. I could
even see that he disliked it ; and yet, such
is the everlasting folly of youth, I thought
myself the cleverest — thought I could compel

him to take me at my estimate. You
know this mistake on my part was partly
owing to my long intercourse with Mr
Wish, who, I had seen, always believed me
to be just what I pretended.

But of course deeds, more than manners
or words, are what people are judged
by in the long-run. I first displeased Mr
M'Leod at Pisa ; and it was through a
man named Salekson, whom I met there.
Do you know, Allen, it's been my experience
that the more odd a man's name
is, the greater rascal he is likely to be.
Well, this Salekson (who was really an
old - clothesman, or a money - lender, or
something) somehow managed to make
my acquaintance. He first spoke to meat
the hotel, when Mr and Mrs M'Leod
had left me alone for a few minutes ; and
the same evening he came and dined close

to us at the table d'hote, and engaged all
three of us in conversation.

Mr and Mrs M'Leod replied to all he
said with grave courtesy ; while I was so
foolish as to smirk and giggle, and flirt with
him, you know. I could almost blush over
it now ! I don't mean because of my
indelicacy, but because of my shocking
ignorance. After all though, you see, I
had hardly ever spoken to anything in the
shape of a man ; and this Salekson appeared
to me a very polished, smart sort of
fellow. He didn't appear so to other
people, though ; they weren't so easily
taken in. Mr M'Leod hated him. He
would never dine at a table d'hote again,
and gave me an awful scolding. He said,
Sarah, why did you laugh in that vulgar
way to the man at the table d'hote f '

'did I laugh? Do tell me, shouldn't

I laugh ? ' I asked, with that naivete which
so exasperated him.

' Laugh within reason, and to decent
people, as much as you like he answered.

i( ' But I thought he was so nice ; wasn't
he nice ? ' I went on. But Mr M'Leod
wouldn't answer me, and only said something
in Italian to his w T ife, and she gave
me a horrid nasty look.

We left Pisa directly after this incident,
and went on to Genoa. There, whom
should I see again but Salekson ? How my
whole future might have been changed but
for my persevering folly then, in not speaking
to my patron, to my benefactor as he
wished to be, telling him that Salekson was
there, and begging his protection !

They either did not know it, and were
therefore indifferent ; or they did find it out,
and wished to see how I should behave. I

VOL. III. K

am sorry to say I behaved almost as badly
as I could Lave done. I secretly wrote to
Salekson an anonymous note containing
the mysterious words, ' Be careful ; I am
watched You may imagine the effect
of such a communication. Salekson was
careful, it was true ; but, of course, he
regarded my note to him more as an invitation
than a caution.

Accordingly, as I was one day visiting
the Villa Pallavicini at Pegli, Salekson
appeared. He pretended not to know
either the M'Leods or me. Delighted
with this romantic position of affairs, I
resolved to have an interview with him ;
and I'm sure you will laugh at the simplicity
I displayed. As Mr and Mrs
M'Leod were entering a boat in order to
explore the subterranean lakes, I declared
that I was too frightened to accompany them.

Upon this Mrs M'Leod said she insisted
on my coming ; but her husband observed,
No, no ; let Sarah please herself ; we don't
want her to be frightened.' He added
something in Italian, and they left me
alone. Wasn't that nice of them ?

Salekson, who had been waiting, then
came from a neighbouring grotto, where
he had been concealed, and Ave were soon
talking rubbish very happily. When the
jPLeods returned, they found me once more
alone, for Salekson had left me. They
greeted me with ironical kindness, and as
they were going back to Genoa, talked
more Italian than I had ever heard them
talk before.

"A few days afterwards, the M'Leods
started for England, taking me with them.
I could not contrive to see Salekson before
we went away ; but I wrote to him, telling

him that I was obliged to go, and that
the course of true love never did run
smooth.' He no doubt laughed heartily
at my quotation ; which he pretended to
indorse all the same, and added a good
deal of nonsense of his own, in a letter
which he managed to have placed in my
hand.

"On the journey from Genoa to Westmoreland,
Mr and Mrs M'Leod continued
to treat me with that ironical kindness of
demeanour which they had lately assumed.
But I thought I discovered in Mr M'Leod's
manner certain signs of sadness, or regret,
which you can understand ; while in that
of his wife I thought I could see a good
deal of spite ; though she was a kind enough
old thing in her way.

When we had returned to the rectory, I
resumed that course of life I had followed

before going abroad ; but with this important
difference, that I was once more sent to
eat my meals with the housekeeper. I
could see, too, that old Mr M/Leod was
puzzled what to do with me, or, in other
words, how to get rid of me.

It was now that Mr Wish began to
show in his manner to me a new kind of
interest. My assumed naivete had always
pleased him ; for though he may not have
thought it quite genuine, he only put it
down to girlish affectation, at the worst ; and
thought it would all pass away. One day
he came to me and blurted out : ' Sally,
I've been talking to Mr M'Leod about you.
What was it you did at Genoa to offend
him?'

I gave him as favourable a version of the
affair as I thought could tally with anything
the M'Leods could have told him.

I said that I had met a man at Pisa, and
then again at Genoa, who had always
smiled at me, and seemed very nice. That
I had liked him, and hadn't seen any harm
in it, as I had hardly ever had any men to
talk to before.

"'Of course ; of course, dear ; ' said Mr
Wish ; * and you don't feel any interest in
him now ; do you 1 '

' I've quite forgotten him,' said I ; which
was a regular fib.

Then Mr Wish began walking up and
down the room ; but every now and then
he stopped, and patted my head. At last
he said : ' I am going to leave Mr M'Leod,
and set up as a private tutor. I have a
promise of three pupils, and I know I shall
get on. Will you come with me \ '

' What ! to be one of the pupils ? ' said
I, in my naive way.

Mr Wish laughed very loud at this ; and
said, ' No, you simple little innocent Sally !

I mean, will you, will you % ' Of course

he was going to have said, would I marry
him. But, of all things in the world, at
that* moment his nose began to bleed; and
went on bleeding so violently, that w T e could
think of nothing else for the moment.

Just then a servant came in to say Mr
M'Leod wished to see me. Mr Wish waved
his hand, and nodded behind his pocket-handkerchief,
to tell me I could go. I
found that Mr M'Leod's business with me
referred to the proposal Mr Wish had just
been interrupted in making. For, before
coming to me, he had told Mr M'Leod of
his intention. Mr M'Leod spoke to me in
very impressive, severe tones. He said that
he was aware of Mr Wish's design of making
me his wife, and that he could not suffer

things to go any farther, without entering
his most solemn protest against the planas
the friend of Mr Wish, as a minister
of the Gospel, and even as my well-wisher.'
You know those kind of people
say anything for a — what d'you call it ? —
peroration ; and what he said about being
my well-wisher was only a lot of rubbish,
meant to sound well. Well, then, he went
on to point out what he called the gross
wickedness of a young woman like me.
making an honest man wretched. I could
have answered him in a way which would
have rather surprised him, telling him
that he had no right to blight my prospects
just because of his prejudices. But
you see, a moral old man thundering away
at a friendless girl who isn't over-particular,
generally has the best of it, even though
he hasn't the most argument on his side :

besides, I really owed Mr M'Leod a great
deal. I hadn't the impudence then, or the
spirit, if you like it Letter, to retort ; and
all I did was to ask him, in a tremulous
tone, 'What's the objection to me, sir, to
marry anybody, please \ '

"Mr M'Leod answered, 'A great many
objections, Sarah. Mr Wish is not a man
of the world, and I cannot allow him to be
hoodwinked. Your birth, he may be willing
to overlook ; but if he only knew how
very different your character is to what it
appears to him ! I have already felt it my
duty to tell him some facts which came to
my knowledge when we were abroad. Again,
there's another thing — your circumstances.
He may entertain the notion that I have
thought of adopting you ; and calmly,
candidly, I have not the remotest intention
of doing so.'

That was about all he said ; and quite
enough too. Soon afterwards I saw Mr
Wish again. His nose had stopped bleeding
or ; and he told me that he had seen Mr
M'Leod a second time, and had heard with
indifference all that he had to allege against
me ; that, under the circumstances, he had
resolved to leave the rectory at once, and
start on his new career ; that in the meantime,
it would be well for me to wait a few
weeks, in order to see whether Mr M'Leod
intended to forgive me. ' As for me said
poor Mr Wish, 'I shall always be faithful
to you, and to nobody else ; ' and I must
say he kept his word.

But this part of my life only bores you,
does it not % Well, let us leave off for a few
minutes, while I try and arrange the sequel,
down to the present time. "

Here she came to a pause. I made a few

comments upon what I had heard ; and
I expressed the commonplace observation,
that she had been to a great extent her
own enemy.

She acquiesced, but observed that it was
no use crying over spilt cream.

Soon afterwards she resumed the recital
of her adventures, which, for convenience,
T will continue in another chapter.

CHAPTER XL

When my future husband advised me to
remain, and see whether Mr M'Leod meant
to forgive me, I have reason to know that
the rector had said he should give me one
more trial ; and Mr Wish, being poor, with
the prospect of being poorer (for the income
from his college-fellowship would disappear
directly he married), thought the chance too
good a one to neglect. But Providence
upset these hopes altogether, for Mr M'Leod
suddenly died in a fit of apoplexy.

Soon after his funeral was over, I heard
that he had bequeathed me £1000. I recollect
it sounded to me a most astounding

sum of money, though now I know that,
but for my own folly and ill-luck, the
sum would have been forty times as large.
But a thousand pounds was a good round
sum for me. It wasn't such a bad 
for a hypocritical little 
to bring to a gentleman who
truly loved her. But I didn't bring it to
him, that was the best of it — the worst of it,
I mean.

Before Mr Wish could get away in order
to come to me — for he was very hard at
work just then — who should appear on the
scene but my father and uncle ! I had
hardly heard from my father once since
I had left his roof; but he pretended to
be overjoyed at seeing me again. He kept
saying, ' Why, isn't she a fine girl now,
Bent and my uncle each time replied,
Why, isn't she now \ '

Then they asked me to come with them
to Edinburgh for a little visit. You see
they'd just opened business there as wine
merchants, and they wanted my capital to
assist them. But I didn't think of that
then. I went with them, and old Mrs
M'Leod wasn't sorry to part with me, I
know. As to poor Mr Wish, I did not altogether
conceal from him the step I had
taken. That is, you know, I wrote telling
him what I had done, in a sort of way of
my own.

"He wrote back, poor man, telling me
that we must wait and hope,' and calling
me 'his noble, patient little wife.' I
wasn't a bit noble or patient, you know ;
but I meant to have a little change and
excitement, before settling down to the
humdrum life that was before me. I ought
to say Wish hadn't yet heard I'd got the

legacy in cash, or he might have thought
very differently from what he did.

Well, I went off to Edinburgh, and before
two weeks had passed, my father and uncle
had borrowed £400 from me. Then they
asked me to lend them more. T steadily
refused, and my father one day gave me a
blow in the face. Ah, well ! he's dead now,
and I'm sure I forgive him ; the brute !
Well then, after he had struck me, I resolved
to leave him; though not, as a matter
of course, to go to Mr Wish. But you shall
hear what took place.

One night I happened to be awake rather
later than usual, when I heard a suspicious
noise at the back of the house. Before
rousing the household I thought I would
peep out of the window, and try to discover
what was going on. It was very lucky forme
that I did so ; for what do you think I

saw ? Oh ! I feel as if I should faint at the
recollection ! " [Pausing at this point, Mrs
Wish tightened her lips, dilated her eyes,
placed one hand on her brow, and the
other on her breast, in a somewhat theatrical
style, and proceeded.] " Allen, they
were in the yard at the back of the house,
digging a grave for me ! " [She now
again broke the thread of her narrative, in
order to rebuke me for some signs of indifference
which she thought I was exhibiting.
"Are you made of stone V 1 she demanded.
I managed to reassure her, and
she presently resumed her history.]

I saw them digging my grave, I tell you.
I could see them by the light of the moon ;
and I could see my uncle examining a
special-constable's truncheon, which had
belonged to my grandfather. Well, in this
appalling, terrible emergency, I think I acted

with great courage — for a woman at least.
Instead of attempting to leave the house, I
quietly locked and bolted my door, then
drew my bed across it, and placed the
washstand on the bed. Then I went to
the window (the other one which looked
on to the street), and gently opened it. Oh,
my heart was beating so that I could hear
it ! At that very nick of time a policeman
passed. I called out to him, and told him
that I was going to be murdered. Upon
hearing this, he instantly began to ring the
bell, and knock and kick at the door, at the
same time springing his rattle. Another
constable soon came to the spot, and simultaneously
with his arrival my father and
uncle opened the street door. I forget the
exact excuse they gave ; but they laughed
very much, and pretended to treat the affair
as a joke.

vol. in. L

The policemen, rather puzzled, kept
asking me, 'Do you give either of these
men into custody?' And I, after a good
deal of hesitation, answered, 'No, I don't;
but I'll give you £5 between you, if you'll
get me safe out of this house, and put me
somewhere where they can't get at me

' She has robbed us of £500/ observed
my uncle.

' Steady, Ben,' said my father, ' it's a
cheque.'

'I was only joking,' said my uncle.

You may imagine that I was pretty glad
to get away from them. The constables
escorted me in safety to a kind of boardinghouse,
or hotel, in the old part of the town.
There I remained for the rest of that night,
intending to leave the place next day and
return to Westmoreland, whence I could
send for Mr Wish to come and marry me.

"But the next day came, and I found
being my own mistress was so very pleasant,
that I resolved to enjoy my liberty a
little longer. At this house where I was
staying — it was a temperance hotel — I fell
in with a certain Kitty Baker. She was
dressed as a widow, and said she had come
to this house because she liked quiet. She
and I became sworn friends — how, I can't
tell you. But she was a very amusing,
cheerful girl; and, like me, had a good
sum of moneys just then, and was very
generous with it.

"When once we had got together, all
thoughts of going to Mr Wish vanished —
for the time, at least. Kitty and I soon
found the hotel dull, and besides, we didn't
like the people who kept it; they didn't
suit us. So we agreed to go off somewhere
else. We stayed at a few other places, and

at last came to London. There I lived
with Kitty Baker in some lodgings, and
we pretended to be very happy, though I
believe we were both miserable ; I know I
was. You see, I daresay you'd like me to
tell you a great deal about my adventures at
this time, but I'm not going to do so. I'll
imagine this is a book, and smooth things
down. For though people who read books,
nowadays, enjoy having the most horrid
things hinted at, they won't stand being
told plainly even things which they do
every day themselves.

"Well, I never let Wish know where I'd
gone to, and he was running about distracted.
I met Salekson again, and I
needn't tell you any more.

"Then I had a quarrel with Kitty, and
left her. I spent all my money ; Salekson
gave me some more, and then I left him.

I was quite disgusted with the experience
I had just had, short as it had been. For
you see, Allen, I was meant for a fine lady,
I'm certain ; for a wicked one perhaps, but
still a fine one.

I left London then, and Kitty, and
Salekson, and went off very quietly to
Bournemouth, where I was dreadfully ill.
During my illness a clergyman's wife came
to see me very often. She was one of
those women that we always sneer at when
we aren't ill, and then scream for when weare.
She spent at least a quarter of her
income on charity ; and instead of passing
half her time in talking or inventing scandal,
appeared never to see anything but the
best side of things ; consequently, she was
said to be stingy, officious, and to have her
pockets full of tracts. She was a truly
good woman though ; and if everybody was

like her, we shouldn't do badly. Without
seeming to show any curiosity, she managed
to get some of my secrets out of me.
I believe I was delirious for a time, and
may have disclosed a little then. But the
way she learnt most was from my own lips,
when I had recovered from my illness, and
was quite rational.

"You know — I daresay you've noticed it
in your time — most cunning people of the
second-rate order, petty schemers like myself,
are often very simple in a sort of a
way, as well as cunning. In me this sort
of spurious candour was really the remains
of that innocence which I must have possessed
once upon a time. It was the wreck,
and it still is, of what I might have been.
The tattered ensign, hoisted upside-down,
on the mast of the sinking vessel." [Mrs
Wish here asked me whether she had not

used a very good simile \ She said, too,
that she believed she could write poetry, if
she chose to attempt it.] " I was simple
and cunning together then, to this lady who
was such a good friend to me ; and though
I never admitted that my misfortunes came
from my own fault, and nobody else's, I
let her know that I had suffered a great
deal, and, amongst other things, told her
how a rich man had thought of adopting
me for his daughter, and how he hadn't
done so. I said that he used to alter his
will every now and then, and that he had
gout very badly. That was all my invention,
and I daresay they didn't believe it.
But one day the clergyman's wife led me
on to talking about Italy, and what I had
seen there, and I accidentally mentioned
Mr M'Leod's name.

She didn't express any emotion on hearing

it ; but her husband, who happened to
be present, immediately called out, 'Mr
M'Leod!' and taking up 'The Times
which lay on the table, ran out of the
room.

I don't think I took much notice of this
at the time, but I remembered it the next
day, when who should walk into the room
where I was sitting alone, but Mr Wish !
I can't describe the scene which followed.
It would pain me to do so, and might only
make you angry to hear it. He never said
a word of reproach, but was all nobility
and thankfulness.

As for me, I cried as if I should break
my heart. That looks as if I loved him ;
but I'm afraid I didn't. I respected him,
certainly ; but as to love, I always loved
myself better than any one else, and that's
what I was crying at. But, Allen, I swear

I meant to turn over a new leaf then. Wish
kept on repeating that it was the finger of
God which had brought us together again ;
and I kept saying to myself that it was ;
that this was the great chance given to me
to amend — a better chance than the golden
opportunity which I had lost with Mr
M'Leod.

Mr Wish, though he was a great scholar,
was not shrewd in the ways of the world,
as I daresay you've said to yourself already ;
but of course he had to ask me what I
had been doing ever since I left him. I
told him my father and uncle had plundered
me of all my money, and had tried
to murder me; that I had escaped from
them, and been afraid to come to him. Oh !
I patched up some sort of a story, and
accounted for the time, so as to make
out that after leaving Edinburgh, I came

straight to Bournemouth. He listened toit
all with the same indifference with which
he had once before listened to Mr M'Leod's
grounds of complaint against me. He listened
with just the same indifference, only
that he was no longer the fond champion,
who wouldn't hear anything to my disadvantage,
but the sober, fatherly sort of
friend, who couldn't see, who thought it his
duty rather than his pleasure not to see,
whatever was said against me. Perhaps,
if I had seized that moment to make a full
confession, he would have still remained
merciful ; but it's no use thinking of what
might have been.

We were married at Bournemouth ; and
I returned with my husband to his home
in the north, the place where you and I
first met. Eh ? "

We were here interrupted by the dwarf,

who came in to ask Mrs Wish to discharge
a small bill, which a tradesman had just
sent in.

Mrs Wish walked to a wooden work-box
which stood on her window-sill, and taking
out some money, gave it to the dwarf, telling
him to pay the bill.

The money she counted out to him
seemed, rather to my surprise, to be only
a portion of a considerable sum which she
kept in the work-box. The dwarf showed
by his manner that he had also noticed the
circumstance; for, as he was leaving the
room, he made a most singular grimace,
shook his head, and wrung his hands in the
air. As soon as he had left us alone, Mrs
Wish went on with her story; the continuation
and conclusion of which, will be found
in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XII.

Our honeymoon was not very romantic.
You really can't imagine how stupid it was.
My poor husband didn't find much pleasure
in it ; while as for me — well, the drudgery
I had to suffer ! We didn't go away anywhere
for a holiday, you see ; but Mr Wish,
after he had got me, went straight into
harness again, as he called it. He was
fully employed with his pupils ; and set meas
a matter of course to housekeeping, to
an extent which I still believe to have been
unreasonable. He made me keep accounts
about everything. I had to weigh meat, and
scold the butcher ; to count the things for

the wash, and change the laundress ; to darn
Mr Wish's socks, and sew on his shirt-buttons.
And not only his, mind, but those
of his three pupils. We only kept one
servant, and I wonder how we managed
to do the work between us. I'd sooner
die than try it again. Don't suppose that
Wish was all this time treating me like his
darling little innocent Sally, and all that,
because he wasn't. He didn't quarrel with
me — I would much rather he had ; but ashe
made progress in his system of teaching,
he began to develop what his teaching
had taught him, a perfectly morbid love of
method.

He did everything by fixed plan, or what
he called ' formula,' — everything, no matter
what it was. He had pigeon-holes in front
of his writing-table, with labels meaning
different things. If I spoke to him about

the Louse, or something, while he was doing
a problem, he'd never answer me, but just
scribble some hieroglyphic upon a piece of
paper, and thrust it into a pigeon-hole
'D/ for domestic, and so on. Once I
came when he was busy, and told him
something which I'm sure ought to have
pleased him, but he only wrote down the
day of the month, and put it away in ' D.'

"At night, when all the work was over,
he was rather better, certainly. He used
to come to me with a pipe in his mouth,
and his hands full of scraps of paper, ina
very good humour. ' Well, Sally he'd
say, ' so you want to know what to say to
the man about the gas-pipe ; ' or, ' Well,
Sally, so our chimney's been smoking all
day, up-stairs, has it \ ' reading over his old
hieroglyphics, you know.

Oh, it was such a dreadful dull life !

Yet I was a faithful wife to him for a good
five years — five good years, mind. Then, —
well, I was a faithful wife to him still, but
I couldn't stand such a fearful existence forever,
and I began to want a little excitement.
I had some spare time now, as we
had become very prosperous, and kept three
or four servants. The pupils were the
people with whom I tried to have a little
excitement to start with. I daresay you
can imagine that when Wish first began
teaching, his young men were rough kinds
of animals, that only came to read. But as
his reputation and his charges for tuition
increased, he got some very smart fellows
indeed ; most of whom read as little as
possible, instead of as much. Amongst
these, then, in the hope of getting a little
excitement, I cast about for a friend, and
I wasn't long in finding one.

I formed an attachment with a youth
named Griffin. He was a well-principled
boy ; very fond of music, and poetry, and
all that ; and I really think that a ' course '
of Griffins would have done me a great
deal of good. But Griffin went away, and
the next pupil I struck up an intimacy
with was a young fellow of the name of
Hoskin. He didn't care about music, or
poetry, or anything, but himself. He didn't
understand me a bit ; or he did, you may
say, whichever you please, for he began to
make love to me directly. I confess I fell in
with it somehow, but I'd much rather he'd
been a little slower in making his attack.
When Hoskin left our house for his home,
he made me promise to see him in London
at Christmas. With no end of labour, I
persuaded my husband to take me to town
for two days, when the season Hoskin had

fixed upon, came round. I wrote him a
most tender letter, explaining all the difficulties
I had surmounted, and telling him
where he could find me. Imagine my vexation,
when he answered from Scotland,
coolly saying that he was having some
good shooting, and couldn't well manage
to come. ' Couldn't well manage ! ' But
that's nothing to some things I've had to
put up with.

After Hoskin, came a very clever, nice,
young fellow. (Of course, Allen, you weren't
the first I made love to.) This Spenser I
regularly besieged, and I'm afraid I made
him unhappy, for after all he was nothing buta

baby. After him . Well, it doesn't

matter who came next, does it \ For a few
years things went on the same. Mr Wish
became more and more abstracted, and
away from me. I became less and less

VOL. III. M

particular whether I pleased him or not.
But you know I wasn't so very bad, all
things considering. Why, if Wish had only
been more of a husband to me, I'm sure I
should have been a good wife to him. You
know I owed him so much, didn't I ? "

[" Don't sneer in that awful way, Allen,"
Mrs Wish here stopped to say. " It doesn't
make you good-looking, you know."

I told her ' that I was thinking ; ' as
indeed I was.

She begged me ' not to think with such
an ugly face, then,' and proceeded.]

At last, who should come to Mr Wish asa
pupil, but a man I'd known when he was
a youngster in London, at the time when
I'd gone off by myself, you know. I can't
tell you much about this, because I've made
a promise, and I must keep it. You know
the man well enough, but I won't mention

his name. I pretended not to recognise
him ; but that didn't last long, for the first
time we were alone, he asked me, in a free-and-easy
way, ' how I was getting on ! '

Oh that man ! Nobody knows him one
bit ! Always trying to make himself out
a fiend, when he's really just the opposite.
Why, one Christmas, Mr Wish had to send
away a lot of poor people who were next
to starving, because he'd nothing to give
them ; and this man we're speaking about
said it was a very good thing; that they
ought to be all ' serfs,' and a lot of rubbish.
But he went and gave every poor family
in the village a blanket, and a sack of
coals, and five shillings ! He did indeed.

But I'm talking about his relations with
me. Well, that was just the blanket and
coals over again. He used to say that I
ought to lead whatever life I chose, and do

just what I thought pleasantness ; and he
used to let me act up to this to a certain
point, when he always stepped in and put
a stop to it all. That was exactly how he
acted between you and me. You needn't
feel sorry about it, for it was all Garb old
and me. Oh, well, I've told you his name,
but you knew it before. I never cared for
you really, you know ; but I liked you, I
thought you were a gentleman ; and you
know there are very few gentlemen going
about nowadays, whatever people may say.
I took a fancy to you somehow, Allen.
You were so solemn about phrenology ; and
weren't rough like Hoskin and those fellows.
Mr Garbold used to look on at our
proceedings, and pretend to enjoy it all.

He made a good deal of mischief, I must
say, but I believe he trusted you, all the
time, more than me. He used for ever to

be telling me what a nice boy you were ;
and lie let me know, too, that you were
tremendously rich. I don't know whether
that was true o$ not, but I believed it at
the time, and took it into my head to run
off with you. How should we have got on
together, do you think ? Now, don t look
so cross. Well, our little affair, yours and
mine — I don't know if Garbold ever told
you — was the cause of my great quarrel
with Mr A 7 wish, which ended in my separation
from him.

Some mischievous wretch — I often fancy
it was that Pillett — went and told Wish
that we two were going to elope, and that
Garbold was trying to prevent it. What
do you think Yish did ? He'd have cut
his throat a few years ago; but he was only
an old book-worm now, and all the notice
he took of it at first was to send for Gar-bold,

and ask him whether the charge
against me was true. I believe Garbold
just said something to quiet him — told him
it was an exaggeration — and promised to set
it all right himself.

"Mr Yish did not come to a personal
explanation with me, until you and all
the pupils had gone; but he had a long
talk with GarboM before he went away,
and Garbold came to me and advised me
to tell my husband everything, for that I
shouldn't ever get such a good opportunity
again. I suppose it was good advice, but
somehow I spoilt everything.

As soon as you'd all gone away, Wish
came to me, looking on the ground and
counting with his fingers, as he used todo,
and said, ' Well, Sally, tell us all about
it.'

I told him all about you. I said that

he had neglected me, and that I had been
dull, and all that. Well, he didn't seem to
think much of this ; so then, remembering
Mr Garbold's advice, I told him a great
deal more, meaning to get the worst over.
I told him all my former life, or most of
it, and he still seemed to listen with indifference,
till at last I came to the worst
part you know ; and then, goodness gracious
! For some years, Wish had been in
the habit of always looking on the ground,
as he was doing then; but directly he heard
me bring out that about Salekson, he looked
me straight in the face, for a full minute.
He then made a gesture as if he was going
to hit me ; but dived both hands into his
pockets, instead, and exclaimed in a low,
broken voice, ' What an abominable vixen !
Sally, what a vixen ! ' Having said which,
he rushed out of the house.

He remained in the garden smoking one
pipe after another for some hours ; then
came in, packed up a few clothes, and left
our home for a market-town not far off.

Presently he wrote to me, saying that
the first great object was that we should
separate at once ; and the second, that
there should be no public scandal. Soon
afterwards, a lawyer came to see me, and
it was arranged that I should leave Mr
Wish for ever. As I daresay you know,
I had no children, left then, though I had
had three.

"Well, I left Mr Yish, and, like the moth
and the candle, went straight off to London.
It would be hypocrisy to pretend that I
lived very respectably there, for I did not.
The plain truth is, I found Mr Wish's allowance,
paid quarterly, wouldn't enable me to
live in the sort of way I was accustomed

to ; and I didn't choose to alter my
habits. At last, I found my way into the
divorce court. Perhaps you don't pore
over those reports in the papers, as prim
old ladies do, so that you never heard of
this before.

Well, after my divorce, I can't tell you
what I did. I got on very badly, and
sank, first into being a ballet-girl, and
then, of all the horrid vulgar things, the
housemaid in a public-house. The landlady,
my precious mistress, used me in
the most brutal manner ; and one day,
to spite her, I tore up all her hideous
fine clothes, and turned on all the taps in
the place. I was then dragged before a
magistrate ; to whom I explained exactly
who I was, thinking it would be sure
to get me off. But he said that if what
I had told him about myself was true,

it only made my conduct all the worse ;
and the stupid old thing gave me fourteen
days' imprisonment.

"I went through it with less pain and
misery than I had expected ; and when
they let me out again, I went to a society
I'd heard about, and asked them to give
me a fresh start in life. They said they
would do their best, but required me to tell
them ' who my father was

"As I thought no harm could come of
revealing it, I told them who he was ;
when — would you believe it ? — they hunted
him up at once, and restored me to his
paternal care.

I made friends with him again, rather
out of despair than from natural affection,
and began to share his fortunes ; though,
as he was only a beggar, poor man, that
wasn't much good to me. For some time,

however, we lived on together ; I having to
sing in the streets, and all sorts of things,
to provide him and me with bread.

"After a most miserable year, we went
into the workhouse, and he died there.
I might have remained in the workhouse
until now, for all I know, but a good friend
heard of it. I wrote to him, that is, and
he took me out, and set me up with the
little shop down-stairs."

That's all my story. When you met me
coming out of the police station, I'd been
locked up for getting — making a noise with
that girl you saw. But I don't see much of
her generally, as she's not in good society.
Ha ! ha ! Well, mine has been a queer
history, hasn't it ? Suppose you tell me
yours 1

She laughed as she said these words ;
but in another instant she sank her face

upon the table, and wept as if her heart
would break.

I found it useless to attempt consoling
her, for her distress only increased. So I
summoned the woman from below to her
assistance, and then sorrowfully departed.

CHAPTER XIII.

1 now feel a strong temptation, to which
most writers in my situation yield, to
pronounce a panegyric upon what I have
just written. This panegyric I should duly
disguise as a criticism ; pointing out faults
which did not exist, or which every one
would excuse, and calling attention to
merits which might otherwise escape any
notice. I say I feel disposed to give way
to this temptation, but I shall not yield to it.
On the contrary, I feel bound to state
that the " History of Mrs Wish" seems tome
to be very improbable. I consider it
most improbable that a woman once holding

the position which Mrs Wish, to my
actual knowledge, did once hold, should
descend so low as she professes to have
descended, by the force only of those
circumstances which she relates ; and after
this, I need hardly say that I cannot
pledge myself to the truth of any part of
her story ; even of those parts, the truth
of which may appear certain from internal
evidence derived from other portions of
this work. So I leave the subject of the
past adventures of "Mother Knight," to
be judged on its own merits, and for my
own part, repudiate all responsibility in
the matter.

Having left Crow Court, I returned to
the chambers of which I had taken possession.
The next morning I sallied out
in order to find Sir George Walnut. My
main duty was to thank him for the liberal

assistance he had given me ; but I
thought it was also incumbent upon me to
confess to him that I was no longer acting
in form pauperis, but on the gambling
principle recommended to me by the professor
of common-sense.

I found the general at home, and after
expressing my gratitude and thanks to
him, proceeded to unfold the singular
scheme by which I had determined to
overcome the difficulty in the way of earning
a livelihood. The general received
my communication with a strange kind
of inconsistency, which both surprised and
gratified me.

Allen. — I saw Mr Eatcliff, general, as
you told me to do.

The General. — 'Sir Clive Eatcliff/ we
must call him now ; I see the Queen has
knighted him.

Allen. — I'm very glad to hear it, I'm
sure. Well, sir, I asked him to tell mea
common-sense way of earning my bread
and cheese

The General. — And what did he say ?

Allen. — He told me that I ought not to
be so despondent.

The General. — Of course you should
not !

Allen. — He said I ought to hold up my
head.

The General. — Very good advice !

Allen. — And he told me not to waste
time in thinking of employment, but to count
on my uncle's coming back as a certainty.

The General. — So it is a certainty.

Allen. — Then you approve of his advice,
sir?

The General. — Most certainly; most
assuredly ; I approve of it in toto !

I now rather expected the General to
chuckle, and to say that the advice was
the same which he himself would have
proposed, but which he had refrained from
proposing, on the ground that it would have
been too worldly. But instead of this, he
seemed slightly embarrassed, as if he had
just received a rebuke. However, he did
not show any of that mortification which
some disagreeable philanthropists are apt
to show when they find that the object
of their succour has been somehow made
happy by a means independent of their
exertions ; and he wished me joy in a way
which made me feel that my assumed, or
temporary, prosperity was almost as comfortable
a thing as prosperity itself.

This impression was confirmed by an
unexpected occurrence which took place the
day following, when, to my great surprise,

VOL. III. N

I received an invitation to the house of

Lady B , who was the acknowledged

leader of one of the most brilliant circles in
society. I at once accepted the invitation ;
and then proceeded to puzzle myself as to
who the secret friend could be who had
procured me the invitation. When the
evening for the entertainment came, I repaired
to Lady B 's house, when almost
the first person I saw was Sir Clive
Radcliffe

seemed delighted to meet me, and
confided to me, after I had congratulated
him on his recent honours, that not being
yet certain of the exact character of Lady

B 's entertainment, he had his star in his

pocket, so as to assume it in case of need.

That is a trade secret," thought I, " which
he should have kept to himself."

As soon as my name was announced to

Lady B , she ended all my doubts as

to the means by which I had been invited
to her house, by asking me "how dear
Mrs Chobham was % and when she was
likely to return from Jersey ? "

I reproached myself with ingratitude as
soon as I discovered that it was Helena
who had befriended me ; for I had hitherto
been divided in my mind only as to
whether Sir Clive Ratcliff, or some of my
LongstafFe cousins, had been kind enough
to think of me.

In the course of the evening I was suddenly
slapped upon the shoulders by Stone
(a former brother officer), who
exclaimed, in the very heartiest manner,
My dear old happy, how are you ? "

I spoke to him for a few moments, but
only with ironical politeness, for he had
cut me in the street, the day before, by some

accident. Such conduct only strengthened
me in forming a very low opinion of my
fellow-creatures — an opinion which no degree
of after-prosperity would have served to entirely
eradicate.

I left the brilliant assembly in company
with Sir Clive RatclifT, who, having discovered
that the occasion demanded it,
had been wearing his star, which he now
returned to his pocket.

In the course of conversation, he informed
me that he had purchased a house
in London, and was going to commence his
establishment by engaging a housekeeper.
Upon this, a certain benevolent scheme occurred
to me, which I afterwards attempted
to carry out.

Besides greatly raising my spirits, my

presence at Lady B 's house brought

me very happily back to the notice of the

LongstafFe family. They were living in a
large house which they had taken for the
season, and in it they were dispensing
what they believed to be hospitality. As
I have said before, they had taken hardly
any notice of my father, or of me, since our
misfortunes. I believe my aunt herself had
made some very feeble attempt to open her
doors to me (for she knew, all the time, that
I was in London); but she must have been
overruled by the arguments of her daughters,
who had probably urged "that Tom
was ruined, and all that ; and that he was
much more comfortable left alone; that they
would ask him in a minute, only it wouldn't
be a kindness." Now, however, having seen
my name in the ' Post they sent me an
affectionate, playful request, "to come and
be scolded for not calling before."

As I read these w 7 words, I uttered a few

rather warm expressions which had better
not be printed ; yet, so far from repelling
the hypocritical overture, I at once grasped
it : for I knew that an exhibition of high
spirit would not either distress or impress
these relations of mine; whereas, in accepting
from them anything that they chose to give,
I was carrying out, and partly forestalling,
the programme which Sir Clive had drawn
up for me. So I went and dined with them,
and behaved so well, that I really made
them believe me incapable of even the
most ordinary sort of malice.

My aunt during the evening spoke to me
with extraordinary kindness : and though
she said very little that was true, I must
own that she had the voice and the eyes
of an angel ; and I am sure that whatever
I thought of her, her interview with me
raised her in her own estimation, and that

she felt a very good Christian as she dismissed
her maid that night.

Soon after this, I dined with a host before
whom deception was neither politic nor
necessary — namely, Sir Clive EatclifT. He,
like the General, congratulated me on the
change I had made in my habits, as if I
had really just been left a large fortune.
He said that he chiefly envied me my independence.
"You," he said, "can express
any opinions you please ; while I, until
somebody chooses to make me a dictator,
have to adapt myself to the mediocrity
from whom I have to take my orders."

I smiled at this speech, but ventured to
ask " what a ' mediocrity ' was ? "

A man of mediocre abilities," answered
Sir Clive. " I am looking for a mediocrity
at the present time," he continued, " to make
him my private secretary."

"Do you really mean, Sir Clive," said
1, very earnestly, " that you require your
private secretary to be a man of inferior
abilities \ "

"I require him to be an ass, most certainly,"
answered Sir Clive. I was on
the point of interposing some remark ; but
Sir Clive proceeded — " I mean, he must bean
official ass. A yellow-bearded, narrow-chester
young man, of supernatural gravity,
who will be insolent for me, and show me
how to avoid being good-natured 5

Well," said I, " if you can dispense
with some of those qualifications, there is
really nothing I should prefer "

To being my private secretary yourself,
do you mean ? " he interrupted.

I told him that was certainly my meaning.
But he said — ■

** No, no, my dear fellow ; you're a great

deal too good for that. Besides, remember
your plan. What use would the uncle be
if he came home and found you comfortably
settled down as a mediocrity, with a
mediocre salary ? Perhaps he'd marry at
once. However, if he comes home, and
then does nothing for you ; and if Mr Cobham
permanently shakes off his paralysis ;
and if you then still think the same, and
I am still in a position to talk about secretaries,
— why, I promise that I'll take you,
and that it will give me great pleasure todo
so. I shall have to teach you a little
Hindustani though, in that case, for I've
been appointed to go out and inquire into
an Indian ' social enigma which some half-witted
penny-aliter has routed up ; and
I shall have to collect a good deal of lying
evidence in the native language."

He next asked me whether there was

any other way in which he could be of
present service to me ; and he said that he
should be only too happy to find he could
be of use. An idea which had first occurred
to me when I met him at Lady

B 's house, now came back to my mind,

and I replied, " You could oblige me very
much indeed, Sir Clive ; but whether you
would consider it a small matter, or a
great one, I don't know."

What is it \ " he asked, smiling, but
eyeing me with a very wary expression.

"Well," answered I, "you spoke the
other night about wanting a housekeeper ;
and I know of a woman, — a lady, but
she has met with misfortunes — who, I am
sure, would be only too glad of such a place.
I wouldn't recommend her to every one ;
but really, you seem to look for such unusual
qualifications for employment under

you, that I think she might suit you to
perfection."

Who is she \ " inquired Sir Clive.

"A Mrs Knight," I answered ; and I proceeded
to tell him as much as I considered
necessary, about the former Mrs Wish.

Ashen I had finished, Sir Clive said,
"Mrs Knight, alias Mrs Wish. Very well;
as you say that she'd suit me, Til invest ina
charitable action, and take her. Only, I
must hold you responsible if she runs off
with my forks and spoons."

I was surprised at his alacrity, and having
thanked him, soon afterwards hastened
to Crow Court to impart the good news to
the person whom it most concerned.

CHAPTER XIV.

A certain kind of modesty lias hitherto
restrained me from referring to a subject
of peculiar delicacy — namely, the condition
of Mr Frank Chobham's health. But the
difficulty will soon have to be faced ; and
in this chapter I propose slightly, and very
gradually, to approach that subject which
ere long I shall be compelled to deal within
a much bolder manner.

I will first ask the reader to imagine my
father and Helena in the cottage at Pontac,
in Jersey. She was working at embroidery,
and he was sitting with an open volume on
his knees, feigning senility, when this dialogue

(since repeated to me) took place
between them.

Father. — It's a pity Tom doesn't try to
get a secretaryship any longer. Secretary
to a London Club ! Fine position 1

Helena. — Perhaps something better maybe
found for him.

Father (crowing, in an affected manner).
No, no, no, no ! Not any finer position
than secretary. Independent position ; your
own master.

Helena. — I wonder whether Lord and

Lady B ever took any notice of him.

I asked them to get him an appointment.

Father. — Go anywhere — anywhere !

Helena. — General Walnut seems to have
been very kind to him, doesn't he ? Tom's
old General, you know — Sir George Walnut.

Father. — He was a military man, was
he not %

Helena. — Yes. I say he has been very
kind to your son.

Father. — You can never tell — never
tell.

Helena. — What sort of a housekeeper
do you think I make? Do I make you
comfortable 1 Do I look after everything
properly ?

Father. — Oh, I'm very comfortable.
Not well off, though. But tell me, how
soon are you going to run away from me ?

Helena. — I'll stay with you as long as
I can be of any use — as long as you want
me, unless

Father. — Have you heard from your
mother-in-law lately — from Mrs Chobham \

Helena. — Yes ; I heard from her this
week.

Father. — She's living in Kent, is she not 1

Helena (coldly). — She is at Homburg.

Father (with amazement). — At Homburg
!

(Helena now eyed him as if she would
warn and reprove his secret thoughts. But
he underwent the scrutiny without showing
the least embarrassment.)

Father (repeating). — At Homburg !
What is she doing there ?

Helena (sorrowfully looking him in the
face). — Mr Chobham is ill at Homburg.

Father (in a piping tone). — Is he any
better ?

Helena (coldly). — He is not better; he
has had another stroke. Are you ready to
come out for your walk ?

Father. — No : not now.

Helena. — The sun won't be out much
longer.

Father (laughing). — Whose son ? Are
you going out ?

Helena. — I'm going with you ; yes.

Father. — We'll go together.

It will be seen from the above that my
father did not scruple to wound Helena's
feelings in order to satisfy his own reprehensible
curiosity. He did this often — sometimes
pursuing his inquiries to the length
of asking Helena whether she expected her
husband to recover, or whether she should
live with old Mrs Chobham in the event
of his death. Whenever he found that in
his capacity of a rational man he had been
rather brutal, he at once took refuge in
senility, which he had now taught himself
to assume in so skilful a manner,
that it was very difficult not to be deceived.
Nevertheless, he never quite imposed
upon Helena ; and though, for a reason
which modesty forbids me to state, she
kept up a friendly appearance towards him,

and did not cease to make his life happier
by her presence, his whimsical conduct all
the time caused her pain, and very often
resentment. She bore the main affliction
of her life with great resignation and fortitude,
as I have plainly enough indicated ;
and she needed resignation and fortitude
to grapple with the cruel but far from
thoughtless suggestions which my father
chose to throw out to her. Most women
in her circumstances would not have resisted
the temptation to play the martyr —
thus obtaining the outward sympathy, and
the inward grinning censure, of the world.
But she, whenever she felt inclined to repine
at her fate, never went further than
to use an argument which contained more
reproof than self-commiseration, namely —
"Why did I marry him?"

As to the possibility or probability of his

VOL. III. o

dying, she always endeavoured to separate
that from any thoughts of release ; for she
considered such an association of ideas to
be exceedingly wicked, and not fit to be entertained
even in her inmost heart.

Soon after the dialogue lately recorded,
I received from my father a letter which
had a most disquieting effect upon my
mind ; brought into my head thoughts
which I was always striving to exclude ;
and made me feel indignant that it should
be possible for misfortune to change a
character of simplicity and benevolence into
one of cunning and selfishness. My father
touched on various matters which I had lately
mentioned in a letter to him : my renewed
intimacy w T with the Longstaffes ; my friendship
with Sir Clive ; the misfortunes of
Mrs Wish, and my scheme for assisting her.
He expressly urged me to feign respect and

deference towards all who could be of any
service to me. " And do not waste time,"
he said, " in trying to help other people.
You will get no thanks for it — they will
only laugh at you, and you need for
yourself all that you would bestow upon
them. I am an exception to the rule,
I confess. I am truly grateful, my dear
son, for your extraordinary generosity tome
; and that, I confess, is all I can see
there is to be thankful for. When your
uncle returns — if he has not had his throat
cut in the desert, which is most probable,
do not be surprised if he gives you the
cold shoulder. For my rjart, though we
used to love each other dearly at one time,
I shall not be astonished if he offers to make
me his gardener, and you his coachman. In
fact, I am astonished at nothing in this
world, except at virtue ; and that I see

so seldom, and in such very unexpected
places, that it certainly does astonish me:
Helena Chobham here, my nurse, astonishes
me ; for I really cannot see what motive
she has in being so kind to me. However,
Love me, love my dog.' She loves you,
I am convinced. That is, she thinks you
would suit her — and she is quite right ;
at least, we know she would suit you.
And now prepare to hear something of the
greatest importance. Chobham has had
another paralytic stroke; but God forbid
I should say anything I ought not to say
about it. You will apprehend my meaning.
There's your opening for the future, — a
better one than serving out pickles, with
a pen behind your ear. (Forgive me for
making this allusion. )"

I have said that this letter made a disagreeable
impression upon me. But it also

caused me a good deal of surprise ; for
though I knew my father chose to assume
the ways of a dotard, this was the first time
that he had entirely thrown off the mask.
However, although astonished at the contrast
thus exhibited, I should have been
still more amazed had his letter been interspersed
with any Growing, or broken ejaculations,
set down in writing.

I must now leave my father in the somewhat
unhappy light in which he has last
appeared. But I trust that when I next
return to him, some hopes of his reformation
will have begun to appear.

CHAPTER XV.

I can say, with great sincerity, that nothing
gives me more pleasure than making miserable
people happy. I do not take any great
credit to myself on this account ; for I am
inclined to agree with Mr MacLaurel, who
says, " There is nae sic thing as disinterestedness
in the world." 1 The reason why
I make the complacent remark with which
this chapter opens is, that I do not wish to
pass over my kindness to poor Mrs Wish
altogether. The writer of an autobiography
is very apt to hint that his vices are only

1 Headlong Hall.

such as became a man, and his virtues such
as became an angel ; and though I have endeavoured
to avoid these snares, I must do
myself justice.

As soon as I had left Sir Clive Ratcliff,
although it was nearly eleven o'clock at
night, I went off to Mrs Wish ; and having
found her in her room, hastily communicated
to her what I considered her great
good fortune. To my great annoyance I
found that she was under the influence of
liquor; and I discovered the fact, not so
much by her personal appearance, or even
by her mode of utterance, as by her manner
of receiving my offer. She stupidly
feigned to entirely misunderstand the proposed
relations between herself and Sir
Clive; and she exerted herself in displaying
a great deal of coarse wit on the subject.
Disheartened by her ingratitude, and disgusted

by her drunkenness and impudence,
I was about to leave her, when she let fall
some words which attracted my attention.

What did you go and pop your father's
spoons for 1 " said she.

"What do you mean, Mrs Visit' I
answered, with a sneer.

Oh, you're a fool," said she ; and she
began singing, " Who went to his uncle's ?
Who took his father's spoons to his uncle's ?
Who says he's met with misfortunes ? "
Then, abruptly ending her song, she exclaimed,
" Don't stare at me like a simpleton
all night. What are we going to drink ? "

I escaped from her soon after this ; but
before leaving the house, begged the dwarf's
wife to go and put her to bed.

During my walk home, I reflected as to
my propriety of conduct in having, out of
simple good-nature, recommended such a

person as Mrs Wish for a post of trust;
but strange to confess, I resolved that sofar
as I was concerned, her recent misbehaviour
should not injure her prospects, but
that she should have a fresh start, and a
fair trial from Sir Clive Batcliff, if she
pleased. The truth was, that Sir Clive,
notwithstanding all his kindness, did to a
slight degree irritate me by his perpetual
self-confidence, which I thought sometimes
amounted to self-sufficiency; and I had
decided that if his housekeeper proved a
bad bargain, it would only be a fair punishment
for him, and a lesson to him as to the
fallibility of his judgment. Any suspicion
that Sir Clive was acting as he did, from
his own extraordinary good-nature, and
desire to please me, whose sound judgment
he thought very questionable, — never
entered my head.

The next morning after my visit to Mrs
Wish — it will be convenient to continue
calling her by her former husband's name —
I received a note from her, in which she
implored forgiveness for her disgusting conduct
of the night before. "I can never
look you in the face again' she said. The
note contained a remarkable postscript :
You are not angry about the spoons and

candlesticks? I saw them at " (She

gave the number of a certain street in her
neighbourhood.) I resolved to go and see
her immediately, not so much to assure her
of my unabated esteem for her character, as
to try and solve the mystery of her postscript,
and of some injurious utterances she
had made the night before.

On reaching the narrow passage which
led into Crow Court, I found it crowded
with people. I made my way through

m

them, and gathered from the conversation
which was going on, that a woman had
been killed. This, thought I, may be poor
Mrs Wish, who in a fit of delirium tremens
has committed suicide. The fancy that it
was she, approached conviction when I perceived
that the scene of the tragedy was the
identical little house which she inhabited.
I found a policeman posted at the door ; but
the dwarf, who was behind him, recognised
me, and told the constable to admit me ;
whereupon the mob with eager courtesy
made room for me to pass.

This mob was one which a particular
kind of enthusiast would have called "a
good-humoured crowd," — that is, the rascals
of whom it was composed appeared to
be "good-humoured," in the same manner
that a dog who deserves to be beaten wags
his tail ; though I am quite sure that if

they could have been insured against any-disagreeable
consequences, their good-humour
was ready to take the form of tearing
people to pieces, or burning down houses,
or committing any other atrocity.

As soon as I had been admitted into the
house, the dwarf, wringing his hands over
his head, spoke with great volubility as
follows : " Cut the 'ole side of 'er 'eat open!
Mrs Knight ; yes, party came to see her,
and 'ad some words with 'er. Cut open the
'ole side of 'er 'eat ! Terrible lot o' blood !
never see such a lot of blood before. The
'ole side of 'er 'eat, from the top of the 'eat
down to the jaw like ! "

"But who— who did all this?" I inquired.


The dwarf answered, " Don't know from
Adam. She found 'im an awkward customer,
though. The 'ole side of her 'eat "

Don't go on about that, George, " interposed
his wife — adding, "you'll be able
to see her presently, sir. The magistrate's
coming to take her last words."

As we were waiting for the arrival of the
magistrate, an inspector of police entered
the room, and informed the dwarf and his
wife that they were prisoners — upon hearing
which, the dwarf gave an exclamation
like the mingled shriek of a woman and
the groan of a man, and rushed towards the
door in order to escape ; but in vain, for he
was instantly secured.

The people in the crowd, on hearing what
had taken place, loudly groaned at the dwarf;
and then, breaking a pane of glass from the
shop-window, sternly proceeded — in a good-humoured
way — to steal all they could lay
hands upon.

I was now witness of a most distressing

ceremony. Mrs Wish's injuries were of such
a serious character, that it had been thought
necessary to record her deposition ; with
which end, a neighbouring magistrate, accompanied
by his clerk, had come to the
spot.

Though I had not said a word as to my
business, or in explanation of my presence,
I found myself treated as a person who somehow
had a concern in these affairs. Perhaps
I was believed to be the doctor, or a
relation of the dwarf; or perhaps I was set
down for what indeed I was — namely,
a distressed friend of the injured woman.
However that may have been, my presence
was taken as a matter of course, and I was
allowed to accompany the others to the
bedside of Mrs Wish.

I need not minutely describe her appearance.
Suffice it to say, she lay in bed, her

face almost concealed by bandages, and her
hands occasionally beating the counterpane
in an impatient desperate manner which
excited my compassion. The magistrate
having opened his business, nodded to his
clerk ; whereupon the latter produced a
pocket - book, and knelt upon one knee,
close behind the poor woman's pillow.

After much whispering, muttering, and
interpreting, on the part of the magistrate,
Mrs Wish, the clerk, and a surgeon, one of
the constables in attendance was ordered
to bring in the dwarf and his wife ; for
they, I should have stated, had hitherto
been kept below. Every one in the room,
including the prisoners, was now mustered
at the foot of the injured woman's bed, and
she was exhorted to point out from the
group, her assailant. She turned her head
towards us, and regarded each one with a

sorrowful look of inquiry. The dwarf concealed
a pair of handcuffs with which he
had just been fitted, so that these indications
of his guilt did not appear.

When Mrs Wish had completed her
scrutiny of us, a shudder passed over her
frame, and in a broken voice which went
to my heart, she said, u He hit me from
behind, with the shutter - bar ; that's the
one"— at the same time, amidst general
amazement, she pointed out the magistrate's
clerk from the group !

That individual, with becoming dignity,
observed " that the poor creature was out
of her senses."

But the dwarf cried out, " No, she ain't."

The magistrate then approached Mrs Wish
once more, and said to her, "That is my
clerk ; you don't mean him, I suppose \ "

But Mrs Wish only said, " Where's Gar-bold

? " which made the magistrate ask,
Who is Garbold ? " a question which I
answered for him.

The surgeon now said that he thought
it useless to interrogate the woman any
further, for that she was not in a condition
to make a deposition which would be
of any service.

A statement which the dwarf contradicted,
by screaming, " Yes, she is ; yes, she
is."

Excepting the surgeon, we all then left
her. I soon took an opportunity of telling
the magistrate that I knew of something
which it might be of importance for him
to hear — namely, that Mrs Wish had been
in the habit of keeping money in a certain
work-box in her sitting-room. He answered,
with civility, that this circumstance was
already known to him, the dwarfs wife

VOL. III. p

having handed a considerable sum to the
inspector, and made a voluntary confession,
which had caused her and her husband to
be arrested. The inspector confirmed what
the magistrate had said, and remarked with
a smile, that the dwarf would certainly be
hanged, if the dwarfs wife could bring it
about. Having told these officials where I
was to be found in case of need, I quitted
the tragical scene ; but presently returned
with the best surgical aid, to the further
assistance of the unhappy woman.

CHAPTER XVI.

The adventures of Mrs Wish have already
filled such a large portion of this work as is
only justified by the undeniable fondness
generally entertained for reading that kind
of matter. For my own part, I declare that
I should have preferred writing the same
number of pages about the misfortunes and
trials of a person totally different from Mrs
Wish ; but the consideration that they would
not have been read, or that if read, they
would not have been appreciated at their
proper worth, restrained me. However, I
mean to say no more of Mrs Wish than
is really necessary. Her injuries did not

prove mortal ; but, as the severe moralist
will doubtless rejoice to hear, the iron bar
of the dwarf had for ever deprived her of
the blessings of reason. Mr Garbold, on
learning what had befallen Mrs Wish, came
forward, and made a handsome provision for
her further maintenance. He used also to
pass many hours in trying to revive the
faculties which had deserted her ; and he
declared, with a tear running down each
cheek, that nothing amused him better than
to converse with an idiot now and then.

Finally — as regards Mrs Wish — I have
to relate the singular consequence of what
she had hinted as to our " spoons and
candlesticks." The address she had given
me was that of a large pawnbroker in the
Borough. Having obtained proper assistance,
I went to him, and soon recognised
one or two articles which really belonged

to my father, but had violently passed out
of his hands many years before.

The pawnbroker directed me to " a gentleman
residing in Kentish Town." Him I
found, and with the assistance of the person
who accompanied me, persuaded to direct me
to another gentleman, residing in Lambeth ;
and, to make a long story short, I finally
reclaimed two silver salvers, one epergne,
one silver soup-tureen, several portions of a
silver dinner-service, two wine-coolers, one
teapot, one coffee-pot, and one milk-jug,
one old punch-bowl, one race trophy, and
three goblets ; all of which formed a valuable
part of the booty taken from Hare
Place by the deceased White. His dying
statement was corroborated by other facts
which came to our knowledge ; and we
found that in the original disposal of the
plate, he had received the assistance of the

reputed witch who lived close by ; the
woman, that is, who had so reasonably
predicted misfortune to our house.

It has been my experience, that pieces of
good fortune fall together quite as often as
misfortunes ; and at this period of my career,
I met with several pieces of good fortune,
at one and the same time. My uncle — I
hope the reader will be pleased to hear of
him — having by some extraordinary chance
received a copy of the triplicate letter I had
written him, soon afterwards wrote from
Aleppo, that he was coming home with all
speed. The intelligence was communicated
to me by my father, who wrote to say, that
I should do well to leave the chambers in
which he understood I was living; "for
that ' the proprietor ' would shortly becoming
to them, and might be displeased."

The letter was written throughout in this

bantering style, which I accepted as part
of that general eccentricity which with my
father had taken the place of grief and
despair. The effect which the good news
had upon me was rather curious. I naturally
felt a great deal of relief; but I believe
that, owing either to the precepts of Sir
Give Eatcliff, or to the sanguineness of my
own disposition, I treated the whole thing
just in the same manner that the reader
probably treats it — that is, as an almost
foregone conclusion.

However, I no sooner heard the news
than I started for Jersey, with the ostensible
purpose of congratulating my father,
and being at his side, but with the secret
object of being in time to waylay Helena ;
for I was afraid she would now plead that
her attendance was no more required. But
my calculations were completely upset ; fora

circumstance, which had no connection
with my uncle's movements, had suddenly
called Mrs Frank Chobham away, the day
before I left London in order to find her.

When I reached the cottage at Pontac,
I found that she had already departed for
Homburg, having been summoned to that
place by the intelligence that her husband
was in a most critical condition. This was
a matter which, when my father communicated
it to me, I wished not to discuss at
all ; but he persisted in talking it over
several times, with remorseless deliberation.

As to the other great news, which ought
to have made him charitable to all the
world, he resumed his sarcastic speculations
as to the treatment we should experience
from his brother. He declared
that he himself was too old for the post
of gardener, and that he should petition

my uncle to give him some lighter occupation.
Nevertheless, his excitement nearly
threw him into a fever. He used to rise
in the middle of the night and walk up
and down the large room of the cottage,
repeating imaginary dialogues. At length,
want of sleep and nervous agitation brought
him to such a weak state, that he was
obliged to take to his bed ; and there, one
morning, I having been unable to leave
his side, the long-expected, long-deferred
meeting took place.

My uncle was deeply moved, and at
first all that he could say was, " William ! "
while my father became very pale, and was
unable to speak a word.

But, as many other writers would do
under similar circumstances, " I will draw
a veil over the tender scene which followed."


As soon as my father had sufficiently
recovered his strength, we all proceeded
to London, where my uncle had engaged
the rest of the house in which his chambers
were, and had made everything as
comfortable as any ordinary person could
have desired. We passed away our time
in a very pleasant manner ; visiting all the
amusements which attracted us, and forming
delightful plans, munificently suggested
by my uncle, for the future ; and I would
at this point, with a short glimpse of still
further happiness which followed, bring my
history to a close, were it not that some
matters of importance still remain unadjusted.
With one of these it is my duty
to deal in the next chapter.

Chapter XVII.

In the present day, when every creature
gifted with common reason is more or less
of a critic, there are certain faults which a
novel-writer can no longer commit with
impunity. And this observation is freely
presented to critics of every degree to
feast over, and use in any manner they
may please. But there is one offence, and
that a very daring one, to which a most
incomprehensible ]leniency is still accorded,
and seems likely to be accorded for ever :
that is, the persistent disregard to probability
— and even to decency — which
authors display in hurrying out of the

world any character whom they have introduced,
but whose continued presence
they find to be embarrassing to the happy
conclusion of their stories. The number
of healthy squires who have been seized
with apoplexy ; of wicked merchants who
have been accidentally (and yet most designedly)
killed ; of rich uncles who have
rung the bell in the library, and have
then been found on the carpet beyond
the reach of medical aid ; the number of
ideal butcheries which have been thus
perpetrated, would fill a large and horrible
catalogue. The writer of a novel, of the
ordinary kind, — that is to say, of one which
deals only with extraordinary matters, — maybe
allowed a few murders of the kind to
which I am referring ; for when the persons
who have been described are clearly
seen to be wholly impossible persons, who

could never have lived at all, there is no
objection to their being killed at anytime
and place, and in any manner that
may appear most convenient. But in a
work professing to be an autobiography,
any man, woman, or child who is once
described — not only "lovingly painted," —
should be allowed to exist for a reasonable
length of time ; and the writer should beheld
answerable that they are not treated
with extravagant violence.

Bearing these remarks in mind, and still
adhering to them, it is now my melancholy
and solemn task, accepting all the responsibility
which I know that I incur, to state
plainly that Mr Frank Chobham is no
more. His death took place at Homburg,
and resulted from a paralytic stroke. His
wife was with him in his last moments ;
and before leaving this world, he told her

that he heartily forgave her for all her unkindness
to him. And now, though I have
related nothing more than the truth, I feel
as if my pen were stained with blood ;
and I must endeavour to shake off the
feeling by passing on to other matters.

I showed in the last chapter that at this
stage of my career a very satisfactory improvement
in my fortunes took place, my
uncle acted more generously than many persons
may be willing to believe. The truth
is, he only did what any brother ought
to have done ; but I am afraid that it
is necessary for me to hint at some more
usual explanation for his generosity; for,
though any exhibition of meanness or other
wickedness is likely to be received as a
matter of course, a display of apparently
disinterested virtue is generally thought to
require special solution. Therefore, though

the true explanation of my uncle's behaviour
lies in the fact that he had a
good heart, and considered the ties of
brotherhood to be sacred, I may also point
out that my father had twice paid his debts
for him in former times : that he had also
helped him in purchasing some of his
promotion ; and that he had all his life befriended
him by every means in his power.

The first decided step which my uncle
took, after providing for our temporary
comfort, was to make me reasonably independent.
He one day handed me a deed
of gift, by which I became possessed of
£1000 a-year. As to my father, my
uncle had begged him to "club fortunes
and live with him ; " a proposal which the
elder brother very gratefully accepted.

Our benefactor's next step was to open
negotiations with the persons into whose

hands Hare Place had passed, with a view
to regaining possession of the home of our
ancestors. At first we were alarmed and
disgusted by hearing that the new proprietors
had a scheme for converting the
estate into " a number of beautiful villa
residences ; " but fortunately this plan was
never attempted, and perhaps it was hinted
only in order that the supposed projectors
might have a better excuse for asking an
exorbitant price for the property. My
uncle, however, showed considerable skill
in concealing his anxiety to be a purchaser,
and the sum which had been demanded for
Hare Place was at length reduced to reasonable
limits. Still one great objection
remained, which was, that the occupant,
Alderman Taylor, held a seven years' lease,
and did not appear anxious to resign possession.


Our prevailing good fortune befriended
us again in this emergency ; for the alderman
one day wrote to say ' ' that he could
not bear to see a gentleman of Mr Allen's
position kept out of his family seat, which
he (the alderman) was ready to place at his
service."

My uncle at once seized on this offer, and
after some further negotiations, Hare Place
was once more our own, and we returned
amidst much rejoicing. We were exceedingly
happy, and our gratitude to Alderman
Taylor was very sincere. I believe,
too, that the alderman himself was, after all,
not put to any great inconvenience. At
least I happened to see in a certain newspaper
soon afterwards, the text of a letter
written by him, in which he said, "that
he could no longer conceal from himself
the conviction, that the representative of

VOL. III. Q

one of our larger constituencies should
pass a more considerable portion of his
time amongst those in whom he felt the
warmest interest, and for whom he had
always cherished the highest personal esteem."
Although this is a digression, I
am happy to add that at the general
election which followed, the alderman was
again returned to Parliament by those
grateful electors to whom he was so strongly
attached.

CHAPTER XVIII.

When I said in the last chapter that our
restoration to Hare Place was the occasion
of great rejoicing, I alluded to the demonstrations
of joy which were made by the
tenantry, tradesmen, and most of the simpler
people. They received my father with
a triumphal arch, and in the evening roasted
a whole ox on the village green, and there
devoured it in his honour. They also burnt
an effigy of Mr Mahuish, for they had
decided that he was the real author of my
father s misfortunes. These manifestations,
which at first appeared to be exhibitions of
mere rustic loyalty, presently proved, to our

great surprise and satisfaction, to be the
result of an agitation which was being
spread throughout the whole country. The
immediate cause of this agitation was the
failing health of Mr Saunders, who was in
prison ; and the public in expressing its dislike
for seeing bodily suffering inflicted,
loudly sounded the cry that there had been
a miscarriage of justice ; and, though Mr
Saunders was more especially pointed out
as the victim, my father had the honour
of being frequently mentioned as another
object for any spare allowance of compassion.


My uncle, perceiving that our best plan
was to take advantage of this wave of excitement
before it should have rolled away,
entered into the agitation with great vigour.
He attended three or four public meetings
which had been summoned, and delivered

speeches, in which he fcmnd means to prevent
the indignation being monopolised for
the fate of Mr Saunders, and he took care
that on each occasion a resolution should
be passed expressing confidence in my
father's integrity, and condolence with
him and his family, "for the unmerited
indignity to which he had, by the faulty
operation of the law, been recently subjected."


My uncle furthermore endeavoured to
persuade my father into prosecuting a few
publishers for libel ; but my father said, that
he had had enough experience of the law to
know that it was a very dangerous engine,
which, if put into motion by unskilful persons,
was liable to do them greater harm
than that which they had intended to inflict
on others. So the search for law
remedies was not attempted.

We were assisted, however, from a most unexpected
quarter. An influential newspaper
brought out a succession of letters signed, " A
former shareholder in the Wolvenden Joint-stock
Bank," "Fiat Justitia" "A Country
Parson," "A Barrister," and, most imposing
of all, " One of the Jury." Most of these
letters took the course of arguing upon my
father's case, and altogether excluding that
of Mr Saunders ; and a person might have
really supposed that the taint of the dock
had done my father some cruel bodily harm,
from which he would never recover. When
this correspondence was ended, a mighty
leading article appeared, stating, " that the
facts recently brought to light showed the
imperative need for the appointment of a
Public Prosecutor."

All this was very gratifying ; but I was
astonished to find that the person who had

caused the newspaper to take up the matter
in the way that had been done, was no
other than the self-styled countryman, Mr
Drink water-Hyslop-Drink water. Sir George
Walnut told me the fact in confidence ;
and thus, incredible though it may appear,
Drinkwater thought it no disgrace to take
in washing, but was nevertheless ashamed of
having any connection with literature. But
whatever the man's character may have
been, he was of great use to our cause, and
owing to his exertions, and to those other
causes before mentioned, people began to say
that my father had been very badly treated ;
that he should never have been committed
for trial ; that no man was safe ; that he
ought to be compensated for his losses. In
fact, just as the world had formerly taken
the fit of supposing that the degree of
stupidity my father claimed to have possessed

was impossible, so it now took the
fit of supposing that any degree of stupidity
was possible, and that the most extraordinary
stupidity to be found was the most
laudable, being nearly the same thing as
the most extraordinary virtue. Therefore relations,
friends, and acquaintances, thronged
the portals of Hare Place, and exhibited
such unmeasurable impudence in the way
in which they pretended to have been
always upon the best terms with us, that
I positively forgave them.

At this time, though I had not reached
the summit of my earthly happiness, I was
still leading a very pleasant existence. My
uncle had caused the house to be filled with
agreeable visitors, the stables to be filled
with horses, and the cellars to be filled with
wine. In assisting him in his labour in the
latter respect, I was much amused by receiving

a visit from my former tyrant, Mr
Marter, who, having become a wine merchant,
now requested our patronage. Ashe
had used me rather badly in former
times, I resolved to heap coals of fire on his
head : and certainly, if I had drunk all the
wine which I proceeded to buy from him,
I should have been nobly avenged for all
the wrongs he had ever done me. For,
like many wine merchants who are just
commencing business, Mr Marter's stock
largely consisted of Tokay, sparkling claret,
white port, and suchlike dangerous curiosities.


Amongst the guests at our house was Sir
Clive Katcliff, who was now my most confidential
friend. He was about to sail for
India, and already he had in his train " a
narrow-chested, yellow-bearded young man,
of supernatural gravity," such as he had

stated his intention of procuring. Directly
I saw this person, I anticipated some
amusement out of him, and I was not
altogether disappointed. His conceit was
not to be penetrated. He was only eight-and-twenty,
and quite undistinguished, yet
his opinions amounted to this — viz., that
the whole world, excepting himself, was in
the wrong upon every subject. He was
fond of no special occupations, except
climbing Swiss mountains, and reading
German books. Sir Clive was highly
pleased with him, and listened to the solemn
nonsense which he talked, with an
appearance of sincere interest, from which
he used to relieve himself by coming to
my room, burying himself in a chair, and
laughing immoderately. But I could never
tempt him into any more candid expression
of opinion as to his secretary, for he

declined to speak about him further than
to extol his worth, which he often did.

On a subject of much greater importance,
Sir Clive was as communicative as I could
desire. He knew the history of my attachment
to Mrs Frank Chobham, and, just
before he left England, he gave me some
admirable advice, which I had confidentially
sought from him. The advice was
simply this — that I should control my impatience
for at least a year, and in the
meantime, if I could contrive it, renew
my intimacy with Helena, upon a footing
which should inspire her with confidence.
If she seems inclined, poor thing, to go
back to nursing, or something of that sort,"
said Sir Clive, " do your best to prevent it ;
and when the proper time comes, go to her
and set the whole thing before her in a
common-sense light."

Perhaps these and other utterances on
the part of Sir Clive may not inspire all the
respect I should wish them to receive ; but
the reader should ponder over the private
utterances of the great men of his own
acquaintance, and decide whether they were
distinguished by equal or more extraordinary
merit.

CHAPTER XIX.

I will now give a slight outline of the further
fortunes of some of those whom I have
introduced in the course of this w r work ; and
I shall also try to describe the conclusion
which I have chosen for my own personal
adventures.

Sir Clive Ratcliff took his departure for
India, where he afterwards performed the
duties intrusted to him with such remarkable
sagacity and prudence, that people
now speak of him as a man who is destined
for the highest possible distinction.

Sir George Walnut also returned to
India, but without giving rise to any prognostications

of extraordinary success in
store for him. He, however, had the good
fortune to arrive just in time for a frontier
Avar of some importance, in which, by
virtue chiefly of his seniority, he took a
most prominent part. The public, between
a mouthful of muffin and a dram of coffee,
solemnly criticised his strategy, and was
pleased to approve of it. The consequence
was, that he was rewarded out of all proportion
for those achievements which were
known to the world at large, but not out
of proportion for those gallant acts of the
past, which had been principally noticed
only by himself, and a few military friends.
Mr Garbold, after the curious matrimonial
experience which I chronicled, for sometime
remained idle. Then he became fired
with enthusiasm for the * duties of property,"
and was returned to Parliament by

the suffrages of a number of Welsh " serfs,"
who were in his employment. He distinguishes
himself in the House of Commons,
by never opening his lips to speak upon
any subject which he does not understand ;
and, merely on this account, some shrewd
observers have said that he may be regarded
as " the coming man."

My father and uncle still " club their
fortunes " at Hare Place ; but they talk of
resigning possession, and going to live together
in London, in order to suit the
supposed convenience of a humble individual
in whom they are interested.

That individual, having for a whole year
abstained from disturbing the quiet of a
widowed lady to whom he was most devotedly
attached, at last ventured to implore
from her that felicity which he was most
seriously determined to have. His first

application was unsuccessful. But he persevered,
his fond hopes were at length realised,
and not only has his beloved wife
conferred on him an amount of happiness
which is entirely beyond his merit, but
she has herself attained a degree of contentment
little short of that which her
noble conduct has deserved.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

POST MORTEM

Third Edition. Price One Shilling.

It is a book to wonder at, and not least at the style— just in its
rhythm, stately in its plainness, homely in its pathos — by no means
a style of to-day." — Academy.

•• We can recommend this work to our readers as one of the most
curious and interesting we have read for some time." — Dundee
Courier.

"Nothing so fantastic, clever, original, and bold, has been published
within our recollection." — Whitehall It' view.

"If we may liken the writer of 'Post Mortem' to any other
author, it would be De Quince'. He has very considerable command
of language, much imagination, and excellent powers of analysis."
— Civil Service Gazette.

"As an effort of imagination, ' Post Mortem' is very striking and
original, and proves the existence of a quite fresh and unhackneyed
faculty in the writer, who has managed to present the subject of so
many theories and imaginations in a new light." — Spectator.

A strange and weird story. . . . The writer has the ability

of fixing the attention of the reader, and compelling him to peruse
tin work, whether he be willing or' not." — Sunday Times.

'Post Mortem ' possesses a good deal of imagination and force.
It purports to be an account of what was seen and endured by a soul
in purgatory ; and in the conception of the purgatorial state— which
i< represented, to put it baldly and briefly, as a kind of prolonged
nightmare— we find originality and invention." — Saturday Review.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS. Edinburgh and London.

This day is Published.

BEGGAR MY NEIGHBOUR. A Novel. By E. D.
GERARD. 3 Vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Br the Same. New and Cheaper Edition.
Recta: WHAT'S IN A NAME. Crown 8vo, 6s.

"Such evenness of execution, such admirable balance between the interest
of the story, the interest of the characters, and the mere interest of the local
colouring itself, is very rare." — Spectator.

' Reata' is a capital novel Bright and gay and sparkling." — Standard.

The story is strikingly fresh and original." — Daily News.

'Reata' is one of those charming books which to read is to remember."
Vanity Fair.

A well-sustained dramatic interest marks it as a story; and a fresh and
easy style aids the effect of this novel as a rolling panorama of scenes which
have evidently been studied with keen observation"— Daily Telegraph.

A LADY'S CRUISE IN A FRENCH Man-of-war.

By C. F. GORDON GUMMING. Two Vols, post 8vo, with
numerous Illustrations, 25s.

By the Same Author.

AT HOME IN FIJI. Third and Cheaper Edition. In
One Volume, post 8vo, with Illustrations and a Map. 7s. 6d.

Press Notices on First Edition.
•'Two beautiful and enchanting volumes of foreign talk and travel " —
Daily Telegraph.

She carries her readers with her through many a quaint and picturesque
scene of native life, with the ever varying and beautiful background of seacoast
or forest or river-bank, and enables them to realise her keen sense of
enjoyment in it all. She gives us interesting details of the potters' work, in
which Fiji stands pre-eminent throughout the Pacific." — Athenaeum

"Anything more pleasant, amusing, and magnificently descriptive of
places and people than these two volumes of notes has seldom been written
about any place, much less of Fiji "— The World.

"This book has been much praised, but never enough. Miss Humming

is another of our wonderful lady travellers This new book will be useful

to people who are interested in colonisation questions, but it will be infinitely
more useful and pleasant to those who are interested in human nature.
The" two volumes tempt one to return to them again and again." — Vanity
Fair,

THE STORY OF MY LIFE. By the late Colonel

MEADOWS TAYLOR, Author of ' Confessions of a Thug,'
'Tara: a Mahratta Tale,' &c. Edited by his DAUGHTER.
With Preface by Henry Reeve, C.B. Fourth and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, with Coloured Frontispiece, Qx.

"The autobiography lias the interest of an exciting romance, while it
abounds in information and exhilarates like a tonic our entire moral nature,
and gives us faith in the moral sympathies of humanity. It is a book for
young men to read and study, if they would know the secret of success in

life " — British Quarterly Review.

The career of Colonel Meadows Taylor was almost as romantic as one of
Ins own novels, and a great charm is imparted to the work by the very natural
manner in which the whole of his most useful and eventful life is given."
Vanity Fair.

"It is not an everyday occurrence t<> meet with a book so amusing and
interesting, as well as so thoroughly worth reading, as this volume. It
records in most plain and simple manner the story of a life spent in sheer
hard work, and in the discharge of duties for the most part wearisome and
monotonous; yet no novel is so full of strange romance, exciting incident,
and unexpected turns of fortune." — London Guardian.

LITTLE COMEDIES. Old and New. By Julian

Surges, Author of ' John-dreams,' 'An Accomplished
Gentleman,' &,c. Being an Enlarged Edition of 'Little comedies
containing Seven New Pieces, frown Svo, 7s. lid.

THE LAND OF KHEMI. By Laurence Oliphant,

Author of 'Lord Elgin's Mission to China,' &c. In One Volume,
post 8vo, with Illustrations, 10s. fid.

LA FONTAINE, and OTHER FRENCH FABULISTS.
By the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A. Being the Fourteenth
Volume <d' •• Foreign Classics fob English Readers."
Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

DICK Nether. By L. B. Walford, Author of ' Mr

Smith: A Part of his Life,' 'Cousins,' ' Pauline,' 'Troublesome
Daughters,' &c. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

"The novel will more than sustain .Mrs Walford'- reputation, and is an
excellent specimen of a story thrilling enough at times without descending
to the level of the mere sensational." Liverpool Mercury.

-one of the best studies of humble Scottish life tint has appeared for
many years-academy,

D.C.L., Author of ' The History of Scotland," ' A History of the
Reign of Queen Anne,' ' The Book-Hunter, ' kc. Second Edition.
Complete in One Volume, ranging with the Crown 8vo Edition
of 'The History of Scotland.' Price 10s. 6d.

MORE THAN KIN. By M. P. In One Volume, crown
Svo. [Immediately.

THE PRIVATE SECRETARY. Three Volumes, post

8vo, 25s. 6d.

In every chapter it bears the signs of practised skill and matured literary
judgment. The style is clear and vigorous. Effective situations are ingeniously
devised to bring out in bold relief the characters who play the leading
pails. The plot has been constructed with great care, and the increasing
interest is sustained to the end"— Saturday Review.

"The novel overflows with incident, while it is brightly written from the
first page to the last." — Times

•' A remarkably interesting and indeed masterly creation It is performed

here with the ease of effortless strength, and it is only on reflection that we
perceive how great a triumph of subtle and delicate art has really been
achieved"— Spectator , .

MADAME DE Seine. Bv Miss Thackeray (Mrs
RICHMOND RITCHIE). Being Vol. Xvii. of "Foreign
Classics for English Readers." Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

"Miss Thackeray appreciates, understands, and expounds admirably her
most delightful text. She has written a delightful little book, which must
give intense pleasure to those with whom Madame de Seine is an old friend,
as well as the freshest delight to those who are first introduced to her in these
pages." — Westminster //< view.

UNCLE Z. By Greville Fillmore, Rector of ,
late Vicar of Down Amney, Gloucestershire, and
sometime Student of Christ Church. (Originally published in
'Blackwood's Magazine') Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

"There are great freshness and charm about its descriptive passages, and
the two or three personages in whom the interest centres are drawl), with
great insight and delicacy." — Scotsman

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS. Edinburgh and London.

vsmmmmmmmmmmmmmmtm

B7922A

"Tbs.tyof.uuncs.uhbana

Cot v.3

££***■"»■— •"■'

3 0112 088985038

iTiliUUIiliUliiiliUiiitlilililiTtTBTiTillTirililiri
