W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY

186. STRAND, LONDON * '

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS
NOVELS ARE .Issued TO A^^^^^^J^T^T^^BSCR.BEPS .N SETS Onus.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS Opening mm ^oSJs^p'rom A COUNTRY B00K8TALL-

1 8 2 2

18 2 10

1.55 .

.



<h -^

LI E. Mary
OF THE

B33Zo

/

OUR RADICALS

Jl sale of |;obe anb f critics*

BY

FRED. Burney

EDITED, WITH PREFACE,

BY

His Private Secretary,
J. PERCIVAL HUGHES,

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOL. /.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ttbiish^rs hit ©rbiuiiru to ^)er (fttaj^st^ the (Slnttn.

1886.

\ All Rights Reserved']

PREFACE

3M«C

N the summer of the year 1882
a paragraph appeared in the
World which graphically and
accurately described Colonel Fred Burney
at work in his house in Charles Street.
There is a little boudoir it ran, ' crowded
with superb Dresden and Sevres, and in
every corner are presents from princes,
many of them made on the occasion of
Colonel Burnaby's wedding. There are
tokens of regard from Mr. Labourers
as from Mr. Yates, handsome souvenirs
of the friendship of the Royal Princes,

and a beautifully inlaid and mounted
revolver from Don Carlos. Essentially
the dwelling of a travelled man, the
writing-room upstairs shows signs unmistakable
of a literary workshop. Apart
from the official table, cumbered with
the reports and printed forms incidental
to the command of a regiment, is
another, with heaps of manuscript in
the strange scrawl with which the writer
thinks it well to tax the intelligence of
compositors, and which he likes to see in
type before attempting to put the final
touches to his novel; for he will not be
satisfied any longer with Rides to Khiva,
or Channel Voyages in a Balloon. Nothing
will serve his purpose but the authorship
of a novel, dealing with political questions
and personages. This is the magnum opus
on which the Colonel of the Blues gets to
work early in the morning, before his

regimental duties take him away to
barracks. His manuscript, like his acts
and deeds generally, is on a large scale.
There are certain men who require elbow-room,
and whose height makes ordinary
furniture appear absurd. At an ordinary
table Colonel Burnaby would find writing
crippling work, so he employs a writing-board,
like a drawing-board, made out of
the side of an old portmanteau. Resting
this on one knee, he describes with great
rapidity the telegraphic puzzles he intends
for the printer, sometimes in blue ink,
sometimes with a telegraphic pen, often
with a lead pencil'

On the death of his mother, Colonel
Burnaby left i8, Charles Street, and took
up his residence at 36, Beaufort Gardens.

Most of the summer of 1884 he spent
at Somers, his estate in Leicestershire,
returning to Beaufort Gardens in time to

make his final preparations for his journey
to the Soudan.

The night before Colonel Burnaby left
England, he gave into my charge, amongst
other important papers, the manuscript of
the novel which I present to the public
under the title of ' Our Radicals.'

In doing so, I am but carrying out an
intention of his own. One of the last
things he said to me at Victoria Station,
a few minutes before his departure,
was, ' I shall publish that novel when I
return, but it will want a great deal of rewriting.'


Had he lived to carry out his purpose, I
believe great alterations would have been
made in the construction of the work.
Those material alterations with which he
acquainted me, I have refrained from
making, as by so doing I should, in a great
measure, have destroyed its originality.

Occasionally it has been necessary to
remodel sentences, and to supply dialogues;
and as the novel was unfinished, I have
been obliged to complete it, on the lines
which he laid down. But, with these exceptions,
I have followed the original reading,
word for word ; and the difficulties
which others have experienced in deciphering
the manuscript, I have overcome
through familiarity with the author's handwriting.


In going through his papers after his
death, I found three letters written by him,
which possess some general interest, and
which illustrate his own words, that to
describe the places through which one
travels, it is essential that one should write
easily and graphically.

The first is dated February nth, 1877,
from Erzeroum, Turkey in Asia, and was
written three days after his arrival at that

place, from Scutari, during his famous ride
on horseback across Asia Minor :

It has been a hard journey. Over
13,000 miles, and all on horseback, through
deep mud at first, and in some places up to
the horses' girths. But on we went, leaving
Ismid, the ancient Nicomedia, behind us,
and spending the nights with people of all
sorts of nationalities — Circassians, Tartars,
Turks, Greeks and Armenians, for all these
races own the Sultan as Lord of Anatolia —
till we reached Angora, the town from
whence the eat's hair so celebrated in
Europe is brought to our English markets.
I stayed at Angora three days, and was
the guest of a rich Turkish gentleman, who
treated me in a princely manner. Then on
the track again, over mountains and crags,
passing over ground that abounds with
mineral wealth, and, alas! left idly in the
earth, till I reached Jurgat, where I was

the guest of an Armenian Christian.
These Armenian Christians keep their
wives in harems, and never allow them to
expose their faces to a stranger. They
are limited to one wife, it is true ; but to all
intents and purposes they are exactly like
the Mahometan.

"" Why do you not introduce your family
to mei inquired one day of my host.

" I keep my wife and daughter for
myself, and not for my guests," was the
reply.

All through this part of the world the
same custom exists. Poor Armenian
women ! They are indeed to be pitied.
They receive no education whatever.
What they do not know themselves, it is
impossible to teach their children ; the
result is that the whole population, Christian
as well as Mussulman, is steeped in the
deepest slough of ignorance. And now I

leave Jurgat, and pass by the town of
Tokay. The snow grows thicker about
our path ; we have to ride down glaciers
and by precipices where a slip would prove
our last. Now we cross the mighty
Euphrates ; along its banks we go ; the
scenery is lovely. The glaciers flashing in
the sun, the many-coloured rocks glinting
from above their beds of snow. Then the
road becomes more elevated. We are
always rising higher and higher. We
lose sight of the Euphrates, which for
some time has looked like a streak of
silver beneath our horses' feet, and we are
above the clouds. I am more than a mile
high, but on we go, still ascending, ever
higher and higher. The sun clears away
the surrounding mist, and before us in the
distance, like a fleet of sailing-vessels
which have been tossed into a safe haven
by the lofty billows all around them, lies

Erzeroum, which city Is supposed to have
been the home of our first parents. The
numerous minarets and spires appear In the
distance Hke the masts of a mighty fleet,
whilst the white and billowy shaped mountains
seem like the waves I have likened
them to. We approach the city. It grows
as we near Its walls. The houses take
form and shape, the minarets and domes
flash In the setting sun, and Erzeroum is
reached.'

In December of the year 1877 he was
in European Turkey with General Baker,
and was at the battle of Tashkasan, when
with 2,800 men they had to cover the
retreat of Shakir Pacha's army from the
Russian attack.

On this occasion he wrote from Shakir
Pacha's headquarters, Othlukol, eight days
after the battle, which occurred on the 31st
of December, 1878 :

We have been constantly on the move,
and it has been a very exciting time, not
only for the Turks but also for lookers-on
like myself. When the news reached us
that Plena had fallen, it became at once
clear that 120,000 more Russians v^ould be
free to march against our small force of
20,000, which, owing to the extreme cold
in the Balkans, was rapidly diminishing,
on an average 200 men going into hospital
every day with frost-bites, dysentery, ague,
etc. However, orders came from Constantinople
for Shakir Pacha to hold his
position at Knack as long as possible.
This he did in spite of several attacks by
the Russians; but at last, on the 27th of
December last, they succeeded in sending
a large force of 30,000 men by a mountain
path across the Balkans, and were thus
enabled to attack us in rear as well as
front. Baker Pacha, with a small brigade

of 2,800 men, was sent to the village of
Tashkasan, to hold the fresh Russian force
in check whilst Shakir Pacha retreated
with the remainder of our troops in the
direction of the town in which we now
are. I went with Baker, and on the last
day of the year 1877 the Russians attacked
us. They had 30,000 men ; we had
only 2,800. The battle raged from daybreak
till sundown, and Shakir Pacha's
reply to Baker's frequent demands for reinforcements
was that he had none to
give, and that we must hold our own, as,
if the Russians were to carry our position,
the whole of Shakir Pacha's army, which
was retreating, would be taken in flank
and annihilated. The Turks fought
splendidly, in spite of the tremendous
odds, and struggled for every inch of
ground with an extraordinary tenacity.
The day seemed never inclined to end,

and Baker kept looking at his watch,
whilst the Turks kept gazing at the sun,
their timepiece, as until nightfall it would
be impossible for us to move.

The hours rolled on, and our men died
in their places. Just before the sun set
the Russians collected themselves for a
supreme effort, and charged our troops for
the last time. The Turks, calling upon
Allah, rushed at their foes, and actually
drove them back a few hundred yards. It
was now too late for the Russians to make
another attempt.

In the dark we marched down the
plain, and mustered our men before
marching to this place. Out of our 2,800
men 600 were killed or wounded, over 450
being killed. The Russians must have
lost very heavily, owing to their attacking
us in column with dense masses of troops.
There was another little battle the day

before yesterday, and we had the worst of
it, losing over 200 men.'

In March, 1883, he was travelling in
Spain with a friend, and I make a few
extracts from a letter dated from the
Grand Hotel de Paris, at Madrid.

We arrived here the day before yesterday,
having travelled through from Paris
in thirty-eight hours. It is very cold here,
some degrees below freezing, and a wind
which, as you know, makes the cold more
penetrating. The same day we arrived

we received a letter from Count S ,

the Chamberlain of the King, appointing
the following day at six p.m. for an
audience of his Majesty. We went
there at that hour in evening dress, and
were the first to be shown into the
Sovereign's presence. He was very
amiable, and introduced me to the Queen,
who speaks English well, and showed me

his child, a Httle girl of about two years
old. He then said, '' I am afraid I cannot
keep the other people waiting. Come and
lunch with us tomorrow at 12.30. Only
the family, you know. I want so much to
have a long talk to you." Of course we
accepted. After dinner that evening we

went to Senor C 's box at the opera.

The theatre was crowded. " Mephistopheles
" was the piece performed. The
house was full of all the beauty of Madrid,
and the King and Queen were in the
royal box, and nodded several times to us
during the opera. I met many old friends
in the house, and enjoyed myself very
much. To-day we went to the palace. I
sat on the left hand of the Queen, who
was very agreeable. The three Princesses
were there — the youngest sister of the
Sovereign, who is to marry a Bavarian
Prince on the second of next month. She

is pretty, and looks about eighteen ; he,
I should say, is about thirty. Then
there was a Spanish General whom I had
known some twelve years ago, and, in
addition, the English governesses, or companions,
of the Princesses. Nothing could
exceed the kindness of the family. The
King reminded me of his visits to me
when he was an exile in London, and of
how he had then partaken of my hospitality.


After breakfast, or luncheon, which
was very good, and when we had partaken
of some magnificent strawberries,
the King lit a cigar and we smoked, the
ladies talking to us all the while. He is
a young man of about twenty-five years
of age, dark and good-looking, tall, with
large eyes, and a very intelligent face.'

It will be much regretted that a rough
diary which he kept of his life in the

VOL. I. 2

Soudan was lost on the Nile, and only a
few letters reached England.

The first was written from Lady Haifa,
and dated Thursday, December 4th, 1884:

I have been appointed inspecting staff
officer of the line between Candour and
Magrakeh on the Nile, about sixty miles
from this. I have to superintend the
moving of the Nile boats in that district ;
and as the water is very shallow, most of
them will have to be carried on land. It
will be very hard work, but at the same
time interesting employment. I leave this
tomorrow to take up my new duties.'

On the nth of December he wrote
from Dal, on the Nile :

I left Lady Haifa about five days ago,
went by train (three hours) to Barras, and
then rode on camels here. The camels were
bad, and broke down several times. We
journeyed through the desert, with not a

blade of grass to be seen — nothing but
white sand, high rocks, and black crags.
Since I have been here I have been very
busy. The Nile here is like a mill-pond
in many places, and when the wind is not
favourable the boats have to be carried for
two and a half miles across the desert on
men's shoulders. Each boat weighs eleven
hundredweight, and her stores three and
a half tons, so this will give you an idea of
the labour. I passed eleven boats through
the cataract the first day, seventeen the
next, thirty-four yesterday, and hope to do
forty more to-day. Our work is to spur
on all the officers and men, and see that
they work to their uttermost. This I
think they do, and it will be very difficult
for me to get more out of them. It does not
do to overseer a willing horse. I sleep on
the ground in a waterproof bag, and have
as aide-de-camp Captain Gascoigne, late of

2 2

my regiment. He has just gone for an
eight hours' ride down the Nile to report
to me on the boats coming up. A strong
north wind is blowing to-day, which helps
us much with the boats. I do hope it will
continue, as some four hundred and fifty
more have to pass through these cataracts
very shortly.'

Four days later he wrote from the same
camp at Dal, on the Nile :

I am up before daylight, getting boats
and soldiers across the cataracts. It Is
very Interesting, but good hard work.
There was a deadlock here before I
arrived, but I have put things straight
again, and the boats are going on to
Dongola without any delay.

There is a strange mixture of people
here — Arab camel-drivers, black 
porters, still blacker Kroomen, Red
Indians, Canadian boatmen, Greek interpreters,

men from Aden, Egyptian soldiery,
Scotch, Irish, and English Tommy
Atkins — a very Babel of tongues and
accents. The nights are cold, but on the
whole I feel well. Sir Red vers Duller
arrived this morning and expressed himself
very pleased with the work done.
An English soldier has just had a narrow
escape ; his boat ran against a rock, and
he was tossed into the water. His comrades
threw him a life-belt, and he
managed to catch it, or he would have
been sucked down to a certainty. Captain
Gascoigne has just taken him a tumbler of
whisky. Buchanan, my servant, is welland
very useful.'

On the 24th of the same month he
wrote :

Great excitement is prevailing at the
present moment, as my basin, in which a
black was washing my shirts, slipped out

of his hands, and is sailing gaily down
the Nile. Buchanan is in despair, as it
cannot be replaced. The excitement increases.
A black on board a boat close at
hand has jumped into the river. The
stream is dangerous here, there being so
many rocks and eddies. He is pursuing
the basin, he has come up to it and landed
it safely.

It is dangerous bathing here, and two
days ago, when swimming after his helmet,
a man was drowned. He had just reached
it, when he threw up his arms and called
out. It was impossible to aid him, and he
sank immediately. He was probably
caught in an eddy or small whirlpool,
when the best swimmer has no chance.

It is extremely cold about two a.m. till
the sun gets up, and then it is very warm
in the middle of the day. I came back
this morning after a three days' excursion

to the Isle of Say, where I have been
arranging with the Sheiks for the purchase
of Indian corn, and wood for fuel. I
bought an Arab bedstead there for two
dollars. For food, I live the same as the
soldiers — preserved beef, preserved vegetables,
and lime-juice, with occasionally a
drop of rum, which is very acceptable. A
piece of bacon was served out to each man,
and a pound of flour as well, this morning,
as it is Christmas tomorrow. Bacon is a
great luxury here. I am going to dine
with Lieut-Colonel Allen, of the Royal
Artillery, tomorrow. He has a plum-pudding
he brought with him from England,
and I can assure you we are looking forward
to the consumption of that pudding
very much like boys at school. I must
have lost quite two stone the last month,
and am all the better for it. \ soldier
stole some stores a few days ago. He has

been tried by court-martial, and given
five years' penal servitude. In old days he
would have escaped with a flogging, but
now that is abolished the man has to suffer
five years instead. Poor fellow ! I expect
he does not bless the sentimentalists who
did away with flogging in the army.
Taking everything into consideration, the
men are behaving wonderfully well. They
have very, very hard work, and this so-called
Nile picnic is as severe a strain as
well could be put on them, physically speaking.
Yet you never hear a grumble, and
they deserve the greatest praise. My tent
is on the very edge of the river. Large
rocks and boulders are peering out of the
water In all directions, and as each day the
river falls, fresh blocks of stone come in
view. I do not expect the last boat will
pass this cataract before the middle of next
month, and then I hope to be sent for to

the front, as my leave ends the erst of
March, and it would take me quite a month
to get from Khartoum to London, travelling
almost night and day. It is a responsible
post which Lord Wolsey has given
me here, with forty miles of the most
difficult part of the river, and I am very
grateful to him for letting me have it ; but
I must say I shall be better pleased if he
sends for me when the troops advance
upon Khartoum. Of course, some one
must be left to look after the line of communication,
and each man hopes he may
not be the unfortunate individual. Anyhow,
if I am left behind I shall not outwardly
grumble, although I shall inwardly swear,
as Lord Wolsey has been so very kind.'

The last letter is dated the 26th of
December, from Dal on the Nile :

Every morning I am up before six,
and am out of doors all day, either on a

camel or on my legs, superintending the
transport of boats and boat-stores up the
cataracts. I have not seen a newspaper
for the last month, and we all live in blissful
ignorance of the outer world. I had
my Christmas dinner last night with
Colonel Allen. Party : Lord Charles
Beresford, Captain Gascoigne, and self.
Dinner : Preserved pea soup, some ration
beef, and a plum-pudding, sent out from
England, which was done great justice to,
the dinner being washed down by libations
of whisky and brandy, mixed with Nile
water. As some one observed, the Nile
tastes strongly of whisky after six p.m.
One, joking about the expedition and its
difficulties, remarked that there had been
no such expedition since Hannibal tried to
cross the Alps in a boat. I expect to have
got the last boat-load of soldiers through
here by the second of next month, and

then there will be very little for me to do,
and I hope to be sent on.'

That hope was realized, and on the 1 7th
of January, 1885, in the battle of Abu
Plea, fell ' the brightest knight that ever
waved a lance.' One who had known him
intimately for twenty years wrote, on
hearing of the terrible news : ' His gallant
spirit has flown as he wished, in a hand-to-hand
fight for the service of his country,
and the death-roll of English heroes has
added to it a name inferior to none in
heroic quality.'

Had he lived to complete this novel
himself, it would not have been surrounded
with the sad reflections which must inevitably
fall upon the minds of those who read
these pages, and who knew him sufficiently
to be able to trace in them that complete
fearlessness which gave colour to his views
and characterized all his actions ; and

which, moreover, evoked admiration alike
from those who differed from him as from
those with whom he thought in common.

There is no need for me here to add to
the words of praise that have been spoken
and written already of him by illustrious
friends and generous foes. I complete this
labour of love with a great reverence for It,
which will be shared by all who remember,
as they read these pages, that the hand
which penned them was the hand that
struck its last blow for England's honour.

J. PERCIVAL HUGHES.

56, Melbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, W.

S some delay has occurred in
placing Colonel Burnaby's Novel
before the public, it may not be
uninteresting to explain the cause.

The Story being written under very
unusual circumstances, bears traces of the
vicissitudes it has passed through, and
a portion of it written in Egypt during
the late campaign, was brought back to
England in such a state that it was hardly
possible to decipher the words. Indeed,
one of the principal photographic companies
returned a page of the MS. to the publishers,
as being quite impossible to reproduce,

and it was only after having the paper
of the original dyed, that many of the sentences
became sufficiently apparent to the
eye to be interpreted.

A page taken at random from the MS.
is reproduced here, but being photographed
after the colouring of the pages, does but
faint justice to the ingenuity and patience
spent upon it as a 'labour of love' by Mr.
Percival Hughes, and conveys but a partial
idea of the difficulties which he had to
encounter, some of the pages being
written in pencil, red chalk, or blue chalk,
with occasional after interpolations, relations,
or emendations in ink — the chalk
having especially suffered in the chafing of
the sheets together, during their transit in
cam el-bags.

New Burlington Street,
Julie., 1886.

31 %«U of Soc mi Politics.

CHAPTER I.

^Y Jove ! how it blows ! The
heavy cavalry w411 have a
rough passage to-night.'
These words issued from the lips of a
young officer dressed in a dragoon uniform.
He was engaged in a game of
billiards in the Marston barracks with a
companion. The latter was a stout man,
in the prime of life. He had taken off his
mess-jacket, and, with braces loosened to
give him the more ease, he was leaning
forward to make a spot stroke.

VOL. I. 3

Yes was the reply. * I hope, when we
sail for India, the elements will be more
propitious.'

Several other officers of the 2 list Dragoon
Guards were watching the game. One of
them, a tall well-built man, was chaffing
the players. He was a senior captain of
the regiment, and of an old West-country
family. The baronetage of the DIgbys
went back for many generations. Sir
Richard DIgby, the present possessor of
the title, had been for several years in
the army. He was not much liked by
many of his brother officers, on account of
his assertive disposition.

There you go again, Doctor,' he remarked
; * your figure getting in the way
of the pocket. I have laid two pounds to
one on you, and never will I back such an
obese mortal again.'

You will lose more than that, Dick, in

your bet with Arthur Helpers replied Dr.
Allenby, not at all pleased at the allusion
made to the size of his waist.

What bet is that '^' asked one of the
company.

Why, Digby has bet Belper ;^500, even
money, that he (Belper) will be married in
ten years, and Arthur, who is a most determined
woman-hater, has offered to double
the amount ; but Dick funks, and won't
have it.'

Of course not,' said the Baronet ; ^ why
should I make Arthur more resolved to
remain a bachelor than he is at present ?'

I don't think you will,' said another of
the company ; ' but here comes Arthur — let
us hear what he has to say to it.'

As these words were uttered Arthur
Belper entered the billiard-room.

He was above the middle height, and
well-built ; his age apparently about sevens



and-twenty. His complexion had become
brown by frequent exposure to the air, and
a pair of large blue eyes lit up a singularly
handsome countenance. Yet at times a
sad expression would pass over his face.
He would seem to be bored, not only by
himself, but by everything around him.
He had been In one of these moods when
DIgby had joked him as to his having
some secret passion, and In an unguarded
moment he had bet DIgby an even ^500
that he would not be married In ten years.

The bet made some little commotion at
the time. Several dowagers in Belgravia,
with marriageable daughters to dispose of,
were furious with the Baronet. Arthur
Belper, besides being of a singularly
affectionate disposition, was the possessor
of a considerable fortune.

Whilst engaged In outdoor pursuits, no
trace of sadness could be seen on his

features ; but when he was alone, and fora
time unoccupied, his gloomy fits would
take possession of him. What were they
produced by ? some of his elder brother
officers would ask themselves. Was there
a taint of hereditary Insanity In his family ?
for, Indeed, It was rumoured that Arthur's
grandfather had committed suicide. At
any rate, Belper, liked as he was by his
comrades, was nevertheless an enigma to
them.

If anyone understood him, perhaps. It
was DIgby, the captain of his troop, who,
hated as he was by many men In the regiment,
was on excellent terms with his
subaltern.

Never were two people so different In
character, yet between them there was a
strong bond of sympathy. Was It that
each one divined the other's secret ? For
most men have some skeleton which they

try to hide from the world, and sometimes
from themselves, by an affectation of cynicism.
An impossible task, indeed, for the
canker remains, and fixes its roots more
firmly in the heart and brain, for all the
efforts made to obliterate it from the recollection.


They are discussing our bet,' said Sir
Richard, holding out his hand to Belper —
but you are wet from head to foot !'

So would you be if you had taken a
header into the Thames, and had not had
time to change.'

How did you get your ducking ?' asked
one of the officers.

Oh, simply enough. I was driving
over Putney Bridge, when a man deliberately
pushed a boy over the parapet
into the water, and then ran for his life.
I don't know exactly what happened afterwards
; but somehow I found myself in the

river, swimming for my life with the Httle
fellow under my arm. It was rather dark
when I reached the bank, and, as there
was no one to be seen, I brought the boy
here.'

Where is he ?' they all inquired.

In my room. I ordered my servant to
put him in a warm bath. Cone and see.'

With these words, he led the way out
of the billiard-room into some quarters
tenanted by himself and his captain.
There, in a large hip-bath, a gigantic
dragoon was washing a lad, who, to judge
by his appearance, might have been
thirteen or fourteen years of age.

Ah, sir ! and I am glad you have come
here,' said Belper's servant to his master.
When I speak to him, he answers in
gibberish. I don't understand one word
he says.'

And Bruce, hxl\i\ix '^ fifths Achates, continued

scrubbing the boy, and rubbing him
down with a rough towel, hissing all the
while very much as if he were grooming
one of his master's chargers.

Stop, or you will hurt him !' said Belper,
laughing. ' I only wanted you to bring
back his circulation. Put the lad on the
sofa and cover him with blankets. Presently
I will find out who he is ; in the
meantime, get me a change of clothes.'

All the officers, except Digby, soon returned
to the billiard-room, and Belper
commenced undressing.

Sir Richard, sitting down in an armchair,
helped himself to a cigar from a box
that stood near him.

Why, Arthur,' he remarked, ' here you
are saddled with a child already !'

Well,' replied Belper, ' if I cannot discover
his relations, I certainly shall not turn
the boy into the streets.'

You do not mean to say that you would
adopt him,' said Sir Richard, laughing.

Perhaps not ; but I would pay Bruce's
wife to look after the lad, and would see
myself that he was properly educated.'

How old should you say he is ?'

Twelve or thirteen, perhaps ; ask him.'
Digby rose, and went to the sofa, addressing
the boy. To his surprise, he did
not answer in English, but in French.

You have rescued some French street
arab,' said the Baronet ; ' and yet he does
not look or speak like one. Come here,
Arthur, You are a better French scholar
than I am ; ask him yourself about his
history.'

Belper approached the sofa. The boy's
eyes glistened at the sight of his rescuer.

Who are you ?' said Arthur, ' and who
is the man who pushed you into the
water ?'

The lad's face darkened, and he put his
hands before his eyes, as if to avoid seeing
some horrible apparition.

Don't be afraid,' said Arthur kindly.
You are quite safe with us. Tell me all
you know about yourself.'

The little fellow looked for a moment
anxiously around the room, and then
spoke.

A short time ago,' he said, ' I was very
happy. People were kind to me. I was
in a school in France. One day I was
told that my father wanted to see me. I
had never seen my parents, at least not to
my recollection. I was taken into a little
room ; there I saw a man, the same one
who pushed me into the water. " I am
your father, Eugene," he said ; " I have
come to take you to a beautiful house.
You will have a pony to ride, and nice
companions to play with." I felt sure he

was not my father, so I said, '* I have companions
here, and will not go with you."
And I wanted to run away from him ; but
the old lady we used to call Madame said,
*' Eugene, you must not be disrespectful
to your father. He brought you here
when you were a little boy, and paid for
you ever since." No one interfered ; and
I was made to go downstairs, and get into
a carriage. The man gave me something
to drink, and I went to sleep. When I
awoke, I was very ill, and on a ship at sea.
After some days we arrived in a large
town. I was taken to a house — I resisted
going, and called out, but no one could
understand me. This afternoon I was told
that I was to see my real parents. When
we were on the bridge, the man said,
'^ Eugene, get up here, and I will show
you where your father lives." I climbed
on the parapet, and he said, " Look straight

before you." And he then gave me a push.
I fell into the water, and I remember nothing
more.'

With these words the boy left off
speaking, and began to cry bitterly.

We are no nearer than we were before
as to who he is,' said Sir Richard. ' Do
you know Metrale, the head of the
police ?'

'No.'

Well, I will give you a line to him.
He is an extremely able man, and a friend
of mine. Go to his house tomorrow, and
tell him what has occurred. He may be
able to put two and two together, and
advise as to what course to pursue.'

Sir Richard Digby lit another of
Helper's cigars, and left the room to
join the billiard-players.

Seventeen thousand three
hundred and forty-five pounds,
eleven shillings and sentence
three farthings. That is their exact
value, sir ; at all events, the value for
which the diamonds were insured. Then
there are the bank-notes and shares. I
think in all I might put the loss down at
forty-seven thousand pounds.'

The speaker. Inspector Jumbleton, was
a man of stunted growth, and about fifty
years of age. His head was thinly
covered with red hair and his eyes, which
were very small and close together, gave

him a somewhat ferret-like appearance.
He was giving to Mr. Metrale, the head
of the police, an account of a robbery that
had been perpetrated a few days before at
a post-office in London. The robbery had
made a considerable sensation, owing to
the daring manner in which it had been
effected. A woman entered a central
office and asked for a receipt to a registered
letter. The mail-bags were lying
on the ground by the counter. A few
minutes after her departure the mail-cart
driver came for the bags, and on being
informed of their contents was struck by
their lightness. On examination it was
discovered that they were not the original
sacks, but were imitation ones, which she
had left in the place of the real bags
she had carried away beneath her cloak.

Always a woman, sir, in these matters,'
said Inspector Jumbleton ; 'they walk

round us just as they choose. If I were
at the head of the Government I would
have a detective department managed by-women.
Why, where their own sex is concerned,
they are ten times as sharp as weare.
'' Set a woman to catch a woman,"
said Mrs. Jumbleton to me.'

The inspector was considered quite a
privileged character in Harley Street,
where Mr. Metrale lived. He was one
of the sharpest detectives in the force, not
so much, perhaps, on account of his own
innate shrewdness as on account of the
smartness of his wife. Mrs. Jumbleton
took the greatest interest in her husband's
business. He always consulted her whenever
he was engaged in endeavouring to
unravel some criminal mystery ; and on
several occasions her clear powers of perception
— which enabled her, like many of
her sex, to jump to a conclusion — had

given him the identical clue which led to
the detection of the delinquent.

Metrale was well aware of Mrs. Jump
intelligence. When the inspector
first married, his chief was a little alarmed,
lest in a moment of amiableness Jumbleton
might be indiscreet, and let out important
secrets connected with the department,
which, owing to his steadiness, Jumbleton
had been entrusted with.

But if he had, they never came back to
Metrale's ears, and on several occasions
when Mrs. Jumbleton had gone to him,
and offered her assistance In watching
certain suspected persons, he had been
much struck by her zeal and ability.
Metrale's office was no sinecure. It had
been started about three years, upon the
principles of the continental system.
Metrale was forty-seven when the appointment
was offered him, and now, although

only fifty years of age, he was quite grey.
A face furrowed with wrinkles gave evident
signs of constant anxiety and overwork.


Nothing could happen in town without
Metrale being aware of it. Several robberies
had recently occurred on an extensive
scale. The thieves had carried their
audacity so far as to effect an entrance into
Buckingham Palace, during the Court ball,
and had there plied their profession successfully,
having cut several diamonds of
enormous value from a Begum's dress, and
even stolen some ornaments from the
person of one of the Royal Family.

Then there were the daring Fenian
plots. Several explosions had taken place
in the military barracks, and other public
buildings had to be watched day and night.

Over and above these things, there were
the persons of the Ministers to guard, Lord

VOL. I. 4

O'Hagan Harton, the Lord Chancellor,
having been fired at on one or two occasions.
The noble lord, who was not very
particular as to the feelings of others, was
highly sensitive whenever his own personal
comfort and security where concerned. Me-trade
constantly received telegrams from
him as to anonymous letters of a threatening
character which the Lord Chancellor
had received, and recently the Minister
had ordered a telephone to be constructed
between his own house and that of the
chief of police. He was thus able to
inform Metrale as to his intended movements.
The other members of the Cabinet
had been similarly threatened, but few
of them lived in such a continual state of
apprehension as Lord O'Hagan Harton.

Several attempts had been made on the
Prime Minister's life. On one occasion a
torpedo had been discovered in his cellar ;

on another he had narrowly escaped being
poisoned. An Irish cook in his service, a
woman affiliated with a branch of the
Fenians, had put a deadly drug into a
dressed lobster, for which delicacy Mr.
Cumbermore had a great partiality. Fortunately
for the Prime Minister, on this
particular occasion he did not partake of
his favourite dish.

All these matters naturally caused Mr.
Metrale great anxiety. He felt that he
was responsible for the safety of the
members of the Government, and of the
community at large, but the money allowed
him for his department was limited. The
Ministers required such a large number of
police as a bodyguard, that there were
hardly any officials left to look after the
interests of the public.

It was whilst he was considering with
Inspector Jumbleton as to what plan to
4 — 2

U. Of ILL LIB.

adopt for the discovery of the perpetrators
of the post-office robbery that a tap was
heard at the door.

Come in,' said Metrale.

A policeman in plain clothes entered,
and gave Mr. Metrale a card and a
letter.

You can go now, Jumbleton. I will see
you again presently,' said Mr. Metrale.
Show the gentleman in,' he added, addressing
the bearer of the card and
letter.

Belper was announced, and entered the
room.

I am very glad to make your acquaintance,
Mr. Belper,' said Metrale. ' Sir
Richard Digby has often mentioned your
name to me. But you require my services,
I see by this letter.'

After Belper had told him of the adventure
of the previous day, the chief of

the police remained for some minutes
buried in deep thought.

I should like to see the boy he remarked
at length. * Is he with you ?'

Yes, I thought you might like to
speak to him. He is in my brougham
below.'

Metrale touched an electric bell twice.
Jumbleton entered.

^ There is a lad in this gentleman's
carriage ; bring him here.'

He only speaks French,' said Belper ;
perhaps he will not understand.'

Our inspectors speak French and German,
and Jumbleton speaks Russian as
well,' said Metrale.

In a few minutes Jumbleton returned,
leading Eugene by the hand.

He is a fine boy,' said Metrale to
Belper, and then addressed Eugene in
French.

Should you know the man again who
brought you from France, and who pushed
you into the river ?'

Yes,' answered Eugene, and an angry
expression passed over the boy's face.

Metrale then spoke a few words in an
undertone to the Inspector. The latter
left the room, but shortly returned with
some large albums.

Now,' said Metrale, 'what was the
colour of the man's hair, and how old
should you think he was .'^'

His hair was black, and he seemed
about as old — as old as you, sir.'

Ah, about fifty, and with dark hair ;
now as to his height. Was he as tall as I
am?'

Eugene stood up by Mr. Metrale's side,
at the same time putting his hand above
his own head, and indicating by that means
the height of the man.

Did he speak French well ?'

No ; I could hardly understand him,'
said Eugene.

Now, Jumbleton,' said Mr. Metrale.
The albums of Irishmen, above forty
years of age.'

The inspector produced an enormous
volume.

There,' said Metrale to Eugene ; ' take
this book into the other room. If sou see
any photograph at all like the man who
brought you to England, come and show
me.'

'What should yoii say was the man's
object in trying to drown the child .'^' said
Belper, as Eugene left the room.

One of two things — either to obtain
money from some person who wished him
out of the way, or to gratify a revengeful
feeling. You have no idea how many
children have been stolen from parents

of late years. It is a plan of the Fenians
to extort money, or political support in
Parliament. In one case the body of a
little girl was found at her mother's door.
It is a deplorable state of things. There
is only one way to stamp out secret
societies, and that is by force ; but then
that, you know, the Prime Minister says
is no remedy. If the Fenians have
had a hand in this case, I am powerless.'


The inspector returned at this moment
with Eugene. He had seen a photograph
that was very like the man.

^ Did he limp as he walked 't' asked
Metrale.

A little,' was the reply.

I fear my conjecture is right,' said
Metrale ; * this child is not born of humble
parents.'

But he is French,' said Belper. 'Surely

the Fenians could bear no grudge against
our neighbours across the water.'

Who can tell ?' said Metrale. ' There
is evidently some mystery ; if you will leave
it in my hands I will endeavour to unravel
it. In the meantime, what are you going
to do with the boy ?'

Take him into my service and educate
him said Belper, laughing. ' As I have
saved his life, I feel I am in a good measure
responsible for it.'

^ Well, he will be safe with you in
barracks,' said Metrale. * Good-morning.'

Good-morning, Mr. Metrale, and many
thanks for the interest you take in the
matter,' said Belper, as he left the room
with his probe, ' Metrale may be right,*
thought Belper, as they were seated in the
brougham ; ' there is evidently some mystery
about his parentage. Anyhow, he shall
come to no harm while he is with me.'

HERE were several broughams
standing outside 172, Arlington
Street, one wet Sunday afternoon.
The coachmen were grumbling at
the time they were exposed to the inclemency
of the weather.

Lady Trylngton was always at home to
her friends on Sunday afternoon. She had
quite a clientele of men who made a point
of calling on her upon that day.

Lady Trylngton did not care much
about receiving her own sex ; she thought
that their presence might be a check on
the freedom of conversation. But on this

particular afternoon her two nieces, Laura
and Blanche Tryington, were with her.

Laura Tryington was an extremely
beautiful girl. It was said that she was an
express image of what Lady Tryington had
been in her younger days. She was considerably
above the middle height, and
possessed a very graceful figure. Her face
was not the Anglo-saxon type. A glance
would have shown that there was foreign
blood in Lady Tryington's niece. Her
grandmother was a Greek by birth, and
Laura, with her flashing eyes, finely chiselled
nose, and small but determined mouth and
chin, might have passed for a beautiful
Athenian.

Blanche, on the other hand, although as
many declared equally beautiful, was below
the middle height, and very fair. She was
about two years younger than her cousin,
who had just passed her twenty-first year.

Both the Misses Trylngton had received
offers of marriage, but so far no man had
succeeded In gaming their favour ; and
Lady Trylngton, who had been married at
the age of eighteen, was beginning to bea
Httle anxious as to the matrimonial future
of her nieces.

And so, my dear Laura will not marry,'
said the old Duke of Beaulleu, his palsied
hand shaking like an aspen leaf, as he put
down his cup.

No, Duke ; not even you. If you made
the offer,' replied Lady Trylngton. ' It
makes me very anxious.'

'After all,' said Sir Richard DIgby to his
aunt, ' Laura is wise In her generation ; why
should she be In a hurry to leave this home,
so full of elegance and comfort, to marry a
man who might turn out indifferently ?'

You don't, then, think highly of your
sex ?' said Lady Trylngton.

^ No, nor of yours either, aunt. We
both build upon ideals ; we picture to ourselves
the person we love as having every
perfection, and the end is, generally speaking,
deception and disappointment

Sir Richard talks as if from experience,'
said Lord O'Hagan Harton.

Digby's only experiences have been
with the Turks and Circassians,' exclaimed
Horace Deloony, laughing.

Horace Deloony was an old diplomate.
Some years previous he had left the
Foreign" Office. He now made a business
of society, and had developed into a perambulating
journal of all the scandals that
had happened, and were going to happen.
Nothing, in his opinion, could go on successfully
without his presence. He was of
Irish descent, and to no ordinary abilities
he added a complete mastery of the art of
repartee.

^ Horace, you must have been a great
lady-killer in your day,' said Sir Richard
Digby.

Lady-killer !' exclaimed the Duke. * He
was a dreadful dog !'

The result being that he is now a discontented,
bilious old bachelor

These words fell from the lips of Mrs.
Ryder, the wife of an editor of a powerful
society journal.

She was always welcomed by Lady
Tryington, because, from her husband's
connection with the press, she had the
opportunity of bearing the latest news to
the tea-table of her patroness.

If anything were to happen to Ryder,
I would propose to you at once,' said
Horace Deloony.

No ; that I protest against said the
Duke emphatically. *You are ill-natured
enough in conversation ; as the proprietor

of a newspaper you would be unbearable.'


The wife of the editor smiled. She
was rather amused at this banter : it gave
her an idea of her own importance.
Although herself of excellent family, she
would not have dreamt a few years back
of being the tried and trusted friend of
Lady Tryington.

But things had changed vastly of late.
The editors of society papers had become
too powerful for society to ignore. The
names of its more prominent members
were inserted continually, and their actions
freely discussed. The majority of people,
much as they enjoy hearing scandal about
others, do not at all appreciate It when it
affects themselves. Some of the editors
had gone so far as to have their own
secret police. Husbands and wives found
that they lived under a microscopic observation.

Mr. Ryder was not so modest as
many of his contemporary editors. He
was known to be a firm friend, but a very
bitter foe. As most people preferred
to have him on their side, Mrs. Ryder
found herself admitted Into the best
society.

By the way,' she said, turning to Sir
Richard Digby, * I have heard of your bet
with Belper. Will you win It ?'

Upon my word, for the last four days I
have been somewhat alarmed,' answered
Sir Richard. * Arthur has saved a child
from drowning, and now that he means to
adopt it, my chance of winning the ;^500
is considerably lessened.'

How did the accident occur ?' said his
aunt.

And Digby then gave an account of
Helper's adventure.

How very curious and romantic !' said

Mrs. Ryder, rising from her chair to say
good-bye to Lady Tryington.

There she goes, to tell her husband
to announce it in his paper,' said Lord
O'Hagan Harton. ' What a bore these
paper people are !'

But you used to write yourself,' said
Horace Deloony ; * and people say that
even now you write out all your speeches,
and give each editor the amount he requires.'


People say a great many things, Mr.
Deloony,' said Lord O'Hagan Harton
haughtily. ' If Ananias were to return to
the earth, he would find himself heavily
handicapped in the society of to-day.'

Of course, I do not move in the same
sphere as you do,' said Horace Deloony ;
but people will talk, and if they have no
better subject they will talk about you.'

Lord O'Hagan Harton rose from his
VOL. I. 5

seat, and bowing to Lady Tryington, took
his departure.

There you have made an enemy for
life Lady Tryington said, as LordO'Hagan
Harton's brougham drove away from the
door.

I am quite indifferent to that,' said
Deloony ; ' my contempt for him as an
enemy is only equalled by my contempt
for him as a statesman.'

How bitter you are,' answered Lady
Tryington. ' People say we women say
spiteful things, but we are nowhere with
a diplomate or a Cabinet Minister.'

I hope, Dick, Mr. Belperhas not caught
cold after his immersion,' said Blanche
Tryington, who had been conversing at the
other end of the room with her cousin
during the late passage of words.

No, I think not,' replied Sir Richard.

And so your friend has sworn, like

Benedick, to die a bachelor,' said Laura
Tryington. * Whenever a man swears that,
like Benedick, he is sure to live long
enough to eat his words.'

And he is really too nice to die so uninteresting
a death,' added Blanche.

'Really!' said Sir Richard; * if Belper
could hear you say that, I might even yet
win my bet.'

Lady Tryington's guests left early that
afternoon. She took up a copy of the
paper edited by Mr. Ryder, and was engaged
in reading an article, when her footman
entered the room with a card, which
his mistress glanced carelessly at.

Suddenly her countenance betrayed the
interest she felt in the person announced.

What ! le Capitaine Victor Derange.
Show him in at once.'

5—2

fiADY Arlington had made
the acquaintance of M. le Capitaine
Victor Delange ten years
ago In Paris. He had just been appointed
as Military Attache to his Embassy.
Knowing that his old friend Lady Trying-ton
was a leader of society, and acquainted
with everything appertaining to the political
world, he took the earliest opportunity
of calling upon her.

So delighted to see you once more,
Monsieur le Capitaine,' said Lady Tryington
in French. ' It is an age since we
met. I had just seen your appointment

announced. I am so pleased that it
enables us to renew our friendship.'

My first visit is to you,' said Victor
Delange. ' I said to myself, who can tell
me everything about everybody in London ;
who can post me up in society, in politics ?
Why, only Lady Tryington. So here I
am.'

Well, first of all, you will have a cup
of tea. And now, what do you want to
know ? About the last scandal, or the
new religion ; about the elopement, or the
wedding ; about the births, or the deaths ;
or about politics, M. le Capitaine ? I am
at your disposal ; command me, and I
obey.'

A thousand thanks ! it is so kind of
you ; but, my dear Lady Tryington, if you
remember you told me, when I last saw you,
about all the troubles that Mr. Gladstone,
your Prime Minister, had brought on his

country, and how he had reduced the
rents on your Irish estate. Now, we
Frenchmen seldom speak English, and
our newspapers are badly informed as to
English matters, so do tell me briefly what
has happened in your country. You know
my profession, purely a military one ; but
it does not seem well for me, although a
foreigner, to appear ignorant of what
everyone knows.'

It will not take me long,' said Lady
Tryington. * You remember that I could
get no rents from my Irish estates, and
that my agents and bailiffs had been
murdered.'

Yes ; and the horrible assassination of
the Government officials, and the secret
compact with the murderers.'

The people at last became disgusted
with the Government. They clamoured
for a General Election, and they had one.'

And what happened after the General
Election V inquired Victor Delange. ' The
old Prime Minister was defeated, was he
not?'

Yes,' continued Lady Tryington. ' The
Whig families, who had learnt that the
policy of their chief was one calculated to
seriously affect the landed interest at
home, and to make England ridiculous
in the eyes of foreign Powers, used their
influence for the Conservative cause. We
then had a Coalition or Liberal-conservative
Government. I then sold my
Irish estates at twenty years' purchase,
although some time before I had received
an offer of thirty-three years ; but with all
that I am better off than the unfortunate
loyalists who would not sell their estates,
and now receive no rents at all. Well, we
enjoyed a few years of comfort and peace
under the Coalition Government, but our

trade suddenly received a terrible check.
The fact was that the United States had
paid off their debt and had fostered their
manufactures by their protective duties to
such an extent that they could undersell
England in her own markets, as she had
abandoned a protective policy, and become
a free-trade country. Our hardware districts
were deluged with cheap American goods.
Men were thrown out of employment
everywhere. At last a cry arose for Protection.'


And the Ministers ?' inquired Victor
Delange.

Refused to give It. They believed In
the principles of so-called Free Trade,
which I believe to be an imposition.'

Certainement, oui said the French
attache, who, however, had hardly followed
all the remarks of his hostess, but who
considered It polite to assent.

The Radical party was at that time led
by a man of considerable ability. He had
made a large fortune many years previous
in a pork business in Chicago. Mr. Jonas
Cumbermore watched his opportunity.
Radicalism was at that time completely
severed from the ties which once bound it
to moderate Liberalism. Mr. Jonas Cumbermore
determined to roast both Conservative
and Liberal in the fires of their
free-trade principles. Apparently oblivious
to the opinions he had formerly publicly
expressed upon the question, he resolved
that the Radical party should go in for
Protection. Another General Election
took place. The agriculturists, who had
felt very acutely the force of foreign competition
in corn and cattle, combined with
the artisans and Irish against the Ministers
of the day. The result was the complete
overthrow of the Coalition Government.

Our Sovereign in vain looked for a
premier from the Liberal and Conservative
ranks. In the new House of
Commons three-fourths of the members
were sworn followers of Mr. Jonas Cumbermore.
It was a bitter pill for the
monarchy to swallow, but there was no
alternative. Mr. Jonas Cumbermore was
summoned to Windsor. He was invited
to form a Cabinet. To this proposal heat
once assented, and for the last eight
months the affairs of our country have
been entirely in the hands of the Revolutionary
Radical.'

That means something worse than a
Communed,' said Victor Delange, 'does
it not ?'

Far worse,' continued Lady Trylngton ;
at least, that is what my friends the Conservatives
say. But to resume. Our affairs
have not prospered. You may remember

how your nation resented the heavy duties
imposed upon her manufactures ?'

You ruined the trade of our people In
Belleville In fancy goods,' said Victor
Delange ; ' It nearly brought about a revolution
In Paris.'

Lastly, to add to our misfortunes, the
Irish — who some time previous were conceded
local self-government, and who have
passed laws calculated to drive every
loyalist out of the country — are now
clamouring to be annexed to the United
States. You are aware, of course, that
the Americans have recently largely increased
their army and navy ; but you will
hardly believe that to-day there Is a
rumour that a large band of American
filibusters are now on their way to aid
Ireland In a revolt. To make matters
worse, there Is news that an insurrection
has broken out In India, and my nephew's

regiment — the 21st Dragoon Guards —
has been ordered to embark Immediately.
If you will dine here on Wednesday you
will meet him, and I have no doubt there
will be many subjects upon which you will
be mutually at home In conversation.'

Victor Delange took his leave of Lady
Tryington, apologizing for so long a visit,
and receiving an answer that the time had
passed most pleasantly In his company.

I must pay my homage to your
beautiful nieces said Victor Delange, on
leaving.

'And you will dine with us on Wednesday.'


CHAPTER V.

'T was midnight. The telegraph
wires were busily at work in
Metrale's office ; particularly
those communicating with Downing Street.
Several people were waiting in different
rooms for an interview with the chief
of the police. At that moment the Lord
Chancellor was conversing with Mr. Me-trade
in his office.

You say it really was to have taken
place to-night ?'

Yes,' answered Metrale. ' I do not
believe one of you could have escaped.'
The Lord Chancellor shuddered. Lord

O'Hagan Harton's distress was occasioned
by the discovery Metrale had made,
through one of his female detectives, that
another attempt had been planned by the
Fenians to destroy the members of the
Cabinet.

The Fenians are becoming more daring
every day,' continued Metrale. * Hitherto,
as you know, they have made attempts to
destroy buildings by putting dynamite in
the cellars, or against the walls. They
have learnt that we know most of these
devices. They therefore changed their
tactics, and hit upon the following plan.
They determined to destroy Mr. Cumber-more's
house, not from below, but from
above. It appears that there are some explosives
which Ignite so rapidly that their
effect Is just as great In a downward as In
an upward direction. This fact established,
one of the Fenians obtained access

to the roof of Mr. Cumbermore's house,
and placed 50 lb. weight of fulminating
mercury on the slates, in a straight line
above the room where a Cabinet Council
was to be held. He connected his infernal
machine with the telegraph wire that
runs over Belgrave Square, and tapped
that same wire about two miles farther off,
where it communicates with another building
or. His emissaries were on the watch to
signal to him when the Ministers arrived
in Belgrave Square. His intentions were,
after allowing you half an hour to settle
down to business, to connect the wire of
his battery, and explode the fulminating
mercury. If this had been effected the
whole building would have been rased
to the ground.'

How did you detect the plot .^' said the
Lord Chancellor.

By the merest accident answered

Metrale. * I had desired a female decoy,
named Moloney, to ingratiate herself with
O'Brien, a suspected Fenian. She did so
successfully. O'Brien succumbed to Mrs.
Moloney's charms.'

Here Lord O'Hagan Harton shrugged
his shoulders contemptuously.

^ You need not be surprised,' said
Metrale, laughing. ' Mrs. Moloney is an
extremely well-proportioned woman, and
O'Brien is not the first man who has fallen
a victim to her attractions. The evening
before last O'Brien took her to his rooms
in the Strand. She saw some coils of wire
lying about, and asked their use. At
first O'Brien would not tell her. She
managed, by those arts which a woman
has the power to employ, supported by his
belief that she was devoted to the Fenian
cause, to get the secret of the plot from
him. I learnt the whole of It four hours

before the explosion was to have taken
place, and I surrounded the house in the
Strand, and succeeded in arresting three
of the rebels, including Mrs. Moloney,
whom I was obliged to take into custody
for her own safety

Things are more serious than ever in
Ireland,' said the Lord Chancellor.

Do you think,' said Mr. Metrale, ' Mr.
Cumbermore cares in his heart whether
Ireland be annexed to the United States
or not ?'

Yes, I do answered Lord O'Hagan
Harton. ' If Ireland were to be annexed,
there can be but little doubt that later on
England would share Ireland's fate. Now,
Mr. Cumbermore is a very ambitious man ;
and if once the annexation took place, all
dreams he may have formed, as to his becoming
all-powerful in this country, will beat
an end.'

VOL. I. 6

What with India and Ireland, he has
his hands pretty full,' said Metrale. * The
Irish are a terrible nuisance ; but this
country has treated them like a spoilt
child. If I had had money at my disposal
I could have picked up all the links of the
chain of conspiracy years ago ; but no,
I am stinted on every hand, and am therefore
unable to employ a secret service.
Why, In France the police can spend
reasonable sums, and no questions are
asked ; but here, If I were to prevent 500
murders by spending ^5,000, In the first
place, if I asked to be repaid I shouldn't
receive an answer ; and In the second place,
If I complained I should be removed from
my post.'

It Is a God-forsaken country, Metrale,'
said Lord O'Hagan Harton, ' but we must
make it last out our time. I have sold out
everything almost that I possessed here.

and have invested my money in Australia
and the United States. My child shall
have something to live upon, at all
events.'

No other country in the world would
tolerate such a state of things,' continued
Metrale, who had now thoroughly warmed
up upon his favourite grievance, * and the
more particularly as these secret societies
could be suppressed, even now, at the
eleventh hour. Treat Ireland as Cromwell
treated her, and give me the means of
buying information.'

Cromwell was a great man,' said
the Lord Chancellor, ' but there were
no penny and halfpenny newspapers in
his time. By the way, have you had
all precautions taken for our future
safety ?'

You can rest satisfied, my lord,' said
Metrale. ' No expense has been spared

6—2

to ensure your safety and that of all the
members of the Cabinet.'

And the Lord Chancellor went away,
uneasy but re-assured.

T was a lovely afternoon. Blanche
and Laura Tryington were at
Hurlingham with Sir Richard
Digby. All the world had gone to this
popular place of entertainment. The
great match of the season was to be
played between Digby's regiment and the
London garrison. There may be room
for doubt as to whether many of the
thousands of people present cared much
for polo, or, indeed, understood anything
about the game ; but it had been duly
announced in the papers, Mr. Ryder's
especially, that royalty would be present.

In Spite of the levelling tendency of the
age, royalty was as safe to call together a
large number of people as usual.

The House of Lords had been repeatedly
ridiculed by Mr. Jonas Cumbermore, and
royalty itself had been threatened with extinction
; but the fact that it had been
menaced made it, if anything, more popular,
and Mr. Cumbermore had come to the
conclusion that the time for establishing a
Republic in Great Britain had not yet
arrived. This was undoubtedly due, in a
great measure, to the personal popularity
of the Sovereign, for caucuses had been
hard at work for several years past, endeavouring
to undermine the loyalty of the
people. Tracts had been scattered broadcast
in the hardware district, showing how
much the Throne had cost the country.
One Mr. Buttertongue had made a calculation
of the amount expended by Sovereigns

of England since the days of the Conquest.
He had shown that this sum, if put out at
compound interest, would have paid off the
national debt of every country on the globe,
and in addition have left a balance that
would, if invested at 3 per cent., have given
every man, woman, and child in Melting-borough
three shillings per diem for life.

This attack upon royalty, coming short
after the abolition of perpetual pensions
and the reduction of the retired allowances
for officers in the army, had not the desired
effect. The masses were more loyal than
they had been before.

But to resume. Hurlingham was
crowded. All the Cabinet Ministers'
vives and daughters were present. A
tent was set apart for the friends of
officers competing in the match, and here
Sir Richard Digby found a place for the
ladies of his party.

I am afraid you will see very little of
the polo,' observed Sir Richard to Lady
Tryington.

Polo, Dick !' exclaimed Lady Trying-ton
; ' do you think I came to see polo ?'

Well, that was the idea I had in my
mind.'

Nothing of the kind,' said Lady Trying-ton.
* I came here with Blanche and
Laura for them to see, and be seen,
especially the latter. Is not that your
friend Mr. Belper,' she continued, ' who is
talking with the Duke of Cumberland }'

His Royal Highness had known Belper
for several years, and was at the time congratulating
him upon his rescue of the
little boy, an embellished account of which
he had read in Ryder's journal.

What do you mean to do with him .'^'
inquired the Prince.

I have been trying, sir, to find his

parents, but have failed. Metrale has not
yet obtained any clue to guide him In the
search.'

There Is apparently some mystery,' said
the Prince.

There Is Metrale talking to Mrs. Cumbermore,'
continued Belper. * I cannot
help thinking that he knows more about
the matter than he cares to acknowledge.'

Perhaps,' answered the Prince ; ' see,
they are expecting you to mount.'

Belper was In the act of leaving the enclosure,
when his eye fell upon Lady
Trylngton and her two nieces. He rode
up and cordially welcomed them. Lady
Trylngton was very civil to him, for she
had taken In the Importance of the fact
that he was on such good terms with the
Duke of Cumberland. Since that conversation
he had risen fifty per cent, in Lady
Trylngton's estimation.

Blanche soon attracted Belper's attention.
To-day she locked more beautiful than
usual, he thought, as their eyes met and
she put out her lite gloved hand, reminding
him, as she stood bathed in the
golden stream of the sun's rays, of one
of Murillo's Madonnas, which he had
seen In the Muse at Madrid. Whilst
they were conversing a tremendous rush
of people occurred close to the enclosure.


It Is only a rush of people eager to seethe
Prince said Helper.

Now Mrs. Cumbermore will arise for
the occasion,' said Sir Richard DIgby ; ' for,
in spite of her husband's opinions, she Is
never so happy as when royalty favours
her with an arm.'

I suppose you consider that a proof of
the fickleness of our sex,' said Lady
Trylngton.

Only towards husbands,' said Sir
Richard, laughing.

What a beautiful rose that is you are
wearing !' Belper was saying to Blanche
Tryington ; ' it reminds me of the one
that Lothair gave to Lady Cognisance.
There was a great meaning hidden in that
simple gift.'

^ If this one would bring you good luck
to-day you are welcome to it,' said Blanche
Tryington, blushing as she gave the young
officer the rose.

Not to-day only, but always,' he answered
gallantly, as he rode off, looking 'the
brightest knight that ever waved a lance.'

I wonder what brings Lord O'Hagan
Harton here ?' said Lady Tryington. ' I
had no idea he cared about polo.'

Probably not,' said Sir Richard Digby;
'but the same reason that brought you
may have brought him.'

And he is talking to the Duke of Cumberland,'
added Lady Tryington. ' See,
he is whispering in the Duke's ear some
State secret, no doubt.'

More likely some epigram which he
has studied and learnt by heart, to produce
upon this occasion,' said Deloony,
who was one of the party.

How bitter you are towards him,' observed
Lady Tryington. ' I shall really
begin to think you have been crossed by
him in some affair of the heart.'

Blanche all this time was leaning over
the rails, eagerly watching the game. She
could see that Belper was gradually obtaining
possession of the ball, and driving
it out of the reach of his opponents.

Capital !' said Sir Richard Digby.
Arthur is playing splendidly ; we shall
win the match.'

Look,' observed Laura, ' he does not

notice the man on the opposite side. See
he is about to charge him.'

Warned by a friendly shout, the young
officer turned his head, but too late to
avoid the collision. The two ponies had
come together, and Belper was thrown to
the ground. One foot was caught in the
stirrup-iron, and the pony, frightened and
excited, dashed across the ground, dragging
Belper with him. Blanche had turned
deadly pale, and, if it had not been for
Metrale, who was standing near and
rushed to her assistance, she would have
fallen to the ground. Sir Richard Digby
returned to the ladies. He, with
others, had succeeded in catching the
pony. Belper had been stunned, and was
being attended to by a surgeon. Blanche
now opened her eyes, and, endeavouring
to regain self-possession, rose from her
chair.

Do not move,' said the Baronet. ' I
will have your aunt's carnage brought
round here and will take Belper back in
my brougham

I hope he is not seriously hurt !' she said.

No, not seriously,' answered Sir Richard
Digby ; and assisting her to rise, he placed
her in Lady Tryington's carriage, and then
rejoined his brother officer.

Dr. Planselle was in the act of binding
up Belper's head, which had been cut
open by the pony's hoofs.

Very fortunate that I was here !' the
medical gentleman was remarking. * Very
fortunate.'

I'll bet you two to one he will make a
point of telling us the wound is exactly like
one received in a similar accident by the
Duke of Cumberland,' whispered Deloony
to Metrale. * Old Planselle dearly loves to
air his acquaintance with royalty.'

*Done!' said Metrale, laughing. 'In
half-crowns ; but I shall lose. See, Ryder is
approaching.*

Ah ! glad to see you here, Doctor said
Ryder, pushing his way through the crowd.
Nothing serious, I hope.'

Nothing immediately serious,' replied
the medical gentleman. ' Perfect rest, perfect
rest, my dear sir ; as I said not long
ago to his Royal Highness the Duke of
Cumberland, after an accident on the ice,
when I was called in. Rest, perfect rest,
is all that is required. The Marchioness
of Colleonic, when she fell from her horse in
the Row, was another instance of the value
of perfect rest.'

He will go through the entire peerage
if you do not interfere,' said Metrale to
Digby; and an officer raising Arthur in his
arms, carried him, with the assistance of
the Doctor, to his carriage.

I will call tomorrow morning to see
him, on my way from the Duchess of
Montreal

And Dr. Planselle left them to drive
away, while he walked home with Mr.
Ryder, who managed to eke out of the
physician every particular of the accident
for publication in the next issue of the
Scrawler.

R. PLANSELLE was sitting by
Arthur's bedside. DIgby rested
on the other side of the couch,
and Eugene was holding a tray on which
had been placed a medicine-bottle and a
wine-glass.

Really !* said the Doctor, leaving his
patient for a moment and turning to the
little lad, ' I think your protege wants my
services more than you do yourself, he
is so pale with watching. In ten days you
may leave your room, Belper, and in two
months you may go back to your regiment.'
Not before two months !' exclaimed

VOL. I. 7

Belper. * Why, we are under orders for
India, and may sail at any time.'

Not for India interrupted Sir Richard
Digby. * I met the Adjutant-general in
Pall Mall a few hours ago. He told me it
was more likely we should be sent to Ireland.
Things there, it appears, are worse than
ever. Five thousand Fenians from America
landed yesterday, and the whole country has
taken up arms.'

A tap was heard at the door, and Eugene
went into the passage, and returned with a
card.

It was from Lady Tryington, to inquire
after Mr. Belper, and to ask if Sir Richard
Digby was with him.

I will go down and see her,' said
Digby.

Lady Tryington was in a great state of excitement.
The Doctor had ordered Blanche
immediate change of air. It was the middle

of the season, and Laura did not like leaving
town ; however, as Blanche's life was at
stake, Lady Tryington had determined to
fall in with the physician's advice. He had
recommended a voyage in a sailing vessel.
Lady Tryington remembered that her
nephew had a large yacht. He had lately
wished to part with his vessel, and had mentioned
the fact to his aunt. She determined
to find out whether he would sell the ship
to her, and she accordingly broached the
subject.

Certainly not, my dear aunt ; but you
are quite welcome to the yacht as often and
as long as you choose to use it. The crew
are in her

Now, Lady Tryington, although well off
in this world's estate, was not rich. It had
already occurred to her that the purchase of
a yacht would entail a considerable outlay.
She was, therefore, highly pleased with her

7—2

nephew's offer, and after thanking him many-times
for his kindness, accepted his proposal.


And how is Mr. Belper to-day ?'

Much better ; he will be out very soon.
But when do you start, and where do you
propose going ?'

As soon as the ship is ready to receive
us, and the Doctor recommends the Mediterranean.
It will be a complete change
for poor dear Blanche. And Laura is looking
fagged, after all her balls ; I am sure it
will do her good too. Good-bye now ; I
have to pay some visits.'

When Digby returned to the room he
found the Doctor gone, and Arthur busily
engaged in the perusal of a letter. It was
from Metrale, informing Belper of the
dangerous nature of the Fenian conspiracy,
and hinting that the Irish leaders might
have some object to gain in killing Eugene,

at the same time recommending him to
guard the boy very closely.

^ I have heard rumours of this new form
of tyranny, but never attached much credence
to it said Digby.

Well,' said Arthur, ' if there is one
place where he will be safe more than
another, it is in barracks or with the regiment.'


why not enlist him as a drummer?'
inquired Digby.

He has been too well educated, and I
have determined to look after him myself,'
said Arthur emphatically.

I often wonder how It is you have
never married,' Sir Richard Digby said,
after a long pause, during which Belper
had fallen Into a light sleep. ' You would
make a model husband.'

A shade of sadness passed over Belper's
ace.

'It is a matter of duty that I should
remain unmarried. You do not understand
me.'

No ; explain.'

It is a family curse,' said Belper.

*You are suffering from the effects of
your fall,' said Sir Richard ; ' let us talk of
something else.'

No, Dick ; I am not delirious, as you
imagine. I am perfectly calm.'

'Well, then?'

You will readily understand, when I
tell you there is insanity in my family. It
misses one or two generations, only to
appear with redoubled force in the second
or third. Why should I perpetuate, as in
all probability I should, this fearful malady ?
I am the last of my race. Let it die with
me.'

IT was a wet and windy day. To
make matters worse, a thick fog
hung along the side of the
Thames Embankment. It threw an impenetrable
darkness over the houses in that
neighbourhood. Few people were in the
streets, and those who could be seen by the
aid of the lamps were, judging from their
appearance, compelled to be out more as a
matter of necessity than from any other
cause.

One man, rather better dressed than
the others, was hurriedly walking down
a narrow street which led from the river

to the Strand. He looked behind him ashe
crossed the road, and more than once
he stopped, and Hastened carefully to hear
if he was being followed. Not a footfall
fell. A dead stillness reigned around.
To make assurance doubly sure, he turned
and retraced his steps for about a hundred
yards. Not a soul was to be seen. Even
the woman who kept a coffee-stall at the
corner of the street, thinking probably that
on such an afternoon she would have no
customers, had betaken herself to a neighbouring
public-house.

None of Metrale's men are about,' said
the man to himself, ' but now to metamorphose
myself.'

He then proceeded to tear oft a false
grey wig and beard, at the same time
removing a pair of spectacles from his nose.
Before this had been done he might have
passed for a man of sixty years of age, but

now no one would have put him down as
being more than thirty. To complete the
transformation, he took off his coat, and
having turned it inside out, put it on again.
The inner lining was of a greyish hue, and
made of a cloth material, so that the coat
presented no unusual appearance in being
worn in this manner.

Turning on his heel, Barry proceeded
slowly along the street until he came to
the Embankment. Presently he saw, a
little in front of him, a man dressed exactly
as he himself had been a few minutes
before. A woman was walking a few
yards behind the man, shabbily dressed,
but as she passed under the light of the
lamps it was easy to see that she was
young and very handsome. Barry coughed
twice as a sort of signal, crossed the street,
and proceeded in another direction.

What idiots these detectives are !' he

thought. 'Here Metrale for the last three
months has been on the track of my double,
little thinking that the real Barry is at work
on a plan to set all London in a blaze.'

Presently he arrived at a semi-detached,
dilapidated-looking building, used apparently
for storing wood.

An announcement on the door informed
the public that coffins on the most approved
pattern could be supplied at wholesale
prices by Messrs. Davies and Bailey. A
tall wooden mast protruded from the roof
of the building. To this were attached
some fifty different telegraph wires, which
extended to various parts of the metropolis.

Nothing in the old house itself would
have attracted the attention of a bystander,
save that it had a deserted and dismal
aspect. Barry, taking a bunch of keys
from his pocket, selected the one which
opened the door of this house.

Proceeding a few yards down the hall,
he touched a spring in the wall, which
opened a door the size of an ordinary-brick.
Taking two india rubber tubes from
his pocket, he screwed them into the sides
of the aperture, and then placed the two
ends to his ears. He had improvised a
telephone, there being a concealed wire
which reached from the door to the mast,
and which was in communication with the
lines that passed over the building.

Anything stirring near the Tower .^' he
inquired.

A clear and distinct voice answered in
the negative.

Near Buckingham Palace ?'

^No.'

Near the War Office ?'

Yes,' the voice answered.

Good,' answered Barry ; * in an hour
at the usual place.'

Pressing the spring, the door flew
back again, and only a person Initiated
into the secret could have discovered Its
whereabouts.

Placing the tubes again In his pocket,
he left the house, and continued his walk,
this time In the direction of Victoria Station.

Just by the Grosvenor Hotel he was
accosted by a woman, who appeared to be
begging alms of the passers-by.

'Take this,' said Barry, passing a coin
into her hand.

She at once rose from her recumbent
position, and crossed the street. On reaching
the other side, she gave some signal
to Barry, who followed her course on the
opposite side of the road. Suddenly she
stopped, and looking round once to see if
she was followed, disappeared down the
area steps of a house.

Barry crossed the street. By the time

he had reached the opposite pavement, the
front door of the house was opened, and
Barry without any hesitation entered the
portico, the door closing behind him.

Here I am said a woman's voice.
The woman struck a match into a flame as
she spoke. * This way.' And Barry followed
her up one flight of stairs, and
entered a room. ' Wait one moment,' she
said ; ' I will feet rid of these clothes.'

She entered an adjoining room, and in a
few minutes returned to Barry.

No one, not even Barry himself, would
have recognised in the well-dressed young
man of twenty-two years, who now entered
the room, the tattered hag who had asked
alms of the passers-by.

Capital !' said Barry, laughing. ' Me-trade
thinks his women-detectives wonderfully
clever, but they are children compared
with ours, Maggie.'

' Where are you going to-night ?' said
the other.

To Metrale's. He has a party in
Harley Street. Several Cabinet Ministers
will be there, and not a few diplomates. I
know the French Military Attache, from
meeting him at my club. He thinks I ama
Canadian, and it is with him I am going.
O'Hagan Harton and Mr. Cumbermore
will be there.'

A nicely arranged programme, to be
turned to some good, I doubt not,' answered
the other.

Yes ; I mean to take a run through
the thieves' quarters with one of Metrale's
men. You may happen to discover one or
two informers.'

Have you heard anything more of
Eugene ?'

He is still with Belper ; but his uncle,
who has learnt the fate we had prepared

for the boy, ignores our threats. He received
an anonymous letter the day after
the event, telling him to look in the
Scrawler, and he would learn how nearly
Eugene's life had paid for his opposition
to our cause

It is a pity Eugene's mother is dead,'
was the answer. * It is the soft hearts of
the women we should work upon. If she
were alive, and believed her son in danger
of death by fire, we might count upon the
old lord's influence against us being at an
end.'

Leave a woman to break a woman's
heart,' thought Barry, as he parted from
his accomplice.

Barry mounted to the attics of the house.
He placed a hand-ladder under a window
in the centre of the ceiling. With some
little difficulty he succeeded in opening the
shutter and climbing on to the roof He

cautiously made his way along the housetops
for some distance, crawling where the
slanting roof precluded the possibility of
standing on his feet, and at times steadying
himself against a chimney. In less than
ten minutes he reached a house that had,
to all appearances, been recently constructed.
Approaching a window with as
little noise as possible, he looked through
the glass. Several people were in a room
below. After scanning their countenances
for a few minutes, Barry tapped three
times on the slates. In answer to the
signal, a ladder was drawn from one side of
the garret wall and placed under the
window. In a few seconds Barry had
descended by the ladder into the room.
'• You are all here ?' he inquired.
No, master ; Maggie is missing.'
*I have seen her, Mike,' Barry replied;
she has her orders. I have some serious

business to report to-night. Be seated.
You know that our plan to destroy Mr.
Cumbermore's house failed, and that several
of our men are in custody ; but one thing I
think you have yet to learn — how Metrale
discovered our plot. A traitor has been
in our midst,' he continued sternly. ' He
sold us, not for gold, but for a woman's
embraces ; for a thing as fickle as public
opinion in this country, which lauds a man
to the skies in one moment, and hoots him
down without a hearing the next.'

Who is the traitor ?' exclaimed two or
three fiercely.

Ay, tell us the traitor's name !' shouted
Mike Lambeth.

It is useless at present to let you know,'
said Barry. ' He suffers with the rest in
prison ; perhaps he may divulge more of
our plans that we have confided to him.
I mention the fact to put you on your

VOL. I. 8

guard, and to remind you of the oaths you
took as members of this Association, that
the most fearful death the Ingenuity of man
can devise shall be the punishment of all
who betray their associates.'

Barry now turned to his lieutenant.

Have you he said, * executed my
orders ?'

Yes,' was the reply ; * all but one. We
have been unable as yet to re-capture
Eugene.'

That should not be a difficult task,' said
Barry.

What report have you to make of Mr.
Cumbermore, Michael ?' he continued, addressing
another of the circle.

That he Is not to be reached through
the affections, sir. He loves neither woman
nor child more than himself.'

When do the steamers start for Dublin
with English reinforcements ?'

To-morrow evening,' answered another,
who had been ordered to investigate the
subject.

How did you obtain your information ?'
said the chief.

Through a woman in the telegraph
office ; but not to rely solely on a woman's
word, I have corroborated her statement
by tapping the wire, and reading the return
message which passed an hour ago from
the Colonel of the 21st Dragoon Guards to
the War Office. The City of Rome will
take the troops.'

Are any of our people amongst the
crew ?'

Only one ; he is below, if you would
like to see him.'

Bring him here said the chief, at the
same time placing a black mask on his
face, the other conspirators following his
example.

8—2

The man was brought in.

You know the value of your oath ?' said
the Fenian leader to him.

Yes replied the man, seemingly much
alarmed.

You sail in the City of Rome tomorrow.


Yes,' answered the man timidly ;
but you do not wish anyone else poisoned
?'

No,' said Barry ; * on this occasion I
shall be satisfied if you will take with you
as kitchen lad during the passage a young
fellow in whom I am interested.'

No more deaths, I trust !' said the man,
shivering.

Silence, fool ! if it be necessary to wade
knee-deep in English blood, we must do so
for Ireland's sake.'

'Ireland for ever!' shouted all the
Fenians ; and the cook, led away by the

enthusiasm of the moment, joined feebly in
the cry.

He was a mulatto, and had been a cook
in Dublin for some years, where he had
become affiliated to the Fenian Association
was of a cowardly disposition, and when
aware of his fate if he betrayed his comrades,
he had been easily induced to obey
the orders of his chiefs. A few months
before this meeting he had received instructions
to poison the Chief Secretary for
Ireland, in whose household he was employed.
The official, however, did not fall
into the trap set for him, but his unfortunate
wife had done so, and had died in great
agonies. The mulatto, at once suspected,
had been able to clear himself from the
accusation, and an innocent man suffered
in his place. This crime placed the
wretched mulatto more in the Fenians'
power than he had been before.

There are no further orders for to-day,'
said Barry, to his other followers ; and,
turning once more to the cook, he added :
Remember, you expect a kitchen lad onboard
the Cz^y of Rome ; he will give you
the password. Now go.'

Soon afterwards the conspirators separated,
several of them making their exit
by the roof, and taking the course their
chief had done before. Barry waited a
few minutes after his followers had departed.
Lifting up a plank in the floor,
he took from beneath it some attire that
from its appearance seemed at one time to
have belonged to a stone-mason. Rapidly
dressing himself in these garments, he
descended the staircase and walked out
into the street below.

NUMBER of carnages were
blocking the way in Harley
Street. Some of the footmen,
by the strange cockades they wore, were
evidently servants of foreigners. Link-men
were busy calling up broughams,
and making way for their owners to pass
through the crowd that blocked the entrance
to Mr. Metrale's house. It was the first
time that season that the Chief of the Police
had thrown open his salon. Almost every
well-known man in London had received
an invitation. Ambassadors jostled with
actors ; the Head of the Fire Brigade with

the Commander-in-chief; the Archbishop
of Canterbury with Mr. Bullneck, the infidel
; Professors of Philosophy with Hio^h
Church curates ; authors with artists.

It was a strange assembly.

INIetrale's parties were considered to bethe
most entertaining of their kind in
London. ' Smoke and talk' were printed on
the cards of invitation that he sent out,
and talk his guests did on every conceivable
topic, and helped themselves to the choicest
regalia, which were ever at hand. Downstairs,
in a large supper-room, a light but
substantial repast was always upon the
table. The attractions above were, however,
greater than to allow of justice being
done to the viands.

A well-known actor began to recite a
short but excellent piece. The burst of
applause which followed his effort was a
proof of its favourable reception.

Two young men were standing close to
the performer. One of them wore the
ribbon of the Legion of Honour in his coat.
As Metrale advanced to meet the actor,
this gentleman moved forward, and shaking
the Chief of the Police by the hand, asked
to be allowed to introduce his friend
Mr. Monies Ballard, a Canadian gentleman.


Certainly — with pleasure.'

And the Chief of the Fenians was presented
to the Chief of the Police.

I have come to study your interesting
customs,' said Monies Ballard.

In any way that I can assist you in
your study, I shall be pleased.'

Thanks ; I shall remind you of your
promise.'

I will make a note of it, Mr. Ballard.
Your address is ?'

Alcibiades Club, Piccadilly.'

And with a pleasant bow, Mr. Metrale
moved away to speak with other guests.

Sir Richard Digby approached the
Frenchman.

I am so pleased to meet you,' said the
French Attache. ' I hardly know anyone
here, and yet I am acting as cicerone to my
friend Mr. Monies Ballard. Let me present
him to you.'

By all means,' said Digby. The introduction
then took place.

Now,' said Victor Delange, ' tell me
what celebrities are here. That tall, pale,
but somewhat stout gentleman, for instance;
where have I met him ?'

That is Ricardius, the President of the
Alcibiades Club. He is quite a character,
and is talking to Wild Thyne, the cynic of
the period. Let us join them.'

After an introduction of the two gentlemen
to the party, Ricardius observed :

We were having an extremely illuminating
discussion. It will be interesting, M.
Victor, to hear your opinion on the subject.'


Two to one the question is about the
women,' said Deloony, coming up at the
time.

You are right said Wild Thyne. * They
bring us into the world, cause most of our
misfortunes in it, and kill more of us than
diseases and doctors together. Ricardius
wishes to have women admitted into the
Alcibiades.'

Only divorced and unmarried women,'
said Ricardius.

I tell him,' continued Wild Thyne, 'we
shall all be set by the ears in less than a
week, if his idea is carried into effect.
They will want representatives on the
committee, and will blackball, perhaps, the
most agreeable men.'

Yet you are for women sitting at Westminster,'
said Digby. * If that principle is
correct, why should you object to them in
your club ?

I will tell you answered Wild Thyne :
I admire a beautiful creature who is
for woman's rights, and I flatter herby
taking up the question. I know it
will never be carried, so what harm is
done.'

Then you believe in the tender passion ?'
said Digby.

No, only in self-interest. Metrale does
not love any of us, but we make his parties
go pleasantly. He invites you and me.
We eat his oysters and drink his Pompey.
Reciprocity of interest. Do you think
Lord O'Hagan Harton cares two oyster-shells
for Metrale, or Metrale for him ?
No. The Lord Chancellor values his
personal safety, and if he honours Metrale

by his presence here, more care is used to
guard him from the Fenians. Metrale,
again, hopes for an increase of salary out
of the taxpayers through the Minister.
Wheels within wheels. Reciprocity of
interest, gentlemen ; nothing more.'

With these concluding words Wild
Thyne turned on his heel, and walked
to another part of the room.

'A queer character,' said Deloony,
laughing.

Yes said Mr. Ryder, who had heard
the last words of Wild Thyne ; * as
Diogenes was vain of his tub, so he is
proud of his cynicism.'

He is a good-hearted fellow,' added
Digby ; ' although he prefers to be
credited with half the crimes in the
Newgate Calendar rather than to hear
one of his good actions repeated.'

Meantime Metrale, who had been

walking among his guests, recognised
DIgby, and advanced towards him.

So you sail tomorrow ?' said Metrale.

Yes replied the Baronet. ' We have
only this afternoon received our orders,
but I could not leave without coming hereto
thank you for your kindness to Belper.'

I hope he Is better.'

Yes ; but he will not be able to move
with the regiment. Eugene will go with
his soldier servant to Dublin with Belper s
luggage.'

I congratulate you on going to the seat
of war,' said Victor Delange.

There Is, I fear, little to congratulate
us upon said Sir Richard ; Mt Is a miserable
affair.'

The conspiracy should have been
nipped In the bud,' said Metrale.

Naturally,' added Sir Richard ; 'and If,
before the leaders of the Irish steeped

themselves to the Hps In treason, martial
law had been proclaimed, the Fenian
movement would have been long ago at
an end. Moreover, Ireland should have
been temporarily deprived of her Members
of Parliament.'

But would that have put an end to the
secret societies ?' said the Canadian.

No said Metrale, ' nothing will put
an end to them, save money and counter
secret societies. But I have a plan which
I think will be the means of destroying
the traitors ;' and he turned once more to
his other guests.

The Duke of Beauties entered the room
at that moment. He had just returned
from the House of Commons, where he
had been listening to an important debate.
It had been brought on by Mr. Bullneck,
who had moved that, as England was a
peace-loving nation, and as the inhabitants

of India were now trying to retake from
us what we had taken from them by force
and treachery in the last century, it was expedient
that British forces be immediately
withdrawn from Hindostan.

'You know,' said O'Hagan Harton to
Metrale, * for a long time past there has
been a cry that India costs us more than
she brings us in ; not that this really is the
case, but it was felt that it would be convenient
to have an excuse for retiring to
make way for Russia, who is always ready
to advance. With Russia in possession of
a railroad from the Caspian to Herat and
Kandahar, our position in India has been
one of sufferance for some years past.'

What was the result of the debate ?'
said Metrale ; * did they divide ?'

'Yes,' said the Duke of Beauties ; ' and
the curious part of the story has to come.
You remember it was decided a few

months ago that all voting in the House
of Commons should be by ballot. Since
then It has been extremely difficult for the
whips to estimate what the majority would
be. This evening Snapper, the whip, informed
me that in all probability there
would be a majority of fifty for Bullneck.
Almost everyone spoke in favour of the
motion ; but after the votes had been
counted it was found that not more than
twenty members were voting with Bull-neck.'


The fact is,' said Lord O'Hagan
Harton, ' members are afraid of their
constituencies, and vote in favour of
measures of which they quite disapprove.'


Then India is not to be given up T
said Sir Richard Digby.

Thank heaven, there is still some little
patriotism left in the House !' said Metrale.

VOL. I. 9

Oh, we are going to the dogs as fast as
we can !' said the Duke.

Any more news about Ireland ?' asked
Sir Richard DIgby.

The old story. Only a few more
women and children burnt to death,' replied
the Lord Chancellor ; ' and the
Fenians are reported to have landed from
America.'

When will there be an end of It ?' said
Sir Richard DIgby despairingly.

By this time the company had broken
up into little knots for conversation. The
smoke was so thick that It was difficult to
recognise anyone across the room, and It
enabled the Canadian gentleman to pass
about unobserved, and gather from the
fragments of conversation some valuable
information.

He and Captain Victor Delange were
almost the last to depart from a room



which that evening had held beneath its
roof representatives of art, science, literature
and politics, and even of Fenianism
itself.

9—2

Neville had sounded at daylight
in the Marston Barracks.
Everything was In preparation
for an early march. A number of large
vans, drawn by horses, were filled with the
penates of the men and officers of the 21st
Dragoon Guards. Soldiers In their shirt-sleeves
were giving the last rub-down to
their troop horses. Women were trying to
discover a spare place for some small piece
of furniture they could not find it In their
heart to abandon ; and there was the usual
apparent confusion which is to be seen In
every barracks in the kingdom the last

three hours before a regiment shifts its
quarters.

I shall not be sorry when we are out of
this,' said stout Dr. Allenby to his friend
Tom Ostend. * In the last half-hour I
have been sent for to the orderly-room at
least a dozen times. The married women
and children give so much trouble. The
Adjutant says that these people are under
my special charge, and that I must see in
what order they leave their quarters, and
that their rooms are left in a proper
sanitary condition before we march.'

You will have old Titus down on you
if you are not careful. He told me he
intended going round the barracks himself.
He is in one of his tantrums this
morning ; probably because her ladyship
has announced her intention of embarking
with him.'

If he bullies us,' said the Doctor, * there

Is one consolation — he gets well bullied
himself.'

The old man looked quite pleased,'
said Ostend, 'when he received the telegram
ordering us to start at once for
Dublin ; and did you see how his face fell
when Lady Mulligan announced her intention
of accompanying him ?'

There he is said the Doctor, ' in a
fidget, as usual. He is gesticulating at the
Adjutant. I suppose I must go and look
after these confounded women.'

And I to my troop stable,' added
Captain Ostend.

Sir Titus Mulligan, who commanded the
2 1 St Dragoon Guards, was a short slim
man. His bronzed face and many medals
showed that he had seen much service in
many different parts of the globe. He was
about forty-seven years of age, and was
looked upon as a martinet by his regiment.

In private life he was agreeable and
pleasant enough, but in barracks he was
extremely strict. Before his marriage to
Mrs. O'Donnell, a widow lady about four
years younger than himself, he had been
frequently on leave of absence for weeks at
a time, leaving the management of the
barracks in the hands of his second in
command and his Adjutant. But since his
marriage, whether it was to escape from
Lady Mulligan, or from some more chivalrous
cause, he had hardly ever been out of
the barrack-yard. The men were kept
burnishing steel accoutrements from morning
to night.

Sir Titus had been quartered for sometime
in India, and he now found that the
cold east winds of England were very trying
to his liver. He had been hoping to
receive instructions to embark his resident
for Hindostan, but the telegram from the

War Office had countermanded the original
orders, and he was forced to proceed to
Ireland. To crown his misfortunes, Lady
Mulligan, who never let him have a
moment's peace, and who was seldom out
of the barracks, had announced her Intention
of accompanying him. India, he knew,
would have been too remote a quarter of
the globe for his wife ; but Dublin was
quite another place, and there would in all
probability be entertainments at the Local
Self-government Lodge of a sufficiently
exclusive order to allow of her presence
there.

Just outside the barrack-gates stood a
detached villa, which had been rented for
six months by Sir Titus, and before the
door of this residence stood three enormous
vans filled with the household goods of
Lady Mulligan. She was screaming in a high
key from a window to some men engaged

in packing boxes of glass and china,
that they were not to economize their
straw.

Meanwhile, her husband was striding
round the barracks finding fault with his
men for the most trivial things.

Such things never occurred in my time,
sir he was shouting to Captain Ostend.
When I was subaltern there were no
competitive examinations. We had not to
learn Chaucer by heart, or digest Shakespeare
; but we had to study cleanliness.
Look at that horse ! he has not been
properly groomed ; put your finger on the
animal's shoulder. Not there, sir. God 1
the man doesn't know his shoulder from
his hoof.'

Damn it, there's no pleasing him now !'
said Captain Ostend, as the commander
passed on. * If it were not for Adjutant
Careful, who keeps him in some sort of

bounds, I should have sent my papers in
long ago.*

Adjutant Careful was a very different
man from his chief. He was the only officer
in the regiment of whom Lady Mulligan
stood in awe. Careful's calm and phlegmatic
manner had the effect of cold water
on her gushing temperament. She did
not fail to urge her husband to use his influence
against Careful. His Adjutant,
however, gave him no opportunity to find
any fault with the performance of his
military duties. He knew his work quite
as well, if not better than his Colonel,
and was twice as popular as that officer
in the regiment.

The Colonel had duly visited the stables,
and was on the point of returning to the
mess-room, when Dr. Allenby appeared.

I have inspected all the married
people's quarters said the Doctor.

As the Doctor was speaking an open
carriage entered the barrack-yard, containing
the Colonel's wife and her sister.

'Dr. Allenby !' exclaimed Lady Mulligan.
In spite of his corpulence, the Doctor ran
rather than walked to the barouche.

Lady Mulligan graciously extended her
hand.

Oh, Allenby,' she said, ' it has occurred
to me that I should like to look round the
married people's quarters.'

I was just about to show the Colonel
over them, but he has gone away for a
moment,' answered Dr. Allenby.

Oh, we need not wait for him,' said
Lady Mulligan, 'if you will accompany us.'

The Doctor did not hesitate. Lady
Mulligan ruled Sir Titus, and Sir Titus
ruled the regiment, so Lady Mulligan may
have been said to rule them both.

Great was the consternation amongst

the soldiers' wives when they saw her
ladyship approaching. Many attempts
were made to hide from her eagle-eye
small heaps of rubbish, broken glass,
etc., the accumulation of the last six
months. Amongst other rooms which more
particularly offended the gaze of Lady
Mulligan was one tenanted by Bruce's
wife. The poor woman had Eugene to
attend to, and her husband was busy
looking after his master's luggage.

'Very untidy,' said Lady Mulligan, as
she entered ; ' and you, too, the wife of an
officer's servant ! Who is the boy ?' she
added, pointing to Eugene.

He is Captain Helper's, my lady.'

Captain Belper's !' screamed Lady
Mulligan ; ' the monster isn't married !'

Allow me to explain,' said Dr. Allenby.
And the Doctor told Lady Mulligan the
circumstances of the case.

And SO you are going to take him with
you to Ireland ?' said her ladyship.

Yes, my lady,' answered Mrs. Bruce ;
that is, if the Colonel — leastways, your
ladyship — has no objection.'

He may go,' said Lady Mulligan,
sweeping out of the room, and joined In
the hall by Sir Titus.

An hour later the trumpeter had sounded
a general parade, and Sir Titus and his
Adjutant were riding by the ranks of the

2 1 St.

Her ladyship was giving some Instructions
to the bandmaster from her
carriage-door.

What shall you play when you march
out of barracks ?' she was saying.

" The girl I left behind me," my
lady.'

Play something operatic and dignified,'
said her ladyship. ^ I will not have any

cats-meat tunes played by the band of the
dist Dragoon Guards.'

Outside the barrack-gates hundreds of
people had assembled, mostly the wives
and children of the troopers, bewailing the
loss of their relatives, for only a few married
women were allowed to accompany
the regiment.

If we were going to India they could
not make more fuss,' said Lady Mulligan
contemptuously.

As the regiment proceeded along the
streets of London to the martial music,
the cheering from the assembled crowds
was tremendous. Mn Cumbermore was
riding in Hyde Park at the time. He
rode up to Sir Titus, and had a few
minutes' conversation with him. The
hurrahs of the bystanders were redoubled
in vigour. To the British public It
seemed as If the young Prime Minister

had at last shaken himself free of the
Peace-at-any-prlce ' party, and that he
was really going to put his foot down, and
settle the Irish question with the sword.
The feeling against Ireland was intense in
the Metropolis. One of the first things
the Irish had done when Local Self-government
had been conceded to them
some years before, was to put heavy duties
on manufactures and all articles of commerce
coming from England.

The English manufacturers and artisans
who were for taxing foreign goods imported
into England were indignant with
the Irish for carrying out the same policy
with reference to their own affairs.
Nothing makes a peaceful Briton so
irritable as to hit him in his pocket. The
result was that the masses, which were
previously indifferent to the murder of
Loyalists in Ireland, and who had made

more fuss about an elephant which was
taken from London to the United States
than about the mutilation of human beings
on the other side of St. George's Channel,
were now furious with the Irish people.

Indeed, Mr. Cumbermore himself had
stated that it would be an easy matter to
get up an anti Irish movement throughout
England, and have Irishmen expelled from
England, as the Jews were expelled from
Russia.

Is it true, Mr. Cumbermore,' said Sir
Richard Digby to that gentleman, who had
joined the Baronet on leaving Sir Titus —
Is it true that you may safely appeal to
the passions and prejudices of Englishmen
but never to their reason ?'

It would indeed appear so very often,'
said Mr. Cumbermore. ' Public opinion is,
I fear, easily manufactured In this country.
Just as the average juryman is first led one

way by the counsel against the prisoner,
then another by the delinquent's advocate,
and finally gives his verdict upon the
judge's remarks, so are the electors of
Great Britain led by the nose. Some have
a fetish they call Radicalism, others Toryism.
It would puzzle them sorely to give the
reasons for their political faith. As for
the remainder, they are in a ship without
rudder or compass, at the mercy of every
political gust of wind.'

The troops arrived at the docks In time.
The confusion at the barracks was nothing
as compared with that which occurred at
the place of embarkation. Women were
trying to smuggle themselves on board to
go with their husbands ; horses were kicking
violently as they were lowered Into
the vessel ; officers and men were making
desperate efforts to discover their respective
berths ; sailors were storing their

VOL. I. 10

ammunition ; friends of the officers, who
had been admitted on board, were continually
getting In the way of the crew,
and adding thus to the general confusion.
Amongst the last to arrive was Mrs. Bruce,
with Eugene. Tired and thoroughly worn
out, she was In the act of going on board,
when a young man accosted her, and
Informing her that he was one of the crew,
offered to assist In finding out what accommodation
there was for her.

No, thank you,' she answered. ' Walt
a moment, Eugene,' she added, addressing
the boy.

'Eugene!' murmured the young man;
this must be the boy.'

The speaker was Maggie, who was on
the vessel, endeavouring to carry out some
orders received from Barry.

Mrs. Bruce, who had been away fora
minute to make some necessary inquiries,

now returned, and led Eugene
away.

Amongst a group of men on the steerage
side of the vessel was the Fenian mulatto.
He did not recognise Maggie as she passed
him in her disguise. She trod, however,
rather heavily on the cook's foot, who, in
return, swore violently. In doing so, he
remembered that it was connected with a
preconceived signal. When the deck was
a little clear, the mulatto joined Maggie.

Have you it here ?' he said.

Yes, everything is in the basket,'
answered Maggie. ' Now show me the
kitchen.'

You look innocent enough in that garb
said the mulatto with a grin, as he led the
way down the steps.



unlooked-for incident occurred
on board the City of Ro77ie before
the departure of the troops.
Officers and men had succeeded in having
their horses properly accommodated, and
were lounging about the deck in small
groups. Lady Mulligan was in a fury
at the limited size of the cabin that had
been provided for her; and her husband,
finding himself in the way, was glad to
escape on deck. Just as he reached the
top of the cabin steps, he started back as
if he had seen an apparition.

Captain Belper — you here !' he exclaimed.


'Yes,' said Belper. * I know 1 have
disobeyed the Doctor's orders, but I could
not let the ship sail without me. So here
I am.'

A gross piece of insubordination, sir !'
said Sir Titus fiercely. ' If I did my duty
I should place you under arrest'

With these words Sir Titus strode
towards a group of officers, frowning
ominously. They dispersed to carry out
some orders he gave, with no very good
grace.

What a bore old Titus is !' said Ostend
to Digby as he and his companion walked
away. ' He has just been giving it to poor
Belper, simply because he disobeyed his
doctor to be with his regiment.'

What, is Arthur on board ?' said Digby,
with surprise. ' I had no idea of it. Where
is his cabin .'^'

He is sharing mine,' answered Ostend.

I will show you the way.' And the
Captain descended the stairs leading to
the officers' quarters. They found Belper
lying on his berth. He was very pale,
and rose with difficulty to greet his comrades.


It is too bad of you, my dear Arthur,'
said Sir Richard. ' Titus is a brute, we all
know ; but it is really very rash of you to
risk your life in this way.'

I shall be better presently,' replied
Arthur, who was looking very pale. ' I did
not expect such a warm reception, and I
am still weak.'

A knock came at the door.

Come in,' said Captain Ostend, and
Eugene answered to the summons.

Arthur's face brightened up as he saw
the lad.

Well, Eugene, how do you like being
on board ?' he said kindly.

Very much, now you have come, sir
answered the lad.

Eugene had brought some hot water ina
can, which Belper tried to hft, but the
effort was too great, and he was obliged
reluctantly to abandon the idea.

You are still weak, Arthur,' said Sir
Richard, ' and I shall be your nurse. Let
me have your berth, Ostend, and you take
mine. I have a cabin to myself.'

Ostend readily assented, and left his two
friends together, to seek his new quarters.
The vessel by this time had weighed
anchor. A thick mist covered the waters,
and the lights of the passing boats could
hardly be seen in the dense fog. All was
still on the vessel, nothing being heard but
the throbbing of the machinery, or the
voices of the men on watch. Hard by the
engine-room two men were busily engaged
in placing some plates and dishes in a

cupboard. From time to time they ceased
working, and conversed together in a low-tone
of voice.

See, It looks like a piece of coal,' said
the taller of the two, who was Maggie, the
Fenian agent. * Only an experienced eye
could distinguish the difference.'

There is one thing I do not see,' said
the mulatto, her companion. ' You are
going to destroy the ship, but how are we
to escape ?'

Very easily,' replied the woman ; * but
you are in a great fright about your precious
life. You ought to be proud to die for
Ireland.'

What is Ireland to me ?' said the
mulatto fiercely. * I gain nothing by all
this.'

But you have a great deal to lose,'
replied Maggie sharply. ' Your life, if you
disobey my orders.'

The mulatto put on a resigned look, but
his eyes glistened as he saw a cleaver
lying on the table by his side.

I know what is passing through your
mind,' said Maggie, smiling. 'You are
thinking how easy it would be to murder
me. It would not benefit you. Within
twenty-four hours you must die.'

What do you mean ?' asked the black,
terror-stricken.

I gave you a poison with your dinner
answered the woman, ' knowing you were
a traitor. To that poison there is but one
antidote, and that is in my possession ; but
not on my person,' she added with a smile.
You cannot fight against us, you see — weare
too strong for you. Here, I have
some more of the poison. Would you
like to see how the drug does its deadly
work ?'

There was a fowl in a coop hanging

against the ship's side. The woman took
the bird, and, squeezing its neck, put some
of the poison down its throat.

Watch the bird carefully,' she said,
replacing the cage against the wall ; ' in
two hours the bird will be dead ; but in far
less time you will realize from Its condition
the tortures you will undergo. The
antidote I shall not give you till after the
explosion. I am now going to sleep.'

Curling herself up on a mattress in one
corner, the Fenian emissary was soon
buried in the most profound repose.

The mulatto, however, tried in vain to
sleep. From time to time he looked
anxiously at the bird, and then at the
sleeper, wondering In his mind whether
she had lied to him to terrify him Into
compliance with her designs. It was a
long time to wait in such fearful suspense.


If I were only sure,' he murmured, * I
would betray the plot to the captain

He arose at last from the found with
this determination, when a slight scratching
sound reached his ear. He turned his
head towards the direction from whence It
came. The bird was pecking violently at
the bars of Its cage. He went up to It.
The hen was evidently in great pain. Not
content with pecking at the framework,
she was driving her talons deep into her
flesh, and scattering her feathers In the
act. Between each convulsion there would
be but an Interval of one minute. He
could not remain looking at the fearful
sight alone, so he went to the sleeper, and
shook her.

She smiled with satisfaction when she
realized how completely she had the mulatto
in her power.

The bird was now unable to stand. The

sounds became each moment fainter as she
tried to reach the cage bars with her claws.
Struggling from her recumbent position,
she appeared for an instant, as it were,
galvanized into life ; then, fluttering her
wings, she fell an inert mass on the floor
of her prison.

The mulatto looked as terrified as if he
had been viewing his own death-struggles.

You have the antidote ?' he gasped.

I will give it you five minutes after the
explosion takes place. The means for our
escape are ready. Can you swim ?'

*No.'

It will not be necessary,' she replied
carelessly. ' Here, in this bag, are two
waterproof suits. After putting one of
them on, all you have to do is to blow into
the lining through an india rubber funnel.
The space below the outer and inner cloth
becomes filled with air. You can float till

doomsday. If you can, take a small
paddle from the ship. The explosion will
occur about twelve miles from the coast.
It will be your own fault if you do not
succeed in reaching the shore.'

How shall we get into the sea without
being detected ?'

Through the porthole by a rope,' answered
Maggie. Tf you have any difficulty
in getting through with your dress inflated,
you must not blow into it till you are on
the rope itself.'

Maggie went to the side of the ship, and
looked out into the night.

There is no moon,' she said ; ' the fates
mean to favour us.'

Lance Arlington was

not at all sorry to hear that her
aunt had determined to take her
cousin and herself to the Mediterranean.
She had been very ill since the day at
Hurllngham when she had witnessed Captain
Belper's accident. Often, as she sat In
her boudoir at Arlington Street, had she
catechized herself about the events of that
day and the effect they had produced on her.
Had she really a tender interest in the
welfare of Captain Belper ? or was it
merely the effect produced upon her
nerves by seeing a fellow-creature in such

imminent peril ? Did she love Arthur
Belper? She admired him, it was true.
He was handsome, and brave, and truth
was stamped upon his brow. She liked
his society, she respected his qualities ; but
between these sentiments and love — the
love that a noble woman should have for
her future husband — there was a great,
though apparently only a passable gulf.

Who was to define love to her ? Who
could open a heart, of which she only
possessed the key ? Was she piqued, as
women sometimes are, at the mere resolution
of a man to defy the boy Cupid ?
She argued these and many other ideas in
her mind, but could arrive at no satisfactory
conclusion.

Even supposing that she instinctively
felt there was no other man who could
rouse such feelings in her breast as the
young officer, what right had she to encourage

them, seeing that he had never
shown the slightest predilection for her
society In preference to that of any other
person ? He had chanced on one or two
occasions to meet her at balls and dinners,
and had ridden by her side in the Park,
and at such times had made himself more
than agreeable, even to the saying of pretty
sentences ; but who of her acquaintance
had not done the same ? However, In spite
of all these things, he was ever In her
thoughts, and she was loth to put those
thoughts away from her mind. But now
she was going to visit new countries,
and would be free for a time from all the
restraints of society. There would be no
at homes, no calls to make, no teas, no
dinners, no balls ; and would she not be
better able, out on the great blue Mediterranean,
to put him out of her mind
altogether ? Alas, she felt there was no

sea that could divide her from him In
thought, no distance so great that It could
divide her from him In spirit !

It was with a feeling of satisfaction,
however, that she found herself with her
aunt and cousin In a railway carriage on
the way to Milford Haven. There they
had arranged to meet Sir Richard Digby's
yacht, and embark for Cadiz, Seville, and
Gibraltar. Laura was by no means In a
good humour at having to leave London
before the expiration of the season. She
had at last an object in life. Until now
everything had bored her ; but at last she
had discovered some interest In existence,
and that Interest was centred in an
object, and that object was to bring
Arthur Belper to her knees. Not that
she bore any affection for him, but merely
because It amused her to do so, and,
moreover, because she was determined

VOL. I. II

that he should never marry her cousin
Blanche.

And again, her views upon matrimony
were not of a very elevated order, though
they may have been orthodox, and she
considered Captain Belper a very fair
matrimonial speculation. He was of a
good family, and had at least ^7,000 a
year ; with only one drawback, the fact
that he had no title to confer upon his
wife. She had not closed her eyes to the
state of her cousin's mind ; and \i she were
able to achieve her purpose, she would
by that means strike a mortal blow at
Blanche's happiness. Laura hated her
cousin. Lady Tryington she knew would
leave half her fortune to Blanche, and that
would leave her a very Inadequate sum
with which to supply her extravagant
demands. She was quite unaware of the
fact that Belper was about to embark for

Ireland, and was still under the impression
that he was confined to his room. She
had looked forward to meeting him in the
Park on his recovery, and had exercised
her brains not a little In devising new
schemes with which to succeed in captivating
the heart of the young dragoon.
But now she was dragged away from the
scene of her possible triumphs, to gratify
the whims of Lady Trylngton and the
fads of her niece.

Who ever heard of going to the
Mediterranean In summer ?' she had said,
on hearing of the proposed voyage ; ' it
would ruin the complexion of a negress.'

Their journey so far at an end, the
ladies found themselves at a comfortable
hotel called ' The Dorking.' The best
apartments had been prepared for them,
and a special waiter hired for the occasion.
In the landlord's opinion Lady Trylngton

II — 2

was, to use his own expression, ' the
noblest among the nobs,' and her visit to
his hotel was an excellent advertisement
for him. A waiter entered the room with
a card upon a tray. ' Mr. Walsh ' was
written upon it, and underneath ' The
White Camellia' that being the name of
Sir Richard Digby's yacht.

Mr. Walsh,' said Lady Tryington ;
'that is the name of Dick's captain.'

The captain of the White Camellia was
announced. After receiving her ladyship's
instructions, he withdrew to make the
necessary arrangements for their reception
on board the following day. The following
morning broke cold and windy, but Lady
Tryington was a woman of her word, and
at five o'clock they were all on board the
White Camellia.

The vessel had been newly fitted up by
Sir Richard Digby's orders, and no expense

had been spared to make the ladies'
cabins as luxurious and comfortable as
possible. Flowers were placed everywhere
in abundance and with great taste,
and an Gerard's piano, with a quantity of
new music, was a conspicuous feature in
the saloon.

How very thoughtful of Dick !' said
Lady Tryington with real pleasure, as
they walked through the ship.

'When would your ladyship like to
sail ?' said the captain, approaching them
as they were curiously looking into the
hold of the ship.

As soon as possible, please,' was the
answer.

The barometer is falling very fast, my
lady.'

Never mind ; we may as well get out
to sea,' answered Lady Tryington.

Sir Richard Digby had given strict

orders that Lady Tryington's wishes were
to be carried out in every respect. Walsh
consequently did not think of suggesting
that it might be advisable to postpone the
departure. An excellent dinner had been
prepared on board, and shortly after their
repast the ladies retired to their cabins
for the night. Very early the following
morning they were awakened by the
sound of sailors running about on
deck.

The anchor was being weighed. An
hour or two afterwards the vessel began to
roll heavily.

I thought we should catch it as soon
as we got outside,' murmured Walsh to
himself. ' The barometer falls steadily.'

Sir Richard Digby had engaged an experienced
woman for the cruise in the
person of a Mrs. Blenkinsop. She had
crossed the Atlantic many times on board

one of the vessels of the Cunard line, and
had experienced all weathers.

We are having a very bad passage, but
it will be smoother presently,' said the
worthy stewardess, tapping at Lady Tryington's
cabin-door.

We are caught in a gale, my lady,' she
continued, as she received no answer; * but
you need not be alarmed.'

The position of the yacht was more
perilous than even Mrs. Blenkinsop
imagined ; but she was under good hands,
and all that could be done was being done.

The captain had shortened sail ; but the
vessel, with almost bare masts, was scudding
along at a great speed, driven by the
wind and waves. An hour or more was
passed in this predicament. To put into
port was out of the question, the elements
being too powerful. The only one who
had thoroughly preserved her self-possession

was the invalid, Blanche. Laura and
Lady Trylngton were confirmed in the
opinion that their last hour had come.
Lady Tryington slept after a while for
some hours. When she awoke, there was
no longer any need for anxiety — the wind
had fallen. On deck, Captain Walsh was
busily engaged in endeavouring to discover
the damage his craft had received during
the storm. She had shipped a quantity of
water ; but after a careful inspection the
skipper came to the conclusion that there
was no important leakage. However,
several masts had been destroyed, and the
vessel had been severely strained. It was
absolutely necessary to put into some port
for repairs. The yacht had been driven
out of her course, and it would be necessary,
before proceeding, to rest for a few days
while she was being refitted.

The sun was shining brightly in the

heavens. There was hardly a ripple on
the waters. Mrs. Blenklnsop had assured
the ladies that now all danger was at an
end. Lady Tryington and her nieces
were persuaded to come on deck, and
having seated themselves beneath an awning,
were watching the exertions of the crew,
who were working with indefatigable energy.
In the distance, a noble-looking steamer
could be seen ploughingher way through the
sunlit waters. Blanche was looking at this
vessel with a field-glass which the captain
had lent to her.

She does not seem to have suffered so
much as our yacht in last night's gale.'

As she said this, she turned to gaze in
another direction. An exclamation from
her cousin attracted her attention. A
strange commotion appeared in the steamer.
She seemed to have been suddenly upheaved,
as if by a submarine convulsion.

Her masts were reeling over in the air.
Detached portions of the vessel seemed to
be floating about at a distance from it. A
blue and vaporous smoke was rising from
the waves. Suddenly, Captain Walsh was
heard giving orders for the boats to be
lowered. The sailors exercised every effort
to get the boats into working order, and in
ten minutes they were leaving the yacht for
the wreck. In a moment, the sinking ship
disappeared beneath the waves, never to
rise again. It was a race for life, and the
sailors strained every nerve to reach the
scene of the disaster in time to save their
fellow-creatures. From the deck of the
White Camellia Blanche could see the
figures of several people holding convulsively
to the spars and fragments of the
wreck. The sailors, though worn out with
the fatigues of the previous night, still
worked with a will, and with a determination

worthy of the occasion. Laura had
procured a large telescope from Sir Richard
Digby's cabin, and the captain had fitted
it up for her on a stand. Through the
powerful lenses, the goal towards which
the sailors were rowing could be distinctly
seen. A spar had floated to a considerable
distance from the other debris, and two
people were holding on to this piece. In
the meantime, Lady Tryington and Blanche
had descended to the cabins to arrange
for the reception of the survivors. Mrs.
Blenkinsop was carrying out their instructions
with great alacrity. The sailors were
now rapidly approaching the immediate
scene of the disaster.

Steady all !' shouted the man in command
of the first boat. ' I see two figures
moving on our right.'

A voice was heard calling for assistance.
A few minutes afterwards two men were

hoisted into the boat ; one was dead, the
other insensible. The boat was rowed
forward. At a short distance, some more
of the steamer's passengers were found,
and were at once removed from the planks
to which they were clinging. Three persons
could be seen close at hand — one of
them being a woman — and they were soon
safe on board. In an hour, or a little more,
the yacht's boat was turning away from the
catastrophe, and making towards the
White Camellia, with many survivors in the
little craft. Hardy, the man in command,
had heard that the lost steamer was called
the City of Rome. As the boat reached
the yacht. Lady Tryington and her nieces
were anxiously counting the number of
people saved from the wreck. Alas ! only
seven had been rescued alive. An exclamation
from Blanche, who had turned suddenly
pale, attracted Lady Tryington's attention.

What is it, my child ?' she said anxiously.


Oh, aunt !' exclaimed her niece. ' Look,
look ! there is Dick, and Captain Belper ;
what — what does it mean ? Oh ! I must
be dreaming.'

Blanche was not dreaming. There, true
enough, was Sir Richard Digby, supporting
Belper on his arm, and seated near to
them were Mrs. Bruce and Eugene. The
poor woman was in tears, for her husband
had been lost in the wreck. She had only
been saved herself by the presence of mind
displayed by Eugene, who immediately the
explosion took place had seized two life-belts,
one of which he had given to the
woman. Sir Richard Digby had only been
able to find one, and that he had placed
round Belper, trusting himself to his strong
arms for safety.

A few hours afterwards, Sir Richard

was sitting at dinner with his aunt and her
nieces, giving them a detailed account of
their misfortunes on board the City of
Rome.

But how did it occur ?' said Blanche
eagerly.

'We have that to learn yet answered
Digby. * My impression was that a boiler
had burst, but the explosion did not
seem to me to have happened in that part
of the ship. The moment it occurred,
however, in poured the water to such an
extent that it was immediately seen the
pumps were useless. All the soldiers were
on deck. By the Colonel's orders we
called the roll. While that was being done
the captain of the ship said, in an undertone,
that the life boats had been destroyed.

" Attention !" shouted the Colonel.

You could have heard a pin drop, but
for the rushing of the water into the ship.

'' Men of the 21st," said Sir Titus Mulligan,
"our ship is going down. Die
like men. Save the women if you can. If
there be a survivor, let him be able to say
that the 21st looked death in the face as
readily as they have done a hundred times
before."

One cheer rose from the ranks as the
Colonel finished speaking. It sounded like
a requiem over the dying.

I cannot describe the confusion which
ensued. Women rushing hither and thither
in search of their husbands, willing to die
only in their arms. Lady Mulligan was as
calm and collected as her husband. The
waters were now surrounding us, and I
remember very little more with any certainty,
till I found myself in the waves,
surrounded by hundreds struggling with
death, from which so few of the brave
fellows escaped.'

Sir Richard DIgby drank a glass of
wine to cover his emotion as he finished
speaking.

The survivors had been quartered in the
cabins, and every attention was being paid
to their wants.

Blanche remembered that night to pour
out her heart in gratitude to Him who
holds the waters in the hollow of His hand
for the souls who had been saved that day
from the wreck. Creeping quietly up on
deck, after the others had retired for the
night, she leaned over the side of the
vessel, and looked out into the night. The
moon was riding calmly over the peaceful
waters, and casting its reflection on the
dark blue waves.

A figure passed slowly near her in the
darkness, and descended the cabin steps. By
the light of the moon she discerned the face
and form of Arthur Belper. In his hand he

held a rose, which he placed lightly and
reverentially to his lips. It was the one
she had even him at Hurlino^ham. He
paused a moment before descending the
steps, and placed his fingers delicately
amongst the faded petals.

She gave me a rose,' he said softly to
himself. ' Will she ever give me a still
more precious gift }'

VOL. I. 12

AGGIE was one of the survivors.
The explosion had taken place
long before the hour upon which
she had calculated. She had seen the horrors
worked by her own remorseless hand,
and such an effect had it produced on her
mind that she would gladly have shared
the fate of those who had been drowned.

Arthur Belper suffered from a great
depression, which lasted some days. He
could scarcely realize that his brother
officers, the men with whom he had passed
so many happy years, had gone from his
sight for ever.

The remembrance of the scene on deck,
too, preyed upon his mind, and rendered
him prostrate and serious.

Blanche slept very little on the night
following the day of the disaster. The
horrors of the shipwreck were too vividly
imprinted on her mind. But with it all,
she was more grateful than words could
express that Arthur Belper had been saved.
She had heard, too, his avowal of love to
the poor rose she had given him at Hurlingham,
and she could no longer blind herself
to the fact that his love was fully reciprocated
by her.

Laura had not given a second thought
to the unfortunate crew of the City of
Rome. She only realized that once more
Arthur Belper was near her, and in a
position where she would have every
opportunity of exercising all her powers of
fascination.

12 — 2

On the following morning, Digby, who
was the first to appear on deck, found
Walsh busily engaged In superintending
some repairs to the vessel.

We had better put in at Holyhead, and
have her refitted there,' said the skipper to
his master.

This seemed the wisest course to pursue,
and Sir Richard gave instructions accordingly.
It was necessary, moreover, that
he and Arthur Belper should present themselves
to the authorities as soon as possible.
They would both be required as witnesses
before the Court of Inquiry which would
be certain to be assembled to investigate
the cause of the loss of the vessel. Again,
they could the sooner be attached to some
other regiment, for affairs in Ireland were
very critical, and the Baronet was aware
that the arrival of the American contingent
in Ireland was the prelude to a 

struggle between the Celts and
Saxons.

Whilst conversing with the skipper, the
three ladies came on deck, accompanied by
Captain Belper. He was still very ill and
weak, and after some persuasion he was
induced to return to the saloon and recline
upon a sofa.

Blanche looked anxiously at Sir Richard
Digby as he returned from accompanying
him.

I wish,' said Digby, as if in answer to
her mute appeal — ' I wish, Blanche, you
and Laura would see that he Is properly
looked after, for he requires great care.'

Maggie had been watching this scene
from a distance, and she fully realized
its meaning. Nothing escaped her keen
eye — not even the anxious expression on
Blanche's face as she watched Arthur
being led away. From the captain she

had gathered that Belper and Sir Richard
Digby were great friends. It gradually
dawned on her recollection that Belper
was the one who had saved Eugene's life.
Then there was something in Sir Richard
Digby's face that was not unfamiliar to
her. It haunted her continually, but she
could not recall under what circumstances
she had seen it before, for it to have so
clearly impressed itself on her memory.

She ran back over the years of her past
life. Oh, those years ! what would she
not give to recall and re-spend them !
Then she thought of Eugene, with his
fair, handsome, and open face, and a shade
of regret passed over her countenance as
she thought how little the love of any
human being had ever entered into her
life.

She paced the deck moodily, thinking of
those on board the White Camellia and



of the face of Sir Richard Digby, whom
she felt sure she had seen before.

Where have I met him ?' she said
fretfully in her thoughts. ' Where have I
met him .^ If I could only pick up the
links, what a chain I might forge !'

'A Cabinet Council in Downing Street.
The " City of Rome " gone down in the British

Channel — all hands lost.
Great Battle near Dublin — Defeat of the

English Troops.

Fresh Rising in India — Massacre of English

near Dell

Determined attitude of the Volunteers.'

^J^^HIS was the alarming placard of
a London journal, which caught
the eye of the Fenian Barry ashe
was walking in one of his numerous disguises,
through Piccadilly Circus, in the
direction of the Strand, where he was going
to attend a meeting of the conspirators.

Good !' he said to himself, as he walked
on ; ' Maggie has done her work well.
Now, if we can only destroy the Members
of the Cabinet, we shall be one more
step in the direction of Ireland's freedom.'

Immense excitement prevailed not only
in the metropolis, but in every town and
city throughout the kingdom. Meetings
of the Volunteer forces, in defiance of the
order of the Queen's regulations, had been
held in many parts of England, to denounce
the Peace-at-any-price party with reference
to India and Ireland.

Lord Cromer, a distinguished general,
who had been removed from the army on
account of his political views by Mr. Cumbermore,
presided at several of these meetings
in the metropolis. It was rumoured
that the Militia and Regulars would join
with the Volunteers. Lord Cromer had
publicly declared that under existing circumstances

Parliamentary Government was
a farce. The effigies of the Members of
the Government had been burned in public
thoroughfares, amid great cheering and
rejoicing.

A house divided against itself cannot
stand long, but time is everything to our
cause ; for, let Cromer once establish a
Military Government, the spirit of the
country might assert itself, and all would
be lost.'

Another plot had been formed, under
Barry's superintendence, for the destruction
of the Cabinet Ministers. It had been
thought by the Fenian leader that, as so
many attempts had been made on their
lives and had been frustrated by Metrale,
the Chief of the Police, now perhaps he
might, buoyed up by success, have relaxed
his vigilance.

Besides which, Barry had hit upon a

plan which he thought would completely
baffle the police. The large cistern on
the roof of the Foreign Office had been
out of order for some time, but had recently
been put into repair. The pipe for
filling it with water was attached, but the
cistern itself was empty. Barry received
this Information from a Fenian In his service,
who had been employed as a plumber
in the work. By means of a plan of the
sewers and underground communications
of London, In the conspirator's possession,
he had ascertained the exact position of
the pipe that supplied the Foreign Office
with water. His men had taken a house,
beneath which the pipe passed. They had
orders at a certain time to tap It, and then,
by means of a small but powerful steam-engine,
to force petroleum Into the cistern.
It was further arranged that at a given
signal the plumber, who had arranged to

secrete himself on the roof, was to turn
a tap which, for the extinction of fire at
the Foreign Office, was connected with
the reservoir on the roof. The building
would at once become fairly saturated
with petroleum, and, what with the fires
and the gas burning below, it would be
indeed strange if a single person within
the walls were to escape the conflagration.
Never had a more diabolical plan
been formed ; and it was to meet his
associates, and discuss the final arrangements
of the plot, that Barry, the arch-conspirator,
was making his way when the
placard struck his eye.

The rooms In the lower part of the
Foreign Office were being painted and
whitewashed, and this would cause the
Members of the Cabinet to hold their
council in one of the upper rooms.

On reaching Charing Cross, the conspirator

entered a small, mean - looking
house. It had formerly been a pawnbroker's
shop, but the owner had become
bankrupt, and had consequently to give up
business. The house had then been advertised
as to let, and Mike, Barry's lieutenant,
had taken possession, paying down
the first quarter's rent. It was now a
common rendezvous for the Fenians, and as
the cellars communicated with the sewers
of London, they afforded a means of escape
in the event of the house behoof surrounded
by the police.

On entering the house, the chief conspirator
walked rapidly to a small yard at
the back of the premises, first carefully
closing the door behind him. He had
previously whistled in a low tone, and the
signal had been answered in a similar
manner. Once in the yard, he looked
cautiously round, and then, perceiving that

he was unobserved, removed a large bundle
of faggots, when a trap-door was disclosed,
evidently covering a well. It had been
placed there previously, to prevent people
from falling Into the hole. A slight noise
was heard at the bottom of the pit, and It
was evident from the sound that the well
was quite dry. Some object was gradually
being pushed upwards, reaching In time
the level of the ground, and remaining In
that position. It was a ladder arranged
on a telescopic system, and which drew out
to any length required — a very convenient
invention, as It could be elevated In a very
confined space. Taking hold of the topmost
rung, Barry lowered himself till he
found a foothold, and In a few minutes he
was at the bottom of the well, where his
lieutenant was anxiously waiting his arrival.
Is everything In preparation ?' Inquired
the chief.

Yes said Mike, ' our men are hard at
work at the pump.' And stooping down,
he crouched beneath a low arch into a
narrow passage, which led to an opening
in one of the main sewers. A footpath
had been made beneath this huge drain.
Along it Mike walked, bearing a lantern,
and followed by his chief After proceeding
some few hundred yards the lieutenant
stopped, and stooping once more, passed
through another arch similar to the one by
which he had entered the sewer. Barry
now found himself in a large vault, presumably
at one time a dungeon belonging
to an old mansion that centuries before
had been erected near the Thames. Several
men were at work here, and in the middle
of the cellar was a small, noiseless steam-engine.
The gauge showed that this
machine was working at high pressure.

'Just over our heads said Mike to

Barry, ' are the tanks belonging to Pilot
and Son, the petroleum importers. They
contain thousands of gallons of paraffin, and
we have tapped them successfully, and they
are now forcing the liquid through this pipe
into the cistern above the Foreign Office.'

A red light from some torches that were
burning In a corner of the chamber threw
its lurid rays on the faces and forms of the
Fenian conspirators, as, stripped to the
waist, they were engaged — some in feeding
the furnace, others in attaching a fresh
pipe to the fierce little pumps of the engine.

Barry looked at his watch.

^ It is now about five o'clock,' he remarked.
' Everything will be ready by
seven, will it not ?'

As near as possible,' answered Mike.

Mr. Cumbermore will not return from
Windsor before night,' said the chief of the
Fenians. ' A special train has been ordered

to be in readiness at 7*30, to bring him to
town. The Cabinet Council cannot beheld
before nine or half-past. So that we
shall be in perfect readiness for the signals.
By the way, have any of you heard or
seen anything of Maggie ? It is now three
days since the explosion took place, and
she ought to have been with us by this
time, unless she paid with her life for her
success.'

No one had heard of her, but all were
anxious. Barry issued his final orders, and
then retraced his steps to the mouth of the
well. Leaving his lieutenant in the old
house at Charing Cross, he went in search
of some information about Maggie.

I must keep my eye on her,' he said, as
once more the newspaper boys thrust their
papers before him. ^ She is a desperate
and successful ally, but she would be a
dangerous foe.'

VOL. I. 13

HE people of England were becoming
very dissatisfied with the
continual reverses experienced
by their armies. Mr. Bullneck found it
very difficult, in spite of his great oratorical
powers, to induce English audiences to pass
Peace-at-any-price resolutions. Indeed,
some of his meetings had been disturbed of
late by advocates of the Military Government,
and the old agitator now saw that if
he wished to go with the times, he would
have not to agitate for a peace policy, but
to outbid Cumbermore, and go in for upholding
what the military element throughout

the kingdom were pleased to call the
honour of Old England.

Lord Cromer had been very active in
arousing his fellow-countrymen from their
lethargy to denounce the principles upheld
by Mr. Cumbermore, and also the degrading
tenets of Mr. Bullneck's policy.
Many who before had been antagonistic to
these ideas were now won over to their
opponents by the stagnation of trade.
Factories were lying idle, and men thrown
out of work. Whole towns had become
depopulated, and thousands of men and
women, who formerly had earned an
honest livelihood, were now obliged to
leave their native country and emigrate
v/ith their children to foreign lands.

The result had been a complete revulsion
of feeling in many of the constituencies.
The Scotch alone were still somewhat
Radical, but through the reverses of British

troops, and the knowledge that their own
country might even be invaded by a mixed
force of Celts and Americans, they were becoming
reconciled to the idea that perhaps
a military dictatorship for the time would
be the best form of Government.

Stringent orders had been sent from the
War Office to Lord Cromer, to the effect
that he must desist from delivering public
speeches against the Government. The
Volunteers had been warned that unless
they put an end to their unlawful meetings
they would be disbanded. But Lord
Cromer, whose name had some years
previously been erased from the * Army
List ' at the instigation of Mr. Cumber-more,
treated these mandates with contempt
; and the Volunteers, instead of being
awed by the communications they had received,
showed their indifference to the
threats by increasing the number of their

gatherings. Lord Cromer was in confidential
correspondence with officers commanding
other Volunteer corps throughout
the kingdom. He was known as a good
general, and a determined, high-minded
man. Many officers had agreed to obey
him implicitly whenever he gave the order
for an outbreak, and the Metropolitan
Volunteers to a man were believed to be
on his side. Information as to the probable
extent of this conspiracy had been
already forwarded by Metrale to the Prime
Minister. Indeed, the Cabinet Council to
be held in Downing Street related to that
very subject. Members of Parliament,
who had voted at unsettled times for the
surrender by England of her various
colonies, had been hissed on their way to
Westminster by a mob representing not
only the lower, but all classes of society ;
and Mr. Bullneck, the leader of the extreme

party, had been stoned on two
occasions, and his life placed in peril.

Under the circumstances, It seemed
strange that Mr. Cumbermore did not
meet the threatening storm by an appeal
to the country. But he was a determined
man, and an able though unscrupulous
statesman. His love of power and office
was unbridled. His good opinion of himself
at all times made him overbearing
and despotic, and to see his foes, the
Imperialists — whom he had contemptuously
denounced as Tinges — in office
would have been too much for him to
endure.

He had sent almost every available
soldier belonging to the regular army to
Ireland, and was In hopes that the next
telegram would bring him news of the
suppression of the insurrection. Should
this have taken place he could then appeal

to the country ; but not under existing circumstances,
as a dissolution would be fatal
to the Radical Party, of which he had
been so long the leader. He was now
with the Sovereign at Windsor, having
been summoned there on account of the
alarming reports which had reached the
Court as to the reverses experienced by
British troops in Ireland, and the unsettled
state of the country owing to the Fenian
outrages. It had been publicly stated in
Parliament by the Secretary of State for
War that the reports had been much
exaggerated, but the fact remained that
the telegraph wires had been cut, and that
there was no communication with Dublin
for the time being. The Court had been
further alarmed by a report that the
Household Troops and the Foot Guards,
upon whom the Sovereign could rely implicitly,
had been disbanded owing to their

monarchical tendencies, and that their barracks
had been filled by the Metropolitan
Police.

The news from India, too, was of an
alarming nature. The Commander-inches
of the Forces in Hindostan had
telegraphed that without reinforcements it
would be Impossible to subdue the insurgents
; that the Afghans had crossed the
Indus ; and that, bad as had been the state
of things in India at the time of the
Sepoy rebellion, it was now a great deal
worse. The fact was that Mr. Cumber-more's
policy had been to educate the
natives of Hindostan, under the impression
that if they were well instructed
they would see how much more beneficial
it would be for them to be under British
rule than under the dominion of Russia.
He had not taken Into his consideration
that on learning their own strength they

might wish to govern themselves. Since
the Indians had been taught to read
English in the native schools, the sale of
newspapers published in Ireland had increased
enormously in the large towns
throughout Hindostan. It was known
that Irishmen had obtained Home Rule
by means of outrages and murders, and
this knowledge had induced the natives of
Hindostan to try the same argument with
a like object in their own case.

The Sovereign's hand was extended to
Mr. Cumbermore as he entered the private
apartments. The Prime Minister kissed
it, but with a somewhat contemptuous air,
as if in his opinion it was time that such a
ceremony should be dispensed with.

'Any fresh news from Ireland, Mr.
Cumbermore ?'

No, your Majesty ; but I am hourly
expecting to hear that the insurrection has

been suppressed, and that the rebel leaders
are prisoners in the hands of the authorities.'


And from Hindostan what tidings have
you ?'

'Alas! nothing of an encouraging nature
replied Mr. Cumbermore. ' The 
telegraphs that he requires
more troops, and we have none
to send.'

But the reserves ; surely they might be
employed. They were called out some
weeks ago, if my memory serves me.'

Impossible for us to let them leave
England, your Majesty. We are daily in
dread of a rising against your Majesty's
Government. The Volunteers and Militia
are quite prepared to make a movement
under Lord Cromer.'

The country is in a very disturbed condition,'
observed the Sovereign. ' The

feeling against my advisers seems to be
very strong.'

As the Monarch spoke, a page entered
the room with a despatch. It was directed
to the Prime Minister, and on it was written
Urgent.'

By your Majesty's permission ?' said
Mr. Cumbermore inquiringly.

On reading the first few lines, Mr.
Cumbermore's countenance betrayed considerable
agitation of mind. The letter
was from Lord O'Hagan Harton. It ran
as follows :

Metrale's information from private
sources leads me to believe that the rebels
have taken Dublin. The news is not yet
public, and I have given orders that it be
suppressed. This, however, can only last
a day or two, as the people must learn the
truth in time. Our military advisers say

the tunnel ought to be destroyed as soon
as the troops have returned. Cromer has
made another revolutionary speech to-day.
Don't fail to be at the Cabinet meeting
this evening

Mr. Cumbermore was obliged to Inform
the Sovereign of the contents of the
despatch, and he remained another half-hour
In the Monarch's presence, after which
he was conducted In one of the Royal
carriages to the station.

How different was his reception by the
spectators on that occasion to that which
in former times he had received ! There
was no demonstration, although It was
known that the Prime Minister would leave
Windsor at a certain hour.

Mr. Ryder happened to be returning to
London by the same train, with the intention
of gleaning sufficient information for a

paragraph in the Scrawled, but he found
the Prime Minister gloomy and uncommunicative.


Half an hour after their departure the
train steamed into Haddington Station, and
Lord O'Hagan Harton was anxiously
awaiting the arrival of his colleague.

The Duke of Preston will meet you
to-night,' said the Lord Chancellor, as they
drove off in his carriage. ' He is an
authority on Indian matters.'

It will be interesting to hear his views,'
said the Prime Minister. ' I should like to
see him before the meeting to-night.'

Cromer is getting a dangerous foe,'
said Lord O'Hagan Harton.

Yes ; the matter must come before the
council to-night. He is a man of action,
not words only. He remembers that I
was the means of having his name erased
from the "Army List' and if the opportunity

Averse afforded him, he would strike deeply.
We must arrest Lord Cromer for high
treason. The difficulty will be to take
him. Metrale can depend thoroughly on
some of the men in his force. They will
go to Cromer's residence at night, dressed
in Volunteer uniform. A special train will
be in waiting to convey him to London.
If it is properly carried out, his men will be
ignorant of the capture.'

It would go hard with the policemen if
they were discovered answered his colleague.
' The papers say he has 40,000
men at his back, with the pretence of
manceuvrlnof under his command. What
terrible days we live in ! Who would have
thought that under a free and enlightened
Radical Government England would be on
the eve of a revolution ?'

Yes,' replied the Prime Minister ; ' and
what perplexes me is that the movement is

not against the Crown — I wish it were —
but against ourselves; against us, who have
enfranchised the lower classes because we
thought it would keep us in office — who
have given up the colonies because we
thought it would be economical to do so —
who sold Gibraltar to the Spaniards, and
were able in consequence to abolish the income
tax ; against us, who strive daily to do
away with that costly appendage Royalty —
who have abolished the Household Troops,
nominally on the ground of expense — who
gave the people caucuses to save them the
trouble of even thinking for themselves :
and it is against us that the popular feeling
is directed. Truly, ingratitude so great is
unparalleled in history.'

But we must dine now,' said the Lord
Chancellor, ^ and drown our woes in a good
glass of wine, and then go at once to the
Cabinet meeting.'

OUR RADICALS.

There to decide on the fall of Lord
Cromer,' added the Prime Minister
for the subject was uppermost in his
mind.

T was a pleasant afternoon in the
middle of the month of June,
and the large town of Melting-borough
presented an unusually animated
appearance. On the following day it had
been arranged that the great Volunteer
review should take place. From all parts of
the Midland counties, and in some instances
from the North of the Tweed, Volunteers
had arrived in their thousands and tens of
thousands to be present on the occasion.

The country round Meltingborough was
admirably suited for a military spectacle —
large tracks of moorland spreading for

VOL. I. 14

miles in every direction, surrounded by a
broken chain of hills — and afforded space
for 200,000 men to march past if required
to do so, and at the same time allowed the
spectators to view the military movements
from the adjoining hills, without hampering
the manoeuvres of the soldiers.

The rifle-butts of the Meltingborough
Volunteers were celebrated throughout the
kingdom, there being a sufficient range
even for the manipulation of the new
machine guns, which from their accuracy
and rapidity of fire were revolutionizing the
system of armament in the British army.

Lord Cromer's castle, a magnificent
mansion, was in the vicinity of Melting-borough.
The park had been thrown open
to the Volunteers during their encampment,
and long lines of tall tents studded the
glades where a few days previous antlered
monarchs had held undivided sway.

Lord Cromer had greatly distinguished
himself in India, and could show the trace
of many a wound received In a hard-won
fight. On returning to England he became
a legislator, and joined the Conservative
Party, his powers of organization
being of the greatest service to his leaders.

There was, perhaps, no man in England
who was such a thorn in the side of
the revolutionary party as Lord Cromer.
Whenever the Radicals formed caucuses
he would start rival caucuses ; not that he
approved of the mode of warfare, but
because he thought It necessary to fight
the revolutionists with their own weapons.
When Mr. Cumbermore organized meetings
where ten thousand people were
brought together to listen to his eloquence
and he could talk — Lord Cromer would
organize rival meetings where a still greater
number of people were brought together to

14 — 2

listen to himself. When Mr. Cumbermore's
organ, the Rattlesnake, announced that
gigantic meetings had been held in twenty
large towns throughout the kingdom, Lord
Cromer's organ, the Sovereign and People,
declared that in forty centres of industry
meetings had been held to express
their sympathy with the policy of his
party, and their disgust at the unpatriotic
and degrading conduct of Mr. Cumbermore
and his followers. Mr. Cumbermore, to
secure a larger circulation of the Rattlesnake,
reduced his paper from twopence to
a penny, slightly diminishing the size of
that journal ; whereupon Lord Cromer increased
the amount of matter in the
Sovereign and People and sold it for a
halfpenny. It was a case of diamond cut
diamond, and war to the knife, between
the two statesmen ; and Lord Cromer
waited calmly but hopefully for an opportunity

to avenge himself upon the Prime
Minister for having struck his name from
the * Army List ' for what the Prime
Minister chose to describe as * a grave
breach of discipline,' but which was really
the result of Lord Cromer speaking his
mind too freely against the Premier's
method of promoting those only who
swore political allegiance to him, and also
on account of his writing to the press
letters condemning this form of bribery,
and branding it as unconstitutional and
degrading.

Lord Cromer was now engaged in
visiting the encampment of the Volunteers.
The rumour of his arrival had
spread rapidly along the lines of tents,
and on all sides he was greeted with every
show of affection and loyalty. He was a
born leader of men, and his followers intuitively
felt it, and would have followed

him even in a forlorn hope. Several
officers came forward and besought him to
address the men.

It is against orders,' said his lordship,
with a faint smile. * Do you think weare
powerful enough with this army at our
backs to make our own regulations ?'

At that moment a murmur arose from
all sides — a faint but perceptible murmur
that sounded like an approaching storm.

Speak, speak !' said the officers ; ' the
men will hear you.'

Lord Cromer turned his horse's head
round towards the Castle, and, riding to a
convenient elevation, held up his right
hand.

By this time some 20,000 men had
gathered round him, and a dead silence
reigned as the popular General raised his
hand. In a voice that would have encouraged
the faintest heart amongst them,

he addressed these words to the assembled
multitude of armed men :

'Volunteers of England, you are assembled
to-day nominally for the purpose
of drill ; in reality, you are here as
representatives of public opinion — that
voice so powerful that it has been called
the voice of God. The members of the
Revolutionary Government have tried to
stifle it, but in vain. Each day that these
men are in power brings more humiliation
upon England. Everywhere our arms are
reversed, and our flag is trodden in the
mire. The Prime Minister, who has been
called upon to dissolve Parliament, refuses
to do it, so lustful is he of office and power.
He once said that force is no remedy.
Are you prepared. Volunteers of England,
to show him that it is a very powerful
remedy ? If so, speak as one man, and
tomorrow I will lead you to London.

Strike, Volunteers, for Old England and
our Sovereign !'

A tremendous cheer arose from the
assembled multitude as Lord Cromer
finished speaking ; and, from the wild
enthusiasm, it vas evident that a spirit of
determination had been communicated
from the General to his men.

The die is cast,' said Lord Cromer to
himself, as he rode back from the camp,
escorted by the commanding officers of the
various battalions. ' The die is cast. Now,
Cumbermore, look to yourself ! One of us
must fall.'

)T was night in the old Castle of
Meltingborough. A dinner had
been given by its owner to the
Volunteer officers, and over four hundred
had assembled in the great hall of the
Castle. It was a grand spectacle, and
did honour even to the place which for
generations had fostered sons whose lives
had been ever at the service of their
country. On this occasion a number of
loyal toasts had been proposed. The Sovereign's
health had been drunk with great
enthusiasm. It was clear, from the applause
with which Lord Cromer's remarks were

received, that the Volunteers of England
were united in their devotion to the Crown ;
and, by the observations that fell from the
lips of some of the more influential, it was
manifest that they were animated with a
common feeling of bitter hatred towards
the Government. It was whispered that,
if Mr. Cumbermore only had their leaders
in his power, their lives would be the forfeit
of their present action. The rumour
reached Lord Cromer's ears, and he took
advantage of the opportunity afforded him
to speak.

^ Gentlemen,' he said, ' it may not have
struck you as very remarkable that on this
occasion the health of the Cabinet Ministers
has been omitted on the list of toasts. I
look upon them as traitors to their country,
and I now ask you to drink with me to the
dire punishment that awaits them.'

The remarks of Lord Cromer were received

on every occasion with great enthusiasm
; and, after arranging for an early
parade of the whole force in the camp,
Lord Cromer retired from the room, accompanied
by two of his most trusted
officers. They proceeded to his lordship's
library, where arrangements were made
for the movement of the soldiers to the
Metropolis. Lord Cromer was well aware
that Mr. Cumber more by that time had
received a report of his speech, and that in
all probability an order would be issued for
his arrest. Indeed, so concerned was one
of his officers. Sir Edward Righton, at
the risk his leader ran of being made a
prisoner, that on his own responsibility he
had thrown out a line of outposts around
the Caste, with orders to detain anyone
not in uniform approaching the walls of
the building.

There will be some difficulty in railway

transport,' observed Sir Edward Righton,
although the station masters and the other
officials are with us to a man ; but I have
carried out your orders, and sent two companies,
under Colonel Trent, to the stations,
with orders to detain all trains and secure
as many carriages as possible. At the same
time, I have sent some men to cut the
wires that connect us with London. It
will not do for Cumbermore to be apprised
sooner than need be of our intentions.'


Unfortunately we have no artillery
said Lord Cromer ; ' but it has its advantage,
for we should have experienced great
difficulty in transporting the guns. I propose
that we move by rail to within
about fifteen miles of London, and then
dividing into several corps, at a given
signal each commander will march from
four different points of the compass on the

City. The Metropolitan Volunteers are
with us to a man ; and all the men Cumber-more
can rely upon are the police — even
they are wavering. As to the regular
army, what regiments there are in London
may be compelled to make an ineffectual
stand ; but it will be of short duration, and
they will willingly surrender. Once the
blow is struck, they will hail with equal
delight the downfall of the Radical
tyrants.'

A servant entered the room, with a card
for Lord Cromer.

The gentleman has been detained by
Sir Horace Holcroft, my lord, awaiting
your orders.'

Just see who it is, Righton,' said Lord
Cromer, who was too occupied with a map
that was spread before him to look up.

• Sir Richard Digby.'

Digby !' exclaimed his lordship. ' Digby,

my own nephew ! Oh ! this is fortunate
indeed. Bring him here yourself, Righton.
You remember the man who was in the
2 1 St Dragoon Guards. He will be a useful
man if we can enlist his sympathies.
He knows his work well, and is a capital
staff officer. Perhaps, on consideration, it
would be better for me to meet him alone.
Take him to the east room in the long
gallery.'

Sir Edward Righton went upon his
mission, and Lord Cromer turned to his
other officer.

Are we well supplied with ammunition
?'

Fully.'

Remember, once we leave Melting-borough,
where we can procure everything
we want, it will be difficult to find the
means of supplying cartridges for our
machine guns and repeating rifles.'

'All this has been attended to,* said the
officer.

Then we move to London to-morrow
And, saying good-night to his friend,
Lord Cromer proceeded to the east room
to meet his nephew.

How altered you are, Dick !' said Lord
Cromer, after a warm and hearty greeting.
Let me see, how long is it since we last
met ? It must be ten years, if it is a day.'

Yes, uncle ; time does not make us any
younger in appearance, if it cannot steal
our boyish spirits.'

But how did you come here ?'

I arrived at Meltingborough on my way
to town this afternoon. In the railway
station I heard of your speech to the
Volunteers ; and, as It appeared to me you
meant business, I determined to offer my
services

What, against the Government ?'

Yes, heartily ; they are going from bad
to worse, and I shall be glad to assist in
bringing them to their knees.'

They sat some time by the old oak fireplace,
talking over old times and old campaigns
; and Lord Cromer felt the old
attachment for his nephew stronger than
ever when they parted for a few hours'
rest.

Rest, though, was out of the question
for Lord Cromer. He sat himself down
to study his maps, and to finish his plan
for provisioning his army on the march.
If Lord Cromer, as he sat in the old-fashioned
library, had not been so engrossed
in his occupation, he might have heard a
slight noise as of something being placed
against the wall outside his room. At tb.e
sound, several birds flew away from the
ivy which clung to the walls. Two men,
dressed in Volunteer uniform, were placing

a short ladder against the masonry. Presently
one of them ascended, and, looking
carefully through the window of the room
where his lordship was writing, made a
sign to his companion, and then descended.
For some time they both remained concealed
in the shadows cast by the massive
buttresses of the building. An hour
passed, and again the man ascended the
ladder, only to return to his companion
again. Another hour passed, and once
more the same man mounted the rungs of
the ladder, and repeated the operation.
This time Lord Cromer was no longer at
work. Worn out by his mental and bodily
exertions, he had fallen asleep on a couch.
By the faint light of the lamp, the intruder
could see the pallid countenance of the
sleeper. Making a sign to his comrade
below, the latter climbed to within a few
feet of the window. Meantime his com-vol.
I. 15

panton, taking out of his pocket a glazier's
diamond, pressed it against one of the large
panes of glass, at the same moment making
a circular movement with his wrist. Then,
taking a large piece of brown paper, he
smeared it with some sticky substance, and
placed it over the entire glass. Waiting
patiently for a quarter of an hour, he then
removed the paper, and found the piece of
glass excised by the diamond adhering to
the paper. All this had been effected
without any noise, and even if Lord
Cromer had been awake, his attention
would hardly have been aroused by the
proceedings. Putting his hand carefully
through the hole in the glass, the man drew
back the bolt that fastened the casement,
pouring at the same time some oil into
the chinks of the woodwork. The window
opened without much effort, and with very
little noise. Telling his companion to

follow him, he stepped across the sill into
the room. Not a sound could be heard
save the deep breathing of Lord Cromer,
who, with his face turned to the wall, and
resting on his arm, lay buried in a profound
sleep. The flickering lamp gave a ghastly-appearance
to the two men, as they crept
stealthily to the table. The first one to
enter the room whispered to his companion
in a low tone, and by the gesticulations
which accompanied his remarks, it was
evident that it was a mooted point in the
speaker's mind as to whether it would not
be the wisest thing to kill the sleeper, and
then to escape as fast as possible.

The other, however, dissuaded his companion
from this course of action.

The chief does not want him to be
killed,' said the man.

A look of incredulity passed over the
first speaker's face.

15—2

Perhaps not. He wants him to be a
prisoner in his hands ; but if he wakes, we
have no other course.'

Turning the wick of the lamp a Httle
higher, the speaker took from his pocket a
small bottle, and, after extracting the cork,
poured the contents on some wool. A
powerful and sickly odour pervaded the
atmosphere as the wool was saturated by
the liquid ; and having placed it on the
pillow, the man retreated behind a curtain,
whither his companion had already secreted
himself, to wait for the poisoned air to take
effect on the sleeper. In a few minutes
the sound of heavy breathing, which before
had filled the room, died gradually away',
each moment becoming more intermittent
and less audible, and ceasing altogether
at last.

So far we are successful,' said the man
who had administered the anaesthetic, ' but

we cannot administer chloroform to him
all the way up to town ; a little of the
extract of morphia will do our business
better.'

With these words, he took from a small
leather case a little instrument, and inserting
it into the sleeper's arm, injected something
beneath his skin.

He will be quiet now for at least forty-eight
hours said the operator ; ' indeed, if
he is not a strong man, he will sleep till
Doomsday.'

Now let us put on his uniform,' said
the other.

Raising the body of the peer, with the
assistance of his accomplice, he slowly
dressed his victim, buckling on the sword-belt,
and putting the cocked-hat on the
General's head.

He looks quite life-like,' said the man,
with a smile of satisfaction.

Yes ; if it were daytime, we should have
all the Guards turning out to salute his
lordship,' said the other, with a grin.

As it is continued the other, ' he will
not be recognised ; and even if that were
to happen, they will think he is going to inspect
the pickets. The special train is waiting
at a little station seven miles distant,
and if we can once clear the lines, there will
be little difficulty in finishing our work.'

Raising Lord Cromer in their arms,
they carried him to the window, and,
strapping a broad leather belt around his
waist, they attached it to a long cord with
knots at intervals of one or two feet to
prevent its slipping. Placing their victim
on the top of the ladder, they allowed him
to slide quietly down the incline.

A few minutes afterwards they might
have been seen driving down the park
avenue which led to the main road.

T was about two hours before
dawn, just the time that a
general with his wits about
him generally selects to attack the camp of
the enemy. Sir Richard Digby, somewhat
unsettled by the exciting events that
had occurred during the previous fortnight,
had not slept as soundly as might have
been expected after all his exertions. Now
he dreamt of the shipwreck, then of his
uncle's revolutionary movement. At times
a woman's face appeared to him, a sad and
melancholy face, with large and solemn
eyes that looked reproachfully at the

dreamer. Sir Richard Digby started
several times, and would have addressed
the apparition, holding out his hand as if to
welcome it ; but the phantom disappeared,
and was immediately followed by visions
of the jungle and by incidents of the wars
in Africa. Now he was risking his life
to save a hard-pressed comrade ; and it
seemed to him that what he had done had
been performed less from a motive of
gallantry than from a recklessness of his
life, which had ceased to have any particular
attraction for him.

Sir Richard moved uneasily on his couch,
and presently awoke with racking pains in
his head.

Going to the window, he threw open the
casement, and admitted the fresh morning
air, which cooled his temples. As he did
so, the old clock in the turret struck three.

There were still two hours before dawn,

and he, remembering that as a boy he had
often enjoyed capital trout-fishing in a
stream that ran through the park, determined
to take a rod, If one was to be found
in the old place, and try his hand with the
fly.

Having dressed, he proceeded to the
river, and attaching his fly, commenced to
whip the waters. By the pale light of the
moon and stars, he could see In the distance
the long lines of white tents that formed
the camp of the soldiers. The massive old
Castle stood out In the background, Its
turrets and towers cut clear and cold
against the cloudless sky. That venerable
pile had seen some startling episodes in
the history of his country. It had been
a haven of refuge to Charles I., on
the eve of one of his encounters with
Cromwell ; and the very stream which
ran before him, so white and clear that It

reflected the moon upon its surface, had
run red in the days gone by with the
blood of Royalist and Republican.

On the very bed on which his weary
limbs had found a fitful repose had rested
the kingly head which fell beneath the
stroke of the bloody axe.

The fish did not rise well, and Sir
Richard, after whipping the water for
about half an hour, put his rod down upon
the ground, and resting himself against a
great oak-tree, lit a pipe of tobacco. Ashe
leaned forward to shield himself from
the wind, a medallion fell from his pocket
on the grass. He picked it up with an
almost reverential touch, and opening it,
gazed upon the picture it contained. The
miniature which he held in his hand was
that of a lady attired in Andalusian
costume, such as even now may be seen at
the balls in the Casino de Seville, after the

Holy Week, and during the celebrated fair.
The portrait was painted, and the beautiful
face before him, with its large clear eyes
and olive skin, betokened her Spanish
blood. The fan in her hand was so
exquisitely designed that it seemed to
shake as Sir Richard remembered he had
seen it, when its owner had beckoned him
towards her. What happy months they
had spent together in the fair city on the
Guadalquivir ! Oh, those happy days,
the days of their secret betrothal ! — the
rage of Ursula's father, the old marquis,
when he discovered that his only child
had secretly married a heretic — the night
attack upon him near the arches of the
great cathedral — how he had been left
for dead by his assailants, and his fruitless
search for his wife — all these memories
flashed through his mind as he reclined
against the tree, whilst the smoke from his

pipe slowly curled upwards, caressed by
the wanton wind.

Whilst thus dreaming, his attention was
suddenly aroused by the sound of wheels.
A carriage was ascending the road slowly,
on account of the ground being very steep.
The occupants, ignorant that they were
observed, were talking freely to each
other.

Some Volunteers going to the encampment
from the Castle, no doubt,' thought
the Baronet, as he glanced through the
trees that stood between his position and
theirs.

How heavy the old fellow's body is !'
said one of the Volunteers ; ' it is almost
impossible to keep him upright.'

This observation reached Sir Richard's
ears, and it excited his curiosity.

Peering round a tree, he saw a gig
approaching, and two men inside it dressed

as Volunteers, supporting a third, attired
as a General. In another moment they
passed by a bend in the road, within a few
feet of the Baronet, when to his astonishment
he recognised in the apparently
inanimate figure his uncle, Lord Cromer.
He at once realized that some treachery
was at work, and his first impulse was to
rush to the horse's head and arrest the
carriage ; but on second thoughts he remembered
that he was single-handed, and
without any means of defence. Moreover,
he knew a short cut across the trout stream
by which he could gain more than half a
mile on the gig, and have the men arrested
by the first patrol of Volunteers he fell in
with. Allowing the carriage to pursue its
course uninterrupted, he hastened down
the bank of the stream, and springing
from rock to rock, gained the opposite
bank. Then, tightening his belt, he ran

down the slope, keeping his body as near
to the ground as possible, to avoid detection.
Now he found himself in a morass
up to his knees, then he had to penetrate a
thick gorse cover ; but regardless of difficulties
he hurried on, until, on emerging
from a plantation, he found himself on the
high-road.

The Volunteers' picket should be here,'
he said to himself, ' if the man in charge
has any knowledge of the country ; for
from this place there are five cross-paths,
and the hollow below the plantation affords
an admirable place for concealment.'

Digby looked around for the picket, butin
vain ; that which was so apparent to
his practised eye had escaped the notice
of the officer in charge of the outpost.

Damn the fellow !' muttered Sir
Richard ; ' a nice sort of watch he keeps.
I shall have to face it out with the

scoundrels, for I can hear their wheels
now.'

The place was not at all favourable fora
single man to stop an enemy in the way.
The Baronet felt sure that if he were to
place himself in the middle of the road
the driver would gallop his horse at him,
and thus get the better of him in a
moment.

He had nothing in his hand save the
fishing-rod, which he had carried in the
hope of its becoming useful. An idea
occurred to him, which he put instantly
into practice. He had been an enthusiastic
fisherman, and could throw a fly with the
greatest accuracy. Arranging his line and
rod, and concealing himself behind the
trunk of an old oak, he waited till the
carriage arrived.

The horse was tired, from the uphill
work he had been doing a greater part of

the way, and was trotting slowly up the
incline. As it reached the spot where Sir
Richard was concealed, the Baronet threw
his fly, which struck deep into the face of
the driver, who, terrified and in great pain,
instantly dropped the reins. Without
wasting the tenth part of a second, Sir
Richard rushed forward, and clubbing his
fishing-rod, broke it upon the head of the
other occupant of the carriage, at the same
time calling out, as if he had some men
behind him, ' Shoot the scoundrels — take
good aim !'

The driver, who was maddened with
pain and fear, tried to run away, followed
by his companion, who escaped ; but Sir
Richard refused to relax his hold upon the
line, and resolving to make a prisoner of
one, wound the silk round his wrists, and
threw him upon the ground. Finding
some cord in the gig, he bound his man to

a tree, and then, taking the reins, he jumped
into the carriage and drove back to the
Castle with all speed, supporting the prostrate
form of his uncle with one arm.

On the road he met the officer in charge
of the picket, and briefly relating what had
occurred, ordered him to take a surgeon
and release the prisoner from the tree, but
to keep him in custody. He further charged
the officer to send mounted men in pursuit
of the other fugitive.

It was six o'clock by the time Sir Richard
DIgby reached the Castle. On the steps
stood Sir Edward Righton in full uniform,
surrounded by his staff They were expecting
Lord Cromer, and were expressing
their surprise that he had not appeared.
In a few words Digby explained what had
occurred, and on investigating the matter,
the ladder was found by which the men
had entered the room.

VOL. I. 16

The ablest surgeon in the camp was
summoned, and on examining Lord Cromer
he at once understood what had occurred.
Indeed, the odour of the anaesthetic was
still strong in the room, and the wound on
Lord Cromer's arm showed where the drug
had been injected. The surgeon, who had
had great experience in the use of narcotics,
used every possible means to restore his
lordship. So successful was the treatment
that in a few hours Lord Cromer opened
his eyes, and was soon able to converse
with those around his bed.

While Sir Richard Digby was standing
in the room, an orderly brought him a
despatch to the effect that the runaway
had been secured, and placed in custody
with the man whom Sir Richard had
fastened to the tree. ' The men are so
furious at the attempt made to capture
Lord Cromer that I had great difficulty

in preventing them from shooting the
prisoners.'

And it would have been what they well
deserved thought Sir Richard Digby as he
looked down the long lines of tents, and
wondered how the campaign would end
which had opened so inauspiciously.

16 — 2

LARGE party had assembled
at the house of Mr. Sandford*
the energetic Chief of the London
Fire Brigade. Mr. Sandford was one
of the most popular men in town. Respected
by the lower classes, who admired such
manly qualities as pluck and total abnegation
of self, he was equally admired by the
members of every club in Pall Mall. The
result was that Mr. and Mrs. Sandford's
at homes ' were invariably well-attended,
and fashionable dowagers with marriageable
daughters would flock to his doors.
On this occasion there was something

decidedly original in the appearance of
Mr. Sandford's house. The ground-floor,
instead of consisting of a dining-room,
library and smoking-room, as one usually
finds in such houses, was entirely given upto
the accommodation of model fire-engines.
The brass fittings were brilliantly polished,
and beneath the boilers prepared fuel was
so arranged that it could be lit at a
moment's notice. Gas-jets were always
burning under the boilers, so that should a
fire occur, by the time the horses were put-to
the firemen would have no delay in
getting up steam.

On the occasion of Mr. Sandford's
evening parties these fire-engines were
prettily decorated, and the hospitable Chief
of the Fire Brigade spent much time in explaining
the mechanism of the various
engines to those who were interested in
them. These little reunions had a peculiar

charm of their own. There was no stiffness,
and no one seemed bored. Although
there was no lack of titled personages, the
guests were not invited merely for their
social position, but because they were
representative people in the various walks
of science, literature, and art. No man in
London had a larger circle of acquaintance
than the Chief of the London Fire Brigade.
In one room a number of telephones
were placed, which communicated with
every quarter of the Metropolis. Should
a fire break out in any part of London, a
bell would ring in this apartment, and information
at once be communicated as to
the nature of the conflagration. Orders
would be immediately issued to the various
inspectors under Mr. Sandford's command;
and if the case was of sufficient urgency to
need his immediate presence, he would at
once proceed to the scene of the disaster.

Amongst Mr. and Mrs. Sandford's
visitors on this occasion were Lady Tryington
and her nieces, accompanied by
Arthur Belper, who, although still weak,
was gaining strength rapidly.

Lady Tryington had been obliged to goto
town for a few days, after the arrival of
the yacht at Holyhead, and Belper had
accompanied them, to make his report of
the shipwreck to the authorities. Mr.
Metrale was also present, with Monsieur
le Capitaine Victor Delange, the French
Military Attache, and even Ricardius was
among the number of guests. Belper
used frequently to be a visitor at the sandford',
and on many occasions he had enjoyed
the excitement of accompanying his
friend at full speed to the scenes of some
famous conflagrations, and had frequently
exposed his life to danger in carrying out
the commands of his friend.

How elegantly Mr. Sandford has arrayed
them,' said Blanche, to whom, much
to Laura's annoyance, Arthur was explaining
the mechanism of the fire-engines. ' It
is a noble but a dangerous profession,'
she continued ; ' only second to that of a
soldier.'

Well, perhaps it is ; but the men have
been mostly sailors at some time, and are
used to the climbing. Sandford, who is
always the first to risk his own life when
necessary, expects the same courage from
his men, and secures it.'

What splendid fellows sailors can be !'
she observed. ' How nobly they behaved
at the shipwreck, when, with your soldiers,
the poor fellows perished !' She shuddered
as she remembered how nearly Arthur
Belper had shared their fate.

In the meantime, the French Attache
was conducting Lady Tryington and Laura

to the room where the telephones were
placed.

It Is so different in France,' he was
saying to his companions. ' There, when
a fire breaks out, soldiers march from both
ends of the street, and force the people
they meet to work in putting out the
conflagration ; whilst In this country
there is no need of such pressure, and
everyone seems eager to volunteer assistance.'


Yes,' said Sandford, who had overheard
the Attache's last remark, ' they are so
eager that they are often In the way. But
we cannot afford to despise volunteers.
Look at those helmets on the wall — they
all belong to volunteers. That one, by
the way,' he continued, ' belongs to a friend
of yours. Captain Belper. He is one of
the best men I have, and more particularly
if there Is any danger, for then he sets a

Splendid example to the less energetic and
courageous.'

Blanche, who had entered the room as
the chief was speaking of Belper, blushed
with conscious pride as she heard him
praised. At the same time she realized
with fear how often he placed his life in
peril ; and then she knew how precious
that life was to her.

At that moment one of the electric bells
rang out clear and incessant, and the Chief
of the Fire Brigade applied his ear to the
telephone. He then signalled to his menin
the engine-room, and without any fuss
or commotion the horses were put to the
engines. In less than five minutes he was
in uniform, and, springing on to the foremost
engine, was immediately followed by Arthur
Belper and Victor Delange. For an instant
Ricardius had imagined that he would like
to be of the party ; but considering that his

pumps might get very wet, he sat down
behind Blanche, who, pale and trembling
at what had occurred, was listening to
Lady Tryington's remarks.

Lady Tryington, who was a little angry
at the sudden departure of her nieces' cavaliers,
was telling Mrs. Sandford of the
shipwreck, and of the marvellous escape of
her nephew and Captain Belper.

I hoped to have seen Sir Richard Digby
here this evening,' said Mrs. Sandford ;
but men have always so many engagements


He is not in London,' said Lady Tryington.
' He started for Meltingborough
a few days ago, to visit some property he
has in the neighbourhood.'

Meltingborough!' said Ricardius ; 'that
dreadful place from which reports come
that Lord Cromer intends to march on
London 1'

I should not be surprised if Sir Richard
joins his uncle,' said Lady Tryington.

Sir Richard is too wise in his generation
to commit himself in that way,' said
Mr. Metrale. ' The Government is too
strong to be so overturned. I have 15,000
men at my command, and we shall make
an effectual resistance.'

^ And while you are thus engaged,' remarked
Mrs. Sandford, smiling, ^ we shall
be at the mercy of thieves and burglars.'

The party soon broke up after the departure
of Mr. Sandford.

As Ricardius was stepping into his
brougham, it occurred to him that he would
like to see a little of the fire from a distance.


Where is the fire ?' said Ricardius to
his coachman.

'At the Foreign Office, sir, Downing
Street.'

OLD tight; said Mr. Sandford
to his friend the moment they
reached the street.
The advice was not out of place, for the
moment that the horses felt the reins
slackened, they started forward at a gallop.
Two firemen were standing behind, and
shouting at the top of their voices, to warn
people that the fire-engine was approaching.
C'est magnifique!' said Victor Delange,
as they darted through the streets at racing
speed. * How well the fellow drives!'

He would not be here if he didn't do
so,' said Sandford.

Look, look !' exclaimed Victor Delange ;
the sky seems to be on fire.'

As they approached the scene of the
conflagration, the sparks were shooting up
through the clouds of smoke from the roof
of the Foreign Office and the adjoining
public buildings. A crash was heard, and
there rose vast crimson lake of fire to the
heavens above, lighting up the faces of the
crowds In the streets with a lurid glare.

Great God !' exclaimed Sandford. ' It
Is serious. The Indian Office has caught
as well.'

'The Primae Minister's residence, too,'
said the driver.

Look to your business,' called out the
chief

The mounted police were drawn up across
the street, and were endeavouring to keep
the crowd In order, and preventing them
from passing the cord. The black helmets

of the mounted police glowed beneath the
light from the reflected flames, and their
horses, from the excitement of the scene,
became restive and unmanageable.

A cheer arose from the assembled crowds
as the fire-engines came tearing down the
street, and the crowd gave way to admit
them to the front of the burning buildings.

END. OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford.

SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186,^ STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

SOVSLS are issued to and received from Subscribers in SETS on>^

TERMS.

rOR^8UB=!^RIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALt, !

6 Months ii Months*

- £0 12 O - 1 1 O
y UabU for this ctass.<(f Subscription,)

- A - . o 17 6 - 1 11 e

nm^avUUd^for tXistUus <i/SubscripHoH.}

-■- . r 1* 8 o ■- a 2 *o

- - *• 1*^ so - 2 ip C
1 18 O ^8 SO

8 o o - s e o

"^

M

I

L I b Mary

OF THE

UN Veracity

or ILLINOIS

B931o

OUR RADICALS

^ sale of foe anb fcrlitrcs,

BY

FRED. Burney.

EDITED, WITH PREFACE,

BY

His Private Secretary

J. PERCIVAL HUGHES,

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOL. //.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

^xiblishcrs in dDviinaru to "g)zx iEajestt) the ^ticcn.

1886.

wall Rights Reserved. '\

CHAPTER I.

LL the Members of the Cabinet
assembled at the council-meeting
held in the Foreign Office.
The Prime Minister, accompanied by-lord
O'Hagan Hartonand Lord Hartigig,
were the first to arrive. Mr. Buttertongue
and Sir Charles Able, the Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs, had later on put
^ in an appearance. Sir Charles was the
only man in the Cabinet who was respected
by friends and foes alike. From
his singular talents and undoubted veracity,
VOL. II. 17

he ought certainly to have been Prime
Minister. An advanced Radical, he was
yet a patriot in the truest sense of the word,
and it bitterly mortified him to feel that the
party to which he belonged had carried out
policies at home and abroad so utterly contrary
to his own ideas. However, much ashe
was opposed to the principles of his colleagues,
he would not give in his resignation,
lest he should be the first to break up
the party. He could have been a member
of the Coalition Government had he wished,
but, sore as the temptation had been, he
had nevertheless stood firm to his side.

I think we are all assembled observed
the Prime Minister, looking round. ' Let
me see, Mr. Steadyfile and Lord Camberwell
are not here.'

In a few minutes the Earl of Camberwell
and Mr. Steadyfile entered the room.

Capital !' said Mr. Cumbermore ; * and
now to business.'

Later on the Prime Minister said :

It would be fatal to our party to dissolve
at the present time.'

There can be no doubt about that said
Mr. Steadyfile.

We must remain in office at all hazards,'
said Sir Poplar Juryman.

Now with reference to Lord Cromer,'
said the Prime Minister. 'You have
heard the reports, which are unfortunately
too well founded. Here is a copy
of the speech he is said to have made,
and it justifies me in having his lordship
arrested on a charge of high treason.'

Certainly,' said Sir Poplar Burlyman ;
'but who is to arrest him? His position
is strong.'

^ Metrale will see that it is done answered
Mr. Cumbermore, 'and I am sure that you
are all agreed as to the advisability of the
thing.'

17 — 2

No dissenting voice being heard, the
Prime Minister continued :

'Our troops have again been defeated in
Ireland ; we must remember that it will be
impossible to conceal that fact from the
public many more hours. When it is announced,
there will be terrible excitement
in the City and throughout the country.'

Have you full particulars ?' said Sir
Poplar Burlyman.

The details at present are as follow :
Lord Saxborough, in whom we placed implicit
confidence, encountered the rebels
near Tallaght. Saxborough's despatch says
that all went well at the commencement of
the engagement ; but after a time two of
his Irish regiments, that had been sent to
support an attack on the enemy's left,
suddenly deserted. Seeing this, he despatched
two cavalry regiments with orders
to attack the American contingent from the

rear, as their General had neglected to
support his left wing. Our cavalry had
nearly succeeded in effecting this movement,
when they were assailed by an overpowering
number of the rebels, and prevented
from carrying out their orders. The day
would have been ours, had Lord Sax-borough
had one more regiment at his
command ; but the loss of the 2 list Dragoon
Guards turned the scale in the Fenians'
favour, and he had to retire, leaving
Dublin in the possession of the rebel forces.
He has entrenched himself at the mouth of
the Tunnel, and if we can only supply him
with reinforcements he is confident of
ultimate success. Our losses are heavy,
but the actual number is unknown at
present. The enemy suffered terribly, but
their force is still great in numbers. At
present,' continued the Prime Minister,
Lord Saxborough must remain quiet, for

every man I can rely upon will be required
to defend London should Lord
Cromer advance.'

Do not let any more go at present,'
said Lord O'Hagan Harton ; * we must be
protected

If it were not for the strong public feeling
in England, I should say let the United
States annex Ireland,' remarked Sir Poplar
Burlyman.

That is all very well,' said Mr. Steadyfile ;
but what a cry there would be from people
who have property there !'

Property be d d !' said Sir Poplar

Burlyman.

So it is nearly,' said Lord Camberwell.

What is this trickling from the ceiling ?'
said the Lord Chancellor, as some liquid
fell upon his hand ; ' it is not water !'

He shook the drops from his hand into
the fire, and it was at once clear that the

liquid was of an inflammable nature.
Going to the door, he called to one of the
Under-secretaries who should have been
near at hand. To his surprise there was
no one there ; but a fearful scream reached
his ear, and rushing to the adjacent room,
from whence the cry emanated, he found
an unfortunate man in flames. From
the ceiling of this room, too, an inflammable
liquid was steadily dropping,
and the corridor beyond was filled with
dense clouds of smoke. It was evident
that the building was on fire. Lord
O'Hagan Harton would have made his
escape at once, had not the only means of
retreat, viz. the corridor, been cut off.
Returning to the council chamber, he informed
his colleagues of the state of affairs.
All was confusion and consternation. Each
man looked anxiously at his neighbour, as
they realized the gravity of the situation.

Sir Charles Able was the only man who
retained his presence of mind, and at once
proceeded to the corridor to ascertain what
means of egress it offered. Returning, he said :

^ The corridor is a mass of flames ; all
hope must be abandoned in that direction.'

As he spoke, a crash was heard in the
distance.

The staircase has fallen !' said Lord
O'Hagan Harton, wringing his hands ;
what are we to do ?'

Mr. Cumbermore opened the door, and
a vast volume of smoke entered through
the aperture.

We must keep the door closed,' said
Sir Charles Able. * The balcony is our
only chance of escape.'

Opening the window, Sir Charles Able
walked on to the little parapet, followed by
the other Members of the Cabinet. There
was not much room for them to stand on

the small enclosure, and they were eighty-feet
from the ground.

A shout of encouragement arose from
the crowd, as they saw the inmates of the
building crowd upon the balcony, and it
was renewed as a fire-escape arrived upon
the scene. It was placed against the
building, but it was immediately seen that
at least forty feet intervened between
its summit and the balcony. Another
ladder was attached, but still it was impossible
for the prisoners to descend, and
the strain of a third would have been too
great. At this point Captain Sandford
arrived, and at once grasped the situation.

^ It is useless trying to reach them at
that altitude,' he observed.

Arthur Belper had been looking up at
the balcony with a view to proposing some
means of escape, when he discovered that
the people on the parapet were the Members

of the Cabinet. The populace had hitherto
not recognised the familiar faces of Mr.
Cumbermore's minority ; but immediately
the news spread, a revulsion of feeling took
place.

Let them burn 1' shouted a number of
voices ; but the majority, actuated by better
feelings, though cherishing the same
political hatred towards the sufferers, cried
down the Inhuman mob.

It was a very critical moment. The
floor of the corridor had already given way,
and forked tongues of fire were forcing
themselves through the lower windows of
the building. The heat was overpowering
from below ; and from above some molten
lead was falling from the roof, some of
which had dropped down the neck of the
Lord Chancellor, who, yelling with agony
and paralyzed with fear, had doubled
himself up in one corner of the balcony.

The only man unconcerned for his own
personal safety was Sir Charles Able, who,
perfectly alive to the dangerous situation,
was nevertheless disposed to take the matter
philosophically. He had tried everything
in life, and had been successful in most of
his undertakings. He had, on account of
his position — not on account of his abilities
been flattered and fawned upon by
women in all sorts and conditions of life.
Though he had never loved, he had many
times been enslaved, and indeed would
never have been in his present pitiable
plight, but for the ambitious promptings of
a clever woman.

To sum his character up in a few words,
he was a splendid animal ; and, looking
upon life as a comedy, and the world the
stage upon which it was performed, he had
begun to tire of the performance, and would
have been glad to experience a future

existence, were it only for the sake of
trying something new, and escaping from
the thralls that bound him to a party
absolutely opposed to his innate ideas of
justice and order.

By his side stood Mr. Buttertongue,
the religious enthusiast, who, with a text
in his mouth that nearly choked him,
trembled and quaked at his approaching
doom. Another crash was heard behind
them, and it was seen that the floor of
the council chamber had partly fallen
through, and the flames from beneath
were rushing upwards and nearly touching
the windows, which cracked from the excessive
heat. Everyone, except Sir Charles
Able, moved farther from the window to
the edge of the balustrade, thereby doubling
the strain on the balcony. The Lord
Chancellor, eager to change places with
the Prime Minister — who had gained a

temporary advantage over his friend —
would have upset all the rest of the
members in his efforts, had he not been
restrained by the strong arms of Sir Charles
Able.

If you struggle so, the balcony will
give way,' said Mr. Buttertongue, * and we
shall be lost.'

Keep him back ! — keep him back !'
shrieked the Prime Minister and Sir
Poplar Burlyman.

'Be courageous,' said the Prime Minister
a moment afterwards, assuming a virtue he
did not possess, as he saw Lord Beckons-bury,
the late Prime Minister, in the courtyard
below.

Lord Beckonsbury had been passing the
Foreign Office in his carriage, when the
conflagration was reaching its height, and
Belper, who was in command of one
engine, had ordered the police to let his

lordship pass through the crowd. On
Belper informing him of the state of affairs,
his lordship had expressed a hope that
some means of escape would be found for
them.

Meanwhile, seeing that any other means
of rescuing the unfortunate men was out
of the question, Captain Sandford had
despatched some mounted policemen to
procure some strong netting, which he
proposed to suspend from the ladders, for
the unfortunate Ministers to leap into. The
only fear was that the messengers would
not return in time to save them.

The heat was becoming unbearable on
the balcony. Mr. Buttertongue and Sir
Poplar Burlyman had fainted, and Sir
Charles Able, who was near to the window,
knew that the moment the glass fell out of
the frames there was nothing to keep the
flames from reaching them.



A deafening cheer arose at that moment
from the multitude below. The policemen
were returning at full gallop, bearing what
appeared to be several gigantic fishing-nets.
Sandford had already placed four
fire-escapes in the form of a square
under the building, and in another moment
the more active men of his force
were seen climbing the ladders, bearing
the corners of the nets in their
hands.

The strain will be tremendous,' the
chief had said ; * attach the nets with every
care.'

The sufferers in the window at once
discovered Sandford's design — his last
words even had reached their ears, as the
chief shouted his orders. They looked at
each other with dismay depicted on their
countenances.

It seemed a terrible alternative — for at

least fifty feet divided them from their only
chance of deliverance.

The people in the court-yard below were
breathless with excitement.

One at a time 1' shouted the chief, at
the top of his voice ; ' one at a time !
Jump for your lives !'

The moments were precious, and an
ominous crack was heard from the windows
at their back, which, in spite of the volumes
of water that were being poured Into the
back of the building to quench the flames,
would inevitably give way in a few
minutes.

Mr. Buttertongue and Sir Poplar
Burlyman are Insensible,' said Sir Charles
Able ; ' they must be thrown over first.'

Raising these gentlemen by their
shoulders and legs, their colleagues lifted
them to a level with the balustrade.

Over with them !' shouted the chief,

whose voice was distinctly heard in the painful
silence which had fallen on the crowd.

The quick eye of Captain Sandford had
discovered a stream of molten lead
gradually making its way down the roof of
the building. In another five minutes it
would be falling in a cascade of fire upon
the heads of the unfortunate sufferers.

The determined way in which Sandford
repeated his commands had a due effect.
Swinging them in the air, and ultimately
releasing their hold, the insensible men fell
with lightning rapidity into the net — Sir
Poplar Burlyman first, and after him Mr.
Buttertonorue. Firemen were waiting: on
the rungs of the ladder to release the
victims from their position, and with great
speed the two Ministers were taken from
the net, which had given slightly in the
fall, and were being borne down the steps
to the excited crowd.

VOL. II. 1 8

The next to fall was the Prime Minister,
who lost his balance, on gaining the top of
the balustrade, and nearly paid for it with
his life. He was, however, taken out insensible,
but unhurt. The others, seeing
the good fortune of their colleagues,
hastened to follow their example. The
last to jump was Sir Charles, who was able
to descend the ladder without even the
assistance of the firemen.

They have to thank you for their
lives,' said Lord Beckonsbury to the Chief
of the Fire Brigade, offering his congratulations.


^ I am glad they are safe,' answered
Captain Sandford.

Yes,' replied Lord Beckonsbury ; ' it
will be time enough for them to experience
that sort of punishment in the
next world.'

HE morning sun gilded the turrets
of Cromer Castle. The lord
of the mansion had recovered
from the effects of the narcotics administered
to him by Metrale's agents. A cry
for speedy vengeance had been raised by
many of his adherents, and some had gone
so far as to entreat his lordship to assemble
a court-martial to try, and inflict summary
punishment upon, the two detectives.

One of the prisoners was Mr. Jumbleton,
and when Sir Richard Digby had spoken
to him, his fear of never seeing Mrs.
Jumbleton again so worked upon his mind

18—2

that he consented to give Lord Cromer
any information he might want, if his lordship
would only spare his life. He had
already informed Sir Richard Digby ot
the Prime Minister's complicity in the plot,
and remembering that Captain Belper was
Sir Richard's most intimate friend, and
that Belper had been to the office several
times about Eugene, he thought that he
might perhaps influence the Baronet to
speak on his behalf, by unfolding what he
knew of the mystery attaching to the boy,
and the reasons which induced Metrale to
be so reticent on this subject to those
interested in the lad's parentage. He had
already hinted that he knew more about
this matter than he cared to tell, and at
length, on Sir Richard's promising to
intercede with his uncle, he divulged what
he knew of Eugene's antecedents.

you remember, sir,' said Jumbleton,

on the first occasion Captain Belper came
to the chief's office, he brought a letter of
introduction from you ?'

Well ?'

Mr. Metrale at once set me and my
wife, who Is uncommonly clever In these
matters, to ferret the matter out. She
went straight to Paris, and Ingratiated herself
with some of the Fenian brotherhood,
and eventually learned that the boy was
not French by birth, but English ; and,
moreover, heir to a large property In England.
His uncle, In fact, was a peer, and
no less a person than Lord Cromer.'

t What do you say ?' said Sir Richard
DIgby, with astonishment. ' Lord Cromer
has no nephew but myself, and I have
no children, therefore your statement has
no truth In It whatever ; your wife must
have been misinformed.'

I am sure you will be convinced she

was right,' said Jumbleton ; ' my wife is a
shrewd woman, and she discovered that
the original idea of the Fenians was to
keep the child in their custody, he being
the heir to the estate, and in time, if Lord
Cromer in any way interfered with their
plans, to inform him of the existence of
the child, and threaten to kill him if his
lordship refused to act upon their instructions.'


But Lord Cromer had only two
brothers,' said Sir Richard Digby ; * one
who died at twenty-six years of age, unmarried,
and my own father, who had but
one son.'

How do you know that Lord Cromer's
brother was unmarried ?'

It was never supposed that he married.'

But it was a fact,' answered the detective.
* Lord Cromer himself knows very
well that his brother contracted a mesalliance

with a French actress. He is also aware
that a child was born of that union, and
that shortly after his birth the child disappeared.
All this Lord Cromer knows as
well as I do ; but as he believes the child
to be dead, and as you are his heir, he has
never thought it well to mention the matter
to you. The Fenians have constantly
corresponded with his lordship, but he has
refused to see the child, and affects to
disbelieve the whole story. One of these
letters from Moonlight Barry, the Fenian
chief, contained the information that unless
Lord Cromer ceased to denounce the Irish
agitators the child would be destroyed
by drowning. His lordship ignored the
threat, and but for Captain Belper the boy
would be to-day in " kingdom come." '

Why then did Metrale not inform
Captain Belper at once of this state of
things ?'

For the best of reasons,' replied the
detective. ' He had informed Mr. Cumber-more
instead, and the Prime Minister for
State purposes preferred to be the sole
person aware of the existence of Lord
Cromer's heir. He knew that the child
was in safe keeping, and thought that some
day he might obtain an advantage over
Lord Cromer bv telling: him that he could
point out the real heir to the estates, and
supplant the only person his lordship cares
one jot or tittle about in the world — that is,
yourself.'

I can hardly believe it,' said the Baronet
thoughtfully.

If you doubt my statement, ask Lord
Cromer himself ; you will find, if he speaks
the truth, that my words will be corroborated.'


Sir Richard Digby, on leaving J umbleton,
went straight to Lord Cromer's apartments.

The General was alone with Sir Edward
Righton, and they were comparing notes
over a map stretched out on the table
before them.

Ah, it is you, Dick,' said Lord Cromer,
as he heard his nephew's footsteps. * Weare
making our final arrangements. If it
had not been for those two scoundrels, I
should have marched upon London three
or four days ago.'

What news have you from town Y said
Sir Richard ; * anything satisfactory ?'

Quite,' said his lordship. * The people
are becoming more dissatisfied ever)' day
with the Government ; Downing Street
has been set on fire, and Cumbermore and
his colleagues nearly perished in the
flames.'

That was undoubtedly the work of the
Fenians,' said Sir Edward Righton.

Yes, they may have had a finger in the

fire said Lord Cromer, his face darkening
the while. ' These scoundrels are capable
of any atrocity

The Prime Minister escaped, then ?'
said Digby.

Yes : here is the account — read it. I see
a friend of yours, Captain Belper, distinguished
himself.'

Sir Richard Digby sat down to read the
account of the fire, while the two Generals
continued studying the map.

^ The effect of marching from four different
points on the City will be to completely
paralyze the action of our opponents.
My spies tell me that Metrale's plan is to
march out of London and invite an attack,
hoping that the Volunteers, of whose courage
he has but a poor opinion, will be
awed by the sight of his myrmidons of the
law. He will be powerless when he hears
we are marching from four points, and he

will have to divide his force if he wishes to
keep us out of London.'

The troops in Ireland have been defeated
again, I see,' said Sir Richard Digby.
They have fallen back on their original
position at the mouth of the Tunnel.'

Ten thousand more Volunteers are on
their way to join us,' observed Sir Edward
Righton.

Yes,' said Lord Cromer ; * I expect to
have a force of nearly 80,000 men with
me when I begin my march.'

Shortly after this Sir Edward Righton
left the Castle, to inspect the arrangements
made for the reception of the expected
corps of Volunteers, and Lord Cromer was
left alone with his nephew.

Sir Richard had only affected an interest
in the paper he was holding before him ; In
reality, his mind was engrossed with the
revelations the detective had made to him.

You are looking ill, Dick,' said Lord
Cromer anxiously.

I am fairly well,' replied Sir Richard ;
but I have just had some information imparted
to me by one of the prisoners, and
it has quite upset me.'

What about ?'

About the child who was lost in Paris,
some thirteen years ago, but who now, it
appears, is alive and well'

Lord Cromer started at this sudden announcement,
and turned pale. The conversation
had taken a turn he had not
anticipated.

I wish to be frank with you,' continued
Sir Richard, looking his uncle steadfastly
in the face. ' Is the story true or false ?
Had my uncle Henry a son ?'

Lord Cromer hesitated a moment, then,
seeing that his nephew was determined to
have an answer, he spoke :

It is a pity that all the scandal Henry
created in the family could not have been
buried with him ; but you ask a plain
question, and I will not conceal facts from
you. My brother Henry's wife had a
child — whether he was Henry's son or not,
God only knows ; anyhow, my brother did
not deny his paternity.'

And the boy disappeared ?'

Yes, suddenly one evening, when outwith
his nurse on the Boulevards. Woman
and child disappeared, and I had hoped
never to return, for my affections were
always set upon you, and I wished you to
be my heir.'

Lord Cromer rang the bell, and
ordered the detective to be brought before
him.

Mr. Jumbleton repeated his statement ;
and even assured Lord Cromer that the
account of the child's abduction, the name

of the woman who had abducted hun, and
every fact connected with the case, was
registered in a book in Mr. Metrale's
possession.

Nothing more could be learnt from the
prisoner, and, ordering him back to his
cell, Lord Cromer was once more alone
with his nephew.

And so your friend Belper saved the
boy s life ?'

Yes ; and the lad is still with him.'

It cannot be true — it cannot be true !*
said Lord Cromer ; ' there must be some
treachery at work. If the worst comes to
the worst,' he continued, ' and Henry's ill-begotten
son is to be heir to Cromer Castle,
not one farthing of my funded money shall
he have ; and every tree that grows on this
land shall be cut down, and turned into
money for you.'

The peer took his nephew's hand

affectionately, and, sinking into a chair,
covered his face with his hands.

Digby saw that Lord Cromer wished to
remain undisturbed, and, with one compassionate
glance, he turned and left the
room.

O they are really not much the
worse after the fire,' said Laura
Trylngton to Captain Belper ;
and you behaved so nobly ! Do you know,
Captain Belper, you are my ideal of a hero !'
Really, Miss Tryington ; then I should
recommend you to elevate the standard of
your ideals. But where is your cousin this
morning ?'

I suppose, as she dwells in a Hermitage,'
said Laura Tryington contemptuously,
she wishes to be considered a recluse.'

Hermitage was a picturesque residence
at Wimbledon that Lady Tryington had

taken for a short time. It was an old-fashioned
building — probably of the time
of Queen Anne — and the large grounds
surrounding it were thickly planted with
fine old oaks.

Blanche, whose health was still very
indifferent, had felt the benefit of the
change ; and Dr. Planselle, who attended
her, opined that with time and rest she
would become convalescent.

Arthur Belper was a frequent visitor at
the Hermitage.

He would ride over to Wimbledon, and
spend two or three hours with Lady
Tryington and her nieces, entertaining
them with military and political news,
which he had derived from official sources.
In return, Laura would play her favourite
pieces to him, upon a fine Gerard ; and
Blanche would sing, with a feeling that
could not fail to touch the listener,

VOL. II. 19

some quaint old English and German
ballads.

Here, then, was a grand field for Lady
Tryington to exercise her talents as a
match-maker. Belper, however, divided
his attentions so fairly between her two
nieces, that it was very difficult to say for
which of the two he had a predilection.
One day she thought Laura was the
favoured one, because he talked more to
her than to her cousin ; but the care and
the reverence which he threw into the most
trifling attention paid to Blanche left it
in Lady Tryington's mind a perfectly open
question.

Laura was greatly piqued at the conduct
of the young officer ; and Lady Tryington
herself was becoming indignant at what
she considered to be trifling with the affections
of her nieces. Would it not be
prudent to discourage his presence at the

Hermitage ? This she would undoubtedly
have done, but for the fact that in a few
days he would be leaving Wimbledon, and
perhaps in that time he might declare his
intentions.

Arthur Belper was absolutely ignorant
of Sir Richard Digby's movements — no
news having reached London of the
Baronet's adherence to Lord Cromer. In
fact, Belper, urged thereto by the Prime
Minister and other influential gentlemen,
had almost committed himself to use
his services against the proposed invasion.


Mr. Cumbermore, who had learned from
private sources that the idea of placing nets
to release the Cabinet Ministers from their
perilous position on the night of the fire
had emanated from the fertile brain of the
young Captain of Dragoons and not from
Mr. Sandford's, had lost no opportunity of

19 — 2

showing Belper how much he appreciated
his services.

Will Mr. Metrale's police ever make
good soldiers ?' inquired Laura Tryington.
They are splendid men to look at ; but
will you be able to teach them to hit a
target ?'

That is the difficulty,' replied Arthur.
As you saw yesterday when we rode over
to the butts, they are very indifferent
marksmen.'

I am a fair shot myself,' said Laura,
and would certainly enlist under your
banner, Captain Belper.'

She certainly is a good sportsman said
Lady Tryington, joining them as they sat
by the piano. ' She used to go out salmon-fishing
every morning last year, and very
well she looked in her Highland costume.'
And Lady Tryington cast an approving
glance at her niece.

I hope Digby will ask us again to his
property in Scotland,' continued Laura
Tr>ungton, addressing Captain Belper. ' I
never enjoyed myself so much anywhere,
except on the yacht after you came.'

Lady Tryington, will you allow me to
take places for you and your nieces tomorrow
at a field-day at Wimbledon ?
Metrale is going to parade his entire force,
in number about 18,000.'

I suppose Mr. Cumbermore will be
there T said Lady Tryington evasively.

Yes,* answered Captain Belper ; ' and
all the Cabinet Ministers.'

Here is Blanche,' said Lady Arlington.
If she is well enough to accompany us, I
shall be delighted

To Laura Tryington's great annoyance,
Blanche accepted the invitation, and it was
arranged that the two young ladies should
ride to the common about three o'clock on

the next day, and that Lady Tryington
should witness the march past from her
carriage.

I had no idea you cared about reviews
said Laura, sarcastically, to her cousin.

I have never seen one,' was the reply,
and I am curious to see what it is like.'

Have you heard from Digby lately ?'
said Arthur, after a pause. * It is two or
three weeks since he was in town.'

A servant entered before Lady Trying-ton
could reply, with a letter for Captain
Belper.

It is from the very man I was speaking
of,' said Arthur, glancing at the handwriting.


Open it,' said Lady Tryington. * It
may contain some interesting news for us
all.'

The letter was not a long one — Digby's
never were. From it Arthur learnt for

the first time that his friend had joined
Lord Cromer, and that in a very short time
they would march upon London, and force
the Government to dissolve Parliament.
Digby concluded by asking Arthur to join
them at Meltingborough Castle.

He is too late in the field,' said Arthur.
Cumbermore has been very kind to me,
and I must keep my word to him.'

Even if your conscience were to tell you
that he is wrong, and Lord Cromer is right,'
suggested Blanche.

Soldiers ought never to indulge in a
conscience, I should think,' said Laura.
They should obey the powers that be.'

Well,' said Arthur, * Mr. Cumbermore
is the Sovereign's Prime Minister, and so
long as the Sovereign does not order me
to do otherwise, I shall obey his Government,
much as I regret being in opposition
to my old friend.'

It would be horrible if you were to come
into collision,' said Lady Tryington. ' It
is horrible enough to realize that we are on
the eve of a civil war, and at the end of the
nineteenth century.'

Men, I suppose, love fighting for the
excitement it produces,' said Blanche ; ' but
I sympathize in this case with Lord
Cromer.'

Arthur made no answer, but this remark,
coming from one usually so quiet and
reserved, struck him forcibly.

Laura was delighted at the opportunity
afforded her of taking up the cudgels for
Captain Belper.

^ I am afraid I am prejudiced,' said
Blanche, * against Mr. Cumbermore, who,
in my opinion, seeks only his self-aggrandizement,
and cares little for the welfare of
his country.'

Again Arthur kept silence; but as he was

riding back from Wimbledon, with Eugene
by his side, the boy wondered what could
have made his deliverer so thoughtful.
Arthur was thinking of what Blanche Tryington
had said, and wondering in himself
how powerful was the influence over a
man of the woman he loved.

'And it would not be love,' he murmured,
if it had not the power to make us think
right wrong, and wrong right.'

R E A T annoyance had been
caused to the Fenians in London
by the failure of the plot
to destroy the members of the Cabinet
assembled in the Foreign Office. It had,
moreover, resulted in the arrest of Mike,
Moonlight Barry's lieutenant.

The conspirators feared that their agent
had been induced to divulge some of the
secrets of the brotherhood ; orders therefore
had been given to change the place of
meeting, and Barry had bought a small
trading vessel which was lying in the
docks. He had given out that this ship

would shortly sail for the West Indies, and
that he was awaiting cargo.

The members of the secret society
under the guise of sailors, assembled onboard,
and there considered what step they
should next take to vitally injure Mr.
Cumbermore and his Government. Barry
had learnt that it was the intention of the
Government to withdraw the troops from
Ireland through the Tunnel. He also
knew that the English General in command
had determined to fight one more battle
before he commenced a retreat. The
Fenian head-centre had, moreover, discovered
that all the supplies and ammunition
for the army in Ireland were transmitted
through the Tunnel. If this means
of communication could be destroyed, Barry
thought that the English troops would beat
the mercy of the Irish national army
and their allies. He was aware that Lord

Cromer and his Volunteers had resolved
to march upon London ; but, owing to the
difficulties the General had experienced in
organizing his commissariat, it was thought
that some time must yet elapse before he
could commence a forward movement.
Hence, for the moment, he need not,
according to Barry's calculations, be considered
an actor on the scene.

It appeared to Barry that the moment
was ripe for action on the part of himself
and his conspirators. With this idea in
view, he convened a meeting of the chief
centres of his party on board the trading
vessel. One by one they assembled on the
boat, Metrale's agents little thinking, as
the sailors passed them, that they were the
very men they were in search of.

It will not be necessary for me to detain
you long,' said Barry to his accomplices ; ' I
wish to speak with you of a plan I have

in contemplation. It is to destroy this
end of the Irish Channel Tunnel, and thus
cut off all supplies and reinforcements from
reaching the troops in Ireland. There are
several ways of carrying out this idea, but
all of them are difficult to execute, on
account of the watch kept on our movements
in this country. I have sent for
you, hoping that some of you may be able
to devise a plan for reaching the object I
have in view.'

A murmur of satisfaction followed the
speech of the chief, and a long silence
ensued, broken at length by the voice of
Maggie.

Could not some dynamite be prepared
as coal, and placed on one of the engines ?
This exploding, say half-way across the
sea, would probably destroy the Tunnel.'

I have thought of that,' said Metrale ;
but it is open to objection. The Tunnel is

several hundred feet below the sea, and
great as the explosion would be, it would
not in all probability have the desired
effect'

Would it not be possible for us to
undermine this end of the Tunnel ?' suggested
one of the conspirators.

The process would be too tedious,'
said Barry.

I have a suggestion to make,' said a
short, thickset man, who some years
before had been well-known as an influential
Home Ruler at Westminster.
His attendance at the meetings was very
rare, but he was supposed to have even
greater influence than Barry with the
conspirators.

*You know the forts that have been
erected at a considerable expense continued
Sullivan, 'at the mouth of the Tunnel'

Yes replied Barry.

In one of these forts there are wires
connected with mines beneath the submarine
railway. These mines were laid
several years ago at the instance of Lord
Cromer, who was from the first opposed to
the idea of the Channel Tunnel, but who,
seeing that all his warnings were of no
avail, endeavoured, and successfully too,
to neutralize the danger to his country in
the way I have mentioned.'

But I do not see how that is to help
us,' said Barry ; ' the wires are in the fort,
and to destroy the Tunnel we must first
obtain access to the battery. The forts
are some distance from the sea, and carefully
guarded day and night.'

It is not necessary to enter the fort at
all replied Sullivan. ' The wires run from
the fortifications to the Tunnel, passing
underneath a coastguardsman's house.
One of us might replace this man, or put

him out of the way, and then dig down to
the wires, and connect them with one of
our own batteries, and thus destroy the
submarine passage.'

The conspirators looked at each other at
the conclusion of Sullivan's remarks, and
from the murmurs of satisfaction, it was
evident that the idea was received with some
favour.

Three would be sufficient to undertake
the business,' continued Sullivan ; ' more
would create suspicion. I will take the
lead in the matter, and with Maggie's
assistance I have every hope of success.*

We had better meet once more to
mature our plans,' said Moonlight Barry,
and then let the blow be struck at once.'

Arrangements having been made for
another meeting, the conspirators withdrew,
Maggie remaining on deck with the
chief to take some further instructions.

Have you seen Eugene lately ?' Barry
said, when they were alone.

Yes ; he is still in Helper's care, and
appears to be devoted to him

Our threat to destroy the boy had no
effect on Lord Cromer ; he does not seem
to care for his heir.'

His affections are set on Sir Richard
Digby,' said Maggie.

Well, for the present it will be best to
leave the boy alone, so long as we can put
our hand upon him if necessary. How
go matters at Meltingborough ?'

Well, his force is continually increasing ;
the last account states that he has more
than enough men to take London.'

'And reconquer Ireland,' added Barry
between his teeth. * Lord Cromer must
die

What !' exclaimed Maggie ; * you would
not propose his assassination !'

VOL. II. 20

I would'

It would be dangerous and useless,'
said Maggie. ' Digby, his nephew, who is
quite as able a man, would take up the
cause. If you] wish to do any good, you
must kill them both

I know, I know,' murmured the
chief. ' Would you undertake the business
?'

For God's sake, Barry, don't ask me !'
cried Maggie, trembling and turning pale.
^ I have done enough.'

We are fighting a war of independence,'
said Barry encouragingly. ' Our enemy
has the advantage of wealth and numbers.
It is for your country that you do these
things, and for that cause you will take in
hand the assassination of Cromer and
Digby. Besides, you must obey ; you are
in our power.'

You do not think to terrify me by this

threat, do you ?' said Maggie haughtily.
I should have thought you knew me too
well by this time to imagine for a moment
that I fear either your threats or death
itself;

No, no — no, no !' said Barry hurriedly ;
your courage and zeal have been too often
proved for me to doubt you, and for that
reason I ask you to rid us of these two
enemies.'

Reflect,' he continued, after a pause ;
should Cromer live to carrot his projects,
England will hold up her head once
more. England only requires a determined
man at the head of her affairs to rule her
as a dictator: Cromer is just such a man.
He could reconquer not only Ireland, but
all her lost possessions. Now there are
only two men capable of making a coup
d'etat in this country. The one, Lord
Cromer, who has dreamed of the dictators

20 — 2

iU.cQF ILL LIB.

ship for years past. The other, Sir Richard
Digby, who has talent enough, but no
energy. These men, as you know, have
the Volunteers at their feet ; and the day
they enter London and dethrone Cumber-more,
they strike at the same time a deathblow
to our cause.'

Do you ask me at once to attempt the
lives of these officers ?' said Maggie.

Not immediately ; three weeks must
elapse before Lord Cromer can move his
force. The English General in Ireland
will not return for some time, as he is
hoping that our people will make an attack
upon his entrenchments. For the present
we are safe, and you can assist Sullivan ;
but when the Tunnel is destroyed, and the
British troops are cut off from England,
then I commit Lord Cromer and his
nephew to your charge.'

Maggie left the vessel without a

further reply to Moonlight Barry's proposal,
and, walking through the docks unsuspected,
entered the heart of the mighty
City.

Meantime, In London, as in the
days just preceding the invasion
of Rome by the barbarians, all
was revelry and mirth. Governments
might come In or go out ; what signified
it to the rich and luxurious inhabitants ?
Even the day appointed for the review
of Metrale's forces was a signal for amusement,
and the roads to Wimbledon were
crowded with troops marching to the rendezvous,
and carriages containing people
eager to see the spectacle. The members
of the Alcibiades Club had even forsaken
their comfortable lounges for the jolting

drags that were to take them to the scene.
They were curious to learn the amount of
physical exertion that it would be necessary
for them to undergo, should they, as it had
been rumoured, be compelled to take up
arms against Lord Cromer. Ricardius and
Wild Thyne were among the number ; the
latter, too old to serve himself, being much
amused at the alarm of his companions.

What are you thinking about .'*' said
Wild Thyne to Ricardius.

I was wondering,' answered his friend »
with a languid smile, * what will happen to
London ten years hence.'

Don't consider such questions,' said
Wild Thyne ; * it is really too hot for
such reflections. Of course everything
will belong to the people, and you and I
will be in the workhouse.'

Well, we shall have our own society,
at any rate,' said Ricardius.

The carriage halted for a moment, as
they were near Wimbledon and in a string
of vehicles which extended for nearly a
mile. A favourable position had been
reserved for Mr. Cumbermore and his
friends. Belper had obtained an order to
admit Lady Tryington's carriage into this
enclosure, and Wild Thyne and Ricardius
were among the favoured few. Lady
Tryington was delighted to find, on looking
around, that many of her most intimate and
influential friends had been unable to obtain
a place in this particular position, and her
opinion of Belper grew immensely when
she considered that it was to him she owed
this advantage of being an object of envy
to many of her dear friends.

Horace Deloony and Mrs. Ryder, who
were conversing together, on recognising
Lady Tryington at once approached her
carriage. They had been unable to obtain

admission to the enclosure, but could speak
to her over the railing.

So glad to see you, dear Mrs. Ryder,'
said Lady Tryington, reaching forward to
shake the hand of the editor's wife — ' and
you too, Horace ; it is some time since we
met.'

I called at your house only last week,'
said Mrs. Ryder, ' but a strange servant
told me you had gone abroad.'

Yes,' added Deloony, ' too bad of you,
really ; and to take your charming nieces
away.'

Have you not heard of our adventures
at sea ?' said Lady Tryington.

'Only some rumours,' replied Mrs. Ryder,
but do tell me the whole story.'

What a pity it is you are not in the
enclosure !' said Lady Tryington, inwardly
delighted. * I should have to scream, so I
will tell you another time. Come and lunch

with me at the Hermitage the day after
tomorrow.'

What, have you taken that charming
place ?' said Mrs. Ryder.

Yes ; I have taken it whilst the yacht is
being refitted.'

At that moment Lord O'Hagan Harton
approached the carriage, and Lady Tryington
turned to greet him.

How dreadfully old she is looking !'
said the editor s wife to Horace Deloony.
And how she paints ! Quite ridiculous at
her time of life.'

But she is a clever woman,' said Horace.

Yes ; her politics are like the Vicar of
Bray's religion. She is in with everybody,
Conservatives and Radicals ; and she holds
her own with both.'

Here is Ryder,' said Deloony.

Take me to see Colonel Metrale,' whispered
Mrs. Ryder to her husband ; ' that

horrid Lady Tryington is in the enclosure.
He can get me admittance, I should think.'

If he does not,' said Ryder the editor,
he shall smart for it in the Scrawler!

With these words, the editor led his wife
away, in search of Colonel Metrale.

In the distance they could see Blanche
and Laura Tryington riding towards Lady
Tryington's carriage, accompanied by
Arthur Belper. His men had already
taken up a position for marching past, and,
as half an hour would elapse before the
time appointed for the commencement of
the review, the young officer was escorting
the ladies about the ground, and pointing
out to them the various battalions.

I would not have missed this for anything,'
said Blanche, brushing back from
her brow the fair hair which the wind
had blown over her face.

Look at my battalion,' said Arthur, with

a smile of satisfaction ; * splendid fellows,
are they not ?'

Their very appearance should frighten
cousin Dick's rebels into submission,'
said Laura, looking full into Belper's
eyes.

An orderly galloped up, and, making his
salute, said :

A despatch for Captain Belper.'

1 am Captain Belper.' And Arthur
read the missive.

^ After the review,' It ran, 'march your
battalion to London with all speed ; the
Fenians are at work upon some mischief.
I will join you.'

After leaving the ladies with their aunt,
he hurried back to his men.

It was a grand sight to witness those
18,000 newly levied Volunteers march past
the little knot of officials.

As the troops arrived near the flag posted

in the centre of the ground, the illustrious
gentlemen moved forward to receive the
salute.

Metrale rode past at the head of the
division, his cocked-hat and black cut-away
tunic made more conspicuous by reason of
the white charger he bestrode.

Battalion after battalion passed the enclosure,
the last to arrive being Helper's
men, whose splendid appearance elicited
many complimentary remarks from the
spectators.

They may march with the steadiness
of a wall,' said Wild Thyne ; ' but the
thing we want in a soldier is for him to
shoot well. Cromer's Volunteers will pick
them out long before their physical superiority
can come into play.'

The review was over, and Belper rode
some little distance beside Lady Trying-ton's
carriage, occasionally turning to converse

with Blanche, who rode with her
cousin behind.

Ah,' said Wild Thyne, as he rode past,
he will lose that five hundred !'

Think so ?' said Ricardius. * The lily
or the rose ? The blonde or the brunette ?'

The lily and the blonde, of course !'
replied Wild Thyne. * Do you not see
how he devotes himself to Blanche, and
how mad the other one is ?'

Poor thing !' said Ricardius, leaning
back against a cushion ; * he is to be pitied
if he marries.'

Pitied !' said Wild Thyne, ' I should
think so ! Men are loved for their rank,
their money, and sometimes their looks —
never for themselves. Faugh ! women
are hypocrites ever !' added the old
cynic.

*Yes,' said Ricardius; * women are like
flowers — pretty to look at ; but their beauty

fades directly you pluck them. Poor
devil !'

This final exclamation referred undoubtedly
to Belper, and was repeated
many times during the drive from Wimbledon
to the doors of the Alcibiades Club.

Sullivan and his accomplices
had not waited long in London
after it had been decided by the
Fenian Brotherhood that an attempt should
be made to blow up the Irish Channel
Tunnel. Soon after the final meeting,
they were travelling In a first-class carriage
from London to Holyhead.

It cost a terrible lot of money to make,'
observed Lambourne, one of the conspirators.


Some millions !' was the reply. ' When
it was first started, the Directors said it
would only cost a comparatively small sum ;

but the water came in on several occasions,
and they found the amount of expenditure
pretty heavy at the end. It was a regular
job to make money on the part of the
Directors — like many other companies in
England. Talk about the acts of the
Fenians ! why, what we do is nothing compared
with the ruin which these speculating
companies bring upon many of their
countrymen ; and they will even endanger
their own country to turn a few pounds
over for themselves. In society, what is
more despicable than selling children to
the highest bidder ? And yet one sees
that every season, and men bet on it, and
women's lives are made wretched by it.
Money ! money ! money ! These Saxons
would sell their souls for it.'

'Well,' said an American Fenian, 'in
the States people don't despise the dollar,
I bet.'

VOL. II. 21

Perhaps not ; but there is far more true
patriotism in America than in England.'

Maggie sat back in the carriage, taking
Httle heed of the conversation of her
friends. She was thinking of the orders
she had received to assassinate Lord
Cromer and Sir Richard Digby.

Where had she seen Sir Richard Digby
before she met him on the yacht ? There
had been something in his face which recalled
to her memory the features of one
whom she had known in her earlier life.
But she could never collect the links, and
in despair she turned her thoughts again
to the work before her.

It was a windy night, and the rain beat
violently against the windows. The
Fenians arrived at their destination, and
Sullivan at once proceeded with his companions
to a small roadside inn, called the
Shamrock. The Shamrock was a very

respectable hostelry, and although a
favourite resort for Irishmen, it had never
given any cause for anxiety or vigilance
on the part of the police. The Irish in
the locality were a well-behaved body of
men. They had most of them been
employed in the construction of the
Tunnel, and had remained there after its
completion, having found comfortable
homes in the neighbourhood. Being an
honest class of men themselves, they had
not returned to their country, owing to the
absence of law and order there, and the
unsuppressed crusade against property in
all parts of that rebellious island. It had
commenced by an ignorant class of tenants
refusing to pay their rents to the landlords,
in which illegal course they were supported
by intelligent traitors, who were even
allowed to hold seats at Westminster. Mr.
Cumbermore and his colleagues refused to

21 — 2

employ martial law, even when murders
were committed throughout the land, and
this because, in Meltingborough and other
large towns, there were thousands of Irish
electors who gave their vote to the
Radical interest, and who would withdraw
it if a straightforward and manly policy
were substituted for the vacillating
measures of which they approved. It was
an interesting study for the disinterested
observer. Continental statesmen viewed
it with incredulous astonishment. The
reign of terror in Paris in the last century
was surpassed in horrors by that now
inaugurated in Ireland. Yet the people of
England did nothing. They ate, they
drank, they smoked, they slept, and were
indifferent to all the murder and confiscation
of property going on around
them.

The host of the Shamrock was on very

friendly terms with all the Irish who
patronized his house.

In spite of the early hour, he was standing
at the door of his inn, his hands thrust
to the bottom of his capacious pockets.

What, up before the sun, Patrick ?'
said Sullivan to him, at the same time
cordially shaking his hand. ' My friends,
Patrick,' he added, introducing the conspirators.


Mr. Patrick Whilerr nodded his head
with a sign of recognition.

What can Sullivan and his party want
at Holyhead ?' thought the landlord, as he
showed them to their rooms.

His wife, to whom he returned, was
asking herself the same question, for she
had some experience of secret societies,
and she knew that Sullivan was an important
member of the chief centre.

Sullivan did not let the grass grow

under his feet, but before an hour had
elapsed he was on his way to the scene
of their future action. He halted about
half a mile from the fortifications, and
within a hundred yards of a coastguardsman's
house. There was a small plantation
adjoining the road which led to this
building. After looking round to see that
he was unobserved, the Fenian jumped
over the hedge which divided him from
the enclosure, and advancing to the edge
of the copse, looked intently at the cottage.
Drawing a pair of field-glasses
from his pocket, he submitted the building
to the minutest investigation. A woman
came to the threshold, apparently intent
upon some domestic duty. From her
appearance, Sullivan judged that she was
the coastguardsman's wife. A few
minutes later Sullivan observed a man
dressed in a pilot's jacket, and wearing a

sailor's hat, approach the dwelling, and two
boys rushed forward to meet him.

Evidently that is our man,' said
Sullivan, as he watched him enter the
cottage ; ' and not a very formidable fellow
to encounter. But now to see what other
inmates there are.'

Taking off his closely-buttoned cloak,
Sullivan appeared in a sailor's jersey, and
substituting a slouch hat for the one he
wore, his resemblance to a seawater was
complete. Leaving his other garments in
the wood, he approached the cottage. No
one hearing the sound of his footsteps ashe
reached the entrance, he tapped lightly
at the door.

What ho, there !' shouted a voice from
within, and the coastguardsman coming
forward, scanned the features of the new
arrival.

What do you want }'

I have not eaten a crust since yesterday
morning,' said the seawater, with that
whining tone so often heard amongst the
peasantry of Ireland.

Give the poor creature something,' said
a voice from within.

^ Come In, then said the coastguardsman
; * come in. Maybe she will find you
a cup of milk and a hunch of bread.'

Sullivan expressed his thanks, and
entered the dwelling, following his benefactor
into the little parlour, which served
as kitchen and dining-room.

There,' said the housewife, * eat and be
thankful.'

'Yes,' said the coastguardsman ; * work's
difficult to get, mate, and when you've got
It, It's very hard. Here am I up at all
hours, and getting only eighteen shillings
a week, for preventing hundreds of men
from escaping the Custom House officers.

And if I only shut one eye sometimes, and
let them land their cargoes, I might get as
many pounds as I do shillings.'

Yes,' said his wife ; ' but then you are
an honest man, and I am prouder to be
your wife and share your poverty, than
walk in silks and satins and live in terror
of detection.'

All very well, my dear ; but how are we
to start the boys in life on honesty ?'

The Fenian sat listening to the conversation,
and eagerly devouring the meal that
had been placed before him.

Ah! I know what suffering is,' he said
at length; 'but I am going to Holyhead
with the hope of good luck. A relation of
mine has landed there, and he has made a
power of money in foreign parts. If I get
what 1 expect, you shall not be forgotten.'

Leaving the cottage, he stayed one
minute in the copse to change his attire

once more, and then returned to his
friends.

I have done well he said to the Fenians,
whom he found gathered round a table
smoking and drinking, * The coastguardsman
and his family occupy the cottage on
the cliff, and I do not think it will even be
necessary to use force.'

Then how will you settle the matter ?'
inquired Maggie.

My idea is this. I have told this man
that I am expecting to meet a relation in
Holyhead. You, Tambourine can personate
my uncle; and you, Maggie, his niece. Tomorrow
we can hire a carriage, and drive
in the direction of the Tunnel. I will then
take you into the cottage, and you can
thank the people for their kindness to me,
and invite them to pay you a visit on board
your brig. The chief has rented a small
one, as you know, and it is manned by our

friends. They will receive the whole
family on board, and I shall return with
Maggie to the cottage.'

But how are we to explain matters to
the people here ?' said Maggie, who looked
very sceptical as to the wisdom of such a
course.

'We must announce our departure for
London,' said Sullivan. ' Take tickets, and
get out at the next station. Then walk to
the brig and sleep on seek. There we
shall be more independent. The people
here, I know, are not to be trusted.'

You need fear nothing from me !' exclaimed
a voice suddenly.

The conspirators started. The sound
came from the ceiling of the room. On
looking up, Sullivan could discern a small
hole, which doubtless communicated with
the floor above.

I shall be with you directly, if you will

give me admittance,' continued the voice.
I am a friend,'

That is the innkeeper's wife,' said
Maggie to the astonished Fenians.

Damnation !' exclaimed Sullivan ; * she
must have divined our secret.'

Never mind,' said Maggie. ' She seems
a friend, not a foe ; and if she proves the
latter ' and here she looked at Lam-bourne,
who made a gesticulation as if he
were strangling something between his
fingers.

A tap at the door was heard, and Mrs.
Whilerr, the innkeeper's wife, was admitted.
She looked straight at Sullivan,
as if she knew him to be the chief of the
party, and then glanced round at the other
conspirators.

You have played the spy upon us,' said
Sullivan doggedly. ' You may not know
the penalty.'

Yes, I do,' answered Mrs. Whilerr
calmly ; ' but it would not be worth your
while to inflict any punishment on me if I
can be useful,' she added ; * and you probably
know I have proved my devotion to
the cause by affiliating myself with one of
the societies.*

The conspirators consulted together in
low tones for a few moments, while Maggie
kept her eyes fixed on the resolute countenance
of the innkeeper's wife.

We have decided to trust you,' said
Sullivan, at length, ' and to acquaint you
with the details of our plot.'

The chief conspirator then unfolded the
method in which they had determined to
blow up the Tunnel.

It is a good thing you have told me
all,' said Mrs. Whilerr, in reply. ' I know
the wife of this coastguardsman, and have
often stopped in the cottage.'

Have you ever been in the cellar ?'
asked Sullivan.

Yes ; on several occasions.'

Is there a well by the wall at the back
of the house ?'

I have never noticed it said the woman
after a pause ; 'but there is a board covering
something, and probably it is that.'

Sullivan drew from his pocket a plan,
and placed it on the table.

I received this tracing from one of the
affiliated in the Intelligence Department of
the Army. He was employed to copy the
original plan for the Secretary of State for
War, and at the same time he made one
for himself. These fools of officials think
their servants are to be trusted ; they will
find out their mistake when it has cost
them the flower of their army. By this
plan, the wires from the forts run underneath
the cottage, and pass within a few

feet from the bottom of that well. The
cottage was originally built for an electrician
in the pay of the War Office, and he
had the shaft constructed in order to make
some experiments with earth currents. It
was feared that as the mines below the
Tunnel had been charged with dynamite,
some earth current might possibly be
strong enough, In connection with one of
the wires, to ignite the charge. The
engineer was ordered to solve this problem.
He did so, but forgot to have the shaft
filled up when his task was completed.*

It will have to be the scene of our
action,' said Maggie ; at the same time
pointing to Mrs. Whilerr, and adding, ' Let
her go this afternoon, and pave the way
for our visit tomorrow.'

Do you consent ?' said Sullivan.

Anything for the good of the cause,'
replied Mrs. Whilerr.

And arrangements were made that the
innkeeper's wife should carry out her share
in the plot, and that the Fenians should
leave the Shamrock that same evening,
ostensibly for London, but practically for
the deck of the little brig.

HE Review at Wimbledon having
proved a success, the Members
of the Cabinet began to feel a
little more secure.

Their General in Ireland, however, was
still in great difficulties. He could only
receive his provisions and supplies through
the Tunnel, and was, moreover, surrounded
by foes on all sides ; but, at the same time,
the position he held was good, and he had
rendered it almost impregnable by earthworks.
I f he was not strong enough to attack
the Irish, they were not powerful enough to
advance upon him with any hope of success.

VOL. II. 22

On three occasions, when Lord Sax-borough
had ventured to attack the enemy,
he had been obliged to retire, after leaving
a considerable number of his men dead
upon the battlefield.

American reinforcements were daily expected
in Ireland, and the English ships
were engaged In bringing back British
troops from HIndostan, and could not
therefore Interfere with the movements of
the American cruisers.

Mr. Cumbermore was not openly at war
with the United States, but the United
States were acting towards England in a
very unfriendly manner.

If Lord Saxborough could hold out
until the English troops arrived from
India, it would enable him to increase his
force by some thirty thousand men. This
was pre-supposing that Metrale's force
would be able to resist Lord Cromer's



advance upon London, which was daily
expected.

Lord Cromer had not been able to carry
out his intentions as speedily as he had
anticipated. There were considerable difficulties
in procuring transport; and not
only that, but in ensuring discipline. At
the outset of the campaign, Lord Cromer
felt that it would be necessary to treat his
men exactly as if they were regular troops.
Acting upon this determination, he allowed
no night-roistering, no singing after roll-call,
or any other kind of levity ; and on
two occasions very severe punishments had
been inflicted upon some soldiers who had
taken some poultry from a neighbouring
farm. Lord Cromer had stated at the time
that the sentence passed by court-martial
was light, but that in future no mercy
would be shown.

Sir Richard DIgby proved to be m-

22 — 2

valuable to his uncle. From his long experience
In India and In many parts of the
globe, the Baronet could put his hand to
most things. Besides being a very good
cavalry officer, he understood Infantry drill,
and knew a good deal about gunnery and
engineering. The Volunteer officers were
deficient In these very things ; each man
being fairly Instructed In his own art, but
knowing little of the other branches of the
service. Hence DIgby had organized a
military railway corps, to retake the railway
should It fall Into the hands of the
enemy ; he had, moreover, formed a
telegraph corps, and a body of signalled
and travelling pointsmen, and had organized
a system for sending round ammunition to
the soldiers while under fire. As an experienced
officer, he felt the Importance of
not limiting good marksmen to the regulation
rounds of ammunition.

The result of this action on the part of
the Baronet was that Lord Cromer's army,
which now consisted of nearly 80,000 men,
was fairly equipped, and provided with
everything a general could require, except
artillery. As to cavalry, Lord Cromer had
sufficient — over 4,000 Yeomanry having
joined his movement. This last piece of
information having reached Metrale's ears,
he was very much concerned, feeling, as he
did, very doubtful as to the conduct of the
Metropolitan Volunteers, should an engagement
take place.

A Cabinet Council had been held, and
it was resolved that Metrale should seize
their arms, and kill the sentries, giving it
out as his opinion that it had been the work
of the Fenians.

The Volunteers, however, would not
believe the statement, especially as they
found one of Metrale's policemen slain by

the sentry. They endeavoured to rouse
the public feeling against Metrale for his
cowardly action. Metrale, to prevent this,
ordered his men to arrest the delinquents.
Considerable rioting ensued, and shots were
freely fired on both sides.

So serious were matters becoming, that
many of the respectable inhabitants packed
-jp their household goods with the intention
of leaving London.

T was the height of the season.
The fashionable world had
commenced to give its dinners,
parties, and balls, as if no great disaster
was impending.

Play was higher than ever at the clubs,
and the Alcibiades was forced to extend its
premises on account of the increase in the
number of members. The Democrats,
however, were at work, and had succeeded
in pulling down the houses in Belgrave
Square and other fashionable retreats, and
converting them into model lodging-houses
for the poor. Mayfair, even, was threatened
with demolition.

A great irreligious movement had taken
place, inaugurated by an individual of
humble origin, who publicly declared his
atheistic principles, and refused to take the
customary oath on being elected a Member
of Parliament. A feeble opposition was
raised at the time, but he was supported
by the Prime Minister, and the movement
gained ground rapidly.

Several young men who loved notoriety,
and saw how easily this individual had
acquired it, announced themselves to be,
if not Atheists, at any rate disciples of the
Know-nothing-for-certain ' School. They
raised subscriptions for the publication of
disreputable papers, and for the building of
temples where this new creed could be
preached. Many leading men of Society
joined the ranks, and it became fashionable
to belong to the new sect. Members
even of the Alcibiades Club were among

the number, led by the impulsive and imprudent
Ricardius.

The movement was confined to the
upper ten thousand, and did not at anytime
extend to the middle and lower
classes of the community. The way had
to a certain extent been paved by some distinguished
ladies, who had not hesitated for
some years past to make the questions of
a future state, future punishment, the difference
between soul and mind, subjects of
frequent conversation. Discussions on
free thought, carried on sotto voce even at
dinners, were matters of ordinary occurrence.


Women, not content with thinking themselves
the equals of men in every respect,
were continually stating it, and speaking of
their sex as an injured and down-trodden
race. They smoked, told each other stories
with doubtful morals, and why should they

not belong to the ' 
' School as well ?

It was a great change, after the attempt
that had been made by the reactionary
movement of the Anglican Catholics to reestablish
in the State Church an elaborate
ritual, and revive the Confessional.

This movement had met with some
success at first, especially when the clergy
appointed as confessors were seen to be
men of a prepossessing appearance. It
had been remarked that many middle-aged
ladies, who had not previously been conspicuous
by their attention at worship, had
suddenly become unable to bear the burden
of their own sins, and were therefore forced
to make frequent visits to the vestries of
the different clergy. They found, however,
in time, that it was difficult to confess
everything without implicating some other
person ; and the novelty having worn off,

the Confessional began to lose popularity,
and retreated in favour of the '
' School.

Yet it must not be supposed that by the
new religion,' as it was sometimes called,
people became more cruel or more indifferent
to death ; on the contrary, societies
had sprung up in every direction to prevent
cruelty even to animals, and it was a
matter of discussion as to whether it was
not an inhuman act to a horse to ride on
his back. There was, besides, a great fear
of death amongst people in general — much
more than in the old days, when they were
brought up to believe in something, and to
believe in that implicitly. It was an age
of change. Lady Tryington and Laura
were frequent attendants at these temples,
much to Blanche's grief. Arthur Belper
had accompanied Lady Tryington on
several occasions — more, it must be confessed,

to gain favour in the eyes of his
friend, than for any partiality he evinced
towards the sensational movement.

*We have just returned from the New
Temple,' he once said to Blanche, ' and
Wild Thyne addressed us in most eloquent
terms.'

I suppose,' said Blanche quietly, * he
told you to believe in nothing, but expected
you to believe in him.'

It was a pity you were not with us,'
said Laura. ' His remarks where most
thrilling — even Ricardius was moved to
tears.'

What is done with the collection ?'
said Blanche, smiling. ' I suppose you
have one ?'

Oh yes,' replied Laura. 'Wild Thyne
says it goes towards spreading the glorious
freedom of thought which is so important
a feature of the new religion.'

Yes observed Belper ; ' when Mr.
Cumbermore abolished the English
Church, he little thought how soon
another religion would take root in the
hearts of the people.'

Was it not better in the old days ?' said
Blanche, with her sweet voice, which carried
conviction to the heart of Arthur Belper.
Was it not better in the old days, when
people went to church with gratitude in
their hearts which they wished to express,
than to go, as you do now, to be amused ?
Why not go for such a purpose to a theatre,
if that is all you require ? Anyhow, so long
as one church exists holding to the faith of
our fathers, to that church I shall go, and
not to your temples, where they pull down
every old faith, and call it old-fashioned,
and give you nothing in its place.'

After all,' said Lady Tryington, ' Wild
Thyne's idea is not a new one. I have

heard that in China and Japan preachers
discourse upon many secular subjects from
their pulpits.'

'Only think of Wild Thyne preaching
about the last new fashion, or aesthetic as
an adjunct to faith !' exclaimed Laura,
laughing.

Well, my dear said Lady Tryington,
'my poor dear husband once declared that
the majority of women went to church to
have their dresses admired, and the men
to admire them ; so I think it would be a
very appropriate subject.'

I do not see, aunt,' said Blanche, with
some impatience, ' how we have benefited
by all the changes we have undergone.
Everybody is unsettled in consequence, and
in time there will be nothing and no one
worthy of respect.'

After a time, Belper was conversing with
Blanche alone by the window, while Lady

Trylngton and Laura were trying some
new music upon the piano at the other end
of the large drawing-room.

You do not believe in this new religion ?'
Blanche said, looking into his face with an
appealing glance. ' Your life is worthy of
a better object.'

'It is a noble object in life which I lack,'
he answered. * I have no one who would
be sufficiently interested in me to care
whether I ever find one or not.'

Are you so sure of that ?' she said
softly. 'Why, Dick is your devoted friend.'

Alas ! he is now my enemy. We serve
two masters,' said Arthur. * You will not
think less of me because I am obliged to
fight against him ?'

No, indeed I will not. I honour your
respect for duty, and I wish you well.'

As well he said passionately, ' as when
you gave me a white rose at Hurlingham "^

I never see those flowers but I think of
that gift.'

So slight a token of my regard for you,
and of my admiration for your courage, you
treat too seriously.'

I am going this time into a more serious
contest,' he said softly ; ' and I cannot go
without one more token of your regard forme.'


Blanche cast her eyes upon the ground,
and he could see that his words had moved
her deeply. She busied herself in arranging
some flowers that stood in an epergne by
her side.

When do you expect to go ?' she said.

To-night. I have received an intimation
from Metrale that the Prime Minister
will require my services on some important
business this evening, and I am requested
to be in readiness to depart at any
moment.'

To-night ?' she said sorrowfully.

Yes ; to-night. Will you not give mea
talisman that I may carry with me for my
safety in all dangers ?'

Blanche bowed her head once more over
the flowers she was arranging ; when she
raised it again, her eyes were filled with
fallen tears, and in her hand she held a
small red rose. As she gave the flower to
the young officer, her soft white fingers
lingered for a moment in his.

May it bring you back in safety,' she
said softly.

Nothing more was said. It was her
good-bye.

VOL. II. 23

Eugene's relations with Belper
were both Intimate and affectionate.
His education had been
carefully attended to, and he could now
speak English fairly well. To a natural
grace of manner he added a brave and noble
bearing, and on many occasions he had been
greatly admired by Belper's friends.

It was raining when Belper left Lady
Tryington. At the door he was met by
Eugene on horseback, and a servant holding
a charger for Belper to mount.

They rode off at a brisk pace, for there
were but few people in the streets, and

hardly any vehicles to block the way, until
they came to Knightsbridge Barracks,
then the headquarters of Metrale's forces.

As they reached the entrance, a brougham
drew up, and Mr. Cumbermore and the
Chief of the Police stepped out of the
carriage.

This is fortunate ; we were in search
of you,' said Mr. Cumbermore, shaking
Belper by the hand.

Come to my quarters — we can talk
there undisturbed.'

They proceeded to Captain Belper's
rooms without delay, and having each of
them lit a cigar, began to discuss the
situation.

Now is the time,' said the Prime
Minister, ' we need a loyal and devoted
man — one who will risk his life for our
cause, if necessary'. Are you such a
man ?'

Undoubtedly; I hold my life of little
value, If It can be devoted to the State.
What is It you require me to do ?'

'Cromer has commenced his march,'
said the Prime Minister. ' We had the
news two hours ago. He finds It impossible
to utilize the railway, as our men
have destroyed so many bridges that It
would take his railway corps too long a
time to replace them. Now, his force will
take at least ten days to reach London,
and In fact longer, if I succeed In embarrassing
his movements as I Intend todo.
We have therefore sufficient time to
withdraw the troops from Ireland.'

Has It occurred to you,' said Belper,
that If Saxborough commences to retire
from his position through the Tunnel,
the Irish can let In the water and drown
the troops ? The sea, with its tremendous
weight and pressure, would fill the Tunnel

much more rapidly than a train could pass
through it.'

I have thought of that,' said the Prime
Minister ; ' and we have determined to
leave three battalions entrenched at the
mouth of the Tunnel, with orders not to
move till five hours after the other troops
have started. After that, they may retire,
and must run the risk of the enemy
discovering their movements.'

But what part am I to play in this
business ?' inquired Arthur Belper.

'We want you,' said the Prime Minister,
fixing his eyes upon Belper's countenance
' we want you to take the heat and
burden of the affair. Your battalion is ina
most efficient state, thanks to your exertions
; but your services may be more
valuable to us elsewhere. In short, we
want you to start at once for Ireland ; take
this private despatch to Lord Saxborough,

who will be ordered to place you in command
of the rear-guard the day he commences
the retreat. We do not deny that
it involves great danger — perhaps your
death — but you are the only man we can
rely upon, if you give your word to hold
out till the troops have reached English
soil, and the five hours have expired.'

Belper realized in a moment the danger
of the situation. A few hours before he
would have jumped at the offer ; but now,
somehow, it seemed so hard to throw away
his life. The sweet words of Blanche's
good-bye were ringing in his ears, and
they unnerved him, as he thought he had
seen her for the last time.

'You hesitate,' said Mr. Cumbermore to
the young officer ; * I will find some other
brave man for the purpose.'

No, no !' exclaimed Arthur, starting
from his seat, and placing his fingers

between his collar and his neck, as if the
former was choking him. ^ No, no ; I will
go!'

There is no time to be lost. When
will you start '^.' said Metrale.

Now, if necessary.'

It is now half-past four said Metrale ;
'the mail starts at 8.15. Here is the
despatch for Lord Saxborough.'

Thanks,' said Arthur, taking the document
and placing it in his breast ; * your
orders shall be carried out to the letter.'

We can trust you ?' said the Prime
Minister inquiringly.

My life on it,' said Belper.

You are a brave fellow,' said the Prime
Minister, taking Belper's hand; * you will
win your reward.'

After the departure of the Prime
Minister and Colonel Metrale,
Belper lost no time in making
the necessary preparations for his journey.
Leaving Eugene to finish the work, Belper
sat himself down to write a letter to Lady
Trylngton, in which he said that he had
been suddenly ordered to Ireland, thanking
them for all their past kindness to him,
and expressing a hope that he would soon
have the pleasure of seeing them again.

Then he sat down, and lit a cigar. His
thoughts naturally turned upon the events
which had so rapidly followed each other

during the last few months. He — the man
who had always expressed an antipathy to
matrimony — had only a few minutes before
wavered, when called upon to act for his
country, on account of his love for a woman.
How Digby would laugh when he heard
it ! If he ever clasped hands again with
his old friend, how willingly would he pay
the ^500 he had wagered upon his matrimonial
prospects ! As the smoke curled
from his cigar into the air, he sat building
castles of fancy. He thought how he
would accomplish his mission — defend the
mouth of the Tunnel until the troops had
reached England, and then, bringing his
men over in safety, he would arrive in time
to defeat Lord Cromer, and intercede with
Cumbermore for the life of his friend
Digby.

How pleasant it would be to welcome
his friend to a pleasant home, after his

marriage — his marriage with Blanche !
How sweet she would look, and how
happy they would be !

Dreams ! pleasant dreams ! And the
moments passed rapidly by as he sat in a
reverie, with his eyes half closed. The
clock on the mantelpiece struck seven.

Your brougham is at the gate, Captain,'
said a servant, entering the room, and
carrying away his master's luggage.

Buckling his sword-belt around his waist,
Belper descended the stairs, and, passing
through the courtyards, reached the gates
at which his carriage stood.

There were very few passengers by
the mail, as the difficulties of travelling
in Ireland were much increased by the
strict regulations imposed by the English
General.

The only way of reaching Ireland was
by steamers or sailing vessels from Holyhead

; but on account of the number of
ships employed by the Government in
bringing back the troops from India, it
was difficult to procure a passage. There
was one passenger in the same compartment
with Arthur, who was dressed as a
minister, and who alighted at the junction
for Meltingborough.

Belper avoided getting into conversation
with him, although the stranger made
several overtures ; and it was a great relief
to find himself alone, and able to take an
hour's sleep.

The train rushed onward, through
districts which a few years before had
been resplendent with the furnaces of
factories in every direction ; but the
factories were now dark and apparently
uninhabited. This indeed was the case ;
for since America had developed her
mining and coaling industries, she had

been able to undersell England in her own
markets, the result being that thousands of
men were thrown out of employment, and
factories were closed, and fell into ruins.

The old country seemed played out, and
those who had capital took it elsewhere.

As the train stopped for five minutes at
the last station but one from Holyhead, to
allow the collector to take the tickets, four
persons entered Arthur's compartment.

There is only one passenger said a
voice, which was undoubtedly Sullivan's.
Come in here, Maggie, and tell Lam-bourne
to make haste.'

It was the very night the Fenians had
arranged to leave the Shamrock, on the
pretence of returning to London. Arthur
took no notice of the strangers, after the
first glance ; but, covering hi m
travelling-rug again, sank into a deep
sleep. Sullivan looked at him with a

scrutinizing glance, for the officer's uniform
which Belper wore attracted his attention.

An officer,' he said in an undertone to
Maggie. ' See, he has a sword on the
rack, and a helmet-case.'

Stop !' said Maggie. ' There is a
luggage-label attached. I can read the
name with ease.'

Noiselessly removing the case from the
net, she held it beneath the lamp which
illuminated the carriage.

Captain Belper !' she exclaimed. * Why,
this is the man who saved Eugene's life !'

What strange chance has brought him
here ?'

In the helmet-case Belper had placed
the despatch he was conveying to Lord
Saxborough ; and as Sullivan opened the
case by means of a spring, he discovered
the document.

What have we here ?' he said, dividing

the edge of the paper, and removing the
enclosure.

The English troops are to leave Ireland
immediately, and at all hazards. They are
to return to London, to resist Cromer's
attack. The Tunnel is to be destroyed
on the English side of the water, and
Captain Belper is to command the rearguard.'


I should not be surprised,' he added,
as he replaced the document, after having
gummed the edges of the envelope where
he had divided it — * I should not be surprised
if it were destroyed just a little
before the time appointed.'

This is the man who protected Eugene,*
said Maggie.

'We shall deal with him by-and-by,'
said Sullivan.

The train stopped at a small siding as
Sullivan finished speaking. This was the

last Station before descending the incline
which led to the Tunnel under the sea.

The four Fenians left the carriage, and
walked in the direction of the harbour.

Smoothly and steadily the train descended
until it reached the mouth of the
Tunnel, when the pace was perceptibly Increased.
The submarine passage was
brilliantly lit up by electricity, and well
ventilated. So easily was the journey performed,
that Arthur did not recover consciousness
until the train stopped at the
terminus on the Irish coast. They were
no longer below the water, but in a large
station, filled with officers and soldiers in
full uniform. The station had been selected
by Lord Saxborough as his headquarters ;
his lines of defence extending from the
coast to a fort about two miles from the
seashore.

Captain Belper Inquired for Lord Sax-borough's

quarters, and, following the
direction indicated, asked an officer in
command of a guard whether his lordship
was visible.

What shall I say your business is ?'
asked the officer.

'Say Captain Belper, of the 21st Dragoon
Guards, Is waiting to see his lordship, as
the bearer of despatches from the Prime
Minister.'

The officer disappeared, and presently
returned accompanied by a short but dignified
individual, whom Belper at once
recognised as the famous General.

Belper saluted his superior officer, and
then, handing Lord Saxborough the despatch,
awaited his Instructions.

The General tore open the envelope,
without noticing that it had been tampered
with, and carefully read the enclosure.
The old General's brows contracted as he

did so, and in an undertone he was heard
to say :

Just as I had my arrangements complete
for attacking the enemy — what an
imbecile Government! You are Captain
Belper, I presume ?' said the General
aloud. * I see the Prime Minister wishes
you to have the command of the two
battalions that will form my rear-guard. I
shall have to leave four battalions for that
purpose. Have you ever commanded a
brigade, Captain Belper ?'

Not in the field, General.'

Ah, well ! the responsibility of appointing
you to so important a position must
rest in other hands than mine. My orders
are to appoint you to command the rearguard.
Will you breakfast with me at ten
o'clock, and I shall have more to say to
you.'

Arthur, who accepted the invitation,
VOL. II. 24

subsequently found Lord Saxborough to
be a much more agreeable man than his
first interview had led him to suppose. A
strict disciplinarian while on duty, he could
unbend, however, in private life, and be
very agreeable.

You have a serious business to perform,'
said the General, as he left his
presence ; * and from all accounts you are
likely to behave nobly in the face of danger
or death.'

I only serve my country,' said Belper ;
and as he spoke, his hand pressed the
crumpled leaves of a small red rose hidden
in his breast.

HE four Fenians, on leaving the
train In which Belper had travelled
from London, made at
once for the harbour. Here Sullivan, standing
by the waterside, made the usual signal,
which was answered in a few minutes ; and
the sound of oars could be heard as a
boat appeared, rowed by a solitary sailor.
Sullivan entered the boat, followed by his
companions, and In a quarter of an hour
they were all on board the little brig.

There is a woman waiting to see you
below,' said a man, coming forward and
touching his hat to Sullivan. ' She is the

24 — 2

wife of the proprietor of the Shamrock,
and as she gave the signal, we admitted
her

I will see her at once,' replied the
Fenian leader, leaving his friends and
proceeding to the cabin.

Everything is satisfactory said Mrs.
Whilerr, on seeing Sullivan. ' I have been
to the cottage, and they are all to pay mea
visit tomorrow night, and stay till the
next morning. The coastguardsman himself
cannot leave his work.'

Then we shall have to use force,' said
Sullivan.

I don't know about that. I am going
there to tea first, and if I have the opportunity
to drug him, I will. They will not
think there is anything wrong, as he always
sleeps an hour after tea.'

If you can do it, so much the better ;
it will save the man's life, and our own

work could be safely performed while he is
asleep.'

At what time do you propose to begin
operations ?'

'At about eleven tomorrow night. I
shall leave Maggie here, as she will be of
no use in the work we have before us.
The battery can be taken to pieces, and
Lambourne and myself can easily carry it,
as well as the necessary cords. By about
one in the morning the wires will be connected
; and if the English engineering
officers have done their work satisfactorily,
we shall then blow up the Tunnel, and
cut off Saxborough from any hope of
retreat.'

What shall you do after the explosion ?'
inquired the woman.

Return here, and make our way back
to London as soon as possible.'

Have you any opium on board 1 It

would not do to purchase any from a
chemist.'

For what purpose ?
For the drug.'

No ; we have no opium, but something
more effective.'

Sullivan went to a small cupboard, and,
opening it, produced a paper packet.

If you can administer that, it will have
the desired effect,' said Sullivan, handing
her the drug. ' It is not perceptible to the
taste, or poisonous.'

As Mrs. Whilerr left the cabin, Maggie
entered.

I have a letter from Barry,' said Sullivan.
* He says you are to make for
Meltingborough at once, and ingratiate
yourself with Sir Richard Digby. He
will remember you as being saved by
his yacht ; and you can state that you
are in distress, and need his help. Then

watch your opportunity, and make use
of it

I will go said Maggie sulkily, and left
the cabin.

I wonder if she is to be trusted !' said
Sullivan to himself, when he was alone,
I wonder if she is to be trusted ! Her
manners are very strange — or I fancy they
are. However, it would be a bad day for
her if she betrayed us. You can never
trust these women — they are so full of
sentiments

At the appointed time, Sullivan and his
companions appeared at the coastguardsman's
cottage, in the window of which a
light was burning. Approaching the casement
cautiously, the chief conspirator
looked through the glass, and then beckoned
to his companions, who were waiting in the
distance.

They could see the coastguardsman

sitting in a chair by the hearth, fast
asleep.

All is right said Sullivan ; ' come
along.*

They entered the cottage, and the first
thing that met their gaze was a small round
table, on which stood some bread and
butter and a metal teapot, which Sullivan
found, on placing his hand upon it, to be
still warm.

Now for the cellar,' said Sullivan, taking
up a lighted candle and descending a flight
of steps which undoubtedly led in that
direction.

They were now about twelve feet below
the ground-floor, and looking round, Sullivan
discovered a trapdoor, which he tried
to raise. It would not, however, yield to
his efforts, and, looking carefully at it, he
found that it was held by a padlock. Producing
a wrench, he forced open the door,

and it was then clear that they had found
the well they were in search of. Fixing a
rope-ladder at the top, he proceeded to
descend by it, and in a few minutes his
companions knew that he had reached the
bottom, by the steadiness of the light he
held in his hand. His accomplices immediately
joined him at the bottom of the pit.
Producing his plan, Sullivan directed Lam-bourne
to dig in the place he pointed out.
The soil had evidently been turned — and
not very long before — and this discovery
inspired the conspirators with hope. Presently
a metallic sound was heard, and Sullivan
placed his hand on his companion's arm.

Steady !' he said ; ' be careful ; you are
on the pipes.'

This proved to be correct ; and after
scraping away some more earth, several
tubes, each of them about two inches in
diameter, were exposed to view.

Now the question is,' said Sullivan,
which of the wires are connected with the
mine ?'

Breaking the burnt-clay tubing with a
small hammer, and taking a small electric
instrument from his pocket, he placed it in
contact with one of the wires.

This is no use,' said Sullivan ; * it runs
about ninety miles, probably to Dublin.'

As he spoke, a clicking sound was heard,
and looking at a small hand on the face of
his instrument, he saw that it was oscillating
violently.

Only attend to its movements for a
minute,' the conspirator remarked. * Our
fellows are wiring to each other over the
Channel ; this wire is in connection with
the one they are employing, and my instrument
is repeating the communications. If
I could arouse their attention, I might be
able to communicate with the American

General ; but now to try the other
wires.'

They were each of them tested in turn,
and placed In connection with the battery,
but there was no satisfactory result. Sullivan's
face wore a troubled expression.

Perhaps there are some other wires,'
said Lambourne ; and digging a little
deeper, his spade again struck something
hard.

Another tube !' he cried triumphantly.
Look, Sullivan !'

It appeared that this time they had found
the object of their search.

Sullivan immediately attached the wires
to his battery, and then brought the ends
into connection.

What has happened ?' said Lambourne,
after a few minutes' suspense.

What has happened ?' replied Sullivan
angrily. ' Why, the Tunnel is not mined

at all ! or the engineers have made some
blunder. We are here on a false errand ;
and as to blowing up the Tunnel, not all the
military engineers In the kingdom could
do It, for there Is no explosive in connection
with the wires !'

What shall we do ?' Inquired Lam-bourne.


Sullivan did not give an Immediate reply.

Detaching his instrument from the wires,
he placed it in connection with the first
line that had been discovered, and which
by some accident touched the wire by
which the Fenians in Ireland were telegraphing.


Turning the handle of his battery
rapidly, he looked anxiously at the face of
the Instrument.

It is no use he said; 'the current Is
too slight. I shall never attract their
attention.'

Look, the hand is moving !' exclaimed
Lambourne.

So it is said Sullivan ; and rapidly-turning
the handle, he commenced telegraphing
to the unknown people on the
other side of the Channel.

It must be from Dublin, and Dublin is
in the hands of the National Army,' said
Sullivan.

The four letters sent by the conspirator
made up the word used by the
Fenians as a means of recognising each
other.

They were at once answered by some
passwords known only to those initiated
into the secrets of the societies. He
soon learnt that the operator in Dublin,
whoever he might be, was as high up in
the Brotherhood as himself, and in another
minute he found that he was in communication
with a superior.

What are you doing ?' was the interrogation
sent from Dublin.

Sullivan explained their situation, and
their intention of destroying the Tunnel.

Stay where you are,' was the return
message, ' until I have communicated with
General Stephens.*

General Stephens is the Commander of
the American Contingent,' said Sullivan to
his companions.

The hand is turning again,' said Lam-bourne.


Sullivan read as follows :

A battle is going on at the present
moment. The English are retreating
through the Tunnel. They have left a
rear-guard to defend its mouth. Stephens
is trying to force their entrenched position.
If he does so, we can flood the Tunnel
from our side, and drown the retreating
army ; but if not, all we can hope for is to

destroy or take prisoners the rear-guard.
Cannot you block the Hne and detain the
leading train ?'

We have no chance of entering the
Tunnel,' replied Sullivan. ' By this time
the station Is full of people making preparations
for the arrival of Saxborough's
forces. We will, however, do our best.'

Come with me,' continued Sullivan, this
time addressing his companions. * Pickup
the tools, and cover the wires with
earth.'

Sullivan led the way to the room above,
where the coastguardsman was still sleeping
soundly, absolutely unconscious of all
that was going on around him.

Take off his uniform,' said Sullivan to
Lambourne, pointing to the sleeper.

Rapidly attiring himself in the slumberer's
garments, and taking his hat from
a peg behind the door, Sullivan left the

cottage, closely followed by his companions.


Take the battery and instruments back
to the brig,' Sullivan said, when they were
outside the door. * I shall not require you
any more. What has to be done, must be
accomplished by myself alone.'

Leaving his companions, Sullivan walked
to the Channel Tunnel Station. He found
everyone, as he had anticipated, in a great
state of excitement. The place was crowded
with guards and porters, and a company of
soldiers were drawn up outside the building
to prevent idlers from entering the station.

Sullivan's uniform was the means of
admitting him to the platform, and approaching
a guard, he inquired when the
first train was expected to arrive.

'Don't know for certain,' said the official,
but they could tell you in the *' look-outs'"

There, at the end of the station, stood a

dome-shaped building with a glass roof.
Since the use of electricity had become
general, the railway companies, to secure
themselves as far as possible against accidents,
had built observatories near the
principal stations, which enabled the superintendents
to see at a glance the position
of every train in motion. It was done in
this way. A model of the line, on a very
reduced scale, was constructed in these
observatories, and on this model diminutive
trains were placed. A current of electricity
was kept up between the trains that were
running and the model, the electricity being
transmitted through the rails. As this
was effected, the diminutive engines moved
on the model in exactly the same way as
the real trains were moving on the lines.
The superintendent therefore could see at
a glance the position of every train, and
avert the danger of a collision, by himself
VOL. II. 25

communicating with the guards, if necessary.
This he could do by availing himself
of the rails as a conductor for his
battery, a similar battery being in the van
reserved for the guard.

In the Channel Tunnel Railway this
method had been so accurately developed,
that pointsmen and signalled had been
completely superseded by an automatic
arrangement in connection with the observation
of the superintendent.
\ This official was not only able to see the
position of every train, but was enabled,
besides, to turn the points at the right
moment all up and down the line by
moving the miniature points on the model ;
and by means of electricity the real points
would be instantly affected in a similar
manner.

Sullivan had often heard of this new
invention, but he had never seen it at work ;

and as he opened the door of the observatory,
he was much struck by the absence of
noise, and the apparent ease with which
the operator manipulated his instruments.


Can you tell me when the first troop
train will arrive ?' said Sullivan.

The superintendent glanced at him. and
then at his attire. He knew the old coastguardsman
well, and was surprised to see a
new official.

What has happened to your mate ?'
said the man.

He has gone away for a week's leave
said Sullivan, * and I have been sent hereto
relieve him.'

Do you expect anyone by the train ?'

Yes ; my brother. I thought he might
be returning by the first train with his
regiment.'

The first train to arrive will contain

25-^

the Royal Muddleborough Regiment of
Light Infantry

Would you let me see the train on the
model ?' said Sullivan.

Now to comply with this request was
strictly contrary to the rules of the Company
; but as Sullivan was dressed as a
coastguardsman, and as the railway people
were constantly brought into contact with
these officials, the superintendent saw no
harm in doing so.

Well — yes said the official. * There
is the train.'

Sullivan followed the superintendent's
finger, and he saw a diminutive train
moving through the Tunnel, followed closely
by twenty other trains, none of them more
than one mile distant from each other,
although on the model they were not more
than one inch apart.

We have had very hard work all this

evening,' said the official, in a confidential
tone. ' See, all these empty trains travelling
in the opposite direction are to bring
back the remainder of the troops. We
have had to send every available carriage.'


'How do the trains pass each other ?
said Sullivan, becoming interested in the
conversation.

Very easily,' said the other. * You see
there is only a single line ; but at certain
places in the Tunnel we have sidings — see
here ! All I have to do is to touch this
instrument ; and as the empty trains are
shunted on to the loops, the troop trains
continue their journey. In another minute
I shall press the spring. See, I am about
to do it.'

The idea had already flashed through
Sullivan's mind that here was an opportunity
not to be lost.

He was alone with the superintendent of
the model, and from the platforms it was
impossible that the porters and guards
could see them, even if they had time to
look.

The Fenian felt in his pocket for a
weapon. He had only a heavy-loaded
pistol ; but to fire it would be fatal to his
designs. The only course to pursue was
to club it, and stun the man in charge of
the model.

Once thought of, to put the idea into
practice was the work of a moment. He
brought the weapon sharply down upon
the head of the unfortunate official, who
fell senseless at the second blow.

Sullivan looked anxiously round, but
nothing had been heard by the people outside
the observatory. Fixing his eyes on
the model, he eagerly watched the long-lines
of diminutive trains as they approached

each other. They were now not
more than an inch apart.

The conspirator calculated that, allowing
about an inch to the mile, as the superintendent
had stated, there would be a collision
in a few seconds ; and as the trains were
travelling between thirty and forty miles
an hour, the . result would be fatal to those
travelling in the carriages. Over and
above this, the line would be blocked by
the accident, and the progress of the troops
rendered impossible.

With eyes keenly bent on the model
before him, he awaited the supreme moment.
It came at last. The two engines
darted into each other. On the model, all
that the Fenian could see was that the
diminutive trains were stationary, whilst
behind them, and at intervals of from two
to three inches, other trains were approaching
from contrary directions.

He was turning to leave the observatory,
when his eye fell on an apparatus in one
corner of the room, and a printed card was
attached to the wall above it, containing
instructions as to the regulation of the
lights in the Tunnel.

A fiendish thought passed through the
Fenian's mind.

Why let them see their misery ?' he
said. * Why not put them in darkness
?' And without waiting moment
more to consider, he turned off the electricity.


Leaving the observatory without detection,
Sullivan walked rapidly through the
station, and proceeded at once to the
coastguardsman's cottage. On arriving
there, he lost no time in taking off the
uniform, and dressing the sleeper as he
had been attired before.

Then, in the dead of the night, while

his wretched victims were perishing under
the sea, he hastened back to Holyhead
Harbour and gave the signal for the boat
to come ashore.

HE arrangements for the retreat
of his army had been made
with great care by Lord Sax-borough.
The intended movements were
only known to a few of his trusted officers.
The British troops had been defeated
by the Americans and Irish, and Dublin
had been taken by the enemy ; but as
the Prime Minister had declared his intention
at last of upholding the authority
of the Sovereign in Ireland, it was supposed
that reinforcements would be sent,
and the campaign carried on. Mr. Cumbermore
had said that there might be evils

to remedy, so far as the relations of
England and Ireland were concerned, and
that he would be ready to approach that
question In time with a liberal and temperate
hand, healing every sore and binding
up every wound. Let the Irish lay
down their arms, and trust to the good
sense and impartiality of the Prime Minister,
and then matters would come to a
satisfactory issue.

Those who knew the Prime Minister
best placed very little reliance on his
assertions, especially the senior officers
under Lord Saxborough. They had formerly
served in Afghanistan and South
Africa, and had some recollection of similar
promises, with no results. The Government
had announced long before, in the
Queen's Speech, its intention of vindicating
the Sovereign's honour In the
Transvaal ; but three successive defeats

had toned down the ardour of the Prime
Minister, and he had declared that so
much bloodshed was more than his conscience
could bear, and he must therefore
surrender the Transvaal.

Belper, who was personally acquainted
with many of the officers in Lord Sax-borough's
force, heard these disgraceful
reflections on the character of the Prime
Minister with regret. Rightly or wrongly
he was devoted to the cause of the Prime
Minister, and to hear older officers ventilate
their views in such a disheartening
manner was not calculated to encourage
him in his arduous undertaking. Lord
Saxborough had published, in general
orders, that Captain — now Colonel — Bel-per
was to take command of a brigade of
Light Infantry, and that he was to have
the local rank of Major-general. At the
same time it was announced that all commanding

officers were to see that their
men had an extra ration of bread and
meat served out to them at seven in the
evening.

The prevailing opinion was that an
attack was to be made on the enemy without
waiting for reinforcements. Belper,
who had walked round the outer Ones of
defence, informed the General that it was
impossible to hold out under existing circumstances
for five hours with the brigade
under his command, and had drawn up a
plan for forming an inner line of entrenchments,
which were immediately commenced
at the mouth of the Tunnel. A
meeting of the commanding officers was
held in Lord Saxborough s tent, when the
General informed them of his Intention to
retreat at once, and gave his final orders
to Belper. He was to defend the mouth
of the Tunnel at all costs, until a telegram

reached him to say that the mali body
had arrived on the English coast. By that
time a sufficient number of trains would
have arrived at the Irish Tunnel Station
to convey his men back to England, when
he would have to retire as he thought best.

Belper with his brigade occupied the
position he had selected, at the same time
covering with a small body of men the
advanced lines, to induce the enemy to
believe that no movement was taking
place In the English camp. These outposts
were to watch the enemy's movements,
and report to Belper. In the
meantime, train after train was filled with
troops, and at 2 a.m. Arthur received the
news that the main body had started for
England.

It was an anxious moment. Would
General Stephens attack his position before
daybreak ? If he became aware of the

English retreat, doubtless he would ; and
then, should Belper be unable to resist
the attack, the flower of the English arniy
would perish in the Tunnel, for the enemy
would be sure to flood it.

On the other hand, it was a splendid
opportunity for Belper to distinguish himself,
should the Irish make the attack ; and
he was not without some hope that they
would do so.

He walked about in the centre of the
first line of entrenchments, encouraging the
men with kind words, and consulting with
the officers standing about.

From the first line of entrenchments,
the ground sloped for about one hundred
yards, and up to that distance the enemy
could approach with tolerable security ; for
Belper could not weaken his defending
force by extending his men in a wider line.
Once, however, at the bottom of the slope,

the enemy would have to sustain the full
effect of the English soldiers' fire before
they could carry the position.

In Arthur's battalions there were not
more than 1,500 fighting men ; but then
they were picked shots, and to every
company there was attached one of the
new machine-guns which had recently
been adopted by order of the Board at the
War Office.

The position occupied by Belper was Inform
like a half-moon, the two ends pointing
towards the sea, and the centre of the
circumference facing the enemy's positions.
The machine-guns had been placed at the
two sides of the half-moon, so that Its
destructive powers could be brought to
bear upon the flank of the enemy as well
as the front.

It was as much as the three battalions
could do to occupy the position ; and

Belper, to his annoyance, found that he
could not afford a reserve, but would have
to push ever' available man to the frontin
case of an attack.

There was a second line of entrenchments
about two hundred yards from the
Tunnel, and they might be held, even if
the first position was successfully stormed ;
but should this be carried too, not an
Englishman would be left alive.

The men were lying in their places
behind the earthworks, wrapped in their
greatcoats, and with cartridge-boxes holding
500 rounds of ammunition for pillows.
They were sleeping tranquilly, and dreaming,
perhaps, of wives and friends in England;
of battlefields in India and Africa; of
the day when they first smelt powder; of the
shells that had fallen in their midst ; of the
incessant firing ; of the smoke and confusion
; of their dead comrades ; and of

VOL. II. 26

the hurrahs that followed a successful
field. There were few amongst them who
had not learnt to be as Indifferent to the
whistle of the bullet as to the peas shot
from the mouth of some truant schoolboy,
and there was not an officer or man there
who quailed at the peril of his position.

On the eve of a battle, officers and men
for difference of rank does not prevent
the sergeant, corporal, and private from
having the same thoughts as the colonel,
captain, and ensign — think, many of them
for the last time, of the dear old place at
home, and the hearts that are beating for
them, and the faces that are waiting to
welcome them back.

Belper could not put Blanche's sweet
face out of his mind, and the officers
noticed that he walked about with his
hand pressed close against his breast ; but
they did not know that It rested lovingly

upon a small red rose that had been given
him by the hand of a woman.

An officer, who had been sent forward
with the advanced parties, was seen galloping
back to the entrenchments.

The enemy is marching upon us in
columns. Their numbers are great, but
they seem indifferently armed.'

Belper looked at his watch. It was two
hours to daybreak.

A few shots were heard, and it was
known that the enemy were coming within
range.

Return, if you please, sir,' said Belper,
and gradually draw in your men, that
they may fall back firing when they see an
opportunity.' To an Aide-de-camp he
said : ' Take this ; and desire each of the
commanding officers of the two flank regiments
to send forward two machine-guns.'

Belper thought that the rapidity of the

26 — 2

firing would make the enemy over-estimate
their force. The firing became general,
and it was evident that the enemy were
advancing rapidly, and that the advanced
parties were retiring. Belper had given
strict orders that the men were to fire low,
and not to waste their ammunition. The
firing became incessant. The Irish brigade,
which led the attack, had already advanced
as far as the ground lately occupied
by Lord Saxborough's encampment, the
green tunics worn by the men looking
quite black in the grey light of the dawn.
On arriving at the open space which separated
them from the British troops, there
was a moment of hesitations was not
pleasant to run the gauntlet over a rising
piece of ground three hundred yards in
length exposed to the fire of a concealed
foe. The Fenian General, although he
was aware that Lord Saxborough was

retreating, had no means of ascertaining
the strength of the rearguard of the
English army. General Stephens' army
numbered some 30,000 men, but they
were not well armed or disciplined, many
of them carrying scythes in default of
better weapons ; but their hearts were in
their work, and whither they were led they
would follow.

Calling his officers together, Stephens
ordered half of his force to attack the
position on one flank, whilst the remainder
attacked it on the other, the objective
points being the two eminences where
Belper had placed his machine-guns.

A rear-guard was to attack the position
from the front, but not until the side
movements had been accomplished, by
which arrangement the General imagined
that much of the firing would be drawn
from that part of the entrenchment.

It was still dark, a sea-fog rising from
the waves, which facilitated General
Stephens' movements considerably, as he
was enabled to advance under cover of
the pervading gloom. Suddenly, to the
General's great discomfiture, a piercing
light was thrown on the attacking forces.
Belper had foreseen that in the darkness
the fire of the English soldiers would not
have the desired effect ; he had therefore
ordered the electric light to be turned onto
its full power, thus lighting up the
whole situation.

Curse the fellow !' exclaimed General
Stephens ; ' but it will not do to wait.'

He gave the word to attack, and from
either side the rebel battalions rushed
upon the entrenchment ; now throwing
themselves on the ground, then rushing
forward again a few yards, directing all the
time an irregular fire upon the English

soldiers. An English officer at once
opened fire with the machine-guns.

Stop !' cried Belper. * Tell him to
keep the machine-guns in reserve.'

The firing became incessant ; the heavy
cloud of smoke that rose in the air greatly-assisting
the advance of the rebels.

Already hundreds of slain covered the
open space. Helper's men, confident in
their steady fire, and with an immense
supply of cartridges at their disposal, were
congratulating themselves upon having
worked such havoc amongst the foe.
Suddenly, a wild shout in front of the
entrenchment attracted their attention. It
came from the Irish force, as they rushed
to the attack in front of the entrenchment.
At the same moment General Stephens
redoubled his efforts on the flank.

Now for the machine-guns !' shouted
Belper.

The order was at once obeyed, and the
yells and cries of the Irish filled the air as
they were mowed down by the new
weapons of destruction. The rear, unaware
of the terrible destruction amongst
the advanced battalions, pushed forward to
the attack.

^ By God !' exclaimed General Stephens,
they are advancing In columns. If the
English can sustain their fire, we are lost'

Three times had Stephens' force rushed
upon Belper's position, and three times
the rapid fire of the English troops had
raised a barricade of dead bodies between
themselves and their assailants.

^ I will make one last effort,' said the
Irish leader. And placing himself at the
head of some battalions that had not yet
suffered by the fire, he gallantly led them
to the assault.

Ireland for ever !' shouted the attacking

force. And with wild hurrahs they
darted across the broken ground. The
carnage in their ranks was tremendous ;
but still they pushed forward under the
terrific fire, until a shot struck their leader
full in the breast. He reeled in his saddle,
waved his sword once toward the entrenchments,
and fell senseless. A moment of
hesitation was apparent among his followers,
and Belper, seizing the opportunity
without considering that he had only three
battalions, compared to the vast number of
his foes, gave the order to charge the
enemy. The English troops sprang from
their entrenchments with bayonets fixed
and rushed upon the enemy. The effect
was instantaneous ; for the Irish, discouraged
at the fall of their leader, and at
the disastrous effect of the English fire,
turned and fled, and Belper, after pursuing
them for a short distance, and killing

several thousands in the attack, returned
to his original position.

The day was over : the fight was won.
Belper discovered, to his great satisfaction,
that very few casualties had occurred
amongst his forces. Elated with success,
Belper sat down to make a statement of
the battle, and to await a telegram from
Lord Saxborough to say that the main
body had reached the shores of England.

'AGGIE had reached Melting-borough
by this time, where
she heard that Lord Cromer
and Sir Richard Digby had left the
Castle some days before, with a large
army of Volunteers. They numbered in
all 50,000 men, besides a few cavalry regiments
and some artillery. Everywhere
Cromer's army had been received with
enthusiasm by the people, and he was
looked upon as their deliverer from starvation
and every other evil that had followed
the action of the present Government. It
was well known that his movement was

not aimed against the Sovereign, but
against the Government, which refused to
give up the reins of power in spite of the
wishes of the electors.

Maggie followed the army in a carriage,
and in a few days she fell in with them.
They were not forty miles from London,
and they had met with no opposition.

It was night when she arrived. The
streets were all illuminated in honour of
Lord Cromer and his army. The General
and Sir Richard Digby were being entertained
at dinner by the mayor of the town.

Asking a bystander where she would find
the headquarters of Lord Cromer, and finding
that he had taken up his quarters at the
Bell Hotel, she proceeded in that direction.

On arriving, Maggie inquired of the
proprietor if she could have a room.

If I had twice as many rooms, they
would all be occupied. I have had to

refuse even Sir Richard Digby only a few
hours ago ; and he had just returned from
making a reconnaissance, after being two
days in the saddle

Where has Sir Richard gone to ?'
inquired Maggie.

To the Plough Inn — a humble but
respectable little place,' answered the proprietor
of the hotel ; ' but he only sleeps
there : he will have his meals here with
Lord Comers

Thank you,' said Maggie. * I will goto
the Plough ; perhaps they can accommodate
me.'

She secured a room on the ground-floor,
the window of which looked upon an
extensive garden.

The first and second floors are occupied,'
said the landlord ; ' but when the troops
are gone I can give you better accommodation.'


Once left alone, Maggie threw herself
down upon a sofa near the open window,
and looked out Into the garden.

It was a lovely night. The air was
warm, and a faint twitter from some wakeful
bird was the only sound that broke the
stillness.

From a summer - house, only a few
yards from the window, came the sound of
voices after a while ; and a faint cloud of
smoke would steal occasionally into the air
from the cigars of the speakers.

She listened attentively, but could not
hear what was being said. A glass door
opened from the room into the garden ;
and she could see by the moonlight a large
oak-tree near the summer-house, and
around the stem of this tree a rude seat
had been constructed.

Opening the door as quietly as possible,
she walked to the seat unobserved, and

listened again. This time she could hear
the words that were spoken, and she
started as she recognised the voices of
Lord Cromer and Sir Richard Digby.
They had been dining with the mayor,
and the General, wishing to have some
private conversation with his nephew, had
accompanied him to his quarters.

You say that you rode within six miles
of London ?'

Yes ; and I saw no outposts o{ any
description ; but I heard that Metrale was
at his wits' end, trying to raise two cavalry
regiments.'

How did the people receive you ?'

Very well ; on all sides I was asked
when you would arrive before London.
There is a rumour that some horrible
disaster has happened to the British army
in Ireland, but no one seems to know
exactly what has occurred. I was so close

to London that I was sorely tempted to
ride to Lady Tryington's house at Wimbledon,
and learn some information that might
be useful.'

'It is just as well you did not go
observed the General. ' She is a great
talker, and everybody in London would
have heard of your visit in twelve
hours.'

'Arthur Belper has gone over to the
enemy,' said Sir Richard Digby regretfully.
' I cannot understand it, for he
hates Radicalism at heart. There is a
rumour that he has gone to Ireland to
command a brigade.'

Loaves and fishes, perhaps !' said Lord
Cromer cynically.

He is not a man of that sort,' answered
Sir Richard ; ' but I am glad he has gone
to Ireland, as it will prevent us coming
into collision.'

I wonder if he has taken that bastard
with him !' ejaculated Lord Cromer.

If that boy had perished, Dick,' he
continued, after a pause, * you would have
been my heir.'

It is a pity, uncle ; but to give the
young devil his due, he is not a bastard,
but perfectly legitimate.'

Maggie listened eagerly for every word
that fell from their lips. They were
evidently speaking of Eugene.

She knew that the Fenians had stolen
the child, in order that they might have
a hold over Lord Cromer, and she now
learned for the first time why the lad's life
had been spared. It was evident that
should they kill the boy the conspirators
would be rather advancing Lord Cromer's
interests than opposing them.

Could you see any likeness between him
and any of the family ?' said Lord Cromer.

VOL. II. 27

Only about the eyes,' was the answer.

1 would to God he had never been
born !' exclaimed the General. ' To think,
Dick — to think that the child of a Parisian
prostitute should inherit Cromer Castle !
But it is useless to regret ; and I must get
back to my quarters.'

One moment,' said his nephew. * Do
you think if Cumbermore withdraws the
troops from Ireland, that Saxborough will
oppose us ?'

Impossible to say, my dear Dick ; impossible
to say. Lord Saxborough is
a good General, but he will go for the
main chance. We must take London
before he arrives. I shall offer him the
olive-branch ; and if he takes it, we can
together recover our lost possessions, and
lift England once more out of the mire of
Radicalism and Dishonour.'

When do wee march ?'

To-morrow night. It will be cool for
the troops, and we shall consequently cover
more ground. Our next halting-place will
be Windsor. Good-night, my boy.'

The General, accompanied by two orderlies
who were waiting in the street, rode
back to his quarters.

Sir Richard finished his cigar, and then
returned to the inn. Maggie remained
unobserved beneath the shadows of the
old oak. She carefully watched the windows
of the building, and presently a light
appeared in the room adjacent to her own.

How fortunate !' she exclaimed. ' Now,
if the Fates will help me this time ! Yet,
must I commit another crime ? Ah ! if
these villains had not my own child in
their power ! But I must not stay to
think, but act'

Maggie rose from her seat, and walked to
her own room. Opening a chest of drawers,

27 — 2

she drew out a packet of drugs. As
she closed the drawer of the cabinet, she
observed that the piece of furniture half-concealed
a door, which led to the next
apartment. Removing the cabinet, she
tried the handle softly, but found that the
door was locked. Stooping down, she
looked through the keyhole.

Sir Richard Digby had thrown himself
into an armchair, and Maggie could see
that he was looking affectionately at a
locket, and that his eyes were filling with
tears. Present he rose, and placed it
beside his bed ; and as he might be called
at any moment during the night, he threw
himself upon the couch to sleep without
undressing. He blew out the candle, and
then settled himself to sleep.

Maggie sat silently by the door, her ears
ready to catch the slightest sound. Soon
the deep breathing of Sir Richard was

heard, and Maggie knew that he was
asleep. He had been thoroughly tired
out by his long ride.

In one corner of the room a small table
had stood, which Sir Richard had moved
to his bedside, and upon which he had
placed a water-bottle and a glass. An
idea occurred to her that if she could only
obtain access to the apartment, and put
the poisonous powder into the water, her
work would be done. The Baronet would
in all probability awake before the morning,
and reaching out his hand for the
bottle, drink some of the contents.

Waiting a little longer, she then opened
the door of her room leading to the
passage. Everybody had gone to bed,
and not a sound was to be heard. Taking
off her shoes, in order to make as little
noise as possible, she walked along the
passage and tried the handle of Sir

Richard DIgby's door. It turned in her
grasp, and she gave a slight push.
Stealthily creeping into the room, she
reached the bedside, and carefully poured
the poison into the water-bottle. The
only light in the room was cast by the
rising moon through the uncurtained
window. She looked carefully at the
handsome countenance of the sleeper, and
tried in vain to recall the time when
that face was well known to her. Her
curiosity was aroused, and she took up
the locket from the table and pressed the
spring.

She started back as her eyes fell upon
the portrait, and clutched at the table to
save herself from falling. The sudden
movement awoke the sleeper. He rose
instantly from the bed, and snatched the
locket from the intruder's grasp. Something
in the livid face of the Fenian

woman arrested his attention, and he
stood rooted to the spot.

What are you here for ?' he exclaimed.

To his surprise, the woman showed no
sign of fear, and had completely recovered
her self-possession.

'So you know her?' she exclaimed,
pointing to the portrait. 'My own dear
mistress !'

'Your mistress, woman!' said Sir Richard.
What lie is this ?'

*I am not telling a lie,' said Maggie
quietly. 'If you will hear me, you will
know that I speak the truth. If you have
patience and wisdom, you will hear it from
the commencement.'

The half commanding, half supplicating
tone in which Maggie said these words
struck the Baronet forcibly ; and in a
kinder tone than he had yet spoken, he
said :

'Goon.'

I am an Irishwoman,' she began. ^ I
was but sixteen when I fell in love with
the chief of a secret society in Dublin.
He returned my affection, and we were
married. When we could strike a blow at
England, we did so ; for I took up my
husband's cause, heart and soul. At last
he was taken prisoner in trying to rescue
others from a similar fate. He was tried
in England, sentenced to death, and
hanged. I was mad with grief. The
priest of our parish took pity on me, and
sent me to Spain, where I became an
attendant in a convent. I went there with
my child, and we were treated kindly by
the Sisters in Seville. Gradually my
health came round ; and in the quiet of
the convent I sought for consolation in a
religious life. One day a new nun arrived;
Sister Ursula she was called. The poor

girl was ill, and I attended upon her. I
learnt from her that her suffering was
mental as well as bodily. She had married
a Protestant, against her father's wish. He
was a stern, relentless man, and would not
admit her into his house, or let her see her
husband again — her heretic husband, as he
called him. She was gradually dying of
despair before my very eyes. I was with her
but a month ; but every day our affection
grew stronger, as we learnt to sympathize
with each other's woes. Mutual sorrow
made us sisters. One day she showed mea
locket — the facsimile of the one you
possess, only it contained not her own portrait,
but yours. Now I know, for the first
time, why your features are familiar to me.'

The Baronet had sunk into a chair, and
had covered his face with his hands.

'What happened to my darling? Oh,
my darling ! — did she die ?'

I cannot say,' said Maggie, moved at
the emotion displayed by this strong man.
She had been only a month in the
convent, when one day a carriage came to
the door, and her father removed her, it
was said, to another convent. We heard
afterwards that she was dead.'

Dead 1' groaned Sir Richard. * Great
God!'

That was the report. At the same
time, another great grief fell upon me.
My child was stolen from me. I had been
affiliated to a secret society, and had been
very useful to its members. They still
required my services. They found out
where I was, and managed to send a letter
to me. '' Leave the convent," it said,
** and join us in Dublin." I paid no heed
to this request; and a few weeks afterwards
my child disappeared. He had been
playing in the garden, and was stolen in a

manner that is unknown to this day. Oncoming
to my senses, I found another
letter waiting for me. It was from the
chief of the society, and he said that my
child was in their possession, and that I
must fulfil my compact, or he would be
killed. What could I do ? I left the
convent ; and since that time I have had
blindly to obey the orders of my chief, to
save my child's life. Deeper and deeper
I have waded in crime, till I can sink no
lower.'

Sir Richard was stupefied by the intelligence
he had received. He felt faint, and
reaching out his hand for the water-bottle,
was about to drink of its contents. To
his surprise, the woman dashed it to the
ground before he could raise it to his
lips.

Stop !' she cried ; * it contains poison,
and now the truth is out. I put It thereto

take your life, not knowing who you
were. The face of that angel saved you.'

I understand he said ; ' you are still vi
their power ; but why have they any spite
against me }'

They wish to strike at Lord Cromer,
because he is opposing their plans ; and if
he succeeds in taking London, all hope of
Ireland's independence is at an end.'

*And you are ordered to destroy him as
well?'

Yes.'

What a horrible state of things !' exclaimed
Sir Richard Digby.

*You will forgive me,* said Maggie,
falling on her knees, ' and pity me, for the
sake of her we both loved.'

In heaven's name, rise,' said the Baronet,
and you and your child shall yet be saved
from harm. Come to me tomorrow, and
take the post of nurse in the headquarters

of the ambulance. They will give it to
you, and I can see you again. The members
of the secret society will think you
have obtained the situation to carry out
their designs. Do not be afraid ; nothing
shall pass my lips ; and before long we will
punish these scoundrels as they deserve.'

And my boy ?'

Shall be saved.'

Digby slept no more that night. After
Maggie had retired to her room, he sat
looking at the portrait of his dead love ;
and she lived again in his memory, and in
his heart.

K53k«

H E news of the terrible disaster to
the British troops in mid-Tunnel
had at last reached London.
Never in the annals of English history-had
such a calamity occurred before. Out
of 28,000 men, more than two-thirds had
perished, and no one could understand how
the accident had occurred. The Railway-manager,
who might have given some explanation,
was still insensible. He had
been found in his office, three hours after
Sullivan had left the station, lying in a pool
of blood. On examining the model it was
found that no less than thirty of the

miniature trains were touching each other,
and it was clear that some dreadful
collision had occurred.

The first intimation Mr. Cumbermore
received was on his return from Wimbledon,
where he had been to a review of Metrale's
forces. He had been anxiously looking
forward to receiving some intelligence from
Ireland, and was in hopes that Lord Sax-borough
had by this time arrived at Holyhead.
He thought that the General could
at once attack Lord Cromer and disperse
the rebels. Metrale, anticipating this, had
left Wimbledon with the whole of his force,
to advance towards Lord Cromer's position,
so that should this officer face round to
defend himself from Lord Saxborough's
troops, he could at once fall upon Lord
Cromer's rear. The plan had been carefully
arranged, and orders sent to Lord
Saxborough at Holyhead.

Metrale, however, was entirely ignorant
of the terrible disaster that had occurred,
and moving forward his entire force, halted
for the night at a place called Hounslow.

London was thus practically unguarded.
Mr. Cumbermore had, however, caused a
great number of special constables to be
sworn in ; and as the members of the
Alcibiades Club were useless as soldiers,
they were made to patrol the streets as
policemen. Ricardius, who had been employed
during the review, and who had no
other duty to perform that day, called at
the Hermitage to pay Lady Tryington a
visit.

Dear Mr. Ricardius,' said Lady Trying-ton
after she had welcomed him, * what
dreadful times we live in ! There is my
favourite nephew. Sir Richard Digby,
positively serving on the side of the insurgents
; and his great friend, Colonel

Belper, fighting for the Government in
Ireland. You are the first person I have
seen to-day ; now do you bring any
news ?'

RIcardlus was about to speak when
Blanche entered the room, looking very
pale and ill. Without noticing Ricardius
she went up to Lady Trylngton and said :

'A mounted orderly has just passed the
gates, and he asked the lodge-keeper how
he could best come up with Metrale's force.
n return for this Information he said that.
a terrible accident had occurred in the
Tunnel, that our army was destroyed, and
that London was In a panic'

Good gracious !' exclaimed Ricardius,
it cannot be true ; but if it is, I am better
here. If you will allow me, Lady Trying-ton,
I will take this house under my special
protection.'

Thank you so much,' said Lady Try-vol.

II. 28

ington ; ' but we are quite able to take
care of ourselves. But do find out what
has occurred, and let us know.'

The task was not an agreeable one to
RIcardlus, but he could not refuse, and
rising from his chair he left the room.

London was in a very unsettled state.
The minds of the unfortunate men who had
been thrown out of work by the principles
of the Government had been excited by
revolutionary speeches to robbery and
plunder.

The Irish had taken advantage of these
doctrines for some years past, and had
possessed themselves of land that belonged
legally to English people ; and now the unemployed,
taking advantage of the crisis,
determined to commence a similar crusade,
under the guidance of Mr. Bullneck. The
minds of the masses since the disestablishment
of the English Church had become

very unsettled, and since the upper classes
had espoused the cause of the * '
School, the lower classes
considered they had a right to belong
to the * Share-and-share-alike ' Society.
Temples had been appropriated by these
revolutionists for the purpose of holding
meetings to discuss their proceedings ; and
it was outside one of these buildings that
Ricardius stopped his brougham, after
leaving Lady Tryington's house to discover
the state of affairs. Entering the
building, Ricardius managed with difficulty
to find a seat.

Mr. Bullneck was addressing the vast
assembly. He spoke of the crisis, and of
the advantages they would gain by it — how
they could plunder the rich now there were
none to protect them.

Spare no one !' shouted the Socialist.
We have hitherto kept our candle under

28—2

a bushel, but now we will set London on
fire

The audience yelled with delight ; and a
moment afterwards Ricardius was pushed
against the wall by the crowds of frantic
men, who rushed into the streets to
carry out the doctrines they had been
taught.

It was with a heavy heart, and forebodings
of evil, that Ricardius returned to
the Hermitage.

The news had by this time reached
every part of London that a great disaster
had occurred in the Channel Tunnel.
Men stood anxiously at their doors, buying
the papers that professed to give a full
and detailed account of the destruction of
the British army.

Ricardius bought one of these papers ;
and, on arriving at the Hermitage, at once
hastened to Lady Tryington, who with her

two nieces were anxiously awaiting his
arrival.

'Is it true?' exclaimed Lady Trying-ton.


Alas ! quite true said Ricardius.
Read here.'

And he presented the paper to Lady
Tryington, who read as follows :

A terrible disaster has occurred. At a
Cabinet Council held a few days ago it was
resolved to abandon Ireland to the Irish,
and withdraw our troops. Colonel Belper,
of the 2 1 St Dragoon Guards, was sent
with orders to Lord Saxborough to retire
immediately. The arrangements were
completed for the return of the troops,
and Colonel Belper was left to command
the rear-guard, and defend the mouth of
the Irish Tunnel until Lord Saxborough's
forces had reached the English coast.

This daring young officer behaved most
gallantly. His entrenchments were attacked
by General Stephens, who commanded
an overwhelming force, but
Colonel Belper repulsed them with great
loss to the enemy. The trains, meanwhile,
which were carrying the troops to
England, collided with those on the way
to the Irish coast, to bring back the rearguard.
Yesterday evening the superintendent
who had charge of the line was
found in his office, lying in a pool of blood.
There is very little doubt that more than
half the English troops have perished in
this terrible catastrophe. To add to the
horror of the scene, the electric light was
found to have been turned off. Suspicion
points to the Fenians, but no arrests have
been made at present. A Cabinet Council
is to be held this evening.

Lord Cromer has reached Windsor, and

tomorrow will see the engagement between
his followers and Colonel Metrale's forces.
Should the Volunteers win the day, we
shall witness a coup d'etat, as Lord Cromer
has determined to force the Government
from Office.
Consols, 27.'

Thank heaven, he is safe !' murmured
Blanche, who had listened with a painful
suspense while her aunt had been reading
the paragraph.

Colonel Belper has behaved nobly,'
said Lady Tryington.

Yes,' said Ricardius ; * a splendid resistance.
Just such an one as I should
have made.'

In spite of her anxiety, Blanche could
not resist a laugh.

Laura, who had been watching her
cousin, and understood the cause of her

distress, cruelly remarked that she did not
see how the rear-guard of Lord Sax-borough's
army could ever reach England.

Fortunately we have friends on both
sides,' said Lady Tryington. ' Dick is
with Lord Cromer, and Colonel Belper
stands high in the favour of the Government.'


It never does to be too certain about
anything,' said Ricardius ; ' but I think
Lord Cromer will take London tomorrow.
And if it is to be done, the sooner the
better, for Bullneck Is inciting the populace
to plunder. I suppose he looks upon
Cumbermore as a sinking vessel, and
means to desert him as quickly as possible.'


Ricardius took his leave of the ladles
shortly afterwards, and drove to his club.
There he read upon the tapes that Lord
Saxborough had arrived at Holyhead, and



had stated his loss to be very great ; that
a raid had been made by the 
alike Society upon many public
buildings and private houses ; and that
there was a rumour to the effect that the
Ministry would resign.

HE morning of the 9th of July-broke
clear and bright ; the sun
shone down on the long lines of
tents pitched in the open fields to the west
of Hounslow. Lord Cromer had determined
not to divide his force, but to move
with all his men on London, and this was
the last halting-place.

In the distance hundreds of carts could
be seen bringing supplies for the troops.
Some soldiers were guarding several hundreds
of cattle and sheep that had been
driven from farms near High Combe.
The farmers in that neighbourhood, who

were friends of the Radical Party, had
resisted at first ; but, as they found they
could get a fair price for their beasts, they
let them go. As long as they made some
profit on their cattle, what did It matter to
them whether Lord Cromer succeeded In
reaching London or not ?

Lord Cromer had been up all night with
his nephew, considering the situation. It
was known to them that Lord Sax-borough's
army had been destroyed In the
Channel Tunnel, and that all the opposition
they could expect to meet would be
from Colonel Metrale and his forces.
Again, It was certain that the Metropolitan
Volunteers would welcome their comrades-informs.
Lord Cromer was aware that
Metrale had passed the night In Hounslow,
and that his forces had been billeted in
that town. Reconnoitring-parties on both
sides had come Into contact a little before

daybreak, and a few shots had been fired.
About 7 a.m. Sir Richard DIgby was
informed by his scouts that the whole of
the opposing force had left Hounslow, and
was marching forward for the attack.

So much the better,' said Lord Cromer,
on hearing the information ; * I should
have been obliged to have stormed
Hounslow, and the destruction of life and
property would have been great, if they
had not left the place. The affair will
not last long. Throw out a line of
skirmishers, and deploy five regiments
across the road into the fields on either
side.'

It was a splendid sight to witness.

The five strong battalions that formed
Lord Cromer's first line advanced to their
positions to await the enemy.

Lord Cromer was looking through his
field-glass, as his attention had been attracted

in one direction by a sudden flash
of light, Hke the reflection of the sun on
something bright.

This was a troop of Horse Artillery,
and they had taken up their position on a
piece of rising-ground about a mile and a
half distant. The gunners were bringing
their weapons into position. The officer
in command of the artillery had hoped to
reach the height In time to open fire upon
the Volunteers before they deployed into
line. He was an old officer, but he had
had very little experience in the new system
of manoeuvring artillery, and was under the
impression that, as in his own day, gunners
could go wherever the cavalry went, and
that as far as pace was concerned the
artillery would often have the best of It.
However, he found himself almost In a
trap, for the number of minutes he allowed
himself to reach the rising-ground and

open fire on the Volunteers had flitted by-long
before his guns arrived at the place.
But they were now ready for action,
although time had been lost, and in
another moment the flash of fire was
followed by a dark cloud of smoke. The
shells could be heard approaching, and the
men, who had never been under fire before,
felt a sinking sensation. But the distance
was great and the firing Indifferent, and
the shells burst in a field some three
hundred yards from the place where Lord
Cromer was standing.

Send a few picked riflemen forward to
fire steadily on the gunners,' said Lord
Cromer to Sir Richard DIgby who was
standing by his side. * They are very
exposed, and at 1,500 yards our men ought
to do their work. But see, some more
batteries are on their way to aid the enemy ;
by their appearance I should say they

are not regular artillerymen, but enlisted
for the occasion, and if they have no skilled
gunners with them they will do very little
harm.'

At that moment a shell burst at about
one hundred yards from where the General
stood.

He has nearly got the range,' said
Lord Cromer, 'and the next shell will
probably do some damage. Take two
regiments of cavalry, Dick, and make a
feint, as if you were trying to get round
Metrale's men on the right flank, and send
another officer with two more regiments
to make a similar movement on the left
flank.'

The Volunteers received the artillery
fire with more coolness than Lord Cromer
had imagined. So far, but little damage had
been done by the shells, only four men
having been slightly wounded by some

fragments. The picked marksmen, who at
1,200 yards range were firing upon the
gunners, had brought down their men
admirably, and the Captain of the artillery,
who was short of capable gunners, began
to lose his head. Metrale, who was endeavouring
to keep his men to their work,
was shot through the right arm, and a few
minutes afterwards was struck In the chest
by another bullet. He would have fallen
from his horse but for Eugene, who supported
him until a surgeon arrived, who
had him lifted from his horse very carefully
and placed upon the ground. The
surgeon took a handkerchief from his
pocket, and placed It over Metrale's face ;
then, turning to the bearers of the body,
he said :

Let no one see him ; he is dead.'
They endeavoured to conceal the loss of
their leader, but it was useless. The report

spread with alarming rapidity, and a feeling
of discouragement was at once apparent.
But still they held to their position, though-their
heart was not in their work, and
though their countrymen dropped one by
one under the destructive fire of Lord
Cromer's rifles.

Suddenly a voice was heard to exclaim,
The enemy is behind us !' No one ever
knew who uttered that cry ; but it produced
a panic, and throwing down their arms they
fled in every direction. They had seen
Digby's movement upon their right and left
flank, and were convinced that unless they
instantly fled their line of retreat would be
cut off.

Eugene knelt over the body of his
fallen leader and friend, for since Belper
had been in Ireland the lad had been invariably
at Metrale's side.

Lord Cromer with his men were fast

VOL. II. 29

advancing, but one of the skirmishers who
was suffering from a wound, and who
arrived first upon the scene, kicked the
body of Metrale as it lay upon the ground.
Maddened with rage at the cowardly act,
Eugene rushed back a few yards, and
picking up a rifle, discharged It at the man.
The bullet missed its aim, but a dull thud
announced that it had found a billet close
at hand. In an instant twenty rifles were
levelled at the lad, who, throwing down his
weapon, stood erect and undaunted. Had
it not been for Sir Richard Digby, who
immediately recognised the boy, and commanded
the soldiers not to fire, Eugene
would In a moment have been killed. A
cry arose for his Immediate execution.
He has shot the General !'

Shot the General !* exclaimed Sir
Richard Digby, and giving the boy Into
the charge of another officer, he galloped

back to Lord Cromer, who was in the arms
of a surgeon.

Is it serious ?' said Digby hastily.

Fortunately, not very ; but his lordship
must be kept very quiet. I am afraid of
fever.'

After a time, Lord Cromer recovered
consciousness, and insisted upon having
Eugene brought to him.

The accusation brought against him
was that he had been lying down, and
feigning to be dead, at the time the
skirmishers arrived.

Let him be shot !' cried the soldiers.

No ; let him have a fair trial,' said
Lord Cromer to his officers.

There was now nothing to prevent Lord
Cromer entering London.

He had given Sir Richard Digby
plenary power to act in his stead. It was
the moment when a firm hand was required

29 — 2

at the head of affairs. Judging from the
reports in the papers, London was in the
hands of a mob, who, incited to rebellion
by Socialistic leaders, were plundering
every place that was worth the sacking.

The Prime Minister's house had even
been robbed, and it was reported that
Windsor Castle had been spoken of as
their next place of pillage. Fires had
broken out in several places in the metropolis,
and in several instances the insurgents
had prevented the firemen from
extinguishing the flames.

It was said that the Ministers had
officially resigned, but of this report there
was no certainty.

Sir Richard Digby determined to march
10,000 men to Wimbledon the following
morning, and then enter London with an
escort of two yeomanry squadrons, and
ascertain if a Government existed.

If Mr. Cumbermore could not be found,
the Baronet Intended to proclaim martial
law in the metropolis ; and placing his
services at the disposal of the Sovereign,
to await the Monarch's commands.
Finally, he ordered a court-martial to
assemble within twenty-four hours to try
Eugene.

►T was the eve of the battle of
Hounslow. Council after Council
had been held by the Cabinet.
The members of the Government had learnt
the news of the disaster to Lord Sax-borough's
forces. Everywhere they heard
themselves denounced. Mr. Cumbermore
could no longer meet his colleagues In
Downing Street with safety. It was necessary
to find some spot where they could
assemble in secret. Sir Charles Able, who
was as unpopular as his colleagues, placed
a house belonging to his brother at the
Minister's disposal. Here they were assembled

on the night before the battle in which
Metrale was slain, and his forces defeated.

It is our last chance,' Mr. Cumber-more
said to his friends. ' If Metrale is
beaten tomorrow, we must escape as fast
as possible, and throw up the sponge.'

We ought to have done so long ago
said Sir Poplar Burlyman. And the other
members of the Cabinet spoke in the
same vein.

The Prime Minister felt this acutely ;
it was true that he had been the most
resolute of them all against a dissolution ;
but had they not all supported him ? It
was base ingratitude to throw all the onus
upon him, especially when retribution was
treading upon their heels. He felt much
as his namesake the prophet had done
thousands of years before, when in the
arms of the sailors and about to be cast
into the sea.

Mt is no use talking of the past,' said
Mr. Cumbermore ; Met bygones be bygones.
The question we have to consider
is, whether we shall now resign or await
the issue of tomorrow's battle. If Metrale
wins the day, this Volunteer movement
will collapse like a pack of cards. We
should have to hang Cromer and one or
two of the leaders. Then, with Sax-borough's
remaining forces, we could easily
establish order in England and Scotland ;
for that is all that remains of the British
Empire.'

'It is a terrible thing to shed blood,'
said Mr. Buttertongue, with his hands
clasped together.

It is better than having our own shed,'
said the War Minister.

Oh yes ! oh yes ! that's true replied
Mr. Buttertongue.

London will require a scapegoat if

Metrale is defeated, and I have no wish to
distinguish myself as that animal,' said the
Prime Minister.

I really don't know what would happen,'
said the timid Lord O'Hagan Harton. ' I
think we had better run away. Up to
now we have considered our party, and it
is time to consider ourselves.'

I see by the papers,' said Sir Poplar
Burlyman, ' that the populace burnt each
of us in effigy last night.'

As the Minister was speaking, the tramp
of many feet was heard, and the sound of
many voices.

The Ministers listened.

They have found us out. They
will kill us!' exclaimed Lord O'Hagan
Harton.

Come with me,' said Sir Charles Able,
as the noise became greater. ' I can take
you to the roof; it overlooks the street,

and we can see what is going on without
being observed.'

The Ministers followed Sir Charles Able
out of the room, and up the stairs on to
the roof of the building.

An immense crowd had halted before
the house. In the foreground could be
seen Mr. Bullneck, accompanied by Wild
Thyne.

Why, confound it !' said Sir Charles
Able, * there is Wild Thyne at the head of
the rabble ! It is really too bad of him, for
he dined with me last week.'

They are ringing the bell,' said Lord
O'Hagan Harton, trembling violently.

No one opened the door, and the crowd,
becoming impatient, burst in the portals.
Some of the more active men tried to
climb the high rails that surrounded the
garden.

We ought to get away at once,' said

Lord O'Hagan Harton. ' If they were
to capture us, our lives would be the
forfeit

Come this way,' said Sir Charles Able,
fully alive to the danger of the situation.

Leading the way down a narrow passage
at the back of the house, he showed the
Ministers a small postern gate at the side
of the garden.

'• That leads into the street,' said Sir
Charles, in a whisper. ' Lose no time in
escaping.'

*Are you not going yourselves' said Mr.
Cumbermore. ' Are you going to remain
here ?'

Remain here,' answered Sir Charles
Able, * of course. I am not afraid of the
mob.'

And if Metrale is beaten ?' said Lord
O'Hagan Harton inquiringly.

Then I shall go to France. I have

my yacht ready, and if you like I will take
you all with me.'

The offer was too good to be refused ;
and having ascertained the exact place
where the vessel was anchored, the Ministers
shook hands with Sir Charles Able
and fled.

When Sir Charles reached the front
of the house, an excited mob had filled the
little garden.

Share and share alike !' cried the foremost.


Down with Cumbermore !' cried those
behind.

Sir Charles was equal to the occasion.
Taking a cigarette-case from his pocket,
he lit a cigarette, and then handed the case
to Mr. Bullneck.

The crowd were delighted at the coolness
of the young statesman, and cheered
him vociferously.

Wild Thyne approached, and shook
hands with his friend.

Say a few words to them,' said Wild
Thyne ; ' it will have a soothing effect.'

He is going to speak,' said a voice in
the crowd, as Sir Charles stood at the top
of the stone steps, and raised his hand to
ensure silence.

My friends,' said Sir Charles Able,
you are for sharing alike. This house,
however, does not belong to me, but to my
brother, and he is one of the greatest
Communists in London.'

Three cheers for Sir Charles's brother 1'
shouted Wild Thyne.

The mob responded to the appeal with
three lusty shouts ; and finding that their
intended victims had escaped, Mr. Bull-neck
and his followers quietly left the
garden.

Elder had been waiting sometime
for a telegram from Lord
Saxborough to announce the
arrival of his army in England. Twelve
hours had elapsed since his lordship's
departure. Arthur's men had eaten their
morning ration, and there was nothing left
for them in the commissariat. They had
fought hard, and were hungry and thirsty.
Under the most favourable circumstances,
a long time would elapse before his soldiers
could obtain another meal.

Meantime, General Stephens had returned
to his original position. The

blockade was as strict as ever, and the
young officer determined to reconnoitre
the ground in person. Riding as close ashe
could to the enemy, he discovered, by
the aid of his glass, that one part of
Stephens's camp was apparently unprotected.
It had belonged to that division
of the Irish force which had suffered so
terribly in the battle. Arthur further
ascertained that behind this part many
head of cattle were grazing in the fields.

It would not be difficult, he thought, to
carry off some oxen in a night attack ; and
it would also have another good result, as
it would make the enemy less suspicious as
to any attempt on his part to retire. The
enemy would be rather inclined to think
that the English had received reinforcements.


Returning to his camp, Belper found
that no telegram had arrived from Lord

Saxborough. Leaving orders for two battalions
to remain in their position, he
advanced the third. Then taking all the
horsemen he could muster, he led them to
the unprotected part of the camp. In a
few minutes they had arrived at the cattle-pens,
and were pulling down the rails.
The mounted men drove the beasts as
silently as possible towards the English
lines.

The heavy tread of the cattle disturbed
a sentry, who challenged, and, receiving
no answer, discharged his rifle.

Belper's horsemen redoubled their pace.
It was moonlight, and the Fenians could
be seen turning out of their tents and facing
up in line of battle.

The officer commanding the advanced
battalion, who had extended his men in
skirmishing order, waited till Belper's
horsemen had driven the spoil through his

line, and then gave the order to fire. The
enemy, thinking this was the commencement
of a general attack, made every preparation
to resist It. Meantime the cattle
had been driven into the entrenchments
and the advanced battalion were retiring.

Thus Colonel Belper, by a daring act,
saved his men from comparative starvation,
for It was not till the following evening
that the trains arrived to convey the
rearguard back to England.

Belper then heard of the terrible disaster
that had happened In mid-Tunnel for the
first time. He commenced his retreat
without loss of time, for by the aid of his
glass he could see that the Fenians were
strengthening their position. Belper,
worn out with his exertions, lay down to
rest for a few hours, while the preparations
were being made for the soldiers' return.

At midnight he rose, and ordered some

VOL. II. ^o

dummy figures, with rifles, to be placed
in the position his advanced guard generally
occupied, to deceive the enemy.

The Irish General did not discover the
retreat of the British forces till too late ;
and within a very short time after leaving
the Irish coast the rear-guard of Lord
Saxborough's army reached England. At
Holyhead Belper heard of the defeat of
Metrale's forces, and a messenger was
awaiting him with a letter from Lord Sax-borough,
desiring Belper to join him at
Chester.

Leave two battalions to help to defend
the English end of the Tunnel, and join
me here with the remaining battalion,'
were the instructions contained in the
despatch.

And, carrying out the General's orders,
Colonel Belper proceeded to Chester.

REPARATIONS were being
made in Lord Saxfe^orotjg^'s camp
for a court-martial. Eugene had
been informed that he was about to be
tried for his life. The charge had been
read to him, and it ran as follows :

'On the 13th of June, 189 — , and during
the battle of Hounslow, he, the prisoner
known only by the name of Eugene, when
lying on the ground and pretending to be
wounded, did discharge a rifle with intent
to kill a Volunteer, and by the act severely
wounded Lord Cromer.'

The court had been ordered to sit in a

30—2

large tent belonging to the staff at headquarters.


Punctually at ii a.m. the prisoner was
brought before the court. He was deadly-pale,
and suffering from the rough treatment
he had received at the hands of his
guard; but bracing himself up for the
ordeal, he appeared before the officers
calm and self-possessed.

The prosecutor stated his case fairly and
impartially, as he believed. There was no
defence ; and after a short deliberation on
the part of the court, Eugene was led
away, having been informed that he would
not know the sentence of the court until
it had been confirmed by Lord Cromer
and Sir Richard Digby.

Maggie had heard of the prisoner. It
occurred to her that Eugene must be the
boy Belper had saved from drowning. Sir
Richard Digby had given orders that

Maggie was to be admitted to any part of
the camp. By this means Maggie obtained
access to the prisoner. Eugene thanked
her for her kindness in coming to see him
in his distress.

If Colonel Belper were here he would
be able to save me ; and if you could communicate
with him, you would be doing mea
great service.'

I will try to do so,' said Maggie to this
appeal ; ' but are there no other people
interested in your welfare ?'

No, I have no other friends now,' said
Eugene ; ' I had some in France, where I
was educated, who would be sorry to hear
of my fate.'

You mean at school ?' said Maggie.

Yes,' answered Eugene. And he told
her the name of the place.

Maggie knew of the establishment, and
had often tried to discover for herself where

it was, but had failed to do so. A suspicion
had sometimes crossed her mind that her
own boy had been placed there, as it was
known to the Fenians.

'Was there a boy in the school called
Maurice while you were there ?' inquired
Maggie.

Eugene thought for a moment, and then
said there had been a boy of that name —
a dark-haired boy, with one shoulder higher
than the other, which had been occasioned
by a fall from a ladder while playing in a
garden in Seville.

Yes ! yes !' said Maggie ; * it must have
been my own child.'

'Your child T said Eugene, astonished.

Yes ! Tell me,' continued Maggie, ' he
was well when you left }'

A shade of compassion stole over
Eugene's handsome face.

I must tell you the truth,' he said

kindly, ' sad though it is. Poor Maurice
died of bronchitis while I was at the
school.'

A low moan broke from Maggie's lips,,
and she covered her face with her hands.
She sobbed for some minutes, and Eugene
offered her the sympathy he could so well
bestow, and told her as much as he knew
of her child's illness and death.

A knock was heard at the door shortly
afterwards, and an officer entered. Maggie
left the cell, crying bitterly. The sergeant,
thinking her sorrow was chiefly for the
young prisoner, tried to comfort her.

It will not be tomorrow,' he said.

What will not be tomorrow ?' she
inquired.

The execution. He has been sentenced
to death, and will be shot in a week's

time.'

Maggie wandered about the camp,

mourning the loss of her child. Only the
other day Barry had told her that if she
would accomplish the last task confided to
her the child should be restored.

To save that child's life she had sinned,
at his direction ; and all the time the child
had been dead, and the Fenian had doubtless
known it.

She had been faithful to a traitor ; but
now she determined to be revenged, for
this cruel perfidy, on the man who had
robbed her of her son, and cheated her
into committing so many crimes. But
first of all she was determined to save
Eugene, if it could be done.

She set to work to find Belper's address,
and from a Court Guide she found he
resided at 517, Piccadilly.

Travelling at once to London, she found
the house, but was informed that Colonel
Belper was not at home ; but that he had

telegraphed to the effect that he would
return the next evening.

Leaving the house, she wandered about
Piccadilly, and considered what course to
pursue. Then, walking to the Strand, she
stopped opposite to a house in which the
Fenians occasionally held their meetings.
She determined to enter, and learn what
she could of the future plans of the conspirators.


An old woman answered her summons,
and on recognising Maggie, allowed her to
enter.

The master is expected here presently,'
said the old woman.

I will wait for him,' said Maggie ; and
ascending the stairs, she entered the room
where the Fenians held their meetings.

Maggie sat down in a chair, and waited.
Suddenly it occurred to her that above the
room in which she sat Barry slept, and, it

was believed, kept his papers in a tin
box.

She walked stealthily upstairs, but found
the door locked. Returning to the room
below, she found a coat hanging against
the door, and in the pockets she discovered
some letters and a bunch of keys.

She again ascended the stairs, and tried
the keys in the lock of the door.

At last she found one that fitted, and
turning it, she opened the door.

There were several boxes in the room,
and she lost no time in trying the keys
again. Her efforts were rewarded. She
found in one box a number of letters
written in the French and German
languages. Presently her eye fell upon the
name of Eugene, and above it was written,
Expenses for maintenance.' A few lines
below this was written the name Maurice,
and then came some writing in cypher.

Without a key to the manuscript her task
would have been useless, so she continued
to search amongst the papers, and at last
found what she believed to be the necessary
document.

At this moment she recognised the voice
ol the old woman in conversation with
some person in the passage below.

Hastily arranging the boxes, she placed
the papers she had found in her pocket,
and descended to the other room.

Some of our people have left word
that Barry will not be back till night,' said
the old woman, entering the room.

You need not say I have been,' said
Maggie, slipping a coin into the woman's
hand.

Leaving the house, she hired a small
room at an hotel in the neighbourhood, and
having locked the door of her apartment,
sat down to read the papers. Her heart

beat violently as she read the name of her
child. The date beside it corresponded
with the day, the month, and the year in
which her boy had been stolen. As she
read the document word by word, she
found that the Fenians had stolen her
child to induce her to give her services to
the society. There was a list of the
expenses paid for the boy's maintenance,
and at a certain date this payment ceased.
The date corresponded with the death of
her child, as Eugene had narrated.

Next, turning to Eugene's name, she
saw that his expenses had been paid by
the Fenians as well ; and finally she read
that he was to be used as a means of
inducing Lord Cromer to side with the
Irish.

Erremont, the name of the school, was
mentioned, and the name of the town near
to which It stood.

I must go there without delay,' thought
Maggie ; 'if I can bring the Superior
back, she will identify Eugene, and with
these papers I shall be able to prove that
he is Lord Cromer's nephew, and by that
means save his life

After writing a letter to Belper, telling
him what had occurred to '\\\s protdgS^ and
begging him to take steps to procure his
pardon, Maggie went to the Victoria
Station, and in less than twenty-eight
hours she was driving in a fiacre along
the road that led to Erremont.

mltKi

CHAPTER XIX.

Elder did not wait long at
Chester. After reporting himself
to Lord Saxborough, and
receiving his hearty congratulations on the
gallant action he had fought when defending
the Tunnel, he obtained a month's
leave of absence, and returned to London.
You will find everything in great confusion
there,' said Lord Saxborough. * I
should advise you to stay here.'

But Arthur would listen to no persuasion,
and in a few hours found himself
In London. Having changed his attire,
he took horses and drove to the Hermitage.

He found the young ladies In
the garden, and as Arthur entered the
gates they both hastened towards him.

We are so glad to see you !' said
Blanche.

We welcome a hero !' said Laura. * I
suppose you know how things are going
on over here. Dick is all-powerful now,
and has proclaimed martial law. The
streets at night are cleared at nine o'clock
for the present. The season has been
quite spoiled ; there are no balls or dinners,
and everybody has gone out of
town.'

Arthur paid little heed to this long
speech of Laura's ; he was looking into
the beautiful face of the woman he loved.
Their eyes had met, and Blanche's had
fallen before the tender gaze of the young
officer.

The papers say you will be made a

General said Laura, anxious to attract
Helper's attention.

Do not believe all the papers say,' was
Arthur's reply.

Laura went to announce Arthur's arrival
to her aunt, and Blanche was alone with
him.

She spoke to him of Eugene.

Eugene under sentence of death !' exclaimed
Belper ; * I have heard nothing of
this.' He had not opened Maggie's letter
in his haste to leave London for the
Hermitage. ' I must go at once and see
Dick about it.'

Do you think our influence would be of
any avail ?' said Blanche ; * we are so sorry
for the boy, and he is to die.'

I fear there must be some mistake
said Arthur. ' It is very possible he may
not have understood the charge, as he
speaks very little English. He is a brave

lad, and I am sure would not have acted
as you say, unless under some strong
provocation.'

A servant brought a letter for Miss
Tryington at this moment, and she
opened it.

*It is from Dick,' she said; *he is
coming here, as soon as he can get away
from his business, to dine with us. I must
go in and answer the note ; and may I
mention Eugene in it ?'

It was the first time she had ever asked
his permission to do anything ; and he
took her hand gently between his own ashe
replied to her.

I have kept the rose,' he said softly ;
it has brought me back to you.'

Blanche's face flushed crimson, but she
made no answer.

Are you glad I have come back ?' he
said.

VOL. II. 31

Very, very glad ! But now I must
answer this letter.'

^ Not for a moment,' he said, detaining
her. * Blanche, you have twice given
me what I asked you for. Each time
it has been a rose. Should you refuse
me if I asked for a more precious

gift ?'

What have I, that I can give to
you ?'

'Yourself!' he answered passionately;
your own self ! Blanche, you know I
love you dearer than life ! dearer than ambition
! Tell me — oh, tell me, I may still
love on !'

She was very pale, as she heard him
declare his passion, and would have fallen
to the ground had he not caught her in
his arms. She turned her eyes to his face,
suffused as they were with happy tears,
and allowing her head to fall gently upon

his shoulder, she whispered one word of
consent.

Arthur !*

My darling !'

He knew that he was loved, though the
words were unspoken, and he sealed the
vow with one long and passionate kiss.

Before you reveal our secret said
Blanche, as they were returning to the
house, * you must hasten to Dick, and
intercede for Eugene's life.'

The breakfast-bell was ringing as they
entered the house, and before the meal
was over Lady Tryington's keen eye had
detected that something unusual had occurred.


You will see us again soon,' said Lady
Tryington, as Arthur was about to depart.
This afternoon, I hope. Dick is dining
with us on Wednesday, and you must give
us that evening.'

31—2

With pleasure said Arthur ; * but I
will return to you as soon as I have seen
Dick, and have prevailed on him to
spare Eugene's life.'

>T was a busy afternoon in Pall
Mall. For the last two days
there had been an absence of
crime and outrage In the metropolis, and a
general sense of comfort and satisfaction
prevailed such as had been unknown
during the four previous weeks.

Martial law had been proclaimed. All
delinquents had been brought before courts
presided over by Lord Cromer's officers.
One man had been hanged for arson, and
several thieves severely flogged for violently
robbing people in the streets. In
each case the punishment had followed

the sentence within the space of six
hours.

This method of securing order had
created a panic amongst evil-doers, and
had successfully suppressed the rioting
and plunder. The police had — most of
them — returned to the metropolis, and
were being re-organized, so that they
might recommence their accustomed duties.
The Sovereign had issued a notice that
Parliament was dissolved, and in all parts
of the country preparations were being
made for a General Election.

In the meantime Lord Cromer had been
appointed Commander-in-chief, with full
power to maintain order throughout the
kingdom by the exercise of martial law.
The lobbies at the War Office were
crowded with people, who all had something
to ask of the temporary Dictator ;
and in the absence of his uncle, who was

Still confined to his bed, Sir Richard found
himself besieged by applicants for appointments.


These gentlemen believed that Lord
Cromer would be the new Prime Minister,
and had determined to take time by the
forelock.

To these applicants Sir Richard Digby
had turned a deaf ear. He announced
that all sinecure appointments were to be
abolished, and the gentlemen were obliged
to return to their homes in a very indignant
frame of mind.

Sir Richard had one day dispersed all
these office-seekers, and was about to
congratulate himself on being able to
find a few minutes to rest himself, when
his aide-de-camp entered the room
with some papers that required his signature.


There is one important document

here said the aide-de-camp. * It is the
court-martial on Eugene.'

Sir Richard dropped his pen. Disagreeable
as had been his other work that
afternoon, this was the most painful that
as yet he had had to perform. He carefully
read through the proceedings of the
court-martial, and he saw that the evidence
for the prosecution had not been in anyway
shaken by the prisoner ; indeed, he
had pleaded guilty to the charge. He
had, however, stoutly denied having pretended
to be wounded. The officers said
that on account of the prisoner's youth
they would have recommended him to
mercy, but that the case was so flagrant an
one that they felt it out of their power todo
so.

Taking his pen up again, Sir Richard
was about to write * Approved and confirmed
' under the statement of the proceedings,

when a tap was heard at the
door.

Some ladles, sir,' said a servant, * who
insist upon seeing you. They are accompanied
by a gentleman, who gave me this
card.'

This is terrible,' he thought. ' They
have evidently come to plead for the boy's
life ; but, at all hazards I must do my
duty.'

The Baronet rose and awaited the arrival
of his visitors.

Lady Tryington entered the room,
accompanied by Blanche and Arthur
Belper. Digby cordially welcomed the
ladies, and shook Arthur warmly by the
hand.

We have come about a very serious
matter,' said Arthur ; ' but you know our
business, I feel sure.'

You mean,' said Sir Richard, ' that

you have come to plead for that unhappy
lad ? It Is too late !'

Oh, impossible, impossible !' exclaimed
Lady Tryington. * You would never have
the poor boy shot ?'

Dear Dick ! for heaven's sake spare
him !' said Blanche. ' Do not be hard or
cruel to such a youth

God knows !' exclaimed the Baronet,
I do not wish to be either the one or the
other. The case is a strong one, as you
can see, Belper.'

Yes, it is said Arthur ; * but the boy's
years should stand him In some stead.
Moreover, he accuses the Volunteer in this
statement of having kicked Metrale's body,
and says that the insult maddened him to
such an extent that he fired without a
moment's reflection.'

Why did he not state that at the trial ?'
inquired Sir Richard Digby.

He knows very little English said
Blanche, eager to catch at any idea that
would save the boy's life ; ' and that is a
sufficient reason. Dick, you must spare
him!'

If he were my own son ' exclaimed

Sir Richard Digby.

A servant entered again before the
Baronet could finish his remark.

This person wishes to see you, sir,
immediately.'

Digby opened a small note that the
servant carried, and read as follows :

I have some important information to
convey to you about Eugene's parentage.
Your friends must know it in time ; you
had better let me state my case before
them.

Maggie.'

Sir Richard hesitated for a moment ;

then, handing the note to Lady Trylngton,
he asked her permission that the woman
might enter.

Certainly, let her come in,' said Lady
Tryington.

Maggie entered the room, and walking
to the table, whispered to Sir Richard
Digby.

'You may speak before these ladies,' he
replied.

I have just come from Paris,' Maggie
said, ' where I have made some important
discoveries about Eugene. I will be as
brief as I can, but I must claim your
patience. A few days ago Sir Richard
Digby arrested me in the act of taking his
life, but he spared me because I had served
and loved his young wife.'

His wife !' ejaculated Lady Tryington.
Dick, is this true ?'

Sir Richard Digby bowed his head.

He gave me authority to go about the
camp,' continued Maggie ; ' and I saw
Eugene, who told me of his early life in
France. I learnt from him that my own
child had been at the same school. To
gain what information I could about my own
boy, I went to this school and saw the
Superior. I had certain proofs in my
possession that she was in the pay of the
Fenians, and I threatened to expose her to
the French authorities, unless she told me
the whole truth about Eugene. She then informed
me that two children had been placed
in her charge some years before, one by a
Spanish nobleman, the other by a Fenian
agent. She was paid handsomely for the
support of the lads for some time. Then
she heard that the Spaniard was dead, and
that no more money would be forthcoming
for the support of the child. About the
same time, the boy who had been placed

with her by the Fenians died. It occurred
to her that she could still receive the
Fenians' money by representing the Spanish
child as the one belonging to the Fenians.
This was easily done, as the Fenians had
never asked to see the child they had
placed with her, and he had been four
years at the school already.

Eugene, now lying under sentence of
death, is the unfortunate boy who was represented
by this woman as belonging to
the Fenians, whereas he was really the
grandson of a Spanish nobleman, and
your own son, Sir Richard Digby, by your
marriage with his daughter.'

Sir Richard Digby started from his chair,
his face white as snow, and his bloodless
lips quivering with emotion.

My son !' he gasped ; * Eugene my own
son ! What proofs have you ?'

Every necessary proof answered

Maggie ; ' and the Superior of the school is
now in England, waiting to corroborate my
statement.*

Sir Richard DIgby sank down again
upon his chair, and buried his face in his
hands.

There are forty-eight hours,' he said at
length, 'before the execution can take place.
Can you establish your statements before
that time ?'

I can,' answered Maggie.

A tap was heard at the door, and Sir
Richard's aide-de-camp entered.

The bearer of the statement of the
court-martial is waiting below. Can it be
confirmed ?'

Sir Richard hesitated for a moment ; then,
taking his pen, confirmed the verdict.

You have signed the death-warrant of
your own child !' cried Lady Tryington.

I must do my duty,' said Sir Richard,

handing the document to his aide-de-camp.


Come, Maggie, if you can satisfy my
mind I will go at once, and plead for
mercy to the Crown. The sentence
cannot be carried out for forty-eight hours,
but I have no time to lose. Good-bye
he added to his friends, as he left the room
with Maggie ; ' pray that I may bring you
back good news.'

Let us endeavour to see Lord Cromer,
said Blanche, as they were leaving the
War Office, 'and induce him to use his
influence for Eugene.'

Belper ordered the coachman to drive to
the mansion inhabited by the wounded
General. They found Lord Cromer's
medical advisers in attendance.

He is very ill,' said Dr. Planselle ; * any
excitement might cause his death. We
really cannot allow you to be admitted.'

But It is a question of life and death,'
said Lady Tryington.

I am very sorry, Lady Tryington, but
we must do our duty,' answered the
physician.

(there the original MS. ends, and the
conclusion of the story is amplified
from Colonel Barnabas suggestion
s))
-r- # rr r?

Finding it impossible to obtain an Interview
with Lord Cromer, Lady Tryington
returned to the Hermitage with her
niece and Colonel Belper.

We shall hear from Dick as soon as he
leaves Windsor,' said Lady Tryington.

They had not long to wait in suspense,
for a telegram arrived from Sir Richard
Digby the same night. It was worded as
follows :

VOL. II. 32

The Sovereign has been pleased to
pardon Eugene, and Lord Cromer is quite
satisfied with the decision.'

Now all our troubles are at an end, I
hope,' said Lady Tryington. ^ And while
the country is settling down, after all these
months of rebellion, I think we may as
well go abroad.'

Oh, that will be delightful, aunt !' said
Blanche, ' if '

If Arthur accompanies us,' added Lady
Tryington, smiling. ' Well, I have no
doubt he will. What do you say, Arthur ?'

That nothing will give me greater
pleasure, if I can get a long enough leave
of absence,' replied Belper.

*The only thing that remains to be
settled is, where shall we go ?' said Lady
Tryington.

It was decided, much to Laura's dissatisfaction,
that they should make a tour

through Spain, as it would enable Blanche
to study the paintings of the Spanish
masters, in which art she was considered
to be very accomplished.

There was a lady in Seville, the last
time we stayed there, who was really very
clever with her brush,' said Blanche.
You remember, aunt, I took a few lessons
from her.'

I remember,' Lady Tryington replied.
We met her first in the old Alcazar
Gardens, and I was struck with her
singular beauty.'

She lived in the Plaza de la Constitution,'
said Laura ; ' and you thought
her a clever artist because she had such
an elegant study. One might as well say
that a book must be well written because
it happens to be bound in morocco.'

It was arranged that they should leave
England in less than a month ; and, if

32—2

OUR RADICALS.

possible, Sir Richard Digby was to be one
of the party.

I think I shall prevail on him to go,'
said Belper, as he was saying good-night.

And perhaps,' said Blanche, * he will
take us in his yacht.'

^^"^HE strain of the last few months
^ ^ had told heavily upon Sir Richard
^^^^''^^ DIgby's health, and at the urgent
request of his physician he consented to
accompany Lady Tryington to Spain.

They had now been in Seville a week.
Much of that time Digby had spent in
solitude. The place was associated with
the happiest days of his life — those days
which he had spent with the young wife he
had so passionately loved and so prematurely
lost.

For hours he would stand upon the
cathedral tower, listening to the faint

monotonous hum of the busy city beneath,
or the bells as they pealed from the cathedral
tower in honour of some Christian
festival. In the distance rose the Moorish
Palace of the Spanish kings — rich with its
many historical associations, and surrounded
by its marble courts and terraces; its olive,
orange, and myrtle groves — abounding incurious
remains of Moorish and Roman
antiquity. Far beyond, the Guadalquivir
wound like a serpent through a fiat and
marshy country ; and on the other side of
the river lay the province of Triana, the
home of the Andalusian gipsies.

On every hand he was reminded of the
past — that past which he had treasured so
dearly, and which was ever present to him
as he gazed into the fair face of the miniature
he wore around his neck.

Was she dead ? or was she alive ? Had
she remembered him through the long and

weary years as he had remembered her ?
Would they ever stand heart to heart, as
they had stood in the old days when silence
was often sweeter than speech, and when
only the twitter of the birds among the
orange-trees, or the sighing of the wind
through the myrtle boughs, or the liquid
plashing of the fountains had broken the
dreamy stillness ?

How different my life would have been
if she had lived !' he murmured to himself
day by day. ' How proud she would have
been of Eugene !'

Maggie's discovery of Eugene's parentage
had not rested solely upon the evidence
of the Superior of the school at which he
had been placed. A Bourbon woman, who
had been in the employ of the Superior,
was found, and she corroborated her mistress's
testimony, and identified Eugene
iras the boy who had been placed at Erre-mont

by his grandfather. Eugene was
now Lady Tryington's constant companion,
and the growing favour he gained in her
eyes was due as much to his handsome
presence as his noble disposition.

One morning at breakfast Sir Richard
Digby exclaimed :

I have a letter from dear old Cromer \
He wishes to be kindly remembered to you
all ; and he says that he was never so well in
his life, and never more able to carry out
the work he has in hand. What do you
think of that, aunt .^'

I am delighted to hear it answered
Lady Tryington ; ' I only hope he may
not overtax his strength.'

As our fair Blanche is doing with those
brushes and easels,' added Sir Richard. ' I
wonder you do not take better care of her,
Belper. There is another letter from
Maggie ; she wishes me to get her a place

in the Convent of Our Saviour at Seville.
Do you think it could be done ?'

I will speak to Ursula about it this
morning ; she has great influence with the
Sisters.'

Sir Richard Digby started.

Ursula !' he exclaimed. 'Who is Ursula ?*

Oh, she Is a most charming lady who
lives in the Plaza de la Constitution, and
who is explaining to me the beauties of
Velasquez and Murillo,' said Blanche, who
was painting In the shade cast by the
awnings over the window.

Oh, an artist !' said Sir Richard.
*Yes,' said Laura contemptuously; 'only

an artist.'

Maggie adds In her letter that It will
not be safe for her to stay in England
much longer.'

Why not ?' Inquired Lady Tryington.

Well, I suppose she fears the Fenians

may make a dying effort to avenge themselves
on her for having exposed their vile
plots,' said Digby.

The trial of Moonlight Barry and his
accomplices is at an end. They are to be
hanged,' said Arthur Belper, appearing at
the window.

He had been reading a copy of the
Scrawled and enjoying a cigar upon the
balcony; and as he opened the window the
fumes of his tobacco entered the apartment,
mingled with the odour of tropical plants.

Is that in Ryder's paper ?' inquired Sir
Richard.

Yes,' answered Arthur \ ' and here is a
paragraph about the Ministers.'

Oh, please read it !' exclaimed Lady
Tryington.

We stated in our columns last week
that Sir Charles Able had placed his yacht
at the disposal of the late Cabinet Ministers.

We are now in a position to say-that
those gentlemen have availed themselves
of this generous offer, and have
started for a cruise round the world.'

They will be more at sea than usual,'
said Sir Richard, smiling, as he lit a cigar
and joined his friend upon the balcony.

Where are you going ?' said Lady Tryington
to Blanche, who had risen from her
painting and was folding the easel.

I am going to the Plaza de la Constitution,'
replied Blanche. ' I am not only
to admire the artist's work this morning, I
am to hear something of the life of the
artist.'

'Very interesting indeed such a life must
be,' said Laura sarcastically. ,

Indeed it will be,' said Blanche ; ' and
knowing her to be a high-spirited, noble-minded
woman, it is not strange that I
should be interested in her career. Moreover,

she is so exceptionally beautiful that
I have no doubt her life has been one long
romance. You must not expect me back
till late,' added Blanche as she left the
room.

You look worried and anxious, Dick,'
said Arthur to his friend, as they sat
smoking upon the balcony.

There was a slight pause before Sir
Richard answered.

Who, I — I ? Yes, you are right, I am
anxious ; this nothing-to-do life does not
amuse me. I want work, the infallible
panacea for an unquiet mind ; and if it were
not discourteous to my aunt, I should
return to England and get employment
from Lord Cromer. I know I could make
myself useful to him in his new capacity
as Military Dictator. By the way, who is
this artist that monopolizes so much of
Blanche's time ?'

I really don't know much about her.
Blanche says she is a woman with a history.'

And her name ?'

Ursula is the only name I know her by.'

I started this morning when I heard
Blanche mention it ; it seemed like an
echo to my thoughts. You know, Arthur,
that was the name of my wife.'

And have you never been able to discover
whether she is alive or dead ?'

Never,' groaned Digby, ' never. We
were married, as you know, against her
father's wish. A month after our marriage
we were walking together under the
shadow of this very cathedral, when I
was suddenly struck to the ground by a
blow from behind. When I recovered
consciousness I found my wife gone, and
from that night to this day I have never
seen her beautiful face.*

Did you not go to her father T

Yes ; and to my surprise he appeared
to share my grief, and offered to assist mein
my search for her. Day and night I
sought her everywhere, but to no purpose.
My father's death brought me suddenly to
England twelve months after I lost her ;
on my return I renewed my search, but
with the same result. The only information
I have ever been able to gain was
from Maggie, who recognised in her portrait
the mistress whom she had served in
the Convent of Our Saviour. That fact the
Sisters of the convent have corroborated,
but they know nothing of her subsequent
fate.'

And you still live in hopes of seeing
her!'

Yes ; I still live in hopes.'

In the meantime, Blanche had made her
way to the Plaza de la Constitution. On
arriving at the artist's house, she was

admitted into the inner court, in which a
fountain was cooling the languid air with
its invigorating sprays, and was then conducted
through a corridor into a large and
handsomely furnished saloon. It was
evidently the artist's studio, for it revelled
in that artistic litter which is the predominant
feature of the 'workshop of the
genius.' There was an anteroom adjoining,
and the doors leading to it were
covered by two heavy hangings, elaborately
embroidered with needlework. As Blanche
was examining the design of the work, the
folds were thrown aside, and the artist
passed between them into the room. Her
figure was faultlessly proportioned, and
her carriage full of grace and dignity.
Blanche thought, as their eyes met, that
she had never beheld so beautiful a
woman.

When they were seated at their work,

Blanche noticed for the first time that the
artist wore a wedding-ring.

You are married !' she could not resist
saying.

I am a widow answered the artist.

I would not like to wake any sad recollections,'
said Blanche tenderly ; ' but I
should like to hear more of your life. It
has been spent, as you say, In such singular
solitude.'

Not singular solitude answered the
artist ; ' for after such a loss as I sustained,
it was but natural that I should wish to
avoid society.'

I understand said Blanche ; ' you loved
your husband.'

Loved him !' she exclaimed ; ' no words
can describe how tenderly, how devotedly.
When he was taken from me by my father
and I was forced to take refuge In a convent,
I thought I should never recover the

loss. The birth of our child, however,
reconciled me to life, and I lived to teach
him to honour and love the name of his
father.'

But how was it your husband never
returned to you ?'

He was killed in South Africa. My
father showed me his name one morning
in an English paper, and, being in a v/eak
state of health, the shock proved too much
for me, and it was the commencement of
a long and serious illness. When I recovered,
another misfortune was in store
for me. My child had died, and had been
buried two months. Since my father's
death I have lived the life you see me
living to-day, patiently waiting to join
those who were so dear to me, and whose
memories I cherish so devotedly.'

Have you no portrait of your husband
T inquired Blanche ; ' or perhaps, if

VOL. II. 33

you have, you would prefer not to show it
to me.'

I have one said the artist, drawing a
small locket from her breast. ' I have
never shown it to anyone, but you have
stolen so many of my secrets from me,
with that sweet face of yours, that I cannot
deny you this request : there it is.'

Blanche glanced at the portrait with
some interest, but as her eyes fell upon the
face revealed to her, she started from her
seat, pale and breathless.

Oh, no, no !' she exclaimed ; ' it cannot
be ; it cannot be !'

What is the matter ?' cried the artist.
Did you know him ?'

Tell me ; tell me,' continued Blanche,
who was striving hard to keep back the
tears that were iillino^ her eves, ' his

name !'

Richard Digby.'

My cousin 1

Your cousin ?*

Blanche fell back upon a couch, and
buried her face in her hands, and her
companion, forgetting her own grief, knelt
beside her, and tried to comfort her.

Believe me,' said Blanche, * these are
not tears of sorrow, but joy.'

Joy \ said her companion : ' I do not
understand.'

Not now, but you will hereafter. Providence
has led me here to restore to you
all that you hold near and dear, your husband
and your child.'

With a wild cr\- of delight, her companion
threw her arms around Blanche's neck.

Then they are not dead !* she cried.
• He is not dead I'

No : he lives and love you as faithfully

as you have loved him.'

« « * *

It was evening. The lamps had not
been lit, and the objects in the room were
only visible in outline, and assumed unnatural
proportions in the pervading gloom.
The air entered through the open windows,
heavily laden with the perfume of citron
and orange ; and without the beam of the
rising moon quivered in the basin of a
clamorous fountain.

Two figures stood in the twilight, clasped
in each other's arms.

That we should meet after these long
years of pain, Ursula, my darling !'

I could endure it all again, dear husband,'
she replied, ' to feel your arms once
more around me, and your dear face close
to mine, as I have pictured it during the
long days and nights when I had but your
picture to look upon.'

My darling !'

Present the lamps were lit, and Lady

Tryington entered the room accompanied
by her two nieces and Colonel Belper.
Eugene followed them shortly afterwards,
and sat down beside his mother.

May I trouble you one moment, Dick,
on a matter of business ?' said Belper, seating
himself at a writing-table.

Certainly.'

What are you doing ?' said Blanche,
leaning over Arthur's shoulder.

I am writing a cheque for ^500, dear,
to settle my bet with Dick.'

Oh, you men are so extravagant in
your pleasures !' exclaimed Lady Tryington.


Never mind, aunt,' said Sir Richard
Digby. • The money shall not go out of
the family. Ursula has decided to buy a
wedding present with it for Blanche.'

THE END.

Billing AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

G., C. &- Co.
