OF Thou
N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

VOL. 1.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep. By

"W. Clark Russell, author of -A Sea Queen,' &c. 3 vols.

FROM HEATHER HILLS. By Mrs. J. Hartley Perks.

2 vols.

Knight-errant. By Edna Lyall, author of

'Donovan," ' We Two," ' In the Golden Days,' &c. 3 vols.

A DATELESS BARGAIN. By C. L. Pirkis, author of

"Lady Lovelace,' 'Judith Wynne,' &c, 3 vols.

DRIVEN BEFORE THE STORM. By Gertrude

Force, author of ' In the Old Palazzo,' &c. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP

BY

W. DUTTON Bernard

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

18, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

A II rights reserved.



/

B<W<j

DEDICATED

TO
3IY Friend AND COMRADE,

ARTHUR DAVIDSON YOUNG,

WHO,

DURING MY SOJOURN UNDER HIS KINDLY ROOF,

IN A Far-off Himalayas HUT,

UNCONSCIOUSLY, ET HIS OWN ACTION, GENERATED IN ME

THE FIRST GERMS OF THE

GREAT PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP.'

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

AT THE CLUB.

It is August, and the sun is shining brightly
down upon the Doonga Hill. For several
days the station has been wrapped in a
robe of impenetrable mist, which has caused
much discontent amongst the inhabitants,
who, after months spent in the broiling
heat of the plains, have come up to the
Himalayas to recoup their health with reinvigorating
draughts of pure mountain air.
The constant fog, which has penetrated
to every corner in every house, has had a
most depressing effect on the inmates of
fair Doonga, and all talk of coming gaieties
and social excitements has latterly ceased,

VOL. I. b

and has given way to lugubrious platitudes
regarding the state of the weather. Butin
the Doonga Club the effect has been
even more disastrous, for the gay young
bachelors temporarily inhabiting its virtuous
precincts have day and night drowned
dull care in foaming bumpers of champagne,
resulting in the very hardest hands confessing
to feeling a trifle shaky.

But now at last the sun has burst through
the mass of cloud, and has dispersed it to
the winds, and the peaks of the neighbouring
hills appear again on all sides, looking
very charming in the soft morning light.

Several young men, dressed for the most
part in flannel deshabille, are lounging about
the verandah of the club, wearing on their
pallid faces a look of intense ennui, which
all the brilliant panorama stretched before
their eyes has no power to disperse, for
they feel that shattered nerves, such as
theirs are on this particular morning, require,
to regain their normal vigour of action, a
more stimulating pick-me-up than the sight
of a glorious stretch of mountain scenery.

There has been a very big drink the
night before, and the card-room has been
in request till very late in the morning,

and the effect of their past conviviality is
now plainly imprinted on their despairing
faces. To them now life is unutterably
hollow, and they move about the verandah
with a listless sense of apathy, uttering at
times monosyllabic ejaculations of more
force than polish, as though to walk and
talk were positive exertions.

With supreme indifference they cast
their eyes down far beneath them to the
mountain stream which looks to them, by
reason of its distance, merely a thin streak
of bright light, but which is in reality,
from the effects of the recent rains, a swollen
torrent, lashing itself furiously along
its rugged bed. Then, with an expression
of intense weariness, they lift their heads,
and gaze upwards at the sky, and sigh
sadly, as the warm rays play upon their
faces. They are glad, in a listless kind of
way, that the weather has changed at last,
but at present they are hardly in a fit state
to truly appreciate the charms of warmth
and sunshine. In fact, many of them experience
a feeling of positive injury towards
the fiery Phoebus in not having intimated
to them the day before his intention of appearing
again so soon, so as to have given

b2

them twenty-four hours' grace to pull themselves
together in order to be able to enjoy
his gladdening presence.

c Just the sort of shabby trick it hould
play, you know !' murmurs somebody, in a
surly tone of voice, throwing himself down
disconsolately into alow arm-chair. 'What
have Ave done to deserve such a cursed fate
as this? With a sick headache and a
clammy tongue, life is certainly not worth
living.'

No one attempts to answer him, the
company assembled deeming it advisable,
considering the circumstances, to accept
without challenge his dogmatic utterance.

Conversation rises and falls in fits and
starts, and it is not of an edifying character.
The revelry of the night before is the chief
topic which occupies their minds, and each
member severally recalls, in a diffident
manner, some speech or incident of remarkable
wit and humour, in which he has
played the primary part.

Then follows a long silence, during
which the members of this little circle of
used-up individuals gaze dismally into each
other's faces, perfectly incapable of framing
one single thought coherently.

There is something comical in the sorrowful
aspect which they present, lying
loosely about the place, in various attitudes
suggestive of despair. And so it strikes
young Loftus of the Light Dragoons, who,
in direct contrast to those surrounding
him, is sitting, fresh and bright, on the
seat in the verandah, facing his disconsolate
companions.

'What devils we are!' he murmurs,
abstractedly, pensively stroking his moustache,
concealing by the action a faint
flicker of a smile.

'Yes, I think we can raise hell, if we
have a mind to,' says Bramley, the orator,
with immense self-complacency.

There is a murmur of acquiescence from
those around him, and then another silence,
depressing in intensity, falls upon the
company.

Presently Loftus remarks that, curiously
enough, he is feeling rather dry, so he proceeds
to call for a whisky-peg, at which
several others follow suit, resolving rather
to die than to show to their more hardened
companion that they are feeling the effects
of the night before. Oh ! what a noble ambition
! To thirst for notoriety as a hard-liver

and drinker ! How can one say that
the spirit of manliness is extinct in the
human race?

They drink their pegs in solemn silence,
Loftus marking with inward amusement
the vain attempts of many to appear to
enjoy them. A diversion presently arises.
The noise of coolies, passing beneath them,
strikes upon their ears, and, from their slipshod
method of progression, they know that
some one is being carried up the hill in a
dandy — a species of canoe, supported on
long bamboos, which serves in the place of
a carriage in this part of the Himalayas.

c I wonder who it is ?' says the orator,
apathetically, without making an effort to
discover.

Loftus turns round, and leans over the
balcony, and gazes at the approaching
dandy. It contains a lady of slender figure,
whose face, however, he is unable to see on
account of her open parasol. But Loftus is
not a man to be deterred by trifles. He
gives vent to a little cough to attract the
lady's attention, and his ruse succeeds, for
the parasol is lowered, but only for an
instant. In another moment it is raised
again with a sudden jerk, but not before

Loftus has had time to scan a face of almost
perfect loveliness. With a blank expression
he stares after the retreating dandy,
and then a low whistle of astonishment
issues from his lips.

'Diana Forsdyke, by all that's holy !' he
exclaims, slowly. ' What in the name of
wonder has brought her again to Doonga?'

L AVhat ! Do you know the nymph ?'
says Bramley.

c Know her !' he answers, sharply, ' who
does not know Diana Forsdyke ? By gad !
she is a deep one, if you like ! Xow, I
wonder what that volatile young woman's
game is just at present?'

A look of interest settles on many of the
pallid faces, and there is a general murmur
of inquiry for further particulars. But
Loftus suddenly retires within his shell, and
makes a most ungracious reply.

1 Curse it !' he says. ' If you chaps want
to know, go and ask her yourselves. It is
not my business to enlighten you as to her
private affairs.'

The atmosphere of gloom returns. No
one attempts to question Loftus further,
for they one and all, in their inmost hearts,
acknowledge him as a superior being in that

he is capable of drinking the best of them
under the table without turning a hair. So
they relapse once more into silent melancholy,
and inwardly curse their fate in
having been born into such a truly second-rate
sort of world.

The sound of a bugle suddenly re-echoes
through the hills, and every man in the
verandah jumps to his feet, and peers anxiously
down the road. To these biases, wearied
spirits, accustomed as they were to begin
the day by wishing it were over, the
prospect of a new arrival from the plains is
sufficient to rouse them for the moment
from their usual despondent state. It is a
real excitement, for, though there be nothing
peculiarly stimulating in the sight of
a new face, still it is new, and that is the
main point, for they craved for novelty day
and night.

Every face is turned in eager expectation
towards the cart-road leading down to Pinch,
but nothing comes in sight. Groups
of coolies are hustling together at the tonga-terminus.
They too have heard the sound,
and the prospect of obtaining a, few pice has
roused them from the solemn discussion
which they have been holding round a mud-begrimed

hubble-bubble. They have dropped
the bond of fraternity, and are now
standing in bitter enmity towards each
other, waiting eagerly for the coming
prey.

Again the broken bugle sounds, now
harsh and painful by reason of its close
proximity, and presently the tonga appears
at full gallop, drawn by a pair of country-bred
of the usual doubtful condition. The
driver cracks his whip across their bony
backs, and the little vehicle dashes up the
hill, coming to a sudden halt before the
tonga-office. The ponies stand with heaving
flanks in a bath of steam, the driver
dismounts, the coolies push and clamour
round the cart, all jabbering loudly in their
outlandish tongue, and confusion reigns
supreme.

From above, these proceedings have
been observed with the greatest interest,
and now every eye is gazing expectantly
for the coming man. At last he alights —
a tall, slim figure, wrapped closely up ina
thick ulster, with a well-set head surmounted
by a shooting-cap. Surmises as
to whom and what he is, and criticisms on
his general appearance, fall thick and fast,

and for a moment the dull apathy of the
verandah has entirely disappeared.

By Jove ! this is a pleasant surprise !'
exclaims Loftus, suddenly. ' If it isn't
Grandly, of all people in the world !'

'Who the devil's Grandly?' growls the
orator, in a surly tone, feeling keenly at a
disadvantage, and determined consequently
not to display too much interest in the
subject.

'Why — Grandly of the Gunners — I
knew him well at home. He is only a
young chap, but he used to be an awfully
good sort — up to any lark.'

Then bring him up here, for heaven's
sake, and let him try to put a little life in
us,' is the irritable rejoinder. i Though, for
the matter of that, he does not seem to
possess too much of that commodity himself.'


Xo, by gad, more he does, poor chap !
Well, I will just trot down and have a look
at him.'

Loftus quickly leaves the verandah, and
the rest of the company begin to discuss
the likelihood of Grandly being a match
for Loftus in the art of drinking to
excess without suffering; from the effects

of the carouse. The younger portion are
prepared to receive the new-comer with
open arms ; for has not Loftus designated
him "an awfully good si". nd are they
not i to follow Loftus in his

opinion to the death ?

In the meanwhile, Grandly. quite oblivious
to the excitement which his arrival
mongstthe tortured beings uj
above in the club verandah, having dismounted
from the tonga, stretches b i -
stiffened limbs, and then Ic )fcs :fund at
the mass of dirty coolies fighting and gesticulating
on all aides. He makes sign to
them to remove his travelling-bag from the
cart, and in a moment a dozen naked forms
have pounced upon it like a pack of hungry
wolves. Seeing his personal property in
imminent beer of being torn to shreds,

i ss his way ini the v aged
and takes it in hand and gives ft : small
boy, who has oen standing silently on the
outskirts of the straggling mass, thus unconsciously
reversing the old adage, * That
to him that hath shall be even. but :
him that hath not shall be taken wa
that which he hath !*

Aloud groan : > ;antient follows

on the movement, but, nothing daunted,
Grandly, having given instructions concerning
his heavy baggage, orders the boy
to march.

Banbury's Hotel,' he says, and, turning
round, he finds himself face to face
with Loft us, whom he has known more or
less intimately in England.

c How are you, Grandly ? How are you,
old chap? Saw you from the verandah
above, and came down in three shakes of a
bumble-bee's tail. But, by gad, sir, you
are looking devilish seedy. What have
you been doing to yourself — you are as
white as a sheet !'

How are you, Loftus ?' says Grandly,
shaking him by the hand. c I have had a
fearful go of fever down below, so they
have had to send me up here on sick-leave.
I shall soon pick up, I trust, in this delightful
climate.'

c Delightful ! do you call it ?' says Loftus,
with a shudder of disgust. ' You are the
first man whom I have heard say that for
many a long week. But come on up to
the club ! We will make you pretty jolly
there before long, I bet.'

i No, thanks. I am up here for rest and

quiet, and I know the club by hearsay. It
wouldn't suit me, I am afraid.'

What bosh, my dear sir ! If there be a
place to pick a poor devil up, it is the club.
The wines are really magnificent.'

I don't doubt it,' returns Grandly, with
a short laugh ; ' but I have already made my
plans. I am going to Banbury's Hotel.'

Great — heavens !' ejaculates Loftus, with
tremendous energy. ' What a truly terrible
idea ! Why, you will be dead from sheer
ennui befor dinner-time to-night ! Now,
look here, really, old chap ' — relapsing
suddenly into the confidential — c you must
reconsider your decision. Banbury's is
as dull as ditch-water, and twice as unappetising
to a young bachelor of your
stamp, while in the club, towards the small
hours in the morning, there is really a certain
amount of life, at times. Yes — I think
we can show you, Grandly, the proper way
to live. You remember, when we were together
at Canterbury four years ago — you
used to come over and see us at the barracks
well, we used to play hell then pretty
tidily, I think ; but it was nothing to the
life we lead here, I can assure you. This
licks all record.'

A shade of annoyance crosses the open
countenance of Frank Granclby. He has
known Loftus but slightly in the days to
which he refers. His own home had been
four miles from the cavalry depot, and it
was through his sister's marriage with a
young brother-officer of Loftus' that he
had made the acquaintance of the regiment.
He was then only a boy of eighteen,
and, though he had become very popular
in the mess, he had never conceived any
great liking for several of the officers, and
Loftus in particular had been distasteful
to him. Their dispositions were so totally
distinct — his being of a peculiarly reserved
nature, whilst Loftus was one of those noisy,
effervescing men, incapable of any depth
of feeling, but ready to chum at a moment's
notice with any chance comer.

To Grandly such a course of proceeding
was incomprehensible. When he liked,
he liked warmly, and was not ashamed to
disclose his liking to the world at large,
but his nature was totally incapable of
affecting an affectionate manner towards
those with whom he possessed nothing in
common, and to whom he was, in consequence,

perfectly indifferent. His pride, too,
was as great as his reserve, and accordingly
lie resented all undue familiarity from those
with whom he had no inclination to be
familiar.

And so the ' old chappie ' style of address
adopted by Loftus somewhat jars
against his nerves, and he is unable to repress
a slight feeling of annoyance, in spite
of his conscience urging him not to be so
foolish.

He answers rather coldly to Loftus's
outburst.

1 1 am afraid that I cannot alter my
plans, Loftus, even to have the pleasure of
seeing you raise the infernal regions,' —
this a trifle sarcastically. • You say that
Banbury's is dull, so it will just suit meas
I am at present in want of no excitement.
And now I really must be off ! I
suppose that we shall meet again soon.'

• "Well, you are a pig-headed sort of chap f
cries Loftus, in disgust. L However, you
must not go without having a peg.'

Again he experiences the momentary jar,
and it decides him to refuse the offer, which
he otherwise might have accepted. Loftus

gazes at him for a moment with a look of
the blankest amazement depicted on his
face. He can hardly believe that he has
heard aright. In his own creed, to refuse
a drink is a social crime of the deadliest
order !

What !' he gasps, ' you — refuse ?'

Grandly cannot forbear from laughing
at the agitated face presented before him.

I am really not thirsty,' he remarks, byway
of apology.

c Not thirsty !' cries Loftus, excitedly ;
4 what the deuce has that to do with it ?
Surely you don't drink only because you
are thirsty ?'

4 Yes, I do,' answers Grandly, lightly, a
smile of amusement on his face : 4 is it
really such a very extraordinary proceeding
? And now I am off — so, good-bye till
we meet again.'

He turns away, and his tall, slim figure
moves slowly up the hill, leaving Loftus
standing in the middle of the road, the
picture of consternation. Such an idea as
Grandly has just propounded, regarding
the all-important subject of drink, is so
totally opposed to his own ideas upon the
matter that for the moment he stares blankly

before him, incapable of action. Then
be shakes his head slowly from side to side,
and mutters a sentence which by this time
is cut and dried :

1 Alas ! the army is going to the dogs !'

VOL. i.

CHAPTER II.

FRANK Grandly.

Frank Grandly, preceded by the little
grimy sprite with the gladstone-bag, walks
slowly up the hill in the direction of
Banbury's Hotel.

His progress is not rapid. So unaccustomed
is he to the exertion of climbing
that more than once lie has to stop and
rest, in order to regain his breath. For
the last two years he has been in the
plains, unable to obtain a day's leave, inconsequence
of his battery, as is the usual
case with the Artillery, not being up to its
full strength of officers ; and consequently
the highest elevation to which he has
mounted, since his arrival in the country,
has been the top step in the verandah of
the Royal Artillery mess at Dhobipur.

It had been exceptionally hot weather
this summer at Dhobipur, and Grandly
had found himself, to his great disgust,
again the only subaltern in the battery,
without a prospect of leave. So pocketing
his disappointment, as April arrived
without the appearance of the 
brother-officer, he had made up his
mind to make the best of a bad thing, and
to accept what was inevitable in as contented
a spirit as was possible under the
circumstances.

Fortunately, however, towards the middle
of July, after having borne the brunt of
the summer in good health, he was stricken
down with such a severe attack of fever
that he was utterly incapacitated for work ;
and after a short struggle to obtain the
mastery over the demon, malaria, he passively
succumbed, and retired on the sick-list,
where he lay for some weeks at certain
intervals in high fever.

The medical officer began to look grave.
His knowledge of the science of medicine
was not so comprehensive as might have
been wished, but, as his books of reference
prescribed quinine for malaria fever, he
began to dose Grandly with that tonic.

o2

And he continued to do so for several
weeks, but without the least effect, which
was most embarrassing to the poor army-surgeon,
for this defiance on the part of
the fever in the face of the very highest
authority in his medical world was a contingency
not admitted in his book of
reference, and he was consequently quite
at his wit's end what to do. If, he argued
to himself, the malady refused to yield to
Surgeon-general Upton's famous prescription,
then there could be no doubt that it
was a case of a most aggravated and serious
character.

And there was another cause, too, apart
from the low condition of his patient,
which gave him much anxiety, and that
was that his store of quinine was fast
diminishing, and after the repeated injunctions
which he had received from headquarters
as to his being very sparing in
the issue of that valuable tonic, on the
score of expense, the fact naturally caused
him no little perturbation of mind. The
possibility of his being officially accused of
wilful extravagance rose up before him
like some grim spectre, and rapidly assumed
such awful proportions that he became

intensely unhappy in consequence.

But clearly the time for action of a
decided character had arrived, for day by
day the quinine was being swallowed in
alarming quantities, and without the slightest
perceptible result. And then came the
most horrible thought of all, that possibly,
were there to be an official investigation
into the abnormally large issue of quinine
for the month, he might be ordered to refund
its value. It was more than possible
it was probable, the government having
a distinct partiality for curtailing its
officers' pay, no matter how trifling the
excuse or how untenable the claim, keeping
for this very purpose, as it does, a band of
officials, delicately designated as Pay-examiners.


This idea was so very painful to the
poor surgeon's mind that he summoned up
all his courage, and ventured, for the first
time in his life, to give a professional
opinion, which was to the effect that nothing
would cure Grandly of the insidious
disease but change of air, and that it was
absolutely essential that he should go on
sick-leave at once.

There was a good deal of opposition to

the proposal. The brigade-surgeon utterly
scouted such a preposterous idea, stating
in most vehement language that in his
opinion the continuance of the disease
was due solely to the inefficiency of the
medical officer in attendance, whilst the
major in command of Grandly's battery
announced that the idea was manifestly
impossible, for it would leave him without a
junior officer of any description whatever.
Then there was a demi-official meeting,
at which all three aired their various opinions,
each one refusing to yield his ground
one atom in deference to the other two.

In the course of the proceedings the
brigade-surgeon, who had a habit of concealing
his own professional incapacity by
the adoption of a blustering flow of words,
became unmistakably offensive, and Major
Grant, who was a man of slow perception,
gradually began to become aware that the
exalted position which he held as an officer
enjoying a distinct command was being
overlooked. Such a state of affairs was
not to be countenanced for one moment,
so the gallant major swerved suddenly
round like a weather-cock in a high wind,
and boldly announced that he thoroughly

agreed with Surgeon O'Brien, in that his
subaltern required change of air, stating
that it would make no difference whatever
to the working of his battery, as, in his
opinion, a subaltern officer would be
equally efficient in the Himalayas as lying
on his back in his room in the agonies of
high fever. On hearing this, Surgeon
O'Brien, who had been sitting throughout
the interview pale with terror, suddenly
plucked up spirit, and even had the courage
to adopt an official tone of speech, in
which he stated that, the case in question
being of too grave a nature to be left in
the hands of a medical officer of junior
rank, he would request the brigade-surgeon
to relieve him of it, and to consider
the patient, for the future, under his
immediate charge. He concluded his remarks
by mentioning that, unless this
course were adopted, he would not hold
himself responsible for what might follow,
and then once more his face assumed a
look of haggard misery.

The brigade-surgeon was staggered at
such stupendous presumption on the part
of his subordinate, and inwardly determined
to seize on the first opportunity which occurred

with an opening for retaliation. To
tell the truth, he found himself in a most
unpleasant position, for he saw that it was
impossible to ignore the gravity of his
junior's statement with Major Grant sitting
there, smouldering wrathfully, a witness to
the whole affair. So the only two lines
open to him were either to give his consent
to Grandly's sick-leave or to accept the
responsibility of the case.

But to this latter alternative there arose
in his eyes a literally insuperable objection,
which was that he lived at the furthest end
of cantonments, which would consequently
oblige him to drive four miles twice a day
in the burning sun in order to see his
patient. The brigade-surgeon was fat, and
was partial to punkah and pyramus, so this
consideration practically decided the question,
and after a great deal of unnecessary
bluster, in which he showed his superiority
over Major Grant by delivering an address
of twenty minutes' duration, couched in the
most technical of phraseology, he yielded.
Shortly afterwards, a board assembled to
report on the state of health of Lieutenant
Grandly, and he was speedily despatched
to Doonga on three months' sick-leave.

Two months later, it may be remarked,
Surgeon O'Brien was appointed to do duty
with the troop-trains taking drafts backward
and forward between Peshawur and
Bombay, at which horrible occupation he
was kept throughout the greater portion
of the cold weather. The mention of this
circumstance is quite irrelevant, for one
would hardly have the hardihood to accuse
a full-blown brigade-surgeon of having been
guilty of such reprehensible conduct as
that of utilising his official power for the
gratification of his personal spite. No, I
should think not — Veritas odium park !

There were two reasons why Frank
Grandly chose Doonga in preference to any
other hill-station ; firstly, because it was
close to Dhobipur, and, secondly, because
his dear old school-friend, George Grafton,
of the Engineers, had written to him, telling
him that it was his intention to proceed
there, for a few weeks, later on in the year.

The prospect of meeting Grafton again,
with whom, in the old days, he had lived
on terms of the closest intimacy, was very
pleasing to Grandly's mind, and it was
with this idea, rather than on account of
the state of his health, that he decided to

go to Banbury's Hotel, for it was there
that Grafton had notified his intention of
stopping. Their friendship for one another
had been of a character not often met with
now-a-days. There were no flaws in the
perfect harmony which existed between
them, for their affection for one another
was perfectly disinterested, and had arisen
quite spontaneously in their hearts, without
an effort on their parts to create it.

In the old days, when they were boys together
at Clifton College, Grafton, who was
three years the senior of the two, had taken
young Grandly under his protection, and
had moulded him according to his own
ideas of excellence; and Grandly had looked
up to him as to a superior being, and
had obeyed him implicitly in all things,
feeling intuitively that whatever Grafton
did must of necessity be right. And he
was correct in his youthful estimate of his
mentor's character ; for Grafton was possessed
of a nature incapable of deceit or wrong,
honest, open-hearted, noble-minded, and in
all things thorough to the core. And as
the years flew by, changing their relative
positions as pupil and teacher, and bringing
them gradually to an equality, as far as

years and mental development were concerned,
a deep affection towards one another
grew within their breasts, and, on the night
of Grafton's departure from school for ever,
they swore to one another, come what may,
to be friends for life.

This was, of course, during that most delightful
period of a man's life when it is
possible for him to live in an atmosphere
of romantic friendship with those of his own
sex, perfectly happy and contented, and
wishing for nothing further in the world ;
when the heart is fresh and young, impulsive,
warm, impressionable, oblivious to the
bitterness and sordid cares of mundane life,
which together dry up all the tenderness
of human nature, causing the human mind
to view all things with cynicism or indifference.


But their friendship was built on too
firm a foundation to be easily shaken, and
the winds and the storms of the fleeting
years were unable to make the least impression
on the feeling which they bore to
one another. On the contrary, as they
grew older, and their minds became more
fully formed, they began to appreciate at
its true worth the perfect beauty of a pure,.

disinterested friendship, such as theirs was,
and the knot which they had loosely tied
as boy and boy was re-tied with a stronger
hand as man and man.

On leaving school Grafton had joined
the Royal Military Academy, and he had
already obtained his commission in the
Engineers before Grandly entered that
establishment He was, in fact, on the
point of sailing for India when Grandly
passed his entrance-examination, and the
last words they said to one another were,
■ We shall meet soon again in India.'

But Fate had not shown herself kind in
this particular. Four years had passed, of
which Grandly had spent two in Hindostan,
but they had never been able to
effect a meeting. They had written regularly
long letters, detailing all the minutiae
of their respective lives ; for they were
fully alive to the fact that no friendship,
however strong, can survive a long separation,
unless the parties concerned use
every means in their power to keep their
memories fresh in each other's mind ; but
they had never been able to look into each
other's face, or to clasp each other's hand.
So it may be easily understood what a glad

day it was for Grandly when lie found
himself on the way to Doonga, with the
immediate prospect of meeting his old
friend again.

Frank Grandly was possessed of a beautiful
face. This epithet is one not generally
adopted in the description of a man's
personal appearance, but it is the only one
that will adequately express the charm of
his open countenance.

It was of a delicate oval-shape, with a
rather low forehead, surmounted by soft,
closely-cut hair of a rich, dark brown. His
eyes, which were well-protected by long 7
dark eyelashes, were of the darkest shade
of blue, looking almost violet in certain
lights ; and they contained such a fund of
laughing humour, sparkling up from their
depths, that it was impossible, on looking
into them, to resist their spell. All who
gazed into them were involuntarily drawn
towards him, for they plainly disclosed the
nobility and honesty of his character. The
profile of his face was moulded on classic
lines, with a long, straight nose of perfect
symmetry, a short upper-lip, on which
there was only just a suspicion of coming
manliness, a delicately-curved mouth, the

upper lip of which slightly protruded, and
a well-pointed chin. His complexion was
of a dark olive, in which the warm colour
flushed and paled continually, giving to
the face a charming air of animation and
attractiveness. His figure was well proportioned,
tall, slim, and active, with a
supple length of limb, and there was a look
of grace about him which the most unobservant
of beings could not help perceiving.

It was impossible to look upon him without
experiencing the feeling that such a
perfect exterior must of necessity contain
a mind and disposition altogether worthy
of it. Such was the case, and the proof
of it lay in the fact that Frank Grandly
could say with a clear conscience that he
had never made an enemy in his life.
Everyone who had met him liked him.
Attracted in the first instance by the
charm of his person, and afterwards drawn
towards him by the force of the honesty of
his character, all who made his acquaintance
had to acknowledge that it was an
acquaintance worth possessing.

But, as has already been hinted, Frank
Grandly himself was incapable of responding
with a similar fervour to those around

him. He hated the shallow pretence of a
hollow friendship. He was incapable of
appearing affectionate when his heart experienced
indifferentism, and he shrank
from the selfish life led by most young
men, to whom everyone is ' the best chap
in the world, 'pon honour,' until he perchance
holds some contrary opinion, resulting
in a clash of interests. Such a course
of proceeding was most repellant to him,
and he never felt quite at his ease when in
the company of those to whom such an
existence was the only one imaginable.
Consequently he bore the reputation of
being somewhat reserved, and it was even
hinted by some that he was inclined to be
proud, though neither opinion had any
power to eradicate the impression that he
was, in spite of all peculiarities, a thoroughly
good, honest fellow, possessing character
of irresistible weight.

The foregoing description of Grandly's
personal appearance hardly tallies with the
wearied figure slowly toiling up to Banbury's
Hotel. He has been terribly pulled
down by the protracted illness which he
has lately undergone, and he finds every
step he takes a positive exertion to him.

He is in no vein to appreciate the glorious
majesty of nature revealing itself on all
sides; his one idea is to reach the hotel,
and to rest himself.

The gladstone-bag leads the way, and
they pass the post-office, and presently
leave the main-road, and begin to ascend
a path, roughly hewn in the rocks, which
is a short cut to Banbury's. Every moment
he feels himself growing weaker and
weaker, but, in proportion as his strength
fails him, his determination not to yield to
his growing weakness increases, and he
plods steadily on, his face growing paler
and paler at every step he takes.

After some minutes of painful exertion,
the hotel suddenly confronts him — a large,
rambling brick building of picturesque appearance,
covered with a net-work of
wooden balconies, with a low, sloping roof,
surmounted by a multitude of chimneys,
emitting faint films of smoke — and the
sight of the long-wished-for goal gives
him a fictitious strength. He quickens his
pace, and finds himself at last on level
ground. The effort is past, and, as the
thought strikes him, a giddiness overcomes
him, and he leans against a tree for support.

A sudden faintness steals over him,
and his eyes involuntarily close, his breath
coming in short gasps, and he feels quite
incapable of movement.

He is aroused by a sweet, soft voice,
murmuring some gentle words of sympathy.

With a great effort, he masters his weakness,
and opens his eyes, and sees standing
before him, with an air of shy perplexity,
the figure of a young girl, dressed in a soft
robe of Indian muslin, trimmed with light-blue
ribbons.

He gazes at her in admiration. His
senses are still a little bewildered, and at
first he is quite dazzled by the loveliness of
the petite form before him. He eyes her
from top to toe, noting every detail of her
person, from her wavy, red-gold hair to her
tiny little feet peeping from beneath her
dress ; and then he somewhat recalls his
position, and raises his hat. She gives a
graceful little inclination of the head, and
her lips part in a half-smile.

I am so glad that you are better,' she
says, softly. c I was so frightened when I
saw you leaning there, with your face as
white as a sheet.'

1 must apologise,' he answers, faintly,

VOL. I. D

c for having made such an exhibition of
myself. The truth is, I have just come up
from the plains, where I have not been
well, and this first experience of hill-climbing
has been a little too much for me.'

She smiles again — a roguish, winning
smile, which dissipates his sense of embarrassment,
causing his lips involuntarily
to curl in sympathy. And then there is a
pause, and they both stand eyeing each
other in amusement. She is the first to
break the silence.

Well, I must be going,' she says. c You
are quite certain that you feel better?
Doonga is so intensely proper, you know,
that it would never do to be seen talking
like this to a perfect stranger.'

He gazes at her for a moment with a
glance of open admiration, and then, for
the life of him, he cannot help his tongue
from blurting out :

'Oh! don't go.'

Immediately he has uttered the words
he becomes aware that he has made a
very impertinent remark, and he tries to
cover his confusion by murmuring inarticulately
a lame apology.

A low ripple of laughter issues from

her rosy lips, and she turns round and
views him with an arch expression on her
face.

4 Don't apologise,' she says. c I can quite
understand how awkward you must be
feeling at this moment. I should advise
you to go and lie down, for you are looking
miserably pale, and you are evidently
so weak that you have no control whatever
over your tongue !'

He tries to stammer some reply. He is
very vexed with himself for having been
guilty of such an unpardonable gaucherie,
and a flush of colour sweeps across his
pale face. He looks towards her, and she
laughs again — she seems to him to be
made of smiles and laughter — and then
she turns round, and with a graceful little
wave of the hand she trips down the path
and disappears.

He moves slowly in the direction of the
house, skirts the building, and enters the
dining-room at the further end, when
again a giddiness attacks him, and he has
just time to seat himself in an arm-chair,
when he faints comfortably away.

As he comes to his senses he finds
the manager of the hotel, surrounded by

d2

several servants, anxiously regarding him.
He rises, with an apology for the trouble
that he has given, and asks whether he
can have a room. The manager replies
that the hotel is full from top to basement,
but that he can let him have two small
rooms, detached from the house itself, at
about one hundred yards' distance. Grandly
gladly accepts the offer, and presently
he is lying fast asleep in an arm-chair in
his own room, in front of a coke-fed stove
dreaming of a little laughing figure,
clothed in white and blue, seemingly
familiar to him, and yet in so vague a
manner, as to prevent him from being able
to attach to it any distinct personality.

CHAPTER III.

grandly's interest deepens.

When Grandly wakes up, he finds that it
is nearly four o'clock. He feels very refreshed
by his afternoon nap, and he rises
and stretches himself, and then, throwing
off his coat and waistcoat, proceeds to
bathe his face, and wash his hands. Having
thoroughly cleansed himself of the dirt
of travelling, and made some necessary
changes in his apparel, he calls a servant,
and orders tea and toast. His tastes are
very simple, and his partiality for this
meal, so dear to feminine minds, has been
the cause for much good-natured sarcasm
on the part of his associates, whose tastes
recoiled before such bare simplicity in the
way of drink.

In a quarter-of-an-hour the little repast
is brought in, and he is soon thoroughly

enjoying it, sitting with the what-not table
drawn close up to the stove, for the fresh
mountain air is a novel experience to him,
and he feels the cold.

He finds himself ravenously hungry, and
the quickly-emptied plate is despatched to
be refilled. On returning, the hotel servant
brings him the visitors' book, and he
opens it and slowly looks down the list of
names, wondering lazily, for he is now
feeling very comfortable, seated in the
warmth of the red-hot coke, whether by
chance he may come across any familiar to
him.

He meets with two or three names he
knows more or less well, which recall to
him a host of long-forgotten memories,
but from the dates affixed to them being
of some months past, he rightly concludes
that they have long since left the hotel.
He is not sorry that he finds himself a total
stranger in the place ; in his present state
of health he feels by no means inclined for
the inanities of social life. In fact, he experiences
a sense of positive satisfaction at
the thought of his being there unknown
to all, with the power of choosing his acquaintances
at will, should he feel any

inclination later on to mix in society. He
will in reality be more powerful in his
perfect independence than if he were the
acknowledged leader of the Doonga social
world !

He carries his eye slowly down the list
of names, and discovers that there is a distinct
dearth of spinsterhood within the
precincts of Banbury's Hotel. In fact,
amongst the present inmates, he can find
only one name bearing the conventional
badge of maidenhood.

It is the last entry in the book, and
runs as follows :

1 Colonel and Mks. Renfrew,
Miss Diana Forsdyke,'
the two names being bracketed together.

He lights a cigar, and begins to ruminate
concerning Miss Diana Forsdyke. He
wonders what she is like, and suddenly
arrives at the conclusion that she must be
very old and scraggy. He can assign no
reason for this presentiment as to the lady's
personal appearance, but every puff he
draws from his cigar convinces him that he
is right in his conjecture, and he inwardly
determines to make a point of avoiding the
elderly damsel.

On re-reading the list of residents staying
in the hotel, to his horror he finds that
he is the only bachelor amongst them.
Every man's name is followed by one or
more encumbrances of a similar nomenclature
— Colonel and Mrs. Stockton — Major
and Mrs. Andrews and children — Mrs.
Bird and child — Mrs. Blewitt — Major and
Mrs. Lamb, and so on. Banbury's is evidently
a family-hotel, and not one patronised
by the youthful subaltern, and he
begins to think that possibly Loftus may
have spoken the truth when he prophesied
that he would be bored to death before the
first night was over. However, he determines
to make the best of things, and he
leans back, puffing away at his cigar, in a
state of perfect contentment, and closes his
eyes in indolent enjoyment, — and immediately
there appears before him the vision
of a laughing figure, clothed in white and
blue.

He leans forward and scans the book
with an eager glance. What could he
have been thinking of all this time to have
totally forgotten the existence of that fairy
little form with its crown of gold, which
had appeared to him like some ministering

angel when he was leaning half-fainting
against the tree ?

Who is she ? What can be her name ?
That she is unmarried he feels ready to
swear to in the highest court of justice.
Then if she be unmarried, and if she be
residing in Banbury's Hotel, she must —
she must be none other than Miss Diana
Forsdyke ! And to think that he had pictured
this lady in his mind as a scraggy
old maid ! Oh, what a lamentable instance
of the unreliability of a vivid imagination !

Miss Diana Forsdyke again becomes the
object of his thoughts ; but now he takes
quite another view of the only spinster in
Banbury's Hotel. He entertains now, curiously
enough, no sense of disgust, as he
contemplates the possibility of the only
spinster and the only bachelor being thrown
together, and striking up an intimacy with
one another. A little social intercourse
will perhaps after all, he thinks, not be un-beneficial
to him ; but he must be careful
not to take it to excess ! Ah ! yes, he
must be mindful of his late illness, and
never overdo it ! There would be no
harm, however, in knowing just one or
two people — say, for instance, Colonel and

Mrs. Renfrew, and Miss Diana Forsdyke —
for, should their combined society prove
too exciting to his nerves, it would be a
work of no great difficulty for him to
gradually drop his intimacy with the over-stimulating
factor — say, for instance, with
Colonel and Mrs. Renfrew. And then there
would be only Miss Diana Forsdyke left,
and she, he feels quite certain, would act
as a tonic on his shattered nerves. He has
not the least doubt in his mind that the
society of her charming little person would
effect a rapid cure.

And in arriving at this conclusion it
must not be thought that Grandly is
actuated by any idiotic ideas concerning
love and desperate flirtation. He has the
sense to know that such luxuries as these
are not to be indulged in by one of his
tender years. But, being young, he naturally
has a craving for young associates,
and likewise naturally he has no objection
to their being of the opposite sex, possessed
of prepossessing personal appearance. Soin
the contemplation of his possible future
intercourse with Miss Forsdyke, such frivolities
as love and kissing take no part whatever.
He merely pictures to himself a

pleasant friendship, in which he will be
able to exchange ideas on all subjects with
one of his own age, without entertaining
any desire to become more closely intimate,
or to relapse into passionate folly. He is
very partial to this sort of platonic friendship,
in which man and woman can converse
freely, and ens oy each other's society,
having perfect faith in the fraternal feeling
which they bear towards one another, and
having no fear that some day a barrier such
as love or jealousy may arise between them
and mar the harmony of their intercourse.

It is close on six o'clock, when he rises
from his chair and proceeds to light the
lamp and close the windows. Dusk is
descending, and all the hills are bathed ina
faint blue mist, and there is a feeling of
chilliness in the air. He opens his bag
and takes out his leather writing-desk, and
sits down and proceeds to write a short
letter to Grafton, announcing his safe
arrival, and asking him as to what date
they may hope to meet again.

As he is writing the address, his heavy
luggage, which has come up from the
plains in a native cart under charge of his
own servant, arrives, and for the next half-hour

he is occupied in the unpacking and
arranging of all his household goods, at the
completion of which uninteresting task he
finds that it is quite time to make his evening
toilette.

Owing to his effects being as yet more
or less in disorder, his progress is not so
rapid as it might have been, and he relieves
his feelings by occasionally using some
rather bad language towards his servant,
which need not be recorded here. His
coat is creased, and his shirt-front does not
present an altogether spotless appearance,
and his tie is more refractory than usual,
and he cannot find a pin, and — and he is
fast losing his temper.

In the middle of his difficulties the 
rings. He makes a desperate effort
to overcome the obstinacy of his tie and
partially succeeds, hurriedly brushes his
hair, jerks his arms through his waistcoat,
affixes his watch-chain, and puts on his
coat, and then, with a dissatisfied glance at
his own reflection, he hastily leaves the
house, and hurries towards the hotel.

The residents are already seated at the
dinner-table, and, as he enters, not feeling
so composed as he would have wished, in

spite of his theory regarding the blissful
power of independence, two lines of eyes
are focussed on his person. There is a slight
lull in the conversation, and he feels himself
being mentally criticised on all sides,
which is rather embarrassing to his affected
sang-froid. The butler comes quickly to his
assistance, and conducts him to a vacant
chair. He sits down more rapidly than
gracefully, and in a moment his arrival has
been forgotten, and conversation resumes
its previous swing.

Everyone is busily chatting with his
neighbour, and, after a few minutes, Grandly
looks round, and proceeds to take stock
of his surroundings.

There are about twenty people seated at
the table, and, as far as he can judge at
first sight, the masculine and feminine elements
seem pretty equally divided. He
moves his eye up and down the table, scanning
each one curiously, and his suspicion
as to dearth of youth amongst those residing
at Banbury's Hotel is confirmed.

There is nothing very young or attractive
to be seen on the opposite side of the
table, and, consequently, there is no Miss
Diana Forsdyke. This is a disappointment,

and lie leans back, under the pretence of
addressing a servant, and rapidly casts his
eye down his own side. He meets with
another disappointment, for his own contingent
is even more elderly than the opposing
force, and there is no one resembling
in the least particular the little figure
clothed in white and blue.

He experiences something akin to a sense
of injury against the sympathetic little
stranger for being absent, and he is about
to mutter to himself a sentiment of doubtful
consonance when the door is thrown
open, and a pallid lady, wrapped in a grey
woollen shawl, carrying an air-cushion in
her hand, enters, followed by the object
of his thoughts — a stout, military-looking
man, with grey hair and grizzled face,
bringing up the rear. There are three
vacant chairs, some way down the table, on
the opposite side to where Grandly is sitting,
and the three late arrivals walk towards
them. The pallid lady then hands
the air-cushion to Miss Forsdyke, who meekly
places it on the chair, and they sit down,
the young lady in the middle.

Now that his little acquaintance has
actually appeared, Grandly, instead of experiencing

a sense of pleasure, is covered
with confusion. He fancies that he must
be blushing furiously his cheeks seem so
hot, and he studiously avoids looking towards
the new arrivals, quite at a loss as to
what line of conduct he should adopt.

Shall he look towards her, and bow, in
virtue of their previous meeting, or shall
he steadily ignore her presence? Which
is the right thing for him to do ? In such
a position as this, what does social etiquette
require of him ?

He has not, certainly, been introduced
to the young lady formally ; but then, all
the same, they have made each other's acquaintance,
and, somehow, he does not seem
to regard her in the light of a perfect
stranger. On the contrary, he feels that
he has known her all his life. He fancies
that there must be some subtle bond of
sympathy existing between them ; in no
other way can he account for the extraordinary
interest which he has conceived
for her in so short a time. Possibly, he
thinks, she may have experienced the same
feeling towards him, and probably at this
very moment she is looking towards him,
wondering why he does not acknowledge

their acquaintance. This consideration decides
him, so he suddenly glances towards
her and discovers, to his mortification, that
she is apparently totally unconscious of his
presence.

"With her head bent over her plate, she
is toying listlessly with her soup, without
making a pretence to appetite, whilst across
her charming little face is spread an air
of melancholy, which takes him completely
by surprise ; for, from his first glimpse of
her that morning, he had concluded that
she was ever in a state of rippling laughter.
But, as he now sees her, her face is so
depressed, that it looks incapable of displaying
merriment. He vainly tries to account
to himself for such a decided change
in her appearance, but his imagination is
not equal to the task, so he turns his eyes
towards the pallid lady sitting on her left,
and proceeds to take stock of her person.

She is very thin and angular, with a
moist appearance about the eyes, the lids
of which are slightly swollen and of a
purple hue, and she seems so limp that
he half expects to see her fall suddenly
forward, with her face upon her plate.
Her hair, which is of a faded brown, is

bound very plainly across her forehead,
and is surmounted by a cap of some black
material, and there is a peevish look about
her mouth, which does not prepossess him
in her favour. Attired in a dress of musty
black, totally devoid of trimming, her whole
appearance plainly denotes a life of martyrdom,
in so far, that he feels it would
not surprise him in the least to find a
placard attached to her back bearing the
words : c Oh ! look at me, and pity me, for
I am the most long-suffering and miserable
of women.'

Every other moment she is seized with
a spasmodic shiver, and she draws her
woollen scarf tightly across her chest, looking
over her shoulder with an injured expression,
to assure herself that the door is
shut ; and, as Grandly studies her person,
the thought strikes him that her whims
and fancies may possibly have something
to do with Miss Forsdyke's depression of
spirits. That the lady is whimsical and
fanciful, he has no doubt — he perceives it
in her every gesture — and a feeling of pity
arises within him for the young girl's lot.
If it be her fate to have to attend to the
wants of this elderly invalid, her life must

VOL. I. E

indeed be hard and irksome. Wondering
vaguely as to the relationship that they
bear towards one another, he turns his eye
to the right, and proceeds to inspect the
other flank of the fair Diana.

He sees a very stout man, with a large
mouth and thick lips, gobbling up his food
with an eager voracity approaching to indecency.
It is a very coarse face, with
bristling grey hair, and a profusion of deep
furrows across the forehead, with two little
narrow eyes, surmounted by thick, iron-grey
eyebrows, with full, bloated cheeks.
a nondescript, blotched nose, and a double
chin. There is a marked look of greediness
depicted on his surly countenance,
and Grandly turns away from the contemplation
of it with a feeling of disgust.
If this gentleman be Diana's guardian for
the time being, he can well understand her
present depression of spirits. His pity for
her increases. How truly sad must be the
young girl's life, if it be her fate to pass her
days with these two unsympathetic-looking
individuals ? A hope arises in his heart
that he may become intimate with her, and
by his influence may be able to brighten
her present sombre existence.

The estimate of their respective characters
which he has deduced from their
external appearances runs as follows : the
military old man is the personification
of vulgarity and gluttony combined — the
elderly lady of the pallid countenance is a
snivelling, hypochondriacal, whimsical old
idiot — and Miss Forsdyke, sitting meekly
between the two, is an angel of purity,
innocence, and grace.

This last-named young lady is still keeping
her eyes bent upon the table, as though
she took no interest whatever in her surroundings.
Evidently she is feeling no
magnetic attraction drawing her involuntarily
towards him. At which discovery he
is more than disappointed, for one of his
favourite theories is, that every human being
is possessed of a certain magnetic fluid
permeating his body, which is either attracted
to or repulsed from the corresponding
fluids of other bodies, according to
whether they be of a similar or dissimilar
nature, thus controlling the human heart
in its likes and dislikes.

Suddenly the pallid lady speaks. Drawing
her shawl around her with a spasmodic

e 2

LIBRARY

iNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

shiver, she addresses her husband in a
peevish tone.

Erasmus she says, 'are you quite sure
the door is shut?'

Eh! what d'ye say?' replies her husband,
indifferently glancing towards her,
with his mouth full.

With a marked sense of injury in her
tones, the lady repeats her question.

Her husband turns his head and looks
towards the door.

1 Yes — the door is shut, my dear,' he
says, and he resumes his eating.

She gives a little affected shrug with her
shoulders, expressive of discomfort, and
turns towards her companion.

Diana,' she says, sharply, ' why don't
you say something ? It is so very inconsiderate
of you not to make some attempt
to amuse me, considering the wretched
state of my health. You can be lively
enough if you like — no one knows that
better than I do.'

Dear aunt, please don't be angry with
me,' — the words come out so soft and
humbly — 4 1 am not feeling very well tonight
— my head is aching.'

'That is because you would go to that

tennis-party this afternoon. It was very,
very weak of me to conduct you there.
Such excitement I consider quite unnecessary
for young girls. In my day working
in Berlin wool was in vogue, and we were
quite contented to spend the day at that
pleasant and instructive occupation. But
now all is different. What was good
enough for us is not good enough for you,
of — course !' and she points her speech
with a little sarcastic sniff.

c Indeed, aunt, you are mistaken,' is the
low response. ' I should like to learn how
to work in Berlin wools, if you would only
be so kind as to teach me.'

6 Goodness gracious, Diana, what a preposterous
notion ! How can you be so
inconsiderate ? The idea of me, with my
wretched health, attempting to instruct
you in that graceful accomplishment !
From what I know of you, you would
take weeks to learn a stitch. No, Diana,
a girl who has an objectionable hankering
after tennis-parties, is not the pupil for me.
What with my neuralgic pains and other
ailments, the effort would drive me into
the grave. You complain of having a
headache to-night. I have had a headache

for the last five-and-twenty years, without
five minutes' respite, — and yet I have
never been heard to complain ! You
should display more fortitude, Diana, or
you are no true niece of mine. The forsakes
have always been noted for their
courage !'

Not a word of this little conversation
escapes the ears of Grandly. He has conceived
such a powerful interest in the
beautiful creature sitting opposite to him,
that perhaps he strains his sense of hearing
somewhat beyond the borders of good
taste ; but even had he acted otherwise,
and turned his attention towards another
quarter, he could not have prevented himself
from hearing every syllable uttered,
for Mrs. Renfrew — such was the pallid
lady's name — makes no effort to lower her
voice, in a way suggestive of her conversation
being of a confidential nature.
She speaks in a thin, piping voice, which
travels half-way down the table, as though
oblivious to the fact that she is surrounded
by a score or so of strangers. In fact,
it seems to Grandly, who has already conceived
a strong prejudice against her, that
she intentionally raises her voice, so as to

allow those around her to fully comprehend
that her life is a burden to her,
and that her disposition is remarkable for
the truly angelic patience with which she
bears her sufferings.

Grandly has quite made up his mind by
this time as to the line of action that he
will adopt when Miss Forsdyke chances to
glance his way. He will smile towards
her a look of kindly sympathy, showing
her how thoroughly aware he is of the
sadness of her lot. There is no sense of
embarrassment now in his mind as he
contemplates her look of recognition. He
feels as bold as brass, and determines like
some knight-errant of old to succour the
lovely damsel, in spite of the two dragons
guarding her on either side. So he keeps
his eye steadily fixed on the trio, in expectation
of the coining glance.

The colonel is eating as though his very
life depended on his consuming a certain
amount of food in a certain time, and Mrs.
Renfrew is allowing her eyes to wander
listlessly round the table.

She pauses as they alight on Grandly 's
classic face, and gives him a steady stare,
which he unflinchingly returns. Then she

half closes her eyes and bends her head
a little to one side, and gazes at him as
though she were critically examining some
chef-d'oeuvre in statuary.

Diana,' she says, in the same high-pitched
voice, which can be heard by
everyone surrounding her, ' who is that
new arrival? His face strongly reminds
me of a statue I took a great fancy to in
the Louvre some years ago.'

Grandly feels the hot blood rushing to
his face as he listens to this criticism on
his personal appearance, but he does not
waver in his glance. He feels that the
long-expected moment has arrived, and
that Miss Forsdyke will look towards him
at last ; so he summons up his most pleasing
cast of countenance to receive her
glance of recognition.

In answer to her aunt, Miss Forsdyke
looks immediately in the opposite direction
to where he is sitting.

c Which one, aunt?' she says. ' I see no
new arrival.'

How very provoking you are, Diana !'
says Mrs. Renfrew, peevishly. l If I want
you to look one way, it is a moral certainty
that you will look the other. Do

be more considerate, and try to remember
that the least exertion I make causes me
much extra suffering. I refer to that
young man, sitting between Mrs. Lamb
and Mrs. Stockton, across the table.'

The moment has arrived. He sees Miss
Forsdyke slowly turn her head in his direction
and look towards him, but the ready
smile of sympathy which he has prepared
for her freezes on his lips, for she looks at
him with an air of indifferent curiosity,
without a trace of recognition in her face.

c I really do not know, aunt,' she answers,
mildly. ' I suppose that he is a new arrival,
for I have never noticed him before.'

c Of course he is a new arrival,' snaps
her aunt, viewing him still in the light of
an inanimate work of art. ' What is the
good of telling me that ? You really have
a very annoying manner. If I ever ask
you for information on any point, you are
certain to tell me something which I knew
before you were born. Kindly have a
little more consideration for the wretched
state of my nerves,' and she shivers perceptibly,
and relapses into moody silence.

Grandly is astounded. The look of
perfect indifference which she has cast

upon him has taken him so completely by
surprise that for some moments he stares
towards her in blank amazement. But
she does not bestow on him a second
glance ; she lowers her eyes upon the tablecloth,
with an expression of meek humility
on her face.

No person's amour-jjivjjre is proof against
the cut direct. There is something so
stinging, so deeply humiliating in the fact
of one's person being totally ignored that
it is impossible for one's vanity to rise
superior to the slight unwounded, However
strong-minded one may be, and whatever
may be the circumstances of the case,
a manifestation of contempt such as this
always leaves behind it a trace of its subtle
poison, which possibly may heal itself in
course of time, but which as a rule rankles
into a festering sore.

And so it is with Grandly now. Though
their acquaintance is of a most informal
character, still he feels distinctly hurt at
her behaviour. He has not expected that
she would nod to him familiarly across
the table — the brief conversation that they
have held that morning did not warrant
such a free-and-easy proceeding on her

part — but he certainly thinks, in common
justice to himself, that she should have
made some sign of recognition, if only a
sudden twinkle of the eye. It seems to
him that she has been intentionally rude
to him, but he determines not to give her
the gratification of noting his discomfiture ;
the stony glance which she has levelled at
him has quite hardened his heart towards
her. So, affecting a bold front, suggestive
of the presence of Miss Diana Forsdyke on
this earth being a matter of the supreme
indifference to him, he casts towards her a
glance of perfect unconcern.

She looks at him from under her eyelids,
and a sudden gleam of light flashes
across her eyes ; for an instant the suspicion
of a smile hovers about the corners
of her mouth, and then again her face
resumes its calm expression of humility.
She has recognised him ! — she has smiled
at him covertly too, as though she were
afraid of being seen ! What mystery is
this?

All angry feeling towards her vanishes
in a moment, and his sense of interest in
her being revives a hundred-fold. What
is the reason of her conduct ? Why should

she be afraid to openly recognise him at a
public dinner-table ? How is it that she
has changed in the short space of six
hours from a laughing fairy-sprite to this
depressed personification of meekness and
humility ?

He can arrive at no satisfactory solution
of the mystery. He is filled with doubts
and suspicions. A yearning comes across
him to know more about the girl, and he
determines to seize on the first opportunity
which presents itself to renew their brief
acquaintance. That she is unhappy he
feels convinced, and his honest young heart
overflows with an infinite compassion for
her lot, and the idea of his possibly being
able to shed brightness on her existence
returns to him with redoubled force.

CHAPTER IV.

c SOMETIMES LADIES HIT EXCEEDING HARD.'

The dinner progresses slowly, one course
succeeding another in endless monotony,
and Grandly, whose appetite at present is
not of the best, yawns audibly. He is beginning
to feel intensely bored with his
own society, and a desire to hear his own
voice asserts itself within him. So he
glances cautiously on either side of him, in
order to form some idea as to his probable
reception, should he be so bold as to address
one or other of the company.

He is by no means prepossessed by what
he sees. The two ladies present a striking
contrast to one another, and for the moment
he can almost imagine that he has
been suddenly transplanted into the middle
of a travelling-show, with the fat woman
on his right, and the walking skeleton on

his left. From their general style and
mode of dress, it is evident that they both
affect a sprightly manner, and there seems
to be a rivalry existent between the two
as to which of them shall, within the limits
of decency wear the least amount of
clothes. Anyhow, there is to be seen on
the one side a great display of flesh, and
on the other of skin and bone, and Grandly
finds himself gravely considering the
question as to which of his two fair companions
is the least unappetising.

c What a pity it is,' he thinks to himself,
4 that they cannot be shaken up together
in a tub, and then equally divided. They
might then possibly be two very fine women.'

The lady of the flesh — Mrs. Stockton byname
— is dressed in a full costume of rich
brown-silk, with a massive diamond star
of suspicious brilliancy resting upon her
overflowing bosom ; her hair is short, and
curly, and is bound with a velvet ribbon,
which, it is whispered, is not so much for
effect as to make certain of the short wavy
locks remaining on her head, popularly
supposed, when unassisted by Art, to resemble
the polished surface of a billiard-ball.
But, in the cursory glance which

Grandly takes of her person, he is not able
to take note of such minute details as
these ; he merely sees a very fat face, with
heavy overhanging eyebrows, a prominent
nose, and long upper-lip, decorated with
more than a suspicion of moustache, full
red lips, and a well-developed chin, the
whole overspread with an expression of
latent malignancy, diabolical in its intensity.

The lady of the skin-and-bone — Mrs.
Lamb by name — looks as if she had been
lately subjected to a thorough washing,
wrung-out, dried, and bleached, and her
laden appearance is rendered still more
bilious by the colour of her dress, which is
of a light-blue silk, trimmed with imitation
lace. Her pale yellow hair is worn in a
little knot on the top of her head, on one
side of which is affixed with coquettish
carelessness a ghire-de- Dijon rose. Her
poor, pinched face seems to be composed
solely of nose, chin, and cheek-bones, and
on closer investigation he discovers that
she possesses a partiality for freckles, and
he feels a species of thankfulness that she
has had the good taste to encase her long
lean arms in white lace mittens.

Having completed his examination on

either side, his sudden desire for conversation
leaves him, and he resolves to maintain
a rigid silence. He glances once more
across the table, but he has no power to
attract the fair Diana's eyes towards his
person. She is apparently engaged in an
exhaustive study of the pattern of the
damask table-cloth, and she seems to be
totally uninfluenced by his close proximity.
Mrs. Renfrew is still viewing him in the
light of a work of art, with her head on
one side, as though she were considering
the advisability of effecting a purchase,
and he feels so incensed towards her that
he hastily turns away, for fear of addressing
her as to her extraordinary behaviour.

Suddenly Mrs. Stockton bends forward
and addresses Mrs. Lamb.

1 Good-evening, Mrs. Lamb,' she says, ina
thick, oily voice ; ' I trust that you find
your hip more easy to-night.'

1 Thank you, Mrs. Stockton,' replies Mrs.
Lamb, icily, as though to intimate that she
objects to having the joints of her body
openly discussed at a public dinner-table.
My sciatica is much better this evening ;
I have been very little troubled with the
complaint to-day.'

I am so glad to hear you say so,' rejoins
Mrs. Stockton. i It would have been
so very annoying had you found yourself
unable to go to the dance tomorrow night.'

'Yes, it would have been a thousand
pities, especially as my card is already
nearly full,' she answers, modestly, vainly
attempting to raise a blush to her sallow
cheeks.

4 Really !' says Mrs. Stockton, as though
surprised at the announcement. c That is
very nice for you, I am sure. Though,
for my own part, I disapprove of the practice
of promising dances before the night
has arrived. It seems so unfair on the
majority of the men.'

I cannot agree with you in that particular,
Mrs. Stockton. I think that a lady
has a right to choose her own partners,
and, if she allows herself to enter the room
with a blank card, it is almost certain that
she will find herself engaged to dance with
those whom she would rather avoid.'

'That may be your experience, Mrs.
Lamb, but it certainly is not mine. You
should have tact to extricate yourself from
such an unpleasant position. It is very
easily done. You can say that you are

VOL. I. F

tired, and do not mean to dance, or you
can assert that your card is already full.'

c I am sure that I am very much obliged
to you for your kind advice,' returns Mrs.
Lamb, with an ominous twitching of her
thin lips. ' But I am sorry to have to say
that I hope I shall never take advantage
of it. I have been brought up to understand
that such deceit on the part of a
lady is neither creditable nor well-bred.'

1 Oh ! really,' says Mrs. Stockton, with
the faintest sarcasm. ' I am sure I beg
your pardon for having attempted to interfere
with your ideas of right and wrong.
I am really proud to possess the acquaintance
of a lady who never swerves in the
slightest degree from the path of virtue.
A love of right is an admirable trait in an
individual's character, but in order to obtain
my full respect there should be consistency
in every action ;' and she gives a
little grunt of approval, as though immensely
pleased at her own remark.

c May I ask,' says Mrs. Lamb, leaning-forward,
very pale, and speaking with
quite unnecessary politeness, 'whether you
are speaking generally, or whether you are
alluding to any special case ? From the

tenor of your remarks, I should conclude
that you are making a personal reference
to me. If such be the case, allow me to
tell you that your observations are 
and offensive.'

c My dear Mrs. Lamb, what a most extraordinary
idea exclaims Mrs. Stockton, with
a malicious smile overspreading her heavy
countenance. c Nothing was further from
my thoughts, I can assure you. You will
excuse me stating that your vehemence is
unnecessary, and quite unpardonable. You
should really be more careful in your tone
of address, and not speak so thoughtlessly.
I need not remind you, Mrs. Lamb, who
pride yourself so vastly on your knowledge
of Continental life, that there is a French
proverb, the truth of which is generally
admitted, that u qui s excuse s accuse." '

An angry flush lightens up Mrs. Lamb's
pallid countenance.

1 Your pronunciation of the French language,
Mrs. Stockton,' she retorts, quickly,
1 could hardly be called Parisian, even by
your best of friends. But, from my intimate
knowledge of the language in question,
I fancy that I know to which proverb
you are referring. At the same time, I

f2

may state that it is, in my opinion, a sign
of great vulgarity to parade a smattering
of a foreign tongue in a way to impress
one's audience that one is a master of the
language. Take my advice, Mrs. Stockton,
and keep to your native tongue. It is
quite adequate for the expression of any
ideas which your intellect may form, and
you will find it sufficiently rich in ancient
adages to do away with the necessity of borrowing
from the Continent. To illustrate
this remark, I need only mention "That
those who live in glass houses should not
throw stones." '

The two ladies, in the heat of their argument,
have apparently quite lost sight of
the immediate presence of Frank Grandly.
Conscious of his position becoming more
and more uncomfortable every moment, he
gives a little cough to recall his proximity
to their minds, but without effect ; so he
leans forward, and affects to study the
menu, thereby hoping to raise an effectual
barrier between the fair opponents. But in
this also he is disappointed. Mrs. Stockton
merely changes her position, and leans back
with her hand upon his chair.

Pray excuse my mentioning, Mrs. Lamb,'

she says, with dangerous suavity, 4 that
personalities, instead of being witty, as
you presumably consider them to be, are
merely vulgarities of the most disgusting
type. I am surprised that I should have
to mention such a well-known fact to a
lady of your age.'

You will kindly oblige me, Mrs. Stockton,
by making no reference to my age,'
retorts Mrs. Lamb, with asperity. ' It is
quite beyond the point I may not be so
young as I was, but still I am many, many
years your junior, and I am glad to say
that I have not to descend to any deceptions
in order to appear presentable.'

'What do you mean?' says the lady of
the flesh, flushing hotly.

I mean just what I say — I have nothing-false
about me, and I should have no
hesitation in swearing the same before any
court of justice. No— I thank my God
that I can affirm truthfully that every hair
on my head is my own, and is fixed firmly
by the roots.'

C A truly highly interesting piece of
information !' returns Mrs. Stockton, with
sarcastic emphasis. 'Perhaps, as you
have begun the subject, you will favour

the company with a detailed analysis of
your whole person. This is really most
edifying, but I must confess that I miss
the point.'

'The point is this,' says Mrs. Lamb,
trembling all over with excitement, and
raising her voice to its highest pitch —
1 If I were situated in a similarly unfortunate
position to that which you are, I
should be too proud to resort to such a
low and disgusting artifice as that of attempting
to conceal my defect by the application
of a dead woman's hair.'

The dispute has been carried on with
so little regard to their surroundings that
everyone seated at the table has gradually
stopped talking, so as to try to discover
the point of the discussion, so that the
last remark, offered by Mrs. Lamb with
tremendous force, has fallen upon an
almost silent room. Every eye is directed
in amused curiosity towards the two
antagonists, and Grandly feels so embarrassed
that he has half a mind to jump up
and leave the room with all possible haste.

His position is really a most delicate
one. The two ladies have now lost their
tempers to such a degree that he half express

to find them fighting acr : — his odv.
It is such a novel experience to him that
he is quite nonplussed as to what he ought
to do.

Ought he to rise, and respectfully ;
that the ladies should confine their prr
disputes to their private rooms, or ought
he to attempt the role of mediator, and
do his best to pacify the combatants?
Which would be the better cours: I
adopt ? He has not the rem >tesl idea,
and he feels positively certain that no
once to any "Guide to Social Etiquette
uld simplify the difficulty.
"What his heart prompts him to do is to
rise . sc use them both by the stuffs :
the neck, and to bans their heads together
with all possible force : but luckily he
not attempt : ; at the notion.

He merely sits still, affecting the deepest
interest in the and silently wondering

what is going to happen nex:.

And this is what happens nex:. Mrs.
Stockton, with a face purple with inc:
tion. learns straight across him.

'Mrs. Lamb.' she says, slowly, 'you will
allow me to inform you that y : u are an infamous
liar.'

It is really difficult to describe accurately
what follows on this remark of Mrs.
Stockton. For a moment there is a dead
silence, and then there breaks forth a murmur
of the strongest disapproval from the
company in general. Such language as
has j must been uttered is an outrage against
all decency, and the room is filled with a
rustle of indignation, in the midst of which
Mrs. Lamb suddenly falls back in her
chair, and bursts into tears.

Oh, Charles !' she sobs, turning to her
husband. ' * Take me away — I cannot
stay here to be insulted by that dreadful
woman.'

The gallant major pulls his tawny moustache,
slowly considering what he had
better do, and then he rises and conducts
his wife from the room. Mrs. Stockton
follows the drooping figure of her rival
with her eyes across the room with a
malignant smile upon her face, which culminates
in a chuckle of delight as the door
is closed behind her.

'Hush, my dear — be quiet, my love,'
says her husband, with a look of misery
on his face, speaking for the first time, and
touching her on the arm. ' You must not

really become so excited — it is not good
for you.'

She casts on him a look of fierce contempt,
and he quickly retires within himself,
looking the most down-trodden and
abject of men. She herself then gives
vent to another prolonged chuckle, and
glances triumphantly round the room.
She finds every face studiously turned
away, at which a grim smile settles on her
heavy face, and she turns her attention to
the tray of delicacies at her side, helping
herself with a lavish hand.

In a moment the contretemps has been,
if not forgotten, put aside, and the conversation
begins again with renewed
vivacity. Within the space of ten minutes
Major Lamb returns, and Grandly,
who eyes him rather curiously, fancies that
he sees him wink significantly at Colonel
Stockton as he enters. Mrs. Stockton
casts on him one furious glance of hatred,
which has no effect whatever on his admirable
composure, and then she turns her
attention again to her pistachio nuts.

In the midst of all this excitement
Grandly has forgotten for the moment the
existence of the fair Diana, but now that

peace is again restored her image rises in
his brain, and he quickly looks towards her
to find her sitting in exactly the same listless
attitude as before, apparently taking
no interest whatever in what is going on
around her. Even the disgraceful fracas
which has just taken place on his side of
the table has had no power to arouse her
from her apathetic reverie. A half-doubt
arises in his mind that, perhaps, after all,
in spite of her attractive person, she maybe
only an ordinary schoolgirl miss, incapable
of forming one idea or of framing a
single sentence beyond 'yes' and 'no.'

But immediately there arises within him
the memory of that little fairy form sparkling
with fun and laughter which had appeared
to him that morning by the tree,
and all doubts concerning her intelligence
disappear.

No, it is neither shyness nor stupidity
that makes her behave in this peculiar
manner, of that he feels convinced. It is
something else, but what it is he is unable
to conceive. But he determines, come what
may, to discover the reason of her mysterious
conduct as soon as possible, for every

moment he finds his interest deepening in
her personality,

Mrs. Renfrew is talking in the same
high-pitched, piping voice — talking as
though she were unaware of the presence
of anybody in the room besides herself and
her niece Diana.

4 I have lived for many years,' she is
saying, c and, owing to my wretched health,
the years have not gone by so quickly as
they might have done ; but I can safely
say that, amidst all my varied experiences,
I have never witnessed anything so disagreeable
and trying to the nerves as the
discussion which we have just been compelled
to listen to across the table.'

Grandly inwardly groans as he hears
her speaking. He foresees another storm
impending, and the club, with its listless,
languid inmates, rises before him, by force
of contrast, as a dream of Elysian happiness.

What, in the name of fortune, could the
man have meant who told him that Banbury's
Hotel was dull? Dull! Can a
pitched battle, with the shells bursting and
the cavalry charging, and the shrieks of
the wounded and dying rising to heaven,

through the glare and smoke, be termed
dull? Then, if not, why should Banbury's
be dubbed with such an inapplicable
epithet ?

Grandly, young as he is, has had the
good fortune to have seen some active
service in the latter part of the Afghan
campaign ; but sitting now, in expectation
of the coming strife , he feels that his military
experiences go for nothing, and that
his mind and courage are alike unable to
stand against this Amazonian style of
warfare.

I may say, Diana,' continues Mrs. Renfrew,
' that, although I have been an eyewitness
of the scene, still my senses refuse
to credit it. I ask myself — can it be possible
that such a thing has happened ? Have
not my eyes and ears deceived me ? Oris
it really true that I have heard two
ladies, sitting at a public table . . .'

Oh ! please, aunt, do not speak so loud,'
said Diana, in a distressed voice, looking
furtively around her; but she speaks so
low that Grandly is unable to hear what
she says.

I have yet to learn, Diana,' answers Mrs.
Renfrew, severely — so severely that Grandly

feels the colour mounting to his face ashe
hears her speak — ' I have yet to learn
that my manners are open to criticism by
such as you. You will excuse me mentioning,
Diana, that you are hardly the person
to whom I look for advice. If what your
father writes concerning you is true, it
would, perhaps, be more advisable on your
part to imitate, instead of attempting to
instruct. Understand me, I am not accusing
you — I am by no means endorsing
your father's opinion concerning you. I
merely refer to what he has written, without
being biassed one way or the other.
At the same time I may remark that, if a
father's word about his own child is not to
be believed, then the world must be wicked
beyond human conception — in fact, so
wicked that my mind is utterly incapable
of grasping such a sinful state of affairs.'

A sudden fire flashes from Miss Forsdyke's
eyes, and he sees her raise her head
haughtily, as though with the intention of
making some quick retort. But in a moment
she has remembered her situation, and she
turns away her head without opening her
lips.

'Now, don't apologise,' continues Mrs.

Renfrew, in the same high-pitched strain.
You were wrong, and you wish to admit
it ; but do so silently. My nerves are notable
to bear the least excitement. Never
be violent in action or speech — it is not
lady-like. And that reminds me of the
subject on which I was speaking when
you chose to interrupt me in such a truly
unpleasant manner. I was saying, I remember,
that my senses refuse to believe
that I have actually heard two ladies, sitting
at a public dinner-table, openly reviling
each other. It is the most discreditable,
most disgraceful . . .'

At this moment Grandly's heart seems
to stop still, for his next-door neighbour,
who has been watching Mrs. Renfrew
during her harangue with a wary eye,
leans forward and emits a loud ' Ahem !'

'It is the most discreditable and disgraceful
seene,' continues Mrs. Renfrew,
imperturbably, c that I have ever had the
misfortune . . .'

Grandly dare not look sideways, but he
knows in his heart that the moment of
battle has arrived. A great rustling of
clothes and clearing of the throat — preparations
for the coming fight— strike

upon his ear, and then the first shell is
thrown by Mrs. Stockton emitting a loud
angry grunt. There is no warding off the
conflict now. The time for mediation is
past and gone, and the battle is imminent,
and with a groan he resigns himself despairingly
to the unpleasantness of his position.

As the first shell bursts, Mrs. Renfrew
pauses in her remark. Though surprised
at the desperate proximity of the enemy,
she does not lose her presence of mind, but,
with the eye of a true general, she grasps
the whole situation in a moment. After a
short silence, she again attempts to speak.

'Yes, Diana,' she says, slowly and collectedly,
i it is the most discreditable and
disgraceful scene that I have ever . . .'

She is interrupted by a second explosion
of a more decided character.

1 beg your pardon, madam,' says Mrs.
Stockton, leaning forward in a very hot
and angry state, and vainly endeavouring
to imitate her adversary's composure, ■ I
beg your pardon, but may I ask to what
you are referring?'

Mrs. Renfrew possesses two of the most
essential qualities necessary for successful
leadership — coolness and determination.

In the very face of the attack she never
wavers. Her demeanour is calm — nay,
placid, inspiring all around her with confidence
in her powers. Determined to the
best of her ability to conceal her position,
she makes no sign of counter-attack, but
with praiseworthy perseverance again for
the third time attempts to complete her
sentence.

Yes, Diana, it was the most discreditable
and disgraceful . . .'

The attacking general, exasperated by
the line of action adopted by the enemy,
advances boldly to the front. She is
determined to force it to expose its position
by returning her fire, and to this
effect, without more hesitation, she fires a
salvo into its trenches.

You will kindly have the good manners
to answer a lady when she addresses you,'
she says, excitedly. ' I ask you whether
your highly offensive remarks are directed
at me or not — and I want an answer.'

Mrs. Renfrew's coolness is really admirable.
She never moves a muscle, or shows
by sign or gesture that she is conscious of
the magnitude of the attack. Her face
assumes a plaintive expression, and she

gives her shoulders a piteous little shrug.

1 Really, Diana, people ought to be more
considerate for my nerves, 1 she says. c There
is nothing so trying to one in my present
weak state of health as to have to be continually
repeating the same remark. It is
really very annoying, for, besides the mental
suffering it inflicts, the remark itself
loses much of its pungency of character
by useless repetition. This is actually the
fourth time that I have attempted to say
that it was the most discreditable and disgraceful
scene . . .'

Madam, do you hear me ?' cries Mrs.
Stockton, desperately.

c That I have ever had the misfortune
to . . .' continues Mrs. Renfrew, calmly
ignoring her adversary.

'Will you answer me or not?' Mrs.
Stockton is becoming furious.

c Witness during the whole . . .'

c I will not stand this insolence !'

c The whole of my life,' says Mrs. Renfrew,
with a triumphant ring in her voice.
And now, Erasmus,' addressing her husband,
who has been eating his dessert
throughout the encounter, supremely indifferent
to the danger, — c and now, Eras-vol.

I. G

mus, will you kindly ascertain for me what
the lady across the table is wanting. You
know my fixed rule, never to speak to anyone
without a formal introduction.'

It is a masterly stroke of genius. A
wave of amusement sweeps down each side
of the table, and Grandly turns away his
head to hide a smile.

c Eh ! What ?' growls the colonel, gruffly,
pausing with half a banana on his fork
midway between his mouth and the table.
What was that remark you made ?'

There is a lady, across the table, who,
I believe, has a wish to communicate with
me. Not having been introduced to her,
I am unable to treat with her personally.
Will you be so good as to ascertain her
business ?'

Colonel Renfrew eyes his wife meditatively
for a moment, and then he opens
his mouth, and inserts the banana, which
he leisurely begins to masticate.

Except at the lower end of the room,
from which proceed sounds of muffled
laughter, there is a dead silence in the
room. Miss Forsdyke, with a slight flush
on her fair cheeks, is looking demurely on
her plate, whilst Mrs. Stockton is fuming

and snorting to such an extent that she
has assumed an apoplectic hue.

Colonel Renfrew does not move till he
has swallowed his banana, and then he
turns his head, and glances across the
table. He shows none of that coolness
which his wife has displayed ; for, on meeting
Mrs. Stockton's infuriated gaze, his
face becomes the colour of a lobster, and
he hastily turns away.

My dear,' he says, 'what applies to you
applies to me. Not having the pleasure
of her acquaintance, I am equally unable
to address the lady in question;' and he
stretches out his hand mechanically, and
removes another banana from the plate in
front of him.

At this diplomatic reply the whole
company burst out laughing, in the
midst of which the lady at the head of the
table gives the signal, and they all rise.
The ladies file out one by one, Mrs. Renfrew
without a trace of excitement on her
face, and the fair Diana looking coyly on
the ground.

Mrs. Stockton is the last to go. She
rises angrily from her seat, and bends over
her husband, and speaks to him in a sharp

g2

whisper, with great volubility of tongue.

1 Hush, my dear,' says the colonel, mildly.
c You really must not become so excited,
my love — it is not good for you.'

1 Keep quiet yourself, booby F she cries,
at the top of her voice ; and with flushed
face, and haughty carriage of the head, she
leaves the discomfited man, and takes her
departure from the room.

CHAPTER V.

ANOTHER GLIMPSE.

It is generally supposed that a good.
sound, uninterrupted sleep is proof of a
clear conscience. Certainly Frank Grand -
by's conscience was as clear and unsullied
as a running crystal stream, but whether
this was the reason of his enjoying a perfect
night's rest, or whether it was due to
the extreme weariness of his body, cannot
really be said. The fact remains that he
slept long and placidly, undisturbed by
night-mare horrors.

A confused sense of pleasant, well-known
scenes and faces floats within his brain, and
gradually a half-smile breaks upon his lips.
The morning sun. rising fresh from behind
the dewy hills, peeps in through the open
window and falls upon his face, and Aurora,
perceiving that he is beautifully made.

hovers about his form, pressing warm kisses
on his face and neck. She gazes long and
lovingly on his classic face, and notes the
perfect symmetry of his profile, and then
a longing comes over her to see the colour
of his eyes ; and so the amorous jade
casts upon him such a fiery glance that he
feels it through his slumbers, and he opens
his eyes to find the sun pouring in upon
him through the window.

With the morning air blowing in fresh
and cool, he feels so well, both in body
and spirit, that he is unable to remain in
bed ; so he jumps out, and proceeds to the
window, and cautiously — for he has no
wish for either Mrs. Stockton or Mrs. Lamb
to see him in his night-dress — looks out.

However, he is quite safe — there is no
disturbing element to be seen. Everything
is calm and peaceful, and the sun,
appearing above the tops of the distant
hills, amidst a haze of gold, is quickly
scattering the faint blue mist, thereby disclosing
all the towering heights and well-wooded
slopes to his wondering eyes.

Leaving the window, he hastily plunges
into his tub, and dresses with all speed.
On such a glorious morning as this, it

seems a positive crime to remain indoors.
So he orders a simple breakfast to be
brought to his room, and, having despatched
it with indecorous haste, he
sallies forth, with his thick stick, intent
on exploring some of the beauties of the
Doonga hill.

The mountain air has braced him up to
such an extent, that he already feels a different
individual from that weary creature
of the day before, and he walks down the
hill, gaily swinging his stick in the air.
He feels very happy and contented with
himself and all things on this particular
morning. The charm of the magnificent
scenery slowly unveiling itself on all sides
under the influence of the rising sun is too
strong to be resisted, and his heart beats
with a tumultuous sense of gladness, and he
feels at peace with all men.

Snatches of operatic melody rise to his
lips as he strolls along, and then suddenly
his thoughts revere to the disputes which
he has witnessed the night before during
dinner, and so light-hearted and contented
does he feel, that he laughs aloud at the
recollection.

He is not a little exercised, though, concerning

his future line of action. The
experience of the night before has been as
disagreeable as it has been novel, and, if
it is to be taken as a fair example of the
manners and customs of Banbury's Hotel,
he thinks that perhaps it would be better
for his health and peace of mind if he
were to change his place of abode.

But where is he to go to? That is the
question which puzzles him. Certainly
there are many other hotels in Doonga,
but then probably they are much of a
muchness with regard to the attractions
which they offer to the bachelor subaltern.
Banbury's, he knows to be universally acknowledged
the best hotel in Doonga, so
to betake himself to another one would
probably be a case of stepping off the 
into the fire.

Then there is the club ! Twenty-four
hours ago he had shuddered at the very
idea of residing there in his present state
of health ; but in the last few hours his
bachelor mind has been somewhat enlightened
as to the joys and peacefulness of a
family hotel, and the club does not now
appear to him so horrible in consequence.
However, he determines to do nothing

rashly. He will wait awhile, and watch
the progress of affairs. At an}^ rate, he
can change his position at the dinner-table ;
at a distance the rights may not appear
so terrible. And if the worst comes to the
worst — if, in fact, the whole table should
throw themselves heart and soul into the
contest — then he will take refuge in his little
hut, and eat his meals in peaceful solitude.
Passing the post-office and the little
church, he turns on to the Mall, and proceeds
along the road, and arrives at the
club, lying down below him. But he does
not stop ; he feels a new sense of life permeating
his veins, and he walks along at
a brisk pace, gazing across, with a keen
appreciation of the beautiful, at the opposite
range of hills. From this point the
road commences to slightly incline upwards,
and he soon becomes conscious of
the fact, for in a moment or two his
breath begins to fail him, and his pace
visibly slackens. However, he is nothing
daunted. He is in such buoyant spirits at
finding himself once more breathing cool,
fresh air that he laughs softly to himself
at his increasing weakness as he plods
steadily along the winding road.

On his left rises an almost perpendicular
wall of rock and foliage, for the road has
been blasted out of the hill-side ; but on
his right a panorama of Nature's greatest
majesty is unrolled before his bewildered
eyes. The hill is looking very lovely in
the morning light, with its masses of dark
green foliage, speckled here and therewith
little villas, shining in the soft sunlight,
and he pauses for several moments,
gazing back at the brilliant scene. A giant
ravine separates him from the opposite
range of hills, and far down in its peaceful
depths he can discern the running mountain
stream, decked on either side with
native huts, surrounded by their little
plots of cultivated land. The reality of
the Himalayas has exceeded his most sanguine
anticipations, and his heart grows
soft and tender in the contemplation of
the majesty of their creation. His thoughts
revert to Dhobipur, with its sickening
glare and heat, its fierce, pitiless, brassy
sun, its dust and discomforts, and long,
long weary day, and now all these seem to
him as some vague nightmare of the past.
And yet less than forty-eight hours have
elapsed since he was in their midst.

After a short time lie continues his
walk up the gradual incline, and, refusing
to yield to his increasing weakness, he
does not rest until he has reached the
summit of Garam Point. Here he throws
himself down upon the grass, thankful to
ease his limbs, and he gazes down in silence
on the glorious landscape stretched before
him. Woods, mountain peaks, boulders
of massive proportions and long stretches
of grass and corn, all enveloped in a faint
blue mist, parade themselves before him,
and he takes them all in greedily, feasting
his eyes in rapture on the magnificent
display. Range upon range tower above
one another as far as the eye can reach,
and every moment fresh beauties are revealed
by the gradually dispersing mist.

Far in the distance can be obtained a
glimpse of the plains. It is in the vicinity
of Garamabad, and there is a thick haze
overhanging it. There, he knows, the
temperature is standing over 100° in the
verandah, and he sighs with a divine sense
of thankfulness that he has had the good-fortune
to escape from its horrors for a
period. The gurgling sound of a little
brook strikes upon his ear, and he listens

with a dreamy sense of satisfaction to it
finding its way step by step from the summit
to the base, there to join the lukewarm
stream which can just be discerned
occasionally far away down in the plains.
A subtle fragrance rises from the flowers
scattered round him in wild profusion,
and a feeling of great contentment overcomes
him as he lies there, attempting to
realise the wondrous change in his existence.

There is still something to live for,' he
murmurs to himself. ' A month ago I was
actually longing to die, and now — how
differently I feel ! "Were I to die now, it
would not be from weariness of life, but
from excess of happiness.'

A faint breeze sweeps up the hill, and
gently stirs the yellow balsam, rustling
the leaves and flowers together with a
sound refreshing to the ear ; and Grandly
relapses into a deep reverie. He thinks of
his home, with its gentle mistress, whom
he has never known to have addressed to
him one unkind word since he left her
knee, and he tries to picture in his mind
her occupation at that moment ; and then
his thoughts revert to Grafton, and he
murmurs softly to himself,

1 Ah, my dear old friend, I would lay
down my life to please you !'

Within a day or two he expects to hear
from him, stating the probable date of his
arrival, and he imagines to himself the
perfect happiness which they will enjoy
living together in this glorious place. His
heart is as yet too young to have ever had
engraved on it a woman's name in letters
which could not have been effaced without
a moment's trouble, but in its place, in
letters so firmly cut that the lapse of ages
could not obliterate them, is to be found
the name of ' George Grafton.' To him
he was loyal in every thought and action ;
never for one moment had that grave, earnest
friend been removed from the high
pedestal to which he had been raised in
the old school-days.

He is roused from his reverie by the
noise of voices in the distance, and he
leans over on his elbow and glances up
the road, and sees a dandy, with a lady
sitting within it, approaching. By her
side, with her hand resting on the woodwork,
is walking a young lady, whom he
immediately recognises. It is Miss Diana
Forsdyke, and directly the lady in the

dandy speaks lie has no longer doubt as
to her personality. When once heard, it
was not easy to forget the high-pitched
piping voice of Mrs. Renfrew.

His own position is partially concealed
by the long yellow balsam amidst which
he has thrown himself, and he turns over
and rests his chin in his hands, and takes
a criticising survey of the approaching
ladies. There is no doubt that he does
feel a most unaccountable interest in this
young lady ; there is an air of mystery
about her being which puzzles him, and
piques his curiosity.

She is dressed very plainly, but very
neatly, with a cloud of some soft material
wound carelessly round her neck, and he
notices that she is looking superbly lovely,
with her delicate fair skin flushed with
healthy exercise. Mrs. Renfrew is talking
very volubly, and he can hear distinctly
what she is saying when she is still some
fifty yards away. These are the first words
which strike his ear :

c No, Diana, it is quite out of the question.
I wonder really how you can be so
inconsiderate ! The idea of my going out

to a dance, and sitting up till midnight!
It would be the death of me.'

And then Miss Forsdyke says something
which he does not hear.

c What a notion !' is the reply, in a
peevish tone of voice. ' Only for an hour,
indeed ! You wish me to dress and turnout
after dinner, and to go down to the
club merely to watch you dance for an
hour? It is really very selfish of you to
suggest such a thing.'

I only made the suggestion, aunt,' replies
Miss Forsdyke, humbly, * thinking
that it might be agreeable to you. One
hour's amusement would not be over-exciting
to your nerves, and I think it would
do you good. You would be sure to enjoy
yourself, sitting surrounded by your friends.
You know how popular you are.'

Oh ! Diana, Diana, is this truth, or
merely soothing flattery ? Is your tongue
obeying the dictates of your conscience
when you speak, or are you applying butter
with a lavish hand, in order to remove all
friction from the rusty machinery of Mrs.
Renfrew's mind ? Grandly, smiling to himself,
without hesitation decides in favour
of the latter.

Mrs, Renfrew answers her niece in a
rather mollified tone of voice.

c Yes, Diana — I am popular,' she says,
complacently, c universally popular, I may
say, I think, without being deemed conceited.
But I value my health far more
than my popularity, and, if the worst comes
to the worst, I must sacrifice the latter to
the former.'

c Ah ! that will never come to pass, dear
aunt,' cries Miss Forsdyke, eagerly. ' Do
what you may, you will always command
the same love and admiration from those
around you, as you do now.'

4 You are a very good girl,' says Mrs.
Renfrew, in tones still sweeter than before.
There may be truth in what you say. I
never courted popularity, and yet I am
popular — so perhaps there is a je ne sais
quoi about me which compels confidence
and affection.'

'There is, aunt, there is!' cries Miss
Diana, applying the butter in great lumps.
1 No one can see you without loving you.
How 1 shall ever be able to repay you for
your great kindness to me, I do not know.
Every moment which passes places me
deeper in your debt.'

They are passing him now, and he
makes no effort to conceal himself; but
the two ladies are so intent upon their
conversation that they do not seem to see
him. The dandy sails past him to the tune
of shuffling feet, and presently Miss Forsdyke
drops her handkerchief, and bends
down to pick it up. In doing so, she looks
straight towards him, and smiles the same
roguish smile that she has bestowed upon
him at the time of their first meeting.
But, before he can make a movement in
response, she holds her finger up to her
mouth, enjoining him to silence, and then
she turns away and re-joins the dandy.

He half-imagines that he has been dreaming.
What a charming smile it was ! Her
eyes seemed to thrill through and through
him with a rush of fire.

What does it all mean ? Why should
she be so afraid to confess that he is known
to her? His mind is filled with questioning
concerning the lovely vision, and he
fully determines to make her acquaintance
formally as soon as possible. He feels
morally convinced that there is existent
between them a bond of sympathy which
cannot be ignored.

VOL. I. h

The two ladies have now proceeded some
fifty yards down the hill. Mrs. Renfrew's
voice floats towards him.

c I am very sorry, Diana, for your sake,'
she says, ' but it is really quite out of the
question. "We will spend a quiet little
evening together, and I must do my best
to make you forget the club and its inmates
by making myself especially agreeable.'


What Miss Forsdyke's answer is he does
not hear, but it is evidently of an oleaginous
character ; for Mrs. Renfrew immediately
leans forward, and says, with the
greatest effusion,

c Oh, you sweet girl ! You must kiss
me directly we get in — now, don't forget !'
and then a turn in the road hides them
from his sight.

CHAPTER VI.

A PESSIMIST OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

Frank Grandly lies for fully half-an-hour
amidst the yellow balsam with his thoughts
centred on the personality of Miss Diana
Forsdyke. His young and tender heart
feels a strange sympathy towards her.
There is a something in the startling loveliness
of her face which is peculiarly attractive
to him, and he is unable to drive
her laughing figure from his mind ; for, in
all his mental visions of her person, she is
always depicted as she first appeared to
him — smiling and childlike, and not as he
has seen her since — demure and grave.

It is this strange change in her demeanour
which puzzles him. Had she appeared
to him always in the same laughing humour,
probably he would not have bestowed
on her a second thought. But, as

H

it is, he cannot prevent himself from attempting
to picture in his mind the probable
cause of her depression in public.
That she is not sad by nature, he feels
assured. Then why does she adopt this
melancholy role when in the presence of
her relatives ? The only solution to the
problem is that her aunt and uncle are
unkind to her, and that she is actually
afraid to laugh and talk and be generally
merry when they are present.

His honest young heart swells with indignation
as he arrives at this conclusion,
and he rises from the ground feeling an
infinite pity towards the young girl whose
lot appears so hard.

Looking at his watch, he finds that it is
half-past eleven, so he begins to saunter
homeward, inwardly anathematising every
aunt and uncle in existence, but reserving
a special clause for Colonel and Mrs.
Renfrew.

Arriving at the club, he pauses a moment,
and then decides to go down and
see whether there are any of his acquaintances
to be seen. An air of desolation
overhangs the building. The verandahs
are deserted, the arm-chairs and sofas are

unoccupied, the papers lie untouched — nota
single human creature meets his eye.

Lost in wonder, he enters the building,
and finds the whole place upside down.
The corridor is almost impassable from the
masses of furniture — chairs, tables, sofas,
carpets, and divers ornamental cabinets —
which are piled up in every conceivable
direction. From within, the sound of much
hammering, accompanied by violent altercations
in the native tongue, strikes upon
his ear. He opens a door and looks in,
discovering a crowd of natives dispersed
about a large empty room, and then he
remembers it is the day of the da?ice, and
he laughs to himself at the chaotic aspect
which the house presents in consequence.

He wonders where the residents of the
club can be ! It seems strange on this
particular morning, when there must be
so much to do, that there should not be a
single individual to be seen. Possibly
they may be engaged on special duties
which have called them away for the moment,
he thinks to himself, as he stands
half-doubtful what to do. However, he
decides before going to see whether Loftus
is in his room, so, having ascertained the

number, he walks down the flight of steps
and enters the verandah of the basement.

Number eight ! The door is closed, and
there is an air of peaceful quiet about the
room suggestive of its being untenanted
for the time being. No ! — there is not
much doubt that Loftus is out, engaged
upon some pressing business connected
with the dance. So Grandly determines
to leave his card, and return to Banbury's
for lunch. He opens the door and enters,
and immediately a very strong oath falls
upon his ear.

There is a blazing fire burning in the
grate, and the temperature of the room is
distinctly high. The atmosphere is thick
and cloudy, and redolent of tobacco smoke,
and a suspicious smell of spirits excites his
olfactory nerves. In one corner of the
room can be discerned a bed, and there in
the bed, with head just appearing above
the clothes, is the figure of Vernon Loftus,
lying with eyes closed, cigar in mouth, and
whisky-and-soda clasped tenaciously in the
right hand.

Grandly shuts the door behind him,
and gazes with amused astonishment at
the prostrate form before him. A look of

utter weariness is imprinted on his by no
means unpleasant-looking face, and he is
pulling laboriously at his cigar as though
each puff involved an effort of no mean
order. Prefaced by a highly embellished
oath, a low growl issues from his lips,

Call me at one o'clock, you darned old
fool !'

At this Grandly is unable to restrain
himself, and he bursts out laughing.

'Great heavens!' cries Loftus, jumping
up. c What a delightful surprise ! Is that
really you, old chap? I thought it was
the nigger come to wake me. Sit down,
will you, and have a peg?'

Grandly laughingly declines.

4 Oh ! but you must have a peg. Now,
come, Grandly, don't be a damned cad !'

i Well, if you put it in that way, I suppose
I must,' returns Grandly, feeling, in
spite of himself, rather vexed.

Of course you must ! Never refuse a
peg when it is offered to you, and never
fail to offer one when you have the chance.
That's the maxim I follow, and, by gad,
sir, you couldn't have a better one.'

Grandly helps himself from the decanter,
and the servant is called to open the soda-water

; then a cigar is pressed upon him,
and Loftus languish murmurs his approval
of the proceeding, garnishing his speech
with an oath of peculiarly high flavour.

c You appear to be taking a European
morning with a vengeance,' remarks
Grandly, smiling.

Ya-as !' says Loftus, with a prolonged
yawn. ' Life is really very wearisome.
The wonder to me is how we manage to
exist at all. I tell you what it is, Grandly,'
he adds, somewhat brightening up, ' this
world's creation is a very inferior piece of
work.'

Having uttered this sentiment, he falls
back again upon the pillow, and lazily
applies his glass to his lips, and chokes inconsequence.


1 There are so many faulty arrangements
in it,' he continues, after he has recovered
from his fit of coughing, c that it is absurd
to attempt to specify anything in particular.
There is no change, no variety, always
the same wearisome, monotonous routine.
One can tell to a moment, with the help of
an almanac, the exact time the sun will rise
and set — and they are always right — there
is no chance of any excitement in that

direction. It never goes wrong or gets
out of order. It is such an inconsiderate
mode of conduct, too,' he continues, in an
aggrieved tone. ' It was all very well,
perhaps, when the world was first made
and the inhabitants were savage-like and
illiterate. But, in these days of culture
and fine art, we have a right to expect
something different. How much better it
would be now, supposing that once a week
say Sunday — the sun did not rise till
midday.'

'What on earth for?' cries Grandly,
smiling.

'To give one a good night's rest, of
course ! Our bodies are, unfortunately,
made on such a primitive design that they
need constant rest to keep them in health.
And, how can one obtain rest, if the sun
always rises early in the morning?'

'By going to bed early, I should say,'
smiles Grandly.

My dear Grandly, what an extraordinary
idea ! Where the deuce have you picked
up these outlandish notions ? Do you comprehend
exactly what going to bed early
means ? It means that all the science which
has been lavished in the perfection of elect

has been thrown away ; it means
that generous wines and fine tobacco are
not necessary parts of a man's existence ; it
means that the art bestowed on the production
of a good dinner is art misapplied ;
it means that jovial sociability amongst
men is a needless requirement ; it means
that dice are senseless cubes of ivory ; it
means that the game of billiards is on a par
with croquet ; it means that the gigantic
intellect which first conceived a pack of
cards laboured only to be scorned and
slighted by the coming generations — in
fact, it means that one gives up every pleasure
in life without a murmur. Now, can
such a state of affairs be right ? I ask you
candidly and dispassionately — Is there not
something radically wrong in this ? Is it
right or just that one must foreswear all
pleasure in order to keep one's health ? No,
Grandly — there is no doubt about it — it is
all wrong ! The physical condition of the
world does not keep pace with civilisation.
It never progresses — it has never advanced
one step since Eve, in the Garden of Eden,
considered herself fashionably dressed with
merely a string of fig-leaves — and the result

is that life lias become unendurable to all
mankind.'

He falls back exhausted and takes a
strong pull at his peg, and, in consequence
of his recumbent position, he again chokes.

'It is the same in everything,' he continues
presently. ' Great or small — it matters
not ! The solar system is wrong ; the
earth's temperature is wrong ; the physical
aspect of the world is wrong ; men are
wrong ; women are wrong ; children are
wrong ; the whole living creation is wrong,
and the mechanism of the individual's body
is wrong. Great heavens ! I become exasperated,
as I lie here thinking of this
lamentable state of affairs. My blood literally
boils with indignation ! To think, for
instance, that one cannot even drink lying
down, without choking! Why is it so?
Why should every portion of one's body
be faulty in construction ? Does it not
strike you as extraordinary that in the construction
of the human throat such an
evident contingency as that of desiring to
drink in a recumbent position should have
been overlooked ? Can any excuse be found
in palliation of such gross carelessness?

No — none — and yet we are expected to
receive it in a thankful spirit. Ugh ! it's
positively disgusting !'

Grandly laughs long and heartily at
this outburst. He is intensely amused at
the thorough earnestness with which his
friend propounds his eccentric ideas. There
is no sense of humour underlying his remarks
; he means exactly what he says to
the very letter, and he lies there, looking
and feeling the most miserable and injured
of men.

Well, any how, you have a prospect of
excitement to-night,' remarks Grandly, ina
cheering tone. c Your dance will be a
change from your daily routine.'

A low groan proceeds from Loftus's
mouth, and he hastily sits up, and swallows
off his peg.

c Don't mention it — please, don't mention
it,' he cries, in tones of pained entreaty.
l What I have suffered with regard
to this dance, no man's intellect would be
capable of grasping ! During the last few
days, life has been a perfect burden to me.'

4 Ah ! — you have been overworked inconsequence
?'

Overworked ! Words won't express to

you what I have had to undergo. The
meetings which we have had have been
enough alone to drive an ordinarily constituted
individual into his grave. How
I have survived them, I cannot understand.'


I looked into the room as I passed,'
remarks Grandly. c There were a great
number of natives there, fighting and jabbering,
but they didn't seem to be making
progress.'

Loftus gives vent to another loud groan T
and then, in a despairing voice, he murmurs,

1 1 say, old chap, what is the time ?'

Grandly looks at the clock on the mantelpiece
; the hands point to three o'clock.

Why — your clock is stopped !'

Yes — I know ; it is always so. I do it
on purpose. I hate to see that minute
hand crawling slowly round the face — it
exasperates and accentuated the dulness
of existence. So I set my clock at three —
the happiest hour in the day — and I try to
imagine that it is always three a.m. ; but
it requires a very vivid imagination to do
so, I can tell you,' he adds, with a dismal
shake of the head.

c It is nearly one,' says Grandly, looking

at his watch ; c and, between ourselves, I
am feeling uncommonly hungry !'

c Ah ! I wish I did,' is the response, ' I
have not felt hungry for nine long years,
and yet I have been compelled to eat to
keep myself alive. I suppose I must getup
— the dread moment cannot be postponed
further. At the last meeting we
held I was deputed to see after the ornamentation
of the room, and it is all to be
done this afternoon — and I am well-nigh
crushed at the thought. Do you see anything
outside, old chap ?'

Grandly walks to the door and looks out.

Yes,' he says, ' there are three bile-carts
filled with plants, and a crowd of
natives — mercies, apparently.'

Oh, Jehoshaphat ! was ever man so
cursed before !' cries Loftus, sitting up in
bed. c I must get up — I never get a moment's
peace — the whole club is topsy-turvy,
and even in my private room I can
obtain no rest. Don't go, old chap ! You
must stay and help me — oh, you must !
Could anything have been more fortunate
than your timely visit ?'

This sudden inspiration on the part of
Loftus revives him to such an extent that,

before lie is well aware of the fact himself,
lie is out of bed, and is standing in front
of Grandly, earnestly beseeching him c not
to forsake an old friend in a moment of
distress, but to give him a helping hand.'

Grandly willingly assents, with a good-natured
smile, thereby transporting Loftus
with joy. His delight is so excessive that
he gives a very undignified swoop with his
right leg in the air, as an expression of his
satisfaction ; then he opens the door, and
pokes out his head, and calls the assembled
crowd of natives by the most opprobrious
name in the Hindi tongue, which action
amuses him so immensely that he laughs
aloud at their discomfited faces.

'I shan't be a moment, old chap,' he
cries, and he quickly disappears into the
bath-room, whence arises a duet of oaths
and water-splashing, in which the basso
greatly predominates.

In a few minutes he emerges, and begins
to rapidly dress in front of the fire, at the
same time explaining to Grandly the
hardness of his fate.

'The people in this station,' he says,
rubbing his hair savagely with a rough
towel, ' are unacquainted with the word

content. Such a grumbling, fighting, grasping
set I have never met before, and sincerely
hope never to meet again. Life is
not long enough to voluntarily undergo such
torture as contact with them evolves, when
they can be avoided. To please them we
determine to give a dance. We go to
every conceivable inconvenience — turn our
house literally upside down, so that we
never have a comfortable meal for a week
together. But they are not contented!
Bless you— no ! The floor, which is good
enough for us, is not good enough for
them ! It has to be scrubbed, and waxed,
and greased, and polished, made, in fact,
damnably unpleasant and unsafe, just to
please them — and one of us unfortunate
devils has to waste his intellect in the preparation
of the floor. Then they turn up
their noses at the food! What is good
enough for us, is not good enough for
them. Oh, dear, no ! They want mayonnaise,
and chicken aspics, forced-meat beastliness
and bilious puddings, and, what not
else, God alone knows ! And so we have
to form a committee, and degrade our
manhood by calmly sitting down to plan a
supper to suit their fastidious tastes ! Not

even the wine meets with their approval !
The sherry is too-mild, and the champagne
too-dry, so one of us miserable
creatures has to demean himself by ordering
so many dozen sweet champagne. Oh,
it is horrible ! There is a certain class of
woman who frequents these hops, who
refuses to drink anything but the very
sweetest of champagnes, and she drinks
such an amount too that I really have
a most sincere compassion for her inside on
the following morning. And then they
must have flowers ! Oh, they must — they
won't come otherwise — paint and paper is
revolting to their cultivated gaze. They
want flowers and they ivill have flowers,
and muslin hangings, and idiotic festoons,
and tropical plants, and ferns, and woodlice
! Oh, my heart turns sick when I
think of it — their wants are outrageous
and inconceivable. Ah! we little knew
what we were letting ourselves in for
when we were prevailed on to give a
dance. But we know now,' he adds, with
an impressive shake of the head, ' we
know now ; yes — we are wiser now — and
we will never make such a mistake again,
however long we live.'

VOL. I. i

c I don't doubt that you are very hard-worked,'
laughs Grandly. ' At the same
time, if such be the case, it seems peculiar
that on the day of the dance you are all
in bed at noon, for such I conclude to bethe
case.'

1 No wonder that we oversleep ourselves.
Our minds and bodies are literally prostrated
with their exertions. You have no idea,
until you come to do it yourself, what an
endless amount of work there is to be done.
Who cares what hardships we go through ?
The people come, and use our floor and
band, eat our food and drink our wine, and
go away and swear — especially if the next
morning they become aware that they must
have eaten and drunk too much the night
before. My dear Grandly, there is no
such thing as gratitude in this world. The
sentiment disappeared from the human
race when Adam and Eve were kicked out
of Eden for indulging in dessert. The
punishment was so monstrously unjust and
disproportionate to the offence that gratitude
was killed for ever. On that remarkable
day it died a natural death. You may
think that I exaggerate the work we have
to do, but I can solemnly assure you that

I don't. Questions of vital importance,
which must be settled, crop up day and
night. Perhaps you won't believe me, but
it is gospel truth — we were up till four
o'clock this morning trying to decide
whether the raised-pie, which is a chef-d'oeuvre
of culinary art, should be placed
at the head or in the centre of the table.
You may say that it is a matter of small
consequence, but others thought differently
and, as I say, we sat up till four discussing
the matter. There were some good
speeches made too, by-the-by ; that fellow
Bramley was especially caustic on the
subject.'

6 And on what did you decide finally ?'
asks Grandly, gravely.

Well, to tell the truth, we could come
to no decision. We were an even number,
and half voted for the top of the table, and
half for the centre, and no one individual
would swerve one atom from his originally
expressed opinion. So finally I proposed that
it should be left to chance — that no orders
should be given about it, and that the
butler should place it where he thought
best. This was carried unanimously. It
was a very lucky thought of mine, for I

i2

fully believe, if I had not made the suggestion,
that we should be seated there now.
That fellow Bramley has a wonderful talent
for rhetoric. But come along and have
some lunch, and after we are filled, as you
hope to be saved, lend me a helping hand !'

CHAPTER VII.

A Billet-doux.

Within a few minutes the two young men
are in the breakfast room, seated at a small,
round table, discussing an appetising little
lunch. To Grandly, whose appetite is
immense after his mornings walk, everything
seems to be of the very best, but,
oppressed by the burden of office, Loftus'
spirits are not sufficiently high to allow
him to endorse his friend's opinion. On
the contrary, he makes a point of grumbling
at everything. The wines are tart,
the food is beastly, and the butler is a fool !
This latter individual— a wiry little Asiatic,
clothed in European garb— finally is unable
to stand the volleys of abuse which fall
upon his unoffending head, and he beats a
hasty retreat, and positively refuses to
emerge again from his hiding-place.

•' He would rather resign his appointment,'
he sends word by a native servant.

Ah ! but I will be even with him yet !'
growls Loftus, with a vindictive shake of
the head.

c Wait till tomorrow, at any rate,' laughs
Granclby. ' Don't forget that on that man's
opinion depends the position of the raised-pie
to-night.'

Loftus grunts. He has half a suspicion
that Grandly is chaffing him, and the Dictator
of the Doonga Club never allows chaff
from anyone, so he immediately changes
the subject.

1 Mind you be here in time,' he says, ' we
shall begin punctually at half-past nine.'

'lam not coming,' says Grandly, quietly ;
c I have to be very careful of myself at
present, and I cannot run the risk of catching
a chill. Besides, I am so weak still that
I should never be able to stand it.'

Loftus does not answer him at once. He
sits eyeing him steadily with a look of keen
curiosity on his face, as though he were
studying some strange variety of biped.
And then he coughs and sips his madeira
thoughtfully, and says, mildly,

Say that again, please.'

Grandly smiles good-humouredly.

c You seem very surprised,' he says, c but
I am only stating the exact truth. My
doctor would have an epileptic fit if he
knew that I contemplated going to a dance.
Besides, I have really no inclination to
come. I am a perfect stranger here, and
it would be very dull.'

Loftus continues his scrutiny of Grantly's
person for fully half-a-minute, and
then he turns away with an expression of
incredulous wonder depicted on his face.

Holy Moses !' he murmurs, sotto voce,
c he's a rum 'un, if you like !'

Why ? Is it such a very extraordinary
proceeding?' asks Grandly, with amusement
; c I merely wish to retain my health
the loss of which you were only just now
lamenting.'

Loftus does not answer. He is apparently
lost in speculation. His mind is
incapable of grasping Grandly's argument.
Such a line of procedure is to him inconceivable
— impossible. To willingly renounce
the prospect of a night's carouse
for to Loftus the dance goes for nothing,
as compared to what will follow when the
ladies have withdrawn — on the plea of weak

health is to him so amazing and incomprehensible
that he completely loses his
customary volubility of speech.

Grandly is unable to resist laughing at
the comical expression of astonishment on
his face, and at the sound his friend
emerges from his trance. He dashes off
his madeira, and hurriedly rises.

Come to the ball-room,' he says, quietly.
c It is time we were beginning;' and
then he shakes his head gravely from side
to side, and murmurs to himself, c " Jerusalem
the Golden," but he's a rum cove !'

The ball-room presents a very different
aspect to what it did an hour ago. In
spite of the family feuds which presumably
existed amongst the natives engaged in its
preparation, they have done their duty
like men, and have left it looking very
spick-and-span.

A young man dressed in startling deshabille
is superintending the polishing of
the floor, and Loftus greets him with great
effusion.

Well, things are looking up, old chap,'
he says, briskly. ' It is only a matter of
really putting one's back to it, and the
greatest difficulties can be surmounted.

Allow me to introduce you to my friend
Grandly. Mr. Grandly — Mr. Bramley.'

Bramley shakes him languidly by the
hand, and hopes, in a tone of the supreme
indifference, that he is finding
himself quite well.

Grandly eyes him curiously. He is a
very bias ^-looking individual, with bleared
face and watery eyes, dressed in flannel
trousers and flannel shirt, open at the
neck, with no tie. In fact, at first sight,
he does not impress him as a man possessing
any marked talent for rhetoric.

Whether his talents in this respect be
imaginary or real, there is not much opening
for them in his present occupation,
which consists in standing moodily against
the wall, watching various natives applying
polish to the floor. Occasionally a
monosyllabic remark in the vernacular
issues from his lips, but it sounds more
like an interjection of abuse than a dignified
utterance, such as might be expected
from a man bearing such a brilliant reputation
for elocution.

Presently the natives are ordered to
stand up, and Bramley proceeds to inspect
their work. He walks up and down the

room, bestowing a careful scrutiny on
every plank, and then he begins to languidly
slide about, to test the slipperiness
of the floor. In doing so, his foot suddenly
slips away from under him, and, losing
his balance, he falls heavily to the ground.
But, even in a critical position like this,
he shows no special aptitude for fluency
language. His remark is certainty
forcible and energetic, but nothing more.
He merely says, ' Damn !' in a very loud
voice, and then rises from the ground with
a perfectly unruffled demeanour.

Grandly turns away to hide his smile.
He is not in the least impressed by Bramley's
oratorical display, and he is none the
more convinced when Loftus draws him
aside and whispers to him in a tone of
pride, as though he were exhibiting some
specimen of rare peculiarity,

Just look at him ! Have you ever
seen his like before ? By Jove, sir, he is
a really wonderful creation !'

Under Bramley's direction, the natives
now file out, and then 'the wonderful
creation ' himself signifies his intention of
departing in the longest speech which

Grandly lias as yet heard issue from his
gifted mouth.

I am dead-beat,' he says, c and I must
have a peg.' And, without looking round
him, he leaves the room.

c You cran send one in here for me,' shouts
Loftus after his retreating figure. ' And you
will have one too, Grandly, won't you?'

There is an air of hesitation about this
query. In his eyes, Grandly now has become
such a peculiarly-organised individual
that he is beginning to feel doubtful how to
treat him. His one idea of hospitality was
to offer his guests whisky-pegs, and, prior to
his meeting Grandly, he had never known
the system to fail. The pegs had been
accepted, and eagerly drunk, and sociability
had been rapidly established. But
with Grandly it was all different ; he did
not even seem to appreciate the spirit of
the hospitality. Loftus naturally wished
to do the right thing with his guest, for he
was grateful beyond expression for Grandly
's offer of assistance in the decoration of
the room, but how to do it was a question
which entirely baffled his sense of
understanding. For years he had been

swimming in a groove of spirits and aerated
water, and he resembled a fish out of water
when he found himself suddenly in a different
situation.

Grandly declines the proffered drink,
and smiles inwardly as he catches the expression
of Loftus' face. There is a look
of strained anxiety upon it which is really
painful to behold. However, Loftus speedily
recovers his spirits when he sees the
energetic way in which his assistant begins
to set about the business in hand. The
flowers and plants are brought in from
outside, and are then skilfully disposed
about the room in various artistic shapes.

Loftus sits, with peg in hand, watching
the arrangements with an admiring eye.

He may be a rum cove,' he mutters to
himself ; ' but there is not much doubt of
him being all there. He is a downright
cute 'un.'

Under Grandly's ready guidance, the
room rapidly undergoes a transformation ;
in less than an hour every plant and flower
has been placed in position, and the room
is ready for use.

Loftus is quite overcome. His solicitude
concerning the state of Grandly's health

after his exertions is really touching.

Are you quite sure you feel aright?'
he asks. ' Now, hadn't you better just
come and sit down. You must be terribly
fagged. No wonder that you knock up in
the plains, if you work like this. Your
energy is stupendous.'

Grandly declines to sit down. He is, in
reality, feeling very tired from his recent
exertions, and he wishes to get home as
soon as possible, so he holds out his hand
and says good-bye.

6 Are you really going ? — Then goodbye,
old chap,' cries Loftus, grasping it
warmly in return. ' You are a brick — a
regular brick ! How can I ever thank you ?
Now, won't you alter your decision, and
come this evening?'

No, thanks,' is the laughing rejoinder ;
with me it is not a matter of choice, but
one of necessity.'

Well, you must come and see me tomorrow,
at any rate — any time after one-o'clock
you will find me up. So good-bye,
and — and — you are quite sure' — doubtfully
— ' that you won't have a peg?'

1 Oh ! quite sure,' cries Grandly, laughing
heartily ; and then he leaves him, and

walks as fast as lie can in the direction of
Banbury's Hotel.

Dinner that night is a very lugubrious
repast. There is none of the refined
esjrieglerie of the night before. In fact,
there is only one lady present — Mrs. Stockton
— and she sits on Grandly's right hand,
grim and massive.

To his great annoyance, she opens a
conversation with him, having first formally
introduced herself to him as l Mrs.
Stockton, wife of Colonel Stockton, of the
Bengal Cavalry.'

After a few prefatory remarks, she explains
to him that the absence of the ladies
that night from table was due to their inconceivable
vanity, which caused them to
require from two to three hours for the
purpose of decorating their bodies for the
dance. Such deliberate waste of time was
literally sinful, for they ought to have known
as well as she did that two or three weeks of care
would have had no effect whatever on their
unprepossessing persons. An iron pot did
not look like silver because you chose to rub
it bright. She herself, she is thankful to
say, was above such contemptible weakness.
She would rather forego altogether the

doubtful pleasures of the dance, than miss
the solid gratification of a good dinner.
Not that she is vulgarly fond of her food,
she hastens to explain, but merely that on
principle she objects to irregularity in
meals. It is only another way of expressing
irregularity in health.

Grandly, not in the least interested in
her remarks, tries his utmost not to show
the same. He is vainly attempting to
form some suitable reply, when she starts
off afresh with the remark that Mrs. Renfrew,
— c the scraggy, underbred woman,
you may remember, who sat on the opposite
side of the table the night before,' —
had been suddenly taken ill, and was confined
to her room in consequence. The
nature of her complaint she did not know,
but it was probably something very low
and vulgar, for she had noticed that she
possessed a very reprehensible habit of
bolting her food. This was the reason of
the woman's absence that night, and
though she was the very last person in the
world to feel vindictively inclined towards
a fellow Christian, still she could not help
stating — in the strictest confidence, of
course — that she thought Mrs. Renfrew's

absence was preferable to her presence.
She might be wrong in her estimate of that
lady's character — every mortal, of course,
being liable to mistakes — but she could not
help feeling that there was a something
about her which seemed to point to the
fact that she was mean, vulgar, unstable,
and vicious.

Having made these few remarks on Mrs.
Renfrew's person, she states her opinion in
very trenchant language concerning Mrs.
Lamb, begging him to take warning —
from one who bore malice towards no one,
but was actuated solely by motives of Christian
charity — and to avoid the lady in
question on every possible occasion ; because,
as she emphatically states, the
woman is not to be trusted.

With which she launches out into an
exhaustive statement of Mrs. Lamb's failings,
and, having stripped her character to
the very bone, she commences to do likewise
to another lady, and then on to a
third, and so on throughout the dinner.

Grandly's disgust is palpably written
on his face, but Mrs. Stockton does not
observe it. On the contrary, she fondly
imagines that she is making a strong impression

on the good-looking young man,
and she consequently redoubles the force
of the stream of invective issuing from
her lips.

The dinner breaks up early, and Grandly
rises with such a sigh of relief that its
import must have been evident to anyone
else but Mrs. Stockton.

She, on the contrary, takes it as an expression
of regret, and she turns to him,
as they are leaving the room, with a smile
of gracious affability on her unpleasing
countenance.

We shall meet again to-night, Mr.
Grandly,' she says, playfully. ' Mind you
come early — there is still a little corner of
my card unfilled.'

I am not going to the dance, Mrs.
Stockton,' he says, shortly — almost rudely.
1 1 will wish you a good-night,' and, without
waiting to see the effect of his speech,
he turns away and leaves her.

He feels very angry, and he stalks savagely
up to his little house. How has
that vulgar woman dared to insult all his
manliness of spirit and feeling of gentlemanly
honour by discussing the characters
of other ladies in the low way she has done !

vol. i. k

What business is it of his — and what
business is it of hers ? What does he care
concerning the sayings and doings of the
other inmates of the hotel, and what does
it signify to him whether Mrs. Lamb has
taken a bath or not during her three
months' sojourn in the Himalayas ? He
has no wish to be made the confidant of
all these scandalous tales ! He has come
to Banbury's Hotel for rest and quiet, and
for no other reason — and, if he cannot
obtain it there, he will leave the place
immediately.

By the time he reaches his house his
temper has quite deserted him, and he
kicks open his door with a violent swing
of his leg. It is quite dark within, and he
gropes about for the matches.

The idea of his going to the dance !
He laughs sardonically at the notion. To
go out into the cold, and to stay up all
night, in order to clasp such a woman as Mrs.
Stockton in his arms ! What utter bliss !
To run the risk of a return of fever in
order to hear whether certain ladies wear
false hips or patent palpitations ! What
ecstatic rapture ! Go to the dance indeed !

Not if he knows it ! Wild horses would
not drag him out again to-night !

He finds the matches and lights the
lamp, and then with unnecessary vehemence
he proceeds to stir up the embers
of the fire.

He throws off his coat and walks to the
glass for the purpose of unpinning his tie,
when suddenly his eye catches sight of an
object lying on the dressing-table, which
rivets his attention. It is a little billet-doux,
tastefully twisted into triangle shape,
and by its side is lying a little button-hole
—a sweet moss-rosebud, backed with a
sprig of maiden-hair fern.

He takes up the note and reads the address.


'Frank Grandly, Esq., Royal Artillery,'
written in a clear, angular lady's hand.

He looks at it wonderingly for several
moments, vainly striving to imagine what it
signifies ; and then he hastily tears it open
and reads these words :

1 Mind you come to the dance — and be
punctual.

1 D. F.'
k2

CHAPTER VIII.

AT THE DANCE.

Mind you come to the dance — and be
punctual.

D. F.'

That is all ; and yet he continues to
stare at the scented scrap of paper, repeating
the words over and over again, with a
puzzled countenance, as though he were
attempting to decipher hieroglyphics of the
abstruse order.

'mind you come to the dance — and
be punctual, D. F." ' he murmurs vaguely
to himself. ' " Mind you come to the dance
and be punctual ! Diana Forsdyke."

What does it mean, he asks himself, in a
bewildered way ; although the meaning of
the little note is clear and evident. And
then he slightly changes the formation of
his query, and asks — What does she mean ?

The moments pass, and still he stands
regarding the little note, as though he
thought by dint of perseverance he may-chance
to light on some clue as to the
motive of the young lady in sending it to
him. That the initials D. F. stand for
Diana Forsdyke he has not the smallest
doubt ! He is not at all exercised on that
point, but he is puzzled beyond expression
as to her reason in writing to him — a perfect
stranger to her.

It strikes him as a most extraordinary
proceeding on the part of a young girl
who has outwardly appeared so demure
and shy. From her having deliberately
committed such a grave breach of etiquette
it becomes evident that her reasons for
wishing to make his acquaintance must be
very strong indeed.

But what can these reasons be? Can it
be that she is unhappy, and that she has
observed in his looks the feeling of interest
which her apparently forlorn lot has
awakened in him ? Can this be the root
of her strange behaviour? Has he been
right, after all, in fancying that in her he
has discovered a kindred spirit? Is the
magnetic fluid in their systems of a similar

nature, attracting them towards each other
by its own subtle force, irrespective of their
minds ?

This idea is so extremely pleasant to
Frank Grandly that he does not attempt
to argue out the matter further. He believes,
or rather affects to believe, that he
is thoroughly convinced, and he does not
hesitate a moment longer. He folds up
the note, and places it in his pocket with
reverential care, affixes to his coat the
little sprig of maiden-hair, finds a pair of
gloves, puts on his hat and coat, and sallies
forth.

And then he laughs — a merry, rippling
laugh. He is so thoroughly honest that
he is unable to deceive himself for long ;
and he knows very well, as he strides down
the hill, that his theory concerning the
magnetic fluid in Miss Forsdyke's system
is merely a soothing-salve to the conscience,
and that he is going to the dance not because
he is attracted there against his will,
but simply in order to make the acquaintance
of an extremely lovely girl, who has
tickled his vanity by making the first overtures
towards him.

That is the true state of the case, and he

laughs to himself at the cunning which he
has employed to convince himself that it is
his duty to obey the young lady's wish.

But, all the same,' he thinks, ' there
list be something in the matter which
does not appear at present. I am not such
an ass as to imagine that I have made an
impression on her heart. If the law of
evolution holds good in affair es-de-coeur,
girls of the nineteenth century must be
more or less case-hardened by this time.
So that is nothing to do with it. It must
be something else; and my only way of
ascertaining the same is to move onward.'

The Mall is ablaze with moving lights,
borne in front of the dandies, conveying
their fair burdens to the club. Looking
down the hill, the scene resembles more
some theatrical effect than a high-road on
this prosaic earth. The moon has not yet
risen, and the darkness above heightens
the weird effect of the hundreds of moving
figures, with their dark shadows falling
grotesquely in the dancing light, all converging
on to one point, where the little
inclined road leading down to the club
leaves the Mall. Here the crush is intense.
The night air is broken with the

discordant noise of natives yelling at the
top of their repellant voices, dandies collide,
and women utter timid little shrieks, and
all is confusion.

Grandly manages to wedge his way
through the mass of struggling human
beings, and he soon arrives at the club,
breathless with the exertion.

Up till now he has felt as. bold as brass.
Secretly invited to attend the dance by
the fairest lady in the place, he has hastened,
with a palpitating heart, to do her
bidding ; but now, as his foot crosses the
threshold of the club, his courage completely
deserts him, and he is seized with
vague misgivings. Has he been labouring
under an hallucination, or is it actual
reality that he has received the note ?

Without looking to the right or left,
preceded by a servant, he hastens to the
cloak-room, where he removes his coat and
hat. Feverishly his fingers search his
waistcoat-pockets, and then a deep sigh
of relief escapes him. It is aright ! It
is no vivid dream of his imagination ! It
has all actually happened, and the note in
question is lying in his hand, and the
words, ' Mind you come to the dance — and

be punctual ! D. F.' are again before his
eyes.

He feels so nervous, that no sooner has
he dissipated the thought than another
enters his mind — one so terrible that he
hardly dare breathe it to himself! Supposing
— and his heart stands still with
very dread — supposing the whole thing to bea
hoax !

The contemplation of such a possibility
is so truly awful, that he turns quite pale.
A hoax ! Supposing, for instance, that it is a
joke on the part of Loft us, or some similar
worthy, in order to attract him there, with
the purpose of having a good laugh at his
expense ! He is too agitated to perceive the
absurdity, the impossibility, of such a notion.
He quite forgets that no one has
the faintest conception of the interest' he
takes in Miss Diana Forsdyke. He has
such a rooted horror of being made an
object of ridicule, that, on the bare chance
of his suspicions being true, he is of half-mind
to fly back to Banbury's at once.
But, before he can fully make up his mind
on the point, he becomes conscious of someone
entering the room, and, looking into
the mirror in front of him, he sees the

reflection of the very man at present
occupying his thoughts — Vernon Loftus !

In a moment he collects himself. He
takes up a hair-brush, and commences to
brush his hair with an affectation of easy
nonchalance, determined neither to show
by word or gesture that the possible hoax
has been successful. He watches Loftus'
reflection crossing the room, and then their
eyes meet, and he sees such a look of unaffected
amazement depicted on his friend's
face that in a moment all doubt as to his
integrity disappears.

c Good Lord ! — great God !' is all that
Loftus says ; and then, as though overcome
by the unexpected appearance of his
friend, he sinks down into a chair, earnestly
invoking at intervals his Maker in pet
terms of his own.

L Well, I have come after all,' says
Grandly, smiling.

And I am deuced glad to see you,'
answers Loftus, with an effort, conquering
his astonishment. c But, by the holy poker,
if you aren't the rummest cove in Christendom,
you may leather me black and blue !
What the deuce made you alter your decision
so suddenly? This afternoon you

were so decided on the point that, 'pon my
word, old chap, you made me feel quite
small.'

Now properly, on being propounded
this direct query, Grandly should have
hesitated and looked confused. But, to
his shame, it must be stated that he does
nothing of the sort. Instead, he presents
a bold, fearless face, with a smile of ineffable
charm upon his lips, and tells a
deliberate falsehood with a most convincing
airiness of manner.

Well, to tell the truth, Loftus,' he says,
1 found Banbury's so infernally dull tonight
that I felt that I could not do better
than follow the example of the rest of the
world ; so, in the face of my emphatic refusal
this morning, I have come. You
have me distinctly at a disadvantage, so I
trust that you will be lenient towards me.'
And then he laughs— one of those soft,
gentle laughs, which were found impossible
to resist by all who heard them.

Loftus rises and expresses the pleasure
which his appearance has given him in the
most forcible language of his vocabulary.

And now, let's go downstairs,' he adds.
1 The place is crammed with human flesh.

Let us stand in the doorway, and gloat
over the exhibition.'

The two young men leave the room and
walk downstairs. From the ball-room
issue the strains of the cavalry band quartered
for the summer at the Doonga depot,
and the noise of feet sliding over the polished
floor breaks upon their ears, showing
them that the votaries of the maddening,
mazy dance have already begun in earnest.
A buzz of female voices, softly modulated,
permeates the air, and harmonises with the
rustling frou-frou of silks and laces, emitting
perfumes of the subtlest odours. All
Doonga is present, thirsting for enjoyment.
Already the room is crowded with, languishing
couples, revolving in tight embrace
to the dulcet sounds, and every
moment fresh instalments are arriving,
heavily wrapped and cloaked, and disappearing
for a moment or so into that mystery
of mysteries, — sanctum sanatorium, — the
lady's cloak-room, and thence re-appearing,
fresh and lovely, ready for the fray.

What blushes ! — What simpering and
playful affectations ! — What a world of
meaning can be put, by dint of study,
into the mere fluttering of a fan ! How
their fresh young faces brighten and suffuse

with carmine as they see the hero of
their dreams approaching them, programme
in hand, to request the pleasure of a dance !
How coquettishly they turn away their
heads, and affect to hesitate, pretending
that their cards are full ! And how their
little hearts are palpitating at the success
of their manoeuvre ! Alas ! all this is really
sad to see — so young, and yet so fully
versed in the subtle art of coquetry !

The question which puzzles the masculine
mind is from what strange source do
these fair young things derive their perfect
knowledge of the dangerous art? Do their
mothers initiate them into its mysteries
prior to their launch into the vortex of
the seething world of fashion? Or is
it the duty of the governess to instruct
their pupils in the art ? Or is it inherent
to them — born in them — inseparable from
their flesh and blood ? Who knows, except
those behind the scenes ? What man can
say, without fear of refutation, that Eve
threw herself bodily at first sight into
Adam's arms, without first attempting to
enhance her charms by a tantalising affectation
of coyness and maiden modesty ?

Loftus, in the doorway, is gloating to
his heart's content. Nothing can escape

his wary eye, and a running commentary
on his surroundings issues from his mouth.

1 Oh, great Caesar !' he cries, c there is
Mrs. Lamb dancing with her husband !
Can't get anyone else, I suppose — and no
wonder ! Poor devil, how I pity him !
Look at them, Grandly. Did you ever
see anything to equal the expression on
her face ? Dying duck in a thunderstorm,
eh ? If she doesn't suggest to you a box
of liver-pills, you may leather me black
and blue !'

Grandly makes no answer beyond a
feeble smile. In fact, he is totally unconscious
of what his companion is saying.
His mind is running on his little billet-doux,
and his eyes are seeking in and out among
the dancers for the young lady whose signature
it bears. But he is unsuccessful in
his search ; amidst that throng of laughing
girlhood he can discern no Miss Diana
Forsdyke.

Why, if there isn't old Mother Stockton
!' cries Loftus, in huge delight at the
discovery. ' Her fringe is fuller and more
fascinating than ever, I declare ! Have
you ever seen such a woman in your life ?
Fourteen stone, if she's a pound; forty

round the girth, and distinctly aged, and
yet expecting to be trotted out ! Look at
her smiling and smirking over there. She
will wag her fringe off in a minute, if she
isn't careful. Who the deuce is she nodding
to in that violent fashion ? Oh, my
hat ! it's that chap Bramley, and — and he
is actually asking her to dance ! Well, if
he hasn't the pluck of a blue-devil, you
may blow me to smithereens !'

But Grandbydoes not hear a word. His
whole attention is riveted on the further
corner of the room, where he has discovered
the object of his search, sitting alone,
unnoticed by the crowd. She is dressed
in a white tulle costume of the waterfall
order, with a knot or two of neutral tint
about her skirts and bodice, and her red-gold
hair is brushed up and is neatly arranged
on the top of her head after the old Greek
style. There is an air of melancholy on
her lovely face strangely out of keeping
with the gladsome scene, and her hands
are lying listlessly on her lap, and her eyes
are drooped, so that she sees none of the
dancing throng whirling round and round
the room. She looks lonely, wretched,
miserable, and Grandly's warm young

heart fills with a great compassion, and he
impulsively makes a step towards her.

1 Don't go, old chap,' says the voice of
Loftus ; * you haven't answered my question
yet.'

I — I beg your pardon,' he stammers,
c I did not quite hear what you said.'

I was saying — supposing, now, you
were on a desert island with Mother Stockton
and Mrs. Lamb as your sole companions
— and you suddenly felt a yearning
after the married state. Which of
the two would you take to your manly
bosom?'

Oh, good gracious !' laughs Grandly,
God forfend that I should ever be placed
in such a predicament !'

Yes, you are right — it would be an
awkward position to find oneself in,' says
Loftus, gravely considering the case. ' To
a sensitive temperament like my own,
either of those females would mean certain
death. It would therefore resolve
itself into a question of bachelorhood or
death, and I think that I should have no
hesitation in choosing the former. Heavens
alive ! if there ain't Miss Forsdyke !'
and, before Grandly can make reply, he

has left his side, and is moving off in the
direction of the girl.

Loft us bravely fights his way towards
her, regardless of the scowls cast on his
intrepid figure by the irate dancers whom
his rapid progress has inconvenienced.

Grandly fixes his eye upon Miss Forsdyke,
and he sees her suddenly jump up
without a shade of colour in her face.
Loft us is before her with outstretched
hand, but she does not seem to see it. To
Grandly, who is following intently her
every movement, she appears to have received
a sudden shock. A wave of agitation
sweeps across her dead-pale face, and
she makes a gesture as though to ward offa
coming blow.

Loftus bends forward and whispers in
her ear, and gradually the half-scared expression
leaves her face, and she slowly
extends her hand, with a forced smile upon
her lips. What does it mean ? Have his
eyes deceived him, or is it the fact that
what he has imagined to have seen has
actually happened ?

The whole thing has been so momentary
that, before he can decide whether his
imagination has played him false or not,

vol. i. l

he sees the couple standing up, apparently
on the very best of terms, and then they
leave the side of the room and join the
dancers.

1 What a fool I am F he mutters. ' My
illness has so unstrung my nerves that I
positively cannot trust my own senses
now. If I continue much longer in this
chronic state of hallucination, I shall begin
to think that I am either hysterical or
working up for delirium tremens.'

The valse comes to an end, and the
couples wander out to partake of flirtation,
mild and otherwise, in the corridors and
balconies. The centre of the room becomes
deserted, and all around the sides
appear the ghastly array of wall-flowers,
sighing, like Mariana of world-fame, for
the man who does not choose to come ;
and they each affect to be engaged in most
animated conversation, thereby intimating
to outsiders that it is solely a matter of
choice that they sit out, instead of dance.
And how well, too, they do their parts !
How they laugh, and attract attention to
their persons ! With what a charming
coyness of glance their eyes wander round

the room in search of a likely victim !
How sprightly is their tongue ! How arch
and playful their childlike little ways !

Grandly continues to stand moodily in
the doorway. The thought again strikes
him that this billet-doux is nothing but a
hoax. The idea of the young lady having
written to him becomes more and more
improbable each moment that he considers
the case. He feels that he has been fooled
that he has walked into the snare laid
for him with a lamb-like simplicity — and
the thought does not tend to raise his
spirits. The idea that probably some one
unknown to him is standing near him
watching him and laughing at the success
of his practical joke irritates him intensely.
He is of half-a-mind to go ; but, before he
has fully made up his mind on the point,
his pride steps in and asserts itself, and
he determines to brave it out to the last,
and to show by not so much as a gesture
that he has been taken in.

So he casts off the feeling of melancholy
which oppresses him, and takes a steady
stare round the room. The first person
who catches his eye is Mrs. Stockton, and

l2

she immediately waves her fan, beckoning
him to approach her. With a groan
of disgust, he advances towards her.

1 Oh, you naughty young man !' she
cries, playfully tapping him with her fan,
c how could you say that you were not
coming ?'

But Grandly is not in a vein to appreciate
elephantine humour, so he does
not reply to her in a corresponding tone.

c I only told you what was the truth,' he
says. i At the time I spoke it was my fixed
determination not to come.'

1 And yet you have come ! Oh, Mi
Grandly, do tell me who it is.'

'Who it is? To what are you referring?'

His tone is certainly not conciliatory,
but she does not seem to notice it. She
continues, with persuasive archness,

c Now, come — confess ! Isn't there a
young lady in the question ? You can't
deceive me, you wicked young man.'

Immediately he is on his guard. Possibly
it may be this vindictive old woman who
has perpetrated the hoax.

c I can assure you that you are quite
mistaken,' he says, lightly, conquering his
desire to tell her forcibly to mind her own

business. c It was a sudden impulse which
brought me here — and now a sudden impulse
is going to take me home again.'

She opens her programme and scans its
contents.

'Dear me!' she says, in a tone of surprise,
c if the next dance isn't a square
dance! The lancers too ! Don't you ever
dance the lancers, Mr. Grandly ? Now,
no denial — I am sure you do !'

1 Never — never — never !' he cries, hurriedly
breaking in, and throwing politeness
to the winds, and with a bow he
turns away and leaves her with all possible
haste.

What an escape ! He takes out his
handkerchief, and wipes his brow, inwardly
thanking his stars that he has possessed
sufficient strength of mind to extricate
himself from such a horrible predicament.

The band strikes up again and the room
rapidly refills. The wall-flowers become
more animated than ever as the sombre
black coats file in and look around them
for suitable companions. The dancing
whirl begins afresh with unflagging energy,
but the one figure which Grandly is
searching for does not appear. She and

her partner have not obeyed the summons
of the music.

Mrs. Lamb is standing at the head of a
lancers-square beside her husband, and
this gallant officer is wearing on his face
an expression of hopeless misery which is
laughable to behold. Mechanically he
moves through the figure, blundering at
every step, whilst his bilious spouse, with
head erect and mincing gait, shows off all
her charms to a non-admiring crowd.

Mrs. Stockton is not dancing. She is
sitting, grim and defiant, against the wall,
and, as Grandly catches her eye, she scowls
across at him with an expression of the
deadliest venom on her face, at which,
however, he is not in the least concerned.
For he is now in a state of mind utterly
callous to such a triviality as that of having
offended a rude old woman. Feeling
very low-spirited, he leans against the
door, inwardly cursing everything and
everybody, and especially his own folly in
having come on such a wild-goose chase.

He wonders what pleasure the dancers
find in walking through their steps ! He
wonders how their faces would look, divested
of their thick layer of society varnish

! He wonders whether they know
what idiots they all look as they stand
there bowing and bobbing to each other
indiscriminately.

In fact, he is beginning to feel very
cynical and ill-tempered. A sense of his
having been badly used overcomes him, and
a gesture of irritation escapes him.

Keep your hair on, old chap !' says a
mocking voice behind him. ' Never lose
your temper !' and looking round he finds
Loftus by his side.

'Why aren't you dancing, eh?' asks
Loftus. 'What are you doing, standing
here, looking as grumpy as a gruyere
cheese ? Come, rouse yourself, and put on
that languishing, fascinating leer which is
so telling with the ladies. There is a
young lady here on whom you have made
a great impression, and she wishes to be
introduced to you. Yes, my boy, you
have made a conquest, though, 'pon my
word, it is hardly fair of me to tell you so
point-blank. But I always was a darned
bad hand at the diplomatic line.'

1 1 shall be delighted,' says Grandly, indifferently,
with the air of a grand duke.
May I ask the young lady's name ?'

I Miss Forsdyke ; she is a pretty little
thing in white and — and some other sort of
colour.'

It has come at last ! For the life of
him he is unable to prevent the flush of
warm colour which lights up his olive-skin.

I I am at your service,' he says, and
immediately Loftus starts off, and wends
his way towards the ante-room. Grandly
follows, with his heart in his mouth. And
then he sees her, sitting by herself, pale
and subdued, with her eyes directed on
the floor.

Loftus advances towards her, and introduces
his friend.

Miss Forsdyke — Mr. Grandly,' he says,
with an elaborate bow.

There is not a trace of recognition on
her face as she rises and makes him a distant
bow. He opens his programme, and
makes the conventional idiotic mumble,
which is to be construed into a request to
have the pleasure of a dance.

With pleasure,' she says, softly. ' Will
the next one suit ? It is a valse. The
band has stopped, so we can be moving.'

He offers her his arm, and together they
move into the ball-room.

CHAPTER IX.

MISS DIANA Forsake.

The music has not begun as they enter the
room, so they stand together by the wall,
waiting for the coming strains.

There is an awkward silence. Miss
Forsdyke, toying listlessly with her fan,
makes no advances, and Grandly feels so
painfully confused that he is unable to
volunteer a syllable. The silence presently
becomes so oppressive that he blurts out
the first idea which enters his head. It is
by no means a brilliant remark, but it
serves its purpose in breaking the ice.

Isn't the floor nice !' he says, with an
affectation of rapture, though, as a matter
of fact, he has not tried it.

'Yes, capital,' she says, softly, without
looking him in the face.

There is every prospect of another awful

pause, so Grandly, with an effort, attempts
to pursue the interesting topic of conversation.


It is so nice to find a polished floor in
India, isn't it ?' he says.

Yes, very nice,' she answers, placidly,
studying the workmanship of her fan.

This is really too dreadful ! If the band
does not begin soon, he will have to turn
tail and run.

1 You don't often meet with one out here,
do you ?' he continues, desperately.

4 No, not often,' she replies, with exasperating
indifference.

Oh ! this is positively unendurable ! What
in the name of all that is holy delays the
band ?

4 They are a long time striking up, 'he says.

c I am sorry that you find it long,' she
answers.

6 1 — I — beg your pardon,' he stammers,
confusedly. ' I didn't mean anything rude,
I can assure you.'

Please don't mention it. I am quite
certain that it was unintentional.'

A long pause.

'Have you been long in Doonga?' he
asks, faintly.

1 Just a week to-day. I am staying at
Banbury's Hotel.'

That is rather an unnecessary piece of
information, he thinks, as he looks blankly
in her face. But her next remark literally
staggers him.

Are you living at the club ?' she asks.

What a question ! Can he be dreaming
? For some moments he is literally unable
to answer her simple question. Then
he manages to mumble, inarticulately,

'No — no — not at the club. I am at
Banbury's.'

Really !' she says, in a tone of surprise.
L I suppose that you have only just come,
as I do not remember to have seen you
there.'

Not seen him, when he feels half convinced
that the note in his pocket has
been penned by her fair hand. Either he
or she must be downright mad !

Your memory must be very faulty,' he
begins, with a touch of resentment in his
tones.

c Yes, it is,' she answers, quickly, l and
so are your manners.'

A burning blush suffuses his whole
countenance. He is completely dumb-founded

by her manner. It is plainly evident
that the covert smiles and significant
looks which he has fancied she has cast
towards him have existed only in his own
imagination. He feels very small and
shame-faced, as he stands there, recalling
into what terrible errors his overweening
vanity has led him, and he thanks his stars
that he has not already referred to the
little billet-doux. He has now no glimmer
of doubt that it has been a hoax. His
reverie is broken by Miss Forsdyke
speaking.

Are we going to dance, Mr. Grandly ?'
she says, in an irritated voice. i The band
has been playing for the last two minutes,
and if you do not intend to waltz — I should
like to sit down.'

With a hurried apology, he passes his
arm around her waist, and in the next
minute they are whirling round and round
to the dulcet strains.

In a moment everything is forgotten.
Miss Forsdyke dances divinely, and, as he
sweeps round the room, clasping her in his
arms, all traces of irritation vanish from
his mind. Their steps agree to perfection,
and he gives himself up wholly to the

intoxicating influence of the dance. It is
beautiful ! It is heavenly ! It is divine !

He feels no wish for conversation. As
they glide lightly along to the ever-varying
music, now rising to strains of jubilant
grandeur, now sinking into melody of
heartbreaking pathos, a sense of great contentment
steals across him. For the moment,
he becomes totally oblivious to the
presence of others in the room. His fair
partner is all in all to him, and he bends
down and drinks in the subtle fragrance
of her hair. She is very beautiful ! With
half-closed eyes, he scans her faultless profile,
and notices the brilliant whiteness of
her skin, and involuntarily his arm tightens
round her waist, as he skilfully steers her
through the labyrinth of dancers.

She, too, has given herself up wholly to
the enjoyment of the moment. He notes
the sparkle in her eye, and the flush upon
her cheek, testifying to the fact ; and his
heart grows very tender, and he bends
down over her and whispers in her
ear,

c Is not this perfect happiness ?'

She looks up at him with a smile of
ineffable softness on her lips, but she says

nothing, and, as their eyes meet, a sudden
thrill seems to pierce his heart.

On and on they go ! The music changes
from key to key, the melodies rise and fall
in strains of melting tenderness, and still
they do not stop ! In the excitement
of the moment, his bodily weakness has
deserted him, and he feels strong enough
to pursue for ever his present occupation.

But all things — pleasure or pain — must
have an end, and presently the last chords
of that matchless valse are heard, and the
dance is finished. And, as the magic
sounds of the music die away, the charm
is broken, and the knowledge of his true
position returns to him, and he remembers
that his partner is no inseparable part of
his existence, but a young and lovely girl
to whom he is a perfect stranger. Oh !
thou great and wondrous strain of Harmony.
Thou stances alone, for thou of
all known influences art capable of changing
joy to sadness, and sorrow into joy !

She looks up to him with a smile of
gratitude on her face.

'Thank you, so much,' she whispers,
softly. ' Never in my life have I enjoyed
a dance so much before.'

I am afraid that I have tired you very
much he says.

Oh ! not at all,' she answers, quickly.
'I would not have stopped for worlds.
Give me your arm, and take me outside —
the room is very warm.'

They leave the room together, and stroll
out into the verandah. The moon has
risen, and is shedding its silvery tint over
the surrounding hills, and the grandeur of
the scene before them is silent and impressive.
Dark, black shadows of gigantic
length, cast by the huge, projecting boulder
rocks, fall across the pale-blue stretches
of soft moonlight, and the sombre gloom
of the great ravine is illumined by the
scintillating waters of the mountain stream.
They both stand gazing down into the
depths in silence, Grandly's heart feeling
soft and tender under the irresistible influence
of the beautiful scene, robed in the
soft hues of night. Half-way clown the
opposite hill is a dense cloud-bank, closely
hugging the side— lying there in mid-air,
calm and white, emblem of peace and
purity— and Grandly's eyes are riveted on
the same, with his thoughts far away from
his surroundings. Through some strange

labyrinth of correlative ideas, his thoughts
have wandered to the contemplation of the
possibility of an after-life.

In these days of advanced free-thought,
it is almost impossible for any man to
arrive at the age of understanding, without
having heard at some time or other in
his young life doubts cast on the truth and
reality of everything that was held dear
and sacred by his buried forefathers. His
Bible is despised ; his religion ridiculed,
and his God is denied.

And Grandly had been no exception to
the rule. There had come a time when he
had had to pass through the fiery furnace
of doubt and mistrust — when all the beliefs
of his childhood had been assailed by
cold, dispassionate logic, which tore aside
the glamour of his ancient faith, and exposed
its weak points naked to the eye.
But he had emerged from the ordeal, if
not deathless, radically unharmed. He was
no logician — he thoroughly appreciated
how vastly inferior, mentally, he was to
those great philosophers who prove point
by point that everything is nothing — his
mind was utterly incapable of refuting
their weighty reasoning. But yet their

course of argument did not convince him.
His innate sense of reverence, and his
sound common-sense refused to accept their
theories regarding life and man, and he
wrestled long and earnestly with the demon
tempter, and triumphed in the end. But
it had been only a half-won victory. It
had been gained more by dint of avoiding
the enemy, than by boldly challenging
it to fight. Though the subject was deadly
attractive to him, from that moment he
studiously avoided it, for he feared its influence
on his mind. But on occasions,
when strangely moved, he often found himself
half-unconsciously pondering on the
subject.

And so it is on this particular evening,
as he gazes forth on the majesty of night
that a sudden conviction seizes him, and
he murmurs to himself, ' How can I doubt
such a speaking truth ?'

For the moment he has forgotten his
companion — forgotten even the memory of
that ecstatic dance. She recalls herself to
him by addressing him in her gentle voice.

What do you doubt ?' she says, looking
up into his face. c To what are you
referring ?'

VOL. I. m

He recovers himself with a start.

c I beg your pardon, Miss Forsdyke,' he
answers, hurriedly. ' I am afraid that I
have been very rude. It is an awkward
habit of mine to fall into a reverie, oblivious
to everything around me.'

1 Who can wonder at it,' she whispers,
on such a night as this — with such a
glorious scene before us. Will you tell me
the subject of your thoughts ?'

I am afraid that they would have no
interest for you,' he returns, with a little
laugh.

c Ah ! but you are mistaken,' she says,
softly — and he fancies that her hand tightens
on his arm. c In some unaccountable
way, anything you say or do has a strange
interest for me. Perhaps you think it
peculiar of me to make such a statement,
but my nature is very blunt, and I cannot
help myself from speaking out my thoughts.'

She heaves a little sigh, and then continues,
with a pretty, pleading gesture,

Tell me, Mr. Grandly, of your thoughts.
You seem doubtful on some subject. Confide
in me, and we will put our heads
together and attempt to arrive at some

satisfactory conclusion ;' and she laughs a
little sadly.

What young man of warm blood and
ardent fancy can resist the pleading of a
lovely girl, praying for his confidence? As
she speaks Grandly feels his pulses quicken,
and he hesitates no longer to do her bidding.
It is a trivial request to accede to,
certainly, but great events often arise from
trivial commencements, and great catastrophes
sometimes happen, born of the most
trifling circumstances. And, in doing her
bidding so readily, Grandly, by showing
the weakness of his mind, unconsciously
wove the first loop of the snare, which afterwards
enveloped him almost to destruction.

Since you command, I obey,' he says,
gallantly. i But at the same time I must
warn you that you will be grievously disappointed.
My thoughts were running on
a subject in no way connected with dancing,
dress, or social gaiety.'

I am sorry that you judge me by such
a low standard,' she answers, quietly, with
that same touch of sadness in her voice
that he has already noticed. ' I hope that
you give me credit for being capable of

m 2

taking interest in higher things than dress
or social gaiety. Life is not wholly a path
of roses. The brambles and thorns are
sufficiently prominent to make one at times
forget the fragrance of the flowers.'

He looks down at her quickly. Her tone
is so different from that of most young girls
of her age that his interest in her personality
appreciably increases. There is such a
genuine ring of pathetic sadness in her
voice that he feels assured he has been
right in his conviction that her life is far
from being happy.

Your words surprise me, Miss Forsdyke,'
he says. ' Surely you, on the very brink
of life, have not yet encountered its thorns
and brambles ?'

c I am twenty-one,' she answers, quietly
and decisively, as though the mention of
the fact were sufficient to convince him of
the contrary. * Twenty-one years!' she
continues, in a dreamy tone, looking upwards
at the wide expanse of heaven,
twenty-one long years of care and toil and
trouble. Ah! Mr. Grandly,' she cries,
turning impulsively towards him, ' how can
you think so strangely on the subject ? Do
you really mean that this is only the beginning

of real life ? If that be so, I dare not
contemplate the end.'

There is a silence of several moments.
Miss Forsdyke, with her head averted from
his gaze, is looking down on the silvery
stream, and he, for his part, is too embarrassed
to frame a syllable.

They are alone on the balcony. The
joyous music is pealing forth again within,
and all have gone to its imperious call.

He feels that it devolves on him to
answer her with some appropriate words,
but his mind and tongue refuse to frame
anything suitable to the occasion. What
can he say to her ? How can he offer to
console her knowing nothing of her life ?

He looks down at her half-averted face,
and he notices that her lips are quivering
with suppressed emotion. He tries to
fathom the reason for her sadness ; he
tries to collect his thoughts and imagine
to himself some coherent explanation of
her strange melancholy ; but he fails. He
is incapable of grasping the situation ; he
can assign no reason for that peculiar ring
of sadness which permeates her tone.
That, in spite of her youth and sex, she has
suffered greatly he feels convinced, and

impulsively he determines to offer himself
as her friend, in the hope that he may, by
his ready sympathy, alleviate her sorrow.

But, before he has time to speak, she
turns and addresses him.

4 Pray forgive me, Mr. Grandly,' she
says, laying her hand upon his arm, with
a half-smile upon her lips. ' It is very
selfish of me to speak like this. I am
afraid that I am a little depressed to-night.
It is a peculiarity about my nature to be
invariably seized with melancholy whenever
I am expected to be especially gay. I
hope that I have not been detaining you.
In the contemplation of the star-lit heavens
I had quite forgotten social etiquette. It
does not do to indulge in reverie,' she adds,
with a charming grace ; ' it makes one
absent-minded. Had we not better return
to the ball-room ? Probably some young
lady is beginning to feel rather bitter at
your absence.'

c That is not the case, I can assure you,'
he says, with a little laugh. ' I am a perfect
stranger here. In fact, my programme
is literally blank. If you have no objection,
I should prefer occupying those two seats
I see at the end of the verandah. There

is nothing so depressing as to find oneself
a perfect stranger in the midst of a joyous
throng.'

'You find that, do you?' she asks,
quickly. c You experience that feeling of
utter melancholy ? Ah ! I am so glad to
meet with a kindred spirit. Yes, let us go
and sit down where you suggest. I feel
no inclination to dance again.'

He offers her his arm, and they slowly
move towards the far end of the verandah,
which makes a right-angled turn round
the corner of the house, thereby concealing
the two low arm-chairs from observation
from the front. They seat themselves
side by side.

CHAPTER X.

A MOONLIGHT Narration.

Grandly is the first to break the silence.
He feels quite at his ease with his fair
companion in this secluded spot, and he
leans towards her and says, in a joking tone,

1 You were very hard on me, Miss Forsdyke,
when I was first introduced. I was
really afraid to open my mouth.'

A soft ripple of laughter issues from her
lips. 'I am so sorry,' she says, placing
the tips of her fingers on his arm ; c but

I really could not help myself. I was so
thoroughly ashamed of myself for the moment
that, to cover my embarrassment, I
took refuge in rudeness. I trust that you
will forgive me.'

There is nothing to forgive,' he says.

I I admit that my remarks were commonplace
enough to irritate a saint ; but it is

no easy art to be able to burst forth into
familiar conversation on first introduction
to a stranger. But what reason had you
to be ashamed ? Have you committed
some dreadful crime ?'

Instead of answer to the point, she
makes a very irrelevant reply. A witching
smile illumines her mignonne face, and
she bends forward, and appears to scrutinize
his coat.

What a very charming button-hole you
have, Mr. Grandly,' she remarks. ' Where
did you manage to get such an exquisite
rosebud ?'

A slight flush lights up his face, and he
commences to stammer out some vague
reply.

Now, sir, no fibs,' she cries, holding up
her forefinger in pretty playfulness. ' It
is no good your attempting to deceive me,
for I happen to know exactly where you
got it from — so you had better confess at'
once, and tell me the clean truth. Come,
sir, no prevarication !'

All trace of sadness has disappeared
from her face. She is once more the little
fairy who welcomed him to Banbury's
Hotel on his arrival.

1 Since you know the truth he says, still
blushing, ' it would be needless for me to
tell it you. Let me turn the tables, and
ask you for an explanation.'

Oh ! certainly,' she answers, lightly, c if
you wish it, I will relate the circumstance
to you in every detail. But I must warn
you that it is a tale of immodesty and
shocking impropriety, and you do well to
blush even before it is begun.'

c I am not blushing,' he says, blushing
furiously.

c Oh ! really !' she laughs. ' Thank you
for the information ; it was a very stupid
mistake of mine. The climate of Doonga,
then, has done wonders in the improving
of your complexion in the last two days.
When I first saw you against that tree,
you were not so highly coloured. But to
my tale ! Now listen, and check me if I
go wrong.'

She settles herself comfortably down
into the low arm-chair, and, holding up
one finger, she begins to speak.

c Once upon a time,' she says, L there was
a young man as beautiful as the sun '

I object — I object,' interposes Grandly.
You are wrong to begin with.'

As beautiful as the sun,' repeats Miss
Forsdyke, imperturbably ; c and kindly
don't make frivolous objections, Mr. Grandly.
Well, this young man once started on
a long journey. In course of time he
arrived at a beautiful city, built on the
slopes of a lovely hill, and there he determined
to rest his wearied limbs, for he had
travelled far that day. So he made his
way to the principal rest-house in the
city, and there demanded house-room for
the night, which was immediately granted
to him. Am I right so far, Mr. Grandly ?'
she asks, suddenly.

c Quite right,' he answers, laughing heartily.
c I envy you your powers of narration.
Pray proceed.'

'Well, up till now,' she says, 'the story
has not been hard to tell. There has not
been a single word in it to bring the blush
to a maiden's countenance ; it has breathed
nothing but peace and virtue. But unfortunately
there is a very dark page to
be narrated, and it requires time and
judgment on the part of the narrator to
give it a presentable appearance.'

She pauses, and places her finger thoughtfully
on her lips. The moon is shining

down full upon her face and neck, giving
a dazzling brilliancy to the fairness of her
skin, and his eyes are fixed upon her winsome
form with a look of unconcealed
admiration on his face. A sense of indescribable
contentment steals across him ashe
fully realises the charm of his present
situation — alone in the moonlight, listening
to the playful banter of a lovely girl.

After a few moments' consideration, she
resumes her narrative.

'Now it happened,' she says, quietly,
1 that in this very same rest-house there
dwelt a maiden who was so unfortunate as
to have been born plain.'

I object — I strongly object,' he cries,
with energy.

To have been born plain,' repeats Miss
Forsdyke, stoutly.

I really can't allow that,' says Grandly,
laughing.

1 But you must ; there is no question
about it. It is the story — and you can't
alter the story to suit your own tastes.'

Pardon me,' he says ; c it is my duty to
check you if you go wrong. You have
made such a grave mistake that I cannot
consent to overlook it.'

'Well, as the story must be told, we can
waste no time in wrangling. Under protest,
I consent to erase the sentence.'

c And I will supply one in its place. The
story should run as follows — " In this very
same rest-house there dwelt a maiden, pure
and lovely as the Queen of Night." '

A low laugh issues from Miss Forsdyke's
lips.

You are taking a most unwarrantable
liberty with the original score, Mr. Grantly,'
she says, ' but, to prevent further
argument, I will admit it. She was as
pure and lovely as the Queen of Night.'

Ah ! that's much better.'

1 You need not make unnecessary interruptions,
let me remind you,' she says,
with a mischievous twinkle in her eye.
Now, kindly give me your close attention.
It happened that this young maiden had
the great misfortune to be far from happy.
Her mother was dead, and, through force
of circumstances, she was separated from
her father, and was living with his sister
and her husband. Now, these two relatives
were, possibly unintentionally on their
parts, harsh and unkind to her. There was
nothing kindred between her and them,.

and her sensitive nature recoiled from the
uncongeniality of her surroundings. Her
lot was very hard. It seemed to be her
fate that everything she said or did should
be misinterpreted and misunderstood. She
was possessed of a nature capable of loving
deeply, and yet her every overture towards
affection was repulsed. She was
denied all the pleasures of youth ; she was
given to understand at every moment that
she was disliked ; she was not trusted ; a
system of surveillance was instituted over
her every action, and she was compelled to
give account of every moment of the day.
Am I not right so far ?'

1 I cannot say,' says Grandly, gravely ;
4 1 sincerely hope not.'

4 Unfortunately one cannot alter a written
story according to one's hopes and
fancies,' says Miss Forsdyke, smiling sadly.
4 1 am relating the story as I read it, without
addition or omission. But to continue.
Life at last became so irksome to
this young maiden that she felt that she
could endure it no longer. Anything
would be better, she thought, than that
life of dull antagonism, so she determined
to run away. But this she found to be

impossible. She had no money — she had
no friends — she was helpless, crushed,
alone in the great harsh world.'

A trace of agitation breaks the dull
monotony of her tones. He fancies in the
moonlight that he can discern a tear standing
on her eyelashes, and he turns away
his head, for he is feeling strangely moved
by her recital. But in a moment she has
recovered herself, and she again continues
in the same dispassionate tones.

Well, about this time,' she says, ' the
young man as beautiful as the sun appeared.
They met at the evening meal,
and the young maiden fancied that she
could discern a look of pity in the young
man's glance. Whether she was right or
not, I cannot say, for '

She was quite right,' interposes Grandly,
quickly ; c I can vouch for that. Pray
proceed — you interest me deeply.'

c Well, fancying this, she conceived a
sudden interest in the youth, for she was
deeply touched at his compassion. She
felt that his heart must be indeed good
and great if he could thus readily sympathise
with a perfect stranger ; so she resolved
— and now comes the shocking part

of my narration — she resolved, on the impulse
of the moment, to court his friendship.
It was improper — it was immodest
but she did it all the same ; for her unhappiness
was past endurance, and she
yearned for the establishment of a perfect
friendship with some other human being.
I need not ask you, Mr. Grandly, your
opinion of the maiden's conduct — you condemn
her utterly ?'

You are mistaken, Miss Forsdyke,' he
answers, quietly. ' She did right, and I
admire her for her action.'

It is very soothing to hear you say so,'
she answers, softly, ' for I was sadly afraid
that, when I arrived at this portion of my
story, my heroine would find disfavour in
your eyes. But, since you tell me to the
contrary, I will continue with restored
assurance. It happened that a great fete
was to be held one night, and the maiden,
thinking that probably the young man
would attend, expressed a wish to go.
This, of course, was denied to her. She
used all her persuasive powers to induce
her aunt to accede to her request — she
even resorted to cunning in feigning a
passionate tenderness towards her relative

but without success ; she was rudely
refused, and told to stay at home. The
maiden was in despair, but the gods had
not completely forsaken her, for help suddenly
came to her from an unexpected
quarter. It chanced that one of the nauseous
peculiarities of her guardian's husband
was a passion for high living, and
he, hearing that a banquet of surpassing
excellence had been prepared to grace the
fete, determined to attend. Now he feared
his wife, for her tongue was very sharp
and bitter, and he dared not expose himself
to her contempt by confessing to the
true motive of his wish to go : so he
dissembled, and, taking upon himself a
parent's love, vehemently maintained that
it would be a cruel deed not to allow the
maid to go, and, after much resistance
from his spouse, he ultimately prevailed ;
and then the maid was very glad, for she
saw a prospect of meeting the young man.
Do you follow me ?'

Yes, perfectly. I am more than interested.'


'Well, listen to the conclusion. Accidentally
the maiden heard that the young
man had expressed his intention not to

vol. i. n

go, and then a great grief assailed her, for
all her hopes were shattered to the ground,
and, without thinking what she did, she
sat herself down and wrote to him a note,
begging him to come. Now do you not
condemn her?'

She was quite right,' says Grandly,
firmly. ■ Her conduct merits approval,
not condemnation. Is that all ?'

4 Nearly all. You see, she argued thusly,
saying to herself, "Alone am I in the
world, homeless, friendless, helpless. If I
be right in my suspicion of a great affinity
existing between us two, then he will
come, and I shall gain a friend. If I be
wrong, he will give my note the contempt
which it deserves, and will pay no heed to
its request, and I shall be no worse than
before ; for the contempt of one individual
is of little consequence when the whole
world despises one." Possibly you may
think that she argued thus subtly in order
to ease her conscience in the despatching
of the note. But there you do her wrong.
She was unable to resist the impulse within
her which prompted her to write, and,
though fully alive to the gravity of the

step, she accomplished it, and sent it, because
she could not help herself.

At this point, Mr. Grandly,' she says,
with a sad smile, ' the manuscript ends, so
I unfortunately cannot tell you whether
she was right or wrong in her suspicion.'

He leans forward and takes her hand,
and imprints on it a reverential kiss. He
is visibly agitated as he speaks.

'Can you have any doubt?' he asks,
earnestly. c Does not intuition tell you
the conclusion of the story ? Do you not
know, in your heart, that she was right?'

She withdraws her hand from his grasp,
leans forward, and covers her face.

c The story has always touched me very
deeply,' she whispers. ' Perhaps there is
something similar between my own life
and that of the young maiden. I have
always hoped and hoped that she was
right.'

i And now you know it for a certainty,
Miss Forsdyke ' — and he is speaking very
gravely now — ' let us drop the parable,
and look the matter boldly in the face.
You have honoured me to-night with your
confidence, and it is only fair that I should

now confide in you. You were right in
suspecting me of taking an interest in your
being — from the very first moment that I
saw you I became confident that there
existed between us a subtle bond of sympathy
; and it was so strong on my part
that I felt myself impelled involuntarily
towards you. Intuitively I understood
that you were not happy, and I resolved
in my heart, provided I obtained the opportunity,
to do my utmost to help to
brighten your life. How I should have
effected the matter I cannot say, but
luckily what then seemed impracticable
has now been made realisable by your kindness
this evening in meeting me half-way.
Miss Forsdyke, let us be friends ! We are
both lonely individuals. Your life is
hard, and mine is sombre enough, God
knows. Let us combine, and form a great,
platonic friendship, and smooth away the
difficulties of life with mutual sympathy
and advice. I trust that you do not think
me presumptuous in speaking to you like
this.'

He tries to take her hand. With a passionate
gesture she turns from him, and
covers her face with her hands, and in another

moment he hears her softly weeping.

Miss Forsdyke, Miss Forsdyke !' he
pleads, in an agitated voice, ' I implore
you to compose yourself. If I have offended
you '

Offended !' — she looks at him full in
the face with her large, tearful eyes —
offended ! Oh ! Mr. Grandly, how can
you imagine such a thing ? How can I
thank you for your brave, noble words ?
I am so unused to kindness that you touch
me to the quick. I thought that you
would despise me for what I have done ?'

Let us understand one another once for
all,' he answers, gravely, 'There is no
question of contempt on either side — we
have both experienced a desire for a mutual
friendship with one another, and we have
both met each other half-way. There is
much that is similar in our characters;
there is much that is similar in our lives.
Why should we ignore this elective force
which is attracting us together? Why
should we not take advantage of it by the
formation of a great friendship on pure
platonic lines, from which we may both
reap a store of happiness ? Tell me, Miss
Forsdyke, whether I am right in thinking

that this proposal is agreeable to you ? Do
you accept my offer ?'

He leans across her chair and takes her
hand in his, in eager expectation of her
reply. A low sigh issues from her lips,
and she allows the fingers of her other
hand to close nervously round his wrist,
and then he hears her whisper an affirmative.


'Thank you,' he says, simply, and he
raises her hand to his lips and seals his
vow of friendship with a kiss.

She rises hurriedly from her seat, and
stands before him, with her hand resting
lightly on his shoulder.

1 Mr. Grandly,' she says, speaking in
quick, earnest tones, ' whether we are doing
wrong or right, I cannot say. I can
only tell you that I am happier at this
moment than I have been for years.
Everything seemed dark and black before
you came, but now, by a few words from
you, all is bright. I cannot thank you
now sufficiently for what you have done,
but I will do so another time. Ah ! you
have bestowed on me a priceless blessing
— you have instilled into my heart a
hope of future happiness. But it is getting

late — I dare not stay here longer, or
I shall be missed. Take me back to the
ball-room, please, and oh! Mr. Grandly,
be careful — be very careful ! The thought
of this friendship has given me a new life,
and, if anything were now to prevent it,
existence would become unendurable tome.
Remember this, and do nothing rashly.
Wait till you hear from me, for one false
step on your part would ruin everything.'

She takes his proffered arm, and without
a word they leave the secluded corner
and walk along the balcony in the direction
of the ball-room. The music is crashing
forth the languishing strains of one of
Waldteufel's masterpieces.

Listen,' he says, ' do you know that
valse ? It is a good omen for the success
of the great, platonic friendship.'

Is it?' she whispers, tightening the
pressure of her fingers on his arm ; ' what,
then, is its name ?'

Toujours s fidele /'

CHAPTER XL

Grandly VIEWS THE SITUATION DOUBTFULLY.

During that period which elapses between
dessert and bed-time, all things are apt to
present themselves to mortal eyes in an
atmosphere of couleur-depose. On the night
of the dance, Frank Grandly retires to bed
in an exalted state of happiness. Having
carefully reviewed the situation under the
soothing influence of a cigar, he has come
to the conclusion that he has cause to consider
himself one of the luckiest men on
earth. That capricious jade, fortune, who
has overlooked him for so many years,
seems suddenly to have remembered his
existence, and to have bestowed upon him
one of her pleasing smiles.

This is how the case presents itself to
him in that small hour of the morning.

He — a young man of a warm and affectionate

disposition — has conceived the
strongest interest in the personality of a
strange young lady, who seems to him to
be far from happy. Intuitively he is conscious
of there existing between them a
great affinity, and he determines to do his
utmost to make her acquaintance, and to
chivalrously offer himself in the character
of a friend. And now comes the most
delightful portion of the episode — for it appears
that this same young lady has been
inspired with exactly similar feelings with
regard to himself. She, too, has similarly
conceived a sudden interest in him, and
has likewise resolved to ask him to be her
friend. What could be more charming
than such a state of affairs ?

In the first place, her impulsive confidence
has proved to him clearly that he
was right in his belief that the' were ina,
state of elective affinity to one another
and this is very gratifying to his mind,
as a direct proof of the reliability of his
intuition. And then, secondly, through
her having met him half-way in his advances,
all difficulties in the establishment
of their friendship have been removed ; and
he finds himself suddenly in the position

of friend, adviser, and confidant to a young
and charming girl, who betrays by her
every word and gesture how fully she understands
and appreciates the goodness of
his heart — which is a state of affairs most
gratifying to his self-esteem and vanity.

Yes — viewing the case in whatever light
he may, the matter appears to him one of
self-congratulation. He has acquired a
friend — one who, in course of time, may
even take the place in his affections once
held by his dear dead sister— a friend
whose life is full of bitter sorrow — a friend
who looks towards him to shed brightness
on her existence.

'And I will do my very best,' he murmurs
; ' I will strive my very utmost to
make her happy, poor little girl !' with
which worthy resolution, he turns out the
lamp, and rests his head on the pillow.

But in the cold, matter-of-fact hours of
the morning, when the brain awakes strong
and clear, after a long, refreshing sleep,
the alluring conceptions of the over-night
sometimes present themselves under totally
different aspects. Grandly awakes to the
consciousness of a most uncomfortable

sensation, which certainly did not exist
in his brain the night before.

He sits up in bed, and tries to analyse
this feeling — and, after some mature consideration,
he comes to the conclusion that
there are certain points in his recently-established
connection with Miss Forsclyke
which hitherto he has overlooked. This
is a most annoying discovery, but, being a
young man with a rooted objection to
groping in the dark, whatever may be the
matter in hand, he resolves to view the
whole case impartially and dispassionately,
and to discover for himself exactly whether
real cause exists for uneasiness of mind.

Now, at first sight, this seems a very
easy thing to do, but, in the course of his
mental analysis, he soon becomes conscious
of the fact of his finding it extremely difficult
to be either impartial or dispassionate
in the matter in hand. Before the
lapse of five minutes, he discovers that he
is heavily biassed in one direction ; and he
feels that it will require arguments of the
most weighty order to turn him aside from
his fixed purpose of claiming the friendship
which Miss Forsdyke has so generously
offered him.

There are points in the case, however,
which it is impossible to help noticing, and
prominently amongst these stands the glaring
unconventionality of the whole proceeding.
Regarding it from whatever point
he chooses, he cannot deny that the situation,
from a social point of view, is peculiar
and unique.

It is no good for him to argue that it is
only the natural consequence of a young
couple possessing mutual sympathies and
kindred dispositions. The futility of such
a line of argument is sufficiently obvious
to prevent him from adopting it. He
knows full well that the cold, conventional
eye of society would not be likely
to accept the existence of an elective
affinity as an explanation of a breach of
etiquette.

And, that he has committed a breach of
etiquette, he no longer has a doubt. It
requires no argument to convince him on
that point. His common-sense tells him
that to make the acquaintance of a young
lady, to gain her confidence, to offer her his
friendship, and to promise to do his utmost
to make her happy in the future — all
within the space of one short hour — is a

course of proceeding of a most extraordinary
character, and one not generally
adopted in polite society.

But, having arrived at this point, he
suddenly drops the cautious, reflective
mood, and assumes a line of thought, the
independence of which is quite astonishing.

Granting all this,' he says, ' wherein
lies the harm?'

Yes, that is the question. Admitting
that, according to existent conventional
regulations, the proceeding is irregular,
what possible harm can accrue therefrom?

Of course it is needless to say that,
having gone so far — having practically
removed an insuperable objection with a
mere inflection of the voice — he does not
take long to convince himself that to
attempt to withdraw from the connection
on the plea of etiquette would be to take
a mean advantage of which any gentleman
would be ashamed.

Etiquette be hanged !' he murmurs, becoming
quite excited. ' Of all the lying,
hypocritical humbugs of this world, social
etiquette is the worst. If a young man
and woman cannot form a friendship on
strict platonic lines, without getting into

difficulties, then — then I know nothing of
the world ;' from which remark the reader
may probably conclude that his knowledge
of the world was, in truth, limited.

Having thus satisfactorily settled the
primary question under analysis — namely,
the possibility of the existence of the proposed
friendship — he now turns his thoughts
towards another point which has been
giving him some uneasiness of mind. The
memory of her last few words are still
lingering in his ears, and he repeats them
over to himself.

'Wait till you hear from me. One false
step on your part will ruin everything.'

To say the least of it, this is mysterious,
and viewed in the unsentimental, early
hours of the day there is a strong smack
of the melodramatic about her caution.
What could she have meant by her impressive
injunction? Can there be any
foundation for the uncomfortable suspicion
which has fallen upon him that it is the
young lady's intention to establish a friendship
of a clandestine character ?

The more he dwells upon the point, the
more fully does he become convinced that
he is right in his suspicion. He mentally

reviews their conversation of the night
before, and everything points to this conclusion.
Her remarks as to the system
of surveillance instituted over her every
action; the vague hints which she has
dropped regarding her aunt's mistrust ;
the hurried observation which she made
on rising that if she stayed longer she
would be missed, and various other indications
pointing to the fact that she was nota
free-agent in her uncle's house, all combine
to make him think that it is not her
intention to make her guardians party to
the agreement.

This thought causes him grave anxiety.
In offering his friendship to the girl the
night before, such a course of proceeding
as this had never entered his conception.
He had merely imagined an intercourse,
open and innocent, with no pretence to
concealment or deception — an intercourse
palpable to the whole world. It had been
his intention to have called the next day
on Colonel and Mrs. Renfrew, and to have
been formally introduced to the girl in
the presence of her relatives, thereby obtaining
their tacit consent to his intimacy
with their niece. But now a sudden conviction

seizes him that such is not the
course of proceeding expected of him by
Miss Forsdyke. In proposing friendship
to him, he feels assured that she has intended
him to understand that it is to be
of a secret character. In what other way
can her parting words of 'Wait till you
hear from me. One false step on your
part will ruin all,' be construed ?

According to this injunction, it is quite
evident that his plan of calling on Mrs.
Renfrew becomes impossible. Until Miss
Forsdyke sends him word, he is to stir
neither hand nor mouth, and therefore it is
also evident that, as the matter stands, the
projected friendship cannot progress. That
Miss Forsdyke would not have thus enjoined
him without some weighty reason
on her part for doing so, he has no doubt,
but what this reason can be, otherwise than
that which he suspects, he is unable to
conceive. If then it proves that he is
right in his suspicion, the friendship will
border closely on the regions of intrigue.

Now, to many young men of the present
day, the possibility of an intrigue with a
pretty girl would appear everything that
is charming and delightful. But Frank

Granclby was of a different order of character.
In all matters pertaining to the opposite
sex, his chivalry bordered on the
quixotic. His belief in the instinctive
virtue and pure integrity of woman was
absolute, and he would have cut off his
right hand rather than have harmed, morally
or in reputation, a trusting girl.

And so now, in great perplexity, he asks
himself the question, whether it would be
right and honourable for him to consent to
form a friendship with this young girl T
knowing that it was to be of a secret
character.

Holding the views he does, there can be
only one answer to the question, and that
is in the negative.

c No,' he says, c it would be mean, ungentlemanly,
and dishonourable. My
course of action is plain — I must distinctly
refuse to be a party to the matter. It
may be that I am wrong in my conclusion ;
after all, it is only conjecture that such is
her intention. Possibly in telling me to
wait she merely required of me a little patience,
until she had sounded her relations
as to their concurrence in our plan. I
hope devoutly that such may be the case,

vol. i. o

I am sure, for I am afraid that I shall cut
a very sorry figure, if I now back-out of
the agreement, after having been so obtrusively
eager on the subject last night.
But, in spite of my earnest wish to be her
friend, there is no other course open to me,
if my suspicions prove correct. However,
it is no good thinking further on the matter,
for until I hear from her it is impossible
for me to know the true state of the
case. Probably I am erecting a mountain
out of the smallest of insignificant molehills,
so let's hope for the best, and — by
grad! it's nine o'clock — and I must bethinking
of getting up saying which,
Grandly throws off his clothes, and jumps
out of bed.

Let's hope for the best,' he murmurs,
as he carefully shaves his chin, which
shows, it must be confessed, no striking
signs of hirsute manliness. c Yes, by gad,
let's hope for the best!' and in another
moment he has divested himself of his
clothes and is splashing briskly amidst the
cold water of his morning tub.

CHAPTER XII.

LOFTUS MAKES A STATEMENT.

It is ten before Grandly emerges from his
little bouse, and be walks rapidly down
the little sloping path leading towards the
hotel, feeling thoroughly ashamed of himself
for being so late. He regrets not having
followed up his performance of the
previous morning by a similar display of
energy ; but in palliation of his indolence
he reflects that last night's dissipation may
perhaps be taken as sufficient excuse for
the lateness of his appearance. But he
determines that it shall not occur again.
Such is his delight at finding himself in the
Himalayas, after two years broiling in the
plains, that he has fully made up his mind
to lose no opportunity of drinking in the
fresh mountain air.

On his right, some feet below him, lie



the tennis-courts of the hotel, but they
bear a very gloomy, deserted aspect as he
passes them. He rightly concludes that,
after the excitement of the night before,
the inmates of the hotel are not feeling;
in a specially athletic mood. In fact, with
one or two exceptions, if the-truth were
known, they are all still in bed — but this
of course he cannot know. In the eyes
of the present highly-refined social world,
it would be an act of the grossest impropriety
for a young unmarried man to dare
to contemplate directly or indirectly the
possibility of female form ever being clothed
in a robe-de-chambre.

Entering the breakfast-room he discovers
one solitary individual, whom he has no
difficulty whatever in recognising as Mrs.
Lamb. She is looking more bilious and
yellow than ever, and there is a worn,
wearied expression on her haggard face,
which does not enhance her natural
charms. Not wishing particularly to have
to undergo the infliction of a tete-astute
repast, with a polite bow, he proceeds to
pass onwards to the further end of the
table. Her voice arrests him.

c Good morning, Mr. Grandly,' she says,

in a languid tone. ' Won't you come and
sit nearer the fire ? The morning air is
very cold.'

c Thank you,' he says, courteously, c you
are very kind ;' and he moves towards her,
and, having taken his seat, orders breakfast.
• I trust, Mrs. Lamb,' he says, politely,
feeling it incumbent on him to make some
remark, ' that you are feeling none the
worse for last night's entertainment.'

'No,' she says, in her thin voice. 'Well,
perhaps I am feeling a little tired. But I
make it a rule never to allow any gaiety
to affect my usual routine, which accounts
for my early appearance this morning. I
think that it was a most enjoyable dance,
don't you ?'

The little I saw of it seemed everything
that a dance should be. But I left early.
Being a perfect stranger here, I naturally
did not find it so attractive as otherwise I
might have done.'

I am so sorry,' she says, in a tone of
genuine sympathy, which takes him by
surprise. ' Why did you not come to me ?
I would have introduced you to everybody.
You must remember that here in the hills
a ball-room presents a direct contrast to

one in the plains ; here the girls abound,
and a man need never want a partner. Do
you really mean to tell me that you did
not obtain a single dance?'

1 1 can't say exactly that,' he says. c Mr.
Loftus introduced me to a young lady — a
Miss Forsdyke, who is staying in this
hotel,' he explains, in a tone of studied indifference,
' and she gave me one dance, so
my card was not quite blank.'

c Ah ! — Miss Forsdyke ! And what do
you think of her ? They have not been
here long, but they seem to be very retiring
people, for as jet nobody seems to know
them. She is a very pretty girl, I think,
but she strikes me as being rather melancholy.
Did you find her soc

Well, a first introduction dance,' he
says, with a little laugh, ' does not offer
many opportunities for discovering the
peculiarities of one's partner's disposition.
From what I saw of Miss Forsdyke, she
seemed to be very similar to most young
ladies. Perhaps, though, she was a little
melancholy, now you come to mention it.'

c Ah ! I thought so,' answers Mrs. Lamb.
I have a suspicion that she does not agree
very well with her uncle and aunt. They

seem to be rather unpleasant people ;
though she adds, hastily, ' I have no right
to pass an opinion on them, not knowing
them. I believe her father is a colonel in
the commissariat quartered at Sihayipur.'

Sihayipur !' cries Grandly, in some surprise.
c Are you certain, Mrs. Lamb ?'

Well, I cannot say I am certain ; but I
fancy that I have heard that such is the
case. But why do you seem surprised at
the announcement ?'

Oh ! nothing. Only that I have a very
great friend in the Engineers, called Grafton,
quartered there ; and I was thinking that
possibly she knew him.'

- Probably she does,' returns Mrs. Lamb,
kindly. ' I conclude from the way you
speak that he is a very great friend of
yours. If so, it will be very nice for you
to meet some one to talk to about him. I
always envy you men your capability of
forming great friendships with those of
your own sex. That great pleasure is
generally denied to us poor women. Weare
too vain and spiteful, and we are possessed
of such jealous dispositions that a
real friendship between us is almost an
impossibility.'

1 I am no judge of character,' thinks
Grandly to himself. c Mrs. Lamb appears
to be a most estimable woman.'

He feels a positive liking towards her
growing within him. The kindly way in
which she has referred to his friendship
with George Grafton has quite won his
heart, and has caused him to change his
preconceived ideas regarding her. In spite
of her marked peculiarities she appears to
be most amiable and well-disposed.

c Oh ! you mustn't say that,' he says, with
a little laugh; 'you will find in me a sturdy
champion in the cause of woman's goodness.'

It is very kind of you to say so,' she
answers, rather sadly. ' But unfortunately
age and experience tell me to the contrary.
Think of the disgraceful scene enacted
at this very table two nights ago !
Can you conceive anything more vulgar
and unlady-like? Do you believe that
any two men would have forgotten themselves
so far as to have descended to low
abuse at a public dinner table?'

I really cannot say,' says Grandly,
lamely, feeling rather embarrassed at this
unexpected turn in the conversation. ' I
suppose that it couldn't be helped.'

i Couldn't be helped ! Of course it could
have been helped. Had I had any sort of
control over my unfortunate tongue, it
would never have happened. But, unfortunately,
Mr. Grandly, I am possessed
of a villanous temper, and, before I know
where I am, I am beside myself with rage.
My temper is too powerful for my bodily
strength, for I invariably end in tears,' and
she gives a feeble smile.

'Well, you cannot say that you were
not provoked?' says Grandly, sympathisingly.


Yes, I was certainly provoked,' she
says, closing her thin lips firmly together ;
but that is but a poor excuse for my reprehensible
conduct. Had I acted rightly,
I should have ignored the provocation. But
really, with a quick temper like mine a I
find it literally impossible to ignore Mrs.
Stockton's gibes and covert sneers. She
would provoke a saint. I can never meet
the woman without experiencing a desire
to do battle with her. It is very foolish of
me, as I know that I have no chance
against her, for she is literally invincible.'

Well, anyhow, after you left the room
she was worsted by Mrs. Renfrew.'

'So my husband told me, but I can
hardly believe it. Mrs. Stockton power
of abuse is simply stupendous. But I can't
tell you how ashamed I am of the part I
took in the matter. It must have appeared
so low and vulgar to outsiders.'

1 It was very unfortunate, certainly,' says
Grandly, feebly, feeling himself unable to,
say anything of a more consolatory character.
' But if you can't agree — I trust that
you will excuse me making the suggestion
why don't you sit somewhere else, away
from her? That would obviate all difficulties,
and would prevent future disputes ;
and it would certainly be more pleasant tome;'
and Grandly laughs good-humoured.


4 Ah ! Mr. Grandly,' she says, c I owe
you a very humble apology for my conduct.
I trust you will forgive mec

There is nothing to forgive, I can assure
you,' he answers, earnestly. l Pray don't
let us refer to the matter further.'

• It is very kind of you to treat the matter
so lightly. If you knew Mrs. Stockton
as well as I do, you would perceive that,
after all, there is some excuse for my
behaviour. She is the most vindictive

woman that I have ever met. When I first
met her here in May, she even professed a
friendship for me. But one day I annoyed
her in some trifling matter, the nature of
which I now forget, and she took offence,
and since that day she has always behaved
to me as she did the other night. She
never forgives a slight — so take care, Mr.
Grandly, how you behave towards her, or
you may be getting into difficulties ;' and
Mrs. Lamb allows her pale face to light up
into a faded smile.

c I am afraid your caution comes too
late,' he replies, laughing heartily, ' for I
am already in her bad books. Last night,
at the dance, she as good as askeci. me to
dance the lancers with her ; and I refused
point-blank with more promptitude than
politeness.'

c Oh, dear me ! did you really ? Then I
am afraid that she will give you trouble.
She will never overlook a thing like that.'

'I caught her eye afterwards,' says
Grandly, ' and she certainly looked a trifle
venomous. I should say she was a magnificent
hater.'

c You are quite right there,' assents Mrs.
Lamb ; ' I only hope that she won't annoy

you, like lie does me. If you can keep a
check on your tongue you will be all right.
But I need not have any doubt as to your
self-control, for you are a man. And now
I really must be going, so good-morning,
Mr. Grandly. I hope that I shall have
the pleasure of conversing with you again
soon ;' and she rises and languidly leaves
the room, casting a glance of playful
coquetry upon him as he stands holding
the door open for her exit.

Grandly returns to the table and proceeds
to finish his breakfast, which he eats
with a great relish, the mountain air having
already given him a glorious appetite.
He muses over his late conversation with
Mrs. Lamb, and comes to the conclusion
that at heart she is a very nice woman.
He is immensely surprised, too, at the discovery.
Judging from what he had seen
of her on the night of his arrival, he had
conceived her to be a most unpleasing
specimen of womanhood.

It only proves,' he murmurs, ' that
first impressions are not always infallible.'

The knowledge that, in all probability,
Miss Forsdyke is acquainted with his
friend, lends an additional attraction to the

already attractive scheme of forming a
platonic friendship with that young lady.
He reviews, in anticipation, the many conversations
which they will hold in the discussion
of Grafton and his belongings ; for
he has such a strong faith in the en£amn<y
qualities of his friend, that he does not
doubt for one moment that Miss Forsdyke
will show otherwise than the keenest interest
in the subject.

Dear old George !' he murmurs to himself,
affectionately, ' how nice it will be to
have some one to talk to about you — someone
who will readily sympathise with every
word I say concerning you.'

Having finished his breakfast, he takes
his hat and strolls down towards the postoffice.


i It is quite time to take some exercise
he says. ' Now that I am here I must
make the most of every moment.'

So he strolls leisurely along, walking
merely for walking's sake. Turning to the
right at the post-office he walks in the
direction of Tabernacle Point, one of the
extremities of the Doonga ridge. Everything
is looking bright and charming. The
woods, the flowers, the cool, fresh air, the

glorious panorama, the songs of birds, the
distant mountain peaks, as yet un tinged
with snow, all appeal directly to his senses,
and make him glad. Already, within only
two days of his arrival, he has become
another man. He feels now so strong that
he laughs amusedly at the recollection of
his weary figure toiling miserably up the
hill to Banbury's that day. What a marvellous
transformation has been effected
within the last forty-eight hours, and how
differently does life appear to him now to
what it did then !

Occasionally he pauses as some striking
natural effect presents itself to view. He
is an ardent admirer of nature, but never
before has he beheld it on such a majestic
scale, and, as he stands drinking-in with
silent rapture the beauty of the scene, he
becomes conscious of the fact that the Alps
sink into insignificance before the grandeur
of the Himalayas. A troop of monkeys,
crying and chattering in their undeveloped
tongue, suddenly appear, and, with a
mighty rush, leave their trees and scamper
across the road. In a moment, with incredible
agility, they have mounted to the
topmost branches of the trees, and, swift

as lightning, they pursue their course down
the hill. He watches them till they are
out of sight, and then he turns round and
retraces his steps. He has just remembered
that he has promised to look up
Loftus that morning. So he steps bravely
out, feeling lighter in heart than he can
remember to have done since his arrival in
India two years before.

It is a little past one when he arrives
at the club, and he proceeds straight to
Loftus's room, and, to his surprise, he
finds that he is not in bed; but he shrewdly
guesses, after a moment's glance, that
the time his friend has been up is only a
question of minutes, for he is still undressed.


Robed in a very handsomely-embroider-
ed Kashmir dressing-gown, with his feet
encased in a pair of soft, fur-lined slippers,
he is sitting in a low arm-chair beside a
blazing fire, in a state of languid indolence.
A cigar is in his mouth, and on a little
table at his hand is the inevitable decanter,
with a half-drained whisky-peg.

i How are you, old chap ?' he says, lazily
extending his hand. 'Am deuced glad to
see you — take a seat there, will you?

And, if you want a peg, do you mind
asking for it ; it goes to my heart to be
refused so often.'

'Well, Loftus,' laughs Grandly, sitting
down, ' I am glad to see you looking so
fresh and well. I must confess that I had
expected to find you still in bed.'

I have been up this ten minutes,' remarks
Loftus, with a yawn. c To tell you
the truth, I became quite bored with lying
in bed, so I got up ; just for the sake of
variety. It was very foolish of me to do
so, for, without a sufficient quantity of
sleep, a man cannot expect to get through
his day's work.'

You should do what I do. I was out
of bed by nine, and, after a good breakfast,
I went for a long walk, and the result is
that I feel now as fresh and clear-headed
as if I had gone to bed at ten o'clock last
night.'

Loftus, slowly puffing at his cigar, stares
at him for a couple of moments in contemplative
silence.

'And did you meet her?' he says,
presently.

Meet her ! Meet whom ?'

Oh ! that's your game, is it ? Well,

we will drop the subject, as you wish it.
I have no desire to fathom your secrets.'

4 But I can assure you that I don't understand
you,' says Grandly, with a smile
of amusement.

Now, Grandly, look here,' says Loftus,
impressively, laying down his cigar. c It
is no good your trying to take me in. As
I have said before, I have no wish to force
your confidence. If you want to keep
silence on the matter, do so by all means,
and I will ask no indiscreet questions.
But if you fondly imagine that you can
convince me that you went out for a walk
with no ulterior object in view, beyond
that of taking exercise, you will find yourself
much mistaken. I am not half so
young and innocent as I look, my boy. I
know a thing or two, I flatter myself;
and I know very well that young men in
Doonga don't take long walks, unless there
be a petticoat to break the dull monotony
of the scenery.'

'But you are wrong, Loftus, I can assure
you,' replies Grandly, laughing heartily.
4 1 went out for a walk merely for walking's
sake.'

Loftus eyes him for a moment curiously.

vol. i. p

1 Say that again, please,' he says, slowly.

'I repeat that I went out for a walk
merely for walking's sake.'

'Well, of course I must believe you,'
says Loft us, reluctantly. ' But the whole
thing beats me hollow. You are a ruin
cove, Grandly, really you are. You interest
me — 'pon my word you do ; and I
am very grateful to you for doing so, for
there are not many things which interest mein
this blooming world. I used to flatter
myself that I knew something about life.
But, the more I see of you, the more I
become aware of how extremely limited
is my vaunted knowledge. If you have
no objection, old chap, I really must make
a study of your character. A man who
does not drink because he is not thirsty,
and who takes a walk merely for walking's
sake, is a creature past my comprehension.
Yes — by all that's holy, I must really
study you. I must buy a note-book, and
perhaps in time I may begin to understand
you. A man can master most difficulties
by dint of application ;' and Loftus revives
his exhausted nature with a long draught
from his high tumbler.

We had a hell of a night last night,' he

remarks, reflectively, after a short pause.
4 Why the deuce did you depart so early ?
I think on the whole that the dance was a
success ; but the late hour to which they
continued dancing was very irritating. I
can assure you that the last female did not
turn out till past four o'clock. It is not
only inconsiderate, but I hold that it is
downright ill-bred. But women are proverbially
selfish, so it was perhaps rather
ridiculous to expect anything else of them.
I have not the least doubt that ninety percent,
of the women here last night were of
an opinion that their own sex is a necessary
element to the success of a dance.
Ridiculous, isn't it ? Ton my word, it is
a most laughable idea. And, what is more
absurd, I don't believe that they would
understand you if you told them to the
contrary. If you took the trouble to explain
to them that a dance was merely an
excuse for a big night on a grand scale,
they would probably think you mad. They
would certainly call you a liar to your
face, if Banbury's Hotel can be taken as a
criterion of female manners. I shouldn't
wonder if they don't imagine that the funis
over when the dancing finishes, instead

p2

of just being on the point of beginning.
Ton my life, women are rum fishes. The
more I see of them, the more I wonder.'

'Extraordinary, aren't they?' says Grandly,
gravely. c But I daresay you made up
for lost time afterwards?'

c By gad, that we did just !' says Loftus,
his voice softening at the recollection. L It
was the biggest thing I have ever known.
There wasn't a hitch in the whole proceeding.
One and all entered heart and soul
into the fun, and that fellow Bramley
made the wittiest speech I have ever
heard. You should have seen him ! He
sat on the middle of. the long table, with
the shell of the raised pie upon his head,
and he literally brought down the house —
at least, he did the table, for the leg broke,
and there was a mighty smash of crockery.
It was the grandest thing I have ever seen.
I split my dress-coat right across the back
with laughing so much, and then Pollock,
of the 10th, caught it by the tails, and
bang it went right up to the collar. Champagne
flowed in torrents,' he continues,
his eyes sparkling with excitement. ' Ah !
it was simply glorious. The breakage of
glass, they tell me, beats all record, and I

can well believe it. How we ever got to
bed, I don't know ; but I have a suspicion
that the servants rose to the occasion, and
lent a helping hand. I have a dim recollection
of heaving my lamp at some nigger
after I was in bed, and that great pool of
oil on the floor there seems to corroborate
the notion, and then I suppose I fell
asleep, for I remember nothing further.
But what is the good of talking of it,' he
adds, in a regretful tone. ' It is all past
and gone. Every pleasure in this world is
evanescent.'

c Oh ! come, cheer up ; don't be down-hearted,'
laughs Grandly.

4 How can I be otherwise ?' asks Loftus,
sadly. ' Look at me. Am I not a perfect
wreck? Have you ever seen anything
more truly pitiable in your life ? Is it not
monstrous to think that a human being
cannot enjoy himself on this third-rate
planet without suffering the next day
from splitting headache ? Oh ! I am a
perfect worm. And to think that it is all
past and gone, and that possibly months
may elapse before another such festive
night occurs. Ah ! it is too horrible ! But
let us change the subject,' he continues,

with a sigh. c What did you think of your
partner last night ?'

1 Of Miss Forsdyke ?' asks Grandly, with
well-simulated indifference. c Oh ! she
seemed very nice.'

Indeed ! You thought her very nice,
did you? Now such an epithet as that is
hardly the one I should use in describing
that young lady.'

'Why?' asks Grandly, in a tone of
interest.

1 Oh — well — I don't know,' answers
Loftus, indifferently. ' " Very nice " sounds
rather tame when applied to a young lady
of such peculiar powers of attraction as
Miss Forsdyke.'

c Well, with regard to her peculiar
powers of attraction, that of course is a
matter of opinion. She did not strike meas
being anything out of the common. She
is pretty, certainly, in a mild way,' says
Grandly, adopting a tone calmly critical ;
but then she can hardly be styled lively.'

Oh ! you think so, do you ? Well, I
can assure you that beneath that mask of
melancholy there lies a fund of inexhaustible
animal spirits. Oh ! she can be lively
enough, if she likes. Perhaps she was

thinking over her past sins, and that made
her feel rather sad last night.'

'I don't think that she leads a very
happy life,' says Grandly, quietly.

Why ? What makes you think that ?'
asks Loft us, regarding him curiously from
the corner of his eye.

Well, from what she hinted, I conclude
that Mrs. Renfrew is anything but kind to
her.'

c Oh ! she told you that, did she ?' says
Loftus, with a sarcastic smile. c She seems
to have been remarkably confiding during
your twenty minutes' acquaintance. And
what else did she tell you? I am distinctly
curious to hear. Did she confide
to you any of her hopes and aspirations
for the future, and did she pray and implore
you to grant her —-just — a — beetle
sympathy ?'

What nonsense you talk, Loftus !' says
Grandly, shortly, feeling a trifle annoyed
at his friend's mincing tones of mimicry.
c Our conversation, of course, was of the
most commonplace nature. It was only
indirectly that I came to the conclusion
that her aunt was unkind to her.'

Well — she is certainly a wonderful

young woman remarks Loftus, reflectively,
leaning back and studying his
cigar-ash. 'A little excitable, too, and
apt at times to kick over the traces — if
you will pardon me alluding indirectly to
the young lady's legs. I should not be at
all surprised if Mrs. Renfrew did not find
a tight rein to be indispensable.'

You talk as though you knew her well.
May I ask where you have met her before ?'

c I met her two or three years ago in
Kashmir,' replies Loftus, slowly, still lost
in admiration of the long white ash on his
cigar. ' I met her there under — well, under
rather peculiar circumstances, which gave
me plenty of opportunity for studying her
character ; and I repeat that she is a very
wonderful specimen of humanity. And
you had better take care, Grandly, old
chap,' he adds, in a chaffing tone ; ' she is
not the sort of woman to make a good wife.'

That is rather a sweeping statement,'
says Grandly, coldly. 'You certainly
must have studied her character very
deeply, if you feel justified in making
such a broad assertion.'

1 Hullo !' cries Loftus, starting up, ' don't
excite yourself, old chap. I am sure I am

very sorry — I must apologise, but I really
had no idea that you had serious intentions
in that quarter. Perhaps the happy
day is already fixed ? Don't forget to bid
your humble servant to the feast, and let
me implore you to get Heidsieck's very
best;' and he leans back and laughs
amusedly.

4 What a fellow you are !' says Grandly,
trying vainly to stifle his annoyance. ' Let
us drop the subject. We have no earthly
right to take this young lady's name in
vain. I object to it on principle.'

Oh, very well — certainly ! I thoroughly
agree with you on that point. Not that
we have really said anything to Miss Forsdyke's
detriment. To be incapable of
making a good wife to &2 )or man — which
is, of course, what I meant — is nothing to
be ashamed of. It only signifies an ignorance
of the value of pounds, shillings, and
pence, and God knows that Miss Forsdyke
is not the only individual in the world ill-informed
on that all-important subject.
So kindly suggest another topic of conversation.
Somehow, every subject to-day is
utterly nauseous to me.'

Grandly is very vexed with himself for

having shown annoyance at his friend's
remarks. It was such an extremely foolish
and unjustifiable proceeding on his
part that he determines to remove any
bad impression which his behaviour may
have caused by laying himself out to be
especially agreeable, and he so far succeeds
in this object that, when he rises to go,
Loftus, whose spirits have risen amazingly
beneath his genial influence, becomes again
plunged in the deepest melancholy at the
thought of his departure.

You are a brick, Grandly,' he says,
enthusiastically. l In spite of your peculiarities,
you are the best companion that
I have ever met. Mind you come in again.
I shall probably be in this position for the
next week, and I shall look forward anxiously
to your appearance. So good-bye,
old chap. There is the whisky and soda,
if you want a peg. It would do my heart
good to see you help yourself, but I shan't
risk the chance of refusal by offering it to
you. Good-bye. It is just two o'clock.
Nine hours to bed-time. Oh, Lord, oh,
Lord — was ever a man so cursed before ?'

CHAPTER XIII.

LE Premier PAS.

Grandly is pleased to notice, as lie enters
the dining-room that night, that Mrs.
Lamb has acted on his suggestion, and
has changed places with her husband.
She smiles a kindly good-evening to him
as he takes his seat on her husband's right.

1 You see what I have done,' she whispers
to him behind the major's chair; C I
hope that I shall be quite safe here;' and
she bestows on him a most languishing
glance from out of her pale blue eyes. It
is quite evident that Mrs. Lamb is by no
means averse to having a handsome young
man for her confidant.

The major laughs heartily at her remark.

'You are a wonderful diplomatist, my
boy,' he says, turning to Grandly, ' I must
make you my prime minister and confidential

adviser. With, your assistance, we
should soon bring the war to an end.'

1 Charles, how can you be so ridiculous ?'
says his wife, with playful coquetry.

At this moment Mrs. Stockton enters,
and she takes in the situation at a glance.
With a loud snort of disapproval she seats
herself on Grandly's right. It is curious
to note the strange mixture of regret and
triumph depicted on her face as she contemplates
the imperturbable form of Major
Lamb, effectually screening from view her
old opponent. She cannot conceal her delight
at recognising Mrs. Lamb's tacit
acknowledgment of defeat, but, having
employed the day in the study of new and
startling methods of attack, she naturally
feels disappointed at finding herself unable
to display them in the arena.

Grandly, paying no heed to her spasmodic
grunts, turns his back on her, and
engages in conversation with the major.

In my young days,' she says, addressing
no one in particular, ' it was considered
bad manners to turn one's back upon a
lady.'

I beg your pardon,' says Grandly, coldly,
turning quickly round with a slight

flush upon his face, ' I was unaware that
you wished to address me, Mrs. Stockton.'

And more I do,' she says, sharply.
Pray don't let me interrupt your conversation
with Major Lamb. It must, I am
sure, be of a highly edifying character.'

Without a word Grandly turns away,
and addresses Major Lamb. Not in the
least disconcerted by the suddenness of
her attack, he resumes the conversation at
the point where it was arrested by her
first remark. She notices his calm indifference,
and grows palpably redder in the
face.

c Hem !' she ejaculates, ' how very polite !'
and she turns her attention for the moment
to her food.

1 And so poor Miss Forsdyke is not well,'
she says, after a short silence, still addressing
vacancy : c Confined to her room with a
sore throat ! I really do not wonder at it,
though, after sitting out on that balcony
as she did last night. It showed a great
want of judgment on the part of her partner
— but then perhaps lie did not dance the
lancers] she adds, with an unmistakable
sneer.

No one answers her, or pays the least

attention to her remark. The residents of
Banbury's Hotel know the woman too
well to dare to enter into a conversation
with her when she is in one of her aggressive
moods. The most ordinary observation
would be seized upon as an excuse for
an attack.

Grandly, unable to prevent the hotblood
from mounting to his face as he
hears the inuendo, applies himself more
than ever to his conversation with the
major, and the latter, guessing how the
matter stands, talks incessantly, commencing
the narration of a long anecdote,
which occupies their attention for the next
ten minutes.

Mrs. Lamb in vain tries to stifle her
excitement. The old longing to be ' up
and at them ' cannot be repressed, and her
husband has to turn ro and more than once
to whisper a hasty caution in her ear.

The dinner progresses slowly. Mrs.
Stockton at intervals addresses space, but
her covert sneers and innuendoes fall pointless
on her listeners' ears, though Grandly
understands them. He comprehends now
that he has indeed made a relentless enemy
of the woman. The thought does not,

however, occasion him much uneasiness of
mind, for he has a complete faith in his
own self-control, and nothing that she says
will have the power to induce him to accept
the challenge. His calm contempt
galls her to the quick, and she redoubles
her exertions. Once he commits himself
to a retort, she feels that the victory will
be hers !

But he never does commit himself! He
receives her gibes and sneers with the most
aggravating indifference, and gradually
she ceases in her attack, and relapses into
moody silence.

It is a great relief to him when the meal
comes to an end. Do what he may, it is
impossible for him to repress the annoyance
which he feels with regard to Mrs.
Stockton's unwarrantable attack. He rises
with the ladies and leaves the room.

c Oh, Mr. Grandly, how I admire you !
How I envy you your coolness whispers
Mrs. Lamb, in tones of open rapture, as
she passes him in the hall.

He gives a feeble smile, but says nothing,
and in another moment he is striding savagely
up to his own house.

The small charcoal fire is burning brightly

as he enters. He walks to the table and
turns up the lamp, and immediately his
anger evaporates, for he sees lying before
him on the table a little three-cornered
note, similar in character to the one which
he received the night before. He hastily
tears it open and reads it.

c Dear Mr. Grandly,

I feel that I owe you an
explanation. We separated so abruptly
last night that I quite forgot to agree
upon a plan of action. I have much to
tell you and to discuss — you see, I already
regard you as my best of friends. Do you
know the little sheltered wood on the left
of the road above the telegraph office ?
Take the footpath past the Banbury lawn-tennis
courts, and lead straight on up the
avenue till you come out into the open,
when the road takes a semi circular sweep
round the side of the hill. The wood is
on your left, by a partially-concealed little
pathway, winding down the hill. You
cannot fail to mistake it. Meet me there
tomorrow at four o'clock, and I will tell
you everything, which my emotion last
night prevented me from doing. Ah ! Mr.

Grandly, how can I ever thank you for
your kindness ? Already I feel a different
being.

From your very sincere friend,

'D. f:

Twice he reads the letter through from
beginning to end, and then he lights a
cigar, and draws the arm-chair closer to
the stove, and he sits down and begins to
think.

What is he to do? That is the question
which requires an immediate answer. Is
he to meet the girl at the time appointed,
or is he not ? Shall he voluntarily make
himself a party to the intrigue, or shall he
refuse, writing a few lines in explanation
of his conduct ? His head is very cool and
clear, and he views the question in its
every aspect. One thing is now evident —
it is Miss Forsdyke's intention that their
intimacy shall be of a clandestine character.
After carefully studying the letter,
and analysing the feelings which prompted
the writer to pen each phrase, he can
arrive at no other signification of her
meaning. And he does not judge her too
hastily on this point. For the sake of

vol. I. Q

argument, he tries to imagine that such is
not the young lady's intention — that she,
in fact, intends their intercourse to be
open and apparent to the world, but that
for the time being the character of their
projected intimacy will have to be modified
on account of some unknown circumstance,
which will be explained to him on the
morrow, when they meet.

This is a very pleasing explanation, and if
accepted, without further analysis, as the
truth, it opens out an easy channel of escape
from a most unpleasant dilemma. B ut Frank
Grandly's nature is too honest to attempt to
deceive himself with such a shallow piece of
sophistry. His common-sense at once tells
him that such an explanation is fallacious,
and he rejects it ; for, if such had been her
intention, in writing to him she would
have mentioned the fact, apologising for
the necessity of such an unconventional
course of proceeding.

But in her letter there can be found no
reference to the subject, and it has evidently
been written with care and thought,
and the omission of such an important
reference cannot be explained on the score
of forgetfulness or haste. No, it is evident

she lias written it with the fixed idea that
their intimacy is to be formed on secret
lines, and also on the understanding that
he, too, is a party to the agreement.

This last consideration gives him much
perplexity. If Miss Forsdyke be labouring
under the mistaken idea that he has
understood from the beginning that her
offer of friendship was intended to signify
a clandestine intimacy, he feels that he is
in a very awkward situation, and also that
it will be an extremely unpleasant duty
on his part to undeceive her on this point ;
and that such is her idea he now feels
thoroughly convinced, though for what
reason she has become possessed of it he
cannot conceive.

He tries to recall their conversation of
the night before, thinking that possibly,
by his own words, he may have led her to
imagine that such was her intention. Butin
this he fails ; he can only remember the
substance, and not the exact wording,
which he used. He can see her again ashe
saw her then, sitting in the soft moonlight,
pale, tearful, and superbly lovely,
and he can hear again her sweet low voice,
choked with emotion, giving vent to the

Q2

passionate utterances of a broken spirit,
throwing, in her distress, conventional
modesty to the winds, and imploring him,
a stranger, to take pity on her loneliness,
and to grant her sympathy.

Such a picture as this cannot fail to touch
the tender sensibilities of a susceptible young
man, and Grandly gives himself up wholly
to the reminiscence, musing, half sadly, half
fondly, over every detail. What unhappiness
is hers ! How childlike and confiding
are her ways ! — how passionately she yearns
for a loving friendship, built on the solid
rock of mutual sympathy! — how sad and
inscrutable that a young girl of her physical
and mental attractions should be doomed
to a life of misery and pain !

The moments pass, the coke fire burns
low, the lamp flickers and gives signs of a
waning life, and still he remains with his
thoughts concentrated on the great question
occupying his mind. Shall he go, or
shall he not ? Shall he write to her and
reject her proffered friendship, or shall he
accept it as it stands, and meet her on the
morrow at the place appointed ? Shall he
wilfully destroy all her new-born hopes of
future happiness ? Shall he allow a conventional

prejudice to overcome his desire
to shed brightness on her life ?

It is a question not to be answered hurriedly.
To him it appears a question of
overpowering gravity. He knows that it
is in his power to help a fellow-creature,
and the question resolves itself into a
question of right and wrong — into the question
whether, possessing the power, it would
be right for him to refuse to avail himself
of it. And his heart pulls one way, and
the deadly influence of conventionality the
other, each one predominating in its turn,
only to be again overcome by the other.

Which is he to do ? Which is the right
path for him to take ?

It becomes a struggle between the heart
and conscience ; for what is called conscience
in these days is merely the reflection
of ideas as to right and wrong, formed
by the overbearing arrogance of a dogmatic
conventionality.

And so through the small hours of the
night the struggle continues, till he becomes
faint and weary with sophistical
arguments and ceaseless reiteration.

At last he rises. Unable to choose between
the two sides of the question, he

has weakly compromised, and has determined
to take a middle course.

4 1 will meet her tomorrow,' he murmurs,
taking off his coat. c I will meet
her, and then explain to her personally my.
objections on the subject. This will bethe
most gentlemanly way of telling her
of her mistake. Would to God T had more
resolution — and — and — would to God I
were not so bound down by the rules of
social conventionality.'

CHAPTER XIV.

THE AUTHOR CONTROVERTS A BASE SUSPICION.

Having once made up his mind upon the
matter, Grandly deems it advisable not to
discuss the question further. His mind is
so torn between alternate decision and indecision,
that he feels convinced that no
amount of argument will bring him to a
satisfactory solution of the problem. So
he accepts as final his determination of the
night before, and he does his best during
the next day to avoid thinking on the
matter.

To some his conduct may appear high-flown
and verging on the ridiculous. Goodness
gracious ! I hear them say, what, in
the name of fortune, is the man making such
a fuss about ? Here is a young and lovely
maiden, forlorn and friendless, imploring
him to give her his friendship, with the

assurance that he, by so doing, will make
her sombre existence bright and happy!
What could be more charming, more self-gratifying
than this ? Is he incapable of
appreciating his extraordinary good fortune
in thus having a young lady deliberately
throwing herself into his arms ? Does
not the knowledge that his external person
has created a deep impression in the heart
of a beautiful girl have a soothing effect
on his amour propre ? Is not his vanity
tickled by the circumstance ?

If not — if he be totally unconscious of
the honour which the lady has vouchsafed
to him — then he is, to say the least of ita
boor, a man utterly wanting in refinement,
a lout, a creature not worthy of a
woman's thought. Or is he pious ? Is he
that most detestable of human beings, a
masculine prude? Does he shrink from
the young lady's summons, because it
would be a naughty thing to do ?

If so, then send him back to the nursery !
Let him study orthodox theology, and take
orders, and become a snivelling curate, and
give up his life to the joint duty of propagating
the Gospel and the species ! We
do not want to be troubled with reading of

such a limp, uninteresting specimen of
humanity ! Give us something with plenty
of backbone, something strong and manly,
with a character rising superior to the
milk-and-water qualities requisite for a
deaconship ! Give us something dashing,
with a soupcon of naughtiness, to remove
all chance of insipidity — something we can
admire and criticise reprovingly ! That is
what we want, and not a creature who
refuses to meet a charming young girl,
because, according to his wretched code
of morality, it would be a very wicked
thing to do. Who ever heard of such a
despicable character attempting to pose as
the hero of a novel? If this be the plain,
unvarnished truth, we close the book, and
refuse to read another word. We are no
tyros in the art of novel-reading, and we
know to a nicety what to expect for our
money, and we are determined to get our
money's worth, and not to be imposed upon
by such a palpable second-rate article !

Gentle reader, I hasten to set your
doubts at rest. Frank Grandly is neither
boor nor prude. Such an epithet as the
former could not possibly be applied with
any justice to a man of his natural grace

of form and manner. 'To look at him was
to love him,' a young lady once remarked
to her bosom-friend, in the strictest confidence,
in the privacy of her chamber;
and the author is in a position to vouch
for the truth of this tender avowal from
the bosom-friend in question, having come
the next day, and repeated it to him verbatim
— also in the strictest confidence.

So disabuse your mind at once of this
idea. And as to the other point — as to
whether Gran dby justly deserves the epithet
of prude — the author does not require
the intermediary assistance of a third party
to enable him to give an unqualified denial
to the accusation, for he is in a position to
vouch to the contrary from his own personal
experiences.

No, rest assured, dear reader, my hero
is no saint, but on the other hand he is no
libertine. His character strikes a happy
medium between profligacy and sanctity.
It has in its composition none of the gross
sensualism of the reprobate, and none of
the canting humbug so inseparable in these
days from the idea of piety. It is pure
and honourable, unselfish and refined, and

in all matters pertaining to womankind
rising to the truly noble.

His one reason for hesitation with regard
to Miss Fors dyke's proposal was the fear lest
he, in complying with her request, should
do her harm both in her own eyes and in
the eyes of the world. As he estimated the
situation, she was acting under a sudden
impulse. Borne down with the weight of
her private sorrows, and hungering for a
kind word, in a moment of thoughtlessness
she had thrown conventionality to the
winds, and had written him the letter. That
she would repent of this error of judgment
on her part, when she became calm enough
to view the matter dispassionately, he did
not doubt. An awakening would come to
her — and would come to her perhaps too late.
If he were to obey her request implicitly, and
consent to form a secret friendship with her
then, at a time when her mind was clouded
by pain and suffering, what would be her
feelings, when she at last awoke to the
reality of the situation? In what light
would she regard him for having so eagerly
acceded to a request made at a moment
when she was incapable of thinking rightly

? Would she not scorn and loathe him,
and would she not scorn and loathe far more
her own self-degradation ? This was how he
argued; this was the picture which his
imagination pourtrayed, thus unconsciously
excusing and exonerating her for the
questionableness of her behaviour.

Ninety men out of a hundred would
have regarded the matter in the light of
an agreeable escapade, and would have
seized eagerly on the possible pleasures
and excitements which might accrue from
it ; not actuated by any base sensual motives,
be it understood, but merely by a
thoughtless love of intrigue and adventure.
But Grandly was different. From the moment
that he viewed the matter calmly,
and saw that it was not merely a question
of personal desire, but one concerning
possibly the honour and good name of an
innocent young girl, it became to him a
question of overpowering gravity, and he
resolutely determined to stifle the promptings
of his heart, and to obey the dictates
of his conscience.

So, firm in this resolve, he might have
been seen between the hours of three and
four wending his way towards the place of

assignation. There was a look of intense
preoccupation on his face, as he left behind
him the garden of the hotel, and
entered on the broad road leading up the
hill To his sensitive disposition his present
position was peculiarly embarrassing. He
knew well how eagerly Miss Forsdyke had
set her heart upon the fulfilment of the
scheme, and he could not conceal from himself
that he, quite unconsciously on his
part, must have led her to understand that
he too was a willing participant in it — and
the knowledge that it devolves on him now
to rudely dispel her illusion is painful to
him in the extreme. But he does not
waver in his determination ; it is his duty
to reject the friendship on the lines proposed,
and he nerves himself to the unpleasant
task before him. That he will
succeed he has no doubt ; but to ensure
success he is conscious that he will have to
cause her pain, and his tender heart shrinks
from the idea.

It is a glorious autumnal afternoon. A
faint breeze is lightly rustling the heavy
foliage, which from either side of the road
forms a leafy covering overhead, and
patches of warm sunlight penetrating

through this natural sun-shade fall here
and there, bathing in gold the dark-green
ferns and yellow balsam. The air, soft
and warm, is redolent of deodar and pine,
and Grandly, as he steadily pursues his
way, drinks in long refreshing draughts
invigorating both to mind and body. It
is impossible to resist the soothing influence
of this soft August afternoon, and
gradually his uneasiness subsides, and he
becomes less disquieted.

Arriving at the end of the long avenue,
he emerges into the open. On his right
stretches for miles and miles the splendid
mountain scenery, growing dim and grey
in the far, far distance. On his left rises a
rugged mass of rock, jutting out from the
summit of the hill, like some fierce promontory
on the coast. At this point a
little footpath branches off from the main
road, and encircles round this bold projection.
Lying almost concealed from
view by the jagged wall of stone, it leads
down the hill, through the sombre shades
of a sheltered wood — and it leads towards
the spot of assignation. He cannot restrain
the beatings of his heart as he
lightly treads the bridle-path, but, though

he anxiously glances into the recesses of
the rapidly thickening wood, no waiting,
expectant figure meets his eye.

The thought strikes him that possibly
he may be before his time, so he looks at
his watch, and discovers that he is late,
instead of being early. So he hastily pursues
his way, looking carefully to the right
and left, hoping and yet fearing to see the
winsome form of Miss Diana Forsdyke.
Following the serpentine windings of the
little path which gradually descends the
hill, he soon loses sight completely of the
road above. The thick wood through
which he now wends his way is hushed ina
solemn silence ; not a sound breaks the
stillness of the air, save the cracking of
the twigs and leaves beneath his feet. Ina
few moments he has seemingly stepped
from the busy world of life into a shady
glen, untrammelled by the bonds of human
influence — a glen where Nature reigned
supreme, unquestioned.

No spot on the whole of the Doonga
Range could have been chosen more suitably
for their meeting-place ; and he
notices the fact, and experiences a sense of
thankfulness in consequence. He sees at

once that there is but small chance of
their meeting being observed in these dark
glades.

He has penetrated down into the deep
recesses of the wood for over a 
before he comes across the object
of his search. Walking along, half in
doubt as to whether he has not mistaken
her directions, a sudden turning of the
path brings her into view. The close
undergrowth which has hitherto lined the
pathway on either side has disappeared,
and he sees before him a broad stretch of
fern and yellow balsam, waving gently
in the breeze, in the midst of which,
emerging like an island from the sea, rises
a giant oak, surrounded at the base by a
gently undulating knoll of soft green turf.
And it is on this fairy hillock, with her
back leaning against the tree, that he sees
Miss Forsdyke.

She does not see him at first, for her
eyes are directed to the ground, on which
she is mechanically tracing figures with
her parasol, so he has good opportunity of
scanning her petite form. She is dressed
in a tailor-made costume of dark brown
cloth which fits her like a glove, and a veil

of a similar colour is wound around the
small felt hat which crowns her auburn
hair. Upon her witching countenance
rests an expression of undisguised anxiety,
which however rapidly disappears, gi vino-place
to one of joy, as she suddenly looks
up and sees him quickly advancing in her
direction. She makes a hurried step towards
him, and in another moment her
hands are resting lightly on his arm, and
she is looking up into his face with a smile
of child-like confidence.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XV.

AMICUS Vitae SOLATIUM.

4 You have come !' she says, in a quick,
eager voice, ' you have come at last. I
was so frightened, lest something had
prevented you,'

He looks down into the lovely upturned
face, and sighs. He is thinking how hard
it will be for him to tell her of his resolve.

Oh, Mr. Grandly,' she says, with a little
laugh, ' you really must not sigh like that.
Consider how very uncomplimentary it is
to me. What is the matter? Are you
tired ? I am afraid that you are not
strong enough to walk so far ;' and she
scans his face with a look of anxious
inquiry which thrills him to the bone.

Yes, Miss Forsdyke, I have come,' he
says, in an embarrassed tone, 'I have come
because you commanded me to do so — but

I have come against my will. At the club,
two nights ago, we were very agitated, and
we must have misunderstood one another.
In proposing to you this friendship I had
never intended that it should be of a secret
character. I do not wish to cause you pain.
God knows how sincerely I wish, as far as it
lies in my power, to make you happy. Will
you hear me patiently for a moment ? I
received your note last night, asking me
to meet you here to-day. It was not until
I had read it through that it struck me
that possibly we had misunderstood one
another at the club. It was my wish then,
and it is my earnest wish now, to be allowed
to call myself your friend; but it never
entered my mind that the friendship which
we agreed to form should be of a character
such as your note insinuated. Tell me,
Miss Forsdyke, am I right in my conjecture
that it is your intention to keep our
intimacy a secret from your guardian and
the world ? If I am wrong — if you will
tell me that I have arrived at a false conclusion
— a great weight will be lifted off
my mind, and I owe you the most humble
of apologies. '

He looks anxiously down at the little

b2

figure by his side. Her head is averted
from his gaze, so he cannot see the expression
on her face, but he observes that her
hands are clasped nervously together,
as though she were a prey to some emotion.
He pauses for a moment, awaiting
her answer, but she makes no
reply.

Tell me,' he says, softly, c am I right or
wrong ?'

She half turns her face towards him r
and he sees that it is deadly pale.

'Why don't you say at once, Mr. Grandly,'
she says, in a quivering voice, ' that
you despise me?'

1 Your inner conscience must tell you
that your reproach is unjust,' he answers,
gently. c I sympathise with you far too
deeply to be capable of entertaining the
feeling which you suggest. In reality, I
am a stranger to you ; but, such is the
strength of my sympathy, that I feel that
I have known you all my life. I see you
unhappy — I wish to do my best to make
you happy ; I find you friendless — I wish
to be your friend. But I wish above all
things to act towards you honourably — to
know you with the full consent of Mrs.

Renfrew — and not to meet you here, in
the sheltered recesses of a wood, out of
sight of all mankind.'

She turns towards him with her large
blue eyes filled with anxious wonderment.

I do not understand you,' she says, ina
frightened sort of whisper. ' Why should
we not meet here together, out of sight of
all mankind ? What do you mean by acting
honourably towards me ? How could
you act otherwise than honourably ? Are
you afraid of doing me some injury ? Oh !
Mr. Grandly, tell me what you mean ! You
are not joking, are you, just to frighten
me ? You really are in earnest, are you
not?'

How can he tell her what he means ?
He looks into her childlike face, gazing up
at him with an expression of bewildered
innocence, and he sighs again, for he feels
that the task before him is very hard. He
had never imagined for one moment that
she would be actually unconscious of the
gross impropriety of her proposed plan of
intercourse.

If you cannot understand me from what
I have just said,' he says, ' it will be very
difficult for me to make my meaning

plainer. You are a girl, young and innocent,
and you know nothing of the evils of
the great world in which you live. You
are perhaps ignorant even of the existence
of the thousand tongues of scandal which
are lurking here and everywhere, like
beasts of prey, awaiting their opportunity
to destroy. But believe me, dear Miss
Forsdyke, they do exist. They are present
everywhere, in every community, great and
small — ever on the watch to detect some
breach of etiquette — some departure, however
trifling, from the conventionalism of
the social world. And, when they are
successful in their search, they show no
mercy. It is a horrible contemplation to
see men and women, outwardly professing
the Christian faith, gloating like filthy
carrion-birds over the mutilated carcase of
a fellow creature ! They never spare, they
publish abroad, exaggerating and embellishing,
according to their fiendish fancy ;
they tear to pieces everything that is good
and pure, rejecting all extenuating circumstances
and explanations ; with bigoted
fury and diabolical injustice they pursue
their victim to the end, never resting until
they have divested him or her, as the case

may be, of every particle of claim to honour
and good name ; and then when all is over
when the carcase lies quivering at their
feet — they raise their eyes to heaven and
thank their God that they are not as other
men. Do you understand me now?'

A shiver runs through her frame and a
slight flush illuminates her dead-pale cheek
as she bites nervously at her lower lip.
Her eyes are directed to the ground, and
for some moments there is silence. Then
she suddenly raises her face and speaks.

c Yes — I understand you now,' she murmurs,
sadly. c You mean that the hateful
world would attribute wicked motives tome
if I were to meet you here in private.
That is what you mean, is it not ?'

I insinuated that such might be the
case, Miss Forsdyke,' he answers, in an
embarrassed tone. ' Do you not see how
scandal-mongers, would seize on the opportunity
of blasting our characters, if we
were to be seen walking here together?
Even now I tremble at the risk which you
are running. To me — a man — it is but of
small importance ; but to you — a woman —
it is a question of life and death.'

You frighten me with your vehemence,'

she whispers, placing her hand upon his
arm. ' But there is no need, really, for you
to be afraid for me. This wood is never
visited — I know it well. When I was last
in Doonga, I spent many, many lonely
hours here, day after day, and I never saw
a human soul. It is quite deserted — that
little path leads nowhere, and is never
used.'

She speaks with a suppressed eagerness
which takes him by surprise. It seems as
though, even now, she did not comprehend
the gravity of the situation.

Ah ! Miss Forsdyke,' he answers, quickly,
' you do not understand me quite. This
wood may be quite deserted, but still there
always is the chance that some one may
pass through it. Why should we run this
terrible risk, when we could live in perfect
friendship without infringing social laws ?
What reason is there for this clandestine
arrangement ? Allow me to take the matter
into my own hands, and arrange it in
the proper way : I will call tomorrow on
Mrs. Renfrew, and will be formally introduced
to you by her. Then, afterwards,
we can meet before the whole world, without
fear of censure.'

She turns away from him with a weary
movement, and leans her arms upon a projecting
bough.

It is you, not I, that do not understand,'
she murmurs. ' Do you think, if such a
proceeding as you propose were practicable,
that I should ever have had recourse to
different means? You cannot grasp my
forlorn position. You talk as though nothing
were easier than to effect what you
propose. You know nothing of the peculiarity
of my surroundings ; you do not
understand my strange existence. And
why should you ? How could you be expected
to know details concerning a —
perfect — stranger ?'

There is a ring of sadness in her tones
which touches him to the heart. A yearning
comes across him to seize her by
the hand and to tell her of his devotion
to her cause. But, before he can speak,
she turns towards him with a passionate
gesture.

c Leave me — leave me, Mr. Grandly !'
she cries. ' It was but a dream which
can never be fulfilled. I was foolish — mad
to build my hopes on such a fanciful
chimera. Go, Mr. Grandly — it can never

be ! You are right in all you say, and I
am wicked to try to argue otherwise. But
I cannot help myself — my disappointment
is greater than I can bear. Ah ! if you
would only understand what I lose in
giving up your friendship ! To you the
world is soft and smiling ; to me harsh,
antagonistic, unsympathetic, brutal. I had
fancied that perhaps my loveless life would
have grown a little brighter in the next
few weeks. But what is the good of
fancying, wishing, praying, hoping in this
dreary world — it is all blank misery and
despair.'

In another moment she is leaning against
the tree, her form trembling with suppressed
weeping. Moved to the quick, he takes
a step towards her, and places his hand
upon her shoulder.

Miss Forsdyke,' he says, and his voice
is quivering with emotion, c pray compose
yourself — I cannot bear to see you so distressed.
Try to think of me as a fond and
faithful friend, whose one desire in life is
to make you happy. Instead of telling me
to go away, confide in me, and let me
understand why my project is unfeasible.
I know that you are unhappy — I know

that your tender heart is bruised and
scarred by harshness and unkindness from
those whose duty it is to love and cherish
you. Cannot you tell me more? I do
not wish to force your confidence, but I
wish to be your friend — and if you would
only deign to look on me as such, and tell
me the particulars of your sad position,
perhaps together we might find some
method of bringing about that friendship
which now you deem impossible.'

1 But it cannot be otherwise than impossible,'
she answers, sadly, without turning
her face towards him.

Only tell me why,' he says, in a pleading
tone. c It may not seem impossible tome.'


c How can I make you understand?' she
says, in a weary voice, slowly wiping her
eyes with a dainty little pocket-handkerchief.
L To me it seems as clear as day,
but to attempt to explain it to you is far
beyond my powers.'

c Ah ! try,' he says, eagerly. ' Make an
effort. Remember the subtle bond of sympathy
which exists between us. How can
you imagine that I shall fail to understand
when every word you speak, every sigh

you breathe, every laugh which issues
from your mouth, finds a kindred echo in
my heart?'

1 Oh, Mr. Grandly,' she says, and her voice
is full of a grateful softness. ' When you
speak to me like that, I seem to become a
different being — the whole world appears
to change — the darkness vanishes, and my
heart is filled with a sense of peacefulness.
I often think,' she continues, wistfully
gazing into the depth of foliage above her
head, c that possibly it may be my own
fault that I am not happy. If I could only
he as other girls, if I could only think and
act as other girls — seeing only the brighter
side of things — extracting only joy and
happiness from their surroundings, and
refusing to see all that is dark and gloomy
feeling no vague yearnings after impossible
ideals and never experiencing the
want of sympathy. If I could only be as
they — why should 1 not be happy too?
But I am strange — my nature is peculiar —
I cannot find enjoyment in a loveless world.
What are pleasures, joys, gladness, without
love ? How can one be happy without
sympathy?'

6 There is nothing strange in what you

feel,' he says, resting his arm on the bough
and turning towards her half-averted
figure. ' Do not I tell you that I feel the
same ? Without the existence of love or
sympathy, the idea of perfect happiness
becomes impossible to me. I fully comprehend
your meaning, Fate has placed
you in an antagonistic world, against the
earrings of which you are not strong enough
to stand. Your tender sensibility is unable
to brave the cheerless aspect of your surroundings.
They do not understand your
nature — it is an inscrutable mystery to them.
They assign harsh, prosaic motives to your
every word and action. They deem you
strange and unconventional because your
soul is capable of a refined susceptibility,
which they cannot understand. Am I not
rightly describing your existence ?'

You read me like a book,' she says.
lifting her face, and looking straight into
his eyes with a smile of ineffable sadness on
her lips. c That subtle chord of sympathy,
which exists between us two, gives you
power to divine the inmost secrets of my
heart. As you speak, hope seems to rise
within my breast — a vain, transcendental
hope, which can never be fulfilled. Oh I

that I could possess your friendship ! Oh !
that I could call you friend, if only for a
month, a week, a day ! That would indeed
be happiness.'

She leaves the tree, and stands before
him with her hands clasped in an attitude
of passionate entreaty. In her agitation,
her whole frame seems transfigured — electrified
into a more than earthly beauty.
How can he resist her ? How can he look
upon that lovely face unmoved ? How can
he listen to those pleading tones, without
the warm blood of youth coursing tumultuously
through his veins ?

He takes a hurried step towards her, and
seizes her by both her hands.

Miss Forsdyke,' he cries, i you are right,
and I am wrong. We must be friends — it
is so ordained above. No conventional
prejudice can step between us two. You
say that, otherwise than in this secret way,
it is impossible for us to form a friendship.
I do not ask you the reason why — I implicitly
believe you, and am ready to obey
you.'

1 How can I thank you for your noble
words?' she cries, gratefully, with a trace

of moisture in her eye. ' You have made
me so happy that I hardly dare to speak —
I hardly dare believe that it is true — that
I have found a friend at last — a real friend,
who will intuitively understand me, and
sympathise with all my sorrows. But oh !
Mr. Grandly, it goes to my heart to think
that our meeting here in this way is not
agreeable to you. But it cannot be altered.
You do not know my aunt — she would
never countenance an intimacy between
us — she would probably never let us speak.
I am never allowed to converse with any
stranger — man or woman — unless it be in
her presence. She follows me with her
eyes and watches my every word and
action. I have no peace — no freedom —
she treats me like a slave — and sometimes
I wish that I were dead.'

c But why does she act in this brutal
manner ?' he asks, his breast heaving with
indignation. ' Can you assign no reason
for her behaviour ? Why does not your
father interfere ?'

A vivid blush sweeps across her face and
neck, and she turns away her eyes from his
look of searching inquiry. For a moment

there is perfect silence ; then suddenly she
speaks, her eyes suffused with tears.

'It is by my father's strict injunction
that she behaves like this. She, herself, is
not to blame.'

1 What !' he says, in tones of amazement.
4 Your father . . . .'

Yes, my own father,' she cries, interrupting
with an impassioned emphasis.
c My father — my own flesh and blood — the
only human creature I have to love ! He
it is, who makes my life what it is, who
enjoins my aunt to keep a strict surveillance
over me, to spy my every action. He
it is, to whom I owe my great unhappiness.
And I could love him — I could love him —
oh ! so dearly, so passionately, if I were
allowed to do so, if my every overture towards
affection were not met by a maddening
indifference — a heartbreaking chilliness
of manner. He does not understand me —
no one understands me in this dreary
world. It seems to be my fate to be misunderstood
by one and all mankind.'

You forget our vow of friendship,' he
says, in a reproachful voice. ( Henceforth
you may rest assured there will be one
person who thoroughly understands you.

What 3 r ou tell me regarding your father
pains me to the quick. What is the reason
for his harshness?'

Again the vivid flush of scarlet suffuses
her neck and cheeks. A look of the
deepest embarrassment settles on her face,
accompanied by a nervous twitching of the
lips. It seems as though she were attempting
to speak, but no sound comes to break
the stillness of the darkening wood. Only
a mint breeze, harbinger of the coming
night, can be heard gently rustling midst
the pines.

Do not tell me if it gives you pain,' he
says, gently, taking her hand in his.

c But I will tell you,' she says, in a faint
whisper. ' If we are to be friends, I must
hide nothing from you. The reason of my
father's harshness is that — that he does not
trust me.' Her voice sinks so low that he
can barely hear her words. He stands
there, holding her by the hand, gazing intently
into her half-averted face, and trying
to comprehend her meaning. She does not
attempt to look him in the face. He can
see, in the deepening twilight, that she is
shrinking sensitively away from him, and
he feels her vainly attempting to free her

vol. i. s

hand from his warm and honest clasp.
But he is too mystified to speak ; he calmly
waits, expecting an explanation.

'Why don't you speak?' she cries, imploringly.
' Tell me that you do not despise
me — that you do not endorse my father's
opinion regarding me. He does not trust
me — he says that I am not good — that I am
wickedly inclined. But tell me that it is
not true — tell me that you think him wrong.
He does not understand my nature. He
cannot read my strangely sensitive disposition,
and he judges all my actions wrongly.
Ah ! God, he has made me suffer ! He has
made my heart bleed with his reproaches,
for he exaggerates my harmless actions
into sins. He is harsh, severe, incapable
of grasping what is beyond the narrow
groove of his experience — and he is my
father — alas ! he is my father, and . . . .'

Enough, Miss Forsdyke,' he says, in a
strangely agitated voice. 'Do not say
another word, I implore you. I comprehend
your position thoroughly — every
word you say stabs me to the heart. I
see now that you are right — it would be
impossible to know you well, otherwise

than secretly. Let us bind ourselves together,
and swear a friendship on true
platonic lines. Let us be as brother and
sister to one another. Miss Forsdyke, I
thank God that I have been thrown across
your weary path, for I believe that it is
in my power to alleviate your suffering.
Henceforth it shall be my one aim in life
to make you happy — and you must learn
to regard me as a brother, and as a true,
devoted friend.'

He raises her hand to his lips and kisses
it, and with a faint sob she bends her face,
and presses her soft warm lips against his
wrist.

'I will,' she murmurs, 'you shall be
my brother.'

The night-breeze trembles through the

O CD

wood, rustling the foliage with a weird
effect. The darkness deepens, wrapping in
obscurity the two sombre figures standing
there together, vowing eternal friendship
to one another; whilst far above them,
through a faint opening in the trees, can be
seen a star faintly twinkling in the purple
sky.

Where are now thy fixed resolves,

s2

Frank Grandly? Where is now thy
strength of mind ? Gone, vanished, as the
last gleams of the setting sun before the
hurrying night !

CHAPTER XVI.

VAE Victim !

Since the night on which the great ladies'
battle was fought across the dinner-service
of Banbury's Hotel, Mrs. Renfrew had not
appeared in public, and it was generally understood
that she was confined to her room,
consequent on her having caught a severe
cold on the chest on the morning of the
club dance. She had taken an early walk
with Miss Forsdyke on that morning, so the
report went, and her delicate constitution
had succumbed to the dampness of the
morning mist. Whether there was any
truth or not in the report, no one was in a
position to say for certain, for, in consequence
of Mrs. Renfrew's peculiar reserve, no one in
the hotel had the pleasure of her acquaintance,
and no one, strange to say, evinced
any strong desire to make the first overtures

towards the establishment of an intimacy
with the suffering lady. In fact, bearing
their loss with the most exemplary placidity,
the inmates of the hotel chatted
and laughed and pursued their different
paths of life, as though there were no such
person as Mrs. Renfrew in existence.

But, to one lady in the hotel, Mrs.
Renfrew's sudden disappearance from the
social circle caused much anxiety and discontent
— to wit, Mrs. Stockton, the wife of
Colonel Stockton of the Bengal Cavalry.
And it was neither sympathy nor curiosity
which caused this lady such deep reflections
on the subject ; it was merely the thought
that she would be unable to retaliate for the
slight which she had received, until Mrs.
Renfrew chose to emerge from her private
sitting-room. This idea was galling in the
extreme to the cavalry colonel's wife, and
every day which passed without the appearance
of her opponent increased her revengeful
ire.

She sits for hours, brooding over her late
discomfiture, inwardly cursing her folly for
having been so weak as to have allowed
herself to have been worsted in the encounter.

Daily writhing under this self-inflicted
task, her temper becomes unbearable,
resulting in Colonel Stockton suddenly
announcing his determination to proceed
straightway to Kashmir on a shooting expedition.


1 You will do nothing of the sort,' she
answers, shortly. ' As long as I choose to
stay in Doonga, you will remain with me.'

1 But, my dear Laura,' expostulates the
colonel, 'I have had no sport this year, and
I need not be absent more than a fortnight.
Surely you can spare me for so short a
time.'

Spare you !' she ejaculates, contemptuously.
c Don't be a greater fool than nature
was pleased to make you, Colonel Stockton.
I would spare you, as you choose to call
it, for a twelvemonth with the greatest
pleasure — if I could only trust you. But
I can't — and the sooner you understand
that fact the better. The idea of a man of
your age wishing to leave his wife, and gad
about the country on the loose ! It is
positively disgusting !' and she gives vent
to a sniff of righteous indignation.

But, my dear Laura,' protested the

colonel, warmly, c I merely wish to give
myself a little innocent amusement. Surely
you can see no harm in my having a
little shooting in Kashmir?'

Innocent amusement indeed !' she says,
sarcastically. ' That is your idea of innocent
amusement, is it ? — then we differ, for
it is not mine. You can't deceive me,
Colonel Stockton. I have not lived with
you all these years without having framed
a pretty accurate estimate of your character
— and I know that you are not to be
trusted out of my sight for one moment.
If you had any of the instincts of a husband,
you would not wish to leave your
wife and home on any pretence whatever.
To me the idea is perfectly horrible, you
old reprobate !'

Really, Laura, your language . . .'
c Is only suited to the occasion,' she cries,
with an angry toss of her head. ' If you
knew your duty as a man and a husband,
you would not try to desert your wife at
such a moment. Considering how grossly
I was insulted at the public dinner-table
on Tuesday night, I regard your conduct
as infamous and inhuman. If you had a
particle of love for me, you would not rest

until you had extracted a full and ample
apology from that — that low, disgusting
female.'

Oh !' the gallant colonel subsides into a
chair with a low groan.

That's right !' she cries, with sarcastic
indignation. c Insult your wife before her
very face ! Show her that you are quite
indifferent to her wrongs! Never mind my
feelings — I am only a poor helpless woman,
unable to retaliate !'

The colonel covers his face in his hands,
and groans again. The pathetic picture o{
his wife's helplessness fails to touch his
hardened heart !

'Why don't you rouse yourself, and show
yourself a man for once ?' she cries, in tones
of withering contempt. ' Have you no
sense of pride in your composition ? Can
you sit still and hear your will — your own
flesh-and-blood, whom you have sworn to
cleave to till separated by death — insulted.
and not offer one word in her defence?
Oh ! that I should have lived to see this
day ! It would have boon better for me,
had I died in early childhood !'

sand for me too,' thinks the colonel,
miserably, expressing his feelings by a

series of low groans. Visions of Kashmir
and peaceful solitudes rise before him in
tantalising contrast to the horror of the
present situation, and he determines not
to yield them up without another struggle.

1 But, my dear — my love,' he says, in a
tone of mild expostulation, ' I fancy that
we are wandering from the point. If you
remember, we were discussing my departure
to Kashmir !'

c Understand me once for all, Colonel
Stockton,' she says, leaning towards him,
and shaking her fat finger angrily in his
face. ' You are not going to Kashmir alone
if you want some sport, and are bent on
leaving Doonga, then 1 will accompany
you. I know what you mean to do, you
profligate old villain — you mean to go to
Sarinagar, and hire a boat 1

4 Hire a boat, my love ?' cries the
Colonel, in astonishment. ' What in the
name of wonder should I want a boat for?'

You can't deceive me with your bald
hypocrisy,' she cries, with an angry snort.
1 If you think that I don't know why
Sarinagar is so much frequented by the
British officer, you are much mistaken.
Sarinagar has a lake, and on the lake

there are boats to hire, and in those boats
the wretches spend the greater portion of
their leave.'

Well, my dear, and if they do — surely
it is a most innocent amusement.'

4 Fiddle-de-dee ! Don't try to get round
me,' she cries, contemptuously. ' If you call
it an innocent amusement to be rowed about
all day by a half-clothed Kashmiri girl

1 Laura — your language is most outrageous
! Do you dare to insinuate that I am
capable of such — such horrible — conduct?
Have I ever given you cause to suspect me
of infidelity ?'

4 I would sooner not discuss further your
reprehensible inclinations,' she answers,
sharply. c I merely repeat my former
statement — if you go, I go with you.'

4 But, my love — I mean to rough it
terribly — to live in a little tent, and cook
my own food. I would not think of allowing
you to undertake such hardships.'

c You are very solicitous for my welfare,
I have no doubt !' she says, with a sarcastic
snort. 4 But you will allow me to be the
best judge of my own affairs. Where you
go, I, as your wife, mean to follow. If you
persist in going to Kashmir, however disagreeable

it may be to me to have to yield
up all the necessary comforts of life, still I
shall do it — I shall accompany you. You
will have to find room for me in your little
tent, and you will have to cook my dinner
in addition to your own — and my appetite
is very good. No one shall say that / am
wanting in my duties as wife, however
shamefully I may be neglected. So kindly
decide at once, Colonel Stockton, so that I
can make all the necessary arrangements.
Do you intend to go to Kashmir, or do you
not?'

She sits before him grim and terrible.
The unfortunate husband springs from his
chair with a loud curse.

No he says, ' on such horrible terms, I
wont go — and — and — may you be damned !'
with which delicate little reference to her
future state, he leaves the room, slamming
the door behind him.

Mrs. Stockton rises with a look of trim
satisfaction on her heavy features, feeling
that she has scored another victory over her
husband, who probably under the instigation
of her bate-noir, Major Lamb, has of late
shown himself inclined to be refractory.

She was one of those unfortunately disposed

women, who regard the whole of
mankind as their natural enemy — who see
in every harmless look and gesture a
studied insult, and her pride and clogged
perseverance caused and enabled her to
follow up all fancied slights with a relentless
fury. Her disposition was so thoroughly
disagreeable, that her one pleasure in
life seemed to be to quarrel with her neighbours.
Her capacity for direct aggression
was unequalled, and her ability to raise a
dispute on every conceivable subject and
occasion, to draw the enemy into battle,
to force its weak point, to rout and cover
it with confusion could only have been
acquired by a life-long study. In fact, she
was a woman dangerous to the peace and
harmony of all communities — a woman
devoid of woman's instincts, and capable
of conceiving a most insensate hatred
against every human creature — a woman
to whom the words love and charity had no
significance whatever.

But the one idea predominating in Mrs.
Stockton's mind at this moment was the
insult which she had received at Mrs. Renfrew's
hands, and which she had been unable
to wipe out, in consequence of the

latter lady's sudden illness. She does not
take into consideration that her own behaviour
on that occasion might have been
more refined and elegant. She totally
ignores this little point ; in fact, her mind
would have been incapable of seeing her
conduct in its true light, even had some
confiding friend had the temerity to attempt
to explain it to her. She only remembers
that Mrs. Renfrew, by an exasperating display
of calmness, had made her the laughingstock
of the dinner-table ; and the
thought rankles in her mind like a gangrened
sore.

She has no faith at all in the genuineness
of Mrs. Renfrew's reported illness ; she
has brooded over the subject so long that
she has thoroughly convinced herself that
it is merely a ruse on that lady's part,
adopted with the purpose of avoiding contact
with her ; and she becomes so imbued
with this idea that she determines not to
rest until she has openly exposed this base
imposture of the enemy. Accordingly she
sits down and pens a little note to Mrs.
Renfrew, couched in terms of the tenderest
sympathy, begging to be allowed to pay hera
short visit of condolence.

'' I trust that you will not take offence at
my offer of assistance,' she writes, bending

over her desk, with a venomous contraction
of the lips. ' It seems so sad to think of
you lying there in your room, alone, away
from all your friends.'

This she places in an envelope, and gives
to a servant, with injunctions to take it
to Mrs. Renfrew's room, and to await an
answer.

In less than a quarter-of-an-hour the
servant returns, bearing a little note, which
she eagerly seizes and opens.

Dear Mrs. Stockton.

My aunt desires
me to thank you for your very kind inquiries.
She regrets that she is not well
enough to take advantage of your kind offer
to come and see her.

• Yours sincerely,

1 Diana Forsdykf.'

That is all ! Nothing could be carter
and more to the point ! No elaboration of
words could have conveyed more exactly
the meaning intended than these few
lines penned by the hand of the fair Diana.

Her offer of sympathy has been rejected !
The undercurrent of hypocrisy has been
detected beneath her honied phrases,
and she has received a rebuff — a stinging
enjoinment, glistening with the varnish of
social courtesy, to mind her own business !

She crushes the letter in her hand, her
face convulsed with impotent anger.

Tell me,' she cries, in fluent Hindi,
4 did you see the lady V

c Yes, memsahib,' answers the trembling
servant. c There were two memsahibs in
the room.'

1 And you gave them my letter ?'

1 gave the note to the old memsahib.
She was lying on a long chair.'

Yes, you wretch,' she cries, impatiently,
c and what happened?'

1 The memsahib opened the chitti, read it,
and threw it in the fire-place.'

'Well?'

She laughed, and spoke to the miss-sahib,
who sat down and wrote that chitti. 1

c Tell me the truth, you lying pig ! Did
the memsahib laugh ?'

Protector of the poor !' says the man,
joining the palms of his hands before him
in supplication. ' Allah is good ! This is

the truth! The two memsahibs laughed
loudly, and when I went out they laughed
again.'

You may go !'

They had laughed at her ! Not only
had they seen through her covert scheme,
but they had mocked her behind her back,
and had gloated over her discomfiture !

This thought rouses all the latent madness
in this strange woman's nature. Purple
with rage at the consciousness of her
defeat, she rises from her seat and stalks
about the room. What can she do ? How
can she retaliate ? How can she avenge
the insult which she has received ?

The clock on the mantelpiece chimes the
half-past three, and, still under the influence
of her ungovernable temper, she is
pacing the room and acting like a madwoman.
In her distorted vision the rebuff
which she has received becomes magnified
into an insult of the gravest order, and,
carried away by her anger, she determines
to wipe it out at once.

In another moment she is standing outside
the door, with her hands resting irresolutely
on the handle, looking down tin-corridor
in the direction of Mrs. Renfrew's

VOL. i. t

rooms. She has no fixed purpose in her
mind ; blinded with impotent: . she is
hard'. Son. Then she

leaves the ks quickly

down the passage. She is determined to
ver for herself whether Mrs. Renfrew's
illness reality or shan and. if it proves
to be the latter, she is I to force an

entry and meet her fa

Arriving opposite Mrs. B s door.

she | aes ■ moment to calm the violent

beatings of her heart. All is still — the

corridor is hearted and no sound of life

jets from within the room. In the

as : : gaining ■ view of the inter:

the room, she cautiously bends down and

applies her eye to the keyhole, but she is

disappointed, for the key is in the lock on

ther side, and with a look of battled

gi she moves her eye.

Suddenly a faint murmuring of voices
strikes upon her ear. and immediately she
b iD attention. She bends down again
and leans her weight against the door,
with her ear applied to the key-hole,
straining all her powers to catch the purport
of the conversation

At first she can distinguish nothing —

only a confused buzz of voices, which
appears to proceed from the inner room,
which has no outlet on the corridor. Then
a word or two strikes upon her ear distinctly,
and she redoubles her attention.
From the tones of the voices, it seems as
though the two ladies were engaged in some
slight altercation. She recognises Mrs.
Renfrew's plaintive strain, raised apparently
in injured complaint, and then follows
a soft murmur from Miss Forsdyke,
of which the listening woman is unable to
detect a single syllable.

Presently Mrs. Renfrew's piping treble
travels across the room.

1 I am not dissatisfied with you at all,
Diana,' it says. ' Of course it is only
right that you should take daily exercise.
and get some fresh air. I merely wished
to impress on you not to stay out too Long.
A wretched invalid like myself finds the
time drag very heavily, if left alone for
long.'

And then Miss Forsdyke's voice rises
full and clear.

1 Ah ! dear aunt, I cannot bear to think
that you imagine that I could neglect you

t 2

for one moment. I owe so much to you
that I should be a wicked girl indeed if I
did not love you dearly. I shall not be
out long. My head is aching from being
confined so long indoors, and I feel inclined
for brisk exercise. But I shall certainly
be back by six.'

You are certainly right in saying that
you owe me much,' says Mrs. Renfrew.
Though your father did not specialist ; he
wrote me such a statement of your general
character that I am sure most women
would have thought twice before taking
charge of you.'

c But, aunt, it is not true,' says Miss
Forsdyke, in a pleading tone.

That I cannot say,' answers Mrs. Renfrew,
sharply. ' Your father is a very
religious man, I know — he always was,
even when a child, inclined to Methodism
and I hardly imagine him capable of
fabricating base aspersions against his only
child. If he does do so, religion must have
sent him mad. However, as a Christian
woman, I am not biassed in the least — I
judge you as I find you, not by hearsay.
Up till now you have been all that is
amiable and good.'

c And I will continue so, my dearest
aunt.'

The eager listener at the door exerts
every nerve in her body to hear every word
of the foregoing conversation. With her
hands resting on her knees, she presses her
ear tightly against the key-hole, and so
violent is the strain resulting from this
inclined position, that her face assumes an
apoplectic hue. Suddenly the door opens
from within, and Mrs. Stockton, completely
losing her balance, falls headlong into the
room, to the profound amazement of Miss
Forsdyke, who has been on the point of
going out.

She starts back with a little cry of fright.
The violence of the fall has deprived the
unfortunate woman of her wind, and she
lies on the floor spluttering and snorting,
apparently on the verge of apoplexy, and
presenting such an extraordinary figure
that Miss Forsdyke does not know whether
to shriek for help or laugh aloud.

She is recalled to her senses by the
aggrieved voice of Mrs. Renfrew coming
from the inner room.

'It is really too bad of you,' cry the
petulant tones. 'What have you been

doing now? You have given my poor
nerves such a shock that I shan't forget it
for a week.'

But Miss Forsdyke feels unable to move
or speak. She stands gazing down at the
unwieldy form, gasping spasmodically for
breath, in a kind of traced bewilderment.

'Will you answer me, Diana?' comes
Mrs. Renfrew's voice, raised now in high
irritation. ' What have you done ? Have
you broken anything ? What is that puffing
noise ? Is the house on fire, or what ?
What an aggravating girl you are !'

Still no answer. Mrs. Stockton's sudden
and ungraceful entry has so completely
paralysed her every movement that, to
save her life, she feels she could not say a
word.

Oh ! my nerves — my poor nerves !'
pipes Mrs. Renfrew, from within ; c what
has happened to the girl ? Has she been
and killed herself, or why does she not
answer ? Oh ! dear me, I am frightened
to death ! What a noise she is making —
it is simply awful ! I must go and see !.
Oh, my nerves, my nerves, I am all of a
tremble !'

Miss Forsdyke hears her aunt rise from

her couch and cross the inner room, and
then the door of communication opens, and
Mrs. Renfrew appears, shaking like an aspen
leaf in every limb.

c Diana, where are you ? — Goodness
gracious, what is the matter? What is
that upon the floor ?'

Pale with fright, she advances quickly
across the room, and bends down over the
prostrate figure.

Mrs. Stockton !' she exclaims, in tones
of the deepest amazement ; ' what is she
doing here ? Is she ill ? Diana, what
does this mean ?'

She looks sharply across at her niece,
with a sniff of angry suspicion.

'It was a most extraordinary thing,
aunt,' cries Diana, flushed and excited. ' I
went to the door and opened it, and immediately
Mrs. Stockton fell headlong into
the room.'

Most extraordinary, as you say!' answers
Mrs. Renfrew, with delicate sarcasm. 'You
opened the door, and Mrs. Stockton fell
headlong into the room! What a very
strange proceeding on her part, to be sure !
Is the lady hurt ?'

She asks the question in the calmest of

tones, as though she were making some
casual inquiry of polite indifference. It is
wonderful to note how suddenly Mrs. Renfrew's
nerves have disappeared under the
excitement of the moment !

1 I really cannot say, aunt,' returns
Diana, kneeling down beside the wretched
woman ; ' I think that she has merely lost
her breath.'

She bends over Mrs. Stockton and politely
asks her whether she be hurt or not.
The latter, puffing and blowing like a
grampus of unusually strong power of lung,
shoots at her a glance of hate, and tries to
speak.

1 1 — will— pay — you — out — for this,' she
pants, holding both her sides, as though
the effort of speaking were very painful.
1 I won't — forget it, — you — mark — my —
words !'

Miss Forsdyke rises flushed and grave.

There is noting serious the matter with
her, aunt,' she says, quietly ; ' she has only
lost her breath for a moment or so.'

4 Poor, dear, suffering creature ! How
very sad, indeed !' remarks Mrs. Renfrew,
with a fine affectation of sympathy. ' Really,
Diana, she requires assistance — she

must not be left in this condition ! Send
the bearer at once with my compliments to
the manager of the hotel, and request him
to step up here immediately.'

Miss Forsdyke steps out on to the balcony,
and gives the message to the native,
who disappears at once to do her bidding.

The manner in which Mrs. Renfrew has
risen to the situation is really admirable.
For a lady who has suffered all her life
from a weakness of the nervous system,
the perfect calmness with which she issues
her orders, and surveys the miserable
woman at her feet, is literally amazing.
She stands in the middle of the room with
nose slightly tilted into the air, and lips
firmly closed, patiently awaiting the advent
of the manager.

Miss Forsdyke is not so calm. There is
a slight flush upon her delicate check, and
a trace of excitement in her glance. She
is thinking of the words of menace which
have just fallen from Mrs. Stockton's lips.
and she is vainly trying to account for the
tone of bitter hatred which characterised
the speech.

Mrs. Stockton is still lying fall-length
upon the floor, giving no signs of ever

getting up again. To a lady of her abnormally
obese proportions, such a shock as
she has received is not by any means a
trifle.

The noise of voices is heard approaching
from the end of the corridor, and in
another moment the manager is bowing
himself politely into the room. On seeing
Mrs. Stockton stretched upon the ground,
he starts back with an exclamation of dismay
; but, before he can speak, Mrs. Renfrew
advances towards him, and shows
herself mistress of the situation.

c Mr. Banbury,' she says, in a calmly
polite tone, ' I regret to say that this unfortunate
lady has been guilty of the most
dishonourable and unladylike proceeding
of eavesdropping at my keyhole. Unaware
of her proximity, my niece suddenly
opened the door, and the lady fell forward
heavily to the ground. She is not hurt, I
believe — she has merely lost her breath.
I must request you, Mr. Banbury, in your
capacity of manager of this hotel, to remove
the lady immediately from my private
apartment. I must also warn you
that, should such an annoyance as this be

repeated. I shall feel compelled to leave
your hotel.'

She gives him a stately inclination of
the head, and walks to her bed-room,
closing the door behind her ; whilst Miss
Forsdyke, repressing an inclination to
laugh hysterically at the grotesque absurdity
of the whole affair, leaves the
room, and hurries off in the direction of
the wood, to keep her second appointment
with Frank Grandly.

For some moments the manager stands
doubtfully viewing the panting lady on
the floor. It strikes him forcibly that it
will be a matter of no small difficulty to
bodily remove a lady of such a magnificent
presence as Mrs. Stockton from one room
to another. But he does not pause for
long — his time is far too precious to allow
him to waste it over such an irregular,
unbusiness-like proceeding. He hastily
collects four or five servants together, and
acting under his directions, in spite of her
desperate struggles, they manage to lift
her from the floor and place her on a sofa.
The manager then leads the way, and the
natives propel the heavily-weighted piece

of furniture down the corridor in the direction
of her room.

Slowly moves the funeral-like cortege !
Alas ! how are the mighty fallen !

CHAPTER XVII.

UNDER THE TRYSTING-OAK.

The wise and provident hand of Nature
has so ruled it that all excessive strains
on the human mind are followed by contrary
reactions, which gradually restore
the equilibrium of the senses ; after a period
of intense excitement comes a soothing
calm ; after protracted grief, a resuscitation
of placidity; after killing joy, a state
of mild tranquillity — otherwise the human
brain would break and die. And this inaction
settles heavily on the excited mind
of Grandly on awakening on the morning
after his meeting with Miss Forsdvkc

Desirous as he is of becoming Miss Fore-dyke's
intimate friend, lie cannot repress
his vexation at finding himself placed in
so embarrassing a position. His clear
sense of honour revolting at the idea of a

secret intimacy, it seems to him, by having
consented to the scheme, that he has been
guilty of a display of weakness degrading
to his manhood. It is impossible for him
to conceal from himself the fact that this
projected friendship with Miss Forsdyke
bears a terribly close resemblance to a low
intrigue.

To a young man of his high morality
this idea naturally causes much annoyance,
and gives much play for earnest thought.
The venture on which he finds himself
embarked is dead against his inclinations,
and he reproaches himself strongly for not
having remained firm in his resolve. He
should have manfully resisted all tears
and protestations, and should have refused
point-blank to have had any share in the
illicit scheme. He should have nerved his
heart to sacrifice all personal desire in the
cause of duty.

This is what he should have done ! In
these early hours of the day, with the
brain thoroughly refreshed by a long
night's rest, he sees this plainly. But
then he did not do it ! Under the excitement
of the moment, his firm resolves
had melted like the Himalayan snows in

June before the sun. And therefore he
feels that it is of no avail for him to waste
his time in vain regrets — the die is cast,
and by his hand, and he must now abide
by the result. For he never hesitates one
instant in his intention to fulfil the promise
which he has so weakly given.
Though conscious that probably he would
never have consented to the scheme had
not he been labouring under the influence
of an intense excitement, his sense of
honour recoils before the thought of breaking
his promised word. He has solemnly
affirmed his intention of becoming her true
and faithful friend on the lines dictated
by herself, and he resolutely determines
to carry out his promise to the letter.

Before separating from Miss Forsdyke
on the evening previously, they had arranged
to meet on the morrow at the same time
in the same place, so at a quarter before
the hour of four on this Saturday afternoon
Frank Grandly emerges from the
grounds of the hotel and again takes the
road towards the wood. A look of anxiety
overcast his features as he walks along,
for he finds it impossible to dissipate the
sense of guilt which weighs upon his mind.

But, in spite of this, he is conscious of experiencing
deep down in his heart a sense
of soft contentment at the prospect of finding
himself once again in the society of
Miss Forsdyke. That his interest in her
personality is slowly and surely on the increase
he is only too well aware, for she
never leaves his thoughts — from morning
till night he finds himself, half-unconsciously,
dwelling on the details of her petite form
and strange sombre existence; and he views
his conduct in this particular with a feeling
of semi-wonderment, for such a proceeding
on his part is quite foreign to his
usual line of conduct.

Four years before, a great blow had
fallen on his life. His only sister, whom
he had worshipped with a passionate devotion,
had died in India, where she had proceeded
on her marriage. At the early age
of eighteen she had married a man who had
been in no way worthy to possess her. He
was a handsome, idle, worthless young
fellow, as unstable as water, and possessing
more money than common-sense, and, from
the first moment that she set her eyes
upon his god-like face, she loved him with
a love which became the passion of her

life. And he, too, for his part became
deeply enamoured of the pure young girl,
and day after day would ride over from the
barracks, where he was quartered, to look
upon her winsome face. In her sweet presence
the knowledge of his own self-degradation
would strike him to the heart,
and, on the day when they interchanged
their vows of love, he solemnly swore to
her to purge himself of all vice and wickedness,
and to reform.

There was much opposition to their
union. At first Mrs. Grandly would not
hear of it being mentioned ; the life of
profligacy which he had led was known to
all the world, and she — good, loving mother
shrank from the idea of her daughter
mating with a reprobate. But he seemed
so thoroughly in earnest in his intention
to reform, and he pleaded so strongly for
her consent, with the tears glistening in
those deep-blue eyes of his, which were
found so strangely hard to resist by all,
that finally she yielded, and agreed to
accept him as a son-in-law, on the understanding
that the marriage should not
take place at least for another year, during
which he was to prove to her and the
VOL. I. °

world at large that lie was worthy to
possess her daughter.

Frank Grandly at this time was in his
seventeenth year, and he became a firm
champion of his sister's cause, for it was
impossible not to like the man she loved.
He was not bad — he was merely weak, and
Frank boy-like viewed all his faults with a
lenient eye, feeling assured in his heart
that he was genuine in his resolve to lead
a better life. And so two months went by,
and, under the influence of his love, young
Talbot became another man.

At the end of that period, his regiment
received sudden orders to depart for India,
and Mrs. Grandly 's tender heart could not
resist the earnest supplications of the young
couple. She gave her consent to an immediate
marriage, and, a week before the
regiment sailed, they were bound together
in holy matrimony in the little parish
church. A year passed, and then came the
painful news of the young wife's sudden
death — she had died of enteric fever contracted
in one of the hill-stations of the
Himalayas.

Frank Gran dby's grief was terrible. He
had loved his sister more than any other

human soul on earth, and the news of her
death was a shock from which he never
totally recovered. From that moment something
was wanting in his life; there was a
void in his heart which he felt could never
be refilled.

The knowledge that his sister's married
life had been one short dream of happiness,
somewhat lessened the poignancy of
his sorrow ; for Charlie Talbot had been
true to his promise, and had never given
her cause for a moment's pain. The last
letter which she had written to him had
been full of touching allusions to the great
tenderness of her husband's love.

Charlie Talbot had written, announcing
the death of his wife. It was as pathetic
and heart-breaking an epistle as perhaps
has ever been penned by human hand. It
was evident that he was completely crushed
by the magnitude of his sorrow. Frank
wrote to him in reply a letter full of tender
sympathy. 'Within a year's time,' he
wrote, c I hope I shall clasp your hand in
mine But it was fated that they should
never meet again. Before Grandly started
for India, the news arrived of Talbot's
sudden death. Travelling in the wilds of

u2

Kashmir, he had met with an awful death :
he had fallen over a precipice and had been
smashed upon the rocks beneath.

Grandly allowed many a sigh to escape
him, thinking over the death of his handsome
brother-in-law. He never could forget
the fact that it was owing to Charlie
Talbot that the last year of his sister's life
had been crowned with such perfect happiness
; and it had made no difference in his
regard for him, when vague rumours came

O 7 O

across the seas that he had again returned
to his old life of profligate folly. With the
death of his good spirit, it was said that
Talbot had again succumbed to that fatal
weakness of mind which had been his curse
through life. Mention of his name was
made in scandalous connection with more
than one woman, and it was even whispered
that there was a lady in some way or other
mysteriously interwoven with the cause of
his fearful death But Grandly never took
the trouble to inquire into the truth of
these reports. Loyal to the memory of his
friend, he only thought of him in his
character of a devoted husband to his dead,
beloved sister.

Four years had elapsed since that sad

morning when the mail brought the news
of his sister's death, and still Grandly had
not recovered from the wound it caused
him. No woman had ever arisen to fill up
that dreary gap in his affections caused
by her sudden loss. And now, as he walks
along on this autumn afternoon to keep
his assignation, the thought strikes him
that possibly, by a gracious act of Providence,
Miss Forsdyke has been thrown
across his path with this set purpose.

He ponders over this idea, and it does
not strike him as impossible. The strangeness
of his sudden interest in the girl only
tends to verify the notion. It seems to him
that that subtle bond of sympathy which
exists between them is a proof that it was
ordained that they should meet and be
more to one another than casual acquaintances.
And, by some irresistible unknown
influence, such in fact had been effected.
They have met, and, acting under the
directions of the same unknown power.
they have sworn to one another a vow of
friendship ; they have entered on a contract
of platonic love and fraternal confidence ;
they have arranged to stand to one another
in the relationship of brother to sister.

The strange idea gains ground on his
heated imagination ; the more he ponders,
the more he becomes convinced that he is
right in his belief that it is ordained that
Miss Forsdyke should take that place in
his affections formerly occupied by his
sister. And in accepting this belief, he
experiences no pain at the thought of
another occupying the shadowed void ; it
does not strike him that such a contingency
would be a sacrilege to the sacred memory
of his buried love : it merely fills him with
a sensation of ineffable joy and surpassing
contentment. For in Miss Forsdyke he
sees not a totally distinct individuality, but
the living spirit of his sister embodied in a
different form, and through this new embodiment
can be gained access to that
gentle spirit which he formerly knew and
loved so well.

Musing thoughtfully over this idea, he
reaches the spot of assignation. Miss Forsdyke
has not yet arrived. Only the huge
oak, with its heavy outstretched bough r
against which they had leaned the day before,
confronts him, and he walks towards it r
and prepares to wait patiently for her arrival
by taking out a cigarette and lighting it.

The same hushed calm pervades the
wood ; the trees, as yet tinged with

autumnal yellow, raise their rich foil
in silence to the sky. The trysting-oak.
near which he is standing, rises from a
knoll of soft, green turf, with masses of
maiden-hair fern clustering about its roots.
It is a tree of colossal size, plainly showing
by its hollow trunk the ravages of
time, and presenting a striking contrast,
in its rugged gnarled appearance, to
those in its immediate vicinity. Round
its trunk, with a gradual inclination downwards,
the green turf stretches until it
reaches on every side a thick growth of
fern, with violet, white, and yellow balsam
intermixed, extending in all directions 3
far as the eye can reach. It is a pretty
little fairy spot, rising like an island out of
the surrounding sea of undergrowth— a
veritable inspiration on the part of Dame
Nature— and Grandly. lazily puffing the
thin white coils of smoke and watching
them gradually disperse in the balmy air.
experiences a sense of calm enjoyment
from the beauty of his surrounding.

The moments pass, and still DO Miflfl
Forsdyke comes. He nov l i the

tree, and leans his arms across the bough,
and gazes up in a kind of dreamlike
ecstacy at the small patch of blue sky
discernible through the trees.

He is aroused from his reverie by the
touch of a soft hand upon his arm, and,
quickly looking round, he sees Miss Forsdyke
standing beside him with a vivid
colour on her cheeks.

I have come so fast,' she says, with a
little laugh, shaking him by the hand,
4 that I have quite lost my breath. Am I
very late ? I am afraid that I have kept
you waiting very long.'

He eagerly returns the soft pressure of
her hand. Her heightened colour enhances
the delicate beauty of her face, and he
looks into her laughing eyes with a thrill
of admiration. All trace of sorrow has
disappeared from her charming countenance
; as she stands before him, she looks
the very picture of light-hearted gaiety.

We have had such an adventure,' she
cries, breathlessly. ' Mrs. Stockton has
been lying on our floor, puffing and blowing
like an inverted steam-engine. The
old wretch must have been listening at our
keyhole. I was on the point of starting

to come here, and, on opening our sitting 1
room door, she suddenly fell headlong
into the room. You may imagine my
consternation at her unexpected and
peculiar entry ! It was really no joke at
first, I can tell you, for she lay on the
floor panting and wheezing to such an extent
that I really believed her to be on the
point of death.'

What an extraordinary occurrence !
What on earth did you do V he asks, smiling
at her childlike excitement.

Oh ! it was really most laughable — for
she was not hurt a bit, you know. The
force of the fall had taken away her
breath, and the poor old thing could not
articulate one word. My aunt, who is,
as you know, confined to her room with
nerves? she continues, with a comical expression
on her face, c came limping in,
with her cap all awry, and pale with fright,
and soon settled the business. She rang
for the manager, and told him to remove
the woman at once. How lie managed todo
it I can't conceive, for I immediately
seized on the chance of escape and hurried
off — but she is no mean weight, is
she?'

A clear, merry laugh rings through the
stillness of the wood.

1 You can have no idea,' she cries, ' what
an absurd spectacle she presented, lying
huddled on the floor. I feel that I could
laugh at the recollection till I cried.
What I should have done had my aunt
not been present, goodness only knows !
Probably I should have fallen down beside
her in a similar state of helplessness. But
isn't it awful to think of her being guilty
of such a low trick ?' she adds, her voice
assuming a tone of gravity. ' Fancy a
woman in her position demeaning herself to
such an extent as to eavesdrop at our door.'

I can hardly conceive it possible,' answers
Grandly, in a tone of blank amazement.
' What could have been her motive.'

6 1 really cannot say,' she answers,
thoughtfully, c unless it be that she bears
a grudge against my aunt for having made
those unfortunate remarks at dinner last
Tuesday. But that is hardly probable,
is it ?'

Do you know Mrs. Lamb — that faded
yellow woman ?' he asks. ' Well, she
warned me very strongly not to offend
Mrs. Stockton. She told me that she was

vindictive almost to madness, and would
never forgive a slight, however small. So
perhaps your suggestion may be right

My aunt is a perfect judge of character,
and she seems to have been of the same
opinion. Before this mishap occurred,
Mrs. Stockton wrote a little note of condolence
to my aunt, asking to be allowed to
come and see her, and, without a moment's
consideration, Mrs. Renfrew dictated to mea
curt refusal, saying, as she did so, that
she was not quite such a fool as Mrs. Stockton
presumably supposed her to be. Soit
seems as if she distrusted her, doesn't
it?'

c Yes, certainly,' he replies. c It is unfortunate,
that we should have both incurred
this aggressive old woman's spite. After
I refused to dance with her, she cast on
me such a glance of hate that I half suspected
the venom of her character.'

c But, Mr. Grandly,' she cries, with B
ringing laugh, 'you do not really mean
to tell me that she actually asked you to
dance ?'

I assure you that she did,' he laughs, in
reply.

4 And you were so un gallant as to reft

Oh — fie — Mr. Granclby ! I really thought
better of you than that.'

But surely you will admit, that there
was some excuse for my behaviour?
Imagine me walking disconsolately about
that ball-room, vainly attempting to fathom
the mystery of a certain little scented
billet-doux, which '

c Yes, you may well pause !' she answers,
blushing modestly ; c I presume your conscience
is pricking you for alluding to such
a disgraceful episode.'

c It wasn't disgraceful at all !' he retorts,
stoutly. ' You acted under the impulse of
the moment, and — and I am devoutly
thankful to think you did. Do you know,
Miss Forsdyke, that to-day I have been
struck with a very strange idea ?'

c No — have you ?' she says, opening her
eyes in innocent wonderment. - Do — please
confide it to me. But supposing we sit
down, There is no reason why we should
stand here like talking dummies. This
grassy slope seems made for weary limbs.'

He readily agrees, and they both sink
down on to the soft green turf, side by side.
He is charmed with the open, sisterly manner
in which she has treated him to-day.

Under its influence, all sense of embarrassment
has flown, and lie feels as much at
his ease with her as if he had known her
all her life.

'And now tell me your idea,' she says.
sitting up, with her hands folded prettily
on her lap, and with an air of expectant interest
on her sunny little countenance.

1 Well, first you must promise not to
laugh at me,' he says, with some hesitation,
looking her shyly in the face.

c Laugh at you !' she says, in astonishment.
' Of course I shall not laugh at you.
You ought to know me better than even
to think of such a thing.'

I only thought that the idea which
seems so possible tome might strike yon
as ridiculous,' he says, in half-apologetic
tones. ' And it involves such a very serious
question that I could not bear you laughing
at it.'

Of course, I will not laugh,' she answers,
softly. ' Tell me, what is it ?'

'Well, you must know,' he answers, in a
low voice, 'that four years ago I suffered
a terrible loss. My darling Bister, whom I
had loved with a passionate devotion, died
She was the only creature, save my mother,

whom I had ever had to love — and consequently
my love for her was all the
stronger. And, when she died, I thought
that happiness had gone out of my life forever.
But I was young then, and did not
understand that time can partially heal
every wound. You follow me ?'

With a grave inclination of the head,
she silently assents. c And time in my
case has done wonders,' he continues, c but
it has never wholly healed the wound, and
I am certain that it never will. There is
something wanting in my life of which I
am ever conscious — a dreary sense of incompleteness
which I can never dissipate.
I know that my life has been embittered
by her sudden death, and I know that it is
the memory of my loss which makes my
disposition so painfully reserved

1 Yes,' she murmurs, sympathetically,
4 you interest me deeply.'

Do I ?' he asks, with a sudden animation.
c It makes me very happy to think so,
for it partially confirms the strange idea,
with which I was seized this afternoon. It
is so seemingly impossible, so — so — unrealizable,
that I hardly know how I can

put it into words, so as to make it clear to
you.'

Ah— try !' she murmurs. ' Only try ! —
I feel intuitively that I shall understand
your meaning.'

• Well, it is this.' he says, lowering his
voice almost to a whisper. * I have been
seized with the idea that possibly — possibly,
my sister's spirit has — has returned to
this world, to live with me again in personal
communion.'

• What !' she cries, unable to repress her
intense astonishment, 'what do you — Ah.
Mr. Grandly. explain to me your meaning
clearly — as yet I do not understand.'

Her voice again assumes a tone of tender
sympathy, and she bends forward with
a gesture amounting almost to a caress,
a look of eager inquiry in her face. He
notes the sudden ring of astonishment in
her voice, and continues in a more excited
tone.

• Do you not understand me ?' he cries.

j

Something within me tells me that my
sister's spirit has returned ag^n, embodied
in a different form. I cannot shake
off the strange idea, and every moment

which passes makes me more and more
convinced that I am right. As I sit here
and look at you, and talk to you, and hear
you talk to me, it seems to me impossible
that it can be otherwise than that.'

She looks up suddenly, with a flush of
warm colour sweeping across her skin.
The air of puzzled bewilderment which she
has worn for the last few minutes disappears,
giving place to an expression of
joyous triumph which she is unable wholly
to repress. Her emotion is so great that
for a moment she finds herself incapable
of speaking. Then, with an effort, she controls
herself, and speaks in trembling tones.

Do I understand you right ?' she says,
her voice sinking to a whisper, ' do you
refer to me when you speak of your sister's
spirit ?'

4 Yes,' he answers, in an agitated voice,
1 1 refer to you. Does the notion strike
you as absurd ? Do you fully comprehend
my meaning ?'

c Do I resemble her in any way ?' she
asks, inethe same hushed tone.

4 Not in looks — nor in manners,' he answers,
quickly. ' It is not that I mean.
It is the fact of my having conceived for

you such a wondrous sympathy, that has
given me the idea. From the very first
moment that I set eyes upon you, I became
conscious of feeling a deep interest in your
person, and from that moment till now
that interest has been growing hour by
hour, stronger and stronger, until it has
reached that point which compels me to
regard you as a sister. To-day I recognised
that the feeling which you have inspired
in me is closely akin to the love I bore
my sister — never before have I been conscious
of anything resembling it. Ah,
Diana — Miss Forsdyke, do you think that
there can possibly be any truth in this
strange idea, or do you think that weakness
of body has made me fanciful?'

In his excitement he leans forward and
takes her by the hand. Again, unperceived
by him, the same expression of triumphant
joy sweeps across her downcast face. With
a gentle pressure of the hand, she turns her
eyes towards his anxiously expectant face.

Frank,' she murmurs, softly, — ' for, feeling
as we do towards one another, why
should we adopt a formal method of address,
— the idea which you have propounded
to me is too abstruse for my poor

vol. i. x

feeble intellect to follow or to discuss. I
have no power to tell you whether you be
right or wrong — I only know that I feel
towards you the same feeling of fraternal
regard as you admit you feel for me. Why
I do so I cannot tell — I do not understand
the matter. There seems to be some mysterious
influence drawing me towards you
an influence so strong that it is impossible
for my weak mind to stand against it.
If what you suggest could really be, then
it would readily account for my great
regard for you. Whether it could be or
not, I cannot venture to say — I have
never thought upon such subjects. But
I do not see why it should not be true.
Ah ! if I could only believe in it — then
everything which is now so mysterious
would be plain to me.'

Then believe, Diana !' he cries, still retaining
her hand within his grasp, ' trust
to my intuition, and believe ! It is true
I know it is — every pulse-beat in my
body tells me so. Ah ! Diana — Diana !' he
says, drawing closer towards her, 'henceforth
we must be all in all to one another,
for you are my sister, and I am your
brother. We must have no secrets from

one another, no joys nor sorrows, which
we must not share together. Diana '
speak to me, and tell me that all 1 Bay
strikes a sympathetic chord within your
heart.'

A wave of agitation sweeps across her
face, and her head sinks gently down upon
his shoulder.

All in all to one another !' she faintly
whispers, ' yes, Frank, we must henceforth
be all in all — from this day a new life
begins — for both of us.'

There is a silence for several minutes
throughout the darkening wood. Both he
and she are conscious of the beatings of
the other's heart, but neither speaks a
word. Then suddenly he bends his head,
and gently touches her forehead with his
lips.

She rises with a hurried start, and
through the deepening twilight he can
discern the rich flush of colour which overspreads
her face.

How late it is !' she says, with a feverish
excitement. l I must be going — tomorrow
again at four ?'

Yes, at four !'

Good-night, Frank.'

x2

1 Good-night, Diana.'

She stands for a moment holding him by
the hand, gazing wistfully up into his face,
and then she turns away and leaves him
alone under the giant oak, already wrapped
in the shades of night.

CHAPTER XVIII.

BESIDE HIS SISTER'S GRAVE.

The next day is Sunday, and, as is the
custom with indifferent Christians in these
days, Grandly determines to go to church,
more from force of habit than from inclination.


So accordingly, having partaken of a
late breakfast, he saunters leisurely down
the hill towards the little gothic church
standing on the Mall. The sacred edifice
is crammed to overflowing, but he manages
to find a vacant seat. Mrs. Lamb is presiding
at the harmonium, and, as he looks
towards her, a glance of recognition lightens
up her faded face. All Doonga have assembled
together to say their prayers. The
feminine element, however, strongly predominated
— as is usually the case with tea-fights,
musical soirees, and public worship

and it was wonderful to note the
extraordinary expression of sanctity with
which each one took stock of her neighbours
bonnet and general apparel. It is
needless to say that the club was not represented;
to those wearied spirits, Sunday
was indeed a day of rest.

Neither Mrs. Renfrew nor Miss Forsdyke
is present amongst the congregation, and
Grandly rightly concludes that the former
lady's nerves are not in a fit state to allow
her to take part in anything so exciting as
the morning service of the Church of England.
Mrs. Stockton is also absent, and
many whispered comments on her nonappearance
run throughout the Banbury
contingent ; for, sad to relate, that lady's
unfortunate mishap of the day before has
given rise to the circulation of the most
grave aspersion on her character. It has,,
in fact, been said that she was seen on the
preceding afternoon being carried to her
room in a state of the most hopeless
intoxication.

How the report arose no one could explain,
but, notwithstanding this doubt as
to its origin and authenticity, it was received
with a general satisfaction, and Mrs.

Lamb, for one, was thoroughly convinced
that it was true. In fact, at breakfast on
this Sunday morning, carried away by the
excitement of the occasion and taking advantage
of the absence of her enemy, she
had openly declared that she had long suspected
Mrs. Stockton to possess a partiality
for strong liquor ; which statement on her
part, however, it is only fair to saw was
received with caution by her audience.

The service drones through its appointed
course, and not even the strange vagaries
of the harmonium under Mrs. Lamb's unpractised
touch can awaken the congregation
to anything like enthusiasm. By the
time the clergyman mounts the pulpit-steps
the look of apathetic weariness depicted
on every face has changed into the more
comfortable, but less pleasing one of somnolence.
Ladies nod and awake with little
frightened starts, fair heads droop on to
well-shaped shoulders, and Mrs. Andrews
opens her mouth to its widest extent and
deliberately and composedly snores.

Grandly, for his part, is hardly conscious
of his surroundings, so occupied is he with
his own private train of thought. Mechanically
he rises, kneels, and sits, according

to the rubric, displaying a face lost in
religious ecstasy. It can safely be asserted
that he does not inwardly digest one word
of the preacher's impassioned discourse.
Here and there a word or sentence strikes
upon his inattentive ear. He has a vague
notion that he is being threatened with the
tortures of an eternal fire unless he speedily
repents, but he bears the thought with
a philosophical equanimity, having a strong
suspicion that he has heard something very
similar to this before ; which remark, it
may be stated, equally applies to the mass
of the congregation present, to judge from
the listless apathy depicted on their faces.

It is a very terrible thing to have to
write, but it is none the less true, that the
greater portion of those assembled are
thinking more of their approaching lunch
than of their chance of eternal condemnation.
It is melancholy also to have to
record the sudden look of animation which
spreads throughout the building when the
padre turns his back and mumbles inarticulately
in the direction of the altar. Then
what a change comes o'er the spirit of the
edifice ! What a sudden rising and rustling
of silks and satins down the aisle !

What an interchange of little nods and
smiles and endless pretty coquetries ! What
a startling wakening from apathy to life !
File out, fair Christians, from the porch !
Your weekly spell of martyrdom is over,
and your elastic consciences may now remain
at rest for seven whole days !

The harmonium bursts into a triumphal
march, and the discords rise with such surprising
audacity from the blurred, wheezing
tones of the ancient instrument that
even Grandly, in spite of his preoccupation
of mind, cannot fail to notice them. There
is a smile of amusement on his face, as he
glances in its direction, and he nearly
laughs outright at the ludicrous aspect
presented by Mrs. Lamb, with her shoulders
raised up to her ears, and her body distorted
into unexpected angles. He passes out
into the bright sunshine, and stands for
several moments watching those around him.

Presently a hand is laid upon his arm,
and, turning round, he finds himself face to
face with Mrs. Lamb. He courteously
raises his hat, and shakes her by the band.

I wanted to speak to you so much, Mr.
Grandly,' she says, with a coquettish
writhe of the neck, ' that I had to leave off

GO '

most abruptly in the march from " Thalia "
a lovely thing, isn't it, so effective on a
wind instrument — for fear of not catching
you. Where do you hide yourself all day?
I see so little of you that I can hardly
fancy we are staying at the same hotel !'

1 You flatter me by confessing to having
remarked my absence,' he says, with a
pleasant smile. ' I am afraid I am not what
you call a ladies' man. I like the seclusion
of my own room, surrounded by my books.'

What a very ungallant speech to make !'
she cries, with a sprightly little laugh.
'But you hardly ever even appear at meals
now ?'

'I always appear when I can,' he answers.
c As a rule, I must admit I am either late
or absent. I take long walks by myself,
and I never notice how the time passes, and
then if I am very late, I take my dinner in
my room. But I will really promise you
to be more punctual in future.'

1 But walking by yourself must be very
dreary sort of work,' she says. ' You should
find some one to accompany you. I saw
you leaving the hotel grounds yesterday
about four o'clock, and I felt quite sorry for
your being alone.'

'Oh! really, Mrs. Lamb, you must n<»t
say such things, or you will make me quite
conceited,' he returns, with a merry laugh.
'Had I but known that my movements
were being observed by a fair lady from
her lattice window, I am afraid that I
should not have walked so composedly as
I did. I am quite a stranger in Doonga,
and I really enjoy a solitary walk. With
such enchanting scenery as this around me,
I could never feel dull.'

Ah ! I envy you the pleasure,' she says,
with a little sigh. ' I wish that I were
strong enough to take long walks. But
you must really emerge from your hermit's
cell, and be a little more sociable. I shall
always be glad to offer you a cup of tea
any day about five o'clock, if you choose to
drop in and see me !'

'You are very kind, Mrs. Lamb. Y<>u
maybe sure that I shall avail myself of
your offer !'

Mind you do !' she says, playfully flaming
her finger towards him. 4 And. Mr.
Grandly,' — dropping her voice to a confidential
whisper — 'have you heard of this
disgraceful report concerning our joint
enemy, Mrs. Stockton V

No — what report ?'

'Why — they say that yesterday she was
found in the corridor in a state of inebriation,
and that the manager had to lift heron
to a sofa, and to cart her bodily to her
room. Have you ever heard of anything
so disgraceful, and so — so — delightfully exciting
? I declare that my blood has been
tingling all the morning at the bare thought
of such a thing.'

'What a pity that such a romantic
rumour is not true !' says Grandly, smiling.
' It seems quite a shame to be compelled
to contradict such a very excellent
story.'

'But it is true,' she says, confidently. ; I
heard it on the very best authority.'

Well — I am quite loth to undeceive
you,' he says, still laughing. ' But I
can assure you that it is not true.
The unfortunate lady fell down and lost
her breath, and that was the reason of
her undignified conveyance down the
corridor.'

'Oh! but it is impossible, Mr. Grandly,'
she says, incredulously. ' Who could have
told you that ?'

I heard it from the very best of sources,'

he answers, lightly, 'from one, in fact, who
witnessed the whole occurrence.'

'And who was that?' she asks, breathlessly.


I heard it from Miss Forsdyke.'

The next moment, he is conscious <>f his
mistake. A vivid colour illumines his
olive skin, accompanied by a look of the
deepest embarrassment.

'From Miss Forsdyke?' she says, in a tone
of surprise, noting his confusion. ' Why, I
never knew that you were acquainted with
that young lady. How on earth did you
come to know her? She is not on speaking
terms with another soul in Banbury V

I made her acquaintance at the dance, 1
he stammers, feeling the situation extremely
awkward. 'And yesterday a — a chance
rencontre in the hotel gardens brought us
together again. And, yes, I can assure you,
Mrs. Lamb,' he continues, rapidly, attempting
to change the conversation, ' that it is
just as I tell you with regard to Mrs. Stockton.
She was standing outside Mrs. Renfrew's
door, and it was suddenly opened from
within, and she fell headlong into the room.
I do not pretend to say what she was doing
there

i You — you don't mean to say — oh ! Mr.
Grandly, is it possible ?' she cries, clasping
her hands together rapturously, and quite
forgetting in her excitement her momentary
suspicion. l Oh ! how delightful ! Why —
your version of the story is a thousand times
more exciting than my own ! Only fancy
listening at the keyhole ! Could anything
be more lovely ? But really I am nota
bit surprised — the woman is capable of
any crime.'

Oh ! Mrs. Lamb, you must not jump at
conclusions in that audacious manner,' he
answers, laughingly. c Perhaps the poor
lady was studying the grain of the wood,
or the mechanism of the lock — we must
give her the benefit of the doubt. And
now, I am afraid, I really must be going.
I've something particular to do to-day —
and, by-the-by, perhaps you could kindly
assist me. Could you direct me to the
cemetery ?'

'The cemetery!' she exclaims with a start
back of affected astonishment. ' Is/the hermit
going to meditate amongst the dead ?'

'No,' he answers, his tone changing
suddenly to one of gravity. ' My sister
was buried here, and I wish to see her grave.'

I beg your pardon,' she says, in a tone
of sympathetic apology, ' I did not know, or
I would not have joked on such a subject.
Yes, certainly, lean point you out the way.
It is not very far — especially to one who is
so fond of walking.'

She gives him a few directions as to which
roads to take, and then, with a reminder of
his promise to come and see her, she shakes
him by the hand, and they separate — she
taking the road to Banbury's ; he starting
off in the opposite direction down the hill.

He is filled with vexation at having so
thoughtlessly mentioned Miss Forsdyke's
name, for he is conscious that he has not
acted rightly towards the girl in doing so.
The peculiar relationship which existed
between them did not warrant him referring
publicly to her person. He knows
that, in order to preserve her good name,
the utmost secrecy is necessary, and he
curses his folly for not having been more
careful with his tongue. However, he consoles
himself with the thought that apparently
Mrs. Lamb suspected nothing : but,
at the same time, he resolutely determines
to be more careful for the future. Another
slip of the tongue, such as this, might bethe

means of exposing the whole affair ; and
such a contingency might possibly involve
Miss Forsdyke in social ruin.

He cannot conceal from himself that, in
yielding to her wish, he has entered upon
a very desperate game. Under her influence,
and under the influence also of his
own strange ideas concerning his connection
with Miss Forsdyke, the pricking
of his own conscience have been quelled.
He is fully conscious of the nature of his
regard for her ; he views her with a calm,
brotherly affection, and he knows that,
through him, no harm can come to her.
But, on the other hand, he is fully alive to
the dangers which might possibly arise from
external sources. He sees plainly that,
should their secret meetings be discovered
and exposed, it would be a work of the
greatest difficulty to allay the tongues of
scandal. His knowledge of the world is
sufficient to tell him that it would be no
easy task to convince the social world that
his friendship with Miss Forsdyke was of a
purely platonic character. No man or
woman would be found to credit such an
explanation. Nothing would ever induce
them to believe that a young man and

woman, both of exceptionally prepossessing
exteriors, and totally disconnected with
one another, would agree after one week's
acquaintanceship to meet secretly in the
secluded depths of a deserted wood solely
for the purpose of interchanging ideas of
fraternal significancy. The notion was too
absurd to be entertained for one instant, and
he is so fully alive to the fact that lie determines
for the future always to be on his
guard, and never for one moment to forget
that he holds the honour and u'ood name
of a pure young girl in his keeping.

Thinking on these matters, and following
almost mechanically Mrs. Lamb's directions,
he arrives at the gate of the cemetery,
through which he passes. The next
quarter-of-an-hour he spends in searching
for his sister's grave.

He finds it at last in a corner of the enclosure
under the shadow of a Stalwart tree
a plain slab of grey marble, carved with
the following inscription :

Sacred to the Memory of
Adelaide Mary,

The beloved wife of CHARLES TALBOT,

Lieutenant 8th Drag i Guards,

Who departed this lit.' at Ih.wii-a.

On June 3rd, 1879,

Aged nineteen years and five months.

1 The Lord giveth and the Lord tara th away.'

VOL. I. V

A rush of irresistible tenderness overcomes
him, and he sinks down upon his
knees beside the cold stone, his eyes suffused
with tears. The face and form of
his beloved sister rise vividly before him.
He sees her again as she appeared to him
that last time on which he had set eyes upon
her. Thenshehad been young and full of life,
with the rich bloom of a new-born happiness
resting on her cheeks — then she had
been his flesh and blood, his sister, whom he
had worshipped second to none on earth.

And now, what is she ? Where is now
her youth and happiness, that well-known
voice, those kindly eyes, those ever-sympathising
tones ? Where is now that loving
face which hung over him, passionately
kissing him, when she said her last goodbye
? What now remains to him of her
who was once all in all to him ?

Nothing ! nothing ! Only the memory
of what once had been, and this cruel slab
of marble, with its poignant lettering.

A torrent of hot salt tears bursts from
his eyes, and he bends down and passionately
kisses her beloved name.

1 Adelaide, Adelaide, my darling sister V
he cries, ' can you see me kneeling here ?

Look clown on me, and see me prostrated
by your grave. My little sister— my .hilling
little sister — why have you gone from
me so soon? Why did you forsake me, and
leave me to fight this dreary world alone? 1

For some moments his sorrow completely
overcomes him, and his tears flow freely,
without an attempt on his part to restrain
them. Then by degrees the violence of
his agitation subsides, and he rises with a
sense of great calm stealing upon him.

She has gone — gone from him for ever !
No tears, no lamentations can ever bring
her back to him. She has left the world,
and gone to a happier sphere, where sorrow
is unknown.

Why should he weep ? Why should he
regret her, and pour out his heart in idle
tears? Why should he yearn for her return?
Is she not far happier as she is
than she would have been had she remained
on earth?

He raises his face to heaven, and there
is a half smile of tenderness on his lips.

'Adelaide,' he whispers, 'look down on
me and guide me. Be my guardian angel,
and shed thy holy influence on my life !'

The grave is scrupulously clean and

neat, and now, in his calmer state of mind y
lie notices the fact, and inwardly thanks
the authorities for their care. Suddenly
he becomes aware of something which has
hitherto escaped his notice. It is a wreath
of flowers lying on the ground, touching
the grave-stone head. He bends over it
and closely examines it, and, to his astonishment,
discovers that the flowers — 
roses of a striking beauty — are
still unfaded. Filled with wonder, he lays
the wreath back upon the stone.

Who could have placed it on his sister's
grave ? Who could there be in Doonga
who loved her well enough still to reverence
her memory ? Surely, he thinks, it
cannot be the custom of the cantonment authorities
to place fresh flowers on the graves.

With the purpose of ascertaining this,
he turns round and views the adjacent
tomb, and he finds a similar wreath of
flowers lying at its head ; but he hardly
notices them, so riveted are his eyes on
the inscription of the stone.

4 Sacred to the Memory of

Charles Talbot, Lieutenant 8th Dragoon Guards,

Who met his death by an accident

In Kashmir,

July 8th, 1880. Aged twenty-seven years. 1

'Can it be possible?' he murmurs, half
aloud. ' How comes it that Charlie was

buried here beside his wife ?'

This is the first intimation that lie has
ever received as to his brother-in-law's last
resting-place. Charlie Talbot had died in
the northern wilds of Kashmir, and Grandly
had always imagined that he had been
buried there. That he had been brought
these many miles into Doonga had never
entered into his conception.

'Who could have done it?' he niu
'Who could have brought his body all
that way, and had him buried beside his
wife ?'

He bends down and examines the wreath
of flowers, having first ascertained that
these two graves were the only two thus
decorated. It is identical with the one
on his sister's tomb. Wondering more
and more, he reverentially lays it down, and
with a last fond look prepares t<» leave the
cemetery.

Who could have done it ?' he murmurs
thoughtfully, as he turns homewards;
'and what kind friend can there Skin
Doonga who tends their graves BO lovingly?
How can I ascertain? Ah!— a

happy thought — perhaps Loftus will be
able to give me some information on the
subject.'

END OF THE First VOLUME.

LONDON ! PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

VOL. II.

PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP

BY

W. BUTTON Bernard

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET,

1887.

A II rights reserved.

V.^i-

CONTENTS

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

Grafton S LETTER.

It is past two by the time that Grandly
has toiled up the Banbury ascent, and
consequently, on entering the hotel, he
finds the breakfast-room deserted. He
orders luncheon, and takes his seat, resting
his head in his hands, for he feels
tired after his long walk. A servant presently
enters, and hands him a letter,
which, he says, has been two days in
Doonga, wandering from hotel to hotel.
On seeing the well-known handwriting of
George Grafton, he eagerly seizes it, and
tears it open.

VOL. II. B

My dear Frank,

I was very glad to receive
your letter announcing your safe arrival,
and I hope sincerely that the mountain
air has already braced you up. That
Indian fever is a very loathsome thing ; it
seems to become so fond of its victim that
there is no driving it away, and for months
and months it clings about the system,
awaiting an opportunity to appear again.
So mind you take care of yourself, old boy,
and run no risks. Those mountain mists
are very treacherous things, and should
certainly be avoided by one who has just
recovered from such a sharp attack as you
have had.

You ask me for the probable date of
my appearance in Doonga, and I wish to
goodness I could give you a definite answer
to your question ; but at present
everything regarding my immediate future
is unsettled. In all probability I shall not
get more than a fortnight's leave at the
most. At the present moment we are
working day and night, and I am quite
sure that my chief cannot spare me yet.
However, in a week we ought to have
completed the most critical portion of the

work, and then I shall seriously speak to
him upon the subject, also suggesting that
he, for his own sake, should take a spell of
rest. He is such a dear old man, so kind
and thoughtful, and so indefatigable in
his exertions. I am quite certain, if I
were to ask him for leave now, that he
would grant it me in spite of the extra
work my absence would entail upon him.
But, of course, I should never think of
doing such a thing, for, in reality, it is far
more essential that he should go on leave
than that I should, for the Indian climate,
I am truly thankful to say, seems powerless
to injure me in any way.

^ You may imagine the pride I take in
this work. The fortress is rapidly rising,
and my brain is occupied from morning
till night planning slopes, parapets, and
caponiers. I am glad that the government
have at last awoken to the fact of
the danger they are running in having
this great arsenal protected merely by a
mud parapet, across which the pariah dogs
can run With the greatest facility. I cannot
understand the apathetic indifference
which they have displayed in this respect
all these years. Does it not strike you as

B 2

extraordinary that this arsenal, which has
to supply the whole province with warlike
stores, should be utterly undefended, and
totally disconnected from any line of railway.
Their knowledge of strategy must
be indeed limited if they imagine total
isolation to be a source of strength. However,
they really do appear to be coming
to their senses at last, for, besides the order
for the building of this fort, there are
rumours current of a line of railway being
made as soon as possible. That river
Sutlej will be an awful obstacle — I Lavish
that they would let me engineer the job.

And now, enough of shop ! There is
something else, even more important, if
possible, than my Avork, which I wish to
talk to you about. My dear Frank, J have
a confession to make to soli which, if I
think rightly, will startle you not a little.
What would you say, old boy, if I were to
tell you that I am actually engaged to be
married ?'

Grandly removes his eyes from the
letter with a look of the blankest amazement
depicted on his face. He could not
have read aright — his eyes must have
deceived him! George engaged to be

married — it seems an utter impossibility !

He eagerly raises the letter and continues
its perusal.

Would you be much astonished ? I am
quite sure you would — and yet it's the
truth, and what is more my engagement is
no new thing, but dates back from March
10th. You see, I remember the date, and
I have cause to do so, for I am bound by
a solemn promise to my fiancee not to
divulge the secret till six months have
passed from that day. On September 10th
in about three weeks' time — my secret
will be a secret no longer, but will lie open
to the whole world. Are you very angry
with me for having kept you so long in
ignorance of this important occurrence ?
It is the first secret that I have ever withheld
from you, and many and many a time
have I longed to confide in you, and to
hear your friendly words of sympathy.
But my promise prevented me from doing
so, and even now I feel that I am hardly
justified in mentioning the fact.

Ah ! Frank, I am so happy — so madly
happy ! The whole world seems bright
and lovely to my captivated senses. There
is no joy equal to that of loving and

being loved in return by a pure young girl.
Often I recall the day when I poured out
my love, lingering over every little detail
of the scene. She was so shy, and blushed
so prettily — and she was so surprised at
my avowal. At first I could not make her
understand that I was thoroughly in
earnest — she said that, though she had
often thought of me, she had never imagined
that I cared for her — that nothing in
my manner had ever given her cause to
suspect such happiness. And she was
right in this respect, for my great love had
made me reserved rather than ardent in
her presence. And then it was that she
made me promise to keep the thing secret
for six months !

She said she believed that it must
be only a passing fancy on my part, and
nothing that I could say would convince
her to the contrary. " No," she said, in her
pretty, imperious way. '' You must let me
have my own way. Let me be sure of
your earnest love. For six months from
this date we must hold no communication
whatever. If I am living here, you must
not speak to me, and, if I go away, you
must not write. When the six months

have passed, if you have not changed your
mind, come and fetch me ; if you find that
your love was but an idle fancy, keep away
and I shall understand. It would be
much better to be certain of the reality of
our love, before we consent to bind ourselves
together to eternity."

Ah ! Frank it was very hard to consent
to her demand, for I was positive as to the
nature of my love for her. But, of course,
I yielded in the end, for I could not help
admiring the noble idea which actuated
her in her request. And, so from that date
to this, I have never spoken or written to
her one word. I have kept my promise
faithfully, and I only allow myself to confide
to you these particulars, now that
the day of my release is drawing near.
Even now, I will not tell you what her
name is ! In a few weeks you mil know,
and I shall have my darling in my arms
my acknowledged bride-elect. Ah ! to
think that she could doubt my love ! It
grows and grows every day, and has become
the passion of my life. Write to me, dear
Frank, and tell me that you wish me every
happiness in life, and believe, me now as
always, your affectionate friend,

George Grafton.

Pes. — Tell me all about yourself — what
are you doing all this time ? Describe tome
the inmates of the hotel — have you
met anyone you like, and have you seen
any pretty girls ? You know how glad
I shall be to hear any details connected
with your daily life !'

Grandly eats his lunch with little appetite.
The news which he has received has deprived
him of all desire for food. The idea
of George's engagement seems so impossible
to him that he can hardly believe it now,
with the written statement in his hand.

He tries to analyse his feelings on the
subject. Is he glad at hearing the
announcement of the great change about to
take place in his friend's life ? No, selfish
though it seems, he cannot acknowledge
to feeling glad. His love for his friend is
so great that he cannot repress the feeling
of jealousy which arises in his heart at
the thought of another having stepped in
between them. Henceforth he can be as
nothing to his friend ! New ties will arise
around him in consequence of his marriage,
and gradually they will drift apart, and
become as strangers to one another !

This idea is very painful to him, and
he rises hastily and walks over to his own
little hut. In his present state of mind,
he feels that it is absolutely necessary for
him to be alone.

How can he bring himself to write his
congratulations, when his heart feels sore
and aggrieved ? How can he show kindly
sympathy, when he knows that the event
will rob him of his friend ? For, even
should they still remain in friendship, they
can henceforth never hold to one another
the same loving relationship which has
lasted for so many years. That must inevitably
die ! With a wife and home and
possibly children around him to occupy his
love and attention, their romantic affection
for one another must of a necessity be extinguished.
Yes — the sooner he can bring
himself to fully grasp that fact, the better
it will be for him.

He rises, and paces the room backwards
and forwards with an impatient stride,
bitterly reproaching himself for his present
behaviour. He feels it to be contemptible
and unworthy of him ; his one thought is
the loss which he himself will sustain by
his friend's engagement; his one idea is self.

Why can he not forget himself., and regard
the situation from George's point of view ?
Why should he grudge his friend his newfound
happiness ? In doing so, is he acting
up to the love which he professes to
bear towards him ?

^ I cannot do it !' he cries, clasping his
hand to his forehead in his agitation. ' The
thought of what I shall lose swamps every
other feeling. Oh ! how thoroughly I
despise myself ! This is not love, affection ;
it is merely the basest form of egotism.'

He dares not in his present mood attempt
to write a reply, for fear lest his feelings on
the subject should make themselves apparent,
so he determines to postpone the evil
moment until he has become more composed
in mind. His clock points to the
quarter before four, so, seizing his hat and
stick, he leaves the house to keep his
appointment with Miss Forsdyke.

He experiences a yearning to confide his
anxiety to some one, and he resolves to tell
Miss Forsdyke all, feeling assured of her
ready sympathy. And, besides this, the
thought strikes him that possibly she maybe
able to throw some light upon the
matter. She lives at Sihayipur, the station

at which George is quartered, and probably
she knows him, and may be able to make
some conjecture as to the personality of his
intended. This idea somewhat raises his
dejected spirits, and he hastens his pace in
the direction of the wood.

As he emerges into the open from the
long avenue of beech-trees, he comes face
to face with Loftus. The Dictator of the
Doonga Club is lolling indolently on the
back of a roan country-bred, which is proceeding
at a gentle walk, and the animal's
head is stretched down to the ground, sniffing
for something good to eat, and occasionally
pausing to take a nibble at a tuft of
grass upon the roadside. The wearied expression
on his face somewhat disappears
as he catches sight of Grandly, and there
is really an approach to animation in his
glance, as he extends his arm and shakes
him by the hand.

Hullo !' he cries. ' Glad to see you,
Grandly ! out for another constitutional
walk, eh ? — and merely for walking's sake,
and with no hope of catching a glimpse of
a petticoat. Well, as I have remarked
before, you're a rum cove, and there is no
denying the fact. Where have you been

Ding yourself these last three days ? I
had given you up for dead and buried.'

Well, you might have come, and looked
me up,' says Grandly, smiling.

^ Not if I know it, my boy !' he answers,
with a sly wink. ' You won't find Vernon
Loftus in the vicinity of Banbury's Hotel,
if he can help it ! Not a bit of it — I am
too old and wary a bird to enter into
that celestial sphere. Old Mother-Medusa
Stockton is alone sufficient to keep an army
at a respectful distance.'

^ Well, I well come and look you up tomorrow
morning. I have something particular
to ask you !'

Right you are, my boy! Is it anything
about Miss Forsdyke?'

^ About Miss Forsdyke !'

Grandly literally starts back in his
astonishment. What on earth does Loftus
mean ? Can it be possible that he has
obtained an inkling into their secret meetings?
He is conscious that his face is
growing very red under his friend's curious
scrutiny, but he attempts to laugh the
matter off.

'About Miss Forsdyke?' he says, with
well-affected surprise. ' What a most extraordinary

idea ! What could I have to
ask you about Miss Forsdyke T

Oh — nothing, nothing replies Loftus,
indifferently, an amused expression working
his good-natured face. ' It was only a
surmise of mine — nothing more. It is a
peculiar fact I have noticed that everyone
who makes the acquaintance of that young
lady desires, as a rule, to ask a question or
two before a week has elapsed. And they
generally come to me for information.
Why, I do not know, for I am certainly not
Miss Forsdyke's keeper. That was all ! I
am delighted to think that I was wrong,
for it proves to me that you are not on
terms of dangerous intimacy with her — or
else, it would be inevitable that you would
follow the usual practice. However, I
shall be very glad to see you, and, ahem !
give you the benefit of my advice.'

Then I mil come about eleven.'

^ Very well, at eleven — I shall probably
be in bed, but you are not a stickler for
ceremony, I know — and now, as you seem
in a hurry to be off, I will wish you a fond
good-bye.'

Yes, I think I must be going,' says
Grandly, hurriedly. ' It is getting very

late, and I have something very particular
I mean I — I — I am rather afraid of the
mountain mist when the sun goes down.'

Ah ! that's right, my boy,' says Loftus,
gravely. ' Always be careful of your
health, and wear flannel next to your skin.
Don't go sitting about on the grass. Take
my advice, aid make her lualk about'' at
which sally he laughs quite heartily for
him, and turns his pony's head in a homeward
direction.

They separate, and, on looking round a
moment or two afterwards, Loftus finds
that Grandly has disappeared ; he has, in
fact, turned oiF the main road, and is already
hidden from view by the projecting ridge
of rock.

What a very peculiar road to choose for
constitutional exercise !' he mutters, with
a chuckle of the keenest relish. ' He's a
deep one, is young Grandly ! 'Pon my
life, he nearly took me in the other day
about walking for walking's sake. His
face is so deucedly in his favour — if he
says a thing, one can't help being convinced
as to its truth. Wonder who the nymph
is ? I hope, by all that's holy, that it is
not the fair Diana ! He certainly blushed

when I made mention of her name. I make
it a rule never to spoil other people's sport,
but, holy Habakkuk ! if she tries on her
game nth that young chap, I will put a
good thick spoke in her wheel. Mrs. Potiphar
was a mere child to what she is, when
once she gets infatuated, and, if not for his
OAvn sake, for his sister's sake, I will see
that no harm comes to him.'

Thus ruminates the Dictator, as his pony
slowly carries him in the direction of his
stables, and there is a look of fierce determination
on his face which seems to denote
that, for once in his life, he is thoroughly
in earnest.

CHAPTER 11.

MUTUAL CONFIDENCES.

Meanwhile Grandly is pursuing this way
through the silent wood, cogitating thoughtfully
on Loftus' last remark. In spite of
its sharp significance, he does not attach toit
much importance, feeling assured that it
was a mere guess, spoken in jest. But still
he cannot shake off the very uncomfortable
feeling that Loftus' wits have been sharp
enough to penetrate through his flimsy
equivocation ; and the fact impresses upon
him that it mil require all his energy and
strength of mind to sustain that which is
so foreign to his nature — dissimulation.

He finds Miss Forsdyke waiting for him
beneath the oak, and she advances towards
him with a pout upon her lips. She is
looking very lovely on this autumn afternoon,
in spite of the look of half-annoyance

on her face, and he eagerly scans her petite
form, drinking in the full wealth of her
wondrous beauty with an ardent eye.

What is the matter ?' he says, softly,
taking her by the hand. ' Are you angry
with me, Diana ?'

Angry ? For what reason ? '

For having so forgotten myself when we
parted yesterday. I ought not to have —
have allowed my lips to touch your face,
perhaps — you hurried away so quickly that
I fancied you might have been offended.'

Oh, Frank, how could you think such
a thing ?' she asks, raising her eyes to his
face in innocent wonder. ' What harm
could there possibly be in your taking a
brother's kiss ? No, no — I am not angry
with you, but — but I must confess,' she
adds, with an entrancing smile, ' that I was
feeling just a little injured when you appeared.
Do you know that it is nearly
half-past four ? Why is it that you are so
late ?'

I am so very sorry if I have kept you
waiting,' he says, earnestly. the truth is,
I have had a very busy day. First I went
to church, and, after service, I strolled down
to the cemetery, and, on arriving home, I

VOL. II. C

found a letter which gave me cause for
much reflection — and then again, on coming
here, I met Mr. Loftus, and he again
detained me.'

Mr. Loftus !' she cries, with a slightly
scared expression. 'Are you acquainted
with Mr. Loftus ?'

Surely you cannot be unaware of that
fact, Diana,' he answers, smiling. ' It is to
Loftus that I owe my introduction to you.'

'Ah! true,' she says, ' I had forgotten.
But — but he did not see you coming here?'

There is a ring of real anxiety in her
tones, and he hastens to set her mind at
rest.

I met him in the open road,' he says,
'and he could not possibly have guessed
which way I was going. Believe me,
Diana, I have your welfare too much at
heart ever to act thoughtlessly with regard
to you.'

I know you have,' she says, warmly,
bestowing on him a glance which thrills
him to the bone, ' I — I know that we — are
doing no actual harm by meeting here, but
still we ought to be very careful. And, of
all people in the world, I should not like
Mr. Loftus to know !' she adds, slowly.

'You know him very well, don't you ?'

'Why? What makes you think so?'
she asks, quickly. ' Has he been talking
about me to you?'

Yes — he has mentioned your name,'
answers Grandly, hesitatingly, the remarks
which Loftus has just made regarding
her still ringing in his ears ; ' and — and
I concluded that you knew him well.'

Yes, I know — or rather used to know
him pretty intimately,' she answers, slowly,
turning away her head. ' But we were
never great friends. I must confess that
I do not like his character, and I am afraid
that he is aware of the fact, for I know
instinctively that he bears me no good will.
I hope, Frank, that — that, if he says anything
about me, you will not allow yourself
to be prejudiced against me.'

'What an idea!' he cries, with a reassuring
laugh. ' I can quite understand
your objection to Mr. Loftus' character —
it is not the sort of one to please a girl.
For my own part, I like the man — but,
Diana, you must not think so badly of meas
to imagine that I should be influenced
in the least by anything he said. I understand
him well, and should never put much

c 2

faith ill any of his absurdities. You must
try to trust me more than that.'

He looks down at her with a fond reproachful
glance, and she nestles towards
him and slides her hand into his.

Oh, Frank,' she says, ' I am so happy.'

Supposing we sit down, as yesterday,'
he says, after a moment's silence. ' I have
something particular to talk to you about.'

'- What — another idea !' she exclaims,
with a pretty little laugh. ' My poor little
head will become quite addled with all this
learning. Sit down and tell me all about
it, and don't be angry if I cannot understand
it quite.'

'No, it is not another idea,' he says,
seating himself beside her and feeling
rather vexed, in spite of himself, at her
joking allusion to what he, in his heart,
regards as a sacred subject. ' I merely
wish to confide in you a portion of my
life. I wish to ask your advice, knowing
that you will lend me a sympathetic ear.'

Very well, Frank — I am all attention,'
she says, viewing him . critically with an
amused smile playing across her features.
Fire away, as the vulgar say !'

*You see,' he says, in an explanatory

way, '■ I think that, in order to place our
friendship on a firm basis, we ought to
confide in one another something of our
past and present lives. It is impossible
for two people to be firm friends if their
personal surroundings be totally unknown
to one another. Don't you agree with me ?'

^ Certainly I do,' she answers, softly.
As you say, it would be quite impossible.
I, for my part, have not much to tell you
beyond what you know already. You
know that my father is a colonel in the
commissariat, quartered at Sihayipur, and
you also know,' she continues, with a sad
smile, ' that, unfortunately for me, he does
not understand my character, and that
consequently I am treated harshly. You
also know that it is my misfortune to have
no mother. Had she not died, my life
would have been a very different one from
what it is. Since that sad day, I have had
no kind parent to guide my wayward
footsteps.'

She pauses with a little sigh, gazing abstractedly
on the ground.

But it is no good regretting what can't
be helped,' she continues, with a faint attempt
to shake ofi* her sudden depression

of spirits, ' I suppose that we are not intended
to be miserable in this world. Weare
given one life, and only one, and it is
our duty to make it happy. If one were
never to forget one's griefs and sorrows, one
would never enjoy a single moment's happiness,
for there is more sadness than joy
in a human life. I have no mother, but I
ought to be thankful that I possess a near
relation to care for me and love me, though
certainly Mrs. Renfrew is sometimes very
trying ;' and she looks towards him with a
sad smile lingering on her lips.

Have you been acquainted with Mrs.
Renfrew all your life?' he asks, with
interest.

^ Oh, no !' she says. ' I never met her
till this year. She has been for years in
India, and I only left England four years
ago. I was born out here, but my mother
could not stand the climate, and when I
was quite a little girl she took me home.
When she died, I came out here to live
with my father — I Alas then seventeen.
But I have never met my aunt till the
spring of this year. My father could
not get his leave this year, so when
the hot weather came on I was sent to

Mrs. Renfrew. We have been at Dalhousie
all the summer, but it did not agree
with my aunt's nerves so we came on here,
arriving shortly before you did.'

Then you were practically a stranger
to your own father?'

Yes, he had been living for years alone,
almost unconscious of my existence, and
my appearance naturally upset his mode
of living. Perhaps that was the reason
why he never seemed to take to me.'

You are certainly very strangely situated,'
he says, symj)athisingly. 'For, as I
understand, you are not happy with Mrs.
Renfrew either.'

'No — I am not happy,' she murmurs,
slowly. ' I am happier though now that
Colonel Renfrew has gone down to the
plains ; although he was my uncle, I really
could not stand him. His uncouth manners
and horrid gluttony inspired me with
a disgust which I could not overcome.
Perhaps I ought not to complain. Mrs.
Renfrew is far from well, in spite of her
absurd exaggerations as to the state of her
health, and she is naturally a trifle irritable,
and I really ought to be very grateful that
I have anyone to live with.'

Every word she speaks impresses him
more and more with the utter loneliness of
her life, and he bends slightly forward and
tells her of his great sympathy for the sadness
of her lot, exhorting her to bear up
bravely against the antagonistic forces surrounding
her.

I will — I will,' she says, raising her
large eyes gratefully towards him. ' The
knowledge of your friendship and sympathy
inspires me with a new-born strength which
I was never conscious of before.'

And what year was it that you were in
Doonga before ?' he asks, after a slight
pause.

In Doonga before ?' she repeats, with a
startled look. ' How do you know that I
was in Doonga before ?'

He laughs amusedly at the peculiarity of
her manner.

Don't be frightened, Diana !' he says.
There is nothing uncanny in my knowledge.
On our first meeting here, in describing tome
the secluded character of this wood, you
mentioned the fact yourself.'

Ah ! of course !' she says, with something
like an expression of relief, ' I was
really doubtful as to your being a wizard

or something dreadful, when you suddenly
asked the question. Of course I told you !
How could I have been so stupid as to have
forgotten the fact ! I was here for a few
weeks in the summer of 1880, three years a
go, with my father. But we did not stay
long — my father did not like the place, so
we went away. But now I have told you
everything,' she says, hastily changing the
subject, 'it is your turn now, so kindly
begin at the beginning, and spare no
details.'

A mischievous twinkle sparkles in her
eye, and she settles herself down comfortably
to listen to his recital.

But tell me first,' he says, ' something
which rather puzzles me. You remember
when 1 first met you by that tree outside
the hotel ?'

Yes.'

Well, do you know the impression that
I derived from that short glimpse was that
you were the happiest girl alive — that you
were literally made of laughter. It has
always struck me that your conduct then
was — was so — so inconsistent with what I
have observed in you since.'

She leans back on the grass and gives

vent to a long ripple of soft laughter.

My dear Frank,' she says, bending towards
him, 'you really must not judge
my character from that one short glimpse,
although I confess that I am by nature
light-hearted. You presented such a lamentable
picture, leaning against that tree, how
Could I help being amused? Of course,'
she adds, hastily, ' I was very much concerned
about you until you spoke to me,
and told me that you were all right. And
then when you made that gauche remark,
telling me " not to go," and looking so shy
and shame-faced in consequence, how could
I prevent myself from laughing? But
really, Frank, you must not think that I am
always so melancholy as I have been for
the last few days. Had I been differently
situated in life, I believe I should have
been the very essence of fun and laughter.
You see, as yet we have always spoken on
doleful subjects, and so you have only seen
the gloomy side of my character. In the
next few weeks you will find that I can
laugh and joke as well as any other girl.
The very fact of my possessing a real friend
makes me happy'

Well, I shall regard that remark in the

light of a promise,' he says, smiling at her
impetuosity. ' And, now that that important
point is settled, let us turn to the
business in hand.'

Yes, begin at the beginning, please.
Tell me first all particulars connected with
your grandpa, and then we can work
gradually down to the present time.'

Oh — come, Diana!' he answers, laughing,
I never bargained for that.'

Very well then — we will leave the old
gentleman out of the question, since you
wish it. Begin at the next generation.
As you seem doubtful on the subject, I will
catechise you, and mind — no fibs, sir ! The
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth !'

For the next quarter-of-an-hour they
are busily engaged in extracting and imparting
information. Grandly tells her
freely of his life. He describes his home,
near Canterbury, dwelling fondly on the
person of his widowed mother, and he
relates all details concerning himself which
he fancies may be possibly interesting to
her to hear. On one subject he is more
reserved ; he merely states the fact that
he once possessed a sister, and that she

died, without giving any particulars with
regard to her life or death. He fully intends
at some later period to tell her all,
but in his present state of mind, with the
memory of the cold slab of marble still in
his thoughts, he dare not venture upon
such a painful subject ; and, besides this,
he shrinks from lowering Miss Forsdyke's
unusually high spirits by the introduction
of such a melancholy topic of conversation.

She certainly is in a brighter mood today,
and it is with a sense of pleasure that
he notes the fact, for he feels that his first
resolve to make her happier is already
bearing fruit. She sits there beside him,
propounding questions of the most ridiculous
nature, laughing heartily at his good-natured
protests, and refusing to modify
in the least the severity of her cross-examination.


You know, sir,' she says, archly, ' you
said yourself that friendship was impossible
without the existence of a perfect confidence,
so there is no eluding the difficulty.
You had better make up your mind at
once to answer all or nothing, for I shall
not be satisfied with a part. You really
mean to tell me that you have never been

in love ? You mean to say that those
beaux yeux of yours have never made the
least impression on the heart of any
girl ?'

Now you are really asking me what I
cannot possibly answer,' he says, in laughing
expostulation. ' To your first question,
as to whether I have ever been in love, I
repeat my unequivocal denial. As to the
second part of your question, I really cannot
say. I can only modestly affirm that
to the best of my knowledge I have never
made the least impression on any maiden
heart. Girls are much too matter-of-fact
and sensible in these days to fall in love.'

'Oh! that's your opinion, is it? I suppose
that your twenty-three years' experience
entitles you in your own opinion to
give utterance to remarks of such preternatural
wisdom.'

Certainly I do. Outside of a romance,
love is a very prosaic commodity.'

There is a pause. Miss Forsdyke, with
a trace of colour on her cheeks, is regarding
him curiously, with no intention, apparently,
of breaking the silence, so he seizes
on the opportunity to introduce the subject
uppermost in his mind.

Diana he says, slowly, ' are you acquainted
with George Grafton ?'

In a moment every vestige of colour
deserts her, and a scared expression settles
on her face, for which he is at a loss to
account.

How you startled me !' she exclaims,
with a forced laugh. ^ My thoughts were
so far away that your sudden question
brought me to the consciousness of my
surroundings with a most unpleasant jerk.
George Grafton — George Grafton — let me
see — but why do you ask ?'

Only that he is my greatest friend on
earth, and I thought that you may possibly
have met him at Sihayipur.'

'Ah! yes — of course!' she cries, with a
sudden recollection. ' You mean the young
engineer. Yes, of course I know him, but
only slightly ; he doesn't mix much in society,
if I remember rightly. And he is
your greatest friend, is he ?'

My very, very greatest friend,' he replies,
with warmth. ' We have been Damon
and Pythias to one another for years and
years. I really believe that it is my love
for him that has prevented me from entertaining
any warm regard for your fair sex.'

'How curious !' she murmurs, in a musing
tone.

'What is curious ?' he says, quickly.

Curious ! — did I say that it was curious
? Oh, I only meant the fact that your
great friend should be living in the same
station as I am, and that I should know
him slightly. The world is very small.
Yes, I remember him exactly — a tall, upright
man, with a long fair moustache.'

Yes, that is he I' cries Grandly, eagerly.
I am so glad that you are acquainted with
him. To me he is an endless topic of conversation
— I am never tired of discussing
him. He is the most noble man on earth.'

He is certainly nice-looking,' she answers,
smiling at his warmth. ' As to the
nobility of his character, I really am not
in a position to judge, not knowing him
well enough to be capable of giving an
opinion.'

Oh ! but believe me, Diana, it is noble,'
he says, earnestly. ' In my opinion there
is no man in the world to equal him. I
would rather die than lose his friendship.
And to-day I have heard some news which
makes me very anxious.'

'What is that?' she asks, quickly.

I have heard that he is going to be
married, and I cannot repress . . . .'

What do you say ?' she cries, seizing
him by the arm. ' George Grafton going
to be married ! Who could have told you
that?'

He told me it himself,' he answers not
noticing the sudden fierceness in her tones.
I heard from him to-day, and he said he
had been engaged upwards of six months,
and that he is bound by an oath to keep the
matter a secret.'

And yet he told you !' she says, in a
sudden whisper.

You must not blame him for doing
that. He merely told me the bare fact,
without any details of any sort. I do not
even know the lady's name ; and I thought
that possibly you might be able to assist
me, for, from what he says, I gather that
she lives at Sihayipur.'

She gives vent to a sigh, as though of
great relief.

'Then you do not know the name?' she
says. ' Who could it be ? What a very
strange piece of news ! The idea of Mr.
Grafton being secretly engaged ! I hardly
can believe it !'

^ But remember, Diana lie interposes,
quickly, ' that this is in the strictest confidence.
He would never forgive me if it
got abroad.'

Of course, Frank,' she answers, proudly.
You may place implicit trust in me — I
will be as silent as the grave.'

I know you will,' he says, confidently.
And you can give me no clue as to the
young lady's personality ?'

None,' she says, meaningly, with a
faint flicker of a smile playing upon her
lips. ' I really cannot imagine, unless it
be Miss Henderson — but that is hardly
possible, for she must be at least ten years
his senior. Now I remember that he did
certainly pay her some attention, but I
never for a moment imagined that there
was anything serious between them.'

Ten years ! Oh ! that cannot be possible,'
he exclaims, quickly. ^ Can you think of
no one else ?'

It may be Miss Rigby,' she says, with a
sense of sudden enlightenment. ' Yes — of
course — it must be Miss Rigby. How very
stupid of me not to remember her. Why,
he was always with her ! Just fancy, their
being engaged ! Well — I am surprised !'

VOL, II. D

Is she nice ?' he asks, in a hesitating
tone.

*0h, yes — she is a pretty little thing.
Hardly the wife for a poor man, though,'
she adds, with a little laugh. ' She is justa
trifle too fond of her personal adornment.'


I am sorry for that,' he says in a voice
of genuine distress. 'George is not well
enough off to support a wife of extravagant
tastes.'

Isn't he ?' she asks, in a tone of interest.
How much should you say he had ?'

He has nothing of his own, poor chap, I
know. His pay in the Military Works
Department is five hundred a year — but
that mil not give play for much extravagance.'


No, you are right,' she says, in a musing
tone. ' Five hundred a year, entirely
dependent on his life and health, is not a
princely prospect for his fiancee. But why
should this announcement make you
anxious?' she asks, suddenly.

Well, you see, I am so very fond of
George that I dread to think what may bethe
consequences of this step to our friendship.
I could not bear to lose him.'

But wliy should you lose him ?' she asks,
in innocent wonder.

Don't you see that this important step
on his part must of necessity change the
whole tenor of his life. New ties will arise
around him, and possibly old friendships
will be forgotten.'

He speaks in a sad tone, thoroughly distressed
in mind. She answers him with a
laugh.

^ What nonsense, Frank !' she cries. ' If
Mr. Grafton's affection for you can be so
easily stifled, it is not really worth the
trouble of retaining. From what I understand
from you, his regard for you is quite
exceptional — and believe me,' she continues,
impressively, * such regards are not
easily forgotten. You take such a gloomy
view of all things. Instead of lamenting,
you should be delighted at his prospect of
future happiness.'

'I know that,' he exclaims. ' I fully
comprehend the selfishness of my conduct.
But, if you only knew how I loved him, you
would find some excuse for me. As you
say, George's affection for me is far too
strong to be swept away in a moment.
But there is another question to be con

2

ordered. How do I know that lie will take
a liking to me ? She may resent my
affection for her husband, and show me
that my presence is undesired.'

Again she gives vent to the same low
laugh of amusement.

'■ My dear Frank,' she says, ' you are
much too humble-minded. Why should
you under value your attractions ? Believe
me, when I tell you, that you have no
cause whatever for alarm. Women are
not such inhuman creatures as you make
out. She will welcome you as a brother.'

•Ah ! if I could only think so,' he says,
with a sigh.

There is no thinking about it,' she says,
smiling, ^ for I fcnow it ; I am as certain of
it as I am sitting here. And now, Frank,
we ought really to be saying good-night.
We have been so engrossed in our conversation
that we have never noticed the twilight
creeping on. And, Frank — when you
write to Mr. Grafton I don't think — that
that you had better mention our intimacy.
It might by some chance get to
my father's ears, and then I should never
know a moment's peace afterwards.'

Of course I won't, Diana,' he answers,

hastily, ' trust me never by word or deed
to betray to any living soul our secret.
When George arrives, of course '

Her fingers close suddenly on his hand.

He is not coming yet, is he ?' she says,
in a hurried voice.

No, not at present — he cannot get
leave — but when he does come, I meant, I
suppose I may tell him of our secret
friendship ?'

Of course you may, Frank,' she says,
looking up into his face with a confiding
glance, for they have risen from the
ground. ' And now you must go ! You
go first — it is your turn — and I will follow
afterwards in a few minutes.'

He stands lingering by her side, looking
down hungrily on to her up-turned
face.

I suppose,' he says, with a certain hesitation,
' that — that I should not be allowed
to say good-night in a warmer way ?'

Of course you may,' she says, smiling.
Give me a brother's kiss, and say goodnight.'


She raises her face to his, and their lips
meet in a warm kiss, and then, with a hurried
glance, he turns away and leaves her.

She remains standing under the old oak
long after his footsteps have died away,
wrestling with her inmost thoughts.

What am I doing ?' she murmurs, in a
hoarse whisper. 'Am I mad that I act
like this ? Why did I not tell him the
truth to-night? What reason had I to
mystify him in the way I did ? I feel myself
drifting slowly, slowly into ruin — and,
when there is yet time, I do not make an
effort to save myself. Ah ! my God, I
cannot tell him — I cannot give him up —
for he is already more to me than I could
bear to lose !'

CHAPTER III.

GRANDE Y SEEKS FOR INFORMATION.

Grande Y, as usual, is again late for dinner.
Mrs. Lamb casts a reproachful glance towards
him as he enters and takes his seat
beside her. He apologises with a smile,
promising to be more punctual for the
future.

Ah,' she says, coquettishly, ' I am beginning
to understand what your promises
are worth. What a long walk you must
have taken ! Where have you been T

Grandly answers vaguely; his limited
knowledge of Doono^a does not allow him
to venture on details regarding this fictitious
walk.

You appear to have been very absentminded,'
she remarks, with a little laugh,
from what I can gather from your incoherent
description, you seem to have been
under the impression that you were in

several distinct places at the same time.
Garam Point must be at least three miles
from Honeybank.'

He laughs in reply.

I trust you will forgive me for my
lamentable ignorance of the environments
of Doonga,' he says, lightly. ^ I have no
doubt that my statement is bristling with
inaccuracies.'

Mrs. Stockton is not present, and her
husband's chair is also vacant. Grandly
looks up and down the table, and nods to
one or two slight acquaintances which he
has made during his sojourn at the hotel.

At this moment Major Lamb enters,
looking very hot and hurried. He seats
himself on the other side of Grandly, and,
having said ' Good-evening,' he bends towards
his wife and whispers,

He is gone ! There is no chance now of
his being; caught.'

How far is he off?' she says, excitedly.
Where did you leave him?'

Some miles the other side of Honey-bank.
He is riding as fast as he can go,
and his servant is taking his kit on mules.
By to-night he will be three marches off,
and out of reach of her clutches

Oh, I am so glad,' she cries, her eyes
sparkling with excitement. ' Do you know,
Mr. Grandly, what we have done?' she
adds, turning towards him, and sinking
her voice to a whisper, ' we have carried off
Colonel Stockton.'

Done what ?' he exclaims, in a puzzled
tone.

Hush, don't speak so loud,' she says,
glancing furtively around her. ' Colonel
Stockton has gone — has fled from that
horrible woman upstairs into Kashmir.
You know, he has long wished to go there,
but she utterly forbade him to do so,
threatening to accompany him if he did.
You may imagine the poor man's consternation
at such an unpleasing prospect.'

And he has managed to go without her,
after all ?'

Yes, thanks to my good husband there,'
she says, with a glance of pride in his
direction, ' he has gone — he went this
afternoon, and he is now three marches
out, my husband says. Ever since he first
proposed to go, Mrs. Stockton has never
allowed him out of her sight, fearing, I
suppose, that he might bolt. But I am
quite sure that the poor old creature hadn't

the pluck to ever think of such a thing.'
Then what finally induced him to go ?'
My husband,' she answers, proudly.
He took the old man aside, and said,
Now is your chance ! The old party is
down on her back with a broken wind ! I
will arrange the travelling-kit — meet me at
the post-office at three o'clock, and we will
start." Wasn't it a splendid undertaking ?
Oh ! Charles,' she says, turning to her husband,
' I cannot tell you how proud I am
of you — it was a magnificent conception.'

Major Lamb accepts his wife's laudation
with a modest and becoming demeanour.

Look out for squalls, old woman !' he
says, laughing. ' Won't there be a shindy
just, when she finds it out ! I hope to
goodness she rids ns of her presence by
starting ofi* in hot pursuit — she will never
catch him now.'

After dinner, at Mrs. Lamb's earnest
solicitation, Grandly accompanies them to
her private room, where she graciously
allows him to smoke a cigarette, which
favour the gallant major accepts as applying
equally to himself, so he opens his
pipe-case, and, in spite of much expostulation,
puis away furiously at a coloured

meerschaum. The night is warm, and
Grandly and Mrs. Lamb stroll out on to
the balcony and gaze on the moon-lit scene.
He is in a silent mood, giving abstracted
answers to her flow of conversation, and
she imagines that he must be tired. In
reality, his thoughts are occupied with
Diana Forsdyke, and he finds the greatest
difficulty in keeping his attention fixed
within the bounds of politeness on Mrs.
Lamb's inanities of speech. A subtle perfume
of flowers rises from below, and he
leans forward to ascertain the cause.

What a lovely smell those roses have,
he remarks, for want of something better
to say.

Yes,' she answers, ' is it not exquisite ?
They are Gloires-de-Dijon and greatly prized
by the proprietor of the hotel.'

Are they Gloires-de- Dijon T he exclaims
with sudden interest, his thoughts reverting
to those mysterious wreaths lying in
the cemetery.

Of course they are !' she says, with an
affected little laugh. ' The Banbury roses
are famed throughout Doonga, for these
are the only plants of this species in the
whole station. You can always tell a Banbury

lady at a dance because no others are
able to obtain the lovely flower.'

He makes some inane reply, and shortly
afterwards says good-night. If these flowers
be, in reality, peculiar to the hotel, it
becomes evident that, in all probability, it
is some one actually living in the hotel at
the present moment who has placed the
wreaths upon his sister's grave in the last
two days. But who this some one can be
he has not the least conception. As far ashe
knows, there is no one in the hotel who
could possibly have borne his sister such a
lasting affection as to continue now, four
years after her death, to honour her grave
with floral offerings. Being unable to
arrive at any satisfactory solution of the
mystery, he dismisses the subject, and turns
his attention to the concoction of a letter
in reply to the one received from George
Grafton.

Under the influence of Miss Forsdyke's
soothing words, he now views the notion of
his friend's engagement in a calmer frame
of mind. He understands that, in the first
excitement consequent on the news, his
thoughts had worked a trifle incoherently.
Regarding the matter now, he comprehends

that there is no earthly reason why his
friendship with Grafton should not continue
on a warm and fraternal footing — if not on
the same affectionate basis as hitherto.
There must, of coarse, be some difference
in their future relationship to one another
the step which his friend proposes to
take is of such an important character that
it would be impossible for it to be otherwise
; he can no longer expect to stand
first in his friend's thoughts ; he must
necessarily sink to a subordinate position.
But, then, this is only as it ought to be —
it was only right and natural that the wife
should stand before the friend, and to
resent it was as ridiculous as it was unjust.

So, arguing in this way, his better self
predominates, and he sits down and writes
his friend a letter of heart-felt congratulation.
He states with what astonishment
he has received the news, mentioning also
his own deep anxiety on the subject, and
confiding fully all the selfish ideas which
struggled in his brain.

I am calmer now,' he writes ; ' I see now
that I was hasty in my conclusions. I feel
quite certain, come what may, that I shall
never lose your friendship. It is built on

such a strong foundation that it would require
more than human agency to effect
its fall. But still you must admit that I
have cause for some anxiety. You regard
me with the distorted eye of a strong affection
and exaggerate the good in my character,
refusing to perceive the bad. But
she — your Avise — will see me as 1 am ; making
no allowance for my failings. She will
regard me with the dispassionate eye of a
stranger, and her verdict Avill be formed,
unblessed by affection. ind should her
verdict be unsatisfactory — should she conceive
for me an involuntary antipathy —
it is impossible' for me to conceal the fact
that our fond intimacy must of necessity
come to an end.'

And so on in this strain he hurriedly
pours out the inmost feelings of his heart,
writing rapidly without pausing to weigh
his words, conscious of that uncomfortable
sensation of awkwardness and shame which
all men feel when they raise for a moment
their natural reserve of manner and demonstratively
make confession of their affection.

In finishing his letter he somewhat throws
off the heavy weight oppressing his mind,

and attempts to be jocose, though lie is far
from feeling what lie writes.

^ I hope that you have well-considered
the question of ways and means,' he writes.
^ As a young lady remarked to me to-day,
five hundred a year entirely dependent on
your health and life does not offer a princely
prospect to your Jiaiicee. Are you quite
certain that Miss Rigby's tastes are in
accordance with this sum. You must have
observed yourself how very extravagant she
is in the matter of dress. Now, George, do
be careful !'

This occurs in the postscript, and he
half-smiles to himself as he pictures
George's astonishment at finding his little
mystery exposed. His friend mil never
guess how he has obtained the information,
and he determines not to enlighten him
until he sees him face to face.

There is one point in the matter which
puzzles him considerably. George Grafton
speaks in the most eager terms of his intention
of going to seek his lady-love
directly the period of enforced silence has
elapsed ; he also states most positively that
immediately on his obtaining leave he will

proceed straightway to Doonga, and, as the
two dates will probably coincide, it is a
mystery to Grandly what he means.

The only possible solution is that his intended
is actually now, or will be at that
date, in Doonga, and Grandly resolves,
before getting into bed, to make strict inquiries
on the morrow as to the existence
or non-existence in the station of Miss
Rigby.

The sooner I make her acquaintance the
better,' he thinks, ruefully. ' If she be
living here, I will call on her tomorrow.'

Accordingly at breakfast the next morning,
he seeks information on the matter
from Mrs. Lamb, but he arrives at no satisfactory
result.

Mrs. Lamb confesses to being unacquainted
personally with Miss Rigby ; she cannot
say for certain whether such a person does
exist in Doonga ; she has a feeling that the
name is in some way familiar to her, but
where she could have heard it mentioned
before she cannot remember in the least ; it
may have been last year, or it may have
been the year before, or the year before
that — she really cannot say. Her memory
is so bad that she never can remember anything.

But now that she considers the subject
she has an idea that two years before
in Dalhousie, she had met a young lady of
that name, though really she cannot say
for certain whether it was not Digby instead
of Rigby — in fact, on thinking over
the matter, she feels certain that it was
Digby — or at any rate some name beginning
with a D. But it was not Rigby she is
fully convinced, so probably it was not the
same young lady, as he is referring to.

No, probably not,' says Grandly, drily,
rising from his seat. ' Thank you so much
I am so very sorry to have put you to
so much trouble.'

Mrs. Lamb begs that he will not mention
it ; she is only too happy to be able to oblige
such a very charming young man as Mr.
Grandly ; she only trusts that he will make
a point of coming to her on every occasion
when he may be in doubt ; she will always
be delighted to assist him to the best of her
very poor abilities ; and now she remembers
that the young lady at Dalhousie was
named Lighten, and not Digby ; the close
similarity of the names had for the moment
confused her ; it was an extremely stupid
mistake for her to make ; but she is glad

VOL. II. E

that lie has been able to correct herself, for
now she has proved beyond doubt that the
two youno^ ladies cannot be the same.

No, I have no doubt about the matter
now^'he says, with good-humoured emphasis.

^ But if your Miss Digby — Lighten —
Rigby, I mean, be young and pretty,' she
continues, ' you will have no trouble in
ascertaining where she lives, if she really
be in Doonga.'

How ? In Avhat way ?'

By seeking information from one who
is on terms of the warmest intimacy with
every pretty girl within a hundred miles
from that most charming of men, Vernon
Loftus. If she be pretty, and if she be in
Doonga, it stands to reason that he knows
her — and knows her well.'

He thanks her for the suggestion with a
smile, and he leaves the room, and strolls
slowly down in the direction of the club.

It is a delicious morning, the atmosphere
clear and cool, and the native village is
looking very picturesque, rising tier above
tier up the mountain side, all shining
brightly in the warm sunlight. Garam
Point has emerged from the sea of cloud
in which for the last two days it has been

enveloped, and the old watch-tower, standing
on its summit, can now plainly be discerned,
lifting up its bare grey walls from
amidst the mass of luxuriant foliage surrounding
it.

Arriving at the club, Grandly turns
down the little pathway, and proceeds
straightway to Loftus' room, which he finds
untenanted. Glancing at the clock to seethe
time, he finds the hands still pointing
to two o'clock, at which proof of the
eccentricity of his friend he laughs softly
to himself. To while away the time, he
proceeds to inspect the treasures scattered
about the room.

Along the mantelpiece is placed a line
of unframed photographs, mostly of young
and pretty girls, — actresses and social acquaintances
in various stages of nudity,
indiscriminately mixed — and, having examined
them, he comes to the conclusion
that Mrs. Lamb was not far wrong in her
estimate of the fascinating power wielded
by Loftus over the fair sex. Above, upon
the wall, lying in the rack, are four or five
hunting-crops and whips, and he takes
them down one by one and gravely criticises
their respective merits, for to Grandly

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

everything connected with horsemanship
and racing is a matter of the most serious
interest. Having chosen in favour of
number three, he replaces them on the
rack, and turns his attention to another
quarter of the room.

There is a small table standing by the
bed, and on it are placed a decanter, containing
whisky, a glass, the remains of a
cigar, and a yellow novel. He takes up
the book and opens it, and finds that it is
written in French. Wondering at such
erudition on the part of his friend, he looks
at the title-page, and discovers it to be
Zola's ' Nana,' and immediately ceases to
wonder. Loftus, he knows, would tackle
Arabic, in order to obtain undiluted
realism.

Turning to the larger table, he becomes
conscious of a perfect chaos. Books, papers,
pipes, gloves, tobacco, matches, glasses,
cigarette-cases, a pair of slippers, and a
clothes-brush — all seem to be struggling
for supremacy. But, from out of this mass
of heterogeneous articles, one object
attracts his fixed attention ; it is the photograph
of a man, framed in sage-green plush.

He lifts it up with almost reverential

care, and carries it to the light, and gazes
long and earnestly upon it. It is a very
handsome face, which meets his view — the
face of a man of apparently four or-eye
and twenty, with a small black moustache
and dare-devil laughing eyes, with a well-shaped,
pointed chin, and lips half-unclosed
in a pleasant smile — a face of irresistible
attractive power, disclosing plainly in its
every contour a weakness of mind and
readiness to sin. It is a picture of Charlie
Talbot, who had been brother-officer to
Loftus, and Grandly experiences a very
painful sensation as he regards that laughing
face, now dead.

It is very like him ! The image of his
sister's husband rises before him, and he
sighs, as he contrasts the picture of the
dashing young officer, who used to ride
over daily to their house near Canterbury,
with the cold silent gravestone in the
cemetery. What a sad fate was his ! Born
into the world, gifted with more than
average personal advantages and possessing
more Wealth than he required, to be
cut off in the very prime of life, away
from home and friends — to die a fearful
death in the solitudes of Kashmir ! Who

could have foreseen such a tragic ending
to that gay and careless life ?

Sorry I am late, old chap,' says a voice
behind him ; ' saw you pass from breakfast-room,
and straightway bolted a cup of
coffee and a devilled kidney, which almost
took the roof off of my mouth. Ah ! poor
Charlie ! Is it not a perfect likeness ?'

His voice suddenly changes to one of
tenderness. Grandly replaces the photograph
on the table, and turns round and
shakes him by the hand.

Strangely enough,' he says, * it was on
this very subject that I wanted to talk to
you about. I wished to ask you some
questions relating to poor Charlie's death.'

Loftus motions him to take a seat.

CHAPTER IV.

THE STORY OF TALBOt's DEATH.

Well, old chap,' said Loftus, sitting himself
down and taking a cheroot from the
box by his side, ' what is it you want ? I
shall be very glad to tell you what I know.'

It was about this day three years ago
that we heard of poor Talbot's death,' says
Grandly, slowly, beginning at once m
medias res. ' We were led to understand
that he died from a fall from a precipice
in the northern wilds of Kashmir. Yesterday
I happened to visit the cemetery,
and to my surprise I discovered that he
was lying there beside his wife. I thought
that you, being his special friend, might
be able to explain this fact to me.'

^ Certainly I can,' Loftus answers, with
a forced briskness. ^ There is no mystery
about the affair. He was killed, as you

say, by a fall from a precipice in Kashmir.
An Englishman happened to have
been passing through those parts at that
time, and he attended to the body, brought
it home here, and laid it beside his wife.'

That was a truly noble act on his part.
Do you know his name ? I would give
anything to be able to clasp him by the
hand, and thank him.'

Yes, I know his name,' answers Loftus,
promptly. 'But I am quite certain that
he would be very averse to being thanked.'

But, anyhow, tell me his name,' says
Grandly, eagerly.

Certainly I will, since you wish it,' says
Loftus. ' It was I, myself

You, Loftus !' cries Grandly, in astonishment,
' why have you never told me so
before ? How can I thank you sufficiently
for your truly noble action ?'

I do not want your thanks, old boy,'
says Loftus, with a smile, ' nor do I in anyway
deserve them. You seem to forget
that Charlie was my greatest friend in life,
and that it was only natural for me to obey
his dying wish.'

What ! Did he speak before he died ?'

Yes,' answers Loftus, gravely, ' he spoke

a few words expressing a wish to be buried
beside his wife. It was a very sad occurrence,
especially considering the circumstances
under which he died. Poor old
Charlie ! I have always felt glad that at
the last he remembered his little-wife.
Your sister, Grandly, was a woman in a
a thousand.'

I know it — I know it,' says Grandly,
faintly. ^ Tell me all about it, Loft us.'

You cannot imagine the change which
she wrought in Talbot,' says Loftus, continuing
his own line of thought. ' From
the day he married her, he became a different
man. Her influence over him was
simply wonderful, but so it was over
everyone she met. He became the steadiest
chap in the whole regiment. Ah !
often did we quiz and chaff him on his
benedict proclivities, and often have we —
more shame to us — tried to tempt him in
the mess with a bottle of good Heidseick !
But he never yielded — he loved his wife
so well that he gave up all his former
pleasures for her sake, and he became as
good as gold.'

Yes,' says Grandly, in a hushed voice,
so she wrote and told me.'

I never shall forget that awful time
she died,' continues Loftus. * It was a
dreadful shock to all of us, for she had endeared
herself to the whole regiment With
her gentle loving ways. But to Talbot it
was almost death. It struck him down
with such violence that at one time fears
were entertained for his reason. He acted
like a madman, and, worse luck, he never
in reality recovered.'

Loftus' voice falters, and, as though
ashamed of his weakness, he rises and pours
himself out a stiff glass of whisky, which
he swallows at a gulp.

You see, it happened like this,' he says,
resuming his seat. ' In the spring of that
year — it was '79, I think — she became
far from well. The climate of India did
not suit her. And as the hot weather
began to come on, and she showed signs of
getting worse, Talbot was compelled to decide
to separate from her for a time by
sending her to the hills. I happened to be
first for leave that year, so it Alas settled
that I should bring her up to Doonga —
which I did. We became very fast friends
up here, and I was glad to see that the
mountain air was gradually restoring her

to health. I used to write very often to
Charlie, reporting progress, and I know
for a fact that he used to write to her
every other day. And so the month of
April came to a close and May commenced.

It was about the 10th of May that she
first complained to me of feeling ill. She
felt feverish, she said, and she suffered from
a pain in her right below the waist. In the
next few days she became much worse, and
on the 17th the doctor announced that she
was down with typhoid fever. I telegraphed
at once for Talbot and the next day he
arrived. I cannot attempt to describe to
you how he suffered. All through those
dreary three weeks which followed it was
pitiable to see him. And when she died —
it was at three o'clock on the morning of
the 3rd of June, and I Alas present at her
side — he fell down like one suddenly struck
dead. I have often thought since that it
would have been better for him had he
actually died then.'

Why ?' says Grandly, very faintly. ' I
say, old chap, may I have a little spirits.
I — I feel rather — thirsty this morning.'

'Yes, certainly, old boy,' cries Loftus,
jumping up with alacrity, and bustling to

the table glad of any excuse to conceal his
own feelings. ' Here, drink this — it is, as
you say, very warm to-day — quite like the
middle of summer. Well, you see,' he continues,
resuming his seat and relighting his
cheroot. 'After poor Charlie recovered
from that awful shock, he was never quite
himself again. He could not stand the
weight upon his mind, and he was always
trying to drown his care. He became
feverishly excitable — neglectful of his duties
and often have I seen him — poor chap —
the worse for drink. We all saw that he
was going rapidly to the dogs, and we all
tried to do our best to save him, but it was
all in vain. The poor old chap, as you
know, was naturally weak-minded, and
nothing could persuade him to desist, and,
after his dear little wife died, he became
twenty times worse than he ever was before.
I often used to think that he was doing
it on purpose with the deliberate intention
of killing himself. But it was not only the
drink. He plunged fiercely into all amusements,
used to dine out three times a week,
and attend all parties, flirting desperately
with every woman he met. The result of
course was inevitable — he became entangled

more than once in very shady affairs.'
Yes — so I heard says Grandly. ' We
even heard that there was a woman in someway
connected with his death.'

Yes — there is no doubt that he went
terribly to ruin ; but we none of us thought,
when he used to be planning his Kashmir
trip, that he would so soon be taken away
from us. You see it happened like this.
He and I had planned to spend our summer
leave of the year 1880 in the wilds of
Kashmir. We had determined to leave the
usual districts round Sarinagar, frequented
by the British, and to penetrate northward,
thinking by so doing that we might get
better sport. So we came up together and
stopped a few days here in Doonga. And
here, worse luck, he met a girl with whom
in a few days he fell hopelessly in love, or
what stood him in the place of love. She
was living here with her father, and the old
man, knowing Talbot's reputation by hearsay,
would have nothing to do with him,
and gave him the cold shoulder. However,
Talbot was not to be daunted, and the
young lady, falling willingly into his plans
consented to meet him secretly. You remember
where I met you yesterday ?'

Yes.'

Well, it was in a secluded wood near
there that they used to meet every day.
A week passed like this, and, as our leave
was limited, I was beginning to feel impatient.
So I spoke to him on the subject,
but he refused to listen to me. Entreaties,
expostulations were useless ; I verily believe
that for the time he was literally bewitched.
I felt a compunction at leaving him behind,
for I well knew his fatal weakness of mind,
and I could not foresee what might be the
end of this unfortunate affair. But when
I spoke to him again he only laughed,
and told me not to fear for him,
that he thoroughly understood his own
business, and was determined to remain
some time longer. So after some delay
we decided that I should go on ahead
to the spot which Ave had fixed upon, and
that he would follow in a week or so,
letting me know by messenger when he was
likely to arrive. Finding it impossible to
turn him from his resolve, I at last agreed
to this unsatisfactory arrangement, and I
started ois alone. He rode down with meas
far as Honeybank, and well do I remember
his graceful figure turning round

and waving me good-bye. My God, when
next I saw him — he was greatly changed.'

A sudden gulp rises in his throat, and he
hastily jumps up, and pours out another glass
of whisky, which he raises to his lips with
trembling hands. Grandly says nothing ;
he dare not trust himself to speak, so he
waits patiently for his friend to continue
his narration.

In a moment Loftus has recovered from
his weakness, and he repeats himself and
begins to speak in a somewhat steadier
voice.

Well,' he says, ' I started, and in course
of time I reached the appointed place, and
I found good sport, though perhaps it did
not come up to our expectations. To tell
the truth, I was feeling terribly lonely. I
am not a keen enough sportsman to be able
to enjoy a life of perfect solitude for long,
and it had never been my intention to go
alone ; so I began to look forward eagerly
to the expected messenger. He came at
last, after I had been about a fortnight
alone, and brought a letter from Talbot,
in which he stated that he had started,
and would probably arrive about five or
six days after the bearer of the note. The

track was a straight one, and impossible
to miss, so I immediately packed up my
tent, and determined to start south to meet
him. In three days I came across him,
and never shall I forget the moment when
I first set eyes on all that remained of
Charlie Talbot.'

What ! was he dead, then ?' says Grandly,
with painful interest.

No, but dying — dying fast,' answers
Loftus, in a low voice. ' His tent was
pitched by the roadside, and before I entered
it something told me that it was not
all right. Standing outside the doorway,
I distinctly heard the sound of a woman's
sobs.'

A woman !' cries Grandly, in amazement.
' You cannot mean to tell me,
Loftus, that the girl came with him ?'

It was a woman sobbing. I hastily
raised the fly of the tent and entered. He
was lying on a camp bedstead covered with
blood, his face deadly pale, uttering groan
after groan. It was a terrible sight, and
I hastened towards him, and bent over
him, my heart too sick to speak.'

And the woman — the woman — what
did she do ?'

She threw herself on the ground beside
his bed, and ^^-ith a face distorted T^ith
grief implored me to save him. But, as to
saving him, it was an utter impossibility.
He was fearfully mutilated ; both his legs
and one of his arms were broken, the ribs
on his right side were smashed in, and
from his terrible groans I could tell that
he had experienced some fatal internal
injury. His face was not marred in anyway,
but it was so deadly pale that it
seemed as though I were looking on his
ghost. He was not conscious of my presence
; his eyes were fixed glassily on the
canvas of the tent, and he was wandering
in his speech, and all his bed was covered
with blood from the compound fractures
of his arms and legs. Oh ! Grandly, my
dear boy, it was an a^v^ful, terrible, sickening
o^ siojht !'

He covers his eyes with his hands, as
though to shut out the painful vision
which his words have conjured up, and
for several moments there is silence in the
room. Grandly is by far too agitated to
speak, and he sits there picturing in his
mind that death-bed scene, with all its
gloomy accessories, and a feeling of ingens

n. F

sate hatred against the unknown woman
arises in his breast.

And how did it all happen ?' he asks,
after a long pause.

the woman — or rather girl, for she
was nothing more — was beside herself with
fear and grief,' says Loftus, ' and from her
frenzied self-reproaches I gathered how the
terrible accident took place. They had
been walking beside a precipice of jagged
rock, and in a spirit of devilry — curse her
fair face and beauty ! — she had dared poor
Charlie to get her a flower which she saw
growing several yards below them. You
may remember Talbot's fierce impetuosity
he had only to be told that he could not
do a thing to make him resolved at any
risk to prove the contrary. And so it was
in this case. To prove his love, he accepted
the challenge, and how it actually happened
I cannot say, but his foot slipped,
and he was hurled down on to the cruel
rocks, a hundred feet below him. I afterwards
inspected the spot personally; the
rocks were smeared with clotted blood,
and how it was that he was not killed at
once I cannot imagine. These details I
learned partly from the girl's ravings, and

partly from inquiry of the native servant
who was with them at the time. It Alas
an inhuman thing to make him do, and
though she probably spoke in utter thoughtlessness,
yet there is no doubt that it was
through her instrumentality that he came
by his awful death.'

Ah ! I was certain of it !' cries Grandly,
excitedly. ' Something intuitively told
me that it was that vile wretch who caused
his death.'

Hush ! you should not judge her harshly.
Had you seen her, as I did, grovelling
at my feet, stricken with remorse, you
would have felt some pity for the girl.
Had she for one moment considered the
risk which she was making him run, I feel
convinced that she Avould never have asked
him to do it. It was all done in a moment
of thoughtlessness ; it was merely the act
of a capricious girl, anxious to prove her
power over the man she loved. But she
suffered for the act. Ah, Grandly, words
will not tell you how she suffered. I can
never recall this sad scene without a sense
of pity arising within me for that poor
girl, for she loved him passionately in her
fierce, lustful manner, and she had given

f2

Tip everything in life for his sake. For
days afterwards she was in a delirium, tortured
by the thought that she had killed
a fellow-creature, and it required all my
powers of persuasion to convince her to
the contrary.'

^ What did you do with her ?' he asks,
curiously, after a slight pause.

Well, about five o'clock that evening
poor Charlie died. But before he died a
glimmer of consciousness came over him,
and I fancied that he recognised me, for he
murmured something about being buried
beside his wife. The girl, as I have said,
completely lost her senses, and I, with the
help of the servant, nursed her for five
long days. In that interim some of the
natives of the place built me up a rude
coffin, and they placed poor Charlie in it,
having first subjected the body to some
process of embalming "with which they
were acquainted. And then we began our
sad journey homeward, for I was determined
to carry out the poor boy's dying
wish.*

And the girl ?'

She came with us, and, when we arrived
near civilized parts, I left her with the

servant, giving him strict injunctions to
take lier round by a circuitous route, and
to wait for me at a certain place. I, with
the necessary witnesses, took the body to
Sarinagar, and there testified to the proper
authorities the circumstances of his death,
leaving out all mention of the girl. After
a short delay there we started again, and
in course of time we met the girl at the
appointed place. It was now my first
endeavour to screen her — so we only travelled
by night, resting by day, she keeping
within her tent. In a few days we
arrived near Doonga, and then it was that
I first appreciated the difficulties of my
position. The question which puzzled me
was, what was I to do with her, and it was
then she told me her whole story, informing
me of a fact which hitherto I had not
known, which was, that Charlie had torn
himself away from Doonga, and that she
had followed him of her own accord, leaving
her home and voluntarily choosing a
life of sin. She explained to me that if
her father refused to take her back she
was literally homeless and destitute — so I
determined to risk his anger, and to go
and plead for her.'

Ah ! Loftus, that was noble of you
says Grandly, viewing him in admiration.

I left her in a secluded place outside
Doonga, with the servant, and I hastened
on with poor Charlie's body, which I buried
the next day beside his wife's. And then
I went to see her father. How I ever
induced him to take her back I cannot
imagine, but such in fact was the result of
my mission. He was terribly broken down
at the thought of his daughter s disgrace,
and I found out that on her disappearance
in desperation he had given out to the
world that she had gone into Kashmir to
stay with a friend — so no one was aware
of the true facts of the case except myself,
for I can swear that no one saw her when
she was under my charge. How the rumour
ever arose that there Alas a woman
connected with the death I cannot say ;
probably it was owing to the servants
chattering on the subject, though I bribed
them heavily to silence. And now, old boy,
that is the whole story ; and I trust that
you will keep it secret, for I have never
disclosed it before to a living soul.'

'You may trust me, Loftus,' replies
Grandly, gravely, ' I am filled with amazement

at your strange story. Have you seen
the woman since?'

Yes,' says Loftus, after a pause, ' I have
met her since.'

And has she quite recovered ?'

Yes — quite recovered. She is now
moving in society, as though nothing had
happened, although, it is true, there is
some vague cloud overhanging her. There
is an idea prevalent that there has been a
scandal about her at some time or other of
her life, and she is given rather the cold
shoulder by certain people, but no one can
say exactly what it is — so the matter is
generally ignored, and she is accepted as
an equal.'

It is extraordinary !' says Grandly,
musingly. ' You have surprised me, Loftus.
Considering all this, I suppose there is no
need for me to ask you whether it was you
who placed those wreaths upon their
graves.'

Wreaths,' repeats Loftus, with an expression
of the blankest astonishment.
'What wreaths? No, Grandly, it was
not I.'

Not you ! Then who could it possibly
have been? Yesterday I went to the

cemetery, and on both poor Adelaide's and
Charlie's graves there was laid a wreath of
fresh roses — Gloires-de- Dijon. If it were not
you, I cannot imagine who it could have
been.'

'No, it was not I, Grandly,' answers
Loftus, in a strangely reflective tone.
Gloires-de- Dijon only spring from Banbury's
! Who could it have been ? I confess
that I am completely mystified. But
now, Grandly,' he cries, suddenly relapsing
into his usual tone of voice, ' let us be
more cheerful ! This sort of conversation
is neither good for man nor beast. Put on
your hat and come round to the breakfast-room,
and by Jove, sir, if we don't polish
off a magnum of dry Monopoly between us,
I will turn good-templar for the rest of my
blooming days.'

CHAPTER V.

'for her sake.'

At the earnest solicitation of Grandly, a
quart bottle of dry Monopoly is substituted
for the suggested magnum, and they
are soon both engaged in discussing its
merits. To Grandly, it appears to be an
excellent specimen of dry champagne, but
Loftus, with a keenly critical look upon his
face, refuses to give an unqualified opinion,
at the same time hinting darkly that the
club is rapidly going to the dogs.

No,' he says, wisely shaking his head,
as he drains off the last glass in the bottle
of which he has drunk at least two-thirds.
No, it is certainly not up to the mark.
It is a beastly shame to attempt to palm
off cheap wines on the members of the
club. Six rupees a quart ! How can one
expect to get the genuine article for a
paltry six rupees ?'

It seemed to me to be really excellent,'
remarks Grandly, with a smile. ' And as
to being cheap — there, I beg to differ with
you. In our mess, Christy's best is only
five rupees the quart.'

Ah ! yes, in a mess — that's quite different
!' says Loft us, with a smile of superior
wisdom. ' Our one thought in a mess is to
obtain everything as cheap as possible —
one is on duty there, and consequently
careful. But in a club in the Himalayas,
where one may be supposed to be enjoying
a little holiday, it is only natural that one
should wish to relax a little from one's
usual habits.'

You mean that you would like to pay
higher prices for everything you get?'

Well — not exactly that. But I should
like to feel that I was spending money,' —
with a vague sweep of the hand in the air
'more than I could afford, in fact. Sitting
here with a balance credit at my banker's
how can I possibly imagine that I am on
a holiday. It is not a holiday — it is merely
duty.'

'You seem to think that a holiday
necessarily implies a long list of debts.'

'Of course I do,' he says, decidedly. ' And

who doesn't ? In my present prosperous
condition, how can I enjoy myself? What
excitement is there in life for me, when I
know that I can pay my way ? How is it
possible to enter into the fun of all these
chaps here, with my pockets full of gold ?
No, Grandly, old boy, I can tell you that
the sense of being flush depresses me —
literally depresses me. My life is one listless
routine of insipidity ; and when I see
that fellow Bramley in the card-room,
staking far more than he possesses, and
watch his eager face as the cards turn up,
why — I envy him ! He knows that everything
— name, honour, fortune — depends
upon the colour of the card, and he experiences
in consequence a beatific thrill of
excitement which I can never hope to feel.
Ah !' he says, shaking his head sorrowfully,
my lot is very hard.'

Ah — very I' answers Grandly, with
good-humoured irony. ' I really pity you
from the bottom of my heart. But can
nothing be done to alleviate your misfortune,
or is your purse impossible to
empty ?'

Impossible — in Doonga,' he answers,
dismally. ' My dear boy, I have tried it

over and over a/^ain, but it is no go. Day
after day have I been to Shorttt's until I
am literally sick of the sight of his shop.
Every single day for a month, I went and
bought a cigarette-case, a bottle of scent,
and a piece of soap. But such monotony
palls upon one at last. There is no variety
in Doonga. If you doit go to Shorttt's, there
is nowhere else to go, and, if you do go to
Shorttt's, you are compelled to buy soap or
scent or cigarette-cases. True, you can get
a pink drink there — but it is wishy-washy
stuff at the best, and weak at the strongest.
What was I to do ? At the end of a month
I had thirty pieces of soap, thirty bottles
of scent, and thirty cigarette-cases. Not
smoking cigarettes, the last were useless tome,
so I distributed them amongst my
friends — and, 'pon my sacred word of
honour, they actually seemed pleased to
accept them : and one of them — a young
chap in the 9th — said he really didn't like
taking such a handsome present — when all
the time I was praying for the future of his
soul, I was so grateful to him for relieving
me of the incubus. The thirty bottles of
scent, I packed up and sent anonymously to
Mrs. Lamb. It was beastly smelling stuff, I

believe, though I never opened them to
see, so I hope for your sake, Grandly, that
she does not make use of it at dinner-time.
As for the soap the sight of them drove me
mad. I could not well offer them to any
friend male or female — as such a present
would have seemed so damnably suggestive
of a hint to them to wash a little oftener
so I placed them upon the table in my
room, and anathematized them daily — and
I have never entered Shorttt's since. The
worm will turn at last, you know,' he adds,
with a feeble smile.

'And what did you do with them,
finally ?' asks Grandly, gravely.

'Ah ! that was very mysterious !' answers
Loftus, reflectively. 'As I say, I placed
them on the table, and one day, from
very weariness of spirit, I began to count
them. To my surprise, there were only
twenty. The fact of ten being missing
gave me a sense of pleasurable excitement,
such as I had not felt for weeks. So
I began to watch them after that, and one
disappeared every day till there was literally
not one left. It was most interesting
watching them taking their departure, and
gave me quite a zest for life. I have often

thought that it was my servant to whom I
was indebted for that pleasure, but he denies
it. I wish that he would confess the truth,
for I should like to thank him.'

^ What a pity you can't find out. But
surely there is some other way of getting
rid of your superfluous cash than by
patronising Shorttt's. Why not try the
card-room ?'

My dear boy, I have tried it ; I tell you
that I have tried everything. I went for a
week and played like a madman ; staked
enormous sums on ridiculous uncertainties
sums which made the fellows' hair stand
on end. But it was no good. Do what
I could, I always won. At the end of a
fortnight I was far better off than when I
began, and then I had the mortification of
having to take the other chaps' money.
Luckily, though, they paid me in paper,' he
adds, in parenthesis, * and paper is not expensive,
especially when the club supplies
it. So you see I am literally reduced to
spending my money in my stables, my
clothes, and my club-bill. I have seven
animals up here, but then, worse luck, they
cost me next to nothing. I have taken
them over the most awful ground in the

hopes of laming them, but they are so aggravating
that they seem to take a delight
in it, and come back sounder than ever. I
believe that it is quite a knack to be able
to lame horses easily. I certainly don't
possess it. But perhaps you do, old chap ?
I shall be delighted to let you try.'

As to laming them, I am afraid I should
not prove a better hand than you do. But,
if you really have no use for them, I should
be awfully obliged for the loan of a mount.
In the plains I am in the saddle all day
long, and there is nothing I miss so much
up here as my stables.'

Would you really ?' cries Loftus, leaning
forward, with a gleam of brightness on
his face. ' Of course you may have them
to do what you like with them. I will send
the whole seven up tomorrow to the hotel,
and you may take your choice. You had better
christen them by the days of the week, so
as to give them all a fair chance — and, old
chap, don't be particular about the ground
you travel over. There is a fine jagged
piece out beyond Tabernacle Point, and
perhaps you may have better luck than I
did. To think that such a trifle as the
possession of a horse can make you happy !

Twenty squadrons would not rouse me
from this listless apathy. How true it is,
as the poet said, that " omnia non pariter
sunt omnibus apt." '

He introduces this Latin quotation in a
voice of such perfect melancholy that
Grandly cannot retain his gravity, and he
bursts out laughing.

'sall is vanity, saith the preacher"'
murmurs Loftus, in a tone of the utmost
misery. 'Waiter! bring me another bottle
of dry champagne.'

Quart, sir ?'

Yes, quart — you are good for another
pint, I suppose, Grandly?'

No — no more for me, thanks,' says
Grandly. ' I really could not stand it in
the middle of the day.'

I know your obstinacy of character too
well by this time to attempt to dissuade
you — so don't think me inhospitable in not
pressing the point. Waiter I you may
bring me a pint.'

Loftus has apparently forgotten the
opinion which he has lately pronounced on
the merits of the wine, for he now drinks
his pint with the greatest relish, smacking
his lips in his enjoyment, and calling for

another bottle ; but then it is a noticeable
fact that men's opinions do very often
change considerably under the influence of
a quart of dry champagne. In fact, Loftus,
quite forgetting his recent remarks on the
subject, observes to Grandly that the
quality of the champagne reflects great
credit on the establishment, at which sudden
change of views the latter laughs most
heartily.

What the deuce are you laughing at ?*
says Loftus, with a suspicious glance, for,
strong as his head undoubtedly is, the
amount of mine that he has drunk this
morning is beginning to have its effect
upon him. ' Is there anything very funny
in my remarks, or are you in the habit of
jeering at another's misery?'

^I am awfully sorry,' says Grandly,
laughing more than ever, for Loftus' face
is really beginning to look very red and
shiny, presenting a most comical appearance.
' A sudden idea has just recurred
to me, and tickled my fancy, that's all. Far
from jeering at you, words won't express
the depth and reality of my sympathy. You
are certainly much to be pitied, although
I must admit that you are the first man

VOL. ir. G

who has ever complained to me of being
burdened with too much cash.'

I do not complain of having too much
cash,' answers Loft us, in an explanatory,
injured tone of voice. ^ I merely complain
of being so situated that I cannot spend it.
If I were at home, in London, I should be
happy enough — I should probably be head
over ears in debt. But the rural simplicity
of the Himalayas gives no opening to a
man of my exalted aspirations, as 1 have
explained before. If I were conscious of
owing more money to the tradesmen here
than I could pay — I might be able to
derive some happiness in life. I should
take a pleasure in tilting my hat on one
side, and parading my person, robed in
brand-new, unpaid-for clothes, jauntily
before their discomfited faces. But, as the
matter stands, such fun is out of the question.
I merely sneak about the place like
a half-fledged deacon in full canonicals !'

The notion of Loftus fondly imagining
to himself that he bears any resemblance
whatever to a gentleman of the sacred
cloth, is again too much for Grandly's
gravity, and he leans back and laughs
immoderately, his friend's face expressing

:a sense of keen irritation at this unseemly
proceeding on Ms part.

'What you can find to laugh at,' he says,
irritably, ' I can't imagine. I suppose,' he
adds, sarcastically, ' that another sudden
idea has just recurred to your mind, and
tickled your fancy. I confess, I envy you
your fund of humorous recollections.'

This sally does not tend to restore
Grandly's gravity, and he continues laughing
till the tears roll down his cheeks.
Loftus' irritation visibly increases. Since
Grandly has been in his presence, he has
drunk a tumbler-full of raw whisky, and a
certain amount of champagne — enough to
give him an undue sense of dignity — and,
under its exciting influence, he becomes
painfully conscious that his friend is making
a butt of him, and nothing that the
latter can say can convince him to the contrary.
To tell the truth, Grandly's expostulations
and apologies are drowned in inextinguishable
laughter, and consequently
lose all their force. At last Loftus rises
supremely indignant, and politely wishes
his friend good-morning, insinuating that
on their next meeting he hopes to observe
a marked improvement in his manners.

It has never been done to me before,' he
exclaims excitedly. ' Since I left my ber-jeannette,
I never remember to have been
so grossly insulted. Good-morning, Grandly,
good-morning. You will permit me
to wish you a very good-morning ;' and
with a bow, expressive of the most finished
sarcasm, he leaves the room.

Grandly sits for a moment or two, unable
to decide whether to be serious or to
laugh convulsively. The whole affair has
been so absurd that he has the greatest
difficulty in preventing himself from giving
way to the latter. Before he has had time
to rise, however, Loftus reappears, and
there is a beam of positive satisfaction on
his face, as he advances with outstretched
hand.

Grandly, you are a brick,' he says,
forcibly, shaking him by the hand. ^ By
gad, sir, you are a perfect wonder — you
have given me more excitement this morning
than I have felt for weeks. I am
literally all of a glow. We must certainly
split another pint, to celebrate the glad
occasion. I really feel another man ;' and,
in spite of Grandly 's protestations, the pint
bottle is brought and opened, and Loftus,

having proposed the appropriate toast of
'good-fellowship,' they both drink it in
terms of perfect amity.

How you managed it, I cannot understand,'
says Loftus, eagerly. ' It is all a
blank to me. But you did it, and that's
enough — and by gad, sir, you are a thundering
chap — a regular tonic for shattered
nerves !'

Grandly listens in amusement, until
Loftus has quite exhausted his volumes of
gratitude and thanks, and then he deftly
turns the conversation.

Do you know Miss Rigby ?' he says, in
an indifferent tone of voice.

'What— Emily Rigby? Of course I
know her. Who doesn't know the bewitching
Emily ?'

Grandly inwardly shudders. To hear
his iYLQiidi^ fiancee termed in a public club
the bewitching Emily ' is anything but
agreeable to his sensitive disposition.

But why do you ask ?' says Loftus,
curiously.

I heard yesterday from a great friend
of mine at Sihayipur. He tells me that
he is engaged to be married, but he does
not tell me the lady's name. And, from

what he says, I have a suspicion that it
must be Miss Rigby.'

Miss Rigby !' cries Loftus, incredulously.
' What the deuce put that idea into
your head?'

Is Miss Rigby living in Doonga ?'

Yes, certainly she is. What of it ?'

Ah, I thought so. I am almost certain
that his intended is now in Doonga, and I
also know that she comes from Sihayipur,
so, putting two and two together, 1 naturally
fix upon Miss Rigby.'

'Well, I consider that an exceedingly
rash conclusion to arrive at. Miss Rigby
is not the only Sihayipur lady now in
Doonga.'

Isn't she ? Why — who else is here ?'

Miss Forsdyke, of course.'

'Miss Forsdyke!' cries Grandly, in
amusement. 'What an extraordinary idea!
I am quite certain that it is not she.'

Well, I should say that it was just as
likely to be Miss Forsdyke as Miss Rigby.'

But it is not Miss Forsdyke,' says
Grandly, confidently. ' I know that for a
certainty, for she told me so herself.'

Oh ! she told you so herself, did she?'
says Loftus, with sarcastic gravity. ' Then

of course there can be no question on the
matter. No one would presume to doubt
a lady of such perfectly assured veracity
as Miss Forsdyke. And pray, might I be
so bold as to ask you when and where she
confided to you this interesting piece of
information ?'

When or where she told me is nothing
to do with the question. Loftus,' says
Grandly, flushing hotly. 'It was quite
by accident that I mentioned the fact, and
I bitterly reproach myself for having been
so careless. But, since I have confessed so
much, I may admit that I consider myself
a personal friend of Miss Forsdyke, and I
strongly object to the sneering tone you
always adopt in speaking of her.'

You are labouring under a delusion,'
remarks Loftus, suavely.

I am doing nothing of the sort,' retorts
Grandly, quickly. ' You never refer to
Miss Forsdyke without indirectly suggesting
to her detriment. Every speech you
make regarding her leaves an after-taste
of nastiness which it is impossible not to
notice. Why you dislike the poor girl I
do not know, nor do 1 want to know,
but '

No, you had better not ask for particulars,'
interposes Loftus, coolly.

No — I am not thinking of doing such a
mean action,' cries Grandly, angrily. ' For
some reason best known to yourself, you
have conceived an aversion for her which
you take no pains to conceal. It is so
palpable that she herself confessed to being
conscious of it.'

'Oh, she told you that too, did she?'
says Loftus, calmly. ' Really, this is becoming
very interesting. There seems to
be no end to her pretty little confidences.
May I venture to ask whether she has
made any other references to your humble
servant ?'

I decline to discuss the lady further,'
says Grandly, growing very pale ; ' I have
told you that Miss Forsdyke is my friend,
and in the face of that I consider your
sarcastic innuendoes in my presence to be
unworthy of a gentleman.'

Oh ! I say, Grandly — steady on !' cries
Loftus, starting back. ^ Aren't you coming
it just a little too strong ?'

Well — why do you goad me on till I
lose my temper,' returns Grandly, in a
somewhat calmer voice. ^ You know that

the lady is my friend, and you seem to
take a pleasure in insinuating against her
character. What has she done to you that
you should seize every opportunity to injure
her behind her back? I ask you, is your
conduct gentlemanly, or even manly ?'

^ You certainly state the truth when you
say that you have lost your temper,' answers
Loft us, steadying his voice with an effort. * I
even think you must have lost your senses,
to make use of such grossly exaggerated
language as you are doing. When you
accuse me of attempting to injure her behind
her back, you are either purposely or
unconsciously misrepresenting facts. I
have never attempted to injure her behind
her back ; I distinctly deny the accusation.
If I have ever spoken slightingly of the
lady, I have done it nth a fixed purpose —
namely, for your own welfare, and not, as
you seem to imagine, in order to blast her
character.'

And who gave you the right, Loftus, to
constitute yourself my Mentor?' cries
Grandly, pale with anger. ' Who gave
you the right to preach what is right or
wrong to me ? I am not responsible to
you for all my actions, and your attempting

to interfere on my behalf is a piece of unwarrantable
presumption on your part.
Your very attempt to palliate your offence
against Miss Forsdyke is a dastardly
insinuation against her character. What
do you mean by implying that my welfare
is at stake by being intimate with this
young lady ?'

Grandly, Grandly, you are forgetting
yourself,' saysLoftus, in a warning tone. ' I
must refuse to discuss this subject further,
unless you can control your temper. We
shall both be saying things presently
which we shall afterwards regret.'

I shall never regret having spoken as
I have, in this lady's cause,' cries Grandly,
hotly. ' It is not my custom to sit still
and calmly hear a lady's good name taken
away, without rising in her defence, whoever
she may be — stranger or friend.'

Excuse me one moment,' says Loftus,
calmly — very calmly. ' I must again call
your attention to the fact that you are exaggerating
the case in point. You accuse
me of attempting to deprive a young lady
of her good name ; I emphatically deny
having done so. I may have spoken jestingly
— sneeringly, if you like — of Miss

Forsdyke, but nothing more. And, in
doing so, you may be certain that I have
not spoken rashly. If you will forgive me
mentioning the fact, Grandly, at this
moment when we are both excited, I should
like to say that my deep regard for the
memory of your sister causes me to take a
peculiar interest in your welfare — one
which, apparently, you resent. And it was
this feeling Which prompted me to warn
you pointedly, that possibly you were treading
on dangerous ground. You may be
certain that, in future, I shall not be so
presumptuous as to offer you advice. But,,
before we leave the subject, let me once
again warn you . . . .'

'I will not stand it any longer!' cries
Grandly, jumping to his feet, beside himself
with passion. ' Your every word is an
insult to me, as well as to her, and I will
not remain to listen to your low attack
upon a defenceless girl's name.'

I am extremely sorry, Grandly, to have
so offended you,' says Loftus, quietly, looking
very pale — but, before he can conclude
his conciliatory sentence, Grandly has
snatched up his hat and stick, and has left
the room, without deigning to glance towards
him.

For a long time, Loftus sits calm and
thoughtful, all trace of the effects of champagne
having disappeared under the
excitement of the last few minutes. He
is keenly alive to the fact that he has

been spoken to in a way which no man
has ever dared to do before. Grandly's
insulting words, uttered in a moment of
ungovernable temper, are still ringing in
his ears, and the hot blush of shame
mounts to his face as he considers how he
has tamely listened to them without
attempting to either retaliate or to extort
an apology.

But there is another voice within him,
struggling for the mastery — a voice, soft
ind gentle, reminding him of a pale, dead
face, which he had loved in the inmost
recesses of his heart four years before — a
voice which exhorts him to forget the outrage,
and to forgive the man. And, before
the voice has pleaded many minutes, it has
conquered, and he rises with a fixed resolve
upon his face.

'For her sake, I will bear nth him,' he
murmurs, sadly. ' For her sake, I will see
that no harm comes to him.'

CHAPTER VI.

CACKLE !

The excitement, consequent on the news of
Colonel Stockton's flight, amongst the inmates
of Banbury's Hotel is easier by far
to imagine than to describe. Mrs. Lamb
finds it an utter impossibility to retain such
an important secret long. All through Monday
she roams restlessly in and out of the
house, longing yet not daring to impart
her information to everyone she meets.
She feels it ever present at the very tip of
her tongue, only waiting for her to open
her mouth, to seize on the opportunity to
escape ; and so it happens that, in spite of
all her precautions, she cannot prevent
herself from dropping various hints and
innuendoes of a mysterious nature during
the course of the day, which summed up
in the aggregate present a fairly concise

explanation of the whole affair. There is
quite a hectic flush upon her usually
sallow countenance, and, before the evening
arrives, she becomes really feverish from
the effects of such an abnormal strain
upon her mind. She is literally bursting
to tell the news, and, after dinner that
night, she can stand the anxiety no longer,
but appeals to her husband, telling him
that, unless she can impart the secret, she
will assuredly become very ill.

Then tell it by all means, my dear,'
rejoins the major, laying down the Pioneer
which he has been perusing. ' The old
man is quite safe by this time. But, as far
as I can see, you have already told every
human soul at present in the hotel.'

Oh ! Charles, how can you be so unfair ?'
she exclaims, indignantly. ^ What I have
suffered to-day in having to hold tiny
tongue is past all masculine comprehension
! Told everyone indeed ! Had I done
so, my temperature would not be so high as
it is at the present moment.'

Well, my dear, perhaps you have not
told anyone in particular the whole case —
but people loll put two and two together,
you know j and if you go to one lady and

And this is all the thanks I get for
having worked myself into a high fever !'
she exclaims, appealing dramatically to
space. ' After all I have endured, to be
branded as a gossip — as a woman who cannot
keep a secret ! Oh ! Charles, I am
sadly disappointed in you. Such ingratitude
on your part is neither husbandly nor
just.'

Well, my dear, I am really very sorry,'
he says, with an amused expression on his
face. ' I only state what I observed. I
wish to cast no imputations as to your
being unable to retain a secret — for all I
know, you may be as silent as the grave.
But, if so, how do you account for Mrs.
Andrews sa3dng to me this afternoon, " Oh !
Major Lamb, your wife has just been describing

to me such an interesting little
episode regarding Colonel Stockton'"

Ah ! yes — well, perhaps I did tell Mrs.
Andrews something of the truth,' says Mrs.
Lamb, reflectively. ' She is such a great
friend of mine, you know, that I couldn't
have well kept it from her.'

'Oh! that was the reason, was it?' remarks
the major, suavely. 'And what
induced you to tell Mrs. Bird that the
colonel was already three marches into
Kashmir. She came to me for confirmation
of the statement.'

Oh ! Mrs. Bird ! Did I tell her that?'
says Mrs. Lamb, confusedly. ' Well, perhaps
I did mention something of the story
to Mrs. Bird. Yow see we were so much
together this morning that it was impossible
for me not to refer to the matter in just a
casual way, you know.'

Ah ! — yes, I quite understand,' says the
major, gravely. 'It is so nice to have
all these little matters explained satisfactorily.
And, since we are on the subject,
perhaps you might be able to tell me what
caused you to confide to Mrs. Blewitt that
probably, within a few hours, Mrs. Stockton
would discover herself to be a grass-widow ?'

Now, Charles, don't be aggravating; !'
says Mrs. Lamb, tartly. ' And pray don't
attempt to be sarcastic. Believe me it does
not suit you. It is no good for a cooing
dove to attempt to crow like a back,' she
adds, with an air of having said something
clever and original.

Do hawks crow ?' asks the major, mildly.
*What an extremely interesting ornithological
fact, to be sure !'

It pleases you to attempt to be facetious
to-night,' she says, with mock politeness,.
I have often made the remark before that
in my opinion facetious men are quite as
detestable as playful elephants . . .'

And I am sure that the remark is well
worthy of repetition, dear,' interrupts the
major, with a merry twinkle in his eye. * I
only trust that I shall live to hear it repeated
many, many times.'

I am sorry, Charles, that you are not ina
very good temper, to-night,' says Mrs.
Lamb, with an acid glance in his direction.
I think that I will leave you for the present,
and seek the more congenial atmosphere
of the ladies' room. There, at any
rate, I shall be treated like a lady. I hope

VOL. II. H

that when I return I shall find you more
composed in mind.'

'My love, if you will only continue talking
for another two minutes and a half,' he says,
impressively, covering his face with the open
newspaper, ' 1 have not the least doubt that
I should be able to compose myself to sleep.'
But Mrs. Lamb does not wait to hear his
repartee ; she whisks up her train with a
sudden jerk, and leaves the room.

Her mind misgives her sadly on the subject
of Colonel Stockton's flight. If her
husband has really spoken the truth, then
the secret is hers no longer ; in spite of all
her precautions, she must have unconsciously
imparted it bit by bit until the whole is
known. This is a terrific blow to her, for
during the whole day she has been fondly
picturing to herself the electrical effect that
her announcement will produce. The
thought that she, and she alone, is aware of
Mrs. Stockton's desertion, has been an
immense source of satisfaction to her, and
it is extremely mortifying, now that the
moment of disclosure has arrived, to discover
that through her own imprudence the
facts of the case have gradually leaked out
in meagre drops instead of with one startling

rush such as she had fondly imagined
to herself. She trusts, . however, that her
husband has exaggerated the facts of the
case, and, full of hope, she repairs to the
ladies' room.

She is not left long in doubt. She finds
about a dozen ladies sitting round the
room in solemn conclave, and, before she
has entered the doorway, a dozen tongues
assail her, clamouring for further details
on the point in question.

Though considerably mortified at finding
her worst fears realised, still she feels that
her position might have been worse. The
fact of the colonel's flight is known, but
merely the bare fact without any accessory
details, and it is gratifying to her vanity
to find herself appealed to as the only lady
really cognisant of the whole afiuir So
she seats herself in their midst, and gives
herself up wholly for the next 
to the rapturous task in hand, noting,
with the keenest relish, the eagerness
with which her companions hang upon her
words. Yes — it is certainly a triumph,
sitting there imparting bit by bit her
superior information • and, warming to the
work, she deftly inserts little touches of

extra colouring, suggested by lier own
imagination, adding startling effects to the
already finished picture.

I could have died with laughter,' she
says, applying her brush with amazing
audacity. ' I was standing by my half-opened
door, Ashen the manager arrived in
answer to her summons. She walked into
the passage and confronted him. " Where
is my husband ?" she said, purple nth suppressed
Avrath. " Madam," said he, " I
really do not know ; I was quite unaware
that he was absent." " If you don't find
him before the evening," she answered, " I
shall refuse to pay my bill — so you had
better set to work at once ;" saying which
she retired again to her room, and slammed
the door in his face.'

A murmur of applause greets the fair
speaker on her delivery of this little piece
of information. Every inmate of the room
is conscious of feeling a sense of rapturous
elation at the thought of Mrs. Stockton's
discomfiture. They are one and all without
exception hostilely inclined towards
that disagreeable woman, for she has severally
insulted them in various ways, during
her sojourn in the hotel.

^ Oh ! tell us some more particulars,'
cliirrups little Mrs. Bird, in a voice of
suppressed ecstasy. ' It is really quite
the most delightful thing I have ever
heard.'

Mrs. Lamb smiles graciously, and draws
again on her fertile imagination. It never
enters into her philosophy that her little
gratuitous touches to the picture are unwarrantable.
She has a good story to tell,
and she feels that it is only due to her
audience to serve it up in as palatable a form
as possible.

You know,' she says, ' the doctor came
to see her this morning, for she has never
quite recovered from her fall on Saturday,
and he has prescribed for her perfect rest
and solitude. She is to lie on a sofa for at
least a week, and on no account to take
any exercise. Talk about taking exercise !
You should have just heard her rampaging
round the room, after she slammed the
door in the manager's face. I casually
walked out on to the balcony, and enjoyed
the situation immensely. She didn't strike
me as beings much of an invalid. From
what I could hear, she seemed to be smashing
the furniture literally to pieces, and oh !

the language she used ! It made me
turn quite cold !'

Oh ! do tell us !' cries a chorus of eager
voices.

Oh ! I really couldn't,' says Mrs. Lamb,,
diffidently. ' I couldn't bring myself to
repeat it.'

• But you must dear Mrs. Lamb,' says
Mrs. Blewitt. ' Give us some idea of it ina
modified way, you know. We are all together
here, and none of us will be shocked,
we promise you.'

Mrs. Lamb persists in her refusal. The
whole story being an invention of her own,
she finds herself in rather an awkward
position ; as for the moment she can recall
no bad language to her mind, and her inventive
faculty refuses to supply it. Then,
suddenly, some pet phrases of her husband's
flash across her memory, and she returns
to her task with renewed self-assurance.

She gives a little cough, expressive of
her disinclination to sully her fair lips with
the repetition of anything so vulgar, and
then, with a modest hesitation in her voice,
she says,

Well, if you really wish me to tell
you . . .'

'We do — we do !' exclaims the chorus.

'- Then — then, I heard her say — " Blast
his eyes !" '

Oh !' a little shriek of astonishment
issues from the mouth of her eager audience.

And—" Curse his skin !" '

Oh ! !'

'And'' Hell and fury"'

Oh ! ! !'

And — and — " Thunder and bear's
grease !" ' cries Mrs. Lamb, desperately,
racking her brains for expletives of the
deadliest significance. ' Oh ! it was simply
awful ! I wonder that she was not struck
dead upon the spot, that I do !'

A rustle of horror permeates the room,
followed by a buzz of excited voices, all
commenting on the dreadful announcement
at the same moment. How terrible ! How
shocking ! How unladylike ! How sinful !
Mrs. Blemtt declares in a tone of suppressed
rapture that she hardly can believe it ;
Mrs. Bird and Mrs. Andrews hold up their
hands in virtuous indignation, exclaiming,
Is it possible ? It is nothing short of infamous
!' whilst every other lady gives her
own separate opinion on the subject, all
confessing utter incredulity to anything so

monstrous, and yet, at the same time, all
thoroughly believing it nth a fervour
worthy of a better cause.

Mrs. Lamb sits in their midst calm and
silent, viewing their excitement with a
patronising smile. This is one of the most
triumphant moments of her life, and she
strives her utmost to look unconcerned,
feeling that an assumption of arrogance on
her part, though perfectly justifiable considering
the magnitude of the occasion,
would neither be so becoming nor so effective
as the adoption of a placid air of condescension.


When the excitement has somewhat
abated, and silence is partially restored,
Mrs. Lamb makes a proposal which strikes
her audience dumb with astonishment.
It is that the ladies in the hotel should
combine together and send to Mrs. Stockton
a round-robin requesting her, in the
interests of the community, to take her departure
from the hotel at an early date.

The proposition is received in solemn
silence. The ladies look at one another,
with a view to fathoming each other's
opinion on the matter, so as to gain a clue
to their own line of conduct ; each one

resolving uot to be the first to speak.
There is something so audacious in the
plan that none of them think it advisable
to give an individual opinion until they
see how it will be generally received. Mrs.
Lamb experiences the most intense disappointment
at this chilling reception to her
scheme. From the excitement evinced by
the company in general, she had imagined
that they would have seized upon the idea
as a heaven-born inspiration. Filled with
a pitying contempt for the want of spirit
which they display, she determines to press
the point, and rises — yes, actually rises —
to address the meeting.

Ladies,' she says, in true platform style,
the subject which I bring before you is
one of too serious a character to be treated
lightly, or to be hastily decided upon.
Within this hotel there lives a — a — well, a
lady, who by her objectionable manners
and low vulgarities has made herself unpleasant
not only to one of us — or two of
us — but to the whole community.'

She pauses for a moment in her oration
to ascertain the effect produced upon her
audience, and she has the gratification of
hearing Mrs. Bird murmur an assenting

approval. No one else utters a sound.
The truth is, all the ladies assembled hold
Mrs. Stockton in such mortal dread that
they feel no inclination to submit their
names to a paper of such a determined
character as the one suggested by Mrs.
Lamb. To abuse the lady behind her
back they have not the slightest objection
to doing — but to openly bring their persons
under her displeasure is a very different
pair of shoes — and they all resolve in
their own minds to be extremely cautious
as to what they do.

Mrs. Lamb, however, carried away by
the excitement of the moment, has lost all
her fears, and she now commences to instil
into them a courage equal to the occasion.

Are we to be publicly insulted in this
manner ? ' she asks, in really admirable
declamatory tones. ' Are we to be sat
upon, and sneered at, and abused on all
occasions by a Avoman wanting both in
birth and breeding? Are we to banish
common decency from our lives, and allow
ourselves to be enveloped in an atmosphere
of Billingsgate and St. Giles? I
ask you, ladies, calmly and dispassionately,
are these things to be?' and her audience,

warming beneath such grandiloquent language,
give vent to a loud murmur in the
negative.

No — assuredly not !' continues Mrs.
Lamb, excitedly, agreeably surprised at
her own remarkable fluency, and intensely
proud of the important role in which she
finds herself. ^ As ladies of delicate birth
and culture, there cannot be one dissenting
voice in this assembly. From our very
cradles have we been raised in an atmosphere
of high refinement, and are we now,
on account of one low woman, to be submerged
in a sea of coarse, vulgar, vile
vituperation ? Are our delicately-nurtured
ears to be daily polluted by the indecent
utterances of an ill-bred woman ?'

This is really very fine. Mrs. Lamb,,
with flushed face and excited gesture,
stands before them, a grand personification
of courage and determination. How can
they fail to be influenced by her words ?
To a woman they all unanimously express
their heartiest approval.

No, we will not stand it,' says Mrs.
Andrews, boldly. ' We must adopt some
preventive measures.'

Exactly !' says Mrs. Lamb, impressively.

We must all combine and make a stand
against it. And how can this be done ?
Could we — ladies of gentle breeding and
position — agree to give her sneer for sneer,
to descend to low recrimination, to fight
her with her own filthy weapons ? Never !
the idea is too painful and shocking to be
mentioned. No — we must resort to other
means, such as befits our station. All we
require is peace and comfort for the future,
and, to obtain this, we must induce her to
leave the house. And this can only be
effected safely by the method which I have
just suggested — by means of a round-robin.
Let us take a sheet of paper and, in courteous
language, request her to depart ; and
let us all circumscribe our names, the one
taking no precedence over the other.'

As she pauses, murmurs of the most unqualified
approval arise in all directions.
The courage of the ladies, during her brief
harangue, has risen from zero to fever
height. Feeling the truth of the maxim
that ' V union fait la force ^' they one and all
rise equal to the situation, and they one
and all, in the most vehement language,
express their several opinions on the matter
at the same moment. The oratorical

prowess displayed by Mrs. Lamb appears
to have been contagious, for each lady is
suddenly seized with a desire to address
the meeting, and refuses absolutely to listen
to anything offered by her neighbours.
Then arises a perfect Babel of confused
tongues.

The noise increases, and the excitement
now passes all bounds. Mrs. Andrews
seizes a sheet of paper, and commences to
inscribe lier idea as to how the round-robin
should be written. Mrs. Bird protests, saying
that the subject requires much further
discussion before anything definite should
be attempted. Mrs. Blewitt argues that
too much discussion has already been wasted
on the subject, and that it is necessary to
act and not to talk, at which there is a
sound of great approval throughout the
room.

Mrs. Lamb moves about the room wildly
gesticulating, imploring everyone to keep
calm at such an important moment, as
excess of excitement may be fatal. But to
demand silence and to enforce it are two
totally different matters, and the hubbub of
voices increases every moment.

The point under such violent discussionis

whether there shall be or shall not be
further discussion on the matter. Mrs.
Bird heads the former party, Mrs. BleAvitt
the latter ; and each one refuses to yield
one iota from their expressed opinion.

Mrs. Lamb is in despair. Wringing her
thin hands, with a hectic flush upon her
sallow cheeks, she vainly exhorts them to
show some observance to regulated order.

Remember,' she cries, appealingly, ' that
you are soldiers' wives, and, as such, you
should not be ignorant of the true worth
of discipline.'

But the battle rages long and furiously,
and Mrs. Blewitt has to utilise to her utmost
her powers of scathing repartee before
the opposing party ultimately yields. And
then there follows a great calm, for there
is an unanimous consensus of opinion that
the round-robin shall be drawn up, and
despatched forthwith.

Mrs. Andrews nominates herself secretary
to the meeting, at which various dissenting
remarks arise as to the impropriety of her
conduct in thus taking upon herself, unasked,
such an important office. But,
strong in the thought that the assumption
of any high post must of necessity raise up

a host of envious tongues, Mrs. Andrews
pays no heed to them, though she cannot
prevent herself from overhearing Mrs.
Blewitt's covert sneer on the question of
people pushing themselves indecently to
the front ;' but as the remark is applied ina
general way, without particularising any
individual person, she thinks it better to
pay no attention to it.

With an assumed look of unconcern, she
pulls a sheet of paper towards her, and
then, with a quill pen, draws upon it the
nearest approach to a circle that her unpractised
hand is capable of forming. The
remaining ladies crowd round her, with the
exception of Mrs. Blewitt, who stands somewhat
aloof, beside the fire-place, with a contemptuous
smile upon her face.

This lady's ardour in the cause is so great
that she resents being placed in a subordinate
position. Had she known Latin,
she would probably have attuned her
thoughts to the maxim of ' Aut Caesar, aut
nullus !' — but not being possessed of
classical acquirements she contents herself
with muttering at intervals in scornful
tones classical ejaculations, such as
Rot !' and ' Twaddle 1' She is a lady of

great strength of mind, and consequently
much respected by the Banbury coterie
but, on the present occasion, the ladies are
too much interested in the matter in hand
to pay her the least attention.

'This,' says Mrs. Andrews, referring
with pride to her design, ' is ??zy idea upon
the subject. Inside this circle, we AYrite
our request, and then all around we place
our signatures, all converging on this
centre point. Do you agree with me, Mrs.
Lamb?'

Rot !' says Mrs. Blewitt.

Certainly, I do !' says Mrs. Lamb a
little tartly, conscious of being for the
moment deposed from the proud position
of leader of the movement. 'There can
be no question on the subject. As far as
I know, there is only one way of forming a
round-robin. I think the ladies present
will agree with me that there is no need
to discuss such a self-evident subject
further.'

Rot !' says Mrs. Blewitt.

Oh ! certainly,' cries a chorus of excited
voices. ' We have no time to waste in useless
discussion. Let us set to work in
earnest at once.'

*Rot !' says Mrs. Blewitt.

That is just what I am doing,' explains
Mrs. Andrews, a trifle unamiable, annoyed
at the thought that her exposition of her
idea has been termed, ' useless discussion.'
' If you will only have a little
patience, I will have the thing completed
in a moment. The only question to decide
upon is the wording of the sentence. Ha
any lady any suggestion to make ?'

Has any lady any suggestion to make !
What a question to ask ? Every lady in the
room has not only one suggestion to make,
but twenty, and they are all offered at the
same moment, rendering it impossible for
Mrs. Andrews to detach a single coherent
syllable. But far above the din, at equal
intervals, can be heard the clear voice of
Mrs. Blewitt scornfully exclaiming, ' Rot !'
She feels in her heart that, had ^7^^ the
paper before her, she could settle the whole
affair in half-moment, and her contempt
for the hideous babbling of tongues is
plainly depicted on her face.

After an animated discussion of great
length, during the course of which it is
sad to have to record that two ladies
actually descended to the use of personal

VOL. II. I

invective, something definite is agreed
upon, and, amidst a perfect furore of excitement,
Mrs. Andrews commences to write it
down.

Ladies,' she says, rising on the completion
of her task. ' I will just read it over.
It runs as follows.'

Rot !' says Mrs. Blewitt, with supreme
contempt.

I beg your pardon — did you speak ?'
says Mrs. Andrews, goaded to madness,
turning sharply round.

Yes,' says Mrs. Blewitt, with a burst
of satirical laughter. ' I did speak. I said
Rot," and now I beg leave to repeat the
remark.'

A flush of anger illumines Mrs. Andrews'
face, and she is on the point of retorting,
when she is prevented by a chorus of eager
voices begging her to confine her attention
to the matter in hand.

Very well, ladies,' she says, ' it runs as
follows :

'Madame, the ladies residing in Banbury's
Hotel combine together to respectfully
request that . . . .'

Her voice suddenly falters and dies out ;

a most unexpected interruption has occurred.


The door has opened, and, to the horror
of those assembled, on the threshold is
standing Mrs. Stockton herself, dressed in a
most striking deshabille. Apparently she has
just risen from her bed, for she is clothed ina
thick peignoir of faded blue, which clings
tightly about her unsightly figure, disclosing
plainly that there is next to nothing
underneath. Upon her head is an old
white night-cap, not too beautifully clean
and neat, and the fringe which usually
adorns her forehead has entirely disappeared.


She stands for a moment in the doorway,
viewing the scene within with a look of
grim vindictiveness upon her face, and
then she walks into the room, and calmly
takes a seat.

Don't let me disturb you, ladies,' she
says, with a savage snort. ' Pray continue
your little entertainment ! As I find it impossible
to go to sleep with this unseemly
noise so near me, I have come to join your
festive gathering.'

Not a sound is heard ; no one attempts to

i2

speak. The ladies, some of whom are quite
pale with fright, look into each other's faces
guiltily, not knowing what to do, but all
devoutly longing to escape. Mrs. Andrews
hastily crunches up the damnatory paper
and transfers it to her pocket, whilst Mrs.
Lamb, vainly attempting to present a bold
appearance, looks the very picture of dismay.
Mrs. Blewitt alone seems to retain
her presence of mind ; without displaying a
trace of agitation upon her scornful countenance,
she stands leaning with one arm
against the mantelpiece, smiling derisively at
the terror-stricken faces of her companions.

The silence in the room is so complete
that each one is conscious of the beatings of
her own heart — and still it continues, no
one capable of uttering a syllable.

Suddenly a murmuring sound arises from
the further quarter of the room. It is Mrs.
Andrews speaking, and she is understood
to be expressing her intention of retiring to
bed. She has played three sets of tennis
that afternoon, and consequently is feeling
rather tired, she says, and then, with an inclination
of her head to the assembled company,
she retires from the room with more
speed than grace. Mrs. Stockton bows her

head in mock politeness, and as the door
closes behind her she lets fall, in a sepulchral
voice, the word ' One !'

A second lady is now heard remarking on
the lateness of the hour, and with a little
bow she retires. Mrs. Stockton bowing in
return utters, in the same sepulchral tone,
the word ' Two !'

At this juncture, Mrs. Bird discovers that
she is feeling very tired, and, faintly murmuring
good-night, she beats a hasty retreat
not waiting to close the door behind
her. Mrs. Stockton says ' good-night,' and
then counts ' Three !'

The situation is most embarrassing.
There is something terrible in that grim
old woman sitting there counting the
several exits in that sepulchral tone. Under
the influence of this fearful apparition, the
courage of the company has sunk again
to zero. They feel it impossible to regain
their ease, and with one accord the
remaining eight make for the door — and
disappear.

Mrs. Stockton gives vent to a loud
chuckle of delight, and then says, in the
same tone as before, ' Three and eight are
eleven !'

Only Mrs. Lamb and Mrs. Blewitt now
remain. The former sees her forces deserting
her with a sinking heart, but her
pride prevents her from utterly succumbing.
She is determined that none of them shall
be witness to her weakness, so she vainly
attempts to appear at ease, fully resolved
to remain to the very last. Oh ! how she
wishes she were out of it ! But she dare
not go, with Mrs. Blewitt in the room. She
feels that, after such bravado as she has displayed
that evening, a show of cowardice
on her part at this crisis would lower her
irrevocably in the opinion of her clique.
She would become the laughingstock of the
hotel, and would never again be able to
raise her voice as an authority on any subject.
So with a palpitating heart she
stands there longing for the opportunity to
arrive when she may make an honourable
retreat.

Mrs. Blewitt, with a smile of scorn upon
her face, is on the other hand not in the
least discomposed by the awkwardness of
the situation. Calmly and collectedly, she
holds her ground, viewing the scene before
her with a look of mingled amusement and
derision.

Neither of the three ladies speak. Mrs.
Stockton moves with ominous impatience
in her chair, glancing wrathfully in their
direction. Mrs. Lamb dare not meet her
eye, but Mrs. Blewitt gives her a long
steady stare with a contemptuous sneer
upon her well-formed lips.

Tick — tick — goes the clock with exasperating
monotony, and still neither lady
says a word. Every swing of that pendulum
increases Mrs. Stockton's fierce impatience.
She looks towards it, and finds it is
on the stroke of twelve.

Am I to o;et no rest to-nio;ht ?' she
growls. ' Three and eight are eleven.'

Mrs. Blemtt glides gracefully towards her.

Good-night, Mrs. Stockton,' she says, ina
voice of honeyed sweetness. * Your
knowledge of arithmetic is really wonderful.
As you say, three and eight are
eleven, and one is twelve. 1 will not
trouble you to count my departure,' and,
with a smile and a little bow, she leaves the
room.

Mrs. Stockton casts after her a glare of
impotent rage, and then she turns her eyes
and fixes them full on Mrs. Lamb, who
vainly tries to summon up sufficient courage

to say good-night. But her tongue
literally refuses to utter a sound, and, what
is worse, her feet seem suddenly glued to
the floor, and she is unable to stir a step.
Alone in the presence of her enemy she
presents indeed a pitiable sight. She is
conscious of the fact, and inwardly thanks
providence that there is no one there to
witness it.

Suddenly Mrs. Stockton rises and walks
towards her.

'Mrs. Lamb,' she says, in a voice trembling
with passion, 'tell me this instant
where my husband is.'

At the sound of her voice the spell is
broken. Uttering a little nervous shriek,
and without attempting to conceal her
fright, Mrs. Lamb turns round and bolts
precipitately from the room. Fleeing like
a hunted hare out of the door and along
the corridor, she finally reaches her own
room, where she immediately falls into her
ayah's arms in a violent fit of hysterics,
frightening that good woman clean out of
her senses, in so far that she drops her fair
burden on the floor, and, running screaming
out of the room, arouses the whole
hotel with her discordant cries.

CHAPTER VIL

L Amende HONORABLE.

In the spring-time of the year, Nature relieves
her feelings of the last remnant of
her wintry agitation by giving way to sudden
fits of fury which for the moment are
overwhelming in their intensity, but which
die out as suddenly as they arise, leaving
a great after-calm which is not untinged
with melancholy. And these sudden
paroxysms of passion in no way resemble
those sullen bursts of rage to which she is
addicted at other seasons of the year, when
for days before she nourishes her hatred,
and, growing ominously in the distance,
refuses to strike until she has collected all
her forces around her, and is certain of the
efficacy of her blow. The one is involuntary,
the other is premeditated. The one
leaves no trace of harm behind, the other

is deadly destructive in its revengeful
course.

And Nature in this respect is imitated
by the tempests Which rock the human
mind. As in Nature, so in the human
mind, are to be discovered two distinct
varieties of passion — the one harmless in
its fierce impetuosity, the other highly injurious
in its deliberate malignancy.

The burst of anger to which Grandly
has given way in the presence of his
friend is of the former character. It comes
upon him with the sudden violence of a
whirlwind, and for the moment he is mad,
heedless as to what he says or does — and
yet, before he has even emerged from the
club enclosure, the fiery tempest within
him has abated, and he is calm and cool
again, wondering in amazement at his owen
inexplicable behaviour. What he has
exactly said to Loftus he cannot now remember,
for with the disappearance of his
strange excitement all recollection of the
words which he has used seem to have deserted
him ; but he is conscious that he has
used insulting phrases, and the thought
causes his olive skin to fish with shame.

Why has he behaved so strangely ?

What subtle force has caused him to act ina
way so foreign to his usual line of conduct
? He asks himself this question in
perplexity as he hurriedly strides up the
hill. As far back as he can remember, he
cannot recall one single instance of his
having so totally lost control over himself
as on this present occasion. His natural
temperament, he knows, is mild and
placid, utterly devoid of irritability, and
he is lost in amazement as he considers
how completely he has forgotten himself,
in so far that he has even allowed his
tongue to insult a friend. For that Loft uses
his friend he has no doubt He is conscious
that the feeling he bears towards him
is more than that of mere acquaintanceship
; his every word and gesture plainly
discloses that fact — and as he recalls the
softened expression which fell across his
face as he was relating the history of Talbot's
death, and remembers the noble part
which he played in that pathetic drama,
his sorrow for his recent conduct approaches
to remorse.

There is one point on which he refuses
to allow his mind to work — and that is the
personality of Miss Forsdyke. He puts

her outside the question. He merely argues
to himself that he has lost his temper,
for no adequate reason, with a friend, and
that it is his duty consequently to apologise.

Walking along, mentally analysing the
reason of his strange outburst of temper, a
sudden consciousness comes upon him,
which makes his ears tingle with very
shame. It strikes upon his senses with the
suddenness of a flash of lightning, disclosing
to him without a doubt the force which
has moved him to behave so strangely. He
tries to stifle the insinuation ; he dare not
confess its truth ; he attempts to argue it
away, but all in vain. It still remains, and
every moment it assumes a more decided
form. And it is this — that he himself is
conscious that his own faith in Miss Forsdyke's
integrity has been shaken by the
repeated insinuations cast against her
character.

From the first moment that he has made
enquiries concerning her, he has been met
with covert innuendoes and slighting allusions
to her person, and in spite of all his
efforts to treat them with contempt, he
knows that they have left traces of their
insidious sting behind them.

He understands his conduct now. He
lead resorted to violence, merely to fortify
his heart against its sudden weakness. He
had, in fact, been angry with himself for
having; allowed himself to entertain such a
prejudice against his sister-friend, and he
had been violent towards his friend for
having assisted to create such a doubt
within him.

A sense of great shame takes possession
of him, as this idea unfolds itself. What
is it that he has done ? In spite of his
fervent assurances ever to regard her as a
sister, to be her perfect friend, to stand
forth her champion against all foes, he has
allowed his mind to be influenced by
scandalous report : before a Aveek has passed,
his chivalrous faith in the purity of her
being has wavered, and he has proved himself
a coward — a man unworthy to possess
her love and confidence !

How can he atone to her for such treachery
? In what way can he prove to her and
to himself that he is thoroughly repentant
for having momentarily wavered in his
allegiance ?

In great bitterness of spirit, he lays bare
the contemptible nature of his conduct, inwardly

reproaching himself for not having
a firmer control over the irresolution of his
character. That the doubt which he has
conceived concerning her was but of a
moment's duration, does not in the least,
in his opinion, mitigate the magnitude of
the sin he has committed. He only feels
that, in having harboured doubt, though
only for a moment, he has proved himself
quite unworthy to partake in that great
friendship which they had planned.

And, thus thinking, he forms two determinations
: firstly, to write to Loftus,
humbly apologising for his conduct; secondly,
to confess fully to Miss Forsdyke the
fact of his momentary disloyalty.

The letter to Loftus is not a hard one to
write ; it requires no effort of mind to form
those few simple phrases, in which he expresses
his regret for his hastiness that
morning. It is not a matter of flowery
language ; he merely writes plainly and
concisely a note of which any gentleman
might be proud ; and having sealed it and
directed it, he gives it to his servant with
injunctions to take it to the club at once.

It is as though a great weight had been
taken off his mind, as he sees his servant

depart to do his bidding. He has no fears
as to the result of his little note. He has
gauged his friend's character too well, not
to understand that it possesses none of the
ingredients which combine to form sulkiness
or malice. He knows that Loftus will
be pleased beyond measure to mend the
breach. He has asked him to dine with
him on the morrow, to join hands again in
good-fellowship over a bottle of champagne,
and he is convinced that he will come.

But the task which he has before him
with reference to Miss Forsdyke is of a
more difficult character. How she will
receive his confession he does not know.
There is the possibility that she may forever
lose all faith in the sincerity of his
devotion ; but, from what he knows of her
character, he does not think this probable.
That she will experience a sense of the
keenest disappointment, on hearing of his
want of fealty, he does not doubt, for he
fully comprehends how thoroughly she
has set her heart upon the friendship which
they have agreed to form. But never fora
moment does he waver in his resolve to
confess his fault. It may be quixotic ; it
may be carrying his sense of right to an

absurd extreme, but still be means to doit.
He feels, until be bas unburdened ibis
mind and asked ber pardon, that be can
never ao;ain be at ease in ber presence ;
be would be ever haunted with the knowledge
of bis treachery, and all sense of
harmony in their intercourse Avould inconsequence
disappear.

Miss Forsdyke meets bim that afternoon
with outstretched bands, and with a smile
of o'irlisb innocence on ber charming little
face, wbicb makes bim trebly conscious of
the wrong wbicb be bas done ber, in having
doubted ber for a moment. It requires
no experience in character-reading to perceive
at a glance that no deceit or sinful
tbouo;bts could ever bave found a dwellings
within that sunny open countenance.

He eagerly seizes ber bands, and raises
them to bis lips.

Diana,' be says, ' I fear that again I
bave kept you waiting. How can I prove
to you my contrition for being so unpunctual?'


I do not want any proof,' sbe says,
brightly. ' I can see it in your eyes. Tbe
anxiety of waiting is more than compensated
by your appearance, however late it

may be. Now, you have held my hand
quite long enough — so let go, and sit down
there. I am quite certain that you have
been delayed against your will,' she adds,
confidently, as she sinks down beside him
on the soft, green turf.

'Yes, you are right,' he answers, gravely.
^ Do you know, that this afternoon I have
had a severe quarrel with one of my best
friends?'

'A quarrel !' she says, in a surprised
tone. ' What on earth about ? I thought
that men prided themselves on never
quarrelling.'

'As a rule, they do — but this was quite
exceptional. I was foolish enough to completely
lose my temper, and I am afraid
that I was not only bad-tempered, but
insulting.'

Oh ! Frank, how could you so far forget
yourself?' she murmurs, reproachfully. 'I
cannot imagine you losing your temper.
To me, you seem to be superior to all the
petty failings of the human frame. I feel
assured that you must have had great
provocation.'

She looks at him with a world of sympathy
in her liquid eyes, but he dare not

VOL. II. K

meet her glance. She implies only too
clearly by her words the great belief she
has in the nobility of his character, and
the knowledge that he is undeserving of
her trust cuts him to the quick.

Tell me who it was ?' she says, noting
his unwillingness to speak. ' I feel certain
that, with a little tact, it will all come
rio-ht ao;ain.'

It was with Mr. Loftus.'

Mr. Loftus !' she repeats, nervously, and
a sudden flush of colour lightens up her
cheek. 'What could you have quarrelled
with him about?'

Can you not guess, Diana ?' he says,
raising his eyes to meet her face.

A rush of crimson sweeping across her
face and neck tells him that she understands
his meaning.

Frank !' she says, leaning forward, and
resting her hand upon his knee, ' do you
mean that it was about me you quarrelled ?'

He nods his head in silent assent.

'About nef she cries, with a sudden
tremor in her voice. ' Did he try to — to
set you against me ? Ah ! Frank, tell me
that you did not listen to his cruel words.'

She looks up into his face with an appealing

glance, lier lips quivering with
suppressed emotion, and two tears glisten
in her lovely eyes. There is a depth of
pleading in that pathetic glance, which quite
unmans him, and he seizes her hand and
passionately presses his lips upon it.

'Diana!' he cries, hurriedly, 'you must
never doubt me. My affection for you is
far too strong to be ever influenced by
the base innuendoes of your enemies. How
it happens that you have enemies is quite
beyond my comprehension, for to me you
are everything that is pure and gentle —
and lovable.'

She gently draws her hand away.
'Tell me what he said,' she whispers.
^ In what way did he slander me ?'

He did not slander you,' he answers,
gravely. ' Mr. Loftus is too much of a
gentleman ever to invent calumnies against
a woman. If I have led you to imagine
that such was the case, it was quite unintentional.
What he said to me was simply
a few words of warning against being too
much in your society, and, in giving me
the advice, he hinted that he was actuated
merely by the interest which he took in
my welfare. What he meant, I do not

k2

know, unless he fancied that I was drifting
into a foolish flirtation with you, which
might bring us both to harm. Of course
he can know nothing of the true character
of our friendship. But, whatever he
meant, I was foolish enough to resent his
words, and I completely lost my temper ;
and I left him. That was all, Diana.'

'And for my sake !' she says, in tones
of unutterable sadness. ' You quarrelled
with him for me ! Ah ! Frank, my brother,
am I worth such a sacrifice ? Is it
right that I should be the means of separating
you from your friend like this?'

But there will be no separation,' he
cries, eagerly. ' I am certain that he will
bear me no grudge, now that I have
apologised.'

'x\h ! you have apologised?'

'Yes, of course I have — I wrote it
directly I arrived home. Surely you will
agree that I acted rightly in making the
amende honorable T

She turns away her head, and plucks
nervously at the grass, tearing out the
blades by handfuls.

Yes — yes, of course,' she answers, hurriedly,
' you could not have done otherwise.'

For a moment there is silence, and then
she suddenly turns to him, trembling ivith
emotion.

Frank,' she cries, passionately, ' you
must tell me exactly what he said — it is
your duty to me to do so ; I cannot bear
to think that you may be prejudiced in
any way against me. It is only right that
I should have the chance of defending myself
against these unknown aspersions on
my character. You say that I must never
doubt you, that your affection for me is
too strong to be ever influenced by report.
But how can I help doubting, when I am
not even aware of the sin of which I am
accused ? Strive as you may, these slanders
against me must leave some impression on
your mind. Frank, my brother, can you
assure me from the bottom of your heart
that such is not the case ?'

You are right, Diana,' he says, and a
great lump seems to rise in his throat,
making it difficult for him to articulate a
word. ' Yf hat you suspect has happened.
To-day, on analysing my mind, to my horror
I discovered that these repeated insinuations
had left an impression on my
mind.'

'Ah!'

A cry breaks from her lips, which
startles him ; it is like the last despairing
note of a hunted bird.

Tell me,' she says, with a sudden gasp,
^ how low I have sunk in your opinion.'

Sunk !' he cries, in a deeply agitated
tone. ' Diana, you have risen a hundredfold.
I cannot describe to you the utter
loathing I have for myself in having yielded
to the breath of calumny. But it was
only for a moment. Diana, believe me
that, when I discovered that I had entertained
a doubt against you, I was completely
overwhelmed. It was quite without
my knowledge that the insidious
poison had acted on my heart. And oh !
my darling sister — I plucked it out — I
tore it out — I covered myself with self-reproaches
and contempt. Ah ! Diana,
try to believe in me again. I could not
rest until I had confessed to you my weakness
; I felt, until I told you all, that I
should never dare to look you in the face
again.'

He moves close beside her, and grasps
her by the hand.

Diana,' he whispers, fiercely, ' are you

angry nth me ? Do you utterly despise
me ? Do you think that I too do not
suffer for my weakness? Do you think
that I feel no bitter self-reproach for
having so degraded myself? Ah ! Diana,
if you cannot believe in me — if you feel
unable to place perfect trust in me — our
friendship must of necessity die. It cannot
live, unless we have perfect faith in
one another. In you I have perfect faith,
and as for me — I have failed you once —
though only for a moment. Can you not
forgive me ? Can you not overlook it, and
accept ni}'^ earnest assurances that it will
never occur again ?'

There is a ring of pathetic pleading in
his tones which it is impossible to resist.
She feels his warm breath playing about
her face, panting fiercely in his agitation,
and she knows that she loves him with all
the passionate abandon of her warm impulsive
nature. With an effort she masters
her inclination to throw her arms around
him. For a moment she struggles violently
to control the beatings of her heart, and
then she turns towards him, and places her
hand upon his arm.

Frank,' she says, with a wintry smile,

inexpressibly touching in its sadness, ' if I
were to lose you now, I believe that I
should die. Before you entered into my
life I never knew what happiness really
meant, and I existed simply because I had
never known a brighter lot. But now allis
different. You have come, you have
entwined yourself about my heart, you
have made me understand the joys of a
perfect love, you have roused me from my
torpid apathy and have instilled into mea
new life, you have made of me a different
being — and if you were now to leave me
I should surely die. I could not again
return to that old friendless life— the contrast
to what is now would make it doubly
terrible to what it seemed before. Ah !
Frank — do not leave me — do not forsake
me ! Be my friend — and let me live.'

Her voice changes from sadness to a tone
of passionate entreaty. Her arms fold
round his neck, and she brings her face
close to his, looking up into his eyes with
a glance of such pathetic tenderness that
he feels his strength ofmind utterly deserting
him. A film comes across his eyes, a
choking sensation rises in his throat, and
then — he draws the little head towards

him, and kisses it fiercely on the forehead,
cheek, and lips — kisses it with an intensity
of feeling that frightens him.

Believe me, trust in fine !' he cries. ' I
have failed once, but never shall again — I
swear it. Let us begin afresh our great
friendship — let us solemnly vow to one
another to be always faithful. Diana, let
me hear you say that you forgive me —
that you no longer have any doubts concerning
me.'

She gently disengages herself from his
close embrace. Upon both her cheeks
there is a flush of warm colour, which
heightens the marvellous beauty of her
face, giving to it acharmingair of modesty.

There is nothing to forgive,' she says,
simply, placing her hand in his. 'As I
understand the case, it was quite unconsciously
on your part that you entertained
a doubt against me. On becoming aware
of it, you rejected it with scorn. Instead
of being contemptible, Frank, I think that
your conduct has been noble. You say
you have heard r^^j^m^'^J insinuations against
my character. Is it to be wondered at
that they should in time have made some
impression on your mind? It is only

natural that they should. If one hears a
remark repeated often, it is certain that it
will finally become imprinted on the mind,
however much one may wish to reject it.
But it was only as long as you gave no
thought to the matter that this impression
remained. As soon as you considered the
subject, you discovered that it was in
reality akin to doubt, and you spurned it.
Is not this, Frank, something like your
case?'

'You have stated it exactly,' he cries,
eagerly. ' But you have put it in such a
kind way that I barely recognise it.'

'Well, then, we will drop the subject
for ever and aye,' she says, sadly, gently
closing her fingers round his hand. ' My
trust in you is not shaken in the least — in
fact, I feel that this explanation will draw
us even closer together than before. And
now, Frank, you must tell me what people
say against me. It seems so strange that
even I, living the secluded life I do, should
not escape the breath of scandal.'

It is monstrous !' he cries, indignantly.
In this cursed country, no woman's reputation
is safe from being tarnished. However
good and pure she may be, there is

sure to be found some one to throw the
mud. What can be the motive, other than
the gratification of personal spite, I cannot
say. The value of a woman's honour seems
to be very little recognised in India.'

what you say is true, I know,' she
murmurs, sadly. ' One is so accustomed
in this country to hear women's characters
impugned that it really begins to lose its
deadly significance. It is a case of familiarity
breeding indifference. But I had
fondly imagined that I was one of the few
young ladies who had escaped from that
martyrdom. As far as I know, I have
never offended a single human being —
except — except, perhaps, Mr. Loftus, and
I cannot imagine what they have to say
against me.'

Well, I am thankful to say that in
your case they never dare to particularize,'
he says, pleased beyond measure to see
that she is somewhat recovering her spirits.
They only mumble in a general way of
having heard some report against you at
some time or other. Even Major Lamb,
on the first night of my arrival, when I
asked him who you were, made some allusion
to it. It is the stock-phrase for an

old Anglo-Indian scandal-monger when lie
is at a loss for something definite to say.
How they can so degrade themselves, I
can't conceive. In my opinion, a woman's
name should be the most sacred thing on
earth ; to treat it lightly is to prove oneself
devoid of every spark of manliness,
and of every instinct of a gentleman. But
tell me, Diana — how did you ever offend
Loftus ?'

Oh ! it was nothing,' she says, in an
embarrassed tone, turning modestly away.
^ It was some time ago now. We knew
one another pretty well then, and one day
he took a liberty with me which I resented.
He was very angry afterwards, but I did
not think him capable of nourishing his
wrath so long. But oh, Frank !' she adds,
in a voice of alarm, ' you must promise me
not to tell him that I mentioned the fact.
It would not be fair to him.'

Diana, you are an angel of goodness,'
he exclaims, in a voice of rapture. ' You
know that he has been warning me against
sou, and yet — you are afraid of doing
what would be unfair to him.'

^ I bear him no grudge,' she says, with a
sweet sadness, ^ though I confess I am

afraid of him. I do hope, Frank, that you
will not encourage him to talk of me. I
wish that I could make you promise '

Promise what ?' he interposes, eagerly.

Promise that you will never allow the
mention of my name between you. Would
it be too much to ask of you ?' and she
looks at him with a pleading little smile.

1 will willingly promise it, Diana,' he
answers, quickly. ' I will make an agreement
nth him that henceforth your name
is to be a forbidden subject. But you
must not doubt me now,' he adds, in an
anxious tone.

No, I do not doubt you,' she answers,
with a happy smile. ' It is only that I
dislike thinking that you ever hear a word
said against me. To know that you bear
me a true affection is the one happiness of
my life, and I do not want to have any of
my real or imaginary imperfections brought
obtrusively before your eyes.'

You have no imperfections,' he cries,
confidently. ' Verily, Diana, I believe that
you are one of the few perfect creatures on
this earth !'

CHAPTER VIII.

LOFTUS REFUSES TO BE BOUND.

On arriving home that evening, Grandly
finds an answer awaiting him from Loftus,
which, viewed as a work of art, is not a
masterpiece of composition, but, as a tj^pe
of the eccentric character of the writer,
may perhaps be considered worthy of record
here.

It runs as follows :

Dear old Chap,

Your note has surprised me
greatly — in fact, to-day is a red-letter day
in my uneventful life. Literally, three
times during the course of the day have I
felt surprise — firstly, on discovering myself
to possess energy enough to lose my temper;
secondly, on finding myself engaged in
an argument of a delightfully exciting turn;

and now, thirdly, on receiving your amusing
note. Considering that it is to you
that I am indebted for having experienced
this pleasurable sensation of surprise not
only once but actually thrice, in less than
so many hours, I am at a loss to understand
in what way you can imagine yourself to
be my debtor. Believe me, my dear boy,
you owe me nothing ! So, in accepting
what you have so kindly sent me, you must
understand that I regard it not as the repayment
of a debt, but as a gift which you,
in the goodness of your heart, have given
me — and, as such, you may be certain that
I shall never cease to value it. I will be
with you at half-past seven tomorrow.
Try to arrange, like a good chap, that I can
neither see, hear, nor be personally aware
in any way of the proximity of Mother
Stockton.

Yours sincerely,

Vernon Loftus.

Pes. — My stud will parade themselves
before your critical gaze tomorrow at half-past
nine.'

Grandly fully appreciates the fine spirit

of the writer. Having read it through
twice, he folds it up, and carefully places
it in a drawer, to be kept there by him
amongst his little collection of private
treasures.

Punctual to the moment, on the following
evening, Loftus appears, with a smile
upon his good-humoured face, and a gardenia
in his button-hole. He seats himself
beside Grandly, with Mrs. Lamb on his
other hand, to that silly lady's extravagant
delight. She blushes and smiles and smirks,
and greedily drinks in his nonsensical flow
of language with a look of coquettish archness,
which would have been found very
trying to the gravity of any man with any
sense of humour. But Loftus is too well
seasoned to so commit himself. Li thorough
inward enjo3niient of the situation he lays
himself out to be exceptionally agreeable,
and in so far succeeds that she succumbs
utterly to his charming fascinations, and
when, in a low whisper, with the gravity
of a Queen's Counsel and with an earnestness
worthy of a better cause, he confides to
her that she is the prettiest woman he has
ever seen, she — poor, silly, deluded creature
— actually believes him. Oh ! in extinguishable

Vanity, what a priceless boon
thou art ! Without thee, weaving thy distorting
web before our eyes, half mankind
would die from self-disgust !

Loftus is thoroughly versed in the art of
flirting. To him it is no mere frivolous
pastime of the moment, it is a science ; and
for the last ten years of his life he has devoted
much of his time to the acquirement
of an intimate knowledge of all its different
shades and phases. By dint of great experience,
he has reduced the dangerous
diversion to a system, calm, methodical,
and harmless. He has divided it and subdivided
it into sections and varieties, marking
clearly the limit not to be exceeded in
every case, according to the tone and character
of his fair enslaver for the moment.
In some cases license, in others restraint,
but in none entanglements of an unpleasant
nature.

Born into the world with a natural gift
for the fascinating pursuit, he took to it
from his very cradle with an ease and
grace that astounded his simple, doting
parents. It is difficult to credit, but it is
none the less true, that, at the age of ten
he had the audacity to fall head over ears

VOL. ir. L

in love with an apple woman of truly magnificent
proportions, who kept a stall at the
top of Portland Place, in which exclusive
quarter the noble lord, his father, lived at
certain periods of each year. And it was
through this unfortunate passion on his
part that he was one day suddenly seized
with choleraic symptoms, brought on from
a surfeit of unripe fruit, for it was his custom
to stand enchained before the booth of
his enchantress, utterly regardless as to the
quality or quantity of the fruit he ate. It
is needless to say that this alarming attack
effectually cured him of his passion ; for
the heart-ache is apt to be forgotten when
one's interior brings itself obtrusively into
notice. How is it possible to feel sentimental
when undergoing; the torture of a
prosaic colic ?

After this experience he conceived a
rooted distaste to full-blown charms, and
his susceptible heart transferred its affections
to the daughter of the house next
door, and he tore himself and his clothes to
pieces in clambering on to a ridge of broken
glass, from which uncomfortable and
elevated position he was able to catch an
occasional glimpse of his second love.

In fact, the tenderness of his feelings led
him into countless dangers of every imaginable
description, and his fond parents, who
were, in spite of their exalted worldly rank,
of the evangelical persuasion, at last began
to view his amatory freaks with a less fond
eye. Instead of continuing to smile indulgently
at his gratifying forwardness., they began
to frown ominously at his reprehensible
precocity. But when, at the age of thirteen,
he was discovered kissing the under-housemaid
in the boot-house, they Averse both
amazed and shocked at his indecent carelessness.
It was decided that Vernon
Loftus should be sent to school at once for
two distinct purposes — for the attainment
of knowledge, and for the elevation of his
moral tone.

At school, it is needless to say, neither
purpose was effected. He obtained knowledge
certainly, and to an extraordinary
degree, but it was knowledge of the world,
which came to him from external sources
and not from the application to books in
class — the elevation of his moral tone never
came at all. In fact, it may be stated (it
was generally published at the time, so it
is no breach of confidence on the part of the

l2

author to make mention of it now,) that at
the ao^e of sixteen he very narrowly escaped
expulsion for having been detected corresponding
in a tender fashion with a certain
barmaid of unenviable notoriety in the
town ; on hearing of which escapade, hi
noble lordship and his noble spouse lost all
remnant of faith in their only son, and
openly expressed their belief that he would
go utterly to the dogs (of course, be it
understood, in the most choice and delicate
of phraseology), and bring their grey hairs
in sorrow to the grave. And so it was an
agreeable surprise to them when he not
only passed into Sandhurst, but actually
passed well — though it must be confessed
that his mother took all the credit of his
achievement to herself, in having prayed
morning and evening for five whole years,
that her son should turn again to the paths
of righteousness.

At Sandhurst the cloak of manhood fell
upon him, and, following the example of St.
Paul, he determined to put away childish
things — in that he no longer conducted his
affaires-de-coeur in an open manner, but concealed
them by the adoption of a convenient
caution which strongly resembled fraudulent

deceit. His parents were charmed at
this apparent return on his part to godliness,
and his mother added a thanksgivings
prayer to her akeady lengthy matins and
even-song.

In course of time he passed through
Sandhurst, and joined his regiment, and so
skilful did he become in the art of concealing
that which was best concealed, and of
parading that which was most fitted to be
seen, that never a breath of reproach was
cast against his name. And so it was that,
when he sailed for India, his mother's heart
quite broke down before the agonising
thought of losing her dear, pure, immaculate
only son. And on the pathetic occasion
of farewell his character came out nobly
grand. With lips quivering with emotion,
in the presence of both his parents, he
solemnly promised to lead a godly life. Ah !
it was a touching and convincing sight!
Seven days afterwards he kissed his
major's wife in the chronometer-room of
Her Majesty's troop-ship, Malabar!

But, as is the custom with his kind,
though always engaged in desperate flirtations,
he never entertained the idea of engaging
himself for holy wedlock. He

loved intrigue with all its attendant joys,
but he had a hearty loathing for the married
state. Conscious that the society of
lumen Alas essential to his happiness, he
wisely resolved not to bind himself for life
to one. To his keen sense of taste, the
flavour of flirtation was very different from
that of matrimony ; the one resembled
nectar, the other a rhubarb draught.

On this particular evening he applies
himself very diligently to the amusement
of Mrs. Lamb, and that sprightly lady
laughs hysterically at some of his quaintly-told
stories — some of which, it cannot be
concealed, are of a decidedly risque flavour.
But then Loftus has such a charming mode
of expression that the broadest anecdotes
appear at the time simply as racy bits of
humour ; it is only afterwards, on consideration,
that their true significance begins
to dawn on the intelligence.

No reference is made to the dispute of
the day before by either Loftus or Grandly
until they are standing in the moonlight
bidding each other good-night. Then
Grandly touches on the subject, expressing
his great pleasure on the truly unfortunate
event having had such a happy termination.

At the same time, remembering
his promise to Miss Forsdyke, he mentions
to his friend his wish that in future her
personality should be a forbidden topic of
discussion between them.

I am certain that it would be for the
best,' he says, earnestly, ' if we place Miss
Forsdyke beyond the range of our conversation,
we shall never disagree at all.'

'My dear boy,' says Loftus, grasping
him heartily by the hand, ' I must remind
you that this is a free country, and consequently
I cannot allow any restrictions to
be put upon my tongue. I will remember
your wish, and will respect it — but I shall
reserve to myself the right to violate it,
if in my own opinion an occasion of sufficient
gravity to warrant such a course
should present itself Good-night, old
chap — I have had a very pleasant evening.
Pity that Mrs. Lamb isn't a decade or two
younger ! As you say, I don't think there
is much chance of our falling-out again.
But if we do — what matter. We have
only to make it up again — a good excuse,
in fact, for a bottle of prime
champagne. Mind you come and see me
soon. Au revoir — ta, ta!' and he turns

away nth an airy motion of the hand,
and disappears with quite an energetic
stride, leaving Grandly standing in the
moonlight nth a shade of half-annoyance
on his striking face.

CHAPTER IX.

THE FRIENDSHIP PROGRESSES.

A WEEK passes, and the great platonic
friendship leaves the bud, and blossoms
into flower. It is a wondrous plant, with
petals well-expanded, unique and beautiful,
becoming daily more pleasing to the
senses, and ever presenting some fresh attraction
to the two young people engaged
in fostering its growth.

It has been a grand conception — this
idea of a platonic friendship, and Grandly
feels not a little satisfied as he contemplates
the success of his creation. For it
has succeeded beyond his utmost expectations.
He has formed a friendship on
strict platonic lines with a pure and lovely
girl ; he has found in her a kindred spirit,
such as he has often longed to meet ; he
has been able, under the influence of her

ready sympathy, to divest himself of his
misanthropical reserve, and to look the
world in the face with a hopeful glance ;
he has experienced a sense of perfect
peacefulness such as he had hitherto regarded
as ideal ; he has, through their
mutual intercourse, united, as it were, all
the discords of his young life into one harmonious
whole ; and lastly — that which
ranks higher in his mind than all the
other advantageous results combined — he
has been able to instil into his companion
a sense of joy and gladness.

He dwells on this latter point in rapture.
That which a short time ago was
merely a vague hope, seemingly impossible
ever to be fulfilled, has actually come to
pass. He has, by the exercise of his own
will, succeeded in raising Miss Forsdyke
from despondency to happiness. He, by
himself, with no external assistance, has
effected this, and as he contemplates the
fact he is filled with joy. It is something
of which he may be proud — an action
capable of arousing envy in the mind of all
mankind, for he has done that which all
great hearts are striving to accomplish —

he has gladdened the life of a fellow-creature.


No cloud appears to dim the horizon of
his happiness, unless it be the fear lest his
intercourse with Miss Forsdyke may be
discovered. But, as the days fly past without
anything untoward occurring to mar
the harmony of their clandestine intimacy,
a feeling of false security comes over him,
and the fear of discovery gradually fades
away. But he never forgets to be otherwise
than cautious in his speech and action.
He is always on his guard, and when conversation
approaches dangerous ground he
weighs carefully every word before he
speaks. He is also very careful not to
excite suspicion by being seen too often
leaving Banbury's in the direction of the
wood ; and to avoid this he varies his route,
sometimes making long detours, and
approaching the wood from the opposite
direction. In fact, reader, you are quite
right in thinking that Frank Grandly's
honest character was becoming somewhat
sullied by a practice of deceit.

Miss Forsdyke, too, acts with much precaution,
though she has not much opportunity

of involuntarily betraying herself,
for she is immured throughout the day in
her rooms, in close attendance on her
aunt, whose nerves still continue in such a
state as to prevent her from leaving the
sofa. Except during those two afternoon
hours in the wood, Grandly never sees her
for a moment. Her hard fate creates
general compassion throughout the hotel,
and Mrs. Lamb once kindly offers to relieve
her occasionally in her nursing duties.
But she is met with a polite but firm refusal.
She could never allow anyone but
herself, Miss Forsdyke says, to attend on
her suffering aunt. Instead of it being a
hardship to her, it is a labour of love —
which statement, it is needless to say, is a
direct untruth on the part of the unfathomable
Diana. But the pathetic idea
of her passive devotion to her aunt raises
her considerably in the opinion of the
sympathising inmates of the hotel.

Since that memorable night when the
ladies of the hotel gave way to such bombastic
utterances, no reference has been
made to the subject of Mrs. Stockton.
There appears to be a tacit understanding
amongst them that, the less there is said

upon the matter, the less their dignity
will suffer. All painfully conscious of
having cut very sorry figures on that particular
evening, they wisely ignore the
subject. Mrs. Lamb especially feels
shame-facecl. It is true that she braved it
out to the last, resolutely holding her
position till all her adherents had deserted
her — but then it is likewise true that her
bravado cost her very dear. It is impossible
for the ladies, or their husbands either,
to forget those hysterical shrieks, which
suddenly roused the whole hotel at midnight,
and continued through the small
hours of the morning. Mrs. Lamb is
quite aware that her lamentable collapse
on that occasion was anything but heroic,
and she deems it advisable under the circumstances
to drop, for a time at least, the
dangerous role of agitator.

To the relief of everybody,' Mrs. Stockton
has not yet reappeared at meals. For the
greater portion of the day, she is locked in
the privacy of her rooms, and it is needless
to say that no one attempts to disturb her.
The ladies en masse have conceived such
a wholesome dread of her that they none
of them feel any inclination to voluntarily

bring themselves into contact with her unwieldy
person. How she occupies herself
during the whole day in her own room
remains a mystery unsolved, but, from the
vollies of abuse which she is heard throwing
at her trembling servants, it is generally
presumed that she is not engaged in any
pacific undertaking.

Sometimes she is seen, with a heavy
scowl upon her unpleasant face, prowling
about the passages, muttering savagely to
herself, and her appearance is always the
signal for a hasty closing of all the doors
upon the corridor. That she is still in
ignorance of her husband's whereabouts,
there is no doubt, for a short note has been
received from him by Major Lamb, written
in a most husbandry jubilant strain, in
which he requests him to ' keep it dark,'
as long as he possibly can. And the fact
of Major Lamb acceding to his request
reflected great credit on the unselfishness
of his character, for there is little doubt
that, had he but confessed the secret to
Mrs. Stockton, the hotel would have been
rid of her presence instanter. Certainly,
within twenty-four hours, she would have

been in hot pursuit of her recalcitrant
spouse.

Grandly pursues his inquiries concerning
Miss Rigby, and what he hears of her from
various sources tends to make him very
anxious concerning the future welfare of
his friend. There seems to be no doubt
that ^ the bewitching Emily ' is a very lax
young person. She seems to enjoy a reputation
of the most equivocal description.
It appears that she has a partiality for
doubles entendres of an unmistakably high
flavour, and some of her wittiest hon-mots,
which are repeated to him by some of her
most ardent admirers, fail to amuse him,
as they otherwise might have done had
she not been his bosom friend's affianced
wife. In fact, what he hears of her Alls
him with such a grave sense of uneasiness
that he cannot bring himself to pay his
respects to her in person. He has his
friend's happiness so much at heart, that
he prefers to live in a state of anxious
uncertainty rather than to have his worst
suspicions rudely confirmed.

Grafton, also, in writing to him puts all
doubt at rest as to the personality of his

betrothed. His letter is couched in a
laughing strain, every word of which discloses
plainly the boisterous spirits of the
writer. In a postscript he writes as
follows :

How you discovered the name of my
fiancee my dear Frank, I cannot understand
! You are much too-sharp for me,
old boy ! I am deeply obliged to you for
your hint regarding Miss R.'s extravagance
in dress. I have noticed the fact
myself, not without misgivings. But I do
not doubt that the married state will have
a sobering effect upon her character. Mind
you respect my secret !'

The question of leave is not yet settled
definitely, but he states that he hopes in
his next letter to be able to give some
decided news upon the matter.

To Grandly's great delight. Miss Forsdyke
evinces the highest interest in Grafton's
approaching marriage. She reads
the letter with an amused smile upon her
charming face, and returns it with the
remark that Mr. Grafton seems very happy.
At the same time, she admits that in her
own opinion she considers that he is embarking
on a very risky enterprise. In

marrying solely on his pay, lie is certainly
sacrificing prudence to inclination. What
is to become of his widow, in the event of
his early death ? she asks. How is she to
live?

Grandly fully concurs with her that
the widow's prospects would be pitiable
indeed; but he reminds her that there
is no immediate cause for the contemplation
of such a disastrous contingency, as
his friend is lucky enough to be the
possessor of a magnificent physique. But
Miss Forsdyke will not yield the point.
Life and death are such huge uncertainties,
she says, that no one ought to count upon
twenty-four hours beyond the present moment.
Whatever may be the strength of
Mr. Grafton's physique, still he is mortal,
and as such he is liable to die at any
moment ; and consequently the girl who
married him would be ever haunted by the
fear lest she might be thrown upon the
world in a state of destitution. She is not
of a mercenary disposition, Miss Forsdyke
adds, but she considers that it is the duty
of every girl before marrying, both to herself,
to her admirer, and the world at large,
to calculate well beforehand the question

VOL. II. M

of ways and means, to wliicli expression of
opinion Grandly fully agrees.

In Miss Forsdyke, he has found all the
attributes essential to the foundation of a
perfect friendship. Loving, sympathetic,
trusting, nth a disposition charming in its
simple, confiding innocence, she possesses
a mind capable of tendering him the
most sound advice, as he has discovered
on more than one occasion. He recognises
that beneath that soft and pleasant manner
there is a fund of resolute determination,
and the knowledge pleases him, for,
sadly conscious of the irresolution of his
own character, he looks to her for assistance
in the many petty trials of life. For,
in contemplating their friendship, he never
regards it as the intimacy of a week, a
month, a year — but as the mutual attachment
of a life-time.

All of this is very delightful to Frank
Grandly. Under her influence, a new
sense of happiness falls across his life, and
makes of him a different man, rousing him
effectually from the state of apathy which
had formerly characterised his existence.
And he is very, very grateful to her for
the change which she has wrought in him,

and he tries to repay lier by an ever-increasing
display of tenderness.

He is amazed to think that a friendship
such as he has formed would be generally
condemned by the social Avorld, and he
attempts to analyse the line of argument
adopted by the world at large, in order
to arrive at their OAvn conclusion. Do
they think it ivrong f he asks himself, in
much perplexity. Is it possible that their
minds are incapable of grasping the idea of
a true, platonic friendship ? Is it their
opinion that man and woman are so debased
that an intimacy of such a character
must of necessity degenerate, and lead to
evil consequences ?

He can hardly bring himself to believe
that this is their line of argument. Surely
mankind must have a higher opinion of
its own morality than to assert that an
intellectual, sympathetic friendship betwixt
man and woman is impossible ! Why
the idea is simply monstrous ! If they
maintain the non-existence of other love
than that of physical, then there is no such
thing as love — the world is ruled by lust !
Has not he himself proved absolutely to
his own complete satisfaction that not only

M 2

is a platonic friendship 'possible, but that
also it presents no difficulties whatever
either in its creation or in its subsequent
guidance ?

A sense of modesty prevents him from
arrogating to himself a discernment superior
to that of the whole of the rest of
mankind, but in no other way can he account
for the fact that his opinion on this
subject is so diametrically opposed to that
of the remaining portion of humanity.
Those who argue against it have evidently
never tried it. He. in the face of their
combined opinion, has made the experiment,
and he has found it to answer
admirably. Why, then, should he reject
his own experience, and accept as truth
the speculative utterances of unpractical
theorists ? Such a line of action would be
as absurd as it was cowardly. To voluntarily
yield his own rooted impressions to
the opinions of others would be to deliberately
admit to possessing no confidence
whatever in his own intelligence.

But— jmr 2jare7ithese it may be remarked
Grandly, in thus demonstrating to himself
the practicability of his cherished
scheme, entirely forgot to take into account

one highly important point — the effects of
change-producing Time !

So the days fly past, and under the influence
of the bracing climate Grandly
fully regains his health and strength. He
falls gradually into a certain routine,
which varies but slightly day by day.
Rising at eight, he takes a short stroll
before breakfast, and then after the completion
of that pleasant meal, he takes
advantage of Loft us' kindness, and proceeds
at a good brisk trot round about the
Doonga Hill, riding for pure love of the
invigorating exercise, and caring nothing
as to what particular road he takes. It
matters not in which direction he goes, as
far as the beauties of scenery are concerned
! Once Loftus accompanies him, but he
does not offer to do so a second time.
Grandly's rapid method of locomotion he
does not find at all agreeable to his tastes.
According to his own account, he was so
terribly fatigued by the unusual exertion
to which he had been subjected, that on
his arrival home he fell off his pony into
his servant's arms in a state of semi-insensibility,
from which they could not
mouse him until a glass of raw spirits had

been poured down his throat ; after which
he said, he became a little better. But,
still feeling a little weak, he finished oiF a
second glass, and — ' would you believe it
'pon honour ' — he actually fell down insensible
again, at which Grandly smiles, remarking
that he sees nothing whatever
surprising in the circumstance.

Grandly spends the two hours after
lunch in reading or writing letters. He is
not a brilliant hand at the epistolary art,
it must be confessed, but in spite of this
his correspondence is by no means a limited
one ; there is such a ring of genuine
honesty in his somewhat crude productions
that they are far more acceptable to the
recipient than anything in the way of
polished writing (at least, so the author
thinks). Then from four to six he is seated
in the wood beside his sister-friend — and
this is to him the pleasantness portion of
the day. He has discovered in Miss Forsdyke
a fund of laughing humour which
has taken him completely by surprise.

In the last week her whole nature has
transformed. From a sad, despondent girl
she has changed into a being full of life
and spirits, disclosing thereby a phase of

character hitherto totally unexpected. He
views this marked change with a sense of
great gladness, and he enters heart and
soul into her lively sallies, thoroughly enjoying
her quaint pleasantries and merry
bursts of wit. At times the solemn old
wood resounds with peals of laughter.
He never suspects for one moment that
her former depression of spirits had been
affected for a purpose — namely, to attract
him to her side through the force of a
strong compassion — he merely notes the
change in her disposition with a sense of
ineffable content, feeling sure that it is
due solely to the beneficial effects of the
friendship which they have formed.

In the evening, after dinner, he sometimes
visits Mrs. Lamb, and spends a
quiet hour in her foolish society, listening
placidly to the inane wanderings of her
poor, silly tongue; sometimes, also, he
strolls down to the club, and passes a
pleasant evening with Loft us, doing his
very best to induce his friend to take a
more cheerful view of life. But he more
often fails than succeeds in this respect.
As a rule, the club-dictator firmly refuses
to be convinced that everything is not inexpressibly

hollow in this third-rate planet.
It is only when he has got outside a certain
number of whisky-pegs that he partially
rouses himself, and admits that there
may be some truth after all in what Grandly
says.

But, whatever slight variations may occur
in the routine of Grandly's daily life, the
influence of Miss Forsdyke's personality
never deserts him for a moment. The
first thought which arises in his mind on
awakening in the morning is the prospect
of their meeting in the afternoon, and the
impressions which her laughing little form
has made upon him during the day he carries
with him into the fairy land of dreams.
Day and night, asleep or awake, he is ever
conscious of her existence, until he finally
comes to regard her as an integral factor
of himself, and he wonders in his heart
how it was possible for him ever to have
experienced happiness previous to the
making of her acquaintance.

CHAPTER X.

DIANA BECOMES AGITATED.

A SOFT breeze is floating through the
wood, carrying with it the fragrant scents
of deodar and pine. There is a slight
touch of russet brown resting on the surface
of the sea of fern, intimating that the
sunshine of the year is on the wane, for
September has already put in its appearance,
and all Nature shows an inclination
to don a raiment of a more sober hue.
But the air is still very soft and fresh,
there being as yet no sign of the appearance
of those biting frost-winds which later
on in the year sweep with relentless fury
across the Himalayas, presaging a heavy
fall of snow.

The days are beginning to visibly shorten,
and often, as the dusk descends, the hills

are wrapped in mountain mist, which effectually
puts an end to all outdoor amusements.
On account of the deepening twilight,
Grandly has arranged with Miss
Forsdyke to meet a quarter-of-an-hour
earlier than has been their custom hitherto,
but, in spite of their arriving earlier, they
seldom separate sooner than they did before.
They are so thoroughly wrapped up in
each other's society that they do not mind
having to Amend their way homewards in
the dark, if by so doing they can obtain a
few minutes' extra conversation.

On this particular afternoon Miss Forsdyke
has shown herself in exceptionally
high spirits. She has been amusing Grandly
with a description of her aunt's peculiarities,
and she has retailed them in such
a droll manner, and with such perfect
mimicry, that he has been laughing himself
to tears.

They are a very merry couple, sitting
there together under the outspread branches
of the grand old oak, and more than once
the close wood rings with peals of laughter,
which make them look rather anxiously
about them, as they suddenly remember
their position.

Then there is a pause. Miss Forsdyke
has exhausted her amusing repertoire of
anecdote, and they sit looking into each
other's faces, with a smile of perfect sympathy
on their lips.

Diana is looking ravishingly lovely. She
has removed her hat, and her red-gold hair
is quivering lightly in the breeze. A flush
of colour illumines her magnificent complexion,
and there is a look of happy contentment
imprinted on her mignonne little
face, which gives to it an expression of the
most radiant beauty. He is looking at her
out of his soft dark eyes with a glance of
admiration, which he takes no trouble to
conceal. Why should he attempt to conceal
his admiration for his sister ?

Suddenly she breaks the silence. Leaning
forward, she peers curiously up into
his face.

Frank,' she says, ' the colour of your
eyes is a total mystery to me. Sometimes
they assume an unfathomable grey appearance,
sometimes they are distinctly blue,
and now they really seem to be approaching
violet. You will have to excuse my
familiarity, but I am resolved to ascertain
now once for all their true colour.'

I really don't know the exact colour of
my eyes — I have never thought of looking,'
he says, smiling, with a slight flush of
colour. ' But, from your description, they
must be peculiarly eccentric organs. I
had no idea that they were capable of
undergoing such vagaries as you describe.'

Now, don't try to frighten me with
jour long words,' she says, with a captivating
moue. ' And let me tell you, Mr. Frank,
that it is very rude of you to cast doubt on
the statement of a lady.'

Pray don't think I doubt you,' he
answers, with a smile. ' I am willing to
accept as Gospel truth anything you like
to affirm. Perhaps, if you continue your
investigations, you may find my eyes incertain
lights become pea-green. You have
only to tell me the fact for me to believe
it'

Now, I won't be treated in this shameful
manner,' she exclaims, in mock-indignation.
' Your satire is really too-pointed to
be pleasant. Pea-green, indeed ! Let me
look immediately, sir, and settle the question
definitely once for all !'

She leans forward, and tries to penetrate
the mystery.

How dare you, sir !' she exclaims, indignantly.
' Open your eyes at once ! Do
you hear fine ? If you don't instantly obey
fine, I shall take advantage of the opportunity
to gain a pair of gloves. Ah ! I
thought that that dreadful threat would
bring you to your senses ! Now let me
see — this way, please — ' she takes his face
between her hands, and turns it to the light.
'Well, I declare — they are a perfect violet!
What a priceless possession to be sure !
Frank ! Your impudence astounds me !'

This last remark arises from a sudden
movement on the part of Grandly. Seeing
her charming little face in such close
proximity to his own, he cannot resist the
impulse to bend forward and press his lips
upon her cheek. There is nothing reprehensible
in the action ! Why should he
not kiss his sister, if he likes ?

She hastily draws herself away.

You are incorrigible !' she says, with a
vivid flush upon her cheek. ' How dare
you take such liberties ? Brothers and
sisters only kiss, when they first meet in
the morning, and when they say goodnight.'


That's all you know about the matter !'

he maintains, stoutly. ^ Some brothers kiss
after breakfast, and before lunch, and then
again after lunch . . .'

And at five o'clock tea, and before and
after dinner, and then again before going
to bed,' she interrupts, with a merry laugh.
I quite understand you — you need not
attempt to explain further. But they must
certainly be very exemplary brothers to be
so demonstrative as that.'

'Of course they are!' he exclaims, laughing
in return. ' It is impossible to be too
demonstrative in private.'

Then kindly remember, for the future,
that we are in public — sitting in the middle
of an open wood,' she says, with mock-severity.
' It is very vulgar to make a
public exhibition of one's feelings. Follow
my example, and check your sudden impulses
to be demonstrative. I for my part
never dream of such a thing.'

Oh ! come — Diana ! How about your
threat to win a pair of gloves?'

'Well, yes — that was an exception !' she
answers, smiling saucily. ' But you must
admit that I was put to terrible temptation.
Yoic have no such excuse. If 1
possessed an olive skin, with exquisitely

moulded features, and were to close a pair
of matchless violet eyes, I could quite
understand your yielding to your feelings.
But, as the matter stands, there is no reason
whatever why you should not have controlled
yourself

Your arguments are narrow-minded,'
he rejoins, quietly. ' You see the question
merely from your own point of view. You
appear to forget that different people have
different tastes. The figure which you
describe would have no charm for me
whatever. My ideal of beauty is a little
lauo'hino' face, crowned with a coronet of
bronze-gold hair, with a complexion of
dazzling fairness, illumined by two large
speaking eyes, and a ruby mouth, curved
like a cupid's bow.'

Oh ! I give in — I give in,' she cries,
laughing heartily. ' You are more than a
match for me. When you dash off into
poetry in that alarming manner, it is time
for me to retire. You should really have
more sense, though, Frank, than to praise a
girl so pointedly to her face !'

But Grandly utterly refuses to see the
force of her protest. Why should he not
praise his sister, if he wishes to ?

For a moment or two there is a silence.
Then, with a sudden look of recollection,
he puts his hand into his pocket, and draws
out a letter.

How could I be so forgetful ?' he says,
I have heard to-day from George — such
good ncAvs ! He has got his leave, and he
will be here in another day or two.'

Got his leave !' she repeats, mechanically,
a sudden pallor settling on her face.
Oh ! it can't be true !'

But it is true !' he answers, with a happy
laugh, without perceiving her anxiety. * I
heard from him this morning. Here is his
letter. Would you like to read it ?'

Without a word she takes it from his
hand and reads it.

It is very short.

Dear Frank,

Just one word. I have got
my leave. There are six weeks left of the
leave-season, and my colonel has kindly
given me the choice as to which half I shall
take. I need not tell you that I shall choose
the first three weeks. The tenth of September
is only seven days ofi*, and I mean to
be punctual to the day. So expect me ina

day or two, and believe me, yours affectionately,
' George Grafton.'

Tt is very sudden,' she murmurs, returning
him the letter.

Sudden !' he repeats, in surprise. ' Why
I have been expecting him this last fortnight.
What is the matter with you,
Diana? You are looking quite sad. I
really believe that you are not pleased that
George is coming.'

'What nonsense, Frank!' she says, with
a nervous little laugh. ' How can you be
so silly? Of course I am pleased, but —
but . . . .'

But what?'

But — but it is really very sudden !' she
says, faintly. ' I never expected that he
would come so soon.'

Diana, what can you mean ?' he says, in
accents of surprise. ' I thought that you
would be so glad to hear that George was
coming.'

Of course 1 am glad,' she answers,
steadying her voice with an effort. ' How
can you be so silly as to imagine otherwise ?
It will be very nice for you to have your
friend. But — but I am afraid . . . .'

VOL. II. N

He takes lier hand in his and gently
strokes it.

'What is it, Diana?' he says, softly.
Are you afraid that his arrival may have
an effect upon our friendship ? You cannot
be so foolish as to imagine that ?'

But I am — I am !' she cries, with
agitation. * Your friend will step between
us — his arrival will crush our friendship —
it 7nust do so — I am certain of the fact.
You will forget me and forsake me.'

You must not be so foolish,' he says, ina
soothing voice. ' You forget my friend's
position. He mil be so occupied with Miss
Rigby that he will never trouble us. I
doubt if I shall ever be able to drag him
here at all — his time will be much too
precious.'

Ah ! Frank, you do not understand,* she
cries, in tones of pathetic sadness. ' I could
not bear to lose you now — you are much
too dear to me. Promise me, Frank, that,
whatever happens, you will not despise me.'

Tears are glistening in her eyes, and he
sees, from the imploring glance she casts
upon him, how deeply moved she is. He
kisses her gently on the forehead.

'My dear little Diana,' he whispers.

passion his arm around her, ' you are
alarming yourself unnecessarily. Believe
me, when I tell you, that George's arrival
will have no influence whatever on the
affection which I bear you. He is such a
good, grand, noble fellow that . . . .'

'Who is that?'

With a sudden cry she jumps to her feet
and gazes at the approaching figure of a
man lounging carelessly along the narrow
pathway running up the hill. A cigar is in
his mouth, and his eyes are directed on the
ground, and as he walks along he amuses
himself with idly knocking off the heads of
the coloured balsam with his stick. In a
moment they have recognised him as Loftus,
and they both remain in perfect silence
with their eyes fixed upon him in a strange
fascination.

Will he glance their way and see them ?
They dare not attempt to move behind the
tree for fear of attracting his attention, and
so, with their hearts in their mouths, they
watch him slowly pursuing his way. The
path runs at a distance of about three
hundred yards from where they have been
seated, and there is the chance that in the
growing dusk he may pass them without

N 2

perceiving them. Apparently lost in
thought, he does not withdraw his eyes
from off the ground, and in another moment
he has passed them and has disappeared
without having glanced in their direction.

^ What an escape !' says Grandly, with a
long-drawn sigh of relief.

I must be going, Frank,' she cries, hurriedly
; ' it — sit is getting very cold. Goodbye,
my dear old boy, and may God bless
you!'

She pulls his face down towards her,
and kisses him passionately on the lips,
and then, nth a smothered cry, she turns
away and leaves him, lost in wonder at her
peculiar agitation.

CHAPTER XL

MRS. Stockton's manoeuvres.

•' Diana !' cries the sharp, petulant voice of
Mrs. Renfrew from the inner room, ' can
you not keep quiet for a moment ? What
are you doing pacing about the room ?'

With an effort Miss Forsdyke controls
herself, and manages to answer calmly.

I beg your pardon, aunt,' she says,
humbly ; ' I feel very restless this evening,
and I find a difficulty in keeping still.'

I wish you would be more considerate
for my nerves,' is the irritable rejoinder.
You were out for full two hours this
afternoon, and there is no reason whatever
for you to have the fidgets.'

Miss Forsdyke makes no reply. She is
standing in the middle of the room, wearing
a look of intense misery on her face,

with her hand pressed against her forehead.
She is barely conscious that her
aunt is speaking, so engrossed is she with
the turbulent workings of her own thoughts.
A terrible struggle is raging within her
brain. What is she to do ? Shall she,
when there is yet time, seize the proffered
hand, and escape the awful danger, or
shall she risk her very life by plunging
into the depth of treacherous waters after
the pearl she covets ?

I cannot give him up,' she whispers,
despairingly. ' 1 love him — ah, I love
him ! He is everything in life to me, and
it would kill me to give him up.'

Still she stands in the centre of the
room, with her hands raised to her head
in an attitude of despair. The larger hand
of the little timepiece on the mantelpiece
creeps slowly round, and then the quarter
strikes, and then the hour — nine little
silvery chimes — and still she never moves.
The question before her is one of such
gigantic magnitude that her senses seem
to be crushed by its very weight. She
cannot think coherently ; not for two
minutes consecutively can she carry on
the same train of thought. And ever

there is ringing in her ears the one monotonous
refrain — ' I love him — I love him
I love him !'

A look of anguish overcomes her face,
and she presses the palms of her hands
against her eyes with a frenzied motion,
swaying her body backwards and forwards
in her misery.

What shall she do ? How shall she
decide? She knows that the answer to
the question will materially affect her
whole future life. Shall she obey the
promptings of duty, and take the man
whom she has promised to love in spite of
his poverty, or shall she follow the mad
inclinations of her heart, and wilfully
choose the path leading to uncertainty, and
perhaps dishonour ?

^ What will become of me ?' she whispers,
fiercely. ' Why was I so mad as to
bind myself to a man I did not like ? Why
did I not have patience, and bide my time ?
Where was my courage when I so weakly
yielded to his passion ? Ah ! I was mad
I was mad — I was haunted by the fear
lest that fatal blot upon my past should
leak out and ruin me, and I was resolved
to save myself by marrying a man the

world respected, and I accepted him,
secretly disliking him, conditionally — yes,
conditionally. Even then, in that moment
when all my senses seemed paralysed with
a senseless fear, my repugnance to him
overcame all other feeling, and I refused
to bind myself at once — I gave myself six
months, on the off-chance of doing better.
But what chance have I — miserable wretch
that I am, with this vague slur overhanging
me, only requiring a single spark to
set the whole terrible truth ablaze ? And
now — and now — what horrible complications
are surrounding me? His best
friend — his more than brother ! Ah ! I
love him — I love him — I cannot yield him
up ! But what am I to do ? Dare I repudiate
this engagement on the chance of
his ultimately learning to love me ? Have
I the power to make him do so? And
would he marry me, knowing how I had
treated his beloved friend? Dare I wilfully
spurn this certainty of a future home
on this vague hope ? I am crushed,
racked with doubt — my brain is reeling
beneath this fearful pressure ! What am
I to do ? Ah ! God, if you do exist — I
doubt it — look down on me and guide me!'

She falls back, shuddering, into a chair,
and covers her face with her hands.

Fool that I was,' she murmurs, hoarsely,
' knowing the fatal Weakness of my
passionate nature, how was I so mad as to
have entered on this connection With Frank
Grandly ? Could I not have foreseen the
inevitable result ? Was it likely that my
warm, impulsive temperament would remain
proof against that god-like face ?
Ah, God — I love him — and I have loved
him from the very first moment I set my
eyes upon him. And he will love me — I
know he will in time — I see it in his eyes
this flimsy pretence of platonic affection
will crumble up like a spider's web, and
he will learn the truth ! And must I give
him up to marry one I now detest ? Xo,
no — it is impossible, it would be my death.'

She rises and hurriedly walks to the
table, and, without giving herself a moment
for further thought, she hastily scribbles
olF a letter.

I am mad !' she hisses between her
teeth, and her face is blanched to a deadly
white, ' stark, staring mad ! But I cannot
help myself — I will gain another respite,
and see what I can do, for I love him

fiercely — madly — passionately — and I cannot
— will not give him up !'

Her lips contract, and a look of resolute
determination settles on her face. She
places the letter in an envelope and addresses
it, and then she rises and leaves
the room, running along the corridor and
down the stairs, not daring to pause for
fear of repenting of her resolve. The
letter-box is placed outside the diningroom,
and she hastily proceeds towards it,
and, after looking furtively around her,
drops the letter in. Then, without waiting
a moment, she hurries back to her
room. It is done — the die is cast — that
vital question has been answered, and she
has with her own hand marked out for
better or worse her future path in life !

Now it happens that, on this particular
evening, Mrs. Stockton — to borrow from
Loftus's forcible phraseology — ' has been on
the rampage.' As has been her custom of
late, she has been roaming restlessly about
the corridors as though she had a suspicion
that she might possibly find her faithless
spouse lying concealed in some dark
corner. Muttering vain maledictions
against the human race in toto for the last

half-hour, she has been pacing in and out
of the passages, leaving and re-entering her
room, Without aim or reason.

These perambulations on her part were
regarded by the residents in the hotel in
the light of a safety-valve, which prevented
her from blowing to pieces from excess of
suppressed indignation — and certainly the
pressure on her brain had been very high
of late — so, consequently, they made no
complaint, though it must be confessed
that her sudden appearances at unexpected
moments were often startling enough to
cause much annoyance. But the inmates
of the hotel had learned wisdom, and they
made no attempt to have the nuisance removed
; they calmly bore it, and all avoided
her.

Mrs. Stockton's door opened on to the
head of the staircase. As she re-enters
the room for the sixth time in the last
fifteen minutes, the noise of a door opening
down the corridor strikes upon her
watchful ear. In another moment a light
figure flies past her open door and runs
quickly down the stairs.

In an instant Mrs. Stockton is outside
her room. Prompted either by mere curiosity,

or perhaps by some vague suspicion,
she cautiously peers over the bannisters
down into the hall below, and there she
sees Miss Forsdyke, with a furtive glance
around her, drop a letter into the hotel
letter-box. To use an appropriate but
vulgar expression, the old lady smells a rat.
The half-scared look on Miss Forsdj^ke's
face has not escaped her vigilant eye, nor
has the young lady's apprehensive glance
around her prior to posting the letter
passed unobserved. What can it mean ?
Why should there be cause to make a
mystery out of such a simple action ?

She hastily re-enters her room, and half
closes the door, and the next moment Miss
Forsdyke passes and hurries down the
corridor.

Mrs. Stockton's curiosity is excited. She
feels convinced that there is something to
be discovered in the matter which would
repay investigation. Young ladies, as a
rule, she sagely argues, do not post their
letters in a hurried, surreptitious way, if
there be nothing to be concealed.

The memory of her degradation in Mrs.
Renfrew's room has never left her. Day
and niofht it has rankled in her distorted

mind, causing her to conceive a deadly
hatred against that lady and her niece.
Not even the disappearance of her husband
has been able to make her forget the circumstance,
or to stifle her craving desire
to be revenged. And now, as she stands
in her room pondering over Miss Forsdyke's
mysterious behaviour, the thought rises
within her that possibly in it may be discovered
some clue which will point out to
her some method of retaliation.

Having amved at this conclusion Mrs.
Stockton does not waste much time in
convincing herself that it is her duty to
investigate the case. By dint of long practice
she has managed to impress upon her
conscience that any advice it may have to
offer, on any possible occasion, is quite
superfluous, and will, consequently, be
treated with contempt — so she suffers no
inward sense of uneasiness as she leaves
her room and cautiously descends the
stairs. She has determined to see the address
upon the envelope, hoping by so
doing to gain some information of a damnatory
nature.

The hall is quite deserted. From the
interior of the dining-room, where the men

are enjoying the fragrant weed, there comes
the sound of much discussion, broken by
frequent peals of laughter which effectually
deaden the sound of her heavy feet. As
silently as it is possible for a woman of her
unwieldy proportions, she crosses the hall
and stands before the box. The key is on
the top, affixed by a small, brass chain, and
she eagerly seizes it and turns it in the
lock.

Only one letter meets her view. She
takes it in her hand, and reads the address.

George Grafton, Esq.,

Royal Engineers,

Sihayipur,

Punjab.

This is disappointing! What she has
expected to see she does not know, but she
is certainly disappointed at reading the
plain, straightforward superscription before
her. George Grafton ! — Royal Engineers !
There is not the slightest approach to anything
hinting at a mystery here !

The argument which she now employs
is of the very subtlest order of logic. First
of all, in the form of a postulate, she affirms
that, on account of Miss Forsdyke's peculiar

manner, there is a mystery connected
with the letter. But — she continues — the
mystery is not apparent on the envelope.
What, then, is the self-evident deduction ?
"Why — that the mystery can only be solved
by inspecting the contents !

There is no refuting such solid argument
as this ! She stands there, wearing a look
of triumph on her face at her remarkable
sagacity, and then, as a natural consequence
to her deduction, she calmly pockets the
letter and proceeds to mount the stairs.

She enters her own room, closes the
door, and turns the key in the lock. Moving
in a methodical way, suggestive of her
present occupation being by no means
strange to her, she opens a cupboard and
takes from it a small spirit-lamp, which she
places on a table and proceeds to light.
Her next proceeding is to walk to the wash-inkstand
where she fills the tin saucepan
nth cold water, which she rests upon the
little tripos raised above the flame. Then
she sits down, with the letter in her hand,
and calmly waits for the water to boil.

She rests her elbow on the table and
supports her chin on her hand, and she
gazes moodily at the spirit-flame, gloating

in anticipation over the treat before her.
Ah ! she will make the girl smart for having
triumphed over her the week before !

The water begins to simmer, and then to
boil, sending out a cloud of steam. She
rises and holds the letter in the watery
vapour. In a few minutes the envelope
has become damp and moist, and, with
little difficulty, she raises the adhesive flap,
and opens it.

There is one sheet of paper inside ; she
takes it out and reads it.

Dear George,

I feel compelled to break our
solemn covenant. It has come to my knowledge
that you purpose taking your leave
in the next three weeks. I write to tell
you that my aunt proposes to take me
almost immediately for a trip into the Gullies,
and thence over to Abbottabad. She
thinks that a change of air and scene will
benefit her health. On this account you
had better alter your plans, and take the
last three weeks instead of the first, which
you can easily do, as I know that your
Colonel has given you the choice. By that
time, probably, we shall have returned

Remember, that the writing of this letter
in no way alters our former arrangement
of silence till we meet.

Believe me, yours very sincerely,

'D. f;

A puzzled expression settles on her face.
She reads the letter carefully through
twice, but she can gain no clue as to its
significance. Solemn covenant ! — Former
arrangement ! — What can it all mean ?

A feeling of baffled rage overcomes her,
as she becomes conscious that she is no
nearer the solution of the mystery than
before. That there is a mystery she now
feels assured — nothing could ever alter her
opinion on that point — but, what it is, she
cannot conceive. She contents herself,
however, with the thought that she is in
possession of certain peculiar information.
She knows that Miss Forsdyke has entered
into a solemn covenant of an unknown
nature with one George Grafton of the
Engineers, at present quartered at Sihayi-
pur. This is something at any rate, to work
upon ! She will not forget the fact — she
will cherish it in the inmost recesses of
her heart, and watch and wait till she can

YOL. II.

discover something more definite on the
subject — something, which she will be able
to utilise against the girl she hates !

Then a sudden thought strikes her. The
letter is important — urgent ! The fact is
evident, as Miss Forsdyke, in writing it,
has been compelled against her will to
break a solemn covenant. In a moment
she has decided not to post the letter — she
will retain it and then patiently await the
consequence. As to what will be the
result, she can form no idea. According
to Miss Forsdyke's letter, she and her aunt
(curse them both!) — are on the point
of starting for Abbottabad, and it is evident
that the former is anxious that George
Grafton should not arrive immediately.
This is enough for Mrs. Stockton. She
determines to arrange matters so that
what Miss Forsdyke wishes to prevent
shall actually come to pass, in the hopes
that some clue to the real truth may
possibly ensue.

As she is thus considering on her line of
action, she becomes aware of the same
hurried footsteps passing her door which
she has heard some half-hour previously.
In a moment she unlocks her door, opens

it, and cautiously issues out. She peers
over the bannisters. It is again Miss
Forsdyke, whom she sees. The girl
casting uneasy glances around her, as
though afraid of being perceived, is trying
to unlock the letter-box with a nervous
haste which considerably impedes her
movements. Mrs. Stockton's curiosity is
excited to fever-pitch. She leans her head
right over to gain a better view. No
power on earth could now convince her
that there was not some deep mystery
connected with the apparently simple
letter.

Miss Forsdyke at last manages to turn
the key. She opens the box and eagerly
thrusts her hand inside. She draws it
back with an exclamation of dismay.

Ah ! I am too-late !' she cries, with a
gesture of despair, and after casting her
eyes around her, as though in the hopes of
alighting on the letter, she turns round,
and slowly mounts the stairs.

Mrs. Stockton meets her on the landing.
She appears as if she had but just issued
from the room, and, with a gracious smile
of unctuous affability, she bids ' good-evening
' to Miss Forsdyke.

o2

Good-evening, Mrs. Stockton,' returns
Miss Forsdyke, in a hesitating tone of
voice. ' Could — could you kindly tell me
what time the last post goes out?'

At half-past nine,' replies Mrs. Stockton,
with a pretence to thought, carefully
noting the strange pallor on the young girl's
face. ' I am afraid that you are too late
to-night.'

No — no — no, I do not want to send a
letter,' says Miss Forsdyke, hurriedly. ' It
was just the reverse. I posted one, and
went to get it back, and I find that it is
gone.'

I trust that it was nothing important,'
says Mrs. Stockton, suavely, inwardly
radiant at the unexpected success of her
manoeuvre.

Ah ! but it was — it was ! It is the
hand of Fate !' cries Miss Forsdyke, with
a tragic intonation, pressing her hand
against her brow.

Mrs. Stockton is intensely interested.

^ Ah ! I am so sorry,' she begins, in
sympathetic tones.

^ Sorry — what for ?' cries Miss Forsdyke,
in a startled voice. 'What have I been
saying? No — no — no, Mrs. Stockton — it

was nothing — nothing important — Goodnight,
I am deeply obliged to you ;' and
with a slight inclination of the head she
turns away and disappears down the
corridor.

Mrs. Stockton returns to her room, and
walks straight to a cupboard, from which
she removes a bottle of gum.

'I am utterly in the dark,' she mutters,
carefully closing the envelope. ^ What it
all means, I can't conceive ! But it is
evident that it is to her disadvantage to
send the letter. Consequently it is to my
advantage to do so — and so it shall be
sent !'

Saying which, she issues from her room,
cautiously descends the stairs, and posts
the mysterious letter in the box.

CHAPTER XII.

THE BANBURY GLOIRES-DE-DIJON.

Frank Grandly is intensely delighted at
the prospect of seeing his dear old friend
again. Nearly four years have passed since
he last looked upon his honest, open countenance.
Well can he remember when and
how they parted.

It was on a wet, drizzly morning of a
cold November day, and the place was
Portsmouth dockyard. Grandly was then
a boy of eighteen, who had yet to master
the difficulties of a severe competitive examination,
and his friend was three years
older, a young officer in the Engineers,
who had been suddenly ordered from Chatham
to proceed to India. It was at the
time when dark and gloomy clouds were
arising on the horizon of our North-west

Frontier, and none could predict the magnitude
of the storm which was fast approaching.
There was, in consequence, a
great demand for officers of all corps, and
Grafton, through this lucky circumstance,
escaped one year of the usual two years'
course at Chatham.

'We shall meet soon again in India,'
were the last words they said, as they
wrung each other's hands, not without a
suspicion of moisture in their eyes ; and
then Grandly obeyed the imperious order
to go ashore, for the time of departure had
arrived.

But four years had passed since that
bleak, wintry day when Grandly stood
upon the wharf, with his heart feeling
very soft and tender, watching the great,
white monster slowly steaming down past
Spithead ; and Fate had not decreed that
they should come together. Four years,
which, in prospective, seem a very eternity
of time, but which, in retrospect,
seem to have passed like an idle puff of
wind !

But now, at last, the moment has arrived
when they are to meet again. According
to Grafton's letter, at the latest he

may be expected to arrive within three
days.

In spite of their unchanged affection to
one another, he knows that they cannot
meet exactly as they parted. It is impossible
for two people, separated for four
whole years, to meet again without observing
various little changes in one another.
Grandly feels that he himself has
changed — has greatly changed — since last
he saw his friend. He has changed from
boy to man, and with the change a grave
reserve has usurped the place of his former
boisterous spirits. He is well aware
of this, and consequently he is fully prepared
to find some corresponding change
in Grafton's temperament. But what matters
this external change, he argues to himself,
when the heart remains unchanged?

The fact of Grafton's engagement still
gives him grave anxiety, but it is now not
on his own account, but on that of his
friend, for it is impossible for him to conceal
the fact that Miss Rigby is in no way
suited for a good man's wife.

Overcoming his former scruples on this
point, he asks Loftus to introduce him, and,
the latter willingly consenting, together

they go and call upon lier at her house,
which, as far as he can judge, is straight
below the wood of assignation. Of course
he makes no reference to her engagement
he is not supposed to know anything of
that secret — he merely talks on casual
subjects, attempting to gain some insight
into her real character. And what he sees
confirms his very worst suspicions. He
finds her fast, slangy, and a great authority
on horse-flesh ; and, the more he looks at
her, the more he wonders in his heart how
such a sensible man as Grafton could have
chosen her for his wife.

Her behaviour, too, with Loftus suggests
an intimacy of the closest familiarity. She
calls him by his Christian name, often attaching,
in a half facetious Away, some endearing
epithet ; she repeats to him an
anecdote of a racy flavour concerning a
certain lady's underclothing, at which he
laughs uproariously. She asks him for a
cigarette, which she promptly begins to
smoke, leaning sideways in her chair, with
her legs supported on the arm ; in fact, in
this brief half-hour, she commits a hundred
improprieties, and Grandly rises,
feeling disgusted and sick at heart. Walking

home, Loftus chaffs him on his gloomy
aspect.

Lost your heart, old boy ?' he says,
jocosely. 'Isn't she just a perfect stunner?'

She may be a perfect stunner, Loftus,'
replies Grandly, with a trace of irritation
in his tones, ' but that is hardly a quality
desirable in a good man's wife.'

Loftus regards him for a moment, lost
in amazement, and then his face assumes a
look of indescribable amusement, and he
brings his hand down heavily on Grandly 's
back.

'What!' he cries, with immense emphasis.
Are you still harping on that strange
idea? Well, blow me tight, you are a chap !
The bewitching Emily is no more engaged
to anyone, than you or I ?'

But Grandly knows better ; he has in
his pocket at this very moment Grafton's
letter, admitting to the fact. However, he
does not attempt to argue the matter.
Loftus' spirits, presumably from the effects
of Miss Rigby's society, are for the moment
so inordinately high that he feels that it
would be worse than useless to try to convince
him on the point.

He walks along in moody silence.

I say, old chap says Loftus, suddenly.
Have you been taking any walks lately
for walking's sake ? Split my windpipe,
you're a deep 'un !'

What do you mean ?' says Grandly,
flushing.

Now, my dear boy,' says Loftus, impressively.
^ Unless you promise me to
keep your back hair on, I must really refuse
to say another word.'

You need not be afraid on that score,'
returns Grandly, quietly. 'I shall not forget
myself again !'

'Ah! I am glad to hear it,' answers
Loftus, with a sigh of relief ' It was very
exciting at the time, I confess — but, as is
usual with such excitements, a terrible reaction
followed. For the next three days
I was quite prostrate — could only lay on
my back, and gasp — 'pon honour, lungs
refused to work at all. But you haven't
answered my question yet, with regard to
your delightful little constitutional promenades.'


Yes — I have been walking a good deal
lately, as you are so kind to enquire,'
answers Grandly, coolly. 'But not so
much, I must admit, since you were so

good as to put your steed at my disposal.
That black mare of yours is a clinker — one
of the grandest trotters . . . .'

Ah ! yes, I don't doubt it,' interposes
Loft us, drily. 'But at this particular moment,
I feel no desire to discuss the beauties
of my animals. The black mare may be
another Maud S. for all I know or care
about the matter. I am a peculiar creature,
with a mind capable of entertaining only
one idea at once. And, as long as the idea
is present, all the energies of my composition
are concentrated on its development,
making me profoundly indifferent to everything
and everybody, extraneous to it.
Now it happens-that, at this moment, I
am interested in nothing, which does not
refer to — ahem — cutaneous perambulation.
It has, in fact, for the time being, become
the passion of my life.'

'I wonder, then, that you do not practise
it more, considering the deep interest you
appear to take in it,' says Grandly, calmly,
well on his guard, conscious of the existence
of some hidden meaning in his friend's
speech.

Well, yes, it is peculiar — in fact, it is
damned peculiar,' says Loftus, pensively.

The truth is, 1 thought I would enquire
of you about the matter, before I took toit
regularly myself. Walking is so foreign
to me, that I feel convinced that my body
would succumb to the unusual strain at
first. To guard against this, I thought I
would ask you about the walks round
Doonga. You, who know them so well,
might perhaps point out a path where I
might find some comfortable resting-place.
I should not like to be attacked with weakness
in the middle of a public road — it
would be distinctly damping to my newborn
ardour.'

I shall be most happy to give you information
to the best of my ability,' says
Grandly, cautiously. ^ But I think you
overrate my powers. There is a very
pleasant road round Garam Point.'

Ah ! but I want something more secluded
— some place where I can sit alone, and
think, without fear of interruption — some
grassy knoll, for instance, situated in the
shades of some secluded wood. I thought
that perhaps you might be able to help mein
my quest.'

With an effort, Grandly stammers out
some unintelligible reply.

Oh ! you cannot help me, you say ?'
says Loftus, quickly. ' What a pity, to be
sure !'

Well — T certainly know of a place, such
as you describe,' says Granclby, flushing
hotly. 'But I am afraid I cannot recommend
it to you.'

Then that dream is over,' says Loftus,
with an air of composed resignation. ' I
often thought myself that it would never
come to anything. Doubts always assailed
me on the subject. It was a very pretty,
pastoral idea, sitting amidst a mass of fern,
gloating rapturously over nature's beauties ;
but then, I could not conceal from myself
that it was not without its attendant disadvantages
— colds in the nose, and bronchial
affections, you understand. Such
great events often rise from little trifles.
Who knows what misfortunes might accrue
to either you or me from just sitting in a
place such as I have described ? It might
be the means of ruining our lives. But
here is my road — Ta, ta, old chap — I am
sorry that you could not help me — we shall
meet again tomorrow,' and, with an airy
little wave of the hand, he turns away,

and lounges off in the direction of the
club. •

Grandly continues his way to Banbury's
Hotel, thinking deeply. He fully understands
the point of Loftus' remarks. His
friend has diplomatically insinuated his
knowledge of his clandestine intimacy with
Miss Forsdyke, and in his concluding sentences
he has hinted at a further warning
on the subject. He must have seen them
the day before, when he was strolling up
the short cut from Miss Rigby's house,
although at the time he had had the good
taste not to show it.

The thought that his secret is known to
Loftus does not cause him much perturbation
of mind. It is annoying, certainly ;
but then he is fully assured Loftus is as
true as gold, and will not allow it to go
further. So confident is he on this point
that he even experiences a sense of amusement
as he recalls the very delicate method
employed by his friend in confessing to
the knowledge. It is quite evident to him
that Loftus has learned wisdom from the
quarrel of the other day, and has no wish
for a second insight into his capacity for
displaying temper.

The Gloires-de-Dijon are in full bloom.
Grandly stands regarding them in a reflective
mood. There is one small tree,
detached from the rest, which particularly
attracts his attention, on account of the
marked superiority of its flowers. It is
literally weighed down by a mass of lovely
yellow crests.

He has never obtained the slightest inkling
to the solution of the mystery of those
gravestone wreaths. He has sounded the
manager on the subject, but the answers
that he has received have only mystified
him the more. The manager confessed to
the great pride that he took in the possession
of the flowers. They were the only
specimens to be found on the Doonga
range, he said, and he made their growth
his special care, and he was not ashamed
to admit that he was very chary in allowing
them to be plucked. He liked to see
them flourishing beneath his walls ; it gave
the house a cheerful, not to say refined,
appearance. Well, yes — the ladies of the
hotel were privileged to pick them — but of
course in moderation, but he could emphatically
affirm that no human being in

Doonga outside the hotel could possibly be
in possession of the flower.

It was evident then to Grandly that
the unknown tender of his sister's grave
was actually then within the hotel, or had
been there within the last fortnight, but,
as to whom it could possibly be, he could
not make a guess. The fact of his ignorance
on this point gave him no little
annoyance ; he felt that he could bow
down and worship the unknown person
who still reverenced so touchingly the
memory of his sister.

That afternoon he experiences a disappointment.
Miss Forsdyke, for the first
time since their intimacy began, fails to
keep her appointment. He stands under
the old oak, anxiously awaiting her appearance
; but he waits and waits in vain,
and at last he gives up all hope, and in a
very injured spirit wends his way homeward
through the mist, which has suddenly
enveloped the whole hill.

He feels very sore at heart, and works
himself up into the belief that he has been
treated not only badly, but shamefully.
He really had not imagined that Diana

VOL. TI. p

could have been capable of such a shabby
trick. To keep him waiting there for sixty
minutes, and then not to put in an appearance
after all ! Her behaviour literally disgusts
him. Considering what affection he has
bestowed upon her, and what a good friend
he has been to her for the last fortnight,
he really thinks that he has a right to be
treated with a little more consideration.
If it was her intention to absent herself,
why had she not informed him of the fact?
No — much as he loves her, he can find no
excuses for her low, mean, disgusting,
childish, sisterly breach of manners.

But his anger rapidly evaporates when,
on arriving home, he catches sight of a
little note lying loosely on the table. He
eagerly seizes it and tears it open. The
dreadful thought has just struck him that
Diana may be very ill.

My dear, dear Frank,' he reads, ' what
will you think of me when you find me
absent from the dear old oak ? I could
not really come. I have been afflicted all
the day with a nervous headache, which
has made me good-for-nothing. Racked
with pain, I have been lying on my bed
trying to conjure up your dear image

before my eyes. And it was not a difficult
task to accomplish. I had only to close
my eyes, and think and then I saw you
plainly, with your dear, laughing, violet
eyes. I wish that I could have let you
know before — but I could not, for I dare
not trust a servant in the matter. It was
only when the thick mist suddenly arose
that I thought perhaps I might run up to
your hut unperceived and try to throw it
through the window. I hope I may succeed.
Frank, dear brother, are you very
angry with me ? Ah, if you saw me now,
you would forgive me. If you do not
hear from me again, I shall be there tomorrow.
In great pain I sign myself,

Your loving sister, ' D.'

Angry I He raises the letter to his lips
and passionately kisses it. Oh ! how can
he ever forgive himself for having entertained
bitter thoughts against her, when
at the time she was lying on a bed of pain ?
Angry with his little sister! Could he
ever be angry with her, come what may ?

Again and again he presses the letter to
his lips. — Why should he not kiss his beloved
sister's handwriting if he likes ?

V 9

He is not conversationally inclined during
dinner that night. Mrs. Lamb in vain
tries to extract some pretty piece of flattery
from his mining lips, but she fails
most ignominiously. Her most coquettish
speeches fall upon an inattentive ear, and the
replies she receives are curt and monosyllabic,
and sometimes of a totally irrelevant
character. The truth is, his mind is engrossed
with the thought of Miss Forsdyke's
sufferings, and, as is the custom in
such cases, he foolishly allows his imagination
to carry him away, and he begins to
picture her almost at the point of death.

Mrs. Lamb, extremely slow to take a
hint, still persists. So accustomed is she
to hear his pleasant voice at this hour of
the day that she cannot stand this silence,
so she continues in her feebly facetious
strain, until he really begins to show
marked signs of irritation.

Ah !' she says, archly, ' I have guessed
your secret ! Mr. Grandly — you are in
love !'

He turns round abruptly, and, to her
great discomfiture, emits, with an emphasis
totally unnecessary to the occasion, the one
word — ' Bosh !'

In the next moment he is apologising
profusely for his rudeness. Will she forgive
him? He has been suffering the
whole evening from a very severe headache,
and he is consequently nervous and
excitable.

Mrs. Lamb implores him not to mention
it. She has noticed that he has been
looking pale and worried. Would he
allow her to fetch him some sal volatile
after dinner? She once had a maiden
aunt who suffered horribly from nervous
headaches, and the only thing which had
any effect on her was sal-volatile and
lemonade. Or was it eau-de-cologne ?
She really cannot remember for the moment.
She is inclined to believe that it
was lemonade — although perhaps it might
have been warm vinegar !

Take a brandy peg,' says the major,
smiling contemptuously at the suggestions
of his wife.

Grandly begs her not to concern herself
about him. He is accustomed, he
says, to slight headaches, and the best
remedy he knows of is a breath of fresh air.
He thinks, if she will kindly excuse him,
that he will leave the table and go outside

Certainly,' lie says, with sympathy.
Oh ! T am so sorry for you, Mr. Grandly.
Are you sure that you are well enough to
go alone — or shall I accompany you ?'

What a hypocrite he feels ! He politely
declines the offer and leaves the room.
Dear Diana ! Sweet, suffering girl !

The mist has entirely disappeared, and
the moon is shining full on the cold
fresh earth. He walks down to the tennis-courts,
musing over Diana's sudden illness
wondering to himself whether she has told
him the whole truth. Perhaps, to spare his
feelings, she may have concealed from him
the serious nature of her illness ! Poor
little darling ! Lying there in that sickroom,
on a bed of pain !

A longing comes over him to look upon
her room. Perhaps he may be able to
gain some soothing information by gazing
at her window. So he leaves the grass, and
walks up on to the gravel-path encircling
the hotel.

That is her window — the third one from
the right ! The blind is down and a lamp
is shining from within. He stands gazing
rapturously towards it. Why should he
not look at his sister's window if he likes ?

No shadow falls across the blind. For
full ten minutes he stands in that position,
looking upwards, hoping to see some
sign of life. But nothing stirs within the
room — which fact somewhat relieves his
fierce anxiety. It shows, at any rate, that
she is in no immediate danger.

The air is redolent of the fragrant scent
of those famous GIoires-de-Dijon, which
have caused him so much perplexity. He
approaches them and buries his face deep
into their midst, inhaling long draughts of
sweet perfume.

Suddenly he pauses — takes a step forward
— stojDs irresolutely — and then walks
rapidly to the corner of the house, where
he stands gazing incredulously at the little
isolated tree which he had noticed that
morning as possessing exceptionally lovely
roses. As it now appears before hint in the
soft moonlight, it is completely destitute of
flowers. It is stripped bare — every rose
and every bud has been removed !

The flowers have been picked that afternoon
between the hours of one and seven.
Who has picked them, and for what purpose
have they been picked ?

He determines to set the doubt at rest.

If — as "he suspects — lie finds on the morrow
two fresh wreaths lying in the cemetery,
then it will become a moral certainty that
the guardian of his sister's grave is actually
living at the present moment in Banbury's
Hotel — and, if such be the case, he determines
not to rest until he has discovered
her mysterious personality.

CHAPTER XIII.

Grandly BECOMES INDIGNANT.

Grandly is strangely agitated with regard
to the mystery of the flowers. More than
four years have elapsed since his sister died,
and this careful tending of her grave points
to the existence of some extraordinary
reverence to her memory on the part of
some unknown person.

To a character so keenly sensitive to
sympathy and displays of kindness as is
Grandly's, the fact of his being ignorant of
the name of this devoted friend naturally
causes much annoyance. He longs to shake
her hand, to converse with her on their
common sorrow, and to thank her warmly
for her goodness. For in all his musings
on the subject it never enters into his head
that this unknown being is other than a

woman. The action is so essentially womanly
that it would be impossible to entertain
a contrary opinion. It is true that, at
first, he had suspected Loftus, but, on further
consideration, he has perceived that
such an idea can have no foundation.
Faithful as his friend has been to the memory
of his sister, he is conscious that Loftus'
disposition is not the one to allow him to
display his feelings in such a pathetic,
graceful way.

True to the resolve made over-night, the
next morning, after breakfast, Grandly
mounts the black mare, and proceeds at a
brisk trot in the direction of the cemetery.
He has sent on one of Loftus' raises before
him, and he finds the man awaiting his
arrival outside the gate. Dismounting, he
walks quickly into the consecrated enclosure.
Within his own mind he has no doubts as
to the issue of his visit. He feels morally
convinced, that he will find what he expects.

And he is right in his conviction ! Lying
upon the two broad, marble slabs are two
wreaths of Gloire-de-Dijon roses, so freshly
picked that they still retain their perfume.
There are no signs of the former faded
wreaths ; the fond hand which has brought

the fresh, sweet-smelling flowers has been
careful to remove all traces of decay. He
closely examines the ground around, and
he fancies that he can discern the print
of a little foot, but the turf is so hard and
firm that he can distinguish nothing
definite.

He lingers for a few moments, gazing
regretfully at the stone which covers all
that remains of his darling sister, and then,
half reluctantly, he tears himself away and
leaves the place. Mounting the mare he
gives directions to the sais to follow him to
the club, and in another moment he is trotting
homeward. He has resolved to speak
to Loft us again upon the subject — to ask
him whether he cannot make some guess
as to the personality of his unknown
benefactress.

It is half-past eleven when he arrives at
the club, so, concluding that in all probability
Loftus has not as yet made a public
appearance, he proceeds straight to his
room — number eight, on the ground-floor.
He finds him sitting in his arm-chair, arrayed
in the same splendid dressing-gown
costume which he has already had the
privilege of seeing. A fire is burning in

the grate, and Loftus, with a cigar in his
mouth and the inevitable long glass beside
him, is crouching over the crackling logs.

So glad to see you, old chap,' he says, as
Brandy enters, flushed with healthy exercise.
^ Kindly shut the door. Ah ! — Thank
you. Have you ever known such god-forsaken
weather in your life? How I
envy those lucky chaps down in the plains,
basking in the sun !'

Hullo ! what's in the wind nov\^ ?' cries
Grandly, with a good-humoured laugh.
^ Have you actually discovered a new cause
for complaint? Your inventive faculty
seems inexhaustible.'

Loftus shakes his head dismally from
side to side.

That's right — rail on !' he says. ' Crack
your jokes at my expense, if it amuses
you — and don't mind my sensitive feelings !
It is ever the fate of those who suffer, to
be despised and ridiculed.'

But — old chap — I hope you are not ill,'
says Grandly, with concern. ' I am really
awfully sorry, if you are. But it didn't
strike me that you were looking worse than
usual.'

Ah ! it is fatal to judge from outward

appearances.' replies Loftus, ^'ith sententious
melancholy. 'It is my misfortune to
retain a healthy aspect, although I am
suffering excruciating pain. Were my
face a true reflection of my present state of
health, I should nor be as pale as a two
days' corpse.'

Oh ! my dear old chap, I trust that it
is not so bad as that.' says Grandly. with
alarm. ' Come, rouse yourself and tell me
what you feel ! Have you seen a doctor ?
Where are you suffering pain ?'

Ah ! Tou may well ask where !' says
Loftus, gloomily. * I only wish that I
could tell you — but that is beyond my
power.'

But surely you can form some opinion
on the matter ? Is it in your head ?'

• Xo — it is not in my head,' says Loftus,
slowly, after thinking deeply for the
moment.

• Then perhaps it is your liver ?'
Loftus gravely presses his hand against

his right side, and appears to listen, as
though he expected to hear the workings
of decay.

No,' he says, with a sigh of relief * it
is not my liver I'

Is it gout?'

No, it is not gout — Loftus is convinced on
that point, after a prolonged contemplation
of his elegantly-embroidered slippers. Nor
is it rheumatism, or stomach-ache, or
choleraic spasms, or any other malady
that Grandly can suggest.

Then it must be conscience,' he says,
with a happy thought.

But Loftus indignantly repudiates the
idea. He is happy to say that he has
never done an action of which he is
ashamed. He is disagreeably surprised
that Grandly can even hint at such a
thing !

No offence, old chap !' laughs Grandly,
softly. ' I only mentioned it being at my
wit's end for further suggestions. If you
do not suffer in any of the places I have
mentioned, there is only one place left
where your pain can possibly be.'

And where is that ?'

In your own imagination.'

I am of half a mind to believe that you
are right,' says Loftus, thoughtfully, raising
his tumbler to his lips. ' But then it
makes no difference to me, whether my
pain is imaginary or real. If I imagine

that I suffer agonies, it is really just as
painful as if I really suffered them. You
must agree with me in that ?'

< Yes — that is quite true,' laughs Grandly.
' But then why do you imagine anything
so unpleasant. Wouldn't it be just
as easy for you to imagine, now, that you
are well again ?'

<Ah— no,' says Loftus, sadly, 'that
would be quite a different thing Imagination,
such as that, could only spring from
a contented mind. Mi spirits are so low
that I am not capable of imagining other
than gloomy things. Oh ! I am a cursed
worm !'

Then my advice to you is to leave imagination
alone altogether. I will tell you
what it is, old chap— you are by along way
too partial to that whisky bottle. If you
don't take care, your miserable imagination
will degenerate into hallucination, and
from it is but a short cut to delirium
tremens.'

Loftus places his tumbler suddenly on
the table, and looks towards him with an
expression of stupefied amazement; and
then a flicker of a smile sports itself about
the corner of his mouth, changing presently

into a decided grin, and terminating ina
hearty burst of laughter.

My dear boy,' he cries, ' as I have remarked
before, you are a tonic for every
malady under the sun. Why — I feel a
better man already — yes — I declare — I feel
my imagination taking a livelier turn.
Another deliciously naive remark like that
will cure me altogether. Hallucination !
Delirium tremens ! Oh ! great Jezebel !
you are an A 1 corker !'

I am delighted to think that I possess
the power to restore your shattered nerves
I am sure they want a pick-me-up,'
says Grandly, smiling. but really, you
know — I am in earnest about the whisky
bottle. I don't think that you can comprehend
. . . .'

Oh, great Scott, you are too delicious !
To think of your setting yourself up to
preach to me on such a subject as that of
alcohol ! My dear boy, compared with mine,
your knowledge on the subject is simply
nil. Not comprehend, indeed — oh ! that
is too rich. Why, Grandly, you are a
perfect child to me ; I knew how to get
tight like a gentleman before you ever
donned a pair of breeks.*

Locus is immensely amused, and, the
more Grandly refers to the subject, the
more he laughs, and so immoderately that
the former is fain to desist, and to laugh
in unison.

You have cured me quite,' cries Loftus
brandishing the poker round his head,
such is the exuberance of his new-born
spirits. ' Imagination has totally deserted
me, and I am myself again — ready to drink
a cellar dry on the slightest provocation.'

When Loftus has managed to somewhat
regain his gravity. Grandly opens the
subject uppermost in his mind. He relates
the incident of the disappearance of
the Gloii^es-de- Dijon from the hotel garden
the day before, and how he has verified his
suspicions by going to the cemetery ; he
points out that it must of necessity be an
inmate of the hotel to whom he is so much
indebted, and he asks Loftus to search his
memory afresh, and to try to give him
some solution of the mystery.

But Loftus maintains that he is totally
unable to throw any light whatever on the
matter.

I thought,' says Grandly, ' that you,
who knew my sister so well, might prob-vol.

II. Q

ably have some knowledge of her former
friends. Are you sure that there is no one
now in the hotel who used to be her friend?'

^ Quite sure,' answers Loftus, emphatically.
' I know the whole of the present
Banbury lot — and a precious rubbishy lot
they are, too — and I am quite certain that
she was never intimate with any of them.'

It is really very mysterious, then,' says
Grandly, slowly. ' Whatever may be the
motive, the fact remains that the wreaths
are placed upon the graves.'

Now you mention the fact,' says Loftus,
reflectively, leaning back and puffing at
his cigar, ' I did meet yesterday afternoon
a young lady living at Banbury's somewhere
in the direction of the cemetery.
She was walking along the lower road,
and, though she was some distance ois, I
am quite certain that I recognised her.'

'Who was that?' cries Grandly, eagerly.

'Well, I must confess that I have some
compunction in mentioning the name,'
remarks Loftus, calmly criticising the long
white ash of his cigar, ' because it is more
or less a forbidden subject between us.
But, since you press the point, I will tell
you. It was Miss Diana Forsdyke.'

Diana Forsdyke !' cries Grandly, in
amazement. ' My dear Loftus, you must
be dreaming ! About what time did you
think you saw her?'

About five o'clock in the afternoon.'

Well, your eyes must have deceived
you,' says Grandly, somewhat coldly. 'I
happen to know that the young lady at
the time you mention was confined to her
room with a severe head ache.'

'You don't mean it!' says Loftus, incredulously.
' Why, I tell you that I saw
her walking in the distance down by the
lower road.'

But I do mean it,' answers Grandly,
firmly. ' I not only affirm it, but I swear
it, for I am sure of it.'

Loftus gives vent to a low whistle of
astonishment.

'Well, I'm blessed !' he says. ' If it were
not Miss Forsdyke, it must have been her
double, and I can hardly believe that the
world can contain two young ladies of such
peculiar powers of fascination.'

There is a silence — the two men occupied
with their own line of thought.
Grandly is feeling intensely annoyed at
what he considers an unwarrantable 



potation cast by Loft us on the character
of his sister-friend. He fully believes that
the Avhole incident has been invented
solely with the purpose of making him
suspicious against the girl. Luckily, however,
he has been in a position to utterly
refute the fabrication. Had he not been
so, really he might have been impressed
by the mendacious statement. He is much
hurt to think that his friend is unable to
repress the insensate spite that he has
conceived against Miss Forsdyke.

Suddenly he breaks the silence. He has
resolved to make some explanation with
regard to his intimacy with Miss Forsdyke,
thinking that possibly Loftus may have
formed a wrong impression of its character.

Loftus,' he says, quietly, ' I think that
you are aware that of late I have become
very intimate with Miss Forsdyke. From
what you said yesterday, I fancy that you
are acquainted with our secret meetings.
Is not this so ?'

Loftus nods his head discreetly, too cautious
to make reply before he comprehends
exactly the true drift of the question.

^ Yes, I knew you were,' continues Grandly,
accepting his silence as an acquiescence.

^ Then I think that it is my duty to offer
you some explanation, not on my own account,
but on that of Miss Forsdyke — for
of course it is a question concerning a lady's
honour.'

Explain away,' says Loft us, regarding
him curiously through a cloud of smoke,
as he settles himself down comfortably into
the depths of his low arm-chair. ' I am all
attention.'

^ I admit that the affair may possibly
bear a suspicious aspect,' says Grandly, ina
somewhat embarrassed way. ' You have
seen me sitting with a young girl in the
recesses of a wood, which is certainly a
very unconventional proceeding ; so therefore
I feel that it is justifiable for you to
form your own opinion on the matter.
Probably you have formed a bad opinion ?'

He pauses and gazes inquiringly into
his friend's face, on which is to be seen a
flicker of amusement.

My dear boy, it is not for me to meddle
in your affairs,' says Loftus, earnestly. ' I
can assure you that I have not allowed
myself to form any opinion whatever on
the point in question, nor is it my intention
to do so. I am not a saint myself,' he

adds, composedly, thereby plainly disclosing
his real opinion on the matter.

But it is my wish that you should form
an opinion,' says Grandly, eagerly; 'and
I want you to form the right opinion. It
is for this reason that I wish to tell you
the true facts of the case.'

'Very well,' says Loftus, 'if you wish it.
But details of amours are usually most
uninteresting to third parties.'

I want you to understand,' says Grandly,
without noticing the interruption,
that there is no question of flirtation in
the case at all'

Loftus' face presents a perfect study. It
bears an expression of blended incredulity
and amusement as he sits gazing at his
friend. His mouth is half opened, and
his eyes are fixed stonily in front of him,
his hand pausing irresolutely in mid-air,
holding his smouldering cigar.

I beg your pardon,' he says, faintly ;
I did not quite catch your last remark.'

I want you to know,' says Grandly
with some excitement, ' that the intimacy
I have formed ^vith Miss Forsdyke is not
one of vulgar intrigue or flirtation.'

Then — then what the devil is it ?' gasps
Loftus, blankly.

There is no question of love in the
matter. It is nothing more nor less thana
great platonic friendship.'

For a moment there is a dead pause,
and then follows a stifled splutter of ' Oh,
my God ! ' from Loftus, and he is leaning
back shaking from top to toe with
laughter.

It is nothing to laugh at,' cries Grandly,
indignantly. ' I mean exactly what I
say — it is a great platonic friendship.'

^ Oh, oh, oh ! — hold me tight !' cries
Loftus, pressing his sides, and wriggling
about in his chair under the influence of
his mirth. ' Oh ! Grandly, stop, for God's
sake ! I — really — can't — stand it. You
my dear boy — you — will be — the death
of me.'

Grandly views his contortions with a
sense of great annoyance, not unmingled
with contempt. What on earth is the fool
laughing at ?

I tell you,' he says, raising his voice
excitedly, ' that it is a great platonic '

*0h, stop — stop, for God's sake!' gasps

Loftus, imploringly, literally convulsed with
laughter. ' I cannot stand it — I would if
I could — but 1 really cannot. Oh, spank
me crimson, I am dying !' and he rolls off
his chair, and lies on the hearth-rug, laughing
till the tears roll down his cheeks.

Grandly rises supremely indignant.

I am not going to be made a fool of,'
he says, walking majestically towards the
door.

In a moment Loftus is by his side, clinging
to his arm.

Don't go, old chap — don't go !' he gasps,
vainly striving to repress his laughter.
^ Don't let's quarrel again — life's too short.
I believe — I believe it — every word of it
crack my skull With a red-hot poker if I
don't ! What is it you call it ? A great
platonic — friendship! Oh, my God! my
God I if I am not a wicked sinner, you
may blow out my brains with a pair of
bellows !'

I am not thinking of quarrelling again,'
says Grandly, with the grandest air imaginable
; ' but, at the same time, your
society at this moment being far from
pleasant, I will rid you of my presence.
I wish you a good-morning ;' and he walks

out, with his handsome nose well tilted in
the air.

It is a climax !' gasps Loftus. ' Drinking
to quench one's thirst and walking for
walking's sake are nowhere compared with
this. Stars and snakes — my bones are
breaking ! A — great — platonic — friendship
! What an idea ! What a stupendous
creation ! What a magnificent brain !
Oh ! it is too terrible ! Give me the
whisky-bottle — or I shall die !'

CHAPTER XIV.

DIANA EXTRACTS A PROMISE.

Grand by's indignation cools slowly. At
half-past three that afternoon, as he saunters
out of the hotel gardens with an affectation
of indifference in the direction of the
wood, there is still a trace of resentment
in his heart towards his friend.

He feels that he has been treated very
badly. Considering that he had been so
good as to take no offence, when Loftus
had basely concocted a vile fabrication
against Miss Forsdyke's reputation, and
considering also that the matter, which he
was attempting to explain, was of a very
serious character, he cannot but feel conscious
that his friend has behaved to him
in a most insulting and inexcusable manner.
Instead of feeling grateful to him for having

ignored his mendacious assertion —
which was probably regretted as soon as
uttered — his friend had treated his remarks
vdih overwhelming ridicule. He had
literally rolled upon the carpet in convulsions
!

To Grandly, this is very galling. He
asks himself, what in the name of wonder
can have caused his friend's collapse ? Was
it done purposely to annoy him, or was
there really anything peculiarly humorous
in his speech ?

But this latter idea is too preposterous
to be entertained for a single moment. He
has merely made a statement of a serious
character in a serious voice; he has merely
explained that his friendship with Miss
Forsdyke is based on purely platonic lines.
How, possibly, could any human being discover
anything humorous in such a plain,
straightforward remark? The notion was
absurd !

But then, if not, what is the only other
alternative conceivable ? To believe that
Loftus' behaviour was actuated solely by a
wish to annoy. But this is even more
preposterous than the former theory.
Loftus, he knows, is far too warm-hearted

and good-natured, ever to willingly lay
himself out to purposely offend.

So having arrived thus far, as is usual
with lengthy self-analysis, he finds himself
no nearer the truth than when he started.
Consequently his indignation does not
appreciably decrease. If he could only
discover some hidden cause for Loftps'
mirth, he feels that he would not be' ^
much incensed against him. It is the fact
that he has been ridiculed, apparently for
no reason whatever, which makes him
angry.

So, thus thinking, he wends his way
down the little path leading through the
wood. He is conscious that it is his duty
to again warn Miss Forsdyke of the ill-feeling
that Loftus bears against her. This
last exhibition of his friend's malice has
impressed him not a little.

He finds Diana awaiting his arrival, and
he is pained to see how ill she is looking.
Her face is very pale, and there are dark
rims encircling her lustrous eyes, which
seem to point to recent bodily suffering of
no mean order. She advances towards him
with a feeble smile, and takes both his
hands in hers.

I have come to-day, Frank,' lie says,,
looking half-sadly up into his face. ' Are
you very angry with me for failing yesterday?'


He bends his face, and kisses her on the
forehead. It is astonishing, even to himself,
how fond he is of kissing his sister-friend.
It only shows, he argues to himself, the
depth of the brotherly love he bears her.

Angry, Diana ?' he says, affectionately.
What a strange idea ! I cannot tell you
how anxious I have been about you. I
was so miserable yesterday, thinking of
your suffering, that I completely lost my
appetite — and, during the dinner-hour, I
was wandering outside your room, looking
up at your window, in the hopes of gaining
some definite news concerning you.'

You silly boy !' she says, softly, with a
trace of colour mantling her pale cheeks.
How could you be so absurd ? I was not
dying.'

No — but I frightened myself into all
sorts of wild beliefs. Did you suffer much,
Diana?'

She passes her hand wearily across her
brow, and heaves a little sigh.

It was terrible for a time,' she says

as she seats herself upon the ground, he
following her example. ' My brain seemed
all on fire, and even your gentle image
seemed powerless to soothe it. Even now
I am not quite well. But have you heard
again from Mr. Grafton?'

No — he has not written again. But I
do not expect to hear from him till I see
him.'

Then it is quite certain that he is coming
?' she says, nervously plucking at the
grass.

Certain ! — of course it is !' he says, in
some surprise. ' He wrote on the third,
saying he would appear in a few days.
To-day is the seventh. I should say, at
latest, that he would be here tomorrow.'

She gives another little sigh, and half
averts her head. Little does he know
what terrible anxieties are working in her
brain !

My dear little sister,' he says, softly,
noticing her sorrowful appearance, ' I am
afraid that you are still brooding over that
idea. What can I say to convince you to
the contrary? George is the dearest,
grandest, noblest creature on this earth.
To come between us two would be the very

last thing that he would do. His one idea
in life is to make me happy, and, when he
sees that my happiness is wrapped up in
our friendship, he will do everything in
his power to further it and foster it. Cannot
you believe me when I tell it you ?'

She looks towards him, and laughs half-hysterically.


'Ah !' she cries, ' you do not understand.
He may be good and grand and noble, but
yet his appearance will put a lasting end
to our friendship. Mark my words, they
will come true — I know it for a certainty.'

'This is really foolish, Diana,' he says,
leaning towards her and taking her by the
hand. ' You are weak and low-spirited inconsequence
of your illness. To-morrow
all such gloomy thoughts will disappear.'

Would that I could think so,' she says,
with a quivering lip. ' But I know that. I
am right in my prediction.'

But you are wrong, I can assure you,'
he earnestly persists. ' How can you judge
what he will do when you are entirely ignorant
of his character ? Why, you barely
know him by sight, do you ?'

No,' she answers, faintly, a shiver running
through her frame.

swells — I, on the contrary, know him
better than myself he says, in reassuring
tones. ' He is my alter ego. I know him
so well that I can predict almost to a certainty
how he would act on all occasions.
When I tell him of our friendship, he will
at first look a little grave, for in his heart,
I know, he will not approve of the clandestine
character of our intimacy. But when
I explain to him how pure it is, how elevating,
how essential to our happiness,
how impossible it was on any other footing
— then, I know, he will enter into it
heart and soul, and do his best to promote
our happiness.'

'- But — but — supposing he were to think
otherwise?' she murmurs, in a hesitating
voice.

It is impossible !' he cries, with energy.

But — but — just supposing that he did,
what would you do then ?'

Do then ! — I should convince him to
the contrary.'

^ Yes, yes,' she says, nervously. ' But
supposing that he would not be convinced.'

^ It is impossible !' he cries.

*Ah!' she cries, despairingly. 'You
loll not understand. Supposing that nothing

on earth will ever induce him to look
with favour on our intimacy — what would
you do then ? Would you still continue
to give me your love, or would you forsake
me?'

Diana, how can you ask such a question?'
he says, reproachfully. ^No force
on earth would be strong enough to tear
me away from you now. I think of you
day and night — you have grown an integral
part of my very life.'

Oh ! that I could think so !' she murmurs,
faintly ; and then she suddenly
throws herself before him, resting her head
against his knee.

Frank, Frank !' she cries, in tones of
passionate entreaty, ^ promise me — that nothing
which your friend may say to you
will ever make you hate me. Promise
to always love me, and be my friend.'

He tenderly raises her from her prostrate
position, and takes her face between
his hands and kisses her fiercely on the
cheek and lips.

Diana,' he says, hoarsely, ' why do you
unman me so ? Do you think that anything
on earth could now step in between
us two ? Never — never — nothing shall

VOL. II. R

ever separate us. Of course I promise
what you desire. If my friend was
capable of attempting to put an end to our
love for one another, I would never bear
him any respect again.'

He speaks these words with a sudden passion,
which carries him away. At this
moment his old worship for George Grafton
becomes as naught compared with the
love he bears the girl. He folds her in his
arms, murmuring fondly to her, and kissing
her again and again.

My little sister,' he whispers. ' Believe
in me, and take comfort.'

She lies for a moment quietly in his
embrace, and then she gently extricates
herself with a sorrowful smile upon her
lips.

I am very happy, Frank,' she murmurs.
I can never be unhappy, if I am only
confident in your love. Now that you
have promised — and I take it for an oath
that you will never desert me, come
what may, I feel a new-born life permeating
my system. Ah ! Frank, I have been
so miserable these last two days, thinking
over the possibility of our friendship
ending.'

He gently soothes her agitation, repeating
over and over again his assurances of
undying fidelity ; and gradually, under the
influence of his voice, she regains her
spirits, and becomes herself once more.

Oh, how he loves her ! He gazes at her
winsome little form, and marks the dazzling
beauty of her face, still bearing traces of
her recent agitation, and he wonders to
himself how it had been possible for him
ever to have experienced happiness before
he met her. She has now wound herself
into his affections, and has become an integral
factor of his existence. Henceforth,
life would be impossible without his little
sister-friend !

When they have both become more composed,
he speaks to her on the subject of
Loftus' remark. He tells her that he fears
that his friend entertains very bitter feelings
against her, and he cautions her to
be careful to do nothing to annoy him.

I am very vexed with the whole affair,'
he says. ' In other respects he seems a
capital fellow. But on this one point he
is most unjust. I thought that I had
better tell you of the matter.'

r2

She thanks him warmly for his kind
advice. She says that she is sorry beyond
expression that she should have done anything
to create Mr. Loftus' dislike. But
she has not deserved it ! She was hi
friend, until he took an unpardonable
liberty which she was obliged to resent.

But she adds, ' what has he been
saying now?'

In spite of her attempts to discuss the
matter calmly, he can see how deeply
moved she is by the nervous quiver of her
lips, and the ring of suppressed excitement
in her tones.

^ It was next to nothing,' he answers,
reassuringly. ' It Alas only enough to
show that he bore you ill-feeling. He
wanted to cast a doubt on the genuineness
of your illness yesterday, and he asserted
that he saw you walking, in the
afternoon, on the lower road.'

'Is that all?' she says, with a sigh of
great relief. ' Dear Frank, I think that
you are too sensitive on my account. Probably
he was mistaken. He might have
really thought he saw me ; appearances are
very often deceptive.'

Well, yes — he said that you were someway

off,' says Grandly, willingly falling in
with her idea.

I really don't see anything to be annoyed
at, Frank, in that,' she says, smiling.
■^As I was in bed at the time, it is quite
-certain that he did not see me — and it is,
most likely, all imagination on your part,
thinking that he said it with a purpose.'

I am so glad to hear you say so,' he
answers — and glad he really is. He is
only too anxious to be able to exonerate
his friend from the imputation.

He has not mentioned to Miss Forsdyke
the context of the remark. Even to her
he has never yet been able to talk about
his sister's grave.

I ought to tell you,' he says, after a
pause, ' that Loftus saw us as he passed
through the wood the other day.'

Saw us !' she repeats, in a startled
whisper.

^ Yes — he saw us. He admitted as much
to me, but in such a way as to imply that
he would be as secret as the grave.'

But will he ?' she says, quickly. ' Can
we trust him ?'

Yes,' he answers, confidently, ' we can
trust him — I am certain that he will hold

our secret sacred. I thought that it was
only due to you to make him some explanation,
so I confessed to him the nature of
our friendship.'

you did!' she says, hurriedly, seizing
him by the arm. ' And — and what did he
say?'

Well,' says Grandly, in some confusion,
remembering how his announcement was
received, ^ I must confess that his behaviour
was different from what I had expected.
Instead of being impressed vnih
what I told him, he was most unmistakably
amused, in so far that he actually rolled
on to the floor, he laughed so much.'

How like him ! she says, laughing softly.
^ I suppose he thought you were trying to
take him in.'

I don't know what he thought,' says
Grandly, pointedly. ' Still, I know that he
behaved very badly to me. But I bear
him no grudge. He is such a peculiarly
constituted chap that I doubt whether he
even understood what I meant by a platonic
friendship. At any rate, he did not seem
to believe in it. And, Diana,' he adds
tenderly clasping her little hand, ' the
thought has struck me that probably very

few people on earth would understand it
or believe in it.'

What does that matter, dear ?' she says,
nesting towards him, and leaning her head
upon his arm. ' What does it matter if the
whole world goes against us, so long as ice
understand it and believe in it T

That evening after dinner Grandly, much
to Mrs. Lamb's delight, spends half-an-hour
in her private sitting-room. The night is
line, and the moon is just rising from behind
a neighbouring range of hills, casting
its subdued silvery tint over the majesty
of the Himalayan creation, now seemingly
wrapped in sleep.

They walk out to the verandah and gaze
silently at the striking scene. From beneath
rises the subtle perfume of the famous
roses.

'I wonder who has the right to pick
them,' he says, looking down at them with
well assumed indifference.

The manager is very stingy,' she answers,
with a discontented shrusr of her lean
shoulders. * He grudges us every one we
pick — but he can't prevent us all the same,'
she adds, knowingly.

So I perceive,' lie says. ' I was noticing
yesterday the extreme beauty of the roses
on that little detached tree, there, by the
corner of the house. In the evening I discovered
that it had been divested of every
single flower.'

Not really !' she says, in a tone of
surprise.

Yes, really — and, knowing how particular
the manager was, I thought it was rather
a peculiar occurrence. I wonder who
could have done it

^ I wonder,' she repeats, musingly, to his
intense disappointment, for he has been
hoping that she may be able to enlighten
him on the matter. * They must have been
picked when everyone was at the tennis
tournament yesterday,' she continues, reflectively.
* Who could it have been ? Now
I come to think of it, I remember that just
as I was leaving the grounds — I was very
late, I am sorry to say, and Mr. Loftus was
so angry when I did arrive,' she adds, with
a little blush — ' I saw Miss Forsdyke loitering
about that corner of the house.'

Miss Forsdyke ! How strange it is that
this name always rises before him whatever
may be the subject of conversation !

That was impossible,' he says, calmly,
glancing upwards at the moonlit sky.
Miss Forsdyke was confined yesterday to
her room with a bad headache.'

Oh ! But it was Miss Forsdyke,' cries
Mrs. Lamb, with a sprightly laugh. ' I
know that Indian muslin and lio^ht blue
sash so well. She was standing there looking
at that tree. And, now I remember, she
had on a tea-apron,' she adds, conclusively.

Grandly is not in the least convinced.
He experiences a feeling of amusement ashe
thinks of the different people who are
ready to swear to having seen Miss Forsdyke
on the preceding day. What first-rate
witnesses they would make in a court
of law !

Does the tea-apron prove your point ?'
he says, smiling.

Oh ! you naughty boy ! How dare you
laugh at me like that !' she cries, with a
roguish little shake of the head. ' I merely
mentioned the apron because I thought she
probably put it on to carry away the roses
in. Won't she catch it just, if she be found
out!'

I can assure you that you are mistaken,'
he says, smiling confidently. ' Miss Forsdyke

never left her room for one moment
yesterday. I am quite certain of the fact.'

Well, it is very strange then,' she says,
thoughtfully. * How my eyes could have
so deceived me, I can't make out ! But of
course,' she adds, archly, ' I won't attempt
to doubt your word. In some mysterious
way you are always quite cm fait with the
doings of that very pretty girl. Is it a case
of congratulations ?'

How can you ask?' he murmurs, gallantly.
^ Don't you know that there is only
one woman in the world whom I admire ?'
and he points his speech by raising her
hand and kissing it.

soh!'

She gives a little scream — of delight 1
Her poor, faded face lights up With a gleam
of rapture which almost makes it pretty in
the soft light of the moon, and then she
turns away with a bashful inclination of
the head. It is quite evident that she
would be nothing loth to find herself engaged
in an innocent flirtation with Mr.
Grandly.

^ How could you?' she says, in a shy
whisper.

'Well, you know I mean it,' he says,

bending towards her, and enjoying the
situation immensely. He has never felt
less amorous in his life, but he is very
light-hearted to-night at the prospect of the
probable arrival of his dear old friend on
the morrow.

Ah ! what flatterers you men are !' she
says, with a tender sigh. ' Who can trust
one word that is uttered by your perfidious
sex?'

He continues talking in this semi-idiotic
strain for the next quarter-of-an-hour, and
then he intimates that he is sadly afraid
that he must tear himself away. He has
some very important correspondence which
will not stand delay, he says, telling a
downright falsehood with a charming ease
of manner.

Good-night,' she says, softly, holding
out her hand. ' I shall always remember
this happy evening.'

'And you may be sure,' he replies earnestly,
raising her hand to his lips, ' that I shall
not forget it to the hour of my death ;' and
he leaves the room, laughing inwardly at
the absurdity of the situation.

He finds his servant awaiting him in his
own little hut with a telegram in his hand.

It came shortly after the sahib went to
dinner,' he says.

Then why the deuce wasn't it brought
to me before?'

The sahib gave no orders,' says the
servant, quietly.

You blockhead —-how could I give orders
when I knew nothing about it ? Wait
there a moment ;' and he hurriedly tears it
open.

It is from George Grafton, and runs as
follows :

Do not expect me ; leave is postponed. Am
writing by post.'

Grandly, dropping the telegram, picks
up a book from oiF the table and discharges
it with deadly effect at the astonished
native's head !

CHAPTER XV.

OPACITY OF THE CORNEA.

In the meanwhile Mrs. Stockton has been
anxiously awaiting some result from her
last manoeuvre.

But in this respect she is grievously disappointed,
for, as far as she can see, nothing
has happened as yet to upset the equilibrium
of Miss Forsdyke. Strive as she
may, she can arrive at no intelligent solution
of the mystery connected with that
letter. Who is George Grafton of the
Engineers? AYhat is he to Miss Forsdyke?
Why has she displayed such a
strange agitation on that eventful evening ?
Why has she been so anxious first of all to
post the letter, and then, half-an-hour later,
to get it back ? What does she mean by a
solemn covenant ? None of these questions

can the old lady answer to her satisfaction,
and, feeling certain as she does that there
is more in the matter than meets the eye,
she redoubles her watchfulness, and prowls
up and down the corridor, and in and out
of the house, on all occasions of the day, in
the hopes of unexpectedly discovering some
enlightening clue.

But in this she fails ! She has met Miss
Forsdyke once or twice upon the staircase
during the last two days, and she has noticed
that she has been looking a trifle paler
than usual, but she has had no opportunity
of addressing her. Once, when she did
attempt to speak in her oleaginous manner.
Miss Forsdyke cast upon her a look of contemptuous
scorn, and passed her by in
silence, which act goaded her revengeful
spirit to little short of madness.

In the last week her unfortunate temper
has quite gained the mastery over her
better judgment. She knows that she is
hated and despised by every inmate of the
hotel, and, in consequence, she bears an
enmity against one and all. She is impregnated
with the desire to make herself
disagreeable — it matters not to whom ; as

long as she can cause some one else annoyance,
she is satisfied.

But, against Miss Forsdyke, her feeling
is more than one of mere irritation ; it is
malicious, spiteful, revengeful hate. She
cannot forget her terrible humiliation in
the presence of the girl and Mrs. Renfrew,
and, as she is powerless to retaliate on the
latter, in consequence of her never for one
moment leaving her private rooms, she
concentrates all her energies against the
former. She is determined to humble her,
and — if possible — to crush her !

The vague rumours, concerning some
scandalous episode in Miss Forsdyke's
former life, have not escaped her vigilant
sense of hearing, and she attempts by
judicious questioning and cross-examination
to elucidate the matter. But in this
she fails.

Her attempts are somewhat circumscribed
from the fact that she can never obtain
a civil answer from any of the ladies of
the hotel. They have one and all combined
to avoid her as much as possible,
and, if she ever happens to address them,
they give her a short reply and hurry on.

But, she possesses two or three kindred
spirits in Doonga, and it is to them that
she goes in her search for information.
But though these worthy females strive
their utmost to give her what she wants,
they can discover nothing tangible against
Miss Forsdyke's character. That there
exists some vague slur on the young
lady's name, they all admit, but what its
exact nature none of them can say, nor can
they gain any information concerning it.

Nothing has yet been heard of the faithless
Colonel Stockton. She has a pretty
shrewd suspicion that he is in Kashmir,
but in what locality she has not the least
idea, and she feels the utter hopelessness in
starting off to find him. So she remains
on in the hotel, never daring to face
the dinner-table, nursing: her feelings of
revenge against her husband and the rest
of mankind. The gallant colonel's prospect
of peace for the future looks very
small. Mai wand and Aimed Keel will
sink into insignificance before the desperate
encounter in store for him on his
arrival home !

Mrs. Stockton has every word of that
mysterious letter engraved on her mind,

and so lier perplexity increases, Ashen two
days pass, and Mrs. Renfrew shows no intention
of starting for the Gullies. It was
the immediate fulfilment of this projected
movement that had caused Miss Forsdyke
to write the letter to George Grafton of the
Engineers — and Mrs. Stockton's suspicion
deepens when she discovers from the
manager that the two ladies have no idea
whatever of leaving the hotel. They have,
in fact, he says, agreed to remain till the
fifteenth of October ; on no other condition
would he have consented to board them at a
reduced rate. Mystified beyond measure,
Mrs. Stockton departs, murmuring that, if
such be the case, she supposes that she
must rest content with her present rooms ;
for her ostensible motive in introducing
the subject was to ask permission to change
into Mrs. Renfrew's suite of apartments as
soon as that lady vacated them.

This last piece of information confirms
her suspicion that the letter in question
was no ordinary one. Miss Forsdyke, besides
having displayed an extraordinary
agitation regarding it, has, for some unfathomable
reason, told a downright falsehood
in it ; and Mrs. Stockton resolutely

VOL. II. s

determines not to rest until lie has discovered
the raison cVetre of the whole
affair.

On consideration, she finds that her
only possible chance of gaining an insight
into the affair will be to possess herself of
the answer to the letter, and the dishonourable
nature of this method does not
much trouble her extremely elastic conscience.
In fact, she argues to herself that
she is quite j justified in adopting any means
in order to unearth the deceitful viper !

The post is brought up daily from the
plains in the mail-tonga, which starts from
Garamabad in the early morning, accomplishing
the forty-miles of up-hill journey
in about fiYQ hours, and arriving at
Doonga about eleven. It is the custom of
the hotel, on the arrival of the bag, for the
letters to be placed in neat array on the
small table, standing beneath the letter-box
in the hall, the inmates of the hotel
being expected to come in person to remove
them ; so that Mrs. Stockton feels
that, nth a little skill, she will have no
difficulty in carrying out her design.

With this intention, on Saturday morning

— three days after the incident of the
letter — she betakes herself about eleven
o'clock to the garden, to watch for the
arrival of the postman. It is not long
before she descries him, with his bag slung
across his shoulder, toiling up the rocky
short cut to the hotel. She hurriedly approaches
him, and orders him to open the
bag for her inspection. She is expecting
a very important letter, she says, and she
cannot wait till the manager has arranged
them in the hall. The postman expresses
his great sorrow at being unable to comply
with her demand, but unfortunately the
bag is locked, and the key is in the possession
of the sahib.

Foiled in her attempt, she walks round
to the hotel door, and remains there to all
intents and purposes innocently engaged
in admiring the famous Gloires-de-Dijon.

Within the space of a few minutes, a
servant of the hotel appears, carrying the
bag, which is now unlocked. He enters
the hall and empties the bag of its contents,
placing the letters in four neat rows
upon the table. Mrs. Stockton, smelling
the flowers with a furious avidity, watches

s 2

hi every movement, and as he disappears
she enters the hall and approaches the
table.

There are about two dozen letters in ally
and she rapidly casts her eyes over the
addresses in search of the expected name.
At last it meets her view — a neat little
envelope, with ' Miss Forsdyke ' written ina
firm, manly handwriting.

Now to examine the post-mark. She
pounces on it, and eagerly scrutinizes the
exterior. It is all right — the post-mark is
Sihayipur.' She gives vent to a chuckle
of delight, and is about to transfer it to
her pocket, when it is suddenly snatched
from her hand by some one standing behind
her. She turns sharply round, and,
to her intense confusion, finds herself face
to face with Diana Forsdyke, who is standing
regarding her with flaming cheeks and
flashing eyes.

How dare you !' cries the girl, indignantly.


After the first shock, Mrs. Stockton soon
regains her customary self-assurance. Her
plans being still so immature, she has no
wish that Miss Forsdyke should penetrate
at present the revengeful feelings which

she bears towards her ; so she affects a
look of astonishment, and blandly asks her
what she means.

Mean !' cries Diana, vehemently — ' what
do I mean ? I ask you how you dare to
meddle with my private letters ? I distinctly
saw you about to place it in your
pocket. I was watching you for several
moments before I moved.'

*You were quite mistaken dear Miss
Forsdyke,' says Mrs. Stockton, suavely;
I was merely dusting the letter against
my dress. By accident I dropped it on
the floor, and it was slightly soiled, and — '
That's enough,' says Miss Forsdyke,
shortly. ' I tell you that I was watching
you, and saw the whole affair. You need
not attempt to excuse yourself by concocting
base falsehoods, for I shall not believe
you;' and she turns away, and moves up
the staircase with the hauteur of an empress.


There is a savage scowl upon Mrs. Stockton's
face as she follows her with her eyes,
and then she lifts her hand, and shakes
her clenched fist towards her.

I will be even with you yet,' she mutters
; ' I will trample out those stuck-up

airs and graces, Miss — Diana — Forsdyke '/

At this moment Grandly enters the
hall, with the purpose of ascertaining
whether Grafton's promised letter of explanation
has arrived. He notes her angry
gesture, and, following the direction of her
arm, to his surprise he sees Miss Forsdyke
disappearing in the distance. In a moment
he understands that there has been some
stormy encounter between the two.

Good-morning, Mrs. Stockton,' he says,
pleasantly. ' I am so sorry to hear that
you have been ill. I trust that you are
better.'

I am much better, thank you, Mr.
Grandly,' she rejoins, shortly, ' though
none the better for your asking.'

Ah ! I am sorry to hear that,' he says,
good-humouredly. ' I was hoping that
the knowledge of my tender solicitation
after your welfare would have a beneficial
effect upon your health.'

She gives him a scowl, and says nothing.
She has been of late so much confined to
her own company that her customary
facility of repartee has grown somewhat
rusty, and she is half afraid to cross swords
with the sharp wit of this young man.

She turns away to the table, and makes a
pretence of examining the letters.

Do you see a letter for me, Mrs. Stockton
?' he says, placing himself by her side,
and commencing to scrutinize the rows of
letters before him.

'No, I don't,' she says, shortly; but as
she speaks her eye falls upon his name
written in the same manly hand as she
has just seen upon Miss Forsdyke's letter.
She takes it up and reads the post-mark.

Sihayipur,' she says, grimly, handing
it to him. ' So you belong to the solemn
covenant, do you ? It strikes me that I
am living in a regular nest of conspirators.'


It strikes me that you are talking-great
nonsense,' he says, coolly, taking the
letter.

Her mode of address is distinctly offensive,
and he feels no inclination to waste
politeness on her.

Ha ! ha !' she laughs, derisively. ' You
are a pretty trio! Yourself, Miss Forsdyke,
and George Grafton of the Engineers !'

He starts back as if he had been shot.
What in the world of wonder does the
woman mean? And by what power on

earth has she become acquainted with the
name of the writer of this letter ?

She notes his look of amazement, and
laughs gleefully.

Ah, you may Avell look astonished !'
she says. ' That letter in your hand is
from George Grafton of the Engineers,
quartered at Sihayipur. And by this same
post Miss Forsdyke has also heard from
him. A solemn covenant indeed ! A combination
of scandalous infamy is what I
call it.'

What does she mean ? He is too amazed
to speak. A solemn covenant ! To what
does she refer? Can she have become
acquainted with his clandestine intimacy
with Miss Forsdyke? A cold feeling of
dread runs through him at the bare
thought of his secret being in the possession
of this unscrupulous fury.

^ You are talking like a madwoman,' he
retorts, coolly. ' What you choose to
mean, I can't conceive. But, in saying
that Miss Forsdyke has heard from George
Grafton, I know that you are telling a
deliberate falsehood. I happen to know
that she is unacquainted with him.'

You are extremely polite, Mr. Grandly,'

she says, with heavy sarcasm. ' A fig
for your pretended knowledge ! I tell you
that she heard from him to-day, and not
only that, but she ivi^ote to him on Wednesday
night. I saw the letter.'

For a moment he stands unbounded
before her, unable to shake off the horrible
suspicion overcoming him. And then
all his great faith in the integrity of his
sister-friend rises with an overwhelming
force, and takes possession of his soul.

I do not believe a word you say,' he
cries, hotly. ' You will excuse my forcible
language, Mrs. Stockton, but you will
allow me to tell you that I consider that
you have, for some low purpose of
your own, deliberately told a lie. I will
wish sou a good-morning;' and, so saying,
he wheels round and strides out of the
house.

He walks over to his little hut, and,
slamming the door behind him, throws
himself down into his arm-chair. He is
feeling very angry with himself for having
given way to his temper in such a reprehensible
manner. But, good heavens — how
would he help it ? What did that terrible
old woman mean by her mysterious insinuations

? How much does she know of his
private affairs, and how on earth has she
obtained her knowledge ?

He is deeply puzzled. The knowledge
which she has displayed regarding him is
little short of extraordinary. She has
named to him the writer of his letter, giving
to his friend his title, name, and
address ; she has referred to the existence
of a solemn covenant between himself
and Miss Forsdyke ; and she has confessed
to a most intimate knowledge of this young
lady's private affairs. Not that he places
the least credence in this latter point ! Ashe
has told Mrs. Stockton, he believes it
to have been a base fabrication, invented
on her part for some inscrutable reason of
her own.

Her intention has evidently been to
damage Miss Forsdyke's character in his
eyes, which shows, at any rate, that she
must be aware of the intimate relationship
which exists between them. But she has
failed in her desire. He smiles contemptuously
to himself at the very idea of any
words uttered by this irascible old woman
having any effect on the faith he has in
the integrity of his little friend. If anything,

it has made her dearer to him than
she was before, for it has shown him that
she possesses a relentless enemy of a bold,
unscrupulous character, and that in consequence
she is all the more in need of his
brotherly protection.

He carefully examines the exterior of the
letter, thinking that possibly George might
have scribbled his name on the outside,
and so afforded to Mrs. Stockton the peculiar
knowledge which she has displayed;
but there is nothing of the kind — beyond
his own name and address, there is nothing
written on the envelope, and the thickness
of the paper precludes the possibility of the
contents being read through it. So, dismissing
the subject in despair of arriving
at any plausible solution, he tears open the
letter, and prepares to discover the inexplicable
reason of George Grafton's change of
plans.

This is what he reads :

Dear old Frank,

I suppose you got my telegram
all right. It must have taken you
by surprise, and I am vain enough to flatter
myself that you were not a little disappointed

on mastering its contents. The
truth is I have had a letter from my j^a?2C^^,
and, from what she says, she must in someway
or other have gained a complete insight
into my immediate plans, for she
refers to them clearly and lucidly, without
an error of any sort. I am afraid, my dear
Frank, that you are playing a double part.
You have never mentioned to me your
intimacy with my future wife, but I feel
convinced that you know her well, and
that you must also have shown to her my
last letter, for to no one else have I spoken
of my private arrangements for the future.
I hope you like her, and that, long before
this, you have conquered any prejudice
which you may have conceived
against her. Now, confess, old boy, have
I not cause for deeming myself the happiest
man in all creation ? Is she not a perfect
treasure, and am I not justified in feeling
proud in having gained her love ? Ah !
Frank, I cannot tell you what my feelings
are ! I am only conscious that I have
done nothing in this world to deserve such
happiness. How can people scoff and disbelieve,
when it is possible for this earth
to become such a perfect paradise ? She

writes to me that she and her aunt intend
to take a trip into the Gullies, and thence
on to Abbott bad, for the next few weeks
and suggests, in consequence, that I should
change my plans, and decide to take the
last three weeks. This, of course, I gladly
agreed to. I shall therefore not appear till
September the twenty-fifth. To-day is the
seventh, so there are not three weeks to
wait before I clasp her in my arms, and
receive the right to call her my own forevermore.
It is a great disappointment tome
to have to postpone our meeting, but I
fully appreciate her kindness in having
broken silence, and written to me explaining
the position. My colonel started on
leave to-day ; I think that he was glad,
when I decided to take the latter half, for
the hot weather has totally knocked him
up. Expecting to hear from you shortly,
telling me how thoroughly disgusted you
are at my change of plans, I remain,
'Yours affectionately,

George Grafton.'

Grandly lays down the letter in perplexity.
In what possible way could Miss
Eigby have gained a knowledge of hi

friend's immediate plans ? And then lie
smiles, for a light breaks upon him, removing
all semblance of a mystery. He has
told Loftus the contents of George's last
letter, and Loftus of course has repeated it
to Miss Rigby ! The solution is self-evident.
It is news to him, though, that Miss Rigby
and her aunt are purposing to leave Doonga
for a period, and he rather wonders that
Loftus has made no mention of the circumstance,
for to imagine that the latter is
ignorant of the fact of Hie bewitching
Emily's ' departure is literally absurd.

As he is thus musing, he suddenly becomes
conscious of his own name being
called from without, and, walking to the
door, he perceives Loftus, reclining indolently
in his saddle, at the bottom of the
little slope leading up to his hut.

He walks quickly towards him with a
smile upon his face.

This is an unexpected honour,' he says.
^ You must have a very weighty reason for
this display of energy so early in the day.'

Loftus smiles affably.

My dear boy,' he says, ' you left me so
suddenly yesterday that I felt quite
anxious for your health. So I thought

&»

that I would exert myself this morning,
and come and make kind enquiries concerning
you. I hope that you are better,'
he adds, with an assumption of tender
interest.

Oh ! I am quite well, thank you,'
returns Grandly, with a somewhat heightened
colour. ' You must excuse my
abrupt departure — my temper of late has
become abominable. But really, Loftus,
your behaviour was calculated to try a
saint.'

A wave of merriment crosses Loftus'
face.

Oh ! Grandly, for goodness sake be
silent !' he says, imploringly. ' Remember
my position ! My seat is anything but firm,
and I am at present poised in the air,
thirteen and a half hands from terra firma,
A fall from such a height might ruin me
for life.'

I certainly have no intention of referring
to the matter again,' says Grandly,
majestically. ' After the way . . . .'

'Ah! that's a good boy! You are a
perfect brick !' says Loftus, in a relieved
tone. ' If you only knew what I suffered
afterwards, you would really pity me ! I

had such a horrible pain in the pit of my
stomach that I thought I must have
ruptured an artery. The doctor said it
was truffles and lobster salad ! Disgusting
want of poetry, wasn't it ? — But all M.d's
are soulless animals.'

I trust you are aright now,' says
Grandly. ' You contorted your body in
such a downright, idiotic fashion that I
really don't wonder at your feeling ill.'

Yes — I am better now,' replies Loftus,
cheerfully. ' But let us change the subject.
The very thought of it is giving mea
qualm. Let me tell you, old chap, that
my feeling for you is more than one of
mere admiration — it is longer — positive
wonder ! As the author of the magnificent
conception which you confided to me
yesterday, your brain I consider to be the
most perfectly developed organ in existence.
The idea is marvellous — breaths
— stupendous !'

'Anything more?' says Grandly, coolly.
Don't gesticulate so violently, or you will
really tumble off.'

I have nothing more to say !' says
Loftus, with a majestic intonation of the
voice. ' I have paid my feeble tribute to

the shrine of intellect, and I have done my
duty. And now, old chap,' — relapsing
into his customary careless tones — ' I want
you to come and dine with me tomorrow
at half-past seven.'

Right you are !' says Grandly, heartily.
I will be punctual to the minute. But,
I say, Loftus — I am surprised that you
are so cheerful, considering that she is
about to go away.'

What do you mean ? Now, none of
your gammon, my boy. You will find
Vernon Loftus more than a match at that
playful little game.'

I am not joking,' replies Grandly,
smiling. ' I nsls referring to Miss Rigby.
I heard to-day that she was going immediately
into the Gullies for three weeks.'

Now, steady on ! Aren't you coming it
just a leeile bit too strong? Whoever
could have told you such a magnificent
lie as that?'

I heard it from the very best authority,'
says Grandly, confidently. 'I am
quite convinced about the fact.'

Then you may tell the very best authority,
with Vernon Loftus' compliments, that
he is an a-double-5 — ass' says Loftus,

VOL. II. T

bluntly. ' Whoever heard of such a farcical
notion ! The idea of the bewitching Emily
leaving Doonga now, when everybody is
becoming lively — and for the Gullies, of
all places in this world ! Rot, sir — rot !'

I can quite understand your chagrin,'
says Grandly, placidly. ' Presumably she
has made her plans, and kept you in the
dark. You have certainly been treated
badly. Perhaps you will believe me, when
I tell sou that I heard the news from one
who ought to know — in fact, from George
Grafton.'

George Grafton !' cries Loftus, indignantly.
' And who the devil may George
Oh ! holy Moses, you're at that old game
again, are you? Well, of all the bumble-headed
individuals I have ever had the
pleasure of meeting, you are the very .
Will nothing convince you
that you are Wrong?'

'■ Nothing !' says Grandly, firmly.

Then you may smother me to death
with gruyere cheese, if you ain't the droll-est
chap in Christendom !'

Strangely enough, when the two young
men separate three minutes afterwards,
they both make the same remark, in the

same contemptuous manner, which runs as
follows :

How is it possible that he can be so
absurdly blind ?'

T 2

CHAPTER Xii.

FURTHER OPACITY OF THE CORNEA.

Grandly returns to his house, and sits
down immediately to answer Grafton's
letter. He tells him how terribly disappointed
he is at his change of plans,
though he admits that he has acted only
as he should have done ; and then he adds,
with just a touch of bitterness,

Of course I know that, for the future,
I shall be nothing and she will be everything
in your eyes, but it will take me
some time yet before I fully grasp the facts
of my debasement. I have been for so
many years first in your thoughts that you
must allow that it is no easy matter for me
to understand at once that I have been
shunted''

He then mentions the fact of his having

called on Miss Rigby, but lie utterly disclaims
having shown her his letter.

He is too honest to say anything in the
girl's favour for the purpose of pleasing his
friend; he merely writes, with characteristic
straight forwardness,

• '' Candidly speaking, dear George, I don't
like her; and, if you will excuse me saying
so, I don't think you have chosen well at
all. As far as I can j edge. she is the very
last person to suit you as a wife. Having
seen so little of her, perhaps it may seem
presumptuous on my part to offer an opinion,
but 1 am a firm believer in first impressions,
as you may remember — and my
first impression, in this particular case, is,
I regret to say, one of antipathy. You may
imagine how it grieves me to have to write
these words, but, never having deceived
you from the day I saw you first, I cannot
bring myself to do so now ; and I feel sure
that you will not take offence nor think
the worse of me for having openly confessed
the truth.'

It is a great relief to him to disburden
his mind in this way to his friend. For
days he has been conscious in his heart
that he dislikes Miss Rigby — every single

thing that he has heard or seen of her has
been distasteful to him, and, strive as he
can, he cannot conquer his prejudice
against her. And, in not disclosing the
fact to his friend, he has experienced an
uncomfortable feeling that he has been
acting treacherously towards him. Better,
he argues, to tell him point-blank that he
dislikes the girl than to play the hypocrite
on the subject.

It was Grandly's custom, when he happened
to be in his own room of an afternoon,
to seat himself at the window and to
Avatch for Miss Forsdyke to leave the garden,
and then, after the lapse of a certain
time, to follow her. His little, isolated
dwelling-place was situated on the top of
a grassy mound. The doorway was placed
on the side facing the hotel, and from it a
little path led down to the main building.
His endows fronted the garden — and, beyond
the gravel-path encircling his hut,
the soft, green turf sloped down for about
ten to twelve feet until it reached the road,
on the other side of which was another
gentle slope, leading down to the lawn and
asphalte tennis-court.

It was by this road that Miss Forsakes

left the grounds when proceeding
to the wood, so that, practically, she passed
within a few feet of him. But he never
told her that he watched for her exit, for
fear lest she might betray herself to any
casual observer by glancing pointedly in
his direction. He used to sit behind the
red muslin valance hung across his window,
effectually screened himself but capable of
seeing everything outside.

On this particular afternoon he is at his
post with a book in his hand — Morris'
Songs of Two Worlds.' He takes up his
position by the window, and, about a
quarter-to-four, he sees Miss Forsdyke's
winsome little form issue from the hotel
and proceed slowly along the road beneath
him. Unperceived himself, he watches her
with an eager eye. She is dressed scrupulously
neatly in her glossy, brown Newmarket
coat, setting off her matchless little
figure to perfection, with a veil of the same
colour half concealing her face, and he
gazes in rapture at her as she passes beneath
his window. Oh, how he loves her ! Everyday
that passes seems to increase his love !
Life to him now would be impossible without
her !

Suddenly another figure appears from
the opposite direction. It is the heavy
form of Mrs. Stockton, who has been prowling
about the garden since lunch. She
advances towards the girl and stops in front
of her.

Ah ! Miss Forsdyke !' she says, in those
disagreeable tones he knows so well by this
time, ' you are about to take a stroll, are
you? Perhaps you will allow me to accompany
you.'

I beg that you will excuse me, Mrs.
Stockton,' answers the girl, coldly. ' I
would prefer to go alone.'

You are very polite, I am sure !' says
the old woman, with a sneer. ' I wonder
where you learnt your manners.'

I should not come to you if I wanted
tuition in that respect,' flashes Diana, her
eyes ablaze with scorn. ' No — Mrs. Stockton
— after your behaviour of this morning,
the less I see of you the better.'

Oh — really — you don't mean it 1' remarks
Mrs. Stockton, with heavy sarcasm.
You are very high and haughty now,
young lady, but you take care what you
are doing, or perhaps your pride may have
a sudden fall.'

Do your worst !' cries the girl, defiantly.
Spy, and sneak, and prowl about to your
heart's content — you can't hurt me !'

We shall see about that,' rejoins the old
woman, grimly. ' Don't you be too sure,
Miss Forsdyke ! It was a bad day for you
when you insulted me''

Insulted you !' cries Diana, with a ring
of high contempt. ' I suppose you refer to
my having caught you eavesdropping at
my door. Ah ! that was a highly lady-like
proceeding on your part, was it not, Mrs.
Stockton ?'

I shall be even with you yet,' growls
the old woman, savagely, maddened at the
humiliating recollection. ' Pray, will you
tell me. Miss Forsdyke, when you purpose
starting for the Gullies ?'

The Gullies !' exclaims the girl, turning
a trifle pale.

'Yes — the Gullies, Miss Forsdyke!' says
Mrs. Stockton, mimicking her startled manner.
' The Gullies — and from thence on to
Abbottabad. I understood that it was
your intention to go immediately, and I
admit to being curious at this inexplicable
delay.'

'Ah!'

A sudden cry escapes the girl, and she
takes a hurried step forward.

It was you, was it ?' she hisses between
her teeth, so low as to be inaudible to
Grandly. ' It was you who took my letter
and kept it, and afterwards posted it. Now
I understand — yon took it and i^ead it !
Let me pass ! I will not stand another
moment in your vile presence.'

No — no — not quite so fast !' says Mrs.
Stockton, standing in her way, ' I wish to
discuss the solemn covenant ! You are a nice
sort . . . .'

Will you let me pass ?'

'Not till I have said my say ! I wish
you to understand that I know . . . .'

Let me pass at once, Mrs. Stockton, or
I will call for help !'

The girl's eyes are blazing fire, and she
is looking a very empress in her wrath.
Grandly, feeling the hot blood coursing
through his veins, looks at her in the deepest
admiration, unable to decide exactly Avhat
to do.

No, you won't !' says Mrs. Stockton,
grimly. ' Unless it be your wish that I
should blazon to the whole world . . . .'

I will not remain here to be so insulted,'
says Diana, indignantly. ' I will at once
report the matter to the manager.'

She turns round to effect her purpose.
In a moment Mrs. Stockton is beside her,
and has grasped her by the arm. A cry of
pain escapes her as she struggles violently
to disengage herself — and Grandly can
remain silent no longer. White with anger
he tears aside the valance, and shoves his
head out of the window.

You darned old frump !' he cries out,
furiously, beside himself with passion. ' If
you dare to touch that lady I will smash
your bonnet flat ! Leave her alone this
instant, or I will have you marched straight
ois to the lock-up !'

Petrified with astonishment at the sudden
interruption, Mrs. Stockton looses her
hold and turns towards him.

Ah ! it is you, is it ?' she says, shaking
her fist towards him. 'Another of the
solemn covenant on the spy ! You can
take care too or . . . .'

Shut your jaw unless you want to be
throttled !' cries Grandly, at the top of his
voice. ' I have had enough of your nonsense.

If you don't behave as a lady, you
cannot expect to be treated as such. I say,
Diana, are you hurt ?'

Oh ! it is Diana, is it ?' cries Mrs.
Stockton, with a malicious burst of laughter.
' Diana — and Frank — and George !
Ah ! this is a pretty secret I have discovered,
to be sure !'

In a moment Grandly is aware of the
terrible slip that he has made. He looks
from one another in confusion, and then he
silently signs to Diana to go. She sees the
signal and understands it, and without a
word she turns in the direction of the gate.

Mrs. Stockton,' he says, quietly, ' you
have to-day caused me to speak to you ina
very ungentlemanly manner. This I
sincerely regret, and I trust that you will
permit me to apologise. At the same time
I wish you to understand that I never in
the future desire that you should address
me again. If you do, you will probably
again be unpleasantly surprised ;' saying
which, he closes the window with a bang,
without waiting to hear the old woman's
probably furious reply.

In another quarter-of-an-hour he emerges

through the back-door, leading out of his
bath-room, and finds the coast clear. Mrs.
Stockton has betaken her angry person
away to brood over his insulting words in
the seclusion of her private room.

He does not fear the old woman, but, at
the same time, he does not under-estimate
her powers of doing harm. Had his own
existence been perfectly open and straightforward
he would have laughed her threats
to scorn ! But unfortunately it is not so I
He is embarked on a venture of secrecy
and intrigue, involving an innocent girl's
good name, and consequently, if not for
his own sake, for her sake it is imperative
that he should take every precaution to
prevent the whispers of scandalous tongues.

Should Mrs. Stockton once suspect his
intimacy with Diana, he is well aware that
she will not rest until she has thoroughly
exposed them. And he more than fears
that her suspicions have been awakened
from her having coupled their names together
in what she calls ' a solemn covenant
;' though why she should include
George Grafton in the covenant he cannot
conceive ; nor can he imagine how she has
become aware of the fact of his friend's

very existence. It is all very mysterious
to him, and no amount of thought on his
]part helps to elucidate the matter.

He speaks to Diana on the subject this
afternoon, and she fully agrees with him
that there is cause for much apprehension
on their part. She is very nervous and
distraite, with a tendency at times to become
hysterical, and all his efforts to compose
her are in vain. She talks in a hurried,
excited manner, as though her mind
were oppressed with some great weight,
and at times she answers him in such an
incoherent way that he becomes half
afraid that she is far from well.

Let us dismiss the subject from our
minds,' he says, soothingly. ' Since you
had that fearful headache, you have not
been yourself at all. Are you sure, dear,
that you are not suffering still ?'

'No — not bodily — only mentally,' she
says, in a weary tone. ' Why does that
woman hate me, and what does she mean
by her mysterious imputations ?'

I really do not understand,' he says,
speaking in a cheerful voice. ' But it is
no o;ood brooding; over the matter. If the

worst comes to the worst, she cannot really
do yon any harm.'

'Ah! — but she can — she can,' she answers,
piteously, with a slight shiver. ' You
do not know — you do not understand.'

'Yes, I do !' he answers, stoutly; 'the
only thing she can do is to expose our
meetings here — and, supposing she does,
what then ? We are so strong in our own
innocence that we shall have no difficulty
in convincing other people '

He does not really think so — in fact, he
knows that it would be an utter impossibility
to convince society of the friendly
nature of their affection for one another.
But in saying so his object is to try to
calm her agitation.

In this he is not successful. She
shivers faintly, and draws closer towards
him, and he casts a protecting arm around
her Avast.

It is very silly of me to be so frightened,'
she whispers, ' but I cannot help myself.
What does she mean by a solemn
covenant? And what does she mean by
asking me when I am going to leave
Doonga ? I am not going to leave Doonga

I have never thought of such a thing ;'
and she raises her eyes towards him with
an expression of innocent wonder.

^ I can't conceive, either,' he answers,
with a Utile laugh. ' She is a prying,
sneaking old woman, and it is quite evident
that she bears a grudge against us
both. But as yet her discoveries are entirely
in her own imagination. It is a
comfort to think that she has got hold of
the wrong end of the stick. Why, she
actually told me that you had written to
George Grafton, of all people in the world !
If I had not been so angry with her, I
should have laughed in her face.'

'No, I cannot conceive her object in
telling such downright falsehoods,' whispers
Diana, slowly. ' It seems as though
she wanted to make mischief between us,
and thought that this fabrication would
raise your suspicions against me. But it
hasn't, has it, Frank ?' she continues,
glancing anxiously up into his face. ' I
feel certain that you will never doubt me
again.'

Never !' he answers, quickly, tightening
the pressure of his arm. ' You need never
fear for that, Diana. And why she should

think that it would make me angry to
know that you had written to dear old
George, I can't conceive. It would make
me the happiest man alive to see you and
him friends.'

Perhaps we shall be some day,' she
whispers. ' But, however much I wished
to please you, I could hardly write to him
when he is a perfect stranger, could I T
and she looks up at him with a half-amused
expression on her face.

Well, I suppose not,' he laughs. ^ But
Mrs. Stockton seems to think it possible.
It is really quite laughable the gigantic
mare's-nest she has discovered. She not
only told me that you wrote to him, but
she said that you had received a reply
from him to-day.'

What ridiculous nonsense !' cries Diana
indignantly. ' I caught the old wretch
examining my letter, and actually on the
point of putting it in her pocket. The
post-mark was " Sihayipur," and I suppose
that is why she thought Mr. Grafton had
written it. Unfortunately for her calculations
and conclusions,' she adds, T\ith a contemptuous
little laugh, 'my father also lives
at Sihayipur, and it was he who wrote it.'

VOL. II. u

'Yes, she is evidently on the wrong
tack,' he says, with a merry laugh.

Did you hear all we said to one another,
Frank dear?' she asks, timidly, placing her
hand in his.

Yes, I think I heard every word. You
gave it to her well — I was looking on in
admiration at the courage you displayed.'

Then you heard me accuse her of reading
one of my letters ?'

'Yes, and she did not deny it, either.'

No, she couldn't. As sure as I am
sitting here, she opened and read a letter
which I wrote to my father on Wednesday
night. From what she said, I am fully
convinced on the point. When I posted
it, she was prowling about the stairs, and
half-an-hour afterwards I went down to
get it again — for I had omitted something
important — and it was gone. I met her
again on the stairs, and she told me that
the post went out at nine. That isn't true,
is it?'

No, of course not. The post goes out
early in the day, to allow the tonga to
descend the hill in daylight. But did your
father get the letter ?'

'Yes, lie got it, but, after having read
it, lie probably posted it. Luckily, there
was nothing important in it ; but it only
shows, Frank, what an unscrupulous wretch
she is.'

It is scandalous — infamous !' he cries,
indignantly. ' The woman ought to be
cut by the whole community. What an
awful life the colonel must lead !'

She gives vent to a soft ripple of laughter,
which it does his heart good to hear.

Has he been heard of lately?' she asks.

Yes — Major Lamb heard from him yesterday.
He says that he is enjoying himself
immensely, and that he is happier now
than he has been for years, poor chap.'

It must be an awful thing to be unhappily
married,' she says, with sudden
gravity. ' I hope to God that such will
never be my fate.'

You — Diana ! ' he cries, raising her
hand to his lips and kissing it. 'You must
never marry — neither of us must. We
must live always for one another.'

Ah !' she says, with a little sigh, her
delicate skin tinged with colour, ' that can
never be. In a month's time you will go

u 2

away from me, and perhaps we shall never
meet again.'

We shall — we must !' he cries, fiercely,
hungrily gazing at her lovely face. ' Do
you think that I could bear to lose you
now? You have become a part of my
very life, and I could not live without
you. In the summer we shall always meet
wherever you go I shall follow for my
leave — and in the winter we must write —
often, every week — and tell each other of
all the details of our lives.'

Yes,' she says, leaning her glorious
little sun-gold head upon his shoulder,
you must come. You must not leave
me, and forsake me, and forget me — I
could not stand it, you have become so
very dear to me. But, Frank, dear Frank
softly stroking his cheek with her little
unloved hand, — ' some day you may fall
in love — real love, you know — and then
what will become of your poor little sister-friend?'


'Never — it is impossible,' he whispers,
bending down and gazing with a look of
ineffable tenderness into the depths of her
liquid eyes. ' My heart is not large enough
to contain another love. It is yours, and

yours alone — and no other image can ever
take its place. All ! Diana, my little darling,
surely a love like this is more elevating
than a sickly, sentimental passion,
craving after matrimony !'

CHAPTER XVII.

TOTAL BLINDNESS.

The next day is Sunday, the third Sabbath
that Grandly has spent in the Himalayas.
And what an eventful three weeks
they have been ! He has experienced
more happiness and suffered more anxiety
in these last twenty days than he can
remember to have done for sears. There
has been the anxiety connected with his
sister's grave, the anxiety connected with
his friend's engagement, and the anxiety
arising from his intimacy with Miss
Forsdyke.

And what has been the joy ? Ah, the
joy of being Miss Forsdyke's devoted friend,
of having by his own efforts changed
her from a desponding being into a merry,
laughing girl, has more than compensated

him for what lie has suffered. The joy has
so predominated that it has made of him
a different being ; it has altered his whole
character, has given him a new zest in life,
has caused him to view all things in a happier
spirit. It has swept away his habitual
reserve of manner, and has given him in
its place an open-hearted hon-camaraderie
eminently suitable to his agreeable countenance.


He is conscious of this change himself.
He feels more light-hearted and sociable
than of yore, and he no longer hankers
after seclusion such as he had loved before,
when his chief delight had been to shut
himself up in his own room and to muse
idly over some pleasant book. His honest
young heart has appreciably expanded,
causing him to view in a lenient spirit
other human beings whose different tastes
and modes of thought had formerly jarred
upon his nerves. He has shaken off that
air, of cynical austerity which had been so
ill-adapted to his youthful years. And it
is to Miss Forsdyke's gentle influence that
he owes this beneficial change. Is it to be
wondered at that his love for her increases
every day?

He never attempts to analyse alae nature
of his love. He is so confident in its purely
platonic character, that such a notion never
crosses his mind. He is only conscious
that it exists, and that it has absorbed all
other thoughts and feelings, and that it is
reciprocated, and that, consequently, he
has cause to consider himself the happiest
man alive.

He decides not to go to church. Diana,
he knows, does not intend to go, and the
church service, with its make-shift choir
and Mrs. Lamb's amazing accompaniment,
are not sufficient in themselves to attract
him there.

It is a glorious morning. The sun is
shining brightly down, scattering the last
remnants of the mountain mist, and a soft
breeze is blowing from the west, and the
whole hill is bathed in light. So after
breakfast he takes a cigar, and strolls idly
about the grounds, drinking in great
draughts of the pure, fresh air.

Two ladies are strolling in the soft sunlight,
protecting their weather-beaten
visages with flimsy parasols. They are
Mrs. Lamb and Mrs. Blewitt, both dressed
in startling new apparel, with the evident

intention of creating an impression on the
highly Christian congregation shortly to be
assembled in the church. They see him
in the distance, and bear down towards him
like a couple of frigates in full sail.

Good-morning, Mr. Grandly,' cries Mrs.
Lamb, with pretty playfulness. ' A penny
for your thoughts !'

At that moment he happens to be thinking
how painfully plain the two ladies are
looking, so in answering her he wisely tells
a lie.

I can hardly be said to have been
thinking at all,' he answers. ' I was gazing
at those distant mountain peaks, and my
mind was in a state of dreamy vacuum.'

Oh,' she says, with a little blush, ' I
thought that — that you might have been
thinking of — of something else. I suppose
that you are coming to church. You know
we have an anthem to-day, and I am going
to sing a solo.'

He inwardly thanks his stars that he has
decided not to go, but again he does not
express his inmost thoughts aloud.

What a pity !' he says, in a well-affected
tone of regret. ' I had made an engagement
for this morning to ride with Mr. Loftus to

Honeybank. May I ask what anthem you
have selected ?'

It is really wonderful to note how quickly
he has acquired the social art of telling
a deliberate falsehood, gracefully.

It is a selection from the " Messiah " —
chosen by myself she says, artlessly.
They are all in different keys, but I intend
to improvise a simple modulation between
them — that is. if I can — I have never tried
to do anything of the kind yet. Perhaps
you might assist me, Mrs. Blewitt ?'

*No — I regret that I am not talented
that way,' says that lady, with a sly smile
at Grandly. ' But you need not fret yourself,
dear, about it. I am certain that you
will be able to do it — you would never
play in the way you do, unless you had a
very peculiar ear for music'

You dear thing !' says Mrs. Lamb,
bubbling over with pleasure. ' You must
not believe all Mrs. Blewitt says, Mr.
Grandly. She would make me out a
veritable professor — a Rubinstein in petticoats.
But I am not, I can assure you,'
she adds, modestly. ' I am a very second-rate
performer.'

And you are going to sing a solo ?'

Yes " I know that my Redeemer

liveth." '

He looks at her doubtfully.

It is a little high, isn't it?' he ventures.

Yes, it is,' she says. ' But then, I mean
to play the top notes on the harmonium,
and so help myself, you see.'

Oh ! I see — yes !' he answers, gravely,
feeling that no power on earth could now
induce him to enter the church that
morning.

And you won't come !' she says, appealingly.


You had better go,' said Mrs. Blewitt^
significantly. ' /, for my part, wouldn't
miss it for the world.'

How nice of you to say so, dear 1' cries
Mrs. Lamb, in raptures.

Ah ! dear, you know how fond I am of
hearing you sing,' says Mrs. Blewitt,
sweetly.

I am so glad to think, dear, that I am
able to give you pleasure.'

'' Yes, dear, your voice is certainly unique.
I could listen to you for hours, without
feeling bored.'

Well — you have only to ask me any
night in the lady's room, and I shall be
only too happy to oblige.'

^ How very kind of you. dear ! You
must sing to us tomorrow. I can't tell you
what a positive treat it will be to me.
Perhaps Mr. Grandly will come, too. I
can vouch, Mr. Grandly, that you have
;z^y^r heard a voice like Mrs. Lamb's before.'

Oh ! my dear — how can you ?' says
Mrs. Lamb, with a modest blush. ' You
make me feel quite ashamed. Mr. Grandly,
my voice is really very small.'

Ah ! dear — it is the tone — the timbre —
the execution which affects me so. I can
never hear you sing without feeling inclined
to leave the earth for ever, and go
straight to heaven.'

And you will certainly go there some
day, dear,' says Mrs. Lamb, sweetly. ' And
you will be a real ornament to the place
too.'

But I shall not be in the choir like
you.'

Who knows ?' says Mrs. Lamb, with a
sprightly little laugh. ewe shall all be
equal there, you know — so probably you
will have a voice like mine, then

^I would pray clay and night on my
bended knees, dear, if I thought thai my
voice would ever be like yours,' says Mrs.
Blewitt, eyeing her affectionately; and
then she lowers her parasol and looks
at Grandly, and actually winks, and in
so comical a manner that he finds himself
compelled to turn away to hide his
laughter.

The two ladies continue talking till it is
time to go to church, and then they wish
him au-revoir.

Don't forget tomorrow, Mr. Grandly,
in the lady's room.'

I Avon't forget,' he answers, earnestly,
carefully avoiding Mrs. Blewitt's eyes, for
he feels that he will utterly collapse if he
catches that sarcastic lady's glance. ' And
afterwards we will have a little chat upon
the balcony.'

Yes — we-sill !' she murmurs, blushing
crimson. ' Good-morning,' and, with a little
bow, she moves away, accompanied by Mrs.
Blemtt.

Grandly spends the morning in writing
letters, his pressing engagement with
Loft us being purely visionary. To ride
down to Honeybank before lunch is the

very last thing that that indolent individual
would think of doing.

At four o'clock he is wending his way
towards the wood. How well he knows
that little descending pathway now ! Every
tree and shrub, grassy mound and patch of
fern or yellow balsam, is familiar to his eyes
by this time, and he loves them all, for are
they not all connected with his little sister-friend
?

She has indeed chosen well the place of
assignation. Never once, excepting the case
of Loftus, have they been surprised. Down
in the depths of that secluded wood, they
might be cut off from the whole surrounding
world, for all they see or hear of their
fellow-creatures. And never once has he
allowed his departure from the main road
above to be observed! Acting always
with the greatest caution, he has continued
to walk ahead past the large projecting
boulder, if perchance there were any pedestrians
on the road — not retracing his steps
until they were well out of sight. Ah ! he
is a clever fellow ! He laughs softly to
himself at the thought of his own cunning.
It is delightful to think how completely
he has hoodwinked all around him.

No one, save Loftus, has the least conception
of his being other than he outwardly
appears, and Loftus' discovery of his
secret is really not to be wondered at, considering
what an abnormally astute individual
his friend is. It reflects no discredit
on him, for having failed to keep him in
the dark, for, in all matters pertaining to
love and intrigue, his friend, he is well
aware, is capable of seeing through a six-brick
wall.

But it is highly gratifying to feel that,
through his own adroitness, he has managed
to deceive every other living soul.
Only the night before, Mrs. Lamb had expressed
her sympathy for the dulness of
his life. She had told him how sorry she
felt for him, living alone in that isolated
hut, without friend or occupation. Oh !
if she only knew the truth ! What would
be her opinion tien as to the dulness of
his life? In fact, as he walks along on
this soft autumnal afternoon, carelessly
switching his stick amongst the yellowing
fern, he feels distinctly pleased with himself,
in having conducted such a hazardous
"undertaking with such dexterity. What
a happy chap he is ! And what a change

has come upon him in the last few weeks !
And it is to Diana that he owes this
change — to dear, little innocent Diana,
his sister-friend ! How can he help loving
her more and more ? Is it to be wondered
at that his love increases day by day ?
How can he ever repay her for her goodness,
kindness, gentle influence, and love ? Love
her as he may, he feels that he can never
requite her adequately for all that she has
done to him. To the very last day of his
life, the memory of her alluring little form
will stand before him, reminding him of
his debt.

There she is ! Standing beneath the dear
old, gnarled oak, clinging to its outstretched
arm — a fairy little form, clad in the
softest shade of grey, with a ruby-coloured
flower resting lightly on her breast —
smiling a smile of happy welcome. Oh !
how supremely lovely she is looking ! A
sudden choking sensation rises in his throat,
and he hurries towards her, and seizes her
in his arms, and strains her to his breast,
raining hot kisses on her upturned face.

My little sister,' he whispers, ' my little
love, are you better to-day? Has that
horrid headache completely left you ?'

Yes — I am better — but not quite well
yet,' she murmurs, placing her hands upon
his chest, and attempting to extricate herself
from his embrace. ^ How can I feel
ill, when you are near, Frank ? Let me
go, my darling boy, you are really hurting
me!'

Reluctantly he looses his hold, and
she sinks down upon the grass, inviting
him by a gesture to follow her example.

My aunt was so cross to-day,' she says,
somewhat wearily. ' She tried my patience
sorely. Nothing was right in her opinion,
and everything was wrong.'

She has been ill a long time now.' says
Grandly.

111 ! she is no more ill than you are or
I am. It is simply indolence, combined with
an hysterical craving to be considered interesting.
Though, what the advantage
is in being thought an invalid, I can't
conceive.'

But nerves play sad havoc with ladies'
constitutions, you know,' he says, with a
smile. ' As Loft us was saying to me the
other day, if you really imagine you are in
pain, you suffer as much as though it
actually existed.'

VOL. II. X ,

That is one way of looking at it, certainly,'
she laughs. ' But I think it is a very
idiotic argument. In my opinion, if any
woman imagines anything so foolish, she
ought to be locked up, and fed on bread
and water, till her imagination becomes less
vivid. I am sure that two days of that
sort of treatment would cure my aunt for
life. She would miss her bear-steak and
quart of bottled stout, I am thinking !'

Then Mrs. Renfrew, in spite of her
nerves, has a good appetite?' he asks,
smiling.

Appetite ! Oh, Frank, I can assure
you that, at times, I am quite ashamed.
She lies on her sofa, bathed from top to
toe in cau-de- Cologne, sighing and groaning,
and at the same time eating like a navvy.
She finishes more in a day than I eat in a
week — and then she complains of being-unable
to eat a morsel. I heard her tell
the doctor so this morning, and I felt inclined
to laugh in her face. And he, poor
man, prescribed for her quinine ! If the
tonic increases her appetite, I am convinced
that the manager will refuse to board herat
the usual rate.'

Well, it is lucky for us that Mrs. Renfrew

is attacked with nerves. Otherwise,
we should never be able to meet with such
regularity as we do now.'

Oh ! dont let's discuss her any more —
I am sick to death of her whims and fancies.
To change the subject. Frank, how is it
that your friend — Mr. Grafton, has not yet
put in his appearance?'

What !— didn't I tell you? He has
been compelled to postpone his visit. His
fiancee has written to him, telling him that
she is going into the Gullies for the next
three weeks, so he has been compelled to
choose the last three weeks. 1 am so very
disappointed.'

Oh, I am so sorry I' she says, with a
sympathetic glance. * But three weeks is
not very long to wait.'

•Xo, it is not. certainly. But. do you
know. Diana, I am beginning to feel very
superstitious in the matter? 1 have, somehow,
a presentiment that he will never
come at all.'

^ Never come at all !" she repeats, looking
at him curiously. * What makes you think
that ?'

Oh I I do not know — I have no reason
for it — sit is merely a presentiment. I have

now been over two years in India, andy
though we have done our utmost to effect
a meeting, we have never yet succeeded.
And now, when it did really seem on the
point of coming about, it has again been
frustrated. It seems as though Fate had
ordained that we shall never meet.'

'What nonsense!' she cries, with a reassuring
laugh. ' If his fiancee returns to
Doonga, of course he will come as soon ashe
can. Of course it would be different if
she didn't return, or — or if she were to
break off the engagement. He would not
come to the same place then — it would be
too painful for him.'

^ I wish to God she would break off
the engagement !' he answers, gloomily ;
'though it would be a dreadful blow to
him. She is not worthy of him in anyway.
But there is no chance of her doing
that — no woman who had once gained the
love of such a man as George would wilfully
reject it unless she were downright mad,
or desperately wicked. He is such a grand
creature that I cannot understand why
she imposed upon him this six months'
probation.'

But he is very poor,' she ventures.

'Yes — lie is poor — but what of that?
If he was too poor to suit her tastes, why
did she not refuse him at once? What
could have been her reason for accepting
him even in the conditional way she did ?'

'■ Perhaps — perhaps — she might have
thought that perhaps she — she might do
better within the six months, and . . . and
then . . .'

Throw him over ! Oh, it is impossible,
Diana !' he cries, indignantly. ' Reserve
him as a pis-aller — good, noble George !
Such an idea is too monstrous — it makes
my blood boil to think of it ! Oh ! surely
none of your sex could be so inexpressibly
Tile as that ?'

I do not know,' she says, flushing crimson,
and hiding her face in his shoulder.
Do not let us talk about it — it makes me
sad to think of the wickedness in this
world.'

Yes — you are right, Diana,' he replies
softly, caressing her auburn hair ; ' such
things ought not to be even mentioned in
your pure presence.'

Oh, what a perfect faith he has in her
integrity ! With her face hidden from
view, a sudden huskiness rises in her throat,

as she thinks of her own unworthiness, for
she loves him madly, passionately, with all
the force of her impulsive nature, and she
would give half her life to be able to wipe
out the hideous past and appear before him
pure and innocent. But the past alas ! can
never be obliterated !

The painful records graven clear,

On carven rock, or deathless page :
The long unceasing reign of fear,
The weary tale of lust and rage . . .'

must remain for ever — to the very eternity
of time ; for ' that which is done, not God
himself can make undone.'

In another moment she has recovered
her tranquillity. She has a fixed purpose
to accomplish, and she has no time to lose.
In another sixteen days George Grafton
will appear to claim her as his bride ; before
that time has elapsed, it is imperative that
she shall make Frank Grandly declare
himself, for with her fierce passion, and
keen, penetrating eye, she sees through
the flimsy pretence of platonism, and
knows that he loves her with a man's
strong love. Her position is a desperate
one, and she knows it. She cannot herself
imagine what will be the ultimate outcome

of this intrigue. A web of complications
has arisen around her, and she feels herself
entangled in the meshes, powerless to
extricate herself.

So she trusts blindly to Fate. If she
can induce Frank Grandly to propose, she
fancies that she may be able to sweep
all obstacles away. She will write to
Grafton begging her release, and swearing
him to secrecy, and she will marry Grandly
Without his being aware of her previous
engagement to his friend. But, that there
are immense difficulties in the fulfilment
of this scheme, she cannot conceal from
herself. Will Grafton allow his friend to
marry her without saying a single word ?
She does not know — she dare not think —
all is terrible doubt and confusion in her
brain — she feels herself being swept along
on the rapid torrent of deceit, over hidden
reefs and breakers, every moment going
faster and faster With the lashing stream,
and she is powerless to stop herself. She
is in mid-water, amidst the boiling froth
and foam, and she can only close her eyes
and trust to fate to save her from the projecting
rocks, and bring her safely home.

'What are you thinking of, Diana?' he

says, presently, glancing down at her
averted face. ' You are very silent all of
a sudden.'

I was in the land of dreams,' she answers,
softly, toying carelessly with his
watch-chain. ' I was thinking whether you
really told me true when you said that you
had never been in love.'

I told you nothing but the truth,' he
answers, earnestly. ' My friends have
often chained me on my seeming want of
heart.'

Ah ! but, Frank dear, they were quite
wrong if they put it down to want of
heart. From what I know of you, I am
sure that you are capable of loving very
strongly, if you only chance to meet the
right person. Am I not right ?' she asks,
looking up into his face.

I really have not thought about it,' he
answers, smiling. 'Feature has ordained
that men should fall in love, and I don't
suppose that I'm differently organised to
the rest of the masculine world. I suppose
I shall follow the usual example some
day, but at present, my dear little Diana,
I want nothing more than the love I bear
you — though of a platonic '

Oh, Frank ! What a lovely face !

She has opened the locket hanging on
his watch-chain, and she is gazing down on
the portrait of a girl, fresh and beautiful
iu the full bloom of youth — a face of striking
loveliness, with large, open, innocent
eyes, and the suspicion of a dimple in
either cheek.

Oh, Frank ! who is it ?' she cries. ' Why
do you carry it on your chain if — if you
have never been in love ?'

There is a trace of sharp anxiety in
her tones, but he does not notice it. He
looks steadily for a moment or two at
the little portrait, and then he takes the
locket from her hand and closes it.

It is the portrait of my darling sister,'
he says, gravely.

Ah ! forgive me, Frank, if I have caused
you pain ! I really did not know ! Tell
me about her, dear — I have often longed
to ask you, for I know that she Alas very
dear to you.'

He passes his hand across his forehead
and sighs heavily.

You are right, Diana,' he answers,
sadly. ' She was very dear to me. From
our very earliest childhood we had been

all in all to one another. I loved her with
a love that few brothers bestow upon their
sisters, and her love for me was equally
extraordinary. As children we were
never happy apart — and, as we gradually
grew up, the strength of our love seemed
to increase rather than to abate. Ah I
Diana, no words of mine can express the
agony I suffered when I heard that she
was dead.'

Then you were not beside her when she
died ?' she murmurs, gently closing her
fingers on his hand.

Beside her ! How could I have been,
Diana ? But of course you do not
know. No — I was in England when she
died.'

And where was she ?'

She was here — in India — in this cursed
land of death. She had married the year
preceding, and had come out here with
her husband's regiment. She was married
in July, and she died in the following June,
It is a very sad story, Diana ! By her
gentle influence and goodness she had quite
reclaimed the man she married from his
former life [of riot and debauchery. And
when she died he went quite mad — lost all

self-respect and sense of honour, and meta
fearful death some thirteen months afterwards
in Kashmir. But Diana, darling,
you are shivering. Are you cold ?'

No, not in the least,' she says, with a
nervous little laugh. ' Was I shivering ?
I did not know it.'

'You were really — why did you not bring
a ^vrap of some sort ? The evenings are
getting very chilly now.'

Oh ! never mind me, Frank dear,' she
says, nestling against his shoulder. ' Goon
telling me your story. It interests me
deeply. How did your sisters's husband
meet his death?'

'His end was very terrible. I never
knew the particulars till the other day,
when I heard them all in detail. It happened
that Loftus was with him when he died.'^

Loftus !'

The name escapes from her lips with a
sudden cry, and looking up quickly at the
sound he sees her regarding him with an
expression of incredulous horror on her
face, which has blanched to a deadly
white.

Diana !' he cries, fearfully, ' what is the
matter? Tell me, darling, are you not

well? You look so terribly pale, you
frighten me.'

He passes his arm around her waist, and
looks anxiously down into her eyes. A
shiver runs through her body, and she
turns her head towards him, and buries
it against his chest.

1 am not very well, Frank dear,' she
murmurs, in a husky voice, with her face
quite hidden from his searching gaze. ' It
is only a — a passing pain in my head, dear
it will have gone in a minute.'

But hadn't you better go home ?' he
asks, anxiously. ^ It is not good for you
to be out now, with the mist creeping up
the hill.'

No — no — let me stay, Frank,' she cries,
pleadingly, nestling her head closer against
his throbbing chest. ' Let me stay here in
your dear arms. I shall soon be all right
again. Go on talking, Frank, where you
left off. Tell me all about your poor
.sister.'

*But are you sure, darling?' he says,
doubtfully.

Yes — yes — quite sure ! It is only a
sudden, shooting pain, and — and it will go
away — perhaps — if — if you talk and occupy

my attention. Where was your sister
buried, dear?'

She was buried here, in the Doono-a
cemetery,' he whispers. ' She died here of
typhoid fever. Loftus was up here living
close by her, and, when she became ill, he
telegraphed for her husband, and he came
and nursed her for weeks and weeks, and
and then she died. Oh ! Diana — my
little sister — my heart breaks now when I
think of what I have lost.'

^ Frank — Frank !' she whispers, hoarsely.
What was her name ?'

Adelaide !' he says, with solemn reverence,
and, as he speaks, a convulsive shiver
seizes her, causing him instinctively to
tighten his clasp around her waist. ' Diana
you are not well — I know it !' he cries,
with grave anxiety.

I am only a — a little cold,' she says,
huskily. ' But don't mind me — tell me
more ! What did you say of Mr. Loftus —
I have quite forgotten.'

She speaks in a hurried nervous tone,
which frightens him. He feels convinced
that she is really ill.

You must let me take you home,' he
says, firmly. ' I will escort you to the road.

and then I will follow at a safe distance
and see you safely to the house.'

• Xo, no. I won t sro — not vet — not vet
she cries, excitedly, still keeping her face
concealed from view. • You are very cruel.
Frank, to try me so. I am interested in
your story, and . . . and . I . ."

• If I tell you all you want to know,' he
says, earnestly, trying to catch a glimpse
of her dead white face, ' ^vill you promise
me to go home at once ?'

• Yes — yes — at once — at once she cries,
with hysterical excitement. * I will go at
once, when you have told me all that Mr.
Loft us said.'

He-sees that, in spite of her sudden
strange attack, she is resolved to remain
until he has finished his recitaL so he determines
to humour her whim by complying
with her request as quickly as he can,
feeling that the sooner he satisfies her
curiosity: the sooner he will be able to get
her home.

• Mr. Loftus told me the whole story of
mv brother-inlaw death.* he says. * He
happened to be in Kashmir at the time, and
he found my brother lying in his tent in a
dying state. He had fallen over a precipice,

stretching out lier arms before her, as
though to ward off some deadly blow.
Ab ! 'tis terrible — my brain is whirling
round — my head is swimming — I cannot

see — the wood revolves '

Again the silence is startled by that
same weird, discordant shriek, and then
she throws up her arms, and falls With a
spasmodic shudder a huddled mass upon
the ground.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

London : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONyOJ), BLENHEIM House.

v^ \'

■ WWl.mU 'li MA ' " l < i nyt <

VOL. III.

PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP

BY

W. BUTTON Bernard

Ils THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

i

CONTENTS

OF

^-^

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

THE PLATONIC BUBBLE BURSTS.

For a moment Grandly is too terrified to
move ; then suddenly he falls down upon his
knees beside her, and reverentially raises
her still, pale face. Her eyes are closed
in complete unconsciousness.

He looks wildly about him, as though
in the hopes of obtaining some assistance,
but only the trunks and the foliage of the
silent trees meet his eye. He is alone in
the depths of the deserted wood, and beside
him is lying the form of the girl he loves,
pale, motionless, and senseless.

The evening mind blows chillily across
VOL. in. B

the . mass of undergrowth and fern ; a
faint mist is creeping stealthily through
the trees, and dusk is rapidly descending,
enshrouding the wood in semi-darkness ;
and there she lies, giving no sign of life, a
patch of dark grey colour against a russet
ground.

What shall he do ? The awful thought
strikes him that perhaps she may be dying.
With feverish haste he opens her collar
and dress, exposing her exquisitely moulded
neck to the cold night air, and then
with his handkerchief he fans her deathlike
face. And still she gives no sign of
life.

An exclamation of despair escapes him,
and, throwing aside the handkerchief, he
commences to violently rub her hands
between his own, remembering suddenly
having once read that the best remedy fora
fainting-fit was to promote the circulation
in the extremities of the body. But
is this merely a fainting-fit ? he asks himself,
in painful doubt, or is it something
worse ? He does not know — he cannot
tell — he dare not think. Pale almost as
the senseless girl beside him, he presses
his ear against her bosom and listens at

her heart. To his great joy, he hears it
feebly beating, and he redoubles his exertions.


Diana, my love, my love !' he cries,
beside himself with fear and anxiety, ^ open
your eyes and look at me, and tell me that
you are not dying !'

As though in obedience to his impassioned
pleading, at this moment her eyelids
quiver. A low sigh issues from her
lips, she slightly moves her hand, and then
a shiver shakes her body, and her eyes
slowly open. She passes her hand wearily
across her brow.

'Where am I?' she murmurs softly to
herself ' What has happened ?'

Trembling with the greatness of his joy,
he leans over her and kisses her on the
forehead.

Diana, my little darling !' he whispers,
lovingly. ' You have come back to me,
my pet. Oh ! I was so frightened to see
you lying there so pale and still !'

She raises her eyes in dreamy wonder,
and softly strokes his cheek.

'What is it, Frank, dear old boy?' she
murmurs. ' What am I doing here ? I do
not understand.'

b2

'My darling, you must not talk. Lie
still for a moment till you regain your
strength. We were talking about my sister's
death, and you were suddenly taken
ill, and you fainted.'

'Ah!'

The exclamation escapes from her lips
in a wail of agony, and she presses her
hands to her eyes, as though to shut out
some awful vision. In a moment memory
has returned to her, and with it the full
consciousness of her position.

Hush, Diana, love !' he says, in soothing
tones. ' You must not be excited.
Knowing that you were far from well, it
was madness of me to talk about poor
Charlie — but '

Ah ! not that name again !' she cries,
with a sudden gasp. ' I cannot stand it —
oh ! it is too terrible — Frank, tell me —
am I going mad ?'

He believes her to be wandering in her
speech, so, sick with fear, he attempts to
soothe her with soft, comforting words,
breathing of love and tenderness. His
one thought now is how to get her home.
Convinced as he is of the gravity of her
illness, he feels that it is imperative to

remove her at once from the damp dews
of that rapidly darkening wood. If she
cannot walk, he will be compelled to leave
her where she is and run back to the
hotel for assistance.

'Diana,' he says, speaking in earnest
tones so as to {i:si her attention, ' you must
not remain here a moment longer — it maybe
the death of you. Listen to me ! Do
you think that you have strength enough
to walk home ? If not, tell me so, and I
will hasten back to the hotel and procure
assistance.'

I can walk,' she says, wearily, attempting
to rise. ' We dare not risk an exjwse.
Help me, Frank dear ! Yes, that is right !
Now let me lean on you.'

He passes his arm around her waist and
supports her tottering figure, and together
in this fashion they slowly make their way
up the little path leading through the balsam.
The mist is rapidly increasing, and
the whole wood is now enveloped in a
cloud of white, which gives to it a weird
and ghostly effect in the dying twilight.
Pale with anxiety and fear, he whispers
soft words of encouragement, pointing out
to her the rugged roots appearing through

the soil, and exhorting her to bear up
bravely to the end. But it is a toilsome
climb before them, and more than
once he feels her figure weigh heavily
against his arm as though she were about
to fall again.

Had we not better stop and rest?' he
asks, anxiously.

'■ No, no !' she cries, hoarsely. ' I must
hurry on — there is no more rest for me.'

Panting, breathless, trembling in every
limb, she continues to mount the steep
ascent, and, in spite of his repeated entreaties,
refuses to stop for a moment to
regain her strength.

Then I will carry you,' he says, and he
passes both arms under her and lifts her
from the ground.

He traverses the ground with long
strides, the excitement of the moment
lending him a fictitious strength ; her
petite form becomes as nothing in his arms.
She places one arm around his neck, and
her little golden head falls against his
shoulder. Occasionally he bends over her
and tries to catch the expression of her
face, but in the sombre gloom he can see
nothing beyond that it is still of a deadly

white. He speaks to her soft, soothing
words of comfort and encouragement, but
she does not answer him. She lies there
cain and still, giving no sign of life beyond
an occasional deep-drawn sigh.

In a few moments he is standing, with
his beloved burden in his arms, upon the
main road, under protection of the large
projecting rock. He pauses here, both to
regain his breath and to consider what todo
next. He half fears that she is ao-ain
in a fainting condition, but to his surprise
she suddenly addresses him quite calmly.

You must put me down here, Frank
she says. ' I must try to walk, and you
had better follow after me, to see that I
arrive safely home.'

But, Diana — my darling — you cannot
walk.'

I can try,' she answers, with a feeble
smile.

But, tell me,' he says, anxiously. ' Are
you feeling any better ? Do you still feel
very weak ?'

Yes — I think I am better,' she answers,
steadying her voice with an effort.

But I must hear again to-night how
you are getting on. Could you write mea

little note at half-past seven and drop
it from your balcony ? I will be down
below.'

I will try,' she murmurs, wearily, and
then she suddenly breaks forth into a loud,
discordant laugh. ' Ah ! 'tis strange ! — 'tis
horrible !' she cries, pressing her hands
against her brow. ' Ah ! my God — my
God — what a fatality ! — I feel that I am
going mad! But what am I saying?' she
asks, in suddenly subdued tones. ' Am I
talking strangely, Frank ? My head seems
whirling round and round, and I don't
know what I say. Did you say that Mr.
Loftus told you? Does he live on the
ground-floor of the club ?'

eyes — yes — Diana,' he answers, soothingly.
' Never mind Mr. Loftus now — his
room is number nine, first on the left on
the ground-floor — but come home quickly.
I must see you home myself — you are not
well enough to go alone.'

Number nine !' she murmurs. ' First
on the left on the ground-floor ! Yes — I
will remember that ;' and then she passively
allows him to lift her again into his
arms and to carry her in the direction of
the hotel.

By this time the mist has settled into a
dense, grey fog, and, consequently, he proceeds
quickly along the road, without fear
of being recognised. What a godsend the
fog is ! He shudders to think what might
have been the consequences had it not so
opportunely arrived.

Once he discerns a dark figure looming
through the mist, and at the sight he
quickens his pace to a run and hurries
past. The figure stops as though in doubt
and looks back, pauses irresolutely for a
moment, and then continues its progress
forward. Grandly does not hesitate for a
moment. Fearing pursuit, he quickens
his speed, and does not stop until he
reaches the garden-gate, completely out of
breath.

He leans for support against the iron
railings.

Can you stand, darling?' he whispers.

She nods assent, and he gently releases
his hold and places her on her
feet.

Go up to your room at once,' he says,
^ and if you are well enough, darling, try
to send me that little note.'

At half-past seven, you said ?'

'Yes — I am dining out, and shall not
be home till late.'

Good-night, Frank,' she says, faintly.
You are very good to me. How can I
ever repay you ?'

By loving me !' he whispers, fiercely,
folding her in his arms. ' Love me, darling,
always love me — that is all I ask.'

She throws her arms round his neck and
draws his face down towards her, and
kisses him twice with a passionate abandon.

Good-night,' she says, in tones of melting
tenderness. ' Good-night, Frank, my
own darling — my beloved boy ! Remember
in the future, if anything should ever
arise to shake your belief in me, that my
love for you was true and pure. Goodnight
and good-bye !' and, with a long-drawn
sigh, she tears herself away, and
disappears into the surrounding gloom.

He remains standing there a moment or
two listening to her retreating footsteps,
and then, as the sound dies out, he slowly
walks after her in the direction of the
hotel, fearful lest she may have fallen fainting
in the road. But, to his inexpressible
relief, he finds the road quite clear.

He enters the house and stands in the

hall, straining his ear to catch some sound.
Then a door shuts somewhere down the
corridor above, and, feeling assured that
she has arrived quite safely at her OAvn
room, he turns round and strolls thoughtfully
over to his own house.

It is half-past six as he enters, and he
throws himself down into his deep armchair,
thoroughly exhausted with his
exertions.

It has been a very terrible experience !
Until he saw her lying there beside him as
though dead, he had never known himself
the great strength of the love he bore her.
It was at that moment, when she was lying
in that darkening wood, with her eyes
closed and the pallor of death upon her
face, that he thoroughly became aware of
the intensity of his passion. And now, ashe
considers it, it frightens him ; for it is
no pure platonic affection that he bears
towards the girl, but a love of a totally
different nature — a love before which all
fraternal affection dwindles into nothingness.


How could he have been so blind ? How
was it possible that he had never discovered
the true nature of his love before?

Now that the scales have fallen from his
eyes, the fact becomes self-evident, and he
knows that not only now does he love
her with a love totally different from what
he has supposed, but also that he has done
so for weeks and weeks before — from the
very moment that he first set eyes upon
her. And he has never known ! Never
for one moment has he suspected the real
truth ! He has talked to her and fondled
her, caressed her and kissed her, held her
in his arms, all under the impression that
his love for her was pure and spiritual —
and all the time his love for her has been
physical, carnal, a love of the flesh, fleshly.

Ah! God— Avhat shall he do? He
springs from the chair, and, with a face
white with fierce anxiety, stands in the
middle of the room, stunned by the awfulness
of the disclosure.

What can he do ? How can he confess
to the trusting girl the enormity of his
crime ? How can he ever bring himself to
tell her of the treacherous part that he has
played ?

Great beads of perspiration stand upon
his forehead, and he falls back in his chair,
and covers his face in his hands. What

will she say to him ? What will she think
of him for having inveigled her under false
pretences to grant him her calm, sisterly
affection ?

He loves her — he loves her madly ! Ah 1
fool that he was, to be so blind. What
power of wickedness could have made 
dead to the true promptings of his
heart ? In what way can he ever repair
the terrible wrong that he has done ?

He must tell her — he must confess to
her his weakness — he must stand before
her as a traitor, cowardly and contemptible
!

And how will she bear the news ?

He dare not ask himself the question.
He sees her, in his imagination, crushed,
bowed down, humbled to the dust, all the
gentleness and purity of her modest
maidenhood trampled on and outraged by
the nature of his passion ; and he hears
her voice raised in passionate denunciation
of his treacherous cowardly conduct.

What is it that he has done ? He ha
joined her in a clandestine intimacy, he
has sworn to her a platonic love, he has
gained her sisterly affection, he has held
her to his heart, he has kissed her and

caressed her and called her by every endearing
name — and she has allowed him todo
so, feeling that his brother's love gave
to him a right to treat her thus familiarly.
And all the time his love has been other
than platonic! All the time he has deceived
her.

Ah ! God — he dare not contemplate her
lasting sense of shame ! He dare not
picture to himself the result of his confession.


The clock on his table recalls him from
his agitated reverie, by striking in little
silvery tones the hour of seven. He
hastily rises, and calls his servant. However
grave may be one's mental torture,
whatever agony one may be suffering, it is
impossible to still the clamouring of one's
inner man. In spite of the overpowering-weight
upon his mind, he cannot prevent
himself from feeling hungry, and, though
his moral sense is crushed beneath the
knowledge of his guilt, conventional habit
prompts him to be punctual at his friend's
table.

Shortly before half-past seven, he issues
from his house, with a heart like lead, to
spend a convivial evening at the club.

The mist has not dispersed. It hangs in a
dense cloud over the face of the mountains,
effectually screening the moon and stars
from sight. He walks round the corner of
the hotel, and stands on the gravel path,
gazing anxiously up at Diana's window.
Is she better or is she worse? Will she be
able to send him news ?

His heart stands in his mouth, as he asks
himself this question. He has not to wait
long before his doubts are set at rest. A
door opens on the balcony above, emitting
a stream of light across the thickened atmosphere,
and then a figure emerges, and
stands for a moment looking down. In
that figure he has no difficulty in recognising
Miss Forsdyke, and he takes a
hurried step forward, and whispers softly,
Diana.'

As he speaks, she turns away, and at the
same moment a little note comes fluttering
down, alighting at his feet. He hastily
picks it up, and presses it passionately to
his lips. Ah ! how madly he loves the
fragile girl !

The door closes and the streak of light
disappears, and all again is fog and gloom.
He hurries back to his room, and by the

light of his lamp tears open the note and
reads it.

My DEAR, DEAR FrANK,

Will you be glad
to hear that I am better ? An hour's rest
has quite composed me and brought me to
my natural self. What could have been
the matter with me ? Never before to the
best of my remembrance have I fainted. I
think that I must have been overworking myself
in my aunt's sick-room — as I told you, she
has been very exacting and trying of late.
Ah ! Frank, you are very, very good tome
— I do not deserve such touching kindness
and tenderness as you display. Did I
say anything very strange? I have an idea
that 1 spoke very wildly and excitedly, but
I have no distinct remembrance of anything
I said. You must not think the
worse of me, if I said anything very dreadful
! And now good-night, dear Frank —
^my aunt is calling me — and may God
bless you. Your loving sister,

Diana.

^P.S. — I will try to be there tomorrow, so
go there on the chance — but do not wait.

If I am not punctual, you may conclude
that I am not well enough to come. Goodnight,
my brother — and may I dream of
you to-night !'

He raises the letter to his lips nth reverential
tenderness.

Good-nighty my brother How shall he
ever confess to the trusting girl who wrote
these simple words, the story of his-treachery
?

VOL. III.

CHAPTER 11.

Grandly SEES AN APPARITION.

Grandly on arriving at the club finds
Loftus standing alone in the ante-room,
gnawing his moustaches with evident impatience.
He apologises profusely for being
late.

Don't mention it, my dear chap !' cries
Loftus, with a beaming face. ' The fellows
have not gone in many minutes. Come
on, or we shall miss our soup.'

Every place in the dining-room is occupied,
so, accompaniedbymuch good-natured
chaff, they wend their way into the inner
room, and take their seats at the table tete-tete.


Loftus is looking distinctly pleased
with himself and the world at large. He
spreads his napkin carefully over his knees.

arranges his knives and forks to his convenience,
glances casually at the menu,
and orders a quart of dry champagne. To
him this is the pleasantness moment of the
day. Blase as he is with regard to most
things in life, he still possesses sufficient
energy to appreciate at its true worth the
delights of a good dinner.

'Take your glass, my boy,' he cries, ' I
have a toast to propose which can only be
drunk in the very first glass of the evening
to do it proper honour. Success to the
Great — Platonic — Friendship !'

He raises his glass to his lips, and tosses
it off at one gulp, replacing it with a sigh
of the most intense satisfaction. There are
still some things worth living; for in his
philosophy, and the first taste of champagne
on a dry throat is certainly not the
least entitled to consideration.

Grandly, flushing crimson, puts down
his glass untasted.

Hullo !' says Loftus, in unaffected astonishment.
' What's up now, I wonder ?'

Nothing is up, as far as I know,' says
Grandly, irritably.

Now then, don't lose your back hair,
old chap,' says Loftus, in a reproving

o2

paternal tone. 'You are like a box of
fusees, liable to ignite on the least approach
to friction. Now, just gulp down your
sense of annoyance and tell me, as calmly
as you can, why, in the name of Gehenna's
blazes, haven't you drunk that toast.'

It is not a subject for joke,' answers
Grandly, shortly.

For joyce ! No, you are right there !
It is a subject for admiration of the most
unqualified order. I tell you frankly,
Grandly, that I think you are a very wonderful
fellow ! But it is always the case
nth you quiet, unassuming chaps — you
are as cunning as Lucifer himself, and as
deep as the deepest of artesian wells.'

'I don't see where the wonder comes
into the question,' answers Grandly, coldly
contemptuous. 'You talk just as though
I had invented the idea of a platonic
friendship. You must know that such
intimacies have existed since the world
began.'

Loftus smiles pleasantly.

'Don't be modest, old chap!' he says.
To bloAv one's own trumpet in public is, I
admit, a most objectionable practice, but
between two friends, 'pon honour, a blast

or two occasionally is quite permissible.
Besides, one ought never to think too
humbly of oneself — in this world, if you
can see no good in yourself, you may be
quite certain that no outsider will take the
trouble to point it out to you ; they Avill be
only too glad to accept your own estimate
of yourself as gospel-truth. One should
always insinuate one's own worth on all
occasions in a delicate and unobtrusive
manner. Of course to do this effectually
is quite an art, for it is a totally different
thing to vulgar braggadocio.'

I do not doubt the truth of your philosophy,'
observes Grandly, indifferently.
But may I venture to ask whether it is
a propos of anything particular, or whether
it is merely a parenthetical gem of thought,
too priceless to be retained another
moment ?'

Certainly you may,' says Loftus, kindly.
' And I will try to answer you to the
best of my very poor ability. In you I
recognise a master-mind, for with consummate
audacity you have attempted to reintroduce
into society a state of fellowship
between man and woman which for centuries
past has been exploded. And you

have not only attempted it, but you have
according to your own statement — and 1
would not venture to doubt you for a
thousand worlds — actually accomplished it.
Now, without wishing to flatter you in the
least, I must tell you that in my opinion
you are one of the most extraordinary men
that the world has as yet produced ; for
without an effort you have effected that
which, since the days of Adam, men have
been attempting to perform, always with
the same ignominious result. And consequently
I consider it mere affectation on
your part to try to pretend that you have
done nothing of a highly remarkable
character. You must allow me to congratulate
you formally on the success of
your stupendous conception.'

Loftus raises his glass, and with a merry
twinkle in his eye makes a graceful inclination
of his head in the direction of his
friend.

I trust that I have made my meaning
plain,' he says, politely.

Not in the least,' says Grandly, smiling
feebly at his friend's solemn absurdity, and
feeling rather at a loss as to what to say.

It seems to me that you have been talking:
arrant nonsense. What the deuce has
Adam to do with the question?'

Well — Adam was probably the first
man who ever attempted to form a platonic
friendship with a woman,' says Loftus,
gravely. ' Certainly the Bible does not
mention the circumstance — but then there
may have been reasons for the omission.
As far as my feeble faculties can judge,
the primary moral to be deduced from the
teachings of the Pentateuch is that it is
the duty of every human creature to embark
upon the parental state as soon as
circumstances will permit it. At any rate
they all seem to have done it, and the
details are so minutely recorded that one
cannot but suspect that stress was intended
to be laid on it, as being the most meritorious
deed that mankind can do on earth.
And so, if I am right in this conclusion,
it was only natural that Adam's platonic
efforts should have been omitted. Such
an heterodox performance on his part was
not to be handed down to posterity, for
fear lest others should depart from the
usual paths of life, and attempt to follow

his example. But of course everyone is
quite entitled to his own opinions. My
opinion on the subject is, that Adam did
really at first attempt a platonic intimacy
with his companion. But he failed — there
is no doubt of that — otherwise we should
not now be sitting here, discussing him.
Certainly though, judging his attempt
impartially, circumstances were against
him. The Garden of Eden from all accounts
was essentially a place for material
enjoyment . . . .'

You must be very deeply read, Loftus,'
interposes Grandly, ' to possess such a
minute knowledge of the thoughts and
actions of our remote ancestors.'

No, not in the least,' says Loftus, airily.
I make my deductions not from reading
books, but from studying human nature
around me. As you say, you did not
invent the idea of a platonic friendship.
Since the world began, there have existed
individuals so peculiarly constituted as to
believe in the possibility of such a thing.
From Adam, up to within the last century,
men have attempted it, but they have all
ignominiously failed. In latter years, of
course, the world has grown wiser, and it has

come to the conclusion that such a state of
intimacy is literally not possible — and so it
has not been attempted. So you will easily
understand why it is that I regard you as a
stupendous marvel when you tell me that
you have not only reintroduced the exploded
idea, but that you have actually
made it answer to your complete satisfaction.
Voit are the only man ivJio has ever done
it — and, as such, you cannot deny that you
are entitled to respect. You must really
allow me to propose the toast again — and
don't refuse to drink it this time, or I
shall really begin to doubt the reality of
your success. Now take your glass and
drink — " Success to the Great Platonic
Friendship." '

Grandly is keenly alive to the undercurrent
of irony in Loft us' measured tones.
Every word uttered by his friend stabs
him like a knife, and, knowing as he does
what a complete fiasco has been his attempt
to establish a platonic friendship,
he feels himself totally incapable of retorting.
Had he but been spoken to in
that way yesterday, before that he Alas
himself aware of the true state of his
feelings, buoyed up by the perfect confidence

he possessed in his own integrity of
purpose, he could have given him back
sarcasm for sarcasm, banter for banter,
gibe for gibe. But now all is changed.
Instead of boldly combating his friend's
insinuations, he sits still, with eyes cast
down, unable to say a word, feeling as
shamefaced and wretched as a man well
can feel.

Loftus, with glass half-raised to his lips,
eyes him curiously, reading him like an
open book.

'There is something up,' he muses to
himself. ' It strikes me rather forcibly that
the platonic humbug has yielded to the
pricking of the frail, frail flesh !' Aloud
he says, in tones of well-assumed surprise,
What ! — Do you refuse again ? My dear
Frank, I implore you by all that's holy
not to shake my belief in your success. It
was such a grand, such a noble, such a
truly elevated notion ! Don't dash all my
new-born hopes of the speedy approach of
the millennium, for I have been making all
the morning plans for the future on the
assumption that at last the promised
]period of perfect peace '

• Loftus — for God's sake drop the subject

!' cries Grandly, with sudden energy.
Don't you perceive how painful its discussion
is to me? Propose some other
toast, and let us have a dozen of them,
and let us make a really merry night of it

As he speaks he takes up his glass, and
tosses it off at one gulp. Loftus smiles
approvingly.

Butler,' he says, gravely. ' Fill up
Mr. Grandly's glass. You are quite right,
my boy — seek comfort in the bottle —
there is nothing like it to drive dull care
away. It acts like a magician. One is
low and depressed — one takes a bottle of
good champagne — and hey ! — presto — one
becomes at once a different man — coideur-
de-jaune becomes couleur-depose. Xow some
people maintain that the same result maybe
effected through the medium of the
church. My own mother is one of those
poor deluded creatures. When she is attacked
with indigestion, she walks to her
room and kneels down and says a prayer,
and — according to her own account — the
indigestion disappears. Well, for my part,
with no wish to be disrespectful or unfilial,
I really don't believe her. If she were to
take a swig at Mum & Co., I could quite

understand lier interior settling down
more comfortably, but to be asked to believe
that the Deity personally superintends
these little arrangements of the old
lady's inside, is really coming it a little too
strong !'

In this way Loftus, with better tact than
taste, deftly changes the conversation, and
for the next quarter-of-an-hour he is engaged
in detailing the peculiarities of his
parents, who appear to be in their son's
non-admiring eyes extremely second-rate
sort of individuals.

The old buffer actually gave me a New
Testament,' he says, at the conclusion of a
long story, alluding to the book as though
it were some scorpion of a peculiarly
aggressive disposition. ' 'Pon honour, assure
as I am a sinful wretch, he took it
out of his pocket, handed it to me, and
told me to read it diligently. If I had
not had such an infernal champagne-headache
at the time, I should have laughed
outright in his face, and would have probably
lost my chance of ever inheriting
property in consequence — which only
proves that champagne taken to excess
often does one more good than harm. Butler,

be more attentive, please — I have been
watching Mr. Grandly's empty glass for
over half-a-minute.'

Grandly allows his glass to be filled
without demur.

On this particular evening, to Loftus'
great delight, his young friend really displays
a decided partiality for good wine.
As fast as his glass is emptied it is filled,
and as fast as it is filled it is emptied, so,
between himself and the butler, he very
soon manages to get outside a full quart
of champagne. He is determined to forget
the weight upon his mind, if only for an
hour, and With this purpose he drinks
recklessly, keeping pace with Loftus in his
cups, and giving way to bursts of convivial
gaiety.

Loftus is completely charmed. He views
his friend's flushed face and sparkling eyes
with looks of the deepest admiration. In
his mental estimate of Grandly's character
there has been only one point which has
given him cause for sorrow, and that has
been his remarkable lack of appreciation
of wine and spirits. The thought of this
one flaw has given him many hours of
anxious meditation. It has seemed so sad

to him that a fine, noble character, such as
Grandly's, should be so completely marred
by one such lamentable failing !

But now, on this particular evening,
Grandly has appeared in quite a new
light. He has not only proved to Loftus,
by his marked inclination for dry champagne,
that his estimate of his character
has been wrong, but he has shown himself
capable of appreciating the highest states
of conviviality. To Loftus the probable
cause of this sudden change in his friend's
customary habits is perfectly immaterial.
He merely looks at the effect, and the
more he looks the more he is delighted,
and the more he is delighted the more he
presses Grandly to fill his glass.

The consequence is inevitable — by eleven
o'clock Grandly is in a state of riotous
joviality. All cares and sorrows have
vanished before the magic touch of the
golden boy, and all the world has again
become bright and smiling.

Loftus proudly exhibits him as though
he were some peculiar species of biped
hitherto unknown in the scientific world,
walking him gaily from room to room, to
show him off to his very best advantage

before the inmates of the club. He is
filled With a sense of rapturous triumph,
for he takes it as a proof of the irresistible
influence he holds over the minds of his
fellow-creatures.

Look at him ! Kindly regard him, if
you please ! Behold him converted from
his narrow-minded ways ! And remember
that this is my — ny — my — work !'

This is the thought which occupies his
mind as he stands in the billiard-room,
watching Grandly amusing the fellows
with his eccentric utterances. He is charmed,
too, to see that his friend gets inebriated
in a gentlemanly ivy ! He creates no disturbance
; neither does he make himself
objectionable in any way : he merely becomes
impregnated with wit and liveliness,
causing the room to roar with laughter at
his quick and pungent repartee.

*He is really a first-rate fellow,' murmurs
Loftus to himself. ' Could I but
only induce him to do this every night, he
would be simply perfect. Spank me crimson,
if he hasn't been and cut the billiard-cloth
! I have never met a more delightful
fellow in my life !'

This last proof of Grandly's recklessness

increases Loft us' admiration a hundredfold.
He walks up to him and smacks him
on the back, and calls him ' the best chap
that ever stepped this earth !'

Grandly attempts a profuse apology for
his awkwardness, but Loft us will not hear
it for a moment.

One apologises,' he says, grandly, ' only
when one has been in error. You have
done nothing wrong. On the contrary,
you have done an action that reflects credit
on your manliness, and I am proud to have
you for my guest.'

By twelve o'clock Grandly is as merry
as a king. Some one — it is Bramley, the
orator — proposes cards — unlimited loo — a
game, he says, in which are agreeably
blended the caprice of chance and the
sterling force of intellect.

You will play of course, Grandly ?' he
says.

^ Oh, rather — I will play !' cries Grandly,
excitedly. ' Come along, Loftus — we
will run a bank.'

But Loftus, to the surprise and disappointment
of all, refuses point-blank to
join.

It is Sunday,' he says, quietly, in explanation,

and the slow of champagne
upon his face deepens into one of sanctity
as he speaks.

A yell of derision greets his speech, and
Grandly's voice is plainly heard above the
din congratulating him on his new-found
piety.

Loftus stands quite unmoved.

It may be a foolish prejudice on my
part,' he says, modestly, 'but it is one
which I cannot overcome. I was brought
up in a highly religious atmosphere, and it
is extremely hard to eradicate impressions
received in childhood !'

Oh ! Come on — don't waste time nth
your chair!' laughs Bramley. 'To the
card-room.'

'But I can assure you that I am in
earnest,' says Loftus, firmly. ' I distinctly
refuse to play cards on Sunday — it is a very
wicked thing to do — my mother told me
so. And, what is more, I shall feel extremely
hurt if any guest of mine should
do so.'

None of your rot, Loftus !' says Bramley.
' Come on, and don't play the fool.'

Yes, come on, old chap,' says Grandly.

You do not seem to understand me

VOL. III. D

quite,' says Loftus, quietly. ^ I am not
joking, but thoroughly in earnest. I say
that I will not play, and I say that I shall
feel extremely hurt — insulted even — if
any guest of mine plays against my wish.'

You have played for the last nine
Sundays,' says Bramley, sulkily, perceiving
now the true motive of Loftus'
resistance.

And for that I am to blame,' returns
Loftus, mildly. ' Because one has done
wrong once is no reason why one should
continue in the paths of wickedness. I am
sorry to make myself disagreeable, Grandly,
old chap, but I do hope that you will
accede to my request.'

But, Loftus, this is really too absurd,'
says Grandly; and it is ridiculous to
attempt to conceal the fact that his voice
is decidedly thick and indistinct. ^I really
do not see your right to dictate to me like
this.'

My dear old chap, I have no right
whatever — neither am I dictating to you
I am merely asking it as a favour.'

^ Well — if you put it in that way, of
course there is no other course open to me

but to comply,' says Grandly, in an injured
tone. ' But I must protest . . .'

Wait a moment !' interposes Bramley,
suddenly. ' Our pious friend, there, has
forgotten one little fact. It is past twelve,
and therefore it is Monday.'

It makes no difference,' answers Loftus,
nth a ring of pathetic sadness in his tones,
as though pained to the quick at such a
quibble. * Can the influence of the blessed
sabbath be dissipated in a moment by the
mere striking of a clock ? No — assuredly
not ! To me it is still Sunday, just as this
time yesterday was Saturday, and to me it
will continue Sunday till the morning
dawn appears. Surely it is not too much
to expect of a human being — to forego all
mundane pleasures for one complete twenty-four
hours in the week.'

He speaks so solemnly, and there is such
a ring; of genuine earnestness in his tones,
that Grandly in his muddled state of mind
is mightily impressed.

You really mean it ?' he asks, doubtfully.


I really mean it.'

You are positively in earnest ?'

d2

^ I am positively in earnest.'

*Then of course, old chap, I will not
play. I am awfully sorry to disappoint
you,' he adds, turning towards the little
group of discomfited faces. ' But I feel
bound to show my host some little consideration.
I must come and play another
nio'ht.'

A murmur of discontent arises, and
several ejaculations of an uncomplimentary
character are hurled at the head of the
pious Loftus. But that individual is in noway
concerned thereat. Smiling benignly
at their angry glances, he links his arm in
Grandly's and leads him away.

You have spoiled my evening, Loftus,'
says Grandly, in an injured tone.

^ I am so sorry, old chap,' murmurs
Loftus, sympathetically. ' It may be
foolish of me, but I cannot help feeling
strongly on this subject. If you really
want a game, come tomorrow, and the
next day, and all through the week. I
shall be happy to have you as my guest.
You know, one must draw the line somewhere,
however base may be one's inclinations,
and card-playing on Sunday — card-inhaling
on Sundai/j' he repeats, holding up

his hands in virtuous horror, ' why — it is
positively awful !'

^ Well, since I can't play, I think that I
had better go home,' says Grandly.

Yes — perhaps you had,' replied Loftus,
placidly ; adding, in a paternal tone, ^ and
perhaps it would be as Avell if I accompanied
you.'

But, to this proposition, Grandly gives
the most indignant of refusals.

'The idea!' he cries, contemptuously.
To hear you speak, one would think that
I had had too much to drink.'

A man can never have too much to
drink,' replies Loftus, impressively. ' Unfortunately,
however, it sometimes happens
that his physical constitution is so imperfect
as to prevent him from drinking
for ever without feeling the effects.
To cast a doubt on you' sobriety would bethe
very last thing that I should think
of doing. Why — you are as sober as a
judge.'

I am !' replies Grandly, with simple
confidence.

Therefore I will not press my company
on you, since it is distasteful to you. So
good-night, old chap ! You know the

road — straight up past the church, turning
at the post-office. Good-night.'

Good-night,' says Grandly, cheerfully,
see you tomorrow, old chappie ;' and he
walks off with, it must be confessed, rather
uncertain steps for a man who has just
professed to being as sober as a judge.

The mist has totally disappeared, and
the whole hill has emerged from its covering
of cloud, and is lying bathed in the
soft, silvery light of the half-crescent moon.
Grandly pursues his way slowly up the
hill. He is feeling unmistakably jolly,
but, in spite of the quickness of his circulation,
his legs refuse to make very rapid
progress. To his great surprise they appear
very weak and shaky, and at times
they seem inclined to give way altogether
under him. He never remembers them to
have so conducted themselves before, and
he mildly expostulates with them on their
very eccentric behaviour.

Suddenly, as he is thus objurgating his
nether limbs, the figure of a woman, with
face and neck completely enveloped in a
shawl of some dark material, appears coming
down the hill towards him. This sudden
apparition causes him to totally forget

the vagaries of his legs, and he looks
eagerly towards her. In the soft moonlight
it seems to him as though she were
anxious for concealment. Her hurried mode
of progression and the peculiar manner in
which she has hidden her face from view
seem to bespeak some mystery, and in his
present exalted state of mind he is seized
with a burning desire to elucidate the
same. So he stands in the middle of the
road, awaiting her approach.

As she advances, it strikes him that he
recognises her walk, but as to whom she
resembles he cannot for the life of him
remember. Hurrying along, with her
eyes on the ground, she does not perceive
him until she is within some fifteen paces
of him. Then, through the folds of her
cloak, she sees him, and, with a sudden cry
of terror, she breaks into a run and rushes
past him. In a moment it flashes across
his mind who it is that she so closely
resembles — he feels ready to swear that
the fleeing; fixture is that of Diana Forsdyke.


Filled with astonishment he turns round
to pursue her, but before he has gone ten
paces, alas ! those treacherous legs of his

give way, and lie falls heavily to the
ground. Dazed and bewildered by the
suddenness of the fall, he slowly rises.
To his great amazement the figure has
entirely disappeared. He looks around
him in perplexity, but there is not a trace
of her to be seen. He passes his hand
before his eyes and gives a heavy sigh.

'This won't do, Frank Grandly,' he
says, reprovingly. ' It strikes me rather
forcibly that you are making a bit of an
ass of yourself. The best thing that you
can do under the circumstances is to
retire home and hide your diminished
head between the sheets ;' with which
piece of salutary advice he turns round
and walks slowly off in the direction of
Banbmy's Hotel.

CHAPTER III.

LOFTUS IS TREATED TO A MIDNIGHT
PERFORMANCE.

LoFTUS stands for a moment or two in the
verandah after bidding his friend goodnight,
watching' him toiling' somewhat
laboriously up the little path leading on to
the main road above. Then he turns
away with a smile upon his face.

I wonder what the deuce is up with
him to-night,' he mutters. ' Evidently
something is preying on his mind. I have
a most strong conviction that the great
platonic friendship has bust up. Oh !
good Lord — just to think that a young
chap could be so green as to believe in such
a gross impossibility !'

This thought is too much for his gravity,
and he leans against the wood-work of the

verandah and bursts into a hearty roar of
laughter.

A — Great — Platonic — Friendship!' he
says, pronouncing the words separately,
so as to emphasise the humour of the idea.
And with Diana Forsdyke of all people
in the world ! Why — one might just as
well lock up in a room together Solomon
and Mrs. Potiphar, and expect them to
talk about the weather ! Oh ! flay me
alive with a blunt razor, if I have ever
heard anything so rich before !

Now, I wonder what her game really
is,' he muses, gazing abstractedly across
the giant ravine separating the Doonga
Range from the opposite line of hills, the
rugged peaks of which are now all bathed
in the spectral light of the moon. ' I must
confess that 1 am curious on this point. It
is some years now since I have had the
opportunity of studying her ladyship, but
I am not likely to forget the last time we
met. Poor old Charlie ! But for her, he
might still have been with us now. She is
an unfathomable little demon, and that
she is up to some devilry or other I am
quite convinced. She resembles Ahab's
wife in being a darned bad lot. However,

I will keep a corner of my eye upon her
movements, and see that that young chap
comes to no radical harm. He is strangely
like poor Adelaide at times !'

Loftus turns round and saunters to
the club, and, as though ashamed of having
given way to tender memories of the past,
he swears energetically at a waiter, and
orders a whisky-peg.

Bring it to the card-room, you swine,'
he cries majestically, and he walks off in
that direction.

It is one o'clock as he enters the room,
and the game is in full swing. With
flushed excited faces, about a dozen young
blades are sitting round the table, the
atmosphere of the room redolent of
spirits and tobacco. There is a distinct
dearth of coin to be seen upon the cloth,
but the profusion of scraps of paper
collected at each man's elbow plainly
shows that no mean amount of money
has changed hands during the last hour.
It is so easy to gamble high, and to imagine
oneself a millionaire, when bank-notes of a
fabulous value can be created by the mere
scratching of a pen !

His entry is the signal for a burst of

good-humoured chair. Bramley, who is
engaged in scribbling oiF with airy
nonchalance a sum, exceeding two months'
pay, looks up and scowls.

• Your piety is not long-lived,' he says,
with a contemptuous sneer. ' Has young
Grandly's nurse come to fetch him
home ?'

Grandly has gone home,' answers
Loftus, quietly. ' You need not attempt
to be sarcastic, Bramley, for I am quite
sure that the majority here will agree
that I acted rightly. Grandly is one of
the very best chaps in the world, and I was
not going to allow him to be brought hereto
play for the high stakes which we
patronise, when he was not in a fit state to
judge for himself.'

'Bosh !' says Bramley, contemptuously.
He was nothing of the sort. The fellow
expressed his willingness to join, and I
consider that your interference was confoundedly
mean.'

'Your considerations on any subject
whatever are quite immaterial to me,'
says Loftus, coolly, taking his seat. ' If
Grandly really wants to play, let him
.come tomorrow and the next day, and as

many other days as he likes — I am sure I
shall be delighted to have him for a guest.
But knowing as I do that he is not particularly
well off, and that also, when
sober, he never touches a card, I consider
that it was my bounden duty to act in the
way I did. I am only surprised, Bramley,
that you do not see the matter in the same
light. As a gentleman and friend, I could
not have acted otherwise.'

A murmur of cordial approval greets his
words. Bramley takes up the pack, and
begins to shuffle nervously. He sees that
he is alone in his opinion, and to tell the
truth, he holds Loft us in mortal dread, both
on account of his strength of will and the
immense influence, that he possesses over
the inmates of the club, and also on
account of several pecuniary transactions
that have passed between them, which as
yet have not been completed to the satisfaction
of both parties ; so he wisely does
not attempt to retort, and the matter
drops.

In another moment, the game has commenced
with renewed vigour.

Gentlemen,' says Loftus, ' I am going to-play
for half-an-hour. Precisely at half-past

one I leave the table. What is in the
pool?'

Three hundred rupees.'

Three hundred rupees — that is certainly
a little stiff ! However, I am going to
try a new dodge to-night. I intend to
play every time, whatever my hand, and
whatever the pool. Round games become
so infernally monotonous if one cannot contrive
to introduce now and then a tinge
of originality into the play.'

Loft us is true to his word ; every deal,
without a single break, he either takes miss
or plays his own hand. In reality, this
night his luck is highly favourable to him
lout no luck, however favourable, could
withstand such a reckless mode of play.
At half-past one he rises, and at his request
his I U's are counted. The aggregate
amount is close on seventeen hundred
rupees. The scraps of paper in his own
possession value about three hundred, so
he rises a loser of fourteen hundred rupees,
or something short of one hundred and
twenty pounds.

He gives a little whistle on hearing the
amount.

The new dodge is certainly not paying,'

he says, walking towards the door. * I
should not advise you chaps to try it.
Good-night, and God bless you all!'

Outside the door he puts his finger to
his nose and chuckles, and then he walks
down the stairs in a state of huge delight.

That makes us quits,' he says, referring
to his recent losses. ' Perhaps my paternal
solicitude for young Grandly's welfare did
seem rather shabby in their eyes.'

He walks down to his room and arouses
his servant, who is asleep outside the door
in the verandah. He then changes his coat
for a gorgeous smoking-jacket, and having
poked the fire, lighted a cigar, and helped
himself to a whisky-peg, he dismisses his
servant for the night, and seats himself
down in a comfortable arm-chair.

Had one had the curiosity to examine
the wine-book the next morning one would
have found the following items placed to
the account of ' The Honourable Vernon
Loft us ' — three quarts of champagne, two
glasses of sherry, six glasses of madeira,
three yellow chartreuse, one curator, two
glimmer, and eleven whisky-pegs — and yet,
as he sits by his fire at half-past one in

the morning, his hand is as steady and
his brain is as clear as though he had contented
himself during the day with a
modest quart of beer. Within the precincts
of the club he bore the enviable
reputation of being able to drink any three
men consecutively under the table without
turning a hair. As long as he remained
cain and collected, and did not purposely
excite himself, no amount of strong liquor
seemed to have the least effect upon him
and it was to this fact that he owed his
proud position of dictator to the club circle.
The habitues of that establishment might
sneer at erudition, military and scientific,
might even hold in utter contempt all accomplishments
of a social order, but none
of them could resist the solid force of
such a strong head as was possessed by
Loftus, and they one and all bowed down
to him and worshipped him as a being in
every possible way superior to his fellow-creatures
!

Loftus sits in rapturous enjoyment of his
cigar. He is a gentleman not at any time
addicted to much deep thought, and at the
present moment his mind is in a state of
perfect vacuum. A delicious, dreamy sense

of indolence steals across him, and he half-closes
his eyes and smiles pleasantly into
space.

Suddenly he is roused by the noise of
footsteps in the verandah outside, and then
the handle of his door is softly turned and
a figure completely enveloped in a shawl of
dark material hastily enters his room. He
starts hurriedly to his feet. The figure
closes the door, and throwing back her
shawl stands before him in the person of
Miss Diana Forsdyke !

Miss Forsdyke ! — Is it possible ?' he
exclaims, literally starting back in his
astonishment.

She looks hastily round the room,
glancing sharply into every corner and
into the room beyond. Her cheeks are
highly flushed and there is a wild sparkle
of excitement gleaming from her lovely
eyes.

'Am I safe?' she says, in an agitated
whisper. ' Is there any fear of my being
discovered here ?'

In answer to her question, he walks to
the door and turns the key.

Miss Forsdyke,' he repeats, leaning with
his back against the door, still unable to

VOL. III. E

believe his senses. ' What in the name of
wonder brings you here ?'

'Am I safe?' she whispers. 'Are you
certain that no one can come in ?'

I am quite certain !' he answers. ' No
one can possibly come in. Won't you
take a seat ? May I enquire the reason for
this honour ? Can I be of service to you
in any way?'

By this time he has completely recovered
his customary sang-froid, and he looks
towards her, as he politely motions her to
a chair, with a half smile upon his lips,
experiencing a thrill of the most pleasurable
excitement. This unexpected midnight
visit smacks strongly of the nature
of an adventure of a startling character,
and it is consequently seized on with avidity
by this blase individual. It is something
distinctly out of the common — something
exciting — something exceedingly
agreeable to his jaded palate !

She throws herself wearily into a chair,
and he seats himself opposite to her, waiting
expectantly for her to speak. She
pushes her hat off her head, and a wealth
of red-gold hair falls caressingly around

her mignonne face. Her heightened colour'
and sparkling eyes lend an additional
attraction to her dazzling beauty, and he
sits watching her with a mingled sense of
admiration and enjoyment. What can
she want? What on earth can be her
motive for infringing all the laws of propriety
by paying him this nocturnal visit ?

May I venture to inquire . . .' he
begins, politely — but, before he can conclude
his sentence, she has risen, and in
another moment, with a sudden movement,
she has thrown herself down before him at
his feet.

Spare me, Mr. Loftus !' she cries, with a
gesture of passionate entreaty. ' Have
pity on me — spare me ! You have me in
your power, and you can crush me with a
word.'

He looks down at her with a glance of
the utmost bewilderment. Has the girl
gone mad, or what in the name of Heaven
does she mean ?

The situation has become peculiarly
exciting ; he raises his hand to his heart,
and, to his intense delight, he discovers
that it is beating with a most extraordi-

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

nary and most unusual energy — in a way
such as lie does not remember it to have
done for years.

He bends over her and attempts to raise
her up.

My very dear Miss Forsdyke,' he says
speaking as calmly as he can under the
circumstances. ' I cannot permit you to
kneel thus at my feet. You must ideally
rise and seat yourself quietly in that chair.
At present you are excited — seat yourself
down and rest a moment or two, and recover
your composure.'

With a gesture of impatience she repulses
his proffer of assistance.

Ah, listen to me !' she cries. ' I come
to you humbled, crushed, braved down to
the very dust, to supplicate at your feet
for clemency . . .'

He hastily interrupts her.

Miss Forsdyke,' he says, earnestly, and
he feels his heart actually thumping
against his waistcoat, ' I really must refuse
to listen to another word unless you consent
to rise from ois the ground. It is not
right that I should allow . . .'

Right !' she cries, in tones of passionate
despair. why do you talk to me

of right ? How can there be a question
of right between you and me ? Am I not
completely in your power ? Alas ! the
slave can claim no right against his
master

Hush !' he says, bending down towards
her. ' Whatever I may know of
your past life, the fact still remains
that you are a woman, and as such, asa
gentleman, it would not be right forme
to allow you to remain in this debased
position. I must once again request you
to rise.'

Not till you have promised to show me
pity,' she cries, raising her dead-pale face
to meet his eyes. ' You are in the possession
of the secret of my life. Besides my
father, you and you alone are aware of the
sin that I committed three years ago. You
and you alone have the power of ruining
me for ever — of blasting my good name
and all my future prospects.'

She breaks into a torrent of tears.

*Ah, Mr. Loftus!' she cries, in broken
accents of despair, ' promise me what I ask
promise me — swear to me — never to
divulge my secret to any living mortal
soul !'

He sits gazing at lier in perplexity,
trying hard to fathom the motive of her
appeal. It is true that he is in possession
of her secret, but then he has been so for
the last three years, and she, of course, has
been cognisant of the fact. Why, then,
should she suddenly take upon herself to
steal to him at midnight, and attempt to extort
from him a lasting promise of secrecy?
Knowing well, as he does, the character
of the girl before him, he feels convinced
that she must have some vital reason for
this stolen visit in the dead of night, and
so, in consequence, he adopts a cautious
reserve, resolving to promise nothing until
he has discovered it. Vernon Loftus is
much too astute an individual to be imposed
upon by the tears and sobbing of a
pretty girl !

Why should you doubt me now, Miss
Forsdyke ?' he says, earnestly. ' Have I
not kept your secret faithfully for three
whole years? Why, then, should you
suddenly come to me like this, creeping in
at the dead of night ? Has anything lately
made you suspect that I am ever likely
to betray you?'

Why do I come like this ?' she repeats,.

sadly. 'Ah, Mr. Loft us, you may well ask
fine that ! Why, then, do you avoid me
on all occasions when we meet ? Do you
think that I have not noticed it ? Do you
think that a sensitive nature like mine
could have remained unconscious of your
studied intention to shun my society ?'

'But you are really labouring under a
delusion, dear Miss Forsdyke,' he says, in
great surprise. ' When have I ever avoided
you ? As far as I can remember, I
have never met you save at the dance
given here last month, and surely your
memory can recall what happened then.'

Yes — you were indeed good and kind
to me on that occasion,' she says, in the
same sad tones. ' When I first saw you
in the room, I thought that I should have
fainted — your face recalled to me all the
terrible memories of the past. And then
you came and told me that my secret was
safe in your keeping, and that I had nothing
to fear from you, and my agony of
mind was partially set at rest. But since
then I have met you several times — at the
tennis-courts and in the assembly-rooms,
and once or twAcQ in the gardens of the
hotel, where you had come to visit mr.

Grandly, and each time you turned away
and pretended not to see me. How could
I think otherwise than that you wished to
avoid me ?'

Well, I can assure you that you are
mistaken,' he says, vainly trying to recall
the purely fictitious circumstances to which
she refers. ' I can swear on my honour asa
gentleman that I have never intentionally
avoided you.*

I am very glad to hear you say so,' she
answers, wearily. 'I had thought that
perhaps you hated me for the part I played
three years ago. But ah ! Mr. Loftus,
if you only knew what I have suffered
since, you would not hate me — you would
pity me from the bottom of your heart.
Never a day passes without my seeing before
me that blood-stained bed, with the
figure lying upon it — slowly — slowly —
dying!'

She covers her face with her hands as
though to obliterate the sight, and a convulsive
shudder runs through her prostrate
form.

Ah, God !' she cries, ' I have suffered —
I have cruelly suffered since. Do not
three long weary years of repentance and

remorse count for something in this granite
world ? Can I never atone for the sin
that I committed in my youth ? Must
the memory of that awful time haunt me
like a nightmare's spectre to my dying
day ?'

My dear Miss Forsdyke,' he says,
gently, ' you pain me excessively by giving
way so terribly to your grief. That
miserable affair is past and gone, and nothing
that we can do can ever bring poor
Charlie back to life. You should not
allow yourself to brood too much over that
tragic incident. Conscious of your repentance,
you should forget it, and strive to
atone by leading a better life.'

Strange words to proceed from the
mouth of such a man as Loftus ! Ay —
strange indeed ! But what man is therein
existence who has not an inner self, in
all ways distinct from his outward bearing ?

'How can you speak to me so kindly?'
she cries, with a stifled sob, burying her
face in her hands against her knees. ' Of
what avail are years of remorse and suffering
? Shall I not be to my dying day a
lost fallen wretch — dishonoured — tainted
and — and a murderess ?'

Her voice dies out in a despairing gasp,
and in another moment her body is shaken
with a convulsive sobbing.

'Spare me!' she cries. 'You and you
alone are aware of my guilty secret. How
can I lead a better life — how can I ever
hope for happiness, when I know that
with a word you can blast my name forever
?'

'Why should you doubt me?' he says,
again, firm in his resolve not to yield before
he has penetrated the real motive of
her present strange behaviour. ' You
must know me better than to think that I
should wilfully spread reports to ruin you.
What has caused you to suspect my honour
in this sudden manner ? I can assure
you that I have never mentioned your
name in connection with that affair to any
single living soul. Why should you suspect
me of such a thing ?'

For some moments there is silence. She
remains at his feet, with her face buried
in her hands, gently weeping ; and he, in
spite of his firm conviction that she is
merely acting a part — that her tears and
passionate entreaties are affected for a

purpose — cannot prevent himself from feeling
strangely moved by the peculiarity of
the situation. Becoming conscious of this
sudden dawn of tenderness towards her,
he resolutely steels his heart against her,
resolving, come what may, to make her no
rash promises until he has discovered the
real motive underlying her passionate
supplications.

He knows her well — three years before
he had had ample opportunity for studying
her real character — and he is fully aware
that she would never humble herself in the
way which she is now doing, unless there
was some adequate reason for doing so ;
but what that reason is he is at a loss to
imagine. He sits there, gazing down in
bewilderment at the mass of red warm hair
lying on his lap, asking himself whether
it is reality, or merely a vivid dream, in
vain attempting to find some plausible
solution to the mystery. But none comes ;
the moments creep slowly by, and still
they remain in the same position, the only
sound which breaks the oppressive silence
of the room being the stifled sobbing of
the beseeching girl.

Gradually Iter sobs grow less, and the
burst of agitation to which she has given
vent dies out. A long, low sigh issues
from her lips, followed by a sudden shiver,
which trembles through her body ; and
then there is a perfect silence in the room.
Rigid and immovable, with her head resting
on his knees, she remains there, prostrated
at his feet.

Loftus sits regarding her with a half-comical
expression on his clever face. In
spite of the tragic character of the situation,
he cannot prevent himself from seeing
that it also bears a comic aspect. His
sense of humour is too strongly developed
for him to avoid perceiving that his position
is peculiarly grotesque. Vernon Loftus,
the gay Lothario, the eminent lady-killer,
the world-famed tippler, alone in the
dead of night with a lovely girl lying at
his feet dissolved in tears !

Even now he can hardly believe his
senses as he looks at that tangled mass of
dark-gold hair. What is going to happen
next? He is so unusually excited by the
novelty of the occurrence that he fmds
himself totally unable to collect his
thoughts coherently, so he sits there, with

no intention of uttering a syllable, calmly
awaiting the development of the drama at
his feet.

He wonders abstractedly to himself how
long she means to lie in that position.
The silence is really becoming most embarrassing,
but he makes no effort to break
it, for he is resolved that the girl who has
come to him so mysteriously shall explain
her conduct, and he hopes to gain an inkling
as to the real truth from the first
words that issue from her lips. He looks
despairingly towards the whisky-bottle ; it
is in the opposite corner of the room, far
beyond his reach, and he dare not attempt
to get it for fear of disturbing the head
upon his knees. With that dear old decanter
by his side — oh ! how he loves its
familiar cut-glass configuration — he feels
that the silence might continue for a week
without his experiencing therefrom the
least discomfort. But with it gazing tantalisingly
in his face at three ^ yards' distance,
as though jeering at the gulf between
them, he really begins to feel doubts
as to whether

His reverie is broken by Miss Fors dyke's
voice.

Mr. Loftus she murmurs, disclosing
her pale face to view, ' is it too much
for me to ask ? Do you refuse to promise
me what I wish ?'

My dear Miss Forsdyke,' he says, turning
away his head with reluctance from
the whisky-bottle, which has now assumed
a grin of fiendish satisfaction to his tortured
vision, and looking fixedly down
upon her, ' you must forgive me if I venture
to demand some explanation of your
sudden visit here to-night. You say that
your honour is in my keeping, and you
only speak the truth — with one word I
could ruin your prospects in life for ever.
But so it has been for the last three years,
and you have been fully aware of the fact.
Now, never during the course of these
three years have I ever given you the
slightest cause for the least suspicion of a
desire on my part to disclose your painful
secret. As I told you just now, I have
never mentioned the fact to a single living
soul. Last month, on the occasion of our
meeting at the dance, I told you that you
had nothing to fear, that your secret was
safe with me — that, in fact, I had determined
to completely forget the incident,

and that I should never refer to it assail,
however often we might meet. And, you
may remember, you thanked me profusely
for what you were good enough to call my
great kindness, expressing yourself perfectly
happy and contented. How is it, then,
that you appear here to-night, risking your
present reputation by the strangeness of
your behaviour ? From what you say, I
conclude that you doubt my sense of honour
it seems to me that you fear lest I
should spread reports concerning you.
You must pardon me speaking in this cool,
collected manner. I have no wish to be
severe, but I must really insist on your
telling me the true motive of your request.
What cause have I given you for suspicion
?'

I will tell you !' she cries, fiercely,
suddenly throwing back her head, and
exposing her pale, tear-stained face to view.
*Was a fool not to have known you better
than to have supposed, that you would
ever be influenced by a suffering woman's
prayer. Mr. Loftus — you are hard and
cruel — in reality, you hold me in abhorrence
for what I did three years before — I
know it — I know it well ! In your heart,

you still blame me for that terrible occurrence.
You take no account of the agonies
of remorse that I have suffered — you
refuse to see that it was accidental — that
it was merely the thoughtless whim of a
capricious girl — you merely see in me the
woman who killed your friend — and you
hate me with an undying hate ! I see it in
your eyes — in your every glance — I feel it
when you speak — I — ah ! my God ! — what
am I saying?'

In another moment, she is leaning
forward, clinging to his arm.

'Forgive me!' she cries, hoarsely, 'I
must be mad to speak like this — sometimes
I think that I am really mad — I have so
much to bear ! You are my friend — my
best of friends — I know it ! Say, Mr.
Loftus — are you not my friend ? God
help me, if you ever declare yourself my
enemy !'

Her voice dies out in a wail of pathetic
sadness, and her head falls again upon his
knees. But Loftus does not allow himself
to be impressed. He looks down at her
coldly, and there is a suspicion of a cynical
smile playing about the corners of his
mouth. He is convinced that it is a

magnificent piece of acting, and nothing
more. Conquering his growing aversion
towards her, he answers her in an affected
tone of tenderness.

'You certainly wrong me by your accusation,
Miss Forsdyke. I am pained and
surprised that you should attribute to me
such unworthy feelings. Surely my silence
for these last three years must prove to
you that I am at heart your friend. Instead
of hating you, as you seem to imagine
I do, I pity you sincerely from the bottom
of my heart, and I am ready now, as I have
always been, to do you any service in my
power. But surely you must admit that
I am not asking too-much in requiring
you to explain your motive. You must
see that your very request is an imputation
against my sense of honour. Conscious
as I am in my integrity, I wish you
to explain what has given rise to your
suspicions.'

'Then, I will tell you,' she cries, hurriedly,
looking him in the face. ' Perhaps you
may have heard from Mr. Grandly something
of our intimacy. Perhaps he may
have told you that we have formed a great,
platonic friendship . . .'

VOL. HI. F

A sudden flash of light breaks upon the
confusion in his brain — in a moment
he understands the reason of her midnight
visit.

Yes — I have heard of that holy institution,'
he says, interrupting her with a
short laugh. ' Frank Grandly has himself
explained to me the nature of his affection
for you. May I venture to ask, Miss
Forsdyke, whether your love for him is
equally as pure ?'

It is — it is !' she cries, hastily, with a
heightened colour, turning away her head,
unable to meet his cold, penetrating gaze.
I love him as a brother — and only as a
brother ! And oh ! — Mr. Loftus, I cannot
bear to give him up. He is so good and
kind to me, so loving and affectionate, —
by his gentle influence he has made another
being of me — raised me from despondency
to a sense of perfect gladness — made all
the world assume a different colour — given
me a new zest in existence ! And you, and
you alone, can mar this new-born happiness
! Oh ! spare me — have pity on me —
promise never to confide to him the story
of my shame !'

'What a really wonderful thing a platonic

friendship must be !' says Loftus, calmly.
Do you really mean to tell me that it has
done all that for you ? Raised you from
despondency to a sense of perfect gladness.
You must really allow me to congratulate
you, my dear Miss Forsdyke, on having
discovered such a priceless tonic for despair.
Fancy that now — and I — fool that I was —
have all along never believed in such a
state of intercourse ! Ah ! how true it is
we live and learn.'

He looks piously up to the ceiling,
gravely nodding his head from side to
side. She starts to her feet with a sudden
cry, as though stung by a poisonous snake,
and a look of fierce anger overcast the
perfect loveliness of her face.

You mock me !' she cries, between her
teeth, 'you insult me here, when I am
completely at your mercy ! Mr. Loftus,
how dare you descend to such low and
cowardly behaviour?'

Like a tragic empress — Semiramis of old
she stands before him, her whole figure
trembling with the violence of her passion.
A vivid flush of colour illumines the dazzling
beauty of her face, darts of fire seem
to shoot from the depths of those lovely

f2

eyes wliicli can at will appear so soft and
lovable, her whole frame is stiff and rigid,
with one arm outstretched as though in
denunciation of his infamy.

He looks at the beautiful fury standing
thus before him with a glance of admiration.
And then he smiles placidly, and
calmly joints towards a chair.

'Sit down, Miss Forsdyke,' he says
coolly. ' Pray compose yourself — my
nerves really cannot stand such violent
agitation.'

In a moment the rigidity of her posture
is relaxed. She takes a step towards him,
looking as beautiful as night in the
intensity of her anger, and hisses between
her teeth,

How dare you so insult me ? Do you
dare to doubt my word when I tell
you that my love for Frank is purely
sisterly ?'

I implore you to be calm,' he says,
composedly. ' You really astonish me,
Miss Forsdyke, with your versatility of
genius. A moment ago you were lying at
my feet, playing the role of the suppliant
girl — now you are standing before me in
high tragedy — and 'pon my word, without

wishing to flatter you, you really do it
admirably.'

He bends his head to one side closes
one eye, and takes a critical survey of her
upright figure.

What do you mean ?' she whispers,
with a sudden gasp.

I mean this,' he says, calmly, walking
to the table and pouring himself out a
whisky-peg, ' for this last hour you have
been acting a part — and — I — know it ! All
your tears and sighs and supplications have
been false — as false as your true character
and they have fallen on deaf ears. You
should have known me better. Miss Forsdyke,
than to have thought that I could betaken
in by such stage effects. I am too
old a hand for that — I am made of stronger
stuff than is poor Frank Grandly. Have a
whisky-p-p-p — I mean, I — I beg your pardon
— may I offer you any refreshment ?'

She turns a deadly white, and moves
hurriedly towards the door. He gently
interposes, and takes her by the arm, and
leads her passively back to the centre of
the room.

listen to me, Miss Forsdyke,' he says,
slowly. ' You have taken a liking to

young Grandly — you are partial to taking
likings to young men of pleasant persons.
Whether your affection for him is platonic
or not is immaterial to me. I do not care
a rap about the matter. Your object incoming
here to-night was to extort a
promise from me never to divulge your
secret — you were afraid that I should tell
Frank Grandly, and that you would consequently
lose his very fascinating society.
Am I not right?'

She makes no answer. Her eyes are
staring fixedly towards him with an expression
of mute horror, as though fascinated
by his glance and unable to turn
away, and her face is totally devoid of
every trace of colour.

I see from your expression that I am
right,' he says, in the same quiet tones.
Now, Miss Forsdyke, considering how
well we are acquainted with each other's
peculiarities, would it not have been more
sensible on your part to have come boldly
to me and told me what you wanted, instead
of wasting so much time in senseless
tears and protestations ? You surely
could not have believed for one moment
that I would be taken in by your dramatic

exhibition. If you did, I feel deeply hurt
at the poor opinion you have of me.'

Still no answer ! Still the same half-scared,
cowed, deadly-white expression on
her face !

You see, we have wasted such a lot of
time in arriving at your meaning. You
came at half-past one — it is now nearly
half-past two. A whole hour gone, when
three minutes would have been amply
sufficient. Partial as I am to theatrical
display, I really prefer to take it a little
earlier in the evening than two a.m.
Everything in its proper time, you know,
Miss Forsdyke — regularity is the root of
all happiness to a well-constituted mind.
And now for my reply. I can safely
promise you not to interfere in anyway
with your pretty little game. You
may love the boy as a mother, sister,
aunt, or in any way you please ; you
may flirt nth him and kiss him, hang
about his neck, brush his hair or mend his
socks, or — in fact, do anything you like.
Always having made it a point in life
never to spoil other people's sport, I am
not going to change my usual custom on
this particular occasion. Do with him as

viii please — lie is very fresh and young*,
ami I have no don't that you will have
great fun— and believe me that, as long as
you do the boy no harm, 1 shall never stir
a linger in the pie.'

What do you mean by harm ?' she
Whispers, hoarsely, retreating backwards
towards the door.

'By harm?' he says, with an airy laugh.
Oh ! I need not explain to bijou Avhat I
mean — were T talking with the Archbishop
of Canterbury, probably 1 should have to
descend to explanation, for most likely we
should disagree as to the meaning of the
word — but with i/oi( it is quite different !
Ask your extremely elastic conscience, and
I do not doubt that } ou will get an answer.
What — are you really going? Good-night
don't eaten old — pleasant dreams and
SAveet repose — you are <^iur you will not
take a — a — a — something Alarm — the night
is very old, remember — good night !'

He follows her to the doorway and
watches her depart. She stands for a
moment in the moonlight — a dark grey
io-ure against a silvery skv — and then she
noises her clenched hand to heaven and
turns round and disappears.

Very — very pretty !' he says, composedly,
walking back to his room. ' A powerful
finale to a powerfully-acted drama!
But, lord, I am too old a codger to be
affected by such pasteboard scenes! By
all that's holy ! I think I will have another

CHAPTER IV.

WAHLVERWANDTS CH After

A CLEVER Austrian, who, in the last few
years, has been wasting his splendid natural
abilities in attempting to demonstrate
to the apathetic world around him that
everything is nothing, though nothing is
really something, has thus defined love —
a strange longing, incomprehensible even
to itself, partly reverie, partly self-deception,
reminiscences, self-application of what
has been heard or read, combined with a
sickly, sentimental morbid imagination,
and partly sheer lunacy, emotional or
melancholy insanity.'

This exhaustive and bitter definition of
that passion which is popularly supposed
to make the world turn round, expresses
fairly accurately the feelings of Mr. Frank

Grandly towards Miss Diana Forsdyke on
awakening the next morning after Ms
festive evening at the club. Not having
had the pleasure of reading the writings of
our Teutonic friend quoted above, he is
unable to express his feelings in such a
concise and polished phraseology, but he
is none the less aware that his love for
Diana is of a kind hitherto totally unsuspected,
with nothing approaching to
calm, platonic affection in its composition.

Long in bed, feeling strangely disinclined
to rise, with the sun's rays peeping
through the blind, he wonders to himself
how it has been possible for him to have
continued so long in a placid state of self-deception.


It was on the evening of the twenty-first
of August, at the club dance, that he
was first imbued with the idea of forming
a great, platonic friendship, and from that
date up to yesterday — a matter of three
weeks — he has been firmly impressed with
the purely fraternal character of his affection.
Suddenly, under the influence of a
great excitement, the scales have fallen from
his eyes, and, to his great surprise and shame,
he has discovered that his love, instead

of being spiritual, is grossly carnal. He
loves her with the love of a strong-passion
man, thirsting for a mate — with a love
that can only be satisfied with the possession
of the object of his attachment. Oh !
fool that he has been, to have been so
absurdly blind — coward that he is to have
induced a young girl under false pretences
into a secret intimacy !

What is he to do ? That is the question
which occupies his mind as he lies in bed
on this bright September morning. In
what way can he repair the wrong that he
has done the girl ?

One fact becomes self-evident — he must
openly confess his sin, and then separate
from her for ever. But can he do this ?
Is his strength of mind sufficient to allow
him to voluntarily put out of his life a
being who has become so dear to him ?
A damp sweat breaks out upon his forehead,
and he becomes conscious of a sudden
tightening about the region of the
heart as he asks himself the question.

It cannot be,' a voice within him cries.
Now that you know the real state of your
feelings, she has become a thousand times
more dear to you than she was before.

How can you voluntarily yield her up?
She is yours, and yours alone, by the right
of the power of your love.'

He turns himself over with a movement
of despair.

But you must !' — and now it is the
sober voice of conscience that addresses
him. 'You have inveigled her into an
intimate relationship by pretending to
bear towards her a pure, platonic feeling.
That pretence on your part was a lie, and
now that you are conscious of the lie, it
is your bounden duty to give her up.
Loving her in the way you do, you have
no earthly right to her acquaintance.
With your change of feelings, you have
become another man, and you are no
longer her brother-friend, but a total
stranger. As you are honourable, you
must leave her.'

Yes, but it was totally unpremeditated
on your part,' says the tempting promptings
of his heart. ' Surely you were not
to blame because, unconscious to yourself,
your feelings towards her changed. You
entered on the friendship strong in your
integrity of purpose. You loved her, and
you gained her love. Why, then, should

you give her up simply because the character
of your love has changed ? Though
you no longer love her in a platonic way,
still your intentions towards her are strictly
honourable. In what way can you harm
her by continuing your present intimacy
on the same footing as before ?'

No, you were not to blame,' returns
the mentor, conscience. 'You were thoroughly
convinced of the purity of your
love — your change of feelings came upon
you imperceptibly. But this fact makes
no difference to your bounden duty now.
You can no longer meet her clandestinely
in the recesses of a secluded wood. Honourable
as may be your intentions, the
flesh is weak, and never is it weaker than
when influenced by the yearnings of a
violent passion such as yours. Say — tell
me truthfully, honestly, could you now
hold her in your arms without injuring
her, if not by deed, at least by thought ?'

No, no, no — I could not do it,' he
hastily answers. ' It would be a too terrible
temptation — I could not bear it — I
should fall.'

^ Exactly so,' returns the voice of conscience.
' You cannot wilfully deceive herby

affecting still a fraternal affection. You
must do your duty and confess your fault,
and there can be no doubt that your intimacy
will cease. Her maiden modesty will
never countenance its continuance. You
must make up your mind to give her up.
She can never be to you henceforth anything
but a memory. As you value your
honour, you must separate from her forever.
Take courage, and face the sacrifice
With a bold front, for if you hesitate you
fail, and you will be plunged into the
bottomless pit of dishonour and lasting
shame.'

And so the struggle continues in his
brain, each solid argument brought forward
by his conscience being met by some subtle
sophistry issuing from the promptings of
his inclination. With a decision rocking
irresolutely backwards and forwards, like
a barque upon the ocean, he lies upon his
bed, pale with anxiety and doubt. Atone
moment he swears that nothing in the
world will make him give her up, that his
love is too strong to admit of such a sacrifice,
that he could not live without her ;
and the next moment he is lying, trembling
from the force of his agitation, taunting

himself for his cowardly weakness of mind.
What shall he do ? How can he brinor
himself to do his duty ?

He loves her — he loves her passionately
he loves her with a love such as he has
never known before — such as he, in his
young experience, has never imagined to
be possible in a human being. And he has
made her believe that he loves her as a
brother, and on the strength of this falsehood
he has gained her friendship and her
sister's love. What will she think of his
guilty conduct? Will she shrink from
him with utter loathing? Will she regard
him to her dying day as a coward and a
traitor ?

He dare not ask himself the question ;
he dare not attempt to picture in his mind
her look of contemptuous scorn ; he dare
not imagine to himself the aversion which
she will feel towards him. It is too terrible
a contemplation !

What would he not now give to be able
to undo the entanglement which he with
his own hands has tied in the last three
weeks — to be able to look her in the face
with a glance of placid recognition, not
knowing and not known ? What would

lie not now give to have never met the
girl?

He must nerve himself to the dreadful
task before him, for he no now longer has a
doubt as to what he ought to do — he must
tell her plainly of his guilt ; he must beg
her to forgive him and forget him; and
then he must say good-bye for ever, and
leave her, never to meet again !

Coward that I am !' he cries, starting
up, under the influence of his agitation.
I dare not tell her to her face the story of
my sin ! I dare not stand before her and
watch that glorious face pale beneath the
shock of shame that she will receive when
she hears my cruel confession ! I am not
strong enough to undergo such agony. I
-will write to her and tell her all on paper
and that will save me the great torture
of looking' on her face ao;ain.'

Fearful lest he may again be seized with
that fatal irresolution which has been his
one great enemy in life, he jumps out of
bed and seats himself as he is before his
table, and, drawing his desk before him,
commences to Rate with trembling hands
the story of his shame.

It is no easy task to do ; to deliberately

VOL. III. G

confess to one's own fault requires more
than an ordinary amount of moral courage.
But lie does not hesitate ; he feels that if
he waits to weigh his words he will never
succeed in finishing the letter. So he
scribbles off with feverish haste sheet after
sheet, numbering them and throwing them
as they are completed loosely about the
table.

It is a strange sight to see him sitting
there in the cool morning air with dishevelled
hair and flushed complexion, with
his night-shirt opened at the neck, and with
a look of fierce anxiety upon his face,
pouring out the remorseful bitterness of his
soul. He tells her unrestrainedly of his
sin ; he does not attempt to palliate his
offence by dwelling on his own ignorance
of the true nature of his feelings ; he merely
states the fact that he loves her passionately
with a strong man's love, imploring her
to try to find some forgiveness in her heart
for the terrible weakness of which he has
been guilty.

Diana,' he writes, and there is more thana
suspicion of moisture in his winning eyes,
I love you — I love you fiercely, madly, passionately.
Even now, when my heart seems

breaking at the thought of the shameful
way in which I have betrayed you, I cannot
resist the pleasure of dwelling on my love.
Forgive me, darling — forgive my wild presumption
— forgive my crime — forgive me
for daring to write to you like this. I cannot
help myself — I cannot deny myself the
selfish gratification of confiding to you my
passion. It rings in my head — in one
long, endless refrain — I love you — I love
you — I love you ! I have been blind, mad,
insane not to have recognised all alone: the
true nature of my feeling, for, now that the
truth has come upon me, I see that from
the very first 1 have loved you in this way.
We must part — we must never meet again
we must separate for ever ! Ah ! the
agony of knowing that I shall never look
you in the face again ! Can you forgive
me? Will a time ever come when you
will again think of me in a kindly spirit ?
Or will the memory of my treachery rankle
in your heart for ever ? Will you always
recall my name with shuddering contempt
and scorn ? I cannot tell — 1 dare not
think — I am only conscious that the wrong
I have done you is indeed past forgiveness.
Ah ! Diana— do not hate me — try

g2

to think well of me and pity me ; for, if
ever a man wanted pity in this unhappy
world, it is I.'

In spite of his haste and agitation, the
composition which he hurriedly scribbles
off is by no means a crude production.
The gravity of the situation imbues him
with a new force, and he is enabled to transcribe
to paper his remorse and shame with
a masterly precision which surprises him,
for he is well aware that as a rule he is buta
poor letter-writer. There is a ring of
such genuine pathos, such heart-breaking
sadness in his lines that the tears are
falling freely from his eyes as he completes
the task.

Without daring to read it through, for
fear he should be dissatisfied with the
result, and tear it up in consequence, he
places it in an envelope and addresses it,
and his hand trembles so as he writes
the superscription that he hardly recognises
his own hand writing, as he looks
with blurred eyes upon the beloved name.

And now comes a difficulty, which up
till now he has not taken into consideration.
How is the letter to be delivered?

He hastily calls his servant. It is imperative

that she should receive the note
at once ; he cannot entrust it to the tedious
process of the post — so he holds it out and
explains to his servant what it is that he
requires of him to do.

The Mohammedan enters eagerly, orient
into what smacks of the nature of
intrigue. A gleam of satisfaction spreads
across his oily face as he listens to his
master's agitated directions. He knows
the miss-sahib well, he answers ; he also,
strangely enough, is acquainted with the
miss-sahib's ayah, and he is certain that
he will have no difficulty whatever in conveying
the letter to its destination.

Then take it,' cries Grandly, handing
it to him. ' If you are successful, you shall
have eve rupees.'

The servant brings the palm of his hand
to his forehead, and salaams in the oriental
fashion. He will be successful, he says,
and secret as the grave — and, hiding the
letter in the folds of his turban, he turns
and leaves the room.

As the door closes behind him, Grandly
sinks wearily into a chair. He has completed
his task manfully, but not until this
moment does he become aware of the

terrible effort that it has been. A damp
moisture breaks out upon his forehead,
and he is seized with a sudden giddiness,
which compels him to bury his face in
his arms upon the table. His thoughts
become confused, but he is conscious that
it is his duty now to pack up and leave
Doonga immediately — he must not stay
another day in such dangerous propinquity
to Miss Forsdyke. Whither shall
he go? He does not know — he does not
care — he feels incapable of thinking. All
places are the same to him — in his present
state of mind, he is indifferent to his
future and to everything in life. He
can only remember that he loves the
girl, and that he has bidden her adieu
for ever !

How long he remains in this position he
does not know, but he is suddenly aroused
by the door opening, followed by the
stealthy tread of naked feet across the
floor.

With a gesture of impatience he raises
his pale, wearied face, to see his servant
standing before him with a smile of satisfaction
on his face. He mutely questions
him as to the result of his mission — he has.

not the heart to speak out aloud. He
feels that nothing that the man may say
can alleviate his present agony of mind.

The man salaams to the ground. Prefacing
his remarks with the unnecessary
statement that the sahib is his father and
mother, and the honoured protector of
the poor, he says that the letter has
been delivered. The ayah had been in
the verandah, waiting for her mistress to
arise from bed, and he had beckoned to
her to come to him beyond the corner of
the house, and there he had confided to
her the nature of his mission. She expressed
herself ready to take the letter,
provided that it was weighted with a
silver coin — so he had given her a rupee,
and she had left him, disappearing through
the door-way into the miss-sahib's room.
After waiting for over half-an-hour, the
ayah had reappeared, and had placed in his
hands a little note to be given to the sahib.

Up to this moment Grandly has listened
to his servant's prosy recital with listless
indifference, but now he springs up with
an exclamation of great astonishment.

What !— A letter !— Where is it ? Give
it to me — quick — quick !'

He snatches it from his servant's hands,
and with trembling fingers tears it open.
For some moments he is unable to decipher
anything — in his intense agitation
the letters seem to swim before his eyes.
Then he reads it, and as he masters its
contents he falls back, with a sudden cry,
as pale as death.

This is what he reads :

My love — MY DARLING,

I have suspected it all
along. How can I blame you when I,
too, have been guilty of the same terrible
weakness ? Meet me in the old place at
four o'clock.

'D. F.'

CHAPTER V.

Fascinate Agni SPEEiVNZA.'

For some moments he is too agitated to
speak or move ; mali a face devoid of every
trace of colour, trembling in every limb, lie
sits in his chair, gazing blankly at the scrap
of paper.

How can I blame you when I, too,
have been guilty of the same terrible
weakness?'

What does she mean? — he whispers
hoarsely to himself Can it be the truth
that she returns his love ?

Awed by the strange pallor and agitation
of his master, the servant cautiously
approaches him, and draws attention to his
person by a timid cough. At the sound,
Grandly looks round quickly.

What do you want ?' lie cries, sharply.
What are you doing there ?'

The servant salaams to the ground.

Protector of the poor,' he says, ' it is
ten o'clock. Does the sahib require that
his hot water should be brought ?' This
simple question somewhat recalls his
scattered senses. He springs hastily to his
feet.

Yes, bring it at once,' he says, ' and also
some choir hazard

The servant leaves the room, closing the
door behind him.

She loves him — she loves him — she loves
him ! He stands in the middle of the
room, repeating these words to himself ina
half-dazed manner, unable exactly to
realise their true significance. Yes — she
loves him — loves him with a love similar
to that which he bears for her — loves him
with the soft warm love of a gentle girl !
Ah ! pitiful fool that he has been ! What
freak of insanity could have ever induced
him to believe in the possible existence of
a great platonic friendship ? Is it to be
wondered at that Loftus — astute of
human beings — has laughed the idea to
scorn ?

She loves him ! She, too, has been guilty
of the same terrible weakness ! She loves
him ! She, too, has been powerless to resist
the force of their affinity ! She loves him !
She, too, has cast prudence to the winds,
and has given him her love !

Ah ! the fierce delight of a mutual
passion. What can equal it on earth ?
When the soul of man, swooning away in
the ecstasy of joy, seems to cast off its
earthly shell, and soar upwards to the
realms of vas^ue unconsciousness !

He falls upon his knees beside the bed,
and presses the letter passionately to his
lips. She, too, has been guilty of the same
terrible weakness ! She loves him.

Presently he rises to his feet, and begins
to busy himself nth the toilette ; that first
burst of maddening joy has given away
to the sense of a great calm.

The servant enters, bringing his hot
water, and a tray of tea and toast, which
he places upon the table ; and then Grandly
dismisses him, telling him for that
morning he will dispense with his services
and dress himself. He wishes to be alone
with his own thoughts !

The man retires, lost in wonder at the

expression of such a strange desire on the
part of his imperious master. Having done
bearer's work to different officers for the
last ten years, it has never entered into his
calculations that the haughty Feringhi
Sahib could dress himself without assistance
from the humble native.

Grandly puts on his dressing-gown,
pours himself out a cup of tea, and takes a
nibble at the toast, thinking deeply all
the time. What is to be the outcome of it
all?

The question has entered on a new phase
by this confession of her love. It is no
longer a matter of remorse and self-reproach,
for she, too, has been guilty of the
same terrible weakness, and in consequence
all question of injury done to her by him
has been removed. His bitter self-accusation
of having; inveigled her into orrantino;
him her sisterly affection under false
pretences has vanished into air, for she has
confessed to loving him with the same
strong love that he bears her. As far as
injury is concerned, they are quits — in
giving way to the tender feeling, they have
both been equally culpable towards each
other ? In becoming thus aware that his

guilt is not in any way of such a magnitude,
as lie lead at first imagined, a great
weight is lifted off his mind, but still he
cannot conceal from himself that his position
is one of the most extreme awkwardness.
He finds himself placed in a predicament
of the gravest order.

He and a young girl, with whom he has
lived for the last three weeks in a state of
the closest intimacy, carried away by the
intensity of their feelings for one another,
have gradually drifted quite unconsciously
from a calm fraternal affection into a state
of fierce, ardent love, and they have mutually
confessed the state of their hearts to
one another. What in the usual state of
affairs is the inevitable result of such a
situation ? To this query, there is only
one reply — in the usual state of affairs
the inevitable result of such a situation is
matrimony, pur et simjjie.

Grandly, under the influence of the great
calm which has fallen upon him subsequent
to the violent shock of the discovery of
Diana's love, clearly comprehends this fact,
and it fills him nth a sense of the gravest
anxiety, for he knows that to him the
thought of matrimony is impossible. In

spite of the intensity of his passion, his
better sense is still clear enough to tell him
that he is far too young to marry, that he
is totally unfitted to undertake the guardianship
of a fellow-creature, or to become
the master of a household.

The time for marriage cannot be arbitrarily
fixed by years — it is a matter of individual
character. On some men at the
early age of twenty, the cloak of married
state falls suitably and gracefully; on others
-svhen they are twice the age, it has the effect
of a masquerade. And all men, as they hope
for happiness, should be more than careful
in satisfying themselves as to the fit and
cut before donning that solemn raiment,
which when once put on can never be
removed without recourse to the shears of
death and sin. Let them patiently bide
their time — wait till they are suited — go
unclouded rather than badly-clothed — for
it will be found that the sober course of
of years will, as a rule, in time adapt all
men to the contour of those folds.

But in Grandly's case, besides the consciousness
of his unfitness, there is an insuperable
objection destructive to his ever
entertaining the thought of marriage. In

addition to his pay, lie possesses merely an
annuity of two hundred pounds a year left
to him by his father at his death, and the
state of his mother's income, he is fully
aware, will not permit of her granting him
any further allowance. How, then, is it
possible for him to marry ?

He does not argue on selfish grounds —
his sense of honour merely tells him that it
would not be right, whatever the force of
his inclination and strength of his passion,
to ask any young girl, bred in the lap of
luxury and affluence, to share the penury
of his home. This principle he has hold
for years, and now that the time has come
to prove his strength of mind by putting it
into force he does not shrink from the
ordeal. On the contrary, the fierceness of
his love intensifies rather than diminishes
his high-minded sense of duty, for the
thought of the future misery to which his
marriage with her would bring her is too
painful for contemplation.

It becomes clear to him that his duty is
to say good-bye for ever. Loving her ashe
does, with the knowledge that she bears
towards him a passion similar in intensity
to his own, coupled ^Yiih the fact that it is

96 A GEEAl Plj:,ATONIC Friendship.

I

impossible that she can ever stand towards
her in any clos^f.er relationship than he does
at present, he understands how imperative
it is for hims to leave her and never look
upon her fa^x:e again — and, as he arrives at
this conclusion, the knowledge of all that
he will loj'se by the execution of his resolve
presents itself before him in all its hideous
nudity ,/<and he rises from the table and falls
upon bris knees beside his bed, a helpless,
writhing figure, torn with a heart-corroding
gigony.

CHAPTER YL

HIS PROMISED WIFE !

In the meanwhile Mrs. Stockton has not
been idle. For the last two days she has
been observed prowling about the house,
lurking about the passages, listening at
keyhole, sneaking round corners, and, in
fact, conducting herself generally in a very
peculiar manner for a lady of the nineteenth
century.

Her strange mode of behaviour has been
the subject of much comment amongst the
ladies of the hotel, and, haunted by the
recollection of that famous night when
their fierce bravado had vanished into
smoke, they are one and all seized with a
vague, inexpressible fear, not knowing what
to expect as the outcome of her stealthy
movements.

VOL. III. H

More than one lady expresses her intention
of leaving the hotel at once if Mrs.
Stockton continues to behave in such a
peculiar way, and many of them secretly
betake themselves to the manager's room
and with pretty pleading implore him to
effect her immediate removal. But the
manager refuses to stir a finger in the
matter. He himself is certainly of an
opinion that the presence of Mrs. Stockton
is a discredit to the establishment, and
nothing, he says, would give him greater
pleasure than to see her take her departure,
but — and here he stammers, and adopts an
insinuating smile — unfortunately for the
good name of the house, he himself has been
gifted with but small muscular development,
and he feels himself in consequence
quite unequal to the task of removing herby
force, for the fact cannot be concealed
that she is a lady of both abnormal weight
and resolution.

Mrs. Stockton, too, has contracted the
most objectionable habit of appearing at
times when least expected ; and one night
Mrs. Andrews is walking upstairs in the
dusk, when suddenly, without a warning

sound of any description, the dreaded
figure confronts her, with large, glaring,
phosphorescent eyes, grinding her teeth
and breathing heavily, and hearing no resemblance
to a human being. At least,
such is the account of the occurrence
given afterwards by Mrs. Andrews herself,
though it is true that the accuracy of her
statement may be fairly challenged, for on
more than one occasion she was heard
to admit that she was so terrified at the
time that she fell down with a nervous
shriek upon the floor, and saw and remembered
nothing afterwards.

Had the ladies only been able to take a
peep into the internal workings of Mrs.
Stockton's brain, they would have become
much easier in their minds, for, to their
great relief, they would have found that
none of their personalities ever entered
into the venomous old woman's calculations.
Steadfast in her one resolve to
revenge herself for the indignities which
she had suffered at the hands of Frank
Grandly and Miss Forsdyke, she utterly
ignored their very existences. Her one aim
in life was to pay off the young couple

hin

their own coin, and to humble them to
the dust.

With regard to the former, she nourished
one or two most unpleasant recollections.
He had menaced her with the lock-up
; he had threatened to smash her bonnet
flat, and to throttle her, unless ' she shut
her jaw ;' and he had called her ' a darned
old frump '! What wonder was it, then,
that all her virtuous maidenhood rose in
indignation to wipe out such stinging
insults ?

But, strive as she might, she could discover
nothing leading to a likely consummation
of her revenge. It is true that
she had a clue, for she was morally convinced
that there existed between them an
intimacy of a character unsuspected by
the AYorld — on more than one occasion,
when they had happened to be in close
proximity, she had noticed their covert
glances, and she had also heard him
address the girl familiarly by her Christian
name — but as set the clue had led to
no results. But failure did not discourage
her — on the contrary, it seemed to increase
her powers of perseverance, and her determination

to finally succeed in running
them to earth.

On the morning on which Grandly is
so terribly affected by the discovery of
Diana's love, Mrs. Stockton is prowling
aimlessly round the tennis-courts, with her
eyes directed on the ground, brooding
darkly over her plots and plans. Four
ladies had been indulging in a game of
tennis, but at their arch-enemy's approach
they had unanimously agreed that they
were too fatigued to proceed further with
the game, and, without waiting to collect
the balls, they had fled precipitately, for
the idea had gained ground in the last two
days that Mrs. Stockton was really going-mad,
and was consequently liable to commit
any enormity without a moment's
warn in Of.

The old woman watches their departure
with a grim smile of satisfaction on her
heavy face. She notices their hurried
glances, and evident desire to avoid all
contact with her; she chuckles sardonically
to herself at the sight, for she knows that
the cowardly pack of cackling fools,' as
she collectively brands them in her mind'

are terribly afraid of lier, and, meaning
them no special harm, she likes playing
on their fears to the very limit of her
power.

She takes possession of the vacated
courts, and begins to prowl up and down
backwards and forwards, like an old she-bear
confined within a cage, though we
feel in duty bound to apologise to the
whole of the ladies of the ursine race for
venturing on the comparison. No creature,
bird, beast, or deep-sea monster
could in justice bear comparison with the
wife of Colonel Stockton of the Bengal
Cavalry, for none of them could be accused,
whatever the ferocity of their acts,
poor, soulless things — of having deliberately
destroyed the moral sense which
Providence had bestowed on them.

Walking round and round, she might
have been observed to give a tennis-ball
lying in her path a savage kick which
sends it spinning half-way across the
lawn. The action is figurative of her
undying hate to Grandly and Miss Forsdyke.


It is half-past eleven, and, as the neighbouring

clock strikes, lie hears the door
of the little hut above her open, and in
another moment she sees Grandly's lithe,
supple figure swinging down the inclined
path.

Even she, in her terrible hatred, cannot
conceal from herself what a graceful form
it is. She notes the elegant length of
limb, and the classic shapeliness of his
well-set head, and her face becomes distorted
with a bitter scowl, for the knowledge
of his beauty is gall and wormwood
to her maddened spirit. There is a pale,
weary look upon his face, and as he walks
along, unconscious of her presence, he
draws his handkerchief from his pocket,
and draws it across his brow. In doing so,
a small piece of paper falls fluttering to the
ground.

It does not escape her wary eyes, and,
as he disappears through the door-way of
the hotel, she clambers up the bank and
pounces on it, transferring it quickly to her
pocket. Looking hastily around her, to
ascertain whether the action has passed
unperceived, she walks with hurried steps
to her apartment. Arriving there, with

fevered haste she opens it, and this is what
she reads :

My Love — my D/^^rling,

I have suspected
it all along. How can I blame you when
I, too, have been guilty of the same terrible
weakness ? Meet me in the old place at
four o'clock.

D. f;

'At last!' she cries, her face overspread
with a gleam of savage joy. 'At last I
have you in my hands ! Ha ! ha ! Miss
Diana Forsdyke ! I will accompany you in
your promenade, and, if I am not much
mistaken, there will be an unexpected
third at your pleasant little meeting this
afternoon !'

The two stand facing one another in the
depths of the silent wood. Filled with a
guilty sense of shame, they hardly dare to
look into one another's eyes. Like unto
the first parents of mankind, they have
tasted of the tree of knowledge, and their
eyes are opened, and they are ashamed, for

they know, figuratively, that they are
naked.

^ Diana,' he says, and his voice is so
altered that he can barely recognise it as
his own. * Diana — we must part. I have
come to say a last good-bye.'

His face is as pale as death, and he tries
to speak his own death-knell bravely and
distinctly, though his heart is breaking
with the greatness of its agony.

Good-bye — to say good-bye !' she
repeats, in faltering tones. ' Ah ! Frank —
my love, what do you mean ?' With
an effort, he raises his eyes to meet her
own.

• Yes — I have come to say good-bye,' he
says again, vainly endeavouring to steady
the tremor in his voice. ^ We were mad
to have ever thought that it could have
ended differently from this. Had we not
been so young and foolish, we should have
known that an intimacy such as ours
could but end in one result.'

For a moment she gazes fixedly at him
with a scared expression on her paling face
as though doubtful of her senses, and then
she holds out her arms towards him and a
sudden cry escapes her lips.

I love you !' lie wails, ' I love you,
Frank — I cannot give you up !'

At the sound of that beloved voice,
raised in such piteous confession, he takes
a step towards her, unable to resist the
burning desire to fold her to his heart —
and then he masters himself, and checks
the impulse, and allows his outstretched
arm to fall to his side.

'We both have need of more than
human strength of mind,' he says, with a
strange huskiness in his throat, attempting
to speak calmly, and gradually yielding
to the intensity of his passion. ' Diana
my own — my life — my darling — I love
you more than all the world. I love you
fiercely — madly, with a passionate, despairing
love — for we can never be more to one
another than we are now — we must be as
strangers to one another for evermore.
Ah ! Diana — Diana !' he is on his knees
beside her, with his arm clasped around
her waist. ' How can I atone ? How can
I ask you to forgive me, for having brought
upon you this awful misery?'

Tears check his further utterance — a
wild sob breaks from his throat, and he
strains her passionately to his breast.

Trembling in every limb, with a face the
hue of death, she bends down over him
and kisses him on the face.

Frank — why do you ask me for forgiveness
? What is there to forgive ?' she whispers,
huskily, glancing do^vn on him with
eyes suffused with tears. ' This is not misery
to love you and have my love returned !
It is joy — wild, mad, delirious joy ! And
you talk to me of parting, of bidding me
good-bye ! Good-bye ! Frank — my love
my darling ! do you think that I can let
you go away from me for ever ? Do you
think that I can yield you up, now that
you are mine ? Never — never, Frank — or
I die !'

Diana — do not tempt me !' he says,
hoarsely, pressing his head against her
waist. ' We must part — there is no help
for it — you do not understand ! My little
love, I dare not — cannot ask you to be my
wife — for I am poor, and am quite unable
to offer you a fitting home — all I can
give you is a life of degrading want and
care.'

Oh, Frank !' she whispers, pressing her
fingers caressingly through his hair. ' Why
have you such a poor opinion of my love ?

What is poverty and want to me if I
possess your love? With that priceless
gift, shall I not be far richer and happier
than any empress since the world began ?
Darling — your life is mine, and I must
share it with you, and we will brave the
world together, strengthened by our mutual
love.'

For one short moment, under the influence
of his mighty passion, he feels on
the point of yielding to her tender tones —
and then a new strength invigorates his
frame, and, with a sudden movement, he
hastily rises to his feet.

Never — Diana — never !' he cries, starting
back, with outstretched arms. ' It can
never be — you do not know what you are
asking ! My love for you is far too great
and powerful to bring you to such misery.
We must part — Diana, we must part —
there is no hope for us on earth ! Ah !
God — my heart is breaking !'

A deadly pallor settles on his face, and
a sudden mist, rising before his eyes, deprives
him of his sight ; a sense of giddiness
overcomes him, and he leans against the
oak-tree for support. In a moment she
is beside him, clinging to his arm.

Frank — my darling — you shall not go !'
she cries, with a fierce energy which
wakens up the silence of the wood. ' You
are mine, and mine alone — and I must
keep you — or I shall die ! What is poverty
to me? "What is want, and penury, and
sordid cares when I possess your love
to . . .'

Diana — let me go !' he cries, hoarsely,
disengaging his arm with a sudden jerk.
Why do you thus prolong our torture ?
We must part — it is written so above —
there is no hope for us in life ! Let us
separate at once — as calmly as we can !
Let us try to imagine that we shall meet
again tomorrow ! This agony is killing
me. Diana — good-bye !'

With one last look he turns round and
strides away. It is better thus — better
for both of them — to separate without a
parting scene.

With a low, despairing cry she follows
him, and throws her arms around his neck.

Kiss me !' she whispers, fiercely. ' Kiss
me, Frank, my darling — my love — my
life ! Ah ! — you shall not go — you shall
not leave me! I Avill cling" to you — and

o

you-hold

you here — clock you in my fierce

embrace — refuse to give you up ! Frank,
Frank . . .'

He strains lev to his heart, pouring hot
kisses on her tear-stained face. It is the
last time that he will ever feel her in his
arms — ever look upon her face again !
The agony of the moment is more than he
can bear. With a hoarse cry of heartbreaking
anguish, he rudely repulses her
half-fainting form, and tears himself away.

In another moment he is face to face
with Mrs. Stockton !

Unperceived by the agitated couple, she
has crept stealthily along the damp mould
of the beaten pathway, and she is now
standing before them, a gleam of fiendish
satisfaction irradiating her cruel, bad face.

For a moment neither of them speaks,
and then Mrs. Stockton bursts into a peal
of scornful laughter.

And so, Mr. Grandly, you are exposed
at last !' she says, eyeing him with a look
of the direst hate. ' May I venture to
inquire your motive for enticing this young
girl into this secluded spot ?'

Pale as death, he passes his arm around
Diana's waist.

'Mrs. Stockton!' he says, looking her

haughtily in the face, ' your imputation is
as scandalous as it is vile. Miss Forsdyke
has done me the honour of promising to
be my wife.'

CHAPTER Il

FAMA NIHIL EST Celerity.

Half-past six in the evening, and the
ladies of the hotel are congregated en masse
in the drawing-room, prior to robing themselves
for dinner. Animated to the verge
of argumentative is the conversation of
that galaxy of beauty.

They have just returned from the tennis-tournament
which has been held that
afternoon on the public courts, and they
are volubly engaged in discussing the
result. Is or is not Miss Rigby — the winner
of the single ties — the right person in
the right place ? Was it sterling merit or
merely lucky chance that has gained for
her the victory? Opinions differ, and
when, may it be asked, do not opinions differ

when twenty amiable ladies collect together
in one room ?

Mrs. Lamb is firmly convinced as to the
correctness of the result — Mrs. Blewitt is
firmly convinced to the contrary. Mrs.
Lamb expresses the greatest admiration for
Miss Rigby's play — Mrs. Blewitt considers
it detestable.

What further amenities might have
ensued between the two opinionated ladies,
it is impossible to say, for at this moment
the door suddenly opens and conversation
ceases — for, to the company's intense dismay,
Mrs. Stockton is seen upon the threshold.
Most of the ladies rise. There is
but one thought influencing every mind :
Chacune jour soi et Dieu jpoiir toutes P

The old woman, with her bonnet and
fringe all awry, her fat, repulsive face
streaming with perspiration, stands in the
doorway gasping for breath, and attempting
to speak in vain. Perceiving the
evident intention of those present to beat
a hasty retreat as soon as possible, she signs
to them not to leave the room, and then
she sinks down into a low chair, and fans
herself furiously with a newspaper, which
she takes from ofi* the table at her side.

VOL. III. I

The ladies regard lier with pleasurable
curiosity, and smile to one another at the
grotesque appearance which she presents,
their courage gradually rising in the scale
as they become aware of her powerless
condition. What can be the matter ?
What can be the reason of this alarming
collapse ?

Prompted by an irrepressible curiosity,
they timidly advance around her chair and
peer into her gruesome countenance which
is now of a purple hue consequent on her
strenuous endeavours to regain her breath.
Mrs. Blewitt, bolder than the rest, bends
over her with a steady scrutiny, and then
she lifts her head and murmurs significantly
the one word, ' Brandy !' at which
an unmistakable titter runs throughout the
room.

At the sound the old woman struggles
into a sitting posture, and, waving her arms
in furious dissent, glares around the room
which effectually represses all inclination
to merriment.

^ I have seen them !' she splutters in disjointed
gasps. ' I have found — them out
at — last ! Kissing and — hugging in — the
wood !'

I

For a moment there is a dead silence ;
and then arises a perfect babel of tongues
clamouring; for information. The suggestion
of a scandal, such as her words have
implied, is sufficient to at once deaden the
sense of repugnance which they feel towards
her.

Kissing and hugging !' rises the breathlessly
excited cry. ' In a wood ! Oh !
tell us, dear Mrs. Stockton — who were they
tell us all you know?'

The old woman, panting and puffing,
proceeds to tell her tale. There were two
young people dwelling in the hotel at that
moment, she said, who had, she regretted to
say, contracted a most improper intimacy.
For a long time, she must admit, she had
had her suspicions on the point — she had
noticed sly looks and covert glances pass
between them, and she had heard them
apply endearing epithets to one another
when they had imagined themselves alone,
but it was not until that afternoon that her
very worst suspicions had been confirmed.

• But their names — their names !' cry the
frantic chorus of Christian women. ' Oh !
dear — dear Mrs. Stockton — let us have their
names !'

i2

^ The persons to whom I allude are Mr,
Grandly and Miss Forsdyke,' she says
slowly, noting, with a glance of savage
triumph, the looks of perfect amazement
which follow her announcement.

Oh— oh— oh— oh !'

A murmur of stupefied ejaculation fills
the room. The ladies are literally incapable
of articulating one coherent word
so great is their astonishment.

Yes — you may well say oh f says Mrs.
Stockton, with a chuckle of delight. ' You
may well express incredulity at the news !
It seems impossible — does it not ? But it
is true, all the same — yes, it is true — I can
vouch for it on my honour as a Christian
woman.'

Though this voucher on the part of Mrs.
Stockton for the reliability of her information
has no great influence on the
minds of those assembled, still not one of
them entertains the least doubt upon the
matter. Such a delicious, heavenly piece
of scandal could not be otherwise than
true !

Oh ! tell us all !' they murmur, in soft
purring tones, crowding round her, bustling
with excitement.

Mrs. Stockton commences, with the
greatest relish, to give the painful details
of the whole affair. They are very, very
painful to her, she says, with a melancholy
wobble of the head, and up-lifting of the
eyes — in fact, she had never imagined
that such depravity could be possible
between two individuals moving in polite
society. The knowledge of their guilt had
been a most terrible — horrible shock to
her, for, from the very first commencement
of her acquaintance with them both, she
had taken a kindly interest of no mean
order in their welfare. She had always
thought that youth was synonymous with
innocence, but — alas ! her story will show
how cruelly she has been mistaken.

It was with a feeling of great concern,
she says sadly, that she first began to suspect
that there was something wrong
between them. She tried to stifle her
suspicions — to argue them away — to close
her eyes — but, alas, all in vain ! The
more she saw of them together, the more
she became convinced that there existed
between them a secret understanding.
For many days she stirred neither hand
nor foot ; she thought that possibly they

might come to see the wickedness of their
ways, and might repent, and so she hoped
a scandal might be averted. But no — it
was not to be ! Instead of trying to conceal
their guilt, probably bordered by
their success, they literally paraded it
before her eyes ; and the sight she saw was
horrible — was disgusting — it simply sickened
her.

Oh ! tell us all !' cries the chorus, in
beseeching tones. No — Mrs. Stockton regrets
that she cannot comply with their
request. She has not yet fallen so low,
she thanks her God in reverential tones,
as to allow herself to debase her lips
by describing what she saw. It was too
appalling to be mentioned by a virtuous
woman, even in the presence of a company
of manned women. The ladies present
must rest content with the statement that
the sight she saw convinced her, beyond a
doubt, that there existed between the two
a most improper, not to say indecent, state
of relationship.

After this, she continues in a mournful
tone, she felt that it was her bounden duty
to do her best to expose the depravity of
the iniquitous pair ; and in arriving at this

conclusion, be it understood, she was actuated
merely by a moral motive — lie did
not think it right that so many virtuous
women as the hotel contained should be
contaminated longer than possible by personal
contact with such wretches !

A rustle of excitement fills the room.
The energy of Mrs. Stockton's diction is
peculiarly pleasing to her audience !

No,' she says, ' from that moment I
determined to lay bare their wickedness,
and, considering the enormity of their
crime, I do not think, that anyone can
accuse me of unchristian conduct in arriving
at this resolve.'

'• No — no, dear Mrs. Stockton,' purrs
the chorus. ' It was most unselfish of you
to take upon yourself the duty !'

Well, that morning, she says, resuming
her narration, with a malicious smile of
triumph on her face which she vainly
attempts to suppress, in virtue of her
newly-adopted Christian role — that morning,
she chanced to be strolling in the
garden, and, on returning towards the
house, her attention was attracted to a
piece of paper lying on the ground.
Quite unconsciously on her part she stooped

down and picked it up, and, in an 
kind of way ^ she opened it and read
it. What was her astonishment to find it
signed with the initials of Diana Forsdyke,
and addressed to Mr. Grandly ! It was a
letter, commencing with ' My love, my
darling,' and couched in a phraseology
which she — though she might possibly be
accused of being old-fashioned in her ideas
regarded as indecent. No — she regrets
to say that she cannot sully her lips nth
giving it verbatim — she has said once, and
she must now again repeat, that she is a
virtuous wife, and mother of a family, and,
as such, cannot be too careful of her
morals ! The letter ended up with these
words, ' Meet me at the same place at four
o'clock!' What was she to do? There
was literally only one course open to her,
and she took it — she determined to follow
Miss Forsdyke to the place of assignation !

And did you go ? Oh ! Mrs. Stockton,
let me ring for a glass of water — I am
sure you are fatigued !'

Yes — she went ! Inclination was sacrificed
in the cause of duty, and she tracked
Miss Forsdyke — following behind her at a
certain distance — out of the little iron gate

beyond the tennis-courts, and up the long
avenue, leading out into the open. Arriving
there, to her astonishment. Miss
Forsdyke had disappeared.

In vain I hunted everywhere — but
she was nowhere to be seen. After half-an-hour's
fruitless search, I began to retrace
ray steps, and then suddenly I perceived
a little path leading off the road
behind a large projecting rock. Following
it as quickly as I could, it took me down
down — down into the dark recesses of a
wood, and it was there that I came across
the pair locked in each other's arms !'
Locked in each other's arms !'

More than one lady rises to her feet,
breathless with excitement.

Yes — in each other s arms ! The girl
the bare-faced hussy — was hanging round
his neck imploring him to kiss her, telling
him that she meant to cling to him for ever.
I was never so horror-struck in my life — I
could have sunk into the ground from very
shame.'

'And did he kiss her?' It is Mrs.
Andrews' little voice, raised in feverish excitement,
that puts the question.

Kiss her 1' says Mrs. Stockton, with the

supreme scorn. ' Kiss her — did you ask ?
He kissed lier to that extent that I felt
quite sick. He kissed her with such a
savage ferocity that my head turned quite
giddy at the sight — and when I looked
again she was tottering on the ground and
he was standing before nie, with his guilty-stricken
face as pale as death.'

Ah ! he saw you !'

Yes, he saw me — and never shall I forget
that scared expression on his face —
guilty as he was, from the bottom of my
heart I pitied him !'

Mrs. Stockton seems quite overcome by
the pathos of the recollection. She leans
back in her chair and covers her face with
her great chubby hands, her motherly heart
apparently overflowing with sympathy and
commiseration. In reality she is thinking
how best to finish her highly-varnished
narrative.

Yes — you pitied him !' murmurs Mrs.
Bird, soothingly, longing for the finale.
And — and what did you say ?'

^ Yes, I pitied him,' says Mrs. Stockton,
sadly, removing her hands. ' But my pity
was thrown away, as you will see. Raising

my voice in mild reproach, I said, " Oh !
Mr. Grandly — what have you been doing
my heart bleeds to see you in this
questionable position?" And what did he
say ? How did he treat me for my kindness
? He insulted me vilely, infamously,
hearing abuse of the lowest order upon my
head, and then he passed his arm around
the brazen hussy's waist, and said, "Mrs.
Stockton — this young lady is my betrothed
!" '

His betrothed ! — Impossible ! — Mrs.
Stockton — dear Mrs. Stockton, are you sure
you are not mistaken ?'

'■ Mistaken ! — no, I am not mistaken !'
she answers, savagely, rising from her seat.
'He not only said it once — he repeated it
he flung it in my face, as it were, as
much as to say, " How dare you impute
evil motives to us, who are as pure as
snow?" — and then he rudely pushed me
aside, and, hanging indecently on to one
another, they left me standing in the wood.
Oh ! but it was a horrible — revolting
sight !'

She covers her face with her hands, and
gives vent to a shudder of outraged virtue,

the ladies crowding; round her offering
sympathetic condolences, and thirsting for
further details.

That night at dinner no other subject
is discussed. For the first time since
her husband's decampment, Mrs. Stockton
makes her appearance, and she is well
satisfied with her reception, for she is the
cynosure of all eyes and the centre of all
talk from the beginning to the end of the
repast. Anything more sweetly — horribly
delightfully interesting, the ladies cannot
imagine, and they bubble over with
excitement, asking endless frivolous questions,
some of which are not in the best of
taste, and commenting on all possible
issues of the affair. The characters of the
two young people are discussed threadbare,
and naturally the old vague scandal concerning
Miss Fors dyke's past is not forgotten,
and is brought to light again
encrusted with further embellishments due
to the effect of time.

With regard to Frank Grandly, they
are all unanimous in his praise. He is so
perfectly handsome, so exquisitely moulded,
so graceful, so courtly, so irresistibly
fascinating — ah ! poor young man, they

sadly fear that he has been fooled in the
hands of an unscrupulous adventuress.
He is so sweet, so artistic and graceful in
all his movements, so amiable, so truly-lovable,
with just that soiqyqoii of wickedness
in his composition so essential to true
manliness. Ah, how they pity him ! — how
their tender little hearts ache in sympathy
for his misfortune !

At this unqualified eulogium on Grandly's
person Mrs. Stockton gives a grunt
of decided disapproval, but, finding herself
so greatly in the minority, she does not
venture to express aloud her private opinion
on the matter,

Mrs. Lamb, with a vivid scarlet lighting
up her faded cheek, bends nervously over
her plate, and says nothing. She is the
one single person amidst that congregation
of Christian women who is really unaffectedly
sorry at the incident.

Will he come to dinner that evening?
That is the principal question which agitates
the fair assemblage, the masculine
element refusing to discuss the matter at
all — Major Lamb in particular pooh-cooling
the excitement caused by ' such a really
ordinary, common-place affair.'

Bosh !' lie says, abruptly, when appealed
to on the subject. ' I never condemn woman
nor man unheard ; probably the whole
thing has been grossly misrepresented and
exasperated.' And then he refuses to
allude to the matter again, shrugging his
shoulders contemptuously at the savage
glare which he receives sideways from Mrs.
Stockton.

But, could they have seen Frank Grandly
at that moment, the question of his
possible appearance at dinner that night
would have been speedily settled. Whilst
he and his affairs were being thus publicly
discussed at the dinner-table, he himself was
seated in his OAvn room, his head buried in
his arms upon the table, and he had been
in that position, nth his brain seemingly
all on fire, rendering it impossible for him
to think coherently, from the time that he
had said good-night to Diana at the little
gate that evening.

He had brought her back from the wood
without a word, his mind too agitated for
speech. It was only when he arrived at
the garden that he broke the silence. He
bent down then and kissed her on the
forehead.

Good-nio;lit, my darling,' lie said. ' It
is fated that we should brave the ^Yorld
together. May God not forgive me if I
am ever other to you than good and true.'

She had kissed him in return, and with
a low sob, which seemed to check her
utterance, she had left him.

He cannot, now, conceal from himself the
horrible awkwardness of his position. How
can he claim as his betrothed a woman
nth Avhom he is supposed to be barely
acquainted ? How can he efface the terrible
scandal which is certain to arise when
the facts are known ? How can he restore
to Diana the purity of her name ? How
can he prove to the world that he has been
innocent of any base intention ? These,
and similar questions, now occupy his
mind.

That other great question, as to how he
is to keep a ife, he does not attempt to
answer. There is only one course open to
his honour, and that is to marry the girl,
and thus to do the best in his power to
repair the awful wrong that he has done
her ; so the question of actual means does
not enter into his calculations. Whether
he can afford to marry or not, whether his

SO doing will mean bankruptcy and dishonour,
is of no consequence whatever ;
as the matter stands, come what may, it
is his bounden duty to marry her immediately,
and he must do his duty.

About half-past eight he rises from his
seat and makes a hasty toilette. As a
result of his meditation, he has determined
to consult Mrs. Lamb as to how he should
proceed upon the morrow. She is the
only woman in the place of whose kindly
interest he is assured, and he feels that in a
case like this a woman's judgment will be
preferable to a man's.

Mrs. Lamb receives him kindly. He
finds her alone in her room, making pretence
to read a novel, and, after a few preliminary
courtesies, he plunges in medias
res, confiding to her the difficulties of his
position, and concealing nothing. She listens
attentively, with a look of sympathy
on her pallid face, occasionally interrupting
him to put some pointed question.

It is some time before she can bring
herself to understand the idea of the Great
Platonic Friendship — anything so mad and
fantastical she has never heard before —
and he has to repeat and asseverate over

and over again that he was really earnest
in his belief in the possibility of such a
state of intimacy between man and
woman.

^ What am I to do ?' he says, his face
torn with a grave anxiety. ' I have explained
to you unreservedly the whole
matter, and you see now in what a very
awkward position I am placed. It is
plainly my duty to marry Miss Forsdyke.
How am I to do it ?'

She gives him a side glance out of her
pale blue eyes, unable to prevent smiling
at the naivete of his question.

You really mean to marry her at once ?'
she asks.

'At once,' he answers. 'I know that I
cannot offer her a fitting home, that I am
not really well enough off to keep a wife
but there is no other course left open tome.'


'And you are certain of your love?'

Quite certain — I love her, as I never
thought it possible for a man to love a
woman.'

*Mr. Grandly,' she says, bending towards
him, and speaking in earnest tones.
I certainly think that you have been

VOL. III. K

much to blame — you should have had
more sense than to have believed in the
continuity of a platonic friendship between
two young people of your age and looks.
You should have known better the frailty
of the human heart, and should never
have voluntarily exposed it to such a
terrible temptation. By having done so,
you now find yourself in this horrible complication.
The honour and good name of
a young girl are at stake ! You intend to
make all amends in your power by marrying
her — you love her, but you cannot
afford to keep her. What will be the
result ? It must end in unhappiness — love
and Avant are directly antagonistic'

It cannot be helped,' he says, huskily.
It is no good for me to look to the future,
I must trust to luck for that. What concerns
me is the present. How would you
advise me to act on the morrow ?'

Then you are quite resolved to sacrifice
your life?'

It is no sacrifice,' he interposes, quickly.
' I love her, and inclination prompts
me to marry her, as well as duty.'

Then,' says Mrs. Lamb, slowly, ' it is
evident what you must do — you must calli



on Mrs. Renfrew, and explain the matter
to her fully, and ask her formally for her
niece's hand.'

It will be a terrible ordeal,' he says,
faintly.

It will,' she answers, quietly. ' If you
like, Mr. Grandly, I shall be very happy
to help you to the best of my ability. I
will call on . . . .'

'No, no, no!' he hastily interposes,
rising from his seat. ' I am deeply grateful
to you for your goodness to-night, and
I thank you very much for your offer of
assistance, but I feel that it would not be
right of me to take advantage of your kindness.
In this crisis of my life, I must
learn to think and act for myself. My
future looks indeed dark and gloomy, but
it can never assume a brighter aspect
unless I begin at once to act independently,
trusting to no one for assistance.'

'You are right,' she says, rising, and
holding out her hand. ' You are old
enough to guide your own destiny. Firmness
of character and resolution are the
attributes of true manliness.'

'I thank you for the precept,' he says,
raising her fingers to his lips. ' You have

k2

proved yourself to-night a true friend.
Through foolishness and inexperience, I
have dragged an innocent girl into the
abyss of shame and ruin, and it will be m}^
one aim in life henceforth to bring her out
of it unharmed. From to-night I enter
upon a new life ! From this moment I
become a man !'

CHAPTER VIII.

AN Awkward INTERVIEW.

The next morning, Grandly receives a
short letter from Grafton. It is a letter
of no importance, merely a few short lines
of casual gossip, siich as hearts in sympathy
like to read and write, but it is sufficient
to recall to his mind his friend's personality
which has been temporarily effaced by
the agitation of the last few hours.

The postscript refers to George's secret
eno-ao^ement.

The day on which you read this note,
will be the tenth of September. For six
months that day has stood out in my mind,
like some beacon-liorht on a dark ni^^ht —
for it Alas to have been the day of my
release from silence — it was this day on

which I was to have claimed my little
darling in person. But fate has ordained
it otherwise. Through my little wife-to-be
having gone into the Gullies, my term of
probation has been extended to the twenty-sixth.
A fortnight more ! But what is a
fortnight ? If Jacob served fourteen years
for Rachel, surely I need not complain of
fourteen days ! Adieu, dear Frank !'

Grandly folds up the letter thoughtfully.
What will his dear, sober-minded friend
think of the madness of his intention?
What will he say, when he hears that he
is about to marry on his miserable allowance?
It is true that George himself is
going to marry, possessing no private
means whatever ; but then their cases are
in no way analogous, for George's pay is
more than double his own, and being in
the Engineers, his likelihood of pecuniary
preferment is almost certain, for, young ashe
is, his good judgment and sound
common-sense have already been noticed
favourably at head-quarters. And, besides
this, Grandly is well aware that his
friend has expectations, though certainly
of a very doubtful nature, from a rich

bachelor uncle, who had made his money
sheep-farming in Australia. He for his
part has no expectations whatever, save a
sum of six thousand pounds which he will
inherit on his mother's death, the most of
her income dying with her. So he can
never hope to possess more than five
hundred of his own, beside his pay, and to
marry on that, with the hope of rearing a
family creditably in these days of expensive
education, is, he is well aware, the action of
a madman.

And then he whistles lightly, and tries
to banish the thought from his mind. It
is wonderful how calm he is on this soft
autumnal morning. All trace of agitation
has disappeared. He no longer falls with
his head upon the table, unable to think
or act ; for there is a new-born look of
resolution on his face, which means that
he is determined to confront the difficulty
manfully. Even the prospect of his visit
to Mrs. Renfrew after breakfast, he views
with calm tranquillity — for, in one night, a
new strength has come upon him, and he
feels strong enough to battle with the
world.

He walks bravely into the breakfast-room,
and orders his morning meal. He
is quite aware that everybody in the house
is engaged in discussing his affairs, and he
wishes to show them, by appearing boldly
in their midst, that he has done nothing
of which he is ashamed.

There are four or five ladies clustering
together at one end of the table, chattering
like magpies, and, as he enters the room,
their faces assume a look of foolish guilt,
and they suddenly become quite silent.
He knows exactly what has been the subject
of their conversation, and he smiles to
himself over their evident confusion. He
walks easily up to them, says good-morning,
and sits down beside them. They all grow
very red, and, as he notices it, he smiles
again.

Major Lamb, from across the table,
raises his eyes from his newspaper, and
says, heartily, ' Good-morning, Grandly,
my boy !' and then continues the perusal
of the leading article. The ladies offer no
remark, but sit looking awkwardly into
one another's faces, and Grandly, inwardly
amused at their embarrassment, determines
not to break the silence. In a few minutes,

they have all departed, and are seated in a
public room above, volubly discussing ibis
calm assurance.

I am of half a mind to disbelieve the
whole story,' cries little Mrs. Andrews.
No man, with such a grave scandal overhanging
him, could have conducted himself
so coolly.'

And I, on the contrary, am confirmed
in my belief,' answers Mrs. Blewitt,
shrewdly. ' Twice he smiled to himself ina
way which convinced me of its truth.
I admire him immensely for the manly
courage he displays. It strikes me rather
forcibly that we all looked decidedly
foolish on his entry.'

Grandly applies himself diligently to
his breakfast, which he eats with a hearty
appetite, delighted to find that ]neither
love nor anxiety have had the power to
quell the natural craving after nourishment.


Presently Major Lamb lays down his
paper and cautiously refers to the subject
of the scandal with the intention of discovering
what truth there may be in it.
Grandly answers him straightforwardly
without the least attempt at reserve.

Major Lamb is lost in astonishment when
he hears that his wife has been acquainted
with the full facts of the case the night
before.

Can it be really possible ?' he asks, incredulously.
' And she has never said a
word to me about it ! Surely the millennium
has arrived at last !'

It is quite true,' answers Grandly,
gravely. ' I went to her last night for
advice, the result of which is that in an
hour's time I intend to present myself boldly
before Mrs. Renfrew and claim her niece
for my wife.'

The major makes a wry grimace.

I hope you will succeed,' he says,
heartily, ' but I am afraid that you have
not a very pleasant task before you. Take
my advice, and fortify your nerves with
something stronger than woman's cat-lap.'

No, thank you,' replies Grandly, smiling.
'Dutch courage is a most unreliable
quality, and likely to fail utterly in a
moment of emergency. And such a contingency
I cannot risk, for it is essential to
Miss Forsdyke's honour that I succeed.
No one is better aware than myself how
greatly I have been to blame, and I shall

make no attempt to palliate my offence. T
shall make a clean breast of the whole
aifair,']ask forgiveness, and then kneel down,
I hope, beside my future wife and receive
the benevolent lady's blessing.'

He rises with a laugh, says good-morning,
and leaves the room.

He finds a note from Loftus lying on the
table, and on opening it he discovers that
it has been written over-night.

It runs as follows :

^ Dear old Chap,

A strange rumour has
arrived at the club to-night — it is to the
effect that you have publicly announced
your engagement to Miss Forsdyke. Will
you give me authority to contradict the
report ?

Yours, in haste,

Vernon Loftus.

Pes. — To-morrow I have arranged to
spend the day at Change Galli, and as I
am to start early I take this opportunity of
scribbling you this note. The lateness of
the hour (2.35 a.m.) is alone responsible
for its brevity.'

Grandly immediately sits down to answer
him. He draws his desk towards him,
choses a piece of paper, and takes his
pen — and then he jumps up quickly. The
fact has just struck him that he is totally
unable to answer Loftus' question until he
knows the result of his interview with Mrs.
Renfrew. For all he knows, the vinegary
old lady may show him the door and
refuse to have anything whatever to do
with him !

But Mrs. Renfrew does nothing of the
kind — on the contrary, she receives him
very graciously. She begs him to be
seated, at the same time apologising for
being incapable of rising from the sofa —
she has been so very ill — and then she
glances critically at his face With her
head on one side, and murmurs, abstractedly,


Yes — he is really very like that statue
in the Louvre.'

Grandly, feeling, it must be confessed,
far from at his ease, pays no attention to
her soliloquy. He seats himself beside the
sofa, and opens the conversation by inquiring
politely after the state of her health.
He has heard that she has been so ill of

late, lie says, that lie lias really felt quite
anxious concerning her.

She smoothes out the shawl lying across
her lap, with a martyr's look of resignation.
Yes, she says, she has been far from well
it has, in fact, pleased the Omnipotent
Power to rob her of her health and to cause
her dreadful suffering of the body. Probably,
as in the case of that good man Job,
her sickness has been sent to her to test
the strength of her belief and piety. But
she is thankful to say that she has withstood
the trial — though at times racked
with inexpressible torture and agony, she
has never once complained. If to try her
is the Almighty's motive, she is glad to
think that she has resisted the temptation
and has emerged from it deathless. At
the same time she cannot help stating —
meaning no disrespect to those who are
above her, be it understood — that she
disapproves strongly of the practice of
trying an old and faithful servant by
placing temptation directly in his way.
There is something low and mean about
the notion which she is utterly unable to
stomach — but then of course, she hastens
to add, different people of necessity hold

different ideas on every subject under the
sun.

Grandly fully concurs with her in this
remark. It is curious to note, he says,
how firmly men will hold to directly
opposite opinions. One will swear a thing
is black, an equally intelligent person will
swear that it is white, and no power on
earth will be capable of convincing either
of them to the contrary. All the time
the thing in question happens to be
red!

Mrs. Renfrew agrees to his assertion in
the abstract — it is very curious, she says,
how the nerve-power in different brains
produces exactly opposite results. But,
with regard to his particular illustration,
she hopes he will excuse her if she hints
that it is not free from gross exaggeration.
If two gentlemen in the billiard-room after
dinner were to affirm respectively that the
red ball was black and white, it would not
be owing so much to any peculiarity in
their mode of thinking, she is afraid, as to
the fact that they had drunk too much
wine at table.

Grandly, with a little smile, ventures

to remark that he had not intended his
illustration to be considered literally. It
was merely a figure of speech, used to exemplify
how often two individuals, who
fight hammer and tongs to assert their
own opinion, are both equally at fault.

Mrs. Renfrew apologises for having misunderstood
his meaning in such a truly
foolish manner. She is sadly afraid that
the severity of her sufferings is undermining
her capacity for rapid comprehension
— and then the subject drops, and
there follows silence, and Grandly becomes
conscious that he is no nearer the completion
of the task before him than when
the conversation first began.

After an awkward pause he ventures to
inquire after Miss Forsdyke. He notices
that she is not in the room, he says, lamely.
Might he presume to ask whether she
happens to be enjoying at the present
moment a constitutional stroll?

Miss Forsdyke is perambulating the
high roads, Mrs. Renfrew answers, in a
somewhat injured tone. Her niece has
never before shown herself so inconsiderate
as to ^vish to take fresh air in the

morning. Her usual time for exercise was
between four and six— two hours a day-were
surely sufficient for any healthy
young woman in the enjoyment of a fair
appetite.

Grandly agrees that two hours a day
are quite sufficient for any ordinary being ;
but he ventures to remind her that Miss
Forsdyke's work in the sick-room is possibly
of a sufficiently arduous character to
cause her headaches and depression, and
that consequently in her case a little
extra fresh air might prove beneficial.

Yes — Mrs. Renfrew agrees with him
that Miss Forsdyke's post in the sick-room
is no sinecure. Her niece is a very efficient
nurse, she says. In fact, she considers
her to be a very estimable young
person in every way, in spite of the
contrary opinion held concerning her by
her own father.

Grandly expresses his exceeding sorrow
at hearing that Colonel Forsdyke holds a
bad opinion of his daughter. Might hebe
so bold as to venture to presume to ask
in what particular respect the young lady
is found displeasing by her father ?

Mrs. Renfrew regrets exceedingly that

she cannot comply with this request. She
knows nothing definitely herself upon
the subject, but what she knows by
intuition she thinks it advisable not to
state. There are skeletons in every cupboard,
she remarks, sententiously, and in
her opinion it is the duty of their owners
to conceal their grinning horrors from the
outside world.

Grandly is conscious of the implied
rebuke underlying this remark, and, thinking
of nothing suitable to say, a second
silence, more painful than the first, falls
upon the room. At this rate of progression,
he may stay here till the crack of
doom, and he will not have effected his
confession ! He understands that it is no
good for him to enter into further desultory
conversation in the hopes of something
turning up by which he may neatly
introduce the subject uppermost in hi
mind. It is clearly not an occasion for
beating about the bush, but one where
only a display of tactics in the open field
can lead to a success — so he nerves himself
for the contest, and with a little
preparatory cough he boldly opens the
attack.

VOL. III. L

Mrs. Renfrew lie says, slowly and impressively,
'have you a notion of the motive
of my visit to you to-day?'

I beg your pardon,' she says, in a
slightly surprised tone. ' Did I hear you
aright ?'

I think you did,' he answers. ' But
I will repeat the question. — Have you a
notion of the motive of my visit to you
to-day ?'

Good gracious, what a very extraordinary
question ! I suppose that your
motive is none other than that of a polite
young gentleman wishing to pay his
respects to an elderly, invalid lady.'

'- But supposing that, underlying this,
there be some ulterior motive ?'

My dear Mr. Grandly — you will excuse
me saying so — but really your conduct is
very peculiar. Are you sure that you are
quite well?'

I am quite well,' ^^ answers, gravely.

Because, you know,' she adds, hastily,
a being, cursed with disordered nerves,
can never be quite responsible for his conduct.
No one knows that better than
myself. I have sometimes done the most

extraordinary things — things which would
make you blush if mentioned. So you
must not be offended with the abruptness
of my question. Are you quite certain
that your nerves are not disordered ?'

Quite certain V he replies, unable to
repress a smile at the absurd gravity of
her question. ' For all I know concerning
them, they may be as strong as six-inch
rope — they never trouble me in the least.
I merely insinuated that, in visiting you
this morning, I was actuated by a hidden
motive, and I asked you whether you could
guess the same.'

A hidden motive ! How very, veri
mysterious you are becoming.'

Cannot you guess it?'

Guess it ! — no, I am sure I can't — unless
you be a praetorian, and wish to palm
off some of your idiotic productions on me.
But I won't stand it, Mr. Grandly! I ama
good. Christian woman, and I trust that
I can get to Heaven without the assistance
of your half-penny imbecilities.'

^ I have no doubt that you will,' answers
Grandly, nth preternatural gravity.
But you are quite mistaken — I am no

l2

praetorian. I hold such productions in
the same contempt as you presumably do.
May I ask you to guess again ?'

I am glad to hear you say so, Mr.
Grandly. You must forgive me for the
imputation, but you know the saying, that
gunners are either " Mad, married, or
Methodist!" And really, Mr. Grandly,
the number of Methodist ministers your
regiment possesses is a disgrace to the
British army. Their name is legion. Let
every man follow his own calling in life,
and not encroach on other people's — that's
my maxim on the subject. If officers in
the army feel a sudden yearning to disseminate
the Gospel, let them do so by all
means — but let them first retire. But to
see officers, in blue cloth and gold lace,
leaving the parade-ground and distributing
tracts openly in public places, is an
incongruity too glaring to be countenanced
and there ouo^ht to be a several order
issued to that effect. Ah, I have it !' she
adds, suddenly. ' But I am sorry that I
can give you nothing. Charity begins at
home, you know, and, much as I should
like to contribute, it would really not be
right . . .'

I beg your pardon,' lie hastily interposes.
' May I ask to what you are referring
?'

I suppose it is the Kaffirs ?' she says,
shortly. ' But I am sick to death of the
very name of the Kaffirs. If it is the
fashion in Kaffirland to wear no clothes, I
cannot see why it should be our business
to teach them better. And, besides,
fashion, after all, is merely a matter of
taste. Our ladies in Europe show as much
of the upper part of their body as they
dare — the Kaffir ladies apparently show as
much of the lower. What's the difference ?
For tiny own part, I am supremely indifferent
to whether they wear beads or flannel
petticoats, and I do not consequently feel
justified in . . .'

'But, my dear Mrs. Renfrew, you are
quite mistaken — I have certainly come to
ask you for something, but it is not a subscription
to a charity.'

Then what is it ?' she cries, petulantly.
Mr. Grandly, I must beg of you to tell meat
once — the state of my nerves will not
allow of such a dreadful suspense. What
is it you want of me ?'

I want your pardon.'

^ Oh, good gracious !' she cries, starting
up nervously. ^ Oh, Mr. Grandly, you
really frighten me ! What — Avhat in the
world is the matter with you ?'

I crave your pardon,' he answers,
earnestly. mrs. Renfrew, I have been
guilty of a great crime. Unknown to you,
I have learned to love your niece, and I
have now come to . . .'

To love my niece ! oh ! dear — oh — oh
—oh!'

She falls back on the sofa and seizes
an eaii- de-cologne bottle by her side, and
freely besprinkles her pocket-handkerchief,
which she raises to her face. In a
moment he is on his knees beside her, confessing
the story of his intrigue with Diana
Forsdyke.

On hearing his recital, at first she
gives signs of relapsing into violent
hysterics, but under the influence of those
impressive tones, telling her of his guilt,
and imploring her forgiveness, she gradually
calms down and begins to listen to
him with something approaching a tranquillity.


Oh ! Mr. Grandly — Mr. Grandly !' she

murmurs, on the completion of his tale
What shall I do— what shall I say ? Ah !
how terribly you have deceived me !
That statue in the Louvre would never
have behaved so dishonourably.'

Say that you will forgive me !' he cries,
seizing her by the hand, and imprinting on
it a kiss of pure hypocrisy. ' Say that
you will overlook my underhand conduct,
and that you will give your consent to my
marriage with your niece ! The statue in
the Louvre was merely inanimate marble,
and consequently superior to all human
weakness.'

^ I cannot do that,' she says, slowly,
because I am not Diana's rightful guardian.
She has a father, and he alone can
give his consent to your union with his
daughter. Oh ! dear — oh ! dear — my
nerves are torn to shreds !'

He continues kneeling before her, imploring
her to do her best to help him in
his difficulty. If something be not done at
once, he urges, it is certain that Miss Forsdyke's
good name will suffer. Already
the scandal is all over Doonga, and the
only effectual way of stopping it will be

to publicly announce their immediate
marriage.

She fully comprehends the truth of his
remark, and, to his surprise, she rises easily
from her sofa, and, in apparent forgetfulness
for the moment of the supposed weak
state of her health, with a firm step she
walks to the table, and begins to write on
a piece of paper. In a few moments she
rises, folds up the draper, calls a servant,
and olives it to him with some directions in
the Hindi tongue.

Mr. Grandly,' she says, slowly, turning:
round towards him. ' No one understands
better than I do the extremely
critical position in which my niece is placed.
I have accordingly telegraphed for her
father, and he will be here tomorrow
morning. He will probably catch the
train from Lahore at six this evening,
which will enable him to be here by midday.'


How can I thank you sufficiently for
your goodness ?' he says, gratefully. ^ You
have indeed shown yourself my true
friend.'

I do not deserve your thanks,' she

answers, kindly. ' In acting thus, I am
merely doing my duty towards my niece.
It is not for me to criticise the way in
which you have gained Diana's affections
that question you will have to settle
with her father. As for myself, you have
my cordial sympathy. In coming here today,
and freely confessing your fault as
you have done, you have disclosed tome
the value of your character, and I feel
convinced that you mil be a worthy
husband to my niece — and I have no
doubt that Colonel Forsdyke will hold
the same opinion, and will accord you his
consent.'

On arriving at his own hut, after the
satisfactory termination of his interview
with Mrs. Renfrew, Grandly sits down to
answer Loftus' note.

This is what he writes :

My dear Loftus,

The rumour which
you have heard respecting my engagement
with Miss Forsdyke is perfectly correct.
Instead of contradicting it, kindly do your

utmost to corroborate it. Now that she
is to become my wife, I trust that you will
strive to overcome your foolish prejudices
regarding her.

Yours sincerely,

Frank Grandly.

CHAPTER IX.

Grafton IS INFORMED OF THE STATE OF
AFFAIRS.

That afternoon, on the invitation of Mrs,
Renfrew, Grandly again calls upon her,
and takes tea with his betrothed.

After half-ans hour's desultory conversation,
Mrs. Renfrew rises and retires to
the inner room, on the plea of having important
letters to write. She even carries
the lie so far as to ask Diana to take the
inkstand into her bedroom. Her real
reason for retiring is, of course, to allow
the young couple a few moments' private
speech, and they understand her motive,
and, appreciating it, take advantage of her
exit by immediately falling into each
other's arms, and kissing. It may have

been very wrong on their part to do such
a thing ; but, as this book is a faithful
record of what really happened, the little
circumstance cannot be omitted. They
did it — and the author cannot help it, if
the reader receives a moral shock ; they
did it — that is enough for him in his simple
capacity of recorder. Grandly opened his
arms, and folded her in his embrace, and
met her lips half-way in a loving kiss.

'Ah! I am so happy!' she murmurs,
softly, casting up at him a look of ineffable
love and tenderness. ' It can never last !'

^ Why not — Diana, love ?' he whispers —
they dare not speak loudly on account of
Mrs. Renfrew's close proximity. — ' Why
should it not last for ever ?'

It cannot — it cannot,' she answers, faintly
shivering.

'But it must he says, with a fierce
energy, drawing her tightly towards him.
We are poor — but what of that ? Together
we will face the world, happy in
each other's love. As long as our love
remains, what else do Ave require ?'

But will it do so ?' she murmurs, faintly.
Oh ! Frank — you say you love me now
because you think me pure and good.

Supposing that you had been deceived —
supposing that, instead of being what you
think me, I were base and wicked — would
not your love die out for ever?'

'No, it would endure,' he answers, simply.
A love such as mine cannot be killed by
a sudden shock. It is no mere passion of
the moment, rising in a day to fever height,
and dying out as quickly as it rose — it is
a pure strong love which has grown on me
little by little for weeks, working its way
so insidiously into my heart that even I
myself was unaware of its existence. And
it would take years to kill. Whether you
were bad or good, base or pure, I should
love you — because I could not help myself


There is something grand and noble in
this simple confession of the nature of his
love which touches her to the quick, and
she hides her face in his shoulder with a
smothered sob. Never as at this moment
has she been conscious of the utter Worthlessness
of her character as compared nth
his ! What would she not now give
to stand before him pure and innocent,
worthy in every way of his great love ?

Diana,' he says, bending over her tenderly.

' My little darling, what is it that
distresses you ?'

Frank — Frank !' she cries, hoarsely.
Always love me ! Whatever happens in
the future, tell me that you will always love
me!'

^ Hush — hush !' he murmurs, gently,
softly stroking the ripples of her sunlit
hair. ' Hush, Diana darling ! You are
nervous — what can happen in the future to
destroy my love ? Why do you allow such
morbid fancies to take possession of your
mind ? This is not the time for sorrow —
but for maddening joy.'

Ah ! — but you do not know ! We maybe
parted. Something may arise between
us which will separate us for ever. You
will go away — you will leave me — and
perhaps shudder at my very name.'

This is really foolish of you, darling,'
he urges, gently. ' What can arise between
us ? We shall have no secrets from one
another. In the enjoyment of a perfect
confidence, cause for disagreement mil be
impossible. Deception and concealment are
at the root of most miseries.'

Yes — yes,' she murmurs, nervously.
Yes — yes, but . . . .'

Ah. ! you are thinking of your father ?
You are afraid that he will be angry with
us and refuse his consent to our union.
But he will not do so, T feel convinced.
When he sees how thoroughly depcxideit
our future happiness is on our marriage, he
will yield and will forgive us our fault.
Diana, together we shall brave the
world.'

He bends over her and kisses her softly
on the forehead. A sudden noise in the
next room warns them of the speedy advent
of Mrs. Renfrew, and they hastily separate.
In another moment she appears, to find
them on opposite sides of the table, gazing
foolishly into one another's faces.

I have finished my letter,' she says,
telling a barefaced falsehood with really
admirable assurance. ^ Dear me — what is
the time? Half-past six — is it really
possible? Well, Mr. Grandly, Colonel
Forsdyke will probably be here tomorrow
at twelve o'clock. You had better come
to see him after lunch. I will prepare him
for your visit. And you really have no
need to be alarmed,' she adds, with a confiding
smile. 'My brother is as soft as
milk, and will, I am sure, place no un-vol.

ill. I

necessary obstacles in the way of your
future happiness.'

He thanks her warmly for her kindness,
and says good-night, and then, with a
parting smile towards Diana, he leaves the
room.

His mind is so preoccupied to-night that
he determines not to face the dinner-table,
but instead to dine in his own room; so,
entering his hut, he gives directions to his
servant to that effect. He wishes to have
the evening to himself, to allow him to
ruminate over his position, away from
the effervescing, meaningless cackle of
polite society, and he also wishes to write
to Grafton, to inform him of the whole
affair.

The thought of having to write this
letter has been Angling heavily on his
mind for the last twenty-four hours, from
the moment almost when Mrs. Stockton's
appearance in the wood precipitated him
into an announcement of his betrothal,
and, the more he has pondered on the
matter, the more has he shrunk from the
unpleasant task before him. He is conscious
that he will present but a sorry
figure in the opinion of his friend. Grafton's

calm, critical gaze will see at once the utter
foolishness of his conduct in having allowed
himself to become entangled in such a
terrible complication, and he dreads to
picture in his mind the contempt with
which his friend will probably receive the
news. But, now that the affair has taken
such a decided turn, he feels that the love
he bears his friend demands that he should
not delay another moment in informing
him of the matter — to conceal it longer
would be a breach of friendship.

So, after dinner, he draws his desk
towards him, and sits irresolutely toying
with his pen, unable to frame a single
sentence. What is he to say ? Shall he
slur over the weak points of his tale, and
merely announce his engagement, or shall
he disclose all the particulars which
gradually led up to the present state of
affairs ?

He is inclined to adopt the former course,
for he has no msh to expose in all its
nakedness the lamentable folly he has
displayed, in first imagining the possibility
of a great platonic friendship, and afterwards
in having failed to grasp the true
nature of his feelings before it was too

VOL. III. M

late ; but duty commands him to adopt the
latter, and, after a short inward struggle,
his sense of duty predominates over his
inclination. But, besides the promptings
of his conscience, his affection for Grafton
militates against a contrary resolve, for it
is of such a peculiarly warm character that
he is unable to retain from his friend any
portion of his life without experiencing a
sense of guilt. For years, ever since the
commencement of their boyhood's intimacy,
they had never withheld from one another
the slightest particular concerning the
interior of their respective lives, and this
custom had finally through force of habit
become to both of them a law, which
their moral sense forbade them to infringe.


So he begins slowly and carefully to
explain to Grafton the position in which
he finds himself placed. He omits nothing
he commences by narrating the circumstance
of his first introduction to Miss
Forsdyke, when, on his arrival at the hotel,
she found him leaning half-fainting against
the tree, and from this point he gradually
leads on through the sequence of events

which followed, up to the final denouement
when they were discovered together in the
wood by Mrs. Stockton.

It is a severe test of character, to have
to openly and honestly confess one's own
failings, but Grandly rises equal to the
occasion. He does not spare himself — he
does not attempt to extenuate his foolishness
— he tells plainly the true facts, as they
happened, without addition or omission.
It is no mean task that he has set himself
to do, for to render the tale coherently
requires sheet after sheet of written matter,
and it is nearly twelve o'clock before he
finds himself approaching the conclusion of
his letter.

Ah ! George,' he writes, ' what Avill you
think of me, now that you know the whole
facts of the case ? Will you utterly condemn
me, or will the infinite love you
bear me find some excuse to palliate my
weakness ? You know the state of my
finances — my private allowance is only £200
a year — two hundred rupees a month. My
pay, with allowances, is two hundred and
ninety rupees a month — so, together, I shall
have four hundred and ninety rupees a

m2

month to set up my domestic household.
By dint of rigid economy, I do not see why
we should not live happily on this, without
incurring; debt — but of course it will bind
me down to India for many, many years
to come. If I can only keep my health, I
do not fear the future — if I were to fall ill,
and be ordered home, I don't know what
would happen. The prospect of a family,
too, is a contemplation I do not care to
face, for I suppose that children will inevitably
follow from our union. Civilization,
after all, is not an unmixed blessing.
A Patagonia chief may increase his family
to a regiment without feeling the least
inconvenience, but an European officer
has to strongly modify his paternal aspirations.
After all, in spite of what cynics
say, love goes a long way towards the promotion
of happiness, and I am as certain
of Diana's love for me as I am of mine for
her. At any rate, in this particular I feel
I have your sympathy. You, too, know
the meaning of a mutual love. Oh !
George, old boy, to think that we are both
engaged ! Would it be possible, I wonder,
for us to be married on the same day together?
It would be a fitting conclusion

to our long boyish friendship. After weare
married, we must put away all childish
things, and must settle down into staid
old Benedicts — and to think that a fortnight
ago I was lamenting your engagement,
for fear lest it should mar our
friendship ! Ah, George, it is a rum world.
We are mere puppets in the power of an
unseen will, and it is folly to attempt to
anticipate an hour. Write, dear old l)oy,
and wish me joy. The only cloud which
dims my happiness is the dread of your
disapproval.

Yours affectionately,

Frank Grandly.'

It is finished ; With a sigh of great relief,
he places it in an envelope and directs it,
and then, seizing up his hat, he strides
over to the hotel and posts it in the box.
His heart feels light at the thought of his
having made a full confession of the whole
affair to his dear old friend, and he takes
a short stroll in the bright moonlight
around the gravel path, stealing a sly
peep up at Diana's windows.

But he is disappointed if he has expected
to catch a glimpse of that sweet figure ;

the blinds are down before the windows,
and, though he stands patiently watching
for full five minutes, he is not rewarded
by seeing so much as the shadow of the
girl he loves. He is obliged to admit to
himself that the hope of seeing her is most
unreasonable, for the clock has just sounded
the half-hour after midnight. She is
in bed, of course, and has probably been
there for the last two hours. All swathed
in white, she has buried her little figure
beneath the clothes, and her lovely little
head is lying a patch of red-warm gold

against the pillow, and But here his

equanimity totally succumbs before the
vision he has conjured up, and he turns
away with a smothered gasp.

The fragrant smell of the Gloire's-de-Dijon
roses permeates the air, and he bends down
and buries his face amidst their yellow
crests. The excitement of the last few
days has caused him to forget the mysterious
circumstance of the churchyard
wreaths, but now the sight of the flowers
recalls them vividly to his mind, and he
returns to his room, thinking deeply.

Will he ever discover the kind hand

which placed them on his sister's grave ?
and, asking himself this question in
ceaseless reiteration, he undresses, gets
into bed, and promptly falls asleep.

CHAPTER X.

THAT SHAMELESS, WANTON WOMAN.

It is eight o'clock in the morning, and the
door of Grandly's little hut is thrown violently
open, and Loftus hurriedly enters
the room. His customary airy nonchalance
of manner has disappeared. Flushed and
excited, with great beads of perspiration
standing on his forehead, he slams-to the
door, and throws himself heavily into a
chair beside the bed.

Grandly awakes with a start, with that
unpleasant sensation of personal indistinction
which all men know and hate.
He lies for a moment motionless, looking
vaguely up to the ceiling, and trying
to remember who and where he is ;
and then he raises his head slowly from

the pillow, and, to his great astonishment,
finds Loft us seated by his side, with his
legs apart, leaning forward and gazing
moodily at the matting on the floor. Such
is his amazement at the sight that he rubs
his eyes to assure himself that he is wide
awake.

Loftus,' he cries, ' what in the name of
wonder brings you here at this time of
day?'

At the sound of his voice, the dejected
figure comes to life with a sudden jerk.
He starts forward in his chair, holds out
his hand, and ashes his friend good-morning
; then he falls forward again, with his
head upon his hands, in the same posture
as before.

With much amusement, Grandly extends
his arm and shakes him by the
shoulder.

'Wake up, old boy!' he says. 'What
is the matter with you to-day ? Have you
had any bad news, or have you got a
champagne-head, or have you come to congratulate
me on my happiness ?'

Eh — what ?' says Loftus, confusedly
turning round towards him. ' What were
you saying, old chap ?'

• I shan't repeat what I said, since you
are so impolite as to pay me no attention
answers Grandly, smiling. ' Really, Loftus,
I am beginning to be quite alarmed
about you. Can you not possibly concentrate
all your energies for one moment,
and manage to remember what brought
you here this morning? It is not your
usual custom, I believe, to be gallivanting
about at eight in the morning, so I presume
that some very weighty reason has
caused you to honour me with this morning
visit.'

Loftus passes his hand thoughtfully
across his brow, and, turning towards his
friend, asks, somewhat irrelevantly,

Did you receive a note from me yesterday,
Grandly?'

Yes, I did — certainly. It came at
breakfast time. In it you told me you
were going to Change Galli for the day.
Did you have a good time of it ?'

Oh, pretty well — nothing much, though
nobody drunk! But I say, old chap,
did you answer my letter?'

Of course I did,' says Grandly, in some
surprise. ' I wrote it about twelve. Do

you mean to say that that black scoundrel
never delivered it?'

Loftus feels in his coat-pocket, and extracts
a crumpled envelope from which he
removes a letter, handing it to Grandly.

Is that the letter you wrote?' he says,
quietly.

Grandly opens it and reads it.

Yes — certainly it is ! Why should you
doubt it ?'

Then it is true?'

What is true?'

Your eno;ao;ement with Miss Forsdyke?'


Yes, Loftus, it is quite true,' answers
Grandly, with a flush of colour on his
cheek. ' I authorise you to corroborate
the report. I suppose that you are greatly
surprised, are you not ?'

Oh, God — was ever man so cursed
before !' says Loftus, falling forward with a
groan ; and then he looks up and says,
quietly, ' Surprised ! — no, I am not surprised
— I expected it.'

Expected it !' repeats Grandly, in astonishment.
' Then, Loftus, you must bea
very clever fellow, for, till Sunday night

the night I dined with you, you remember
— the idea of matrimony had never
entered into my head. Till that night I was
firmly convinced that my love for her was
strictly platonic. I was a young fool for
imagining such a thing to be possible, and
you, with your knowledge of the world,
were quite right to ridicule the idea when
I attempted to explain it ; but believe me,
Loftus, when I tell you that I had no other
thought beyond fraternal friendship, when
I first entered upon this clandestine intimacy
with Miss Forsdyke.'

He speaks gravely and impressively,
with the intention of clearing both his
own character and that of Miss Forsdyke
of any base suspicions that may be lurking
in his friend's mind concerning them.

Loftus gives him a searching look, and
nods his head assenting.

Yes, Grandly, I believe you,' he says,
quietly. ' But how you could ever have
embarked upon such an extraordinary
undertaking I cannot comprehend. Where
was your common-sense? What could
you have been thinking of? Have your
twenty-three years of life given you no
knowledge of the weakness of the human

flesh ? Would to God that you had taken
some advice from some more experienced
hand ? Had you done so, all this misery
would have been spared.'

Misery !' cries Grandly, with a little
laugh of half annoyance. ' What misery
should I have been spared, I should like
to know ? You sit there, Loft us, as grave
and preternatural as a judge, croaking like
an old raven on subjects you know nothing
about. My dear old boy, I am not miserable
— I am mad with joy. I am going to-marry
the girl I love, and the girl who
loves me. What more could any man
desire in life?'

Loft us leans back in his chair and gives
vent to a loud groan. At this moment he
wishes himself anywhere else than in hm
present position. The task which he has-before
him is so utterly distasteful to him
that he shrinks back appalled at the idea
of having to complete it.

Grandly bursts into a hearty fit of
laughter.

My dear old chap,' he says, laying his
hand upon his shoulder, ' you are indeed a
Job's comforter. Instead of offering me
your hearty congratulations, you sit by

my bedside grunting and groaning like a
grampus with the stomach-ache. AVhat is
the matter, Loftus,' — he leans forward and
eyes him curiously — ' I am certain there is
something more in this than meets the eye.
As you have not come here to congratulate
me, what is your reason for this morning
visit ? Are you in any difficulty, or what ?
You may rely on me to do my best to help
you;

You would, wouldn't you ?' he says,
eagerly.

Certainly, I would,' replies Grandly,
promptly.

And you would expect me to do the
same for you ?'

Yes — I would,' answers Grandly, after
a slight pause. ' I think that our friendship
is sufficiently warm to expect so much
from each other.'

And you wouldn't be annoyed if I
offered to help you ?'

Annoyed ! — of course I shouldn't ! How
do you mean ?'

Well, supposing for instance you were
beset by a great danger of which you were
ignorant, and of which I was aware, would
you be annoyed if I were to come forward

and explain to you the danger of your
position.'

My dear Loft us, low can you ask such
an extraordinary question ?' says Grandly,
in unaffected astonishment. ' How could I
possibly be annoyed if you were to come
forward and disclose to me some hidden
danger. I should be deeply grateful to
you all my life— of course I should. But
what on earth is the matter with you this
morning? You are not yourself at all —
you have only sworn mildly, and you have
not invited me to spank you crimson once.
Really, Loftus, I am quite alarmed about
you — are you sure you are quite well?'

*Yes — I am quite well, old chap,' answers
Loftus, fidgeting nervously in his
chair. ' Don't you worry your head about
me. You ask me why I came here this
morning. Well — I will tell you. I came
here to have from your own lips a confirmation
of the report now circulating
through Doonga as to your engagement
with Miss Forsdyke. You see, Grandly,
for your sister's dear sake, as well as for
your own, I take a great interest in you,
and I wish to know the whole truth.'

His voice suddenly falters and he turns

away, Grandly, deeply touched by the
sudden tenderness in his tones, reaches forward
and shakes him by the hand. The
cynical and polished Loftus suddenly
appearing in the 7'ole of sentimental friend
has taken him completely by surprise.

'Thank you, Loftus,' he says, quietly.
For a long time I have been conscious
that you regard me as more than a casual
acquaintance, and whether it is for my own
sake or for Adelaide's, I do not know, nor
do I care. You may be certain that I
reciprocate the feeling. You ask me for
particulars regarding my engagement to
Miss Forsdyke, and I will give them to you
without reserve, for the strength of your
regard entitles you to that consideration.
What is it that you wish to know?'

I wish to know,' says Loftus, calmly,
how it is that when last we spoke on this
subject you were so particular in impressing
on me that your affection for her was
purely platonic, and that now, within a few
days, I find you openly engaged to be
married to her ? How is it that the nature
of your love for her has so suddenly
changed ?'

It has not changed. Though unconscious

of it myself, it has been the same as
it is now all along.'

How was it then you discovered its true
nature ?'

I will tell you. It was last Sunday —
I met her as usual, fully convinced as to
the platonism of my regard for her. I
found her in a very nervous, excited state,
and in the course of our conversation she
suddenly fainted. It was then, at that
moment of intense excitement, when I
found myself bending over her senseless
body, that I first became aware of the true
nature of my feelings. I knew then that
I loved her passionately with a strong man's
love.'

May I ask what you were talking about
when she fainted ?'

You may — there is nothing private in
the matter. I Alas telling her of poor
Charlie's death . . . .'

Of Charlie's death !' cries Loftus, leaning
forward excitedly.

Yes, of Charlie's death. There is
nothing extraordinary in the circumstance
we were accustomed to discuss our
respective relatives. I had always been
diffident about speaking of poor Adelaide,

VOL. III. N

but, somehow upon this particular day,
we got upon the subject, and I naturally
referred to her husband's death.'

And she fainted ?'

Yes, she fainted — but to connect the
two circumstances together is of course
absurd. She was in a very nervous state,
and hysterical . . . .'

Of course — of course !' says Loftus,
quietly. ' And this was the first time, I
suppose, that she knew of your relationship
to poor Charlie?'

Yes, certainly,' returns Grandly, with
a little laugh. ' And not only that, but
probably the first time that she had ever
heard his name. Any more questions, old
chap ? You cannot complain of my being
uncommunicative. '

'No — you are a regular brick, Grandly!
I hope that I am not annoying you by
this species of cross-examination. You
see, I am so interested in the matter that
I like to hear all details connected with
it.'

I am glad, beyond words, to hear you
say so,' answers Grandly, warmly. ' Knowing
that you dislike Miss Forsdyke, I was

afraid that you might be terribly put out
when you heard the news. I wish that
you would try to learn to like her.'

Perhaps I may some day — there is no
knowing,' says Loftus, absently. 'But I
say, old chap — what happened then ?'

After she fainted ?'

'Yes — after she fainted.'

After some moments, she came to
herself, and, with great difficulty, I carried
her home. It was afterwards, on
analysing my feelings, that I became
aware of the true nature of my love for
her.'

And this was on Sunday ?'

'Yes.'

What — the night you dined with me?'
cries Loftus, suddenly.

Yes, that was the evening.'

'Ah!'

There is a world of covert meaning in
the interjection. A sudden light has penetrated
Loftus' brain, which has made clear
to him a matter that hitherto has given
him much perplexity. He now understands
fully the motive-force which had
induced Miss Forsdyke to make him that

n2

mysterious midnight visit on that particular
night.

What do you mean ?' says Grandly,
eyeing him suspiciously.

Oh ! nothing answers Loft us, indifferently.
' It was on Sunday, was it ? And
did you see her again that night ?'

^ Only through the mist. She came onto
the balcony, and dropped me down a
little note, which told me she was better.'

What time was that ?'

About half-past seven.'

And you did not see her afterwards ?'

'No.'

'You are certain, Grandly?'

My dear chap, what do you mean by
this systematic cross-examination ?' cries
Grandly, thoroughly mystified.

I am afraid that I must seem very
curious,' says Loftus, apologetically. ' I
hope you don't think me impertinent. My
only excuse lies in the great interest that
I take in your engagement. And you are
certain that you did not see her later
on — I want to know all particulars, my
dear Giovanni — Come, confess, did you
not see her when you were returning
home?'

No, I didn't, but — Loftus, what do
you mean ?'

His voice suddenly changes from a
tone of confident denial to one of startled
enquiry. His mind has just recalled that
figure which had appeared before him m
the moonlight, as he had been returning
home that night. An uncomfortable suspicion
comes across him that Loftus is
questioning him with a purpose.

What do you mean ?' he says, slowly.

I only mean what I say,' says Loftus,
quietly. ' I ask you, whether you did not
see Miss Forsdyke later on in the evening
on that particular Sunday. AVhat is the
matter, old chap ? You look quite
scared.'

Grandly gives vent to a nervous little
laugh.

Well, I confess, I am feeling a little
scared,' he says, vainly attempting to speak
at his ease. ' Your curious question has
reminded me of an extraordinary hallucination
I had that night. Really it was
not to be wondered at, considering the
lamentable state in which you sent me
home.'

'An hallucination ! — what was it?'

Well, you must promise not to laugh.
I was toiling up the hill past the church,
with my eyes upon the ground, when suddenly
looking up I could have sworn that
I saw Diana — Miss Forsdyke before me. I
made a rush towards her, and fell flat
down. The force of my fall sobered me a
bit, I can tell you — and of course there
was nothing to be seen, when I picked myself
up. It had been an hallucination — but
it was a very vivid one.'

It was no hallucination,' says Loftus,
calmly.

What — what do you mean ?'

I repeat,' says Loftus, impressively, ' it
was no hallucination.'

For a moment there is a dead silence,
the two men looking fixedly into one
another's eyes ; and then suddenly Loftus
turns round towards the bed, and lays his
hand on Grandly's arm.

Grandly, old boy,' he says, and there
is a noticeable tremor in his voice, ' I
have something very serious to say to you.
Come what may, I must say it, and yet I
do not know how to say it. You see,
when certain subjects are discussed,' he

continues, after a slight pause, 'you
become excessively hot-tempered. It is
not much over a fortnight ago since we
liacl what might have been a very serious
quarrel over certain words I let drop in all
good faith. Now I do not wish that that
should occur again. I wish you to receive
what I say to you in the same kindly
spirit as I offer it.'

Grandly takes him by the hand, and
shakes it.

'No one has regretted more than I,' he
says, ' my lamentable display of temper on
that day. I can safely assure you that it
will never occur again, for I feel certain that
you will never purposely try to annoy me.
If you have anything disagreeable to say
to me, say it, by all means, for I am sure
that you are actuated by a sense of duty,
and not by any desire to make yourself
unpleasant.'

He speaks the words bravely, looking his
friend full in the face, but at the same
time he is aware of a sudden sinking of
the heart, as with the dread of the
approach of some great danger. The extraordinary
change which he notices in

Loftus' whole demeanour, fills him with a
vao^ue forebodino;that his friend has something
very painful on his mind.

I cannot tell you how glad I am to
hear you say so,' answers Loft us, in a relieved
tone. ' I have a most unpleasant
task before me, and the knowledge that
you will receive it in a proper spirit
lightens it considerably. God knows how
willingly' I would be anywhere but here !
Grandly, old boy, it devolves on me to
tell you how shamefully you have been
deceived.'

I do not understand you,' says Grandly,
now thoroughly impressed by the earnestness
of Loft us' manner.

I wish to God you did understand me,'
cries Loftus, miserably. ' It would save
me the painful task of explaining what I
mean. I repeat — you have been shamefully
deceived. You may remember
having a short conversation with me one
evening, when I was bidding you goodnight.
You tried to extract from me a
promise never to allude again to Miss
Forsdyke. If you remember, I promised
to respect your wish, but I reserved to myself
the right to violate my promise if an

occasion of sufficient gravity to warrant
such a course should present itself. That
occasion has now come, and I claim to myself
that right — in fact, I may say I made
that reservation, foreseeing the likelihood
of this very occasion presenting itself.'

There is a short silence, and then
Grandly suddenly stretches out his hand
and seizes his friend nervously by the
arm.

What do you mean?' he cries, hurriedly.
' Tell me what you mean. Is this alla
gigantic jest, got up to frighten me, or
are you really earnest in what you are
saying ?'

What I am going to say to you, Grandly,
is the truth, and nothing but the truth,
so help me God !' says Loft us, solemnly.
And, dear old chap, it will be a blow to
you — I know it will — you will want all
your manl}'- strength and courage to withstand
it.'

Go on, Loftus, for the love of God !'
cries Grandly, quickly. ' This suspense is
Idling me.'

There is a slight pallor on his face, as he
leans forward in breathless anxiety,
waiting for his friend to speak. Loftus,

with a prefatory cough of embarrassment
commences his unwelcome task. ' You
have noticed, I know,' he says, slowly, 'that
I have never been favourably inclined towards
Miss Forsdyke. In fact, you have
accused me more than once of showing her
spite and malice. Now, Grandly, has it
ever struck you that I might have a
reason for disliking her ?'

Yes — it has,' returns Grandly, quickly,
Miss Forsdyke herself has told me the
reason of your dislike to her. You were
great friends once, she said, and you took
some liberty with her which she resented.'

What !' cries Loftus, falling back in
sheer amazement.

Just what I say,' replies Grandly,
coldly. ' You took some liberty with her
which she did not specify, and she resented
it.'

And you believed it ?' cries Loftus,
gazing incredulously towards his friend.

Naturally I believed it,' answers Grandly,
haughtily ; ' she is my promised wife.'

He speaks these words so simply and
with such a ring of perfect faith in the
integrity of his betrothed, that Loftus, hearing
him, slightly pales. He understands

that the task before him is one of appalling
magnitude.

You were deceived,' lie says, quickly.
'There is not one word of truth in the
story from beginning to end — it is a gross
fabrication. I never was a friend of Miss
Forsdyke's, and I never gave her the
opportunity to resent a liberty. When I
first met her she was bowed down to the
dust, and I saved her from a fate too
terrible to imagine. It was then that I
had the opportunity of studying her real
character — and it was then that I took a
dislike to her. Far from our ever having
been friends, I tell you that I, as an honest
man, have disliked her from the very first.'

Loftus,' says Grandly, vainly attempting
to steady his voice. ' I have promised
to keep my temper as long as you speak tome
in a kindly Spirit. It seems to me that
you are now actuated . . . .'

I am speaking to you in a kindly spirit,'
he interposes, hastily. ' It is the great
interest that I take in your welfare which
makes me undergo the extreme unpleasantness
of my present position. Grandly,
dear old boy, listen to me. You have been
terribly deceived. The girl to whom you

have engaged yourself, whom you deem so
pure and innocent, is an adventuress — a
low intrigues — a woman not worthy to look
you in the face. Believe me . . . .'

I will not believe you !' cries Grandly,
passionately, with a face pale as death.
'How dare you, Loftus, speak like that tome
of my promised wife !'

With a low groan Loftus falls back in
his chair and covers his face with his hands.
Never does he remember to have been
placed in such a truly awful position before.
The task which he has before him is one
of such extreme difficulty that even his
consummate tact and finesse fail before it.
For the space of several minutes neither
speaks. Loftus is the first to break the
silence. Removing his hands, he looks
into his friend's agitated face, and says,
slowly,

• Grandly, old boy, you must solemnly
promise me to keep your temper. What I
have to say must be said, even though you
kill me on the spot for saying it. Hear
me to the end without interruption — that
is all I ask. Let me finish my task — let
me do my duty — and then I will go. You
need not believe me — you may deliberately

disbelieve me — you may cut me for ever
afterwards — but . . . .'

I will,' says Grandly, in a hoarse
whisper. ' Speak out what you have to
say, and say it as quickly as possible — and
I will try to guard my tongue and temper

Thank you, old chap,' answers Loftus,
in faltering tones. ' I will be brief and to
the point. I find you engaged to Miss
Forsdyke, imagining her to be exactly
what she seems. I happen to know of an
episode in Miss Forsdyke's life of which
you are probably ignorant, and for your
own sake, as well as for your sister's, I feel
it my bounden duty to tell it you, for when
you hear it I feel certain that your love
will turn to hate — you will regard her with
scorn and loathing.'

Never !' says Grandly, firmly between
his teeth, his face utterly destitute of colour.
I defy you — do your worst !'

It is not a question of doing my worst,
nor of defiance,' says Loftus, sadly. * I
merely intend to do my duty by telling the
exact truth. I want you to cast your
thoughts back to a certain day when you
came to me and asked for information concerning
your brother-in-law's death. I do

not doubt that you remember every word
I said — I explained to you all the facts in
detail.'

'You did, Loftus,' says Grandly, in a
softened voice. ' You played a truly noble
part which I do not forget.'

Then trust me as a friend,' says Loftus,
with a sudden tenderness, taking his reluctant
hand in his. ' Do not regard meas
your enemy — believe me, I am acting
now solely for your good. Do you remember,
Grandly, how poor Charlie came
ty his death ?'

I do,' he says, his voice falling to a
subdued whisper.

'Tell me, and let me see whether you
have forgotten any of the circumstances
connected with that death.'

I have forgotten none,' says Grandly,
sadly. ' He was dared to pick a flower
growing over a precipice, and, accepting
the challenge, he fell, and was smashed to
pieces on the cruel rocks below. Alas !
poor Charlie !'

It is indeed so,' murmurs Loftus. ' But
for that mad venture, we should have him
here beside us now.'

We should, Loftus — curse her !'

Curse lotion T asks Loft us, quietly.

That fair wretch who brought him to
his ruin. But for that shameless, wanton
woman, Charlie Talbot would now be still
alive.'

Loft us rises to his feet and sinks down
upon his knees beside the bedside of his
friend.

Grandly — Frank !' he says, in an agitated
voice, taking him by the hand, ' that
shameless, wanton woman is now your
promised wife !'

CHAPTER XL

Servant FIDEM !

For a moment there is a dead silence.
The two men gaze into each other's face as
though suddenly changed to stone. Pale,
rigid, contorted, stunned by the suddenness
of the awful news, Grandly remains
motionless, incapable of uttering a single
sound — and then, with a fierce movement,
he disengages his hand, and falls back on
his pillow with a low moan of agony, his
face covered in his hands.

'LoftuSj'he whispers, hoarsely, 'is this
all a jest ? Tell me that it is not true ?'

Would to God I could !' says Loftus,
fervently, bending over him, his face disclosing
plainly his great distress of mind.
^ But I cannot — unless I tell a lie. I came

here with the express purpose of saying
it, and now I repeat it — the girl who was
poor Charlie's mistress and who was instrumental
in his death is one and the same
with your promised wife.'

It is not true — it is a vile lie !' — he
starts up fiercely, with a look of mad defiance
on his face. ' From the very first,
hating her, you have tried to injure her in
my opinion — you have slandered her —
persecuted her. — Ah ! God, what am I
saying? — Try to forgive me, Loftus, for
this ingratitude — my brain seems all on
fire — I feel that I am going mad !'

He falls back again upon the pillow with
a low groan. In spite of the great love he
bears the girl, in spite of the perfect faith
he has in her integrity and honour, he
cannot stifle the consciousness that Loftus
must be indeed speaking the truth — that
there cannot possibly exist any motive for
the concoction of such a gigantic lie.

You have a perfect right to doubt my
statement,' says Loftus, sadly. 'I come
to you and bring an aspersion of the gravest
character against your promised wife.
It is only fair that you should demand
some proof. Sitting here alone with you I

VOL. III. o

can give no proof, but, if you so wish it, I
will accuse her of it in your presence, and
I defy her to deny it. But, even here, I
may recall to your memory certain little
incidents which you have probably forgotten,
which will go far to establish what I
say. May I do this ?'

Without removing his hands from before
his face, Grandly makes a nervous gesture
of assent.

'Well, in the first place,' says Loftus,
quietly, ' 1 must remind you of the peculiar
life Miss Forsdyke leads. Only on
very rare occasions is she allowed to take
part in social gaieties — she is, in fact, if
you consider the case, more or less a slave
in her own house. She is allowed to make
no acquaintances, to speak to no one save
in the presence of her aunt, to exercise no
free will or judgment of her own. Now,
you must admit that such a position is
peculiar, and that there must exist some
reason for it.'

It only shows that she is a suffering
martyr,' says Grandly, quickly. ' I know
all this — she has told it to me herself
Her home is unhappy and unsympathetic,

^^?^if

antagonistic and cruel, and she deserves
pity, not condemnation.'

'To an outsider it may appear in that
light — but I, who know the facts of the
case exactly, view the matter differently.
She is treated in this seemingly harsh
manner under her own father's orders —
for in Colonel Forsdyke's opinion she is
not to be trusted out of sight. There was
a time when he loved the very ground on
which she walked — he worshipped her,
and denied her nothing in the world. But
his love for her received a shock, so awful
in its suddenness and character, that it
crumbled away, and the last three years
have not been sufficient to build it up
again. No one knows Miss Forsdyke's
true character better than her own father,
and it is on account of the perfectness of
his knowledge that her freedom is so restrained.'


'• Go on !' the voice comes quick and
short, with a sudden gasp, as though he
were vainly attempting to stifle a rising-sob.
The calm, impressive tones of Loftus,
so directly different from his usual style,
carry a sense of conviction to that quivered



ing heart which, he finds it vain for him to
attempt to fight against.

'Do you remember the club dance?'
says Loftus, quietly, steadying his voice
with an effort as he looks upon the
stricken figure beside him. ' Do you remember
my suddenly appearing before
Miss Forsdyke ? I think you do ; because
you mentioned to me afterwards, as a
kind of joke, that you had foolishly
imagined that she had suddenly paled, as
though with fear. It was no freak of
your imagination — it was the exact truth
Miss Forsdyke did turn pale as death
when I appeared before her. And why ?
simply because she feared me ! And
why did she fear me ? — because she knew
that she was in my power ! That was the
first time I had ever addressed her since
that day, three years before, when I
brought her back to her father in this
very place. Have you forgotten the
incident ?'

No, I have not forgotten it,' he murmurs,
hoarsely. ' I remember it exactly.
Have you anything more to say ?'

Yes — there are many points of circumstantial

evidence which I can lay
before you. By your own words this
morning you have confessed that Miss
Forsdyke fainted on your mentioning your
close relationship to Charlie Talbot. Does
not that fact give colour to my accusation ?
Can you doubt me longer when I tell you
that that very night, actuated by a wild
fear for the insecurity of her position, she
braved all risk and came to my room in
the small hours of the niojht, and beo-^ed
me to swear never to disclose her secret to
any mortal soul.'

Ah ! then it was she herself I saw !'
'It was. She came to me with tears
and protestations, imploring me never to
divulge the secret of her sin to you,
Frank Grandly. She said that she loved
you fondly in a pure platonic way, and
that she could not bear to think that
possibly I might step in between you, and
turn your love to hate. And I refused to
bind myself to any promise — her secret, I
told her, was quite safe in my keeping,
without my going through the form of
oath. I told her that for all I cared she
might love you in any way she liked —

that, as long as she did you no harm, I
should never interfere. And I would
have done so, dear old boy ! As long as
you confined yourself to flirtation, innocent
or guilty, it mattered not to me, and
I never said a word, except to occasionally
warn you of the danger of your position.
But when I heard that you were actually
engaged to her I hurried up here posthaste
to tell you all — for in consenting to
marry you she has done you a grievous
harm. Do you understand me, dear
old boy ? Had it been any other man on
earth, I should not have interfered at all
it would have been no business of mine.
It is not my wish to injure A^r, but to preserve
you for you are the brother of
Charlie's wife.'

He makes no answer — he lies therewith
his face buried in his hands, a prey
to his own great grief. All doubt as to
the accuracy of Loftus' statement has now
deserted him ; with the suddenness of an
overwhelming avalanche, he has become
aware that his betrothed — the girl in
whom he has held such a perfect trust
is a totally different being from what he
has imagined.

She has deceived him — in Loft us' words,
shamefully deceived him — deceived him
from the very first. Her purity and goodness,
the unhappiness of her home, the
sadness of her life, her craving for love
and sympathy, have all been parts in one
great systematic deception, and he has
blindly and trustingly believed in her,
and on this false understanding has she,
through the shallow pretence of a platonic
friendship, stolen from him the most priceless
jcAvel of his budding manhood — his
loyal love. Ah, yes, his love ; for, in spite
of everything, he knows that he loves her
still.

Love — man's strong love for woman —
cannot be uprooted in a day, for it is a
force utterly uncontrollable by the human
mind. Like a crawling serpent, it creeps
insidiously upon its prey, and then with a
spring it leaps and seizes its unconscious
victim in its winding coils, and no earthly
power is strong enough to extricate the
body from its fierce embrace. The brain
may try, may devise all manner of methods
of escape, but it will fail. The power of
the serpent-love is far too strong. It

cares iiouglit for the human brain, the
human inclination — it only minds its own
desire ; and there it clings, crushing body
and mind, and paralysing the senses ; and
there it stays, till, satiated, it unmnds
itself, sometimes slowly, sometimes quickly,
and disappears.

^ That was the night on which you dined
with me,' continues Loftus, quietly. ' On
returning home, you fancied you saw an
apparition. It was no apparition — it was
Miss Forsdyke in flesh and blood, coming
to pay me that midnight visit. Shall I
continue further? Shall I point out to
sou all the thousand little things which
you in your great blindness overlooked,
or are you now convinced ?'

No answer — merely a convulsive shiver
of the body.

'There is another point which I may
mention,' says Loftus, with a perceptible
quiver in his voice — for even his hardened
heart is unable to resist the wild surge of
pity which assails it as he looks on the
form of the man before him — ' and it is a
point on which, though only based on surmise,
I feel quite convinced. You have

often spoken to me concerning those mysterious
wreaths of flowers which appear on
your sister s grave — I have not the slightest
doubt that the hand which put them
there was Miss Forsdyke's.'

Diana's !' he cries, starting up in sheer
amazement.

'Yes, Diana's. You may remember that
you were once indignant with me for stating
that I saw Miss Forsdyke near the cemetery
on the day on which the old wreaths
were replaced by new ones. Although I
was certain of the fact, I did not press the
point, for I saw it was disagreeable to you ;
but still . . . . '

My sister's grave ! — but — but what
motive . . . . '

What motive, do you ask ? If you
believe my statement regarding her,
her motive will become apparent. If
it is true that she was instrumental
in his death, it is not hard to understand
why she tends his grave. The
motive-power in her case is a remorseful
conscience.'

Then she is good at heart !' he cries,
with a look of wild eagerness on his pain-stricken

face. ' She must have repented
of her former sin.'

^ Yes, I have no doubt she has,' returns
Loftus, gravely. ' In fact, I am certain of
the same — at least, as far as concerns her
share in Talbot's death. Whether her
morality is of a different character noah, I
cannot say. If you remember, when I told
you the story of his death, I impressed
upon you that she was to be pitied rather
than blamed — that it was accidental, resulting
from a mere caprice on her part.
Yes, Grandly, I am convinced that she
has expiated that sin in years of bitter
remorse. The fact of her horror for the
part she played in that tragic drama is
palpable when you consider that she fainted
at the mere mention of his name.'

I knew it — I knew it !' he cries, in the
same eager voice. ' She has repented
thoroughly of all her former wickedness —
I could have sworn that she was good.
What she was three years ago I do not
know — I do not care. I only see her as
she is— as she is to me — and to me she is
good, and pure, and lovable, and worthy
to be any honourable man's wife. I thank
you, Loftus, for your kindness in having

come and told me this,' lie adds, in a
calmer tone, turning to his friend. ' I
can well understand how distasteful the
task must have been to you, and I appreciate
strongly the affectionate motive which
prompted you to do it. Believe me, I mil
never foret it.'

He holds out his hand, and Loftus, with
a look of the blankest amazement on his
face, mechanically seizes it in his grip.
He hardly can believe his ears. Is it
possible that he has heard aright — or is he
mad — or dreaming ?

Grandly — Frank — what do you
mean ?'

I mean what I say,' replies Grandly,
firmly. ' You have acted the part of a
true friend in coming to disclose to me
these particulars, but your disclosure does
not shake me one atom in my original resolve.
I shall see Miss Forsdyke this
afternoon, and I shall tell her all I know,
and, if she still consents to be my wife, I
shall marry her. My sense of charity is
too great to condemn any woman for a
sin which she has committed years ago —
and this girl in particular, for I love her
purely and passionately well, and my love

for her tells me that, whatever may be the
crime which she has committed in past
years, she has amply expiated for it in
years of repentance and remorse.'

Loftus, with a sudden movement, springs
to his feet, and gazes at his friend in incredulous
horror. For the moment he
really fancies that the shock has partially
deprived him of his senses, but one look
into the depth of those dark blue eyes, regarding
him sorrowfully from out of the
pale, grave face, convinces him of his
error. He sees that Grandly is terribly
in earnest, and is speaking from the bottom
of his heart.

'Ah! it is impossible!' he cries, unable
to credit his senses. ' I can't believe you.
You cannot mean to marry her, after what
you know regarding her.'

'But I do intend to do so, all the same,'
replies Grandly, quietly and impressively.
Do you know anything against Miss Forsdyke,
except this one youthful folly ?'

No — nothing.'

'And you, yourself, admit that she has
suffered true repentance for her sin?'

Yes — as far as I can judge.'

Then, why is it impossible for me to

marry her ? Is a Avoman's whole life to be
blasted on account of one false step ? Are
years of repentance to be considered as
nought in comparison nth the gravity of
her offence ? Is a woman to be condemned
for ever, for doing that which in a
man is regarded either with indifference
or concealed admiration ? No, Loftus, if
that is your idea of charity — it is not
mine. If she will marry me, knowing that
I am aware of her dishonour, then she
shall be my wife. You look surprised —
but I can solemnly assure you that I mean

it;

Loftus takes three or four hasty paces up
and down the room. Such a determination
as this seems to him nothing short of sheer
insanity.

'But you must not — it is impossible —
you . . . .'

Not another word upon the subject,
if you please,' says Grandly, quietly, holding
up his hand. He is astonished, himself,
at his own calmness — in one moment all
the weakness and irresolution of his
character seem to have been swept away
by the force of the new strength which
permeates his frame. ' You have done me

to-day a noble act of friendship, and I
thank you for the same.'

You bear me no grudge — no enmity ?'
says Loftus, slowly, awed in spite of himself
at the calm majesty of his friend's
tones.

^ I thank you most heartily from the
bottom of my heart. After to-day, come
what may, it will be impossible for me
ever to think of you otherwise than in a
tender spirit. Shake hands, old chap —
good-bye for the present — we will meet
again soon, and I will let you know how
matters progress with regard to this
affair.'

Loftus mechanically shakes him by the
hand, too amazed to speak, and without a
word he turns round and leaves the house
closing the door behind him.

He passes through the gardens, and out
on the road, lost in the deepest thought,
and it is not until he has arrived opposite
the post-office that his thoughts find expression
in words. There he suddenly
stops, and, placing his hands upon his hips,
he looks up at the sky, and addresses
space.

Wells!' he says, with a sudden energy,

if he isn't the rummest cove on this benighted
earth, you — you — you may split
my windpipe with a medicated tomahawk !'
with which forcible ejaculation he continues
his way in the direction of the club, his
mind resembling one great chaos of bewilderment
and doubt.

CHAPTER XTI.

Grandly S DECISION.

Grande Y falls back on his pillow, and
covers his face with his hands. A cautious
rap at the door is heard, followed by its
slowly opening, and his servant noiselessly
glides across the room, and salaams.

^ Will the sahib get up — it is past ten
o'clock ?'

No — the sahib will not get up ! He
motions him to the door, telling him to
return in an hour's time.

Does the sahib require that cliota liaziri
should be brought ?'

I want nothing — go !' cries the sahib,
imperiously. ' Bring me my water at
eleven.'

The door closes on the obsequious

oriental, and Grandly falls back with a sigh
of ffreat relief. He wants to be alone — he

o

wants to think.

The shock which he has received, on
hearing of the frailty of his betrothed, has
been of a sobering character. Except for
that one wild outburst of defiance, apologised
for as soon as uttered, he has evinced
no marked degree of excitability. The
awful nature of Loftus' information regarding
Diana Forsdyke has disclosed to him
the utter unreliability of his own impressions,
and the knowledge that his perceptive
faculty has been so defective as to have led
him smiling and confident to the very edge
of a treacherous pitfall, has filled him with a
sense of awe which calms his quickening
pulse, and keeps in check the glowing fever
in his brain.

It had been a rude awakening. Full of
assurance as to the correctness of his own
judgment in the estimate of her character,
he had fondly imagined her to be the type
of everything good on earth — he had
fancied that he had known intimately and
exactly her inward self — he had regarded
her in the light of a suffering angel, — a
creature of high sensibilities, misunderstood.

III. P

stood and misused accordingly by the cold,
unsympathetic world in which she moved,
a being to whom sin and crime were
quantities unknown. Never for one moment
could he have deemed it possible
that she was concealing within her breast
the memory of that heinous crime which
has disgraced her past years. He had
believed in her implicitly ; he had trusted
her lovingly and perfectly ; he had been
ready to swear that she was exactly what
she seemed, a being clean and white as a
winter lily, a falling flake of snow, a
Himalayan crest — in fact, the very personification
of purity and innocence.

Yes, indeed — it has been a rude awakening.
Not for one moment does he doubt
the genuineness of Loftus' statement
regarding his betrothed. Apart from the
mass of circumstantial evidence brought
against her by his friend, intuitively he
feels that the accusation contains nothing
but the truth. Now that the scales have
fallen from his eyes, and she no longer
appears before him as the incarnation of
maiden purity, numerous little incidents
rise before him, bearing now a totally

different complexion to what they did
before. All that was mysterious in her
character — her confusions, her hesitations,
her trembling, her sudden fears — now
become to him as clear as day. What he
had formerly regarded as the effects of a
highly-strung, nervous temperament, now
he perceives to have been merely the
natural embarrassment resulting from the
concealment of a terrible secret. Dawson,
the great god, has fallen from his high
estate, and that which he has fondly
imagined to be priceless marble has shown
itself to be but common clay.

But as nth the Philistines of old, so
with him now. Though Dao-on fell, so
that his head and both the palms of his
hands were cut off upon the threshold,
only his bare stump remaining, although
he was thus mutilated, destroyed of all
the attributes of godhead, they tenderly
and reverentially took him and set him in
his place again. Though they had seen
him debased, humbled, smashed upon the
ground, their old feeling of reverence for
him was too strong to be eradicated from
their hearts. Knowing him to be but

p2

brittle stone, they took him and set him
in his place again, and worshipped him
blindly as before. Association, tradition,
habit were all too strong to allow them to
thrust him forth from their mentally-contracted
lives and to reject him at his proper
value.

Yes — he is conscious of the fact ; he
knows that he loves her all the same, although
the marble has turned to common
clay. It was the figure, and not the
material of its composition, which he has
loved, and, in spite of the severe shock
which his heart has received on the discovery
of his illusion, he is totally incapable
of eradicating from its midst that
feeling of passionate tenderness which he
has conceived for her. Ashamed, humbled,
degraded to the dust in his own estimation,
in having to admit the fact of his
moral debasement, still he finds himself
powerless to turn his love to hate. Before
the fierce power of his love, conscience,
requirement of self-respect, demand of
honour, better judgment, all dwindle down
to nothingness. As the infant's castle on
the sand vanishes beneath the mighty progress
of the ocean wave, so melt the calm

dictates of moral inclination before the fiery
cyclone of the human heart.

What is he to do ? What is to be his
line of action ? What is to be his final
decision — for the decision he makes must
be indeed final? There must be no indecision,
no irresolution, no half-measures
he must either take her or reject her !

Lying in bed, with that wonderful
boyish countenance of his pale and torn
with the fierce workings of a man's passion,
the question which he has propounded to
Loftus rings in his ears nth ceaseless
reiteration : Are years of repentance to be
considered as nought in comparison with
the gravity of one's sin ? Is a human
being's whole life to be irrevocably blasted
on account of one false step ?

No — a thousand times no ! How can
Christian charity enunciate such a truly
unchristian principle ? Ah ! what a terribly
awful contemplation ! A whole life ruined
by one youthful indiscretion, and no power
on earth strong enough to grant another
life in which the ruined wretch may find
such earthly happiness as it is the right of
every human creature, however humble, to
enjoy ! Gone — gone — gone like the mist

before the sun — the smoke before the wind
gone like the report of some great gun
rolling onward into space never to he heard
again throughout the eternity of time !

He covers his face with his hands and
shudders. All the charity of his chivalrous
manhood rises, fierce and white with indignation,
to protest against such hideous
cruelty.

^ Never,' he cries. ' Such things cannot
surely be in this Christian world ! Ah !
what a spectacle ! Charity, pity, mercy
trodden down and trampled out of sight by
envy, hatred, malice !'

There can be but one answer to his proposition.
If a being fully and truly repents
the committal of a sin, forgiveness becomes
more than his due — it is his right. Such
is the very essence of the Christian
doctrine.

'Who am I to set myself up to judge
her for her sin ?' he murmurs sadly to himself
' Am I myself immaculate ? Am I
a God? If she has repented, what right
have I to withhold from her the forgiveness
she has earned ?'

He casts his thoughts towards the

character of her sin. She has failed in
that respect which in a woman is considered
by the world the most heinous of all
failings — she has committed the one sin
which society will never pardon. Why
should this be so ? Thinking deeply, he
cannot say.

To his clear sense of justice, it seems
grotesque that what applies to women
should not equally apply to men. Surely,
he argues to himself, it is not too much to
expect to find a certain consistency in the
formation and application of social laws.
If the law of society demands that women
who have once fallen should be universally
shunned and totally condemned, why should
it be more lenient to men who have similarly
offended. Why should there be this
marked distinction in favour of the male
sex ? B}^ what right has it obtained this
exclusive and peculiar privilege ? Or viceversa,
if in men breach of morals be regarded
with indifference why should not
women be also treated in the same clement
manner ?

To Grandly, now lying in bed, such a
state of affairs appears to be so hideously

unjust that lie can barely believe that it
actually does exist in the centre of a world
priding itself on its freedom, culture,
equity, and advanced civilisation. But,
that it does exist he is only too well aware,
although he has never before recognised
the fact until this moment when he finds
himself face to face with it, standing before
him like some gaunt spectre, grinning
ghastliness and shame, impossible to pass
unnoticed. Laws for men, and laws for
women !

Alas ! what a gangrene sore — what a
cancerous wound festering in the very
heart of the social world, and corroding
all that is good and right and charitable !
And with what result ? See — look — judge
for yourselves, and what a piteous farce,
what a sad burlesque, what a sorry pantomime
is revealed to your astonished eyes !
The strange anomaly of a state of life,
where men and women each possess their
respective standards of morality !

Have I, myself, never fallen in this
respect?' he murmurs to himself, following
rapidly up his train of thought. ' Have I
never been guilty of this offence ? Can I

say honestly, truthfully, from the bottom
of my heart, that I am pure in this particular
? No, I cannot — I have sinned
not once, not twice, not even a dozen
times — I have sinned so often that I have
lost all count — and yet I am received in
society as though it had never happened.
And it is not because society is ignorant of
the fact. They know it, though I have
never told them so. They do not require
to be told, for they accept it in me, being
a man, as a matter of course. And no one
thinks the worse of me for having done it
in fact, some men view it with pride and
complacency, instead of shame. Then why
should she, for having fallen once be placed
outside the pale of all that is pure and
good ? Why should she be regarded as a
thing of wickedness and contamination, a
thing to shun and shudder at? Why
should she be treated in this cruel and
fearful way, when my delinquencies are
ignored? No — no — my God, I thank
Thee for having placed me above the conventional
blindness of the social world !
She has sinned, and so have I — therefore,
if I be not her inferior, we stand upon a

true equality. It is not for me to cast the
stone. It is not a question of innate
wickedness and depravity, for my little
darling is neither wicked nor depraved by
nature. It is merely a question of moral
weakness. Under the influence of some
great passion, she has yielded to temptation.
Years have passed since that fatal
time — years of wild bitterness and remorse.
Is she then to be condemned ? '^o — a
hundred, thousand times no ! How can
one, in the possession of an immortal soul,
bring oneself to mete out such gross injustice?
Who can estimate the strength of
the temptation which assailed her — and
how can those, who have never been so
assailed, dare to condemn her for having
fallen ?'

A smile of exquisite tenderness overspreads
his face, and he raises his head
from his pillow, and leans upon his
arm, gazing fixedly before him as in a
trance.

'Ah, Diana — my little love — my darling!'
he murmurs softly to himself; ' only
assure me, with your own lips, that you
are pure, that you have repented of your

former sin, and I will take you in my arms \

and shelter you from all future harm nth |

the power of my love !' j

J


CHAPTER XIII.

A NOBLE FORGIVENESS AND ITS REQUITAL.

The knowledge of the great sin in Diana's
past life causes Grandly to view his approaching
interview with her father in
quite a different light. Before he was
aware of that dark blot resting on the
fairness of her name, the thought of his
confession had caused him not a little
anxiety. He was unable to conceal from
himself the fact that the part which he
had played in the affair bore a most uncommonly
suspicious appearance, and he
had dreaded to think how the colonel
might receive the news.

But this feeling of trepidation disappears
on the discovery of that closed
leaf in Diana's past. He becomes at once

aware that the colonel, himself cognisant
of the slur on his daughter's name, will
not be in a position to subject his conduct
to a severe criticism when he hears his
honourable proposal of marriage.

So it is with a feeling of confidence in
the result of his visit that he taps at
Mrs. Renfrew's door an hour after lunch.

Mrs. Renfrew rises to meet him as he
enters, extending to him her hand with
an air of gracious affability.

'Good-afternoon, Mr. Grandly,' she says,
I am very glad to see you — pray be
seated — I think you are a little late.
Diana is in the inner room — she has
been very upset to-day by her father's
visit. It seems to me, between ourselves,
Mr. Grandly, that he is very incensed at
the whole affair. On his arrival they had
a long interview together, and she came
out crying, in a most excited state, and
from what she said I gathered that her
father would have nothing to say to the
matter.'

I hope not,' says Grandly, blankly.
^ Surely she must be mistaken. I am well
aware that my conduct is open to violent
criticism. I ought never to have allowed

myself to enter upon a clandestine intimacy
With your niece. But, my dear
Mrs. Renfrew, you must be well aware that
my intentions have never been otherwise
than honourable. From the very first,
I have never held a thought towards
Diana that was not upright and pure.'

On that point I feel quite certain, Mr.
Grandly,' she answers, confidently. ^ I
pride myself rather on being a physiognomist
— and, judging from your face, I do not
believe you to be capable of deliberately
doing wrong. From the first moment I
saw you I took a liking to you, and I am
sure you have my best wishes for your
success. What my brother's objections
are I do not know. I suppose, after all,
it is but natural that he should be put outwith
the whole affair.'

'But where is the colonel?' cries
Grandly. ' Let me see him, and plead
my own cause. Conscious as I am of having
done nothing radically wrong, I do
not see why he should object to have me
for a son-in-law. The happiness of two
lives are dependent on his consent. It is
true,' he adds, bitterly, ' that I am very

poor, and not in a position to offer his
daughter a fitting; home.'

Such a consideration would bear no
weight whatever with my brother,' answers
Mrs. Renfrew, with calm dignity.
In discussing ways and means, you
appear to forget that Diana is an only
child, and as such will probably obtain a
fair allowance, sufficient, at any rate, to
enable you to set up house, if not luxuriously,
at least comfortably. Colonel Forsdyke
is at present taking some fresh air.
He appeared terribly agitated, ate no
lunch, and scarcely spoke a word — Diana
was in tears — in fact, it has been a very
trying day for me with my weak nerves.
I think, if you will excuse me, I will go
and lie down. I will send Diana to keep
you company, and you had better wait
till the colonel returns — he won't belong.'


As she speaks she sprinkles her handkerchief
nth eau-de-cologne and passes it
wearily across her brow. To look at herat
this moment, one would have thought
that all the cares of a great nation were
on her shoulders. With an effort she

rises from the sofa. Grandly picks up
her shawl from the floor, and hands it to
her. She thanks him with a faint smile,
and passes into the next room.

In another moment Diana is standing in
the doorway, and an involuntary exclamation
of horror escapes him as he gazes on
her pale, tear-stained face. Careworn,
haggard, of a deadly pallor, with large,
black rims encircling her swollen eyes, it
seems as though ten years had passed since
last he looked upon her face. In a moment
everything is forgotten beyond the
fact that he loves her, that she is more
precious to him than all the world. He
advances hastily towards her with the
intention of taking her in his arms, but
with a sudden movement she stops his
action.

'Keep back!' she cries, in hoarse, discordant
tones. ' You must not speak tome
— you must not touch me — you must
not look upon my face again — we must
be strangers to one another for evermore.
But, Frank — my love — my darling,' — her
voice changes to a despairing cry, and she
sinks down at his feet, gazing up at him
with a face of agonised entreaty — ' try —

try not to think harshly of me in the future.
My love for you was always pure
and true — remember that — always try to
remember that.'

He gently takes her in his arms, and
lifts her from the ground, and places her
in the low arm-chair beside the fire. Then
he kisses her softly on the forehead, and
kneels down beside her, and takes her
hand in his. Well does he understand the
reason of her agitation.

Hush, Diana !' he says, in soothing
tones of loving tenderness. ' Tell me what
you mean. Why should we be strangers
for evermore ? Why should we not follow
the dictates of our love, and become to one
another man and wife ?'

A sob escapes her, and she throws her
arms around his neck with a passionate
abandon,

I cannot tell you,' she whispers, hoarsely.
' I have deceived you, and I dare not
tell you the story of my shame. Let me
say good-bye to you now for ever — let me
look into those wondrous, speaking eyes of
yours once more, and read their tale of
love ; for it is the last time — the very last
time on earth. You must never come back

VOL. III. Q

to me again she continues, nth a choking
gasp of painful emotion — ' never —
never — ah ! think exactly what that cruel
word means — you must never come back
to me to disclose your scorn and loathing,
for I wish to remember you always in the
future — ah ! my God, the future ! — what
will the future be to me ? — as you are, as
you always have been, as I have learned
to love you, and not as you will be in one
short hour's time, when you have seen my
father.'

A swelling sensation arises in his throat,
and he folds his arms around her, straining
her to his breast. Such is the intensity
of his emotion that for several moments
he finds himself incapable of articulating
a syllable, and then, with a violent effort,
he controls himself. Disengaging himself
from her embrace, he looks her steadily in
the face.

Diana, my little darling,' he says,
gently, ' I do not fear my interview with
your father, nor need you. He can tell
me nothing concerning you which I do not
know already — he can tell me nothing
which can alter the great love I bear you.
Diana, I know all — I know every circumstance

connected with the hideous secret
of your life.'

For a moment there is silence, the two
looking into each other's eyes, each striving
to penetrate the thoughts concealed within,
and then she breaks forth into a laugh of
wild, hysterical emotion.

You know nothing, Frank — nothing —
nothing!' she cries. ' Did you do so, you
would not now be here ; you would not
touch me with your finger, for fear of lasting
contamination.'

He takes both her hands in his and looks
her fixedly in the face.

Diana,' he says, earnestly, ' I repeat, I
know everything, and yet I am here, kneeling
at your feet. Such a love as mine
cannot be killed with a sudden blow. Perhaps
you will believe me when I tell you
that, on awaking this morning, I found Mr.
Loftus . . . . '

Mr. Loftus ! Ah !'

Yes, Mr. Loftus. Xow, Diana, you
understand. He has told me all — he has
disclosed to me the whole story of your
sin.'

*Told you all !' she murmurs, mechanically,
gazing at him with horror-stricken

q2

eyes. ' Ah ! it is impossible ; and you
are here — Frank, Frank, what do you
mean ?'

This is what I mean,' he says, drawing
her closer towards him. ' I mean that my
love for you is as strong as ever ; I mean
that it is not for me to judge you for your
sin ; I mean that I only want an assurance
from your own lips that you have wholly
repented of your sin, and it shall be blotted
out — it shall be as though it had never
been — I will take you as my wife, and
shelter you with my life.'

A sound of passionate sobbing breaks
forth from the unhappy girl, and she throws
herself forward on his neck.

Tell me, Diana,' he whispers, ' have you
wholly repented of your sin ? Assure me
with your own lips that you are now pure
and good, that you look back with horror
on the error of your youth — tell me that
you have nothing further on your mind —
lay bare to me your heart — let me see into
its hidden depths — let me assure myself
that you are what I deem you to be, a
girl who has sinned, and suffered, and
repented.'

I have,' she whispers, hoarsely, between

her sobs — ' I have. Frank, I am not
worthy of such love ; I am a bad, ^\dcked
woman. God help me ! How can you still
love me, knowing what you do ? How can
you bear to hold me in your arms, when
you remember what I have been ?'

I do not remember what you have
been,' he says. ' One only remembers
what one has known — and I never knew
the girl who sinned. The girl I learned
to love, the girl I now hold in my arms, is
quite a different being. The sin has long
been washed out by years of remorseful
sorrow. I only know you as you are, as
you have always been to me. I only
know that to me you have always been
good and true.'

Ah ! Frank, I have repented,' she
whispers, sadly. ' For years I have suffered
the tortures of remorse, for years I have
never known a moment's peace. My one
and only thought in life has been — how
can I best atone ? How can I expiate my
sin ? I have placed flowers on his grave,
and on hers — his gentle wife's, lying there
beside him in that . . . .'

Hush, Diana love !' he murmurs, hastily.
' We will drop this very painful

subject — we will blot it out for ever. We
now start afresh — our hearts are bare to
one another — no secrets are hidden away in
their depths — all is as clear as day, and
all that has been impure in both of us has
been washed away under the cleansing influence
of our love. Let us mutually
swear a perfect confidence in one another,
both now and henceforth. Diana, my
darling, as I love you I swear that my past
life contains nothing that I would not tell —
it is open before you, and you may read it
as a book. Say that to me, Diana dear —
and we will brave the world together till
we die.'

There is a silence ; and then she tries to
speak, but her tongue refuses to articulate,
and it ends in a hollow gasp. How can she
frame the gigantic lie which is trembling
on her lips ? How can she, in the face of
that great sacrifice which he has just
made for her, deceive further his trusting
heart ?

Diana, do not be afraid !' he says,
tenderly. '■ If you have any secrets, tell
them to me — if you have not, simply state
the fact. I will not humble you so far as

to enforce the oath — your word ^vill be
sufficient.'

Again he waits her answer, and again
nothing comes. All the goodness of her
nature is struggling to assert itself, all that
is womanly and tender in her composition
is fighting fiercely to disclose the hideous
truth. But still she hesitates — and she is
lost ! How can she bear to yield him up
now that she has him really in her grasp,
now that she has had such a touching, all-convincing
proof of the immensity of the
love he bears her? No — she cannot doit
her strength is not equal to such a stupendous
sacrifice — she will not do it — she
would rather die ! She will write to
Grafton at once, and beg him to release her
from her promise. There is yet time —
he will not arrive for another fortnight.
She will swear him to inviolable secrecy
concerning her engagement, and Frank —
her love her dream, her life — will never
know.

Diana, my darling, why don't you
speak ?'

Frank — Frank — I swear, by God, that
I have nothing in my past life which you

may not know. It, too, is an open book
which you may read.'

A convulsive trembling seizes her
violently from top to toe, and she leans
heavily upon his neck. In this moment
of awful perjury her senses seem to desert
her, the room swims round her head, and
she knows herself to be on the point of
fainting. In complete unconsciousness of
her condition, he clasps her in his arms,
and imprints a kiss of passionate fervour
on her lips.

So be it, my darling !' he murmurs,
huskily. ' From to-day a new life begins
for us. May God look down upon us, and
bless our betrothal !'

At this moment the door suddenly opens
and Colonel Forsdyke appears upon the
threshold of the room. Grandly hastily
rises to his feet, and, with a supreme effort,
Diana controls her weakness, and takes her
place beside him.

It is a tall, elderly man who has entered,
with a careworn cast of countenance
furrowed deeply with the marks of time,
with iron-grey hair and moustache, and
pale blue benevolent-looking eyes which
take in the situation at a glance. There

is that about his face — a look of indescribable
sorrow — which has a strange
effect upon Granclby's heart, causing him
to move forward impulsively towards him,
with the intention of shaking him by the
hand. To his keen eyes, it is evident at a
glance that this tall, commanding figure,
looking every inch the officer and gentleman,
has borne more care and suffering
than is the lot of most men in this world.

But Colonel Forsdyke does not appear to
see his proffered hand. He walks towards
his daughter and stands before her with a
look of fierce displeasure on his face.

Diana,' he says, harshly, ' is this the
way you disobey my orders ? Did I not
enforce on you to hold no communication
with this gentleman until I had spoken
with him in private ? Mr. Grandly,' he
says, turning to Frank, with a courtly bow,
Avill you oblige me by giving me a few
moments' conversation in the garden ?
I hear from my daughter that you have
done me the honour to ask her to be your
wife. Before I can listen to your proposals,
I have a very painful duty to perform,
which can only be done in private. I have
a communication to make to you of such a

serious character that it mays possibly alter
your present views With regard to her.'

I shall be very happy to come with
you, sir, and hear what you have to say,'
says Grandly, quietly. 'But it is only
right for me to inform you that I already
know what you desire to tell me. Yes,
Colonel Forsdyke, I know it all. The
hidden chapter in Diana's life has been
revealed to me. But, sir, with your consent,
I still intend to make your daughter
my wife. The knowledge that has come tome
has made no difference in my love.
She has sinned, but she has repented, and
it is not for me to condemn her for her
sin.'

As he speaks he passes his arm around
her waist, and stands confronting the
colonel, his face illumined by the faintest
tinge of colour.

The colonel looks from one to the other
in amazement. He sees Grandly presenting
towards him a fearless countenance,
strong in its innate nobility, and he sees
his daughter clinging to his arm, her head
upon his shoulder. As to what he has
heard issue from Grandly 's mouth, he cannot

believe his senses. It is too impossible
too incredible — too amazing to comprehend.
And then, swift as thought, a
dark suspicion overcomes him, and a look
of intense severity settles on his brow.

Mr. Grandly — you cannot know — it is
impossible,' he says. ' Now, as all along,
you have been deceived — fearfully deceived
you have no . . . .'

I do know all,' says Grandly, firmly,
and you will comprehend that I have not
been deceived when I tell you my informant's
name. It was Mr. Loftus !'

Loftus !' he raises his hand to his forehead
with a sudden movement. ' Ah ! then
you indeed know all ! Mr. Grandly,' he
adds, quickly, 'Avill you oblige me by
coming outside. I do not understand — I
should like to speak to you in private on
this matter.'

Certainly, sir !'

He turns towards Diana, and, in spite of
her father's presence, folds her in his arms
and kisses her on the forehead.

^ Good-bye, my darling — till tomorrow,'
he says, lovingly. ' I will come and see
you early in the morning.'

She cling's to him with a passionate
earnestness, and draws his head down towards
her.

Frank — Frank !' she whispers, hoarsely.
What will he say to you ? Will you be
influenced by him against me?'

Trust in me, my darling,' he whispers
in return, and with a last kiss he turns
away and leaves the room preceded by the
colonel, who has been watching the scene
in thorough mystification.

The two men descend the stairs, and
emerge into the open, and it is not until
they have arrived at the further extremity
of the tennis-court that they halt and face
each other, and the silence is broken. It
is the colonel who speaks. He rests his
hand upon the young man's arm, and looks
him steadily in the face.

Tell me, Mr. Grandly,' he says, ' exactly
what you mean.'

In a moment Grandly has commenced
to explain himself Describing concisely
and accurately the whole pith of the
accusation which Loftus has brought
against Diana, he shows the colonel firstly
that he is indeed cognisant of the whole
affair. And then he goes on to narrate to

him, humbly and diffidently, as though
afraid of being thought presumptuous in
attempting to dictate to his elder on the
question of right and wrong, in detail
the mental analysis which he has undergone,
and which has resulted in his forgiveness
of Diana, and in his decision not
to depart from his original intention of
making her his wife. The colonel listens
to him in amazement, and, as he ceases to
speak, he extends his arm and shakes him
warmly by the hand.

Mr. Grandly,' he says, in a faltering
voice, and there is a suspicion of moisture
in his eyes. ' No words of mine can express
to you my intense admiration for
your truly noble character — can thank you
sufficiently for the goodness and wondrous-charity
you have extended to my erring
child. It is past all thanks, past all expression
of the human tongue — I can only
stand before you, and humbly acknowledge
that I have received a lesson to-day which
covers my grey-hairs With shame. In you,
I have met a character which so far surpasses
my own that they cannot even be
compared. But ah ! Mr. Grandly, believe
me — my daughter is not worthy of such a

noble treatment — and it is I, her own
father, who condemns her.'

Sir, she has repented. As I know her
as I have learned to love her — there is
no wickedness in her nature — it has been
cleansed, purged, and it is again as white
as snow.'

May you be right !' he says, passing his
hand wearily across his brow. ' God forgive
me if my doubts have no foundation.
Since that awful day, when she broke my
heart and name, I have never been able to
regard her as my offspring. I have fed
and clothed her, I have given her a shelter
for her head, but I have given her nothing
more. Love and tenderness died out of
my heart on that fatal night, when I
found that she had fled wilfully to dishonours


But it will return — it must return some
day,' cries Grandly, eagerly. ' The instinct
of paternity will be too strong to be
repressed for ever. Ah ! sir— has her long
suffering repentance no weight in your
eyes ? Can you, her father, condemn her
utterly for one false step, taken in thoughtless
youth ?'

I may be wrong,' he says, wearily.

Perhaps I am unjust to her — but how
can I believe in her again, after what she
did ? How can I see into her inmost
thoughts — how can I make certain of her
repentance? She has sinned once — sinned
terribly — outraged honour, virtue, modesty,
respect — sacrificed all that women should
hold most dear. How can I tell that she
will not again deceive me ? It may have
been a great temptation or it may have
been innate wickedness, which prompted
her to sin. Which it was, I do not know
I have never asked — I have never referred
once to the subject, since she was again
allowed to enter my doors. But, if it were
the latter, God help us all, for it were as
easy to cure a cancerous wound as to
purify a heart radically impure.'

I have no doubt in my heart,' says
Grandly, firmly, deeply moved by the
rugged pathos of the old man's words.
Can you not trust to the subtle intuition
of my love ? It tells me plainly that her
repentance is sincere.'

'And so once I thought — so once I
believed her. I loved her fondly, foolishly,
devotedly — she was the apple of my
eye — she was everything to me in life. I

denied her nothing — her every whim, her
slightest fancy was obeyed, as though it
had been some imperial command. Day
and night I thought of her, planning how
to please her, I worshipped her — she even
usurped the citadel of my God. My trust
in her was boundless, my faith illimitable
I knew, through the intuition of my love.,
that she was a creature fitted to take her
place in the celestial throng above. And
of what worth was the intuition of my
love ? One day, without a word, she left
me — forsook me — basely deserted the
father whose only fault was that he had
been too kind to her — left her home, her
life of innocence and calm enjoyment —
left it for the vile embraces of her seducer.
Ah ! God, I can never believe in her
again !'

He turns away with a gesture of
despair.

'Then, believe me, Colonel Forsdyke,
you are doing her a grievous wrong,' says
Grandly, earnestly, turning deadly pale.
I, too, have had opportunity of studying
her character, and the result of my
study is that she is worthy of every trust,
that she has thoroughly repented of her

sin. There is no reason wliy any man
should not be proud to call her his wife.
I love her, and she loves me — our faith in
one another is perfect, boundless — and you
cannot refuse your consent to our union.
Allow me to be my own judge upon this
matter. Give me your daughter — / have
no fear for the future. Give her as my
wife, and together we will prove to you
how unjustly you have judged her.'

^ God grant that such may be the case !'
murmurs the old man, gazing wistfully upto
heaven. ' If, Mr. Grandly, you continue
to still persist in your determination — after
all that I have said '

'I do !' says Grandly, firmly and
defiantly.

Then I will not withhold from you my
consent. Take her — she is yours. But
do not lay the blame on me if, in the
future, she turns out contrary to your expectations.
Remember that I — her own
father — solemnly warned you of the risk
that you were running.'

There is no risk,' says Grandly, with
earnest confidence, holding out his hand.
I thank you, Colonel Forsdyke, for your
goodness. It will be my one aim in life to

VOL. III. E

prove to you that you were wrong in your
estimate of your daughter's character.'
God grant that you may be successful !'

CHAPTER XIV.

A STRANGER AT BANBURY's.

A GLORIOUS morning breaks upon the
Doonga Hill, scattering the fogs and mists,
and disclosing peak after peak, range after
range in one long sweep of clear sunlight.
It is as though the autumn, jealous of the
encroachments made by Winter upon its
rightful territory, had determined to assert
itself, and with one last stupendous effort
to show itself to be still possessed of
life.

The sun shines down warmly and merrily
upon the pleasure-grounds surrounding
the hotel, licking up — such is its insatiable
thirst — every drop of moisture to be
found upon the close-cut lawns and tennis-courts
; and the flowers, still faintly glis-

r2

tending with their little crystal beads of dew,
turn towards it, and lie, with petals extended,
basking in the heat. The trees,
alive with the joyous song of birds, under
the pleasant influence of the sun, seem to
have taken a second spell of life, for there
is a look of greenness and freshness about
them which has not been observed during
the last few days, and, as though conscious
of the fact, they seem to raise their crests
of foliage more proudly heavenwards than
has lately been their wont. A faint
breeze is blowing from the south — blowing
warm and redolent of the scents of deodar
and pine.

It is a gala day, and Nature has arrayed
herself in bright and shining colours todo
honour to the glad occasion. It is a day
on which all living creatures, including
man, experience a pleasurable consciousness
of their existence — a day breathing
joy, and peace, and sweet content to all
creation. And yet to many it will always
be remembered as a day of sorrow and
despair, of bitterness and ruined hope, of
anguish and great weeping — a day, the
very blackest in the calendar of life.
On this fair day, as on every other day

in every other year, many human souls
^^dll be lost in the darkness of an eternal
night, irrespective of the disappearance
of that grand and lovely sun behind the
mountain slopes.

Mrs. Stockton — a blot upon the fairness
of the scene — oblivious to the beauties of
the day, is prowling round about the garden
paths cogitating deeply over certain
matters connected with her own immediate
person. By that morning's post, she has
received a letter from her husband, which
has roused all the malignancy of her temperament
to fever height. Intense mortification,
baffled rage, and impotent spite
take possession of her, and, fighting for
supremacy, banish all better feelings from
the region of her brain. She feels herself
helpless, powerless, directly checkmated
— incapable of retort or retaliation,
for the letter has given her no legitimate
clue to her husband's present whereabouts.
Prior to her receiving it, it has
been artfully despatched down south, and
thence it has been re-directed, bearing
the post-mark ' Bangalore.'

The colonel, taking advantage of the
mystery surrounding his present location,

has summoned up courage to write to lier
in a dictatorial manner which has galled
her to the quick. Accustomed as she has
been for the last quarter-of-a-century to
tread rough-shod upon the rugged path of
connubial duty, this sudden turning of the
worm, in the person of her wretched husband,
has filled her with stupefied amazement,
and convulsed her with a vitriolic
indignation. Such a gross outrage to her
dignity she has never received before, and
the knowledge of her utter powerlessness
to avenge the insult goads her malignant
spirit to little short of madness.

In as few words as possible, and in a
phraseology inclined to the sarcastic, her
husband has intimated to her that after
long and careful consideration of the question
he has been compelled to arrive at the
conclusion that it would be better for
them in the future if they were to agree to
live apart. He has for some time noticed,
he says — for a matter of twenty years, in
fact — that her temper has been distinctly
sharp and unpleasant, and he feels morally
convinced that this acidity of disposition
is due to the fact of her having stayed too

long in the baneful climate of Hindostan.
And this conviction on his part is based on
a scientific as well as on a moral ground —
the veriest tyro in the acquirement of a
knowledge of the science of chemistry will
inform her that concentrated acids, exposed
to extreme heat, are liable to ignite
spontaneously.

He has therefore resolved that she
should at once return to England, and,
nth this idea, he has ordered Messrs.
King and Co., Bombay, to book for her a
passage in the Peninsular and Oriental
steamship Travancore starting from that
port on the fifteenth of the following
month. She will, therefore, have ample
time to arrange her effects, settle her
affairs, and pack up — with the understanding
that anything left behind mil be soldat
once by auction to the highest bidder.
By the same post that she receives this
letter, she will receive a copy of the Indian
Bradshaw in which she will find every
information necessary to her safe conduct
to Bombay. He would suggest page
twenty-five to her earnest consideration.
Halting at Delhi the night, by the Bombay

and Baroda line, lie could accomplish the
journey in ninety-six hours. He would
advise her to provide herself with a thick
veil, as the latter portion of that line is
notorious for its dust — it is due he believes,
though he cannot say for certain, to the
embankment being composed of loose
sand.

There is no need for him to mention the
severity of the mental struggle that he has
undergone before he has been able to bring
himself to consent to this important step ;
but the gravity of the case will not admit
of him paying heed to selfish considerations.
If he wishes to fulfil his duty as a
husband, the preservation of her health
must be considered first above all other
earthly things, and he would be laying
himself open to the most virulent criticism
were he to allow himself to be influenced
one iota by any maudlin sentiment.

Naturally, when she has gone, there will
be no need for him to retain the same
establishment as before, so he has given
orders for all his effects — horses, carriages,
crockery, plate, furniture — to be sold at
once. He has also dismissed his servants,
and has given up his house to the brigadier,

who, lie may remember, has long
been desirous of possessing it. It is his
intention, for the future, to live a simple,
frugal, bachelor life ; and, with this purpose,
he has arranged to share a small
house With Major Blank of his regiment —
who, in addition, has kindly agreed to
superintend the auction-sale. Though
force of circumstances will preclude the
possibility of their meeting, he is sure that
there is no need for him to state that his
sympathies will follow her across the seas.
He hopes that she will have a smooth passage
; he hopes that she will write occasionally
; he hopes that the English climate
will have a speedy and beneficial effect
upon her temper. He places no restrictions
upon her choice of habitation, nor
upon her style of living. She may go
where she pleases, she may do what she
pleases, she may say what she pleases — in
fact, he limits her in nothing except in her
allowance. The sum of one hundred
pounds will be paid in to Messrs. Cox and
Co., quarterly. It mil necessitate her investing
in a cheque-book. She should
never forget the precaution of crossing her
cheques with two broad lines, and writing

the words ' Not negotiable ' across the
top.

This is the substance of the letter she
has received. The Indian Bradshaw was
hurled at her ayah's head, and disappeared
through the open window into the yard
below, where it was worried to shreds by
two fox-terrier puppies, the property of
Major Lamb ; and, had this gallant officer's
wife been made cognisant of the circumstance,
she would probably, out of the
fulness of her heart, have promoted these
two dirty little specimens of canine humanity
into lapdogs of the most privileged and
exclusive order. But, unfortunately for
them, their heroic action was not reported,
and so, like many human beings similarly
circumstanced, they remained unrewarded.

Mrs. Stockton, feeling inclined to shriek
aloud, such is the intensity of her mortification,
continues to prowl up and down,
planning vain schemes of retaliation
against her husband, glaring savagely
from right to left as though to discover
something — anything — on which to vent
her rage. As she passes the hotel for the
thirtieth time in the last hour, the door

opens, and she finds herself face to face
with Grandly and Miss Forsdyke.

Their faces, overflowing with joy and
happiness, plainly tell their tale. That
their hearts are bound together in the
closest bonds of a perfect love and sympathy
is evident at a glance.

Ah ! what a wondrously handsome pair
they make ! Even she, in her blind, insensate
hate, cannot deny the fact. His
olive skin is glowing with the flush of
youth and health, and there is an air of
unaccustomed hauteur in the carriage of
his head due to his pride in the possession
of the girl he loves, which enhances the
beauty of his presence. She, Diana, is
clinging to his arm, her whole face illumined
and transfigured by the consciousness of
her love. Standing beside each other, it
seems as though nature had created them
expressly for one another.

Good-morning, Mrs. Stockton,' says
Grandly, pleasantly. ' Is not this a
glorious day?'

His sense of happiness is so great that
it precludes him from entertaining ill-feeling
against any human soul. He

wishes to be at peace with all men and
women, and he takes this opportunity
of making up his difference with Mrs.
Stockton.

Mrs. Stockton is not so well-inclined —
she is, on the contrary, feeling directly antagonistic
to the whole of God's creation.
With an expression of intense dislike upon
her face, she eyes them both from top to
toe, and then, ignoring the proffered hand,
she gives vent to a loud grunt of disapprobation.


Grandly laughs good-humouredly. If
all the forces of nature were to combine
upon this particular morning to make him
lose his temper, they would fail !

Oh ! Mrs. Stockton,' he says, ' you really
must shake hands. Why should you bear
me any enmity ? Let us act up to that
popular old adage concerning bygones of a
disagreeable flavour. Besides, 1 want to
thank you for what you have done for me.
I am indebted to you more than I can say,
for had it not been for you, in all likelihood,
I should not have been engaged at
this moment to this young lady here ;' and
he draws Diana's arm affectionately through
his own.

Ugh !' she snorts, contemptuously.
You are a pretty couple, aren't you ?'

It is most gratifying to hear you pass
such favourable comment on our appearances,'
he says, smiling mischievously.
And so you think that we suit each other
in looks, do you ? Well, between ourselves,
Mrs. Stockton, I am of your opinion — I
think we do. Judging ourselves as impartially
as I can under the circumstances,
I am of an opinion that we are by no means
a bad-looking couple. What say you ?
Nothing ! Oh ! really this is too bad of
you ! But I am afraid that we cannot
stay longer now, for we are just going to
pay a last visit to that little secluded spot
down in the wood where you so pleasantly
surprised us on Monday last. Good-morning
— I am sorry that you won't shake
hands.'

Good-morning,' she says, stiffly, tilting
her nose disdainfully into the air. ' As to
shaking hands — kindly remember that you
are speaking to a Christian woman who has
been brought up to consider indecent
goings-on in the depth of a wood as disgusting
and immoral. Yes — you are a
handsome couple, I admit it — but it is the

beauty of a languorous lust — a thing to be
repudiated, not admired — but it will fade,
the beauty will die out, and then only the
lust will remain plainly written on your
countenances, to be read by every passer-by.
Ugh ! I do not envy you — if anything,
Ijnty you. Good-morning, Miss Forsdyke
I trust that your solemn covenant with
Mr. George Grafton of the Engineers is
progressing well ;' with which parting shaft
she picks up her skirts to avoid the contamination
of contact, and sweeps away.

The two young people regard with unconcealed
amusement her unwieldy figure
moving off, and then they look into each
other's face, and simultaneously break into
a hearty peal of laughter. Ah ! how divinely
happy they are in the consciousness of
their mutual love !

Come on, my darling,' he murmurs, ' I
want to spend a long, long morning in that
dear old spot.'

Mrs. Stockton pursues her savage prowl.
She hears that merry peal of laughter with
a shudder — it seems to stab her like a knife.
The knowledge that Grandly has only
spoken the truth in stating that they owed
the present position of affairs simply to

herself, is gall and wormwood to her spiteful
spirit. Instead of injuring them
materially for life, as she had hoped todo,
she has blindly played into their
hands, and has given them an overwhelming
victory.

In spite of her vaunted high morality
and strict adherence to the doctrines of
the Christian faith, she feels incensed
beyond endurance at the thought of having
unconsciously been instrumental in bringing
happiness to two of her fellow-creatures.
But Mrs. Stockton does not profess to bean
' early Christian.' Like most modern
Christians of the nineteenth century, she
would have scorned such a low imputation.
Her religion, though founded on the same
basis as was that of that little band of men
who in the first century suffered persecution
at the hands of their Roman masters
for the sake of their creed, is of a superior
and far more comfortable description. Instead
of blindly believing, without reservation
of any description, the Book of God,
the doctrines of her faith are divided into
two distinct sections — those to be regarded
literally and those figuratively, just according
as they happen to be agreeable or disagreeable

to her own particular taste. In
fact, all obstacles in the way of her obtaining
ultimate salvation are blandly swept
aside ; instead of a religion of beliefs, it
becomes one of inclinations ; she has only
to do exactly what she pleases through
life in order to ensure a pair of wings and
a court dress in the levee held above.

What could be more simple, more alluring,
more comforting than this ? Only to
loll and lounge through life, committing
every infamy that she pleases, and then to
be certain of a right of entry into heaven !
Thoroughly believing in the efficacy of her
own religion, she is at a loss to understand
how people can exist who prefer to follow
the doctrines of the early Christian faith.
Certainly these people are very few and
far between, but still they do exist, for
occasionally she comes across one, and
what she sees fills her nth wonder and
astonishment. If two roads lead up to the
summit of a mountain, it would be only
natural to choose the easier of the two.
How then does it happen that there are
people in the world who, given the choice
of two paths to heaven, deliberately elect

the harder one. The one is smooth as
asphalte with no perceptible incline ; the
other is rough, jagged, and precipitous. To
wilfully choose the latter one, is in Mrs.
Stockton's opinion to wilfully throw away
one's chance of after-life.

The fault of the early Christian doctrine
in her eyes lies in its dogmatic manner of
assertion. It arrogantly states that such
and such a thing is true, and, without offering
any proofs in support of its assertion, it
threatens all who do not believe in it with
lasting condemnation. There is a flavour
of brutal bullying about the style, which
sickens her, and, in the face of the threat,
she utterly rejects it.

Now in her own adaptation of the
Christian faith, there is none of that dictatorial
enunciation of authority. Dogma
is entirely swept away — bullying of every
description is forbidden — the weak are
placed on an equality with the strong.
No one man, divine or otherwise, is allowed
to state, that such and such a thing is
wrong, or such is right ; every human being
is allowed to judge for himself If his inclinations
prompt him to do an action, then

VOL. III. S

it is right — if they prompt him to leave
it alone, then it is wrong. Such is her
definition of that great question which has
baffled philosophers from Christ to Herbert
Spencer !

And so it will be seen that her religion
admits of an elasticity of opinion suitable
to all tastes and all moods. "What is right
one day is wrong another, and vice versa
just according to her pleasure. For instance,
the year preceding when she was
scheming night and day to get an invitation
to the Viceroy's private dance at
Simla, she considered that the maxim of
Love your neighbour as yourself,' was to
be regarded literally. Now, on this
particular morning, watching Grandly
and his fiancee leave the garden from the
corner of her eye with a malignant scowl,
she considers that it should be regarded
figuratively. Could any human being
devise a happier code of morality than
this?

She takes her husband's letter from her
pocket, and peruses it with a savage cast of
countenance. What is she to do ? Her
horses, carriages, furniture — everything
has been sold ; her servants have been dismissed;

Iter house has been destroyed.
She is helpless, powerless to retaliate,
utterly at the mercy of that man who
swore at God's altar to love her, comfort
her, and honour her, in sickness and
health, to cleave unto her forsaking all
others, as long as they both should live.
Ah ! what an awful perjury he has uttered !
May he be judged accordingly !

She thanks her God that she has never
broken the marriage vow. She has obeyed
him, served him, loved him, honoured him ;
she has kept him in sickness and health —
kept him in order ' is her mental reservation
; she has forsaken all others, and clung
to him — sometimes with the ferocity of a
panther, but she wisely ignores the circumstance.
And this is the result ! This is
the gratitude of her husband for her goodness
! Oh ! if she only had his miserable
carcase at this moment under lock and key,
she would soon show him

What she would have demonstrated to
her unfortunate husband, had she but obtained
the chance, will never be known, for
at this moment her train of thought comes
to an abrupt end by her becoming aware
of the figure of a man standing at the

s2

further end of the path opposite the house.
Giving him a scrutinising glance out of
her small grey eyes, she discovers him to
be a total stranger.

He is a tall, well-built young man, with
broad shoulders and a well-set head, with
short, light brown hair, and a luxuriant
moustache of the same colour, with a wide
expanse of forehead, protecting two soft
blue eyes, a straight, well-made nose, and
well-turned chin — a man striking in his
manliness, with an intellectual face of unusual
strength and resolution. He is
standing in the middle of the path, gazing
vaguely about him, as though in doubt.
He raises his eyes to the upper row of
windows, and scans the rambling building
closely, and then he turns round and slowly
walks towards the entrance of the house.

Mrs. Stockton's curiosity is aroused.
Alkaline to the best of her ability the
acidity of her temperament, she walks towards
him, purposely kicking the gravel
with her feet to attract his attention. At
the sound he turns round, and, after a moment's
hesitation, hastily advances towards
her. As he approaches her, she notices
that his face is deadly pale.

I beg your pardon,' he says, politely,
raising his hat. 'Would you be so kind as
to inform me whether this be Banbury's
Hotel?'

Yes, this is Banbury's,' she replies, with
unctuous urbanity. ' Are you thinking of
stopping here ? I am sadly afraid that the
house is quite full.'

'No — I was not thinking of stopping
here,' he says, in a vague, dreamy way, as
if his thoughts were far away. ' I have
just come up from the plains, in order to
see a friend of mine. I wonder whether
you would be able to direct me where to
find him. His name is Grandly.'

Ah ! Grandly, is it ?' she says, her
whole being turning suddenly to fiery acid.
Yes, I think I can assist you. But I trust
that I am not speaking to a personal friend
of Mr. Grandly's.'

Well, well — but may I ask . . .'

Because, sir,' she answers, shortly, ' I
have no wish to hold any communication
whatever with a friend of that young
man's. You can't touch pitch without
being defiled, and, if ever a human being
resembled pitch, it is that mocked, immoral
youth. No ladies who have any regard

for decency and morality ever speak to
him. There is certainly one young lady
who goes about with him, but then she
cannot be included in that category. You
will find her now With him, together in
the wood. Oh ! the wickedness of this
woi-ld — my heart grows faint to think of
it.'

I am sorry to hear such a bad report
of Grandly,' he says, steadying his voice
with an effort. 'I must admit to being
somewhat interested in his personality.
Would you excuse me if I were to ask you
whether you could inform me if there be
any truth in this strange rumour of his
engagement ?'

Engagement !' she cries, discordantly.
Yes, he is engaged, and time enough too,
I should think, for both parties. His
goings-on with that young girl have been
a standing scandal to the neighbourhood.
The whole station is up in arms against
him — the open way in which he has paraded
his indecent conduct has been sickening
and revolting. The whole of the
Himalayan range has been polluted by his
presence here. What with secret meetings,
kissings, slumbering, unholy embraces,

and what besides, I dare not think, though,
being a Christian woman, I would like to
give him the benefit of the doubt, if reason
did not forbid me making such an egregious
idiot . . .'

May I ask the young lady's name?' he
says, very quietly.

Yes — her name is Miss Forsdyke, the
most brazen-faced hussy in the whole peninsular.
Oh ! they will make a pretty pair.
If they don't figure in the Divorce Court
before a couple of years, my name is not
Joanna Stockton. If you want to see them
with your own eyes, in the midst of their
disgusting practices, take that road therethrough
the gate, and lead up the avenue
till you come out into the open. There you
will see a large projecting rock. Take the
little path behind it, and continue straight
down through the wood. You cannot miss
them, you will find them under a great

oak Well, I never I where are you

going to ? Is that the way you are accustomed
to treat an obliging lady? Where
are your manners, you low — impertinent —
snobbish — counter-jumper ?'

Mrs. Stockton's thick voice rises to a
scream, for the stranger has suddenly left

her, without a word of thanks, and is striding:
alone in the direction which she has
given him, as fast as his long legs can
carry him. His face, destitute of every
trace of colouring, is working convulsively,
as though under the influence of some
great mental suffering ; and such in fact is
the case, for the stranger, who has so
suddenly appeared is George Grafton, and
he is now hastening forward to hear confirmed
with his own ears the death-knell
to all his dreams of future happiness.

CHAPTER XV.

NEMESIS.

See, Diana — here is the dear old spot
we know so well. Ah ! how I love every
leaf and branch and fern, for they have
all been silent witnesses to the gradual
growth of our present happiness.'

They are standing together on that
grassy knoll, rising like an islet amidst
the sea of surrounding fern, now sombre
with the russet tints of autumn ; his armis
passed affectionately around her waist.
The sun's rays are piercing through the
yellowing foliage of the grand old oak,
brightening up the soft green turf with
patches of golden light, and the whole
wood is alive with the soothing hum of

flying insects, tempted out from their
secluded homes by the unexpected heat.

She leans her head caressingly against
his shoulder, and takes his other hand in
hers, with a gentle pressure of the fingers.
Oh ! what a thrill of beatific bliss that consciousness
of contact sends through both
their frames !

My love — my love !' she murmurs softly,
in a voice of subdued ecstacy. ' I am not
deserving of this happiness. Frank, what
can I do to prove to you that I am grateful
for your great goodness ?'

'My little darling,' he whispers, bending
down towards her. ' You exaggerate my
goodness. If loving you is being good to
you, then I am indeed good. But I can
take no credit to myself for being thus
good, for it is through no effort of mine,
that I have come to love you, but through
some unknown, hidden force, totally
distinct from my own entity, which I have
found it impossible to resist.'

Ah ! but you are good — you are more
than good to me — you have shown yourself
divine. Frank, my love,' she whispers,
nestling closer against his side. ' You

have done that which not one man out of
a thousand would have done — you have
forgiven me a terrible and awful sin.'

Hush, Diana !' he says, tightening the
pressure of his hand. ' We must never
refer to that again. The sin you committed
has been washed out long ago in
years of repentance and remorse. It no
longer exists — it has been effaced, it is as
though it never was. To me it never did
exist. The little girl I hold now in my
arms is innocent and pure — in my eyes
she has never committed sin. She is a
different creature, with a different mind
and spirit, from that poor girl who three
years ago had no strength to withstand a
terrible temptation. Into, Diana, we must
never again speak of that poor, erring being
we must never sully the purity of our
love by referring to that mournful circumstance.'


Ah ! Frank — how can I thank you ?'

With a passionate movement, she throws
her arms round his neck, and buries her
face against his breast.

I will be good to you — always good to
you,' she cries, in a choking voice. ^ I

will always love you, as I love you now.
I will lay down my life for you as a small
repayment of that goodness and charity
you have bestowed upon me.'

^ Hush, my little pet !' he whispers, taking
her face between his hands, and kissing
her on the lips. ' I am already repaid
a thousandfold by the possession of your
love. Only love me always — I want
nothing more. Only be true to me always,
confiding to me your joys and sorrows, and
I shall be content. Diana, my little ,
we must never in the future have
secrets from one another. Nothing, however
trifling, must be hidden — even as
now, our hearts and minds must always
be to one another as the pages of an open
book.'

Yes — yes, Frank, they must — they
shall,' she answers faintly, shivering slightly.
'We will never conceal anything from
one another — even as now — ah ! what was
that ?— I thought . . .'

She turns quickly round, and then a
cry, sharp and shrill, issues from her lips,
re-echoing through the stillness of the
wood, and, with face blanched and eyes

dilated with horror, she staggers back
against the tree. Within ten paces of her
is George Grafton, the man whom she has
so shamefully betrayed !

He is standing regarding them, nervously
gnawing his moustaches, with a face
almost of the same dead white colour asher
own.

Filled with astonishment, Grandbj'- advances
towards him.

George — old boy,' he cries, in tones of
utter bewilderment. ' Do we meet at last,
after all these years of weary waiting?
But how. in the name of . . .'

^ Keep back !'

The words come out sharply and authoritatively
in a tone which his dearest friend
on earth fails to recognize, and a wave of
the fiercest anger sweeps across his face.

'Keep back!' he cries. 'Do you hear
me? Advance another step, and I will
strike you to the ground.'

Grandly stops dead, as though suddenly
turned to stone. Amazed beyond the
power of thinking, he gazes in the utmost
bewilderment from one to the other, unable
to form the least conception of the

reality of the situation. A sense of overwhelming
confusion overcomes him — an
oppressive feeling of hideous unreality — a
vague, strange doubt as to the integrity of
his reason. What does it all mean ? Why
does his beloved friend spurn him as a
creature of contamination ?

^ George !' he falters.

Not a word !'

He starts back as though shot ; that
unknown peremptoriness of tone pierces
him like a blade of steel. He turns towards
Diana in the hopes of obtaining
from her some clue to this appalling
mystery. He sees her crouching down at
the foot of the hollowed trunk, her face
covered in her hands, her whole body spasmodically
convulsed with trembling. A
sense of vague fear benumbs the region of
his heart, and it is with the greatest difficulty
that he can retrace his steps towards
her.

Diana,' he whispers, hoarsely, bending
over her, ' tell me what it means.'

She does not answer him. Without disclosing
her face, she motions him away,
and a moan of pain escapes her lips.

Diana,' he persists, and his voice is now
so husky that he can barely articulate,
what does it mean ? Do not be frightened,
my little darling — there is no cause
for fear . . .'

I will tell you what it means,' cries
that strange, unknown voice, and, at the
sound, Grandly starts up and faces him.
It means this — it means that you, Frank
Grandly — you, whom 1 have considered as
my alter ego ; you, whom I have loved
and cared for with a tenderness too great
for words — have deliberately ruined my
happiness for ever by basely robbing me
of my promised wife.'

What !'

With a face blanched to the lips he falls
back against the tree. Is he dreaming; ?
Has he heard aright ? Is he under the
spell of a vivid nightmare, hideous beyond
the powers of description ? — or is it truth
reality — actually existent? He does
not know — for the moment he has lost all
consciousness in his personal identity. Allis
confusion and chaos in his brain, and
the power of rational thought deserts him.

Yes — by basely robbing me of my

promised wife,' cries Grafton, passionately.
^ This is how you have chosen to repay me
for all my love and kindness in the past.
I did not believe you — I thought you
wrote to me in jest — and yet — and yet
there was a ring of earnestness in your
words that troubled me — and I hurried upto
have the jest explained. In the garden
I heard the story of your shame, and even
then I could not believe in such monstrous
treachery. I followed her, and with my
own eyes I have seen you kissing her who
had sworn to be my wife. Take her — she
is yours — she will be a woman worthy tomate
with such as you. Make her your
wife, and be happy — if you can. Forget
your vile betrayal of the man who loved
you as a brother — if yoii can

George — George !' he cries, hoarsely,
starting forward, galvanized to life by the
fierce anguish of those bitter tones. ' It
is not true — it is not true — you are labouring
under some great error. Be calm, I
implore you, and let us understand each
other. This is Miss Forsdyke. I wrote to
you, explaining all the details of my engagement.
What have I to do with Miss
Rigby — your promised wife?'

Miss Rigby !' with a bitter, discordant
laugh of scorn. ' What is Miss Rigby tome
? No, Frank Grandly, you cannot
deceive me by such frail and futile subterfuges.
The girl I loved, in whom I placed
a perfect trust, in whom I centred all my
chance of future happiness Alas Diana
Forsdyke, not Miss Rigby — and you knew

itr

Kneio it 1 George — By God above, I
swear I never knew it ! Knew it — knew
it ! How could I know it when it is not
true ? Diana, my little darling,' he cries,
bending over her and speaking in hoarse,
guttural tones. 'Tell me that it is not
true. It is not true, is it, love? Only
yesterday you swore to me by God that
you contained no secrets in your life.
Diana darling, you did not deceive me, did
you ? There is some grave mistake — speak
out my love and . .'

It is true, I tell you !' cries the deep,
passionate tones of Grafton. ' Let her
deny it, if she can. She cannot deny it —
she has plighted her troth to me and she
has deliberately and vilely broken it. The
two I have loved best in the world have

VOL. III. T

combined together to betray me — henceforth
I am alone and friendless in this
world. Never from this moment do I hope
to set eyes on you again — you have passed,
both of you, from my life for ever.'

He wheels sharply round and begins to
stride away. In a moment Grandly is by
his side.

You must hear me,' he cries, seizing him
by the arm, ' I am innocent — I swear it by
all that is sacred in the universe. George,
my dearest friend, I would not willingly
harm . . . .'

Enough ! I will not listen to your
pitiful excuses,' cries Grafton, shaking him
ois with a violent movement of the arm.
I judge from what I see. I accuse you of
robbing me of my betrothed — and I dare
you to deny it !'

George, you must hear me !'

1 will not f cries Grafton, with a sudden
fury, raising his clenched fist. ' Do you
wish me to strike you down ? If you say
another word I Avill — it is only the memory
of the love I bore you that has prevented
me from doing so already.'

Uttering a low cry of pain, with a face

as pale as death, Granclby releases his hold
and staggers back, and, without looking
round or uttering another word, Grafton
strides away and disappears from sight
up the narrow pathway leading to the road
above.

Stunned, bewildered, unable to move or
speak, Grandly stands with his hand
pressed tightly against his forehead gazing
after the retreating form of his beloved
friend. A mist arises before his eyes ; his
faculty of thought becomes obscured; a
darkness settles on the earth, and the whole
wood seems to begin to revolve slowly
round him. With a supreme effort he
steps back a couple of paces and clings
firmly for support to the outstretched
branch of the old oak. A great giddiness
assails him — the trees revolve faster and
faster around him — he knows that he is
on the point of fainting. And then a confusion
of noises in his ears followed by a
great blank and a gradual awakening to
life coupled with a vague sense of wonderment
as to what has happened

He is roused from his stupefied reverie
by the consciousness of a pair of soft arms

T 2

clinging round his legs. With a feeling
of intense weariness he raises his head,
and looking down he perceives Miss Forsdyke's
dead-pale face crouching at his
feet. In a moment his senses have returned
to him ; he remembers all. With a
loud cry he tears himself from her embrace,
stepping backwards with a gesture of
abhorrence. She falls forward with her
head upon the ground, stretching out her
hands towards him with a movement of
piteous appeal.

Back !' he cries, and the discordant
tones of his own voice frighten him, so
strangely do they sound. ' Back ! Do
not dare to touch me — or — or — I shall
forget myself !'

'Frank!'

Lifting her face from the ground, the
word bursts forth from her lips in a fierce
heart-rending cry. ' Frank ! Do not spurn
me, love !'

Love !' he cries, with a burst of derisive
laughter. ' Do not speak to me of love !
There can be no love between us in the
future. From the very first there can never
have existed any love in you for me, or — or

my God, my heart is breaking — you could
never have deceived me in this monstrous
way. Two strong and trusting lives
ruined — destroyed — by your vile infamy !
Ah ! I cannot trust myself to speak to you !
Diana — good-bye for ever !'

He makes a movement, as though to go
away.

You shall not go — you shall not go !'
she cries, with a fierce energy, starting to
her feet, and standing in his path. ' You
are mine, and mine alone by virtue of my
love. Frank — Frank — the one noble, elevating
influence of my life has been my
love for you. It has been pure — perfect
strong — so strong that I have swept
away all earthly considerations to obtain
you. And I have obtained you ! Yes —
Frank — my darling, you love me — I know
you do — and I defy you to forsake me, for
you cannot.'

In her passion, she advances towards
him with outstretched arms. Her face is
illumined by a hectic flush on either cheek,
her breath comes in sudden gasps, her
whole frame is seized with a sudden trembling
which almost overcomes her. Placing

her hand upon her heaving bosom, she tries
to steady the tumultuous beatings of her
heart. All that she has striven for, planned
for, is slowly passing from her grasp — she
feels the solid ground shifting from beneath
her feet — in a moment she may be
submerged in the quicksands of hopelessness
and ruin. Self-control, coolness,
courage, determination, she knows to be
essential, as she hopes to save herself, and
yet she can neither be cool, courageous, nor
determined. In this moment of supreme
peril, her presence of mind deserts her, and
she feels that she is doomed.

'Ah ! no — you shall not go !' she pants.
I will not let you go. I am a bad woman
I know I am. I have intrigued and
schemed for you. I have obtained you
under false pretences. But, ah ! — Frank,
my life, my darling, my love for you has
always been sincere. It has been the one
pure influence of my life — I cannot give it
up. If it goes — I am lost — I am ruined.
I cannot live without it. Frank — Frank,
my whole future is depending on a word
from you. Overlook this fault — extend
your great forgiveness further — and I am

saved. Reject me — cast me off — and — I
sam — lost !'

Her voice dies out in a hoarse whisper.
She advances another step towards him, and
the beauty of her face shines out transcendentally
in this moment of mortal
agony.

For a moment he does not answer her.
He stands gazing at her vaguely, mechanically,
as though entranced, unable to
speak or move. Timidly she raises her
hand and places it on his arm, looking up
into his face with a supplicating glance of
mute appeal. As he becomes conscious of
the sense of contact, the spell is broken.

'Never !' he cries, with fierce vehemence,
starting back. ' Keep back — do not approach
another step ! You have deceived
me — wilfully deceived me in the face of
the charity which I have already vouchsafed
to you. Diana Forsdyke, you are a
wicked woman. Only yesterday you swore
to me that you held no secrets in your life
and all the time you were deliberately
planning the ruin of a noble man. Ah !
God — what have I done ? — Wretch ! —
Fiend ! — Have you no spark of woman's

gentleness in your composition ? Knowing
how I loved this man, what devil was
it that prompted you to conceive such a
hideous idea as to make me instrumental
in his ruin ? — Keep back, I say ! — forgiveness
! — Love ! — In the future I have
neither love nor forgiveness in my heart
for you !'

Again he attempts to move away ; again
she stops him. A burst of hysterical laughter
issues from her lips.

Ah ! Frank, you cannot help yourself,'
she cries. ' A sudden shock cannot kill
such a love as yours. I know it well — I
know its strength, its power, its immutability,'
she continues, with fierce rapidity ;
it is permanent — it will last — it cannot
die. You cannot give me up — try — try —
try your hardest — you will love me to the
end.'

You are right — I shall,' he answers,
turning very pale. you have gauged
correctly the quality of my love — it was a
love worth possessing. But you have not
gauged rightly my strength of will — for I
now again repeat, that it is my intention
to leave you, never meaning to look upon

your face again. Tell your father what
you like — invent any reason that may suit
you best. I shall not say a word — I shall
simply go away never to return.'

You do not mean it !'

She is standing before him, with her
hands clasped in piteous supplication, her
face torn and distorted with the greatness
of her misery, and the words burst from
her lips in a choking sob.

*I mean it,' he replies, nth a sudden
falter in his voice; and then, fearful lest
he may break down before her, he turns
away.

A shrill cry of piercing agony re-echoes
through the wood. It is Diana's voice,
and in another moment she is clinging
round his neck, gazing hungrily up into
his well-loved face.

No — no — you do not mean it !' she
pants, in short, hurried gasps ; * you cannot
mean to give me up !'

Oh ! how he loves her ! He looks
down at her lovely face, now Avhite to the
lips with an awful fear, and a wild yearning
comes across him to seize her in his
arms and to forgive her all.

No — no — you do not mean it !'

'■ I do — Diana, leave go of me . . .'

You shall not — you cannot — I will
cling to you for ever — I will never let you
go!'

Leave me, I say !' he cries, fiercely,
seizing her by the wrists, and vainly trying
to separate her hands.

Ah ! Frank — you hurt me.'

Leave go of me at once !'

Never — never!' she cries, faintly, clenching
her teeth together in her attempt to
endure the pain caused by his grasp of
iron. ' Frank — Frank — listen to me — if
you leave me, I will kill myself — I . . .'

Leave go — leave go, Diana, or — or God
help you, your wrist will break.'

Never !' she cries, more faintly still,
her head falling helplessly forward from
sheer physical pain. * Frank — if you are
going — going from me for ever — kiss me
once — before I die.'

^ Not once !' he says, between his teeth,
tightening his grasp round her fragile
wrists. The agony of the moment is so
great that he feels that he must die !

Ah ! kiss — me — quick — I cannot bear

it !' she cries, a wild shriek of pain beyond
endurance bursting from her lips.

Then leave go,' he mutters, huskily,
his strength of will failing him before such
terrible suffering, and, as he speaks, her
hands separate with a sudden jerk, and
before he can support her she falls sideways
upon the ground insensible.

In a moment he is by her side. Suffocated
with emotion, he bends over her,
and raises her tenderly in his arms and
places her on the soft green turf, and,
with eyes bereaved With tears, he continues
for several minutes gazing into that still,
pale face which he has learned to love so
well.

Oh ! how lovely she is looking — how
sweet — how innocent — how pure ! Must
he really yield her up ? Is it impossible
for him to extend his forgiveness further ?
Can he not bring himself to overlook her
sin ? He loves her so madly — so devotedly
— and she — she loves him — loves him
with the same wild, all-absorbing

With a great cry he starts to his feet.
He is conscious that all his strength of
mind has utterly deserted him, and he

knows that lie is lost unless lie goes at
once. With one wild, distracted look
around him, he turns away, and then he
pauses irresolutely, and in another moment
he is on his knees beside her, kissing
her fiercely on the face and lips.

• Diana, my love — my darling — I forgive
you — good-bye — good-bye for ever !'

With a hoarse, choking sob, he springs
to his feet, and, without looking back, he
hurries from the spot. They have separated
for ever in this world ! Never again
will they look ujDon each other's face !

Like some mad thing bereft of its
natural senses, he tramples through the
yellowing ferns and undergrowth, not
knowing, not caring where he goes or
what becomes of him. All is lost — the
day, which began for him so fair and
bright, has come to a sudden and fearful
end, and joy, contentment, peace, and
happiness have been obliterated from his
life in the overwhelming darkness of the
night.

The dusk is falling, and a thin mist,
creeping slowly up the courses of the many

mountain streamlets between the projecting
spurs, gives a triste appearance to the
world of hills. A cold, chilly wind is
blo-winoj in sudden fits and starts through
the trees surrounding the hotel. The sun
has set behind a bank of lowering cloudland,
the bright and glorious day is
over, and there is every prospect of the
advent of a stormy night.

Within the darkening chamber of that
little hut surmounting the grassy slope
above the tennis-courts may be discerned
the figure of a man sitting by the table
with his head buried in his arms. So
quiet does he remain in that position that
at first sight he gives the impression of a
man asleep from sheer physical weariness ;
but he is not asleep, for occasionally the
silence of the room is broken by a sudden
gasp, a stifled sob, an inarticulate cry of
suppressed agony — and then again all is
still.

It is Frank Grandly lying there a prey
to the bitterness of his great despair. How
long he has been there, he does not know
he is too bewildered, stunned, crushed
in spirit to be capable of taking count of

time. He only knows, vaguely and unconsciously,
that when lie first burst into the
room, with dishevelled hair, blood-shot
eyes, and face as pale as death, the sun was
shining and all was light, and that now the
room is darkening quickly from twilight
into night.

For hours, he was incapable of thought.
It was as though a hideous orgy of satanic
revelry was being held within the temple
of his mind, and everything seemed red,
blood-red, to his tortured feverish sense of
sight. How the moments passed, he could
not say — afterwards he could remember
nothing. Perhaps he slept, perhaps he
became insensible — he never knew.

But now consciousness has returned to
him, and with it, as in the case of a drowning
man, the memory of the last few weeks
is rushing with a fearful rapidity through
his brain. He sees himself again as he
first appeared in Doonga, weak in health,
but joyous and happy in the consciousness
of his existence, and the contrast
between then and now presents itself
before him with cruel, merciless accuracy
of delineation. A low sob of agony escapes

him. What power of evil has brought
him to this depth of shame and misery ?
One by one the links in the chain of incident
rises unbidden before him, and he traces
again his own steps through the maze of
platonic love, leading surely but insidiously
to physical passion. Ah! mad fool that he
has been to have allowed himself to be so
deceived !

He sees it now — he understands fully the
worthlessness of the character of the girl
whom he has learned to love — he comprehends
only too well the utter fatuity of his
recent line of conduct. Little incidents,
which at the time of occurrence appeared to
him without significance, now rise before
him in countless shoals, all of them pregnant
with meaning, and all pointing to the same
miserable fact — his obstinate determination
not to see — not to see that which should
have been plain and self-evident to the
veriest tyro in the study of human nature.
He has indeed been blinded by his passion
and self-conceit and fancied superiority of
discernment !

And what has been the result of this
lamentable persistence in the belief of his

own ideal? He has been broken, bruised,
crushed — his tenderest feelings have been
torn to shreds — his heart has been pierced
and lacerated through and through — his
honour and manliness have been trampled
underfoot, for he has (unwittingly, it is
true) ruined the life and happiness of the
man who has loved him always as a
brother.

What can he do to wash out such an ineffaceable
stain ? How can he ever hope
for forgiveness ? In what way is it possible
for him to atone ?

As he asks himself this question, a hand
is placed upon his shoulder, and he jumps
up with a sudden start. So engrossed has
he been with his own sad line of thought
that he has not noticed the door open, nor
has he heard the footsteps wearily approaching
him. But now as he springs to
his feet, a low cry of anxious pain escapes
his lips, for in the deepening twilight he
perceives the figure of his friend, sorrowfully
regarding him.

George !' he whispers, in awestruck
tones. ' George, my friend — is it you ?'

Yes, Frank, it is I,' says the grave voice
of Grafton. ' I have come to you to ask

you for your forgiveness. No — Frank,
not a word. I know what you want to
say — that it is for you to ask forgiveness,
not for me — but you are wrong — it is forme
to humble myself before you. What
you did to me was done in all unconsciousness
— I know it now, and I knew it then,
but I was mad with rage and hatred against
all mankind, and I let drop words then
which now I would gladly recall, which
now I pray you to forget and forgive.
Frank, dear old boy, will you take my
hand and say that you forgive me?'

George, I have nothing to forgive,' he
cries, in a broken voice, seizing him by
the hand. ' You have always been the
ennobling influence of my life — every good
and great thought that I possess has come
from you ; you have been my best and
truest friend for years ; you have loved
me, and cared for me, and tended me
always like an elder brother, and how
have I repaid you ? Unconsciously I have
been instrumental in bringing your life to
ruin. But for me — but for my blind insanity
— you and she might have lived
happily together as man and wife.'

Not so, Frank,' replies Grafton, in a

VOL. III. u

subdued voice. 'We could never have
lived happily together. You have not
ruined me — you have saved me. I was
blinded, even as you were, by her wiles
and witcheries, and I had a perfect faith
in the integrity of her character. But now
I know her as she really is, and I raise my
heart to heaven in thanksgiving as I contemplate
the abyss into which I might
have fallen.'

Yes, yes ; but — but for me she would
still be true to you.'

Frank, I know all. Besides the cruel
deception which she has practised on you
with regard to me, I am now acquainted
with the story of her early sin. Walking
down the street, I met Loft us, a friend of
yours. How he knew my name I do not
know, but he came to me and earnestly
implored me, as a friend of yours, to extricate
you from the awfulness of your position.
Whether he knew my relationship
to — to her, I do not know ; but from his
manner, though he tried his utmost to
conceal it, I fancy that he did. Frank, he
told me all. Yoii were noble beyond the
usual run of men — you forgave her that
hideous blot upon her life. / cannot pretend

to such nobility of character ; never
should I have been able to have brought
myself to overlook such a terrible shame
in one I called my ife. I should have
shrunk from her nth loathing horror, and
my life would have been wrecked for ever.
It is to you, Frank, my dearest friend, that
I owe my escape from such a truly awful
fate.'

For some moments there is silence, the
two men, still holding hands, each wrapped
in their own sad line of thought. Then
Grafton speaks.

'Tell me, Frank,' he says, quietly, ' how
you left her.'

I left her in the wood, lying insensible
beneath the tree. Ah ! George, I love her,
I love her ! — my heart seems breaking as I
speak. I did not dare to remain till she
revived — I could not trust the intensity
of my feelings.'

Then you have renounced her — given
her up for ever ?'

I have,' he says, with a sudden tremor
in his voice — ' I have given her up forever.
I had to choose between the nobility
of your character and the worthlessness
of hers, and I did not hesitate a

moment in my choice. But all ! George,
the struggle Alas almost more than I could
bear ; I felt myself on the point of succumbing
when she fainted. And now —
and now I am so weak, I have no trust, no
confidence in my strength of will. Will
you help me, George ? — will you save me
from the awful danger which may yet
overwhelm me if I have not a protecting
hand to guide me over the next few weeks ?
I feel so shattered in body and mind
that . . . .'

You may trust in me,' says Grafton,
with an affectionate pressure of the hand.
To-morrow early we will start for Kashmir
— I have already given directions to
my servants to prepare our kit — and there
we will travel about together in the unfrequented
districts, and mutually strengthen
one another — for I, too, Frank, am broken
down with sorrow. Bring both gun and
rifle ; we will go madly in for sport, and
try to forget the past.'

'We will,' Grandly murmurs, returning
the pressure of the hand, ' and perhaps intime
we may succeed. God grant we may !
Yes, George, my dearest friend, we will
trust in one another for support — we will

strengthen one another with our mutual
love ; for an affection such as ours, pure
and strong, trustful and enduring, calm,
spiritual, and fraternal, ought to be more
than sufficient to compensate us, as the
years roll by, for the love which we have
lost'

L'ENVOI.

Extract from ' The Lahore Civil and Military
Gazette; September Uti, 1885.

'A gloom has been cast over Doonga
by the news of the sudden death of Miss
Diana Forsdyke, only daughter of Colonel
Forsdyke, of the Commissariat Department,
Sihayipur. We regret to say that the deceased
young lady met her death from an
overdose of laudanum, which she had taken,
presumably, with the intention of deadening
the pains of neuralgia, from which she
had been suffering acutely during the
course of the day. The melancholy aspect
of the circumstance is enhanced by the
fact that only two days previously the
announcement of her betrothal to a young
officer of the Royal Artillery had been

made public. The greatest sympathy is
felt for him in his sail bereavement. The
funeral, we understand, will take place
tomorrow at eleven a.m. The whole of
Doonga, it is expected, will attend.'

THE END,

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN macdonald, BLENHEIM Hosts .

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," etc 1 vol. demy Svo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She
Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Mollot, Author of " Court Life
Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.
With Portrait. Gs.

Shinar SKETCHES: With Notes ox Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. DoLLiLAN, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.
"A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman." — Horse and Hound.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

AsHTON, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.

1 vol. small Ito. 12s.

The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume"— G'^of-e.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, Mea., Author of 'The County Famines, ' itch

vols, crown Svo. 21s.

' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels." — Daily Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading." — Daily Never.

"There is a mine of wealth in the 'Family Chests' which no one has yet
brought to the surface, and from this Mr. "Walford has contrived to excavate a
mass of acceptable matter — a treasury of narrative curious and romantic"' — Globe.

"The reader will find much curious information in Mr. "Sanford's chapters of
agreeable narrative"" — Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

2 vols. With portrait of the King. 21s.
An interesting book, entitled ' Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest o( Hanover,' has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office." — St. James's Gazette.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Boyle,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. SOs.

"Mr. Boyle has done well ia the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only' the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in ilr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. hoyle
of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding." — St. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With Map of Route, los.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject." — Morning Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference
to Patrick Bran well Bronze. By Francis A. Lei land. 2
vols. 21s.
This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family'' — Graphic .

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into bis book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— ,Sco<5nia«.

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles of Greenwich. By the Rev. A. G. Estrange,

Author of ' The Village of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell Mitford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. ils.
"Mr. Estrange has provided for those who have a taste for topography, or
rather for the historical and biographical annals of a locality famous in history,
two volumes which are rich in romantic interest, and his pages abound incurious
and interesting glimpses of old manners 'daily News.



NEW folks— Continued,

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By Joicf Cord Jefferson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," "A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Those who have read Mr. Jefferson's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many." — Morning Post.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

And SIXTEENTH Centuries. By Mrs. Napier Higgks.
Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
The work is likely to be of permanent value to the students of history"—
Morning Post,

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through ti
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. dTdeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
"This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity." — Atfieiueum.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy Svo.

"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
"A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
—St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson, 1 vol. demy Svo. los.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the suhiect."— Saturday Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
"ewe recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good ,and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— 5i. James's Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Qdekn
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4tn na

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

FIFTY-SI Nth Edition N FOR 1887.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject." — Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Posh.



EACH IN ONE Voltaire CROWN Svo, 6s.

A Modern Englishman.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader Is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventioaality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time." — Standard.

'donovan 'is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high." — Daily News.

"V^E T^V^O.

"This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident." — Times.

"' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyall is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker." — Athmceum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought'' — Scotsman.

IN THE Golden Days.

"Miss Lyall has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one res.diS.'"— Spectator.

' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background"— (?Mar(/t'a«.

"WON BY "V^A-ITINGh.

"The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially;
the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

"'"Won by Waiting 'is a very pleasing and well-written tale; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A book
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and Influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families"— /'reemaw.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER.

By the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."

'this Little Mother' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells better
than anybody e\se.''—Jo?in Bull.

"This book is written with all Mrs. Crank's grace of style, the chief charm of which,
after all, is its simplicity." — Glasgow Herald.

By Mrs. Forrester.

"A very capital novel. The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quite at home
in the society which she describes. It is a book to read." — Standard.

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its spell
from first to lust"— Morning Post.

S O E H Y.

By Violet Fane.

' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of a strikingly
unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human interest. It is,
in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

J^ HOUSE EA RTY.

By Quid A.

'A House Party' will be read, firstly, because it is Guida's, and, secondly, because of
the brightness of the conversations and descriptions. It is indeed more like a comedy
than any other of the writer's books"— (??o6e.

Omni Y^NIT^S.

By Mrs. Forrester.

This book is pleasant and well meant. Here and there are some good touches. Sir
Ralph is a man worth reading about." — Academy.

"This tale is well and cleverly written ; the characters are drawn and sustained with
considerable power, and the conversation is always bright and \vje\y."— Glasgow Herald.

EETE^YAL OE EEXJBEN Poet.

By Barbara Lake.

This novel shows considerable power of writing. There are some striking scenes and
in cid en ts. ' 'Scotsman.

"This tale displays elevation of thought and feeling, united to no little grace of
expression"— Posh.

THE ER^NERETHS.

By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.

*' The great attraction of this novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of
it; the sketching from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men,
women, periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The
political and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among Readers who
will be attracted by the author's name and experience"— <S/)ecto«or.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE SURVIVORS. By Henry Cresswell, Author

of "A Modern Greek Heroine," " Incognita," &c. 3 vols.
There is cleverness in this book, and occasional brilliancy and-wite'— Academy.
"An amusing comedy of modern life; there are some good situations and
striking episodes in the book." — Athenaeum.

A WICKED GIRL. By Mary Cecil Hay, Author

of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"The author of 'Old Myddelton's Money' always manages to write interesting
stories'' — Academy.

THE WOOING OF CATHERINE. By E. Frances

Pointer, Author of " My Little Lady," &c. 2 vols.
"The figures are drawn with clear, bold strokes, each individual standing
before us with marked personality, while the backgrounds are effective and
striking. '' — Literary World.

ST. Travels. By Mary Deane, Author of

Quatrefoil," &c. 3 vols.

The authoress throughout writes with moderation and consistency, and her
three ample volumes well repay perusal"— Z>ai7i/ Telegraph.

' St. Travels ' is a story replete with variety, and in all developments of her
plot the author skilfully maintains an unabated interest." — Morning Post.

LUCIA. By Mrs. AUGUSTUS Craven, Author of

A Sister's Story," Translated by Lady Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

'• This is a very pretty, touching, and consoling story. The tale is as much above
the ordinary romance as the fresh air of the seaside is better than the stifling atmosphere
of the fashionable quarter of the gayest city'" — St. James's Gazette,

' Lucia ' is as good a novel as has been published for a long time." — Academy,

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Crommelin,

Author of " Qiieenie," " A Jewel of a Girl," <kc. 3 vols.
"' Love, the Pilgrim ■ is a pretty story, which, beginning quietly, develops into
one of very sensational incident indeed." — Graphic.
"A tale of thrilling interest"— .Scotsman.

THE KING CAN DO NO WRONG. By Pamela

SxETD, Author of "Jack Urquhart's Daughter." 2 vols.

This novel gives evidence of imagination, insight into character, and power of
delineation." — Attention.

Shows command of exceptional narrative and descriptive power — the story is
told with cleverness and force." — Scotsman

THE COURTING OF MARY SMITH. By F. W.

Robinson, author of " Grandmother's Money," " No Church," &c.
3 vols.
One of the finest studies that any of our novelists has produced of late years.
To read such a book is to strengthen the soul with a moral tonic"— Athemvurti.

The book is full of the truths and experiences of actual life, woven into a
romance by an undoubtedly clever novelist"— J/orn(«^ Post.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane,

Author of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," «S:c. 3 vols.
'Thro' Love and War' has a succinct and intelligible plot, and is written
with a quaint combination of acute perception, veiled sarcasm, and broad fun,
which is certain to ensure for it a wide popularity"— ^A^j World.

PUBLISHED BY Hues & BLACKETT.

KNIGHT-errant. By Edna Lyall, Author of

Donovan," " We Two," " In the Golden Days," &c. 3 vols.

A DATELESS Bargain. By C. L. Pirkis,

Author of "Lady Lovelace," " Judith "Wynne," &c. 3 vols.

Driven Before THE Storm. By Gertrude

Force, Author of " In the Old Palazzo," &c. 3 vols,

PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LADY in 1814,

1815, 181G. By Hamilton Aide, Author of "Rite," "Penrud-
locke," " Poet and Peer," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
Mr. Aide's new novel shows an accomplished and agreeable writer at his best.
The characters are not numerous, but the individuality of each is sustained all
through, both in speech and SLCtion."—Athen(eum.

Mr. Aide has never produced a more careful, and. in the main, more satisfying,
book. It is full of bright character sketches, some of the subordinate personages
being really admirable; and rich in humour, of the kind which belongs not
to farce, but to high comedy." — Academy.

Fauntleroy. By Anne Beale, Author of " Fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.

VICTIMS. By The Gift, Author of 'pretty Miss

Belle," " Il Lorimer," &c. 3 vols.
'Victims' la probably the best of its author's works: there is not a weak or
ill-drawn character in the book'" — Academy.

TILL MY WEDDING DAY. By a French Lady.

2 vols.

There is a good deal of characteristic and life-like description, and the variety
of incident through which the several personages of the story are carried is remarkable."
— AUwuL'um.

THE Green HILLS BY THE SEA: A Manx

Story. By Hugh Coleman Davidson. 3 vols.

Some of the characters are real human beings, some of the situations are
powerfully conceived, and many of the descriptions are admirable"' — Academy.

Mr. Davidson's imagination is fantastic, as well as original at times, and he
writes a great deal that is pleasant to read and remember." — Daily Telegraph.

Muriel's Marriage. ByEsME Stuart, Author

of " A Faire Dalzell," &c. 3 vols.
Much of the interest and charm of the story, and both are considerable, are
due to the delineations, not merely of the two principal personages, but of the
minor characters." — Scotsman.

ONCE AGAIN. By Mrs. Forrester, Author of

"Viva," " Mignon," " My Lord and My Lady," &c. (Second Edition

3 vols.

A really fascinating story. Bright and often original as is Mrs. Forrester, her
peculiar gifts have never been seen to better advantage than in 'Once Again.'
An undercurrent of tragedy runs through this startling tale, and this, together
with its graphically drawn characters, sets it completely apart from the ordinary
society story." — Morning Post.

A WILFUL YOUNG WOMAN. By A. Price,

Author of "A Rustic Maid," " Who is Sylvia?" &c. 3 vols.
A very readable story. Mrs. Price has drawn her dramatis personne with some
power and vigour." — Academy.
The story is throughout both sound and high-principled"— Z/^erary World.
