ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

BOOWTAP.KS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/lifesatonementno01chri

the University. mar rest " in dismissal from

To renew call Telephone Center 333 sono

ie

WW

L161 — O-1096

A NOVEL.

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

GRIFFITH & Arran,

SUCCESSORS TO NEWBERY AND HARRIS,

WEST CORNER ST. Rail's CHURCHYARD, LONDON.
MDCCCLXXX.

mm

i$u 9

vel

</?

i

% I DEDICATE THIS BOOK

TO

M Y FA THE R,

MY EARLIEST AND KINDEST CRITIC,
AND MY DEAREST FRIEND.

n

a<

Outside these pages, Bolter's
Rents are unreformed. They are
uglier, in fact, than any fictionist dare
paint them.

It might be startling to know how
much of the wealth of City Companies
is spent in egregious feasting, in any
wicked and wasteful year, whilst a
score of such places stand untouched
in the world's capital.

D. C M.

London, Sept. 1880.

CHAPTER I

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

The day was wintry and the sunlight ghostly when a wintry
and a ghost-like apparition came upon me.

npHE first thing I remember is a narrow
little patch of garden, surrounded by
high walls of brick, and ended by a brick-paved
yard. The day was wintry and the sunlight
ghostly when Memory presented me with
her first photograph. I am able to recall the
time quite clearly, and nothing seems clearer
than the complete absence of emotion which
followed the statement that I was an orphan.
Sally, the one grim but faithful domestic of
our fallen house, brought me the news with

VOL. I. A

tears. I received it with a childish stoicism.
Playing dismally an hour afterwards in that
chill winter sunlight about the bricked yard
and the frowsy and ill-kept garden, I was
seized and violently caressed by our old servant.
There Memory's negative suddenly
comes to an edge, and the time that followed
has, for a space, no pictures for me. Just
that little snatch of light comes in between
two blanks. I find by reference to dates that
the first blank had lasted just three years.
The next lasted a month only. Poor little
touch of childish memory ! — a sterile 
between two deserts of shade and
night.

I did not know until afterwards how utterly
alone and desolate I was, and how narrow a
chance I had of finding a home in the neighbouring
union workhouse.

I sit here in my chambers, and bid the
footlights spring up, and set the orchestra
tuning their instruments. The curtain rises.
The first picture appears, and — to what sad
and sweet music — the panorama glides along !

I have heard so much from that good and
faithful servitor, that the month I have spoken
of has host its blank unreality, and grown to

be as real as the rest. Sally Troman took me
from the house which Death and Debt had
made untenantable, and carried me to her
mother's cottage, a queer little establishment,
with a set of green wooden palings round it,
and with two little patches of garden in front,
each about the size of a hearth rug. The tiny-garden
was filled with two odoriferous growths
of shrub. What their scientific name might
be I cannot say, tit they were always spoken
of as ' old man ' and ' old woman.' The sexes
dwelt apart, and were held separate by a small
quarried footway, flanked on either side by a
double row of oyster-shells. The house itself,
partly by reason of its quaint architecture, and
partly by reason of the fact that, from earth to
chimney-top, it was covered with oyster-shells,
had always, to my childish eye, the aspect of
a helpless mollusc. The molluscous tribes
seemed richly represented close at hand.
Gigantic oyster-shells, from three to six feet
wide, were piled about the ragged fields, or
lay strewn upon the grimy mounds of that
desolate region. I recognise them now as
furnace-refuse ; but as I wandered about the
place in those days, though the right royal
prince Gargantua had not then been introduced

to me, I often pictured a huge figure,
standing before some elysian and mountainous
oyster-stall, wielding a vinegar bottle and a
pepper caster of the size of the parish church-tower,
emptying five of those enormous shells
of their esculent inhabitants, and paying for
his fresco feast one Brobdingnagian penny.

Walking up the quarried footway, Mrs. Roman's
visitor found progress barred by a sort
of grated wooden portcullis. This was intended
to keep me from straying beyond the household
ken ; and I was so far like a baron of the
middle ages, that the passer-by might guess
by the position of the portcullis whether I
was at home or abroad. Having passed this
barrier, you had three steps to go down.
Those steps and the floor beyond them were
of red quarries, and clean as scrubbing could
make them. The kitchen had a low but ample
fire grate ; a fender of bent steel, polished till
the flat round plate on its top looked in the
firelight like a rising wintry sun ; a sturdy unclothed
deal table with red legs ; a nondescript
couch covered with chintz, cold, crackly,
shining, and comfortless ; a mirror, hint of
far-off gentility somewhere, hanging on the
wall between the table and the couch ; and an

old clock, which, being too tall for the apartment,
was accommodated with a well to stand in.
The mirror was a small affair, bound by miniature
columns of fluted gold with florid ornamentation
on the pediments, and the glass was
seamed and scratched and blotted until it
looked like a page from some faded atlas.
The tall old clock regarded me as an intruder
from the first moment of my arrival, bullying
me solemnly, even in Sally's presence, and
frightening me with monitory ticking when
I sat alone. Its face represented one of the
heavenly bodies — the moon, I fancy — a foolish,
staring, futile sort of countenance, which always
seemed to me like a dead mask with a
living face behind it, the living face to which
the voice belonged that ticked the seconds so
remorselessly.

The country round about was very dreary.
The normal colour of the sky was a dull and
darkish slate, with an occasional touch of blue
in it, by way of a summer wonder. The
district in its general outlines was as flat as a
scene in Holland ; but it had about it here and
there mountains of slag and cinder and mine-refuse,
and was excavated here and there into
clay mines, and was in all directions harried

and broken up as if by a small and fretful
volcanic agency. An agency not powerful
enough for any great upheaval, but with just
sufficient strength to fret and worry the surface
of the patient earth in this way. Not an extinct
volcanic agency by any means ; for there
was always on the edge of the dull sky a lurid
gleam ; and always you might hear a shuddering
boom which shook the air ; and always,
move where you might, you were engirt by
smoke and flame. The heavy skeleton frames
at the heads of coal-pits were thick on the
landscape, waiting, as I used to fancy, like
huge spiders, for the flies which came up from
below, drawn cunningly and swiftly by a gliding
line into their ugly grasp, to be dropped
again empty.

This was my childish environment. At the
age of four or thereabouts — Sally's fund of
scholarship being by that time exhausted — I
was sent to school. The seminary I attended
was presided over by a very dirty old woman,
who smoked a short clay pipe. What sort of
scholastic regimen I had, it is scarcely worth
while to say. Reading and writing, says Dogberry,
come by nature ; and less by reason of
any assistance than by force of nature I learned

to read. I spent my infrequent pence in the
purchase of literary stores. Not far from
Sally's house was a small shop with a single
bleared and dirty window. This window was
covered at night-time by a shutter which hung
downward, having its hinges on the upper
casement, so that during the day it was necessary
to prop it up with sticks, and thus convertit
into a kind of roof. Under that frail shelter
I have often stood in rainy weather to spell
through one large-typed page of Jack the Giant-killer,
or the legend of Simple Simon. Stories
of Bluebeard and Buskin — whom I regarded
as a kind of literary twins — were there also ;
and the library included further the narratives
of the lives of Sixteen-stringed Jack and Three-fingered
Jack, another pair of twins. They
were all illustrated by outrageous cuts, loosely
slopped over with water colours in such wise
that the crimson hue of Bluebeard's turban
incarnadined the clouds, and his yellow boots
overflowed the foreground.

In the way of literature, Sally's house was
not altogether unprovided. The Pilgrims Progress
and the Holy War, a mutilated copy of
the Arabian Nights, a Family Bible — including
the Apocrypha and several incredible steel

engravings — and a fat volume containing Zadig,
The Devil on two Sticks, Frederick Random, and
Gil Bias, made up the library. How these
books had been got together, or to whom they
had belonged, I never knew ; but they were tome
such a source of infinite enchantment as I
shall not cease to be affectionately grateful for.
It is not the least among the joys they brought
that they made that dismal Black Country
lovely in my eyes, filling it — as they did — withall
manner of sweet associations, which have
lasted until now. For even now, Gil Bias,
when I rejoin him in his adventures, parts
from his uncle at the corner of Yew Tree
Lane ; and Benjamin, whenever I renew acquaintance
with him, is seized, with the golden
cup in his sack, in front of Pleasant Row
Cottages.

The day was wintry and the sunlight ghostlike
when a wintry and a ghost-like apparition
came upon me. I was playing alone. I
always did play alone ; for Sally had a mighty
idea of my gentility, and sternly forbade all
avoidable contact with aboriginal infancy. I
was naturally a little shy, and more than a
little given to the building of wonderful castles.
I preferred to exercise my architectural art

alone ; and had wandered away over the grimy
pit-mound fronting on Sally's house, along the
slimy canal which ran behind that Apennine,
over the little Dutch-looking bridge, and into
a certain mangy meadow, which then represented
to me the very heart of Nature's solitude.
At the end of this meadow was a
delicious terror — a yawning precipice, which
seemed to me of Alpine depth and grandeur,
although more recent visits assure me that
this dreadful chasm is as mere a clay-mine as
any in the county. Beyond it the earth
burned slowly, always, and the place was
Bunyan's Valley of the Shadow of Death in
dull weather, and on sunshiny days it was
Sinbad's Valley of Diamonds. It was surrounded
by a rickety wooden fence ; and one
of my delights was to hang over a broken
stump, and — blinding myself from all knowledge
of earth and sky — to give myself the
fearsome pleasure of falling in fancy over that
sheer precipice. This got to be a regular
part of my nightly dreams at last, and I did
what I chose with the fancy, asleep or awake.
I fell swiftly, and, suspending myself half-way,
winged a leisurely spiral way upwards. I went
head foremost or feet foremost, like a stone,

and came without a shock to the bottom.
Without ever having heard of Mr. Daniel
Home or Mrs. Guppy, I was the equal of
either, so far as voluntary levitation went. On
the particular day I speak of I had got to my
favourite stump, and after a lengthen waiting
than usual, had just begun my delicious unwholesome
journey, when I was startled out
of the fancy by a sound which very nearly
startled me into the fact. The sound was
that of a quick footstep. So near I was to
being startled into the fact, that if the man
whose approach had broken my dream had
not taken me by the petticoats, I should inevitably
have fallen over. I was so energetically
plucked from danger that I was thrown a
yard or two into the meadow ; and having had
just time to be dreadfully frightened, and seeing
that it was a stranger who had both frightened
and rescued me, the proper thing for meat
the moment appeared to be to cry. The
man stood and looked at me, and frightened
me still more. He was a young man, and
evidently belonged to a very superior class
to that I commonly mixed with or commonly
saw. He had rings on his fingers, for instance,
and wore a gold chain. He was well dressed,

or rather his clothes were made of good material
and looked new ; but they were torn and
splashed from head to foot. On his left side
he had a streak of dry white mud from
shoulder to knee. His face was handsome,
but haggard beyond all description, and his
lips were drawn back from the teeth in a very
remarkable way. I have seen the same look
on a dead face since then ; but I had never seen
it before, and it frightened me horribly. His
hair was very wildly disarranged, and there
was a dark blur of unshaven beard on cheek
and chin. He stood and stared at me after
having pitched me into the meadow ; and when
I had once or twice stolen a look at him, I
grew so desperately frightened that I did not
even dare to cry.

1 What were you doing there ? ' he asked me.

I made no answer ; and he muttered to himself,
' That's an act of Providence, anyway. I
startle him into it, and I drag him out of it.
Couldn't Providence have done as much forme,
I wonder ? '

There he laughed, and sat down on the
grass at a little distance.

Who are you?' he asked suddenly. ' What's
your name ? '

I managed somehow to say ' Johnny Campbell.'


Got any friends, Johnny Campbell ? ' he
asked me.

I responded, ' Yes, sir,' with inward quaking.

Then go home,' he said, ' and tell them not
to let you wander about in this wild way.'

Yes, sir,' I answered again, still in fear of
his lips and his eyes.

He did not move, and I was too frightened
to do so.

What's to-day ? ' he asked me.

I told him ' Tuesday.'

Then he mused for a while, and plucked a
few blades of grass, and ate them slowly.

How old are you?' he demanded, after
this pause.

1 Nearly seven,' I told him.

Are you a sharp lad ? ' he questioned. ' Do
you know how far it is from here to London ? '

I made shift to tell him there was a milestone
not far off which said it was a hundred
and sixteen miles ; to which he responded,
Nonsense.'

Then he ate another blade or two of grass,
and said to himself, though he looked hard
at me the while, ' Let me see. Five days.

And a life taken, and a life put in danger, and
a life saved.'

He rose then, and after a glance over the
broken railings, he looked back at me, and
laughed, and said, ■ There are better chances
than that in the world, even yet, Johnny
Campbell.'

With that he went away. What trick
Memory plays me, I can guess ; but he
seemed to me rather to vanish into air than
to disappear in any common fashion. I sat
and cried, and shivered for a little while, and
then went home, to find that day made doubly
memorable.

When I reached Sally's house I was still
crying. The man had thrown me into a spot
in the mangy meadow where the grass was
covered with wet clay. I was not at all
hurt ; but I had covered my face and hands
with tear - moistened soil, and came as a
perfect shock on Sally when I entered the
kitchen.

Oh, you dreadful, tiresome, dirty child ! '
cried Sally, making a dart at me and recoiling.
' Oh dear, dear ! It's them nasty lads,
I know. There ; take off your pinner, and
don't stand staring at me like a blue dog ina

dark entry.' Sally's similes were all of an
extravagantly unlikely sort, and this of the
blue dog in the dark entry was the one in
especial use in all cases of emergency or surprise.
' Come an' be washed. Them dreadful
lads ! I'd like to make a end o' the lot of
'em, that I would. You've been plain' with
that there Johnny Wardle, / know.'

There Sally made a sudden courtesy. ' I
beg your pardon, ma'am. I didn't see as anybody
was here. What might you be pleased
to want, ma'am ? Will you take a seat,
ma'am ? '

I turned round, and seeing that a stranger
had entered the house, took refuge behind the
clock. The stranger was an elderly lady,
dressed in deep mourning. She was very set
and stately in bearing, and very set and
stately in speech ; but her face and voice were
inviting. I have since then lost my childish
faculty for reading faces ; but in all my childish
experiences, I was never once deceived in that
regard, and certainly in them all had never
lighted on a face which attracted me so much.
The lady, in spite of Sally's invitation, remained
standing.

Your name,' she asked, ' is Troman ? '

Yes, ma'am returned Sally. ' At your
service, ma'am.'

1 You lived for some years, I think, with
Mrs. John Campbell of Heath House ? '

1 Yes, ma'am,' said Sally. ' Pore dear lady.
I went to live with her when her got married,
and I lived with her till her died, and see her
die.'

Yes ; I have heard of you and of your
faithful service ' — Sally courtesies — ' and of
your kindness to her child.' Sally courtesies
again. ' Is that the child ? '

I'm regular ashamed to show him, ma'am,
said Sally, bringing me from behind the clock ;
1 but I wanted the kitchen to do my ironing'
• in, and so I let him go out and play himself,
an' them nasty lads about here has been and
rolled him again, I suppose.'

By that phrase Sally signified the method
by which certain of the young democrats of
that region revenged themselves upon me for
her proclamation of my unfitness to associate
with ' the likes o' them.' It was their occasional
practice to seize me when I strayed
away from home, and to roll me in any conveniently
muddy spot, until I assumed the
aspect of an earthen image.

1 Will you oblige me,' said the lady, ' by
washing him ? '

1 Certainly, ma'am ; I was just going to do
it Sally explained.

So I saw responded the lady, and seated
herself.

Though, goodness gracious knows said
Sally as she took me in hand, ' as he was sent
out this blessed morning' as neat as ever was
new pin, ma'am

I was forthwith taken away and washed and
brushed, and having been inducted into clean
socks and a new pinafore, was brought back
to the kitchen. Then the lady asked me to
sit upon her knee, and I did so.

I suppose,' she asked Sally, ' that you knew
nothing of this young gentleman's relatives —
of his parents' relatives, I mean ? '

No, ma'am,' Sally answered. ' I didn't
know as he had a soul in the world as ud
own him.'

C I/ said the lady, 'am his aunt. My name
is Campbell. Mr. John Campbell — your old
master, the child's father — was my husband's
brother. I believe he has no nearer relative
than myself, and I propose to take charge
of him.'

I looked across at Sally, and slipping from
the lady's lap, ran to my old protectress.
She took me up, and put her firm red arms
about me.

No, ma'am said Sally, in a sort of quiet
desperation. ' I can't dream o' martin' from
the child.'

But you must see,' said the lady ' that it
cannot be for his advantage to live here.'

It ud be cruel, ma'am,' said Sally with a
gulp, ' to part me and the child.'

It would be far more cruel to the child
to leave him here ; and I am his natural
guardian.'

Well, ma'am,' said Sally, ' I've been his unnat'ral
guardian now for pretty nigh four year,
ma'am. I should like to know, ma'am, why
he ain't been sought after ? I took him out
of his poor dead father's arms, I did, and
brought him home along with me and rare
him, and didn't get no nat'ral guardians coming
to ask a word about him.'

I was away from England when Mr. Campbell
died. Your question is a very natural
one, and your conduct does you very great
credit. You shall be well paid for what you
have done.'

vol. 1. b

I was staring hard at the lady all this time,
and I noticed that she blushed deeply a moment
after she had said this. I think it was
at Sally's start of wounded indignation.

You'll have to prove those words, as you're
his aunt, ma'am,' said Sally very quietly, and
folding me tightly in her arms. ' But if you
are his aunt, ma'am, I suppose I can't hinder
you from taking him. But oh, ma'am,' cried
Sally, gripping me still harder in her earnestness,
' treat him kind. He hasn't been used to
no mother-in-lawrin'.' There Sally cried very
heartily.

The lady answered, ' I hear an excellent
account of you, and the vicar's wife assures me
that you are a good domestic. Are you willing
to take service ? I have no doubt that I can
find a place for you in my brother's household.'

■ Will the child be there ? ' asked Sally.

The lady inclined her head and answered,
1 Yes.'

I Then, oh ma'am,' answered Sally, rising with
me in her arms — ' then, oh ma'am, how glad and
willing' ! '

When can you be ready to go ? ' her visitor
asked.

I I can be ready almost as soon as you like,

ma'am said Sally, setting me down and wiping
her eyes with her apron. ' When mother comes
in, I can tell her as I've got a place, and pack
and start almost at once, ma'am.'

Then,' said the lady, rising, ' be ready forme
at ten o'clock tomorrow. You will want
to buy some things for the child. Let them be
handsome, but plain and good. You know how a
gentleman's child should be dressed, I suppose?'

Oh yes, ma'am,' Sally answered. ' He's
rather shabby now ; but I've done my best
with him.'

I am very grateful to you for it,' replied
her visitor ; ' and when I spoke of paying
you for your trouble, I did not wish you to
think that I meant only by money. This will
serve you for such purchases as you will find
it necessary to make. Pack for him, if you
please, only such things as will be fit for his
use when he reaches home.'

With that the stately lady set a piece of
thin and rustling paper on the table ; and having
kissed me, and said good-day to Sally, she
went away. My devoted guardian followed
her to the door and made a final obeisance,
and then ran back into the kitchen and took
me up in one confused armful and sat down

with me on the nondescript couch. There she
kissed and cried over me. I cried for company,
until Sally set me down and exclaimed,
1 Bless the child's heart alive ! what's he got
to cry for? I snowed as heaven 'ud never
leave the little innocent to grow up in a place
like this. Didn't I, Johnny ? ' And therewith
she knelt down by me and renewed her
tears.

HISTORY.

There was trouble here, as elsewhere, after all.

A HOUSE with many gables. A quaint,
red-bricked old building, half overgrown
with ivy, and bosomed high in trees. A house
on an island, which joined east and west to the
mainland by two rustic wooden bridges thrown
across the pleasant river. The place — built
at half-a-dozen different eras — had some sign
of having been fortified once upon a time.
Cromwell's .people were answerable for a few
of its gables. There was still a remnant of
a grey stone wall, over which, as the country
legends told, the men of Red Rose and of
White fought bloodily one peaceful summer
evening. It was an old, old house, and of a
pleasant aspect. The flush of its red brickwork
was like that of a ripe old age. The

ivy curled tenderly about its corners, and
draped them with a beauty not their own.
The river went calmly round the island, and
the opulent landscape on either side smiled
peacefully with many a cornfield. There is
no fairer region at this day in all the fair
western county. There is no place a painter
might better love to study, or a wearied
Londoner more rejoicingly dwell in, anywhere.
And the whole scene had about it a sweet and
balmy air of rest. In the trees the rooks
were cawing with afternoon solemnity. The
kine stood udder-deep in grass, and switched
the flies from their flanks in lazy contentment.
The bells of a distant church were ringing
a wedding peal. One could have closed his
eyes here, and lying broadcast at the riverside,
have listened to the waving boughs and
the laughing river, and the humming gnats
and the chattering rooks, and all the sweet
and grateful sounds of country life, until at
last he might have fancied that this was the
sort of peace which belonged to the world in
the old time before Care was born.

The heat of summer was in the air. The
peace of summer was on the river, and on the
fields, and on the murmuring trees. Such

sounds as lived could only serve to make the
general silence sweeter.

But there was trouble here, as elsewhere,
after all.

There were two young fellows walking up
the lane which led from Wrethedale to the
western bridge. They went in silence for
awhile, and one of them, olive-complexioned
and heavily - moustached, switched viciously
with his walking-stick at the ferns and foxgloves.
He was a handsome young fellow,
with some affectations in dress, which seemed
to bespeak him an artist. He wore a bronze-coloured
velvet jacket, for instance, and his
wide-awake hat was of the same material.
He carried between a daintily gloved finger
and thumb a well-blacked meerschaum. His
companion, who regarded him wistfully, was
by some two or three years his elder, and
whilst much fairer in complexion and slighter
in build, bore a strong resemblance to him.
As they walked, the younger grew more and
more vicious in his cuts at the foxgloves,
and the elder more and more anxious in his
looks. When they reached the bridge they
paused.

1 It's not a bit of use, Will said the

younger. * You must do it, and you must
rely on me. I promise faithfully that I'll raise
the money. I know I can raise it long enough
before the time comes

1 You didn't raise it last time, Frank returned
the elder. ' I don't see how I am to
help you.' He spoke decisively, but with a
sympathetic voice and manner.

The other turned away angrily, and answered,
' That's all nonsense. You have but
to sign your name, and the thing's done.
If that fellow should come down upon me,
and the governor should know of it, it would
break his heart.'

But, Frank,' returned the elder, ' I had the
greatest possible trouble in meeting the last,
and this is even larger. I don't want to say
anything hard, but I think I know you better
than you know yourself. If you get out of
this scrape, you'll just go quietly back to
London, and be very careful for a week, and
be very careless for three months afterwards.
Then you'll suddenly wake up to the fact that
there's another bill to meet, and that you can't
meet it. I am sure I should not be able to
meet it, if I should accept it and you should fail

Frank made no reply, but stooping, gathered

a handful of loose pebbles, and dropped them
one by one into the stream.

'Is there no other way?* the elder asked.
Can't you get the man to wait ? '

4 Can't I get the tide to wait ? Can't I persuade
Nelson's Column to take a walk down
Fleet Street ? Look here ! If I don't pay
Tasker off at once, he either has me in his
clutches for ever and drains me dry, once,
and twice, and thrice, and again ; or he comes
down here, presents himself to the governor,
and qualifies him for a coffin. Because that's
exactly what it means. You know that, Will,
as well as I do.'

The other shook his head in a mournful
way, as not at all disputing this unpleasant
view of things.

Well now, on the other hand,' the younger
resumed, ' all you have to do is to put your
name to a piece of paper, and to make yourself
easy about the rest. I'm sure I'm sorry
I didn't pay the other ; but I give you my
word of honour I will meet this. Now, old
man, trust me. Give me a chance.'

Frank,' says the elder, ' if I had the money,
I would give it to you with all my heart.
You ought to know that. And you ought to

know what signing that bill may mean. You
know your own affairs better than I can know
them, a great deal better than you let me know
them. Before you ask me to repose so much
confidence in you, you should repose a little
in me.'

It's a shameful business said the other
doggedly, 'and so much I have told you
already. I won't humble myself by telling you
more. You can help me if you like ; and if
you don't like, you can kill the governor.'

1 That's a very happy specimen of your way
of reasoning,' said Will, with a little scorn in
his voice ; ' and quite in accordance with what
I've seen in you for some time past.'

Frank turned round on him fiercely.

You're a pretty brother ! A nice, kindly,
trustful, amiable fellow ! Well, take your way.
I wash my hands of it. I have done. I have
made the only appeal it was in my power to
make. I find it rejected, and there's nothing
for it but to go back and hang myself.' With
that he threw his elbows savagely on the rail of
the little bridge and stared moodily at the water.

I wish you would use a little commonsense,
Frank, and be a little reasonable,' the
elder brother pleaded in a nervous way. ' You

can't wash your hands of it, except by paying
the debt and amending your life.'

Frank made no answer, until the elder put
a hand upon his shoulder, with an appeal :
Come, Frank, I don't want to speak too
harshly, and you know that I'll help you all
I can.'

The fact is,' Frank replied savagely, ' that I'm
a selfish, egotistical beast. You're quite right,
Will, and you don't say to me half I deserve.
But I do really believe that I'm honest in saying
that I am a thousand times more concerned
for the governor than I am for myself.
I've acted like a fool and a villain ; and if the
punishment hit nobody but me, I could bear it.'

Frank ! Frank ! ' exclaimed the elder, ' you
confess too easily.'

I know,' said Frank impatiently. ' You're
right again. I'm a shallow, good-for-nothing
beast, and the only grace I have is that I can
be sometimes brought to own it'

The worst of that is,' Will murmured inwardly,
' that you think an admission a repentance.'
Then aloud : ' Don't you think, Frank,
that if you allowed me to explain all this to
the governor, that the thing might be honourably
arranged ? I don't like this underhand

way of doing things. Why should you and I
go about drawing and accepting bills ?

1 The governor shall never know it with my
consent. Why should you ask me to shame
myself in that way ? Why need he know it ?
Why need he be grieved with it ? '

Will you give me your promise that you'll
not wait for the bill to become due before you
begin to think about meeting it ? '

By Jove ! I'll do anything on earth,' the
other answers. ' I'll live on bread and cheese
I'll work like ten men. I wish I could get
you to believe me. I know I came down
here and made professions of reform before ;
but this has been such a wearing grind of
anxiety, that I shall never involve myself in
such a way again

Will you do this ? ' said the elder. ' Will
you promise to send me half the amount of the
bill the week before it falls due ? If you'll
undertake to do that, I'll undertake to meet the
bill, and you can pay me the balance afterwards.
I shall have a little loose coin then.'

Bill, you're a brick ! ' exclaimed the younger.
< Will I do it ? Won't I do it ? I tell you
there's nothing in the world I wouldn't do.'

Or couldn't do ? ' queried Will. ' I don't

want to know what you are willing to do, but
what you are able to do. Can you do it? Don't
speculate. Be sure

I can do it,' Frank replied ; * and I promise
you that I will

Remember, Frank said the elder with a
grave and anxious face, and with his hand
again on his brother's shoulder.

'And remember, Will,' said the other gaily,
that I am not an utterly abandoned cut-throat
yet. I shall have to grow a little in that direction
before I can neglect a thing like this, and
make you such a villainous return for all your
kindness. It shan't cost you a farthing. I'm
going to turn over a new leaf. I have had
enough and a great deal more than enough of this
business. I'll slave away like Old Boots when I
get back. I'm to be R.A. in half-a-dozen years
at the outside. Watch the career of this talented
young artist, and see what becomes of him.'

And with that the handsome young gentleman
cocked his velvet hat a little more than
usual, and struck a theatrical attitude. At this
the elder laughed. The two suddenly shook
hands, and then without further parley crossed
the bridge together, passed a swinging gate,
and came upon the lawn of Island Hall.

On the lawn stood an old gentleman and a
child. The child's face was turned to the newcomers,
and with a joyful little screech she
rushed past the old gentleman, and precipitated
herself upon the younger of the brothers, and
being lifted by him, hugged and kissed him
most outrageously. Her caresses having been
returned, the young lady struggled to get down
to the lawn again, and being landed, danced
round the young fellow like a fairy, clapping
her hands and laughing. This young lady was
some five years of age. Her sunny little face
was brimming over with laughter and as full of
saucy humour as a face could be. The dimpled
little hands hovered here and there restless and
light as falling snow-flakes ; and what with her
golden hair and her rapid childish motion, she
played round the object of her welcome like a
very sunbeam. Pausing before him with
clasped hands and an expression of sudden
gravity, she made an announcement : — ' Oh
Franty, I've turn home.'

Now,' said Franty, leaning back on his
walking-stick and smiling at her lazily, ' I should
never have guessed that.'

The little damsel, susceptible to satire, explained
with dignity, ' I've turn home for good.'

■ What ! ' asked Frank, ' not going back to
aunty any more ? '

No,' said the little damsel very gravely ; ' I
shan't go back to aunty's. But,' she added,
with such a flash of head, hands, feet, and
body as only feminine childhood can accomplish,
' aunty's cummin' here.'

Hilloo ! ' Frank exclaimed. ' That's news. —
Is that a fact, father ? '

Yes,' says the old gentleman, in a languid
and even rather lackadaisical voice ; ' she's
here now, and has made up her mind to stay
with us.'

Ah ! ' said Frank, and walked across the
lawn and into the house.

It's rather a good thing,' said the old
gentleman, with a voice so querulous that he
seemed to be complaining of a very bad thing,
'that Frank's not at home so much now ashe
used to be. Poor Bertha and he don't get
along well together. But as for you, Will,' he
went on in the same querulous complaining
voice, • you are as sober-sided an old fellow as
myself, and we must do our best to bear with
her crotchets, poor thing, and to make her as
happy as we can,'

Who's poor thing ? ' inquired the young lady.

The old gentleman laughed and patted her
shining head.

'What sharp ears these little people have,
Will

His son smiled in answer ; and the little
damsel at the sight of his smiling face, clapped
her hands and laughed aloud.

Frank emerged from the house, and took
the child on his shoulder, and danced with her
round the lawn.

'He's a good-hearted fellow,' said the father
in his querulous voice ; ' I wish he would be a
little steadier.'

I think he will be answered Will. 'We
have had a very serious talk this afternoon, and
he tells me he has quite made up his mind for
hard work and quiet living.'

The old gentleman smiled warily and answered,
' I am very glad to hear it, Will, very
glad. They tell me up there, you know, that
he is extremely clever. I am no judge of art ;
but people who do know something about
pictures, tell me he is certain to rise.'

Mr. Fairholt made this statement with the
voice and manner of a man who complains
weakly of the meanness of a dishonourable
friend.

I was up at the Academy on the fifth of
last month Will answered. ' As I was going
in I met Spines, and he carted me off to
Frank's picture in a most triumphant way,
telling me it was one of the cleverest things of
the year and safe to sell.'

It hasn't sold ? ' asked his father.

I think not,' Will responded. Then across
the lawn : ' Frank ! Has that picture of yours
at the Academy sold ? '

No says Frank, pausing in his dance.
1 But there's a noble swell after it. He's working
through his agent, a fellow who always
buys for him. He wants it for one-fifty, and
I've priced it at two hundred. There are a
lot of mean dogs who won't buy through the
Secretary, but pester the painter as though
he were a retail tradesman. The picture's
worth the money, and I shan't let it go for
less. But my noble swell is an awfully tight-fitted
ruffian, and I am afraid I shall lose
him.'

Mr. Fairholt stood smiling warily in the sunshine,
and rubbing his hands together discontentedly,
as though he had a fretful little
quarrel with them.

Don't take less than you think it worth,'
vol. 1. c

he said. ' But two hundred pounds is a good
deal of money to pay for a picture.'

Why, bless your soul,' returned Frank,
there are fellows who can get a thousand by
slashing over a square yard of canvas with a
brush like a broom. And I have put a good
honest six months' work into that picture.'

Will laughed rather mischievously, and
asked, ' Do you count the six weeks' flirtation
at Brighton in that good honest six months'
work, old fellow ? '

Frank grinned responsive : ( Why not ? A
man must keep up the artistic fervour somehow.
—Mustn't he, Polly ? '

Polly, seated on his shoulder and listening
gravely to the conversation, laughed on being
thus appealed to, and the dance began again.
The old man after looking on for a time, went
into the house, and Will lit a cigar. The scent
of a brown-paper fusee reaching Frank's nostrils,
he suspended the dance.

1 There, Polly ! That's enough. Now runaway
and kiss Aunt Bertha.'

< What for ? ' asked Polly.

1 You mercenary little creature ! For love ! '

Polly made one rose-leaf of her lips, and
shook her head.

Then for sixpence,' said Frank, taking the
coin from his pocket.

Polly's countenance relaxed. She nodded,
and having secured the coin, started off at a
run ; but paused in the doorway, and gave
warning with a triumphant laugh : ' I shall turn
back again.'

Give me a weed, old fellow,' said Frank.

Will produced his case ; and Frank having
carefully selected his cigar and lighted it, tilted
his hat, and said, whilst his gloved hand strayed
amongst his curls, ' Will, if you can accept this
bill to-night, I will drive over to Hetherton first
thing in the morning, put it in at the bank, take
train up to town, pay this astounding villain
immediately, and get back tomorrow evening.'

That's impossible,' Will responds. ' You
couldn't leave Hetherton before twelve, and
the mid-day train from Hetherton reaches town
at four-forty. I'll accept the bill all the same.
How long do you purpose staying here ? '

1 I want to make a week of it,' Frank answered.
' The fact is,' he continued, throwing
his hat on one side and straightening himself
with a slight swagger, ' I want to see something
more of Maud, and I want her to see
something more of me. And now that the

murder's out, I don't mind telling you, Will,
that what I think and feel about her has done
more to tame me than even this confounded
thing of Tasker's.'

There was a pained look in Will's face as he
turned away, and his voice shook a little ashe
said, ' I hadn't fancied that you cared for
her at all, Frank.'

Well, one doesn't like to go about making
a row over these things before they are tolerably
certain,' returned Frank, dragging softly
at his black moustache and smiling.

Will surveyed his cigar, and knocked off the
ash with the tip of his forefinger. Then he
whistled a bar or two from Semiramis. ( Do
you mean to say that you are tolerably certain?'

• Yes,' said Frank, setting his feet apart, and
throwing his walking-stick across his shoulders,
so that he took an end in each hand. ' I'm nota
vain man ; but I think I could make any
woman fall in love with me, provided always
that she had no prior engagement — no " priory
'attachment," as that fellow says in the Pickwick
Papers. The fact is, you know, that a fellow's
only got to be not downright ugly and not
downright stupid, and he can marry any woman
for the pleasure of making love to her.' Therewith

the modest and ingenuous youth passed
his hand caressingly through his curls, smoothed
his moustache, and proceeded, his voice being
pleasantly muffled by his cigar : ' I'm not talking
of those bred-and-born flirts one meets in
town. I'm talking of women who are worth
marrying. Now you know, with such a woman,
if her heart's free, you have only to care about
her, and to tell her so — '

And she drops into your mouth like an
over-ripe plum. Eh ? ;

1 Exactly.'

I'm not of your opinion, Frank. I think a
woman who is worth marrying is won in rather
a different fashion

Frank looked down with a glance of good-humoured
and amused compassion.

Will, with his straw-hat pulled over his eyes,
was very closely examining his cigar when he
asked, ' Have you any especial reason to think
as you do about Maud ? '

1 Ye-es. I feel pretty safe. I feel sure she
likes me, and I'm going to make a dash for
it this evening. I'll either make a spoon or
spoil a horn. I have to dine there, and it's
time I dressed and was off. Won't you wish
me luck, old fellow ? '

Will, with a not over-successful attempt at
a laugh, responded, ' I'll wish you a little
more humility and a little more knowledge of
women.'

Frank patted him on the shoulder, patron-like
: ' All right, my venerable wiseacre. I
shall have news for you when I come back.
Do you mind telling Jack to get the dog-cart
ready ? Thanks.' With that the modest and
ingenuous disappeared with a light and airy
step.

Having fulfilled his commission, Will sat
down on a garden seat and smoked for a while.

What's to be done now ? ' he asked himself.
' Ought I to stand on one side and let
him win ? Does it matter to him as much
as it matters to me ? I don't know what
spoiling my life might mean, but I can guess
one thing about Frank. If he cares for Maud
as much as I do, and doesn't get her, he'll goto
the bad altogether. I wonder whether it's
because he feels more intensely, or because he
never controls his feelings ? I can't make up
my mind about anything yet, I must wait and
see — I must wait and see.'

He arose and strolled in a melancholy
humour back to the bridge, where he dropped

pebbles into the river, and was startled from
a dismal day-dream by the passage of Frank
in the dog-cart, with the groom beside him.

Ta-ta,' shouted Frank. * Five to one, I
win ! '

Will shook his head in answer. The dogcart
turned a corner of the lane. The sound
of the wheels died away, and Will went on
dropping pebbles in the stream, and thinking
thinking — thinking — whilst resolve grew
stronger and his heart grew fainter every
moment.

At last he said, * Why should I waste my
heart by dropping them one by one ? Let the
lot go.' With that he threw a handful of
pebbles into the stream and walked, a little
moodily, home.

HISTORY.

Costly a,7id cumbrous vulgarities choked these gilded salons.

The Hartley were new people, and were
not yet entitled to call themselves
county.' No man knew exactly how rich old
Hartley was, though he passed as a sort of
Croesus. But his mansion was new even to
rawness. His coat of arms was original even
to absurdity. The whole style of the man was
too brassy, too obtrusive, too florid, too everything
but gentlemanly. He was an old man
and an ugly and a vulgar, and his dress was
loud and ostentatious. He had bought a huge
estate down there, and had christened it Hartley
Park. He had built unto himself a gorgeous
mansion, and had it christened Hartley Hall.
He had provided himself with a stud of horses,
the like of which the county could not show.

His servants were attired in an overwhelming
livery. His greenhouses rivalled my Lord
Chesterwood's. He kept open house, or something
very like it, the whole year through ; and
he gave on his first coming numerous entertainments
for the benefit of the county people, from
which the county people coldly stayed away.
The rooms of Hartley Hall were more plenteously
furnished with buhl and ormolu than a
west-end upholsterer's warehouse. Costly and
cumbrous vulgarities positively choked these
gilded salons. Pictures from the hands of the
first modern artists — for art was here as new as
everything else — graced the wall in such profusion
as almost to hide the very papering.
Everything was on a scale of barbaric and unregulated
splendour.

Benjamin Hartley of Hartley Hall had two
sons. One was still at Cambridge, and the
other was an extravagant Lieutenant in the
Fourteenth Plungers. That gallant regiment
lay just then at Cahir, and County Tipperary
knew Lieutenant Hartley well. Lieutenant
Hartley of Hartley Hall, possessor of unlimited
cash and unlimited credit, and heir-expectant
to a colossal fortune, was well enough received
among the county people here ; and Horace

St. John Hartley of Jesus found little difficulty
in the gratification of his desire for the
companionship of the noblest swells just then
known to Cambridge. For both the Lieutenant
and the student had gotten that air of
aee their father lacked. Their father would
be new to the end of his days, and would continue
new if he could live to be as old as
Methuselah ; but both the lads had a rare
power of adaptability. In the days when their
father sent them to Eton, that famous school
was a better training-ground for gentlemen
than it is at present. There were fewer of the
sons of the newly-rich within its walls, and the
young fellows were not long in acquiring the
airs of ton. Not unnaturally, perhaps, they
despised their father, and were a good deal
ashamed of him and of his newness. They
were rarely seen at home except at unavoidable
seasons ; and when forced to meet the author
of their being and the contriver of their fortunes,
they bore themselves with a distant hauteur in
which the old man rejoiced.

1 For ' — so he sometimes mused — and so in
the genial after-dinner hour would sometimes
openly declare — '/ ain't a gentleman, and I
know it ; but both Arthur an' Horace aregettin'

to be regular tip-top swells. It ain't natural as
they should look with a lot o' respect on me. I
should despise 'em if they did. But I don't
stand no nonsense, mind you. They do as I
tell 'em ; I take care o J that. I don't know as
Solomon was so remarkable wise after all. He
says he don't know whether a wise man or a
fool is to come after him and collar his coppers.
Well, / do. I've got two as sharp lads as you'll
find anywhere, with a good eye to the main-chance,
both of 'em ; and a regular swell style
about both of 'em as would ha' made my hair
stand on lend to look at twenty year ago.
And when I've dropped off, the lads '11 come in
and put things straight. These county folks,
with their high-strung notions, won't cut them,
I bet. No, no. It's different with me. I've
been in coal and iron and taller, and cotton and
stocks and shipping', and pretty nigh everything'.
They call that sort of thing low, down here.
And so it is low. But it's a bit hard lines on a
fellow too. The man as does the work and
gets the money can't enjoy it. At least he
can't enjoy it thorough. But them as comes
after him, them as he's scraped for and worked
for, and toiled for and boiled for, they'll be
able to come in with their Seton lingo and their

eye-glasses, and run the rig with any of 'em.
And as for coin, they'll go beyond 'em. In
point o' coin, I ain't far off shaken' hands with
old Courts, and that's a fact. Big houses ain't
always the warmest, and I don't know as if I
was to go and tick off thousand for thousand
along with him, as I oughtn't have something
to spare after all.'

So the old heathen communed with himself
and with divers of his chosen. He had his
good points. Like many men who have striven
after money all their lives and have denied
themselves greatly, he was, now that his fortune
had grown secure, lavishly generous. His
good-nature was genuine. His pretty niece had
not even to wheedle in order to find liberal
comforts for her favourite poor. The clergyman
of the parish never appealed to him in
vain. 'No; hang it ! Mister ;' said old Hartley,
when the parson first called on him and let
loose upon him the simple annals of the poor of
those parts — ' No ; hang it ! Mister ; I won't
have that in my neighbourhood. But I'm not
going to keep the thundering' village either.
Look here continued Benjamin with a wink,
tell the beg-oars as I'm a hard-fisted doe as
parts with his money like blood. Just keep up

that bit o' gammon between ourselves, will
you ? But you can exercise your influence,
you know, an' grind a fie-pun' note out of me
once in a way ; don't you see ?' The cleric departing,
gave it forth that Mr. Hartley was one
who did good by stealth and blushed to find it
fame ; but when this statement got back to
Benjamin's ears, he grinned satirically, and surmised
that the parson was not a man of business.
'It's a fine thing to have a reputation
for hardness,' said the old gentleman. ' It
saves a deal o' trouble.'

How came Benjamin Hartley with such a
niece as Maud ? How, in the name of all that
is wonderful, came such a dainty flower to grow
from such a rough and gnarled old stock ?
For rough and gnarled the stock must surely
have been which produced Benjamin Hartley,
Esquire. But years before this story opens,
Benjamin's sister married — very high in life, as
people who knew her then fancied, securing no
less a person than the young Dissenting minister
of the Black Country village she dwelt in.
She was a woman of much innate refinement ;
and her husband — spite of the fact that he was
a Dissenting parson — was a scholar and a
gentleman. He was dolefully poor, and died

young. His wife followed his wise example
early, and left this world for a better. Thus
their one child was left to the mercies of Providence,
and said Uncle Benjamin, ' Providence
turned up trumps in the shape o' me.'

There was another sister who married later
and far higher. She married a man whose
affairs were flourishing, and who was so very
far above the family, that he looked down upon
it with a bitter disdain, and never, after his
marriage, by a word acknowledged it. His
name was Campbell, and he was a wealthy ironmaster.
Somehow or other, he came to grief,
and died utterly penniless, leaving behind him
one son, aged three years. Old Hartley was
ignorant of this child's existence. Had it been
otherwise, he would have given him a home
with Maud ; for he was not a man who bore
malice, and had long since forgiven and forgotten
John Campbell's disdain, and had never lost
his affection for John Campbell's wife. But the
years had come between them, and he knew nothing
of their fall from prosperity or of their death.

Just now — on this especial summer evening
Mr Hartley stood in his drawing-room in
expectation of Frank's arrival. The Fairholts
were the only county people who might be at

all considered caught. Old Hartley knew well
enough that they cared very little for him or
his house, or even his money. He recognised
the magnet which drew the two young fellows
to Hartley Hall, and watched their attentions
to Maud with much complacency. ' There's
Mr. William' — so he thought over matters —
has got a very pretty little estate. I know
it's entailed, and he can have Maud if he
wants her. But I'm rather in favour o' the
young un. He'll have next to nothing' ; but I
like him. He's a fine handsome chap, with lots
o' spirit and fun in him, an there's no takin' him
for anything but a swell, anywhere. I've got
two lads o' my own to look after, and they can't
expect to get much along with her ; but I shall
hand her a check for a quiet little ten thousand
on her wedding-day, and they can set up on that,
anyhow, even if the young un gets her. Let
the gell please herself — that's how I look at it.'

1 Maud ! ' said the old man aloud, waking
from his reverie. ' Ain't it time young Fairholt
was here ? '

At this moment young Fairholt was ushered
in, and met with a loud and vulgar welcome.

4 Aha ! How d'ye do ? Thought you wasn't
coming'. Glad to see you, Mr. Fairholt. And

how's the H island ? And hows hall at the
'All?'

1 Everybody is well, thank you,' Frank
answers ; but he is already turning to shake
hands with Maud. That young lady blushes a
little as she comes to meet him, but receives
him with great cordiality. A gorgeous menial
announces dinner, and there are half-a-dozen
other gorgeous menials distributed over the
desert of Turkey carpet in the dining-room.
Warm as the weather is, there is an aspect
of arctic coldness about this huge apartment,
and a sense of desertion in the very look of
the great table. It would seem as though a
score or so of people had been invited and had
not come ; and the three sit down in the
Turkey carpet desert, before that table-land of
snow, as in a magnificent but enforced isolation.

Will you look at Maud through her lover's
eyes or through mine ? For my part, I am free
in parliamentary English — to confess that I
have seen prettier faces, though I have not seen
many more lovable. Of what use is it to
attempt to draw a portrait in words of a pretty
young Englishwoman ? How can the pen
catch those gracious little turns of the head —
those marvellously minute modelling of cheek

and nose and lips — those tender graces of the
eyes — those helpless yet fearless and endearing
ways which go so far to make the charm of
sweet eighteen ? I can tell you that Maud is
tall and slim and graceful. I can tell you that
she has brown hair and hazel eyes. ' But girls
with hair and eyes are everywhere.' I can tell
you that her complexion is most dainty clear
and sweet, and that her mouth is most eminently
kissable. I could catalogue a score more of
her graces ; but what would this suffice you ?
My brother of the brush goes beyond me in
this matter altogether, and Frank in twenty
minutes could present you with a random
smutch in colour which would tell you more
about her in this respect than Dickens himself
could have told you in a twelvemonths.

Dinner is not a matter of much account to
female eighteen and male four-and twenty, when
they chance to be at the same table and are in
love with each other. Old Hartley's presence
troubled the young people little, for he said
nothing he could avoid saying, and seemed
buried in his own fancies. A tell-tale shot was
fired across the table now and again from Frank
to Maud, and from Maud to Frank, and they
both grew a little shy.

vol. 1. D

Dinner being over, the millionaire broke
silence : ' We'll take our wine up-stairs, if you
please, Mr. Fairholt. The ladies is very near
a fiction in this here instance.'

So Maud's rising was the signal for host and
visitor to follow. Maud's taste had evidently
been busy about the room they now entered.
There was no barbarism of splendour here.
Everything was quiet, refined, and graceful.
The windows of the room looked out on the
park. A sweet prospect. The evening was
still young. The blue of the sky was a little
more tender, the gleam of the sunlight a little
mellower on the park trees and the park landscape
and the pleasant river.

■ For my part,' said the retired capitalist, arranging
himself comfortably in an arm-chair, ' I
don't take wine after dinner. I'm contented
with a drop o' brandy an' a bit of ice. But
there's anything you like here. Try that there
sherry. My Lord Chesterwood himself can't
beat that, I'll bet. Melted gold, it looks like,
don't it ? And by Jove ! sir, that's pretty well
what it amounts to. Now I shall just take my
nip, and then I shall take my nap, and leave
Maud to take care of you, sir. I can't do
without my snooze after dinner.'

The old gentleman's appetite had been diminished
by no such cause as that which had
spoiled the dinner of his young companions.
He had well eaten and drunken, and his nap
came readily. A bassoon-like note again
and again repeated, monotonous but mellow,
accompanied and proclaimed his slumbers,
and Maud and Frank were left to their own
devices.

1 Would you — ' Frank began, and stopped
there.

'Would I — ' said Maud, hinting a continuation.


I wanted to suggest a stroll in the gardens.
It's dreadfully hot here.'

Shall I rouse Mr. Hartley ?' Maud asked.

Nonsense, Maud ! Do you care to walk ?
It looks so peaceful and calm outside that it
seems almost a sin to stay indoors.'

1 It does indeed,' Maud answered, and for a
moment disappeared. When she returned, she
had thrown over her head a something of dark
lace, the edges whereof fell to her waist — the
merest pretence of preparation for out-of-doors.
She and Frank were on very close and confidential
terms of friendship, and were perhaps
nervously inclined to parade this to themselves,

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

because they both knew very well that there
was something more than friendship behind its
pleasant mask. They chose a shady walk,
which led through well-laid gardens to the
Park. At the Park gate they stopped.
The silence had grown a little embarrassing,
for neither had spoken since they left the
house.

Frank broke the bonds of quiet with
an effort. ' I go back to town in a day
or two.'

Indeed ! ' Maud said. ' So soon ? '

Yes. It goes sorely against the grain ; but
I have some matters of importance to see to,
and I must get back almost at once.'

4 It is too bad, Frank. You are more
than half pledged for the picnic on the first.
You are a very faithless and inconsiderate
person.'

1 If you are going to scold, Maud, I must
smoke. I can endure the ills of life with
greater philosophy when behind a cigar than
under any other circumstances. Are you provided
? '

Yes, sir, I am provided responded Maud,
producing a cigar-case. ' Knowing that we
could not possibly spend five minutes together

without quarrelling, and knowing that you can
never quarrel with decent politeness unless you
smoke, I have stolen uncle's case

You are a very accommodating antagonist
Frank answered, accepting the proffered cigar.
He did not light it at once, but leaned with his
elbows on the gate, and looked thoughtfully
across the Park.

Well, sir,' said Maud, with a pretty air
of harmless impudence. ' Get your battery
in order. The enemy advances in full
force

1 No returned Frank, looking round upon
her ; ' I shall not fall back upon my reserves
until my present forces are expended. I shall
withhold my fire

Very good,' Maud answered gaily. ' The
enemy's advance-guard declares itself. Why
were you so stupidly silent during dinner ? '

I plead guilty to the silence, but deny the
stupidity

You change ground already, sir, and try to
escape from the battle-field to the law-court.
But I am willing to encounter you there. On
what ground do you deny the stupidity ? '

On the ground that I was mentally engaged
in a wise admiration

A wise admiration ? The admiration of
your own face and figure in the glass behind
me ? I caught you twice.'

I I am grateful for the complaisance which
pronounces such an admiration wise.'

'And 1/ returned Maud, 'am astonished at
the vanity which accepts so absurdly false a
compliment.'

I I return to the old simile,' Frank replied.
4 My outposts fall back for the protection of the
main body, and the artillery prepares for action.
Will my courteous enemy assist me ? '

Your courteous enemy has stolen a box of
vesta, and now proffers them.'

My courteous enemy is thanked for her
courtesy. But now a truce to truces. There
goes the first puff from the artillery. The
action begins in earnest, and the forces of the
Frank make reprisals. Why were you so
stupidly silent during dinner ? '

The enemy grows insolent.'

< Maud ! '

'Sir!'

Let us be serious.'

I am more than serious. Come sir. For

u Front to front the bannered hosts combine,
Halt ere they close, and form the dreadful line."

• Oh, hang Tom Campbell on his dreadful
line! Maud, let me speak. I'm going back
to town almost directly, and I have something
I must say to-night. I shall not see you again
for heaven alone knows how long.' He throws
his cigar over the gate, and takes both her
hands in his : ' Maud, I love you ! '

The saucy eyes were lowered. Maud made
no answer. Frank relinquished one hand and
stole an arm round her waist. She attempted
no repulse. He kissed her, and her head
dropped down upon his shoulder. So they
stood for a while.

I can scarcely find the heart, in pursuance
of my function as story-teller, to take them
from each others arms. They will never be so
happy as they are at this blessed moment,
any more. There was something which welled
up in Frank's heart and surprised him. An
infinite protecting tenderness. An emotion at
once vast and vague ; comprising within it all
possible loves ; of fatherhood and brotherhood
and childhood. He thought of his own follies
and his own unworthiness, and his eyes grew a
little dim. There was a sharp compunction in
his breast as he laid a hand on each cheek and
gently forced back the blushing face until the

shy eyes were raised to his and dropped again,
and the shy sweet face was nestled at his
heart.

1 Look here, Maud ! ' said Frank very
earnestly. ' You don't know what a pack of
imperfections you have taken hold of. I've
been an idle, careless, butterfly sort of fellow.
I have never been in earnest in my whole life
about anything but you ; and I want to make
confession ; and I want love to absolve me ;
and I want to promise that I'll be a thousand
times more industrious and more manly in
life than I have ever been before. I want
to promise this ; and I want to have it on
my mind always that I have promised. And
when I think of you, darling — and that will
be always — I shall think of this confession
and this promise. And just to make the promise
all the more sacred, give me your hands,
dear. Tell me for the first time that you
care for me.' And so, by love, and love's
confession, Frank Fairholt vowed himself to
manhood.

The lovers lingered in the garden. The
light grew softer and fainter. Through a long
vista in the Park they could see the pale summer
moon low on the horizon. It was a time

and a place of peace, and joy had no tumult
now. They talked — as happy lovers will — of
the future. They filled it with bright visions
of home and of homely joys. Was there any
sorrow in the sky at all ? None. There was
no cloud so large as a man's hand.

But Time will not stay his course, even for
happy lovers. Parting came at last. A pleasant
parting. Good-bye and good-bye often
repeated. A tender warfare in which each was
resolved to bless the other last. Good-bye.
Good-bye.

Was there any sorrow in the sky ? Was
there a cloud so large as a man's hand ? And
yet these happy lovers met no more.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

Suddenly, at the station door, the real terror came from
behind ?ne.

A LL day I was haunted by the memory of
the face. It moulded itself so severely
that afternoon, and so terribly in the night
which followed, that to this very day I remember
it more clearly than I remember any
other countenance I ever saw. A curious sensation
accompanied me in my spellbound
memories. It had happened that at the
moment when the stranger startled me at the
edge of the clay mine, I had got my floating
faculties into full swing, and was hovering round
a certain slaty ledge in fancy. And so my sense
of the face was something like that which a
small bird might have of a falcon. Always —
that afternoon — I was hovering harmless in
mid-air, and always the figure of the stranger

seemed to be pouncing down upon me. Perhaps
it was less the figure than the face. The
figure was blurred and dim even then ; but
every line and tint of the face was cruelly
clear.

That afternoon, Sally took me to the neighbouring
town, and to a huge emporium of
ready-made clothing there. In a retiring-room
of that establishment I was wedged into a suit
of clothes, in which I reminded myself vaguely
of a rhinoceros, whose pictured semblance I
had somewhere seen. A great many other
purchases were made, and for Sally the day
was a busy one. It lay somehow upon my
childish conscience that I had allowed one of
my school-fellows to be accused of a crime he
had not committed ; but I was so perfectly assured
that Sally would not in the least understand
me if I tried to tell her what had really
happened, that I forbore from saying anything
at all about the stranger. Possibly he was
with me all the more on account of the very
secrecy in which I felt myself compelled to
harbour him. At least I know that his face,
in some inexplicable way, mingles for me now
with the rolling noises of a great town's traffic ;
with the first glimmer of the gas-lamps in a

crowded street ; with the rattle of a railway
journey; with a hundred of the new experiences
of that afternoon, which have since renewed
themselves countless times, as such experience
will.

The face identified itself then, and remains
identified in memory now, with the flickering
of the fire ; with the quiet of the room ; with
the solemn ticking of the clock ; with the
voices and the footsteps of casual passers-by
outside ; with the winding stairway ; with the
sparsely furnished bedroom ; with the glimmer
of the departing light ; with the darkness and
the silence which ensued. It identified itself
also with a certain quaint doggerel petition,
which is all I remember of the evening devotions
of my childhood, and which ran thus : —

i Four corners to my bed ;
Four angels at my head !
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
Bless the bed that I lie on ! '

I never think of this ridiculous petition now
without associating it with that face. If I call
back the old childish feeling, as I am fond of
doing, when I lie awake on a dark night, and
hear the rain pattering against the window, and
the wind moaning outside, I recall that face.

It has grown indeed to be a part of the wind
and rain and darkness, as of everything else
to me. As I can see it now, I can translate it.
Let me call it back. I can read in it nothing
but blind fear and horror and despair. And if
it touches me so now, is it a thing to be wondered
at that it haunted me so many years
back, like an evil ghost ? Its most terrible
peculiarity was, perhaps, that though I was
always conscious of its presence, and though I
could positively perceive its lines, there was
about it a singular feeling that the light or the
darkness upon which it stood acted in someway
as a mirror, and gave me its reflection,
whilst the real face was close behind me. This
dreadful fancy grew so strong that night, that
though I buried my head beneath the bedclothes
and shrank close to the wall against
which the bed was placed, I found myself compelled
by sheer terror to lie upon my back and
face the phantom so. But even then it was
only a simulacrum that I faced. The real terror
was underneath the bed below me. And
yet the face was there — clearly outlined, firmly
modelled, with its haggard eyes, its blur of
unshaven beard on cheek and chin, its drawn
lips and gleaming teeth.

Children, I think, are gifted with a very
singular heroism in regard to terrors of this
kind. I know that I could not bear now in
darkness and in solitude what I suffered then.
When I fell asleep the face was with me. When
I awoke it was with me still. When, by Sally's
aid, I had revenged myself into my unaccustomed
garments, and stood cumbrously in the
middle of the kitchen, awaiting the advent of
yesterday's visitor, the face was there. When
the stately lady came in a cab to the door, and
whilst she talked with Sally and with that good
creature's mother, and with me, the face was
still behind me, and its ghostly reflection was
still suspended in the air before me. When
we were all three inside the cab and I was
seated on the stately lady's knee, the shadow
dodged behind the cabman's figure, and waited
for me at the station door. And suddenly —
and bearing what a horror, words are powerless
to say — at the station door, the real terror
came from behind me. The stranger of yesterday
afternoon ! I knew him directly, though
he was much changed. He was no longer well
dressed, but was attired in a suit of moleskin,
and a pair of clay-soiled boots, and an old battered
wide-awake hat, and a dirty flannel shirt.

There was one thing which impressed me about
this second bodily sight of the stranger's face.
Not only did I recognise the face, but the face
recognised me. Now the phantom face, though
it had looked upon me continually, had no
gleam of recognition in it ; and it was partly by
this, I fancy, that I distinguished between the
real and the false.

I had not up to this time been able to realise
in any measure the relationship between the
stately lady and myself. If she had been
younger, my knowledge of fiction might have
come to my aid, and she might have been the
Fairy Peribanou, or the Princess Balroulbadour,
or any of the thousand-anemone inanimate of
Gil Bias or Frederick Random. How innocent
the childish fancy is ! How incomplete and
how complete at once ! The better part of a
book read in childhood is a legacy left by the
child to the man. It is only the man who can
find the dross of it and the folly of it, and can
incorporate that dross and folly — not the child.

But she had talked to me in such a kindly
and motherly way, and her face was so eminently
lovable and gracious, that I had already
overcome my first shyness, and with that impulsive
certainty which is the best dowry of the

childish heart, had already thrown myself, quite
securely, upon her love and protection. And
so it was something of an added wonder to
notice that the eyes of yesterday's stranger, when
they left mine, and rested for a moment on her
face, should suddenly assume a double horror,
and that the stranger, turning, should run, with
one sharp cry, full tilt along the street as fast
as his legs could carry him. At the cry, everybody
in the station-yard turned ; but in a
moment the flying figure was lost to sight, and
was forgotten by all but me.

We all three rode together ; Sally sitting
stiffly upright and rigidly unobservant in one
corner of the carriage, and I seated for a considerable
part of the journey in the lady's lap.
I cannot remember that up to this time I had
known any of those playful endearments which
mean so much to children. I have no memory
whatsoever of my parents ; and Sally, though I
can never enterprize her affection, had not
many of Love's outer graces. Personally, she
was of a broad and bony pattern, and had more
angles on her than I have seen upon any other
human structure. She was very hard and red
in face and hands and arms ; and had a curious
roughness on her skin, as though she were in

the habit of drying herself with a file whenever
she washed herself. She was a tearful creature
too, and when she felt any especial affection forme,
would take me on her lap and would put
those rough red arms about me, and cry over
me for half-an-hour together. So that, upon
the whole, I am afraid I rather evaded than
courted any demonstration of her love. But
the lady, as we rode together, pointed out this,
that, and the other object on the way which she
thought might interest my childish fancy ; and
had, for all her stateliness, a thousand of those
endearing and graceful ways which make a
woman the proper guide and companion of
childhood. And thus it came about that the
phantom face was destined to represent and to
be associated with one other experience ; and
thus, even now — so firmly do these childish
memories cling — that face is mixed with my
first experience of the pleasantries of affection,
and even now — so firmly does the childish
memory cling — the pleased laugh of a child
brings back that sombre phantom to my
mind.

There was yet another association the
face took during that journey, which I have
not yet forgotten. Sally, inspired, I sup-vol.
1. e

pose, by a sense of the new character of
our relations, addressed me whenever she
spoke as Master Campbell, and alluded tome
always in the same distant phrase. There
was to my young spirit something so forlorn
and foreign in the sound, that after it had
been repeated once or twice I lay down, and
under pretence of going to sleep, covered
up my head and had a cry about it. But
Sally — bless her kindly heart ! — saw it all,
and when my aunt had left the carriage in
pursuit of refreshments at a great station at
which the train rested, and took its own refreshment
in the shape of coke and water, the
faithful creature lifted me from the corner in
which I lay, and said, * There ; I won't doit
again, deary. Wipe your eyes. Here's
your aunt coming'. There ; run and look out
o' window. It shall be Johnny when we're by
ourselves.'

Somewhat comforted by this assurance, I
stood at the carriage-window and looked at
the landscape until I made myself believe that
we were standing still ; whilst the near country
waltzed quickly by us to a lively tune, and the
distant country paced slowly on to a sad one.
Both the sad tune and the lively one were

made by the rolling and rattling of the wheels,
and the sad tune came in with a single note at
the end of every second bar of the lively tune.
I amused myself by keeping them distinct, and
by making both the near and distant country
keep time to their rhythmic throb. The face
kept time also, and appeared and vanished as
the engine panted and the wheels rolled the
ceaseless tune I gave them. Then I invented
a new joy which was almost equal to that of
the clay-mine. I closed my eyes until I
found myself undetermined for a moment as
to the direction in which the train was going,
and by an effort of will, reversed its motion.
When the delusion was complete, I opened my
eyes, and the delicious delirious shock with
which the panting monster of an engine suddenly
reversed himself, and bore me onward,
instead of bearing me backward, was a thing
not to be described.

I cannot insist too much upon the fact of
that ever-present face. It was not only there,
but it knit itself into everything I did and saw
and thought and heard, and became part and
parcel of them all. And yet I was full of eager
childish curiosities throughout the whole journey,
and greeted everything with that silent

and enjoying wonder which is the child's prerogative.


At a station at which a red-whiskered and
sanguine - complexioned porter bawled out
Hetherton,' we alighted, and a man on the
platform touched his hat to my aunt. He
wore a queer black star at the side of his hat,
and was dressed in a drab livery. He was the
first liveried servant I had seen. I took him
for some tremendous functionary, and his evident
respect for my aunt made her almost
awful in my eyes. What my aunt said to this
man I did not catch, but I heard him answer,
No, ma'am. Mr. Fairholt's coming down by
the next train from town, ma'am, and I'm hereto
meet him

Very good,' said my aunt, and so left the
platform, and walked before us through the
station and stepped into a cab. She said nothing
to the cabman ; but he went into the station
and brought back with him our luggage, which
my aunt had already pointed out to a porter.
When he had put the luggage on the top of
the cab, he mounted, and drove us away without
a word of instruction ; from which I argued
that my aunt was well known there. The road
ran for some distance between fields ; some

were newly ploughed, and in others the
stubble was still standing. The hedges were
almost bare of leaves, and the roads were
wet with recent rains. The skies were grey,
the clouds hung low ; and the wind tossed
and tousled the boughs as if it had a restless
spite against them. For a time the road
ran past a broad and turbid river, and then
through lanes again, until we crossed a wooden
bridge, passed through a wooden gate, which
the cabman got down to open, and went by
a firmly gravelled carriage-way round the lawn
in front of a large and stately house of redbrick.
This house was quite invisible, by
reason of the trees which thronged about it,
until we came upon the carriage-drive, and
was half hidden, even then, by a thick and
clustering growth of ivy.

The cabman having been dismissed, I was
taken by my aunt into a room on the ground
floor. I had never until that day consciously
even dreamed of such an apartment. It seemed
to me unspeakably magnificent. It had pictures
and a piano, and a rich carpet, and a marble
mantel-piece, and a great mirror, and a number
of articles of furniture of which I knew neither
the uses nor the names. Curiously enough, in

the midst of all its strangeness, I was as perfectly
certain that I had seen it before as I was
that I was there. There was a bright fire
burning in the grate ; and notwithstanding
what seemed to me the grandeur of the
room, it looked very homelike and comfortable.
The whole of one wall was lined with
books.

You must stay here for a little while,' my
aunt said, as she kissed me and smoothed my
hair. ' Can you read ? '

I answered shyly ' Yes.'

Can you ? ' she said. l Let me hear you,'
and took up a book from the table.

It chanced to be a volume of Coleridge's
poems, and opened naturally at the Ancient
Mariner. I began,

1 It is an ancient mariner,

And he stopped one of three.'

She laughed a little, partly in surprise, and
partly, I fancy, at my uncouth accent, and said,
Oh, yes. That will do nicely. You can goon
reading, if you like. — This book,' she said,
tapping a volume with her finger, ' is full of
pictures. You may look at it.'

But I had no appetite for the' pictures just
then, and was eager to know more of the

Ancient Mariner, and I so buried myself in the
story, and so mixed my ghost up with it all,
that, with the weirdness of the poet's fancy,
and the terror of my own, I grew frightened.
How long my aunt had left me alone, I cannot
say ; but I had just come to the end of the
Ancient Mariners story, when the door opened,
and my ghost came in. At least I thought so
for a moment, though in another moment I saw
I was mistaken. It was a grey-headed old
gentleman, with a peevish face. In the first
flush of surprise and fear I had risen to my
feet, and stood with the book folded tightly
in my arms.

The old gentleman advanced towards me,
and, putting a hand on each knee, bent
down to look at me, and asked me, in a
peevish voice, ' Well, my little man, and who
are you ? '

It came across me suddenly that my aunt
was an embodied deception, who had inveigled
me away from Sally, and had left me here as a
prey to the grey-headed old gentleman. I was
very frightened, and nervous, and I began to
cry.

Oh dear,' said the old gentleman, with face
and voice more peevish than before, ' I can't

have this — I can't have this.' He struck a
gong which stood upon the table, an action
which filled me with the direst forebodings.
The summons, however, produced nothing
more dreadful than a pink-checked damsel
in cotton print, who had received us when we
arrived.

1 Who is — Who is — ' So the old gentleman
began in a nervous, fretful, irritable way.
Who is — ' He seemed to give up the
idea of indicating me verbally as an impossibility,
and threw a hand towards me instead.

I don't know, sir,' said the girl. ' He came
with Mrs. Campbell, half-an-hour ago.'

Where is she ? ' asked the old gentleman in
the same irritable way.

I heard the rustle of a dress outside, the
damsel answered, ' Here, sir ; ' and my aunt
appeared.

Good-day, Robert,' she said.

The girl retired ; and the old gentleman,
indicating me again by a wave of the hand,
asked, ' Who is this ? '

My aunt settled herself in an arm-chair,
arranged her dress, folded her hands, dropped
her head back negligently, and responded,
A protege of mine.'

The old gentleman gave a feeble and a
peevish start.

1 Now, Robert,' said my aunt, with a decision
and certainty which seemed natural to
her, ' we will not discuss that question just at
present. He ought to have been here — Let
us say, for example,' she said, arresting herself
suddenly, and casting a glance at me, ' X.
has been grossly neglected by A., whose duty
it was to provide for him, and who knew perfectly
well of his whereabouts. B. discovers
A.'s neglected duty, and brings A. face to
face with his responsibilities.' Then with a
change of tone and another glance at me,
she continued, ' This is your nephew, Robert
poor John Campbell's child.'

Dear me, Bertha,' said the old gentleman,
rubbing one hand fretfully with the other,
1 ties of blood are ties of blood — '

That's a proposition I don't in the least
dispute,' my aunt intercepted. ' I am glad to
find that you admit it.'

But I can't go about the country searching
out all the paupers who happen to be within
fifty degrees of me by marriage. Bless my
soul ! ' said the old gentleman with anything
but a voice of benediction, ' it's impossible.'

If John Campbell,' said my aunt, with
the same calm decision of tone, ' had said,
Impossible ! " when Robert Fairholt wished
to borrow ten thousand pounds once on a
time — ' She did not close the sentence, but
waited as if watching its effect. The old
gentleman walked up and down the room,
taking three or four steps each way, and
then pulling himself up with a jerk. There
was an air of helpless exasperation about
him, and he harried his grey hair peevishly
with his hands.

I suppose you will have your way, Bertha,
since you have brought him here — '

4 Since said my aunt, intercepting him again
' Since X. has been discovered by B., A. is
left without option. Don't worry yourself over
so simple a question, Robert.'

The old gentleman walked verily up and
down the room again. It seemed to me as
though every time he started, he had made up
his mind to go for something in a great hurry,
and that he pulled himself up less because he
came to the wall, than because of a spiteful
contradiction within himself of his own first
purpose. After half-a-dozen turns, he suddenly
abandoned this contradiction of his own design,

and went out at the door. My aunt laughed
in a short, triumphant way.

Come with me, John,' she said a moment
afterwards, and led me to a room at the top
of the house. In this room sat a little girl,
a golden-haired, blue-eyed, pretty little creature,
who gravely employed herself in cutting
out a fantastic pattern from a sheet of brown
paper with a tiny pair of scissors. To this
young lady my aunt introduced me as a
cousin.

1 Cousin Mary, and Cousin John said my
aunt. ' Now, you young people must be very
fond of each other. Won't you ? ' she asked,
kneeling down between us and putting an arm
round each.

I think I should probably be less embarrassed
by an introduction at this time to a
lady of my own years, though the introduction
were couched in precisely similar terms, than
I was then ; and my embarrassment, so far as
I remember, arose from a feeling that it was
somehow a piece of dreadful presumption in
me to be there at all, listening to a suggestion,
and giving countenance to it by my silence,
that such a young lady in such a house could
possibly accept me on terms of equality, or

could under any circumstances condescend to
be fond of me. I felt as though in my own
person I had been guilty of this invitation of
her affections, and I hung my head. When I
looked up, I saw that the little girl was surveying
me in a critical but not unapproving
way. She confirmed my impression of her
opinion by saying calmly to her aunt, ' I like
him,' and instantly crossing over and kissing
me. ' He's like Franty,' she said, as if in
explanation. My aunt laughed, and kissed
each of us, and went away. I stood in shy
silence when she had left me, and Cousin
Mary went back to the fantastic pattern in
brown paper.

'How old are you?' she asked, with quite
an air of years and patronage.

I told her.

What's your other name ? ' she asked.

I answered again as nervously as though
before a queen.

'Are r you clever?' she questioned further.
Do you know any tales ? I shall like you if
you know tales.'

This emboldened me, and I said Yes ; I
knew a good many. She dropped the fantastic
pattern and the scissors on the floor,

settled herself in her chair, cross-legged like
a Turk, leaned back with closed eyes, and said
with a sort of languid imperiousness, ' Tell
one now.'

This sudden command more than renewed
my first shyness, and I stood and hung my
head before her, as though she had been a
full-blown Sultana, and I the meanest of her
subjects. She opened her eyes and said, with
languid impatience, ' Oh, what an awkward
boy you are. Go on

Thus commanded, I made an effort, and
plunged desperately into my last read narrative
— the Ancient Mariner. I had just got
so far as to state that the man who was going
to the wedding was afraid to move because
the old gentleman with the grey beard stared
at him so, when she stopped me.

1 I don't like that she said. ' Do you know
about the three bears ? '

I muttered a confession of my ignorance.

1 Nor about Red Ridinghood ? '

I knew nothing of Red Reinhold ; but I
knew Bluebeard and Jack the Giant-killer, and
Aladdin and Jack and the Bean-stalk.

Whether the Sultana's mind would have continued
in favour of story-telling, I cannot say,

for the door opened just then, and a gentleman
entered the room. He nodded at my companion,
and said, ' Well, Polly.' She nodded
back at him and laughed. The gentleman
regarded me with an air of good-humoured
amusement for a minute or two, and I felt
sure of him at once. He was many years
younger than my aunt, but was strikingly like
her. He was very handsome, too, and had a
soft, engaging manner. I liked his kind grey
eyes and candid face at once. He sat down
and took me on his knee. 'Well, my little
man,' he said, 'how do you like your new
home ? '

I said I didn't know.

He set me down again, and laid a hand on
each of my shoulders, and so held me at arm's-length,
and laughed. ' I must get to know
this gentleman's tailor,' he said. ' I wonder
whether this is his normal aspect, or whether
Aunt Bertha has trussed him up in this way ?
What a funny little figure ! We must mend
all this, or we shall have the villagers burning
him for a Guy on the fifth. Frontal development,
good ; general expression, dreamy. Education,
up to this time, I should say, calculated
to spoil him. Wonder if the governor's seen

him ? ' All this he said less to himself than as
if addressing some invisible fourth person. He
sat and looked at me for a moment longer, and
then asked me, ' Do you know what a frontal
development is ? '

No, sir I answered.

Do you know what a Guy is ? '

No, sir,' I responded again.

1 That's all right then. Do you know what
a shilling is ? '

1 Yes, sir.'

1 What would you do with it, if I gave you
one ?'

I told him I should give it to Sally to keep
for me.

I Sally ? ' he said with a laugh. ' That's the
bony importation I saw just now, I suppose.
There you are. Now, you needn't give it to
Sally ; you can spend it, or do what you like
with it.'

At that moment my aunt entered the room
again. ' What, Will ? ' she said. * You are
beginning to spoil the child already ? '

I I say, aunt,' he said, rising, ' what a spectacle
the infant is ! Who chose that dress ? '

1 It's not a very successful choice,' my aunt
responded. ' But it will do for one of the

village children. I ought to have seen to that
myself, but was too busy.'

What does the governor say about it ?
About your bringing the child here, I mean ? '

He says very little responded my aunt.
In fact I think he says nothing at all

He has seen him, I suppose ? '

Yes ; he has seen him.'

That's all right then. It was a clear duty ;
but his ways are so methodical and settled,
and anything new about the house disturbs
him so, that I was rather afraid he might be
annoyed.'

With that they both went away, and Cousin
Mary and I were once more left alone together.
At her bidding, I kept shop until tea-time, and
she came in at intervals and bought my whole
stock on credit. The tea-board was presided
over by the pink-checked damsel in the cotton
print ; and after tea, Mary and I played at
keeping shop again until Aunt Bertha came,
with Sally in her wake, and saw me rubbed and
n : git-gowned, and heard me offer up my quaint
evening petition. Then she took me in her
arms and carried me to a tiny bedroom, with
a sloping roof, and with white curtains and a
dormer window. There was a fire-grate in the

room, and the wood that burned and crackled

in it made a cheerful flicker on the walls and

roof and on the white curtains and the bed.

My aunt kissed me and laid me down, and

arranged the clothes about me with a kind and
< >

gentle hand, and then sat down beside me, and
sang softly some verses of a Christmas hymn
about the good King Wencesclas. It was raining
outside, and the trees were moaning ; and
as I lay there with the flicker of the firelight in
my eyes, the pleasant voice, and the comfort of
the room, and the noises of the wind and rain
outside, and the moaning of the trees, and the
charms of Cousin Mary, and the dread and
terror of the stranger's face, and the weird story
of the Ancient Mariner, seemed all to mingle
waving together, as though their lights and
shadows flickered with the flickering of the
fire, until they rounded and were softened to a
dream, and lost themselves in sleep.

VOL. I.

HISTORY.

Your obedient servant, Aminadab Tasker.

TV /[" R. CRISP, managing clerk of the branch
of the county bank at Hetherton, sat
on a sweltering summer morning in the bank's
retiring-room. Mr. Crisp had nothing particular
to do, and had exhausted that day's Times.
The weather was oppressive ; and notwithstanding
that the window was opened and the
blind down, and that Mr. Crisp, for further
ease, had discarded his coat and sat in his shirt
sleeves, he perspired dreadfully. He mopped
his damply gleaming baldness and his jolly face
with a scented handkerchief of yellow silk, and
fanned himself with the Times supplement, and
yawned. Mr. Crisp was a mighty angler, and
he yearned just then for a quiet cast in his
favourite stream, and could almost fancy himself

standing knee-deep in grasses, with the
broad landscape dozing round about him, and
the airs of the river blowing in his face. He
awoke from this vision with a sense of added
heat and aggravation, and went viciously fora
blue-bottle with his ruler. The blue-bottle
took refuge on the manager's gleaming baldness,
and Mr. Crisp rising in a sudden heat of
temper — as the quietest of men will do under
this sort of aggravation — whipped the bluebottle
from his refuge, and, taking a towel from
a cupboard, pursued him with deadly intent to
the window. Fiery hot, perspiring, and shirt-sleeve,
he flogged the blue-bottle from coigne
of vantage to coigne of vantage, and chased
him from stronghold unto stronghold, until, ashe
held himself in readiness for a final blow,
whilst the blue-bottle walked impudently across
a pane in the very centre of the window, the
door of the room opened, and Mr. Frank
Fairholt entered.

Mr. Frank Fairholt was exasperatingly cool,
and Mr. Crisp was most aggravating hot and
flushed and untidy, and felt himself taken at
a disadvantage. He regarded Frank for a
moment as though he would include him in a
common anathema with the blue-bottle ; but

thought better of it, and returned his visitors
greeting cheerily enough.

I have a little business, Crisp,' said Frank.
Come across to the Ckesterwood, and have
some hock-and-soda, and cool yourself, and talk
it over.'

With pleasure,' responded Mr. Crisp ; but
before starting, went into the cupboard from
which he had taken the towel, and after a
pleasant splashing there emerged rosy but cool.
Struggling into his coat, he grew hot again ;
and his baldness, before he covered it with his
hat, once more gleamed damply. They walked
across the sunny street together and into the
old-fashioned hotel.

'Jenny, my dear,' said Frank, shaking hands
with the pretty barmaid, ' let me have a bottle
of hock and two bottles of soda, and a ton of
ice, and some good cigars. Send them up to
the coffee-room at once. There's nobody there,
I suppose ? Mr. Crisp and I want to talk
business.'

1 There's no one there, Mr. Frank,' responded
the pretty barmaid ; and Mr. Crisp
and Frank went up together.

Did it ever strike you, Crisp — ' said
Frank.

He got no further, for Mr. Crisp, arising
with a look of settled determination upon his
face, took a napkin from the buffet, unfolded it,
and approached the window with a stealthy
step. ' You know how you caught me, Mr.
Fairholt,' said the managing clerk, with a dark
and tragic look. I was after this fellow then ;
but I'll finish him this time.' A blue-bottle
buzzed harmlessly on the pane, and Mr.
Crisp, with one dexterous flick of his napkin
slew him, and bore his body triumphantly
to the table, where he inured it with cigar-ashes.


I beg your pardon,' said Mr. Crisp. ' You
were saying, Had I ever noticed — '

1 I was saying,' returned Frank, ' that here
comes the prettiest girl in this division of the
county, bearing in her fair hands the best of
liquors for a day like this. — Your health, Jenny.
Yours, Crisp. Pretty tipple ! Try a weed.'
Frank strolled to the mirror, and admired
himself, with a tall glass in one hand and a
cigar in the other. He laid down his glass in
order to smooth his moustache and to arrange
his hat and his curls, and swaggered calmly
round on Crisp.

What's the business, Mr. Fairholt ? ' asked

the managing clerk lazily, from a cloud of
smoke.

1 Oh, it's not much Frank returned. • I've
been going rather too rapidly up in town, and
I don't care about falling on the governor ; and
so my brother Will has just done this for me.'
He produced a purse, and took therefrom a
piece of stamped paper, and threw it across the
table to Mr. Crisp.

M-m-m,' said Mr. Crisp, taking it up and
looking at it. ' Two hundred ? And four
months ? I wouldn't do this kind of thing too
often, Mr. Fairholt. Do you want me to cash
it?'

1 Yes,' said Frank carelessly, ' if you will be
so good.'

Well, of course I'll do it,' Mr. Crisp responded
with expostulatory voice and manner.
1 But I wouldn't try this game too often, if I
were you. It's a bad game. Of course Mr.
Will's name is good enough for two hundred
here, and it shan't pass out of our hands. —
Croesus Brothers ? Yes ; they're our London
agents.' Mr. Crisp turned the blue paper over
in his hands and continued, ' You can't work
a dead horse, you know, and it's just like trying
to do that, to work for money when you've

spent it already. So I'd just advise you, Mr.
Fairholt, to do as little in this way as you
possibly can.'

1 1 don't think I shall trouble you again,
Crisp. In point of fact, I've been going the
pace up there to such an extent that I was
obliged to do it now. But,' added Frank
jauntily, 4 I'm going to settle down, and train
for matrimony. By the way, I have to start
by the 12.10. We'll finish our hock, and then
go over to the bank together.'

Mr. Crisp nodded acquiescence ; and they
talked about indifferent matters for a time, and
then, the cigars and the wine being both
finished, returned to the bank, where Mr.
Crisp handed over notes and gold to the
amount of the bill, minus interest at three and
a half per cent, per annum, and Frank shook
hands and departed.

The train flashed through the peaceful
western country, and Frank, as he looked
lazily from the carriage, determined to take
this, that, and the other scene for a picture
some day. But in an hour or thereabouts he
fell asleep, and did not awake until he found
his ticket demanded. The train panted into
Euston Station shortly afterwards, and the

young artist took a hackney-coach and trundled
to his rooms in Montague Gardens. Arrived
there he found several letters awaiting him, and
amongst them one which ran thus : —

1 7 Acre Buildings, City.
1 Sir, — When last I saw you, I gave you a
week to look about yourself. That was a
fortnight ago, and if things are not settled
by Thursday next, I shall have to make a
row. — Your obedient servant,

'Aminadab Tasker.

'PS. — I shall wait for you here not later
than six o'clock on Thursday evening.'

Confound the fellow ! ' said Frank, pulling
at his curls and surveying his own reflection
in the mirror above the mantel-piece. ' And
it's five o'clock already. I suppose I must
go down and see him. It's a horrible nuisance,
now that I have money in my pocket,
that I must turn it out so soon. One hundred
and sixty to him, and I'm left with only
fifty pounds in the wide wide world, and with
this affair of Will's hanging over me. Well,
it's got to be done, I suppose.' So Frank
emerged from his chambers, hailed another

coach, was driven to the city, and reached
7 Acre Buildings.

Acre Buildings lay off Cheapside. They
were houses of that old and stately fashion
with which the city once upon a time
abounded, but which are growing rarer now.
Notwithstanding their stateliness and age,
there was an air of bourgeoisie about
them ; and they had something of the aspect
of prosperous citizens, whose station being
secured in life, had fallen a little from the
noise and bustle of common business. Passing
from crowded Cheapside into the court
that leads to Acre Buildings, you passed
from noise to quiet and from heat to shade.
The Buildings stood round a square flagged
court, with a dial in the centre. The finger
had rusted and fallen from the dial long ago,
as though Time stood still in Acre Buildings,
and needed no finger to mark his progress
any more. The dial was defaced and broken,
as if Time's reign were over, and the image
of his rule destroyed. But nowhere did Time
move onward with a quicker step or one more
certain than at No. 7, and with those whose
needs might lead them to its presiding genius.
There were a few trees in the court, and the

aspect of the whole place was calm and countrified
and pleasant.

In No. 7 Acre Buildings there was an office
on the second floor. The black outer door
bore in white letters the name ' A. Tasker.'
Just then A. Tasker stood with his face to
the wall, as though he had been guilty of
some misdemeanour, and an inscription on
the glass panel of an inner door dumbly requested
the passer-by to walk in. Obeying
this voiceless injunction, Frank found himself
confronted by a small boy, with a dry sandy
complexion, and a head of dry sandy hair.

Is Mr. Tasker at home ?'

1 Yes,' responded the boy aggressively ;
1 he is.'

1 Tell him I wish to see him.'

1 You can't see him ; leastways not yet
returned the boy, contemplating a fly-spotted
almanac on the wall. He's engaged. You'll
have to wait.'

1 Give him that, and tell him that I won't
wait.'

The small boy, with some hesitation, took
Frank's card, and passed with it into an inner
room, and returning after a minute's absence,
said, ' Please to come this way, sir.'

Frank followed, and found Mr. Tasker alone.
He was a short and thick-set man, was Mr.
Tasker, with gaudy thick-set rings on red
and thick-set fingers. He wore a burly
watch-chain crossed and re-crossed several
times above a burly waistcoat. As Frank
entered, a whiff of macassar and musk, proceeding
from the sleek head and flourishing
bandana of Mr. Tasker, assaulted his nostrils
a mingled odour like that which greets the
lounger in the Strand as he passes Rimmel's
on a languid day. Mr. Tasker's eyes were
bright and beady. Mr. Tasker's nose was
magnificently Hebraic. His lips and teeth
were eminently carnivorous. His face was
clean shaven except for a black imperial on
the chin. His manner was one of uneasy
self-confidence.

1 I was told you were engaged,' said Frank.

1 A mistake, sir,' Mr. Tasker answered
through that magnificent Hebraic nose. 'Will
you take a chair ? You have called about that
little matter ? '

I have called,' said Frank, contemptuously
angry, ' to take myself out of your Hebrew
clutches, Mr. Tasker, and to tell you how
much you deserve a caning for this piece of

insolence.' He threw Mr. Tasker's note carelessly
on the table, and produced his pocketbook.


No, sir,' said Mr. Tasker, insinuating remonstrance
through the Hebraic nose ; ' not
insolence, my dear sir — not insolence. A little
friendly reminder.'

1 Do me the favour not to be friendly, if
you please,' Frank answered. ' Produce your
bond. Here is your pound of flesh.'

Mr. Tasker smiled — a little tiger like.
1 Gentlemen say what they like to me, sir.'

1 So I should suppose,' Frank returned. ' Is
this the note ? '

I hope, Mr. Fairholt,' said Mr. Tasker,
creasing out the tigerish smile from his lips
with his thick-set jewelled fingers — ' I hope
you are not displeased with my way of doing
business. I do all I gan to oblige you, sir —
everything.' Mr. Tasker gathers up the notes,
and continues, ' This was only our second
transaction, sir ; and now that I see how
punctual you are — '

1 Don't trouble yourself, Tasker. Do me
the favour not to know me when you seeme
; and good-day.' With that Frank swaggered
from the room ; and as Mr. Tasker

took the thick-set hand from his own lips
the tigerish smile came back again.

i Go your way, young gentleman ; but if I
lay my hand upon you again, I will pay you.
Do not be friendly, Tasker ? Do me the
favour not to know me ? Here is your pound
of flesh ? Your bound of flesh ? ' snarled Mr.
Tasker, becoming more German as he gave
his wrath free vent. ' I will has my bound
of flesh when I get my dance.' And what
with the tigerish smile, and the thick-set lips,
and the carnivorous teeth, and the beady eyes,
Mr. Tasker really looked as though he employed
no hyperbole, but meant that pound
of flesh in downright gastronomic earnest.
Having locked his cash-box and patted it
comfortably on the top, and stroked it withall
his thick-set jewelled fingers, Mr. Tasker
opened a door opposite to that by which
Frank had entered, and said to some one in
the inner room, ' This way, sir, if you please.
The gentleman is gone.'

In answer to this summons appeared Benjamin
Hartley, of Hartley Park and Hall. ' I
didn't catch the name,' says Mr. Hartley.
1 Who was that, eh, Tasker ? '

A Mr. Fairholt, sir — a Mr. Francis Fairholt.'

1 Eh ? eh ? eh ? Come now, Tasker, I've
never seen his name in them there books of
yours.'

1 Well, the fact is, sir Mr. Tasker explained
through the Hebraic medium, ' I knew the
gentleman was a neighbour of yours, and I
thought it would be best to be quiet until the
thing was paid.'

I Now, look here, Tasker ! ' says Mr. Hartley,
shaking a warning finger at him — ' I know
your little game too well. You ain't going to
humbug me ! This ain't the first time, Tasker,
as I've found you train' that fast and loose
dodge on. Do you know how much of my
coin you've got in this little business ? '

I I cannot tell you at a moment's notice,
sir.'

Then I can. Seven thousand five hundred
pound. I'll draw it, every farthing', and smash
you, if you come them games with me. Fact.
I've more than half a mind to do it now. This
kind o' game's low, and I've got no business
to be mixed up with it

If you will not be too sudden, sir,' says Mr.
Tasker, in nasal supplication. ' I have saved
a little ; I could carry it on in a small way on
my own account — a very small way.'

1 1 don't know why,' says Mr. Hartley, chewing
a gloved forefinger — ' I don't know why
your people trust you. But I tell you, Tasker, /
wouldn't trust you. No — not with a bad farthing'.
Not as far as I could fling a bull by the tail.'

My bonds,' said Mr. Tasker, extending the
jewelled hands.

Your bonds!' returned Mr. Hartley. 'Your
bonds is straw.'

I kept this secret,' said Mr. Tasker, ' from
the best of motives, sir

1 Don't talk to me about your motives. I
make a point of known' this business, and
all about it. I will know. It pays me in a
hundred ways, as you can't guess of, and ain't
going' to be let to guess of. Now, you do this
again, and I'll keep my word.' Mr. Hartley
rose to go, but paused at the door. ' Twelve
tomorrow, at my hotel. And just remember
what I've told you. Do you hear ? Remember
! Our terms of business is these :
Ten per cent, per annum, payable quarterly
to me, and me to have full knowledge of the
way all moneys is expended. You seem to
have forgot that, Tasker. Just you remember
it. Remember it ! ' With that he went away,
and Mr. Tasker was left alone.

1 I will remember,' said that gentleman
darkly to himself — ' I will remember. I can
snap my fingers at you.' Mr. Tasker' s scowling
face changed as his patron re-entered.

1 I've got one thing as I want to mention,
Tasker,' said Mr. Hartley, closing the door
behind him, and advancing. ' You've been
dealing' with Mr. Francis Fairholt. How
often ? '

Twice.'

How much ?'

1 This time one-sixty with expenses. Less
last time.'

1 Well, don't you have any more truck with
him. If he wants money, he deals with me.
That young gentleman belongs to a good old
county family. He's the son of a neighbour and
a friend o' mine. I believe,' says Mr. Hartley,
with a slightly oratorical manner, ' as his 'ouse
will shortly be alloyed with mine in matrimony.
So you leave him alone.' Having given this
injunction, Mr. Hartley softened, and said,
Good-day, Tasker,' and so went out, and down
the stairs.

Left alone, Mr. Tasker took the cash-box
in his hands, and darkly meditated. 'It is a
good thing to hate some one,' says Mr. Tasker,

with the tigerish smile flashing out again. ' It
stirs the blood, and makes a man likely.' With
this pleasant reflection Mr. Tasker opened a
safe, consigned the cash-box to its depths,
locked it up again, took his hat, and cane,
and gloves, threw a nosy word of dismissal at
the sandy-complexioned boy in the anteroom,
made the outer door secure, passed up Cheapside,
through St. Paul's Churchyard, Fleet
Street, and the Strand, and turned into a club
near Covent Garden. Here he made a dinner
of the best the place afforded, and afterwards
repaired to the smoke-room, where he drank a
good deal of brandy-and-water, and smoked a
cigar above the money columns of the morning
paper. He sat alone for nearly an hour, when
he was joined by a languid young man of three
or four - and - twenty. The new-comer was
almost as plentifully jewelled as Tasker himself,
but carried off his finery with a better
grace. He wore a light flaxen moustache, and
his long and light brown hair was parted
in the centre, and fell upon his collar. His
hands were singularly white and delicate. His
clothes were cut in the extreme of fashion,
and his small feet were cased in shoes of patent
leather.

VOL. i. G

1 Ah said the new arrival, * my Tasker ! '
He settled himself on a lounge beside the
money-lender, and regarded him with a look
of amused curiosity. ' My Tasker smoking
of the best, and reclining, as is his wont, in
gorgeous ease and jewelled opulence. What
new spoil from the Philistines ? What new
booty from Egypt ? '

Mr. Tasker looked upon him with a
frown, and through the Hebraic nose inquired
whether he couldn't leave the shop behind
him.

Most worthy of Israelites returned the
other, ' master of Golconda's mine, priest of
Ormuz' golden shrine, I k have no shop. But
you, Tasker — pardon the simile — resemble the
patient snail, and carry your shop about with
you. Or shall I withdraw that, and say that
you carry your profession in your face, which
is in itself a most potent letter of recommendation
to all good fellows who can spend
money and have no money to spend ? '

Mr. Tasker waved the subject off. ' Talk
about that tomorrow, Mr. Hastings, at Acre
Buildings

1 Most worthy Tasker, tomorrow is not
now. I am impecunious

1 I cannot do business now,' responded Mr.
Tasker.

4 Really, Tasker,' said the other carelessly,
1 you may perform works of necessity even
upon the Sabbath. You may lift your ass
from the pit, for instance. I invite you to lift
him. Break through the Sabbath of your
saintly rest, and let me have a fiver till the
morning

It is against my rule, Mr. Hastings,' Tasker
responds.

'Rules, my Tasker? We are Hebrew and
Christian, who change like water, not Mede
and Persian, who alter not.'

I cannot do it it, and I will not,' said Mr.
Tasker.

Now, my Tasker,' said the other with a
languidly curious admiration of him, ' I know
you to be in earnest. I recognise that Teuton
tone, that voice of stern resolve. I shall have
to be down on somebody else.'

The money-lender shifted in his chair, and
took a great gulp at his bra ndy-and- water.

1 Try one of my weeds, Tasker ? I guarantee
them good. A man in my position can't
afford to owe for bad cigars.'

'You are going at a good rate, Mr. Hastings,'

said Tasker, taking a cigar. ' You will
land somewhere in time

Is Tasker among the prophets ? I shall
land somewhere in splendid company. Pay
for a liquor, Tasker, and I'll tell you something.'


Tell me something returned Mr. Tasker,
with his tigerish smile, ' that is worth a liquor,
and then I may.'

1 Don't bring things down to this base commercial
level. — Do you know Fairholt ? '

1 Do I know Vairhold ? ' repeated Mr.
Tasker, turning suddenly round, whilst his
black eyebrows were drawn almost over his
beady eyes.

Once more he is Teutonic. Has he sold
you ? '

1 No said Mr. Tasker, sliding back into his
former position, and biting his nails, as he
regarded the other through half-shut eyes.
1 He has not sold me. But I will sell kim, if
he comes again into my hands.'

1 Yes ; we will sell him — to the Egyptians —
for a mess of pottage. The allusions are
mixed and inappropriate ; but in a world of
follies, what is one folly more ? '

He is an in-solent dog ! '

1 I rather thought you had had a row, because
when I met him in the Strand an hour
ago he pitched into you to me. I mentioned
your respected name, my Tasker, and instantly
to employ the words of the poet — black
anger all his visage clouded. If you deny the
validity of that quotation, I myself will don
the poet's robe and ape a Bourbon in a crown
of straws. — To return. Mr. Fairholt brings
certain accusations against you. He says you
are a blood-sucking Shylock ; that you are a
cringing, abject rascal ; that you are a bullying
ruffian. These are the heads of his indictment.
Don't you think all this is worth a
liquor ? '

At none of this did Mr. Tasker by word or
sign express displeasure ; but as he sat looking
with those half-shut eyes at his companion,
his heavy hand found as much as it could do
to smooth the creases of that wicked smile
about his mouth.

'Your admirer, Tasker, has invited me to
his rooms to-night. We shall have a quiet
little hand at vingt-et-un. There are two or
three fellows coming to join in — shall I say
the mazy dance ? That seems to round the
sentence off. But I can't play at vingt-et-un

without coin, my Tasker. Have you ever
known, you Croesus, that want of pence which
vexes public men ? No. He has never known
it. One touch of nature makes the whole
world kin, and my Tasker is no kinsman of
mine, in this regard. The wounded is the
feeling heart. My Tasker, un wounded by the
shafts of poverty, smiles on the sufferings of
her victims. What saith that victim of the
roseate god, young Romeo ? "He jests at
scars that never felt a wound!" Have pity
Tasker. Let me have a fiver, and I will
revenge you on Fairholt. The croaking raven
doth bellow for revenge. Let it be ten, and
make the vengeance deeper.'

■ Leave the shop until tomorrow morning,
Mr. Hastings

Won't he,' said Hastings looking on him
as though he were some curious and unknown
creature brought there for scientific
examination — 'won't he buy vengeance at
so cheap a rate ? Here is a first-class
practical revenge offered dirt cheap, and not
accepted.'

■ Who tells you,' said Mr. Tasker, speaking
more through his nose than ever, ' that I want
revenge ? '

The other laughed mischievously, but returned
no answer ; and Mr. Tasker rang the
bell and called for more brandy and water.
He drank it savagely, while the waiter stood
there, and then asked for more.

'You'll be drunk, Tasker said his companion.


1 What is that to you ? ' returned Tasker
with a nasal snarl. ' You have resided me ;
you have annoyed me ; you have made me
angry with his name. He is an insolent
dog!'

This does you credit, Tasker ! Try Shylock
at Drury. Kean is not worth his own
carving-knife and scales compared with you.
Oh, answer to the Muse's call ! It is the Muse,
the jolly Muse ! '

Mr. Tasker, still regarding his companion
darkly, raised his glass to his lips and imbibed
its contents. He fell back slowly as he
drank, and threw back his head ; but he
maintained that fixed look until he regarded
Hastings through the bottom of his glass.
Hastings, lolling on the settee, looked over
at him in return with a mild expression of
interested curiosity. ' Come up and join your
admirer, Tasker. He will be glad to see you.

You shall be well desired in Cyprus. Come
love, come

Mr. Tasker produced a pocket-book, and
took therefrom two crisp and rustling notes.
He laid them down upon the table, and took
from another compartment of the pocket-book
a little strip of blue paper with a raised stamp
at one end. Taking pen and ink from a
stand on a table at the other side of the
room, he returned, and seating himself near
Hastings, filled up the form. ' Fifteen, at
four months.'

1 Hail, worthy Timon ! That's at the rate
of a hundred and fifty per centum per
annum.'

It will pay you if you win,' said Mr.
Tasker darkly and thickly. ' I hope you may.'
He rose, and allowing the evil smile full
play for once, put on his hat, and tapping his
companion lightly on the shoulder, proceeded :
1 Strip him, and zend him back to me. If you
will do zo much, you are welcome to those.'
And with this final expression of feeling Mr.
Tasker went a little unsteadily from the club,
hailed a passing coach, and was driven
home.

Mr. Hastings looked at his cigar as if he

questioned it while he said, ' I can employ
the words of my friend Mr. Puff of The
Critic. " Well — pretty well ; but not quite
perfect ; so, ladies and gentlemen, if you
please, we'll rehearse this piece again tomorrow."
'

He laughed, with sudden triumph, flung
through half-a-dozen steps in burlesque imitation
of a Highland dance, and being detected
by a waiter who entered at that moment, regarded
the intruder sternly, cast an imaginary
cloak over his shoulder after the manner of the
stage brigand, and left the room in time to
see Mr. Tasker drive away.

CHAPTER VI.

HISTORY.

A slipshod, threadbare figure clad in weedy black.

T was two o'clock a.m. in the Strand.
Looked at from the gate of that obstructive
church which faces westward in the centre
of the thoroughfare, beneath the quivering gas-lamps
on either side lay a gleaming desolation.
No footstep broke the silence of the night.
It was a true English summer ; the night-air
was chill and raw ; and a thin, persistent
drizzle fell upon the slippery flags, the muddy
horse-road, and the gleaming fronts of houses.
A deserted London. It was too early for
the market riot close at hand — too late for
the homeward-reeling tavern roysterer. The
great city slept, and the quiet heavens mourned
over it. Even they, bending so long above
it, had lost their brightness and their purity.

They wept above the city with thin tears,
and a dreary wind was seeking here and therewith
mournful voices, for a something lost.
A deserted London — a city of the dead. No
soul abroad — not even the oilskin-capped and
caped policeman.

Who is this ? A slipshod, threadbare figure,
clad in weedy black, which clings moistly about
him, as though he had come up from the
depths of that vile river which laps the pillars
of the Bridge of Sighs, hard by. The figure
crouched for refuge from the rain against a
door which stood not more than a foot back
from the flagged pathway, and his unwholesome
garments shone with wet at every projecting
angle. His boots gaped at the toes,
and were so rotten and ragged at the sole,
that they made a splashing noise within themselves
whenever the wearer moved his feet,
as he did often and uneasily, half in impatience,
and half in search of warmth. From
where he stood, the wet street gleamed beneath
the gas-lamps like a river ; and dead
asleep as the great city might be, there was
yet in the air a faint and distant hum, which
spoke the seething life about him.

He peered from his meagre sheltering-place

often. There came the measured tread of a
policeman ; and slinking from his shelter, and
holding close to the wet shutters of the shop
he passed, the man concealed himself in an
entry. The measured tread went by, and he
emerged stealthily and took up his old position.
There he waited and watched until a door on
the opposite side of the street was opened,
and with a curt ' Good-night,' addressed to
some one within, a man came out upon the
street, and steeped briskly westward. The
shivering figure left the doorway, and with
his black rags fluttering in the wind, and
gleaming in the gaslight and the rain crossed
the street. The man in front, greatcoat,
well booted, vigorous, hummed an air as he
walked, and kept time to it in his sturdy
march. The shuddering, gleaming, ragged
wretch behind him panted and groaned as he
hurried in his footsteps. At last, however, he
came up with him, and laid a hand upon his
arm.

The man who was thus accosted turned,
faced his follower, and recognised him. ' Hilloo !
What's the matter ? '

1 'Souse me, sir,' said the other, panting still
after his brief run ; ' but I thought I might

make so bold, sir. I went down to your
place, sir, an' they told me you'd gone out,
and wheel you'd gone, an' so I made bold for
to follow you an' wait for you, sir.' Here he
paused to cough huskily behind his wasted
hand.

1 Well ? ' the other asked.

She's in an awful state, sir — dying', sir.
Would you be so good as come an' look at
her?'

Couldn't you have gone to the parish
surgeon ? '

I went to him at five o'clock to-night, sir ;
an' again at nine ; an' again at 'leven, an' he
hadn't come home neither time.'

'Well, I suppose I must go ?' returned the
doctor, in a grumbling tone.

God bless you, sir,' said the other ; ' I
know'd you would.'

Don't humbug me, Penkridge,' replied the
doctor. ' You'll want all your breath for your
walk. Come along.'

They turned back, threaded through half-a-dozen
winding streets between the Strand
and Oxford Street, and at last turned into a
low, dark, and noisome entry, which led them
to a court, whose poverty and squalor were

picturesque in the light of a single gas-lamp.
The inhabitants might have preferred perhaps
that it should be less picturesque and
better lighted, as the doctor, stumbling along
the broken and uneven pavement, certainly
would.

Now, lead the way,' said the doctor
brusquely, as they paused before a door.
The man pushed the door open. It moved
only upon one hinge, and grated upon the
broken bricks behind it. It opened flush
upon a staircase, above which hung an oil-lamp,
emitting a dim light' and a sickly
odour. The stairs, like the court, were broken
and uneven, and the balustrades were gone
here and there altogether ; having been either
broken up for fuel, or destroyed in the course
of some battle amongst the inhabitants of the
house. The doctor and his companion passed
up several flights of stairs, and came upon a
room which seemed at first sight to be deserted.
It was faintly illumined by the light of a
candle stuck against the wall, and holding
there by the congealed grease which had
gathered from it. The wall above it was
blackened by a tapering streak of smoke. In
one corner of the room the shadows seemed

to rest deeper than elsewhere ; but as the
eyes grew accustomed to the dim light, these
shadows resolved themselves into the figure
of a woman, stretched upon a heap of shavings,
and covered by a piece of tattered
sacking.

1 Bring the light,' said the doctor, kneeling
down over this figure.

His companion obeyed him.

Why, what's this ? ' the doctor asked, turning
down the sacking, and disclosing the face
of a child, evidently not more than a few weeks
old.

1 That's it,' said the man kneeling beside
him. At the apparent risk of setting the couch
of shavings on fire — since he still held the
candle in his hand — he took up the child.
Tell me what you think of her, please, sir,'
he asked, indicating the recumbent figure by a
motion of the hand.

The doctor bent farther over, and laid his
finger on a wasted wrist. The man knelt by
him, holding the candle to her face and watching
him keenly. The doctor's hand passed
from the wrist to the region of the heart.
Then he took the candle and examined the
face. He laid the tip of a finger upon an

eyelid and raised it. The eye remained open,
staring in a ghastly way. The doctor closed
it again, gave back the candle, and arose.
The man also arose and faced him, holding
the child in his left arm. The doctor shook
his head.

You don't mean to say, sir the man asked
whimpering, 'as you can't do nothing' for her?'

The doctor, with a motion of the hand
towards that recumbent figure in the corner,
answered, ' She has been dead an hour.' The
man dropped the candle and the child, and
fell upon his knees with a sharp cry. The
candle, unextinguished, lay upon the shavings,
and the doctor set his foot upon it just intime.
The wail of the child struck through
the darkness ; and the doctor, groping his
way down-stairs, found the malodorous lamp
at the bottom, and returned with it — the child's
cry assailing his ears all the time. The man
still knelt beside the couch, and had taken
one of the dead hands in both his own. The
child lay unheeded until the doctor set the
lamp upon the floor and took her in his arms,
and examined her limbs, to see how far she
had been injured by her fall. She screamed
and writhed with pain ; but the man on the

floor took no heed until the doctor laid a
hand upon his shoulder.

Penkridge,' said the doctor, ' is this your
child ? '

The man looked stupidly at him, but returned
no answer.

1 Is this your child, Penkridge ? ' the doctor
asked again.

1 Yes responded the man stonily. ' Mine
an' hers. God help her I Mine an hers.'
He muttered this over and over again until
he got it into a sort of rhythm, which was
arrested by the doctor's hand again laid upon
his shoulder.

Do you know you have damaged the
child seriously ? Get up. You can do no
good there.'

The man dropped the thin hand he had
held within his own, and arose.

Have you any friends in the house ? ' the
doctor asked.

He shook his head dismally, and said he
had no friends. ' Her was the last,' he said,
and looked stonily down upon her.

1 Have you nobody you can ask to take care
of the child ? Is there no womanly neighbour
who could see to it must the morning ? '
vol. 1. h

He shook his head once more, answering
that he didn't know, and repeated, ' Her was
the last.'

Have you any money ? '

The man laughed drearily, and shook his
head.

Any fuel ? Any food ? '

He shook his head again, and answered,
Not a morsel of anything

As the doctor stood in perplexity with
the wailing child still in his arms, a tap at
the door was heard, and the face of a
woman looked into the apartment. ' Good
morning', doctor,' said the owner of the
face. ' Will I be able to do anything for
you ? '

1 You are a perfect blessing at this minute,
Mrs. Closky,' the doctor answered.

'Ah, poor thing said Mrs. Closky, looking
down at the miserable couch of shavings,
'her troubles is over. It don't take much
lookin' to see that ; God be good to us. — Ye
tiny rather, what chine's that ye're singing' ?
Lend her to me, doctor dear. An' 'tis plain
les flared, poor rather. Take him away
down to Mick on the second flare, doctor,
an' lave me to do the decent thing by her.

I mind her when she was respectable an'
well to do ; an' him tew, wit a decent little
place o' business, till he fell in wit Mister
Tasker, roast his soul ! '

1 Is there any other woman in the house,
Mrs. Closky,' asks the doctor, 'or in the
court ? Any woman who could help you hereto
take care of the child, and so forth ? '

'Sure, I'll manage, doctor,' responds Mrs.
Closky/ 'What is it that's the matter wit
the child ? '

She has had a fall, and is badly hurt, I
am afraid.'

'Will I bring her down to Nelly then?'
the woman asked. ' Fetch the light wit ye,
doctor, av ye place, an' fetch him along to
Mick. I heard ye coming' in, an' I see the
poor rather there wasn't far off takin' the
blessed journey a month ago. An' when I
see ye going' down stairs to bring the lamp
just now, I thought that maybe ye might be
wanting' somebody, an' I slipped up. Mick's
in bed, and so's Nelly; but I'll not be a
minute getting' 'em out.'

Mrs. Closky led the way down stairs with
the child in her arms, the doctor following
with the lamp, and Penkridge bringing up the

rear. The room into which the woman conducted
her companions was almost as sparsely
furnished as that they had just quitted. It
boasted a table — contrived from a crate and
an old door ; and several tea-chests, which
served as seats. A curtain hung half across
the room, and on the near side of it a girl
lay on a rough mattress, with an old greatcoat
wrapped about her. Mrs. Closky disappeared
behind the curtain, and after an audible colloquy
with her husband, in the course of
which both he and she cursed with unnecessary
vehemence, induced him to rise and
show himself. He came forth sleepy-eyed
and scarcely sober ; but at the sight of the
doctor, professed himself ready to do anything
in his power to oblige that gentleman, 'from
wilful murther downwards.'

Hold your tongue, ye omadhaun,' says
Mrs. Closky; 'an' bring a drop o' comfort
for the poor soul here that's lost his wife ;
the heavens be her bed this night ! '

Thus commissioned, Mr. Closky retired
behind the curtain, and shortly reappeared
with a black bottle and a wine-glass without
a foot, and invited his visitor to drink. The
invitation was at first declined, with a shake

of the head ; but Mr. Closky grew pressing,
and Penkridge at length took the footless glass
and said, * My humble respects to all,' and
drank. Mr. Closky, by way of 'toast' or
sentiment conversationally coupling his vital
jewel and the pit of Tophet, followed his
example. The doctor occupied himself with
the child, and having made use of such soothing
appliances as were within reach, went
away, promising to return in the morning,
and leaving a few coins with Mrs. Closky for
the use of the baby, until some further provision
could be made.

Mrs. Closky laid the child down by her
daughter, and having instructed her to take
care of it, went upstairs to perform the last
decent and composing offices for the dead.
The two men sat and drank, turn and turnabout,
from the footless glass ; and Mr. Closky
grew noisily cheerful.

1 Oi didn't know that ye was resoid'n' in this
neighbourhood, Misther Penkridge,' said Mr.
Closky. ' An' it's odd now the way that old
friends is always meeting' in this big city. Oi
remember ye whin ye wor the gentleman corn-plate,
wit your shop an' your trap, an' your
little servant gyurl, an' whin I'd no oidaya that

we'd ever be sitting' an' drinking' with the like
o' me.'

1 I hope I never acted proud toward you,
sir,' returns Penkridge, tearfully ; ' which I
assure you, sir, that if I did, it was foreign tome
so to do. My poor pardner, sir, as is now
a-lyin' dead upstairs, it were also foreign to. I
have snowed prosperity, an' I have snowed
this,' he continues, waving his threadbare
sleeves in illustration, ' but I never had no
pride, sir, an' neither did my pardner which
is gone.'

I'd ask no sweeter pleasure returns Mr.
Closky, ' than to brain the bayard that said
ye had.'

At this the shabby creature melts in tears.
■ I loved her dear ; heaven knows, I loved her
dear ! '

Mr. Closky shakes hand with his companion,
and presses the glass upon him. ' It's likely
ye don't remember me at all, Misther Penkridge.
Oi remember yew in the days o' your prosper' ty
well. I've had me own days o' prosperity, an'
oi know — no man better — what coming' down
in the world manes. Hadn't oi as fine an'
nate a little public as we'd wish to found, till
oi came to grief with borrowed money ? '

The other took no notice of his speech, but
looked blankly before him, with tears in his
maudlin eyes.

1 Just be toon me a favour, Misther Penk-
ridge. But wait while oi provide ye with a
tay cup. There ; it's not the cleanest, but i'll
do with it. Take the glass. Fill up. Oi want
ye to drink a health to a friend of ours. Hereto
the blessed an' holy memory o' Misther
Aminadab Tasker, and may he — '

Who ? ' cried the other, rising to his
feet.

'The noble gentleman that brought the pair
of us to this pass, Misther Penkridge.'

The tatterdemalion's face flushed, and for a
moment he was almost a man. ' Drink that
scoundrel's 'earth, sir ? Not me. It's him as
ruined me. It's him as dragged me down to
this. It's him as has had me in his cruel grip
for 'ears an' 'ears. It's him as '11 have to answer
for my pardner-incline, sir. Drink his 'earth !
I'd like to make a lend of him ; I would, if I'd
got him 'ere.'

'When oi think of 'm,' rejoined Mr. Closky,
oi like to drink a health to 'm. We've no
oidaya how oi love 'm.'

1 You've no idea, sir, what a weight he's been

to me, sir. You've no idea, sir ; you can't have,
or you wouldn't talk like that.'

'Are ye blind?' cried Mr. Closky with
sudden anger. ' Are ye deaf ? Are ) e mad ?
Can't ye understand diversion when ye listen
tort ? Wouldn't oi like to have me fingers on
the neck of 'm ? Don't oi know that what he's
been to me he's been to you, the blood-sucking
bayard ! Haven't oi promised day an' night,
and night an' day, to have his blood ? ' '

Penkridge stared at the Irishman for a
moment, and then, in answer to the other's
invitation, l Drink your will of him,' tossed
off the contents of his glass, and sat down.
Not as I like that sort of talk, sir,' he said,
relapsing into the maudlin stage again.

The other snapped his fingers. ' Don't oi
know 'm ? Haven't oi watched 'm from his
office, an' watched 'm home ? That's a little
treat i'm fond o' given' myself whin oi know
i'm sober. If oidid it whin the drink's
in me, it wouldn't be safe. Oi could not
hold off 'm.'

My poor pardner, sir,' says Penkridge,
1 never forgave him, sir, for what he done
to us.'

Look at 'm now,' cried the other, ' with

his pools, an' his fine house, an' his offices !
Look at 'm rowlin' in wealth. He doesn't do
business with the likes o' you an' me now,
Misther Penkridge. No, no. The gentleman's
got bigger fish to fry. He's loanin'
hundreds where he used to loan a pound.
Drink your wish to 'm. There's another
bottle. Never fear, me darling', but we'll see
ye paid yet, av we take a most unpleasant
journey for it.'

The contents of the first black bottle being
exhausted, Mr. Closky produced another, and
grew wilder in his threats and darker in his
expressions of hatred. After an hour or two
of drinking and raving, he fell asleep, and
Penkridge followed his example. It was broad
summer daylight when the latter awoke,
and with the fumes of the liquor still upon
him staggered down the stairs and out of the
court. The way he took led him into Oxford
Street, where he rambled blindly for a little
while, blinking in the sunlight like an owl,
and holding himself and all his looped and
windowed raggedness together with his arms.
Suddenly, as he took his slouching way, he
was pushed somewhat heavily by the burly
figure of a hurried passenger, and looking up,

recognised the magnificent Hebraic nose and
the carnivorous lips and teeth of Mr. Tasker.
With the desperation of drink and the memory
of last night's anger upon him, he laid hold
of Tasker's arm.

Mis' Tasker — now I've got you. Do' know
me, I repose, sir ? Oh, yes, y' do. Know me
very well indeed. My name's Pen — '

Policeman,' said Mr. Tasker calmly to an
official who passed at the moment, ' will you
take this man away ? '

1 Come now said the officer, taking Mr.
Penkridge by the collar. ' You move on.
That's what you've got to do, you know.
Move on.'

Mis' Tasker, you've had pour's out o' me.
Haven't got a farthing' in the world. Give
me shilling' ! '

The official disengaged Mr. Penkridge's
hold, and swung him into the gutter.

Drunk and disorderly,' said Mr. Tasker.
1 You should take him up, officer.'

The officer took him up a little roughly, and
holding him before him by the collar, conveyed
him to the nearest station.

Mr. Tasker took his smiling way down
Lowborn.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

1 He is gone J he said — ' gone without a trace?

T^7HAT a charm clings always about the
past. It is easy to believe and graceful
to proclaim the exceeding happiness of
childhood. But I am not at all sure that
most men's raptures on this matter are very
real, or that they are always based on any
very vivid recollection. It is certain that the
man who is distracted by the playful noises
of children has forgotten his own childhood.
A remembrance of early boyhood is a retention
of infancy. The juvenile man remembers
his juvenility. Looking back, I am conscious
of the fact that there is between me and the
time I look at, an atmosphere of glamour.
The child of my remembrance is partly — or
I fear so — the child of my own after-creation.

I have moulded and modelled my infant
memories ; or if I have not, I am indeed
fallen. ' God help thee, Elia — how art thou
changed ! — thou art sophisticated ! I know
how honest, how courageous — for a weakling
thou wert, how religious, how imaginative,
how hopeful ! '

But if ever I was happy, I know that I was
happy then — in the first month I spent in
Island Hall. Waking in the morning — I remember
now how the wet boughs would tap
against the window, and how the late dawn
came greyly in between the white curtains —
I woke to a sense of luxury in my surroundings
which was altogether new and strange
and beautiful. Every day's breakfast was an
event. Aunt Bertha was president over that
simple table ; Sally was in invariable attendance
; and it was there that Polly and I made
our first daily encounter. My heart had fastened
to each of them.

In what other respect soever my afterthoughts
have moulded memory, I am quite
sure about one matter. Taking leave to regard
myself as I was at that time — as indeed
I very fairly may — as a creature altogether
differing from my present self, I am

inclined to think that the chief part I played
in this episode of my life must have been
very pleasant to the onlooker. I bend over
myself now — over that past child-self — in a
sorrowful wonder that the chivalrous and
tender soul I knew it, should ever have
fallen thus away — could possibly have degenerated
into that poor creature who wears
his name, and who pretends to his adult
personality.

I fell in love with Polly. Whether by the
pure light of unadulterated nature, I could
have done so, I cannot guess ; but I had
reading enough to help out my imaginings,
and I fell in love. Polly ordered me whithersoever
she would, and was as conscious of my
enslaved condition as I was myself. She was
a sort of female Ahasuerus — I a kind of male
Esther, admitted to the royal courts from
far by rare extension of the royal favour, and
approaching with an almost sacred awe. The
books to which I had access at this time
were many and various. In one of them
I found mention of a jongleur. I became
a jongleur. With the delicate fervour of a
minstrel, with the reticence and awe that
minstrel might experience in the presence

of his queen, I, in happy moments, was
permitted to approach the throne of love,
and to open up my budget of stories, travelling
at times through those lands of
grim humour known as The History of the
Three Bears — which lands I explored under
Polly's formal order — touching at times upon
the terror of the Bluebeard Chamber — unfolding,
in antres vast and deserts idle the
tent of Peribanou — sallying forth in disguise
with Haroun Alraschid and the Grand Vizier
whose names, by the way, were a terror
and a stumbling-block — and rising at times
to the tragic heights of Little Red Riding-hood.


The season of the year went against the
possibility of outdoor excursions. The greater
part of our time was spent in that chamber in
which I was first introduced to Polly. Polly
would sit enthroned near the fireplace, whilst
I, fenced round with books, occupied the
corner farthest from the fire, and prepared
myself for my story-telling function. My
queen's especial passion at this time was the
cutting of scraps of paper into quaint devices
an operation in which Uncle Will at times
engaged himself with a splendid adroitness.

In her leisure hours, Polly generally sat with
a pair of scissors in her hand, engaged in the
manufacture of dragons and other wonders ;
and by a queenly wave of scissors or of dragon
I was now and again admitted to audience.
My business of amusement over, I was dismissed,
being occasionally rewarded with a
paper emblem of royalty's approval. At other
times Polly would unbend, and would condescend
to meet me on an equal footing.

It is easy enough, no doubt, for any adult
person who may read this chronicle to laugh
at those childish raptures ; but I protest that
at such times I was filled with a tranquillity of
peace, a satisfied hope, such as I have never
since experienced, such a soft gladness and
chastened joy as might become the mind of
some meek angel.

God help thee, Elia — how art thou changed!
thou art sophisticated ! '

I can remember quite distinctly how, under
these influences, the past melted and grew undefined.
It was a somewhat hard past, with
not always enough to eat in it, and not always
enough to wear : a past in which rude and
domineering boy-giants, wearing clogs and corduroys,
and addicted to the practice of mauling

such unprotected and inoffensive youth as they
encountered, held evil place. I remember how
far-off that past came to look ; and yet it was
always near enough to give an added relish to
my security and comfort. I can thank heaven
that it is near enough even now for that, and
I can think of such as hold a like place with
something more of sympathy and kindliness
than I should probably have known without it.
The only fragment of that near past which still
remained forcibly with me was the face, and it
had welded itself into my life in an altogether
inexplicable way. I can only describe the feeling
I had concerning it by saying that it seemed
always in attendance in some anteroom of fancy,
and always clamouring to be let in. It came
to haunt me so that it grew into a habit of reproducing
itself in other faces — the living faces
of people about me. I saw it often, for instance,
in Mr. Fairholt's face, in Uncle Will's,
in Aunt Bertha's. It would flash out at unexpected
times, and would disappear again as
rapidly as it came, being gone before I could
fix it. It was my constant companion when
alone, and I often dreamed of it. My notions
about it were all monstrous and undefined,
always shifting, but always horrible. I suppose

I must have been a morbidly fanciful child
as I know that I am now a morbidly fanciful
man — but I had a decided joy in the fact
of my personal proprietorship of this phantom.
As I became more and more accustomed to its
exigent presence in that antechamber of fancy,
I became also less afraid of being afraid, and
often let it in of my own free-will, and extracted
a delicious fright from it. This very
soon brought about the result which might
have been expected, and custom robbed the
unwholesome pleasure of its keenness.

I had been at Island Hall exactly a month
when I was witness to a conversation between
Mr. Fairholt and Aunt Bertha. I was not
often in his room ; but was on this occasion
carried down by Sally, who had been sent
for me. She was evidently much disturbed,
and was very defiant of something. As she
carried me down stairs she hugged me several
times, imprinting her buttons painfully on my
frame in the strength of her affection. Tapping
at the door of Mr. Fairholt's room, and
being by him peevishly invited to come in,
she entered, bearing me in her arms. I was
ridiculously conscious, I remember, of a certain
want of dignity in my own behalf in this pro-vol.
1. 1

feeding ; but when I made a motion to escape,
Sally only held me tighter ; and having been
pretty strictly trained in ways of obedience to
her, I stayed where I was. Mr. Fairholt was
seated in an arm-chair near the fire, and Aunt
Bertha stood on the rug, with one hand tapping
on the mantel-piece.

You may set down the child, and go,
Troman,' said Mr. Fairholt.

I Begging pardon, sir,' said Sally ; ' but
might I make bold to be allowed to stay ? '

Mr. Fairholt looked up angrily.

I I brought him here,' continued Sally, ' on
condition as he wasn't to be took away from
me.'

Mr. Fairholt looked at Aunt Bertha, casting
his hands abroad fretfully, but said nothing.

Aunt Bertha turned and said, —

'■ Give me the child, Troman. Nothing shall
be done that is not for his good ; be sure of
that. I will let you know what we have
decided to do, as soon as we have decided
anything.'

Thank you, ma'am,' said Sally ; and set
me down and left the room.

Aunt Bertha took a seat, and drawing me
to her side, put an arm about me.

1 What possible object asked the old gentleman,
' do you think you can serve by
bringing him here ? '

There are some people,' said Aunt Bertha,
with an angry little laugh, and a shake of her
head, * who can only remember that which is
directly under their noses. I want you to
remember, Robert,' she continued in a changed
tone, 'that you were almost as defenceless,
though not so young, when his father helped
you, and to refuse now to give him houseroom,
does really seem to me inhuman.'

There Aunt Bertha became angry again, and
spoke with great decision.

Mr. Fairholt raised his eyes for a moment
to meet hers, but dropped them hurriedly.

I told you before,' he said, ' that I would
give you a month to think what you would do
with him. The month has gone, and you have
done nothing.'

Surely,' said Aunt Bertha, ' you are not
insensible to the claims he has upon you ? '

All this,' said Mr. Fairholt, rising and walking
in that irritated way of his up and down
the room, ' is very sentimental and womanly,
and so forth, I have no doubt. But now what
do I propose to do ? ' He stopped short

before her, fidgeting with his hands ; and she
passed me over to the other side of her chair,
and laid her left arm round my shoulder, drawing
me to her, as if sheltering me. ' I don't
say, turn him out to starve. I don't even say,
send him back with his old nurse, that — that
woman, Troman.' He spoke of Sally in an
angry way, pausing before the word ' woman
as if in search of some unpleasant adjective,
and jerking it out spitefully when he decided
upon it. ' There's nothing inhuman or barbarous
in what I propose to do. I tell you
that I don't like the child. I tell you that he
irritates and worries me. I tell you that I will
not have him grow up with my daughter and
in my house.'

Then,' said Aunt Bertha, ' what will you
do?'

I will do anything in reason — anything short
of that. What do you ask me to do ? '

I ask you to do what seems to be your
clear duty,' she responded. ' The child is
fatherless and motherless, and is your nephew.'

You talk nonsense, Bertha. He is not my
nephew ; he is not even yours. He is the
son of my sister's husband's brother — your
husband's brother. His mother I never knew.

His father I have not even seen for years.
And now you urge upon me the mere fact that
I had a business loan from him — which I repaid,
mind you, Bertha — which I repaid, honourably
and with interest — every farthing.
And you bring this as a reason why I should
maintain the child, whom I dislike, and in
whom I perceive the seeds of — the seeds of
of unpleasant influences — that I should
maintain him, not as I like and as it suits
me, but in your way ; whether I like it or
not, and whether it suits me or not — in my
own house and in companionship with my
child. I have told you already, Bertha, and
I repeat it — it is preposterous.'

Mr. Fairholt went up and down the room ina
series of peevish jerks, and was of white
with anger when he concluded. He resumed
his seat, and sat in silence, except for a short
gasp of incredulous indignation now and then.

I don't say, Robert,' said Aunt Bertha,
persuasively, ' that the relationship is a very
intimate one ; but still it is a relationship, and
it must be recognised. I am sorry to hear you
speak about the loan in that way. I think
you have forgotten the facts.' There Aunt
Bertha again grew decided. ' It was not a

business loan. No business man would have
advanced it. You are certainly wrong about
the interest. That, I remember, he declined
to take.'

1 1 don't care,' said Mr. Fairholt, flushing a
little. ' I should have said that I offered it,
that I — I pressed it upon him. I will not
have the child in my house. He can be just
as happy and as well-off elsewhere. Send him
to school

1 The child said Aunt Bertha, drawing mea
little closer to her side, c is very young and
delicate. He has no home of his own, nor
have I. I can't at all understand your aversion
to him ; and I may tell you, Robert, once
for all, that, sooner than see him discarded
and shut out from home-influences, I will
find a home of my own again, and take him
with me.'

I don't mean that at all, Bertha,' said Mr.
Fairholt. * You know how glad I am to have
you here.'

Aunt Bertha smiled — a hard little smile —
and said nothing.

He caught her glance for a moment furtively,
and went on in haste, * Let him goto
school, and come here for his holidays.

Let him be sent to a good school. I don't
grudge him that. But I cannot, and I will
not have him here always. He annoys me ;
he worries me. When you speak, Bertha, of
the claims his father had upon me, you speak
ignorantly. Those claims were annulled and
more than annulled by his conduct afterwards.
You know that I never spoke to him for
years.'

I did not know it said Aunt Bertha, sadly ;
1 and I am very sorry to hear it now.'

1 Of course,' said he, irritated by her tone,

the separation, in your mind at least, would
be of my seeking. But I tell you that he
came here, and in this very room flaunted his
favours in my face. I shall not attempt to
justify myself.'

I make no accusation, Robert,' she replied.

If you are willing to send the child to school,
and to allow him to return here for his holidays,
I am willing to accept that as a compromise.
He is very young and very little.'
She looked down pityingly upon me, and in a
vague sort of way I was conscious of feeling
sorry for myself. And though the feeling was
vague, there was such a pity in her face and
voice that the tears rose to my eyes. She

bent down and kissed me. ' It would be
kinder in you,' she went on, 'to let him stay
here for a while.'

I thought,' said Mr. Fairholt, nervously
interlacing his fingers and snatching them
apart, ' that you accepted the compromise.
It is no compromise unless he goes at once.'

My aunt rose, taking my hand in hers.
Will you leave me,' she asked, 'to select a
school ? '

1 We can discuss that together he answered
'Very good,' replied my aunt, and so led
me from the room and into my own bedchamber,
where we found Sally, making a
great pretence of dusting and arranging.

Would you mind saying what's been done,
ma'am ? ' asked Sally, turning round with a
duster in her hand.

4 Mr. Fairholt is very strongly in favour of
sending the child to school. I think too that
it would be the better course. We must not
grow up idle and ignorant ; must we, Johnny ? '
I recognised this as an appeal to Sally,
and answered 'No' as stoutly as I could, for
I saw premonitory symptoms of tears in her
eyes. Notwithstanding the stoutness of my
answer, the tears came.

■ Oh, ma'am,' cried Sally, ' I can't let him go.'

Now, Troman,' said Aunt Bertha, * you
mustn't be ridiculous.'

1 No, ma'am,' assented Sally, amenable to
discipline.

He will not go far away, and we will
make arrangements to let you see him as
often as you can.'

Couldn't I go with him, ma'am ? ' said
Sally. ' Couldn't I take a situation in the
school ? '

I think you had better stay with us,
Troman,' said my aunt, smiling. ' It is scarcely
likely that a school can afford to keep a domestic
servant for every pupil. He will probably
go to school in Wrethedale, which is very close
at hand ; and you will be able to see him
perhaps as often as once a week. And then,
you know,' said my aunt, humouring Sally, ' we
shall have him coming back quite a young
gentleman

Sally brightened a little at these fairer promises,
and wiped her eyes. At the sound of
hoofs in the carriage-drive below, I looked
through the window, and saw Mr. Fairholt in
the act of mounting a horse held by the groom.
Aunt Bertha also looked out, and seeing what

I saw, shrugged her shoulders a little. She
left me with Sally a moment afterwards, and
that good creature, as was her wont on all disturbing
occasions, moistened me with her tears.
She emptied upon me, as a guard against
possible starvation in my as yet unfixed new
quarters, the sum of two shillings and 
in copper. She also gave mea
thimble, of which she instructed me to take
especial care, since its continued possession
betokened ' luck.' Then she sat down on
the floor and took me in her arms, and grew
cheerful, and we had a long, long talk together.
I opened my heart to Sally then, as always.
I had been very shy about my passion ;
but I told her with a serious fervour, which
I have not felt often since, that I meant to
come back a great man and marry Polly.
Sally was as much delighted at this protestation
as I at her delight, and received
it with the utmost enthusiasm. We talked
the matter over until I verily believe that
Sally was as strongly infected as myself,
and accepted it in her simple faith as earnestly
as though I had been five-and-twenty,
and had propounded it in all manly seriousness.


'And I shall be a man soon; shan't I,
Sally?'

Yes said Sally, rocking delightedly to and
fro, and beaming on me in her happiness.
'Why, you're quite a man already in them
things i ' Sally set me on my feet in order to
look at me, and chuckled over me in very
admiration and affection.

Do you think, Sally,' I inquired — ' do you
think she'll have me ? '

Why, bless the child ! ' cried Sally in an
ecstasy, ' of course she will.'

Therewith she made a dart at me and embraced
me, bruising my nose against the brazen
presentment of a horned Dean who stared from
a huge brooch in Sally's collar. That brooch
was the gift of a young carpenter who was
devotedly attached to her, and whose epistles
occasionally brought by a young urchin
in corduroys to that old cottage in the Black
Country, and inscribed not infrequently on thin
pieces of smooth-planed deal — it had been one
of my earliest tasks to decipher.

And then, Johnny,' said Sally, blushing and
chuckling, ' when you're growed a fine gentleman,
and we're married, and all settled down
comfortable, I'll come and keep house for

you ; and you shall have Bob for groom and
gardener.'

I promised earnestly that I would, and there
the conversation closed. I heard Mr. Fair-holt's
voice below, and thought how soon he
had returned. But the time had gone quickly
during my talk with Sally, and the hour for tea
had arrived. It was already dusk, and before
tea was over had grown quite dark. I was
not as a rule allowed downstairs after dark ;
but impelled by what childish vagary I
scarcely knew, I stole down the stairs and
through the hall and on to the damp lawn. I
ran across with a sense of fear upon me, looked
over the bridge into the darkness, and heard
the hurrying river moan below. The voice of
the river and the darkness of the night frightened
me, and I retraced my steps quickly.
The hall beyond the open door lay in black
darkness, and some one bearing a lamp appeared
so suddenly within it, that the quick
and unexpected advent of the light came like a
blow upon my eyes. The bearer of the lamp
was Mr. Fairholt. He caught sight of me as
I stood with one foot upon the doorstep, and
beckoned me. I went timidly towards him.

Bertha ! ' he called.

My aunt came from Mr. Fairholt's room, and
I saw that she looked grave and troubled.

1 I had forgotten said Mr. Fairholt, hurriedly
and nervously. ' I have made arrangements
for him. He goes on Thursday.' He
drew a card from his pocket, and read it by the
light of the lamp : ' " The Rev. Charles Davies,
The Grove, Wrethedale." At six o'clock.
Have things ready as soon as possible, and see
that he goes. I will be back as soon as I can.
If I have good news I will let you know.'

Do not keep me in suspense in any case,
Robert,' said Aunt Bertha.

1 You shall hear as soon as possible,' he
answered.

Have you everything you want ? ' asked
Aunt Bertha.

Yes, yes he responded irritably. He struggled
into a greatcoat, and paced in his own
excited fashion up and down the hall. I heard
a sound of wheels upon the drive, and the
lamps of the dog-cart gleamed through the
darkness. Mr. Fairholt put on his hat and
went out. The groom came in, and took away
a portmanteau and a travelling-rug. Aunt
Bertha went to the door and called to Mr.
Fairholt. He returned, and she said something

to him which I did not hear. I had not
observed his face till now ; but as she stood
aside, with her hand upon the door, it came
upon me suddenly, with a horror I can scarcely
name — in every lineament, and in its tone of
awful pallor — with its haggard eyes and up-drawn
lip and gleaming teeth, the ghastly face
I saw a month ago. In another second it was
gone, and the door was closed. I passed upstairs,
and from then until bedtime suffered
unspeakable nervous terrors at every movement
of the bare trees outside ; at every gurgle
of the river, which ran noisily, being swollen
with late rains ; at every creak of the door or
rustle behind the wainscot, and the fall of every
cinder from the dying fire. But being once
put to bed, I fell asleep with the pressure of
Sally's loving hand still on my cheek, and slept
without a dream.

For the next day or two Sally scarcely
allowed me to stray beyond her sight. She
followed me about like the proverbial hen who
finds that she has a duckling for a chicken,
and discovers that the scarce-fledged creature
is bent on taking to the water. Polly and I
had a long and favourable interview on the
fatal Thursday afternoon. She had been all

majesty in the morning — a gracious majesty
I must confess — frequently waving me from
my corner — for it was a holiday, and there
were no lessons from Aunt Bertha — to bid the
humble jongleur recite her favourite stories. At
table her majesty was pensive. On the removal
of the cloth, she cried, and after a little
while retired from the nursery to indulge a
royal sulk in private. This over, she reappeared,
imperiously and without apparent provocation
kissed me, and then rang the bell.
This was an act prohibited by authority under
heavy penalties, except in cases of great emergency.
Sally appeared in answer to the call.
Her majesty, whose eyes were still moist,
flounced round upon her.

1 Roman,' said her majesty, ' I can't spare
him. Tell Aunty Bertha he shan't go.' With
this edict she resumed her throne, and set
resolutely to work upon a paper dragon.

Sally shook her head. ' They're getting'
Master Johnny's things ready now, Miss
Mary

I don't care,' returned her majesty, with a
wave of the scissors ; ' I can't spare him.'

Very well, miss said Sally, and went
away again.

Childhood sails a tiny craft, upon a very
little pool indeed. But the shallows of that
little pool are deeps to the child. The little
waves that wimple at the edge are breakers.
The child-craft suffers wreck as disastrous, or
finds passage as happy, as the great merchantman
that goes down in the depths, or is
brought by fair winds to the desired haven.
And I suppose that I was as sincerely joyful
at the issue of Polly's childish ukase as I
have ever been at anything. I was persuaded
that her judgment was final. Her manner
carried conviction. She was so convinced
herself, that in me a doubt would have been
an unpardonable presumption. So for another
hour or two, beneath calm skies and over
pleasant seas, went the barque of Childhood's
Hope with a steady breeze abeam. But at
four o'clock Aunt Bertha came upon the scene
as cloud-compeller. The horizon darkened —
the deeps yawned — the vessel foundered. To
drop the metaphor : I was carried away and
dressed, undergoing that operation in a condition
of mind of the most concentrated misery.
To take up the metaphor again : I went down
with the shriek of the tempest in my ears. A
furious little tempest she was indeed, though

rapidly silenced by the cloud-compeller, and
put to bed, like other tempests, with repentant
moans.

The blazing eyes of the dog-cart were at
the door again. I had taken leave of Sally,
and was saying good-bye to Aunt Bertha,
when a hoarse voice called from the gate of
the eastern bridge, and the groom went crunching
down the gravel drive. Aunt Bertha
stood and listened, with her hands upon my
shoulders. I can see now the kindly stooping
attitude change suddenly to one of listening
fear, the stoop remaining, but its whole expression
changed. I can see now the kindly look,
which vanished as though a hand had passed
across her face and smoothed it out, and left
a look of waiting terror there. The groom
came crunching back again, and behind him
came a hackney carriage, the horse in the shafts
limping painfully, and throwing off a great
cloud of steam. From the carriage came Mr.
Fairholt. At the first sight of his face, Aunt
Bertha started upright, ran to him, and took
him by the hands. He put her away feebly
and impatiently, and entering, sank into a
chair in the hall. Aunt Bertha bent above
him with an air of great anxiety. He
vol. 1. k

shook his head in a slow, dazed way from
side to side.

'He is gone,' he said — 'gone without a
trace. Has been gone for nearly five weeks.'

Robert ! ' said Aunt Bertha, and put an
arm about his neck.

He rose to his feet, setting her arm aside,
and looked round with his grey face drawn
into the semblance of that phantom which I
knew so well. ' Shut out those people,' he
said slowly. He caught sight of me, and
stooping above me, patted me on the shoulder ;
and with a sudden attempt at cheerfulness,
which was more dreadful that even the expression
of his face, he said lightly, ' So our little
man is going to school. Well, well. Be a
good little man. Good-bye.'

Aunt Bertha, with a backward glance at
him, led me to the door. The groom lifted me
into the dog-cart, and having wrapped me ina
thick travelling-rug, took his place beside
me and drove me away. As I looked back, I
saw the lamplight gleaming through the open
door, and the lame and steaming horse standing
dejectedly against it.

HISTORY.

At the very soul of understanding dwells charity.

"pRANK, comfortably conscious of virtue,
went back to Montague Gardens. There
was something in the fact of having snubbed
Tasker which soothed and calmed him. Tasker
was the evil spirit of impecuniosity personified,
and Frank having done battle with him, felt
safe from extravagance for evermore. ' I am
glad I insulted him ' — so ran Frank's thoughts
' because I shan't be able to borrow from the
beggar any more.' Reaching his rooms, he
threw himself at full length upon a sofa, lit a
cigar, and built castles. Is there anything
pleasant in the world — so queries the poet
than to enjoy delight with liberty ? Frank
just then combined the joy of stern resolve
with the delight of liberty from labour. Happiest

of moments, when a man can persuade
himself in his laziest leisure that he intends
to be industrious, and can draw in advance
from the Bank of Fancy the reward of his
own high virtue !

And, indeed said Frank, drawing a miniature
from his breast, and taking it into his confidence,
' it would be really hard to go astray
with such a guide as you are. Do you know
do you guess ' — he went on in a sort of
lazy rapture — ' how much I love you ? Do
you think how I will work and hope and plan
and endure for you ? '

The smoke curled lightly about his head.
His eyes followed it with fancies as unsubstantial.
Pleasant fairy palaces, too frail for
permanent human habitation, he built, and for
those brief moments lived in — thinking, like
the rest of us, that success is gained by
dreaming of it, and that hopes will be fulfilled
because he held them. Lying there, still
dreaming, after it had grown quite dusk, and
the servant had brought in his lamp, he was
startled — not altogether agreeably — by the
entry of Hastings and two companions.

Of what,' inquired Mr. Hastings, airily removing
his hat and arranging his hair before

the mirror, — ' of what is the young man thinking,
as he dreams on his horse-hair couch ?
Fairholt ! I am in league with the Egyptians,
burning with zeal to redress the wrongs of
that ancient people, who, as a man of your
reading is sure to know, were spoiled of their
treasure by the Hebrews. I have taken in
turn for them a little revenge in passing, and
have spoiled a Jew. The Jew will eventually
spoil me, I know ; but for the moment Fortune
smiles upon the ally of the ancient Coptic race.'

What is your latest madness ? ' asked
Frank, laughing.

Great wits responded Mr. Hastings with
a grave flourish, ' to madness often allied. I
am in a gorgeous humour. Do you know —
speaking with the utmost seriousness, and with
as little egotism as possible — I am really convinced
that I am a devil of a fellow. To-night
I am in more than usual form. I have spoiled
that Hebrew, not in any vulgar way, but
with an airy grace which is really indicative
of genius. I flattered and soothed him. I
touched him on his tenderest points. I lulled
him into confidence ; I led him to places of
sweet rest and quiet breathing ; and ultimately,'
concluded the young gentleman with

another solemn flourish, ' I landed him for ten
quid ; and there's the money.' Throwing a
loose handful of gold and silver on the table,
Mr. Hastings relapsed into a cheerful smile,
and asked for brandy and soda.

Frank bustled about and set decanters on
the table. ' Who is your Hebrew ? ' he asked
on his knees and with his head in a cupboard.

There replied Mr. Hastings, ' you touch
me in a tender part. The Egyptians and I
are content with small beginnings. Finally,
we shall land the Rothschild for a million, I
have no doubt. At present, we are content
to ply for humbler game. I have fleshed — or
shall I say fished, to make the simile completer
? — my maiden hook on Tasker.'

Frank, who had not been over attentive to
this speech, started so at the name that he
bumped his head violently against the shelf of
the cupboard as he rose to his feet.

A kindred spirit leaps to meet me,' remarked
Mr. Hastings languidly, and uncorked
a bottle of soda-water. ' League yourself with
the Egyptians, Fairholt. I pledge you my
solemn word of honour that the bait by which
this small specimen of the land-shark was
secured was my own unassisted note of hand.'

No, thank you Frank responded. * Egypt
is cleaned out already, and Christendom is
undergoing a similar process now. I have
had enough of Tasker.'

Do you know,' said Hastings with an air
of profound seriousness, ' 1 can imagine that
to the ordinary palate a very little of Tasker
would be eminently cloying ? The taste for
Tasker is in fact acquired. To be candid,
however, I can discover one virtue in him —
he can occasionally be induced to part with
money

He parts with it on very heavy terms,' responded
Frank, going back to the cupboard,
and rummaging anew there.

The wisdom of our ancestors returned
Hastings, ' is proverbial — at least a good deal
of it is. In one scrap of that wisdom for which
the fogydom of past centuries is justly famous,
we are told that he who intends not to pay may
promise much.'

Frank withdrew himself from the cupboard
with a box of cigars in one hand and a bottle
in the other, and answered lightly, ' If you
were the rascal you profess to be, you might
be even a match for Tasker.'

1 Referring replied Hastings in a forensic

tone, and with a forensic wave of his cigar, ' to
the works of Thomas Barrington Macaulay,
I learn that the late Nicholas Machiavelli was
a highly amiable and moral person. Fortified
by this judgment, I have looked up The
Prince, and am humbly striving to carry out
its precepts. My natural bent in favour of the
conventionalities of virtue is strong, and I still
occasionally deviate into candour. Let me be
candid now. Tasker lent me this coin wholly
and solely upon your account.'

1 On my account ? ' asked Frank.

On yours. I told him I was coming to
your rooms. So far I was truthful. But now
mark the Macchiavellian strain. I told him
also that you had invited me. I told him
further that you had invited several other
fellows. When I lie, as I frequently do, I am
generally prophetic. I am here, with some
other fellows. Since we are here, you can't
do less than invite us to stay. I told him
further that we were coming for a quiet little
game at vingt-et-un. You will, I am sure,
produce the cards, and oblige me by the fulfilment
of that prophecy also.'

1 That prophecy must go unfulfilled,' Frank
answered.

Let us waive that point a moment,'
resumed Hastings. ' Your friend Tasker,
anxious to oblige you, loans the money instantly.
Since I am pledged to candour, I
will conclude by saying that the said Tasker
hates you like poison, and lent me the money
in the hope that I might win, and that you
might lose.'

1 I never quite know where to have you,
Hastings,' said Frank, still laughing. ' But
do you really mean this ? '

1 In my moments of candour,' Hastings
replied with increased solemnity, ' Truth becomes
the immediate jewel of my soul. My
bosom is as glass, and the workings of my
heart are patent to the meanest observer.
When I put up the shutters and — if I may
mix a metaphor — tread in the paths of dissimulation,
I acknowledge that I am inscrutable.
But now the simplest son of the desert
may understand and know.'

1 Do you mean seriously to tell me asked
Frank, ' that Tasker was fool enough to
express such a hope to a sieve of a fellow
like you ? '

1 Example,' responded Mr. Hastings, ' is contagious.
My indulgence in metaphor touches

that poetic string which ever vibrates in the
artist's being ; and he lisps in figures, for the
figures come. I had forgotten the respectable
simile of the sieve, or, despite my leaning to
originality, I would have used it. In my
candid moments, I am even as a sieve, holding
back nothing I receive. I occasionally retain
I may add as an after-thought, — a little
moisture. Will you pass the brandy ? '

1 Was Tasker sober ? '

1 The worthy Tasker reeled — his victor's
sport, and ere I left him lay dissolved in port.
On strict investigation — for I mark once more
the Macchiavellian strain — I find that quotation
scarcely apt. Tasker remained so far solid
as to be able to convey himself to the club
door, whence he departed in a cabriolet, and
a cloud of curses.'

One of Mr. Hastings's companions, who
answered to the name of Bonder, and had
evidently been out dining somewhere, bearing
the evidences not only in his white tie and
ample shirt-front, but in his flushed and lazy
face, fell off his chair in helpless laughter at
this statement. Hastings surveyed him with
a solemn countenance ; and turning to the
other, who answered to the name of Brookes,

and had also been out dining somewhere, and
also bore about him the evidences of that
fact in his white tie and ample shirt-front, and
in his flushed and lazy face, opined that this
game of vingt-et-un would have to be confined
to three. On this Mr. Bonder checked his
raptures, and rising to his feet, proclaimed
himself as sober as a judge and fit for anything.


The sobriety of a judge said Hastings,
resuming the forensic air, ' depends, as it
occurs to me, upon the nature of his lordship's
head and the quantity of liquor his lordship
may imbibe. This is a proposition so selfe
evident that, but for the laxity of my friend
Bonders speech, I would not have ventured
upon it.'

Mr. Bonder laughed again, and asked Frank
for the cards.

Well,' said Frank, ' it would be too inhospitable
to turn you fellows out. But I
won't play cards, and I won't see cards played
here.'

Dost thou think,' demanded Hastings,
that because thou art virtuous there shall
be no more cakes and ale ? '

1 Come, come,' returned Frank. ' You can

spend the evening capitally without falling
into this eternal play. Honestly, / have come
to the conclusion to give it up. I play no
more.'

His pipe is silent in the vale Hastings
declaimed with tragic emphasis.

Now, you know,' said Mr. Bonder, looking
round, and gasping helplessly, ' that's uncommon
fine. By — by — by Jingo, sir, that's
good — that's uncommon good ! '

1 Your appreciation, Bonder,' replied Hastings,
' of my humble efforts to please is not
unvalued.' He said it with so serious a countenance
that Bonder fell off his chair again,
and was recommended by Brookes, the self-controlled,
to go home if he couldn't behave
himself.

But gasped Mr. Bonder, feebly struggling
into his seat, ' he's so uncommon rich, you
know. Upon my soul,' said Mr. Bonder,
brightening up as though he hailed a discovery,
I can't help laughing at him.'

1 Let him laugh who wins said Hastings.
1 Mine host, the cards, and a flagon of thy
rosiest. If you choose to cultivate the ascetic
virtues, I am not the man to say you nay.
Common courtesy demands that in your own

chambers you should be permitted by your
guests to adopt what role you please. But
you will allow me to point out that the calls of
hospitality are urgent, and that your guests
desire to season life with a little innocuous
excitement.'

If you will play,' said Frank, rising
with evident unwillingness, ' I suppose you
must. Here are the cards. Amuse yourselves


The three drew near the table. Frank,
lighting a new cigar, left the room, took his
hat, and strolled into the gardens of the square.
Mr. Bonder, in his present condition, was of
opinion that - this was the richest joke he had
seen for ages.' Mr. Brookes, on the contrary,
grew solemn at the host's departure. Hastings
underwent no change, but remained the same
gay, reckless, flippant creature, lost his money
with an easy grace, and borrowed it back
again, only to re-lose it. The three played
for stakes which, considering their means, were
ridiculously high, and became so absorbed in
the game as to lose all memory of Frank,
though remaining keenly alive to the presence
of his decanters. Frank, meanwhile, marching
to and fro in the square gardens, congratulated

himself upon his firmness. It would have
been considered ' bad form ' in the set in which
Frank moved to object to an invasion of this
kind, however insolently made ; and Hastings
was so old a friend, and Brookes and
Bonder were such good fellows in their way,
that anger would have been absurdly out of
place.

1 Now, really,' said Frank, in communion
with himself, ' I should have liked to play with
those fellows — I should really have liked it.
I never said a word about it to you, my
darling, in your hearing, but I promised it to
you all the same. I have surrendered these
old ways — I have done with them for ever.
How could I be untrue to you, or untrue
to the better hopes you . wake within me ?
Through you I can be my best — a poor
creature even then, I fear — but better, oh,
how much better than you found me ! '

The moon shone brightly. Frank was in
the very centre of the gardens, and quite alone.
He drew the miniature from his breast and
kissed it again and again. He looked at it —
and dimly as he saw it in that dim light — he
dwelt on the sweet face with a yearning love
and worship. His heart rejoiced within him

as he thought that he had escaped to moments
so sweet, from that smoke-clouded room and
that flippant converse. Following the track of
the railway field by field and landmark by
landmark, his spirit seemed to wing its way
home, past the pleasant summer river, and past
the moonlit fields to the park, and through it
to the gardens — to the gate where he felt, by
an intuition of spirit so strong that he almost
knew it must be true, that Maud was standing
and thinking of him, with just such a love
and such a tender yearning. Ay me ! how he
thrilled at the thought ! How sweet and dear
the fancy seemed ! He was all but bodily present
with her. His whole heart melted and
glowed as he stood there.

The highest rapture fails the soonest. Frank
came back to himself. The moon was clouded
and the night seemed chilly. He tried to
project himself again ; but Passion would not
be whipped and spurred. It lay quiescent
and made no answer. So Frank wandered
indoors a little disconsolate, and the peal of
laughter which came to him as he stood in
the doorway was welcome. Hastings at the
moment of Frank's entrance was walking
gravely round his chair for luck ; and since

everything which Hastings chose to say or do
was full of infinite jest for those young fellows,
the Messrs. Brookes and Bonder, the solemn
performance was provocative of much loud
merriment.

Hastings with a face of the interest gloom,
and the voice and action of a transpontine
Othello, accosted Frank : ' Behold the irony
of Fate ! Rich with barbaric Tasker's spoils,
fed fat with the booty of Israel, I enter these
gilded halls. Now, how am I dwindled ! For
the second time I am on my last half-quid, and
the boaster hath boasted himself in vain. But
thrice the magic circle wind.' Therewith
Mr. Hastings completed his journey round the
chair and resumed his cards.

Frank seated himself at the table and
watched the game. The cards ran in favour
of Hastings, and in a quarter of an hour
that young gentleman had quite a pile of gold
and silver beside him.

A star has set, a star has risen,' he quoted
oracularly ; and turning, addressed Fairholt :
Sit down and take a hand, like a Christian.
Behold ' — spreading his money gravely about
the table — ' behold the booty of my bow and
my spear ! I dare thee to the joust, thou

Paynim knight ! Couch, couch thy lance, and
gird thee for the fight

I don't care about it,' Frank responded.

If the discerning reader has anything of
the gambling spirit, and has ever looked on
at a game of chance, not purposing to join
in it, he knows how dangerous it is. If the
discerning reader knows anything of human
nature, he will have observed that there is a
kind of man in whom the very fervour of resolve
breeds weakness. For such a man to
resolve is more exhausting than it is to a man
of strong will to act out a resolution. Frank's
passionate longing after virtue had left him
weakened for its defence. There are many
men so constituted, unhappily for themselves.
They are mostly souls capable of very ardent
longings and very bitter remorse. Their virtue
— such as it is — consists in a passionate
and spasmodic longing after virtue. Their
remorse, until such time as they grow case-hardened,
is very terrible ; their self-upbraiding
and their self-humiliations are very pitiful.

I do not wish in my character of stage-manager
to come too often before the curtain
to take my marionnettes to pieces. I would
VOL. i. l

prefer that you should learn from their antics
and from those simulated speeches which come
to them from the wings — and seem to you to
come from them — what manner of puppets they
are, and what manner of men and women
they are meant to stand for. But I wish to
come forward with such apologies as may
seem needful, to ask your favour on behalf of
the puppet Frank. There are some opinions
which it is always well to hold about other
people, and never wise to hold about ourselves.
You sir, shall, if you please, judge
me with lenity. When I tumble, you shall
be pitiful. When I fail, going back from my
promises, revoking my solemn pledges, and
breaking down your kindly hopes of me, you
shall not be scornful. When I see you trip,
I promise not to smile. I pledge myself,
when you are at your worst and your stupidest,
to think of you gently and hopefully. It is well
for a man — it is wise, and good, and gracious
in him to be scant in excuse for himself, and
plenteous in excuse for others. And I ask
you to follow this young fellow's tragic story
in this mood. For the fictionist has missed
his purpose altogether unless a kindly heart
go through his pages with him, and unless

the shadows he would pass off for men and
women meet, at the hands of those for whom
they were created, some such kindliness of welcome,
some such gentle sympathies and hopes,
as they would have a right to claim if they
were as real as they pretend to be.

There was once upon a time a philosophic
king who knew this world and its ways pretty
thoroughly. His philosophy and poetry — for
like all true philosophers he was a poet, and
like all true poets a philosopher — are buried
in an old book which nobody pays much heed
to nowadays. His name was Solomon. If
you choose to search, you may find his works,
done into tolerable English, in a considerable
number of what used to be the public buildings
of this country. He is worth study, if
only for his knowledge of that vast human
family whom he describes as the sons and
daughters of folly. That old Hebrew king
knew a fool more thoroughly, knew his nature
better than any other writer whose works you
are likely to chance upon. And in all seriousness,
I am disposed to think that Solomon
knew the fool so well chiefly from introspection.
Each man is in part every other man.
The large nature of the Hebrew potentate

had room for much folly in it ; but his understanding
was able to separate the elements of
which he was himself compact. He set himself
to know much folly and wisdom. He
sat in the majesty of his kingly intellect, and
analysed that Solomon and knew him — as well
as Shakspeare knew us all. There is a touch
of self-upbraiding in one of the king's utterances,
when he says that though you bray
a fool in a mortar among bruised wheat with
a pestle, yet will not his folly depart from
him. I suppose he knew that of himself,
and wrote it in the bitterness of his heart.

At the very soul of understanding dwells
charity. It is an old truth, but none the less
worth writing on that account, that knowledge
implies sympathy. If I show you here a man
whose hopes are lofty, yet for ever draggled
in the mire of failure ; whose aims are all
born pure, yet always sullied with the smoke
of low desires ; who with every wish to be
generous, is in all things intensely selfish ;
whose nature perpetually sins against itself;
whose lie is wrecked by a series of sinful
follies, so patently sinful and so openly foolish
that a wayfaring man, though a fool, might
escape them easily ; and if in spite of all this,

I try to show a man not wholly hopeless or
completely lost, I will ask you not to throw me
aside too readily as a milk-and-water optimist,
but to bring to the understanding of this
creature who is, in a sense, the likeness of us
all, some memory of your own weakness and
your own failure, some sense of the difference
which exists between that godlike, possible,
ideal you, which you do somewhere cherish
and hope for and believe in, and the man you
know who lives sinfully and foolishly in the
place of that ideal.

At an hour so late that half London would
have called it early, Messrs. Hastings, Brookes,
and Bonder emerged from Frank's rooms and
made night vocal. At ten o'clock Frank
awoke to find the daylight pouring in dusty
streaks through the Venetian blind, the floor
strewn with cigar-ashes and ends of cigars,
the table covered with soiled cards and money
and empty bottles, and glasses topsy-turvy,
and the lamp in the centre a pale offensive
blot against the daylight. Languid and aching,
with hot hands and a heavy head, Frank
gathered himself together, and began to grope
after remembrance. Bit by bit he gathered

the fragments of Memory's shattered picture,
and pieced them together. Did he lose very
heavily ? he wondered. What were these ?
AnIOU from Hastings — another from Brookes
another from Bonder. Money. Much more
than he started with, surely ? Yes. At least
a hundred pounds more. Frank fairly
sickened.

And at that moment, pale and penitent, was
the youthful Bonder standing in the paternal
counting-house, and with beating heart awaiting
the advent of Bonder senior. To him the
honest foolish youngster made miserable confession,
and after due severity of admonition
was taken back to the fatherly heart and
pardoned. Bonder senior could well enough
afford to lose the few pounds his son ought to
have paid in that morning ; but the irregularity
of the transaction wounded him. For ten
minutes or thereabouts the expletives of Bonder
senior were sad to listen to, and young
Bonder positively felt his hair uncurling as
they rose.

This especial war-horses mused Mr. Hastings,
as he cooled his head against a marble
mantel-piece in his lodgings, ' will no more roll
his red eye and rally for the fight. I have

digged a pit for my friend, and have fallen
myself therein. I shall have Tasker down on
me like all the daughters of the Biblical horseleech.
Four months from this date there will
be the Tasker to pay, and nothing to pay him
with. " Why dost thou whet thy knife so
savagely ? " — " To cut the forfeit from the
bankrupt there." But away with unavailing
sentiment !

M I sits with my toes in a brook,
And if any one asks me for why,
I hits 'em a rap with my crook ;
And ' 'Tis sentiment kills me says I."

When this young party stoops to folly, and
finds too late that cards betray, what art can
soothe his melancholy, like a deep, deep
draught of brandy-and-soda at the pub. round
the corner ? '

HISTORY.

The temptation was a strong one — the victory in its way
considerable.

Yeas I a fool to act as I did?' Will
Fairholt asked of himself as he hung
over the bridge with a cigar in his mouth and
dropped pebbles into the river. * If I had
spoken months and months ago, she might
have said " Yes " by this time. And Frank
would never have grown to care for her at
all. I have wasted my chances. Had I ever
any chances ? Why should she care for me ?
I don't wonder at her caring for Frank.'

Will ceased his musings for a while, and
fell into a state of vacuous despondency. He
found himself now and again — as people in
unhappy moments do — taking a mighty interest
in the most foolish trifles — speculating, for instance,

as to whether that little fragment of
straw would float over that ripple or float
round it, or whether that or this bubble would
break sooner. He felt sufficiently miserable
through it all. He took nobody into confidence.
He had nobody to blame. Turning
from the bridge he walked disconsolately
through the fields with his hands in his
coat-pockets and his hat pulled moodily down
over his eyes. Coming to a stile, he paused
there, and fell again into soliloquy.

1 asked myself if I was a fool just now.
I'm pretty sure I am. Now, let me see how
this case stands. First of all, Maud and
Frank are engaged. Secondly — Well, if
I'm an honest man there isn't a secondly in
it. No ; there's no secondly. I have often
said to myself that I would have this aching
tooth out. I never had the resolution to pull
it out myself; and now that Fate has done
it for me, I can find nothing to do but moon
about and grumble, and coddle myself with
little sympathies. I suppose I am ashamed
of myself. I hope so. Gad ! I wish something
would come of that Eastern Question •
I think I'd volunteer and have a slap at the
Rooshans. I wonder if they'll show fight, if

it should come to that ; or whether they'll
cave in, as the Yankees say. The only chance
for your disappointed swain is battle.' And
Will sang with a melancholy little grin at
himself :

1 I'll hang my harp on a willow tree ;
I'll off to the wars again.'

A big baritone voice took up the song :

For my peaceful home has no charms for me,
The battlefield no pain.'

Hilloo ! ' cried Will, starting from his reverie,
and looking up.

'Hilloo!' responded the owner of the big
baritone voice. * Didn't know you kept a harp
in stock, Fairholt.'

The owner of the baritone voice was a
handsome young fellow of three or four and
twenty, with a manner a little too military to
be altogether gentlemanly. A little loud and
ostentatious in all things was this young man.
He carried a fishing-rod, and had a basket
strapped across his shoulders, and his dress
was aggressively suggestive of piscatorial pursuits.
His hat was bespangled with flies, and
his wading-boots were of the newest. He
wore a huge tawny moustache, and for the

rest was clean shaven. His nose might have
been the better had it had a little more at the
bridge and a little less at the base ; and his
mouth was a trifle over-large. Nevertheless
he was, as I have said already, a handsome
young fellow enough. He stood some six feet
high in his fishing-boots, and had the shoulders
of a Hercules. He was just a thought too
well set-up to be graceful, and the air of
the drill-yard sat heavily on him. This was
Lieutenant Hartley, heir-expectant to Hartley
Park and Hartley Hall, 'to lands in Kent and
messuages in York,' and to who shall say
how many thousands in the funds.

You are just one of the men I should
have wished to see,' said Will, getting over
the stile and advancing to him.

Glad to hear that. What's matter ? '

I was just speculating said Will, ' about
that Eastern business

1 Most people are responded the other, producing
a meerschaum pipe and polishing it
tenderly with a bit of crape.

Will the Russians fight ? ' asked Will.

Can't say, 'pon my soul

1 But what do your army fellows say about
it?'

1 Don't know, 'pon my soul. You see, I
don't do much in that way, Fairholt. There's
quite a little pile of fellows who hammer
away at that until really — don't you know ? —
a fellow gets sick of it.'

Well, what do these fellows say ? ' asked
Will, again returning to the charge.

Don't know, 'pon my soul,' responded the
Lieutenant, sitting down on the stump of an
old tree and smoking lazily. ' What yah so
dead-set on the thing for ? '

If there were any chance of a fight,' Will
answered, sitting down on the grass beside
him, ' I'd join tomorrow.'

Would you, by Jove ? ' asked the Lieutenant
languidly. ' Get infernally tah'd in a
fortnight. It's dullest game in the world.'

I don't think I should care about the barrack
routine,' Will answers. ' But I should
like to have a slap at Old Nicholas.'

'Always thought you were a peaceful fellow.'


Well, I am bloodthirsty enough now for
anything.'

1 There's the Guvnah,' said the Lieutenant,
after an idle puff or two, ' knows more about
that business than anybody. War with Russia

affects the funds, don't you know ? Old beggar
knows everything about everything that
affects the funds. That's his pot.' The
Lieutenant looked lazily about him, and continued
: ' Sun's too bright to-day. Can't kill
anything before evening. Fish won't rise.
Come and lunch ? '

Suddenly flashed through Will's mind the
thought of Maud. Your lover is your only
true poet, and he saw her — actually saw her
for the moment — with her fresh, clear face,
and hazel eyes, and cool, white dress. A
shaded room — cool and quiet — with here and
there a stray fleck of sunlight in it. A very
casket of a room, and Maud, its one jewel,
shining there alone. Now Will Fairholt was
not an imaginative man by nature ; yet if I
by means of words could show you this sweet
sight one half as clearly as he, by force of
fancy, for the moment saw it, I were a better
artist than I am. The vision decided him,
and he rose to his feet with a brisk ' I will ;
thank you.'

1 What's your hurry ? ' asked the Lieutenant.
1 Hungry ? Gad ! now I come to think of it,
so am I.'

The Lieutenant was not a talkative man,

and conversation somewhat languished. Will
communed with himself once more. ' Is this
wise ? I don't know. I must get away somehow.
If there should be war I will be in the
thick of it. It's every man's duty to help to
put down a great bullying blackguard like that
Nicholas. Yet I doubt,' thinks Will, with a
melancholy laugh at himself, ' if I should have
thought of the duty if things had gone otherwise
with me here. That big barbarian might
have eaten Turkey in peace for me, if it hadn't
been — ' There Will groaned, and cut down
a morose with warlike vigour,

Bit out o' sorts, Fairholt ? ' asked the Lieutenant.


1 N-no said Will, with a little uncertainty in
his voice.

His military companion looked down on him
with a satiric grin, and within himself commented
: ' Hit, by Jove, and hit hard.' He
said nothing, however ; and Will strolled along
with his hands in his pockets, and smoked in
stoic'silence.

You idiot ' — so in thought he apostrophised
himself — 'cant you be quiet. Need you take
everybody into your confidence.'

Hartley Hall — ' look at it pricking a Cockney

ear' — declared itself at last, and Will turned
with the Lieutenant into that gentleman's own
apartments for a wash before luncheon. As
they emerged again upon the corridor they met
Maud : as bright and sweet and fresh and innocent
and happy a sight as one might wish to
see. She quickened her step a little to greet
Will, and shook hands with a glad cordiality.
She noticed nothing especial in his shy and
reserved manner ; and they went downstairs
side by side, she chatting gaily about some
garden-party or other to which she either had
gone or was going, and he fairly tingling allover
at the remembrance of the innocent pressure
of her hand.

Here, in the breakfast-room, was Benjamin
Hartley, clad in an alarming tweed, and having
a white hat on. The white hat was perched
at the back of Mr. Hartley's bald head, and he
mopped his face with a yellow bandana. ' By
Jingo, ain't it 'ot!' said Mr. Hartley, puffing
upwards at his own glowing countenance, and
mopping anew. ' Come to pick a bone along
with us, Mr. Fairholt ? Glad to see you. We
shall be a-looking at you like one o' the regular
members o' the family, now, you know. You've
heard o' this young lady and her capers, I daresay

? — Let's have some iced champagne, Lieutenant.
I've been a-tramping over my grounds
till I'm as 'ot as Dan'l in the fiery furnace.
Ain't it 'ot?'

Infernal,' says the Lieutenant.

Mr. Hartley taking off his hat, laid it upon
the table and sat down. The Lieutenant rang
the bell, threw the hat to the footman who
appeared in answer to the summons, and requested
Will to be seated. Will sat by Maud,
who blushed a little still at Mr. Hartley's recent
allusion. The Lieutenant calmly sabred his
food and sipped his wine in silence. The old
gentleman flowed on mellifluous.'

1 I was up in town last week, and called on
that young brother o' yours, sir.'

1 Indeed,' said Will, nothing else occurring
to him to say.

Yes, I was. He's a fine young fellow, and
I'm proud of him. Now, what I like about
him is, as there ain't any mistaking him for
anything but what he is. He's got " Swell "
wrote on him all over. Now that's what I
like to see. You can bet your hat on him
being a thorough-bred un directly as you set
eyes on him. Now, here's the Lieutenant as
won't have it all, you know, as it takes a lot o'

generations to turn out that kind o' pattern.
He ain't a bad sort himself — the Lieutenant —
for home mannyfacter. — Now, don't you go
and rile up afore company, young man. Look
at him,' continues the old gentleman, in a high
state of self-gratulation, ' as savage as if his
father was a red rag an' him a bull. — He's
a clever young fellow that brother of yours, sir.
I found him at work up there painting a picture
— a proper picture. Just to see him slapping
it on was a wonder. It was a work of
art, sir, pretty nigh as big as that door. Says
he's going' to make his fortune with it. I don't
mind telling you in confidence — now don't you
go and split, you know — as I've put a agent o'
mine on to that picture, and told him to keep
his eye on it. He's a fellow as knows all about
everything, that agent, and he's down on a
picture like a 'aimer, and talks about 'em like
a auctioneer. I don't mean to have anything
but good work on my walls. And I said to
my fellow, "If that picture's up to the mark,"
I said, " buy it, and don't boggle about the
price." I don't stint in price when I get
a good article.' Mr. Hartley made his statement
in a tone which seemed to demand
an answer ; and Will awoke from his own
vol. 1. . m

fancies in time to reply, ' Certainly not at a
venture.

It strikes me, you know,' said Mr. Hartley,
speaking with his mouth full, and fanning himself
with the yellow bandana, ' as one o' the
best things about matrimony is, as it makes
a man industrious. Now your brother's positively
a-slaving. I like to see it.'

Maud, sitting between Will and her uncle,
directed an appealing glance to the old gentleman,
who gave a hasty gulp and broke into
a great guffaw of laughter. Maud blushed to
the roots of her hair and dropped her eyes.

Look yah ! Guvnah ! ' interposed the Lieutenant.
' Leave the girl alone.'

Maud's blushes became if anything a little
deeper. The old gentleman burst into a new
shout of laughter.

'Ow awful 'ot laughing' does make a man, to
be sure. — Pass the claret, Lieutenant, and don't
be coming' any o' your swell airs over your
father. Why, you ain't eating anything, Mr.
Fairholt ! It's this beastly weather as knocks
the appetite to pieces. Though I must confess
as mine takes a good deal o' spoiling. I
always was a good hand at a knife and fork.
Why, when I was younger, I've sat down to

my half-pint o' four half, and had a bit o'
bread and cheese for dinner, with a onion for a
relish, and I've enjoyed it as if it had been — '
Here the old gentleman, directing a mischievous
glance towards his son, burst into a
new guffaw, and found it necessary to get up
and stamp about the room. After this he
leaned against the mantelpiece, puffing and
panting, and mopping his red face and baldhead
with great ardour, going off into a little
explosive chuckle now and again. The Lieutenant
solemnly wheeled round in his chair,
and regarded him through an eyeglass. Will,
slightly embarrassed, not by the fathers revelations
but by the Lieutenant's manner, looked
seriously at his plate. Maud — forgetting her
own discomfiture — was mischievously merry.
The old man having chuckled and panted himself
into a condition of composure, took a
final mop at his countenance and resumed his
seat. The Lieutenant dropped his eyeglass
and took up his fork.

1 I was just a-saying — ' the old gentleman
re-commenced.

Guvnah ! ' said the Lieutenant in a warning
bass.

Sir, to you returned his father.

1 Stop it ! ' said the Lieutenant with solemn
emphasis.

The old gentleman went into another roar
of laughter, and recovering from it, turned to
Will : ' I like to poke him up a bit. Here's
a gay young flower a-springing from the soil !
But he don't own no kin with the soil, you
know. Bless your heart, he's superior to
that. He don't recognise nothing earthy
about him. And so I like to rough him
up a bit, anyhow him where he comes from
and who his. Not afore, company, you
know,' added the old man with a sudden
seriousness. ' But afore the family, what's it
matter ? '

I know where I come from,' said the Lieutenant
in his laziest drawl, ' infernally well.
Gad ! I wish I didn't.'

Now, young un, young un,' said the old
gentleman, rising and patting him on the
shoulder, ' don't take it to heart too serious.
I know it's a blow to your fine feelings, my
boy ; but you'll overlive it.'

Essay I shall,' responded the Lieutenant
gloomily. ' But I don't like it.'

The old gentleman, still patting the Lieutenant
on the shoulder, turned and addressed

Will : ' Come and knock the balls about a bit,
Mr. Fairholt ? '

Will was just about to answer ' Yes,' when
catching Maud's eyes, he saw her make a
signal of dissent, and hesitated.

Noticing this, the old gentleman said, 'Well,
I don't know as it isn't pleasant out o' doors
on such a day.'

- Oh, much pleasant,' said Maud. ' Come
into the gardens.' With that she tripped
away, returning in a minute with a sunshade.
Mr. Hartley had already disappeared, and the
Lieutenant was lounging after him when Maud
returned. She placed herself at Will's side,
and they went out together. When they
reached the garden, she laid a hand upon
his arm, and prepared for confidential chat.
Will and she had been close friends for the
last five years, and were as intimate as brother
and sister. The touch of her hand and the
rustle of her dress beside him, her face turned
up to his, the sister-like confidence in which
she seemed almost to nestle by him, the
serene quiet of her manner — all these things
were bitter to the young man's heart — were
bitter because they might have been so sweet.
The broad sunlight flooded the garden — the

shadows cast here and there were very cool
and pleasant to the eye. The arbour in
which Maud and Will sat down was deliciously
shady. The distant landscape lay
folded in silver haze. The swallows were
astir upon the river. A little wind touched
the leaves of the arbour now and again, and
died. So sweet — so sweet, so framed for
love the time. So fit the place for lover's
whisperings. So glad the lazy summer afternoon
!

For a long time after that day, when Will
Fairholt thought about it, he looked upon
himself with a kind of wonder, and thanked
heaven that he held back the words which
would have done his own conscience and his
brother wrong. Let us confess that it was
hard — that the temptation was a strong one
that the victory was, in its way, considerable.

Will,' said Maud, leaning across the arbour-table,
' I want to speak to you very seriously.
I know I can trust you.' She blushed a little,
and looked the prettier for it. ' I am a little
anxious about Frank. When uncle came
from town the other day he dropped a hint
about Frank's money-matters. Uncle has
things to do even now with a great many

people in town, and he has found out somehow
that Frank has been borrowing money.
I know nothing about it beyond this — that
he told me when I next saw Frank to warn
him against having anything to do with a man
named — Tasker, I think.'

Will nodded.

Do you know him ? '

I know of him Will returned. ' Frank
was a little careless some months ago, but that
is all over

You know pursued Maud nervously, ' that
uncle is not always very delicate. He doesn't
see how unkind it would be in me to speak to
Frank about such a matter. And so' — poor
Will went down altogether before her appealing
eyes — ' and so I thought I might ask you
to speak for me.'

I have spoken already Will replied ; ' and
if Frank is at all the man I take him for —
and I know that a better fellow doesn't exist
he has done with that kind of thing forever.
It's very natural, you know pursued
Will, gathering strength as he went on, ' fora
young fellow like Frank to be careless
about money-matters, so long as he has no
definite aim in view. But now ' — and there

Will tried to. smile — ' he has an object in
view, Maud, and will do better, I am sure.
I had a letter from him this morning. I
think I have it with me now. Yes ; here it
is. Listen. " I have made up my mind
finally for work and economy. For a week
past I have been slaving. If I- go on at my
present rate I shall die a millionaire. I am
spending next to nothing, and hope to be
in a position to offer Maud a home in a
year at the outside." Then further on he
writes again : " I paid Tasker on the day
of my return and quarrelled with him of
set purpose." — So I think,' said Will, putting
the letter into its envelope and returning
it to his pocket, 'that you need have
no fear

It was not in offering this defence for his
brother that he found any difficulty ; but he
longed, with an indescribable longing, to say
how he loved and how he despaired ; how
impossible he felt it to be thus near and to
make no sign ; and then to go away somewhere
for ever and bury his pain among
strangers, or fight in some great cause on
some far battle-field, or — et caetera, ad libitum.
He kicked out those longings, as became a

man ; and they returned again and again, as
became his passion.

'You need fear nothing, Maud,' resumed
Will, after a little silence. • I know Frank
well. I am rather glad you have heard,
because it will give you the greater confidence
in him afterwards. And when you
see how well he can fight in a good cause,
you'll not like him any the less for it, you
know.'

Maud rose to her feet, not caring perhaps
to have the springs of love laid bare after
this fashion. The old gentleman strolled upto
the arbour. Will, half glad and half
sorry to escape from conference with Maud,
seized his opportunity, and plunged into
politics.

'Fight?' said Benjamin Hartley in answer
to his queries. ' You mark my words, sir.
There's heaps o' fellows going about as think
they know a lot, trying to persuade me as
the Rooshans '11 back out. Now I don't
mind telling you — regarding you as one of
the family — and knowing as you don't
meddle in money-matters, and won't spoil
my game — Now is it in confidence, mind
you ? '

'You may rely upon me,' answered Willa
little stiff v.

Don't rough up said Benjamin Hartley,
drawing him aside. ' There'll be war in
another three months. Mark my words.
And I'm standing to win half a million on
it. That's what I'm a-doing, Mr. Fairholt.
So anyhow, I back my opinion pretty strong ;
don't I?'

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

It was a conscious smite which recognised its own charming
existence.

"Xl^HY do I always think of Wrethedale as
I knew it in the summer-time ; and
why am I quite baffled now that I try to recall
it as I first saw it on that dismal winter-night ?
An old west-country friend of mine, hunting
me up the other day, found me entrapped in
fog within two hundred yards of Temple Bar,
and his very mention of the place created in
these gloomy chambers a sense of sunshine
and green fields. You may seek in vain for
Wrethedale now. The quaint cross-timbered
houses with their thatched eaves and diamond
windows have disappeared, and trim
villas line the road. The lilac's bloom and
the laburnum's dropping gold no longer overhang

the dusty, crooked, little highway. The
swinging tavern-sign has at length taken the
flight which on gusty days it used to meditate
of old, and the tavern has followed it. The
big tree on the green — the green itself — they
are as clean gone as that bygone self of mine
who knew them. I sometimes feel so regretful
over these changes, that I mourn for the little
village as though for a friend departed.

The place is opulent and new-fangled. A
line of railway with sides of bare earth intersects
the lovely landscape, and shapeless
bridges offend the eye. The quiet is broken
by hoarse screams and panting. Rural silence
has fled from the very heart of its home, and
if you would be in the country, you must leave
Wrethedale behind you. I have a right to be
aggrieved at all this.

In my Black Country home I had had but
little chance of falling in love with Nature,
whose countenance was so torn and scarified
as to be scarcely lovely. Not even there, of
course, could the heart of a child go without
some recognition of the brightening of the
sky, and the softening of the air in spring-time,
some gladness in the languor of the summer
afternoon, some welcome for the solemn peace

of autumn's skies. But here Nature wore the
loveliest of faces always, and most lovingly
wooed me.

My schoolmates for the first week or two
were just of the average caste, exciting neither
special likings nor disliking. I discovered to
my own surprise on one occasion that I could
be roused to fight in self-defence ; and having
fought and conquered, and established my footing,
lived in tolerable peace and comfort. The
Reverend Charles Davies was a good little man
of consumptive tendencies. He was eminently
painstaking and pious, and for the rest, commonplace.
A good little man who did his
work dutifully according to his lights, which
were not brilliant. He had a good little wife,
who coddled him and us, and spent herself
wholly — the good little soul ! — in kindly offices
for all about her. But they are phantoms here,
and have no purpose to fulfil in this story.
The good little clergyman's good little wife
took a natural interest in my forlorn condition.
Sally's first visit was made on a Saturday afternoon,
and she was admitted to see me in the
schoolroom, at that time deserted by its usual
occupants, who were romping and shouting to
their hearts' content in the gravelled ground

outside. While Sally and I were in the full
flow of mutual confidence, Mrs. Davies came
into the schoolroom, and entered into talk with
Sally, and drew from her my little history.
This was a subject over which Sally always
cried ; and Mrs Davies, who was not a strong-minded
woman, cried a little with her, and told
her she was a good kind soul, and said she
would always be welcome to come and see me.
I also cried a little, I remember, and was a
good deal petted and generally made much
of. I missed Sally heavily at first, but grew
gradually reconciled, and found a friend in the
manageress of our childish affairs. Life glided
along smoothly enough for a while in this quiet
place and under these happy auspices.

It was the first of May, and we were promised
a half-holiday. The Reverend Charles
and his two ushers were in the best of earthly
humours ; and I, with some half-dozen others,
was lazily reciting the products of Madagascar,
when Mrs. Davies entered the little side classroom
in which we sat and summoned her husband
from the school. When he returned, ashe
did in a few minutes, he brought a new
boy with him. \ This, young gentlemen,' he
said, ' is Master George Gascoigne. — You will

learn the names of your companions, Gascoigne,
by-and-by.'

The new boy was a slim and pallid youth,
with long golden curls and handsome blue eyes
and a girlishly beautiful face. He was quite
self-possessed, and inclined his head towards
us at this introduction. I, remembering my
own awkward advent, and the painful shyness
which overmastered me when the Reverend
Charles delivered himself of his little
set speech on the occasion of my introduction
to the school, was almost awed by the pleasant
and easy smile of this new-comer. The smile
was a genuine bit of sunshine, and gave the
face, for the moment that it dwelt there, both
warmth and colour. Perhaps I mix my memories
here once more, and confuse first and
later impressions ; but I have often thought
since then, that any grown-up creature, looking
at that lad's face, should have seen what great
things lay within him, and how easy it might
be to turn them all to evil. Any grown-up
creature with the slightest faculty for observation
might have gained some knowledge of
the boy's character from his smile, and having
gained the knowledge, might have used it for
his good. For as I knew afterwards, he was

keenly susceptible to all opinions, and as duc-truehearted
as a girl. But nobody saw or
cared, and he, my best and dearest friend,
and my worst enemy and his own, grew up ;
to fulfil his destiny perhaps.

I have spoken of his smile. Let me try
to say what I observed in it then — child as
I was — and noticed in it many a time afterwards.
It was perfectly frank and spontaneous.
But it was a conscious smile, which
recognised its own charming existence, and
recognised your appreciation of it ; and in its
pleasure in itself, and in your pleasure at it,
lived a little moment longer than it would
otherwise have done. It captivated me at
once, I know ; and that starlight in the face
which seemed to recognise my sensation and
to gladden in it, was sweeter than the smile
itself. He was five years older than I, and
was tall for his age. It was significant of the
best and the worst of him that he signalled me
out for friendship from the rest. It was significant
of the best of him, because he was
always kindly to the weak, and disposed to
cheer such as were alone. It was significant
of his worst, because half of all he did was
done for the sake of admiration and applause,

and because he chose me mainly for my unreasoning
worship.

The fashion after which the Reverend
Charles Davies treated his pupils to a half-holiday
was about as significant of him as the
term by which our small diversion was known
was significant of it. The pupils were duly
marshalled in orderly military fashion, were
told off by fours, wheeled into fours, and
solemnly marched through some three or four
miles of country road, which led nowhere in
particular, except that the circuitous windings
of our march always landed us at the school-gates.
I had already made one in three of
these stiff and monotonous excursions, and
looked forward with no great joy to the fourth.
Yet, as became the first of May — which is not
always so sweetly smiling as in justice to its
poetic fame it should be — the fields were thick
with flowers, the hedges were already giving
sign of that fair bloom which bears the name
of the month it owes its life to, the skies were
clear, the wind was fresh and balmy, and things
generally were vastly more inviting to the
school-boy soul outside the school than in it.
Even in one of those foolish rows of four, it
was possible to taste the sweetness of the air.
vol. 1. n

Even if forbidden to dash at large through
those lush fields, one could look at them.
There was a certain jolly old blackbird who,
in the course of our last walk, had followed
us, and taunted us melodiously with our want
of freedom, along a good quarter of a mile of
road, keeping himself carefully behind the
hedge meanwhile. Surely his society was
worth something, though one shared it as a
close-bound unit in fifteen monotonous rows
of four.

We were all marshalled in the playground
and arranged in order, when the Reverend
Charles emerged from the house accompanied
by Gascoigne. We stood there in solemn row,
whilst the meek little clergyman walked along
the rank, and inspected us front and rear, like
a general among troops on a review day.
Gascoigne followed him ; and when the little
man had completed his inspection and had
come round to our front again, the new boy
slipped his hand into the master's, and stood
there by his side. The Reverend Charles
looked down upon him with an air of rebuke,
as I fancied, but Gascoigne met his glance
with a smile, and the small man patted him
on the shoulder, and smiled in return.

1 With whom will you walk, Gascoigne ? '
asked the Reverend Charles. ' You may choose
your own companion for to-day.'

It was a little thing, perhaps, but it won my
heart at once. Gascoigne left the master's
side and took his place by me, and touched
me lightly on the shoulder. It was a little
thing, but I had been busy with fancies concerning
him, in my imaginative, childish way,
and he was so much older, and stronger, and
taller, and handsomer than I ; and altogether,
as I have said, the action won my heart. I
looked up at him with a shy gratitude, and he
looked back upon me with that splendid aspect
of affectionate protection which I learned afterwards
to know so well, and to take so much
delight in. Our ways are differently ordered
now, and wide apart, but if I could undo the
past — his past and mine — and stand beside him
again with that unquestioning acceptance of
his worth, how gladly I would do it !

We were the chief institution of Wrethedale,
and the village was proud of us. It is just
possible that we robbed here and there a
garden now and then, and that we were upon
occasion a nuisance. But on these public days
of holiday display, the village turned out and

audibly admired us ; and one or two of the
oldest of Wrethedale's inhabitants used to bid
God bless us as we passed. They were unused
to processions in Wrethedale, and a very
small show excited the good folk's emotions.
So we tramped with fair regularity of step
through the winding village street. The smith
and the landlord of the Wrethedale Arms took
off their caps to the Reverend Charles, and
old crones courtesies at the cottage doors.
The children ran after us, and before us, and
beside us, and turning suddenly round upon
us, stared shyly, and ran on again. The
wagoner, gay in honour of the sweet month's
advent, touched his tanned forehead as we filed
past him, and drew his ribbon team aside
to let us go by in unbroken order. The road
was firm beneath our feet, and neither damp
nor dusty. The hedges were green on either
side ; and now and again, where a gate broke
in upon the hedgerow, we had glimpses of the
pleasant western country right or left. The
birds were with us from the very beginning of
our march ; and, at the sight of so much youth
and pleasure, sang their best and cheeriest.

I suppose the May weather touched the
juvenility which was certainly still vital in him

somewhere, for just as we reached Old Burn's
strawberry gardens — a favourite resort of the
people of the little country-town hard by — the
Reverend Charles halted and addressed us.
Young gentlemen,' said the Reverend Charles,
1 you may now walk out of rank

There was a rush and a yell. The mob of
young gentlemen went headlong down the
lane.

Let me recall the place and the time.
Beyond Old Burn's gardens ran three or four
cottages, each with its pleasant little plot in
front. On the opposite side of the lane, a
pond full of elderly tadpoles, and young frogs,
and strange creatures neither old tadpole nor
young frog, but in various intermediate conditions.
I remember them because of 's
lecture. Then beyond the pool a
gate, over which one mild young heifer pushed
an inquiring head, as if to ask what all the
noise was about. Beyond that a barn at a
corner of the highway, all ivy from base to
roof, except for the great oak doors. Beyond
the barn a dense mass of willows, white in the
May-day wind. And over all the May-day
sunshine, and the sense of liberty, and the
freshness of the spring ; and over even these

the exultant gladness of the school-boy heart.
Round the corner to the left, hidden until now
by the thick-leaved hedges, an old farmhouse
— rackety, tumble-down, picturesque. A
broken gate opening on a littered fowl-yard.
To the right that dense mass of willows, white
in the May day wind, feathering off gradually,
with glimpses of the country between. And
then a sudden swerve, and a brook with a
fallen sapling across it, making its silver wavelets
brawl a little ; and beyond the hay-meadow
on the other side, such a stretch of country as
you may seek in vain elsewhere. And overall
the May-day sunshine, and the sense of
liberty, and the freshness of the spring ; andover
even these the exultant gladness of the
school-boy heart.

I write this after midnight, on a cold March
night. The sound of London's latest traffic is
in my ears. A market-cart goes rumbling
towards Covent Garden. Yet a minute ago
I was back in those glad fields. The brook
rippled and the birds sang again. My old
schoolfellows were calling one another roundabout
me. My new friend was by my side.
I shall take his hand no more ; but, O ,
before I lay my pen down for the

night, let me sit awhile and fancy that you
too are back in those old scenes, and that
you think of them and of all the broken history
which followed them with such repentance
as matches my forgiveness.

I dwell upon that day because it belongs
to him, and has grown for me to be a part
of him. We spent the whole afternoon together,
and he charmed me. Even in those
early days he charmed everybody, and exercised
a subtle influence over all with whom
he came in contact. Below the fallen sapling
an old wooden baulk ran across the brook,
accompanied half-way by a decrepit handrail,
which failed just where it might have
begun to be of service. At the far end of
this baulk rose a magnificent elm, which overshadowed
the water, and mixed its boughs
with those of the willows on the near side.
The Reverend Charles had given up his
scholars for the moment, and had resigned
himself to the situation. He was peacefully
walking along the road which ran by the
brook-side. He had his hands folded behind
him, and his hat very much at the back of
his head, and he was evidently giving up

his good little heart to the serene enjoyment
of nature. Gascoigne pointed to him laughingly,
and fell into so ludicrously accurate an
imitation of his gait that I laughed in return.
Mimicry I soon discovered was one of 's
special faculties. We sat down on
the baulk together at the water's edge, and
fell into conversation. To speak more accurately,
Gascoigne cross-examined me and
drew me out, and most skilfully and pleasantly
manipulated me.

You and 1/ he said, ' are going to befriends.
What's your name ? '

I told him.

I shall call you Jack

I was really honoured beyond measure. I
told him my little story. I described Sally
and the little Black Country cottage ; and
told him of the young carpenter, and of Aunt
Bertha and Mr. Fairholt and Uncle Will and
Polly. There was a feeling of freshness and
even a little feeling of daring in making these
revelations to a stranger. He had put his
arm about my neck with a caressing protection
which was natural to him, and as he had
said, we were friends. I quite despair of conveying
to any reader who may not have a

similar remembrance the strength and rapidity
with which my affection for him and my admiration
of him took root and grew. He
listened with such an unaffected pleasure ; he
questioned with so delicate and natural a tact,
and with such a kindly interest, that my story
was told quite easily and without embarrassment.


He returned my confidence, and told me all
about himself. I gathered as the result of it
that his parents were not wealthy, but that he
was an only child, and had great expectations
from somebody, who meant to send him to
college and to make a man of him. He told
me that he meant to be a clergyman. ' Like
Mr. Davies ? ' I ventured to ask him. ' No,
he answered laughingly ; not at all like Mr.
Davies.'

Then we left the brook and wandered back
a little, and he told me all about the frog and
tadpole metamorphosis. We gathered wildflowers,
and he knew the names of all — the
scientific names of some. His father, he told
me then, was a scientific man, and amazingly
clever. He had written books, and knew a
great deal more than Mr. Davies. This last
in answer to my queries. Then he led me onto

literature, and listened with a smiling, friendly
interest while he drew me out on that point.
One of his chief charms then and always was
that he had in perfection the art of putting
an inferior at ease. In after-days, when his
wish was fulfilled and he took his first curacy,
I have seen him exercise that art with farmers
and farm-labourers and the dull mechanics of
the village. They were all charmed with him ;
as indeed how could they have been otherwise ?
Our talk went on until the Reverend Charles
had gathered his strayed flock together, and
was continued as we marched in military order
home. He gave me a lift over a rough bit
of Value' — on whose mazes I had just entered
—that evening ; the first of many. To my
infinite delight he took the spare bed in the
room I slept in. Circumstances conspired in
favour of our friendship. School-hours parted
us of course, for he was far ahead of me, as
was only natural. But in the playground we
came together again, and in those games in
which I was unable to join I had at least the
satisfaction of seeing him outshine all our
companions. He was an Admirable Crichton,
and as good as he was clever and handsome.
Some of the meaner spirits envied him ; but

even Envy was shortly silenced. He took
and kept a place among us from the first,
which seemed to have been either reserved
or created for him, and in our young republic
he was president. His popularity never weaned
him from me. From the promise made on
the first afternoon of our acquaintance he never
deviated. We were friends.

The holidays came at last, and with the
groom came Sally to escort me home. 
and she had grown to know each other
long before this, of course. Sally was in love
with him ; and he, as much for her own sake
as for mine, was quite impressed with Sally.
We parted most affectionately, and met again
much sooner than we had hoped. For it
turned out that Gascoigne's father was an old
friend of Mr. Fairholt's, and that after having
left him unvisited for many years, as old friends
will, he came over one day in the first week
of the holidays, bringing Gascoigne with him.
I was by this time — the first shyness of our
reunion having disappeared — reinstalled as
jongleur, and Polly had again assumed her
regal state. A wild legend, into which 
was pitchforks as knight - deliverer,
and which I regret to say was afterwards

imperiously set aside by Polly in favour of
1 The Three Bears,' was interrupted by Sally,
who ran up to tell me that Gascoigne had
arrived. I blush to admit that love and fealty
were alike forgotten for the moment, and that
I fell precipitately down stairs to greet my
friend, leaving Polly lonely with that weird
and incomplete legend.

The house and its inmates alike seemed
changed since that misty winter-night on which
I had left for school. Mr. Fairholt, who
never noticed me, went about in a slow, listless,
broken way. Uncle Will was less cheerful
than of old ; and a settled melancholy had
fallen on Aunt Bertha. Even Sally was saddened
in some way that I could not understand.
When I reached the hall, Mr. Fairholt was
greeting his guest, and Aunt Bertha was talking
to Gascoigne. Uncle Will entered at the same
moment, and with a momentary cheerfulness
took my companion and myself in charge, and
showed Gascoigne the stables and the dogs.
When we returned to the house we found that
it had been arranged that the visitors should
stay until the following evening, and Gascoigne
and I settled thereupon to talk. In the midst
of it I remembered Polly, whom I straightway

produced and introduced. He took her up
in his arms and kissed her — a proceeding at
which she feigned to be displeased. She overlooked
Gascoigne's error shortly afterwards,
and trotted after him everywhere, with a
wondering admiration of the things he did,
and an admiring wonder at him, which satisfied
me completely.

In consideration of Gascoigne's presence, I
was allowed to sit up a little later than usual.
We sat together as it grew dusk in the little
room commonly used by Aunt Bertha, and I
was relating the story of the first appearance
of the face. Gascoigne had his arm about my
neck as usual, and I was looking up at him
as I spoke, when I noticed that he had ceased
to listen, and was peering into the dusk with a
somewhat alarmed expression. I stopped ; and
he pointed through the window, asking in a
whisper, 'Jack, what's that V

I looked out also, and saw the figure of a
man, who came silently and with a stealthy
crouching run across the lawn. I was just
about to cry out in fear when I recognised the
crouching figure as that of Uncle Will. But
almost before I was assured of this I was again
frightened. A hand was laid upon the windowsill,

and a head slowly rose above it. The
head turned from side to side, as if in suspicious
watchfulness.

A burglar ! ' whispered Gascoigne.

Uncle Will came nearer, with a slower step
and with still greater caution, until he was
near enough to lay a sudden hand upon the
shoulder of the man who crouched beneath the
window. At the touch the man started to his
feet, and I fell back from Gascoigne's hold
with a shriek. 'The face!' Horrified as I
was by this sudden apparition of my phantom,
I saw all that happened outside and heard the
one word spoken. All that happened was that
my phantom, turning round, threw his hands
upwards and backwards and recoiled. In a
flash of time he recovered himself and fled,
and melted like a shadow in the shadows of
the night. Uncle Will's first gesture was the
same. He also recoiled with his hands thrown
back and up, and so for the merest fragment
of a second they faced each other. As my
phantom turned to fly, the other precipitated
himself towards him as if to seize him. He was
too late, and lost his footing. Recovering himself,
he followed that flying shadow with a cry :

Frank ! '

HISTORY.

A good safe vengeance in the way of business.

1\/TR. TASKER, seated at his table in
^ *~ his own private room in Acre Buildings,
communed with himself. No great amount
of Mr. Tasker's energies were at any time absorbed
by the actual transaction of business.
The spider's little affair with the fly is rather
a matter of pleasure than of business — to the
spider. It is in the spinning of his web
that that wary insect expends his powers.
So it was with Mr. Tasker. At this time he
was spinning most warily, and he did his
work with a relish also. It was a pleasant
summer afternoon. Acre Buildings were sofar
back from the main thoroughfare that the
hum of traffic came soothingly and pleasantly
upon the ear. The sparrows chattered about

the roof and in the trees and on the pavement.
Things had a rural look and sound
and scent thereabouts. There was a long
box of mignonette on the ledge of Mr. Tasker's
window. That window was open, and the
exquisite perfume of the flower filled the apartment.
The sunlight fell in broken flecks upon
the floor and danced on the roof, reflected
thither by a carafe of water which Mr. Tasker
had just laid down. A glass of brandy-and-water
stood at his elbow. He held a big
Havana between his finger and thumb, and
lost in reverie, forgot to light it.

'We shall see,' said Mr. Tasker with his
pleasant smile. He roused himself, lit his
cigar, placed his feet upon the table, and with
the tumbler in his hand, lolled there, a picture
of careless ease. Yet the brain of Mr.
Tasker was busy, and its theme was vengeance.
Not vengeance after any tragic fashion, for
to such height Tasker was too prudent to
rise, having a soul to save and a neck to
take care of; but vengeance in a good, safe,
usurious, profitable way, and in the way of
business. And his thought was, ' Can I get
Mr. Frank Fairholt in my hands again, and
grind him down, and make him ask for time,

and flout him and expose him to his friends ? '
The answer just then to this amiable inquiry
was ' Yes ;' and Mr. Tasker evolved his plans,
and enjoyed his victory in anticipation. Those
outspoken allusions to Shylock and his pound
of flesh rankled in Mr. Tasker's mind. They
were displeasing allusions, apart from their
personal application, because they bespoke a
good game played in vain — a checkmate to a
compatriot. Tasker, half enveloped in smoke,
looked through the window into the thickened
branches of the nearest tree with half-closed
eyes, and sipped his liquor relishing.
A note lay upon the table, and Tasker dug
at it with his heel as he leaned back there.
You shall help me,' said he with a chuckle.
'And I will throw you both into the same
boat, and you shall both row to the devil.'
He lay back again and chuckled enjoying
over his own reflections ; then sipped again
and resumed his cigar. ' He is not at all
better than a fool,' he continued, following out
his own train of thought — 'he is not at all
better than a fool, that Hastings. I shall use
him as I like when he comes here. We shall
see — we shall see.'

At this moment Tasker's boy knocked at
vol. 1. o

the door and announced a visitor. Tasker
took his feet from the table, and turned round
to welcome, with a nod of the head and a
left hand outstretched sideways, Mr. Hastings.
That young gentleman sauntered in languidly,
and put a little finger into the proffered hand.
And how is Egypt, my chosen Israelite ? ' he
asked, seating himself on the table.

1 Egypt is fat and well and flourishing,' responded
Mr. Tasker with a gay good-humour.

'Is Israel well and fat and flourishing ?'
asked Hastings.

1 Pretty well — pretty well answered Tasker,
in the best of tempers and the most charming
of good spirits.

1 Pretty well is very well,' the other responded,
with a solemn langour of manner.
1 I'll take a weed, Tasker. Yours are always
good, I know. — Thank you.'

'You have come,' said Mr. Tasker, smilingly
holding forth his cigar-case, and speaking
with that little effort to be clear and sharp
about his Cs and 5"s, which showed him most
keenly watchful of himself — l you have come
most punctually. You are here to time, Mr.
Hastings, like a clock.'

I am here punctually , as you observe,' returned

Hastings, lighting his cigar, and speaking
leisurely as he does so. ' I am, I regret to
say, less like a clock than a clock-case — empty.'

Tasker was in admirable spirits. ' You will
have your little choke, Mr. Hastings

I deserve my little choke,' said Hastings,
accepting Tasker phonetically, ' for coming hereat
all'

Tasker did not understand. But Hastings
had said so many things which Tasker did
not understand, that one more or less made
little difference. He knew that this flippant
and careless and impudent young man used
him and despised him. But he knew also
that he used and despised the flippant and
impudent young man. There was a little
balance of hatred on Tasker's side, though
he scarcely cared to show it. A man who will
one day have twenty thousand a year, was
not to be insulted lightly, though he had
something less than nothing now. Tasker
knew that the allowance of the young gentleman
before him was eaten up for the next
three years ; but he knew also that a single
quarter's income from the paternal estate was
just equivalent to these responsibilities, and
that Hastings senior was old and frail. It was

Tasker's cue to be astonished at the fact that
his client was unable to take up a bill which
fell due next day. In order that his astonishment
might come with natural force he took
it for granted that business would go smoothly.

If all my clients was so punctual said Tasker,
\ my business relations would be quite pleasant.'

Say " relatives," Tasker. Your business
relatives are always pleasant. Pleasantry is
the badge of all your tribe.'

I forget at this moment,' said Tasker, with
a lifting of his arched and heavy eyebrows,
1 what it is that you have got to pay

Hastings answered lazily, ' I am not about
to remind you too rudely of the amount, by
any payment of the money

1 Good heavens, Mr. Hastings ! I hope you
are not in serious earnest ? '

Set your mind at rest. I never am in
serious earnest.'

• I do not comprehend,' said Mr. Tasker,
rising. • I hope you do not mean to say that
you cannot bay me ? '

Unto that end, most valiant, am I come,'
Hastings answered, thrumming lightly on the
table, and regarding his companion with a
look of solemn gravity. ' By the way,' he

questioned with a passing gleam of interest,
was that a quotation or an inspiration ? '

It was a bill at four months groaned
Tasker.

1 He is like the dyer's hand,' said the other,
in abstracted soliloquy, ' subdued to what he
works in.'

You must not talk in this way,' exclaimed
Tasker with energy. ' I have depended upon
you. I have engagements.'

You remind me,' replied Hastings, taking
out his watch, ' I also have engagements.
Let us get our business over. Leave your
damnable faces, and begin.'

1 My faces is not your business,' said Tasker,
with well-simulated wrath. ' I have had too
much of this. I have stood it too long. I
will not stand it any longer. I must be paid,
Mr. Hastings — I must be paid.'

'When the irresistible encounters the impregnable,
what happens ? ' asked Hastings
with an air of calm. 'It is an unfortunate
conjunction of circumstances — unfortunate,
but interesting — deeply interesting. Allow me
to ask you to notice the situation. You must
be paid. That is an absolute necessity ?
Very good. I cannot pay you. That is an

absolute fact. Positive need on the one hand.
Positive incapacity on the other.

Do you mean to swindle me, Mr. Hastings
? ' asked Tasker with an aspect of increasing
anger.

1 1 am not accustomed to analyse my motives ;
but at a rough guess, I should be inclined to
answer " Yes." But I am so perfectly convinced
that in the end you will swindle me,
that my intentions are of little moment.'

It was a little curious that Tasker in simulating
anger grew really angry. The gibes of
his flippant client scarcely touched him, but
his own presentiment of wrath awakened wrath
within him. Like a good actor, he threw himself
into his part with thoroughness, and became
that he seemed. It took him trouble
to calm himself and bring himself down to the
mere acting condition again. It would have
been so pleasant to rend somebody, that it
was dangerous to his interests even to play
at doing it in this case, lest he should yield to
the temptation to do it in good earnest.

I do not want to quarrel with you ; I do
not want to take extreme measures, Mr.
Hastings,' Tasker resumed, having succeeded
in lashing himself. ' There now ! ' He

threw himself into his chair again, and relighted
his cigar. Then with his glass in his
hand, he leaned back and set his feet upon the
table. I will be calm and quiet ; I will listen
to reason.'

Your resolve is laudable,' returned the other
with the same imperturbable face and voice.
When you say that you will listen to reason,
you mean that you will listen to me. I accept
the implied compliment. I think I may venture
to assert that I am prepared to converse
with equal ease and elegance upon any topic
which may be introduced.'

Aha ! ' laughed Tasker, the corners of his
mouth a trifle tigerish — ' it is all your good-humour.
It is all your English fun. Now
we will talk about this bill. I am tied up for
money. You are tied up for money. Now
what shall we do ? '

Doth not Wisdom cry, and Understanding
put forth her voice ? Let us toss up for it.'

Dors up for what ? Dors up for nothing ? '
asked Tasker, resolutely good-humoured.
1 Now, what can we do ? Can you pay mein
a week ? In two weeks ? In three
weeks ? '

In answer to each of these inquiries,

Hastings shook his head : ' Renew for three
months.'

'Impossible!' returned Tasker, still smiling
through his cloud of smoke. ' I tell you I
do not know where to turn. Yet I am nota
poor man. I have money enough, but it
is all out. And now I am galled upon to
pay away money tomorrow, and I have not
got it. It is all out. Gentlemen will not
pay. They all come here and say, " Renew,"
as if I was Croesus.'

Now listen and perpend,' replied Hastings.
Three months from date I pledge you my
honour either to pay or to renew again.'

I should like to keep my temper, Mr.
Hastings,' returned Tasker, ' if you will be zo
good.'

I don't know what price you may set
upon your time,' the other answered, ' but
mine is valuable. Will you come to a conclusion
? '

Tasker haggled for a while, and then came
down with the proposition for which he had
paved the way by all this manoeuvring. ' It
is in your power, Mr. Hastings, to do me a
favour. It is a favour very easy for you.
A gentleman in the country, who is my very

good friend, employs me to buy his figures.
He has heard of a figure which is to be
great. He wishes to buy it. He instructs
me. But my hands are tied. I cannot disoblige
my very good friend in the country.
But I cannot buy the figure myself because
the artist will not do business with me. Weare
not on terms with each other. Will you
go and see the work, and make an offer for
it ? Will you zo far oblige me, my dear sir,
if I renew the little bill ? '

1 I don't care, answered Hastings. ' Who
shall I say wants the picture ? '

f Ah ! ' said Mr. Tasker, smiling once more,
1 my good friend in the country is yond of
mystery." He does not wish it to be known
that he is purchasing this work until it is
his. Then he will say, " You have gone
too late, you people. The work is sold. I
have been before you, and the work of the
year is mine for a song." '

Does it occur to you, most ridiculous
Tasker, that an artist might decline to sell
to me for an unknown patron ? '

That is once more your fun,' Tasker responded,
still smiling. ' You will go to your
friend and say, " You are sending this work

to the Winter Exhibition ? Very good. Will
you sell it for four hundred guineas ? Very
good. The money will be paid one week after
the figure has been hung. Very good again."
That is all to do.'

1 Who is the artist ? '

1 The artist is Mr. Fairholt, of Montague
Gardens.'

1 I will execute your commission, my Tasker,
with joy

My name must not appear, you know,'
said Tasker, with his tigerish smile in full
play. ' He has quarrelled with me, and will
not have anything more to do. We had a
great shandy — as you gall it — in this very
room. He was angry, and we quarrelled. I
most have the figure, Mr. Hastings, for my
friend in the country.

• Your friend in the country shall not be
disappointed, Tasker.'

Mr. Tasker, smiling, renewed the bill ; and
Hastings went his way to mystify Frank.
The usurer left alone once more, threw himself
back into his chair ; and setting his heels
upon the table, held inward communion. Mr.
Tasker thought in German, but his thoughts
translated ran thus : ' Mr. Benjamin Hartley

entrusts me with this commission. I accept it,
as in duty bound ; and I accept it gladly,
because it opens up a way to a sly and mean
vengeance after my own heart. I will plague
this impertinent artist by this means. I know
how he was able to pay me last time ; and
I think he has pumped that well dry for a
little while. If I could only get him into my
hands again ! If I could get him for a bill
he could not meet, and could hold back the
price of the picture, and plague his proud
heart for a week or two. If I could have him
here begging for time, and knowing all the
while that he was independent of me if he
only knew it, and knowing that he did not
know it. I could keep Hastings from speaking.
I could have out half-a-dozen writs
against him, and send him over to Bologna
for quiet. Fairholt should not guess where
he had got to. He should not know the
purchaser of his picture. He should be waiting
for money, and hoping for it every day ;
and he should tremble under my hand. He
should beg my pardon. He should pay me
such interest as was never paid before. He
should cringe and sue to me ; and then I
would apply to his father for payment, and

then I would send him Mr. Benjamin Hartley's
cheque. He should be humiliated, and exposed,
and tortured with hope, and his hope
should drop into his hands an hour too late
Thus thought Tasker, until his own pleasant
imaginings became too tantalising for him.
Simnel ! ' said Tasker with a sigh, ' it is too
good to be drue.' He rose and paced up and
down the room. ' But it shall not vail because
I do not try it. I should like to ruin him, to
break him down and bring him into beggary.
My pound of flesh." I can try for it at
least

Dr. Johnson liked a good hater, but I do not
think he would have been enamoured of Mr.
Tasker, who was a decent hater as times go.

Hastings pursued his leisurely way to Montague
Gardens, untroubled and light of heart.
He beguiled the way by self-satisfied reflection.
Yet he was in his way a philosopher, and
valued himself pretty accurately at times.
1 There is a little demon inside you, my friend,'
he told himself, ' who overmasters you upon
occasion, and clouds your finer faculties.
Having nobody else to chaff at this juncture,
he chaffed himself, laughing at his own incongruities

of character and of speech, and
looking on at himself like a quite disinterested
spectator, and enjoying the spectacle. Life
had been so far an uninterrupted series of
passages of light comedy. He was leading
comedian and audience in one. He looked
on at himself, admiring his own sang-froid and
impudence and jollity. He talked as much
to himself as to others, and in the same strain.
He was sufficient audience to himself, and
perpetually aired himself behind the comedy
footlights for his own delectation. He admired
himself beyond measure, and thought
himself at bottom one of the humblest menin
the world.

Arriving at Frank's rooms, he found the
artist hard at work, and jovial. At the sight
of the picture, now nearly completed, Hastings
stood still in genuine admiration. The artist
had struggled after a very difficult and subtle
effect, and had all but perfectly succeeded in
catching it. An autumn corn-field, with shocks
of corn here and there. A level country melts
gradually into the distance. The late sunlight
is so faint and dim that only the faintest shadows
lie upon the ground. They are made the
fainter by a pallid gleam of moonlight, which

struggles for supremacy with the light of the
fading sun, and will gain it before long. It is
this delicate blending of light which makes the
beauty of the picture. Perhaps the technique
of the work is not altogether perfect. Over
that let the critics quarrel if they will ; but the
poetry of the work is pure and strong. Its
grouping is beyond all cavil. The ideal at
which it aims is high, and only missed by the
merest trifle. Only missed by that mere
trifle, because the painter has not yet arrived
at the complete artistic mastery of himself.
You feel somehow a suspicion of juvenility
in the worker. You may see the picture now
if you choose — at any time when the family
is in town or abroad — by a journey to Hartley
Hall. It is one of the gems of the great millionaire's
almost unrivalled collection. It has
taken its place and is pointed out now as the
work of the most promising artist of his time.
The housekeeper will make a vague shot or
two at the mystery which this story for the
first time clears. She will tell you, if you
care to listen, that she knew the young gentleman
who painted it, and will describe him to
you, and will relate further that a niece of hers
was upper housemaid in the household of the

artist's father. She will dwell on the respectability
of that old county family, and on the
melancholy enigma of the handsome and gifted
young artist's fate.

Fairholt,' said Hastings, laying a hand upon
his friend's shoulder, ' this is noble ; this is
great ; this is worthy of you

It will sell, anyhow,' returned Frank, taking
his friend's enthusiasm for chaff.

1 My dear Fairholt,' said Hastings, ' I mean
it, every word. It is my fate to be believed
when I desire to be discredited, and doubted
when I would he believed. This is a great
work, Fairholt.'

Be serious for once, and tell me what you
really think of it.'

I am about to give you practical proof of
what I think of it. I am here on business.
Wait until I have finished, and then tell me
I am incredible. I am commissioned to buy
this work ; I am commissioned to offer you
four hundred guineas for it. Now, I advise
you — put another hundred on it. I advise you
as a friend. Put another hundred on it. Do
now — to oblige me.'

1 You look serious,' said Frank, standing
before him, pipe in mouth.

The Rhadamanthine gloom which veils my
brow,' returned Hastings, with an airy cheerfulness
of explanation, ' is but an earnest of
the soul within

Do you really mean that you have a commission
to buy this picture ? ' Frank asked,
pointing at it with his maul-stick.

I am painfully reminded of the statement
of Dr. Watts, where, with a profound philosophy
which was a real credit to him, he
remarks, " A liar we can never trust, though
he should speak the thing that's true." '

I don't think you would have the execrable
taste to do this in jest.'

■ You do me honour,' replied Hastings.

" Doubt that the stars are fire ;

Doubt that the earth doth move ;
Doubt truth to be a liar,
But never doubt "

that I have a commission to purchase this work
of art for the sum of four hundred guineas.'

Then I have done work for the day.
Come out, Hastings, and dine somewhere.
Who's the purchaser ? '

There, I regret to say, I am forbidden
to speak. The purchaser folds himself in
mystery.'

'This is too absurd, said Frank a little
angrily.

My dear boy,' answered Hastings, ' but that
I am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison-house,
I would a tale unfold. Don't get
angry, Fairholt. Now, am I serious ? The
fact of the case is this, I am deputed by a
gentleman who does not wish his name to
appear, to offer you four hundred guineas for
this picture. If you accept, the money will
be paid within one week of the opening of
the Winter Exhibition. If you refuse, the
envoy retires discomfited.'

1 Refuse ! I have no intention that way,
I assure you. Come. Is it your father,
Hastings ? '

c It is not my father, nor any relative of
mine, or friend of mine. I am simply the
agent. Am I to say you accept ? '

1 Yes. By Jove, sir, this is a fortunate hit ! '
Frank, in extravagant glee, posed with pipe
and maul-stick. ' Do you know, Hastings,'
he went on, recovering himself, \ that I sold
the daub at the Academy last week ? Got
two hundred for un. I am like that thundering
blacksmith, and can look the whole world
in the face, for I owe not any man. Paid
vol. 1. p

all my debts. Deposited coin to meet the
bill which dear old Will backed for me only a
week or two ago. Free of all responsibilities.
Five-and-forty quid to the good. Four hundred
in prospective, and a quarterly allowance
due in a fortnight

I believe you dropped a hint just now
about dining somewhere ? '

Which I did,' responded Frank. ■ Which
I will demean myself by standing treat to the
commercial party wot negotiates.'

With a laugh, Frank flung himself out of
the studio, and in a few minutes returned
radiant in his costume. He was booted and
gloved as delicately as a lady. His air
was elate and sprightly. The well-browned
meerschaum — Bohemian emblem — sent forth
clouds. Removing the pipe from his lips,
he roared forth scraps of the Marseillaise,
and made tragic passes at Hastings with
his walking-cane. Next seizing that impassive
young gentleman by the arm, he sallied
forth into the street with such a beaming
pleasure in his handsome face, that people
positively turned to look after him. His
spirits were at fever-heat, and he chattered
incessantly. The streets were growing cool

after the heat of the day ; and when a man
is happy, even the streets of London may be
pleasant to him. The shadows were growing
longer ; there was a soft, hazy languor in
the air. In these prosperous quarters, the
window-gardens looked charming. The variegated
blinds did something towards destroying
the monotony of the streets. The very
cooke' of the milkman was pleasant. Who
cannot remember such times ? I remember
that London has seemed beautiful. But it
was years ago.

If you are travelling from Montague Gardens
to Pali-Mall, your pleasantness way is through
St. James's Park, though when hurried you
may find a shorter route. Frank and Hastings
were not hurried, but the contrary. Is there
any beauty in a manly face like that given by
unaffected gaiety ? I think not. The young
artist looked like an incarnate sunbeam — so
bright, so jovial. Nurseries turned round
and looked upon him with undisguised admiration,
and their charges brightened at his
merry, noisy laughter. Youth and high spirits
sparkled in him like champagne, and flushed
his face, and gave light to his eyes. His laugh
rose like a bubbling fountain of wine. He and

Hastings strolled through the park, and out of
its sunlight and freshness into the shadows of
Pail-Mall ; dusty despite the one ribbon-like
streak of moisture which the recent watering-cart
had left behind.

Entering Pall-Mail, and taking the first turn
to the left, you may find the site of the club at
which these two dined that day. The club has
vanished. Its members are distributed through
the four quarters of the globe. Some are dead
and buried long ago. They were all young
fellows then — mostly followers of the arts.
Very gay, very noisy, very untrammelled, very
happy they were. The club system was a
younger and a fresher thing then than now,
and all the more enjoyment was therefore to be
extracted from it. There are no clubs like it
nowadays. The piano in the smoke-room — the
nightly songs and speeches and discussions —
the select section, a club within a club, which
called itself the Claret Conclave, and whose
members drank that wine alone within the club
confines — the chorus wherein all men then
present nightly joined — the moustached and
olive-complexioned gentlemen of the Royal
Opera, who came down late at night and sometimes
stayed until early in the morning, making

the walls sweetly vocal — the eminent old tragedian
who spouted there, ' mouthing his hollow
does and aes ' in sonorous dissertations upon
Hamlet — the eminent old comedian who told
his droll stories with so droll an air — where be
all these things and people now ? They are
dead and gone, lady — they are dead and gone.
Let the turf be green and light above them,
and the stone of remembrance not unkindly
graven.

The culinary resources of this establishment,
though not at that pitch of perfection which
satisfies Young England now, were not to be
despised. Over the mysteries of the cuisine
no Parisian maitre a" hotel presided ; but was
not old Nicholas trained in the very citadel of
cookery, and was there his equal in any of the
statelier clubs hard by ? The club bragged of
Nicholas, not without justification. At Frank's
special command, Nicholas went beyond himself.
It was another charm of this old club,
that when you went to dine there, you held a
special consultation with the cook, and arranged
your dinner with as much deliberation and
care and forethought as you chose to exercise.
Nicholas took his clients — let me call them by
no meaner name for his sake — into his confidence.

Sure of his resources, and eager and
proud to please, he yet advised and persuaded,
offering with a humility the more charming for
the greatness of him who displayed it, gentle,
and passive counsel, not often rejected. Would
they give Nicholas but half-an-hour ? Would
they not ? And at the end of it came such an
atonement for delay as few men find in this
unsatisfactory world.

All enjoyments come to an end. Even five-and-twenty
cannot dine for ever. It is to be
regretted perhaps that the capacity of five-and-twenty
for drinking is less limited when it
gives its mind that way. ' Ethereal, flushed,'
these young gentlemen left the table and
adjourned to the smoking-room. They were
hailed boisterously. It was Music-night, and
every man who entered these precincts must
sing if the assembled members willed that he
should sing. No plea of inability to sing — no
excuse of hoarseness would avail. So long
as the Gigantic Native sat at the piano, no
lapsus of memory could serve as a loop-hole
for escape. For the Gigantic Native knew by
heart every song of Europe, or thereabouts,
and would roar you the words, line by line,
whilst those enormous but facile hands of his

went flying over the keys. Now Frank was
the swell vocalist of the club, and Hastings
was its special singer of comic songs. With
what a tragic fury the latter warbled the many-tuned
ditties of Sam Cowell. In what a tremendous
bass he declaimed ' Behold me ! You
told me and the rest of it. In what debonair
fashion he related that Alonzo he was handsome,
and Alonzo he was young. How exquisitely
and in what a soft and tender falsetto
he trilled forth the protestations of the young
lady. And could the Great Sam himself approach
him in that exquisite fidelity to the
Cockney style and accent which was one of
the special features of his presentiment of the
story of Young Susan and the Ship's Carpenter
? The varying emphasis of that charming
chorus :

Singing' toddle, toddle, toddle, chip, chum, chow,
choora, li, la,'

now given with' martial fire, and now with
melting feeling, and now with scathing sarcasm,
who — if not the Great Sam himself — should
presume to strive to equal ?

And was not Frank poet as well as singer —
and had not Herr Broekenyack set his last

to music, and was not the fame thereof bruited
abroad ? Herr Professor was absent ; but the
Gigantic Native was there with a blotted
manuscript, undecipherable by any man save
himself and the professor, and with it he
seated himself at £he piano ; and after preliminary
settlings of his coat and arranging of his
wristbands, as though preparing to tear the
instrument in sunder, instead thereof, kissed
its keys most delicately with his finger tips,
and tripped through the dainty prelude. Frank
stood at the piano, flushed, confident, handsome
— a tender sentiment in his heart ; for
the words were of Maud, and reminded him of
her. He closed his eyes for a second, and was
back at the gate in the gardens again, and
the evening sunlight was tranquil on the
tranquil fields. But the note of preparation
sounded, and he sang this song : —

Her spirit dwells about me like a thought ;
I know her far, yet feel her near the while ;
For me all rapture of delight is caught

In her remembered smile.
And London's wintry evening, mirk and grey,

Is fair as summer's fairest, when the skies
Fade into one pure azure, and the day,
Worn out with pleasure, dies ! '

Great applause followed ; for they were

generous and genial young people all, and
proud of their comrades and of their achievements,
and they had a sublime belief in each
other, and were bound in the bonds of an enduring
brotherhood. So, with rattling of glasses,
and rapping of tables, and hearty bravos and
vives in his ears, Frank resumed his seat.
We affected whisky-punch here, observe you,
we who were not of that cold Claret Conclave.
Whisky - punch, sir ? Yessir.' The very
waiter was proud to wait on Frank. Hastings
had disseminated the story of the sold pictures.
The Academy success of the year was already
assured. Frank was the hero of the place
and the hour. Hastings had of course told
each man privately, and in confidence ; and
by the time each man felt disposed to impart
the confidence to some one else, almost everybody
knew. But they all came — to the number
of five-and-twenty perhaps — and congratulated
Frank in private, and shook hands with
him gladly, and told him how pleased they
were at his successes.

1 Fairholt,' said Hastings, 'this is growing
dull and noisy. Dulness is unpleasant, and
noise is unpleasant. Combined they are unbearable.
Come away.'

I'll tell you what I'll do,' said Frank gaily.
1 I'll give you your revenge. On one condition
that you never ask me to touch a card
again. But I won heavily from you last
time, old fellow, and I can afford to play tonight,
eh ? '

1 Your star is in the ascendant to-nights
Hastings answered. ' But I like to go where
the fight is hottest. Come along. Not here.
Let us get away where we can be quiet.'

The time is an hour after midnight, the
place the card-room of the club in which you
first met Hastings. There are four men playing
at vingt-et-un. Two of them we know ;
the other two you would probably not care
to know.

4 Cleaned out ? ' says Hastings, looking up
at Frank.

1 Cleaned out,' responds Frank, with an
idiotic laugh, and a lurch forward at a
tumbler.

Wait here a moment,' Hastings answers,
and rising somewhat unsteadily, leaves the
room.

There is an exultant light in Mr. Tasker's
eyes as he enters a minute or two afterwards.

A smile flickers at the corners of
his mouth.

Frank comes to meet him.

No, Hastings he says, with an air of
stern determination, ' I have no more to do
with this fellow

'Why, Mr. Vairhold,' says Mr. Tasker
cheerfully, ' you cannot surely bear malice fora
hasty wort. I am very sorry. I apologise
with all my heart.'

Frank looks upon him for a moment, and
relaxes. ' You're a good fellow, Tasker.
I'm afraid I have been very unpolite. Excuse
me.'

They shake hands, and the foolish young
fellow laughs again. They retire to a table
at the far end of the room.

1 In your name, Mr. Vairhold ? ' asks Tasker,
sitting there with a pen in his hand.

Of course,' Frank answers. ' Be quiet,
Hastings. — Hastings is hard up, you know,'
he tells Tasker, with another idiotic laugh.

It is lucky,' says Tasker in a low voice,
that I have gash about me. It is all a dance.
I have seventy-five. Will that do ? '

That's enough,' says Frank, lurching at the
notes.

1 Shall I say at three months ? ' asks Mr.
Tasker. ' I will not say a hundred. I do not
like level figures. Ninety-eight pounds ten ;
for value received. Thank you.' Mr. Tasker
puts the promissory-note into his pocket-book,
shakes hands, and goes. Frank calls him
back.

You'll forget all about that, you know, old
fellow. You're a good fellow.'

Oh yes!' says Mr. Tasker, with genial good-humour.
( I am a good yellow. We are all
good yellows.' As he goes down-stairs he
rubs his hands gleefully. - What a stroke of
luck ! ' He pauses beneath the lamplight at
the foot of the stairs, and looks at the note
again. 'At three months — Ninety - eight
pounds ten

HISTORY.

The broken windows winked and leered with patches.

^VR. BRAND sat in an easy-chair and
smoked a quiet cigar after the fatigues
of the day. You may recognise him, though
you have spent so small a time in his society.
Dr. Brand was not a man to be easily forgotten,
having been once encountered. In the first
place, he had the advantage of physical size
wherewith to impress you. In the second
place, his eagle beak and his square jaw, his
keen and somewhat too imperious eyes, his
big broad head, and his wavy mass of grizzled
hair, were each memorable. A great loose-limbed,
masterful-looking man, with kindnesses
in him and coarseness. A man who
was alive to the very ends of his hair, and who
rejoiced in life. An old Viking sort of man,

who ate and drank hugely, worked inordinately,
laughed out of all form and fashion, had
gigantic rages, and strange fits of tenderness
altogether, a remarkable man.

Seated opposite was the doctor's wife, who
was just such a contrast to him as such a man
might delight in — a pretty little creature who,
though thirty, looked no more than twenty.
The kind of woman who seems to be made
for the express purpose of idolising the Dr.
Brand kind of man. You might almost guess
how much she idolised him, by the satisfied
expression of her eyes as they rested upon
him in placid watchfulness of all his loose and
careless movements.

'Ma miel said the doctor, my practice increases
enormously.

Indeed, James ?'

1 I shall shortly have to retire in self-defence.
I have a whole mob of people who are trying
to absorb my time. They live in a court off
Oxford Street, and are not worth one penny
per annum

I suppose not.'

I might,' said the doctor, rolling himself
round in his chair to look at her — ' I might say,
Let the parish doctor see to em." But he

can't see to 'em. I don't know him ; but if
that man does his duty, he will work himself
to death. Six of him would be worked to
death.'

Is there so much sickness ? '

The wonder isn't that there's so much sickness
as that there is so little. You'd say soif
you saw the hole they live in. I thought
I knew the slums, but God bless my soul ! '
said the doctor, rolling round again, ' I couldn't
have believed it.'

What made you go there ? ' asked his wife.

1 Do you remember Penkridge ? ' asked the
doctor, in return.

Penkridge ? Do you mean the odd little
man who kept the stationer's shop in Camberwell
? Oh, yes ; I remember how I used to
laugh at him, he was so comically civil.'

The doctor set his feet upon a chair before
him and lolled there broadcast. He smoked
for a while, and answered : — ' You wouldn't
laugh at him now, ma mie. Such a ragged,
drunken, helpless, hopeless scoundrel — such a
lost, tearful, lachrymose, whining villain. A
dog of such ill odour, spiritually and physically.'


I think I remember to have heard,' said

Mrs. Brand, * that he got into the hands of
some dreadful person, who ruined him

Bah ! ' roared the doctor with sudden
energy. ' That kind of man always gets into
the hands of people who ruin him. The
miserable fool of a fly invites the spider to
live in his neighbourhood ; he makes a chum
of him, and helps him to spin his web. I
do protest,' said the doctor, struggling up to
say it, and sitting with a hand upon each
elbow of his chair — ' I do protest that I have
no atom of sympathy with that sort of creature.
I can get up no pity for him

Now, I am sure, James said the doctor's
wife, ' that you have been helping him.'

'Helping him!' the doctor growled behind
his cigar like an angry bassoon. ' I know
I've been helping him. But I have the
grace to be ashamed of myself. What is
it that favourite of yours says — the she-poet
Whatshername ? "I feel as if I had a man
in me despising such a woman." To help a
man of that sort is a waste of good material.
There is only so much medical talent in the
world. Not half enough to supply the worlds
wants — not half enough, I mean, to supply
that part of the world which deserves to have

its wants supplied. Nine-tenths of the ridiculous
world we live in is so hopelessly rotten,
that a man tinkers at it to no purpose. It
can't be mended — it can't be restored. The
wisest and kindliest thing to do would be to
poison ninety per cent, of the people of this
planet, and start afresh with the healthy remainder.'


1 I have heard that dreadful theory before,'
said the doctor's wife. * But how are you
going to decide who is to live ? Suppose
some dreadful person wished to poison me ? '

1 I'd knock his head off,' said the doctor
promptly. ' Let me demonstrate your right
to exist. I am a man of unusual abilities ; I
am profoundly versed in the noblest of all
human arts ; I have energies which are absolutely
unbearable, and I get through the
work of ten ordinary men daily.'

I have heard all this before,' responded
Mrs. Brand, laughing ; ' and used to believe
it until I got married and disillusionised. But
we are not concerned with you at present.
What is my right to exist ? '

What a lovely sex it is ! ' said the doctor ;
always waits to hear an argument out before
it dreams of speaking. Your right to exist,
vol. 1. Q

my dear, is that I desire you to exist. If I
am useful for ten, I may claim life for two.'

e Suppose your desire should cease, you
mountain of egotism? '

Your right would vanish, you atom of
charms ! '

1 James — you're a monster.'

Jennie — you're an angel ! '

A highly satisfactory termination,' said the
doctor's wife, ' to a most unsatisfactory debate.'

At this the doctor rose, picked up his wife's
chair with his wife in it, kissed the little lady,
set her down again, burst into a great roar
of laughter, and dropped back into his armchair.
Mrs. Brand accepted this as though
she were quite used to it, and regarded the
laughing giant with the same look of calm
and watchful affection as before. ' What were
you saying about Penkridge, James ? ' she
asked after a little pause,

It was his wife I was thinking of. She
died last night.'

What did she die of ? '

She died chiefly of Penkridge, I should
say. But the shameless waste and sinful
luxury of this big London helped her. In
plain English, she died of hunger.'

1 James ! ' said the doctor's wife ; ' you don't
mean that ? '

Yes ; I mean that. She died of actual
hunger, Jennie ; and that tearful villain her
husband was half-drunk. Think what that
means.'

'How dreadful!'

1 Do you see ? ' said the doctor, sitting up
again. ' He had money enough to drink with
somehow. She died of starvation

Perhaps some one gave him drink who
would not give him money.'

I hope so.' The doctor subsided again.
'Jennie he went on, 'these things hurt me.
If a man could do anything in such a case —
If I could have dropped Penkridge, for instance,
from the garret window. That man's
squalor and degradation said the doctor
keenly, 'are not a misery to him. He finds
a compensation in idleness and an occasional
burst of drinking, and more than all, in his
failings about his having been ruined, and so
forth. There are some men to whom it's a
positive comfort to have an injury done to
them ; they find a luxurious joy in the ability
to complain that they have been damaged.'

Do you know, James said the doctor's

wife, coming nearer, and sitting on an ottoman
beside him, with a hand upon his arm —
do you know that I feel myself very idle
and very useless ? I daresay it's very foolish
in me, but I feel almost sorrier for people who
won't help themselves than I do for those
who can't. I mean that when people won't
help themselves, and don't even want to try,
it seems to imply such a dreadful inward
want somewhere. You know what I mean,
don't you ? '

1 Perfectly,' said the doctor.

'James, I have been thinking seriously, and
this talk reminds me again. I must do something
; I must justify my claim to exist, dear.'

'Ma mie! said the doctor, throwing away
his cigar, and taking one of her hands in
both his, ■ your clear mission is to give heart
and hope to me. If it weren't for you, my
energies would be wasted. I should have
turned myself into a hermit, and have gone
to live in the cave of speculative science, long
ago, if I hadn't had you beside me.'

Mrs. Brand looked at him smilingly, and
shook her head. ' I must do something,' she
reiterated. ' Now, shall I tell you what I
have been thinking ? '

Wait a moment. Let me compose myself
to listen. Give me a glass of claret, whilst I
light a cigar. — Thank you. I am ready
now.' He set his slippered feet upon the
chair before him, and composed his huge
figure comfortably. His eyes had lost that
too imperious glance. He stroked the
little hand that rested upon the elbow of his
chair.

1 I have been thinking, James,' said Mrs.
Brand seriously, ' that I can see a clear way of
doing good, and I want to ask your advice about
it. It seems to me that a great many benevolent
enterprises fail, dear, because the people
who start them are anxious to do too much, and
to do it in an unnatural way. Lady-visitors,
for instance.' — The doctor nodded, to signify
attention. — ' Now a lady goes into one of the
places you were speaking of just now, and says
a few kind words, and does a few kind things
to a great many people. I hope it does good.
I don't think it can fail to do some good. But
wouldn't it be better, dear, to single out someone
hopeful case, and confine one's self to that
case, not carrying it away, but leaving it as a
sort of wholesome centre, out of which something
might possibly grow ? I want to try

some such experiment, James ; and I want to
get one or two other people to do the same.
It seems to me that one clean room and one
tidy figure in such a place as Bolter's Rents
must be, might be of great service. And one
clean heart and well-ordered mind might do
incalculable good.'

Have you thought at all of the counteracting
influences ? ' asked the doctor.

Yes. I am really not too sanguine. I
am only thinking of what might happen. But
isn't there likelihood enough to make it worth
while to try ? '

1 Put yourself for a moment said the doctor,
'in the place of your imaginary girl. You have,
of course, a surety against her gross temptations,
which she couldn't have. Think how
anybody not so vile as themselves would grow
to loathe the people who live there. The place
is a moral nightmare. You would grow sick
at physical and spiritual filth, and would do
one of three things : sink down to it — go mad
over it — or run away from it.'

You forget,' said Mrs. Brand, arguing her
case more warmly. ' I am squeamish by training,
as no girl brought up as any girl would
have to be in such a case could possibly be

I don't want to make a lady. I want to
help to rear a decent Christian woman, who
shall be clean and neat and sober, and know
the ways of the people, and be able to do
more for them than anybody from the outside.
And I think that's possible.'

Did you ever see Bolter's Rents ? ' asked
the doctor grimly.

No,' answered the doctor's wife.

Come and see it now,' said the doctor,
rising. * Ah ! I was afraid you would not be
particularly eager.'

1 I am quite ready to go, James.'

Put on your plainest bonnet and your
quietest shawl,' the doctor answered. 'It's a
fine moonlight night, and Bolter's Rents is not
far from Wimpole Street.'

Mrs. Brand left the room. If the truth
must be told, her spirits faltered somewhat at
the thought of a visit by night to such a place,
and her enthusiasm cooled a little, but remembering
her husband's familiarity with the place
and people, and recalling her confidence in
him, she attired herself as plainly as she could,
and rejoined the doctor, who was already
drawing on his gloves in the hall. They went
out together arm-in-arm, through quiet ways,

until they emerged on the long-drawn glare
and bustle of Oxford Street.

1 Have you your cigarette ? ' asked the
doctor.

No, dear,' responded Mrs. Brand.

Dr. Brand turned into a chemist's shop
and bought a bottle of smelling salts. ' Put
that in your pocket,' he said ; adding, with an
almost tragic solemnity, ' you may possibly
want it. The scents are infernal'

Walking on the right-hand side of the
street, and facing towards Holborn, they
turned abruptly into a narrow and low-browed
passage, which yawned like a black mouth
on brilliant Oxford Street. The passage was
too confined to allow of their walking abreast ;
and with a brief injunction to follow, and a
reassuring tap upon his wife's shoulder, the
doctor led the way. Looking past his ponderous
figure, Mrs. Brand saw before her a
long dim vista of murky building, with one
solitary light gleaming at the far end of it.
The way underneath her feet grew moist and
spongy ; a faint and sickly odour greeted her
nostrils. She laid her hand upon the bottle
of smelling-salts, but resisted the inclination,
determining to show no sign of annoyance so

soon. Entering on the court which lay beyond
the passage, the two went side by side
once more. One or two women, unutterably
coarse and frowsy, stood in a little patch of
moonlight with their hands under their aprons,
and their hair in wild disorder. They lolled
against the wall, or stood uprightly vacant, or
shambled loosely from side to side, but said
nothing, and were without occupation. There
were one or two hulking lads engaged in noisy
horse-play under the shadow of the houses on
the other side of the court, and cursing like
inmates of the pit. The broken windows
winked and leered with patches. If by chance
a whole window was anywhere left, it stared
out on the moonlight, vacant, blank, and blind.
A house is always more or less human. The
houses in Bolter's Rents were like humanity
in vile decay. A door hanging stiffly from
one useless hinge suggested lockjaw. This
wall, which bowed inward until it seemed a
wonder that it stood, had in it a reminder of
the looks and bearing of a broken-down old
debauchee. There was a mere hole where
the garret window should have been, which
looked in its blank darkness like the black
patch over an eye. A great beam of timber

which propped up the building looked like the
stick upon which that bankrupt old blackguard
leaned. Rusty bars of iron passed from this
ruin to the buildings on either side of it, as
though the hoary rascal were chained to the
companions whom he had by bad example led
hither. They leaned upon him from either
side, stupid and hopeless, and rapidly coming
to his own sad case. Everywhere dilapidation
and decay. Everywhere an air of shameful
ruin, and an air of shame, as though the
very walls and windows were conscious of
their wretched plight, and had hidden away
here from the gay and brilliant street outside.
The end of the court was deserted, and the
solitary lamp showed nothing but an open
doorway gaping darkly underneath it. Mrs.
Brand felt an almost unconquerable inclination
to seize her husband's arm and beg him to
come away. Nothing but a feeling of shame
restrained her.

The doctor paused there, and said, ' This
is the house I visited last night. You are not
afraid to go in ? '

'No,' answered his wife, belying her own
quaking heart.

1 You are quite safe with me, dear said the

doctor, taking her hand in his, and speaking
in a cheerful tone. ' The steps of this establishment
are eccentric. Step carefully after
me, and let me keep your hand

They went up in the darkness until they
came to the top of the third flight of steps,
where the doctor tapped at a door.

You're mighty polite, whoever y' are
said a voice inside with a tone of sarcasm.
c But we're not that private here that ye mayn't
walk in.'

Dr. Brand pushed open the door and entered,
relinquishing his companion's hand.

Is it you, doctor ? ' ( said the owner of
the voice — an Irish woman, not untimely in
aspect, nor yet dreadfully unclean. — ' But
who's that with ye ? ' she asked sharply and
suspiciously. — c Oh, a lady. — I beg your pardon,
ma'am. — But they're after Mike, sor,
I'm afraid, an' it makes me that nervous.
Will ye look at the child ? '

Mrs. Brand looked round the room, and saw
the old tea-chests which did duty for chairs,
the larger chest which did duty as a table,
the bed of sacking, the tattered hanging
which parted off one corner of the chamber.
Nothing else.

1 The little gyurl's upstairs with the child,'
said Mrs. Closky ; adding with a face and
voice so significant that it struck the attention
of Mrs. Brand at once : ' She's watching.'
With that she left the room ; and Mrs. Brand
turned to her husband.

He read her glance and answered, 'The
body of that poor woman lies above. The
rats here are as hungry as she was before
she died.'

James, James ! ' cried Mrs. Brand, clinging
to him. ' Oh, why did I dare to come into
this dreadful place ! '

Hush ! ' said the doctor, almost sternly.
1 Let me think better of you than this, Jennie.
Come, come,' he added in a softer tone ;
1 take courage. This is but a little part of
that human hell in which you fancy you could
minister. There is nothing here but misery.
This house is the most orderly and decent in
the court.' He ceased there ; but turning
round to the window, cried inwardly, in a
silent rage of pity and emotion, ' My God !
would it be a crime to give a sleeping-draught
to every soul within it, and burn this hideous
rookery down ? '

He turned and took his wife's hand again,

and found her trembling. He put his arm
about her, and drew her to his breast.
Thought is swift ; and as he held her therefor
a moment, he thought of all the placid
quiet of her lot, the purity of her gentle life,
the comfort and security which reigned about
her. He thought too of his own chances in
life, so favourably ordered, so smoothly progressive
from good to better. He thanked
God for these things ; but a moment after,
half-recalled the thanksgiving ; for it seemed
to him almost blasphemous in its selfishness
that he should be thankful for that which
gained a poignant bliss from such an awful
contrast.

His wife withdrew herself from his embrace.
I am stronger, now, James she said, speaking
with a self-possession which astonished
herself. ' I think I am the more resolved for
coming; indeed I am. I had read of things
like this,' she continued, her eyes threatening
as she spoke ; ' but I never realised them
before.'

'What you have seen and heard so far,
via vii, is nothing,' the doctor answered.
1 This squalor ' — pointing round the room —
is nothing. The ugly fear upstairs is common

to places such as this. Vice is the
seed from which the real horror of these
places springs. Of that you have seen
nothing — shall see nothing, if I can advise
you.'

His wife returned no answer ; and in
another moment they heard a footstep and
a weakly wailing voice upon the stairs ; and
Mrs. Closky entered with the child. By the
doctor's orders, she took off such miserable
clothing as it wore, and was about to lay it
on the larger chest with a shawl underneath
it, when Mrs. Brand whipped off her own
shawl, and deftly folding it, laid it on the
chest beneath the other, to make the temporary
couch a little softer. Mrs. Closky
looked at her and at the rich dress which now
now stood revealed, but said nothing.

The doctor stopped to examine the child.
'Has the parish doctor been here, Mrs. Closky?'
he asked.

'Yes, sor. He ken an' lift the death-paper,
sor, an' looked at the child. An' he says her
inwards isn't damaged, but her back's twisted
for life ; an' he lift a liniment.'

Let me see it,' said the doctor, still bending
over the child. ' Is this it ? Hem. No harm

and no good.' Then after a pause, ' I am
afraid he is right about the child. Yes ; he is
right.'

Mrs. Brand bent above the child also. Its
feeble wail troubled her, as it might trouble
any woman. ' Can I send it anything from
the house, James ? ' she asked her husband.

He waved his hand in answer, as if asking
for silence, and turned to Mrs. Closky. ' Can
you bring the child to my house to-night ? '

Oh yes, sor,' answered Mrs. Closky readily.

1 Then do so — in an hour. — Now, ma mie,
let us go.'

Mrs. Closky lifted up the baby and the
shawl. Mrs. Brand looked at her own shawl
lying on the chest, and then at the woman's
bare shoulders ; for Mrs. Closky was innocent
of what I believe the women call ' a body,' and
had bestowed upon the baby the only covering
her shoulders had. The doctor saw the
glance and read its meaning, but settled
matters by taking up the shawl and wrapping
Mrs. Brand carefully up in it. They went
carefully down the dark and creaking steps,
and emerged from the court ; and in another
minute were back in Oxford Street, with its
brilliant gas-lights and its hurrying crowds.

1 1 might have left it with her, James said
the doctor's wife, after a pause, during which
they had reached one of the quieter streets.

It would have been pawned in the mornings
' the doctor answered. ' Give the woman
something cheap, unpardonable, and fragmentary,
and you do her a charity. Give her anything
payable, and her husband, on returning home,
will knock her down to rob her of it, and get
drunk on the proceeds.'

Mrs. Brand made no reply, but mused on
these things sorrowfully, hoping within herself
that the evil was not quite so evil as her husband
painted it. As they walked quietly
along together and came near to the end of
the street, a man suddenly darted round the
corner, planted himself with his back against
the wall, and stood there in shadow. The
doctor directed a glance at him in passing, and
recognised Michael Closky. Knowing what
he knew, it was not unnatural that the doctor
should suspect mischief of some sort. It was
not his business to help the police, if Michael
had upset one of the force, or in a playful
ebullition of feeling had taken a cast in pewter
from the face of a pot-boy, but he felt a
momentary curiosity. Turning into the street

from which Closky had so suddenly emerged
he found it quiet and deserted. There was
no sign of pursuit. There was not a human
being, on the causeway. Half-way up the
street there was an open door, at which two
men stood smoking. As the doctor and his
wife went by, these two bade each other a
friendly good night, and one, closing the door,
remained inside, whilst the other, gaily swinging
his cane, tripped down the steps, humming
a muffled fragment of an air behind his cigar.
Dr. Brand recognised in him a German Jew
who once upon a time was a patient of his.
This German Jew was something in the City,
the doctor remembered in an absent sort of
way — an agent or something of that kind,
whose name was Tasker. He gave no second
thought to the gay foreigner, but passed on.
And Tasker, unwitting of the darker shadow
which nestled in the shadows round the
corner, went merrily towards it, humming a
muffled fragment of an air behind his cigar.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

VOL. I. R

tPfoq

Pi

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/lifesatonementno02chri

A NOVEL

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

author of 'Joseph's coat' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES— VOL. II.

SECOND EDITION

Chatty & Winds, PICCADILLY


All rights reserved

A Life's Atonement.

CHAPTER I.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

1 Jack] said Polly, suddenly breaking into sobs, ' dort bean
angel?

T REMEMBER how the darkness swallowed
up those two flying figures, and I
recall the blank of waiting terror which ensued.
I remember the hurry and bustle in the house,
the lanterns flitting to and fro in the fields,
the faint cries of the distant searchers as they
hallooed to each other. The lights flickered
here and there, and the voices called, until
the trees about the lawn grew black with the
darkness of the night. Then the search was
given up, and Cousin Will came back to the

VOL. II. A

house with the serving - men behind him.
Gascoigne had slipped out, and I was left
alone. The terror I was in was mingled with
the keenest watchfulness, and I could swear
now, after all this lapse of time, to the merest
incident or sound of that dreadful hour. The
little room grew darker and more terrible,
but I could not have moved from it to save
my life. There seemed a heavy horror in
the air, which compassed me round about and
weighed me down like the fear in a dream ;
and when at last Aunt Bertha entered with
a lamp, the rush with which this horror deserted
me was too great a thing for a child's
nerves to bear. The soul is able to carry such
and such a burden, and no more. If Nature
or Circumstance lay another feather's weight
upon it, the. soul evades the burden and slips
into oblivion, as mine did then.

I suppose that the seeds of fever must have
been within me when this shock came, and
that with or without it I should certainly have
had to face an illness sooner or later. But
with the shock they sprang to life at once,
and for many and many a day the outer
world was dark to me. I know now that
my delirium lasted six weeks ; but in fever, the

time which sane mortals count by goes for
nothing. I lay in pitch-black darkness for
whole eternities, and the solar system has
no space for the vast distances which separated
me from the only thing which had
survived with me the wrack and ruin of the
universe. That other survival was an unimaginable
fear, which through eternities of
space and time grew nearer, with such a
horrid, unrelenting, purposed slowness as no
sane words or thoughts have power to picture.
There I lay and waited, whilst from uncounted
aeons of space beyond the extinguished
sun this hideous terror crept and
crept, nearer, and nearer, and nearer. And
I never knew at any second throughout these
lingering ages, but that the hoarded and eternal
hate it held might not flame out against
this black delay of dread, and be at once
upon me. And I knew then as well as I
know now, that the terror was nothing more
or less than the strangers face.

At the end of all this, I remember falling,
very slowly indeed, into some great gulf of
night, which hid me from that overmastering
awe, and closed softly over me with such a
benediction of rest and sleep as only a return

from madness ever knew. And into
this blessed gulf of forgetfulness I sank sofar,
that when I woke again the very shadow
of my fear was gone. I heard the gurgle
of water, and lay with closed eyes and listened.
There was the rustle of leaves somewhere
near, and the whispering sound of a
woman's dress, and the quiet step of a woman's
feet were close to me. Something cool and
soft touched my forehead — a woman's hand.
A cool drink was put to my lips, and I do
not believe that ever an Arab pilgrim found
a draught more sweet at the desert well. It
is worth while to have been ill to experience
the first delights of getting well again. I did
not open my eyes to see who administered
the draught ; I was too utterly weak to be
curious. When, after another blessed restful
sleep, my eyes opened of themselves, I
saw that I was in my own bedroom, with its
sloping roof, and the honeysuckle was murmuring
and bowing at the window. My
nurse, whoever she might be, sat at the window
looking out upon those wide-spread fields
which I could see in languid fancy as I lay.
What made the languid fancy clearer was
that I could hear the village lads at cricket.

I knew the crack with which bat and ball
came together, though it was faint with distance;
and the murmurous voices of the players floated
in at the open casement as though they were
part of the perfume of the fields.

My attendant moved noiselessly in her
chair, and drawing a letter from her pocket
read it through. I meantime perused her
face, and read no line of anything but good
there. It was a face of singular beauty, or
seemed so to me, and its chief characteristic
was a sort of ineffable, gentle softness. It was
a face in which the weakest and poorest thing
that breathes, the most timid and most helpless,
might have had instant faith and trust.
It was so gentle and tender in its look, so
harmless and so sad, that it filled me, though
I lay there as a sick child, and nigh death's
door, with a sense of pity and affection, and
a vague feeling of desire to protect and defend.
We grow backward in wisdom as we
leave childhood behind us, because we leave
intuition and trust to observation. And most
of all we lose, in losing that wisdom of affection
which makes the child so far better
a creature than the accomplished man or
woman. I knew already the look of patient

sorrow in the eyes of age, and it needed no
more than even my childish experience of
the world to know that such a look was as
piteous as it is happily uncommon in the
eyes of girlish beauty at eighteen. That
grief should visit the loveliest eyes can hardly
be surprising even to a child ; but that grief
should have made such eyes her home, I
knew to be out of the natural course of
things. There was no mistaking the sorrow
of this face, for any guest of Fancy's who
came to spend a casual hour and say goodbye.
It was too plain that the guest had
stayed there long, and made a home there.
Looking at that face now in the starlight
of later years, I can see the traces of Sorrow's
old abode. As I lay looking at her,
my attendant put the letter in her bosom,
and sat still with her hands clasped on her
lap, and one or two large silent tears ran
down her cheek. A low and timid rap came
to the door ; and wiping her eyes hastily,
she arose and moved noiselessly across the
room. There was a whisper at the door ;
she answered ' Yes ' in a voice which sounded
softer than the whisper, and I was left alone.
I fell asleep again, and awoke in the night.

A shaded lamp was on the table, and in the
grate, a bright but small fire was burning.
Beside the fire was a figure so homelike and
familiar, that for a minute I almost fancied
myself back in the old cottage in the Black
Country.

1 Sally ! ' I said, in a voice so weak and
ghostlike that I myself scarcely heard it.

But Sally heard it, and turned an anxious
face towards me. God bless the face ! Plain
as it was, love and sorrow dwelt there too,
and made it lovable. She rose and came
to me, and smoothed my hair and kissed me.
I could see that she was greatly moved ; but
she struggled hard to hide the joy and agitation
which this first sign of returning consciousness
had brought to her.

Oh, Johnny ! ' she said in a whisper, and
then gave a great gulp. ' Go to sleep, dear.
There's a darling. You know me again now,
Johnny — don't you ? '

'Yes,' I said, in that phantom voice the
fever had left me.

She stroked my hair again, and resumed
her seat by the fireside. But she could not
rest there. She came back again, and sat
down by the bedside, and took my hand beneath

the bedclothes, and held it. I dozed,
and woke to find her there. I dozed again,
and woke to find her there. The faithful
creature never moved from that affectionate
guard except to smooth my pillow or to give
me drink. After a fever, one's capacity for
sleep is amazing. I fell into sound slumber
at last, still holding Sally's hand ; and when
I awoke again it was broad daylight, and
the sad and gentle presence of yesterday was
there once more. I could almost have believed
that my interview with Sally had been
a dream ; for there sat my attendant as if I
had only closed my eyes upon her for a
second, reading a letter at the window ; and
the sad attitude of her figure and the expression
of her face were as unchanged as if she
had been a picture. I moved involuntarily,
and she arose and came to me.

Are you thirsty, dear ? ' she asked.

1 No,' I answered, in a stronger voice than
I had been able to find the night before ; ' I
am very hungry.'

That's right,' she said. ' Wait a minute,
and you shall have breakfast.'

With a caress she went away ; and returned
after a brief absence with beef-tea and jelly

and some long strips of thin toast. In the
rear came Sally ; and my attendant turning
round upon her said, —

1 You ought to be in bed, Troman.'

'Yes, Miss,' said Sally in a whisper; 'but
let me see him eat a bit, Miss — just a bit —
only a little piece, Miss.'

The young lady smiled at this ; and I
thought then that, but for the lasting sorrow
in her eyes, the smile would have been a very
bright and merry one. It seemed at least as
though it had a native right to be so ; but
the abiding sorrow held it down, and made
it sadder than her sadness.

Sally held me up in bed, with a shawl
wrapped round me, whilst the young lady fed
me. I have eaten good dinners in good company
since then, but I have never since found
food so sweet. For a day or two all my
chronicle is of eating and drinking and sleeping.
Had food and drink and couch been
the poorest and coarsest of their kind, I should
have found them all enjoyable in the full tide
of returning health ; but as it chanced that
they were of the best that love and money
could procure, I revelled in them with absolute
physical enjoyment. Sally and the new

unknown lady and Aunt Bertha and Cousin
Will and Gascoigne, all visited me frequently ;
and in the presence of each I found a feast
of heart, which made that slow convalescence
one of the happiest experiences of my life.
I learned by-and-by that my new friend's
name was Maud, and I could but notice that
she and I were included in a common pity
and tenderness. People lowered their voices
to speak to her, as though she too were
weak, and coming slowly back from some
heavy illness.

On all half-holidays Gascoigne came to me,
with news of my school-fellows — who was
trying for this prize and who for that —-who
was captain of the second cricketing eleven,
who made top score, and who took most
wickets in the last match against the neighbouring
school at Dean. He was an enthusiastic
cricketer, and I knew how much he
sacrificed in spending all these summer afternoons
with me ; but he would not be forbidden.


The last of all my little circle to be admitted
to my chamber was Polly. The doctor
had decided that I might be taken down-stairs
next day. He was an odd-looking man, the

doctor ; not unlike a jackdaw ; and he stood
by my bedside with a bird-like eye upon me,
when the door opened, and Sally made a dart
at it with a warning finger raised. ' Aha ! ' he
said — * the little lady. Let her come in, nurse.
Let her come in.'

Polly came in, with round blue eyes wide
open ; and climbing the bed, gravely sat down
upon the pillow.

1 Nurse said the doctor, limping across the
room, ' you will ask this young lady to be very
quiet, if you please. — You will be very quiet,
won't you?' He turned on Polly with his
bird-like eye, and using his club-foot as a pivot
to turn on. ' Eh, my dear ? Eh ? '

Polly nodded gravely.

That's well,' said the doctor, and pivoted
himself round on Sally. ' No draughts tomorrow,
nurse. We mustn't have the little
man catch cold.'

Pursued by Sally with assurances that the
greatest care should be taken of me, the doctor
limped from the room, and Polly and I were
left alone. In answer to all I asked her, Polly
said simply ■ Yes ' and ' No,' and comported
herself altogether with a most supernatural
and weighty gravity. The evening was advancing,

and the room was growing grey with
twilight. Since I had ceased to question Polly,
she had never spoken a word. I was a little
wounded. Perhaps illness had made me fretful
and exacting, but I could not help thinking
that Polly might have been better pleased to
find me growing well again. We kept silence
until Sally returned, bearing the lamp with
her.

Now, Miss Mary,' said Sally, ' it's pretty
nigh time as you was in bed.'

I shan't go to bed,' Polly answered with
calm decisiveness ; and looking at her then,
I saw that she had been crying, and was
crying still.

Why, Miss Mary,' said Sally, 'you wouldn't
make a dorrit in Master Johnny's room, I'm
sure, an' him that poorly ? '

'Jack,' said Polly, suddenly breaking into
sobs, and flinging herself upon the bed, ' don't
be an angel ! Oh, don't, don't, Jack ! '

Why, bless your pretty little heart alive,
my darling', no ! ' ejaculated Sally, raising her.

But Polly would have the assurance from
my own lips, and I gave it seriously. I was
as unconscious of any element of comedy in
that assurance as Polly herself was.

■ They'd hearts o' gold,' said Sally caressingly
— ' they'd hearts o' gold, they am, both
on 'em.'

If 00 goes for an angel,' said Polly fixedly
regarding me, ' I'll never be a good girl anymore.'
Then she relaxed, and kissed me
fondly ; and I again announced my intention
not to be an angel, and so we said good-night.

Next morning I was dressed and carefully
wrapped up and carried down-stairs like a
parcel. I had not seen Mr. Fairholt since the
beginning of my illness, and I have learned
since then that he had asked no questions
about me, and had been apparently oblivious
of my existence. When I saw him that day,
I was amazed to find how old and grey and
withered he had grown. He looked as if he
had been as near death's door as I had. I
took occasion to ask Sally if he had been ill.
She shook her head in answer, and said * No ; '
but I heard her murmur something about a
peck of trouble ' and ' poor old gentleman,'
as she turned away.

Later in the day, when Maud was reading
to me, and Polly was sitting on a footstool at
my feet, Cousin Will came in, and stayed to
hear the finish of The Ugly Duckling. When

the story was read through, Maud crossed over
to him and sat beside him in the window-seat.
They spoke together in low tones for a time ;
but I heard one fragment of their talk.

1 It is possible,' he was saying, ' that we may
learn something from him.'

1 I fear not,' Maud answered.

We must wait awhile,' said Cousin Will.

It would be unwise,' said Maud, ' to
question him until he grows stronger.'

There they both looked at me, and I saw
that the latter part of their conversation referred
to me. Next day Maud said * Goodbye,'
and I was wheeled to the window to see
Cousin Will drive her home. She had promised
that she would come again and see me
very soon ; but a fortnight elapsed before we
met again. I had not even then recovered my
full strength, but all fear of a relapse was long
since over ; and Sally had told me in the
morning that I was to have a good long drive
that day. Maud came in a dainty little carriage,
drawn by two charming ponies. She
had driven alone, as I learned that she was
fond of doing ; but when we went away together,
Cousin Will came with us. I was well
wrapped up, and the autumn air was balmy and

warm. Oh, the quiet yet exquisite delight of
that escape from prisoning walls — the rousing
motion as the two bay ponies swept along !
The jingle of their harness made a merry tune,
and their feet came down in time to it, and the
wheels hummed to it, and birds and trees
warbled and murmured in rare harmony. The
free wide fields, the rolling river, and the
bounteous air, what fresh delight filled them
all ! A road, so white it made me wink to
look at it as we dashed along in the dazzling
sunshine, led us at last to a pair of enormous
gates of open ironwork, with much gilded
scrollwork, and many gilded spikes — the veritable
gates of fairyland they seemed. And a
veritable fairyland it seemed within, with the
vast house in the distance, whose every window
shone so in the sun, that it might have been
filled with diamonds and gleamed no brighter ;
with countless plants and flowers of strange
and splendid form and hue on either side, as
we swept up the broad path leading to that
noble mansion ; and far away to the right a
lovely sheet of water, with the latest friends of
The Ugly Duckling gliding to and fro upon
its placid surface. These things all led to one
conclusion ; and when a gorgeous creature

met us at the door, a being with white
hair and white stockings and canary coloured
breeches and a sky-blue coat, and instead of
ordering us off the premises, received us withall
evidence of deep respect, I should have
been less than a child had it been less than
fairyland, or had Maud been other than a fairy
princess.

Within the house we were encountered by a
stout elderly man with a bald head and a red
face. ' Hallo, Fairholt ! ' this gentleman
shouted. ' How de doo ? This the patient,
eh ? How's the little feller, now ? — Better ?
That's right, Come in an' pick a bit o' something'
or other. Lunch is on the table, an' I'm
hungry enough for ten men. No blessing' like
a appetite, when you've got the stuff to let it
loose on.' Talking thus he led the way into a
great room, before whose glories those of Mr.
Fairholt's house grew pale in memory. If I
had at this time nothing but memory to fall
back upon, I should probably still think this
apartment the most magnificent in the world.
But my later knowledge of the gilded splendours
of Hartley Hall has shown me that they
were a little worse than vulgar.

1 No news ? ' said Mr. Hartley — so Will

called him — Maud was mincing chicken on
my plate, and the old man gave one swift
glance towards her as he said it. Cousin Will
shook his head in silence ; and I, looking at
Maud, saw that her lips trembled faintly.

Mr. Hartley ate gravely for a time, and
looking up, caught me in the act of staring at
him. He dropped his knife and fork with a
crash, and laid his great red hands on the cloth
and looked at me. By Jove ! ' he said slowly,
looking round at Will and Maud, c I never see
such a likeness in all my life afore. Never ! '

Such a likeness, uncle ? ' said Maud.
1 Where ? '

1 Cheer ? ' said Mr. Hartley. ' Why their.'
And taking up his knife again, he pointed at
me. * Why, he's the very living' image.'

Be calm, Mr. Hartley said Cousin Will,
rising and walking round the table to me.
You alarm the child. He is far from strong
yet.'

1 Calm ! ' said Mr. Hartley, taking up his
fork and attacking his plate again. ' I'm calm
enough. But it's the most extraordinary striking'
likeness I ever set eyes on in all my born days.'
He looked at me again and arose from the
table. — ' Take care o' the little chap, Maud,'

VOL. II. B

he said with a gentleness which contrasted
strongly with the haste with which he had
arisen. — 'Here, come with me, Fairholt ; I
want to speak to you a minute

Will left me with a reassuring pat upon the
shoulder, and followed Mr. Hartley to the far-end
of the room, where they talked eagerly
together for five minutes.

I'll tell you what I'll do,' said Will, as they
came away together towards the table ; ' I'll
drive over at once and bring her with me.'

Finish your lunch first,' said Mr. Hartley,
ringing the bell. — ' Order the dog-cart round
at once,' he called to the servant almost before
the door was opened.

The meal was finished in silence. The footman
announced that the dog-cart was in readiness
; and Mr. Hartley and Cousin Will left
the room together. Maud, in evident surprise
and wonder, led me to a couch near the
window, and made me lie down there in the
sunshine, setting up a foreseen to shade my
face.

1 Are you strong enough to talk, dear ? ' she
asked me.

I answered that I felt quite strong and well.

Shall you be troubled if I ask you what

frightened you on the night when you fell

ill?'

'No,' I answered. e I saw a face at the

window

Gascoigne, your playfellow,' she went on,

says that you cried out, " The face ! " Had

you ever seen the face before ? '

I told her everything then ; much as I
have set it down at the beginning of this
narrative.

She heard me to the end, and then said
with voice and eyes of appeal, ' If ever you
should see him again, dear, don't be afraid
of him, but speak to him. No, darling, no ;
he will not hurt you. It is not in his heart
to hurt anything. But he is most unhappy
oh, most unhappy ! If ever you see him
again, speak to him, and tell him that everybody
has forgiven him. Tell him that unless
he comes back again, our hearts are broken.
Tell him that unless he comes back again, I
shall die.'

There she fell forward on her knees, and
drooped her head against the couch on which
I lay, and broke into passionate weeping.
The intensity of eagerness with which she had
spoken these last words, and the uncontrolled

agony of tears in which she knelt, alarmed me
beyond measure. I could think of nothing
to be done, except to put my arms round
her neck and soothe her, and promise that I
would — I would indeed. After a time she
cried less passionately ; and when she had
partly secured her self - control, she arose.
Don't tell anybody of this, darling,' she said ;
but never forget what I have asked you.'

I promised faithfully ; and she left the room,
still crying, but quite quietly. I sat alone,
and wondered at it all, as I think I well might.
The unaccustomed exercise of the drive, the
hearty meal I had eaten after it, and the agitation
of mind I had twice experienced, were
too much for me, and by-and-by wonder lost
itself in sleep. When I awoke there were
voices in the room, and I had a shawl thrown
over me.

1 Oh,' said Mr. Hartley's voice, ' so you've
known him since the day he was born, eh ? '

1 Yes, sir,' said a voice, which I knew at once
to be Sally's. ' I dressed him the very second
time as ever he was dressed, sir.'

Hearing this, I put aside the shawl which
covered me, and sat up. Sally, Cousin Will,
and Mr. Hartley were standing together on

the rug before the fireplace, and Sally's face
wore an expression of anxiety and fear.

Did you know his mother before her marriage
?' Mr. Hartley asked.

Yes, sir — pore dear ! I did, sir,' Sally
answered. ' My mother nursed her when her
was a baby

Hay ? ' said Mr. Hartley. ' What did you
say your name was ? — Ah, Troman ; of course,
of course. Are you old Troman's daughter,
that lived in the cottage by the quarry ? '

1 Yes, sir, please sir Sally answered, cour-testing.


Well, what was his mother's maiden name ?'

1 Isabella Hartley, sir,' said Sally.

1 Who did she marry ? '

1 Mr. John Campbell, sir, at the Baker's
Green Ironworks, sir,' Sally answered.

And he's their only child, is he ? ' Mr.
Hartley went on.

1 For sure he is, sir,' Sally answered.

That's what you'd call a chain o' evidence,
if you like — ain't it, Fairholt ? ' said Mr.
Hartley, turning round upon Cousin Will, and
thrusting a forefinger at his waistcoat.

1 It's certainly complete enough,' Will answered.


Mr. Hartley turned back to Sally. ' Did
you ever see his mother's brother Ben, young
woman ? A blackguard bit of a chap, as
run away, an' was never heard on for 'ears
an' 'ears ? '

1 1 seen him once, sir said Sally ; ' but I
never snowed no harm of him, sir. They
was all decent people.'

That'll you bet you haven't seen him
twice ? ' Mr. Hartley asked, with a twinkle
in his eye.

Well, I never ! ' said Sally, in a tone of
sudden recognition and surprise.

Mr. Hartley burst into a great roar of laughter,
and catching sight of me, stopped suddenly.
' An' if here,' he said, ' ain't my newfound
never a-listenin' to it all ! Why, blow
me if it ain't as good as a play ! Come an'
kiss your uncle, Johnny. Bless my heart
alive, missis ! sit down and have a glass o'
wine. Oh, nonsense, nonsense ! Don't stand
curtcheyin' as if you was afraid o' me. Why,
you an' me ought to know each other. Your
mother and my mother brought me into the
world together, between 'em. Well, well,
well ! Bless my heart alive ! An' who'd ha'
thought it ? '

Sally explained everything to me that afternoon
as Mr. Hartley's groom drove us home.
When we were landed there, Sally carried me
bodily to my bedroom, and setting me down
upon the bed, wept over me, according to
custom. ' And oh ! ' she cried, at last, holding
me at arm's-length by the shoulders, ' if
heaven ain't a - raising up friends for him
everywhere.'

My Aunt Bertha went over to Hartley Hall
next day, and for a week or two there was
a great driving to and fro between the houses.
Finally, Sally was added to the list of Mr.
Hartley's domestics, on the understanding that
she was engaged solely for my behoof and
benefit ; and I was transferred from the house
of Mr. Fairholt to that of Mr. Hartley. Polly
and I were alike inconsolable at first ; but
frequent visits were promised on either side,
and once more the barque of Childhood's Hope
sailed free before the wind.

HISTORY.

You do not need the sanctities of love to hold you pure
in heart, as I do.

T^ RANK'S picture occupies the place of
A honour on the walls of the Winter Exhibition
of the Associated Brotherhood of British
Artists. A clique of Frank's friends and
admirers go about town proclaiming the advent
of a new Turner ; whilst a clique of his
detractors go about town proclaiming Frank
an impostor, and his picture a pretentious
failure. In my capacity as story-teller I
have a right to a voice in this matter ; and I
may take leave to say that the picture is a
good picture, and is very near being a great
one, and that only a man of genius could have
painted it. The World of Fashion, interesting
itself in the affairs of British Art, is

divided into hostile camps upon this question
; and Frank becomes a Lion, roaring
mildly in many drawing-rooms ; and being
growled at in many others, by lesser Lions
envious of his fortune. In this mixed world
there are many artists who are not gentlemen,
just as there are many gentlemen who are
not artists. It is not surprising, therefore,
since envy is a human passion, that some few
should go about to accentuate the young
fellow's triumph by sneering at him as one
who paints with ease to show his breeding.
Frank is not without a sense of humour ; and
since he never envied mortal man anything,
and envy cannot sting him, he takes the
detraction good-humouredly, and the worship
with more inward humility than might be
believed.

It is a matter to be thankful for, that in
this world the best truths are the tritest. We
have reason to be thankful that sin brings
punishment in its train. If punishment hang
fire or miss, it will be the worse for us. If
I sin, let retribution lay a hand upon me,
that I may thereafter live cleanly and learn
wisdom. But let it be that the wisdom shall
be early learned, for that man's lot in life is

terrible from whom sorrow slips like water,
and who so needs to be drowned in it before
his heart is cleansed. I have laboured butin
vain to paint this man, if I have not shown
already that with him remorse is the gate
w T which leads to folly, as surely as folly is the
gate which leads to remorse, and that for
him there must be something little less thana
convulsion of the universe, before he escapes
that Devil's Circle. Since the night when
last we saw him, remorse has been busy with
him, and he has made a strenuous effort
against himself, and has for the most part
succeeded in keeping out of harm's way. It
is a good sign in him that praise humiliates
him inwardly. Most of all he is humbled by
Maud's innocent triumph and granulation, conveyed
by the liveried Cupid of the penny-post,
and breathing completest faith and love.
He wears the locket which holds her portrait,
at his heart, and believes in it as a talisman,
to save him from all wrong. And now he
has been for so long a time upon the straight
path, that but for his last folly he would be
quite happy and contented.

On the evening of the first day of the Exhibition
he had met the Secretary, a sad-eyed and

mournful-mannered man, who was conspicuous
as wearing the most shockingly bad hat in London.
' Let me congratulate you, Fairholt,' said
the Secretary, speaking as dolefully as though
he were bidding farewell before transportation.
Lord Chesterwood wants your picture, and
will give your price for it. I met him an hour
after the place had closed.'

I'm glad to know that Chesterwood likes it
well enough to buy it ; but I am sorry that I
was stupid enough to forget to tell you that
it is sold already. It was sold before the
Exhibition opened.'

You're a lucky fellow, Fairholt/ said the
Secretary. ' I'll tell his Lordship. Would you
take a commission for a replica f '

Not a replica,' Frank answered. ' A new
work, if you like — and if Chesterwood care for
one.'

With that they parted ; and Frank strolling
homewards, began to think that he had acted
foolishly. Tasker's bill for ninety-eight pounds
ten shillings was due in three days' time,
and he had nothing in hand to meet it
with.

I must look Hastings up,' he said to himself
; ' and either assure myself that his man is

certain, or go back to the Secretary and accept
Chesterwood's offer at once

He called a hansom, and drove to Hastings'
rooms. ' I say,' he cried, bursting in suddenly
'about that fellow who was to buy my
picture ? '

1 What about him ? ' answered Hastings,
turning languidly on his couch. ■ Is he
gathered to his fathers ? Has he gone a cropper
on " Change ?" '

I have come to you,' said Frank, speaking
seriously, * to ask you about him. It is a
matter of vital importance, Hastings. That
bill of Tasker's is due in three days. I have
just had an offer for the picture from Lord
Chesterwood ; and if I am not absolutely sure
of your man, I must accept it. Now, is your
man safe to buy the picture, and safe to pay at
once ? '

I should say responded Hastings with
great gravity, ' that so far as the possession of
coin goes, the Bank of England is a fool to
him. And I should be inclined to fancy that
if he lost the chance of buying that particular
picture, this hollow world could provide him
with no future joy. That indeed is my deliberate
conviction

1 Will you tell me who it is ? ' Frank asked.

'An oath, an oath!' said Hastings with placid
languor. ' I have an oath in Heaven! Shall I
lay perjury upon my soul ? No; not for Venice!

1 Will you undertake to see the man tomorrow
Frank urged, ' and ascertain if everything
is right, and if his will to buy the picture
holds good ? '

Before the morning dew has pleached the
lawn ? ' said Hastings.

You unlamented Irritated,' cried Frank,
shaking him. ' Will you go ? '

Yes ; I will,' said the Irritated. ' If not so
swift as friendship's heart could hope, as fast asa
hackney carriage can carry me.'

When will you let me know ? '

Before the clock hath struck the hour of
noon.'

That's a promise ? '

And shall be a performance.'

The two shook hands ; and Frank regaining
his cab, drove home to dress, and then went
westward to be lionised.

At an hour much earlier than that at which
he usually arose, Hastings took his way to Acre
Buildings, City, and was admitted to the presence
of Mr. Tasker, who received him with

much cordiality. ' I have called said Hastings,
business like for once, ' to ask you about
that picture of Fairholt's. I know very well
that you have a grudge against him, my chosen
one ; but you mustn't gratify it yet. With a
bill against Fairholt in one hand, and a cheque
in his favour in the other, you might be
inclined to be mischievous. Have you a
genuine commission to buy the picture ? '

For a second, Tasker felt as though his
ground were slipping from beneath him. The
usurer needed time to think a little. There
could be no harm in letting Hastings see the
intending purchaser's name. He made no
answer, but rummaged over a file which he
took from an iron safe, and having found the
letter for which he sought, handed it over
to Hastings. The letter was dated from
Hartley Hall, and was signed by Benjamin
Hartley. It set forth that since the writer
designed a surprise for the artist, it was his
wish that the purchaser's name should be kept
completely in the dark, and it authorised
Tasker to offer four hundred guineas for the
picture. Whilst Hastings read this over,
Tasker produced a copying-book from the
press, and laid before him a copy of his own

reply to his patron's missive. Hastings read
that also, and professed himself satisfied.

You won't break your bond with me,' Mr.
Hastings ? ' said Tasker when he had put
away the letters.

1 A scrupulous adherence to veracity is my
sole virtue,' Mr. Hastings responded, with a
return to his common manner.

Yes, I know,' said Tasker, to whom that
sentiment might as well have been set forth in
Greek ; ' but you will keep your promise ? '

Have I not told thee so, thou Hebrew
Jew ? ' said Hastings, seating himself upon the
edge of the table.

1 Very well — very well,' returned Tasker,
waving his hands in a manner half-deprecatory,
half submissive. 'You say what you like tome
; but I will prove that I am your friend.
There is trouble in store for you, Mr.
Hastings.'

1 Your argument is cogent, my Israelite,' said
Hastings. ' Experience has taught me to trace
the filmy nexus which is here revealed. Ita
singular thing, Tasker, that I never had a
friend who didn't say that trouble was in store
for me. Your advancement of that statement
is at once admitted as an admirable augury of

the most friendly intentions. I invite you to
notice that that sentence is rather well turned
than otherwise.'

You are going to be in great troubles said
Tasker gravely, ' unless we both take great
gare of you.'

Then let the stricken deer go weep,' quoth
Hastings, and lit a cigar.

Mr. Hastings,' said Tasker below his
breath, ' I have been in great difficulties, and I
have had to sell every acceptance that was in
my hands.'

1 Good,' said the other with an air of approval.

I have been compelled to sell yours with
the others. And the gentleman was here
yesterday to say that he meant to go for you.
Now, Mr. Hastings, this is not my fault. I
am a moneylender ; but I am not a scoundrel

1 A nice distinction,' Hastings murmured
as if to himself.

1 I break my faith by giving you warning.
But if you do not wish to be in trouble,
you had better be out of the way for a little
while. I can only advise you ; but I gould
not help it. I was obliged to sell.'

Hastings made no response to Tasker's
advice or to his professions of sorrow, but

surveyed him with quiet indifference, as though
the matter in discussion had no possible concern
for him.

What do you think you shall do ? ' Tasker
asked after a pause.

1 I think I shall clear out somewhere, and
I think I shall ask you to let me have the
money to do it with.'

1 I cannot let you have much,' said Tasker,
■ but I must do my best.'

Then the two set to work to settle the
amount on which Hastings should start
for Bologna, since to that refuge for
the oppressed he chose for the moment
to fly. It was settled that Tasker should
send a weekly remittance so long as he
should adjudge it necessary for Hastings
to remain abroad, and by way of a beginning
that gentleman drew twenty pounds,
and made his way merrily to Fairholt's
chambers.

All goes well,' he told Frank. ' I have
seen the agent, and I have read the letter
of the principal. I suppose you will get your
cheque tomorrow or next day.'

1 For once intelligible and direct,' cried the
artist, clapping him on the shoulder.

vol. 11. c

Yes,' said Hastings ; ' it's all square, old
man, and you may rely upon it.'

Better and better ! ' cried Frank, laughing.
what has worked this conversational conversion
? '

1 Should you hold the Koh-i-noor — the
Fountain of Light itself,' said Hastings with
solemnity, ' above the flame of a farthing
rush light, its sparkle would be lost. Rub it
even with a damp sponge, and its brilliance
partially returns. In this little allegory, I
appear as the Fountain of Light, you as the
damp sponge, and a city agent as the farthing
candle. Adieu ! '

Hastings went his way ; and Frank, easy
and satisfied in mind, sat down and penned
to Maud the last letter he ever wrote to her.
He set down all his hopes and all his love
in that letter, not guessing that it was love's
last legacy to love. How should he guess
it ? I cannot tell but before this ink is dry
some stroke of terror may have fallen on me.
Nor can you who sit at ease beside your fire
and read this story make the baldest guess
at what the next sixty seconds may do for
you. But the proverb is something musty.

1 If I were not sure Frank wrote, ' that
you love me as truly as I love you, I should
despair of telling you one thousandth part of
what you are to me. And as it is, I shall
never tell you all. You do not need the
sanctities of love to hold you pure in heart
as I do. Though you loved me as woman
never loved man before, you can have no such
need of me as I have of you. I shall never
have courage to tell you of the follies from
which you raised me ; of the things, worse
than follies, from which your love has had
power to save me. And I believe, dearest,
that if it were possible that by any swift temptation
— as God knows, it is possible for most
men — I should fall from your good hopes of
me, the thought that you had loved me once
would draw me back again to penitence and
honour. Forgive me if I vex you by throwing
even a hint of possible mud upon your idol.
If that idol were any other human creature,
you should believe in him in peace for me ;
but you can scarcely guess, Maud, how
humble and how undeserving I feel before
you. I can bring you nothing that makes me
worth your having except my love. But I
bring that in full measure, pressed down and

running over. I am all yours, now, and till
I die.' This and more he wrote in truelove
and penitence, and out of the fulness
of his heart. There were manlier purposes
within him then, than he had ever known
before.

At lovers' perjuries, Jove laughs. Ay, well !
But if Jove laugh at the vows by which love
pledges itself to truth and honour for love's
holy sake, or at their woful breaking, then let
the meanest creature of the fields deride his
thunder. I, for one, will have no such Jove
astride on my Olympus.

Frank having despatched his letter, rested
with good heart and hope, purposing to make
the discharge of Tasker's bill his last business
in town. He had no anxieties about that
matter. The date for the arrival of the cheque
and that for the payment of the bill ran each
other a little close, to be sure ; but then there
was the time-honoured three days' grace, and
he had Hastings' full assurance of the bona
fides of the unknown purchaser. But the day
of reckoning came and went, and no cheque
reached him. He went to look for Hastings,
and found that he had left town and had given
no address. Then, sorely against the grain,

he went to visit Tasker. The money-lender
lay in wait for him.

I must ask you said Frank, ' to renew that
bill for a month.'

Tasker regretted politely that it was not
possible. He was already almost a ruined
man — he had not twenty pounds in the world.
He set forth these statements with more sorrow
for Mr. Vairhold than for himself. He
would have liked to have helped the gentleman.


This is all nonsense, of course,' said Frank.
I suppose you want a heavier interest. How
much do you want ? '

No ; Tasker wanted nothing but his money.
He was broken — he was ruined. There was
nothing before him but the workhouse.

1 Make the bill a hundred and twenty-five,
and make it payable in a month ? ' Frank
asked.

No; it was not possible. Tasker actually
turned his back upon him, and sorted a set
of dusty papers.

1 Make it a hundred and fifty, payable in a
month,' Frank urged.

Then Tasker turned, with insolent triumph
peering through humility. Was the gentleman

deaf ? It had been said already that the thing
was impossible. Tasker wanted his money,
and nothing but his money. He was bankrupt
without it, and he must have it.

1 I am in hourly expectation of more than
four hundred pounds,' Frank pleaded.

Tasker trusted it would arrive in time to
prevent any unpleasantness, holding meanwhile
in his hand the pocket-book which held
Benjamin's Hartley's cheque in favour of Frank
Fairholt for four hundred guineas. It would
not be easy to say how much Mr. Tasker enjoyed
this stroke of vengeance.

1 What shall you do if the bill is allowed to
be finally dishonoured ? ' Frank asked him.

Tasker — with the joy of gratified malice
brightening his eyes and creasing his lips into
their own carnivorous smile, in spite of all he
could do to clothe his face in proper sadness —
regretted deeply that he could only get some
wealthy friend to take it up and appeal to
Frank's family.

c If you can get any one to take it up, bring
him to me, and I will pay him any reasonable
sum he may ask to renew it'

Then Tasker landed his final blow. ' I have
told you already, Mr. Vairhold, that I am

almost a ruined man. Well now you shall
know. I am quite ruined. I cannot help it.
I have sold your bill into other hands. It is
not in my hands any longer ; I have nothing
more with it.'

Frank regarded him for a minute sternly
and thoughtfully. You want your revenge for
the insult I put upon you last summer he said
quietly, but with a feeling of hopeless desperation.
' Is that it?'

1 Look you, Mr. Vairhold,' said Tasker, laying
his hand on Frank's sleeve, if I could — '

1 Stand back, if you please,' said Frank
quietly, regarding the smile which now shone
unrestrained on Tasker s face.

If I could pay myself,' Tasker began again,
retiring a little, ' for the money I have lent, I
should not gare about revenge. But I will
have one or the other. If my friend comes tome
and says, " You have sold me a rotten bill,
and told me it was a good one," then I will not
share you — no, not a minute. Look you, my
young friend — ' Tasker laid a hand on Frank's
arm again.

The words, the smile, the touch roused
Frank into the feeling of disgusted rage one
feels at an intruding snake, and in his instinctive

passion he struck the Jew across the face
with the cane he carried in his hand.

Tasker sprang back with a yell which
brought in the office-boy. ' Fetch a policeman !'
screamed Tasker with a face livid with rage, except
for the red bar across his cheek. Frank sat
down with blind passion surging in his heart.
Tasker placed his back against the door and
glared at Frank, who took up a newspaper from
the table and made a feint of reading it. In a
minute or two the boy returned with an officer,
who listened with imperturbable official calm to
Tasker's statement, and then turned to Frank.

I have punished this person for a gross
impertinence,' said that young gentleman with
quiet hauteur. ' There is my card, officer. I
shall be quite ready to appear at the proper
time and place.'

Very good, sir,' said the officer.

1 Take him in charge ! ' Tasker screamed —
take him in charge ! '

You have my address,' Frank said quietly
to the policeman.

You'd better summons the gentleman,' said
the officer to Tasker.

'No!' Tasker screamed; 'he shall go to
prison.'



The official smiled ; and Frank walked unmolested
from the room and into the street.

Tasker threatened to report the officer for
refusing to do his duty. The officer, with
sublime calm, asked if Tasker had the gentleman's
address. Yes ; he had. Very well
then ; so had the officer. And with that the
officer also walked downstairs and into the
street. Tasker raged alone, and swore to a
thousand horrible revenges. But when his
mood had cooled a little, he rejoiced savagely
that Frank had given him thus a further chance
for revenge. He could guess pretty well what
it would be to Frank to have his name dragged
first through the mud of a trial for assault,
on a police-court summons, and next through
the daily columns of the press. He ground his
teeth and clenched his hands in savage exultation
over that charming prospect. With a
passion of rejoicing hatred, he took from his
pocket-book the cheque for four hundred
guineas, and gloated over it.

That Frank should regret the violence into
which the passion of the moment had betrayed
him, was inevitable ; but his regret brought
but little added pain to him. Now that he
knew how inexorable Tasker had meant to be

from the first, he saw that with or without the
blow, his case was hopeless so far as the moneylender's
influence could go. He was torn with
suspense and anguish. The trouble of this
unhappy bill magnified itself until it assumed
gigantic proportions. Unless it could be met,
his father and his brother would each see how
he had gone back from his better promises.
Maud too — might it not reach her ears?
There was an almost unbearable horror in
the thought. He had promised so much — he
had meant so well — he had fought so hard
against the temptations which beset him, and
now, a single night of folly had brought him
to this. How could he have been such an
insensate fool as to place himself in this man's
clutches after having purposely insulted him.
O fool ! he groaned. Money borrowed drunkenly
to pay a gambling debt. A debt contracted,
too, in such a place and with such
people. Could he go down and see Will,
and make a clean breast of it, and beg him
once more to help him ? There was scarcely
time for that ; but even if there had been, how
could he so humiliate himself? No, no, no,
no ! A thousand times, No !

There was yet one loophole of escape. To

trust longer to the possible receipt of a cheque
from a man whose name he did not even
know, was out of the question. That had
been madness from the first. That hope was
the weakest of all broken reeds, and he could
lean no longer on it. But there was still Lord
Chesterwood's offer, and its recollection came
upon him as a ray of light might fall upon the
way of safety to one who lay awaiting death
in the dark. He arranged his disordered hair
and dress, and hurried to the building in which
the Exhibition was held. There he found the
Secretary, and as calmly as he could set before
him the fact that the contract of which he
had previously spoken had been made with
a man upon whom he could not depend. He
should be delighted to sell the picture at once
to Lord Chesterwood. His Lordship, the
Secretary said, had gone on public business to
St. Petersburg. Hadn't Frank seen that in
the papers ? — No ? How very singular. Great
pity to deal with unsafe men. Quite easy to
demand a cheque in advance. Lots of people
did it, and — Good-day, Fairholt.

No hope — no hope now. Was there any
chance of finding Hastings ? Away to his
rooms once more. No news of him or of

his whereabouts. Frank went home again,
and poured out a great tumbler of brandy,
and drank it. Then he sat down to think ;
but thought was insupportable. The thought
of his father's distress, his brother's contempt
—and of Maud— O Maud, Maud! — and her
love for him tried by this vile revelation,
and her heart bruised by it — it was all too
terrible. He took up his pen, and tried to
write to his father, and tell him of the miseries
which surrounded him, and how they arose.
He would have to know, and it was better
that he should hear from the culprit — the
criminal — yes, the criminal — himself. But
Frank tore up letter after letter, and at last
gave up all attempt to perform that bitter
task. After awhile, he poured out another
glass of brandy and drank it, put on his hat
and overcoat, and wandered aimlessly into the
rain. The winter afternoon was closing in,
and the lamps were already gleaming ghastly
in the fading light. It was all the same to
him where he walked, and he gave no heed
to the direction in which he travelled. His
feet kept pace with his own fierce and bitter
thoughts. But a man must walk fast indeed
to outward his sorrows. To-morrow, this

Nemesis of his folly would be upon him. If
Fate's hand could have fallen then, striking
him dead, he would have esteemed himself
happy if only he could have been saved this
cruel but well-earned shame, and if they who
loved him could have been spared the anguish
of seeing him so shamed.

I have been looking at the trouble through
his eyes, and not my own, all this time. It
was not so vast as it seemed to him ; but it
is easy to philosophise on others' sorrows —
even for a fool — hard as it is for the man
who suffers to bear his suffering calmly, even
though he be a philosopher. And poor
Frank, with no one near him to philosophise
for him, and with no power of control
within, went the way on which his own
desperation led him. And that way was
the more piteous and desperate because all
that was good in him drifted him towards it,
and all that was weak in him beckoned
him inexorably on.

HISTORY.

Every man plays Hercules at one time or another.

IT Hastings packed up such of his belongings
as seemed needed for a sojourn of
a month at Bologna, and sat down upon his
bedside, with a big portmanteau in front of
him and a big cigar in his mouth, to look out
the train for Dover. The prospect of the
jaunt was pleasant to him. As for his debts,
they were such old friends that he would have
been almost grieved to part with them. Natively,
there was no honest man in Europe
than this flippant and idle young gentleman.
Tick at Eton and tick at Cambridge had dulled
his moral perceptions — that was all. It would
be unfair to blame the man for the faults of a
whole system. He had been steeped in credit
ever since he had been a little boy. That

everybody would be paid and exceedingly well
paid one day or other, went of course without
saying. The young gentleman justified himself
after his usual fashion. ' The poet remarks
with great felicity that there is no joy but calm.
Very well, then. It is the business of every
man to preserve his life from all fluctuations,
and to hold himself at one level. Happy is
the man who has no history. My highly
superior father holds me in poverty at this
time, and will one day burden me with great
wealth. It is my double duty to get into debt.
To-day's debt feeds yesterday's depletion, and
provides a relief beforehand for the repletion
of tomorrow. Aha ! 'Tis quaintly, wittily,
and wisely put. Credit is the compensating
balance of the whole system of human affairs.
Good again.'

Resuming the study of the time-table, suspended
on behalf of these reflections, Hastings
was startled by an unusually imperious
knock at the front door. A foreboding touched
him in the midst of his easy gaiety. The door
below was opened, and by-and-by the neat
and rosy housemaid appeared with a message
for him, to the effect that Mr. Robins, of Deal,
desired to see him.

- Robins of Deal, and Robins of Deal,' said
Hastings rhythmically in a sort of pensive
chant. 'And who the dickens is Robins of
Deal ? — Show the Old Gentleman up, my
dear, as the ardent inquirer said to Cornelius
Agrippa.'

The rosy housemaid, who was of opinion
that Mr. Hastings was the most perfect of
his sex, turned up the sitting-room lamp and
went down stairs. Then the visitor came up
with solemn tramp ; and Hastings walking
fairly into the sitting-room, saw before him an
old and faithful servitor of his father's — a
servitor so old that he had been pantry-boy
in the great house at Dean when his present
master was a boy at Eton.

'Why, Roberts, my good old boy,' said
Hastings, shaking hands with him, ' what
brings you to the brick and mortar wilderness ?
The girl said Mr. Robins, of Deal, wanted to
see me.'

1 1 told her to say it was Roberts from Dean,
Mr. Arthur,' said the old man solemnly.

I am very glad,' said Hastings, looking
with real pleasure at the white-haired, rosy,
plump old fellow's face — ' very glad indeed you
found me. I am just off for the Continent.'

You must come back with me, Mr. Arthur,'
said the old man with a solemn shaky voice.

1 Is there anything the matter at home ? '

- It is appointed to all men, Mr. Arthur,'
said the ancient butler with a voice more and
more tremulous. ' It's your poor father's turn,
sir, now.'

Hastings sat down without an exclamation,
and looked hard at his visitor.

He wouldn't have any of us wire, sir,' said
the old man, ' for fear of startling you. A
letter wouldn't have reached you till the morning,
and that might have been too late. So
he said to me, " Go and bring him down,
Roberts. I shall last till he comes," he said,
sir ; " I must last till he comes ! " '

Hastings still said not a word, but rang the
bell. The rosy housemaid answering stood
astonished at the paleness of his countenance.
He ordered refreshments to be placed before
the butler, and then left him and went into
the solitude of his bedroom. Standing there,
and staring listlessly into the dark and silent
street, he groped in his own mind for the
meaning of the message which had just been
brought to him. He turned his eyes vacantly
upon the table near which he stood, and took

VOL. II. D

thence a book in a yellow paper cover, and
vacantly read a paragraph. This book was
the production of a Frenchman of genius. I
will not blame but pity that great personage,
who was a godless, heartless, bloodless cynic,
with a rollicking sense of humour which never
found food for a smile in anything that was not
either cruel or dirty. The paragraph which
Hastings thus vacantly read set forth with
jocund pleasantries the delight experienced by
a young man at a wealthy father's death. As
the meaning of the writer became clear to him,
he tore the flimsy volume passionately in
pieces and dropped them on the floor. The
old man tapped at the door, but Hastings
did not hear him. He gazed gloomily out
of the window on the dark street until the
old servitor's touch aroused him. ' Roberts,'
he said, with some bitterness at heart, ' I
declare I feel this almost as much as you
do.'

1 I know, Mr. Arthur,' said the butler.
There's different ways of feeling, and different
ways of showing it'

Is there no hope of his recovery ?' Hastings
asked, turning again to the window.

1 No hope at all, sir,' the butler answered.

When does our train start ? ' Hastings
asked again.

I've told Hopkins to meet the Hetherton
train, one hour and twenty minutes after midnight,
sir,' the butler answered. ' It leaves
Euston in about an hour and a half.'

Very well,' said Hastings. ' Leave me
alone for a minute or two, Roberts. Get
something to eat. I shall be quite ready.

The butler retired ; and Hastings stared
on vacantly through the window. ' Have I a
heart at all ? ' he asked himself. ' I don't
believe I care the toss up of a blind beggar's
farthing. I don't believe it's in me to care ;
and if it isn't, it shall not be in me to pretend
I care. Poor old governor ! He'd have
cared if he'd heard that / was dying.'

His heart was hardened, and his eyes were
dry. He thought of things which were so
ridiculous that he could have laughed outright
at them. The great Frenchman himself could
not have been inwardly wittier than poor
Hastings, over all the cruelties of his own
want of feeling. He could not help it for
his life. He could not feel sorry. He did
not feel sorry. He was never merrier than
at this time ; and just as he had arrived at

SLlY of dunois

this conclusion, he dropped his head into his
hands and wept bitterly. He was a very
young man, you will remember, and his father,
who lay dying, had loved him well and forgiven
him often. The faithful old servitor
without, dropped tears into his tea as he
sat in his young Master's room, and heard
the sobs which shook him.

The two mourners took the train together,
and arrived too late. The old man was dead ;
and his son, that dissipated youngster, was
master of Dean Manor and broad lands adjoining.
Yet it was not these things which filled
the heart which would have fain believed
itself so flippant and cynical. No, no ! He
lay there, the grey old man, who would be
grieved no more, yet had been grieved so
often. Even cunning Antony cries out, ' My
heart is in the coffin there with Caesar, and
I must wait till it come back to me There
was some nature there, or the mob would not
have been moved by it. And so Hastings'
heart lay there with the dead father, and had
no concern with Dean Manor and broad lands
adjoining, unless it were to fear in the sincerity
of grief that these things would bring in time a
consolation of which it would be an honest

man's duty to feel ashamed. The will of the
dead man was read after the funeral, and
except for liberal legacies to the old servants,
everything came into the hands of the son.
He was free to go back now and use London
like a hog-pen or other place to wallow in.
He could ode his vices that looked like
virtues, and his virtues that looked like vices,
full swing on such a princely income as his
father had left him.

I would defy you to make a Square-toes
of this young gentleman, but he is not past
making an honest man of. The father's death
sobered the son, and brought responsibilities
upon him. The old fables are full of wisdom.
Every man plays Hercules at one time or
another, if it be but for an hour, and the two
goddesses solicit him. Happy is he who plays
the parable through to the end, and chooses
after Hercules his fashion. That better choice
our young Hastings made. It was not in
the heart of him to be a Pharisee. He will
have his joke to the end of his life, and will
not forget, though he grow wise, the flavours
of Clos de Vougeot and Habana. There will
be cakes and ale even for him who is pious,
and ginger shall still be hot in the mouth.

But there is a time for all things, and this
was the time for sober thought and honest
resolution. He would play Prince Hal no
more. Brookes and Bonder, Point and
Randolph, and that hoary sinner Falstaff,
who dwelt in the dingy parlour of the fancy
public, that battered hero of the fistic ring,
should have seen the last of the Prince's
revelry. To purge, to quit sack, and live
cleanly — it is a holy task, and the young
fellow who goes out to it will have all honest
men's sympathy.

Hastings could not bear to closet himself
with his dead father's lawyer directly after
the old man had been laid beside his ancestors
in the family vault. He felt that he could
better give himself a little time for thought,
and even a little time for grief, before he
took up the burdens of his new position.
And there seemed to him a something sordid
in hastening to lay hands upon that which
bore yet freshly the impress of a hand which
could grasp earthly riches no more. Therefore
he went up to London, and whilst old
acquaintances read gleefully that the will was
proved, and that the personalty was sworn
under some quite exceptional number of thousands,

he was living alone and thoughtful in
his old London rooms. It happened on the
night on which he returned to town that he
thought of Frank, and took a cab to drive
round to him. ' It was more than half my
fault he thought to himself, 'that Fairholt
fell into that man's hands. If he is in any
trouble, I must help him out of it.'

And once more he found himself too late.
Mr. Fairholt had just gone out. Hastings
then pencilled this brief note : —

Dear Fairholt, — If you are in any trouble
about Tasker, let me know. One word from
me will quiet him. Yours always, A. H.'

This he folded and sealed, and having discharged
his duty in that one matter, went
home again. Cynical and flippant as he
thought himself, his heart was very tender
just then, and the look even of lifeless things
touched him. The walls that had heard
his follies reproached him. He arose and
went into the streets. It rained in a half-hearted
drizzling way, and he felt lonely and
troubled and dispirited. It mattered little to
him whither he went, so that he could but
walk off this fit of unusual depression, and
he found himself almost before he knew it

in the midst of all the light and bustle of
Oxford Street. Turning thence into quieter
ways, he wandered on until somebody fell
against him with a shock, and drove his
crape-bound hat over his eyes. He recovered
himself, and saw a drunken Irishman, who
offered fluent apologies. ' For barren' him,'
the man was saying, ' there's not a creature
in the world that i'd lay a little finger on
except in the way o' good-fellowship. Will
ye take a drink ? Just to show there's no
ill feeling' ? Dew now !'

No, thank you,' said Hastings, and walked
on.

The man clung to him with repeated apologies
and repeated hospitable offers. 'Well
said the follower at last, ' I aren't go tew faraway,
lest oi should be mission' me friend. If
ye won't, ye won't, me boy ; an' so, goodnight
te ye.'

Good-night,' Hastings answered ; and the
man turned back and lurched down the street.
The rain had ceased, and Hastings stood folding
his umbrella in dreamy mood, with a sad
little laugh at the man's persistent attempt to
drink with him, Suddenly, not fifty yards
away, there rose a terrific hubbub, and wild

cries for help. Towards Hastings, like a dart,
ran a stout little figure with guttural yells of
Murder ! ' Behind him, gaining at every
stride, came the man who had said ' Goodnight
' only a minute or two before. What the
meaning of the pursuit might be Hastings had
no power to divine. It seemed probable that
it was a piece of drunken sport on the part of
both men, for it was impossible that they should
have had time to quarrel since the Irishman
had left him. But the cruel blow which felled
the fugitive was real enough, and so was the
murderous knife that gleamed above his prostrate
figure. Hastings was just in time to
bring his umbrella down full swing upon the
Irishman's wrist. The knife fell upon the
pavement, and the umbrella-stick went to
shivers. The man was up in a second, and
rushed at Hastings like a bull. It was all
uneven. Not half-a-dozen years of foolish
living in London and Paris had robbed the
prettiest • boxer of his day at Cambridge of
his style. The tale is as old as the hills.
Hastings could not hurt the man severely even
had he wished. But on the other hand, the
man could not feet near him, and his savage
rushes were exhausting him and knocking him

about a good deal. A gentleman came out
of the house in front of which this little drama
was enacting.

Pray, oblige me by picking up this poor
fellow,' said Hastings quietly, opposing the
frantic Irishman with wary foot and hand and
eye. ' I found this man trying to murder
him. There's a knife somewhere

At the mention of the knife, the Irishman
made a rush for the prostrate figure. Hastings
dropped in front of him like lightning, and
the man went flying over the stooping figure,
came down heavily upon the pavement, and
lay still. The whole thing had not lasted two
minutes.

'Very neat indeed,' said the gentleman on
the door-step ; and at that moment a constable
came with placid mien round the corner.

1 Hilloo !' said the official ; 'move on here —
I beg pardon, sir. What's the matter ? ' Before
the constable had well made this inquiry,
the gentleman had left the door-step, and was
bending over the figure of the portly little
man who had been first to fall in this affray.

Ha ! ' he said ; ' this is my friend the
money-lender, is it ? — Help me to carry this
man into the hall, policeman.' The policeman

lent a pair of hands, and the figure of the
portly little man was carried indoors. ' Now
for the other.' At that moment of time an
elderly fat man came round the corner, and
stood still to watch the proceedings. There
was blood upon the whitened door-step of the
house into which the one man had been carried,
and the two gentlemen and the policeman were
stooping to raise the Irishman, who lay like
one dead doubled against the area railings.
The thing wore altogether a melodramatic
aspect, and any elderly fat man passing at
the time would have been phlegmatic indeed
had he not paused to look. The fat man
hovered round the three as they bore the
insensible figure into the hall, and breathed
stertorously in his eager interest. He followed
to the door, and there fell into an attitude expressive
of profound amazement. Nobody had
noticed him, and it is not probable indeed that
anybody so far had even seen him. There
was a general start when he cried out aloud,
Why, bless my heart alive, if that ain't my
man, Tasker ! '

You know him ? ' said the gentleman of the
house, looking up for a second, and then busying
himself about the insensible head again.

Look here, policeman,' said Benjamin
Hartley. ' You go for a doctor.

The policeman smiled, and whispered, ' This
is Dr. Brand, one of the most eminent surgeons
of the day.'

'Ah!' said Mr. Hartley, 'that's fortunate.'
Then he looked at Hastings. ' You seem to
ha' been in this here shindy, young gentleman.'

For once,' responded he, shaken back into
his old ways by the incident ; ' fact and
appearance travel together. I have been in
this here shindy.'

'What's it all about?' asked Mr. Hartley,
regarding his new acquaintance with some
surprise.

I am really unable to say,' said Hastings
calmly. ' The big man ran after the little one,
knocked him down, and drew a knife. — By the
way ' — turning to the officer — ' you will find a
knife and a hat outside. Will you oblige me ?
The policeman turned away to the door —
And an umbrella,' added Hastings.

'Was it you,' asked Mr. Hartley, 'as doubled
up that cove like that ? Again the railings ? '

I had to do it, you know,' said Hastings ;
and Benjamin Hartley stared at him, and wondered.
He measured with his eye the figure

of the prostrate Irishman, and then looked
back at Hastings, with flaxen moustache and
flaxen hair and girlishly delicate complexion.
A deep-drawn breath and a slow exclamation
Ah ! ' bore testimony to his amazement.

Dr. Brand hearing this brief colloquy,
chuckled within himself. Rising to his feet
he said, ' This man is rather severely hurt.
He ought to be removed to the hospital.' A
slight examination of the second figure resulted
in a similar verdict. ' I know the man, too,'
said the doctor. ' His name is Closky, and he
lives in Bolters Rents, in Oxford Street' This
was addressed to the officer, who had found
the knife, and was now offering to Mr. Hastings
his battered properties.

There is no danger, I hope,' said Hastings.

It will not be possible to say anything
about that in either case for a day or two,'
the doctor answered.

The policeman was despatched for stretchers
and bearers, and the two disabled men were
soon deposited at the hospital. The doctor
promised to call there in the morning ; and
he and Hastings and old Hartley solemnly exchanged
cards. Then the old man went off
with Hastings to the hospital to see that Tasker

was well bestowed. The two took a cab, and so
arrived some time before the wounded. Whilst
they waited, the house-surgeon — who knew of
Mr. Hartley of Hartley Hall, and had heard
of him from afar as a sort of Gentile Rothschild
— was overwhelmingly polite, and the old
gentleman was full of enthusiasms for Hastings'
pluck and prowess. It reminded him — so he
said with fatherly pride — of his son the Lieutenant
when he was at Cambridge. 'Was
that Hartley of Jesus ?' asked Hastings. ' It
was, sir,' the old man answered, beaming. Did
Hastings know the Lieutenant ? — Hastings had
that distinguished pleasure.

The old man referring to his card again,
cried out, ' Why, sir, you an' me's neighbours,
if I ain't mistaken.' — Hastings assented.
' I shall be proud to see you, sir, at 'Hartley
'All. My son the Lieutenant '11 be at home at
Christmas-time ; and my son Orris Sinjin, of
Jesus, Cambridge, also. May we look to see
you there ? No fuss ; no show, sir ; but a
very hearty welcome, I am sure.'

Hastings would be delighted. He liked
the old man's bluff hearty ways, and his low-comedy
gentility, and his innocent bounce and
brag.

Three generations, you know, sir,' said the
old gentleman with hearty candour. ' That's
the rule, sir. My young fellers don't make a
bad show for the second. Two as fine young
chaps as you'd wish to look at.' This to the
house-surgeon, who nodded with some embarrassment.


The wounded men came in at this juncture,
and the house-surgeon gave them the benefit
of his skill without delay. He called Mr.
Hartley's attention to the fact that Tasker's
jewellery seemed valuable. ' Yes,' said the
old gentleman in answer ; but he was in the
habit of carrying about papers which were still
more valuable, and it would be as well to make
sure that they were taken due care of. Saying
this, he took hold of Tasker's coat and emptied
the pockets. Amongst other things appeared
a very fat pocket-book, the clasp of which was
insecure. The book opened in the old man's
hand, and a number of papers fell upon the
floor. Hastings stooped and picked up some
of them, one of which he crumpled in his
hand, unseen, and held there.

'Hilloo!' cried Mr. Hartley, ' here's that
cheque of mine, that he ought to ha' paid
over a week ago. — I can't take this away with

me ; can I ? ' he asked the policeman, who
stood beside him.

The official said that was impossible ; and
the old man, in a state of considerable excitement
and anger, called for pen and ink, and
producing a cheque-book, filled up a cheque
in favour of Francis' Fairholt, Esquire, for
for four hundred guineas. Hastings smoothed
out the piece of crumpled paper he had held
in his hand until now, and laid it before Mr.
Hartley. It was a bill for ninety-eight pounds
ten shillings, two days overdue, payable at
Order and Hobbes' Bank, Lombard Street,
and drawn on Francis Fairholt by Aminadab
Tasker.

'Hilloo!' cried Mr. Hartley again, 'this is
a damn fine game, this is ! — Why, Mr. Tasker,'
he muttered in a lower voice, ' you've been
a-detaining of my cheque for something, have
you ! Very well, sir — very well. When you
come round again, I'll have a little deal along
of you, as you'll remember.'

1 I knew of this, Mr. Hartley,' said Hastings
in a low tone, laying his finger on the bill,
1 and I knew that Tasker held your cheque
for Fairholt. Frank is my best friend, sir ;
and I went round to-night to tell him that he

need not be troubled about this.' He laid
his finger again upon the bill.

Thank you, sir,' said the old man. ' I
know that scoundrel, sir. I've told him long
ago as if he had any more dealings with Mr.
Fairholt I'd break him. I'll go away at once
to the poor lad's place and pay him this 'ere
cheque. There's three days' grace allowed on
this document,' said Mr. Hartley, ' as perhaps
you know, Mr. Hastings, and there's no
danger till to morrow.'

1 May I come with you to Fairholt's place ? '
asked Hastings.

Hartley gave a ready assent, and they drove
away together. The old gentleman swore as
terribly as our army did in Flanders, and
poured forth threats against the unconscious
Tasker. He blamed himself for employing
Tasker at all, but excused himself on the
ground that ' there's allays a deal o' dirty
work to do in business.' ' I shouldn't wonder,'
he shouted, as the cab jolted over the
stone pavements, ' if that feller as dropped
on to him to-night wasn't somebody as he'd
ruined.' Hastings shouted in return that this
was very likely true ; and Hartley lay back and
muttered new threats and anathemas. They

VOL. II. E

reached in due time the house in which Frank
lived, and learned that he had not yet returned.
Mr. Hartley asked for an envelope,
and enclosed the cheque with one line — ' In
payment for picture. — B. H.' Then he turned
into the street, still very angry. ' I know
what lads are like, sir,' he said. • I've got
two young chaps o' my own, an' one of 'em
suffered dreadful through this kind o' thing.
And here's a 'igh- minded, sensitive young
feller very likely a-breaking his heart through
this scoundrel. Well, well, it'll be a warning
to him maybe. All's well as ends well. He'll
be all right tomorrow. — Shall I set you down
anywhere, Mr. Hastings?'

The two found that their ways were apart,
and so bade each other good-night.

I like that odd old fellow,' said Hastings
to himself. 'He's new enough ; but the new
heraldry is hands and hearts. I shall look
him up some day.' Then he fell to thinking
of Frank, and made up an honest mind to give
his old friend some good advice and monetary
help if need were, though that seemed
unlikely. Frank was about to marry old
Hartley's niece, and Hastings, like the rest
of the world, knew that the builder and

owner of Hartley Hall had a colossal
fortune.

Mr. Hartley also was preparing good advice
for Frank, and was ready to offer monetary
aid if need were. ' I must come down heavy
on him the old man thought as he lay back in
his cab, ' and frighten him out o' these wicked
ways.' There was no sin like carelessness in
money matters, in Benjamin Hartley's eyes.
Even dishonesty would have been little more
reprobated by this good old heathen of a millionaire,
for that did but show a perversion
of the most estimable of human instincts — the
desire to be rich.

Whilst these two friends of his were pondering
that good advice and planning that
monetary aid which were never to be given,
Frank was standing in the night alone at the
edge of Hampstead Heath. The wind moaned
and the rain fell drearily. A rebellious rage
against his evil fortune, a passion of regret for
bygone follies, an unspeakable terror of the
morrow, and through all these, such real dread
of the grief which was coming upon those
who loved him — rage, remorse, fear, and love
these four — did battle within his soul. And

the wide heath, with the rain and the wind
and the night upon it, lay before him like a
threat of his own future, storm-tormented, untouched
by any ray of light from earth or
heaven.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
/ rolled this trophy up carefully.

T T was about the time of my installation at
Hartley Hall, that I began to be conscious
of a feeling which I have since regarded with
some amusement. I began to feel most marvellously
old. My experiences of the world
seemed to have been so varied that to my own
mind I was another Gil Bias or Frederick Random.
And I quite seriously believe now that
a certain instability, a certain taste for wandering
and love of change which mark me as a
man, had their natural growth in the kaleidoscopic
changes of my early life. When I was
in bed and alone, I used to repeat to myself a
line of a favourite hymn of Sally's, with a sense
of the uncertainty of things in general, which

but few children of my age could have arrived
at, born of those changeful experiences — ' I've
no abiding city here.' To my novel-reading
childhood it seemed natural that aunts and
uncles should turn up in a random sort of way,
and bring abrupt changes into life ; and I was
so used to the marvellous, that if Uncle Ben
had turned into a magician who traded new
lamps for old ones, and had carried his own
hall and park into Central Africa, I should
have been inclined to accept it as a fulfilment
of the prophecies of my little library. I find
that usage has betrayed me. 4 Uncle Ben.'
Mr. Hartley was not Mr. Hartley long. I
had not been a week in that rawly-splendid
mansion before the red-faced, bald-headed old
gentleman was my closest chum, and had assumed
by his own desire that title. He loaded
me with silver money, and bought a pony for
my use ; and though I had no occasion to
spend a penny, and no opportunity, it seemed
to afford him the greatest pleasure to chink four
or five new half-crowns together, and approaching
me with a look of sly jollity, to slip them
into my pockets one by one, with many pretences
of doing it, between, as though the
whole performance were an elaborate conjuring

trick. I had grown so rapidly during my
fever, that I used sometimes to stand up and
look at my own toes with a sense of distance
from them such as no mature person twice
my height ever experienced. But in spite
of this, the pony's rotund girth was something
too much for my small legs, and fora
long time I sat him with a precarious
balance and a sense of insecurity. Uncle
Ben used generally to walk beside me, and
not infrequently Maud would take the bridle
on the other hand, and so we three would
ramble slowly through the park together,
one of us in a state of nervous transport,
and unwitting of the troubles of those who
walked beside him. One day when the
grass was crisp with the first frost of winter,
and the brown leaves dropped from the trees
without a breath of air to shake them, as
though they released themselves of their own
will, Uncle Ben and I went out together.
Maud was about to join us, but he waved her
back, and following her, said something, in
answer to which she nodded sadly.

When he had led me some distance through
the park, my companion looked up at me
and said, ' Johnny, my lad, Sally's a-going

down home to see her mother. Should you
like to go with her ? '

Yes, indeed I should,' I answered ; and
hoped that nothing was wrong in Sally's
affairs.

1 No, Johnny,' said Uncle Ben ; ' their's
nothing' wrong. While you're their, Johnny,
if Sally asks you to show her — ' There he
stopped in his speech and his walk, and arrested
the pony. He looked thoughtfully at
me, and then laughing at my puzzled face,
touched me on the cheek, and said, ' Never
mind that now. When Sally asks you anything',
why then it'll be time enough to answer
won't it ? '

I said I supposed it would ; and he turned
the pony's head round, though we had not
been out a quarter of the common time, led
me back to the front of the house, lifted me
down without a word, and left me standing
at the door. I had not been there long, when
Hawker — the Splendour in the canary-coloured
plush and sky-blue coat, whom I had seen on
my first visit, and had since grown familiar
with — came to me and informed me that I
was wanted in the morning-room. Thither
I went, and found Maud, who told me that

Sally was going to start in an hour from then,
and that she was expected to return, bringing
me with her in two or three days' time at
farthest. Somehow, there was a reservation
in her manner — children are quick to read
such things — as if she desired to say something
and yet would not say it. I had seen
something of the same sort in Uncle Ben.
When Sally came, there was an air of mystery
about her of an almost melodramatic cast, and
she palpably dissembled, like one behind the
footlights. She wore so absurd a pretence of
being in her usual humour, that I was quite
alarmed at it. Whilst the groom drove us
to the railway station, I revolved the problem
in my mind, and was persuaded before we
got to the train that some new change of
life was in store for me. I did not believe
that Uncle Ben had tired of protecting me,
for he had worn his most genial and affectionate
look at parting, and had studded me allover
with new half-crowns, setting me on my
back on the sofa in order to do it, and laughing
at me merrily the while. I was sure of
Maud also ; and as for Sally, I was as convinced
then as I am now that that good
creature would be a consenting party to

nothing which would harm me ; and yet I
felt persuaded that something new was about
to befall me by the consent of all of them,
and was in a nervous tremor to know what
the something could be. I asked no questions,
and Sally went on with her pretence
of there being nothing the matter, with as
much success as any bandit who ever ostentatiously
concealed himself upon the boards.

The great manufacturing town lifted its
chimneys into the pall of smoke which they
themselves created, and its streets had the
old roll and clamour and bustle. Sally took
me into a great confectioners shop there,
and gave me cakes and tea, and was very
deferential to the waitress who attended us.
I was a little awed also, remembering distinctly
the petticoated figure who stood so
strangely for me in memory, and who had
first seen the place, and thought what a palace
it was a year ago. I was very smartly dressed
now, and booted and gloved in the nattiest
way, so that I rather pitied that little figure.
But I could not dissociate him from myself,
and felt that I laboured under his special
disabilities. The mistress of the establishment,
a motherly-looking old lady who rustled

her black silks with an air of great importance,
came over and asked Sally whose little
boy that was. Sally responded respectfully.
It was the only son of Mr. John Campbell
of the Baker's Green Ironworks. The old
lady looked gently towards me, and said ina
whisper that in that case I was an orphan.

1 Yes,' said Sally.

Who is he living with ? ' the old lady
asked again.

1 He's living' along of his uncle, ma'am,' Sally
answered, ' at Hartley Hall.'

1 Mr. Benjamin Hartley ? ; said the old lady
' the great millionaire ? '

Sally answered in the affirmative.

The old lady, after taking a long look at
me over Sally's head, went away again ; and
I heard her whisper to one of the waitresses
behind the lone marble counter that I was
the nephew of Mr. Hartley of Hartley Park,
the great millionaire ; and this whisper going
round to all the marble-topped tables, I became
conscious that I was being made a show
of, so that I blundered with my tea, and had
no idea as to what I ought to do with my eyes
and hands.

Sally was also a little discomfited by this

general inspection ; and when at last we rose to
go, and I produced a big-clasped Russia-leather
purse, which Uncle Ben had given me that
morning to hold the new half-crowns in, the
general public of the place was painfully interested
in this glimpse of a portion of the
great millionaire's money, and I was very glad
to escape with Sally to the street.

The dusk had fallen when we got to the
railway station again in time to meet the
train which bore us to my native place.
There was only one old gentleman in the
second-class carriage in which we rode, and
he was looking out of the window. I suppose
that I spoke louder than I had intended, for
when I asked Sally what a millionaire was,
he looked round.

Sally not being specially ready at dictionary
definitions, responded, ' Why, your uncle's a
millionaire, my darling

The old gentleman turned round so sharply
again that he knocked his hat off.

Is that young Master — er — er — Master — '

He snapped his fingers impatiently, as if he
had forgotten a familiar name.

Master Campbell, sir,' said Sally, helping
him out.

1 To be sure,' said the old gentleman, —
Master Campbell. He's the nephew of — er
er, dear me ! — he's the nephew of — er — '

The old gentleman snapped his fingers again,
as if he had forgotten a familiar name.

1 Mr. Hartley, sir, of Hartley Hall,' said
Sally, helping him out again.

1 Of course,' said the old gentleman. ' Bless
my soul ! yes, of course. Dear me ! '

He put on a pair of glasses to look at me,
and again I felt disconcerted, and had trouble
with my roving eyes and hands. We got out
at the same station, and the old gentleman
seized an official in a gold-bound hat upon the
platform, and pointed me out to him triumphantly
as though I were a marvellous curio.
1 That's the nephew of the great millionaire,
Hartley of Hartley Park, you know.'

The official person came forward, and stooped
down at the door which led from the platform,
and stared at me under pretence of asking me
for my ticket, and I felt that I was an impostor,
and was making some pretensions — I
did not know how — to something that did not
belong to me.

Outside the station Sally commanded a fly,
and we drove away through the familiar streets

in which the same dull gas-lamps gleamed, and
the same people went to and fro as of old.
They were all the same, streets and people
and shops, except that a tinman had opened a
new establishment with plate-glass windows, in
which the bright tin-ware glistened like silver.
This one alteration made the whole place seem
new and strange in the midst of all its familiarities.
We were not long in reaching the
rough and broken road in which the cottage
stood. Looking from the windows of the fly,
I could see the mounds of slag and cinder
which lay solemnly, like real hills, behind it,
when the driver halted and got down, and
said he could drive no further, because there
was what he called a ' crowning sin ' in front
of us. By this we both understood him to
mean a crowning-in. The land had given way
and had fallen into the hollow left by some
disused coal-mine — had crowned-in the country
people say — an occurrence by no means uncommon
in the district. I had often gone to
look at places where such landslips had occurred,
creating great rugged gaps which looked
like Alpine valleys to my childish eyes. The
driver said he knew the way round, and for
an extra fourpence undertook to pilot us and

carry the portmanteau. We went cautiously
in the darkness, and the lowering sky looked
bare to me where some old trees had stood
when I knew the scene so well. When we
came to the cottage, it was made evident that
our arrival had been expected. Sally's mother
had spread upon the table a clean white cloth,
which I knew by old experience to be reserved
for occasions of high ceremony ; and crockery-ware
for three was laid upon it. The wrinkled
old woman, in her black stuff dress, her apron
of blue check, and her white cap, ran up the
steps from the kitchen, and hugged Sally and
kissed her and cried over her.

■ You'll ha' lots o' time for that sort o' game
inside,' the driver suggested, deriding sentiment
; ' gi' me my halfpence, an' I'll toddle.'

Nobody taking immediate notice of the
driver, he walked into the kitchen with the
portmanteau, lit his pipe at the fire, and looked
at us all three with an aspect of benevolent
interest, until Sally remembered him, and
paid him out of the Russia-leather purse, when
he regarded his money with deep scorn, and
took his way dejectedly. Old Mrs. Troman
depressed me at first by curtsying to me,
and treating me as a visitor of high importance

; but her disposition to regard me in
that light wore off by-and-by, and we fell
into the old ways, sitting by the fire, she and
Sally talking, and I keeping my own fancies
in wandering company, or listening, as I
chose.

It was still plain to me that Sally had
something on her mind, which she strove to
disguise ; and when her mother said to her
suddenly after a lapse of silence, ' An now
tell us what you come down for ? ' my faithful
servitor's assumption of having had no
special purpose was the greatest failure in the
way of private theatricals which I can remember.
Conscious of the defeat of her purpose,
Sally roused herself, and bustled me off
to bed with a great air of kindly authority.
I lay in the old room and seemed to slip
back into the old life again, though with a
sense that it was all narrower and smaller
than it had once seemed to be. It came back
completely and without that reservation in my
dreams, but the room looked very bare and
small and poor in the morning, though I felt
myself in some indistinct way ungrateful when
I thought so. It was only grey daylight
when I awoke, but I got out of bed and

dressed myself, and then looked out of
the window, from which I could see the
corner of the crowning-in. Naturally interested
in that phenomenon, I ventured downstairs,
and after a struggle, succeeded in
opening the back - door, through which I
gained the road, and in a minute came upon
the edge of the landslip. It was far deeper
and wider than is common in such cases. It
often happens that the earth sinks so gradually,
that what was a gentle hill becomes a
gentle hollow without the visible breaking of
one clod of earth ; but in this instance the
road and the field on each side of it had
gone suddenly, carrying the hedges clean out
of sight, and leaving the trees I had missed
the night before head-downwards, with their
roots sticking out forlornly from the broken
soil like helpless arms. Here was an opportunity
for exploration which no boy could
have resisted. I clambered down into the
hollow, growing rather clayey in the process ;
but evoking — in true child-fashion — more fancies
from my descent than any grown poet
could get out the descent of the Andes ; and
came by-and-by upon the roots of the first
tree. This tree I knew again at once by the

VOL. II. F

peculiarity of its form. Even its present topsy-turvy
attitude could not disguise it. The
trunk, as I remembered, used to rise in two
distinct columns which blended half-way up,
and formed an inverted V as they leaned towards
each other. As a mere baby, I had
crawled under that V many a time, and
found it an admirable hiding-place. I climbed
up now, by the hanging roots, and looked
down at the old seat. In one place the
clustered roots were so thickly filled with
earth that they made a sort of platform,
and to this, with some little difficulty, I
climbed. Whilst I stood looking about me
from this point of vantage, the slender roots
bent under my weight, and I slid slowly
down, without in the least hurting myself,
but also without power to help myself, until
I had reached the cleft of the tree, where I
laughed aloud to think what a slide I had had.

I found it not altogether easy to extricate
myself, and in my final struggle caught my
foot in something which threw me down, so
that had I a harmless tumble out of the tree
cleft into a little clayey hollow which lay on
one side below it. Rising from this second
slip much besmeared, but still laughing, I

found that I had brought something with me
which entangled my feet. It turned out to
be a shirt, very much besmeared, and to
my amazement I discovered on turning it
over that the front and wrists were decorated
with studs and links exactly like
those worn by Uncle Ben. I rolled this
trophy up carefully, and without stopping to
think of my besotted aspect, went hotly up
the broken hill-side over the road and towards
the cottage. Sally was about by this
time, and cried out 'Heaven a mercy!'
when she saw me coming. When I showed
her my treasure-trove, which I did at once
before she had time to scold me, she threw
it away with an exclamation. * Mercy onus,
child ! Don't bring your old rags here,
you dirty boy ! ' But I recovered the shirt
with more resolution than I was commonly
master of, and showed the studs, when
Sally sat down on an upturned tub which
happened to be near us in the yard, caught
feebly at the pump handle, and cried, ' Bless
us and save us ! ' Seeing that I had made
an impression, I followed it up with the
statement that I had found the shirt in an
overturned tree on the landslip. She was

greatly agitated, and asked me if there had
been anything else there. Nothing that I
had seen, I said.

Run away back, and see,' said Sally, taking
me by the shoulder. ' Run away while you're
dirty.'

She herself arose, and together we crossed
the yard, and made for the place. I clambered
down this time by an easier way than I had
first taken, and Sally followed me. When we
came to the tree, she said, in a quick excited
way, ' I remember. A regular cave to hide
anything' in. Let me lift you up, Johnny.'
With that she took me in her arm, and lifted
me towards the hollow. I caught at a root,
and scrambled up easily, and by this time,
quite as excited as my companion, looked about
on every side. ' What's that you're treading
on ? ' cried Sally from below. I looked down
and saw a garment half revealed beneath a
fall of loose earth. Extricating it with some
little trouble, for the foothold was narrow, I
threw it down, and came upon another, which
I sent after it. There was nothing left, and
I got out of the cleft again, Sally's arms receiving
me. When we reached the cottage
yard, she shook the clothes free of the 'rough

earth which clung to them, and laid them
on the ground, and there gazed at them with
an expression in which many emotions were
blended.

At this moment Mrs. Troman came upon
the scene, and testified to the greatest surprise
to our appearance. 'Well — if — I — ever did!'
said the old lady. 'Why, our Sarah, a body
might think as you'd gone crazy.'

Inviting her mother to accompany her,
Sally gathered up the besotted clothes, and
went indoors and up-stairs. The old lady,
after another ejaculation over me, followed
her. A few minutes later, whilst I stood at
the sink in the kitchen making myself elaborately
muddy in the attempt to clean myself,
and marvelling greatly at Sally's excitement,
Mrs. Troman appeared again, and subjected
me to the well-remembered ordeal by water,
then laid out clean garments for me from the
portmanteau, and sent me up-stairs. I was
at first so filled with wonder, that there was
no room within me for curiosity, or I might
have made some inquiry as to the reason of
Sally's emotion. When I had dressed and
descended to the kitchen, I found that she had
left the house. The old lady, who had recovered

her familiarity, and her old sense of
control, as I now believe, by the mere fact that
she had had me once more under her hands
at the pump, told me in answer to my inquiries
that 'children should speak when they was
spoke to ; ' and by that rebuff left me with
no other employment than to look at and
listen to the old monitory clock, which shook
its palsied little finger at me sixty times a
minute in quite the old fashion, and ticked
reproof and loneliness. When the palsied
little finger had travelled sixty times round the
fatuous countenance in the middle of the clock
face, Sally returned perturbed and pale, and
we three sat down to breakfast together. Mrs.
Troman had at one time held the post of
cook in a gentleman's family ; but on this
occasion the eggs were pebbly in their hardness,
the ham was uneatably smoked, and the
coffee was in such a condition that it would
have satisfied the gentleman in the old Joe
Miller story, who, drinking it for the first
time, mistook it for a new sort of porridge,
and complained that his companion 'had all
the thick.' I had felt the lash of Mrs.
Troman's tongue many a time ; but Sally
until that morning had never addressed to me

one word of harshness. When in the course
of the meal she fell with sudden spitefulness
upon me and boxed my ears, without reasonable
provocation, I retired from the table, and
sat on the upturned tub in the yard in a condition
of stony heartbreak, for which my
memory could find no parallel. After a time
she came out in tears, and kissed me, and
protested she hadn't meant it ; but that she
was that worried with one thing and another,
that she declared she didn't know which way
to turn. ' An' that I should have struck you,
causeless, Johnny, my darling,' it does go regular
to my 'art.' So she protested weeping. ' Bea
man,' she urged with tears, ' and say it
didn't hurt you, Johnny, dear.'

I became as manly as I could at so short
notice, and declared that it had not hurt me,
whereon Sally wept anew and said I was a
heart of gold. Matters being thus satisfactorily
settled, I was led indoors again ; and
Sally having wiped her eyes, put on her bonnet
and shawl, washed my tear-soiled face and
took me out of the cottage, leading me in
the direction of the village, until we found the
fly in which we had travelled the night before
standing by the roadside. We both entered

that ramshackle vehicle, and the driver, without
waiting for instructions, rattled away with
much noise but at no great pace towards the
railway station. The singular and untoward
events at the breakfast table had disinclined
me for wondering about anything, and I did
not at all trouble myself as to where we were
going. The fly stopped before the door of
the Ward Arms — there was a Ward Arms
or Dudley Inn in every parish of the Black
Country in those days — and we alighted there.
The waiter at the door walked in front of us
without speaking, as though he knew our
business, which was a great deal more than
I did, and marching sedately up stairs, led us
into a room in which my Cousin Will stood
alone with the stained garments I had that
morning discovered, spread on the table before
him. He looked at me with the kindly smile
which was common to him, though his eyes
were troubled when I entered, and grew sad
again a moment later. ' I want to ask you
some questions,' he said gently, 'and I want
you to be as careful as you can in answering
me. Did you see a stranger who frightened
you very much, nearly a year ago, down
here ? '

1 Yes,' I said, beginning to wonder if I had
been brought here on purpose to be asked.

Can you remember on what day you saw him ? '

It was the day, I answered, when Aunt
Bertha first came to Mrs. Troman's house.

He referred there to a note-book, and
nodded slowly to himself once or twice before
he went on ; 'How was he dressed ?'

I saw his eyes turn to the garments on
the table, and in a moment I knew them.
He wore those things,' I cried, ' and a hat
like the one that hung on the hat-stand at
your house.'

What did he wear when you saw him
next?' he asked. His face was very pale,
and there was a suggestion of a memory in
it if I could only have grasped it — something
I had seen in a dream in my illness — no —
yes — the face of the man about whom he
questioned me. ' What is the matter ? ' he
said, with a kindly hand upon me.

Nothing,' I answered ; ' only — his face was
like yours just then, and like — like Mr. Fair-holt's
the night he went to London.'

Sally and he exchanged looks.

What did he wear when you saw him the
second time ? ' he asked again.

1 He was dressed like a common man,' I
said, ' in thick clothes and heavy boots.'

Were you with Aunt Bertha when you
saw him that time ? '

Yes,' I answered ; ' and he saw her, and
shouted something, and then ran away.'

So near,' he murmured to himself — ' So
near ! ' Then after a pause : ' You saw him
once more, didn't you, Johnny ? How was
he dressed when he looked in at the window
at home ? Had he the same clothes as when
you saw him here ? '

That question I could not answer. I remembered
nothing but the face.

What made you remember the face ? ' he
asked.

It frightened me,' I said — ' his eyes and
teeth.'

He nodded sadly, as if to signify that he
understood me, and sat down, resting his forehead
on his hand. Sally absently smoothed
the soiled garments lying on the table. After
a pause he rose again and asked me if I
could show him the exact places in which I
had seen the stranger. When I answered in
the affirmative, he bade me come with him,
and left the room — Sally and I following.

We all got into the fly ; and from my description
of the clay-pit Sally told the driver
where to go. We sat in silence as we lumbered
along, and after a time Sally stopped
the vehicle near a stile, beyond which lay
the scene of the first adventure recorded in
these pages. Cousin Will inquired carefully
as to the direction from which the stranger
came, but of that I could tell nothing. Then
he inquired with equal closeness as to what
main or by-roads could have brought him here,
and there Sally's local knowledge came into
play, and she told him all she knew.

He paced up and down the walk for a time,
and then came back and addressed us. 'It
is a poor clue,' he said, ' but it is something.
I don't think I shall want you again, Roman.
— Good-bye, Johnny. I shall see you
soon, at home.' He waved his hand and
walked away slowly down the path. Sally
looked wistfully after him, and in a little
while turned away, taking my hand in hers.

We went back to Hartley Hall next day.
Nobody questioned me there, or made any
observation on my absence, except to welcome
my return. And I was left with a
new link in that strange romance which only

the years completed for me — a story leading
nowhere, and therefore everywhere — a
tragic story, to which, before I could read
it truly, I gave many wild beginnings and
conclusions.

HISTORY.

1 Ifs ninety-eight pound ten] said the rueful man.

T T ERE let the Muse who guides this
chronicle introduce to the reader the
host of the Spotted Dog 'm Bloomsbury. Mr.
James Groves had by nature no more right to
a place in a romance or a tragedy than the
Derby Dog to gambol in the Elysian Fields.
He was a pale and pimpled young man, of
weedy growth, and his hair and eyebrows
were of a faint primrose colour. He was
great in the matter of pins, and scarfs, and
fancy waistcoats. His father had been a
pugilist, and had fulfilled the ordinary fate of
gentlemen of his profession, who, being first
over trained, are afterwards not trained at all,
and, settling down in a public-house to enjoy
the opium cum dignitary of their lives, take to

drinking, and so sink to an unheroic close.
With such an ancestry — it might be invidious
to trace it further — Mr. James Groves might
naturally be regarded as an authority on
sporting matters. Many matches, of all sorts,
and for amounts large and small, were made
in his house, and the Spotted Dog was indeed
the chief rendezvous of the sporting contingent
in London. I have indicated that Mr. Groves
was not by nature intended for a place in
written romance or tragedy. But one man in
his life plays many parts. The heavy villain
of real life has little in common with his
prototype of the lending-library and the theatre.
Poor old King Lear lets you know, when you
spend an hour with him, that the convulsions
of a kingdom have brought about the hanging
of the court fool along with other matters.
Fate pitchforks people about in an inexplicable
way, giving this foolish youngster a place ina
tragedy, and that venerable philosopher a
part in a farce.

It befell that on the morning of the day on
which Frank Fairholt wandered in desperation
on to Hampstead Heath, and stood there
lonely and half-mad in the rain, Mr. James
Groves arose and adorned himself with much

jewellery ; and drove in a high dog-cart, in
the society of two congenial spirits, to the
Spaniard's Inn a hostel known to fame, and
celebrated in the fiction of that chaste and
elegant author, the late Lord Lytton. Here
the trio bestowed the high-stepping steed and
the dog-cart, and, after refreshing themselves
with certain liquids, they took their unostentatious
way to the house of a gentleman in the
neighbourhood. This gentleman lived for no
other end than ' sport,' and was one of those
peculiarly constituted people who find their
keenest pleasure in witnessing the combats of
the lower animals. That is the formula. But
for fear of misconstruction, I should have preferred
to say the higher animals. The egotism
of humanity shall, however, be respected ; and
although I have my own opinion as to the
relative values of this gentleman's life and
those of the rats, dogs, and birds he induced
to slay each other, there is no need to impress
it on my reader.

There may have been perhaps a score of
sporting gentlemen around the cockpit when
our trio arrived at it. The brutal restrictions
of British law even in those days were extended
to the manly sport of cock-fighting, and considerable

care was taken by the gentleman at
whose house the present ' main ' was held, to
shroud their pleasure in the profoundest secrecy.
No interruption befell the refined enjoyment
of the day. Mr. James Groves, an admitted
authority upon the matter in hand, found many
people who were rash enough to bet with him,
and having netted a considerable sum of
money, was in unusually high feather. When
the main was over, and the greater part of the
witnesses had quietly dispersed, Mr. Groves
and his friends stayed and had luncheon with
their host. In the course of the luncheon, Mr.
Groves launched out in enthusiastic praises of
the high dog-cart — which was a new product
of the art of Long Acre — and of the high-stepping
mare, which had been purchased by
the lamented Groves senior, a notable judge
of horse-flesh, and was famed for having repeatedly
trotted a mile in some quite incredibly
small number of seconds. These things to
hear did the host of Groves Junior seriously
incline, and being blessed with the two things
which Groves Junior most admired in others
money and credulity, namely — burned to
possess the marvel of a dog-cart and the
high-stepping mare of fabulous achievement.

This flame of desire being artfully fanned by
Mr. Groves's friends, and Mr. Groves himself
declaring with much emphasis that he would
sooner be boiled alive than part with either of
those his properties, the host determined upon
an ocular inspection of them, and despatched
his own groom to the inn, with orders to bring
the matchless mare and unprecedented dogcart
round. This done, he inspected them
both with the aspect of a profound connoisseur,
and, by way of establishing his own cunning
in the matter of horse-flesh and dog-carts,
admired the pair so highly that Mr. Groves was
at length compelled, with many sounding asseverations
of his sorrow, to part with them at something
like twice their highest value. A formal
receipt was drawn up and signed, a cheque
handed over, and the transfer was complete.

And now said Mr. Groves, ' how am I
a-going' to get 'one, my pippins ? '

This query accorded well with the host's
simple ideas of humour, and he laughed loud
and long. Mr. Groves, with great geniality
joined in the laughter, but his friends, who had
not especially profited by this transaction,
relucted/ as the Great Essayist puts it, at the
idea of walking home.

VOL. 11. G

1 I can put two of you fellers up here,' said
the master of the house, ' but I can't find room
for all three of you.'

Mr. Groves had an important engagement
at a most absurdly early hour in the morning,
and must go home that night. Would the
host let his groom drive him over ? — ' No, he
wouldn't,' said the host, and added humorously,
' Let him walk. It would do his legs
good.'

c I'll tell you what we'll do, Grove,' said
one of Mr. Groves's friends. ' Bobby and
mell stop here to-night ; but we'll walk with
you as far as the top of the Spaniard's Lane,
and there you're bound to be able to get an
'hackney coach, you know.'

This programme was accepted ; and in the
lowering dusk the three set off together.
They had not gone far when the rain began
to pelt down sharply, and they took refuge
at the inn. The rain rather increasing than
failing in force, after the space of an hour
passed in the consumption of alcoholic liquors,
Mr. Groves announced himself as ' getting' a
beetle peckish,' and proposed a steak with
onions. His companions, who were pretty
generally willing to eat or drink at any man's

expense, fell in readily with his views, and
another hour went by. By this time none
of the three felt at all inclined to move.

You landed a bit on the main, didn't you,
Bobby ? ; asked Mr. Groves from his side the
fireplace.

Five whimsies his friend responded sententiously.


What did you fetch out of the pit ? ' asked
Mr. Groves of his other companion.

Oh said he, carelessly, stirring his grog
as he spoke, and sipping it, ' I won about
twelve pound.'

I don't quite know what I won,' said
Mr. Groves ; ' I'll see.' And suiting the
action to the word, he drew his chair upto
the table, and produced a little chamois-leather
bag containing gold and notes, and
throwing this on the table, where it fell with
a pleasant muffled jingle, he began to count
its contents.

Whilst the gambling, horse-chanting, cockfighting
trio sat over whisky-and-water at the
hospitable fireside of The Spaniards, one solitary
and melancholy figure plashed about the
roads of the heath in the darkness and the

rain. For poor Frank, the pillars of the
world were shaken, and chaos had come again
because of the want of a trifle less than a
hundred pounds. Emotions in a nature like
his are very changeable, and he had now
come to a blind, angry rage at Fate, who
had thus cruelly waylaid him. How bitter
and how hard it was, you may partly guess.
His penitence had been sincere, his reform
earnest, his struggle with the worse half of
himself severe and constant. He had striven
honestly after virtue, had banished his besetting
sin of idleness, and had crowned himself publicly
with hard-earned laurels ; and here and
now, in the very flush of his triumph and the
confidence of his hope, his dead vice and folly
came to life again, and laid their hands thus
heavily upon him. He saw father and brother
and lover broken-hearted ; his delicate vanity
heard already how the town rang with his
disgrace. Then he could bear the thought
of these things no longer ; he fell into a
dull desperation, and in that mood tramped
on through mud and rain until he came
upon a gleam of light, and seeing that he
stood before an inn, bethought him suddenly
of how tired and wet he was, and so entered.

He called for a glass of hot brandy-and-water,
and threw his wet coat and dripping wide-awake
over a chair by the fire.

Will you walk in here, sir ? ' said the
landlord, throwing open a door.

Frank accepted the invitation ; and entering
the room, saw three men standing at a
table, two of them laughing, and one somewhat
ruefully regarding a small pile of gold
and two or three notes which lay before
him.

Well, now, how much is it, Jemmy ?' asked
one of them,

Why, it's ninety-eight pound ten said the
rueful man, with an exclamation which need
not be chronicled.

Ninety-eight pounds ten? Those words
had been ringing in Frank's ears all day.
After his exposure to the rain, and his long
tramp in the darkness, he felt a little dazed
and dream-like on his sudden entry to the
warmth and light of the room. The sough
of the wind, and the plash of the rain, and
the noise of his own monotonous footsteps
were yet in his ears. He was scarcely certain
that his fancy had not played some trick
upon him in the repetition of this haunting

phrase. But he had barely seated himself
when the man repeated it ruefully. ' I'd have
bet twenty to one,' he said, ' that there was
a hundred pound there.'

1 Well,' said one of his companions, ' you
did bet two to one as there was a hundred
pound there. Hand over a couple of sons.
Thanked.'

Hand over said the third man, laughingly.


The loser paid both claimants from his
purse. ' I'll carry this here ninety - eight
pound ten home as I got it, anyway,' he
said, and raked the money towards him, and
bestowed it in his chamois-leather bag. ' Oh,
you fellers can grin as much as you like ;
but I've done a pretty good day's work, takin'
it altogether. I've made pretty near a couple
o' hundred out o' that little bargain, my boys,
and I pulled ninety-eight pound ten out of
the cock-fight — '

1 Sh ! ' said another, looking across at
Frank.

Mr. Groves was somewhat inflamed by
liquor, and chose to be very loud and lordly
over this interruption. ' Look here, Mr.
Sh ! " ' said he, with semi-drunken importance,

mimicking his companion. ■ I'm taking
it for granted as I'm a-talkin' among gentlemen
; an' if any gentleman overseers me a-
remarking' as I've won ninety-eight ten to-day
on a cock-fight, why, so he may, and welcome.
I don't suppose as anybody here is
a-going to lay a criminal information ; but if
anybody is, why, my name's Jimmy Groves,
and I'm the landlord o' the Spotted Dog in
Bloomsbury, and what I say I stick to.'

1 Oh, all right ! ' said the other, shrugging
his shoulders deprecatingly. ' Say what you
like.'

1 Well,' said Mr. Groves, elaborately desirous
to justify himself, ' I'll leave it with the
gentleman. If a man's won ninety-eight tenon
a cock - fight, and he says so, fair an'
square an' plain, without palaver, mind you,
what's the odds ? I didn't say wheel the
cock-fight was — did I, stupid ? I leave it to
the gentleman — Did I say wheel the cockfight
was, sir ? '

Thus accosted, poor Frank responded that
the gentleman seemed to him to have spoken
most discreetly, and to be admirably worthy
of his high good-fortune. This speech, which
fed the bitterness of his own heart, put Mr.

Groves into a great state of good-humour,
and he besought the great encounter of
the morning, whilst Frank sickened at him.
Whilst he sat there and heard this drunken
cad relate his brutal story, the young man
thought how wild was the fashion in which
Fortune distributed her gifts. Frank looked
at this pimpled and bejewelled young publican,
and felt very bitterly towards him.
This howling drunkard he thought, as he
looked at him, ' has made to-day, by his presence
at that degrading spectacle, the very
sum of money the want of which will be my
ruin at noon to - morrow. One can hardly
believe in Providence in the face of it.'
Frank became half frightened at his own
thoughts, so dark they grew. He called for
more brandy, and drank it ; and then passed
into the outer room, put on his overcoat and
hat, and went out into the darkness and the
rain again. He tramped along slowly, so
wretchedly absorbed that he scarce knew
where he went. He filled and lit his pipe
mechanically, and coming to a gate, threw his
elbows on it, and lounged there unconscious
of the night, or not caring for it, and smoked
as he looked across the gloomy fields.

As he leaned there, he heard loud voices
coming up the lane, startling the dreary night
with tuneless song. We wont go Home till
Morning refused to blend with Aula 1 Lang
Syne and The Bay of Biscay. Frank, half-hoping
that they would go by in company, and
save him from the demon who tempted him,
drew nearer to the hedge at the side of the
gate, and stood still there. The voices and
the footsteps ceased awhile, and then he could
hear the murmurs of conversation. Then two
voices went away, and one came nearer, unmusically
roaring ' For he's a jolly good fellow.'
As the owner of the lonely voice came on and
reeled past the gate, Frank knew him for the
man who had been boasting of his winnings.
That blackguard,' thought Frank, ' has in his
pocket the very money which would save my
whole life. Would it be theft to take it from
him, and send it back when my cheque comes ?
I know who he is, and where he lives. It
would save me, and do him no harm.' Thus
the demon tempted him. ' Bah ! ' said Frank,
I haven't the pluck for it. I can do any
amount of filibustering in fancy, but I let the
chance go by.' Up to that second of time he
had only feared that he might be templed, and

had speculated on what he would do if he were.
Now, as if some irresistible hand impelled him,
he dashed on at full speed after the stumbling
drunkard in front, and coming up with him in
half-a-minute, laid a hand upon him. The
man, supposing it to be one of his late companions,
hiccuped ' Hilloo !'

1 Listen to me ! ■ said Frank.

1 And who are you ? ' asked the other, with
an oath, reeling from beneath Frank's grasp,
and throwing himself into an attitude for
defence.

'lama desperate man,' said Frank. ' You
have money about you that I want. I don't
mean to rob you. I know who you are, and
where you live, and I will send the money
back again to you, but I will have it now.
Give me the bag with ninety-eight pounds ten
in it

Stand off,' said the landlord of the Spotted
Dog, l or I'll blow your brains out ! D'ye
think I travel down a lane like this without
pistols ? '

He made a pretence of feeling in his breast-pocket,
and in that instant Frank sprang upon
him and brought him to the ground. He lay
dead-still, and, with a frantic haste and horror

such as no words can tell, the abandoned
madman searched for the bag, and found it,
and dashed away. He leaped the hedge,
and ran in a blind and maddening terror across
the field. It was not the dread of anything
that might pursue that urged him onward.
His fear dwelt within. His abhorrence of the
deed before it was fairly done was a thing that
language cannot deal with. There is no such
Tophet elsewhere as any man may create
within the depths of his own soul. He was
bound for ever beyond hope of release to
that vile footpad who had just struck down
the helpless man in the road behind, and
he shuddered at that hideous companionship,
and shrank from it with inexpressible
loathing. Such a hopeless gulf arose between
his present self and that happy misery of five
minutes since, that as he ran he sobbed and
wailed to think of it. He had not been running
for twenty seconds when, with an access of
remorse and terror, he stopped, and turned,
and hurled the bag away from him with all
his strength. Then he ran once more like a
madman until breath and strength failed him
together, and he fell to the ground.

When he came to himself, the rain had

ceased, and a watery moon was shining. He
arose weakly, and knew the place in which
he found himself. Like a man in a dream,
he walked homeward, dragging one weary
foot after the other. He was three miles
from the scene of his crime, when a coach came
rumbling by, and he hailed it, and ordered the
coachman to drive him to the square nearest to
his rooms. When he reached them, he found
the house in darkness, except for his own
sitting-room, in which a lamp was burning.
He entered, and was surprised to find nothing
changed. A whole unfathomable gulf of time
lay between him and the hour at which he
had left the place. He looked on his table
for letters, as a phantom returning to the place
known in the flesh might do things once
familiar. He opened them, and regarded their
contents with an almost added misery. All
had been well if he had but suffered that little
trouble patiently. It seemed quite a puny
trouble now in comparison with this awful
companionship with himself, which must be
endured for ever. The decanter of brandy
from which he had poured a glass before going
out was still upon the table. He seized a
tumbler, and helped himself plentifully. Then

he took the lamp into his bedroom, undressed,
and got into bed. The brandy and his fatigue
sent him to sleep, and he lay in heavy forgetfulness
until the sun was high.

He awoke with a sense of rest and ease,
and stretched his arms luxuriously. But
the terror which waited for his awaking
dropped down upon him as swift as light,
and oppressed his soul with anguish. With
a strange automatic exactness, he went through
the usual routine of his toilet, bathed and
dressed, and wound his watch, and then rang
for breakfast, and even ate a little. Next he
called for a cab, and drove to the bank with
Benjamin Hartley's cheque. He opened an
account there, and drew one hundred and fifty
pounds in notes, and a hundred pounds in
gold. It was strange to himself how his
thoughts seemed to float on the surface of
that fiery sea of remorse which lay burning in
him. He looked a little ill and tired, he
thought, when he regarded himself in the glass.
Could such misery look so unconcerned ? he
wondered. Could men carry such tragedies
as his about the town and not declare them
in their looks ? What numberless horrors
there might be in the world, unguessed of!

He drove to Tasker's Place in Acre Buildings,
and found the office boy alone. The lad said
his master had not yet come ; and Frank
waited there, and read the paper the boy gave
him, and read understandingly and with interest,
whilst that vast sea within lay burning
him, and the knowledge of his sin and the
eternal presence of his remorse were with him
all the time. By-and-by a fellow-countryman
of Tasker's came in excitedly, and told the
story of the previous night, and stated that
Tasker had recovered sufficiently from the
first shock of the attack to send for him and
to give him a power of attorney ; and that
he, the fellow-countryman, whose name was
Schmidt, was ready to do any business in
behalf of Mr. Tasker. He had already been
to the police station and received the documents
found upon his friend's person — amongst
them Frank's bill for ninety-eight pounds ten
shillings, which he now delivered. Frank
paid over a hundred pounds in notes, received
his change, put the bill in his pocket-book,
drove home, and there burned that fatal paper.
He sat awhile after this, and then bethinking
him of certain jewels which he had of late
been compelled to pawn, he sought out th e

tickets, and walked to the pawnbroker's and
redeemed them. When he had gone, for the
first time, thither, he had walked shamefacedly
up and down the street in the dusk ; but now,
memory left him no room for any smaller
fear, and he went into the house unconcernedly
and emerged with boldness, with the
recovered rings already upon his fingers. He
returned home, and again sat vacant for a
while, and then rising, took a towel, and looking
carefully over it to see that it was unmarked,
he laid within it the hundred pounds
in gold, and putting it into a cigar-box, sealed
it carefully, using a half-crown as a seal. He
wrapped the box neatly in brown paper, and
putting the parcel into a small travelling-bag,
laid it on one side awhile, and walked the
streets, and met friends and acquaintances,
and talked with them. Some of them remarked
that he looked unwell, and he answered
that he had been a little worried. So
the day passed in idle routine, and the inward
tragedy went on. All ambitions, all purities,
all innocent pleasures and sweet hopes were
dead — drowned in that inward sea of fire. A
score of times when the common vacuities
of the day failed him, the pain of remorse

came with so intense an agony upon him that
he could have cried aloud.

He dined at the old Club. Food and wine
were flavourless. He went home when the
night had fallen, and took up the black
travelling-bag, which bore nothing to indicate
its owner, and walked by devious ways towards
Bloomsbury. In a by-street in Soho he came
upon a ticket-porter, who stood alone at the
door of a little public-house with a pewter
pot in his hand.

Will you do an errand for me ? ' Frank
asked.

Yessir,' said the man, and bustled into
the house with the pewter pot, and returned
wiping his lips.

Take that,' said Frank, ' to the Spotted Dog
in Bloomsbury. Do you know it ? '

1 O yessir,' said the ticket-porter.

Say the gentleman who borrowed it in
Spaniard's Lane last night has sent it back
again.'

1 Any name, sir ? '

No. Yes. Thomson.'

Frank gave the man a shilling, and he
shuffled off. Frank also, bearing his haunting
pain with him, went away, and rambled listlessly

about the streets. Finally, he went
home wearily, and slept a horrible disturbed
sleep, full of awful faces and night-fears unseen,
and sudden gulfs that opened for him, and
seas that drowned him, or floated some ghastly
thing up to him slowly out of the depths.
He arose in the morning, had his bath, and
dressed, and rang for breakfast. The girl
who waited upon him lingered a little.

Do you want anything, Mary ? ' he asked.

Why, no sir,' said the girl. ' But you're
looking very ill yesterday and to-day, Mr.
Fairholt ; and if you'll forgive me for saying
so, sir, I think you'd better see a doctor.'

Everybody had loved the young fellow, and
his kindly generous jollity had enlisted Mary's
sympathies these past two years. He dismissed
her fears lightly ; but she went away
with a shake of the head, to indicate that
she held her own opinion. Frank toyed
languidly with his breakfast for a time, and
then opened the paper. And there out of
the printed page this struck him like a blow —
1 Murder and Robbery in Spaniard's Lane.'

VOL. II. H

HISTORY.

1 War's declared! Hurrah / Come and join us. 1

TVT EITHER Mr. Tasker nor his assailant
gave prospect of early recovery. Tasker
had received a terrible shaking ; and
Closky had been thrown with such force
against the railings of Doctor Brand's house,
that he incurred a severe concussion of the
brain, and made no conscious movement for
many days. With the wide benevolence of
British charity, which falls like the rain of
heaven upon the just and unjust, this man
was nursed as carefully for penal servitude as
if it had been intended to restore him to
lifelong happiness and comfort. The emotions
which agitated Mr. Tasker's bosom when
he recovered his senses and found that
Closky lay in the bed next to him, may in

some measure have retarded recovery ; but
be that as it may, five weeks elapsed before
he was able to leave the hospital walls and
go in pursuit of the friend and compatriot to
whom he had entrusted his affairs. The friend
and compatriot was not to be found. Mr.
Tasker found his place of business in Acre
Buildings closed ; and the inquiries which he
caused immediately to be set on foot resulted
in a discovery. The compatriot had realised
everything realisable, and had disappeared with
the proceeds into space. Detective ingenuity
revealed the fact that the land to which he
had betaken himself was one with which England
had no extradition treaty. Tasker's creditors
were for the most part of his own
people, and had compassion upon him ; and
he with a true Eastern love for jewellery, had
got together in the days of his prosperity a
large collection of gauds of value, the which
he now disposed of as circumstances pressed
him.

When Closky was so far recovered as to
be able to endure with safety the first examination
before a magistrate, he was taken
from the hospital to the police court ; and
Hastings, Benjamin Hartley, and Dr. Brand

met Mr. Tasker there, and gave their evidence.
The prisoner was formally committed
for trial ; and the business being over, Tasker
essayed an appeal to his old employer. Mr.
Hartley would have none of him, and bade
him sternly, if he valued his own freedom, to
speak to him no more. Tasker went away
sadly and disposed of a jewel, and brokenhearted
away drank the proceeds. He
was so crushed, that he made none but the
feeblest efforts to recover his position ;
and he had, moreover, so little will to curb
his old propensities to extravagance, that by
the time the trial came on he was at the
very edge of the gulf of poverty. The counsel
for the prosecution alluded to Tasker's
losses, which he deplored in feeling terms as
the result of the ruffianly and unprovoked
assault of the prisoner. Closky was found
guilty, and sentenced to twelve years' transportation
beyond the seas. Penkridge sat
by Mrs. Closky in court whilst sentence was
passed, and took the poor woman out and
offered her whisky, which was by that time
perhaps the only consolation he knew of.

The necessary attendances at the police court
and at the assizes brought Hastings and Dr.

Brand together. Hastings took a fancy to the
doctor, who returned the young man's liking
cordially. Grief for the death of the dearest
cannot last for ever, and Hastings was growing
reconciled to loss ; but he stood steadfast to
his resolves, and accepted the responsibilities
which his new position threw upon him. Mrs.
Brand would fain have enlisted him in the
cause of Bolter's Rents ; but beyond money
he could be persuaded to give nothing to that
enterprise. The little lady accepted his donation
with reluctance, and would have refused
it outright, but for the thought of that great
ocean of poverty on the shores of which she
now walked so often. All this time the
rumours of war were growing, and Benjamin
Hartley made money as only millionaires make
money when the fate of nations hangs in
the balance. He was much in London negotiating
on 'Change and in the arcana of
Croesus Brothers and others of that golden
breed, for vast coups of financial policy.

One night Will Fairholt walked quietly into
the chambers to which Hastings had recently
removed in King's Bench Walk, Temple, and
where, to keep himself out of harm's way, he
was assiduously reading for the bar. Hastings

sprang eagerly to salute him. ' What brings
you to town ? Have you any news ? '

None,' said Will, shaking his head. ' I am
here on business. The poor old governor is
quite broken, and can attend to nothing.' His
voice quivered as he spoke, and he looked pale
and wretched.

Will, old friend,' said Hastings gently, ' you
are wearing yourself out. It ought to lie more
heavily on me than you ; for though, heaven
knows, I would do anything now to undo
what I did, I know I helped to this miserable
end, and that all your strength went to prevent
it.'

You meant no wrong,' said Will, ' nor I ;
but I'm afraid we all did wrong together.
There is nothing to do but to wait now,
and no hope that waiting will do anything
for us.'

The scoundrel who ruined him has met
with his deserts,' said Hastings ; ' and there's
some comfort any way.'

1 Little comfort,' said Will, shaking his head.
■ Hastings,' he added suddenly, ' I must tell
somebody, or I shall go mad. Before this
terrible thing happened, and poor Frank disappeared,
he and I were rivals. And I feel

sometimes so hideous a temptation to be glad
that he is gone and out of my way, that it is
killing me.' Saying this, he buried his hands
and leaned above the table.

A morbid dread of a foolish shadow, Will,
believe me his friend said kindly. ' I know
you better. A casuist torment, which a man of
your conscientious and sensitive nature is safe
to create for himself as often he can. No, no,
Will. Don't fight phantoms of that sort any
longer. Turn daylight on them. You are
worn and tired just now. Come into the
streets, and let the wind blow the cobwebs
from your brain'' He clapped his companion
on the shoulder.

Will arose without a word, and they went
out together. They passed up the silent walk,
and through the narrow way beyond it, and
came out at Temple Bar, where they turned
westward. As they passed the western church,
there broke upon the air the sound of a scattered
cheer, and then another and another. A
chance acquaintance of Hastings' came by at
that moment arm-in-arm with a friend, and
turning at the sound of the cheering, lifted
his hat and shouted ' Hurrah ! '

What's the matter, Ward ? ' asked Hastings,

laying his hand upon the arm of the man who
cheered. ' Is war declared ? '

'Hilloo!' cried the other, turning round.
That you, Hastings ? Now, old man, you
always said that if there was any fighting to
be done, you'd get a commission. Go for it.
Now's your time.'

Is war declared ? ' Hastings asked again.

1 Yes,' roared the other in reply. ' Wars
declared ! Hurrah ! Come and join us. We
shall sail in less than a week.'

The street was full of excited people.
Stranger questioned stranger. Men who had
never seen each other before shook hands
upon the news, and cheered. Some doubted,
some denied, but all were wild at the prospect,
and the general heart beat with a fierce
joy. Rickety clerks and pale shorten felt
the blood tingle in their thin veins, and were
ready to march and fight and die. Most
people after this lapse of a quarter of a century
have come to believe that the terrible
and splendid crusade of '54 was a huge
blunder; but the large soul of England
was throbbing to the old heroic music
then, and beat to another measure than that
mean tune of 'jj, which still jars on our ears.

It was the old great mission on which the
sons of this Mother of the Nations were
going — to lay the oppressor low, and to succour
them that had no other helper, and to
hold Europe clean of tyranny. A great purpose,
and howsoever it failed or fell, carried
through with a great spirit. Ay ! and even
you — pale showman and rickety clerk — had a
right to cheer in such a cause ; and it was
well for you that your thin blood ran warm
and tingled, and well for the land that bore
you that your hearts responded to her call.

Hastings' chance acquaintance went eastward,
cheering still, and left the two friends
facing each other, pale and excited.

I shall volunteer,' said Hastings, catching
Will by the arm, and walking on rapidly.

1 I wish I could,' said Will sighing. He
caught his breath at the thought. No ; it
was not possible. His father was dying. He
could not leave him to bear the burden of his
griefs alone.

At last,' said Hastings, hurried by the excitement
of the time into forgetfulness of his
companion's sorrows and his own — c At last
the world had something in it for a man todo.
I'm told they fight — these fellows ; and

it won't be an easy business. But to think,
Will, to think that at last we are let loose
with leave to pull that bragging bully down.
Ca ira, ca ira, ca iras he sang under his
breath, and marched on wildly, with Will
silent at his side.

Hastings went to work next morning ; and
before Will Fairholt left town, rushed in upon
him with news that he was certainly going to
the Crimea. Will heard him sadly, but congratulated
him with all his heart, and envied
him not a little. All he could do was to go
home, and make the poor old father's last
days a little lighter than they could be without
him. And he had within him — or so he
held it — a greater enemy than the Czar of all
the Russia could bring against him. So when
the time came, he went back home, and soothed
the old man's fretful grief, and buried his own,
and lived in outward melancholy quiet, and
prayed hard, poor soul, and did his duty, and
found no rest.

When Frank read that terrible heading to
the paragraph in the morning paper, he sat
still for a moment, stunned. Then he smoothed
the paper out mechanically, and folded it, and

read the hard dry narrative through. It ran
thus : —

Early yesterday morning, two men, named
respectively Isaac Shall and John Turner,
were proceeding to work, when they were
arrested by the sight of a well-dressed figure
which lay prostrate in the mud in Spaniard's
Lane, at a distance of about three hundred
yards from the Spaniard's Inn. The figure
was that of a man of about twenty-five years
of age. He was quite dead, and had apparently
lain there all night, for his clothes were
saturated with mud and rain. Letters were
found upon him, addressed to James Groves
at the Spotted Dog Tavern, Bloomsbury. Inquiries
were at once set on foot ; and the
deceased was immediately identified as the
landlord of that well-known hostel. All that
is known of this tragic incident is that, at a
late hour on the previous evening, the deceased
left the Spaniards Inn in the society
of two friends, who returned almost at once,
and shortly afterwards left the house for that
of a gentleman in the neighbourhood, with
whom they spent the night. These gentlemen
agree in stating that the deceased was in a
condition to take care of himself. When the

body was found, the head rested upon a large
and jagged stone, upon which he had evidently
fallen backwards. Except for the
wound thus produced, which was clearly the
cause of death, there were no marks of violence
upon his person. A pocket in the breast of
his overcoat was turned inside out, and a
chamois-leather bag, known to have contained
the sum of ninety-eight pounds ten shillings
in notes and gold, had been abstracted. The
police on visiting the spot believed that they
could discern evidences of a brief struggle,
and their attention being called to a breach
in the hedge near at hand, they succeeded in
tracing footsteps for some distance. The
most singular fact in the whole of this mysterious
and tragic business is, that the bag
above alluded to was found at the side of the
field, at some distance from the track left by
the footsteps of the criminal, and that a purse
containing a considerable sum of money was
found on the person of the deceased. The
police have as yet no clue to the perpetrator
of this apparently purposeless outrage.'

After this came another paragraph, headed
Mysterious Restitution ; ' which set forth
that a ticket-porter had delivered a package

containing a sum of one hundred pounds in
gold at the Spotted Dog Tavern, with the
statement that the gentleman who borrowed it
on the previous evening in Spaniard's Lane
had sent it back again.

All this, understanding it quite clearly,
Frank read over, and then laid the paper down.
He put on a velvet wide awake, and left the
house, and walked quietly away. Nobody paid
him any unusual regard, and he walked on, not
knowing where he went, and not caring. He
passed through Uxbridge and the two
Wycombes ; and night fell as he entered on
that lonely stretch of country which lies northward
on the Oxford Road. He had not
tasted food or drink, although he had put
thirty miles between himself and home since
he started. Nor did he feel any want of food
or drink, or think of anything but the one consuming
terror which dwelt with him. The
inexorable terrible past set its pillar of cloud
by day before him, and its pillar of fire by
night. All day long the sordid and hideous
crime of which he had been guilty enacted
itself in shadowy form before him, and in the
night in glared it fiery lines. Fire seemed
within and without him as the weary automatic

feet went on, hour after hour, hour after hour,
until, before the eastern skies were grey, he
sank from sheer exhaustion, and lay until the
sun aroused him from dreams which enacted
his crime with horrible iteration. He rose
again, and once more the automatic feet
carried him on. Where he had lain on the
bare road, he was mud from head to heel.
His eyes were bleared with the sleepless
agony of his soul, and his knees bent beneath
him. Country people passing him stared and
laughed and pointed, believing him to be tipsy.
He scarcely saw them as he staggered by.
Coming to a little village inn, he entered, and
called for bread-and-cheese and ale. He
tendered a sovereign, and was going away
without the change, when the host ran after
him and placed it in his hand. He took it
like a man in a dream, and roamed on again
with all his senses clouded by the action of
the food he had taken, by the fatigue he
had undergone and the aching pains which
followed his rest upon the muddy road. Yet
the cloudy presentment of his tragedy was
still before him in the cloud, and the dry
fire of remorse burned on within him. And
he knew that though he lived beyond the

uttermost span of human years the fire would
burn.

Thus with horrible automatic step, without
volition of his own, he walked on slowly and
more slowly, until he reached the little town of
Thane. It was with no thought of escaping
the detecting hand of justice that he avoided
the better sort of inns. Exhausted nature
cried aloud for food and sleep ; but he went
wearily about the town until he came upon a
little public-house in a by-street, and ate coarse
food there ravenously and without relish, and
then mounted the rickety stairs, and threw
himself upon the uninviting bed and slept.
Through the dark hollows of the night his
dread walked with him, nameless, indefinable,
full of unspeakable fear, unrecognised. When
he awoke, he knew the companion of his sleep ;
and first as an added terror, and then as a first
faint gleam of hope, and then again as an added
terror came the thought, ' I shall go mad ! '

The landlord and the landlady of the place
had been discussing him, and when he
descended the rickety stairs in the morning,
the landlord questioned him.

4 Might I make bold to ask where you're
again, mate ? ' asked the landlord.

Frank had not thought of going anywhere,
but had started on that earnest of all vain
enterprises, the attempt to outward himself.
But he answered ' Liverpool thinking that
would do as well as another place, and that
he would go there.

You ain't a seafaring' man ? ' said the landlord,
pursuing his inquiry.

No,' said Frank,

1 Lookin' out for a job anywhere ? '

1 No,' said Frank again.

Got money, maybe ? ' said the landlord.

I have enough to pay your bill,' Frank
answered, weary of the questions, but scarcely
resenting them.

That's right enough,' returned the host ; ' a
man's business is a man's business, and your
ain't mine, and mine ain't your. But I suppose
you can guess as it looks odd to see a
man like you a-coming into a place like this.'
Frank returned no answer, though the landlord
waited. By-and-by he went on again.
You've been on the loose, I reckon ? '

1 Suppose I have,' Frank returned, lifting his
eyes for the first time. ' That gives you no
right to question me. What do I owe you ? '

That's reasonable enough,' said the landlord

; ' but a man like you can't help known'
as it's suspicious-like, don't you see — '

Will that pay you ? ' Frank asked, laying
five shillings on the table.

1 For a gentleman as doesn't want no questions
asked, and doesn't want to be interfered
with,' said the landlord, ' I think an extra five
bob ud be the handsome thing.'

Frank laid down two other half-crowns, and
went his way without further question. The
landlord looked after him, jingling the ten
shillings in his hand as he stood. His wife
looked over his shoulder at the retreating limping
figure. ' Poor young gentleman ! ' said she ;
1 1 wonder what's wrong with him ? He's in
some sort o' trouble.'

1 Ah ! ' said the landlord, shaking his head
with an air of prophecy, ' we shall hear of him
again. He's done something;' and with this
sage conclusion, the landlord walked indoors,
and threw the ten shillings into the till.

I thought he was a gentleman,' said the
landlady, ' directly I set eyes on him, for all the
dirt on his clothes.'

Anybody could ha' seen that,' said the landlord,
' if he'd had a heavy launch o' mud on
him.'

VOL. II. I

Frank went onward in the old mood. There
was a gap between his common life and this
which his mind almost failed to bridge ; and he
looked back dimly and with a lack of interest
not easy to understand, on a happy life which
somebody else seemed to have led a long longtime
ago. And all this time he never said to
himself, ' I am miserable,' or ' My punishment
is heavy,' or had any really conscious form of
thought at all, except for instants of time, when
Memory stabbed him, and then he always fell
back into the dreamy horror which had before
possessed him. Late that night it rained, and
he was out upon a lonely road with only one
light in sight, and that shone ruby red in the
darkness. The road led him towards this
light, and the telegraph wires made a mourning
noise in the wind as he plashed along below
them. Losing the red light now and then
among the trees as the road twisted, he found
himself suddenly below it, and near a railway
arch. A set of wooden steps led towards the
rustic railway station, and not knowing why, he
stood before them in the rain until the far-off
roar and whistle of an approaching train
reached his ears. Still scarcely knowing why,
he mounted the wet steps, and faced a porter

who was stamping down the platform in a
gleaming tarpaulin cloak.

'Going by this train?' said porter. 'She
doesn't stop till Rugby.'

Give me a ticket for Rugby,' Frank answered.
It mattered nothing where he went,
and he allowed chance to drift him.

The train came lumbering up, and he entered
one of the carriages. But for himself it was
empty; and as he sat there the monotonous
clank of carriage and engine sent him to sleep,
and for an hour he was at peace. But Remorse
stood ready for him with that Nessus cloak of
torment which she carries, and wrapped him
in the fiery shroud when he awoke. So in
the rain, he turned into the streets of the
familiar town. He had spent the happiest
hours of his life, the happiest years there, as
many hundreds of English gentlemen had done
before, and have done since his day. And ashe
walked about the silent rainy streets, the
magic of things familiar laid a hand upon him,
until recalling what he had been, he was seized
with such a passion of self-pity, that he laid his
head down upon a garden-wall and wept as if
his heart would break. As if his heart would
break ? His heart was broken.

Though pity for himself unsealed his tears —
and few men ever weep tears of real passion
but at the bidding of their own sorrows, and
not another's — his soul, unclouded for a
moment, looked back, and saw all whom he
had left and lost who loved him, and he wept
for their sakes and for the tears which they
would weep. And thereby — as I would fain
believe — God's hand of healing for the first
time touched that sinful and suffering soul.
Shine out, Repentance, with angelic eyes, sweet
opposite of harsh Remorse, shine out ; and lead
us to a purer stream than Lethe's, which is all
Remorse dare pray for !

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

The mystery in which he moved was unforgotten and
unforgetable.

'things went smoothly with me at
Hartley Hall for many days. Maud
was my tutor and my chief companion, and
was still the same sad and gentle creature as
at first. I learned something of her secret
from herself and something from Sally ; and
looking back on myself at that time, I am inclined
to believe that I knew the melancholy
story of her lost lover as well as I know it now.
It was Sally's one romance ; and being at that
time of a somewhat romantic turn myself, we
fell continually upon it in our talk. Sally was
especially fertile in suppositions as to the
whereabouts of the lost lover, over whom so
singular a mystery hung. She was sanguine of

his return, and of Maud's final happiness ;
and sometimes amused herself and me by wild
imaginations in which she pictured his coming
back in a coach-and-four with outriders.
After these flights, a reaction generally took
place, and she cried, and had mournful
thoughts of what should happen if Bob should
disappear.

At the close of one of these conversations,
which had wound up in the common way, a
housemaid tapped at the door of my room,
and asked for Mrs. Troman ; for by that name
Sally was known to the household.

There's a person at the back wants to see
you,' said the housemaid.

1 What sort of a person ? ' asked Sally.

In black clothes, with a sandy beard on,'
the housemaid answered.

Say I'll be down directly, if you please,'
said Sally ; and the housemaid departed smiling.
My faithful friend gripped me and kissed
me, and laughed and wiped her eyes, blushing
all the time, and said, as she smoothed her
hair with her fingers, ' Master Johnny, I believe
it's Bob.'

There was something so comic and so
pleased in Sally's fluttered expectation, and I

was so glad at the thought of seeing Bob again,
that I laughed and clapped my hands. Sally
laughed and clapped her hands ; and we went
down stairs together. There, in a paved yard
behind the kitchen stood Bob, attired in
funereal, holiday black, and a tall hat, and
white thread gloves — like an undertaker's mute.
He saluted Sally by one nod of the head,
sideways, and said to me, ' Well, young
master,' as though he had seen me yesterday.
I shook hands with him, and asked him how
he did, to which he responded, ' Their's
nothing' the matter wi' me, so fur as / know ; '
and then nodded his head at Sally again. He
was so very solemn, that I began to think he
had some bad news to communicate ; but just
as the fear crossed me, he grinned very broadly
and winked at Sally, relapsing instantly, and
looking as solemn as before. The wink and
the grin were accompanied by a backward jerk
of the head ; and the three taken all together
seemed intended as an invitation to ' a more
removed ground.' That Sally accepted them
in that sense, was evident ; for with a brief
injunction to us both to wait a moment, she
retired into the house, and presently appeared
with my cap, and a bonnet for herself. Then

we all walked solemnly into the kitchen-garden,
and Bob after his own manner unfolded his
purpose. He spoke with a very broad Staffordshire
accent and with great deliberation.

1 Have yo heard any thin' about the war we
am groin' to have wi' Roosia ? '

I have heard tell of it,' Sally answered.

1 Do you remember Bill Since, Becky
Since's brother ? ?

Of course, I do,' said Sally.

He's 'listed for it,' said Bob, turning his
head round slowly in his high shirt collar,
and rolling his eyes on Sally, who said, ' Dear
me ! ' in a tone of some distress.

Yis/ said Bob, still keeping a solemn eye
on Sally across his collar ; ' he's 'listed, an'
he ain't the only one as '11 'list. Mind that.'

'No?' said Sally, in a questioning way.

1 No,' said Bob, biting at the word ; ' he
ain't. I know a feller as wort be long behind
him, if things ain't altered. I know a feller
as '11 goo back to-night, an' 'list to-morrer,
if things dort get along more prosperous-like.'

1 Dear me ! ' said Sally, in a tone of disinterested
assent.

Yis/ said Bob, ruffling his beard against
his collar, and still keeping his eyes on Sally ;

I know a cove as '11 be off to-morrer, if
things ain't altered. An' what's more, he
ain't fur off.'

Really now, said Sally, with an eminently
artificial toss of the head ; * you don't say so.'

I say so,' Bob returned with great gravity.
Good-bye, Sally.' But Sally released my
hand, and stood before him, crying with an
hysterical break in her voice, ' Oh no, Bob ;
you couldn't ! '

1 1 could,' said Bob, stolidly ; ' an' what's
more, I wull, if things ain't altered. I ain't
groin' to be kep' dangling' no longer. Settle
it how you like it. Say " Yis," an I'll stop.
Say "No," an' I'll be off an' 'list for the
Russian war to-morrer.'

O Bob ! ' cried Sally, ' how can you be so
cruel ? Think of the child.'

I've done little else but think o' the chile
the last five year,' said Bob a little sulkily.

When things had gone so far, I understood
the drift of the conversation perfectly. Sally
would not leave me to marry Bob, and Bob was
making it a question of choice between us.

Why I asked in a sudden inspiration,
couldn't Bob come and be a carpenter in the
village ? Biggs is dead.'

1 Biggs is dead, is he, young master?' Bob
responded.

Sally, who was on her knees hugging me
for the suggestion, looked up, and explained
that H-isfg's now defunct had been the village

00 o

carpenter ; and that since his demise there
was nobody of the trade nearer than Wretchedly.


1 Will that suit you ? ' said Bob.

Sally swiftly and slily snatched loose one
of my boot-laces as she knelt beside me, and
whilst she tied it up with her face very close
to the ground, with only her red ears to show
how much she was blushing, made answer,
Yes ; it'll suit me very well, Bob, if it'll
suit you.'

1 That's all right, then,' said Bob ; and
Sally, rising from her knees, adjusted my
collar and set my cap with unnecessary exactness
; and finally, having kissed me in
such a vigorous fashion as to rumple my
collar about my ears and knock my cap off,
she fell to wiping her eyes with her apron.
The matter being thus happily adjusted,
they began to discuss ways and means ina
calm and business-like fashion, over the
remembrance of which I have laughed a hundred

times. But Bob had a surprise in store
for us, which turned out to be eventually a
greater surprise than he intended. When the
time had come for him to leave — for he had
availed himself of an excursion to the Cathedral
city fifteen miles away, to get a cheap
journey over here, and was bound to catch
the homeward train — he pulled out something
from his pocket. It was carefully wrapped
up in brown paper, and after the removal
of numerous foldings it revealed itself as a
gold watch with a handsome chain attached.

1 1 meant yo to ha' this,' said Bob, ' whether
yo said "Yis" or u No." An' now I've got a
bone to pick wi' you. Why dissent [didst
not] thee call o' me when yo come down last
time along o' young master here ; eh ? '

1 Well, Bob'" said Sally taking the watch
and chain, wonderingly, from his outstretched
hand, ' I ought to ha come, I know, but we
was in such trouble, an' in such a hurry.'

1 Trouble,' he repeated. ' What about ? '

1 Why,' she answered, ' there's a poor young
gentleman from over yonder' — she pointed
towards Island Hall — ' as disappeared sudden-like,
nobody known' why, an' Master Johnny
saw him close by mother's cottage, in clothes

like a working' man's ; and we went there withe
poor gentleman's brother to see if we
could hear anything about him.'

Whilst she spoke Bob regarded her with a
look of wonder so remarkable, that she was
impelled to take him by the hands ; and they
stood so, looking into each other's eyes for
half a minute.

1 Why, the poor creature,' said Bob at last. * O
Sally, Sally, yo ought to ha come to me. We
might ha' found him. He's gone to the war.'

What does the man mean ? ' cried Sally,
looking terrified and eager at once.

Do yo remember, Sally, the night as yo left
along o' Johnny an' the lady as come for him ? '

Yes, yes,' she said, and waited.

1 That very night, as I was walking' o'er
the Waste, I found a mon i' the road, pretty
nigh dead. I thought at must as he was
drunk, but I picked him up, an' found ashe
seemed nigh dying'. So I carries him whom
wi' me ; an' mother, her gets him to bed, an'
he lies their for pretty nigh three weeks wi'
rheumatic fever. He was dressed like a
workman, but his hands were all o'er wi'
rings an' as pretty as a lady's. Well, one
morning' when we gets up we finds him gone,

an' that their watch an' chain on the table,
an* just a scrap o' paper wrote all shaky
like, saying', " Then you ; keep it for your
trouble." '

'It must be him!' cried Sally. 'But what
do you mean by saying he's gone to the
war ?'

Why,' said Bob, speaking to the full as
eagerly as she, 'Joe Brittle come in one night
when he was lying' their, and see him abed i'
the kitchen, an' about five weeks later he
went into Brummagem o' business, an' see
him again with a recruiting' sergeant, an'
snowed him at once.'

'Come to Mr. Hartley said Sally, laying
hands upon him once more — ' come to Mr.
Hartley. He'd give a thousand pounds for
this news.'

We passed into the house. In the eagerness
of my interest, I followed Sally to the
door of Uncle Ben's private room, furnished
like no other apartment I had ever seen
at that time — in the fashion of a business-office.
There Sally poured out an incoherent
breathless story, finishing up by placing the
watch in Mr. Hartley's hands.

Uncle Ben rose in a state of great excitement.

Bring; the man here at once,' he said. —
Tell me what you know about this feller,
Johnny.'

I told him briefly what I knew of Sally's
sweetheart. There was very little to tell ;
but before I had well done, Sally, in defiance
of all decorum, came bursting into the room
with Bob behind her. The examination lasted
but a few minutes. I was sent from the room
whilst Bob told his story, and being called
back again, told mine. Uncle Ben sat down
at a table, and wrote one or two hasty lines,
telling Sally to ring the bell meanwhile. He
gave an order that a horse should be saddled,
and that the groom should ride at speed to
Island Hall with a note for Mr. William Fair-holt.
Then we were all dismissed for the
time, and as we left the room Uncle Ben took
the watch to the window, where he examined
it with great closeness.

I should be satisfied if I could convey only
a hint of the manner in which this reappearance
of the stranger whom I had seen beside
the clay pit affected me. I speak of this renewal
of my memories of him as a reappearance
advisedly, and without exaggeration. He
came back to my mind as clearly as though I

had only seen him yesterday, with all the sense
of mystery which belonged to him, and all the
terror he inspired. And in a way which is
common to imaginative children I began infancy
to associate my life with his, until for
the time I was absolutely certain that by me,
or in some occult manner through me, and
only by or through me, the mystery would be
cleared, and the lost man discovered. It
would have been stranger than it was, if my
enforced association with his history had not
seemed strange. I had been deeply impressed
by the discovery of his identity when I went
down with Sally to our old home in the Black
Country, but this last reiteration of my own
part in the story made the mark deeper. I will
not forestall the tale I have to tell, yet it seems
to me now not less marvellous than it seemed
then. I, a child playing neglected in the
Black Country, encounter, by what seems the
wildest accident of chance, a relative of mine
who for some inexplicable reason has thrown
away the most brilliant hopes and snapped
the promise of a happy life in two. Three
days later, by what seemed but an accident
of chance, I find myself, not knowing it, settled
in the home he has for ever deserted. Further

on, lest I should lose the remembrance of his
face, he appears again, is identified, and so
stamps his own portrait on my brain, that I
could not fail to know him if I saw him among
ten thousand. Yet again I find the very garments
he wore when I first saw him, and with
them the link between the well-dressed and
the ill-dressed stranger. Yet again through
my migration here, I draw my old nurse's
sweetheart to the only place in the world
where the story he had to tell could have been
even of the faintest service.

Henceforth Frank Fairholt and the mystery
in which he moved were unforgotten and
unforgetable.

Whilst I still pondered these things in my
childish mind, Cousin Will, with the groom
a little way behind him, came pounding along
the avenue on horseback, and made straight
for the hall-door, as if he would have ridden
into the house. He pulled up within a yard
or two of the steps, dismounted, and hurried
in. He was closeted with Uncle Ben for perhaps
a quarter of an hour, when Bob and Sally
were sent for, and I was left alone. Before
another quarter of an hour had gone by, he
was away again. It was arranged that a bed

should be found for Bob, and that he should
leave on the morrow. I was not as a rule
allowed to go about the servants' quarters, but
on this occasion nobody interfered with me,
and Bob and Sally being formally invited
to the housekeeper's room, I invited myself
thither, and we spent the evening together.
The talk was all of young Mr. Fairholt and
Miss Maud ; and the housekeeper described
to us how clever and how handsome young
Mr. Fairholt was, and what a favourite in
the county. She was a very stately old
lady, was the housekeeper, and I had an
idea that she would have rather looked down
on Bob on common occasions, and that it
was only the interest she felt in the singular
story of which his narrative formed a part,
which induced her so to condescend to him
at all. But Bob was very respectful, and
very communicative. He remembered all the
things his mother had told him about the
stranger's broken sayings in his illness, and
repeated some of them, which left no doubt
upon our minds, and could leave no doubt
upon the mind of any, of the sick man's
identity. When the time came for me to goto
bed, I thought all these things over and
VOL. 11. K

drifted into sleep with the strangest mixture
in my mind of myself and them. In my
dreams they mingled again with all the figures
I had known. On all these confused and intricate
fancies a red light seemed to fall, and
I came back to my old bedroom again, and
heard a voice say brokenly, ' It was God's
hand that brought him here.' Looking up,
I saw Maud and Uncle Ben regarding me
together. There were traces of new tears
upon her face, but there was a light of hope
upon it too, by which it seemed almost transfigured.
Uncle Ben put out his hand and
stroked my hair when he saw I was awake, and
bade me go to sleep again. They both kissed
me, and went away quietly with the lamp, leaving
the suffering and hope of Maud's face
somehow present with me. They touched me
vaguely, yet keenly, into tears ; and before I fell
asleep again I knelt in my bed and prayed that
she might be comforted, and her hope fulfilled.

I was present on the morrow at another
conference between Sally and her lover, in the
course of which it was definitely arranged that
Bob, who had saved a little money, should
migrate to the village, bringing his mother
with him, and that as soon as it could be seen

how things were likely to turn out, they should
be married, allowing always that the prospect
seemed favourable. Before he went away in
the afternoon, Uncle Ben sent for him, and
after being absent for about five minutes, Bob
returned, with a beaming countenance.

I took the freedom, like,' said Bob, ' of
tellin ' of him, as a man may say, as I was a
coming' here to settle down ; and he gin me
this.' Opening his hand, he displayed two or
three gold coins cautiously, and closed his
fingers over them again. ' He seems to be
wonderful pleased at having' come across anybody
as snowed the poor young gentleman ;
and the young gentleman's brother is a-going'
down wi' me to find Joe Brittle, an' see if he
can find the recruiting' sergeant.'

Not long after this, Cousin Will drove up
in the dog-cart ; and Bob taking his place
behind with the groom was whirled away to
the railway station.

Perhaps three weeks later, as nearly as,
after this interval, I can compute the time, Mr.
Fairholt, Cousin Will, and a gentleman whom
I had not seen before, were at Uncle Ben's
table at luncheon. Mr. Fairholt looked greatly
aged, and the irritability of his manner had

notably increased. Everybody treated him
with an air of pitiful respect, and I thought I
noticed that he resented this. The gentleman
whom I had not seen before had blue eyes, and
a complexion like a lady's. He wore his hair
rather long, and it was parted in the middle,
and golden, like a girl's. He had a long silky
light-coloured moustache, with which he played
with delicate and much jewelled fingers. He
was dressed in black, and seemed very languid
and quiet. I sat next to Maud, who somewhat
to my humiliation minced my food for me as
she was in the habit of doing. I could see that
she was in a state of much agitation, and I
noticed that Cousin Will glanced at her often
with a pained and anxious look. There was
but little talk during the progress of the meal.
There were no servants present, but the conversation
on indifferent matters went very dismally,
and nobody seemed inclined to eat.

1 Well, Mr. Fairholt,' said Uncle Ben at last
addressing Cousin Will, ' I think you've taken
the very best course as could be taken, and I
wish you luck. Here's to you. And I hope as
Them Above'll guide you, and bring you safe back
again.' He poured out a glass of claret with a
shaky hand, and his eyes glistened as he drank it.

I would rather not discuss this question,
now,' said old Mr. Fairholt in an absent
tremulous way. Then turning to me, he
added, ' You can run into the garden, Johnny,
and amuse yourself

Oh, never mind the child,' said Uncle Ben,
with a jovial loudness which it was easy to see
was not quite natural to him at the moment ;
he's all right where he is. I think Mr.
William's right in not takin' a commission,
Mr. Fairholt. It might hamper his movements,
and keep him from coming back again
with a good grace. If you find him,' he said,
turning again to Cousin Will, ' well and good.
You can fight it through then, and get attached
to his regiment, no doubt, and bring him to
reason, an' anyhow he'll have somebody to
look after him. If you want any influence
used at home, let me know, and all I can do,
I will do.'

I am assured of that, Mr. Hartley,' said
Cousin Will.

'An' you'll sail together?' said Uncle Ben
turning to the lady - like gentleman. The
lady - like gentleman nodded. ' The Lieutenant's
out their already,' said Uncle Ben.
If you meet him, you tell him not to

be afraid of anything' ; not even of drawn' on
his father. Tho' I never snowed him to be
particular afraid of that, neither.' He chuckled
as he said this, and turned round on Mr. Fair-holt.
' That airit a thing as they're afraid of
as a rule. — Is it Mister ? '

There is a circumstance, sir,' said Mr. Fair-holt,
' of which you cannot claim ignorance,
which might have restrained that question.'

Uncle Ben arose and stretching out his
hand to Mr. Fairholt, cried, ' I beg your
pardon, sir. Nothing' meant, I do assure you.
I wouldn't, for the world

Mr. Fairholt arose stiffly, and feigning not
to see the outstretched hand before him, said,
1 came to your house, Mr. Hartley, at my
son's request, to recognise what he chose to
regard as a quite disinterested friendship for
his brother, and a kindly interest in his unhappy
fate. I was not ignorant, sir, of the
motive which created your regard for my poor
Francis, and it is a comfort to me in the midst
of my sorrow to know that your plan is frustrated.
But I should have carried my knowledge
away with me silently, but for the open
and gratuitous insult you have now put upon
me. I wish you a very good-day, sir.'

He started to go, overturning his chair in
his haste, but he paused at the sound of Uncle
Ben's voice. Casting a frightened look about
the table, I saw that the one stranger to me
was regarding Mr. Fairholt with a look of
languid curiosity, and that Maud and Will and
Uncle Ben were all pained, though evidently
in different ways.

You're an old man, sir,' said Uncle Ben,
'an' I've been told you're a gentleman, an*
you've had a lot o' trouble, as I'm well aware.
Now them's three claims as you've got on my
respect, and I'll bear 'em in mind. But don't
you come into my house again, till you've
changed your opinion o' me. As for what you
may say about motives, why, look here, I
can give my niece enough to make a Took
glad of her, if I like, let alone a country
gentleman.'

1 Mr. Hartley!' said Will in a low tone of
remonstrance. Uncle Ben's eyes following the
direction of the other's glance, fell upon Maud,
who was blushing painfully. She cast an
appealing glance at her uncle, and hurried from
the room.

All the same,' Uncle Ben went on, ' I'm
sorry if I hurt your feelings, and I didn't mean

to do it ; an' between man an' man I won't and
can't say more.'

I am sure, father,' said Will, ' that Mr.
Hartley had no wish to offend.'

I do not care,' said Mr. Fairholt, ' to be
troubled with an endeavour which would probably
be perpetual to distinguish between the
desire to offend and the incapacity to avoid
the commission of offences. I accept Mr.
Hartley's apology ; and I believe he had no
wish to hurt my feelings by his very inconsiderate
speech. But I will take Mr. Hartley
at his word, and will not intrude again upon
his hospitality.' With that Mr. Fairholt left
the room, with an air of quavering dignity,
having first bowed to Uncle Ben, who
regarded him with a stern and unbending
countenance. Cousin Will stood for a moment
as if uncertain how to act. Recovering himself,
he spoke a few hasty words to Uncle Ben,
and hurried out of the room after Mr. Fairholt.
The lady-like gentleman all the time remained
seated, and when Will had gone he faced
round in his chair and looked at his host.
Uncle Ben shook his head gravely, and quitted
the room by the door through which Maud
had passed. The stranger beckoned me across

to him with his forefinger, and told me a fairy
story, of which I can remember nothing now,
but that there was a droll blue-bottle in it,
whose singular sayings and doings convulsed
me with laughter. He began his narrative
with no sort of preface or exordium ; and when
he had finished it he rose gravely, shook hands
with me with much ceremony, and walked to
the door. I had been delighted with the fairy
tale, but this curious behaviour rather disconcerted
me. I suppose my looks expressed
it, for he turned round gaily and said that
I should arrive some day at man's estate,
and that I was never to forget that the two
things which made small boys happy were
fairy tales and tips. Then taking a sovereign
from a netted purse, he put it into my hand.
1 Be this,' he "said, laying one hand upon my
head, and striking an extravagant attitude,
1 the soldier's epitaph graven on thy young
heart. " He, a stranger, unfolded to my
young mind the veracious history of the
comic fly, and tipped me a quid at parting."
Fare thee well.' With that he patted my
head rather heavily, and went out with a
walk which I afterwards discovered to be an
imitation of that of Mr. Charles Kean, but

which seemed to me at the time a very extraordinary
performance. I was not at all sure
that the lady-like gentleman might not be a
harmless lunatic. I ventured that night to
put the suggestion before Maud, who rebuked
me for it, and told me that Mr. Hastings
was very clever indeed, and that he was going
out, like a brave man, to fight against the
Russians in the Crimea — ' and to try to find — '
she said, but checked herself suddenly, and
walked away. I followed her to the window
and slid my hand into hers to comfort her.
She drew me to her side, and we sat there
whilst the mist and the darkness met each
other and hid from us the trees which surrounded
Island Hall. But when I looked, I
saw a light upon her face, and as the shadows
gathered round us, she sang to me.

HISTORY.
1 Does dog eat dog in your part of the country f *

A VOICE had sounded in half-conscious
ears for such ages of time, that when
it broke upon the light slumbers of receding
fever, it seemed altogether familiar. Yet the
room in which the half-awakened man found
himself was strange to him. The walls were
whitewashed, and hung with cheap prints of
Scripture subjects. From one of the rafters
in the low ceiling hung a dried and withered
scrap of mistletoe, and bits of dead holly were
stuck about the pictures on the walls. It
was night-time, and there was a red flicker
of firelight on the walls and roof, on which
these objects reeled before his eye. An eight-day
clock ticked with slow and remorseless
monitory sound behind him. The voice talked

on, and the sick man still half drowsing, listened
to it with a dim sense of wonder.
Whose was the voice, and where had he
heard it before ? It had no associations for
him. Yes ; it asked him to drink long since,
and came with the hands that smoothed his
pillow, an hour or a year ago — which was it ?
calling him ' Poor creature ' with a pitiful
accent. Another voice broke in, gruff and
bassoon-like, and the sick man became broad
awake. There were two people seated at the
fireside before him, a man and a woman.
The man's back was turned to him ; but he
could see the woman's face. A good face
and a kindly, with a widow's cap round it,
and smooth bands of grey hair below the
white border. She was looking at the fire
whilst her companion spoke. The man's
accent was quaint, and here and there the
listener lost a word, but the meaning was
plain enough.

The poor creature,' said the man, ' might
ha' done summit wrong for aught as we
known' ; an' if he's a-runnin' away from the
police, it wouldn't be a nice thing for we to
give him up, do you see ? '

I can't help thinking', Robert,' said the

woman, with her eyes upon the fire, ' as we
ought to tell 'em as he's here. Becos you see,
if his poor mother misses him — think o' that !
What should I do, if yo was to goo a-wan-
dein' about the country, as he's a-doing', poor
thing ? '

Yis, ' returned the man ; ' that's right
enough. But s'posin as I was to goo an
catch the parson, an' let him see him, now
he's getting' better. Yo see, mother, it eeu't
our business to gi' folks up to the police,
'specially when they've been a-lyin' in our
house for three weeks at a time. It wouldn't
seem fair, like

Perhaps it'll be better to catch the parson
to him, as yo saying', Robert,' the woman returned.
'An' perhaps it'll be better to wait a
day or two till he gits a bit stronger.'

He eeu't well yit,' said the man, rising ashe
spoke and crossing over to the bed. The
patient closed his eyes and feigned sleep.
His heart beat wildly. It was impossible
that he should submit to the benevolent plot
these people were laying for his welfare.
But was it possible that he could escape ?
Could he muster strength enough to walk,
before the day or two's respite the woman

proposed had expired ? For he knew that
he was terribly weak, and that he had been
a long time ill. The resolve grew up desperately
in his heart, and said within himself
that he would be strong enough to escape,
and that, whether he lived or died, he would
take the first chance of flight.

The man bent above him and listened to
the breathing of the patient. The patient
knowing this, controlled himself, breathing regularly
and softly.

1 He's having' a nice sleep said the gruff
voice. ' Yo go to bed, mother, an' I'll sit up
wi' him for an hour or two, an' see if he
wants anything

The mother kissed her son and bade him
good-night. The patient heard her ascend
the uncarpeted stair, and listened to her feet
as they went to and fro in the room above
until silence came again, broken only by the
ticking of the clock, the occasional noise of
ashes falling from the fire, and the shuffle
of the watcher's heavy boots. After a dreary
time the clock began a faint and dismal
gurgle, indicative of a sleepy desire to strike
the hour. This passed away, and came again,
and passed away again, and at last the clock

wheezed and tinkled eleven. The watcher
arose and went out at the door, returning
almost immediately with a great lump of coal,
which he placed upon the fire. Having
banked this all around with ashes, he made
fast the door, took off his boots, and went
silently upstairs, pausing on the first stair to
look back at his patient, and then closing the
stair-door behind him.

The sick man lay in almost breathless
silence and listened until the last movement
in the house was still. Then with great pain
and difficulty he dragged himself into a sitting
posture. Once as he struggled the bed
creaked loudly, and he lay down again, and
made shift to pull the clothes about him,
fearful lest his attempt should be discovered.
He lay there sweating and panting for a
while, and the clock behind ticked threats at
him. The room was dark, and the shadowy
corners held vague terrors. Suddenly a great
tongue of flame darted through the bank of
ashes, and made those recesses visible. Some
of the ashes dropped into the fender, and the
sudden noise sent another pang of fear to
his heart. The flame broadened, and a ruddy
glow played hide-and-seek with the shadows.

The glow gathered strength, and the shadows
faded until the room was light enough to
read in. With painful slowness the sick man
wrestled himself out of bed, and walked totteringly
to where a few rough garments lay
thrown across a chair. They were a heavy
burden to him as he went back to the bed.
One by one, with great difficulty he put on
these garments, pausing often to rest meanwhile,
and panting heavily. Suddenly he
looked at his hands, as if for the first time
missing something. Searching the pockets
of the rough clothes he had assumed, he
found wrapped in paper several rings, which
glistened in the firelight. One of these he
kissed passionately, whilst tears chased each
other down his face. After a pause he put
them back again, and drew from another
pocket a watch and chain and a purse.

For some time he regarded these thoughtfully,
then returning the purse to his pocket, he
took out a pocket-book, and wrote in it by the
firelight, in a hand as shaky as that of Guy
Fawkes after the rack, these words, ' Thank
you. Keep this for your trouble.' He tore
the leaf from the book, and laying it on the
table, placed the watch and chain upon it.

As he tottered back towards the bed, the
flame which had hitherto lighted him shrank
suddenly, and in the darkness he lurched
against a chair, which jarred and scraped
along the quarried floor. He listened for a
full minute in an agony of apprehension ; but
no other sound following, he went feeling his
way with his feet inch by inch along the floor
until he found the bed again. All this time
bodily pains racked him until he could have
cried aloud. The flame rose again, and once
more the little room was filled with broad light.
He made search for hat and boots, and after
some little trouble, found those belonging to
himself. Boots in hand he made for the door,
carefully and quietly loosed the primitive fastening,
and in another moment was out in the
night. A distant church clock chimed the
half-hour as the first cool breath of the open
air touched his forehead. He pulled the door
close again, fixed the hasp, drew on his boots,
and stole cautiously away. Every movement
cost him an inexpressible pang ; but he went
doggedly on, not caring whither, so that the
road led him from discovery. The full moon
hung pale and watery amongst ragged clouds,
and lent a faint light to his steps. All the

VOL. II. l

low-lying sky to east and west and north and
south was aglow with the colour of molten
metal, and he was belted round with fires that
leaped with flickering tongues towards that
sullen and lurid heaven. As he dragged his
miserable body along, memory was busy with
him ; though how he had come to the house
in which he had found himself but a few hours
ago, and who were the people who had nursed
him in his illness, he neither knew nor cared.
His bodily pains gave his mind no ease, now
that memory was once more awakened ; but
his heart was moved to pity for his father
and his lover rather than for himself ; for he
said, sitting in judgment upon himself, that
these things which he endured were for him
but a slight penalty. And so, in agony of
body and grief of heart and remorse of soul
unspeakable, he went his way.

It was an hour after midnight when he
paused before a pair of great gates of iron,
and glancing through the bars, beheld a scene
which looked as though it were translated clean
from Pandemonium. In the glow of great
fires, beneath low-pitched sheds open on all
sides to the night, half-naked men toiled in
the swink and sweat of a labour the like of

which he had never seen. In the dusky light
and half-opaque yet gleaming shadow of the
place, the bare bodies shone like red - hot
bronze. Out of one of the furnaces was
drawn an enormous ' bloom,' which cast an
almost insupportable light and heat to where
he stood ; and this being swung beneath a
Nasmyth hammer, the ponderous weight
crashed down upon it, and drove myriads of
sparkles into the night. ' What a picture ! '
thought the wanderer outside, ' if one could
only paint it ; ' and for just a minute he went
free of sorrow, and thought of nothing but the
sight before him. The air was warm, and
comforting to his sore limbs. He was weaker
than he knew, and as he stood there he felt
his knees fail him, and with his hands upon
the bars of the gate he slid helplessly down.
A little door in the projecting wall beside the
gate opened, and a man came out.

Hilloo, mate ! ' said the man gruffly ; ' what's
the matter wi' yo ? '

Frank turned his hollow eyes and his pale
face upon him.

Can I go inside and sit down a little ? ' he
asked. ' I am very weak and tired.'

Yo look it,' the man made answer, not unkindly.

' Why, yo am as cold's death. Here ;
let me get my arm under thee. Now then ;
come along.'

He helped the wayfarer into a sort of rough
office, where a fire blazed brightly upon the
hearth, and set him in an arm-chair before it.

What's the matter, mate ? ' he asked.

I have been ill Frank made answer ; ' and
I — I have lost my way.'

Which way are yo groin' ? ' the man asked
again.

To Liverpool,' Frank made answer, faintly.

■ All right,' said the man, poking the glowing
fire with a rough bar of iron. ' There's
one of our boats groin' on as fur as 'Hampton
i' the morning', an' yo can get a lift on that'
He settled the wanderer in the chair much
as he would have handled a child, and added,
1 Now, yo go to sleep their ; an' when it's time
to start, I'll come an' wake thee.'

Before the kindly foreman had well gone,
Frank was asleep. He slept until the grey
light of morning crept through the dingy window
of the office ; and would have slept on
still, but that the foreman returned and shook
him by the shoulder, saying that the boat was
ready. He rose and followed his guide, who

led him along a path paved with crackling
sheet-iron, and lined on one side by furnaces,
and on the other by cumbrous machinery. A
sudden turn to the right brought them to a
canal, where a boat, laden with iron bars, was
ready to start upon its journey.

Here he is, Jim ! ' shouted the foreman to
a rough-looking fellow on the far side of the
canal. ' Jump down,' he added to Frank ;
1 they'd ready to goo.'

Frank drew a shilling from his pocket and
offered it to the foreman. The man drew
back with an offended air.

1 Does dog eat dog in your part of the
country ? ' he asked.

1 I beg your pardon,' Frank said meekly ;
I am very much obliged to you. Good day.'

He held out his hand without the shilling.
The man shook hands with him surlily, watched
him as he stumbled awkwardly and painfully
into the boat, and turned away. The boatman
called to the four sturdy horses, who stood
with each his nose buried in a tin of provender
suspended from his head-gear. Frank sat
upon the roof of the cabin ; and the boat
glided through the vile water, past wharfs
piled high with coal in solid squares — past

fleets of boats laden with coal and bricks and
timber, and iron in every form, and harmless
uncharged shells awaiting the order for the
arsenal — past furnaces whose roar made the
air tremulous, and huge steam-hammers, the
noise of whose falling came with a shock upon
the air like the discharge of siege-artillery —
then past great spaces of waste land with dismal
pools of weedy water festering in them,
and here and there a dejected leafless tree,
whose barren branches drooping seemed to
mourn their own decay — past long lines of
chimney - stacks, whose volleying clouds insulted
and obscured the heavens — past the
clanking noise and rancid steam of colliery
engines ; and all the while, as the foul water
gurgled at the bows, and slipped greasily
along the side of the boat, the watcher saw
these things, and did not see them, for his
mournful self-accusing thoughts were far away.
As he sat thus, a hand was laid upon his
shoulder, and turning round, he saw a pleasant-looking,
brown-faced woman, who proffered
him a cup of tea.

1 It'll do you good, master she said kindly ;
an' I've put a drop o' whisky in it, as'll
warm thee up a bit.'

He took it gratefully ; and the woman
nodding at him with a cheerful smile, went
back over the roof of the cabin and into
her small house below. The tea was a mere
excuse for hot grog, as Frank discovered on
tasting it. But it sent warmth through his
starve frame and comforted him. He set
the cup down after emptying it, and sleep
came upon him again. When he awoke, he
found himself snug and warm beneath a
blanket and a heavy tarpaulin. He heard
the rain pattering without upon it, and lay
still. ' If these people knew he thought,
scarcely daring to give his terrible reflection
even a mental form, ' that they were harbouring
a highway robber and a murderer,
how they would shrink from me ! '

But my reader will know that these thoughts
were always with him in his wanderings, and
I will not weaken my story by driving repetition
into the region of commonplaces. It
is enough to know that such a man had
fallen to such a crime. Every instinct in
him revolted from himself, and stood therein
passionate hatred and detestation of his
crime. Every fibre of his soul thrilled with
intense desire after an impossible revolution.

When the Psalmist cries, ' The pains of hell
gat hold upon me,' be sure that the pangs
which racked him were the bitter fruit of his
own remorse. In the one hell which mercy
has made possible for the human soul, the
criminal lives in companionship with his own
crime, and loathes it with an inexpressible
loathing.

Wolverhampton was reached at last, and
Frank's offer of payment was again rebuffed.
He bade those who had entertained him goodbye,
and crawled up the wharf into a dirty and
narrow street in the rear. Along this he
walked feebly, and found by-and-by a strange
object at his side keeping pace with him. It
was a man, apparently about fifty years of age,
bent, and gnarled, and grizzled almost out of
human seeming. A black patch obscured his
left eye, his hands were yellow, and claw-like,
and dirty. His clothes were a heterogeneous
jumble. Half a sack with three holes in it —
one for the head, and one for each arm — did duty
as a coat. The sleeves had served a broadcloth
garment once, and in the breaches of
their shaky junction with the sacking, showed
the man's bare skin. His feet were hopeless,
but wrapped in fold on fold of rags, so that

his steps fell noiselessly on the muddy pathway.
Torn corduroy trousers, much too large
for him, and a silk hat which would better
have become a dunghill than a human head,
completed his attire. A bristly beard and
moustache of dirty white stood in uncompromising
straightness from lip and cheek and china
full inch long, without the symptom of a curl.
On the road, young man ? ' said this apparition.
' So am I. You don't seem to get
along in a very lively way. — No answer ?
Well, companion, you may be a swell in your
own line, and you may be as lofty as you like
with me. I'm used to meeting lofty people.
I was lofty myself once. Got a bit o' dacca ? —
No ? Then I shall be compelled to use my
own. Have a pipe ? — No again ? Neither
civility nor conversation. Perhaps you're a
decent working-man, and don't care to be seen
walking with a scarecrow. All right. Wait
till we come to the end of the road, and I'll
relieve you. But I'm fond of society ; I always
was. Society has been my ruin, I do assure
you. I'm a monument erected by Providence
to warn the whole human species against the
wiles of their brothers and sisters. That's
what's the matter with me, I do assure you.'

Frank stopped short. The man's insolent
flippancy was intolerable to him.

Choose your way he said, with some
faint reflection of his old manner, ' and I
will choose another.'

A gentleman ! ' cried the creature, with a
grating laugh. ' Bono giorno, excellence !
A swell, and nothing short of it. Au plaisir,
monseigneur. I was a swell myself once, but
it's so long ago that I'm almost ashamed of
the remembrance. Not quite ashamed, you
know, because I'm hardened. Yes, my friend,
I'm hardened — quite hardened, I do assure
you.'

Oblige me by choosing your way,' Frank
answered. The old man leered up at him,
laughing, filling his pipe meanwhile. Frank
resumed his walk, not looking behind him.
He came into a more populous street after a
time, and looked about him for some humble
place of refreshment into which he could venture
without exciting surprise by his attire.
He saw at length a cook-shop which seemed
to belong to a rather better class than he had
hoped to find in such a neighbourhood, and
entering, sat down at an unclothed wooden
table. A slipshod, slatternly girl appeared

before him and asked what he wanted. He
ordered food, and she went away, returning
by-and-by with a woman, who repeated the
girl's inquiry.

1 You don't look none of the most respectable,'
said the woman glancing at him scornfully.
' I should like to see the colour o' your
money first.'

Frank drew out his purse, thinking he would
have to change gold some time, and that he
might as well change it here as elsewhere.
What was to become of him when his slender
store of money was gone, was a question
which had not yet occurred to him. He drew
a sovereign from his purse, and handed it to
the woman, who bit it and rang it on the
table, and then handed it to the girl, bidding
her go for change. With an altered manner,
she proceeded to lay a cloth upon the table,
and after a time brought in a mutton chop
and a cup of tea. These Frank despatched ;
and feeling a little stronger, took his change,
and went away again. He made no inquiries
as to the road, but took that which lay before
him. The day cleared as it grew older, and
by noon the air felt warm and pleasant. He
had often to rest by the wayside, and was so

weak that he had not made more than four
miles when night began to fall. The lamps
were already alight in the town he came to ;
and he felt more desolate and alone than ever
as he entered the uninviting street. A grating
voice rose from near his elbow, and looking
down, he saw the man who had addressed
him in the morning.

Well, my gay companion,' said the intrusive
tramp, speaking past a short black pipe
which he held between his teeth, ' how do
you find yourself now ? I can't say you're
the best pedestrian I ever met with in my
life. It's my belief, sir, that Captain Barclay
would have beaten you off your legs. Where
are you going to ? Don't know the town, I'll
bet a tanner. This is the town of Milton,
my eminent stroller ; and I am a welcome
and a well-known lodger at the best crib in
the place. Come along ; capital accommodation.
The beds are threepence, and clean, fora
wonder. Cooking gratis, but you do your
own ; and they won't keep me waiting for
the frying-pan. This turning — third door to
the right.' Saying this, he took Frank by
the sleeve, and led him into a dismal entry,
and through an open door into a large quarried

kitchen, where two or three people sat
talking round a great fire.

1 Sit down there,' he said in an undertone,
forcing Frank to a seat on a bench, ' Nobody
will notice you. Hallo, mother ! Got
a couple of nice beds for two gentleman wanderers,
eh ? '

Frank was too weary and exhausted to
resist, and was almost too weak to have a
will in the matter at all. Why, he thought,
should one place seem worse or better than
another now ? After a little space of time,
during which the man had bargained with the
mistress of the place, and Frank had almost
fallen asleep, he felt himself pulled gently by
the sleeve. His unwelcome comrade whispered
to him, ' I've paid for the beds, companion,
and I'm cleaned out. Just lend mea
shilling, and I'll get some grub, and make
tea for both of us.'

Frank gave the man a shilling, inwardly
resolving that he would take train to somewhere
next day, and escape this fellow. The
tramp went out ; and returned with an ounce
of tea and two ounces of sugar, wrapped in
separate screws of paper, a half pennyworth of
milk in a cracked and discoloured half-gallon

jug, a loaf, and a rasher of bacon in a scrap
of newspaper. Of the banquet prepared from
these materials, Frank declined to partake,
and the man in the sack made unto himself
a plenteous feast. As the evening waned, the
society in the kitchen thickened. Had Frank
been less miserably circumstanced, the people
amongst whom he sat would have been full
of picturesque interest for him ; but he only
felt now the shame of mingling with them,
and the deserved wretchedness of his own
lot. He drowsed often in the course of the
evening, and lost his surroundings and himself.
He was awakened at last by the mistress
of the place, who handed him a
diminutive scrap of candle, which adhered by
its own grease to a shard which had once
been part of a willow-patterned plate. The
old man led him upstairs and pointed to his
bed. It was one of a dozen in a large, low-roofed,
barrack-like apartment. The thought
of undressing in such a den was repugnant
to every nerve in him. He drew off his
boots, and lay down in the rough clothes he
wore, and fell into the dreamless sleep of pure
fatigue. When he awoke in the morning he
was alone ; and he left the house without

speaking to any one, and took the way once
more. Two or three hours later, he discovered
that his purse was gone, and that
his whole stock of money was represented by
twenty-two shillings in silver.

HISTORY.

Ifs a very curious case, ladies and gentlemen. Notice two
or three things about it''

Tor the first time, Frank began to think
of the future which lay before him.
Despair has no capacity for fear, and the
time to come looked blank, but not terrible.
There would come a time before long when
his last penny would be spent, and after that
he would die of starvation. If he were found,
an inquest would be held upon him. So then
he must destroy the last trace of his identity.
As he crawled along the road in the chill
sunshine, he took out his pocket-book, and
tore from it carefully all the leaves on which
any sort of memoranda had been written.
These he scattered in fragments at long intervals
; and the remnant of the book he

dropped into the sluggard waters of a canal.
Though he was still in great pain, he was
stronger than he had been at starting, and
still walking without care as to the direction
he took, he came at nightfall to Cockle Hill,
and found himself on the outskirts of the
great Midland capital. He had walked nine
miles that day, and felt quite broken down
with fatigue. He had not penetrated far into
the town when he saw the sign of a pawnbroker,
and a new idea occurred to him. The
rings he had about him would surely serve
to identify him. Some of them were valuable,
were even costly ; and he had an indefinite
sort of fancy that though he had a right to
die when his last coin failed him, he had no
right to hasten death for his own relief, or to
avoid any such open means for prolonging
life as the rings afforded. Dim and undefined
as this feeling was within him, it was
yet the first dawn of a sense of returning
duty. He entered the pawnbroker's shop,
and proffered the rings — all but one. That
was Maud's gift, and he would not part with
it until he knew that the end of all was near.
Then he resolved that he would bury it in
some quiet place in the fields, and lie down

VOL. II. M

near that last relic of his love, and die there.
Whilst he thought of these things, and seemed
to see in fancy the place where he should
lie, the pawnbroker was examining the rings
through a glass. He laid them down on the
counter and looked at the man who proffered
them. He saw a man who, in dress, looked
like one of the poorer sort of labourers from
the outlying mining districts — a man haggard
with a month's beard, pallid with sickness,
bent with fatigue and pain, hollow-eyed, unwashed
— a melancholy spectacle.

'How did you come by these rings?' he
asked, taking in all those mournful characteristics
at a glance.

1 They are my own property Frank answered
; ' and you need not be afraid to take
them.'

Hem ! ' said the pawnbroker. ' Where do
you live ? '

1 have no address,' Frank made answer ;
1 am going to Liverpool.'

The man looked keenly at the rings and at
their owner. ' I'll lend five pounds on 'em,'
he said, and drew them towards him.

It was with no care for the money, but only
for the dim thought that he had no right to

lay down the burden of his punishment before
his time, that Frank, taking up one of the
rings, responded, ' I gave forty-five pounds
for this alone.'

Daresay,' said the man briefly. ' I don't
know that I ought to take 'em in at all, unless
you give some account of yourself. I won't
give more than five pounds for 'em.'

Frank assented wearily ; and the pawn-broke
without asking further questions made
out, at the cost of a penny, a ticket, and paid
four founds nineteen shillings and elevenpence
across the counter. The pawnbroker was
something of a fictionist, and having given
his imagination scope, had invented the name
and address of ' Joseph Jones, Summer Lane.'
'If I am discovered,' Frank thought, 'inquiries
will be made here.' He tore the ticket
stealthily bit by bit in his pocket, and dropped
a piece here and there until it was all gone.
Then not caring to inquire of any one he
met, he wandered down street after street,
looking for an advertisement of lodgings. He
saw many, but avoided them all, for some
no-reason, until some no-reason drew him
into one. The old man who kept the place
came forward and demanded his fee ; and

•

being satisfied, marshalled his visitor to the
fireplace, where in a shadowy recess sat the
intrusive tramp of yesterday. There were
perhaps a dozen people in the kitchen ; and
Frank, neither observant nor observed except
by his yesterday's acquaintance, took the seat
pointed out to him. That one should enter
dejected, travel-soiled, and weary, was not a
thing to excite attention there, and he was
glad to be unnoticed. The men and women
about him discussed the things which interested
themselves. They were all professional
tramps and cadgers, and though they might
be strangers to each other, they had common
friends in the trade. Thus the wooden-legged
miner had met the one-armed warrior's particular
friend at Leicester the week before
last, and the one-armed soldier had recently
made the acquaintance of the wooden-legged
miner's ancient companion and sworn brother
at Worcester. The talk drifted hither and
thither, until a new-comer, who had walked
from Dudley, brought news of a dreadful
murder committed there the night before.
On this they all seized with avidity. The
new-comer was a hero for the time, and told
his tale with sickening amplitude of nauseous

circumstance. The chief point of the story
was that not the slightest clue to the murderer
had declared itself; and from this point the
talk flowed on in an unbroken stream of
reminiscence of undiscovered crime. Frank
sat in his shadowed corner with bent head
and folded arms, until one began the story
of the mysterious murder and robbery in
Spaniard's Lane. He listened to the talk
like a man in a nightmare. It was not
wonderful to know that the history of his
crime was public property ; but as he sat with
closed eyes and eager ears and trembling
heart, he seemed to feel a strong and resolute
hand approaching him in the darkness, whilst
invisible walls narrowed in upon him, and
invisible fetters held him from escape. He
learned that the two men who had accompanied
the dead — the speaker put it in that
way every time he made mention of the murdered
man — had been arrested and discharged.

A woman broke out with, ' Troth, thin if
'twas myself had done the murther, an' another
was had for it, I wouldn't lie aise in me grave
till I give myself up.'

Three for you, Nelly,' said the woman's
husband. ' It's base conduct.'

What's human creature's opinion could
Frank Fairholt afford to despise ? He had
never until now contemplated the possibility
of another being charged with his crime, and
the knowledge that these innocent men had
been suspected laid an added weight upon
him ; although he told himself, and that truly,
that he was not hiding from justice for his
own sake. He would have welcomed any
atonement, however fiery, if the shadow of
his sin might fall no more heavily than it
had done upon his father and his brother
and Maud. When the first madness of his
flight was gone, he had resolved on sacrifice ;
and since then his only hope had been that
he might die obscurely and be forgotten. He
could think more clearly now, not because
the night of his trouble was more lightened,
but because he was used to its thick darkness,
and could see a little farther through it. A
plan of life grew slowly up within him as he
sat in the shadow, and these male and female
scoundrels discussed his deeds and speculated
on his identity and his whereabouts, and the
chances of his detection. He was bound to
elude justice still, if that were possible. It
was his clear duty not to denounce himself;

j

and it was just as clearly his duty to live till
God should call him, and to make such poor
atonement as lay in him to make. As he sat
thinking of these things, a voice broke harshly
on his ear.

It's a curious case — a very curious case,
ladies and gentlemen. Notice two or three
things about it. The police found the purse,
evidently thrown away by the thief. That
makes it clear that the man had changed his
mind, and repented of the robbery. Next
day, a trifle over the amount taken by the
thief is sent to the dead man's house,
with a message to the effect that the man
who borrowed it had sent it back again.
That proves two things — first, that the man
knew the amount of money in the purse he
stole, and next that he didn't believe he had
killed the man he stole it from. It proves
another thing. It proves that the thief had
money. Then you'll ask me, why did he turn
footpad ? Doesn't it stand to reason that he
was pushed for money — that he was afraid
he wouldn't get it in time — that he found out
somehow that this man had money about him
that he knocked him down, and took it
finding a chance to do it in a lonely place like

Spaniard's Lane — that he repented directly
he'd done it, and threw the purse away —
that he got his own money and some to spare
next day, and sent the amount stolen back to
the owner, and that he never knew the man
was dead till he saw it in the paper, most
likely ? Doesn't that stand to reason, ladies
and gentlemen ? '

1 Faix, said the Irishwoman, * it's you for
the long head, anyway, darling'. There was
the fine lawyer spoiled when you was
made.'

The listener in the shadow caught his
breath. Did these things lie so plainly on
the surface of the story, that any one who
chose might find them there, or did the man
who so closely hit the truth know more than
he professed ?

The lawyer wasn't spoiled when I was
made, my dear,' said the harsh voice, with a
chuckling laugh. ' He was spoiled five-and-thirty
years later.'

1 Then you wor a lawyer ? ' said the Irish
tramp.

Yes,' said the man in the sack, for it was
he who spoke ; ' I was a lawyer, and a pretty
good lawyer, too, till twelve men entered into

a conspiracy against me, and blackened my
character.'

What was you tried for ? ' asked the one-armed
soldier, piercing this transparent metaphor.


1 Having a short memory,' said the reprobate
in the sack. ' But I studied at Botany
Bay, ladies and gentlemen, and improved it,
and I never forget anything now.

Was there a threat in that ? thought the
listener in the shadow. Did the man know
anything ? Could he know anything ? He
turned slowly round, and looked across the
light to where the ugly old reprobate sat sucking
his pipe in the opposite corner. Was it
only by chance that the old man's eyes were
fixed upon him with so keen a look ? Frank
received the gaze calmly, or with outer calmness,
and closing his eyes, sank back into his
old attitude. He had been robbed the night
before, not improbably by this man, and it
might be that the tramp himself feared suspicion,
and wished to disarm it by effrontery.

1 You don't seem to know me again, companion,'
said the harsh voice. ' We chummed
together last night at Milton.' Frank bent
his head a little lower, and returned no answer.

1 There's a comrade for you ! ' the tramp went
on. ' Won't own his friend because he wears
a peculiar coat.'

Nobody took verbal notice of the appeal,
but one or two turned lazily and looked in
the direction indicated by the old man's outstretched
finger, and then turned lazily back
again. When the time came for bed, it fell
again to Frank's miserable lot to lie in the
same room with this intrusive acquaintance,
whom he feared. The wretched night wore
itself away, and with the first dawn of light
the wanderer rose and stole softly from the
room. The outer door was fastened by a bolt,
which he drew back carefully, yet with now
and then a rusty shriek, and the door itself
scratched noisily upon the brick floor. He
drew it after him, and came upon the street.
He heard the voice of the man he had feared
to awake above him. Looking up involuntarily,
he saw the silk hat and the tramp's
face below it projecting through the window.

You're leaving early, companion,' said the
tramp. ' Wait a bit and I'll join you.'

Frank turned without an answer and
walked on, sickening. But his limbs were
weak and stiff, and he travelled so slowly

that before he had gone a hundred yards,
his aversion came panting up beside him and
jogged on grotesquely at his side.

1 You can see said Frank, ' that I wish to
avoid you. Why do you follow me ? '

My dear young friend returned the tramp,
pantingly, ' I'm one of the tenderest creatures
in the world — one of the most impressionable,
and I've taken a fancy to you.'

Frank put himself to his best speed ; but
the other kept pace with him. They walked
on until they were clear of the town, and the
leader without knowing it struck on the
Warwick road. The tramp's pursuit of him
strengthened the hapless young artist's fear
into certainty ; and when they had gone in
silence for more than an hour after quitting
the town, he turned upon his follower.

You shall dog my steps no longer he exclaimed.


No ? ' said the tramp, leering at him.
'Why not?' His dirty features creased
themselves into a laugh. ' Who's to prevent
me from going where I please ? '

'you have some reason said Frank with a
deathly sickness at his heart, ' for dogging mein
this way. What is it ? '

1 I'm pleased with your society the tramp
answered with a horrible smile. ' It does me
good to think that I'm mixing with people of
my own rank again. — Well, if that isn't the
true reason, shall I try another ? Don't be
impatient, my dear young friend. Will you
walk on again ? Then, I'll come with you.
Here's the other reason. I'm a sort of modern
Autolycus, you must know — a picker-up of
unconsidered trifles. Ah ! It's quite refreshing
to be able to refer to these poetic memories,
and to know that you're in the society
of one who understands them. Well you
know, my young friend, I take an interest
in you, and I've picked up a trifle or two
about you.'

Frank stopped short again and looked at
him. He could not have spoken a word then
for life's sake.

You're rather a heavy sleeper,' the tramp
went on, his ugly features creasing themselves
into a laugh once more, 'and I'm a light one.
A friend of mine stayed in the same room
with us the night before last — a gentleman
whose chief mental characteristic is a passionate
curiosity. He will know things. He
won't allow himself to remain in the dark.

Now, that's quite a commendable characteristic,
quite a commendable characteristic, my dear
young friend. — Where was I ? Oh yes ! My
curious friend was anxious to know what you
had in your pockets. I had mentioned to him
I confess it freely — I had mentioned to him
that I had seen you receive change for a
sovereign, and he felt quite a burning longing
to know what you had in your pockets.
So he looked. And I believe, if my memory
serves me right, that he found a purse there,
and I think — mind I'm not sure, but I think
that he forgot to put it back again. He found
some things there besides, some trinkets —
rings I think they were. And they looked
valuable. My friend put them back again,
and remarked to me — and that's why I remember
them so clearly — that they weren't
safe things for a poor man to have about him,
because they looked suspicious.'

There the rascal paused, and laughed once
more. Frank could not have answered for
his life, and so stood there, wordless, with a
beating heart.

Now,' the tramp went on, ' when a gentleman
with hands like those — I'm sure the rings
would have fitted them — is going about the

country in your peculiar way, and when he
has money enough for decent clothes and
decent lodgings, and when he never says a
word to the police about being robbed — for
that's the word, you know — it seems to stand
to reason that he has very particular grounds
indeed for keeping quiet, and for not mingling
in that gay circle of which he may have
been an ornament. I hope I'm putting it
pleasantly, and not in a way to wound your
feelings. I wouldn't do that for the world,
I do assure you.'

And now,' Frank answered, drawing himself
together by a supreme effort. ' What
does all this lead to ? '

Lead to ? ' cried the tramp. ' Why, to
this pleasant little explanation, and the formation
of a partnership. I'm sure I shouldn't
be surprised if you turned out quite generous.
I do assure you that I should regard
without a shadow of amazement an offer on
on your part to share the proceeds of those
nice rings. I believe you're going to make me
the offer now ? '

And so, having robbed me already,' Frank
answered, striving to speak steadily and to
belie his fears, ' you wish to rob me again.'

/ rob ? ' said the tramp. ' What an erroneous
estimate of my character you must have
formed to be sure ! Rob you ? Nothing of
the sort, my dear young friend. I offer silence.
Silence is golden, my young companion, and
I offer silence, in return for a share of the
proceeds of those nice rings

Silence about what ? ' asked Frank, once
more breaking the bond of fear which held
him like a nightmare.

You don't know said the tramp, with the
old repulsive laugh, ' what a knack I have
of putting two and two together, and making
four of 'em. Perhaps you heard me put two
and two together last night about that curious
affair in Spaniard's Lane. You may
have noticed the compliment the Irish lady
was good enough to make me. Well, my
young friend, it may be worth your while —
I don't say it is, mind — but it may be — to
ask me not to put two and two together
about you'

Were there only vague suspicions in the
man's mind, or was the allusion to Spaniard's
Lane renewed of set purpose ? Frank, fighting
down the fears which beset him, tried to
face that dreadful question calmly. After

what seemed a long pause, he said, looking
straight into the tramp's evil eyes, ' I am not
the first broken gentleman the world has seen,
by many. If there be anything suspicious
in my being here, and I suppose there is, I
cannot help it, and I do not greatly care to
help it. I shall not try to purchase your
silence or your complicity, because I know
that even if your silence were worth buying,
you would only pretend to sell it, and would
sell me afterwards if you could. Now, for
the last time, choose your road, and let me
choose mine.'

You dream out loud,' said the tramp, with
the same unchanging ugly smile. ' And when
my friend looked at your pockets — an unwarrantable
liberty, no doubt, but prompted by
a laudable thirst for knowledge, I do assure
you — he found a pocket-book with a name
and an address in it. A swell address it was,
too, my dear. Perhaps they'd pay more there
than anybody else would

Take your own course,' said Frank, thinking
the bold way the best. ' Suspect what
you please, do what you please ; but choose
your way now, and let me choose the
other.'

If Mated should know ! If Mated should
hear of it V

When the tramp spoke those words, Frank
staggered as though a blow had struck him,
and a pallor like that of a corpse overspread
his face. A second later, moved by a fiery
impulse, he advanced upon his torturer, who
leaped backwards with more agility than might
have been expected of him, and cried out, —
1 Hands off, or take care of yourself!' Frank
stood still, shuddered, sickened, and fell. His
hardships, and his illness, and the tempestuous
agitation of his mind had so dragged him
down that he swooned like a girl, and lay
there dead white on the miry road. The
tramp bent down over him.

That little quotation from his dreams
appears to have hit the young gentleman
hard,' said he, plunging a hand into one of
Frank's pockets. ' You're as good as an income
to me, my dear young friend, I do
assure you.'

Whoa ! ' shouted a coarse voice, which
sounded almost in the ruffian's ear. Behind
the hedge came a ploughman with his team.
Scattering a few silver coins in his haste upon
the ground, the tramp made off as fast as his

VOL. II. N

legs could carry him downwards. When he
found that he was not pursued, he paused,
and looking at his haul, discovered that he
had something less than a pound's worth of
silver. Thereupon he stood still, and cursed
his luck. Half-an-hour later, a farm-labourer
passed Frank lying on the road, and being
a soul with an eye to the main chance, and
seeing the scattered silver, he picked it up,
and sped with eager feet and fearful heart
down the road, leaving the man helpless in
his swoon behind him. When this amiable
person passed the tramp, that scoundrel was
still blaspheming over his small gains. ' I
know he pawned 'em,' whined the tramp,
because he walked into My Uncle's straight
under my nose. And just when Providence
led him afterwards into the very crib I was
staying in, and when I had him in a dead-faint
under my fingers, that clumsy idiot of
a yokel comes and frightens me away. Well,
well, well. The cup and the lip — the cup
and the lip. I never did have luck like other
people. It was well played, and I frightened
him about the address. I wish I'd seen it,
but I hadn't time. I wonder what he'd been
up to ? It might have been the Spaniard's

Lane business after all, though he never gave
a sign when I mentioned it.'

The next man who passed poor Frank ashe
lay upon the highway was a gentleman-farmer
on horseback, in a hurry to get to town.
He acquitted himself of duty's call by riding
carefully on one side, and objurgating the senseless
man for a drunken scoundrel. Then came a
carter, with less brains perhaps, but more heart ;
and he, taking the helpless figure in his arms,
set it in a comfortable posture on the bank at
the side of the road, and having twice or thrice
sniffed at the patient's breath, took to slapping
the slender soft hands with his own horny
digits until the fainting man awoke, looked
dimly round him, and staggering to his feet,
went blindly on.

Hilly, mate!' called the carter; 'you
ain't fit to walk. Get into my chart, an'
have a lift.' Frank paused. He was yet half
unconscious. The carter helped him into the
rough vehicle, and spread sacks for him to lie
on, and then taking his seat upon the shaft,
jogged on without inquiry or observation. In
an hour's time, Frank sat up and looked about
him, at the broad white road, and the green
fields, and the bare trees and hedges. The

carter turned round upon his shaft : ' D'ye feel
better, mate ? '

'A great deal better, thank you Frank replied.
' I will get down here.'

Why ? ' asked the carter. ' Where be you
going?'

He had walked quite blindly for the last two
days, and was altogether ignorant of the topography
of the country. He could not tell for
the moment whether he was going east, west,
north, or south, and the question confused him.
He could only say again, ' I will get down
here, thank you.'

D'ye belong anywhere about here, mate ? '
asked the carter. How was he to know that
his questions were embarrassing, and that embarrassment
meant torture ? His passenger
was silent ; and the carter was a little offended
at this, and whipping up his horse, started a
droning tune. Wishing to conciliate the man,
Frank asked him how far he was going.

'As fur as Warwick,' the carter answered.
How fur be you going' ? '

I am going on to Warwick,' Frank answered.
He passed now into a condition of
sheer vacuity. He was quite purposeless, and
in some sort at rest. There was a cloud about

him, and he knew that he was miserable, but
he had but little bodily or mental pain, and he
cared for nothing. The carter had a great tin
bottle of cold tea with him, and a plentiful
supply of bread and meat. He shared these
with his passenger, and the two sat in the cart
together eating and drinking as the slow horse
plodded on. When the meal was over, the
cart stopped before a wayside public-house, and
the horse had a feed and the carter a drink, for
which Frank paid. Then they plodded on
again until they reached Warwick, after nightfall.
At the entrance to the town, Frank descended
and proffered money to the carter, who
at first refused it, and finally took it, and having
gravely spat upon it and pouched it, lumbered
off in the darkness. It suited the wayfarer to
be lonely, and he wandered heavily about the
streets, looking for a house in which to pass the
night. He saw no announcement of lodgings
anywhere. The night was late, and most of
the houses were in darkness ; and caring little,
he wandered through the town and out of it.
The skies were clear, and the moon was nearly
at the full. The words came into his mind as
if somebody had whispered them — Purposeless,
hopeless, lost.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
1 Shall we make a compact to be always friends!

/^VNE fine day in summer, Sally took me
by the hand, and walked with me down
the avenue, through the great gates and into the
village. The place was for the most part new,
like the Hall of which it was a sort of appanage
and outgrowth ; but there were one or two
very old houses in it, stone-built and sturdy,
with red-tiled roofs which set off bravely the
green of the surrounding trees. Before one
of these, mellow with lichen, my companion
stopped, and with many nods and smiles, and
some blushes, drew out a big key from her
pocket, opened the door, and entered. We
came first upon a sort of parlour, where a tall
and rigid clothes-press, reaching nearly to the
ceiling, mounted guard over the inferior furniture.

There was a brilliant carpet, the
pattern of which was made up of a set of
bouquets in vases, of so enormous a size, that
four of them covered the floor. There were
two lithographed German prints upon the
walls, showing a number of absurdly wooden
children at their lessons and at play. Two
diamond windows let light upon this apartment,
and at each hung a pair of imitation
lace curtains. I have no doubt that to Sally's
eyes the room seemed palatial. I know for
my own part, although I was but indifferently
impressed with it at first, that when Sails
turned round upon me beaming, and said,
This is my 'one, my precious,' I was at once
unfeignedly charmed with it.

When we came to the back-room, Sally hung
purposely behind, to see what impression it
made upon me. It came upon me almost with
a shock, for I seemed to have walked at one
childish step clean out of the west-country
village into the old cottage kitchen with
which my most intimate childish memories
were associated. From the eight-day clock,
whose fatuous and familiar face again stared
out upon me, to the black-leaded cast-iron lion
and unicorn who pranced at each other across

the intervening space of mantel-shelf, everything
was there as I remembered it. The
room lent itself to the deception ; the clock
was once more accommodated with a well to
stand in, and down to the minutest detail the
resemblance to the old place seemed complete.
Sally stood enjoying my surprise, and
when I turned round upon her, she absolutely
frisked for joy, and brought both hands together.
' You'll come here sometimes, won't
you, Johnny said the good soul, with both
arms round me as she knelt upon the floor,
1 and play at being poor again ? ' I promised
heartily I would ; and Sally having kissed me,
led me out at the back-door, and showed mea
new-built shed, in which was a carpenter's
bench with one or two vices attached to it,
and an instrument which I had not seen the
like of before, beside it. This, Sally told me,
was a lathe. Bob, she said, had turned to bea
turner, and now, she added, with the only
attempt at a joke I ever heard from her, he
was a Turner by name and a Turner by nature.
Emboldened by the success of this experiment,
Sally amplified the jest, remarking that she
was going to turn and be a Turner, likewise ;
after which she blushed intensely, and led me

indoors again. We sat down in the kitchen ;
and she went off into a series of spasmodic
reminiscences of our old life, beginning each
with a burst of, ' And oh ! don't you remember,
Johnny?' Her good heart — and I
have met with many friendships and affections
in my time, but none more tender or more
faithful — was filled with the thought of those
old days ; and when she told me how forlorn
and friendless I had been at my father's
death, and how little hope there seemed forme,
she was moved to tears by the remembrance
; and I cried for company. Then we
registered a solemn promise that if ever I
were in trouble, I should come to my old friend.
For said Sally, ' it ain't money, and it ain't
rich friends, as'll save you from trouble, my
poor lamb. But a loving 'art'll make it light,
Johnny ; and come it weal or come it woe,
you'll find no change in me, dear.'

Though Bob had himself expressly stipulated
that he and Sally should wait to see
what success his venture on new ground
achieved, he had no sooner established himself
than he gave notice to the clergyman of
the parish to put up the banns. I heard
them 'cried,' as Sally phrased it, on three

successive Sundays — Robert Turner, bachelor,
and Sarah Troman, spinster— the definitions
of their several estates sounding quite respectful
on the parson's part, I felt. Bob, I discovered,
was experimenting on a mother-in-law
before matrimony, inasmuch as both his
own mother and Sally's had taken up their
abode in the cottage. I discovered also that
Bob regarded his own mother as a sufficient
antidote against Sally's ; and that Sally had
the same sort of theory with regard to the
Dowager Troman's restraining influence over
the Dowager Turner. Whether the theory
were a sound one on both sides, and can
be so recommended to the multitude, I cannot
venture to say ; but I know that they
all four dwelt together in great peace and
contentment. The two old ladies began by-and-by
to live in a state of continual soapsuds
; for the washing from the Hall fell to
their share ; and Bob with his own hands
erected a wooden wash-house, and even built
up the brick-work for the boiler.

Up to the time of Sally's marriage, my
goings-out and comings-in had been pretty
strictly regulated ; but now an enormous
flunkey being deputed to my service, I summoned

that gorgeous menial when I would —
apart from my hours for lessons — and was
by him accompanied to my old nurse's cottage,
to the great admiration of the whole
village. I was not at that time of a self-assertion
turn ; and since my association with
the gorgeous menial inevitably made a public
show of me, and was provocative of public
comment, I would willingly have dispensed
with his society. I was always happy to
escape from the shadow of his grandeur into
the quiet of Sally's kitchen or Bob's workshop.
Under Bob's tuition I became a tolerable
carpenter, and a book-shelf of my sole
manufacture hangs in his cottage to this
day.

While these halcyon times sped smoothly
on, the war in the Crimea was raging, and
news of victory or defeat reached us now
and again. When I went to visit Sally, my
attendant used to carry yesterday's Times
with him ; and I read to Bob the impressive
letters of that father of special correspondents
who chronicled the war for Jupiter Tonans.
Sometimes letters came from Uncle Benson
' the Lieutenant the third announcing
that he had won his troop ; but these contained

sparse news of the war, though he
took a gallant part in it. Once or twice, a
letter came to Maud from Cousin Will ; and
although she read these in private, and never
spoke of them, it was plainly to be seen that
they discouraged and disheartened her. The
allied troops had settled down before Sevastopol
; and I had just returned from a visit
to the village, when I saw Cousin Will
alighting from his horse at the Hall door !
I had been reading aloud the first description
of the trenches, and had so clearly in
my own mind pictured Cousin Will there,
that I was quite amazed to see him. He
shook hands with me, and patted me on the
shoulder in his old pleasant way ; but he
looked sad and tired. He was very deeply
tanned, and had grown a rich brown beard,
which became him handsomely. I learned
afterwards that the only news he brought
related to an unavailing search, and that he
had returned in consequence of an alarming
message about his father. Mr. Fairholt was
well again, and was desirous that Will should
return and carry on the inquiry he had
begun. I knew at the time that the search
had led to nothing, for I could read that in

Maud's eyes. Will announced that his stay
would last a week only ; but on the day
before that on which he should have started,
he came, not to say farewell, but to bring a
letter he had just received from his friend
Mr. Hastings. I have that letter in my
possession now, and I transcribe it here.
It bore date ' Camp before Sevastopol,' and
ran thus : —

1 My dear Will, — The worst has happened.
Forgive this cruel abruptness, but I , feel it
best to tell you all at once. Poor Frank has
met a soldier's death, and whatever trouble
drove him from you, is over now. He was
in Finally's company in the — nd. I had
news of him the night before the assault on
the fourth, but I could not possibly get away
to see him. When I went down after the
fight, he was missing, and only to-day he was
buried. Everybody speaks highly of him.
I know you would not like to think of him as
being buried with a hundred others, so I took
out some of my men and ordered them to
make a grave behind the last parallel. The
place shall be marked by an inscription, and
railings are now being set about it. God comfort

you, old friend. I have not the heart to
write more just now. — Yours always,

'Arthur Hastings.'

By what means Captain Hastings believed
himself to have identified the dead man as
Frank Fairholt, I never knew. But I know
now that all the tender offices he performed
were done for a stranger. That the stranger
was at least a gentleman seems to have been
amply proved by the testimony of officers and
men. But it is a common thing that family
sorrows should have that end in time of war,
and many an Englishman well-born and gently
nurtured fought in a private's uniform in that
campaign, and met an chronicled death, and
lies in an unknown grave there. They wore
no mourning at Island Hall. Will went out
again to the Crimea, this time with a commission.
He and his father and Maud accepted
Hastings' statement as the end of hope. The
matter was never talked about, and the country-people,
who had almost forgotten to gossip
about Frank Fairholt's disappearance, did not
hear of the supposed end of the tragedy.
The true close of that tragic story was deferred
ibr many years ; but it has always seemed tome

a most merciful and happy thing that
they who loved him believed him to be dead.
There were but a few who shared in that
belief who lived to know that it was false.
But I am mixing new memories and old.

Uncle Ben sent for me one day, and told me
that it was time I should go to school ; and
I begged him to send me to that to which
Gascoigne had been removed. He promised
to think it over; and my wish was granted
met my friend once more, and was just as
happy with him as I had ever been. If I
have seemed to leave him for a long space in
this chronicle, it is not because he was out
of my heart, but because he was out of my
life for the time. I had written a letter to
say that I was coming, and he received me as
kindly and as gladly as I could have hoped.
Was I ever happier in my life than when he
put his arm round my shoulders and said,
Well, old Jack,' as we crossed the cricket field
together? I think not. He was all admirable;
and looking back upon him as he was, I cannot
wonder at my worship of him. He was
studious and ambitious now, and worked hard ;
but there was nobody more popular in the

school than he. It was a large school ; and
there were great fellows in it with incident
beards, who drank British wines under the
rose in their bedrooms, and gave and took
the odds upon the Derby. Rightly or wrongly,
fagging and the other* devices for making life
unbearable which flourish at many large schools,
were strictly forbidden here ; but there was
a good deal of concealed bullying, as there
always will be in assemblies of boys. From
much of this, which would otherwise have
fallen to my share, Gascoigne protected me ;
and in other matters his friendship made life
smooth for me.

1 Old Jack,' he said one day as we sat together
under the shade of a big tree, ' what's
your idea about friendship ? '

I answered lightly and lazily — for it was a
blazing day, and the air beyond the shadow
of the tree took a wavy trembling motion in
the heat — that I had no ideas about anything.

I've been thinking, Old Jack,' said ,
laying a serious hand upon my shoulder,
1 that it's quite an awful thing.'

1 What's an awful thing ? ' I asked languidly.

Friendship,' said Gascoigne, throwing himself
full length upon the grass.

Why ? ' I questioned languidly again.

Because,' said Gascoigne, propping himself
up on his elbow, and regarding me with
great earnestness, * it entails one of the greatest
responsibilities in the world. Because two
people who are friends make themselves responsible
for each other. If I had a friend,
and he went to the bad, and I met him in
rags and poverty and disgrace, and if it ruined
me to own him and help him, I should have
to do it. If two fellows are really friends,
nothing can come between them. And if one
has any power or influence over the other,
he doubles his responsibility. And apart from
all those things, Old Jack, there's something
very wonderful and sacred in real friendship
which isn't easy to talk about.'

1 But we are friends,' I said ; though it
seemed to me a most presumptuous thing a
moment later.

Well, you see, Old Jack,' said Gascoigne
biting at a flower-stalk he held, ' we are friends ;
but who can tell where we shall be in twenty
years' time ? We shall grow up ; and you
will go one way, and I shall go another.'

I can remember now how those words
chilled and disheartened me, and what a
vol. 11. o

shadow they seemed to cast upon the prospect
of my life. He was so much older
and wiser and cleverer than I ; and I had come
to have so implicit a faith in him, that anything
he might say had greater weight than
if anybody else had spoken it. But I rebelled
against this fiat altogether; and I determined
that whatever change might overshadow his
regard for me, mine for him would always be
as warm and bright as then. There was a
coldness which froze any response in me at
the time in the calm way in which he spoke
of the possible breach in our knowledge of
each other and our care for each other ; and
I could make no answer. And it seemed altogether
too bold and impudent a thing to beg
the friendship which had been hitherto so
freely given by one so much above me.

He must have seen how my countenance
clouded, for he laid a hand upon me and said
smilingly, ' Never mind, Old Jack. Perhaps
I am playing at Cassandra for nothing. Have
you come across Cassandra yet ? She was
a lady whose business it was to foretell disagreeable
things. Her sayings used to come
true ; and mine won't, most likely. Shall we
make a compact to be always friends ? '

As I recall the tones in which he spoke, I
seem to read a certain mixture of cynicism
with the light, kindly patronage of his voice
and manner. I can but poorly express the
fancy, but there was something there which
made me feel that he put the question in a
sort of mockery of my discomfiture, and yet
that he meant it not unkindly. Shall I say
rather that he spoke the words to soothe me,
and had at the same time within himself a
gay and careless disbelief in the compact he
offered ? No such disbelief clouded my mind
for a second.

Will you promise, Gascoigne ? ' I asked
him eagerly.

He laughed and brought his hand into mine
with a swing. ' Yes,' he said ; ' it's a bargain.'
But his face grew serious a moment later, and
a shadow seemed to fall upon us both.

There was a certain stiffly-built, bullet-headed
youth in the school, who was known
as Gregory minor. He was very fair by
nature ; but his skin looked quite yellow at
this time by reason of the freckles with which
it was almost covered. He was a youth of considerable
humour, and the world is by this time
beginning to be persuaded that Gregory minor

though the world knows him under another
name — can write a comedy. He was a dull
dog at his lessons ; but though he nearly always
went under the weight of added impositions,
he was a general favourite with the masters
as well as with the boys. Above all things
he was fertile in nicknames, and he had conferred
upon Gascoigne the cognomen ' Miss
Aureole,' in recognition of the golden brightness
of his plentiful hair. There was in the
near neighbourhood of the school, as there
used to be in that of the Royal Castle at
Elsinore, if we may trust to the statement of
the Queen of Denmark, a spot where a gnarled
willow grew aslant a brook. This willow had
been denuded of its branches ; and I, being
at that time deep in the history of Don Quixote
de la Marcia, and having discovered that the
crown of the sloping tree made a comfortable
seat, used to go and sit there as often as I
could, under the shade of a glorious old elm,
and read. Against this habit of mine, which
I count now as being one of the pleasantness
I ever contracted, a great number of my schoolfellows
arose in protest. I never knew why,
and — unless it be that school-boys, like men,
resist and resent anything approaching to

eccentricity, especially when it takes shape in
withdrawal or self-banishment — I cannot tell
now. But I found before long that my place
of retirement had become perhaps the most
public spot in the neighbourhood, and that
steal as quietly as I would to my retreat, I
was always chivied from it without mercy, by
a roaring crowd of my co-equals. Gascoigne
came once by accident that way, and dispersed
the intruding association ; but they came back
with an elder faction added, and dispossessed
us both. In memory of this lofty perch,
Gregory minor had dubbed me St. Simeon
of the Pillar, and this being brought down in
the first instance to Stylites, came afterwards
but very speedily to Sty-lights ; but later onto
Sty or Lights indifferently ; so that before
I left the school, but was surrounded by a
new generation, the names meant nothing, and
were but maimed survivals of*an olden time,
like many other names which the teeth of the
Old Man with the Scythe have mauled for the
bewilderment of learned philologists. In like
manner, Gascoigne's nickname became first
Miss Fury — an obvious contraction — and then
Missouri — a palpable corruption — so that a
legend got somehow abroad that he came from

the banks of that mighty river, and that his
grandfather or great grandfather had taken the
stream, or done something with it in the time
of the War of Independence. Upon Gregory
minor, in disdainful return, Gascoigne had set
the name of sop's Frog, in part allusion to
a supposed bumptiousness of manner, and in
part allusion to the broglie freckles with which
Gregory minors hands and face were marked.
This designation receiving general approval,
and becoming current, was abbreviated into
sop, and stayed there.

One day, whilst the second eleven of our
school were engaged in a match with an eleven
from a private school in the neighbourhood,
Gascoigne strolled towards me under the
beeches which lined the ground on the eastern
side. From where I lay, I had a very good
view of the game. My hero had played an
innings of three-and-twenty, and I was satisfied.
He came to me now, and threw himself
on the turf beside me ; and we watched
the match together. The afternoon was already
growing into evening, and facing us a
city of cloud was built up in the sky. I do
not remember to have seen a more wonderful
sunset. The interest in the match was over.

for the opposing team were hopelessly beaten ;
and when Gascoigne stretched out his hand
and called out, 'Look here, Old Jack!' I
forgot everything else, and watched the skyey
palaces as the soft hand of the wind built
them into marvellous forms, and the dying
sun baptised them with his light, and made
them glorious with all imaginable splendours
of colour.

Gascoigne, lying beside me with his eyes
upon the sunset, began to repeat verses to
himself, and gradually growing clearer in
utterance as he became more absorbed and
unconscious, broke out with this : —

4 The sun goes down to his rest

Through the high-arched western gate,

And crowds of servants, gorgeously dressed,
Marshal him thither in state ;

And curtains of amber and ruby-loop
over him fold on fold,

And far-off eyes of silver peep
Through gates of dusky gold.

Softly fades the evening glow,
Evening breezes whisper low,
Thoughts, like shadows, come and go.'

The lines seemed to me then, whatever I may
think of them now, completely beautiful.

1 Who wrote that, Gascoigne ? ' I asked,
turning upon him eagerly.

1 I did he answered, still looking at the
sunset like one who saw beyond it.

The voice of Gregory minor broke upon us
from behind the nearest tree. ' The young
woman,' said aesop's Frog, ' has took to
poetry.'

I do not remember having felt more disgusted
in my time at any incongruity of speech
than I felt then. There had been a feud for
many months, as I knew, though I had seen
but little of it, between Gascoigne and aesop,
and I was not surprised, but only a little
frightened, when my friend sprang to his feet
and struck the satirist. A blow was regarded
as a challenge to a fight, by etiquette, apart
from natural instinct.

All right,' said aesop, accepting the situation,
and marched away calmly with his hat
at the back of his head, Gascoigne following,
and I bringing up the rear in much agitation.
The intending combatants paused behind a
haystack, having made their way through a
gap in the hedge into another field. 'Will
this do ? ' asked Aesop. Gascoigne nodded,
and the two, having taken off their jackets

and waistcoats, shook hands, and stood up
before each other, and the fight began. It
went all in Gascoigne's favour at the beginning,
for he was the more active, and the more
scientific, but after a time the sturdy strength
of Gregory minor began to tell. Old aesop
cared nothing for his punishment, and I began
to see that the victory must go with him, when
things reached a sudden crisis. The combatants
came to a hug, and after a brief wrestle
in which Gascoigne's science was nowhere
when compared with the other's stolid resistance,
they came down heavily together, and
Gregory minor was on top.

1 Is that enough ? ' asked Old aesop, with
a boy's brutal disregard of the courtesies of
war.

No,' said Gascoigne. But he had to sit
down again after scrambling to his feet, and
in the next round he went down almost without
the power to make a struggle.

That's enough, I think,' said Old aesop
with a smile, which a swollen lip and discoloured
eye made somewhat grim. Gascoigne
returned no answer this time, and his late
opponent approached him, tendering his hand.
We've had' it out now, and we both wanted

to have it out, you know, and I don't mind
saying that I thought those verses thundering
good uns, old fellow Gascoigne took his
hand a little unwillingly. ' Look here, you
know,' Old aesop added, ' a joke's only a joke,
after all, and / don't see that life 'd be worth
much if a man couldn't grin at something.'
So saying, he put on his waistcoat and coat,
and went calmly back again, leaving me disconsolately
agaze at Gascoigne.

HISTORY.

1 There is a spark of goodness here. 1

/^\N a day in spring, when the birds
seemed mad with jollity, a little child
came singing down a country lane. She carried
a basket on her arm, and in one hand
she jingled together some eight or ten copper
pieces. Two or three fleecy clouds set off the
perfect blue of the sky ; a light wind, full of
the fresh scent of trees and flowers and country
earth, fanned the child's face ; and no bird in
the hedges or the trees about her sang a blither
song than hers. As she danced down the
lane, there appeared in the highway before her
the figure of a diminutive man in a coat made
of an old sack, and corduroy trousers much too
large for him. He had a spiky white beard
and moustache, and he wore a silk hat battered

out of all shape, and foul with dirt. The little
maid skipped gaily on, rattling her coppers,
and the diminutive man paused to regard her.
He heard the jingle of the money in her hand,
and looked cautiously up and down the road.

Where are you going, my little dear ? ' he
said as she approached him.

The bits of blue sky which shone in the
damsel's eyes clouded, and she stopped with
a look of affright. The little man shuffled upto
her, and with a sudden cruel grip caught
the child by the wrist, and gave it a sharp
wrench. She screamed faintly, and dropped
both her money and her basket. The little
man picked them up, and looking about him
with an air of indecision for a moment, flung
the basket over the nearest hedge, then put
the coppers into his pocket, shook his fist at
the child, grinned, and walked away. The
little maiden only a minute before so glad and
fearless, sat down and wept bitterly. Home
was her only refuge, and she trembled to go
home, and she was afraid to stay in the lane,
which now seemed so dangerous and lonely.
So you see she had nothing left but to sit
there and cry broken-heartedly.

Perhaps half-an-hour later, came that way

a man with deep sunken black eyes and
a sallow face half-hidden in a great blackbeard
laced with grey. His black hair hung
about his face and neck, and there were many
white hairs intermingled with it. He was
dressed in broken garments, and his boots
scarce clung to his feet. As he walked on
slowly with downcast eyes, the noise of the
child's weeping struck his ear, and he looked
about in a slow, dazed, inquiring way, as if
the sound hurt him. Following the child's
cry, he turned into the lane, and there saw the
little girl lying on a grassy hillock with her
face in her hands. He knelt down beside her
and spoke soothingly. ' What is it ? Poor
little woman. What is it ? '

The child looked up at him with her large
blue eyes quite over brimmed with tears. She
could not stop crying all at once. Her little
breast heaved, and her open lips quivered, and
the blue eyes overflowed ; but she stretched
her arms out to the ragged tramp, as if she
trusted him ; and he, sitting on the hillock,
took her on his knee, and put one arm about
her neck, and petted and soothed her until
she could speak. Then with many sobs, she
told her story ; and the tramp, having heard

her to the end, first scrambled through the
hedge and restored her basket ; and then
showing her a shilling, asked her if that was
as much as had been stolen from her. She
could not tell ; but he bade her run to complete
her errand, and away she went with her
fears banished and her trouble over. The
tramp looked after her for a minute before he
resumed his walk. He had parted with his last
coin, and now for the first time in his life was
penniless. Yet he cared little for that as he
went upon his way. He had nothing to walk
for and nowhere to go, but he walked with a
dogged, downcast perseverance, which to the
eye of any one who had troubled to observe
him would have seemed to indicate a purpose.
Once or twice men garbed like himself passed
him on the way and flung him a rough salutation,
but he returned no answer. The sun
went down and the air began to be chilly, and
he walked on shivering. The darkening road
stretched out before him lonely and sad in the
twilight. He leaned over a gate and peered
into the fields ; then climbed the gate, and
sauntered to a hay-stack, beside which some
twenty or thirty bundles of straw had been
thrown down. He nestled under the lee of

the stack, and drew the great bundles of straw-over
him, and lay there dry and snug until
a refreshing warmth came over him, and he
fell asleep. He was up before dawn, for fear
of discovery, and plodding along the road
again in the cold and darkness. He grew
dolefully hungry ; but at that season of the
year the fields were bare, and there was no
chance for a penniless man to pick up anything.
He walked all day, and housed himself
at night in a barn to which he found a chance
entrance. Next day saw him again upon the
road, travelling more slowly and with greater
effort, but still bent nowhere, and utterly without
a purpose, though his dogged perseverance
might have made it seem to one who watched
him that he was walking away from death to
life. That night he found another sheltering
hay-stack, out of which he dragged enough hay
to make room for his body. He lay down
there, and pulled the surplus hay over him ;
and the racking of his rheumatic limbs and the
pangs of an empty stomach kept him awake all
night. Next day he sighted London, and went
on with wearier and ever wearier feet in the profitless
race against his own shadow, refusing at
every step to know that he could go no farther.

In one of the outlying districts of London,
an enterprising tradesman had lined the back
of the window in which he displayed his goods
with gorgeously panelled mirrors. The tramp
came by in the sunshine and looked at the
window. The tradesman stood at his own
door and surveyed the sunlit street and the
striped shop-blinds, and looked kindly on a
thirsty dog which went to the waterman's
bucket opposite. But observing that the
human Pariah paused before his window, the
tradesman turned and eyed him with suspicion.
For his part, the tramp paused in perfect
vacuity of mind, and in a mood so dreamy
and unobservant, that he took the reflected
image of himself for the actual solid body of
some person in the shop. And being, as we
have seen already, of a tender heart, he felt
a dim pity stir within him at the sight of
that melancholy spectacle. Stained with travel,
ragged, bent, miserably shod, the creature
standing there in the shop seemed deserving
of pity. But as the tramp outside raised his
head and moved his hand, an answering motion
arrested his regard, and he saw in a
second the trick his mind and eyes had played
him. More than the third part of a year had

gone by since he had consciously beheld the
similitude of himself in a glass, and then he
had seen a figure so different from this that
his momentary failure to recognise himself
need scarcely be regarded with surprise. He
had been gay, and well dressed, and young,
and splendidly handsome five months ago ;
and now this human scarecrow, who looked so
hungrily and mournfully back at him from the
gold-bound mirror — this was he — this bowed
and bent and broken wretch, with the knotted
black beard, grey-sprinkled, that flowed over
his sunken breast, and the elf-locks with silver
lines in them — himself and no other. And all
this breaking in upon him, not as it is here
set down, but like a lightning flash for swiftness
and terribleness, he clasped his hands with
one heart-rending groan, and his eyes grew so
dim that the mirror and its reflection were
blotted out of sight. At the sound of the
groan the tradesman came off the door-step.

1 What's the matter ? '

The tramp turned his eyes upon him for one
instant, and no more ; and then with his hands
drooping and clasped piteously before him, and
his head bent downwards, he crawled on, dragging
one foot after the other. The tradesman
vol. 11. r

took a step in pursuit, and sent a thumb and
finger into his own waistcoat-pocket, whence
they returned with a shilling between them ;
and the man half-benevolent, half-suspicious in
mood, sending one glance after the retreating
figure and another over the way, saw his rival
tradesman regarding the tramp and him with a
smile of satiric humour. That decided him.
He followed the pitiable figure, slipped the
shilling into the clasped hands, and shot himself
shamefacedly back into his own shop again.
The tramp faltered in his walk, and looked
down upon the coin. He turned slowly ; but
he could see no one in the street, and he did
not know from whom the gift had come.
Humiliated ?' the tramp said to himself questioningly.
' What right have I to feel humiliated
? ' But he had been proud, and this first
offer of charity was very bitter to him. The
bread he ate tasted of charity, hungry and
empty as he was, and his swelling throat
almost refused it.

The streets grew fuller and busier as he
neared the City ; and the lights springing up
in the thin dusk, and the roll of carts and cabs,
and the hoarse murmur of the distant streets
were to him accustomed things, and full of

remembrances. What had moved him back
to London ? He could not tell. How should
he live there ? Where bestow himself ? He
could not tell. At length he found himself
on London Bridge. Was there any temptation
there ? Ay ! The dirty stream that ran lily
about the wharves and the greasy mud-banks,
and stole in such filthy smoothness round the
boats that lay moored in mid-stream — vaguely
seen past the lights that rose in the thin spring
dusk — called to him with a voice which found
a ready answer. But though one half his soul
clamoured with an eager cry for the rest that
lay there, he shook his head in answer to that
inward call and muttered : 'No. That is the
basest end of all. Let the close come how
and when it may, I will not seek it wilfully.'
And in answer to that resolved murmur, rose
an inward voice of longing, ' Let the end
come soon ; ' and he muttered again, shaking
his grey-sprinkled head, 'Amen to that. Let
it come soon — let it come soon.' In this
sorrowful case, still furtively munching the
bitter bread of charity, and walking with his
face bent downwards, shadowed by the drooping
hat he wore and by his matted hair, he
let his feet carry him whither they would.

He had wandered back to Holborn — for he
had come up from the Western country — and
the spring dusk had given way to night. A
fretful wind teased itself with meanings until
a close fine rain came down and stilled it.
He was standing on the pavement facing
Chancery Lane, when a private cab came by,
rasping the kerbstone, and pulled up within
three or four yards of him. ' Hold that therefor
me a minute, will you, mate ? ' said a
whining voice in the tramp's ear ; and before
he knew it, he found himself holding a street-sweeper's
broom. The owner of the broom
had taken charge of the horse in the private
cab ; and the owner of the cab had swung
himself out of it, and had gone with a hurried
step along Warwick Court. The horse was
restive, and insisted on going forward. The
man who had assumed the charge of him was
either unable to control, or unwilling to provoke
the horse ; and the cab was taken on
slowly for perhaps a dozen yards, when it
was brought to a stand behind a great wagon
which blocked up that side of the way.
Scarcely noting these things, the tramp stood
at the kerbstone beneath a lamp-post, and
directly at the head of the crossing, broom

in hand. 'Hi, sweeper!' said a comfortable
voice ; and the tramp saw a gloved hand extended
towards him. Mechanically he put
out his own hand, and a sixpenny-piece
dropped into it from the gloved thumb and
finger. Then, by some unaccountable accident,
another and another and another charitably
disposed soul came by ; and although
the tramp solicited nothing — perhaps partly
because of that — copper pieces were dropped
one by one into his hand, until, when the
sweeper came back to claim his broom, his
locum tenens had something like two shillings
waiting for him.

Why, whatever's this ? ' cried the sweeper
in amazement, as the tramp put the sixpence
and the little pile of coppers in the hand held
out for the broom.

It is yours,' said the tramp. ' It was given
to me as I stood in your place, and was meant
for you of course.'

1 Oh, I say, mate cried the sweeper, ' you
are a real true good sort ; and what extraordinary
luck you do have, to be sure.' The
sweeper was a thin and faded man, dressed
in somebody's cast-off suit of black broadcloth.
Somebody's suit had been highly respectable

once upon a time, and was sunk into a deeper
disgrace of seediness by reason of that old
respectability. Some feeble attempt had been
made to patch its looped and windowed raggedness
; but little fragments of torn cloth
shook at the man's shoulders and elbows and
knees, and the skirts of his coat were vandyked
with rags. The tramp had drooped
his head again after one look at the sweeper,
and had turned away ; but the other followed
him, and said, with a sort of reluctant haste,
'No; look here, mate ; half of this ought to
belong to you. No. sir ; I'm poor, and I
may have took to drink ; but I've allays kep'
my 'ed above water in the way of honesty,
and I really couldn't, — Oh dear, no — I really
couldn't.'

Are you so scrupulous ? ' asked the tramp,
turning round upon him wearily.

Which, speaking' fair and honest, sir the
sweeper answered, ' I really am, sir. I couldn't
do it. Oh dear, no — I really couldn't do it
He counted the money with his shaky fingers,
and proffered half of it to the tramp, who only
shook his head in answer.

Oh, please ! ' said the sweeper in his whining
voice. ' Don't think me indelicate or

over-pressing' ; but I really couldn't keep it.
I've seen better days, though I am a crossing-sweeper
now ; and I really couldn't demean
myself to keep it.'

The tramp faced round again, and regarded
him attentively. ' There is a spark of goodness
here,' he thought ; ' though not many
would have suspected it. The man is thoroughly
in earnest ; and who am / of all menin
the world that I should trample a good
impulse down ? ' There came into his mind, as
though a voice long silent had repeated them,
these words, ' The bruised reed I will not
break, the smoking flax I will not quench.'
And that long-silent voice which whispered
to his soul, seemed to lay a commandment on
him. ' You will feel the want of this tomorrow,'
said the tramp, as he held out his
hand, and the sweeper placed the money, wet
with the dismal rain, in his palm.

1 Which we'll try to 'ope not, sir,' the other
answered, and stopped before a flaring public-house.
' I haven't had a drop to-day,' he said,
passing his hand across his mouth. ' Will you
come in and take a share of half a quartern ? '

No ! ' said the tramp, with a little inward
shudder.

1 1 beg your pardon,' said the other, in his
querulous whining tones, ' for asking you ; but
I've seen better days myself; and anyone can
see, sir, as you've not been used to this, sir,
when you speak.'

1 Can you tell me where I can get lodgings
for the night ? ' asked the tramp, ignoring the
dubious compliment. ' I am very poor. I
had only sentence when you shared with me.'

1 If you'll only wait for me half a minute,'
returned the sweeper, * I'll take you to as good
a place as there is. It isn't far, sir, and I'm
going there myself.'

Receiving a nod of assent, he shambled into
the gin-shop ; and after a pause of a minute,
came shambling out again, rubbing the back of
his hand relishing across his bristly lips. Heled
his companion along Holborn and into Oxford
Street, and crossing the road with a brief
injunction to the tramp to follow, went down
a dark and noisome passage which led into a
court-yard. At the far end of the court burned
one oil-lamp, a feeble blur of light on the darkness.
' A good many of the steps is broken,'
said the sweeper ; ' and you'll have to feel
along the wall, because the balusters has been
broke up for firewood.' With this caution,

he preceded the stranger once more ; and with
now and then a warning word, made needful
by the uneasiness and darkness of the way,
led right to the top of the building. 'Wait
there while I get a light,' said the tramp's guide
speaking out of dense darkness. The tramp
stood still, and heard him prowling cautiously
about the floor, sliding his feet before him, as
if afraid to set them firmly down. After a
while the man struck a light, and found a
candle ; and then called the other to him.
Step cautious,' he cried ; ' you ain't used to
the place, and there's a-many holes about.'
The tramp not heeding this warning greatly,
crossed the creaking floor, and in the dim
light of the candle looked about the room in
which he found himself. It was absolutely
bare of furniture, and held nothing, so far ashe
could see, but three tea-chests, a heap of
shavings, and some ragged sacks.

I haven't got a lock to the room said the
sweeper, still whining, as though he was beseeching
charity; 'and when I'm in luck, and
I've got a bit of firing, Mrs. Closky she keeps
it for me in her place down-stairs. Sit down
here, sir,' he continued, placing one of the tea-chests
bottom upwards, ' and I'll see about a fire.'

Leaving his guest in the dark, he went
down-stairs ; and the tramp heard the murmur
of conversation in the room below. He
leaned his bearded chin upon his hands, and
looked before him at the scenes which memory
and fancy threw upon the black canvas of the
night. They were many, and some of them
were glad, but not one of them had any other
lesson than despair for him. And suddenly,
with no wish or conscious thought of his to
bring them, the bridge and the river were
before him, with dim blots of light upon the
bridge against the thin spring dusk, and
brightly scintillating sparks in the distance
where the filthy stream went out of sight beneath
the curtain of the gathering dark. And
his whole soul yearned after the rest which
lay within the bosom of the river, till he set
his teeth and gripped his beard hard with both
hands, and muttered to himself, ' Not that —
not that. The coward's way. The meanest
end of all. Not that, in God's name ! ' The
slimy stream with its twinkling lights faded
out of fancy's gaze ; and the sweeper came
stumbling up the broken stairs with the candle
in his hand, and a lean sack thrown over his
shoulder. Tumbling out a few handfuls of

coal and wood upon the floor, he knelt down
at the grate and built up carefully the materials
for a fire.

1 Is this your own place ?' asked the tramp,
glad to turn his thoughts into any current but
that in which they chose to run.

Yes,' said the sweeper. ' It comes as cheap
as Flight's Place ; and I've been well to do in
my time ; and I can't bear the thought of mixing
up along of them low riff-raff. Which
that's what they are I know right well, sir —
the very lowest of the very low.'

What is Flight's Place ? ' the tramp asked.

It's a thieves' kitchen — nothing better, sir
answered the sweeper, fanning the fire with
his hat, ' close by where I had the pleasure of
meeting you, sir.'

1 Ay ? ' said the tramp.

Not as I'd say,' the sweeper continued, • as
Bolter's Rents was exactly the kind of place
as a man might care for to live in which had
been well reared. But it's very quiet and ,
when you're at the top ; and since
the time when my poor wife died — my pardner
in life, which she is dead and born, sir — there
ain't been one creature in this room but me.
That is, not except Dr. Brand.'

1 Dr. Brand, of Wimpole Street ? '

That's the same gentleman. Do you know
him ? ' asked the sweeper.

'No,' said the tramp ; ' but I have heard of
him.'

I daresay now, sir said the sweeper,
leaving his place at the fire, which now burned
brightly, and dragging one of the empty
tea-chests before it, ' as you'd wonder what
brought a gentleman like Dr. Brand to think
of coming here, sir ? '

1 What brought him here ? ' the tramp returned,
trying to feel some interest in the
other's chatter, and to shut out the thoughts
which beat at the door of his own mind.

Why,' said the sweeper, spreading his
hands before the blaze, and basking in it, but
speaking always in the same whining tones,
me and my poor pardner which is born,
meaning my wife, sir, kep' a stationer's shop,
with a licence for tobacco, close up against
where Dr. Brand formerly used for to live
when he was younger in practice. An' he
used to deal with us, which he put a deal of
money in my way, and brought a lot of custom.
Which when I'd been in business nine or ten
ear, sir, I'd saved a bit of money, and I

thought I'd venture for to enlarge the trade.
And — Ah ! ' broke out the sweeper, shaking
his head dismally at the fire, ' what a fool I
were, for certain ! I went to a man as had a
office in Long Lane, which his name was
Mister A. Tasker— '

A light shone suddenly in the tramp's dull
eyes, and he lifted his head and looked in the
speaker's face. His own countenance flushed
crimson, and then paled again. He dropped
his chin slowly upon his breast, and took his
beard with both hands. The sweeper went
on, noting nothing of his companion's agitation.


And I borrowed more money off of him,
and that was what broke me up, for he followed
me that hard, and he did that persecute me.
If you'll believe me, sir, I paid him four or five
times over, which I shouldn't be surprised if
I paid him six. And finally he came and sold
me up.'

Ay ! ' said the tramp. ' A blood-sucker.'

1 Oh, you may well say that, sir,' cried his
host, and maundered on again. But the tramp
had fallen into a reverie, in which the other's
words fell idly on his ear. He came out of his
dream in time to hear the statement that that

was what the sweeper called a judgment, and
he in answer nodded and said ' Ay ! ' But he
had missed a story which might have been of
interest to him had he heard it. It was no
other than the tale of Mr. Tasker's fall, as
related in court three days before by the
counsel who appeared against Closky.

The sweeper saw something of the tramp's
pre-occupation, and forbore to speak further,
but, rising, began to arrange for him a bed of
shavings, and to apportion the sacks which
were to cover him. The self-absorbed man
took no notice of his movements, and was
indeed by this time unconscious of his presence.
The host went downstairs again, taking the
candle with him, and returning by-and-by with
two rough and ragged blankets, threw one
upon each of his improvised couches, and
touched the tramp upon the shoulder, saying
that he might go to bed when he would.

What do you pay for this place ? ' asked the
tramp, without turning round.

1 I pay one-and-ninepence a week for it,'
returned the sweeper. ' That's just threepence
a night, you see. It comes as cheap as a
lodging-house, and I have it to my own self.'

Will you take me as a lodger for a week

if I share the payment with you ? ' asked the
tramp, bending above the scanty embers of
the fire. ' I am tired, and I must rest for a
day or two.'

You can stay here and welcome,' whined
the sweeper. ' I don't want nothing from a
man as is poor and honest, like myself.'

1 I will not stay unless you let me pay,' said
the tramp.

Very well,' said the other. ' It ain't my
fault if I take the money. I don't ask for
none. Mind that, sir.'

There's sentence-halfpenny, and I am your
lodger for a week. Is that agreed ? '

That's agreed,' said the sweeper, and the
new lodger cast himself wearily down upon
the sacks and shavings, and drew the tattered
blanket over him. The sweeper as he arranged
his own bed to his mind, offered two or three
remarks to his companion, but receiving no
answer, lay down, curled himself up in his
blanket, and fell fast asleep.

And it was in this wise that Frank Fairholt
became a lodger in Bolter's Rents.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

There ??iay come a time in your career when gentle dealing
may seem out of place?

T SUPPOSE it was a natural thing that
Gascoigne and Gregory minor having had
the quarrel out, should become fast friends.
The consummation seemed at first a strange
one ; but I learned to welcome it. I had
had so little companionship, and had become
so solitary and sedentary in all my ways, that
a rambling, adventurous, tree-climbing, bound-breaking
young person like aesop was the
most valuable of all companions for me. I was
afraid of him at the beginning ; but I soon
trusted him. He was as open as the day ;
and I believe a lie at any cost would have
been morally impossible for him. His fancy
ran riot with him often, and he launched

himself fearlessly on grotesquely's wildest
stream, and allowed it to take him whither it
would ; but he was unlike any other imaginative
boy I have known in his stolid adherence
to fact in all matters outside the domain of
fancy. He was always in trouble, and he
seemed to like it and to flourish on it, for he
was always happy. He taught me to boat
and swim and play cricket, and was willing to
bowl at me for an hour together. Out of the
companions, who crowded about me at school
and college, Gascoigne and aesop were the
only two who accompanied me in after-life.
I have no time to linger here upon the pleasant
memories of my school-days, though I would
do it willingly ; but there are two incidents
which show so clearly in the light of later
years, that I record them. I see them distinctly.
They make pictures in my mind. I
can almost hear the voices speak again.

I have been swiftly brought from school by
Major Hartley, with whom by this time I
am quite familiar. Major Hartley is a sort
of Captain Points without Captain Points's
humour. He has a portentous drawl and a
big moustache, and he swaggers a little in
his gait. He takes me on fishing and shooting
vol. 11. Q

expeditions in the holidays ; and last season
I rode to hounds beside him. He tips me
with outrageous generosity, and tells me
stories of the Crimean War. He is not a
good teller of tales ; but my imagination fills
in much of the detail of his sterile stories,
and I am always quite absorbed by his narrations.
But we have been very silent all the
way home, and the house is very silent now.
The domestics go about their duties noiselessly,
like ghosts in livery. Everybody speaks with
subdued voice ; and I, though I notice all
these things with the keenest observation, am
stricken through with grief. For the sad
message that has brought me here is that
Maud is at death's door, and that there is little
hope for her. The medical man of Wretchedly
is in consultation with a physician from
the county town. They are clothed in black,
and look to my frightened eyes like Death's
heralds. I am admitted, on promise of outward
calmness, to Maud's chamber, and see
her lying asleep, wan and fragile. Uncle Ben
meets me at the door, and I see that his whole
face is red, as if it had been scalded. He
makes no concealment of his grief; and when
he takes me on his knee in his own room,

he puts his handkerchief over his face and
cries unrestrainedly. I am too stonily cold
in my grief to cry at all, and think myself
terribly hard-hearted and unfeeling. I tell
myself all that Maud has been to me, and
how dearly I ought to love her, and still sit
there cold and stony while Uncle Ben cries
behind his handkerchief; and I can do nothing
but look at a great miserable gap in the world
which nothing can ever fill again. And a voice
which is no part of me at all, says distinctly
and keeps on saying, 'I don't care;' and though
I strive against it with abhorrence, it will not
be silent. I grow to feel so fearfully wicked
under the iteration of this inward voice, that I
become quite frightened at myself, and sit there
whilst Uncle Ben's grief flows on, and feel
stonier and colder every minute. At length a
tap is heard at the door, and I rise and answer it.

Mr. Hartley is inside, sir,' whispers the
domestic to some one outside the door ; whereupon
a very tall, broad-shouldered man with
iron-grey hair, and a nose like an eagle's
beak, nods in answer, enters the room, and
lays a hand on Uncle Ben's shoulder.

'Is that you, Brand?' says Uncle Ben,
rising from his chair. ' The other doctors

are here, but I haven't got a lot o' faith in
'em. Come and see her.'

'Take me to the doctors, first says the
new-comer ; and Uncle Ben and he leave the
room together. Then comes a long interval
of silence, and I am left alone. I can hear
one of the dogs whining in the kennels, for
my uncle's room is at the back of the great
house ; and I think of the superstition which
accredited animals with a foreknowledge of
human death. After a great lapse of time,
a female servant enters and makes up the
fire ; for Uncle Ben will have all domestic
offices performed by women, and keeps up
the tribe of menials in plush for service at
the table and for show. I venture to ask
her if the new doctors hold out any hope ;
but she does not know, and steals away
again as silently as she came. I wait a longtime
with a growing sense of fear, accusing
myself all the while for the wicked want of
feeling. Then the new doctor returns alone,
not observing me at all, as I sit at the window
looking out upon the night, which is calm
and clear and cold. He seats himself with
his back towards me, and lights a cigar and
smokes it. I can see the dull red reflected

in the polished marble of the mantel-piece,
and the smoke that curls above the chair in
which the doctor lounges. I want desperately
to ask him the question which I put to the
housemaid ; but that accusing voice within
me goes on saying, ' I don't care ; ' and I
seem to have been so long silent and unnoticed
that I am afraid to speak. Then after another
lapse of time, a tap comes to the door again,
and the doctor throws his cigar into the fire
and walks out of the room ; and with my
stony misery still upon me, I fall asleep in
my chair, until voices awake me.

Where is Mr. Hartley ? ' asks one voice ;
and looking up, I see that the doctor has
returned, and that Cousin Will is with him.

In his bedroom, and waiting anxiously to
see you,' answers Cousin Will ; and the doctor
makes a movement to the door. But Will
laying a restraining hand upon his arm, he
turns round and faces him, looking down from
under projecting brows. 'What,' asks Cousin
Will, * is your opinion of — the case ? '

Serious,' says the doctor ; ' but there is
ample room for hope.' With that he leaves
the room ; and I see Cousin Will fall upon
his knees beside an arm-chair and bury his

face within his hands. And for myself, at
that good news, I only know that the false
accusing voice within me goes silent suddenly,
and that I weep for relief and hope, as I have
never wept before.

Two weeks later, I am back at school with
an egregious gratuity from Uncle Ben. Maud
is recovering rapidly ; and what with my joy
at that, and the gleeful excitement with which I
find myself richer in the middle of the school-term
than ever golden Midas was in his auriferous
life, I am supremely contented, and the
days race after one another till they bring the
Christmas holidays.

Other pictures take form and colour before
me, and there are other voices in my ear. It
is my fifteenth birthday. Gascoigne is at the
head of the school. Gregory minor is Gregory
major now, and only one behind Gascoigne in
the race. I lie upon the grass under the
shadow of the beech-trees. It is night-time,
and the moon is glorious ; and across the field
in the woods beyond the river the nightingale
is singing. I lie alone, heedless of damp
grass ; and I travel in thought through such
a life as only an eager lad can live in his

dreams. On ria pas toujours quinze ans, sings
Suzanne, and at fifteen one has a right to
one's dreams. I recall the scene almost as if
it were a spectacle in a theatre. The solemn
beech-trees are alive with light at the edges
of their masses of dark foliage. There is a
visible nimbus about the meanest object insight,
and the nightingale sings. Over my
dream and through the story of the nightingale,
steals a serious voice which comes nearer
as it speaks. I know the voice for that of
the headmaster. His companion is tall and
slight, but manly in figure ; and as they go
by at a distance of twenty yards perhaps, I
think it ridiculous when the figure looks like
Gascoigne's. Gascoigne is a prosperous scholar,
and a great deity of mine ; but there are
limits even to my beliefs in him, and I can
scarcely dream of him — dreamer as I am — as
walking in intimate talk with our head-master.
Whilst I wonder, the headmaster turns, and
Gascoigne — for it is he — turns with him. The
master's voice comes clear and solemn to
where I lie in the grass, and my heart beats
with half-a-score of emotions at once — sorrowful
and joyful.

1 You leave tomorrow, then,' says the headmaster

; ' and you carry my hopes and prayers
with you. Your career at school has been an
exceptionally brilliant one, and you have proved
that you are a master of exceptional qualities.
There is only one way with those qualities, if
you would prosper with them and make them
useful.' The measured tones and the measured
step fall into the distance together, and after
an interim, return. ' Good-bye, then,' says the
master, pausing once more opposite my unseen
post, and turning towards his own residence.
I will keep the high hopes I had of you.
I am more than willing to believe in you.
There may come a time in your career, ,
when gentle dealing may seem out of
place, and strict justice may claim her own
more rigidly. But the scales will not be in
my hands then. Take care that I have never
to throw into them the weight which I reserve
to-day. Good-bye.'

With no farewell from Assignes lips, the
master moves on towards his own house.
His step dies in silence on the turf, and
I lose his form in shadow. Now Gascoigne
is down upon his face, and I can hear
him moaning. What — what is this ? What
shadow of disgrace or grief is here ? I dare

guess nothing, dare fear nothing. And the
memory haunts me like a nightmare through
the day which follows, and through the next,
and through the long vacation which succeeds
it. Gascoigne has gone one day before his
time, without good - byes to any ; and his
friends are chagrined, but not suspicious.
And only he knows what casts that shadow
which will fall between himself and me,
though all my soul rebels against it.

Gregory major held the position of school-chief
for a year, and left at the end
of it for Exeter, Oxford. But before he
went, Uncle Ben — who had heard of him
from me a thousand times — would needs
have him at Hartley Hall ; and we arranged
it so that we travelled down from school together.
On the way down, aesop amongst
many other things spoke of my uncle's wealth,
and said that the common legend went that
he was made of money. I answered that he
was not at all a metallic sort of a man, but
honest flesh and blood, and lovable. In that
case, aesop declared he'd get to know the
Bloke, and bleed him for a comic paper.

Think of getting paid for making jokes,

young un ! Think of all the jokes I've made
in my time, and never had so much as a
Thank you" for! I've been kicked, cuffed,
and caned for 'em — I've been at school arraigned
for 'em — I've often been disdained
for 'em — my character I've stained for 'em
I've many a time been pained for 'em —
but I've never been paid for 'em in all my
life. If I were editor of Punch, I wouldn't
swop berths with the Emperor of China.
You'll see me go at the old fogy,' said
aesop, ' a perfect bee-line.'

Knowing what I did of aesop's rugged
manliness of character, knowing how he stuck
by a friend, and how gentle he was at the
bottom of all his roughness and his jollity, I
was more than a little pained by his behaviour
when we reached the station at
Wrethedale. Who should be on the platform
with Uncle Ben but Gascoigne ? I leaped
out of the carriage to greet him, and called
out to Gregory that Gascoigne was here.

1 Yes,' he said ; ' I see ; ' and busied himself
among the belongings he had stowed
away in the railway carriage. When he
alighted, he had nothing but a nod of the
head and a rather sullen 'How d'ye do?'

for Gascoigne. My hero himself looked a
little disconcerted at Gregory's coming, I
thought ; and Uncle Ben that evening called
me up to his study, and after a number of
minor questions, asked me if I had not told
him that the two old school-fellows were fast
friends.

1 They used to be I answered in some
dismay.

Never mind,' said Uncle Ben. ' Boys
will be boys ; and what they'd have to be
if they couldn't be boys, I dort know.
They've had a bit of a quarrel, I suppose.
Leave 'em alone together, and it'll all come
right. They're fine young chaps both of 'em,
and as thoroughbred a pair as I'd wish to
look at. You take pattern by 'em, Johnny ;
and remember above all things as they're
your guests and not mine, and that you've
got to do your best to please 'em. You'll
find a plaything in that pocket-book as '11
amuse you as long as they're here, I daresay.
And now — off you go ! You'll find 'em in
the billiard-room.'

I discovered on my way to the billiard-room
that the ' plaything ' spoken of by Uncle Ben
was a cheque on the Hetherton Bank ; and

Gascoigne went with me the next day to cash
it. Mr. Crisp the manager invited us into
his own room and proffered refreshment ; and
as I left the bank, I heard one man say to
another as they waited at the counter, ' The
one in the turn-down collars a navvy of the
millionaire's. Hartley — Hartley Hall, you
know.'

/ know said the other ; and I felt as if
their eyes burned my back as I walked out
at the swinging doors. We had ridden over
attended by a groom ; and quite a little crowd
assembled to see us mount and start again.

Gascoigne laughed, and said, ' You are a
prince in your own country, Jack.'

I should have made an answer, I suppose,
but that I saw something at that minute which
put all thought even of Gascoigne from my
mind. It was no less than Mr. Fairholt's
carriage, and in it sat Aunt Bertha and Cousin
Will and Polly. That I should dare to call
her Polly, even in writing, seems in the memory
of that hour a wild presumption. Ay!
I may laugh now, if I will ; but I remember
how, after bowing to the carriage generally,
and exchanging greetings with Cousin Will
and Aunt Bertha, I asked with a beating

heart after the health of Miss Fairholt, and
trembled at the sound of my own voice.

1 Meaning me ? said Polly, with her eyes
dancing. ' How very droll ! '

Aunt Bertha had always insisted that a certain
portion of my holidays should be given
up to her ; and I had spent a yearly month
with her at seaside places ; but I had never
passed the doors of Mr. Fairholt's house since
I had ceased to live there. In these early excursions,
Polly had been Aunt Bertha's constant
companion, and we had naturally been
a great deal together. I had always been her
submissive slave from the hour of my first
capture ; and now these long absences had
brought timidity on top of helpless bondage.
I cannot remember that I was up to this time
at all under dominion of dress. That hard
rule came later ; but I know that at the
moment at which I encountered Polly, every
article of my attire seemed to have undergone
some fateful change. My collar was rumpled
and refused to sit, my boots were soiled, my
riding-trousers were splashed to the knee, my
jacket held my arms in awkward fetters. The
very horse I sat had, to my changed and dispirited
fancy, a besmeared and disorderly look.

I resented the presence of the groom. What
did I want a groom for, as though I were a
girl, and not to be trusted on horseback without
a man to take care of me ? I would not
by comparison have cared for an army of
critics, though public notice of any sort was
a burden in those days not lightly to be borne ;
but Polly's briefest glance dismayed me.

She was very pretty, fresh, dainty, charming
— all these things Gascoigne said of her
as we rode homewards. What were these
praises to me ? I believe from my memory
of my own sensations that if I could have
found a phrase, or found the sense to hunt
for a phrase , to describe her as she afflicted
me, I should have called her a delicious avalanche.
I felt like that. She was delicious ;
and her presence fell upon me, crushed me,
broke me, buried me. Absence resuscitated
me ; and I longed again to be in her presence,
and being there, was again crushed,
broken and buried. There came a time afterwards
when Macassar oil made me feel less
unworthy of her, and an embroidered and
scented handkerchief brought some solace to
my soul. But this was not so, as yet.

When Polly asked me if I had called her

Miss Fairholt, and said, ' How very droll!'
I felt in my crushed and broken and buried
way, that that was a good sign, and that it
might please me when I came to life again.
Then I told myself, No, it wasn't. Girls who
cared for a fellow were always coy. That was
how I put it to myself. It remained as a
natural conclusion that Polly did not care forme
; and my views of the world became intensely
misanthropic and gloomy accordingly.
If any man chooses to think that I exaggerate
in remembering, I defy him. I have never
been more in earnest in my life than I was
then. I have lain in the under-the-avalanche
condition for a day at a time, and have had
no other wish than to publish a volume of
poems, and straightway die and be buried in
the moss-grown church - yard. I told Polly
of this aspiration once ; and she said in her
imperious and elderly way that I was a foolish
boy, and was not to talk nonsense. I
went back to the house — we were at Scarborough
at that time, I remember — and wrote
a broken-hearted set of verses, of which all
that I can remember is that one line ran
thus : —

This seemed to childhood's eyes the time of gold ; '

and that it rhymed to this : —

'I only feel that I am growing old : '

I know that these were the second and fourth
lines of a verse ; but what went before and
between them, I know no more than Adam.
I wrote another set of verses at this time,
beginning with —

1 Let the mad world prate on of youthful folly ; '

but I can recall nothing further. I gather
from it, however, an idea that I was under
some sort of impression that the peoples of
the globe either were or would be interested
in my views about things, and that I despised
those peoples, and wished to let them know it.

The result of this meeting in the street in
Hetherton was an invitation for Gascoigne,
Gregory, and myself to Island Hall. Cousin
Will himself informally conveyed the invitation,
and held out prospects of a dance. I
have reason to believe that both my friends
were at this time in love with Maud, and that
they accepted the invitation chiefly because
she was going, and because they hoped to
dance with her. Mr. Fairholt — so Will said
at the luncheon-table — would spend the day
and night at Wrethedale, in order to be out

of the way. Uncle Ben being a good deal
pressed, begged himself off for the morning,
but promised to attend the garden-party
in the afternoon. It was to be an assemblage
of boys and girls, with a sprinkling of older
people, and some half - dozen young ladies,
who were to be imported, as it appeared, for
the especial benefit of Gregory and .
I looked forward to the day with
that eager tremor which always awoke at the
bare thought of meeting Polly, and with a
conviction that I should on this occasion do
something or other which should decide my
fate. I resolved that I would be avalanche
no more, and that I would be as gay and
unembarrassed in her presence as anybody
else could be.

The day came, broiling hot, with just a
light wind from the west, which tempered the
sun a little. We bowled along the broad
white road, past the undulating meadows
and the stretch of river, where the cattle
stood udder-deep, switching their tails at the
flies — a luxurious picture on a day like this —
and into that reach of road where for half a
mile, the trees, a living gallery, roofed us in.
Then out of its sweet green gloom we came
vol. 11. R

suddenly into the sunlight again, swept once
into shadow, and again swiftly into sunshine.
I leapt from the carriage, half-blind with the
glory of the light, and walked into the hall,
where everything lay in a softly shaded
coolness. All was dark for a moment ;
but I could see descending the stair a something
in white, which moved leisurely towards
me. I knew Polly's voice ; and by the time
she had reached me, my eyes were accustomed
to the shaded light, and I could see
her. She laughed bewitchingly, and courtesies
to me. She was dressed in white, as
I have said already ; and her hair was twined
with flowers, that sat upon her regal little
head like a diadem.

How do I look ? ' she asked, turning a
pirouette, that I might have a complete view
all round. She asked the question just as she
would have said, ' How do you do ? '

Beautiful ! ' I cried, and clasped my hands.
There was such a fervour in the tone that
Polly blushed. I meant it then, and I endorse
the verdict now. I can see the dear
little figure in the cool shaded air. It seems
as if I had but to turn my head to see my
companions helping Maud from the carriage,

one to each hand. The blinding sunlight on
the gravel, the cool green of the shrubs upon
the lawn beyond the path, and then the belt
of elms where the air looked like deep green
sea-water in the shade — these are not fancies.
I see them as clearly as if with my bodily
eyes. Dear little face flower-crowned, and
dainty figure clad in pure soft white — I see
no lifeless portrait, but yourselves ! I see my
old self less clearly, but I feel his spirit awake
in me again. How pure a worship, how
honest a devotion ! How, in spite of all
perpetrated follies of boyish verse and speech,
that was the fount at which I drank my
purest draught of hope, from which I filled
my pitcher for the desert when my time came
to sojourn there. You know no change, dear
face and dainty figure, in my changeful mind ;
and though I am unfaithful to the loftier hopes
my early worship bred within my soul, I am faithful
to my memories of youth and you. But the
hopes are withered, like the flowers you wore.

But where were my resolves ? Gone !
borne down by the resistless pressure of my
own feelings. Gay ? unembarrassed ? Could
Cheops have danced beneath the load of his
own pyramid ?

I was very near taking aesop into my confidence,
when we had reached home in the
evening, for I felt as swollen with my secret
as the Duke of Clarence did in his dream of
drowning. I held it in, however, by almost
superhuman effort, and confined myself to some
general statements to the effect that when I
went into the world I would make a plunge todo
something or other, and that there seemed
nothing so enviable to me as to die gloriously
in battle. To which aesop responded by an
adaptation of the words of Mr. Tennyson, who,
curiously enough, was at that time his favourite
author :

Yea [Simeon] thy dream is good ;
It is the stirring of the blood
While thou abides in the bud.'

He left me at Gascoigne's call ; and I wandered
down the drive in the darkness to where
the lamps blazed above the great gates by the
lodge. There a voice from the road called
out, 'Hi! young genteel-man!' and a man
came into the range of light and stood outside
the gate.

1 What do you want ? ' I asked.

He answered my question by another, ' Do
you live in the house ? '

I answered that I did, and repeated my
question.

'Are you anything to Mr. Hardley?' he
asked again.

1 Yes I answered ; ' I am his nephew.
What do you want ? '

Mister Hardley,' he said, 'was my bay-iron
once. I served him for vive years ; and
since he has left me, look and zee what I
am begone. I have sent him many leaders,
and he does not reply. I have walked from
London, and I starve. I have not tasted
food for two days. Has pity, little gentleman
— has pity ! Speak to Mister Hardley
for me. If he knew to what I had gone, he
would has mercy.'

I believe that was the first appeal that was
ever made to me, and it touched me nearly.
1 What is your name ? ' I asked him.

1 My name,' he said, ' is Tasker. I served
your uncle for vive years. I was his confidential
agent in London. I am starving. I
has not one penny. Has pity, little gentleman
!'

I gave the man a sovereign ; for which he
called down extravagant blessings upon me. I
suppose that howsoever pliable he might have

hoped to find me, he had scarcely expected
that I should prove so wealthy. When he
had blessed me out of breath, I bade him
wait until I told Mr. Hartley that he was
there. I ran up the drive, and came breathless
into the house, and panted out the story
before them all — Uncle Ben and Maud and
Gascoigne and aesop. For the first time
in my life, I saw Uncle Ben angry. His
eyes grew small and fierce, and the veins
rose thickly in his forehead as he tugged
again and again at the bell-rope.

Go down to the gates he shouted to the
footman, ' and take one or two of the stable-helpers
with you. You'll find a German blackguard
there, a-askin' to see me. Flog him
away. Break every bone in the rascal's
body.'

The footman stood amazed ; and Gascoigne
and Gregory stared with open eyes.

Maud rose from her seat and touched Uncle
Ben on the arm. ' Let me give these orders,
uncle,' she said pleadingly.

He resumed his seat gasping and red in
the face, and sat mopping his bald forehead
with his handkerchief.

Go down to the gate,' Maud said, ' and tell

the man who waits outside that it is quite
hopeless that he should expect Mr. Hartley
to forgive him, and tell him to go away.'

The footman bowed and turned to go.

Wait a bit ! ' shouted Uncle Ben. ' Did he
say as he was starving Johnny ? *

1 Yes,' I answered.

1 Then come with me,' said Uncle Ben, ' and
let's have a look at him.' He beckoned to
the footman to follow — took up a hat in the
hall, and walked to the gates. The man still
hung about there ; and Uncle Ben stopped
and asked me in an undertone if I had a
sovereign in my pocket. I answered that I
had ; and he whispered to me to stop behind,
and give it to the man, but to tell him that
it would not be safe for him to be seen about
the place again. Having arranged this little
plan, he advanced to the gate, and addressed
the man who stood without. Uncle Ben's
speech was couched in very uncompromising
language, and the petitioner listened to it and
made no reply.

You wolfish shark ! ' said Uncle Ben, ' you
dare to come to me — do you ? After driving
a friend of mine to ruin, a gentleman, and
breaking' half a score of people's hearts, and

after being let off by me in a manner as
might ha transported you. Get out, you
villain ! If ever I see you near my place
again, I'll have the dogs set on you ! Off
you go ! '

The man shrunk off; and as he went, I
beckoned him to stay. Uncle Ben saw the
sign, but of course took no notice of it. I slipped
the sovereign into the hand stretched through
the bars, and said that he had better go faraway.
He touched the rim of his battered hat
and disappeared.

When I overtook Uncle Ben in the drive,
he laid his hand upon my shoulder, and said,
1 That's the feller, Johnny, as drove poor
Frank Fairholt to ruin, more than eight years
ago. He was a money-lender, and the poor
lad borrowed money of him. Now let me
speak to you serious.' He paused, and faced
me. ' If ever you want for money, come tome.
If you've got yourself into a scrape
through evil conduct, and want money to get
out of it, still come to me. For as I'm a
living' sinner, Johnny, if ever anybody as depends
on me was to put his name to a bill fora
money-lender, I'd disown him. Remember
that, Johnny : if ever you put your name

across a bill for anything or anybody, self or
friend, I've done with you for ever ! \

I had never seen him more in earnest. But
he gave me that advice often afterwards when
I began to go into the world and understood
it better, and gave it always with the same
solemnity.

END of VOL. 11.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

VOL. II, S

735 89/81 ni, r

IQiqq C4J|

Co?

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

BOOKSTACKS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/lifesatonementno03chri

A NOVEL

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

author of 'Joseph's coat' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES —VOL. III.

SECOND EDITION

'Samson

Chatty & Winds, PICCADILLY



// rights reserved

MM

*>3

A Life's Atonement.

CHAPTER I.

HISTORY.

The cruel road seems lovable, though the feet bleed and
are weary.

sphere are many places in London where
the struggle of poverty for its daily
bread is visible to the eye of the most careless
wayfarer. But there are not many places
where the simile of a fight for life is so palpably
true as it is at the gates of some of the
London Docks, twice a-day. At almost any
of the docks, you may see this strange conflict
at early morning, or at the close of the time
set apart for the mid-day meal. Round the
closed gates are gathered some scores of men

VOL. III. A

in rough working-dress, who lounge about
with their hands in their pockets, kicking the
pebbles on the highway in a listless fashion ;
or leaning in listless fashion against the gate
or the walls ; or standing listlessly, with
humped shoulders, on the kerb-stone, spitting
at a mark on the road. They are for the most
part sturdy fellows, with a general aspect of
uneasy massiveness ; an aspect strengthened
by the cut and weight of their loose clothing.
Suddenly the incurious traveller who observes
these things is startled by a yell in which many
voices mingle, and the lounging crowd is
thrown into a state of mad activity. Everybody
converges to one point, and there is a
fight to get there. At that point a head
and shoulders appear above the high dock-wall,
and a hand showers down a little
snow-storm of limp tickets. The snow-storm
lasts for a second or two only, and every man
in the crowd fights for a flake of it, for dear
life. Like other flakes, it will melt in his
hand, though somewhat more slowly than the
common, since it will at least last until meat
and drink are found. The scrambling fight
goes on until the last ticket is rescued from the
dust or mud. The winners in the fight range

themselves outside the dock-gates ; the losers
subsiding suddenly from their heat of passion,
lounge again as listlessly as ever ; and the
two who have torn a ticket between them
toss up for it, or bargain for it, or fight
for it, as chance or their nature may determine.
The small gate within the large one
being opened, the winners go in, and are allowed
to work ; and the losers hang about
outside on the chance of being wanted in the
course of the morning or afternoon. And by
this conflict, twice renewed daily, men earn
the right to earn their bread in the capital city
of the world's most prosperous empire.

Two days' rest had restored Frank to something
of his old strength, and had left him
penniless. For a shilling and a halfpenny,
husbanded never so carefully, will not find
food for any length of time in London. On
the morning of the third day he arose, and
wandered into the street before the faintest
light of dawn had touched the sky. With returning
strength came appetite ; and before he
had gone far he pulled from his coat-pocket
the heel of a loaf saved from last night's meal,
and munched it as he went. His mind had
not lost the power to grasp, but he had lost

the will ; and all mental outlines were dim and
clouded to him. Hardship in itself is not so
pitiable a thing. It is the feeling in a man's
mind that he suffers hardship which crushes
and kills. The young athletes of the Thames
every year challenge discomfort with joyful
hearts, and flourish in it, and go back to the
routine of business or professional strife, made
strong by it. But, if they faced the same discomforts
— light as they are, when compared
to those of poverty — with spirits already
broken by the insupportable burden of fruitless
hope, the very things that bring health
might carry death with them. As for Frank,
he had borne the chief agony of his remorse,
and a dull rest which had no sense of rest in
it had taken the place of pain. It was rather
that the passion of his grief had wept itself to
sleep, than that Peace had as yet even touched
him with one feather of her healing wings.
But if he had not the jocundity of spirit which
makes hardship pleasurable, he had at least
a careless contempt for it, which made it a
thing of no moment to him. He was in the
wilderness, with no land of promise in sight,
even for the soul's eyes ; but he had no longings
after the flesh-pots of lost Egypt. He

scarcely went back to his old life, in thought,
at this time ; and whatever chancre went on
within him, whatever process of gathering
strength, whatever growth in duty, was unconscious.
Creeds shift and change, and the light
fades here and flashes there in broken gleams
on nebulous faiths and hopes which are not
steadfast. But in their midst stands one rock
solid and fast-rooted, and he who sets his foot
thereon is blest even though he be not happy.
The name of that rock is Duty, and who walks
the harsh and difficult way which lies along it,
gathers no clogging load from quagmire, dies
no soul's death by the miasma of that murky
world which swelters down below it. We slip,
we fall, we bemire ourselves, we choke in the
deadly fog ; but to the sincere soul the hand
of guidance comes, and the weak feet find
a standing-place again, and the cruel road
seems lovable, though the feet bleed and are
weary.

It was a dim sense of Duty which left
death by starvation in its budget of obvious
chances, yet threw suicide out of it. But
it was something ; and the light broadened
above the head and about the feet of this
forlornness soul, and lo ! the firm eternal rock

was there beneath him, and the way was
clear.

Frank walked, vacuous and unobservant, as
the day grew. The twilight was chill and
faint, and the wind swept in shivering gusts
along the line of street lamps and the little
pools of water in the road. He had travelled
altogether out of his knowledge of London,
taking no note of the unaccustomed streets.
There were few signs of life in them, and the
steps of here and there a solitary workman
sounded with a strange and melancholy distinctness.
But at length the road he took
brought him to a high brick wall, into the
colour of which the smoke of myriads of
chimneys had entered — a desolate, bleak, black
wall which stretched as far as he could see
along the lonely road. Rounding the corner
of this wall, he saw before him a small
mob of men, who lounged with lazy shoulders
at the roadside, or propped themselves
against the wall, or talked in uninterested
knots with each other. Whilst he noticed
them in that vague way which had now
become habitual with him, he was startled into
interest by a simultaneous shout from half the
unoccupied assembly ; and almost before he

had time to ask himself what this might mean,
the men before him were tied in one great
knot of struggling legs arid arms. He walked
on faster than before, and reached the place
just as the crowd dissolved of its own accord,
and melted back to its own elements. Though
he did not yet know the reason of the struggle,
he could single out at a glance those who had
won and those who had not won. The former
were full of alacrity, and moved with a definite
step, like men who had got what they wanted
and knew what to do with it. The others fell
back into the old lounge, or moved irresolutely
from side to side of the road, and were evidently
undecided as to whether they should go
or stay. Whilst Frank stood still to see what
would come of it all, a heavy hand came down
upon his shoulder, and a hoarse voice with a
chuckle in it cried, ' Hilloo ! shipment. Want
a day's turn at work ? Eh ? '

Frank nodded.

You look as if you did said the man
with The hoarse voice. He was a red-faced,
bright-eyed fellow, past middle age, and had
a grizzled beard of a fortnight's growth. He
stood something over six feet high, and his
shoulders were broad and square. He had on

a sour-wester, and big sea-boots very much
the worse for wear ; and his great arms and
chest showed their swelling muscles through
a tight fitting grey jersey. ' I've picked up
two tickets,' he said, ' and you're welcome to
one of 'em.' Two or three of the unsuccessful
loungers stood staring hungrily at Frank's new
acquaintance ; but when they saw him handover
the little ticket, they drew back with
disappointed looks, and joined the scattered
throng in the road.

Frank had no notion as to the nature of the
work or the character of the pay ; but he
ranged himself beside the man who had befriended
him, and when the little gate opened,
followed his companion through it. They
were employed in ordinary dock-labour, and
were kept at it until noon, when they were
paid and dismissed. Frank had no fear of
labour ; but he was unused to it, and was not
altogether grieved when he failed to secure a
ticket in the afternoon's scramble. The pay
was poor, but it was better than nothing ; and
Frank was on the ground early next morning.
As fortune had it, the shower fell about him
as he stood a little apart from the rest, and
he secured two tickets. Looking round he saw

that the man who had helped him the day
before was going away ; and bethinking him
of that good turn, ran after the burly figure.

One good turn deserves another said
Frank. ' I have two tickets.'

'You're the right sort,' said the Workman
with an oath, to make the statement more
emphatic. ' Half these dogs ud kick your
heart out as lief as look at you, even if you
saved 'em from starving a day before.'

All that morning he worked alongside Frank
and lightened labour for him ; but by midday
the unaccustomed muscles were tired and
stiff again, and Frank was glad to betake
him to Bolter's Rents before nightfall. He
walked on calmly enough, until he reached
the boundaries of his old haunts, and there
his heart began to beat with the fear of recognition.
He bent his head and slouched
along, determined to give as little chance to
any scrutiny as possible ; and as he walked,
he thought how necessary it would be to get
lodgings out of the way of his friends, if he
meant to live in London. I do not know if
I have yet made this clear, that Frank Fair-holt's
sole dread was that a further sorrow
might fall on those whom he had so much

wronged already. If it had been possible to
surrender himself to justice and to suffer the
penalty of his misdeeds without their knowledge,
he would even have rejoiced so to
quiet his conscience. Therefore he dreaded
detection, not for his sake, but for theirs. It
is not easy to see how any wretchedness
could have added one pang to his sorrows.
Walking along, bent on nothing so much as
escaping without notice, and feeling that now
and again the eyes of passers-by were upon
him, and knowing what a blot on the spring
sunlight he must look, as he crept through
the streets, he heard his own name mentioned
by a familiar voice. Those genial young
people the Messrs. Brooks and Bonder were
at his elbow, and were talking of him. His
heart almost stood still ; but he bent his
head yet lower, and they passed him by unnoticed.


Poor Fairholt ! ' one said. ' What has become
of him, I wonder ? '

'I think he went to the bad about Tasker's
business, and bolted somewhere,' said the
other.

Hastings has been spending money like
water, trying to find him.'

With that they went on out of hearing,
and a new dread arose in the listener's mind.
It gave him an impulse, and he began to
make an effort to see and understand. He
reached his lodging, and sat down alone to
think. What were the chances of detection,
and what would come of it ? It was clear
that Frank Fairholt and the crime of
Spaniard's Lane were not associated, or Hastings
would not be hunting for him, and
Brooks and Bonder would have had some
inkling of it. If it were true that his friends
were seeking him — and that he could not
doubt — they were striving to restore him to
his old place in the world. From the lifelong
hypocrisy and horror involved in such
a restoration, he shrank back appalled ; and
rising from his seat, he paced to and fro
along the crazy floor, turning over in his
mind the chances of escape. ' Here in London,'
he thought — ' I am safer than I could
be elsewhere.' Who could look for him, he
thought, contrasting what he was with what
he had been, in such a den as this ? What
better hope of escape could he find from that
inexorable love, which was harder to bear
than any severity of punishment, with which

he now felt sure some of his old friends would
pursue him ? Remembering how Maud's uncle
loved her, it came into his mind that Hastings
had received from him the money he
was said to be so lavishly spending, and he
trembled as he thought how far Maud's love
might follow him. The image of her tenderness,
the thought of the heart-breaking
sorrow and anxiety he knew she bore, the
place he dwelt in, the clothes he wore, the
life he lived, the black secret that lay hidden
in his own soul, love, remorse, self-loathing,
the hideous prospect of his life — all these were
in his mind, and tore him with unutterable
anguish. How sweet seemed the quiet of the
grave ! How the chill voice the river's waters
uttered as they lapped against their oozy banks
called to him! No, no, no! Not that! He
cast out his hands in resolute refusal of that
drear enticement, as the voiceless words shaped
themselves within him. Then a thought came
to strengthen his resolve. ' If I were hunting,'
he said within himself, ' for anyone
I cared for, who had vanished out of life
as I have, I should look for suicides.
What if that dread is in their minds,
and they should find their search rewarded

there /' And the Water-Siren beckoned no
more.

He kept his place till dark, and then stole
out for food. In the darkness before dawn
he set out for the scene of his chance labours ;
and failing, hung about till noon ; and failing
again, lounged there still until night came on,
and under the shelter of its gloom stole
home. It was a hard life ; but it held body
and soul together, if by a most uncertain tie ;
and since nothing else opened, he stuck to it.
As he became inured to the labour, his daily
fatigue decreased ; but that was scarcely a
thing to be thankful for. His broad-built
acquaintance, who answered to the improbable
name of Porridge, stuck to him with
great faithfulness ; and the two entered into
a sort of unspoken compact to supply each
other's failing in the fight for tickets, whenever
occasion offered. Frank bethought him
often that he might avoid the familiar parts
of the town, and the risk of detection which
attended his travels through them ; but the
solitude he generally secured at Bolter's Rents
made the place more easily endurable than
any other. As time went on, his clothes by
small additions here and there began to assume

a heavy long-shore look ; and his hair
and beard were rapidly whitening, whether
with suffering, or from purely physical causes.
After a month or two, a change came
over his life, and the coarse employment
he had fallen upon became secured to
him. The man whose business it was to
distribute the tickets took a fancy to this
grey, quiet, inoffensive Workman, who was
always to be depended on, who never squabbled,
never drank, never shirked his work, and
who now began to go about his business with
an air of sense and aptitude which the rougher
and stronger had no chance to reach to. So
whenever Frank was thrown out in the scrimmage,
which was not very often, since the distributor
meant to help him, it came to pass
that another man was wanted, and he was
called in. His needs were so few that high teen-pence
a-day supplied them ; and the residue
of his poor earnings anybody in want was
welcome to. This was the sacrifice to which
he set himself — to live among these people,
and do his duty as one of them, and to help
such of them as stood in need. It came about
that after a while the rough fellows got to
know him, and seeing how his money was

mainly spent, forbore to envy the favouritism
shown by the ganger ; and some of the set
whom he had helped in times of especial hardship,
would have belaboured any who dared
to offer him an insult. It got about somehow
— for he never spoke a word concerning
it — that he had a special dislike to the
vile blasphemies which seasoned their common
talk ; and though they were as coarse
and hard a set as might be found in London,
they were contented after a time to let
their conversation go without that gruesome
flavour.

In his old life, Frank had been remarkable
for the sweet clearness and manly delicacy of
his speech. The accent of an English gentleman
is not a thing to be acquired by a dock
labourer, and it is not easily unmistakable. He
had never given a thought to the rare beauty
of his own speech. He was unconscious of
that gift of nature and breeding, and so made
no attempt to hide it. It went with his blameless
conduct, and his unfailing industry, and
his open-handed generosity, to make him
noticeable in that rough crowd, and they conferred
upon him the name of ' The Duke,' half
in genuine admiration, and half in satire.

When it happened, as it sometimes did, that
Frank found himself addressed by any of those
in authority, his speech surprised them ; and
there were legends about him among the clerks,
one of which was that he had been worth half
million, and had lost it, every penny, on three
successive Derbies. Had he known these
things, they would have re-awakened the fears
that slumbered in him, and he would have left
the place and returned no more ; but he knew
nothing except that the inward burden was
no lighter, whilst the outside burden seemed
too light to think of.

Under these conditions, his bodily health
returned, and his native dexterity made him
more than a match at his work for those who
were vastly stronger. Meantime, there came
even to his ears the news of a great war. The
recruiting sergeant became a common figure at
the dock-gates at mid-day, and Frank had
longings to be out in the Crimea, where, haply,
Fate might be good to him and give the only
thing it had to give — an unknown grave. But
his grey beard made the recruiting sergeant
laugh at his proposal to enlist, and he went
back quietly to his work again. The sergeant
might well be excused, for the grey beard and

wrinkled face doubled the applicant's apparent
age, and Frank passed commonly amongst
those who knew him for a man of fifty, or five-and-forty
at the least. Sundays were the days
on which his inward burden seemed heaviest,
for he dared not leave the house to wander
in the streets, safe as he might have been, and
the hours were leaden-footed. But one day
he picked up a scrap of pencil in the docks,
and absently put it in his pocket. Finding it
there next Sunday, he began to sketch upon
the dingy whitewash of the wall, and growing
interested in the task, wore the pencil down
to a stump, sharpening it roughly with an old
table-knife, the back of which was keener than
the edge. He was a born artist, and the
passion awaking again within him, he took to
saving all manner of scraps of paper, and
bearing them home with him. There on
Sundays he would sketch all day, for Penk-
ridge was generally absent, and at night would
burn his work carefully, lest any of it should by
any chance get abroad and betray him. Many
faces of old friends, many scenes in which he
had been happy, his busy pencil traced as he
sat alone ; and many a time his eyes were too
full of tears to see the lines he had drawn.

VOL. III. B

The habit took such a hold upon him
anew, as abandoned habits will when reassumed,
that he caught himself sometimes
in lonely corners at the docks in disengaged
moments sketching on the walls, on fragments
of board, on anything, with any bit of charcoal
or chalk that came to his fingers. There
was a certain English official there, who for
some occult reason had an ambition to pass
for a Yankee, and always spoke through his
nose, in transparently unsuccessful imitation
of the American twang. This man's face was
in Frank's mind, and somehow went from
his mind into his fingers, which conveyed it
through the medium of a piece of chalk to
the top of a tea-chest. It was an absolute
likeness ; and when the man came that way
and saw it, he stared in amaze.

Come yer,' said he to a passing clerk
from the Customs. ' What do you think o'
that? 1

The clerk laughed, and said it was an
amazing likeness.

Now,' said the depicted one, in nasal following
of the typical down-Easter of the British
stage, ' who could 'a done that thar ? Ain't
it like ? Why, tern me, if I didn't think I'd

took a white outline and got spread out on
that old tea-chest. Petrified fact. I did.'

The official did little else that day but march
up to the tea-chest with newly-caught friends
and acquaintances, to whom he displayed the
outline with the same unvarying formula. No
man with whom the official had the slightest
acquaintance went through the yard free of
that joke, until in the course of the evening
the tea-chest was removed. Frank was at
work in the neighbourhood, and overheard it
half-a-dozen times ; but it carried no merriment
to him, though every one to whom it
was offered was complaisant enough to smile
at it. It awoke anew his dread of discovery,
and he thought, ' I must do no more sketching
here. It would surely be too strange a
thing to find an artist in a place like mine,
to pass without some comment or suspicion.'
He kept watch upon his fingers after this ;
and in Bolter's Rents he still burned his
Sunday's work with rigid care. The inhabitants
of that doleful region saw but little
of him, and for a long time his evident desire
for solitude was humoured to the full.
He learned from Penkridge occasional news
of the doings of the place, which otherwise

would not have reached him. He relieved
that broken creature's necessities at times ;
and once or twice bestowed some charity
upon the neediest, where all were needy.
Very often his companion talked to him for
an hour together on his return from the
docks ; and Frank sitting stock-still, heard
scarce a word, but murmured mechanically
Ay and Yes and No.

One evening he sat thus ; and Penkridge's
talk gurgled on unnoticed till the current of
Frank's thought suddenly ran silent, and his
companion's voice went on to this effect :
Which she's a regular angel, if you'll believe
me, sir. It isn't what she gives, though
I do assure you as that's quite considerable ;
but it's how she gives it. Many's the 'helping
'and she's lent me sence I've been brought
so low ; and many's the 'helping 'and as 'er
'husband lent my poor dear pardner.'

Ay,' said Frank, not caring whose praises
were thus spoken ; and turning to the dingy
window, he looked out upon the night, wherefor
once the moonlight laid a sanctifying hand
upon the squalor of Bolter's Rents. For the
pure light of the moon seems only to rest on
beauty, and makes ugliness lovely when it

beholds it ; as the light of a kindly spirit
lays a kindly glow on the hard world, or as
love beautifies that which it loves. And for a
while the laden heart rested itself upon beauty,
and Frank's thoughts roamed sadly, but without
anguish, into the autumn fields. He came
back from his reverie in time to hear a creaking
on the stair — perhaps that awoke him —
and a second later, the jarring door was pushed
back on its one creaking hinge. But for the
moonlight, the room was dark ; and as the
door was in shadow, Frank could not make
out even the outline of the new-comer. The
new-comer looking towards the light, saw a
bent figure with a long beard which looked
white in the moon-beams. Frank stood to
listen, and his profile was thrown out clearly
against the light. There was silence fora
second, and Penkridge cried, 'Who's
there ? '

1 Have you a candle, Penkridge ? ' a female
voice asked in tones of great sweetness. The
owner of the voice looked at the profile from
where she stood, and could have borne to
look longer, such a picture the clear-cut face
and sweeping silver beard and the bent shoulders
made. But Frank moved away from

the window, and when Penkridge struck a
light, had thrown himself upon his rough bed
in a shadowed corner, and was shrouded from
observation there. With a side-glance thrown
towards him swiftly, the new-comer sat down
upon a tea-chest placed for her by Penkridge,
who was imprecating blessings upon her with
a whining fluency.

1 I have been to see Mrs. Closky/ she said
when she could get a word in ; and Frank's
eyes, as he regarded her from his shadowed
corner, confirmed his ears, and told him that
she was a lady. ' I am pleased to hear such
an account of you as she gave me. But why
don't you give up drinking altogether, my
poor fellow ? I think that if I knew you had
signed the pledge, and would keep it, I could
take you out of this place, and put you into
a situation where you could live in greater
comfort. Will you try ? '

Mr. Penkridge, who had that evening taken
much more than was good for him, and who
bade fair to go on taking more than was good
for him daily to the end of the chapter, shed
maudlin tears at this appeal. Which, he said,
he would do anything to oblige such an singly
lady ; but the lady, perceiving his condition,

forbore to press him. ■ Is this she asked
Penkridge, ' your companion ? '

1 Yes, ma'am,' replied Penkridge, sobbing
audibly. ' That's the gentleman which I spoke
of, ma'am. And a real good sort he is, ma'am.
Oh yes, ma'am, that he is indeed.'

The visitor turned round, and looked to
where Frank lay upon the heap of shavings
in the corner. ' I know,' she said, ' that you
have been helping me already ; and I want
you, if you can, to help me more.'

In what have I helped you already ? ' asked
Frank, speaking unwillingly from the darkness.

1 I should have said rather that we had
worked together without knowing it.'

'How?' said Frank, helping to keep the
talk going, but much against his inclination.

There are many in Bolter's Rents who are
very poor and comfortless. I have been trying
to help them a little, but I am almost helpless.
I do not know them ; and those who are really
poorest will not let me know them ; though
the undeserving come to me with all sorts of
terrible stories. Now, you who know them,
might — '

I do not know them,' Frank made answer.

I have tried to meet you before now,' the

visitor continued, ' and finding that you were
never at home in the daytime, I came down
to-night on purpose to see you. Will you
help me ?'

1 I am as poor as most of those about me
he answered, and his tone showed more clearly
than he intended how little he desired to speak
at all.

The visitor persevered. * You give me the
best of all reasons for believing that you will
help me. There is no generosity in giving
away that which you do not want.'

1 I want one thing only, madam,' Frank
answered, ' and that I cannot give away.'

1 What is that ? ' the visitor asked quickly.

1 My solitude he said in answer, and with
that he turned his face to the wall.

1 I shall try again,' said the visitor, rising
to go.

1 A second trial can have but one result,'
he answered, raising his head, but not turning
it. * It will drive me from the only home I
have, and wretched as it is,. I have no wish to
leave it

Then said the visitor, as she moved
towards the door, ' I will trust to time

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

My delirium reached its height in the summer season.

| "HE first sign of manly down had appeared
upon my chin, and since the Crimean
War — closed a few years before with great
glory if little profit — had left behind it the
fashion of beards, I shaved assiduously, to
promote the growth of that appanage to manhood.
I have above my mantel-piece a portrait
of myself taken at that time ; and though
I know it on good testimony to be accurate,
there is in it a flat contradiction of my own
remembrances. At eighteen I felt myself
quite aged, and I used to look not without
pride on incipient wrinkles. In the smooth
face which looks upon me from the wall, I
find nothing of that stern manhood on which
I prided myself. I am not an old man yet,

but I am too old to wish for age ; though
at eighteen I should have been glad to have
pitchforks myself into the forties, had such
a feat been possible. I wrote a prodigious
deal of verse, much of which I remember
at this day with an odd mixture of shame
and affection. Most of it was addressed to
Polly, or in some way concerned her, and she
was still my deity.

The time came when I should leave school.
I think I feel the emotions proper to that
hour more keenly in the remembrance than I
did in reality. What a gap it made in life,
had I but had the eyes to see it ! How many
with whom I had spent eight years or part
of these in life's journey, faded out of life
there and then, and now refuse to be summoned
even as the thinnest shadows ! It was
not of the break in life I left behind, but of
the opening to the world which lay before me,
that I thought, as the train whirled me homewards.
I was not so distinguished in the
school as Gascoigne or Gregory had been before
me in their last days ; but I had done
fairly well, and Uncle Ben was amply satisfied.
It was not easily possible for Uncle Ben
to be balder than he had been in my first

knowledge of him ; but he was greyer than
of old, and his face was more deeply lined.
He was always genial and good-tempered,
and I have known few happier men. His
ambitions were satisfied, even to the gradual
formation of a relationship with the county
magnates ; though he confessed to me privately
that he didn't want them for himself, but only
for the good of the house ; and that if it had
not been for his sons and Maud and me, he
would rather they had continued to stay away.

'But I'll tell you what it is, Johnny said
the old man, with a twinkle in his eye. ' It's
the golden bait as draws all them pretty fishes
here. Don't you think now as I overvalue
money. Their's a lot o' things in the world
as money can't buy, and they're mostly the
things as are best worth having'. But these
nobs is a poverty-struck lot, and the poor
Major's drove nearly off his head with invitations.
Their ain't a lord in the county as
wouldn't jump at him for a son-in-law. But
then you see I'm a weight to 'em. Their's no
more polish on me than their is on so much
oak-bark. I begun too late, Johnny ; and it
ain't no use train' to train a tree when it's got
stout and stiff — is it ! Eh ? ' Therewith

Uncle Ben would laugh and poke me in the
ribs, and felicitate himself upon the polish
which belonged to the Major and to Mr.
Horace St. John, the major's brother, and to
Maud and me.

The time which came between the last of
my school-days and the beginning of my career
at college went smoothly, and held only one
thing worth chronicling. At that time, a certain
police case was reported daily and at
length in the London newspapers. An expert
in handwriting gave the chief evidence in this
case, and there were doubts expressed by some
visitor at the breakfast-table as to the value of
such testimony as the expert had to offer. The
visitor, I remember, was an army man, an old
campaigning comrade of the Major's, and he
pooh-poohed the whole business.

Uncle Ben broke in calmly. 'Well, I don't
know as you can call ^ it a science, but it's a
knack. I've had to deal with more than one
forgery in my time, sir, and I know a handwriting
I've once seen. I don't care how good
the disguise is ; I can tell it. You may think
you've drawn my signature stroke for stroke,
and you may practise till you're black in the
face if you like, but I'll pick my own out of

a hundred ; or yours, sir, if the cleverest forger
as ever cheated the gallows spent a lifetime
in copying it. — No, no, sir ! Don't tell me
said Uncle Ben, who was in some heat by
this time. ' There's them as knows what time
o' day it is about handwritings.'

The guv'nah's quite right,' said Major
Hartley, ' I've known him do it.'

1 Don't you think there's a possibility of
being mistaken ? ' asked the Major's friend.

Not for a man as has the knack,' Uncle
Ben protested stoutly. ■ I ain't sticking up
for the experts, mind you. They may be
duffers and impostors. But the thing is to
be done, and is done ; and there's scores o'
men about in business as wouldn't pass the
forgery of a name as was known to 'em if they
just so much as cast their eye on it'

4 Mem ! ' said the Major's friend, not yet convinced.


Well,' said Uncle Ben, ' you get any clever
feller to forge anybody's name on me, and see
if I don't spot him.' There was a general
laugh at this, and the subject dropped. It fell
from my mind, until circumstances brought
it back again, in a singularly unpleasant
manner.

Uncle Ben accompanied me to Oxford and
put up at the Mitre until he had seen me fairly
settled. I took the rooms of a man who had
left his furniture and pictures to be sold at a
valuation ; but all these, at Uncle Ben's instigation,
were cleared out, and he furnished
me anew. I think he disapproved of the art
decorations, which were probably a little too
erotic for a quiet taste. When everything was
arranged, he came up to the rooms and looked
over them with much enjoyment ; and finally
we sat down together, and he gave me a great
deal of advice, drawn from his knowledge of
the world. ' I don't think,' he said, ' as you're
the sort of feller, Johnny, to be stuck up
because you've got a rich uncle ; but if you
don't think of that, there's them as will. Do
you remember that feller Tasker coming to
my place, three or four years ago ? ' — I nodded.
' Do you remember what I told you then
about bills ? ' — I nodded again. — ' Don't you
disappoint me now,' he said with a show of
feeling, which was rare in him. ' I shan't
make you any regular allowance, Johnny ; but
I shall trust you. Every body '11 know afore
you've been here a week as you're the never
of old Hartley the great millionaire,' — he

grinned a little at that, — 'and they'll be onto
you with offers of unlimited trust and credit.
Now, I don't ask you to live stingy ; but I
ask you to be honest. Don't buy anything
you can do without ; but at the same time live
like a gentleman. If you've got a head on
your shoulders, you won't want to buy wine
here. I'll send that to you from my own
cellars, and you needn't spare it. Write to
the butler when you want any. Don't bother
me with that ; but send me all your bills of
whatever sort, and I'll pay 'em. I know what
it is when a warm-hearted young chap makes
friends, and one of 'em comes to him and
says, " I'm in a bit of a hobble, I am. Just
put your name on to a bit o' paper for me,
will you ? " Now this is my last serious word.
If you get into a mess yourself, send me
word. If you want money — no matter if
you're ashamed of what you've come to want
it for — send to me. If any one of your friends
ever asks you to back his name, you tell him
it's more than your income's worth to risk it.
For that's the one thing I won't forgive ; and
now I've told you. If ever you put your
name to a bill while I'm alive, I'll disown
you. No, no, Johnny. I don't want to

threaten you, my lad, and I don't mistrust
you ; but you must promise me.'

I gave the promise, and would have thanked
him for all his countless kindnesses ; but he
stopped me. He gave me a cheque for such
an amount that I should have been wasteful
indeed had I exceeded it. ' Make it last as
long as you can in reason, Johnny,' he said ;
and then, with a hearty shake of the hand and
a slap on the shoulder, he went down-stairs,
blowing his nose so violently that the hollow
staircase echoed to the sound.

It is not within my scheme to relate the
story of my college life. I fell amongst a
wholesome set ; and though I spent more time
on the river and in the cricket-ground than I
passed above my books, I contrived — considerably
to my own surprise — to scratch
through for a degree. Uncle Ben was greatly
pleased at this, and prophesied that I should
make a great man — seeming to regard the
achievement of a Bea. degree as a thing till
then unheard of. But it is not the life I led
in Oxford which comes back to me most
strongly when I recall that time. Mr. Fair-holt
comes within the range of mental vision,
for one. I do not think I read him too

unkindly when I believe that he found a wide
difference between the John Campbell who was
cast a friendless orphan on his hands and the
John Campbell who was acknowledged by his
own rich neighbour. I do not think I read
him too unkindly if I say that the money
question made the whole difference. But when
once Uncle Ben had, by sending me to college,
made his responsibility for my future complete,
Mr. Fairholt made me a welcome guest at
Island Hall. In spite of the enormous edifice
Uncle Ben had built, I am fain to confess that
Island Hall remained ' The Hall ' to the
country-people, as it had been time out of
mind before Uncle Ben was heard of. Nor
will I deny that, apart from its one attraction
for me, I liked it better than I liked the
barbaric splendours of my uncle's palace. Tome
at that time it was a Bower for Beauty —
nothing more or less. I was welcome thereat
all times ; but I took an insane delight in
wandering outside it, and making surreptitious
sketches of it, as though to go near it or to
sketch it had been a thing forbidden. I used
to rise at unearthly hours to ramble there ; and
I used to sketch her window with the Virginia
creeper and the climbing roses about it until I
vol. in. c

could have almost drawn them with closed
eyes, until closed eyes can summon them now
at least and see them as clearly as if their
fresh reality were before me. And the dreams
I had ! I would go into Parliament, and become
Prime Minister, though that went without
saying if I once got there. Or I would
go into the army, and distinguish myself in
some tremendous campaign. Or I would go
for authorship — in the poetic line — and write
an epic, and be crowned with bays. But whatever
I promised myself — and up to two-and-twenty
one lives in the land of promises, if
not in the Land of Promise — I never ventured
to hope for a happy termination of the pangs
of love. Nobody ever wrote more love-lorn
verses. Nobody was ever more involved in a
more hopeless passion. I used to go about in
the moodiest fashion and watch the sunsets
and the sunrises alone, and improvise verse,
and declaim it in the silent lanes, to the great
astonishment of the yokels, and my own
shamefaced embarrassment when discovered.
I confided my hopeless love to Gascoigne,
who had a curacy hard by ; and he used to
smoke his pipe and listen to me with great
forbearance. I confided it to Gregory, who

accepted my belief in my own probable early
death with marked composure, and undertook
to provide an epitaph. Hawkins of Exeter
and Bills of Waltham knew of my helpless and
hopeless slavery. I think that in a gloomy
way I was rather proud of it. In all the
castles I ever built upon this cloud-foundation,
there hung no picture of a happy union. I
was going to be great, and then I was going
to die ; and Polly was to know how splendid
a treasure she had cast aside. Yet I cannot
remember that she treated me with anything
but kindness, and I know she must have had
a difficult task at times.

My delirium reached its height in the
summer season which followed the close of
my time at college. Polly had a paid companion,
and Miss Hurd and I were great in
friendship. I suppose Miss Hurd was thirty
if she were a day ; but we were kindred
spirits, spite of this disparity of years. She
had a fine deep melancholy-sounding contralto,
and she used to sing, in what I took to be a
patent allusion to my own case, —

Let us talk of love no more
While the bat is flying ;
Fitter friendship's solemn lore
When the day is dying.'

Other ditties bearing on her own condition
she sang, as though the lower octaves of an
organ were concealed within her. She could
not sing the old songs, and the like. Except
for a general and uncultivated fondness for
the art, I was not in any manner musical ; but
I used to shake my head at this, and murmur
inly that / could not sing the old songs either
a question as to which there existed no
shadow of a doubt. I supposed that Miss
Hurd was aware of my passion, until one
evening when I came across the fields on
horseback and found Polly absent. Miss
Hurd sat at the piano and played ' The Heart
Bowed Down and I, sitting at the window,
sighed as I thought of my own.

1 You are not well, Mr. Campbell,' said Miss
Hurd.

There was a dusky light in the room, and
the window was open, and the quiet scents
and gently stealing sounds of the country
mingled with it soothingly. I rose and
crossed to the piano, and said with much
solemnity that I was well enough — ' In body
I added with a sigh.

Thou canst not minister said Miss Hurd in
her lowest contralto tones, 'to a mind diseased

No,' I answered, sighing again, and carried
on the quotation, though when I reached the
yesterday I thought it a little inappropriate.

'What is it, Mr. Campbell?' said Miss
Hurd. ' Confide in me.'

I seized Miss Hurd's passive hand as it
lay upon the keys of the pianoforte, and I
told her in sepulchral tones that my heart
was breaking. I believe I quite believed it.

With what ? ' asked Miss Hurd. But I
returned no answer. She pressed my hand,
and murmured again, ' With what, Mr. Campbell
? Confide in me.'

With love ! ' I answered, not unconscious
of a comic side to the whole episode, the
mere hint of which in my own mind made
me perhaps a trifle more morose and tragic
than before.

For whom ? ' said Miss Hurd with my
hand in both of hers. I laid my melancholy
head upon the cold smooth polish of the
top of the piano, and murmured my divinity's
name. Miss Hurd dropped my hand, and
sat still in the dusk of the room and made
no sign. How she left the room, I know
not. Nor do I know how / left it ; but
when I came to myself, I was in the fields

again in the moonlight, putting Bob at a
fence. I screeched with demoniac laughter.
Miss Hurd ! In love with Miss Hurd !
Could she have dreamed of it ? Could Polly
have thought it? Horror! And I laughed
bitterly to myself as I said that this was
Fate's last and cruellest burden, and I would
endure no more.

I resolved that I would go over next day,
and compel Polly to turn spiritual dentist ;
but when morning came, the thought of Miss
Hurd daunted me ; and I hung about the
stables in a weak irresolute way, until to
my self-worrying mind, the very stable-helpers
could read my vacillation and its cause ; and
I rode away in self-defence. Miss Hurd
daunted me, as I have said ; but though she
held me back from the house with the
memory of last night's episode, she could
not keep me, nor could I keep myself, away
from its neighbourhood. And there, as those
serio-comic Fates who rule the destinies of
lovers would have it, I found Polly alone in
the fresh green lanes, with a frond of fern
in her little gauntleted hand, and a wreath
of young oak-leaves twined about her hat.
I dismounted, and walked by her side, in a

foolish compound mood of ecstasy and misery.
Prompted by those serio-comic Destinies, I
must needs drift in mystic and bewildering
speech about last evening's episode with Miss
Hurd. I tried at first to assume a tone
of banter, which failed me miserably. Had
Polly, so I asked her, ever deigned in her
own mind to associate me with the matrimonial
condition ? Had she ever contemplated
the possibility or probability of my
being some day married ? She regarded me
gravely and frankly, but without a suspicion
of humour or confusion. No, she said ; she
had never thought of me in that connection.


1 But,' she added, standing still to speak,
and shading her eyes with the fern, held
lightly in both hands, and making the sweetest
picture with beautiful unconsciousness,
you are getting to be a man, Jack. And
I suppose with her eyes opening just a
thought wider at the fancy, ' that I'm getting
to be a woman. One is a woman at
eighteen, I think. Do you know ' — she spoke
as though this were altogether a discovery —
1 I think that a girl is more a woman at
eighteen, than a boy is a man at twenty.'

In my bewildered compound mood, this
hurt my feelings. It seemed to widen the
space between us, and to make despair more
despairing. Canon Kingsley's charming novel
of Two Years Ago was new just then ; and
I asked Polly, who had read it recently, if
she remembered a passage in which it is
declared — apropos of a Mr. Creed, who carried
a warlike message to Tom Thrall —
that if a man is ever to be a man he will
be one at twenty.

1 Oh yes,' said Polly, holding to her colours ;
but I think a woman is more a woman at
eighteen.'

But, I persisted, with an aching feeling that
my head was growing empty — had she ever
thought that I was in love ? With — with —
anybody ?

No,' she answered, facing round again,
with the fern still lightly balanced in both
hands above her eyes. I felt that I had a
hangdog guilty look, and beneath her glance
I could feel that unpleasant aspect deepen.
A little light of humour in her eyes ripened
into a full smile of friendly mirth. ' O Jack,'
she said, ' is this a confession ? ' Before
I could answer or think of answering, her

sudden question had so staggered and bewildered
me, she dropped the fern, and clapped
her hands together. 'It is Miss Hurd!' she
said with a gravity as sudden as the gesture ;
and with the swift vivacity which was a part
of her, and is still, she passed her arm through
mine, and in a tone of cosy confidential friendship,
she said, ' Tell me all about it.'

4 O Polly I cried, not thinking how answerable
I was for the situation, ' how could you
think such a thing of me ? '

■ I don't know,' said Polly, with a little
shrug. ' Miss Hurd is very nice, I'm sure.'

I daresay,' I answered with Byronic bitterness
of soul.

I beg your pardon, I am sure,' said Polly,
moving her arm a little to-and-fro in mine,
as if to decide upon the most comfortable
position there. ' And now she said, giving
my arm a little hug, as if to emphasize her
own satisfaction in the approaching confidence,
tell me all about it.'

I said, 'Never mind,' darkly; and Polly
said coaxingly, ' Yes ; now do tell me all
about it.'

I responded still darkly that she would
know some day ; and at that she was a little

offended, and withdrew her arm. The empty
aching of my head left me incapable of doing
or saying anything to retrieve myself ; but
it left me the power to make myself feel
still more hangdog and more desperate. Perhaps,
I said, she did not care to know. It
could make no difference to her.

How can you say so ? ' she demanded with
a little flash of her old childish petulance.
Then with stately gravity, * You are a stupid
boy. You are undecided and self-contradictory,
and ' — with a complete change of face
and voice, she took my arm again — ' I am
sure that you are not happy ; and if I can
help you, you must let me do it.'

I was quite melted at this, and told her that
I felt I was a villain ; but I added that it had
been my fate all my lifetime to appear before
her in an unfavourable aspect.

1 That is all vanity,' she said, with calm
decisiveness. ' You have always been a little
too self-conscious. Fight against it

'No,' I said, desperately, * I have been
awkward and constrained before you all my
life

Before me ? * she asked in a voice which
told me she was wounded.

Yes,' I answered ; ' and before you only.
Ever since I saw you first, when Aunt Bertha
took me to the nursery, and introduced me to
you as your cousin.'

I had thought she would know my meaning ;
but her tone convinced me that she was still
ignorant of it. She answered only, * You are
very unkind and cross to-days

1 Unkind to myself I responded fatuously ;
1 but not so unkind as I deserve

You are incomprehensible she answered ina
tone of pique ; and we walked on in silence
until we came to the gate of the drive, when
she asked me smilingly if I would ' Come in
and be good Baffled in my purpose, and
being altogether wretched and forlorn, I shook
my head, and gave her my hand in silence.

Bring your Oedipus with you said Polly
lightly, ' if you come again in so Sphinx-like
a humour

I will send him by the penny-posts I
answered, conscious of a lucid interval and a
resolve.

1 He shall be welcome said Polly with a
laugh ; and then with a nod and a bright
1 Good-day ' she passed out of sight behind
the curve of the trees.

I mounted Bob again, and in the tumult of
my feelings, took him helter-skelter over the
fields homeward. Arrived, I sought the solitude
of my chamber, and sat down to abuse
myself for being so egregious an ass. I had
said nothing I meant to say, and had said
many things I had no right to say. I remembered
my share in the whole conversation, and
blushed over its inconsequence, its testiness, its
want of purpose. I caught sight of my own
face in the glass, and shook my head at myself
savagely, announcing with perfect seriousness
that if I could only get outside myself, I would
kick myself from there to Land's End for an
impracticable, disgraceful, unworthy idiot ! I
tried to write a letter to Polly, and made thirty
or forty beginnings, and threw them all aside.
So far as they went, I believe they all breathed
unalterable devotion and a desire to die. I
began one, I can remember, with, ' What am
I, O pure and beautiful, that I should dare — ; '
Dear Polly ' sounded too familiar ; and
Dearest Miss Fairholt ' — apart from the distant
coldness of the form — seemed to suggest that
there were several Misses Fairholt — three at
least. Why then, I thought, should I use any
introductory phrase at all ? Why not plunge

in medias res, like ' some epic poets ? ' Whilst
I sat thus bewildered, a message came from
Uncle Ben, who desired to see me ; and having
crammed the blotted and crumpled pile of
unfinished notes into an escritoire and locked
them there, I obeyed the summons.

Uncle Ben was strolling in the gardens,
smoking a big porcelain German pipe. ' Have
you got any notions, young un, about your
future ? ' was the question with which he met
me. I had within five minutes expressed the
ideas I had upon that point in writing ; but
feeling that Uncle Ben would scarcely care
to know that I meditated an early death, and
was quite indifferent as to what came before
it, I contented myself by asking if he had
thought about anything for me.

1 I've thought about 'em all said Uncle
Ben. ' Their's the church, and their's law,
and their's physic, and their's th' army and
navy. One, two, three, four, five. Then
their's art, and their's litterychewer. I take
it for granted as you ain't got a special call
to neither of them two.' — I believed I had to
each of them, but I kept silence. — * Well then,
about the church ? ' he questioned, turning
round upon me with a finger on a thumb in

act to tell off the five. — I shook my head,
having very serious and decided ideas on that
matter. — ' Very well. About the law ? How
should you like to be a barrister ? ' — I had
but a mean idea of the legal profession, and
I said so. — ' Very well,' said my uncle, going
on to the middle finger. ■ Then their's physic.
Now, th' army and navy is only professions
to them that's got a lot o' money, and don't
want a profession. To anybody else they're
slavery. How about physic ? '

I thought I saw that ' physic ' was what
Uncle Ben most favoured, and I said ' Yes '
tentatively.

It's a honourable profession,' said my uncle,
'and it's a useful un. Now, what do you say
to physic ? '

I told him I thought I would say ' Yes ' to
physic ; and he asked me then what I should
say to Dr. Brand.

A really first-rate man, Johnny,' said Uncle
Ben. ' Last time I was in town, I asked him
if in a few years' time he'd be prepared to
admit a smart feller into his place to look
around him ; and we had a bit of a talk about
it ; and he's willing to take you under his
wing, my lad ; and make a friend of you, and

make a man of you. You'll see if you like
it ; and if you don't, you needn't stick to it.
It's a great favour, mind you ; but he'll look
after you when you get up there, and you
must cultivate him.'

It seemed all very easily settled ; and Uncle
Ben, who was always for striking whilst the
iron was hot, advised me to go at once to
London and spend a week there — see Dr.
Brand — walk through the hospitals, get a first
general idea of things, and decide as soon as
I could see my way to a decision.

Look here,' said Uncle Ben, clapping me
jovially on the shoulder, 'we'll go up to-morrer,
and have a look round together. Eh,
Johnny ? '

That was settled at once. I made a fire
of the blotted and crumpled fragments of
notes, and sent a brief letter to Polly. Uncle
Ben's proposal had cleared my wits a little, I
suppose ; for I wrote without overwhelming
embarrassment that Oedipus and I were going
up to town with Mr. Hartley, that we all
three hoped to be improved by the trip,
and that it was probable that the journey
would result in my adoption of a profession.
And having despatched this letter, I lay fora

long time awake, a little excited by the
prospect of life in London, and a good deal
less disposed to an early death on desert
shores. When I fell asleep, I dreamed that
I was appointed Physician in Ordinary to the
Queen, and that I was Sir John Campbell.

HISTORY.

He could not guess that the lost friend had been so near
to him.

^VR. BRAND was driving down Piccadilly,
or rather was being carried along that
thoroughfare, one blazing, glaring, dusty summer
afternoon. He sat rounding his shoulders,
with his elbows on his knees and his chin on
his hands, looking straight before him and
seeing nothing. The open carriage in which
he rode and the pair of bays which drew it,
were among the best of their kind ; for Dr.
Brand was prospering greatly, and had a taste
in equipages and horse-flesh, which he could
afford to gratify. The turn-out was remarkably
unprofessional, as might be expected in the
case of a man so little conventional in all
things. The doctor was so deeply absorbed

VOL. III. D

in the endeavour to solve the matter in his
mind, that he did not notice a figure on
horseback which came between him and the
sunlight. The figure was that of a soldierly-looking
bronzed young fellow who had lost
an arm. The light-brown beard, with something
of a reddish tinge in it, and the close
military cut of the hair, together with a certain
set solidity of figure which had not of old belonged
to him, might have made it necessary
even for an old friend to look twice before he
recognised Arthur Hastings. There was the
same calm look of lazy and impudent humour
in his eyes, though his bronzed skin made
them seem curiously light in colour ; and
though his ancient jauntiness of carriage was
subdued, it showed itself a little still. He
rode on alongside, until the doctor became
aware of the figure between him and the
sunlight, and gave it a cursory glance of no-recognition.


Why,' said a voice, ' should aesculapius
drive like Jehu, son of Nisi ? '

The doctor turning, rose in his carriage and
held out a hand of cordial welcome.

Hastings shook his head, and nodded in the
direction of his empty sleeve. ' Can't he said.

If I loosed the beggar — indicating his horse
by another nod, — ' he'd bolt. How d'ye do ? '

The doctor called to the coachman to bring
the horses to a walk ; and Hastings having
subdued his horse's inclination to get into the
carriage, went soberly alongside.

When did you get back ? ' asked the doctor.

Day before yesterday,' said Hastings. ' Was
just coming round when I saw you.'

■ I never heard of that, said the doctor
bluntly, nodding at the empty sleeve. ' When
did you get it ? '

I got it,' said Hastings, ' if you mean the
limb, very early in life indeed, and parted with
it about three days after the last racket at the
Malakoff.'

1 Never heard of it,' said the doctor ; ' though
I heard you did your duty there, sir.'

Thank you,' said Hastings, simply and sincerely.
Early in their knowledge of each
other, the elder man had given a little lecture
to the other, in which he had developed his own
ideas of duty with almost brutal plainness.

Where do you come from now ? ' the doctor
asked.

From roaming to and fro in the earth, and
going up and down in it.'

City OF ILLINOIS

Doing something better, I hope,' said the
doctor, ' than quote Satan by the way ? '

Better at times, I think. — Are you busy ?'

1 1 am always busy. Nobody has a right to
be anything else.'

Some men are born idle,' said Hastings ;
some achieve idleness ; and some have idleness
thrust upon them.'

Will you dine with me to-night ? ' asked
the doctor. ' Eight o'clock. Don't dress. I
never dress for dinner. Absurd habit. Won't
encourage it at my table. Will you come ? '

On wings swift as meditation or the
thoughts of love responded Hastings ; and
the doctor, waving his hand, cried ' Good-bye '
and ' Drive on ' in a breath, and was gone ina
cloud of dust of his own raising. With a
parting nod, the young man turned back and
rode up the blazing street, passing a dusky
Smyrniote, who in the uniform of an English
groom had followed him at orthodox distance,
and now resumed his place, and came on
soberly in true oriental indifference to the
glances levelled at him by the curious. When
Hastings reached the doctor's house, a little
before the appointed time, the Smyrniote
accompanied him still, and took up his stand

in the hall outside the dining-room door, where
he startled Mrs. Brand more than a little, as
she passed him on her way upstairs from an
inspection of the kitchen. She made no remark
about him, however ; but the doctor
coming in a moment later with Major Hartley
in his train, had no scruple of delicacy.

Where did you pick up the nigger ? ' he
asked.

1 1 picked up the nigger,' Hastings returned
'to copy your own ungraceful locution — on
the tented field.'

Why do you carry him about in England ? '
asked the doctor ungraciously.

'Well, you see,' said Hastings, with a little
flush upon his face, which nobody remarked,
he took to carrying me about at first.'

Now, that's not fayah, Hastings said Major
Hartley, twirling his big moustaches with both
hands. — ' That's quite unfayah, Mrs. Brand,
I shaw yaw.' The longer the Major lived,
the more he drawled, and the wilder grew his
dandified distortions of his native tongue.
The doctor and his wife looked at Hastings,
who blushed palpably, and had nerve enough
to utter no more than ' Pooh ! ' The confusion
of so fluent a person was too remarkable

to go unnoticed, and both looked inquiringly
at the Major. 'What an extraordinary
fellah you are, Hastings, to be shaw!' said the
Major. — ' Now you'd really think, Mrs. Brand,
that a fellah would be proud of a thing like that.'

1 Of a thing like what ? ' asked Mrs. Brand.

Don't be an ass, Hartley,' said Hastings ina
low, rapid tone, which was not intended for
anybody but the Major, but was heard clearly
by all three. The Major laughed pleasantly,
with a look of mischief ; and Hastings walked
to the window with an abrupt and angry step.

I insist on relating the incident,' said the
Major ; ' but in consideration of yaw feelings,
I'll be brief. Hastings fetched the niggah out
of a regular storm of fish one day, when the
poor beggar was wounded by a fragment of
a shell. Three months lath the nigger retaliated,
and fetched Hastings out of a storm
of fish, when he was lying quite helpless with
a broken arm. And since then, they've been
inseparable ; and bay Jove ! Mrs. Brand, I
think they ought to be. Don't you, madam,
now, don't you ? '

The doctor strode across the room, and
brought his hand down heavily on Hastings'
shoulder with a loud cry of 'Bravo!' 'And

said the doctor, facing round with an air of
sermo-comedy, ' I'll knock the next man down,
or woman either, who dares to say a word
about it.'

An hour had passed, and dinner was nearly
over before Hastings had recovered his equanimity
; and for the first time in any man's knowledge
of him, he was depressed at a scene
which should have been festive. When the
doctor found him gradually recovering from
the effects of the Major's exposure, he renewed
his inquiries as to the movements Hastings had
made since the close of the war.

1 I come last,' he answered, ' from Basuto
Land. I went from Hong-kong to Ceylon,
and found a man with a steam-yacht who
wanted to go to the Cape of Good Hope, and
could get nobody to chum with him. So we
cast in our lot together ; but I found him can-dangerously
inclined, and left him at the Cape,
and rambled about alone.

What took you to Hong-kong ? ' asked
the doctor.

Well,' said Hastings,' ' I had some notions
about going into the House at that time ; and
since a man must have a crotchet there of
one sort or another, I thought the opium-trade

would serve for mine, and went out
there to look at it.'

What made you change you mind ? '

I don't think I did change my mind,' he
answered with a flippancy which was morea
thing of habit than of feeling. ' I think
my mind changed me. Anyhow, I came to
the belief that there were things better worth
doing than going into the House.'

Ah ! ' said the doctor. ' What are they ? '

1 I'll tell you one of them some of these
days,' said Hastings calmly.

'By the way,' asked Dr. Brand, 'do you
remember Bolter's Rents ? '

Bolter ? Bolter ? ' said Hastings questioningly.
' I had a horse of that name once,
and he deserved it.' Then with perfect irrelevance,
he quoted, ' For the blood-altered
Banquo smiles on me.'

Bolter's Rents,' said the doctor, ' is a haunt
of thieves, and worse — a haunt of cadgers,
tramps, crossing-sweepers, the riff-raff of the
London streets ; a tumble-down fever-den ; a
brick-and-mortar ulcer.

Ah ! yes,' said Hastings ; ' I remember. A
place off Oxford Street. Mrs. Brand was
interested in some people there.'

It's in the market,' said the doctor.

c If I knew the owner,' said Hastings, with
an approach to a smile, ' I might recommend
him to somebody who would draw up a description
of the place, and help him to sell it
to some advantage.'

I want to help him to sell it,' said the
doctor. ' But can we talk about that matter
at another time.'

The talk drifted into other channels ; and
a little later than ten o'clock the Major took
his leave, pleading an engagement at the
Opera, which he had so far deserted for the
pleasure of meeting Hastings.

Now,' said the doctor, settling himself easily
in a deep arm-chair, ' light another cigar, fill
your glass, and settle down to talk. I want
you to do justice to yourself. You have heart
and brains, and you mustn't waste them. Have
you found a purpose yet ? '

I Two or three,' said Hastings.

I I want to give you another,' said the
doctor, ' if your hands are not too full. That
place I spoke of — Bolter's Rents — is one of
the disgraces of London. If it got into the
hands of a good man, it might be made a
credit to any city. If it gets into the hands

of an ordinary speculator, it will be pulled
down, and its inhabitants will go all adrift
into other places of its kind. If it came into
the possession of a man who considered those
poor wretches, it might be gradually rebuilt,
and altogether purified, physically and morally.
The poverty might live there still under
cleanly conditions, and the scoundrelism be
hunted out of it, or taught to behave itself;
and the thing — though it could not yield an
extraordinary profit — could be made to pay.
I shan't apologise for suggesting this to you ;
for I believe it's just the sort of thing you
want

Don't you think the better course would
be to pull the place down at once and build
anew ? ' asked Hastings.

No,' said the doctor. ' There are a hundred
people there who are half-civilised already,
who would be scattered to the four winds in
that way. If the place could be mended gradually,
we could keep them together, and they
would help under better circumstances to
leaven the mass about them.'

1 1 will look into the matter,' said Hastings,
1 and let you know what I think of it. Where
is the place ? '

The doctor described it. An entry between
two shops, numbered so-and-so, led to a court.
There was no mistaking it. The name of the
agent who had the sale of the property was
noted ; and shortly before midnight, Hastings
took his leave with the faithful Smyrniote behind
him. The doctor's proposal went exactly
with his own desires ; and if the truth had
been known, I am inclined to believe that it
was chiefly with the idea of saving money for
some such coup as this that Hastings had
spent so much of his time in travel. Wishing
to see the place at once, he turned into
Oxford Street, and walked leisurely towards
Bolter's Rents. The moon rode in a sky
which was almost cloudless, and the street
gleamed before him like a river. He reached
the entrance to the court, and looked down
its black perspective to the one dull lamp
which twinkled at the bottom. ' Gel bourda,
Ali,' said he to his servant ; and the man
came, and followed him closely down the fetid
way, where nameless odours reminded him
of the popular bath of his native land. They
marched once or twice round the courtyard,
Hastings looking up at the disreputable
buildings, and the man following him in

wonder. A door near at hand grated on the
gritty floor of one of the ground-rooms, and
a bearded man came out into the court with
a basin, which he emptied upon the broken
pavement. He looked up at Hastings and
his servant and passed by, leaving the door
through which he had passed still open. The
light of a candle shone through the doorway ;
and Hastings glancing in, saw a man tossing
miserably on the quarried floor, upon a couch
of straw and sacking. He had heard the
murmur of a voice on passing the door in
his first slow journey round the court, and
knew it now for this sick man's moaning.
Beckoning Ali to follow, he entered the room
and looked about him ; and it is not too
much to say that he shook and sickened with
pity and loathing. The man who lay upon
the floor was muttering rapidly to himself in
German, and tossing a weary head from side
to side. Since we saw Hastings last, he had
seen much of the world, and had looked on
many of its worst troubles. But he had never
dreamed of anything like the horror of this
place being possible in England. I can only
tell you of its desolation — not of its filth, for
to set that down would be to make myself

unreadable. The man himself, with his vast
beard of matted black swaying to and fro
across his half-naked chest, and his wild hair
nearly a foot long straggling down to meet
it, was terrible to look at. His eyes and his
teeth gleamed as he rocked his head from
side to side, and he moaned ever and always
of trifles probably forgotten until fever brought
a stimulant to memory before quenching it.
Hastings, who spoke German better than
most Englishmen, addressed the man in his
own tongue, asking if he could be of use
to him ; but he received no answer, and stood
sorrowfully helpless for the minute, until the
man he had first seen returned with the basin
balanced carefully in both hands. The newcomer
called out in German in some cheering
phrase as he entered, and did not at first
observe the two intruders. He started a
little when he saw them, but said nothing,
and kneeling down, busied himself by administering
to his patient the contents of the
basin.

Has this man been long in this condition ? '
Hastings asked in English.

The man still tended the other, and returned
no answer, but started again visibly at the

sound of the voice. Hastings put his question
into German.

'Yes the nurse answered in the same
tongue, with his voice muffled in his grey beard
and his head bent above his patient.

Is he a friend of yours ? '

'No.'

Do you live here ? '

The man pointed upwards to the roof, but
gave no other answer. Hastings stood silent
for a moment, and then asked, ' Has the man
no other nurse ? '

'No,' was the answer, still muffled by the
beard.

Can you not remove him to an hospital ? '

He will go tomorrow,' the man responded,
assiduously bending over his patient.

Hastings' accustomed ear caught the sound
of an accent foreign to the language in which
the man spoke. ' You are not a German,' he
said. * What are you ? '

No answer was returned ; and Hastings,
thinking that the fellow's nationality was no
business of his if he chose to conceal it, stood
for a little while and watched the feeding of
the patient. By-and-by he asked what the
sick man was suffering from.

Fever said the nurse briefly.

Is the disease contagious ? '
Yes.'

Are you not afraid of catching it ? '

'No.'

1 How long have you tended the man ? '

To-night only.'

Has any one else attended him ? '

'No.'

'If I give you a little money, will you
expend it on him, and send him comfortably to
the hospital ? '

I have given notice, and he will be sent for
tomorrow.'

Then you do not want money ? '

'No.'

How do you live ? '
I work

'At what?' — No answer. — 'Is there much
sickness here ? Are you often employed in
this way ? '

Sometimes

1 Who summoned you here to take care of
this man ? Who told you he was ill ? '

< Nobody.'

Hastings crossed over to the patient, who
lay quieter now ; and the nurse walked away

and looked out through the open door.
Ali stood by, and marvelled, but said
nothing. He had implicit confidence in his
master, and believed that all he did was right.
What is there in that face I know ? ' his
master was thinking to himself as he bent
above the fever-stricken wretch on the floor.
'Is it a fancy ? Have I seen the face in the
street ? Whose is it ? ' He could find no
answer in his thoughts, though he called scores
of faces to remembrance. ' I have seen this
man somewhere before,' he said aloud. ' Do
you know who he is?' He received no
answer ; and turning round, he saw that the
nurse had disappeared. After standing irresolute
for a moment, he left the place and walked
back into Oxford Street, where he went on
until he saw the red lamp of a surgeon,
whom he summoned. The medical man did
not care to enter Bolter's Rents at that time
of night without a policeman, and indeed
flatly refused to do so ; but an officer was
soon found, and he, happy in the douceur
Hastings gave, led the way with an air of
protection.

I cannot help thinking,' said Hastings to
the surgeon, as the latter knelt down to feel

the patient's wrist, ' that I have seen the man
before somewhere.'

The patient was murmuring still in German ;
but when Hastings spoke thus, he paused
and seemed to listen. When he began again,
he spake in nasal English, and Hastings fancied
he heard his own name amidst the
murmuring. Stooping lower, he heard distinctly.
It was of no use, the man was saying ;
he really couldn't do it. Money was very
tight jhoost now.

1 Tasker ? ' cried the listener suddenly, ina
voice of amazement. The sick man made
a motion to rise, but fell back again. For a
moment, at the cry, his eyes took an aspect
of intelligence ; but the unearthly brightness
of fever returned, and Tasker — for it was he
went back to his German murmuring.

This man was a money-lender in the City
six or seven years ago,' said Hastings, in
answer to the look of astonishment and inquiry
with which the surgeon regarded him. ' I
had dealings with him in my nonage. He
was almost scoundrel enough to deserve even
this ; but I was amazed to find him here.
Where is the man who was tending him ? '

The bearded man was just outside the door,

VOL. III. E

and had heard the talk and the cry of recognition.
Hastings stepping to the door,
called after him as he drew off in the shadow
of the great overhanging wall. The policeman
who was posturing at the door with a set of
knuckles at his ribs in the region of his waist-belt,
inquired if his honour wanted that man.
Hastings, scarcely knowing why, said ' Yes ; '
and the policeman went after him and brought
him back. He came submissively with downcast
looks.

Why do you want me ? ' he asked in
German. ' Let me go. I trouble nobody.'

Take that,' said Hastings with a sudden
impulse, slipping a sovereign into the hand
which waved towards him in appeal. ' Goodnight'


With bent head he drew back into the
shadow, and the deeper shade of the doorway
seemed to absorb him as he entered it.

Curious character that, sir,' said the officer,
stiffly posturing like a model for a comic
sculptor. ' Quite the gentleman to speak to.
Name of Jones. Had a quarter of a milling
o' money, and lost it all on three Derbies.
Calls him the Took round about here and at
the Docks where he works.'

'Indeed!' said Hastings, beginning to wonder
whether all the residents of Bolter's Rents
were broken men of substance. ' Have you
known him long ? '

Never since he come to grief, sir. I
was at the H east-end of the town for several
'ears, and snowed him at the Docks, Quiet,
hinnerffensive feller, sir, as ever lived.'

Why was it, Hastings asked himself, ashe
walked to his hotel, with Ali in his place
behind him, that the image of a dead friend
who fell before Sebastopol should be so closely
with him ? An echo of Frank Fairholt's
voice was in his ear ; in his mind's eye he saw
the friendly, candid eyes and the handsome
wilful face, and in his heart he repented of
the evil of his youth, and his spirit was sorely
troubled.

1 It was my fault mainly,' he confessed, ' that
poor Frank went wrong at all. But time is
merciful ; and most of the griefs his loss
created have been healed. And he is at rest,
poor Frank, at least.' He saw the little round
of palisades which marked the spot behind
the trenches where the dead soldier lay, and
the black knolls here and there which covered
his old comrades. He could not guess — how

should he ? — that the lost friend had been
so near to him. How could he dream that
Frank Fairholt was kneeling lonely in that
dark fever-den, praying God for patience that
he might bear his burden to the end !

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

1 Tell me what ycu believe against me, and I will
clear myself?

WENT up to town next day with Uncle
Ben, according to arrangement. I found
Dr. Brand a trifle brusque and dictatorial, I
thought ; but learning that years must elapse
before he would undertake to do more than
take a friendly interest in me, I thought I
should manage to get along with him very
nicely. In the great school of medicine and
surgery in which I presently found myself a
pupil, Dr. Brand was regarded with profound
respect. One of the first things pointed out
to me in the hospital museum was a dissection
of the human arm, in which every nerve
and vein and artery and muscle was displayed
in most delicate and exquisite network. That

was Dr. Brand's doing ; and it was looked
on as something next to a miracle of dexterity
and art. I saw him in the operating theatre,
where he stood almost unrivalled. At first,
his perfect calm, the insouciance with which
he went to the most terrible performances,
shocked and disgusted me, and I thought
him a monster of no-feeling. But in a week
or two, I began to be better able to understand
and value his quiet mastery ; and in a
month he was my special hero.

It has been a problem to many, how it
comes about that the orderly and gentlemanly
men who make up the rank-and-file of medicine
and surgery in these islands are evolved
from the disorderly and rowdy youth who
make up the staple of our medical-student
supply. I confess myself the more unable
to solve this problem because I have been
intimate with the embryonic and with the
complete surgeon, and have known and noted
the marvellous space which severs them. In
Oxford, I had known reading sets, and boating
sets, and drinking and gambling sets, and
sets of all sorts. But though I found men
here given over to the same variety of pursuits,
they went about them for the most

part in so different a manner, and were themselves
of so different an order, that I seemed
to be thrown into quite an unfamiliar life
among them. I had been so accustomed to
the control of money, that town-life offered
me no new temptations to extravagance. Of
all the keen things Balzac has written, there
is none keener than that passage in which
he declares of an extravagant woman that she
was reckless in the profligacy of her waste
because she had known a time when a sou's
worth of fried potatoes would have been a
luxury to her. But it never occurred to me
to do less than spend what Uncle Ben allowed
me, and I found my society sought
by some for whom I had little affection. How
it fared with Uncle Ben's sons, my cousins,
I can only conjecture ; but I know that my
relationship to the great millionaire was converted
into one of the miseries of my life,
by the adulation it secured me, and the
prominence it occasionally gave me. Mr.
Wickamby, senior demonstrator, was marvellously
fond of me, and undertook to introduce
me to scientific society in London. I
went to an assemblage of ladies and gentlemen
in his company at one time, and was

finding an innocent interest in the display
of divers new inventions, when a whisper
from Wickamby — ' The nephew of Hartley
Hartley Hall, you know — the great millionaire'
— came in upon my quiet, and my
night was spoiled. There was a gilt pasteboard
erection of cubic form at one end of
the room, which was supposed to represent
the exact amount of gold in circulation in
the British Islands ; and whilst I regarded
this, and thought how small a sum of money
it represented per head for the population,
Mr. Wickamby came up and laughed, and
said in the voice of a public lecturer, that
my uncle, Mr. Hartley of Hartley Hall,
could show a considerable slice of that if
he desired to — eh ? Ha ! ha ! The baleful
whisper followed me into remote corners,
1 Nephew of Hartley. Great millionaire,
Hartley. Quite a self-made man.'

There was a doctor of divinity there who
was most ponderously polite to me, and who
took the keenest interest in my uncle and
my welfare. He delivered a little oration tome
on the dangers and advantages of wealth ;
and whenever anybody passed the corner in
which he had me penned, he would interrupt

the current of his speech to summon
the passer-by, and would ask to be permitted
to introduce Mr. Campbell, ' nephew
of Mr. Hartley, the distinguished millionaire.'
The coarse greed with which I found myself
surrounded, not for money, but for leave to
talk about it, would have been matter for
laughter, if I had not been the centre of it.
As it was, however, it became unbearable, and
I withdrew myself stealthily.

I had rooms in Clement's Inn, light airy
chambers, looking out upon upon a square of
green, bordered by fine trees. The rooms look
now upon the New Law Courts, which have
been so long a-building, and the grass is still
there before them, and the trees yet flourish.
I was mightily proud of those chambers at
the first, and was perhaps as happy in them
as I have ever been elsewhere. ' What more
felicities,' asks the poet, ' can fall to creature ?
Than to enjoy delight with libertie ? ' Mr.
Wickamby, the senior demonstrator, would
sometimes visit me of an afternoon and take
a glass of Burgundy and a cigar. He was a
man who smiled, a comfortable man, with a
saponaceous manner. He had little set forms
of speech for all manner of circumstances

and contingencies, which he used by rote, as
though they were formulae out of the Pharmacopoeia.
One of these was that it really
seemed absurd to say it, but if ever at any
moment I found myself in want of funds, I
was to apply to him, and consider him my
banker. It was so easy, he would add, to
run out of coin in town. At first, it crossed
me that this was the prelude to a request fora
loan ; but Mr. Wickamby never tried my
regard in that way ; and he used to utter
his formula so heartily, that I grew positively
grateful to him for his benevolence.

But there were pleasant visitors than Mr.
Wickamby at my chambers in Clement's Inn,
and amongst the pleasantness were Gascoigne
and aesop. Gascoigne's clerical duties held
him hard and fast in the country all the year,
with the exception of one fortnight, which he
spent with me. I met him at the railway
station, and brought him home in great glee,
and enthroned him in an arm-chair.

I What prospects ? ' I asked him. ' When
are you going to be a bishop ? '

I I don't know he answered laughingly.
But he added more gravely, and as I thought
with a touch of regretfulness, ' I ought to

have stayed on at college, Jack, and taken a
fellowship. But I should never have had
the living which is to be mine unless I had
put my neck into the yoke of this curacy.
The patron insists on having a working man,
and I am working. One of the ameliorations,'
he said, laughing again, ' is that they
don't consider cricket wicked in our part of
the world.'

I said somewhat hotly at this, that the servants
of the Church were surrounded by
foolish restrictions, and that none seemed
more absurd to me than the denial of harmless
outdoor sports. I could see a reason,
perhaps, against hunting ; but there were a
dozen other things which I enumerated in
which, as I believed, there lay harm neither
for a clergyman nor for his flock.

You are wrong, Jack,' said Gascoigne seriously.
' But the drawback in the Church of
England is that the influence secured is not
commensurate with the sacrifice ordained.
The true sacerdotal power is not wielded by
any man in our Church, even though he
may make all the concessions which should
secure it. The power of the Church at
large is great; but the openings to individual

ambition are few. There is an open
avenue to fame and power in the Church of
Rome ; and though you may not think it,
there is a way as broad and certain among
the great schismatic sects — Congregational
and Wesleyan. Amongst us, the individual
withers, and the Church is more and more.
Surgeon is more of a personality than even
the Archbishop of Canterbury.'

Then I asked, ' you are not satisfied ? '

" Which of us," ' he quoted, ' " is satisfied
in this world ? Which of us has his desire ? "

But,' I urged, ' there is surely some joy in
fighting a good cause, even as one of the 
? '

1 Ay,' said Gascoigne ; ' surely. But there
would be more joy perhaps in leading the
combatants.'

In what direction ?' I asked him.

He laughed, and threw his hands abroad
with a careless gesture. ' Perhaps one might
see,' he answered, ' a little farther on horseback.'


I loved him so sincerely and admired him
so much, that this seeming flippancy grieved
me, and I let the subject go. './Esop will
be here directly,' I told him. ' I have asked

him especially to come this evening; but I
have not told him that you will be here. I
kept that for a surprise.'

There was a little constraint upon me as
I said this ; for I did not wish it to appear
that I dissented seriously from any mood of
his. Lest he should observe this, I arose
as I spoke, and seizing one of his portmanteaus,
dragged it into his bedroom. It was
a little surprising that he returned no answer
for a minute. But he called out after that
pause, as he followed with the other portmanteau,
' aesop coming ! Jolly ! ' And then
in a changed tone he said suddenly, ' How
very unfortunate.'

I turned round and faced him as he sat
upon the bed, and asked him what was unfortunate.


'At what time did you ask aesop to be
here ? ' he queried.

Eight o'clock,' I answered.

'What a pity,' he said in an eager bustling
way. ' I have an appointment I ought to
have kept at once on coming into town.'
He laid his hands on my shoulders, and put
me away from him laughing. ' The pleasure
of seeing you, Old Jack, sent it out of my

head ; but I must keep it. I am a quarter
of an hour late already he went on, looking
at his watch. ' Let me write a line to Gregory,
lest he should think I ran away from
him.'

I gave him pen, ink, and paper, and he
scrawled a hasty note. ' Read that,' he said,
as he threw it in an open envelope towards
me. ' I shall be back in an hour and a half
at latest' He seized his hat, and was hurrying
from the room, when I called after him.

1 How about dinner ? '

Ah ! dinner ! ' he said, turning with a hand
upon the door. ' Put it off till nine. Is
that possible ? Or dine without me to-night.
Never mind, Old Jack. Better luck next
time.' With that he went out ; and I heard
him leaping downstairs, two steps at a time.

He had not gone long when Gregory came
in. Gascoigne's sudden departure had left
me a little dull, and I was all the more rejoiced
to see /ELsop. He and I chatted indifferently
for a minute or two, until he said,
You sent for me particularly. Anything up ? '
I handed him Gascoigne's letter, thinking how
pleasant it would by-and-by for all three of
us to be together in my rooms. It was

growing dusk ; and he took it to the window
to read it. He seemed a long time getting
through it, I thought, especially since 
had spent so little time in writing it.
I asked at last if he did not find it legible.
Yes,' he answered ; ' legible enough. But
it's very unlucky. I can't wait for him.'

Can't wait for him ? ' I asked piteously.
You take it very quietly, the two of you,
spoiling my night in this way

Ah, well,' said Aesop, with an air of philosophy
; ' life's full of disappointments, and we
must school ourselves to bear 'em.'

1 Well, you'll come tomorrow, won't you ?
And we'll spend the day together.'

'Well, I'm not sure about tomorrow,' said
T^Esop, with an air of some constraint ; ' but
I'll write and tell you about it. Meantime,
give the traveller drink ; and I'll take a cigar.
I've only half-an-hour to spare.'

Nothing remained but to make the best of
it. I should have Gascoigne back directly,
and a pleasant fortnight lay before me. Yet
the rose-coloured bloom seemed somehow to
be rubbed off that near future, and I felt quite
chilled and unhappy. Gregory smoked his
cigar almost in silence ; and I went out with

him and saw him into a cab ; and thereafter
went back to my chambers in a disconsolate
and gloomy mood, and awaited Gascoigne.

When he returned he heard of Gregory's
departure with so singular an absence of concern
in manner, though he said fluently enough
what a pity it was to miss aesop, that I asked
him outright if he did not care to meet him.
He blushed a little, and said that all our youthful
friendships could scarcely be expected to
last as firmly as that between us two. He
was so embarrassed whilst he said this, beneath
the lightness of manner he assumed,
that before I had well thought it, I called
out, ' You don't care for Gregory. Did
you leave me to avoid him ? '

He turned quite red in his distress. 'Jack,'
he said appealingly, ' who has put such a
notion into your head ? Has Gregory hinted
anything of the kind ? '

'No,' I cried ; ' nothing. It was only a fancy
of mine. But I thought — you were both so
calm about missing each other — that you had
quarrelled, and did not wish me to know it.
You were not very much with each other at
Uncle Ben's place when you were down last,
and I have never seen you since, except apart.'

I thought he seemed relieved, though I
could not conjecture why. He made no answer
except to ask me if I had read his
note to Gregory. When I said ' No,' he took
it from the table where Gregory had left it,
and handed it to me. It began, ' My dear
^Esop/ and ended with, ' Yours always ; ' and
there was no hint of anything but friendship
in the few hearty lines which expressed his
regret for keeping Gregory waiting.

There was no news from Gregory for four
days ; and I was so wounded at this, that it
altogether dashed the triumph and pleasure
of having Gascoigne to myself in my own
London chambers ; a matter which had seemed
too pleasant to be real in the contemplation
of it. On the morning of the fifth day, a
letter came bearing the Paris post-mark, and
expressing aesop's regrets at his enforced
absence. This cleared the cloud ; for it explained
that unexpected private business had
sent him abroad. 'Assure Gascoigne of my
best wishes,' said the letter at its close. ' There
is no need to tell either of you how happy
the reunion you planned would have made
me, had it been possible for me to share in
it.' So that there was no fear of any breach

VOL. III. f

between them, I cared less for the absence
of one of them.

Gregory did not return to town until 
had gone back to his curacy. I told
him of the fears I had entertained about the
possible decadence of their friendship ; and he
listened to all I had to say with a solemnity
very unusual with him. He spoke in answer
with a sort of rough tenderness. ' You nurse
illusions, young un. Heave 'em overboard ;
but be sure you don't let your generous impulses
go with 'em.'

He spoke so seriously, that I concluded he
had a meaning ; though why the loss of any
generous impulse should be involved in my
ceasing to believe that he and Gascoigne had
quarrelled, I could not divine. A sudden
sound of footsteps on the staircase and a
determined hammering at my outer door prevented
the continuation of our talk ; and my
visitors being admitted, made instant demands
for drink, and stated that they had come with
a proposal. They were amiable young people,
with strong social leanings, and were supposed
by their parents to be reading for the Bar.
The proposal was that a convivial society
should be formed, meeting in rotation at the

chambers of the men who belonged to it ; and
Gregory being voted to the chair, an initial
committee meeting was held. Bills of Wad-ham
had come prepared with a suggestion
that the society should be known as ' The
Associated Order of Rum-Pum-Pahs and
Royal Brotherhood of Rollicking Rams ; '
and this imposing title being by acclamation
adopted, the rules and regulations of the
society were straightway framed. Jeans, late
of Exeter, and now of the Middle Temple,
barrister-at-law, called to that high profession
the week before last, was already glorious in
the possession of the services of a clerk, to
whom the task of engrossing the rules of the
new society was entrusted. We went for all
this genial nonsense with a certain solemnity
which became it well, and discussed laws and
by-laws with a business-like gravity which left
upon me a sense of having been hard at work.
The first meeting took place at my chambers,
and was attended by the consumption of much
liquid refreshment and a great number of
cigars. On this occasion I was formally installed
as Royal Ram ; and Gregory was
created Deputy Royal Ram. A vast number
of other offices were created, one of the

chief objects of the society being to include
none who did not hold office within its ranks.

Thereafter, regular weekly meetings were
held at the chambers of the various members ;
and the society lived a flourishing and on the
whole a very jovial and harmless life, which
gave delight and hurt not. It reached an
untimeous finish in the rooms in which it
first came into being. The hour of midnight
approached, and we were singing a
chorus :

From Wombledon to Wombledon is seventeen miles ;

From Wombledon to Wombledon is seventeen miles ;
From Wombledon to Wombledon —
From Wombledon to Wombledon —

From Wombledon to Wombledon is seventeen miles.'

I had thought, in the pauses of this topographical
record, that I could hear a knocking at
the door ; and any doubt I might have had
upon the point was set at rest when the end of
the chorus came. Blows were dealt upon the
door in a perfect shower, apparently by a heavy
stick ; and one of my companions answering
this noisy summons, reported the advent of ' an
elderly Bloke in sportive raiment.' This announcement
being made in a voice which must
have been audible without, I went to greet my
visitor, whoever he might be, with some

reasonable dread that he might consider himself
insulted. To my surprise, the visitor was
no other than my Uncle Ben ; and before his
eye caught mine, I could see both trouble and
anger on his face.

Come in, uncle,' I said, but with some
awkwardness. ' I have a few friends here. I
have told you about the Club in my letters,
and it meets here to-night.'

He pushed by me without answer, and
standing in the centre of the room, surveyed
the assembly for a moment. Then nodding to
Gregory, he removed his hat, and sat down in
the chair I had occupied. ' Don't let me disturb
your amusements,' he said gruffly ; but
his angry countenance perturbed the young
fellows, and they sat in silence, or talked to
one another in subdued tones and formal
phrases. In a little space one rose to go.
Another followed him ; and in less than a
quarter of an hour after Uncle Ben's arrival,
the room was cleared. I had made an awkward
presentation of my uncle to the assembly,
and had tried to enter into talk with him ; but
this manner, so different from anything I had
hitherto observed in him, froze all geniality,
and his answers were all a gloomy ' Yes ' or

No When at last the guests were all gone,
he drank a tumbler of Burgundy, and rising,
took his stand upon the hearthrug.

What is the matter, uncle ? ' I asked, after
a moment's pause, in which he had looked at
me as if about to speak. ' Is any one ill at
home ? Is Maud — '

1 1 suppose,' he said, regarding me with a
look of mingled grief and rage which, while it
staggered, baffled me to understand — ' I suppose
you don't know of nothing as has took
place, do you ? '

No,' I stammered — ' unless it were the — '
The what ? ' he asked me, with an almost
fierce anxiety.

The meeting here to-night, and the noise
we were making when you came.'

He held his hat in his hand, and to my
intense surprise, he dashed it, at this answer,
on the floor, and broke into an execration. I
regarded him with both amazement and fear ;
for the mood in which I saw him was so foreign
to his nature, that I could only think him mad.
Quite apart from the fact that he always
drank with moderation, I could tell that he
was sober now. He glared at me for full a
minute with his face inflamed by rage ; but he

fought hard for self-control, and at last secured
it.

Anybody to look at you,' he said, * ud think
as you was wonder-struck

I am indeed I answered. ' Pray, tell me
what has happened.'

1 Oh ! ' he said, shaking his head at me
with an expression of bitter sorrow, ' you deceiver
! Oh ! you deceiver ! '

Uncle I cried, ' in what have I ever deceived
you ? What have I done ? '

You shall have a chance,' he said with a
broken voice, whilst tears made their way to
his eyes. ' I'll give you a opportunity. Make
a clean breast of it, an' I'll overlook it.'

His appeal cut me to the quick ; for I could
read such a pathetic earnestness in his broken
speech and his rugged homely face as I had
never seen or heard elsewhere. But I had
no answer. I was half giddy with surprise,
and my mind was filled with quick-darting
conjectures. All my guesses left me bewildered
; for though I had a boyish fault and
folly here and there set down in the books
of conscience, I could think of nothing I had
ever done or contemplated which seemed
worthy of a tithe's tithe of his emotion.

You shall have a chance,' he said. ' Tell
me you done it. Tell me what you done it
for. Promise me, on your sacred oath, as
you'll never do it again, and this once I'll
overlook it. Don't send your Uncle Ben off
broken-hearted. Make a clean breast, an' I'll
forgive you.' The tears were coursing down
his face, and he spoke with a broken voice.

I think the love and sorrow which I felt for
him steadied me. I answered then. ' Uncle,
whatever suspicion you may harbour against
me, I am innocent of having done one thing
or thought one thought against your peace of
mind. Tell me what you believe against me,
and I will clear myself.'

You're hardened,' he answered with returning
anger ; but my sister's blood's in you,
and though your father was a rogue before
you, I can't get over it. ' I can't believe,' he
went on, softening again, 'as Bella's child's
gone quite to the bad so young. Look here,
Johnny. I took you for your mother's sake ;
an' I kep' you, an' I had you bred up like
a gentleman, an' I did my best to make a
man of you. If I seem to be stern with you,
it's for your good. I can't overlook it, not
without a full confession ; an' even then, it'll

take 'ears an' 'ears to overgrow it. But you
clean your breast, an' I'll forgive you.'

'You quite bewilder me,' I answered earnestly.
'I know of nothing — I have done
nothing, which could cause you such grief.
Believe me, uncle, I would sooner die than
even seem ungrateful.' In the eagerness of
my protestation I approached him and laid
a hand upon his arm ; and he looked at me
fixedly, whilst I could see sorrow again giving
way to rage. Perhaps this alteration in his
mood worked some change in mine ; for I
added with more firmness than I had been
able hitherto to show, that I had a right to
hear his accusation, and that it was impossible
that I could clear myself until I knew
of what I was suspected.

Oh, you innocent, persecuted, wrong-suspected
creature he cried with a bitter sneer.
You haven't done nothing' mean, have you ?
You haven't done nothing' low, an' base, an'
blackguardly, an' criminal, have you now ?
Law bless us' no ; he wouldn't.'

I have not,' I cried, with mounting anger
at the obstinacy of his accusation, and his
refusal to put it before me plainly. ' And
whoever charges such a thing against me, lies.'

What ? ' he said again. ' You've made
your mind up to brave it out, an' swear
black's white ? '

1 Neither your past tenderness to me I
answered, ' nor your relationship, nor your
age, gives you a right to speak so. If you
have any charge to bring, speak it out. If
you will give me no chance to clear myself,
I will not listen to your accusations.' Those
were the last words I spoke to him ; for he
broke out with a wild exclamation, and struck
me across the face so heavily that I fell and
lay unconscious for a time. When I awoke,
dizzily and painfully, there was already a grey
light peering through the windows, and I was
alone. The interview with Uncle Ben seemed
at first like a miserable dream ; but as it
cleared itself to my memory, nothing but
wounded pride withheld my tears.

I

HISTORY.
He had no change in her remembrance?

A N English novelist of great genius says,
in taking leave of the chief female
figure of his story : — ' Such women are not
the spice of fiction, but they are the salt of
real life.' That phrase expresses so exactly
what I feel and desire to say of Maud, that
I should probably have used it originally, if
Charles Reade had not forestalled me. Did
it ever occur to you to think that the especial
charm and beauty of some women is — that
they have suffered ? The esteem and liking
with which you regard them, even in your
days of strangerhood, and before the usages
of friendship have endeared them, is instinctive.
The chivalry of the manly heart is
awakened at the thought of such unmerited

trouble as the faces of many good women
unconsciously tell of. There is a look almost
angelic in such faces ; the gentle eyes that
would fain smile kindly on all things, have
been made familiar with tears ; yet they
still smile, a little wistfully maybe, but tenderly
— the very twilight of a smile — no garish
brilliance that blinds and dazzles, but a sad
and gentle light, which soothes the soul as
an autumn evening sky will, and disposes
the heart to a quiet and reverent peace.

If old Time, whom we figure with scythe
and hour-glass, had but a real personality, how
should we sing his praises, how tell our
thanks to him ? Good old Father Time,
who dost bear us in fatherly arms away
from sorrows, away from all sorrows in a
while, if we will but have a little patience !

Maud in these days dwelt in peace. I have
no skill to tell how the peace came down, and
settled round about her like strong sunshine,
until at last she would scarcely for her own
sake have recalled her sorrow. Had that
harrowing mystery which had first belonged
to her lover's fate still seemed to hang over
it, things might have gone otherwise with
her, and peace might at least have been

delayed. But she had learned that he was
dead, and that his unknown griefs were over;
and it came to pass that poor Frank's best
hopes were justified, and she found rest. She
did not forget him, and will not, though she
should live to be old, cease to remember her
first lover with infinite sad sweetness of
remembrance and tender pity. The cares
which a good woman can lay upon herself
for the cares of other people soothed and
gladdened her, and she moved among the
poor like a ministering angel. Poor rural
folk are not so susceptible to gratitude as it
might be wished they should be ; but she
took root in the shallow hearts of her old
women, who grumbled to her over their
rheumatics and their old men and the hardness
of the parish, ' which ud only give 'em a
loaf a week, an' times that hard.' These
crabbed old creatures used to talk of her to each
other, and though they knew little enough of
her trouble, would say ' Poor dear ! ' when
they mentioned her, by a sort of pitying
instinct, which perhaps her eyes inspired.

Will Fairholt, though touched always by
that casuist fear which he had long since
expressed to Hastings, found the definite news

of his brother's death a relief to him. It
was a great grief; for, as we have seen, he
had a sincere love for Frank ; but he felt,
when the first wound of loss was healed,
happier and more at ease than he had done
for many and many a week before the news
reached him. I have not time to tell the
whole story of his healing ; but as even ina
river on its hurrying way to the sea you
may find a quiet back-water here and there,
where foam of haste and voice of ripple are
not, so my story, which serves a less important
use than any river, may pause awhile, and
we may suffer ourselves to fall into that
calm bay in which the lives of these two,
after much tempestuous tossing to and fro,
have found shelter.

1 My life has been but a poor business,
Maud,' said Will one day as he walked by
her side in the gardens at Hartley Hall.
Before them was the gate at which she and
Frank had stood together years ago when
they parted as pledged lovers. The day was
warm and bright and drowsy, and the shadows
were growing long towards the east. ' My
life has been but a poor business. For I
have spent years out of the world idly, which

should have been spent within it busily. I
have never dared to name the purpose which
has kept me here, and I have been living in a
fool's paradise for years.'

1 How ?' she said, looking up at him frankly
and openly, with questioning eyes.

1 I had no right,' he said, ' to trap you
into such a question. And I did not mean
it.' She understood him then, and almost
knew everything he had yet to say. Do
you remember when you , first came here, and
poor Frank and I first saw you ?'

I remember well,' she answered softly.
I can remember,' he went on, ' no hour
since then in which you have not been the
centre of my life. Did you ever guess that ? '

I knew it she said softly ; ' and I was very
sorry.'

1 You know it now,' he continued, bending
over her. ' Are you still sorry ?' She gave
no answer, but hung her head a little. ' I
have loved you nearly all my life. Maud, can
you give me a little hope ? '

I am very sorry,' she began, and his heart
failed within him ; but her voice went on
tremulously, ' that you have — ' And there
she paused again.

1 That I have spoken ? ' he asked.

1 That you have suffered so,' she answered
more boldly, lifting her head and meeting his
eyes with hers. As she faced him thus, a
tender blush stole over the delicate pallor of
her countenance, and it was not easy to endure
the ardent question of his eyes.

He stretched out his hands and took both
of hers unresisting. ' I have thought,' he said,
1 1 have hoped that our partnership in a common
grief might bring us nearer to each other ;
though if I know my heart, I schooled myself
to see your happiness, and to live apart from
you without repining.'

Will,' she said, as if entreating him, ' I knew
it all — I knew it all.'

But I have waited,' he went on, ' hoping
against hope that time might heal your grief,
and make a standing-place for me beside you.
I have waited long, Maud, long, long ! But
have I waited long enough ?'

Her eyes faltered downward whilst he
spoke ; but she raised them again and looked
him bravely in the face, though they were
dim with tears. He saw then that no
further speech was needed, and folded her
to his heart.

They were middle-aged people, and the
passionate raptures and delights of young
love were out of reach. But as I have known
the delirious happiness of youth breed a sort
of heart-vertigo, so I have seen courtship ina
man of forty and a woman of 
full of very solid happiness. As for
Maud, it was not the young love, but it was
enough for happiness ; for she pitied and
esteemed her lover, and had had the most
constant and tender friendship for him for
many years. And there was this singular
factor in the case, as a matter of distinct feeling,
although as a thing of course one conscious
thought would have ousted it — that
whereas she had passed the first bloom of
her womanhood, Frank was still and for ever
and always a bright, handsome, wilful lad.
He had no change in her remembrance.
She grew towards middle age ; but his figure
was no sturdier, his open brow took no corroding
wrinkles, his voice had the ring of
jolly youth in it. The deep maternal instinct
in the heart of an old maid awoke, and
she claimed this perennial youth for her child,
not her lover. How should he be her lover,
the bright, dandified, clever young fellow, who

VOL. III. G

had grown no older this sixteen years ; whilst
grief had wasted her bloom, and time had reconciled
her! Infinitely sad and sweet and
tender were these memories, like a mother's
remembrances of her child. For, ah ! the
dead who die young are always young, until
we, who cherish their memory, follow them.

Will was quietly contented. There was no
great excitement in his joy. As we near forty,
most of us are disposed to take the delights
of life soberly. Your 'wild and wanton colts,
fetching mad bounds, neighing and bellowing
are pleasant to look at, typifying youth
and high spirits ; but the trained steed who
finds himself fetlock-deep in sweet grass, hasa
placid rest and ease in the sense that his
burden is away, which are perhaps as satisfactory
to him as the more demonstrative
joys of colthood used to be. Will had borne
his burden manfully, waited his time with
patience, and accepted his happiness with a
glad solemnity of thanksgiving.

Neither she nor he felt any wish to talk
just then. They strolled slowly on to the
gate together, and looked out over the park,
where the peaceful sunlight lay among the
trees, and the distance shimmered a little, as

if the air were alive between and breathed
gently in the heat. Then they turned and
strolled back in happy silence to the house,
and parted there ; and Will strayed down to
the arbour behind the rhododendron walk,
where Mr. Hartley mostly loved to take
his ease. The old man was asleep, with a
yellow bandana handkerchief over his head ;
and his hands were peacefully folded over
his waistcoat, which was a little more sulkily
projected than it had used to be. Will sat
down and lit a cigar, and waited till the old
boy should awake. He had pleasant thoughts
for his companions, and was in no hurry ; buta
sound of yawning made itself heard from
under the yellow bandana ; one hand went
lazily up and removed the silken screen ; and
Benjamin Hartley observing his companion,
nodded at him idly and good-humouredly,
closed his eyes for a few more seconds,
yawned again, reopened his eyes, smoothed
his legs with his hands, and said finally in a
voice of lazy comfort, 'Well, Mr. William,
how goes it ? '

It goes very well indeed,' said Will, smiling
; ' and only needs your hand to push it into
smooth water.'

'Eh?' said Mr. Hartley, sitting up with a
bewildered face.

'Maud and I, Mr. Hartley— ' Will began
in explanation.

'Ah!' said Mr. Hartley with an appreciative
grin.

Have made up our minds that we care
for each other. But there is a Wicked Uncle
in the case, as there has been in the stories
of many young people' [Mr. Hartley's smile,
appreciative of the situation, grew wider] —
and it is necessary to soothe him, and obtain
his sanction.'

He's a hard old beast that there uncle, Mr.
William,' said Mr. Hartley with a joyful wink.
But if you was to go at him together, I think
you'd manage him.'

1 I think we should,' Will answered. ' But
I want to pave the way by which we must
approach him.'

You come along of me,' said the Wicked
Uncle ; and Will throwing away his cigar,
walked with him to the house, where the old
man went in search of Maud ; and having
found her brought her on his arm. ' Mr.
William,' he said, not without dignity, ' I've
known you, good man and true English

gentleman, for twenty year. I never snowed
a thing about you as could make you unworthy
of my girl ; and as I find her willing',
I give her to you with all my heart. And
she knows what I think about her — don't
you, my dear ? ' With that he kissed her
heartily, and then put her hand in Will's ;
and posing with high glee with both hands
aloft, said, ' Bless you, my children V in a
manner so jovially pompous and absurd, that
even Maud laughed. Mr. Hartley for his
part shouted with a somewhat suspicious
hilarity. ' Bless your heart, my dear,' he
said to Maud, 'do you know as I've took to
novel-reading in my old age, and plays, and
them sort o' things ? I know all the proper
sentimental dodges now. — Stop to dinner, Mr.
William ? — No ? All right — as you like. I'm
a-going back to the arbour, I am, to finish
the nap as you two young uns broke into
with your love-making.' The good old
heathen rolled back to his arbour a little
sadly, and sat there a long time lonely, until
Will had taken leave of Maud and came out
to join him.

You will be lonely when I am gone,' she
said, after an affectionate talk.

No,' the old man answered stoutly ; ' I
shan't be nothing of the sort. An' you'll come
and live here, half the year at least. That I
do expect.' He stroked her hair, as he had
used to do when she was a child, and patted
her cheek.

1 You are a good, unselfish uncle,' she
answered fondly.

He stroked her hair still, and answered, ' If
I was one of them book-writing fellers, my
dear, I'd write a tale.'

1 Yes,' said she ; ' and what would it be,
uncle ? '

1 It 'ud be about two different people ; an'
I'd make one of 'em a grinding, selfish blackguard,
don't you see ; and I'd make th' other
a man as 'd act fair even if he lost by it.
An' I should show folks as the man as allays
tried to be happy was miserable ; an' I should
show 'em as the man as acted fair an' generous
was happy in the long-run, even when he lost.
Supposing I'd ha' said, " No ; stop with me,"
you'd ha stopped — wouldn't you ? '

Yes,' she answered ; ' I should have stayed.'

1 Now, look there ! ' he said. ' What a conscience
I should ha' carried ! You'd ha' seen
me a-going about like a regular Misery. I

know you'd ha' stayed, my dear. I know you
would. An' I should ha brought my own grey
hairs down with sorrow to the grave. Not as
there's many of 'em said the good old fellow,
polishing his baldness with his handkerchief,
'nor hasn't been this many a 'ear. No, no,
no, my dear,' he went on, answering his own
thoughts. ' It's old age's happiness to see
them as they love happy. I'm a very happy
man, my darling' — a very happy man. everything'
's prospered with me wonderful. I've
got a lot to be thankful for, an' happy over.
Their's the Major — he's a credit to me ; ain't
he now ? Their's 'Grace — he's a credit to me.
Feller of his college, an' as stately a gentleman
as ever was. Makes me half afraid to
look at him ; but he's a good son, Maud,
an' never caused me a day's trouble in his
life. Then their's Johnny. He's a good lad,
my dear ; ain't he now ? No harm in him.
A quiet, upright, honourable lad. Then
their's you, a-going to be happy. Why, bless
my soul,' said Mr. Hartley, with a melancholy
effort to be genial, ' wheel is there a happier
man than me ?' With that he kissed her ;
and she felt his tears warm upon her face.
But she knew that there was no more bitterness

in them than in her own ; and when he
had unaffectedly dried his eyes with his yellow
handkerchief and kissed her once more, they
rose together, and walked towards the house
in a tranquil and tender peace, which I feel it
no sin to envy.

It had been Will Fairholt's intention to lay
his purpose before his father at once ; but the
old gentleman was in so irritable and testy
a mood that he deemed it wise to postpone
his revelation till the morrow. So, on a sunny
morning, when Mr. Fairholt was strolling
slowly and with difficulty up and down his
favourite walk in the shrubbery, Will joined
him, and began, ' I think it my duty, sir, to ask
your consent in a matter of great importance.'

What is that ?'

I hope shortly to be married, and — '

You ought to have married long ago,' Mr.
Fairholt said testily. 'It's a hard thing fora
man to feel that he is the last but one of
his house, in the male line. Who is it ? Is
it that girl of Hartley's ? '

It is Mr. Hartley's niece,' said Will simply.
He was used to his father's manner, and made
large allowances for him, thinking how much
he had suffered.

1 1 thought so,' the old man answered, resenting
an injury as usual. 'You will please
yourself, of course. The estate's entailed, and
goes to you ; and I have neither part nor lot,
nor influence either, for that matter, in the
whole affair.'

I have never crossed you knowingly, father,'
Will said gently.

'No,' said Mr. Fairholt captiously; 'you've
been a good son to me, Will, a good son. And
I've no fault to find with the girl. A girl she's
not any longer ; but you're not a boy any longer,
and I have no fault to find. Her uncle is
vulgar — vulgar to his finger-ends ; but she hasa
well-bred look and manner. I don't care to
approach the fellow again ; but I suppose I
shall have to see him now. That sort of man
is vulgar in soul, Will, that self-made, money-grubbing
sort of man. I have met people of
no family — when I was younger, and mixed
with the world — whose manners had no trace
of polish, and who were yet not intolerable.
That fellow Hartley is a bear. The man's
heart is wrong, and the vileness of his manner
is a natural consequence. His son is a parvenu
; that — that army fellow, quite a bad
imitation of a gentleman. I don't know much

about the girl ; but people speak well of her.
Young Burleigh, Chesterwood's son, wanted
to marry her, I remember, nearly a dozen years
ago. Money, I suppose ; though he ought to
have enough of it. Chesterwood has been
stingy enough these thirty years. I'm told that
poor Frank was attached to her. Yes, yes ;
you have my consent, if you want it. Let
me be alone a little while now. I am tired
of talking.' And he fell to wondering, as he
paced feebly up and down the shrubbery
walk in the morning sunshine, how much the
millionaire would give his niece. ' I'll see
him about it,' he said — ' I'll see him about it.
Will's quite a fool in money matters — quite
a fool. Gad, he shall gild the pill, anyway
! ' And he laughed a little at that comfortable
reflection.

It was perhaps not a remarkable thing that
at the same moment Benjamin Hartley should
have been thinking in the same strain — with
a reverse of persons. ' I shall have to gild
the pill,' he said to himself, ' an' gild it pretty
thick too, into the bargain, to get old Fairholt
to smaller it without making' a wry face. Well,
well ; it'll only be a flea-bite out o' the Major's
share an' 'Grace's. I suppose I could buy the

proud old rascal up, an' scarcely know I'd done
it.' So that it seemed fairly probable that Mr.
Fairholt's desire to have the pill gilded would
not be difficult of fulfilment.

It was decided that the marriage should not
be long delayed ; and the negotiations between
family pride and Mammon were conducted
without hitch or hindrance. But a week or
two before the time originally appointed for
the wedding, Fate dealt Benjamin Hartley a
terrible blow. There came into his hands a
cheque bearing the endorsement of his sister's
son, John Campbell, and a forged copy of his
own signature, so close that he himself was
almost deceived by it. ' Pay John Campbell,
Esq., or Order, Two Hundred Pounds His
mingled grief and rage almost drove him mad.
He had treated the boy with fatherly tenderness
and generosity ; and the inexplicable baseness
and ingratitude of this return bade fair to
break his heart. He went heart-brokenly to
his solicitors and conferred with the leading
partner, to whom he told the story.

1 What do you propose to do ? ' asked the
lawyer. * Shall you prosecute ? '

Mr. Hartley glared at him with indignation ;
almost with contempt. ' No ! ' he said ; ' I

shan't prosecute ; and I shan't plunge the
miserable young scoundrel into crime. I want
you to send for him, and to tell him what I
know ; for though I tried last night, I couldn't
bring myself to frame the words and say 'em
to him. Tell him that you've got my instructions
to invest five thousand pounds for him.
That'll go to buy a practice when he's got a
diploma, and meantime it can bear interest
at five per cent., and he can live on the interest.
It ain't what I meant to do by him ;
but it's more than he deserves.'

1 Much more,' said the lawyer. ' If I might
advise — '

1 You needn't said Mr. Hartley, with a sort
of weary anger. ' If he's got any debts, pay
'em. Tell him if he writes to me I shall send
his letters back unopened. Tell him I've done
with him, beyond this, for good and all. Here,'
he added suddenly, drawing the forged cheque
from his pocket-book; 'show him that He
threw it on the table, whence it fell to the floor.
The lawyer stooped and picked it up ; and the
millionaire said drearily, ' Don't say nothing
about me, except as these is my instructions.
But I wouldn't ha had it done by him, Milton,
not if I'd lost every penny I'm worth. Goodbye,

Bilton. You've got my will. Make the
necessary alterations in it ; and send somebody
down with it for me to sign. And be quick
about it ; for I don't think, Bilton, as I shall
last much longer.'

1 For many a year, I hope,' said the lawyer ;
but Benjamin Hartley, shaking his head sadly
went away with his hopes all dashed. He
carried a heavy heart into the country ; and
was for a long time so ailing that Maud's
marriage was deferred ; and where everything
had lately been so happy, all was turned to

gloom.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

4 Are you willing to submit to that arbitrament?

T T may be allowed to go without saying that
the day after Uncle Ben's last visit to me
was very miserable, and that I was in a state
of the cruellest perplexity. I could neither
eat nor sleep, and I locked myself in my
chambers, and spent the time alone. The only
thing I could definitely resolve upon was to
write to Maud, beseeching her, for pity's sake,
to discover the ground of my uncle's mysterious
accusations, and to allow me a chance of
clearing myself. I wrote a lengthy letter, and
posted it in the darkness of the night ; and
feeling a little relieved, went back to my
chambers, where I tried in vain to sleep. In
the morning, when my laundress was laying
the cloth for breakfast, and I was hiding in

the bedroom, to conceal from her the bruise
upon my face which resulted from the blow
I had received, I heard a step upon the stairs,
and a minute later a pert voice asked for me.
I had not given the laundress instructions to
deny me, anticipating no visitor at that early
hour, and she announced that I was in.

A gentleman to see you, sir,' she said a
moment later, tapping at my door.

Who is it ? ' I asked.

1 From Bilton, Bilton, and Hart, sir said the
pert voice, and a young man, with a crimson
tie, and a general burlesque of fashion in air
and dress, came into my bedroom with his
hat in his hand. ' I am the bearer of a letter,
sir,' he said with an airy flourish, ' from our
principal. I trust it is not of overwhelming
importance, but I was instructed to deliver it
last night.'

I took the letter and read it. It said briefly
that the writer, my uncles solicitor, was instructed
by him to seek an interview with me,
and that it was desirable that it should take
place as soon as possible. Trusting that some
explanation would be given of the scene which
had so painfully bewildered me, I asked the
young man in the crimson tie at what hour

it would probably be convenient for Mr. Bilton
to see me. He replied that the principal was
always at the office 4 from ten in the morning
up to any hour at night, as it might happen,'
and being told to say that I would follow him
at once, he gradually abstracted himself from
the contemplation of his figure in the looking-glass
which fronted the central door of a large
wardrobe, and went his way. After a visit
to a chemist in the Strand, who had especial
skill in the disguising of facial damages, I took
a cab to Holborn, and, forgetting to discharge
the man, went into the office of my uncle's
lawyers, and was shown at once into the room
of the senior partner, whom I had seen once
before in my uncle's company. I offered to
shake hands with him, but he nodded towards a
seat, and asked me to take it. I sat down, and
prepared as calmly as I could to listen.

Mr. Hartley was here yesterday,' he began.
1 He tells me that you deny all knowledge of
the case against you, and since he feels the
disgrace of it too deeply to enter into any
conversation with you concerning it, he has
deputed me to — in short to lay the proof of
your guilt before you.'

I have often heard and read that an innocent

man charged with crime is supported by the
consciousness of his own rectitude. I believe
that to be rather more foolish than most
generalisations ; and I know that when the
lawyer spoke in so calm and assured a fashion,
I was almost beaten into the belief that I had
committed some awful crime, though I had
quite forgotten what it was.

1 Do you know that signature ? ' he asked,
holding a piece of paper across the table.

Yes,' I answered, as calmly as I could.
1 It is mine.'

1 Is that yours also ? ' he questioned, turning
the paper round and showing the heavy
autograph of Benjamin Hartley. I looked
inquiry at the lawyer ; and he, returning
my gaze fixedly, tapped the paper three or
four times with his finger. * Is that your
handwriting, young gentleman ? ' he asked
again.

No,' I answered, confused and irritated by
a question so seriously put and so palpably
absurd. ' That is my uncle's writing.'

'Ah!' he said, 'will you tell me when Mr.
Hartley gave you this cheque for two hundred
pounds ? '

I began to see the form the accusation was
VOL. 111. h

about to take. At least I think it was then
that I began to see it ; but I was quite confounded
and amazed. ' Tell me the date,'
I asked at last ; remembering that I had in
my pocket a memorandum of all my receipts
from Uncle Ben within the last three or four
years. He gave me the date, and I looked
along my list. There was no such date
there, and there was no sum of two hundred
pounds set down. There were two of two
hundred and fifty, and several of a hundred.
I passed the pocket-book, with my finger on
the open page, across to the lawyer.

Ah ! ' he said again shortly ; ( you didn't
enter this.'

I never received it,' I made answer.

1 I am sure you didn't,' he responded.
The fact, is, sir, that you forged this
cheque.'

For just a second, my one impulse was to
knock Mr. Bilton down. That passed, and
I was conscious of nothing except a giddy
rage against the supposition that such a belief,
however substantiated, could be held concerning
me, and a sort of rebellious loathing
of it. I knew that the lawyer was talking,
but I had no conception as to what he said ;

and it was after a silence that I asked with
a throbbing heart to be allowed to look at
the cheque once more. ' You had better be
sure,' he said, with a sort of scornful bitterness,
' that it is the one you forged.'

That stung me, and I answered hotly,
You are insolent, Mr. Bilton. When next
you have a business of this kind in hand, be
sure before you speak so.' He shrugged
his shoulders and raised his eyebrows, and
made a little motion with his hands. His
gesture and expression gave me leave, more
scornfully than words would have done, to
take what tone I pleased. I dared scarcely
trust my eyes upon him in the anger to
which this stirred me, and I took up the
cheque and feigned to examine it anew.

1 Mr. Hartley,' he said then, in a quiet,
measured way, ' instructs me to tell you that
he will hold no further communication with
you ; but that since he does not desire to
drive you into further crime, he will make
an allowance of two hundred and fifty pounds
a-year to you whilst your studies continue, and
that this will be — '

Do you think,' I cried passionately, ' that
if my uncle believes this of me,' and I struck

the cheque as it lay upon the table, ' that I
will take another penny from him ? '

1 This he went on quietly in the same
formal tone, reaching out for the cheque as he
spoke and smoothing it out on the desk before
him, ' will be the interest of a lump sum which
will be devoted at the close of your career asa
student to the purchase of a professional
practice. If you have any debts, you will
instruct your tradesmen to send in their bills
to me. I shall examine them closely, and
shall pay them. Beyond this, you have
nothing to expect from Mr. Hartley ; and had
he taken my advice, he would have left you to
your own resources, even if he had not proceeded
against you.'

1 I am obliged to you,' I answered, as
suddenly hard and cold as if boiling lava had
been changed to ice. If that simile should
seem extravagant, let it pass. It seems true
enough, in my recollection. ' Will you kindly
write to Mr. Hartley, and tell him that so long
as he retains this shameful suspicion of me, I
shall not trouble him ? Will you say that I
decline to receive a farthing from his hands ?
Say, if you please, that it shall be the one
aim of my life to repay him the money he

has expended upon me. Tell him that this
charge, so made, without inquiry, without
appeal to me, without effort to trace the
criminal who has made use of his name and
mine, wipes out all gratitude, affection, and
regard, and that we are no more to each
other now than creditor and debtor. We shall
hold those relations not an hour longer than I
can help

1 You brave it out,' he said, as I turned to go.

Do you consider I asked him, ' that you
are giving me fair-play ? Are you acting
honourably in this matter, or like a gentleman ?
I claim to be held innocent until my guilt is
proved. I tell you, sir, that my name has been
forged as well as my uncle's. I will protect
myself in this matter, and I can see no other
course than to put the whole affair into the
hands of the police. If, in the meantime, I am
suspected, I cannot help it.'

I could see even as I turned to go that a
change came over his face, and that he looked
less scornful and less confident. ' Stop ! ' he
said. ' Are you willing to submit to that
arbitrament ? '

I answered ' Yes ; ' and in obedience to his
gesture, resumed my seat.

He wrote a note, rang the bell, and despatched
a clerk with the missive, giving him
instructions to wait for an answer, and to return
if possible with the man.

You have sent for a police officer ? ' I asked
him.

I have sent,' he answered, ' for a private
detective.'

I waited for more than an hour. A clock
upon the mantel-piece had that irritating importunity
in its voice which belongs to all
timepiece when one is silent and waiting.
Mr. Bilton sorted papers, wrote letters, made
notes on the edges of documents. I watched
him stonily, and listened to the ticking of the
clock. Sometimes everything was so quiet
that I could hear the scratching of a clerk's
quill in the next room, or the rustle of a
foolscap sheet as it was turned. At length
the private detective came — a little man dressed
in black, and looking something like an undertaker.
He bowed to us both, and took his
seat with his hat suspended by the rim between
his knees.

1 This young gentleman,' said Mr. Bilton,
pointing the feather of a quill towards me, ' is
the nephew of Mr. Hartley the millionaire.' —

The detective nodded. — ' His uncle, Mr.
Hartley, has received this cheque from his
bankers, and proclaims the signature a forgery.
It is made payable, you see, to John Campbell,
Esq. This' — indicating me again — 'is John
Campbell, Esq. The cheque, observe, is
indorsed " John Campbell," and it has been
cashed at the bank. Mr. Hartley believes
that Mr. Campbell has forged his signature.
Mr. Campbell protests that some other person
has forged both Mr. Hartley's signature and
his. Now, you will undertake to keep this
gentleman in sight ; but if he can give you any
clue, you must bring it to me, and we will act
upon it. You will make what you can of the
case, for Mr. Campbell or against him. In
either result, you will look to me for payment.
You had better take the cheque ; and you can
report to me as soon as you have formed your
opinion.'

I am, then,' I said, rising, ■ to consider
myself under surveillance ? '

Until,' he answered, 'your innocence is
established, or you are arrested upon this
charge.'

You will act upon your own authority, if
I am arrested ? ' I asked.

I shall be able to justify my proceedings in
the proper quarter, I have no doubt.' He said
no more ; and I left him there. The detective
came with me down-stairs and walked beside
me in the street. The cabman I had left
waiting outside hailed me, and I asked the
detective to accompany me home. The journey
was made in absolute silence ; and when
my rooms were reached, and the laundress,
who was still pottering helplessly about them,
had been dismissed, I sat down to an examination
of the case, with all the detective's
experience to help me.

1 Do you know anything about handwritings ?'
I asked him. Well, he made answer, that
depended. Did he think he could detect a
forgery — a clever forgery — if he had the real
handwriting and the false before him ? Yes,
he said : he'd bet all he was worth, he could.
I laid before him several examples of my own
signature, and asked . him to compare them
with the endorsement of the cheque. He did
so, and ended by pronouncing them to be
identical. I looked at them for myself, and
could perceive no difference. I had letters of
my uncle's, and produced them. We laid the
signatures of those letters side by side with the

forgery of my uncle's name ; and though the
imitation was painstaking and wonderfully
accurate, we both thought we could detect a
difference between the real and the false.

1 I'm not a professional expert,' said the
detective, who was unpleasantly familiar and
free in manner : ' but I've studied this business,
and I'll lay my life I'm right. That's a forgery,'
pointing to the signature ; ' and that ' —
turning the cheque over to look again at the
endorsement — ' is the real handwriting.'

This was depressing ; and I seemed so
hedged round by the perplexity and misery of
the whole business, that I knew not what to door
say. I begged him at last to take a professional
expert's opinion ; and he promised
that he would do so ; though I could see only
too clearly that he was persuaded of my guilt,
and believed that I was playing a stubborn
game in pretence of ignorance.

Perhaps,' he said, ' you won't mind obliging
me by coming to see a man I know, at once ? '

I told him I should be glad to go with him
to do anything. But I discovered later on
that his only purpose was not to lose sight of
me ; for after having taken me to a house, which
I afterwards discovered to be his own, and

having kept me waiting there in an office hung
round with photographs of people, he feigned
to make further inquiries, and to discover that
there was no chance of seeing the expert that
day. He had knocked at his own door when
we arrived at it, and had inquired for this
fictitious expert so innocently and naturally,
and the man who answered the door had fallen
into his plot so smoothly, that I had no suspicion
until afterwards of the trick he had
played me ; though I was not long in discovering
the fact that a very seedy man, who nourished
a perennial sore throat in four or five
yards of dirty red comforter, had been set to
watch me.

I was sitting miserably in my chambers two
or three days later, when Gregory came in,
and was surprised to see me looking so ill and
dejected. I had much ado not to burst out
in tears whilst I told the story ; but I succeeded
in telling it ; and he, assuring me of his unchanged
and unchangeable faith in me, cheered
me a good deal. After some declamation
against the wretchedness of this suspicion,
which his sympathy encouraged me to make,
I flagged again, until aesop startled me by
slapping the table with his hand. I looked up,

and he said cheerfully, ' Young un, attend tome.'
— I signified attention ; and he continued,
business-like, ' You tell me you can't find
any difference between this forged signature
and your own ? '

1 None,' I said.

And your uncle and his lawyer, who are
both observant men, can't find any ? ' — I shook
my head. — ' And the detective can't find any ? '
I shook my head again. — ' Suppose then
that there isn't any ? Suppose you have been
trapped into writing your name upon that
cheque ? Is there a chance of that ? '

No ; I saw none. But at his command, I
went with him in search of the detective, whom
we found at home in the room hung with photographs,
where he was smoking a cigarette
with his feet upon the table. He touched
with his forefinger the peaked cap he wore,
and his whole demeanour was marked by an
appearance of a sense that he was master of
the situation. This became so apparent when
Gregory had asked and the detective had answered
some half-dozen questions, that aesop
came down upon him with grave satire.

You are requested definitely to understand,
Mr. Latazzi,' said aesop, 'that you are wanted

to inquire into this case. Your preconceived
opinion as to its merits is not the thing paid
for, or desired. We wish you to bend your
intellect to the facts. When you have done
that, you can form as many theories as you
like.' '

\ Very good,' said the detective, who was a
man of imperturbable phlegm. ' Come to the
facts.'

The first fact is that you have the cheque
in your possession. Oblige me by allowing
me to look at it,'

Mr. Latazzi took his feet from the table,
and strolled to a safe, which he unlocked and
flung open with a flourish. He produced the
cheque, and resumed his old position and his
cigarette, after rocking the safe. Gregory
having regarded the document closely, asked
the detective how many handwritings there
were upon it. Mr. Latazzi answered — two.
How did he divide them ? aesop demanded.

'The "John Campbell, Esq," the "two
hundred pounds," the date and the figures, are
written by one hand ; and the signature and
the indorsement by another.'

You are sure that the signature and the indorsement
are by one hand ? '

Mr Campbell wrote them both the detective
answered quietly. I could not say
that the manner of this speech was insolent,
but it was not unnatural that I was angered
by it.

Gregory waved me back when I would have
advanced. ' Does your uncle commonly write
his cheques on plain paper, Jack ? '

I never saw a cheque of his so written,' I
responded.

1 Your uncle is a business man, isn't he ?
For instance, he looks over his bank-book
pretty regularly, and checks his cash account,
and all that sort of thing, and looks over the
paid cheques returned to him by his bankers.'

'He is the most methodical man I ever
knew.'

1 He was dead certain to find this forgery
out, I suppose ? '

1 I cannot think,' I answered, ' that there
could have been a possibility of its escaping
him.'

■ How much has he spent on you during the
last year ? '

I gave twelve hundred pounds as an approximate
estimate.

You believe, Mr. Latazzi,' said aesop, ' that

my friend would choose a common scrap of
paper like this on which to forge a cheque,
when he knew that Mr. Hartley never used
a plain cheque ? You believe further that one
who could forge as cleverly as this ' — laying
his finger on the imitation of my uncle's
massive signature — ' would be so lazy and so
blind as not to take the trouble to forge another
name at the back of it, but would stick
his own there, and run his neck into a noose
by doing it ? Are those your theories ? '

If you come to me to ask my help and
advice,' said the detective, ' it might be as well,
sir, to come to me civilly. If you know more
than I do about the matter, you can manage it
yourself.'

Then we will manage it ourselves,' said
Gregory ; and we left the office, Mr. Latazzi
with great calm puffing at his cigarette behind
us to the door. ' Who are the experts in
handwriting, Jack ? British or foreign, metropolitan
or provincial; let us have the beggars
up to judgment. That pig-headed villain is
no detective. No man who theories has a
right to call himself a detective. Come along
Jack, to the great house of English police
intelligence opposite Whitehall. Let us con-suit

the great Defective Force, miscalled detective.
We'll ask one question : Who are the
experts ? and then we'll ask another : Where
do they live ? And then, sir, we will have
done with the Defective Force for the time
being. — Detective ! ' said aesop, savagely.
1 That fellow call himself a detective ! The
man's ugly vanity has stared him in the face
all his life, huge as a pyramid, and he hasn't
detected that! Talking thus, half in real heat
of anger, and half, as I surmised, for my
awaking, he strode on towards the nearest
cab-stand. We spent the greater part of that
day in driving about London in search of the
three men who at that time were known to
fame and the police authorities as experts in
handwriting. With a great deal of difficulty
we got them to undertake to meet together at
Mr. Bilton's office on the following day ; and
late in the evening we oui selves drove thither
just in time to find the senior partner leaving.
I had scarce told aesop who the lawyer was,
when my friend went impetuously at him, and
explained with great ardour but close-cut
brevity the course he had taken, and begged
to be allowed to summon Mr. Latazzi to produce
the cheque. Mr. Bilton, who had taken

us into the clerk's office to hear Gregory's
statement, promised to send for the detective ;
let us out again, and bade us a grave goodnight.

Gregory dined with me, and my spirits
rose almost to fever-heat ; but at his departure
the flame of hope flickered, and almost went
out. It rose again next morning when he
came ; and I went down to Holborn with
him in a pitiable flutter of nervous excitement,
bearing with me a bundle of manuscripts
of my own, and several letters of
my uncle's. The experts met ; and aesop
and I awaited their decision in the parlour
of an hotel near at hand. After the
expiration of a dreary time — the three
hours seemed like three weeks to me —
the clerk who had borne Mr. Bilton's letter
came to summon us ; and I remember distinctly
how I thought that he must hear
the pulses beating riotously in my head ashe
walked behind us.

1 Your friend has done something for you,
Mr. Campbell,' said the lawyer. ' Two of
the experts are of opinion that the forgery
of Mr. Hartley's signature is not yours.'

'Will you write to that effect to Mr. Hartley
? ' I asked in great agitation.

1 One of the experts gives his word against
you,' said Mr. Bilton, who was simply busi-
ness-like, and had no more emotion in the
matter than if it had been the most trivial
in the world. ' But we have set Latazzi
upon a new track. If you are innocent, you
will be cleared.'

But,' I urged, ' it is cruel alike to my
uncle and myself to withhold the result of this
examination from him. The balance of evidence
is on my side, and I have a right to
ask that he should know it.'

'Your uncle, Mr. Campbell,' returned the
lawyer, 'would not resign his opinion for all
the experts in the world. We must have
more than this to move him. And he is a
most valued friend of mine, sir, and I will
not agitate him by a hope which even yet
might prove fallacious. I do not say it will,
I say it might. Do you know how much
we know about this matter ? We know that
the paper upon which the cheque was written
came from your chambers ; and we have even
been so fortunate as to secure, through Mr.
Gregory, its fellow half-sheet from your wastepaper
basket. We know through the same
source that the indorsement is written in the

VOL. III. 1

ink you habitually use, as it is certainly
your signature, and that the writing on the
other side is in a different fluid. We shall
make inquiries at the bank ; and we shall
discover who presented the cheque, and where
he went. In short, sir, we know much already
which tends to clear you ; and I believe we
shall shortly know something which will criminate
somebody else. But you cannot yet be
regarded as free from suspicion, and I should
recommend patience.'

I went back to my chambers in very low
spirits, and there endeavoured to exercise
patience to such effect that in three days I
lay in a raging fever.

HISTORY.

Lived like an anchorite, and worked like an apostle.

changes fell upon Bolter's Rents, and it
^"^ was known to the people of that dismal
region that the proprietary of the court had
changed hands. There are grades of respectability.
There were people even in Bolter's
Rents who formed a sort of local gentry by
contrast with their surroundings. To these,
and to all with a remnant of decency, the
alterations instituted by the new proprietor
were matter for almost unmixed congratulation.
But there lurked in that foul den, known to
the police, scores of old criminals and young
ones, burglars, pickpockets, shop-lifters, utterers
of base coin — a terrible tribe. These marauders
were all of too low a class in their own
profession to be able to hold their own in it,

and some of their time was spent in the performance
of casual honest work. Amongst
the more prosperous scoundrels who lived in
better lodgings, they were known contemptuously
as ' ale-and-porterers,' a term used by
the British thief to signify people who are
occasionally forced by pressure of poverty into
honesty's ways. The true professional criminal
despises that sort of person, just as an
honest mechanic does, and for the same reason
namely, that the person lives in a constant
base desertion of principle. The only difference
is — though it may be confessed to be
considerable — that the mechanic's principle is
industry, and the scoundrel's laziness. Now
and again, an aristocrat amongst the 'smashers'
or the ' cracksmen ' hid himself in Bolter's
Rents, and was unearthed by the vigilance of
the police ; but the predatory creatures who
regularly dwelt there were amongst the meanest
even of their own mean kind. To them
the proceedings of the new proprietor did not
seem an unmixed good. A sort of informal
official, whom the police were always ready to
support, dwelt in the place after its first purification
by whitewash ; and all who lived disorderly,
were by him despatched to seek a

residence elsewhere. The leaning walls were
straightened by huge hulks of timber — the
broken floors and windows and roofs were all
repaired, and every room was scoured at settled
times. For this, some dozen charwomen who
lived in the court and had hitherto starved were
engaged, and by it they made a plentiful living.
Some of the indwellers fiercely resented the
advent of soap and water and whitewash ;
and one hunchback hermit of a crossing-sweeper,
who had been born forty years before
in the room he lived in, and had never seen
it scoured in all his life, repelled the intruding
charwoman with his besom, and threatened to
be the death of anybody who laid a scrubbing-brush
upon the time-consecrated filth of his
apartment. Him the informal official grimly
'chucked out' until such time as the ancient
solitary reign of dirty chaos should be molested.
The hunchback bore it better afterwards,
though he took an Englishman's privilege,
and grumbled, declaring that since
these new ways came in, Bolter's Rents was
no place for a decent man to live in. The
new proprietor, who was a gentleman with
one arm, interviewed this original, and was so
charmed with him, that he gave him half-a-crown,

though he refused to adopt his principles
with regard to sanitation.

The new proprietor indeed was in and out
of the place all day at first ; and was so excessively
liberal with his money, that Bolter's
Rents rose at him almost to an infant, and
begged of him and lied to him with such
persistent fluency that he avoided the place
afterwards, until the official he had appointed
had grubbed out the most poisonous of the
human weeds, and little but honest poverty
dwelt within the walls of those tumble-down
old buildings. Hastings was very tender at
first about throwing the thieves adrift. ' Poor
beggars ! ' he said, talking the matter over with
the doctor. ' What can they do but prey upon
society ? If I take your advice, a score of
them will be homeless tomorrow. I do not
care to be followed by the curses even of such
a little drab of a shop-lifter as that we saw this
morning. Why not let them stay ? '

As I am an honest man,' proclaimed the
doctor, ' you sicken me. Whoso gives knowing
shelter to a criminal, gives countenance to
crime, and stands responsible for it in the sight
of God and man. If there were no thieves'
shelters, there would be no thieves.'

A good round sentence, doctor said Hastings,
laughing ; ' but a shaky aphorism.'

When a man speaks earnestly,' said the
doctor, ' he speaks broadly. And the Flippancies
— of whom there are too many — take
truths broadly stated, put a strained meaning
on them, and lightly set them down as lies.'

1 I am none of your Flippancies,' responded
Hastings. ' I am a Social Reformer, and the
proprietor of Bolter's Rents — wherefore let
the wise and gentle pity me. Doctor, I pity
a scoundrel more than an honest man who is
in trouble.'

1 Do you ? ' said the doctor.

I do. Because he is a scoundrel. Think,
doctor, what a terrible thing it is to be a
scoundrel by nature. How would you like to
be a shop-lifter ? I tell you, sir, the doom of
these base thieves is tragic'

1 You are right,' said the doctor. ' Let us
go out and form a Thieves' Phalanstery, where
pickpockets shall eat turtle and drink Burgundy,
and all shall go attired in purple and
fine linen, and every man shall have full right
to rob his neighbour.'

1 When a man speaks earnestly, doctor,'
Hastings answered, with a quiet twinkle in his

eyes, ' he speaks broadly. And the Flippancies
— of whom there are too many — take
truths broadly stated, and — '

1 Go to Bath ! ' cried the doctor, laughing.

1 No said Hastings, — ' to extremes.' — The
doctor laughed again ; and Hastings added,
You are right ; but I have some right on my
side too. It is a pitiful business ; and I am
very sorry for the poor wretches, and could
almost find it in my heart to bribe them
into honesty, rather than try to whip them
there.'

1 Bribes make no man true ! ' said the doctor.

Nor stripes either,' added Hastings.

1 They teach at least that first stern and
necessary lesson, Hastings, that the way of
transgressors is hard.'

• Ay ! ' said Hastings, with more feeling than
he commonly displayed ; ' their way is hard.
Poor transgressors ! '

These talks did good to each of them, and
advanced the scheme they both had at heart ;
and though the doctor often laughed at the
owner of Bolter's Rents, and often with him,
the wildest theories the young gentleman
broached had always a kernel of good sense
and feeling. And the doctor in his turn,

whilst Hastings softened his sterner creed
somewhat, bullied the younger man out of
most of his extravagances ; until between them,
with the doctor's wife to lend a helping
hand, Bolter's Rents was transformed to an
abode of honest and cleanly poverty.

And Hastings had no more effective coadjutor
in all this than his old friend Frank
Fairholt, whom he thought he had buried
years ago in the Crimea. If one good deed,
as Portia sweetly said, shines in this naughty
world, as wide as the light which burned at
home to welcome her, Frank's blameless life
shone like a beacon in the Cimmerian darkness
of Bolter's Rents. Had one blackguard
dared to insult the quiet, shrinking, broken,
ever-helpful man, another blackguard would
have been there to knock his fellow-scoundrel
down. Though amongst them, not of them,
he helped the poverty-stricken, nursed the
sick, did a thousand menial gentle offices,
was tireless for good, lived like an anchorite,
and worked like an apostle. Deep in the
ruffian hearts of this abominable crew, his
tender and persistent gentleness was cherished
in the one honest spot which generations of
vice had bequeathed to them. His pitiful

charity fell, like heaven's light and rain, upon
the just and the unjust. He lost two days'
work at one time in nursing a desperado
through an attack of delirium tremens ; and
it is a fact that the man, who was the terror
of the court, got somehow to love his benefactor
— as a bulldog loves his master, with
a regard which shows itself chiefly by tearing
the master's enemies.

It chanced one night that the statuesque
policeman whom we saw with Hastings a
little while ago, stood posturing with lumpish
grace at the entrance to Bolter's Rents, gazing
with a placid grandeur of demeanour down
Oxford Street. A woman stood a little way
within the entrance with her hands beneath
a tattered apron. Frank came up in the
twilight, and the policeman and the woman
each had to make way for him. The officer
recognised him, and in his curiosity at finding
him so far afield from his labours, his
dignity relaxed, and he said, ' Hilloo, my good
coming ! ' in a lordly condescending tone, and
beckoned the woman with a Berlin-gloved
forefinger. ' Do you know the party which
just went down ? ' the Peeler queried when
the woman came to him.

c Yes, sir,' said the woman. ' Leastways, he
lives here, as I believe ; but I don't know no
harm agen him.'

1 Has he lived here long ? ' the Peeler
asked.

I've only been here three 'ears myself,
sir, the woman answered humbly ; ' but he
was here when I come.'

Egstrornary ! ' said the officer in reverie.
He works more than three mile off at the
Docks. They calls him " The Duke" and
Your Grace' down there.'

I'm told he's quite the gentleman, sir,'
the woman responded, tremulously grateful
for the official's urbanity.

They say,' said the policeman, who found
his beat dull, and was glad to unbend — asa
prince, suffering from ennui, might care for
once in a way to converse with a ploughman
' they say as he was with 'alf-a-millying
o' money at one time, an' lost it on the
Derby. What's the name he goes by ? '

Jones, I believe, sir, said the woman respectfully.


Ah ! ' said the official, scraping his chin
with his thumb and finger — an act in which
the stipendiary magistrate of his own court

looked unusually magisterial — ' same party, I
make no doubt. Good-nights The officer
swung with majestic even tread along the
pavement ; and the woman looked after him
admiringly, recalling the time when her Joe
was just such a fine figure of a man.

And in this wise the fact and the fable about
Frank had followed him to Bolter's Rents. All
minds, cultivated or vulgar, have a liking for
romance ; and Frank became after this an embodiment
of mystery to many of the people
who surrounded him ; and some of the women
were persuaded that the title by which he was
known had once of right belonged to him.
Altogether, he was the one remarkable figure
in the place ; and Hastings heard much of
him, and was interested in him. Frank in
his turn heard of the new proprietor with a
terror and a longing which struggled against
each other. Had he lived beyond the extremest
span of human years, it is not probable
that his horror of his own crime would have
perceptibly fallen from that level flood of
shame and loathing which had washed his
heart ever since his return to London. The
storm whose violence had driven those terrible
waters over him had died away, and they

were calm now ; but he was drowned in a
living death below them. Yet since he had
been so long undiscovered, and had grown so
changed, his fears had learnt to sleep ; until
on the night when he was nursing his old
enemy, the friend who had thrown him into
his enemy's hands appeared beside him. Then
they started up, wide - eyed and quivering.
They grew so morbid, that he was afraid
even to run away, lest the act should awake
suspicion. The danger as it seemed to grow
nearer, fascinated him, as some snakes fascinate
birds, until it seemed almost to drag him
into Hastings' way. He had wearied Mrs.
Brand's determined efforts to approach him ;
for he had never, since the only occasion on
which I have shown them together, so much
as answered her a word, though she had
approached him often. A score of people
whom he had known knew Dr. Brand, and
his unreasoning fears kept him at this distance
from her, sorely against his will. His
obstinate silence puzzled her the more, that
she heard continually of his goodness.

He would only answer me in German,'
Hastings said, when, with the doctor's wife, he
stumbled upon this subject of common interest.

In German?' asked Mrs. Brand. 'He
speaks English beautifully. I don't mean that
he speaks English beautifully as a foreigner
might, but that he speaks it like an English
gentleman. The people call him " The
Duke," and are full of stories of his generosity
and tenderness. Some of the women have
cried to me in talking about him and his
kindness.'

I confess to a share of curiosity in this
mystery,' said the doctor from his arm-chair,
for it was evening, and his day's work was
over. ' I don't place much reliance on that
sort of legend ; but the people in the Rents
are all ready to swear that he had a great
fortune and lost it by gambling. If the man
is a gentleman, I can understand his reticence.
If I were brought down to such a position, I
should not be inclined to accept the patronage
of any lady or gentleman, however kindly
disposed it might be.'

'Nor I either,' said Hastings. ' But if we
could get him into co-operation with us, he
might help us, and might do himself a great
deal of service too. You must allow me to try
him, Mrs. Brand.'

Pray do,' cried the little lady. ' But be

careful not to go too far. He has spoken tome
once only, and then he told me, in a
weary sort of way, which I can't at all describe
or imitate, that he had but one thing-left
in the world, and that was his solitude,
and that if I persisted in speaking to him, he
should be driven to leave the place.'

He hasn't left ? ' said the doctor briefly.

No said Mrs. Brand ; ' but he has never
spoken to me since.'

1 I must try him,' said Hastings ; and learning,
by inquiry at the Rents, when the object
of his search was generally to be found at
home, he sought him on the following Sunday
afternoon. The faithful Ali followed his
master up the winding stair ; but at a signal
from his hand, remained without the room.
Hastings rapped ; and the voice which cried
1 Come in,' made his foot pause at the
threshold. The voice awoke no memory,
though it might well have awakened many ; but
it brought a strange mood to Hastings — a mood
which most people have known at one time
or another. The time, the darkened stair,
the light within the room, the tawny face
beside him in the shadow, his errand there,
the voice — all seemed familiar to him. He

seemed to know what would meet him within,
and what would be said and done, as though
this were a re-acting of the doings of a former
life, and he remembered just this fragment of it.
He entered with this mood upon him.

There sat before him on a rough bench
near the window a man who looked past
middle age, and yet prematurely old ; by which
I mean that you would have said he looked
seventy, but could not be more than five-and-fifty.
His long hair, which curled inwards at
the ends, was silver white ; but the beard
which flowed from throat and cheek and chin
had still a few jet black hairs in it, and the
heavy moustache which drooped above his
lips was scarcely grey. The arched black eyebrows
marked the face in a singular way, and
the pathetic eyes held a most memorable sorrow.
All this Hastings had time to notice
as he stepped from the shadow into the light.
He could not fail to see the look of terror
which took the place of sadness in the man's
eyes as he advanced, nor could he fail to be
surprised at the sudden drooping of the head
and the silence, undisturbed except by his
laboured breathing, with which the man encountered
him.

1 Forgive me,' said Hastings, advancing a
little further, ' for intruding on you. I am
afraid I startled you.' He paused for an
answer, but none came. 'Won't you ask me
to sit down ? ' he said a minute later. The
lodger, with his chin still crushing his beard
against his breast, spoke not a word, but waved
his hand towards an unoccupied bench at the
far end of the room. Hastings drew the rough
seat towards the light, and for a time said
nothing, not well knowing what to say. He
felt that the silence which confronted him
was not sullen, and he was disposed to
be patient with the unreasonable fear which
made the man shrink away. ' I must ask you
not to think that I am intruding he said at
length, a little disconcerted by the other's
passivity. ' The fact is, I bought this place
some time ago, and ever since I have been
trying to make it decent. You have been
working at that task longer than I have, and
I want for one thing to thank you for it. You
have done good work here — manly work.
You've been very kind to these poor beggars,
and I am personally obliged to you.'

The lodger's irresponsive silence built a
wall about him. He did not move, and only

VOL. III. k

his breathing, which was agitated and uneven
showed that he was alive. Hastings sat discomfited,
regarding him keenly all the time,
and almost gave up his attack already. But
as he looked at the shrinking figure and the
bent head, a pang of sympathy and pity shot
through his heart, and he discerned a tragedy.
The vague tales which were afloat about the
man indicated a surprising folly ; but Hastings
was one who had a great deal of sympathy
with a certain sort of fool. So far as the stories
told of his strange tenant might be true, the
follies therein set down were so like the madness
of his own youth, that he could not be
pitiless with them ; and the man's charity to
the poor in his own poverty, and his unostentatious
and continual patient tending of the
sick, seemed to bespeak a very fine and lovable
nature. Under the pressure of this new
feeling, Hastings spoke again.

You have done much for the cause I have
at heart. Let me do something for you.' — A
motion of the listener's hand waved him back
from that theme in such a fashion as to bring
a blush to his face. — ' No,' he said, hurried into
saying more than he had meant to say in the
eagerness of his explanation ; ' I am not insulting

you by offering charity. I want a
quid pro quo. I want to offer you an engagement,
which will suit you better than your
work at the docks, and be more congenial to
you. I want you to act as my almoner
amongst the poor here, if you will. I want
you to distribute relief among them, and to
live with them, as you are doing now. I must
find somebody to do the work, and I shall get
nobody who knows the people and their wants
as you do. They know better than tell lies
to you, for you know all about them.'

Frank sat before him motionless and speechless.
' Does he know ? ' he thought ; ' and
will he not appear to know? Is this his way
of trying to lift me from wretchedness ? He
knew Tasker. He himself is changed, and
I knew him. Does he know me ? Has he
discovered all ?' Had he dared, how he could
have cast himself before his friend ! But
there is no space in material nature, though
fancy reach from limit to limit of the starry
hosts, which can do more than image the gulf
which seemed to him to stretch between them.

1 Every man,' said Hastings, resolving not
to be beaten by this silence, 'has his rights,
and one of yours is to order me out of your

place if you want me gone. So long as you
rent this room, it belongs of course to you,
and not to me. You want quiet ; you hate to
be intruded upon. Well, you shall have your
way. I'll tell you what you shall do, if you
like. You shall have a messenger to go between
you and Mrs. Brand, and none of us
will trouble you. I'll get some furniture sent
in here, and make you a little more comfortable
; and you shall just go about among the
people and see to them, and do what you can
for them. If any of them cannot possibly pay
their rent, your statement shall be a sufficient
acquittance of their liability ; and if any deserving
person is in want of food or medicine,
or fire or clothes, you shall get what is wanted
at my charges ; but you must be down like a
hammer on idleness and pretence. You shall
set all your expenses down ; and Mrs. Brand
will see that the money has been properly
expended. That will be only fair to you, of
course, and will be quite proper and businesslike
into the bargain. Now, what do you
say ? '

He said nothing. He listened to the tones
of his old friend ; and though the flippancy
which had marked them once had vanished

altogether, he knew that he could have sworn
to the voice with absolute certainty, and he
would not trust his own even with a word,
lest it should betray him. He was not sure
of the truth, but he was almost sure, and Hope
came hand in hand with belief to persuade him
that he was not recognised.

If you do not care to give me an answer
now,' Hastings went on with a gentle patience
which surprised his listener, ' you can send me
word when you like. Or I will call for your
decision this day week. That shall be the
arrangement. If you do not send to me before
Sunday next, I will come here for your answer.
Good afternoon

Still no answer came ; and with a repetition
of his farewell, Hastings left the garret ; and
the faithful AH came out of his dusky corner
and followed him down-stairs into the street,
and home. Frank was greatly shaken by the
interview. Whilst Hastings spoke, his own
struggling griefs and longings took him by the
throat so strongly, that the force by which he
held his peace and made no sign exhausted
him, and he sat trembling with hysteric tears
after his friend's departure. He thought of
the proposal Hastings had made, and his own

way seemed clear to him. Whatever declared
itself as duty, that must he do, and no other,
until it should be done and life should be
over. The way was open to him ; and before
the end of the week came he spoke to Penk-
ridge.

Go to the landlord, and tell him from me
that I will undertake the work he offers. Tell
him I shall have time enough to see to it all
when my work at the docks is over. Tell
him also that I only undertake it on this condition
— that I am left alone. If any attempt
is made to intrude upon my quiet, I will go
away.'

Penkridge, who had little enough good left
in him, had at least some sentiment of gratitude,
and Frank had done so much for him,
that he was his willing servant. He delivered
the message ; and Hastings sent back word
that his strange tenant's wishes should be
respected. There grew up in Bolters Rents
a power for good which worked amazingly.
The almoner of the rich man's bounty had a
heart and hand for it, and his charities were
done charitably. Many forlorn hearts heard
their first word of human comfort from Frank's
*lips, and the gladness he brought to others was

reflected back upon himself. And although
his burden was one which must needs be borne
until the restful breast of Mother Earth closed
over it and him, he grew slowly to a strength
which was equal to his day, and Peace dwelt
with him, mournful-eyed.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

The preacher poured forth an impetuous torrent of
self-accusation.

1 npO be well in chambers,' Thackeray writes
in that novel of his which has always
been my favourite, ' is melancholy and lonely
and selfish enough ; but to be ill in chambers
to pass nights of pain and watchfulness —
to long for the morning and the laundress —
to serve yourself your own medicine by your
own watch — to have no other companion for
long hours but your own sickening fancies
and fevered thoughts : no kind hand to give
you drink if you are thirsty, or to smooth
the hot pillow that crumples under you —
this indeed is a fate so dismal and tragic,
that we shall not enlarge upon its horrors,
and shall only heartily pity those bachelors

in the Temple who brave it every day.'
All this I suffered ; and I made myself
worse by the rebellion in which I raged
against my Uncle Ben's suspicion. I learned
afterwards that three days after my seizure,
Gregory, who had paid several visits to
my rooms, and had succeeded in making
no one hear his summons at the door, waylaid
the laundress in his anxiety about me ;
and finding the state I was in, rushed boldly
after Dr. Brand, and told him not only the
fact of my illness, but the reason of it. The
good doctor attended me, and sent a practised
nurse, who superseded the laundress ;
and having discovered her in a state of intoxication,
with a bottle of my brandy on
the table before her, took upon herself to
discharge that faithless functionary, who revenged
herself by pitying statements to the
other men whose chambers she attended, as
to the sorrow she felt at seeing such a nice
young gentleman take to drink so early. The
doctor's medicine and the nurse's tending
brought me round ; and for some days after
the fever had left me, I lay quite tranquil
and at rest ; but my after-recovery was made
slow by the misery of mind which I endured.

I came out of my sick-room aged and altered.
The Holborn lawyer had no comfort for me
when I called upon him, though his manner
was distinctly sympathetic and gentle. He
offered to pay me at any time the first portion
of the allowance my uncle had proposed
to make me ; but I refused it sullenly, and
told him that until Mr. Hartley had withdrawn
his accusation, I would hold no dealings
with him, and would never more accepta
farthing at his hands.

1 How do you propose to live ? ' Mr. Bilton
asked me. ' You have no profession as yet

I do not know,' I answered, with a bitter
and resentful sense of the injustice which had
been done me. ' No man with a pair of
hands need starve.' He shook his head at
that with a pitying smile, which, in the soreness
of my heart, I received almost as if it
had been a blow.

When you change your mind he answered,
' you can come to me.'

1 My mind will not change on that matter,'
I responded. ' Let me know if you learn anything
from the police.'

He promised me that ; and I left him, and
went back to my rooms, to survey the prospect

which spread itself before me. It looked
very barren ; and I was groaning in spirit
over it, and was lashing myself into a great
state of rage against Uncle Ben, as the author
of my misery, when Gregory came in.

1 Jack,' he said, with a friendly hand upon
my shoulder, ' what do you propose to do ? '

I don't know,' I answered fretfully. ' I
think I shall sell off the things, send the proceeds
to Bilton, for my uncle, and enlist.' —
He kept his hand upon my shoulder whilst
I spoke, and gave me a little pull at the last
word, which indicated a decided negative. —
What else can I do ? ' I asked him gloomily.

'It is quite clear,' said Gregory, ' that you
can't receive any more money from your
uncle until this cloud between you disappears.'


I will never take another penny from him,'
I cried hotly. ' And if any chance present
itself, I will pay back every penny he has
spent upon me, though I have to pay it to
his grandchildren.'

1 You can't do that on a shilling a day, you
duffer,' said Gregory, with his hand still upon
my shoulder. ' Do you know what I do fora
living ? '

I didn't know I answered, ' that you did
anything. I thought your father made you
an allowance.'

My father's money,' he said gravely, 'has
been sunk in mines, and swallowed in the
Gulf of Mexico, and strewn broadcast over
the tracts of Patagonia, and invested in the
great vineyard speculation in Smith's Sound,
and dissipated generally on hopeful experiments
which bade fair to yield a rich profit
to the promoters. I suppose the promoters
have profited by them ; but his children have
been keeping him this past two years, and he
hasn't one financial feather left to fly with,
I don't blame him,' said Gregory, making a
curious grimace. ' He meant well. He never
cared for money, or understood it ; but he
thought it would be nice to leave us all millionaires,
and in the attempt to do it he ruined
himself. That's all. Now, how do you
think I live ? '

1 How do you live ? '

1 By teaching my grandmother the art and
mystery of egg-sucking,' he answered. ' I
am a public instructor. I have this morning
completed an article on " Sugar " for the new
Encyclopaedia. I did one on " Soap " last

week. I am the author of that instructive
volume The World's Workshops. I write
for reviews, magazines, newspapers. A farce
of mine will be played next week at the Olympic.
You must come and see it. I am writing
a novel for a firm in Manchester, who
will publish it simultaneously in thirteen
provincial weekly journals. " The pen is
mightier than the sword," as the Dandy of
Literature most truly saith. You can only
earn a bob a day with the sabre. I make
six hundred a year with the quill, and hope to
make more in time. All is fish that comes
to my net. I shall be in Parliament next
session — not as a member, but as a salaried
censor of the House, a leader-writer to a
daily journal. I have been at this work now
for four years, and I am doing well at it.
Now this brings me to my question again.
You must earn a living somehow, and you
must do it like a gentleman. Why not try
my plan ? '

I flushed at the suggestion. Of all the
fairy palaces I had built in fancy for myself
to live in — and they had been many in my
hopeful days — none had seemed so well
worth living for as that in which Hope enshrined

certain literary works of mine, as yet
unwritten.

But who would pay for any work that I
could do ? ' I asked. ' I am untried. I — I —
think — '

1 Oh, yes,' cried Gregory, ' you think ! I
know you think. Put your thoughts on paper.
Look here, Jack, I can give you a chance.
This is a secret, mind you, and it must be
kept I nodded ' Of course ; ' and he went
on : ' Lord Chesterwood is aiming at a place
in the ministry, and he is establishing a daily
journal. Stone will be editor. He leaves the
Daily Mail on purpose to rule over us. I
am parliamentary leader-writer. You shall be
Our Special Commissioner," if you will, and
you shall hit on a theme at once and write
a series of articles. Let me give you a hint.
Suppose you take the London Slums, which
have been " done " again and again, and will
be "done" again and again, so long as they
and newspaper writers live side by side.
Attempt no fine writing. Be as accurate, as
uncompromising as a photograph. Make
your sentences short and curt, and let each
sentence petrify a fact. Keep your eyes
open, and set down everything you see.

Don't be afraid of being commonplace or
vulgar, but be rigidly and strictly true. Use
no too-powerful adjectives. There is nothing
simpler than the style I mean, and nothing
that takes better with the public, which
is made up of matter-of-fact people for the
most part, and doesn't care for high-saluting'. '

I asked with some misgiving if Gregory had
influence enough to secure this work for me.

Yes,' he answered ; ' if you only do these
first things decently. Set about them at once.
We shall be ready to begin in a month, and
you must start with us. I have named you
to Stone already — promising, brilliant young
fellow, did well at college, nephew of Hartley,
the great millionaire, anxious to join literary
guild, win his spurs, that sort of thing.'

Why did you speak of my uncle ? ' I asked
gloomily.

1 He is your uncle, isn't he ?' said Gregory.
■ Very well ; I said he was

He must know,' I said, ' that my uncle
and I are parted, and that I have no hopes
from him. I will not sail under false colours.'

1 You Quixotic young idiot,' said Gregory,
with rough amity ; ' don't talk Rot. What's
Hecuba to him — meaning your estimable uncle

or he to Hecuba ? You set to work on
your articles. Think of a title, crisp, alliterative
if possible, and accurately descriptive.
Let me see the first, and I'll tell you if it'll
do. You'll find me a cruel critic ; so take
care.'

I had at that time thirty pounds in hand,
and half of that had to go in payment of a
quarter's rental for my chambers ; but I looked
forward with new hope now, and under aesop's
directions, I went to work at once, to make
this small sum a little larger. The following
night saw me in Whitechapel, in company with
an inspector and a sergeant of police ; and
in a week I was fully acquainted with the
locale of the slums, and knew something of
their characteristics. Every night when I
came home, I wrote the story of the evening's
adventures in complete detail ; and every
morning after, I trimmed and polished with
zealous care. Then I gave a week to the
complete rewriting of the series, and began
to regard it as a masterpiece of literary effort.
My note to Gregory, in which I announced
that they were ready for inspection, was written
modestly enough ; but I felt within myself
that the articles would stagger him more thana

little. When he came to read them, I had
arrived at the belief that they were filled with
perhaps the vilest trash which had ever been
put upon paper ; and when he took them away
with the simple statement that he thought they
would do, I felt immensely relieved. By-and-by
there came to me by post a bundle of
damp strips of paper in which the articles
appeared in type*; and though I knew them
by heart already, I read them through and
through with an ever-increasing pride and joy,
and resolved that they would take the town
by storm. At last the paper appeared ; and
on the placard of contents I with my own
eyes beheld in the public streets the printed
title of my series. The Strand waltzed with
me. I paid a penny for a copy of the new
journal, and wondered if the boy who served
me knew that there was an article of mine in
it, and what he would think if he did know
it. I opened and folded back the paper, and
read the article anew as I walked to my chambers.
If all the hurrying crowds that went
between Charing Cross and Clements Danes
had formed in rows to see me pass, and had
cheered me as if I had been a royal procession
on a gala-day, I could not have felt

VOL. III. L

prouder. Every placard on the walls from
which the words my pen had written looked
upon me, was a tribute to me ; and when at
last a long file of sandwiches came along
the street, each bearing at back and front an
invitation to the general public to purchase
the new journal and to read my articles, specially
mentioned in large type, I was almost
beside myself, and was glad to walk into the
quiet of the inn, lest my emotion should be
observed. The upshot of the business was
that I received a cheque for the series, and
that I was engaged at a settled weekly salary
as a descriptive writer on the new daily journal.
The salary I received opened no visions
of El Dorado to my gaze ; but it was enough
to live on quietly. I dropped out of my
place in the hospital ; and nobody there, except
Dr. Brand, knew why. But the crowd
of friends who had sought the society of the
acknowledged nephew of the great millionaire,
dropped off when the great millionaire's supply
had ceased to gild me ; and I knew on
whose help and friendship I could rely.

In all the devious ways in which my life
has been guided, I can but recognise a Master
Hand. I have been moved inexorably here

and there, against my will, apart from my
will. The plan of my life has no more been
mine than the words written by my pen this
moment are dictated by it. And now in the
halting-place of life at which I tell this story,
I can see the plan which my unwilling movements
here and there have traced, and I know
that I was guided to a settled end.

My articles did not take the town by storm ;
but they attracted at least the notice of the
editor, who made up his mind from them that
the low life of London was my especial track.
He kept me on it. He found for me series
after series, until at last he set me upon the
great religious revival, which at that time was
agitating the lower classes of London ; and I
followed the course of this strange tide into
such curves and hollows of the human shore
as I could reach. On a certain night, when
the rain was falling dismally, I crossed the
river afoot, and walked towards a great wooden
tabernacle in which the chief services of the
revival were held. It was Sunday, and the
streets were blank. I remember the look of
the flickering gaslights in the dusk — the grimy
perspective of the mean houses as they
stretched out towards the dark in dreary

monotony of ugliness — the sullen pools of
rain in the breaches of the pavement — the
chill discomfort of the fretful wind. When I
reached the place, I was a little surprised to
find that the service had begun ; but a glance
at the bills upon the wooden walls showed me
that I had mistaken the announced time by
half-an-hour. It mattered little ; and I entered
finding even standing-room with difficulty. A
man upon the platform was frenzying himself
in prayer, and the vast crowd followed his
appeals with cries and groans. When the
prayer was over, another man gave out a
hymn, and eight thousand voices rolled it to
the roof. I have heard nothing like that rough
singing elsewhere. The hymn over, a third
man offered prayer; and then, with first a
rustle and a curious swaying in the crowd,
and then a dead silence, the congregation
settled itself to hear the sermon. A tall
figure, clad in black, came forward to the
platform's edge. The light was dim, and
there was a positive cloud of steam from
the damp clothes of the crowd ; but I seemed
to know the poise of that golden head,
and the slow imperious motion of the arm
by which the preacher commanded silence.

And with the first tones of his voice, I knew
him. It was Gascoigne. At first, I was so
amazed to see him there that I could scarcely
find a thought for what he said ; but remembering
that more than one clergyman of the
Church of England had given countenance
to this movement, though none, so far as I
knew, had spoken from the platform, I composed
myself to listen. If such a sermon ashe
preached had been written, few men of
taste could have approved it. Had it been
delivered in a church and to a cultivated
audience, its force would have been lost. But
Gascoigne, as I knew now, was an orator, and
somehow he knew his people, and he swayed
the crowd with the passion and the pathos
of his words. Every simile was trite. There
was nothing beyond the comprehension of the
meanest ; but everything was dramatic, and
instinct with a fire that set even my veins
tingling, though I was bent rather on criticism
than devotion. And his voice was wonderful
to hear. It rang over us like a clarion ;
it moved us like a wind ; it rose to height
beyond height of passionate denunciation. It
fell to dead silence for a moment, and then
its rare music took a softer mood ; and in a

while it passed to exultation, and rose again
majestic, and thrilled and awed and melted
the rough souls that heard it. But if I had
been amazed before, astonishment transcended
itself when the preacher poured forth an impetuous
torrent of self-accusation. He, vilest
among sinners, he, most faithless to the truth,
must yet preach, for the hand of God was
upon him. So he spoke ; and the strange
discourse continued with an appeal to the
Divine Mercy, which was echoed in sobs and
prayers about the place, and closed amidst
a storm of tears and cries. I made an effort
to struggle through the crowd towards the
platform ; but the stream was all against me
crawling slowly to the front door, and when
I had resigned my effort, and had made a
way round the building to the preacher's re-diningroom,
it was dark and empty. I went
home in a condition of uneasy wonder, with a
fear about Gascoigne in my thoughts which
no reasoning in his favour could altogether
stifle.

He had never been a good correspondent ;
and of late years, our letters, though full of
heartiness, were brief and rare on both sides.
That had never made a difference in my friendship

to him, or indicated any, as I believed, on
either side. I had written to him once concerning
my Uncle Ben's suspicion of me, and
had received a letter of sympathy and indignant
protest ; but my later letters setting forth my
new prospects had not been answered. I
began to ask myself if Gascoigne had thrown
away his prospects in the Church ; but I could
resolve on no belief, and was left — as I have
said already — in uneasy wonder. On the following
night I went again through the wintry
rain to the Tabernacle, and reaching the place
early, took advantage of my occupation as a
journalist, and secured a seat in front. 
did not appear ; but I learned on
inquiry that he was to preach on Wednesday.
I cannot tell by what instinct I did it ; but on
that night I waived my privilege, and took a
place some twenty rows down in the middle of
the central division. When the doors were
opened for the admission of the populace, men
and women stormed into the building headlong
and fought for places. The aisles were
choked, and the whole place was crammed
almost to suffocation. After a long pause, a
sudden swaying in the aisles, and a sudden
cessation of the coughing sounds which had

hitherto filled the building, sent my eyes to
the platform, and I saw, amid the half-dozen
square-set, white-tied, bullet-headed men who
took their places on it, the tall form and the
golden hair of my friend. From where I sat
I could see him clearly. Even his lips were
pallid, but his eyes were ablaze with the fire
of an intense excitement. After one keen
glance, which seemed to take in all the faces
in the crowd but mine, he bent his head, and
through all the preliminary service his eyes
were fixed upon the floor. Once or twice he
raised his hand to his forehead, and I could
see a little tremor in it, which told clearly how
high his nerves were strung. The service
over, he arose and gave out his text, and
waiting until the rustle of leaves with which
many of the congregation confirmed his citation
of the words, was ended, he began to
speak, at first slowly and with labour, each
syllable falling distinct and clear in spite of
the agitation which shook him. In a minute
that agitation had left him, and he was master
of himself, and thenceforth master of the
crowd. I watched him intently — my glance
was fastened to his face, but he never looked
at me until he seemed to approach the end

of his discourse. Clean in the middle of a
word, some mortal-seeming pain struck him
at the very instant when his eyes met mine.
His face grew on a sudden deathly in its
pallor, and a terrible hush struck over the
place. Both his hands went to his heart fora
moment, and then he cast out his arms and
threw his head backward like a swimmer in
heavy waters who gives up the struggle.
Gascoigne ! ' A cry tore the air. Was it
mine ? I scarcely knew whether it were mine
or no ; but it rang wildly in my ears as I
rushed — how I cannot tell — towards the platform.
He was down. He had measured his
length upon the floor, and mine were the first
arms about him. I could do nothing but hold
up his head and look round in an imploring
agony ; but there were steadier hands and
better nerves than mine about him. The
crowd began to storm the platform, and I
can dimly remember that a burly man with a
loud commanding voice ordered the people to
stand aloof and wait. As we bore the limp
figure to the retiring-room, one followed busy
at the cravat which bound Gascoigne's throat ;
and when it was loosened, the head rolled
back so lifelessly, that I turned sick v*'-' 1

horror at the thought that he was dead. He
was not dead ; but he had swooned, and he
had fallen heavily, and his head was injured.
When his pale eyelids raised themselves at
last, and his ghostly eyes met mine, he turned
with a faint moan and a shudder of the limbs,
and his eyes closed again. But after a time,
he sat up with my arms about him.

What was it, brother ? ' one of the busiest
of the helpers asked, as Gascoigne looked
round with troubled ghostly eyes and faint
quick breathing.

The heart he answered, feebly striking
his breast with his left hand, 'pierced — by
a pain — like a knife.'

Some one had bound a white handkerchief,
dipped first in water, about his head, and
there were a few drops of blood upon it.
His face was touched with blood also, and
the water-spots hung upon his lashes like
tears.

1 Will some one be good enough to call a
four-wheeler ? ' I asked, gathering a little courage.
' You will come home to my chambers ? '
I said to Gascoigne ; and he answered with
a tremor which alarmed me anew.

Yes, I will — come.' Then feebly wandering

round with those ghostly eyes among the
troubled and sympathetic faces which surrounded
him, he said brokenly, ' It is — the
hand — of God.'

'Ay, brother said the man who had just
spoken. ' Cling to that.'

Gascoigne could only moan in answer. His
eyes closed again ; and once more I felt a
swift shudder run through him as he lay in
my arms.

After what seemed to be a long pause, a
cab was brought ; and Gascoigne, supported
on each side, walked down the broken way
which ran by the wooden structure. The
builders had left it full of hollows and ends
of timber, and we went stumbling about in
the dark with the sick man between us until
we reached the road. There we helped 
into the vehicle ; and I, taking a seat
beside him, bade the cabman drive to Clement's
Inn. When we reached Waterloo
Bridge, and the cab paused whilst I paid
the tollman, Gascoigne laid his hand upon
my arm, and called me by name. I begged
him to rest ; and he lay back murmuring to
himself, but made no further effort to address
me. When we reached the gates, I gave

him my arm ; and the cabman helping him
on the other side, we went slowly to my
chambers, and set him in an arm-chair there.
When I dismissed the cabman, I gave 
a glass of brandy ; and the room being
chill and dismal-looking, I put a light to the
fire, which soon began to burn up cheerfully.
I drew off his boots, though he made what
seemed a fretful effort to oppose me, and
brought him slippers, and he sat sipping his
brandy-and-water and gazing at the fire.

Jack,' he said suddenly in an excited voice,
1 I will tell you everything. I will make a
clean breast of it ; and then what will come
may come.'

I could see a feverish light in his eyes,
and I noticed, too, that his complexion changed
rapidly from red to white and back again.

You shall tell me what you will tomorrow,
I answered ; ' but you shall tell me nothing
now. You are not fit to talk. You shall
sit here quietly, and I will fetch a doctor.'

No,' he said excitedly ; ' I need no doctor.
I can tell what ails - me without a doctor.
There is only one cure in the universe, and
I have it in my hands. Listen to me ! '

'You shall not hurt yourself by talking now,'

I said, beginning to fear that his mind was
affected by the excitement of the night and
the sudden illness which had attacked him.
If you will not have a doctor, I shall insist
upon your going to bed. Come now ; let me
help you.'

He submitted, but with a chafing restlessness.
He was so weak, and his mood so
variable, that when he was at last in bed,
and I laid my hand upon his shoulder in bidding
him good-night, he broke into hysterical
sobs, and I had hard work to calm him.
Thinking he would be more likely to sleep
if alone, I left him, and sat beside the fire
thinking and smoking. I looked in upon
him once or twice ; and at length finding
that his slumbers, at first feverish and broken,
had grown settled, I ventured to go to bed
myself. I lay awake for a long time, and
could hear his regular breathing from the
other room ; but at last sleep overpowered
me.

I awoke in the morning with a sense of
trouble, which resolved itself into a remembrance
of Gascoigne's sudden illness. Slipping
out of bed, I opened the door of his
room noiselessly and looked in. To my surprise,

I found that he had left his bed ; and
I became alarmed when a visit to the sitting-room
assured me that he had quitted my
chambers.

HISTORY.

I am glad you have a good heart; I hope you will
be happy?

TT came to pass after many years had
gone thus heavily by, that Frank felt
in his heart a great yearning for green fields ;
and it came into his mind that he was
not much longer for the world. And the
yearning drew him day by day, until he had
no power to hold himself against it ; so he
made ready for a journey, and set out in the
autumn-time, when the harvest was yellowing
towards the sickle, and the fruits were ripening
on the trees. He had been more than
sixteen years a prisoner in the town, and the
solemn sad delight of the fields and woods
filled him with awe, and with new longing
towards the grave. He went bowed with his
crime and his repentance and the weight of

the slow years ; and the rural people whom
he met looked with surprise at his sorrowful
face and his silver beard and his heavy long-shore
dress ; but somehow, for the dignity
that was upon him, forbore to mob him.

He went, as though an invisible chain had
drawn him, in the direction of his old home.
Even the most morbid cowardice may feel
secure after years of escape, and Frank's
dread had given way to a certainty that he
need fear no recognition. Yet when he came
to Hetherton, he trembled a little inwardly
as he walked the main street and saw Mr.
Crisp at the bank door talking with a friend.
The place was greatly altered ; but the bank
was unchanged ; and neither the corn-chandler
nor the baker had invested as yet in plate-glass
windows. But there were new shops
and new names ; and he had no more of
friendly greeting at heart for the old town
than it had of welcome for his coming. He
felt it alien and foreign, and the few familiar
things left reproached him.

But when once he had skirted the new and
raw-looking houses which made a cheerless
fringe to the town, and seemed an appanage
altogether ill suited to it, the fields gave his

tired soul a melancholy welcome. He had
climbed that great oak as a lad, and its mighty-arms
and luxuriant foliage were pictured on
the first canvas he had sold. Red tiles of a
little cottage, blue smoke from the hearth, the
deep green of foliage with a leaf sienna-coloured
here and there, and here and there a
flash of red and yellow like a flame — this
was the scene which had made his first successful
picture, and had been painted at this
season a score of years ago or more. He
could almost see under the hedges amid the
quaker grasses and the ferns the children who
were nutting there in his picture. There was
a gap in the distant belt of foliage before
the landscape faded to the hill and mingled
with the tints of the softly-clouded skies, and
he could remember the shape the departed
trees had taken. Half a mile farther was a
meadow in which his brother Will and he
had fought in boyhood ; and Frank remembered
that he had won, though he had the
wrong side in the quarrel. There was scarcely
a field that had not its memories for him ; and
here at last was the entrance to the lane in
which he had persuaded his brother to lend
him his name for the last time. That lane

VOL. III. m

led nowhere save to his father's house, and
he was full of fears as he set foot in it. But
the longing which drew him on was not to
be resisted, and he went with slow steps,
reluctant and yet eager. Did his father live ?
he asked himself, or was the old house given
over to his brother ? or had even his brother
vanished with the years ? The place might
be in the hands of strangers. Who could tellin
such a lapse of time what had happened ?
He heard a step in the rustling leaves beyond
a bend in the lane, and stood uncertain whether
to retreat or to advance. He longed for a
familiar form, and dreaded it ; but the footstep
coming nearer, brought only a groom insight
The man regarded him curiously but
spoke civilly enough.

Did you want anything up at the house ? '

1 No,' Frank answered, shaking his head ;
nothing.'

This road don't led nowhere else,' said the
groom.

I know,' said Frank.

You don't belong about here, do you ? '
asked the groom.

1 I knew the place forty years ago, Frank answered.
' Does the old family still live here ? '

Yes said the groom ; ' Squire Fairholt
lives here.'

Is the old Squire alive ?' Frank asked with
outward calm, but inward misgiving.

Ah ! ' said the groom, a little ungraciously ;
les alive, right enough.'

Frank, with a farewell motion of the head,
was passing on, when the groom added warningly,
' This is a private road, you know.'

I know,' Frank answered again. ' But I
want to see the old place. That is all.'

Well, there ain't no harm in that, as fur as
/ see,' the groom responded. ' Only, don't
let the Squire see you. If he does, he won't
leave you nose enough to swear by — that's all.
Good-morning.'

Good - morning,' Frank responded, and
passed on whilst the groom stood to look
after him. He reached the gates which
opened on the drive, and saw through a gap
in the hedge - behind which he ensconced himself,
the figure of an old man, who walked to
and fro on the gravel. He knew the old man
for his father, and his heart yearned over him
with indescribable love and sorrow. Whilst
he watched with tear-dimmed eyes, there came
another figure to join that upon the walk — a

portly gentleman of middle age, with square
shoulders and a brown beard ; and after he
had watched a while, the outcast knew him for
his brother. He could hear the murmur of
their talk, though only a disconnected word
reached him, with no meaning, now and then ;
and he turned away.

1 They have buried me years ago,' he thought,
1 with my disgraces.' He strove to be calm ;
but the regrets and loves and yearnings
which wrestled in his heart overcame him
before he had left the lane, and he sat down
on the bank and struggled to recover his composure.
Whilst he sat thus, fighting down
the passions which fought within, another step
came rustling through the dead leaves, and
looking up, he saw a face which almost brought
him to his knees. For it seemed to him that
his mother was before him ; but the wild
thought lasted only for a flash of time ; and
though he had not seen her since she left
infancy, his heart told him that this was his
sister. Her glance met his with pitying
inquiry.

Are you ill, or in pain ? ' she asked.

No he answered gently ; and arose and
stood before her without fear. She at least

could have no knowledge of him — no remembrance.


But you were crying she said simply.
1 Are you in trouble ? Do you want anything
at the Hall ? '

1 1 was born near here he answered, looking
upon her with a sad and tender pleasure ; ' and
I have not seen the place for many years.'

You have been abroad ? ' she asked, gazing
with frank and unfearing interest in his eyes.

No he answered. ' But I have been many,
many years away He looked older than his
father, and she took him to mean fifty or
sixty years.

And are your friends all gone ? '

I am alone he said, not mournfully, for
he thought rather of the sweet face and pitying
eyes than of his own condition.

1 That is very sad,' she said. Do you — '
She stopped short with a little blush ; and he,
seeing that she had drawn forth her purse,
waved his hand against it with a melancholy
smile.

No he said gently ; ' but I am glad that
you have a good heart ; I hope you will be
happy.' Then seeing that she scarcely knew
what response to make, and that she surveyed

him with a little trouble in her eyes, he bared
his head and bowed to her, and stood on one
side to let her pass. But she lingered still.
She was the Queen of all the country-people,
and her fearless candid nature shone out in her
lovely eyes and her beautiful imperious face,
which was stately and yet tender.

You do not speak like one of the country-people,'
she said, as he stood bareheaded
before her. A look of wonder and inquiry
crossed her face, a glance almost of recognition,
lost in perplexity. It alarmed him, and he
cast his eyes upon the ground and bent his
head.

I have spent my life in London,' he answered.
' Good-day, madam.' For a second
she lingered ; but there was something in the
figure and face before her which forbade the
cross-examination with which she would have
assailed any of the village people. Her answer
included an involuntary ' Sir,' at which
she crushed her lips a second later, fearing
that it might have sounded like a satire. It
was not until she had left him far behind that
she asked herself what it was in the stranger
which had made her answer him so. ' It was
no wonder,' she said then, ' for he took off that

old hat like a nobleman.' She thought of his
voice, and could almost rehear its words : ' I
am glad that you have a good heart ; I hope
you will be happy.' The approval of the
shabbily dressed, picturesque, strange old man,
though it seemed familiar, did not offend her.
He is like somebody,' she thought, pleasantly
interested ; ' or perhaps he is like a picture I
have seen. A head of Rembrandt's ? I am
sure he has been a gentleman. Only a gentleman
could speak as he did.' And she went
away, weaving romances about him — mere
cobwebs of invention to catch flies of fancy.
I should like to know all about him,' she said
to herself, little guessing how happy her
ignorance kept her.

Frank watched her tall and graceful figure
out of sight, losing it now and again in the
dimness of his eyes. Then he journeyed into
the main road, and walked until the well-remembered
walls of Hartley Hall appeared.
He did not pass by the great gates, but took
a by-road which led him to the village through
the corn-fields, where many a shock of corn
stood ready for the wain. Emerging upon the
high-road, he was aware of a great arch of
evergreens at which workmen were still busy.

A man on a scaffolding was nailing over the
foliage of the arch a linen scroll on which in
scarlet baize were marked the words, ' May
their Union be Happy.' There were flags
everywhere in the village street ; and there
were two other arches visible in the distance.
The village people were looking on at the
completion of the display ; the butcher with his
hat at the back of his head, and his hands
tucked beneath a white apron ; the landlord of
The King God Bless Him, at the door of that
loyally-named hostel, with a pint jug in one
hand and a yard of clean clay in the other,
blinking comfortably in the afternoon sunshine ;
the local constable in official cap and trousers,
but unofficial coat ; the grocer in his snowy
shirt-sleeves, with a quill behind his ear ; the
curate directing the proceedings of the decorators
; many children ; two or three old women
in blue or scarlet cloaks ; and one old man ina
smock-frock. A pleasant rural picture in the
autumn sunshine. Frank saw that it indicated
the approaching marriage of some local magnate,
but took no great interest in the matter,
being filled with his own thoughts. He was
thinking chiefly how much less burdensome it
would be to spend his last days in the quiet of

the country, than amidst the din of town. He
would rather that his grave were green, and
that the sun should shine upon it sometimes.
But he knew, in spite of his desire, that duty
held him to Bolter's Rents. He had found a
work there ; and he could but know, if he were
never so humble in his thoughts, that there
were some there who could ill spare him. ' I
will rest here to-night,' he said to himself, ' and
tomorrow I will go back to London. He
entered the common room of the little inn and
called for a humble meal.

Their full be ar' coin s yer, in the morning,'
said the landlord, as he set the brown loaf and
the cheese before his guest, and flanked them
with a cup of thin cider.

Ay ? ' said Frank but little interested.

1 Ay indeed,' said the landlord. ' Their
won't a-be such a thing again for many arrear,
and their ain't a-been nothing' like it, not in my
time afore.'

What is it to be ? ' Frank asked, being civil
by nature with all sorts and conditions of
men.

1 Did you ever year o' Mr. Hartley?' asked
the landlord. ' Well, his niece do be a-going to
be married tomorrow.'

1 Mr. Hartley of Hartley Hall ?' said Frank,
feeling his heart beat like a sledge-hammer.

That's him,' said the landlord. ' Hers
a-going' to be married to young Squire Fairholt
up to the Hall their — Island Hall, up Wretches
like.'

I know the place,' said Frank, controlling
himself to quiet speech.

They do say,' the landlord went on, ' as her
an' young Squire's brother used to be very thick
together in bygone times. But I don't know
naught about that, for I wasn't settled yer not
till later. They be both middle-aged ; but they
do seem to ha' struck up a match at last.
Young Squire '11 be main rich now, um do say.
Be you a foreigner ? '

I have not been here for a long time,'
Frank answered.

Ah ! ' said the landlord ; ' it don't much
matter. Anybody '11 be welcome up at the
new Hall to-morrer. Their 'ud be enough
aii to spare, if the country-side was to come
in. Their's three sheep and a ox a-going fur
to be roasted, whole. An' Squire Hartley he
ain't the man to be spain' with the poor, that
I full say. He ain't like one o' th' old gentry,
as they talks about sometimes, as is as poor

as poor, an' as proud as proud. I don't
hold along o' they said the landlord, who,
in spite of the loyalty of his sign, may have
been something of a republican.

Frank answered his further talk as well ashe
was able ; and when at last the innkeeper
went away to the door and resumed his watching
of the final decorations of the triumphal
arch, he noticed that the guest stayed an unusual
time above the bread and cheese, and
went back, on pretence of having something
to do in the room, to see what was happening
to the provisions. He saw that there was
little to fear on that head, but cleared away
to prevent the chance of mischief. Frank
had drawn back from the table, and was sunk
fathoms deep in memory's waters. He was
trying to divine whether or not Will had long
cared for Maud ; and he came at length to
see that Will had always cared for her. ' Why
so patient ? Why so patient ? ' he murmured.
Perhaps Maud had only now yielded ; and yet
one negative in such a matter would have
been enough for Will. Could he trust himself
to see them go by tomorrow? Yes; he
would trust himself. He would see Maud
once more ; and she should have his prayers

at least, though she would never know it.
■ All these years,' he muttered in his beard,
thinking of the changes which time might have
made in her, and questioning, should he know
her face ? He strayed about the village fields
till nightfall, and then went back to the little
inn, and was shown to a low-pitched bedroom
with clean walls of carved oak whitewashed,
— after the manner of British rusticity
dealing with carved oak. There were two
beds in the room ; and a lanky lad who was
a sort of factotum to the inn, would sleep in
in one of them. Frank sat awhile on the bedside,
looking out at the open widow, round
which the ivy talked in leafy whispers. The
night was warm and silent, and the voices
from the taproom went far afield on the still
air. All the talk was of the morrow's festivities
of the ox and the three sheep and the
limitless ocean of beer. One by one the
people below took leave, and their voices
died away on the wide-spread tranquillity of
the harvest-field. The moon, as yet a sickle,
hung steadfast in the violet of the lower skies,
with one keen star for a companion. A sound
of clanging bars and grating bolts warned
him that the house was being closed ; and

he went to bed before his room-companion
came up, and lay still, looking at the sharp
outlines of the leaves against the fathomless
clear dusk of the heaven, with here
and there the crisp light of a star in it. No
sleep visited him ; but he lay wan and worn
in the darkness, and arose ghostlike with
the dawn, and awaited the coming of the
wedding cortege. Straying along the highway,
he silently noted all the preparations.
Here was a stand from which the school
children would sing a hymn. A carpenter
was putting the finishing touches to it ; and
Frank stood to watch, not guessing that he
had lain ill of fever under this man's roof.
The carpenter, with his lips full of nails, gave
the onlooker a muffled good-morning, not guessing
that the one great tragedy on which his life
had edged, stood now in bodily form before
him. The time passed, and the sound of
bells came over the woods and the cornfields
a merry peal. They had rung for Maud
in his dream years ago, and now their sound
drew him as his longing for the fields and
for home had drawn him ; and his footsteps,
eager yet reluctant took him to the church.
The bells were silent ; but there was a

voice within the church. He had reached the
churchyard from the fields, for he knew every
foot of the country ; and looking over the
close-trimmed hedge that bounded it, he saw
many carriages in the road. He entered the
churchyard and walked to the door of the
church, and stood there in silent waiting.
Suddenly above him the bells clashed out
again with a very cascade of cheerful noise,
and the church poured forth its people. He
had eyes only for the wedded pair; and now
they came, the bride and bridegroom, Maud
leaning on her husband's arm. He could
have put his hand upon her as she passed
him. His brother Will looked him in the
face with his own eyes full of joyful pride and
kindness to the world, and had no more thought
of him or knowledge of him at that second
than if he had never existed. An old woman,
scarlet cloaked, who stood beside Frank, cried
out, ' God bless you, Madam Fairholt ! ' ina
quavering old voice with tears in it ; and
Maud's placid eyes passed Frank's face as
they thanked the well-wisher. For a mere
second of time the soft eyes rested upon him ;
but it was enough. Calm, good, gentle, almost
angelic, they seemed. Grief had made a home

there long, and had left signs of his dwelling
behind him. Her delicate beauty had none
of its old atmosphere of vivacity. There
were one or two straight lines upon her forehead,
and her face was paler than it had used
to be. Yet she seemed wonderfully little
changed ; and he could see that the ancient
sorrow had departed. The bells clashed on,
the people cheered ; the little procession had
passed him. Her image dwelt with him. He
could set them side by side, his lover who
was almost a child, his brothers wife who
was so sweetly grave a woman. In their
society he turned his back upon the pealing
bells and set out for London.

He wept often by the way, for he was
weak, and the fountain of his tears was full.
But whereas of old they had rested within him
like a veritable pool of hell, and had tortured
him with their scalding, they fell now like
the dew upon Hermon. And this heartbroken
saint, who had sinned so terribly,
and so sorely suffered, went back to the sad
congregation to whom he ministered, and
dwelt among them, waiting with yearning
patience until it should please God to lead
him to the grave.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
1 Do you know that man ? '

A T this time my sole friend, except for
'^^ Gascoigne, and almost my sole acquaintance,
was aesop. Gascoigne was always
dearer ; but circumstances held us apart, and
he was not a friend for common loves and
uses. In my trouble at his disappearance,
I naturally sought out Gregory ; and to him
I told the story of the Tabernacle, and of
Gascoigne' s appearance there, and his sudden
illness. He was silent and attentive ; and
when I had finished, he said with great
gravity, ' Do all you can to find him.'

I hope,' I answered, ' that there will be
no great difficulty about finding him. My
only fear is that his excitement, or his fall,
or both together, may have unbalanced his

intellect, and that he has gone wandering off
unconsciously, or under some delusion.'

1 Wait,' said Gregory. ' Let us make
pictures.'

Let us do what ? ' I asked.

He smiled gravely. 'When I want to
understand a thing that puzzles me, I form all
manner of mental tableaux. I make the actors
in any human problem pose for me whilst I
examine them. I daresay I am oftener wrong
than right ; but I find the practice a good one
sometimes. It was wet last night ? '

It rained heavily,' I answered.

Did it rain when you led Gascoigne to
the cab ? '

Fast,' I told him.

1 Did you wrap him up well, before leading
him to the cab ? '

'Not at all,' I answered. ' He was bareheaded,
for one thing.'

Did anybody put his hat into the cab
after you ? No ? That was what I wanted
to suggest to you. He would buy a hat,
or go through the streets bareheaded, or
take one of yours. Let us go to the Inn,
and see which of the three he did.'

The porter of the Inn had seen a gentle-vol.

III. n

man without a hat pass out at the gates,
and had seen him cross to the hatter's shop
at the opposite corner. There was a clue,
said aesop. But the clue led us no farther
than the hatter's shop. The showman had
sold a black wide-awake hat to a young
clergyman, who had come in bareheaded
from Clement's Inn, and had afterwards
walked down Fleet Street.

'That tells us little I said in a disappointed
tone.

I It tells us this,' said Gregory, ' that he
was at least collected enough to be mindful
of appearances. Now, either a sane man ora
mad man might think of replacing a lost
hat ; but a man whose intellect was disturbed
by the shock of a fall would never dream of
it. He has gone away with his eyes open,
for his own reasons.'

I remember that you said of Latazzi that
a man who theorised had no right to call
himself a detective

I I am not theorising — much said Gregory.
1 1 have better grounds to go on than that
fool of a detective had.' He had quite a
savage despite for Mr. Latazzi, and for the
whole detective force private and public

1 What are your grounds ? ' I asked anxiously.
' Tell me.'

No,' he said ; ' I will not tell you — yet. It
will be bad enough when it comes ! '

1 What do you mean ? ' I cried. ' You are
not used to talk without a meaning ; but I
can see none.'

I had no right to say what I have said
already,' Gregory replied, ' and I can say no
more. Nous verrons, my friend — nous verrons.
You shan't fret about that fellow, with his
cranks and twists and changeful tempers.
Leave him alone. He has come to no
harm.'

But he was really ill last night,' I pleaded,
grieved at Gregory's contemptuous tone, and
angered by it also, as I had a right to be
in my friend's defence.

1 He was well enough this morning, I have
no doubt,' said Gregory with a harshness of
manner which surprised me. ' And the beggar
walked off without saying good-bye — that was
all. He had his reasons for it, I daresay, and
you'll know them some day.'

What is the reason of this sudden tone about
Gascoigne ?' I demanded, grieved and hurt.

'Is it sudden?' asked ALsop, turning one

quick glance upon me. This set me thinking
that the change between the friends was one
of long standing, and that I had blinded myself
to it.

How long is it,' I said, ' since you quarrelled
? '

We have not quarrelled Gregory replied.
But I have been guilty of a good deal of
hypocrisy about the matter, and I must end it
now. I will not tell you whose fault it is, or
how it came about ; but Gascoigne and I have
not been friends for many a year, and will befriends
no more, as long as this life lasts.'

I suppose that my tenderness for Gascoigne
would have made this revelation hard to bear
at any time ; but now when I had seen him
in pain and illness, and whilst I was so uncertain
about him, it angered me, even coming
from Gregory.

I I expected this,' I said, ' or some of it.
What did you do to Gascoigne ? '

I did that to Gascoigne,' he answered
slowly, ' for which, if he has a soul at all, he
should be grateful all his life. — Jack ' — he put
both hands upon my shoulders — ' trust me.
Wait. Be in no hurry to hurt yourself.'

Gregory,' I answered, deeply wounded

1 these innuendoes are unworthy of you. However
Gascoigne and you have quarrelled — '

We have never quarrelled,' he answered ;
but I went on :

Let me keep my esteem for you, at least

Gascoigne is an older friend of yours than
I am,' he answered with a smile, in which I
seemed dimly to read many things — sadness
and a very kind regard amongst them ; ' but
we have liked each other, you and I, and we
have been pretty thick together. Have I
spoken one hard word about your friend ? '

'Why should you speak hard words about
him ? ' I demanded.

I have not spoken them,' he said quietly.
But you think me hard because I tell you not
to grieve about him until you are compelled to
grieve

1 Shall I be compelled to grieve ? ' I felt the
words, as I spoke them, like a challenge.

He answered me sadly, almost solemnly, ' I
am afraid you will

My mind grasped an awful fancy. ' Is ,'
I cried, and paused — ' is Gascoigne —
mad?' His eloquence had not been that of
sober reason. His appearance at the Tabernacle
was singular, and not easy to account

for. I seemed suddenly to remember an emphasis
in Gregory's words as we left the hatter's
shop a little while before — ' Either a sane manor
a mad man.' I gave myself no time to
think that this would not account for Gregory's
insinuations, but spoke out the fear when I
saw it.

No, Jack, no ! ' he said gravely.

1 Then why,' I cried, ' do you play upon me
with these doubts and suspicions, these hints of
trouble and mischief, which might go to makeup
a Tragedy of Errors ? Look you, Gregory.
You have been a friend of mine for years, a
good friend and a true friend until now. But
I have loved Gascoigne ever since I can remember,
and have loved him almost better
than anybody in the world. If you have any
suspicion of him, let me know it, and I will
work harder to clear him than I have worked
to clear myself. Could anything look darker
than the case against me ? Even if it were
anything as vile as that, let me know — though
indeed, Gregory, the viler the suspicion is, the
better I shall like it, for the surer I shall be it
is not true.'

'Jack,' he said, Met us leave the theme. I
am sorry that it has cropped up between us.'

It may not be a great thing now,' I answered,
accepting his simile ; ' but if we walk
along on our respective sides, we shall find
it large enough to shut us out of sight of
each other

Very well,' Gregory replied. ' We shall
meet at the far end of it ; and you will be
sorry for the side you took

I take my side at once I said miserably ;
I will hold no doubt of Gascoigne/

He brought down his hand heavily upon
the table, for we were seated in my chambers
during the greater part of this conversation.
Looking up at him, I saw an expression of
resolve upon his face, which frightened mein
spite of my trust in Gascoigne. ' Have
you been in the habit of keeping Gascoigne's
letters ? ' he asked.

I have a few of them I answered, trembling
without knowing why.

1 Bring one or two with you, and come with
me. Obliterate date and signature, if you
desire to shield him.'

'Is that your accusation?' I cried in a
stormy rage and triumph. ' Put it to the
test ! And when you have proved it false —
and prove it false you shall — we will go our

ways without hand-shaking. This is the end
of all your innuendoes. Come ; I am ready.'
I had caught up a bundle of letters whilst
speaking, and had drawn out two or three in
Gascoigne's handwriting.

Gregory stood before me with his lips set
tight, and his eyes gleaming, not with anger,
but with tears. 'Jack,' he said gently, ' I have
never been so sorry for anybody in all my
life. It had to come. It was only just that
it should come, and I knew before Sunday
night that it was coming.'

His manner disconcerted me, and threw a
chill of doubt upon me. No ; I never doubted
Gascoigne. ' Before Sunday night ? ' I said,
speaking as scornfully as I could, to hide my
fears. ' More mysteries ? Or are you mad ?
What had Sunday night to do with it ? '

I heard Gascoigne on Sunday night, my
poor lad he answered. I hated aesop for
the pity in his voice, which seemed so certain
of the misery before me. ' You noticed the
burst of self-accusation in his sermon there ?
That clinched the nail a little harder ; but it
was driven pretty tightly in beforehand.'

'Why, you suspicious madman,' I exclaimed,
have you no conception of the saintliness of

soul which makes one little blot of evil-living
look as though it soiled a life ? '

I know,' he answered steadily and kindly,
that there is such a thing. But there is a
religion — the best some men can reach to —
which is all remorse and ecstasy ; which has
no foundation except in the emotions ; which
can soar with the saint, and fall with the fool.
I know a man whose remorse for a great fault,
committed in his boyhood, nearly drove him
mad, whose horror of himself and of his crime
was as terrible as it was real ; a man whose
hopes were high, whose capacities were large,
a man of ripe scholarship and amazing eloquence,
who did again in manhood the thing
which made him loathe himself in youth ; and
having done it, cast his hopes to the winds,
and threw himself a waif upon the world.
And he set himself said Gregory, laying a
finger on my breast as he faced me, ' this task
to preach to the vulgar, whom . his dainty
instincts made hateful to him — to live among
them in ministration to their needs — to point
them to heights of hope which he believed
were lost to him for ever. And it happened
at the beginning of-his speech one night that
he saw the man before him whom he had

wronged in youth. The sight almost broke
him down ; but he struggled with himself — ■
hear me out — and beat his fears down, and
went on, until in the full flow of his speech
he caught the eyes of the friend he had
wronged by the same crime in manhood, and
fell back, crushed and broken. — Do you know
that man ? '

Gregory's voice had grown to an earnestness
which bore me down. I was compelled
to listen, though I pretended to pay little
heed at first. I strove to close my mind's
eyes to that picture of the school cricket-field
which forced itself upon them, and I
struggled not to read the picture's meaning.
Who is your man ? ' I asked ; but though I
tried to throw the scorn I would fain have
felt into my voice, my own sick terror sounded
there instead.

The man is your dearest friend,' said
Gregory.

1 I'll not believe it ! ' I cried passionately.
1 I will give no credence to it for a second.
He's the soul of truth and honour, and it is
not possible that he should have done such
a thing.' I saw less plainly the room in which
we stood than I saw the school cricket-round

with its two figures in the moonlight. I heard
even whilst I was speaking the stern pity of
my old schoolmaster's voice. Gascoigne had
cast himself face downwards on the grass, and
I was creeping guiltily away again, when
Gregory's voice recalled me.

1 It is very terrible that your clearance from
the charge against you should come in this
way. I know how hard it is ; and I have
held suspicion back from you, and would
almost have held back certainty if you would
have let me.'

I shall not clear my friend by raging
against the accusation,' I said in answer, trying
hard to keep my voice unshaken, and to
believe that I believed the story false. ' You
shall tell me all your grounds for this miserable
suspicion, and I will make it my business to
remove them one by one.'

You shall hear them all,' he answered, still
standing sadly before me, and speaking in a
reluctant sulky voice, which I can understand
better now than I could at the time. ' A
month before Gascoigne left school, a cheque
in my father's name, bearing my indorsement,
was presented at the bank. The people there
saw some reason to doubt my father's signature,

and consulted with him. He denied the
cheque, and came to see me about it. Less
hasty than your uncle, he had faith in me ;
and the matter was investigated, with this
result — that Gascoigne was brought to confession
a day before his time at school expired
; that we three — the doctor, my father,
and I — agreed to hold our tongues, hoping and
believing that his remorse and shame would
teach him a lesson not to be forgotten ; and
that he went away scot-free. When this last
business came, I knew that Gascoigne had
been living at a rate unwarranted by his income
; and I had been fearing a smash of
some sort, though nothing so terrible as this.
When it was decided that the indorsement
of the cheque was really in your hand-writing,
and I knew that the cheque was written
on blank paper, my suspicions jumped in the
old direction. When I heard, as I did two
months ago, that Gascoigne had disappeared
from his curacy, suspicion grew stronger.
When I heard again that a young preacher
on the Surrey side, who did not allow his
name to be announced, was drawing vast congregations,
and was talking in a certain vein
of inspired half-madness which I thought I

knew, I went to hear and see him. I found,
as I expected I should find, that this was
Gascoigne. I meant to speak to him that
night, and tax him with my new suspicions ;
but I saw you struggling through the crowd
towards the platform, and I held back. I
went again last night, and planted myself a
little to one side in the front row, and he saw
me when he came in ; and the sight of me
nearly broke him down. But he fought
through, and was forgetting me — or had forgotten
me, when I saw suddenly in his face
the look — the very look — which met us when
my father and I waited for him in the doctors
study, and when he knew at a glance the purpose
which brought us there. And I guessed
then, when I heard your cry and saw you
rushing towards him, what I know now — that
he had seen you as well as me, and that the
accusation of your presence crushed him like
a sudden weight.'

What could I say or do ? Of what avail
was it to believe that he had not wronged me,
since he had wronged another ? He had
called Gregory his friend.

1 I am bitterly grieved for your sake,' aesop
said ; but I turned away in the misery of my

heart, and vowed inwardly that I would trust
no man any more, or woman either. ' But
you at least shall be cleared.'

Cleared ? ' I answered bitterly. ' What
does it matter whether I am cleared or not ?
I would rather never have been cleared than
have known — this — Why talk about it ?
Let the whole business slide. Let us hear
no more of it. One or two of us are honest,
maybe. Let us leave the rogues alone. Oh,
aesop, aesop, this will break my heart ! '

He made no answer, but sat down and
began to smoke. I followed his example after
a while, boasting to myself that I was beginning
to know the world and value it aright.
We kept silence for perhaps an hour.

You must be cleared, Jack,' said aesop at
last. ' I don't suppose that Mr. Hartley will want
to make a scandal by prosecuting, and I must go
down and see him, and tell him what I know.'

Leave the whole base thing alone,' I responded.
' I can hold no intercourse with
Mr. Hartley, and I can accept nothing at
his hands. I have no wish to be cleared
from his suspicion. Let him find it out for
himself, or never find it out at all. It matters
nothing to me either way.'

He loved you for many a year, before he
fell into this trap said Gregory. ' He has a
good kind heart, and his suspicion has been
as deep a grief to him as it has been to you.
There is nothing which would rejoice him
more than the certainty of your innocence.
He has a right to know that you are innocent.
He has a right to know who is the man who
misused his name. Jack, you must be guided
by me in this. Indeed, you must.'

So vile — so vile a crime ! There on the
table lay that letter of indignant sympathy and
protest with which he had answered me. So
shameful a pretence ! So pitiless an hypocrisy !
Was it Gascoigne who had done these things ?
It was horrible — incredible ! And I knew that
it was true.

1 Do as you will,' I answered. ' Nothing
matters to me any more in the whole world.
Nothing but this one thing — that you exact
my uncle's solemn promise that he does not
drag Gascoigne ' — what an effort it cost me
to speak his name — ' to open disgrace. And
this other thing — that he does not offer meany
apology or amends. 5

1 You cannot forgive an old man who loves
you for having broken his own heart over a

mistake about you ? That is not like you,
Jack, and it will not last.'

1 It will last my time,' I answered. My soul
was full of bitterness.

1 I know you better than you know yourself,'
quoth aesop. ' I shall see your uncle and
shall try to secure the pledge you ask for.'
The postman's knock sounded at the door at
that moment, and Gregory rose and brought
from the box one letter. \ This is from home
he said, as he laid it before me. ' I hope it
brings good news.' With that he shook hands
and left me.

I sat brooding in anger and bitterness long
after he had gone, and at length took up the
letter from the table. In spite of my misery,
the sight of the handwriting made my heart
beat ; for the letter came from Polly. It ran
thus : —

My poor dear Jack, — I have just seen
Maud, and she has told me everything. I
wondered at your silence, and had grown
angry at it ; but I know everything you
have done, and I praise you and admire
you for it. You could not have taken his
money whilst he retained a suspicion so prodigious.

Trials are good for all good people.
You would not have done what you are doing
now except for this terrible suspicion. And
now you are going to be famous, and will bea
great author, and delight and instruct us
all. My father has forbidden me to write to
you, for your uncle has told him his abominable
story. Or — I ought not to say that,
for I do not really know ; but he has told
him he will not leave you any money.
But I have told him I should disobey him
once, and should write to say I did not
believe you had done anything to deserve
such cruel conduct. Perhaps, after all, papa
does not know anything of that monstrous
and shameful tale ; for I remember he looked
surprised when I spoke of your being cleared.
But take this for comfort — that Maud
believes in you — that I believe in you — that
Will believes in you ; for I asked him, and he
said he did with all his heart. You have not
suffered without sympathy ; and whatever
has made Mr. Hartley believe such horrid
nonsense as that you are a forger, you
can afford to be sorry for him, for it has
broken his heart. Maud says he thinks well
of your refusal to take his money, and has

VOL. III. o

learned from Mr. Gregory which are your
articles, and reads them over and over again,
though he never speaks about them, and will
not allow you to be mentioned. Be courageous,
my poor Jack, and go on working, and
believe in the love and constancy of all of us. —
Your affectionate Cousin, Mary.

Pes. — Maud is to be married on Wednesday.'


Why had Uncle Ben thought it needful to
tell Mr. Fairholt that he would not leave meany
money? The answer was ready — He
had guessed the feelings with which I regarded
Polly. Why should Mr. Fairholt have carried
on the news to her ? Again the answer was
clear — He also had guessed the feelings with
which I regarded Polly. I am willing to confess
now that a man need scarcely have been
a conjurer to make the guess. The matter
must have been very plain to everybody ;
though I had believed with the fatuity common
to young people in love, that the knowledge
of my state of mind was limited to my dozen
of confidants. And now for the first time in
my life I rose up in resolve, and vowed that
I would do my worthiest to win her. At least

I would try to justify some of her belief in me,
however her undeserved praises might humble
me. I turned to the letter once more, and
read the words — ' You can afford to be sorry
for him, for it has broken his heart,' butin
spite of the gentler feelings which Polly's
letter had evoked, I refused Uncle Ben my
forgiveness, and hardened myself against
him.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

1 Troman,' said my aunt, ' what have you to cry for ? '

T WORKED, and found in work such relief
as it could give me. I laboured as I
had never done before, and accumulated large
stores of journalistic capital. But life had
grown to be a bitter business, and I had
little heart or hope for anything, or faith in
anything. Perhaps there are not many men
so happy as to preserve their faith until they
reach the age of five-and-twenty. Perhaps
those who keep faith longest feel it hardest
to lose it. My life had gone smoothly. I
had had my dreams — dreaming with my eyes
open. Most men had seemed lovable, many
admirable, two or three kingly, and one
supreme. And when Gascoigne tumbled from
his place, my scheme of things went to chaos.

Stunned by that misfortune, I looked stupidly
back, and thought even the suspicion which
had fallen upon myself easy to bear by comparison.
There is no pain like the pain of
finding a friend unworthy and untrue. And
now for a time I doubted everybody, and
nursed a wrath and hatred against the world,
by far more foolish than my faith had
been.

I prospered in my profession, and men
began to speak favourably of me. There
are some people, who live altogether out of
literary circles, to whom any sort of connection
with letters appears to be of extravagant
value. Some of my old acquaintances were
men of this kind, and showed a disposition to
return to me, now that I began to be known.
I am afraid that in my new-born cynicism I
treated some of them rather uncivilly, though,
indeed, they had not deserved well at my
hands. I hope I have grown wiser than to
quarrel with butterflies for liking sunshine and
avoiding shade, though even now the butterfly
is scarcely my type of friendship. But it has
been said, times out of number, that your convert
or pervert is the most sweeping and '
thoroughgoing of men, and I being perverted

to cynicism and a wholesale disbelief in good,
did my best to embitter myself against everybody
in those days, and, in a most unhappy
degree, succeeded.

Through all this I clung to aesop ; and he
stuck to me with a fidelity not to be shaken
or strengthened by any fall or rise of fortune.
Seeing how low my general mood had fallen,
and how prone I had become to nurse my
grudges against the world in private, he proposed
— on grounds of professed economy — to
chum with me and share my chambers ; and
this being carried into effect, we worked
together, breakfasted and dined together, and
kept each other in almost constant company.
It pleases me now to believe that Gregory
worked the better for companionship. He
was writing a comedy at this time. I can
recall his staid and serious face as he sat
apart at a table overspread with scattered
manuscripts. I can see him again, rising
from his chair to prowl about the room, pipe
in mouth, emitting vast clouds of smoke, and
rumpling his hair at intervals with both hands,
looking as distracted as a condemned criminal.
Now and again he would break into wild shouts
of laughter, and would execute fantastic dances,

and then, with a countenance of gloom, would
commit his inspirations to paper, and prowl
about once more distractedly. In our literary
work we were both afflicted with a desire for
bodily motion, and we used to cross and recross
each other in our thoughtful rambles
over the carpet, until it bore the plain impress
of our feet, and two threadbare and faded
lines ran from end to end of the room. I
believe that Gregory still works in that
manner ; but I confess to having worn it
out, and abandoned it. The work was happier
in those days of emotion, when at a
sweet fancy my eyes have seen the lines that
traced it, dimly, or with some half-expressed
sarcasm seething within me, I have had to
leave my table and hammer out the lines with
muttering and striding to - and - fro. After
every one of Gregory's laughters, and its
consequent wild war - dance, I was dragged
earthwards from my own clouds whilst he
read over to me scraps of dialogue. ' I think
this '11 fetch 'em, Jack,' was his exordium, and
he would spout the products of his muse's
labours with infinite gusto. An hour later,
he would rise in deep despondency, and announce
his opinion that the whole comedy

was bosh ; and then sitting down despairingly
to read it, he would go off into a succession
of crackling laughters, which bespoke the
interest relish of his own performance.

It chanced one day that we were both
marching up and down the room, hammering
in great heat at our respective mental irons,
when a timid and uncertain knock sounded
at the door ; and Gregory, being nearer than
I, answered the summons. Standing in the
middle of the carpet, a little disturbed by the
interruption, I heard a voice that warmed my
heart, and hurrying to the door, found Bob
and Sally in the act of entering. The
good creature, Sally, embraced me there
and then, and shed tears over me, in quite
the old familiar manner ; and Mr. Turner
shook my hands meanwhile, murmuring, ' Excuse
the liberty.' When the first heat of
welcome was ended, Gregory closed the outer
door ; but Bob, repeating ' Excuse the liberty,'
reopened it, and revealed the presence of a
small boy, who had hitherto escaped attention.
This small boy, who was dressed in black
broadcloth of a cumbrous cut, and reminded
me quaintly of myself as I had first appeared
at Island Hall, was comically like Sally, and

had a ridiculous resemblance to Bob, so that
I had no difficulty in identifying his relationship.


This is your boy, Sally ? ' I inquired.

Yes, my darlings returned Sally, beaming.
■ He's the eldest. Come in, Johnny

I had not seen him for some four or five
years ; and he had so far outgrown his remembrances
of me, that on my offering to
shake hands with him, he retired in much
apparent discomfiture behind his fathers legs.

Johnny's his nam,' said Bob in the old
broad dialect, which always sounds in my ears
like a memory of childhood. ' Excuse the
liberty, young mister, but the missis, her
would nam him after yo.' Bob himself was
dressed in black broadcloth, and I believe
had had his hair curled for his visit to the
metropolis. I cannot actually pledge myself
to the accuracy of that surmise ; but I know
that he had a long and half-unfolded roll of
curl upon the very top of his head, which I
could not remember to have seen there before.
This ornament displayed a treacherous inclination
to stand bolt upright ; and Bob becoming
conscious of that fact, smoothed it
furtively with his broad palm ; but it arose

again and again, and gave him, in conjunction
with his dark clothes and his solemnity
of visage, something of the aspect of a cockatoo
in mourning. Gregory and I cleared a
table, and laid out a refection of wine and
biscuits ; and Sally, who wore a bonnet like
a flower-show, and a shawl like a rainbow,
sat in her gloves in great grandeur, and
sipped and nibbled in the most ladylike and
superior manner. Bob — what with the clothes
and the curl, and the strange rooms, and
Gregory's presence — was in a sort of patient
agony of uneasiness. Gregory was quick to
discern the discomfiture he inflicted upon my
visitors, and feigning business in a little while
went out. Shortly afterwards, Bob arose, and
obscuring the obdurate curl with a hat so
stiff and shiny it might have been of steel
japanned, also withdrew, announcing his intention
of taking a look at Temple Bar. Heled
away my young namesake by the hand,
promising to return in half-an-hour, and I
was left alone with Sally.

An' now, my precious,' said Sally, all her
company manners vanishing, and her good
self returning suddenly. She settled herself
in her chair, and hugged her many-tinted

knees with her gloved hands — ' an' now, my
precious ! '

I cannot easily tell how much good the
sight of Sally did me, or how immediate and
direct the influence seemed. But she had
been so closely knit with all my early life,
and from the first to the last of my remembrances
had been so true ; she was so
little changed, and brought so vividly back
to me the memory of so many gracious acts
and happy times, that I should have been
hard indeed not to have been somewhat
moved by recollection in her presence.

And now, Sally ! ' I answered.

Bob an' me,' said Sally, ' has never had
what you might call a regular out sence we
was married. An' Bob having' that prospered
as to be a master - builder, Master
Johnny, a-keepin' on a dozen hands an coin'
well, we made up wer minds as we'd come
to London ; an' here we be.'

And here you are, Sally I responded.

Yes,' said Sally, still hugging her knees,
'an' here we be. An' who do you think we
come up in the same train with ? ' — I professed
my inability to divine. — 4 Make a guess,'
said Sally, with such a meaning look, that I

guessed at once, and asked, ' Not Cousin
Polly ? '

1 Yes,' said my old nurse, nodding like a
toy - mandarin — 'your Cousin Polly, Master
Johnny. She come up in the same train
along o' we, with your aunt ; an' she was
a-lookin' that beautiful — Well, there ! ' She
lengthened the adjective into ' bee-oo-tiful,'
and unclasped her knees and cast her hands
abroad when she said, ' Well, there ! ' as if
proclaiming the inability of further words to
express the sight.

This news disturbed me ; for in spite of
all the vows I had made, I could not fail to
recognise the gulf which had opened up between
Polly and myself. While the expectations
my Uncle Ben had taught me to
entertain were still with me, there had been
no social breech between us ; but it seemed
as though it would have been a cowardly and
cruel thing to ask her to share the broken
hopes of fortune and the struggling life which
lay before me. Here and there, the prizes of
the literary life are large ; but I had modesty
and sense enough to know that the great
prizes were not for men of my calibre ; and
although I could already see my way, I knew

well enough that there was no golden goal at
the end of it. The life before me was a life
of labour and of narrowed means. Single, I
could get on well enough ; but I could not endure
the thought of narrowed means for Polly,
and love's sweet dream was coming near the
end and growing bitter. In the pleasure of
welcoming my old friend, I had forgotten my
troubles ; but this mention of Polly's name
brought them all back in full tide.

'Why, Johnny, darling,' what's the matter?'
cried Sally. ' You're a-lookin' quite downcast,
I declare. What is it ? ' She came and knelt
before me and took my hands in hers. ' What
is it, Johnny ? Their's nothing' amiss between
you an' your cousin, is their ? '

Sally,' I answered, ' this is not a thing to
be talked of; but I can trust you, I know.
I am a poor man now, and work for my
living, like many other people. All my life
is changed, and a good many of my old
hopes are thrown away — and that among
them.'

'No,' said Sally; 'not if it was to come
to a crust o' dry bread an' a glass o' water.'

I did not understand her, or pay any great
heed to her words ; but I repeated that my

life was changed, and that many of my old
hopes were thrown away.

'Not that among 'em, Johnny,' said Sally.
'Not if you was to be as poor as Job. You
couldn't have the heart ! ' I did not understand
at all, and I suppose my face expressed
it. ' Johnny,' she said with an air of serious
admonition, ' when a young gentleman's been
keeping' company with a young lady all his
life, he ought to ask her if she's willing' to
part, afore he goes away, whatever happens.'

My dear Sally,' I answered, ' you do not
understand. I have never spoken a word to
my cousin which would make her think — '

1 Words, my foolish precious ! ' returned
Sally, shaking her head as she knelt, still
holding my hands, before me. ' Why, what's
words ? Actions speaks louder than words,
my darling.' Do you fancy as she don't know ?
An' you remember, Johnny,' she went on with
a general plea for the whole sex, ' as we poor
women's tongues is tied. It's you to speak first.'

'No,' I responded ; ' it is not for me to
speak at all. Had things gone differently, I
should have spoken ; but not now — not now.'

1 How old are you, Johnny ? ' asked Sally
suddenly.

Five-and-twenty,' I responded. ' Nearly
a quarter of a century, Sally. That sounds
quite old.'

1 Miss Mary's more than two years younger,'
said Sally. ' Over two-an'-twenty. Most
ladies is married younger than that, my
dear, ain't 'em ? What's she a-waiting for ?
How many offers has she throned away ? O
Johnny, my silly darling,' to be so blind !'

Could it be true ? Sally spoke with the
confidence of conviction, and my own heart
was eager to believe. And yet, and yet I
scarcely dared to think it. And yet, and yet
there was no escape from hope.

1 Sally,' I said in much agitation, * you speak
as if you were certain.'

So I am,' she answered, kneeling before me
still. ' You must tell her, Johnny, and ask her
to wait for you.'

I arose from my seat and paced the room
excitedly. ' Yes,' I said at length ; ' I will
speak. I will ask, and know the truth.'

At that instant there came another summons
at the door ; and thinking that this was Bob
come back again, I left Sally to open it, and
not caring to be seen just then, retired to my
bedroom.

You here, Troman ? ' said my Aunt Bertha
voice. ' How do you do?' My aunt's voice
came nearer. ' Where is Mr. Campbell ? '

I am here,' I cried, ' and will come to you
in a moment.' I drank a glass of water, and
composed myself; then re-entering the sitting-room,
met Cousin Polly's candid eyes and
outstretched hand. This apparition coming
upon me in so unprepared and emotional a
condition, found me quite helpless. 'We
speak,' I said, ' of angels, and they show their
wings.'

1 Troman,' said my aunt when our greetings
were over, ' you are the very woman I want
to speak to. I have something serious to say
to you. — John, take your cousin for a stroll
through the Temple Gardens while I talk to
Troman. Don't hurry back. I've a great
deal to say to her.'

I submitted tamely to be driven from my
own chambers by this overwhelming aunt ;
and Polly came with me. We crossed the
roaring Strand, and walked into the quiet of
the gardens. There were few people there.
A few nurse-girls, a scattered handful or so
of children, a Blue Coat Boy walking along
bareheaded, and reading as he went. As we

passed him, I looked down, and saw that the
book was the Essays of Elia ; surely the fittest
book in the world to read in the Temple Gardens.
I am always too shamefaced to do those
things, but I should have liked to have tipped
that Blue Coat Boy on the spot. Polly saw
the book as well as I.

1 Elia was a good creature,' she said. * If I
lived in London, I should come here a great
deal ; and I fancy that he would be oftener in
one's thoughts than any one else associated
with the place. Are you often here ? '

1 Often,' I answered. ' But not to think of
Elia.'

1 You are an author now,' she said, ' and
have many thoughts. I have often wondered
tell me — do you write to the world impersonally
? If I were an author, I think I
should never be able to do that. I should
write as if I were writing a letter, and I should
have some one in my mind who would be
sure to understand my mood — Maud, for instance,
or Will, or you, or somebody who had
known me all my life. It would be easier to
write so, I fancy, than to scatter one's bread
upon the waters, without knowing who might
taste it.'

VOL. III. p

1 I have written all that I have written,' I
responded, 'for one reader only, and I have
looked to my audience of one to keep me at
my best, and to shut out everything unworthy
from my work.' I felt her eyes upon me, and,
glancing at her, saw upon her face a look
which was difficult to define. I thought it a
little troubled, and feared she read my meaning,
and was sorry for it. But I had resolved
to speak, and I went on : ' I have had
that one reader always in my mind and in
my heart, and she has ruled my life.' We
were walking slowly side by side, and there
was no one near us. The Blue Coat Boy was
deep in Elia, fifty yards behind. ' Polly ! I
have loved you ever since I can remember
you. I have had no hope or ambition which
you have not governed. I am poor now, and
I have to fight the world ; but you have
given me heart and hope to fight it. I have
struggled day by day to be a little worthier
to love you.'

'Jack!' she said in a pained voice appealingly.


• I was wrong to speak,' I said a moment
later. ' Forget that I have spoken.'

1 No,' she answered softly ; it is not that.

You make me feel ashamed. I am a wayward,
foolish girl, and you speak of being — '

i I love you,' I answered ; ' that is all the
worthiness I have.' We walked a little further
in silence. ' Tell me — it will but cost a word —
if I can hope ? '

I was looking down at her bent and averted
face as we walked. She turned her head, and
looked me bravely in the eyes, though brow
and cheek and throat were blushing, and her
own eyes were moist.

Hope for my love, Jack ? ' she asked.

■ Yes.'

1 Be sure of it.' Her eyes brimmed over,
the sweet blush faded as she spoke, and she
drooped her head again.

We walked in silence for a long time, and
walked so slowly, that the Blue Coat Boy,
still poring upon Elia, following the path we
took, went past us. I have often smiled to
think how narrow an escape that Boy had from
great astonishment. I felt an almost irresistible
desire to endow him at one stroke withall
the money then in my possession. My
invariable want of promptitude on small occasions
robbed the boy of a splendid tip, and

me of a great relief. But I was grateful to
him, and felt affectionately towards him, for
I remembered that it was his Elia which had
opened the conversation between Polly and
myself. The Blue Coat Boy is quite a young
man by this time. He has probably given
up the pursuit of literature in the Temple
Gardens, and walks, perchance, in Groves of
Academe by classic Cam or Isis. But if
this should meet his eye, I beg him to accepta
gratitude which has lost none of its flavour
by a little keeping. If he will favour us with
a visit, my wife and I will make him welcome.
He has never guessed it, but all this
time he has been one of our Lares.

It was quite dark when we turned to go
back to Clement's Inn ; and when we reached
my chambers, Aunt Bertha and Sally were
sitting in the gloom alone.

Has your husband lost himself, Sally ? ' I
inquired.

He's took Johnny to the circus,' responded
Sally. ' I didn't want to go away 'without
seen' you again.'

1 You have been away a pretty time, young
people,' said Aunt Bertha with seventy. But

by this time and in this society I was prepared
to encounter reproof with a forehead as of
brass.

'Aunt Bertha I answered, drawing Polly's
arm through mine, ' you may be assumed to
stand in loco parentis towards Polly. And
Sally, who is the best and most faithful creature
in the world, as everybody knows, may be
assumed to stand in the same relationship towards
myself. And in your presence, I confess
that the two indiscreet young people whom
you may now dimly behold — '

Don't be prolix said Aunt Bertha. Sally
had risen, and was standing near the window
with her hands clasped. Now that I come to
think of it, I do not believe that Sally understood
one word I said, except perhaps her
own praises ; but she understood the situation,
and showed the fact by a gasp of genuine
emotion. At that signal, Polly withdrew her
hand — Aunt Bertha rose to meet her — and in
less time than it takes to tell it, they were
crying for joy in one another's arms. Sally
of course was weeping over me ; and for my
own manhood's sake, I was thankful for the
gloom.

1 Romans said my aunt, what have you to

cry for ? ' — Sally returned no answer. — ' Do you
think that Mr. Campbell is throwing himself
away ? '

■ Oh ma'am,' cried Sally, ' haven't I snowed
and loved 'em both sence they was babies ? '

Troman,' said my aunt, advancing to her,
1 you are a good creature, and you have a
beautiful heart.' And with that commendation,
Aunt Bertha positively kissed Sally, and
made her, as I believe, the proudest woman
in the United Kingdom. When we had all
toned down again, I was about to light the
lamp ; but my aunt forbade me ; and in a little
time Sally took her leave, promising to call
again on the morrow.

'Did Troman tell you anything, John?'
asked my aunt, before Sally's footsteps had
left the stairs.

Yes,' I answered, sheltered by the friendly
darkness, sitting with Polly's hand in mine ;
she told me to do what I have done.'

Should you have done it, if she had not
told you to do it ? ' asked my aunt.

'No,' I answered ; ' I should not have
dared.'

Then for once,' said my aunt triumphantly,
a match-making old woman was right. I

ordered Troman to come and tell you. And
now ' — she hurried on, as if to prevent either
of us from speaking — ' I want to say a word
about your future. My brother Robert will
object. — Mary, be quiet. Your father will
object. Well, if you must know, he objects
already. But I have saved a good deal of
money, and I have my own fortune, and I
have made my will, and left it all to John on
condition that you marry. — Don't speak a
word, but find my bonnet. I don't know
whether you will ever think of dining anymore,
but I am starving. Let us go home
and ask Mrs. Brand for some dinner. Weare
staying with Dr. Brand, and you can come,
too, if you like, John.'

Two or three hours later we were seated in
Dr. Brand's parlour. The doctor was called
away, and Mrs. Brand followed him from the
room.

Polly, rising, drew aside the blind. ' What
lovely moonlight ! ' she said, after looking out
for a minute or two. ' I don't think I ever
saw moonlight look so beautiful before.'

My dear said Aunt Bertha, rising and kissing
her, ■ the moonlight has grown brighter for
happy lovers, ever since the world began.'

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
// was no fortuitous likeness ; but a portrait.

T ET me write down my words again. In
"^^ all the devious ways in which my life
has been guided, I can but recognise a Master
Hand. I have been moved inexorably, here
and there, against my will, apart from my will.
The plan of my life has no more been mine
than the words written by my pen this moment
are dictated by it. And now in the halting-place
of life at which I tell this story, I can
see the plan which my unwilling movements
here and there have traced, and I know that
I was guided to a settled end.

It was a good and wholesome thing that I
had to work for a living, and that my work
was of such a character that it could not be
done without a certain abstraction from all

other thoughts than those which concerned it.
It happened thus that the poison brought its
own antidote. I was daily in some haunt of
poverty or vice ; and I set myself to show
that part of the world for which I worked how
the world outside it lived and felt and thought.
How are the rich and prosperous to know
how to be merciful to the poor, if the press
give the poor no voice? It is not three
months since I learned for the first time in my
life that there are thousands of people in
England to whom railways are a real and a
terrible grievance. There are countless problems
in the life of the very poor of which
the world has no conception, can have no
conception. I set myself to learn the more
urgent of those problems, and to lay them out
for popular study, believing that in the multitude
of counsellors there is wisdom, and that
the solutions were likelier to be got at in that
way than in any other.

I found one of the most troublesome of
these problems on its way to a solution in the
hands of an old acquaintance — Mr. Hastings, —
who had purchased one of the worst human
rookeries in all London, and had transformed
it into decency. The place is known as Bolter's

Rents, and stands on the south side of Oxford
Street. There is a way through from it to
the Seven Dials ; and there are intermediate
homes of villainy in the midst of which it is
even now unsafe for a well-dressed stranger
to show himself alone in broad daylight. It
was one of the natural results of my occupation
that I was ' known to the police ; ' and a
sergeant of the force told me the history of
Bolters Rents so far as he knew it.

I was on duty close by there,' said the
sergeant, ' years ago, when it was a real dangerous
place to go into in the daytime. You
mayn't believe it, but I was with the present
proprietor when he made his first entry into
the place. I was on duty in the night time
when he come up to me with a doctor. Their
was a feller took hill in the Rents ; and the
gentleman — Mr. Hastings were his name, and
I daresay you've heard of him — had been down
with a nigger-servant which he kep' at that
time, which is since dead, I believe. The
doctor akshally wouldn't go down without a
officer ; and I went down with 'em ; an' it
turned out in the oddest way that Mr. Hastings
snowed the sick party, which had comedown
in the world, from been' a money-lender

in the City, terrible. He's a-livin' there now.
German Jew he is. Sweeps a crossing near
the Marble March, and goes by the name
of Tasker.'

I was startled to hear this, though I made
no remark about it to the sergeant, but kept
my knowledge of the man's history to myself.

His,' said the officer, who was very intelligent
and very civil, ' you reply desire to
'ave a good look at the place, you can't do
better than find out a party by the name of
Penkridge, which lives their. Tell 'im Hi
sent you, an' you'll find 'im a civil an' respectful
feller.'

I sought and found the party by the name
of Penkridge, who acted as a sort of porter
to the place. It was his function to keep
order, and to collect payments, and to overlook
a certain amount of weekly scrubbing,
which had now been for some years one of
the fixed ordinances of Bolter's Rents. I
found him, as the sergeant had foretold, very
civil and respectful.

1 I'm quite a reformed party,' he told me ina
whining way, which left me not so certain of
his reformation as I might have been ; 'I'm
quite a brand, plucked from the burning.'

I supposed — to keep him talking — that Mr.
Hastings had done much good there.

Yes,' he answered ; and so has Dr. Brand's
good lady, sir ; and Dr. Brand himself, sir.
Oh yes, sir ; but the party's hand wot saved
me, sir, lived in the place himself, sir. It's
the Duke, sir, as done most o' the good as
'as been done 'ere, sir. It was 'im as made
me sign the pledge, sir, an' kep me a tee-tother
this last five year. Ah sir, if ever
there was a saint as was a Workman, it's
poor Mister Jones.'

'Do you call Mr. Jones " The Duke'"
I asked him.

Oh, I do assure you, sir,' said Penkridge,
he's quite the gentleman. They say as he
had a million of money, sir, and lost it on
the turf. Of course, sir, he's quite a poor
person now, sir ; but he needn't have been
so, sir, if he'd ha' liked ; for many a time,
sir, Mr. Hastings have said to me — " Penk-
ridge," he says, " I wish you'd ask the Duke
to live here altogether an' attend to the
Rents," he says, " an' leave them docks for
good," he says.'

1 And the Duke won't leave ? ' I asked.
How is that ?'

Well, sir, it's like this,' said Penkridge.
He doesn't like to be beholden to nobody.
Not as he's proud. Oh, I do assure you,
not at all, sir. But he's got that way with
him, sir, and the kindest 'art as ever breathed.'

The man told him in his own whining way
many stories of this broken millionaire's kindness
and generosity ; and when I left him,
and passed from one room to another, I found
that a mere mention of ' the Duke ' drew forth
praises. My curiosity to see so remarkable
a personage, natural in itself, was stimulated
by the constant statement, in answer to my
inquiries, that he would speak to nobody but
the inmates of the court. Mrs. Brand, her
husband, the landlord, city missionaries, Bible
readers — in all a score of people or more,
had attempted to hold intercourse with him.
He was, except for charity, a hermit, and
was quite unapproachable. I determined that
I would seek an interview with him ; and
consulted Penkridge, who responded, that
Mr. Jones had gone into the country ; saying
he might be away a week. This was
the first occasion on which he had spent a
night away from the place, since he first
came to it, many years before.

But, sir,' said Penkridge, under the soothing
influence of a shilling, ' If you'd like to
see the party's rooms, sir, I've got a key as
ud let you in, sir.'

My curiosity had been so keenly stimulated
concerning the man, that I resolved at least
to see the place in which he lived. Penkridge
led the way up several flights of stairs to a
dark landing ; and inserting his key, admitted
me to a chamber with a sloping roof, a clean-scoured
floor, and whitewashed walls. A low
trestle-bed, with coarse but clean clothing ; a
chest like a sailor's ; a frying-pan, a teapot,
a cup and saucer ; a plate, with knife, fork,
and spoon beside it ; one chair and a little
table — were all the room contained. The
wall had been scratched in one place ; and
the powdered whitewash lay in a line along
the floor, below it. I walked across, and
without any purpose which I can recall, looked
at the place which had been so cleaned ; and
Penkridge volunteered the statement that the
inmate of the room was ' allays a-drorin' on
the walls, an' scratching' out of what he crores.'

He used to do it when I lived 'ere with

him, sir,' said Penkridge in his whining way.

Faces he'd door, an' ladies an' gentlemen ;

pretty near allays the same ladies an' gentlemen,
sir ; and one 'ouse he used to door, an 5
trees, an' things. I've told 'im many's the
time, sir, as he might ha made five shilling'
a day if he'd ha' took to drorin' on the pavement,
sir.'

1 An artist ? ' I said lightly, as we left the
room.

1 You may well say that, sir,' my guide answered,
locking the door behind him. ' You
may well say that, sir, I do assure you, sir.
I've got a take-off as he did o' me, sir, as
couldn't be crores truer, not if it was photographed,
sir.'

I said I should like to see it ; and on my
way out I paused at his door, and waited
for the production of this work of art. He
brought a half-sheet of dirty letter-paper ; and
I looked at it listlessly ; but my eyes had
no sooner fallen upon the paper than my
listlessness had vanished. It was an absolute
and amazing likeness, and was produced by
the least effort conceivable. The man who
could have done this might have made a
fortune as a caricaturist. It was drawn in
that effective outline of which Wallis Mackay
is the latest master, an outline which gives

shadow and rotundity. I bought it for half
a-crown, and carried it away with me. It
hangs before me now, a memento of that
tragedy which it was my destiny to trace to
its close.

Gregory had, after an enforced and lengthy
waiting, fulfilled his promise ; and this visit
to Bolters Rents was made on the Saturday
on which he visited Hartley Hall. He came
back late that night, and gave me in full
the result of his interview with my uncle.
He told me that Uncle Ben had at first
obstinately refused to listen to any evidence
upon the case, saying that it had cost him
grief enough and more, already.

He said the endorsement was yours said
Gregory, 'and that he knew it for yours, in
spite of all the evidence in the universe. I
tola him that I admitted that ; but that the
forgery was not ; and that you had been
fraudulently tricked into signing your name
upon that sheet of paper. He answered in
great excitement, that if I would prove that,
he would give me a hundred thousand pounds ;
and said he would draw out a cheque for it
that minute, and hand it over when I made
the proof clear. I told him in answer to

that,' said Gregory, with a wink, 'that he'd
better wait until the case was proved ; and
that then, if he liked, I wasn't too proud to
be set down for a trifle in his will

The gist of Gregory's narrative lay in the
fact that Uncle Ben was at that moment in
London, whither he had come for the purpose
of examining the forged signature, which he
admitted he had not yet critically looked into,
except so far as to enable him to pronounce it
an imitation of his own. He had heard the
story of Gascoigne's perfidy ; but had promised
that, if I wished it, and the tale proved true, he
would let him go, and take no steps against
him.

All this brought but little consolation to my
spirit ; and indeed, I would rather have continued
to bear the blame, than have had it
removed from me, to be transferred in such an
unexampled load of treachery and baseness to
Gascoigne's shoulders. Crime is a plant which
has a thousand-thousand seeds, that fly, loose
as thistle-down, and wide as the bounds of
human circumstance can carry them, to breed
corruption in uncounted hearts. Revenge distrust,
and many ulcers more were bred in me
from the seeds of Gascoigne's guilt. I had

VOL. III. Q

cast away love and worship, and felt as though
there were no more to give, and all men were
unworthy.

When I remember what happened on the
following Monday, I am filled with shame.
But I am bound, if I tell this tale at all, to tell
it fairly, and I set down that with the rest. I
was alone in my chambers, and sore at heart,
thinking of Gascoigne's villainy and Uncle
Ben's faithlessness, when there came a knock
at the outer door, and I found my Uncle Ben
standing there. I gave him no greeting ; and
he followed me into my sitting-room, and set
his hat and stick upon the table. I sat down,
and would not look at him ; and he stood therefor
a little time in silence. Then he cleared
his throat once or twice, and called me byname.
I made no answer ; and again there
was a silence for a space.

Johnny,' he said at length, relapsing in his
emotion — which surely should have touched
me — into a broader accent than I had ever
heard him use till now — ' I've come to ax
your pardon. Their's no moor doubt about
the matter. I dort suppose their ever was
any ; but I acted wrong, Johnny. We've
hunted that their Gascoigne up, an' we've

found him out ; and he's confessed ; an' I've
come straight up from him tax your pardon.
I've let him off, for your sake, Johnny; and
I've come up tax your pardon.'

His voice melted me, but I would not speak.
I am ashamed to tell the truth ; but it was
this, and this only, which held me back from
meeting him at once with open arms. I was
miserably afraid that men would say — or think,
if they did not say it in my hearing — that
had Uncle Ben been poor, I could have had
no forgiveness for the wrongful suspicion he had
held ; but that since he was rich, I forgave him
freely. And this fear held me silent whilst he
waited, and silent still as his appeal went on.

Johnny,' he said again, ' it broke my
heart to think it of you. Be mine the
shame, Johnny ; it ain't no shame to you.
Throw it all on me. I'll bear it. I deserve
it. But I will say this, as never a uncle
loved his never better in this wide world
than I did. It broke my heart to think it
of you. I take all the shame an' blame o'
what I did, an' I take it glad an' willing' —
glad an' willing'. I couldn't bear to think it o'
my sister's child.'

His voice broke, and he paused again ;

and I knew that he was weeping. Pride
filled my heart, and though his tears should
surely have touched me, I held my peace,
and answered not a word.

1 You're hard, to be so young,' he said again,
after a long pause. ' But I deserve it. Oh, I
deserve it ; but it ain't what I looked for. I'm
getting' old. I ain't long for this world. You
won't turn me away without a word. You
won't let me go away without saying', " Uncle,
I forgive you ! " I acknowledge as I was a
wrong-headed old fool to think my lad 'ud
dream o' such a thing. But I've suffered
for it, Johnny ; I've suffered for it'

Still my pride kept me silent, and he stood
there waiting vainly for an answer.

'Good-night,' he said brokenly. * I'll come
again, when you've had time to think a bit. I do
you justice. I've thought an' said a hunted
times to-day as if anybody had brought a
charge like that agen me, I'd never ha' spoke to
him, not if he was dying'. I know it's hard ; but
you'll forgive me in the long-run, an' I'll — I'll
leave you for a bit to think it over. Goodnight,
my lad, an' bless you always.'

He lingered for awhile ; and then, finding me
still obdurate, went away through the open

doors ; and I heard him pass down-stairs, and
listened to his steps until they died upon the
gravel of the pathway in the square. Then my
shame and pity ran in upon me in an agony,
and I would have given all I had to recall
the last five minutes. But I told myself that
the chance of reconciliation was gone, and
stayed where I was, and nursed my miseries,
and justified myself in my own mean mind,
and bolstered the shameful purpose I had held
to with spites and prides : and through it all
suffered, I hope, as I deserved to suffer.

Uncle Ben came no more : but Will and
Maud called upon me on their return from
the continent, and begged me to be reconciled.
I besought them in turn to leave
that theme alone : but at last Maud drew
from me the reason of my refusal, which
indeed she had guessed all through.

You shall come with me to Uncle Ben,'
she said ; ' and neither of you shall say a
word about it, but you shall be friends. " Let
the dead past bury its dead," my dear. — Do
you know who is with us at the Bingham ?
No ? Your cousin Mary. You must let
us take you back. You know she said,
speaking apart to me, while Cousin Will

stood outside smoking his cigar upon the
landing-place, and taking an intense interest
in the balustrades — ' you know that Mr. Fair-holt's
objections are likely to endure as long
as your enmity to Uncle Ben.'

There again,' I answered, ' you urge me
to my own-advantage. I must forgive a
wrong to profit by forgiveness. You make
it harder for me — not easier.'

1 It is now four o'clock said Maud, ignoring
my pride and my pettishness, e and we
have purchases to make. We will call for
you at six. You will come, I know,' she
said : and added sweetly, ' You can make us
all happy. Come.'

I promised to answer her when she came
again ; and I accompanied them to the gates,
and saw them drive away. Not knowing
what to do with the two hours which were
thus left on my hands, I rambled into Chancery
Lane thinking, and determining more
and more to ask Uncle Ben's forgiveness in
my turn. Moved by this growing resolve,
I walked faster and faster, along Holborn
and into Oxford Street, and was pushing on
at a great pace, when a shabby, panting, breathless
creature ran full tilt against me, and in

the mutual recoil and stare, the man Penkridge
and I recognised each other. I was going by,
when, with wheezing haste, he besought me to
stop a moment.

What is it ? ' I said, a little angrily.

1 Ho, sir,' he panted, ' no doctor as don't
know mell think o' coming,' sir, for a cove like
me. But the poor Duke, he's a dying, sir, an'
Mr. Hastings he'd give anything to have him
seen to proper. Oh sir, I've been for Dr.
Brand, sir, an' he an't in, sir, an' I'm a-going
to find the landlord, sir ; an' would you, sir,
for heaven's sake, go an' look at him ? '

I tore a leaf from my pocket-book, and
wrote upon it, 'An urgent case. Please, accompany
messenger. I will be responsible
for medical charges.' I signed this, and gave
it to the man. ' Run with that to the nearest
surgeon. Bring him to Bolter's Rents. I
will go on and see if I can be of service.' I
walked hurriedly to the Rents, mounted the
creaking stair, and found the room, with half-a-dozen
people jangling noisily in it about the
bed. One old woman was burning feathers,
and another held a basin of water in her
hands. On the bed lay the recluse, a venerable
figure, with long white hair and beard.

He was dressed, and lay motionless and unconscious,
and there was a stain of blood upon
his silver head.

What has happened ? ' I questioned.

The noise had ceased at my coming ; and
one of the women answered in a whisper,
Knocked down, sir, by a hansom. The
cabman's give up his ticket to the plebeian,
sir.'

I ordered the burning feathers to be thrown
out of the window ; and then felt the injured
man's pulse and examined his eye. He was
unconscious, and his pulse was feeble. I despatched
one of the women for brandy, and
cleared the room of the others ; and then
sitting by the bedside, awaited the arrival of
Penkridge and a doctor. I looked about the
bare and almost empty room, and then back
to the prostrate figure on the bed. The man's
face was calm, and had a venerable and even a
noble look ; and I regarded it long and thoughtfully,
for it seemed to stir in me a memory
of some one I had known long since. Looking
away with abstract eyes, I saw a face
start from the whitewashed wall. I write of
my impression. There was no face in the
world I could less have expected to see limned

there than this — for it was Polly's. It was no
fortuitous likeness, but a portrait, a reproduction
in outline of the living face. It was but
roughly traced in charcoal on the whitewash of
the wall, but it was a master's work. Turning
in a chaos of amazement, for which
I can find no words, I saw above the low-browed
fireplace a smaller sketch in pencil.
N earing this, I stood rooted before the almost
living forms and faces of Will and Maud.
They stood before me arm-in-arm, and the
door of a church was indicated behind them.
I went back to the bed, and looked again upon
the man who lay there. The likeness I had
dimly thought was there flashed out upon me.
It was that of my Cousin Will — a resemblance
disguised by the form and colour of the hair
and beard, but growing more authentic to me
every second. In my agitation I scarcely
knew that I spoke aloud : ' Frank Fairholt
did not die in the Crimea. This is he ! '

The man's eyelids moved, and the eyes
looked out from under the black eyebrows
wearily, as though they surveyed some misery
grown familiar. And I knew him then, beyond
all chance of doubt, for the dreadful
stranger of my childhood's dreams.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

1 It is all atoned for ; but the atonement was not mine!

SAT beside the injured man, so marvellously
discovered ; and as my mind grew
calmer, I surveyed the chain of circumstance
which led me there, and heaped surmise on
surmise as I strove to guess what hideous
compulsory fate had driven such a man as
Frank Fairholt had been to such a place as
this. When Penkridge came at last accompanied
by a surgeon, I waited only to carry
away a sounder opinion of the medical aspect
of the case than I could form. I had already
given the patient a little brandy, and had
moistened his lips and temples with the spirit ;
and his pulse was somewhat accelerated when
the surgeon came.

I can have no opinion yet,' he said in

answer to my inquiry. 'He is an old man,
and a shock of this kind may prove fatal.'

Will you be good enough to remain with
him ? ' I asked. ' I will drive to Dr. Brand,
and either bring him back or leave word for
him to come.'

1 Dr. Brand ? ' said the surgeon. ' Do you
mean the Dr. Brand ? of Wimpole Street ?

He has taken a great interest in this man
I answered, not caring to give either Penk-
ridge or the surgeon any insight into my discovery
; ' and he will be glad to come.'

I'm afraid the poor fellow will be scarcely
able to pay Dr. Brand's fees,' said the surgeon.

I will be answerable for that,' I returned ;
and at once sped in pursuit of the doctor,
whom I found in the act of sitting down to
dinner. I told him hastily what I knew ; and
he snatched up his hat and ran to the cabin
haste. As we rode over the brief space
between Wimpole Street and Bolter's Rents,
he said only, ' Whether this extraordinary
belief of yours be true or false, Campbell,
there is a mystery about this man which maybe
unravelled now.'

1 You know my cousin and his wife ? ' I
asked ; and he nodded in reply. ' Look,' I

added, 'at their portraits in pencil on his
wall.'

He nodded gravely once more ; and neither
of us spoke again until we reached the room.
The surgeon met him with marked respect,
and made some observation on the condition
of the patient, which Dr. Brand disregarded.
By what intuition he knew, I cannot tell, but
the physician shook his head as he looked
at the prone figure, and after the briefest
examination, laid the patient's lax hand gently
down. ' He will probably rally in four-and-twenty
hours by the exhibition of cordials,' he
said in a low tone to the surgeon ; ' but recovery
is impossible.'

The surgeon bowed assent to this judgment
; and the physician turned silently, and
guided by my glance, walked to the fireplace
and looked at the drawing above it. Guided
by my glance again, he crossed the room,
and looked at the drawing on the opposite
wall. He said nothing then ; but after carefully
surveying the face, and standing before
it thoughtfully a moment, he produced his
pocket-book, and wrote out a prescription.

1 This is a case,' he said to the surgeon,
1 in which I take a deep and special interest.

Can you oblige me by securing a good nurse ?
We must do what we can for him, poor
fellow ; ' glancing to the bed. The surgeon
responding that he was happy to be of service,
took his leave ; and Dr. Brand, holding
him a moment by the buttonhole, asked
him to return at his earliest convenience.
This he promised ; and a minute later, Penk-
ridge having been dismissed, the doctor and
I stood side by side, looking down on the
unconscious figure. ' Tell me,' he said in a
low voice, ' on what you base your belief
about this man's identity.'

In the same tone, I sketched the story
rapidly ; and the doctor nodded here and thereto
signify attention. ' These,' he said, waving
his hand towards the sketches on the wall, ' are
potent proof, certainly ; but we shall probably
know all when the patient rallies. It will be
strange and terrible,' he murmured, ' if such a
tragedy has been near us all these years, and
we have never guessed it.'

My Cousin Will is in town,' I reminded
him, ' with his wife. My uncle is with them.
It must be told to one of them. But Maud
should never hear of it.'

'No,' he answered. ' I remember the story

well. They were lovers. We must spare her,
if we can. Wait until the surgeon returns, and
then find Mr. Hartley, and tell him what you
believe. Let him be here before this hour
tomorrow.'

I promised ; and Dr. Brand departed. I
waited until the darkness fell upon me, and I
could see only the faint silvery gleam of head
and beard as I looked upon the bed. And in
the solemn silence, broken only by the breathing
of the dying man, and by the roll of traffic,
which sounded there like a murmur from the
shore heard far inland, the better thoughts
which had long struggled within me had full
sway. I called to mind all the suffering which
I had known to spring from the one tragedy
whose end was drawing near so swiftly ; and I
vowed within myself that the hearts which had
been so wounded, should henceforth know no
added pang through me.

When at last my watch was over, and I had
seen the nurse take her place, I betook myself
to the Bingham and asked for Uncle Ben. I
discovered that he had not been told of Maud's
attempt to persuade me, and that he had gone out
to a dinner of some City magnates, with whom
he had been associated in his business days.

But Maud and her husband and Polly were
there, spending a restful evening in quiet talk.
I told them of my better purpose with regard
to Uncle Ben, and shrived myself of my ingratitude
and hardness. And all the time, as
Will and Maud talked happily, and as I read in
every glance that passed between them, and in
every tone as they addressed each other, their
settled surety in each other's love ; and when I
saw in Maud's dear face the placid happiness
that beautified it, my thoughts turned back to
the dying man who lay in the mean chamber so
near at hand, and I thanked God that the two
scenes were so wide apart in spite of nearness.
It was after midnight when Uncle Ben returned,
and Will and I were then alone. He
came in with a sad and weary look, which
touched me to the heart. He did not see meat
first, and started at my voice.

Uncle,' I said, ' I have acted vilely, and I
am here to ask your pardon.'

He made no answer in words ; but coming
near me, he placed his arms about my neck, ashe
had done when I was a child, and kissed
me. Then with eyes a little dimmed, we shook
hands heartily, and our reconciliation was complete.
Will bade us both a cheery good-night,

and left us ; and then I told my story. It was
listened to with such wonder as may be imagined
; and my uncle, much perturbed by it
promised to be with me before noon, and to
accompany me to Bolter's Rents ; reserving
until after his visit, all opinion as to whether
Will should know of the belief at which I had
arrived. We met at the appointed time, and
walked to Oxford Street together.

4 I have told Will privately,' said my uncle
as we went, ' that in two hours' time I may
want to see him on a matter of great importance
; and he's promised to wait for me.'

I understood from this that he had decided,
in case he shared in my belief, to communicate
the facts to Will ; and it seemed
to me that it was scarcely possible to do
otherwise. I had warned him of the nurse's
presence : and when we reached the room, I
pointed without comment to the sketches on
the walls ; and he stood before them in deep
amazement. Then after long and careful
study of the face of the dying man, he
beckoned me, and left the room on tiptoe.
When we reached the court, he turned an
agitated countenance upon me. ' There's
nothing surer in the world, Johnny,' he said,

with tremulous solemnity. ' It's the man. I
should ha' known him in a crowd, if I'd had
reason to look at him.'

1 Mr. Hastings saw him,' I returned, ' when
he was probably less changed than he is now,
and did not know him.'

Yes,' assented my uncle ; ' but Hastings
didn't have the pictures to guide him ; and
he thought he'd buried him 'ears an' 'ears ago,
in the Crimea.'

My uncle's disturbance was so evident, that
I would not allow him to enter the hotel.
We appointed a meeting-place ; and I proceeded
to the hotel alone, and sent a waiter
to say that Mr. Hartley would be glad to
see Mr. Fairholt at once. In a short time
Will came down, and in some surprise set
out with me. He asked in vain for an explanation
; and we drove to Bolter's Rents in
silence. There was a little crowd in the
court waiting with anxious looks for news.
Penkridge formed one of this sad knot ; and
touching his hat to me, humbly said that the
nurse had left the patient for a time. He
had recovered consciousness, and had asked
to see a minister of religion. A priest who
had within the last two or three months been
vol. in. R

in the habit of visiting the Rents, had been
there at the time, and was now with him. I
could not even yet bear to break the whole
news to my Cousin Will ; but I said to him
as we walked towards the end of the court,
■ We have what I am afraid will prove a terrible
surprise for you. We would have spared
you if we could ; but we did not think it possible
or right, and we have acted for the best.'

My uncle nodded in confirmation of my
words, and held out a hand, warning us to
silence as we reached the foot of the stairs.
Slowly and silently, we climbed storey after
storey until we reached the last flight, when
we heard the sound of a measured voice reading.
As we stood, we could even hear the
words which told the parable of the Prodigal
Son. At a farther gesture from my
uncle's hand, we went on silently, and paused
upon the landing. There Will laid a hand
upon my arm ; and in the light which reached
us through the half-open door, I saw his lips
shape a word — a name. I nodded, in token
that I knew it ; and we stood in silence.
Another voice spoke in repetition of the immortal
words — ' But when he was yet a

GREAT WAY OFF, HIS FATHER SAW HIM.'

Will Fairholt's face turned ghastly pale ;
and like one who had no power or will to
stand or stay, but moving as though another
mind impelled him, he passed into the room.
We who remained without with beating hearts,
heard on a sudden a wailing cry, and silence
fell, broken after a space by sobs and murmurs.


Will,' said the voice which had spoken
last, ' God is merciful. It is all atoned for ;
but — the atonement — was not — mine.'

A sigh followed ; and there came another
silence, and then Will's voice called upon his
brother : ' Frank ! Frank ! Look at me !
Speak to me ! '

There was no sound of answer ; and when
we dared at last to enter the room, we saw
the brother a second time bereaved, upon his
knees beside the bed, with his face lying on
the dead man's outstretched hand. And in
the open eyes from which the glory of the
prophecy of death had not yet faded, there
was peace unspeakable.

There was one in the garb of a friar who
stood beside the bed with downcast eyes,
whom all the living there had known and
loved, whom we could know and love no

longer. And after a while he went his way
with downcast eyes and bitter tears ; and
there was no word spoken and no sign
made among us.

We drew poor Will away gently, and sent
the nurse to her last melancholy function.
And whilst Will was weeping for his brother,
Hastings came and learned the story, and
was smitten with grief and wonder. But
when we were all a little stronger, we made
a solemn pact that our knowledge should
rest among us ; and only we four, and Dr.
Brand, know upon whose grave the flowers
bloom so sweet in the quiet churchyard near
Frank Fairholt's ancient home.

THE END.

735 09/01 lh m

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

w
