m

FENWICK'S

QJ

(In Connection with Muche's)

germs of SuBscrtpfioit,

Payable in Advance, and Commencing at any Date.
Two Vols. Three Vols.

Twelve Months . 18 17 6

Six Months 10 6 10

Three Months . 6 8 6

One Month 2 (3 3 <3

Three Volumes at a ti ne, 1/^per Week.

Single Subscription, 10 6 per Annum.
Six Months, 6 -

This Subscription docs not include the Newest Books rail
the first demand has subsided.

SINGLE VOLUMES L*3NT TO READ

AT ONE PENNY PER DAY.

*Mos, WESTERN Roads

Norfolk Square)

BRIGHTON.

m

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

by

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF Joseph COAT *A LIFE S ATONEMENT COALS OF FIRE ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I.

fsmbon
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/bygateofseaintwo01chri

TO

WALTER BESANT, Mea.

There was once a time — unless many books do lie —
when old artists met young ones without jealousy and
young ones sought their elders without fear, because
the bond of a common hope was strong, and all
workers in art were brothers. Nature brings not
bach the mastodon, nor we those times; yet in giving
this both to the public I am impelled to dedicate it
to a delightful elder brother whom I have never seen,
but whose manly, genial, and helpful voice has been
long familiar to me.

I). CHRISTIE MURRAY.

St. Leonard :

May 1883.

*1

CHAPTER I.

It was in the days of the ]last dynasty of the
dandies, and anybody under the age of thirty
who spoke with the accent of Christian,
pagan, or man could scarcely be accounted
a gentleman.

She is a faine creachaw,' said the Captain
; ' a devilish faine creachaw — an exceptionally
faine creachaw.'

The Lieutenant echoed the Captain's
encomium, and the pair struck into for-vol.

I. B

mid able attitudes at the porch of the theatre.
Little knots of the country people gathered
on the other side of the road and surveyed
the two gentlemen, who were attired in
evening dress, and knew themselves to be
objects of interest and admiration. M.
Gibus had just given to the world his famous
invention, and the two military gentlemen ,
who were in the van and foremost of fashion,
had adopted it. The Captain was fully self-possessed
under the admiring gaze of the
yokels, but the Lieutenant so far yielded to a
natural weakness as to take off his hat and
flatten it against his breast. It was done with
an admirable air of absent-minded habit, and
it amazed the bystanders. The Lieutenant
felt that he made a telling figure, but when
he released the springs and the hat fled back

4 Hollo, Tregarthen ! How d'ye do ?
Quite an age since we saw you, old fellow.
Here's Harcourt. Have you seen Miss
Churchill? She's a faine creachaw, an
exceptionally faine creachaw, 'pon my
word.'

The Captain smiled at this echo of his
own conversational felicities. The Lieut

2

tenant, as he knew, was a fellow of no
originality.

4 No,' said Tregarthen ; 6 1 haven't seen
her. Who is she ? '

c Actress,' replied the Lieutenant, successfully
imitating the Captain's drawl. c Playing
here now. Devilish fame creachaw,
*pon honour. Come in and look at her.
Harcourt and I have a box here. No ladies
with us. Doesn't matter that yaw not
dressed. Come along, there's a good fellow.'

The new-comer allowed himself to be
persuaded, and the three entered the theatre
together. It was a small house, but too
large for its audience, and all its tinsel was
shabby as well as tawdry, and most of the
gas globes around the dress circle were
chipped and broken. An impossible old

Adam doddered and withered off the stage,
thumping the boards with a staff like the
prop of a clothes-line, and a burly Orlando
followed him with his calves in his ankles.
Then the scene shifted, and on came a
dissipated Touchstone in second-hand
garments, and a dowdy Celia, and between
them Eosalind in doublet and hose. 'Oh,
Jupiter I ' sighed Eosalind ; ' how weary
are my spirits ! ' Something knocked at
the heart of Cornet Tregarthen. He had
never before listened to such a voice, and its
tones went through him like a delicate fire.
Touchstone jarred in with his answer, and
Rosalind spoke again : ' I could find it in
my heart to disgrace my man's apparel, and to
cry like a woman.' It was downright pitiful,
and yet there was a touch of comedy in it. £ But

I must comfort the weaker vessel, as doublet
and hose ought to show itself courageous to
petticoat.' The comedy shone out therewith
tender brilliance. 'Therefore, courage,
good Aliena ! ' To one listener there was
such a womanly courage, solicitude, and
friendship in the phrase and in the lovely
voice that spoke it, that his eyes dimmed
and his heart stuck in his throat. Cornet
Tregarthen was but two-and-twenty, and
youth is sometimes impressionable.

Eosalind, in spite of the fatigue which
evidently sat upon her, was as straight and
lithe as the stalk of a lily, and she had a
voice like a silver bell. The Cornet was
short-sighted, and her features were dimly
seen, but he fancied them lovely. An
older and more experienced man might

have been excused for the fancy, with
such a voice and such a figure on which to
base it.

His companions expressed their admiration
for the actress in their own way, but
he scarcely heard them. Even when Rosalind
was absent from the stage he had but
inattentive ears for the Captain and the
Lieutenant, and he answered them when
they addressed him with an absent ' Yes ' or
No,' or a dreamy nod.

Tregarthen,' said the Captain, 'has gone
spoons on the Churchill. '

The Lieutenant nodded and booked
the statement for future use. Its chaste
simplicity and directness charmed him, and
he resolved to repeat it to Islands at headquarters
if he saw him before Harcourt did.

The play was over, the curtain was
down, and the sweet voice dwelt in Regard
ears. ' Bid me farewell,' said the
sweet voice, in the last words of the
epilogue. It sounded personal to him, and
there was a pleasant gentle sadness in it.

When do you join us at headquarters,
Tregarthen ? ' asked the Captain. ' You
must find it most intolerably dull where yaw
staying, eh?'

I am ordered to rejoin tomorrow,'
said Tregarthen. ; Hazel tells me that
Colonel Pollard will be there. I have not
seen him yet.'

1 No,' said the Captain, ' Old Polly's been
on sick leave at Retreat — cursed little village
somewhere on the Continent. You'll like
him. Jolly old bird is Polly. Tells

thundering' good yarn, Polly does. Mostly
'bout himself, y' know — self an' ladies, y'
know — that sort thing, but thundering' good
they are. Sly old dayvl Polly is, uncommon.'


6 1 shall meet him tomorrow,' said
Tregarthen, somewhat absently.

He's a bit of a crib-biter, too, Polly is,'
said the Lieutenant, ' bit of a martinet, y'
know ; but everybody gets on with him in
the long run, don't they, Harcourt ? '

He's a cursed good old sort, is Polly,'
the Captain replied with emphasis. ' You'll
like him no end, Tregarthen. Night-night,
my boy. Glad to have met you.'

Tregarthen took train and reached his
own quarters, and his thoughts dwelt a good
deal about Miss Churchill by the way. To

his mind she was the first real artist he had
seen upon the stage, and for the time at
least her voice had taken him captive.
Shakespeare for once had found an actress
worthy to interpret him, and surely no other
man who had ever lived could have created
a part sweet and bright enough for so exquisite
a creature to play in. He smoked a
cigar in company with his own agreeably
fluttered fancies, and then he went to bed
and slept soundly and forgot them. He was
not nearly so much impressed with Miss
Churchill in the morning, and though she
touched his thoughts pleasantly once or twice
he got through the day's business with no
great hindrance from her.

Late afternoon found him at headquarters
with little more than time to dress for dinner.

Lieutenant-colonel Pollard had resumed the
active command of the corps and took the
head place at the mess-table. Tregarthen
was presented, and formed a poor opinion of
the bloated old warrior, who met him with
a disreputable jest, and told straightway an
objectionable story which grated on the
Cornet's ears. When the real business of
the dinner began the manners of the officer
in command were not at all to the taste of
the young gentleman, who was possibly
fastidious. The Colonel's eyes goggled and
his face crimsoned as he strained over the
table to get at his soup, and his wicked
speech was half choked by wheezing and
panting. He gobbled as a gentleman
ought not to gobble, and he drank as a
gentleman ought not to drink. When

dinner was over the naughty old man told
shameless tales of his youth and manhood,
and Tregarthen, who had been bred to
reverence old age and to think purity as desirable
and lovely in a man as in a woman,
found the evening almost insupportable.

Somebody ought to put a stop to all
that,' he told Captain Harcourt, after dinner,
to that gallant officer's great astonishment.
In a society of gentlemen the thing is intolerable.
We serve a Lady,' he added,
with the generous pomposity of youth, ' and
that of itself might teach us better manners.'

The Captain stared at him with an
amazement he took no pains to disguise. A
touch of contempt was discernible even in
his wonder.

Shouldn't advise yah talk like that,'

lie said. l Cursed inconvenient have yang
fellahs offering' that sort opinion in the army.'

1 1 shall make it my business,' returned
Tregarthen in some heat at the
Captain's contemptuous wonder, ' to represent
to Colonel Pollard that at least one of his
officers finds his style of conversation irksome,
and thinks it unbecoming.'

Don't be an ass, Tregarthen,' said
Captain Harcourt. Tregarthen inclined his
head stiffly, and marched away. The
Captain told one or two of his closest friends
the story of the youngster's unaccountable
craze, and they all agreed that he was a prig
and a greenhorn. ' Polly,' said Harcourt, ' is
about the best sort in the service. Idea of
young fool like that pretending dictate
officers old enough be his father.'

Captain Harcourt's friends concurred
with him, and the story of Tregarthen's presumption
spread rapidly throughout the
regiment. Next day he was treated with
evident coldness, and some of his brother
officers who had hitherto been on friendly
terms with him took pains to avoid him.
He was not unpopular to begin with, but it
was the general sense of the corps that the
sort of insolence he had shown deserved
rebuke. He must be made to see at once
that this was not the tone to take.

That evening there came a time when
the conversation at the head of the table
was animated and loud. The youngsters at
the lower end smoked and listened and got
little good by listening. It was nothing less
than the reputation of a lady which so excited

the seniors. One man held out against
the rest and avowed his belief that the lady
was chaste as ice and pure as snow. The
others naturally laughed at him, for the
woman he defended was an actress, and in
those days — it may be better now — an
actress was anybody's fair game at a mess-table.


4 Wait a bit,' said the Colonel, with his
wicked bronchial old chuckle. 4 I'll tell you
a story a propos.'

Everybody listened and the Colonel told
his story. It redounded infinitely to his
own credit as a man of gallantry and infinitely
to the discredit of the lady, whose
personal charms he sung and whose character
he stole.

Now, who do you think that was ? *

asked the Colonel. Nobody answered, and
the fat old roue re-lit his cigar and gazed
about him with a look of twinkling triumph.
None other,' he said, after this pause, ' than
our chaste young friend, Miss Churchill.
What do you say to that ? '

It happened at this moment that the
Colonel's twinkling eyes looked full into the
eyes of Tregarthen, who was bending forward
a little at the bottom end of the table and
watching his commanding officer with an
expression of saturnine disdain. The black-browed
Cornet half rose in his place.

6 I beg your pardon, sir,' he said, slowly
and distinctly. 4 You seemed to address
your question to me. If you press me for
an answer I must give you one.'

It was generally felt that the hour had

come, and the assembled gentlemen braced
themselves to support authority. If the
Colonel had understood the situation he
would probably have snubbed the querist by
leaving him unseen and unanswered. But,
being taken by surprise, he rapped out
1 Well, sir ? ' and stared at the intruder with
a look half surprise, half anger.

X am to answer your question, sir ? :
said Tregarthen. c I think then, sir, that no
gentleman could have told such a story, and
that no assemblage of gentlemen could
hear it without marking their sense of
its cowardice, its brutality, and its general
ofFensiveness.'

The Colonel bounced to his feet, and
sent a dozen wineglasses flying. Major,
adjutant, captains, lieutenants, and cornets
vol. 1. c

'J-

all leapt up wildly. Tregarthen resumed
his seat, and was calm amidst this tempest
of his own raising.

6 Entire to your quarters, sir,' stormed
the Colonel. ' Consider yourself under
arrest, sir.' He stood puffing and snorting
for a moment whilst the offender arose,
saluted, and left the mess-room. ' Resume
your seats, gentlemen,' he said then, and all
sat down in awkward silence.

A general sense of relief was felt five
minutes later when, after a muttered word
or two to his neighbours at right and left,
the Colonel arose and withdrew, followed
by Major Eykin and Captain Harcourt.
Clamour ensued, and nothing was talked of
but the awful and unheard-of incident of the
evening.

Tregarthen in the meantime walked to
bis quarters, and returned the salutes offered
him by barrack loungers and sentries on the
way. It was summer time, and the twilight
lingered softly. An odour of mignonette
stole pleasantly through the open casement
of his chamber, and he seated himself on a
couch near the window, and looked at the
darkening zenith as he smoked. If he were
not altogether as placid as he seemed — and
he made it a point of honour to be outwardly
tranquil even in his own sole
company — he was less disturbed than might
have been predicted of a man so young after
his share in such a scene.

4 The man's a blackguard,' he said quietly.
w Perhaps I was an ass to tell him so — and
yet I don't know. That sort of thing ought

not to be allowed to go on amongst gentlemen,
and if it does it is clearly some one's
duty to put a foot upon it.'

He threw away the stump of his cigar,
lit a new one, and stretched himself along
the couch. In that position he smoked until
he could see nothing in the gathering darkness
but the little point of light an inch or
two from his nose.

Then steps sounded on the stairs and
there was a knock at the door. He called
to the knocker to enter, and two men
came in and looked about them uncertainly
in the gloom. There w T as a light upon
the stairs without, and he recognised his
visitors.

1 Mr. Tregarthen ? ' said one.

kt your service, sir,' he answered

gravely. ' Be seated, gentlemen. Allow
me to light the lamp.'

He moved quietly about the room, found
his lamp, set it upon the table, and, having
lighted it, resumed his place. But seeing
that his visitors remained standing, he arose
again and faced them.

Colonel Pollard,' began Major E} r kin,
with great solemnity, c having consulted
Captain Harcourt and myself, has decided to
meet the unusual occurrence of this evening
by a step which is at least as unusual, but
which seems to be called for by the circumstances
of the case.'

'Wisely. Quite so,' said Captain Harcourt.


1 The result of that decision is,' pursued
the Major, ' that we are here to ' demand a

meeting. Colonel Pollard entirely waives
the question of rank, feeling as he does that
nothing short of the course he proposes can
vindicate his honour.'

And you concur ? ' inquired the Cornet.

'Zactly,' said Captain Harcourt. ' We
concur.'

I must ask you to allow me to differ
from you, gentlemen,' said Tregarthen. ' I
do not see how it is in any way possible for
Colonel Pollard to vindicate his honour.'

'We will not trouble you, Mr. Tree
said the Major, 'for any expression
of your opinion.' He spoke with infinite
dryness. ' We will merely ask you to
nominate an hour for the meeting and to
name your friend.'

I cannot oblige you, gentlemen,' re-the

Colonel's emissaries looked at each
other with uplifted eyebrows.

1 Are we to understand,' asked the
Major, 'that you decline to meet Colonel
Pollard?'

'I do not see how the breach of law
which Colonel Pollard proposes can console
him for a former misdemeanour.'

4 Bay Jove, y'know,' cried Harcourt, ' the
fellow's mad's a March hare.'

I am not mad, most noble Festus,' said
Tregarthen, bowing.

The two military gentlemen were

strangers to the volume from which he
quoted, and they looked at each other again
with a glance that said plainly that the mark
had been hit.

6 1 will fight in the (Queen's cause,' said
the Cornet, 'but in no other. 7 Here was
another touch of the bombast natural to
ardent youth, but TrjJPrthen's aspect was
calm, and it was not difficult to see that he
meant what he said and was likely to abide
by it.

I do not think, sir said Major Eykin,
that you properly appreciate the situation,
or the alternative that lies before you.'

6 May I so far trespass on your kindness,'
asked the imperturbable young man, ' as to
beg you to instruct me ? '

6 You have offered to the virtual head of

your regiment a public and most shameful
insult,' returned the Major in considerable
heat. 'He waives all consideration of his
rank, and stoops to demand a personal
encounter in vindication of his outraged
honour. Stoops, sir ! — understand me, sir —
I say — stoops to demand a personal
encounter. That encounter you refuse.
Do you know what construction gentlemen
will put upon your refusal ? '

'I await instruction, sir,' answered
Tregarthen.

'Very well,' said the Major, grown
sardonic on a sudden, 'you shall have it.
It is open for you to offer an abject apology
and to exchange — if you are still inclined to
ornament the service.'

Is that the only alternative course you

see ? ' inquired the Cornet. ' Pardon me,
gentlemen. We are all naturally a little
heated by the events of the evening. May
I suggest that we attempt a milder humour ? '

'The thing, sir,' declared the Major,
6 stands beyond discussion. You aggravate
an original offence by the tone you choose
to take. 5

6 Permit me,' said this amazing subaltern.
Is it not at least equally open to Colonel
Pollard, with myself, to offer an apology
and to exchange — if he is still inclined to
ornament the service ? '

Major Eykin swung round upon his
heel and marched to the door. There he
turned abruptly.

One more chance, sir ! Do you
apologise or fight ? '

'Neither, sir returned Tregarthen.

The Major tore the door open and disappeared.
Tregarthen ran forward and
held the door whilst Harcourt left the room .
Their steps died off into silence, and the
presumptuous young man was left to his
own reflections, which began to be disturbed
and bitter. He found little fault
with himself as yet, but he had learned in
what light his conduct was likely to be
regarded by the men amongst whom he
had desired to live. He had acted deliberately,
and was not in the least disposed to
be ashamed of himself. Men of middle
age can sometimes school themselves to
hold a candle to the devil. They learn the
wisdom of the world and are not greatly
inclined to champion their own notions.
They feel no dishonour in toleration. But

with two-ancl-twenty all this may be different,
and happily it sometimes is. Quixote grows
into Sancho Panza, as often as not, before
he comes to forty year. That may or may
not be sorrowful, but to be born Sancho
would surely seem something of a pity.

Contrary to Tregarthen's expectation, no
immediate action followed upon his refusal
of the Major's ultimatum. A day or two
went by and he was simply disregarded.
No brother officer came near him ; he heard
nothing about the continuance of his arrest
or its discontinuance, and after waiting in
his own quarters until the sense of tedium
became too marked to be easily endured, he
wrote a careful little missive to the Colonel
requesting to know what form the charge
against him would take and when it would

be preferred. In response to these inquiries
came a letter from the Adjutant informing
him that the character of the charge was
under consideration, that he would receive
ample warning of the date on which it would
be preferred, and that he was in the meantime
to regard himself as being released from
active participation in regimental duties.
Following on this came another letter (signed
by every officer of the regiment with the
exception of the Colonel, the names following
each other in order of seniority) urging upon
him the extreme desirableness of a withdrawal
from the regiment, and suggesting in
terms of studied politeness that even the
service at large might manage to get along
without him.

This second epistle Tregarthen left unanswered,

but he appealed to the Adjutant
to know whether he might regard himself as
being provisionally at liberty, and being
answered in the affirmative he set out for
London. He found his story there before
him, garbled, as such stories are. He had
drunkenly insulted his Colonel, had thrown
a wineglass at him — in milder versions had
only thrown the contents of the glass — inversions
even stronger had used a decanter
as a missile.

He suffered much heart-burning before
the court-martial summoned to decide his
case was appointed, and if he had expectations
of support from any court of honour
they were dashed to pieces. The assemblage
of officers and gentlemen who investigated
the history of the quarrel were unanimously

against him. They were also
unanimous in their recommendation that he
should quit the service. This, with the
obstinacy natural to him, he utterly declined
to do, and the upshot of the whole matter
was that, when all due formalities had been
accomplished, the contumacious youth was
deprived of his commission, and was returned
to the world with a character more damaged
than it deserved to be. Discipline must be
maintained, and there is no doubt that if
cornets were accustomed publicly to rebuke
their colonels for breaches of good-breeding
the British military service would enter on
a phase of some novelty.

Tregarthen went home disgusted and
embittered. The only career he cared for
was closed to him for good and all, and

even in later years, when experience brought
him more wisdom than two-ands twenty
can commonly boast of, he believed himself
to have been unjustly used.

It seemed necessary to relate this episode
of his career for two reasons. It
strikes a keynote of character, and it furnishes
an explanation for his after mode of
life.

CHAPTER II

It was about the time of the events just
recorded that Mr. Eonald Marsh dawned
upon London. There are various ways of
dawning : the grey way is perhaps esteemed
the most prosperous, but Mr. Marsh dawned
in vivid splendours, and his glories at the
beginning were inclined to be tempestuous.
London is a biggish place to dawn upon,
and the luminary whose rays pierce every
cranny and corner of it must rise high and
shine bright indeed. Now Mr. Marsh made
no pretence (though he knew himself a sun
vol. r. D

of the first magnitude) to shine upon the
vulgar. The fog of their understanding
was obviously .too dense for him. He did
not even count upon illuming the whole
of the polite world, as yet. There are men
and women in the highest circles who never
get a thrill of warmth or a ray of conscious
light out of aeschylus or Shakespeare. Not
that Mr. Marsh thought much of aeschylus
or Shakespeare, but they had passed, up till
now, as amongst the earth's greatest, and
they were well enough in the way of parallel
or illustration. He was content for the
present to be seen and known of few. He
would have been content, in a way, not to
be seen or known at all — at least, he had the
modesty to say so — to shine unheeded, and
to rejoice in his own strength and radiance.

He dawned, then, in fitful splendours,
and his signs and portents were first noted
in the house of Lady Marguerite Capucine,
where he appeared in unstarched linen and
apparel of strange device, and with a head
of hair like a disorderly halo. He had no
actual companions, but two or three satellites
accompanied him, rising at his risings
and setting at his settings. Their merely
physical aspect was like his own ; they wore
their hair at as great a length and in as
picturesque disorder ; their sombreros and
their cloaks were as brandish as their
leader's. They thought great things of
themselves and of each other; but they
swore by the Leader and proclaimed him
the Emancipator of Human Thought. They
used to say, with every evidence of sincerity,
D 2

that when the Leader gave his poems to the
world the pillars of a work-out system would
be shaken.

The Leader could occasionally be prevailed
upon to repeat or read a mere fragmentary
extract from his work, and the
appetite of his followers grew with what it fed
on. In these excerpts the world was called
upon to break its fetters — not particularised
with clearness — and there were mightily
sonorous passages about the Degraded Gods
and the need for their complete abolition.

Nobody can live always at extremest
high pressure, and Mr. Eonald Marsh went
about sometimes quite like an ordinary
person. At these times he consorted for the
most part with people who were literary,
artistic, and theatrical. Bohemia is a

sparsely-peopled country now. One or two
men who really knew its crowded haunts
and its few solitudes, its cheerful highways
and sad byways, wrote about it and made
it familiar to the world. Then came the
inevitable cloud of imitators and pretenders,
and made poor old Bohemia an impossible
place to live in any longer. Its name is so
cheapened that the very mention of it has a
ring of sham sentiment and sham mirth ;
even its tried gold has been so lacquered
that it looks like pinchbeck. But there was
a Bohemia worth knowing even so late as
Eonald Marsh's day, and the great young
man sometimes strayed into it and tried to
feel as if he were native there.

There was, and is, a dingy back room in
one of the oldest houses in the Strand, a

mere box of an apartment, in which, by
crowding themselves uncomfortably, ten
men of average breadth of beam can sit
around the clumsy centre table. Half one
side of the room is occupied by a window,
but the smoke-encrusted wall of a neighbouring
building rises within two yards of
it, and a gruesome twilight reigns within
the apartment even at noontide. There,
once a week, in the days of which I write,
spectral-looking figures sat and held high
converse on books and pictures and. the
drama, and on the men and women who
wrote, or painted, or played. The air was
heavy with tobacco-smoke and the scent of
strong potables, and a new comer, entering
from the fresher air of the Strand, had some
ado to make out the inmates of the room.

The spectral nine welcomed the poet with
grave voices, and wedged themselves closer
to make room for him. The Leader took
his seat with an air of modesty, and the
spectral nine began to chaff him.

6 1 am sorry to tell you, Mr. Marsh,'
said one, speaking from the cloudiest
corner, 'that the petition yet awaits a
signature.'

What petition ? ' asked the poet, removing
his sombrero, and passing a hand
of unusual whiteness through his auburn
locks.

The petition,' responded the other,
bending forward to be more impressive, and
waving the smoke' aside with one hand.
Signed by the crowned heads of Europe,
the Pope of Borne, and the English Archbishops,

and now awaiting the signature
of the Metropolitan of the Greek Church at
Moscow

8 1 do not read the newspapers,' said the
poet, daintily lighting a cigar. ' What is the
object of the petition ? '

Gentlemen ! ' cried the man in the
corner. ' I appeal to you : Is it not unfair
for Mr. Marsh to feign ignorance on such a
topic ? '

Unfair in the extreme,' said eight
solemn voices. ' Disingenuous,' one added,
when the grave murmurs had died away.
They all echoed — ' Disingenuous.'

'The distinguished personages already
enumerated,' said the man in the corner,
4 address their petition to you, sir, and
entreat you not to smash things. They

dread the advent of your coming volume.
They beseech you to spare the Christian
faith, and to allow monarchical institutions a
final chance.'

The poet smiled and caressed his shaven
cheek with the tips of his fingers. Many a
true word is spoken in jest, and the man in
the corner was nearer the mark than he
fancied.

4 If the prayers of the great cannot move
you,' pursued the man in the corner, ' you
are a man, for you are poet — the greater
includes the less — and you may be moved
by the petitions of the lowly. I have a
maiden aunt, a harmless creature who
resides hard by, and clear-starches for a
bishop. If you destroy the Church you take
away her means of livelihood. Smite the

lofty if you will, but spare the humble.
Spare my maiden aunt.'

All the solemn voices murmured, led by
a man in another corner, ' Spare, oh, spare
his maiden aunt ! '

A special fund shall be set apart, out
of the* publisher's profits,' said the poet,
6 and your maiden aunt shall be provided
for.'

6 He unbends,' said one. ' He is human
after all. He can greek upon occasion, like
the Athenian weaver.'

Let us take him to the collective
bosom,' said the man in the corner. ' Let
us stand him drinks. Lorrimer, when the
glad child of the sun broke in upon us you
were in possession of the ear of the house.
Continue. Poet, be silent. A harp less

varied than thine own awakes in praise of
beauty.'

4 Gentlemen,' said Mr. Lorrimer, who
beamed rubicund and jovial through the
smoke, ' she is a stunner. I do not speak
unadvisedly or as one who has no knowledge.
It was I who found her. She has the
grace of Venus and the voice and figure of
a what's-his-name. I have no pretence to
classical attainments, gentlemen, and I wish
that our gifted young friend could describe
her for me.'

4 We shall judge for ourselves when she
makes her debut, said the man in the
corner. ' But in the meantime, who is she ?
Where does she come from ? '

4 You shall know all I know,' said Mr.
Lorrimer, with a superfluous appearance of

candour. ' Burnley has bought a bit of
fishing at a place called Lackey, down in
Berkshire. Little bit of a place with little
bit of a theatre, and the worst company 1
ever saw. Burnley asked me down, and of
course, with nothing doing at the end of
May, down I went. Went to the theatre
first night. Play was, " As You Like It."
As / liked it, it was the most fearful rubbish
ever staged. Even Shakespeare couldn't live
through that interpretation. But, begad,
gentlemen, in walks Eosalind, and I thought
I must be dreaming. Such a figure, such a
voice, such a stage presence, such a style.
Face not particularly pretty, but sweet and
expressive, and all that sort of thing. Made
me laugh, begad ; made me cry ; did what
she wanted with me. I've been in the profession

now for forty years, and I am not
easily moved.'

Wrong, Lorrimer ! You are more
easily moved than ever,' said the man in the
'corner. 'We all are. We cultivate the
emotions until they master us more readily
than they used. Gin unsweetened is the
next best thing to the pursuit of an artistic
calling. Take them both together and
you are blest indeed. You can weep
at any moment. Will you ring the bell,
Lorrimer? Thank you. Waiter — gin unsweetened.'


4 Well,' said Mr. Lorrimer, ' I've seen
'em all for forty years, and played to most
of 'em ; and, only give the new one a bit of
practice, gentlemen, and she'll beat the lot
of 'em. Into sticks,' he concluded, beating

the table two or three times with the palm
of his hand — ' into sticks ! '

What is this wonder's name? ' asked the
poet.

6 Her name is Churchill,' said Mr.
Lorrimer — ' Miss Churchill. And when the
Siddons and the Bracegirdles and the Old-fields
and the Kelly and the Keepers are
forgotten, she will be remembered. She's
unequalled. There never was anything like
her.'

The puff preliminary,' said the man in
the corner, ' requires an art which only
Lorrimer has mastered. Dramatic critics,
hold up your hands. Five ; and all big
fish.'

c I don't want to puff this time,' cried
Lorrimer. ' Wait till you see the lady,

gentlemen, and you'll say with me that no
adverse criticism can get near her. I defy
the crowd of you. And now, though I
grieve to leave you, dear boys all, I must be
off to rehearsal.'

Two men rose to allow him to wedge
himself from between the table and the walL
As he passed the poet he touched him on
the shoulder and gave him an inviting backward
nod. Mr. Marsh arose and followed
him.

6 Now you're a judge of acting,' said Mr,
Lorrimer, when they were in the Strand.
4 You're a judge of female beauty too. First
dress rehearsal this afternoon. You shall
just take a seat in the circle, my boy, and
then you shall give me an opinion.'

The theatrical manager had not nearly

so high an opinion of Mr. Marsh's critical
powers as the young gentleman himself enjoyed,
nor had he, perhaps, even so high an
opinion as he expressed, but he reverenced
c a nob,' and Mr. Marsh was undoubtedly a
nob of the most influential order. The
poet was hand-in-glove with Lady Marguerite
Capucine, his sister-in-law, who had a good
deal to do with artistic opinion in the upper
circles. Neither she nor any other lady,
however distinguished, could make or break
the fortunes of any production of Mr.
Lorrimer's, but the manager had an exalted
idea of her usefulness, and the poet had the
run of the house ; and was young enough to
enjoy the satisfaction of taking off the glamour
of theatrical performance by getting behind
the scenes.

There were, perhaps, a dozen men and
women sprinkled about the dusky house —
two or three in the pit and the rest scattered
over the dress circle — when the curtain rose
and discovered Adam and Orlando. For
those days, the revival was to be unusually
magnificent and complete. The acting was
competent, though a little old-fashioned and
sombre till Rosalind came upon the stage.
Miss Churchill bewitched the poet as she
had bewitched the Cornet in the little
country town, only, when he was charmed
the poet felt it was his duty to be somewhat
more charmed than a commonplace person
could dream of being. He coined strange
epithets wherewith to describe her to his
friends, and at the fall of the curtain on
the third act he made his way round to the
vol. 1. E

back of the stage. There he met Lorrimer,
and fell on him with praises, tooth and
nail.

My dear Lorrimer, a supernal performance
! There's something in it — a je ne
sais quoi — a tenderness in chiding, a dignity
in repose, a courtliness in badinage — one
seeks in vain for words of enough aptness
and delicacy and descriptive amplitude :
but one is delighted — one is borne away.
I must really make a peint of being allowed
to do the notice in The Scourge. They
praise so rarely there that one will have a
chance of making an impression. My dear
Lorrimer, you have discovered a jewel. I
must really make a point of asking to be
presented. You must present me, Lorrimer,
you must really.'

Porringer, consenting, led the way.
Rosalind, in a fur cloak which reached to
her toes, was standing, with a somewhat
embarrassed air, looking up at a picture on
the greenroom wall.

'Permit me, Miss Churchill,' said porringer.
' Mr. Eonald Marsh, the most charming
of London's poets.'

There are few things less pleasant, as
every modest man knows, than to be praised
effusively, and yet below one's obvious
merits.

Mr. Lorrimer flatters me,' said the
poet bowing.

Not at all.' cried the manager, ' not
at all.'

The tall and stately Eosalind vouchsafed
one glance to Mr. Eonald Marsh, offered

UNJVERSruu- ig»

him something between a nod and a mutilated
curtsey, and resumed the study of the
picture on the wall. However much at her
ease she might be on the stage, she had at
present but a poor imitation of self-possession
when off it. But the gentle flattery of
ladies was the poet's social strong point, or
so he fancied. Somebody called Lorrimer
aside, and Mr. Marsh saw nothing better
than to repeat the speech he had so recently
spoken.

A supernal performance, Miss Churchill
Really, believe me, quite a supernal performance.
So sweet a tenderness in chiding
such a dignity in repose — such courtliness
in badinage it has never been my happy lotto
meet upon the English boards. I assure
you, Miss Churchill, that one seeks in vain

for words of enough aptness and delicacy
and descriptive amplitude. One is delighted,
one is borne away.'

Before Mr Marsh had got more than
half way through this speech Lorrimer had
returned unheard, and stood with a broad
grin at his elbow. The poet, encountering
the manager's smile, read its meaning and
blushed at detection. Miss Churchill, who
had kept her eyes upon the picture whilst
he spoke, looked round at him like a disguised
lady in an old play.

I am obliged to you, sir,' she said, with
something of the accent of the stage,
Excuse me, sir. My call.'

She walked to the greenroom door, at
which the call-boy had indeed at that
moment bawled her name. The call, however,

was not for the stage. The boy
handed her a letter, a formal-looking
document, in a large blue cover, with a
splashed seal of red wax. The actress,
seeming, by a slight inclination of her head,
to demand leave of the manager and the
poet, broke the seal and, opening the letter,
began to read. The poet watched her
the while, and saw a blush rise beyond the
line of necessary rouge upon her cheek.
Looking up, she caught him in the act of
staring at her, and with a curtsey she swept
from the room.

Mr. Marsh felt that he had fared but
poorly, and stood sucking at the nob of his
walking-cane with a more vacuous aspect
than a great man often wears. By-and-by,
finding that Eosalind did not reappear, he

strolled back to the dress circle, where he
lounged with upward glance and rested his
auburn head upon his hand in the most
approved poetic manner. He was so
absorbed in thinking of what the other
people in the dress circle were likely to
think of him, that for awhile he did not
notice that the curtain still lay between him
and the long-since exploited and exploded
fairyland of the stage. By-and-by the
scattered denizens of the dress circle drew
near each other and laid their heads
together. Then Lorrimer appeared between
the curtain and the floats as if in act to
address the limited audience, but he retired
without saying a word. In the front of the
house arose a whisper — something was going
wrong. Aroused by this conjecture, the

poet once more availed himself of the
freedom his intimacy with the manager
gave him, and sauntered behind the scenes.
The florid Lorrimer was swearing like a
Bedlamite. The ducal usurper, the
banished duke, Jaques, Celia, Phoebe, and
Orlando, stood about him, all in attitudes of
more or less amazement.

'What's the matter, Lorrimer?' asked
the poet.

'Matter?' cried Lorrimer. 'The jade's
off at the last minute, and this is all she
leaves behind her.'

The poet took from the manager's
outstretched hand a note, and read this : —

'Sir, — Circumstances have arisen which
make it impossible that I should continue

my career upon the stage. I shall be happy

to repay you for all expenses you may have

incurred in my behalf. Pray communicate

in respect to that matter with my lawyers,

Messrs. Lowe and Carter, of Clement's

Inn.

1 Yours very truly,

4 Clara Churchill.'

4 She can't mean it ! ' cried Lorrimer,
actually gasping. ■ I've spent three hundred
pounds in money, and three thousand pounds
in wit in advertising her. She wants more
salary. That's what it is — she wants more
salary. But, begad, since she's tried it on in
this way ' (he mastered his rage so far as to
be able to embroider it, as it were, with a
touch of mock-heroics), 4 if that her jesses

were my dear heart-strings, I'd whistle her
off and let her down the wind to prey at
fortune.'

Mr. Ronald Marsh sighed audibly.

1 Shakespeare crowds us all from the field
of popular quotation,' he said inwardly.
Had Lorrimer known it he might have
found a passage far more appropriate in my
Epithalamium.'

CHAPTEE ni.

When Tregarthen found that his zeal for
the reformation of mess-room manners had
wrecked his military fortunes, he went
home, and there buried himself among his
books. Many, many years ago the Regard
his forbears, had built for themselves
a fortress for a dwelling-place, and the
house had wasted away bit by bit like the
other belongings of its owners, but had been
modernised and added to every here and
there, until it had grown and fallen into one
of the oddest and most heterogeneous piles

in England. A man must be curiously
moulded indeed if his character is in no way-affected
by the character of the house in
which he is bred, and a good deal of the
sentiment of the frowning, rambling, stately,
yet half-ruined old house had found its way
into Tregarthen.

His ancestors, for reasons of their own,
had built their house upon an island, and
this island faced the Cornish mainland on the
one hand and the melancholy Atlantic on
the other. The house stood high and bare
for winter storms to rave at, and in the
rougher months of the year it had constantly
to be provisioned for a siege of stormy
weather, since for weeks at a time it was
dangerous if not impossible to approach the
island. The one harbour faced the mainland

with two prodigious walls of rock, and
a narrow belt of smooth sand between,
which ran upward towards hardy grasses,
and was directly overlooked by the mansion.
Those vast walls of rock and the narrow
space between them were known to the local
folk as the Gate of the Sea. So old a house
as that of the Tregarthens could scarcely fail
to have been shot at by the local bards and
soothsayers — shoot bolts enough and some
of them are sure to stick — and one of many
prophecies and mottoes clung, It set forth,
that whatsoever good or evil the Tregarthens
endured should come to them by the Gate
of the Sea — a conclusion somewhat obvious,
since, unless by balloon or earthquake there
was no other way of approaching their
dwelling-place. If the Cornish couplet be

faithfully translated, it prophesies as much
for character as for fortune —

What evil or good ye have or be

Shall come to you all by the Gate of the Sea.

Now, in the days when a full cellar, a
roughly generous larder, and a chance of
hard knocks and loot could tempt adventurous
souls to follow a freebooting
gentleman, Tregarthen's house might have
been a pleasurable place to live in for those
whose fancy lay that way. But for an
almost companionless youngster, who had
just learned one of the world's bitterest
lessons, it was as unwholesome a residence
as might anywhere have been found. Tree
needed home influences and cheerful
companionship, but he had long been an
orphan, and he had neither brother nor

sister. He was not absolutely wealthy, but
he had more money than he wanted, and
there were few things which would have
been of more use to him than the spur of
poverty.

It is easy in the hot days of youth for
the mind to persuade itself to anything. Tree
persuaded himself that he had done
with the world for good and all, that it should
occupy him no more, and that he would live
for his studies and no other earthly thing.
His studies began to lead him in a direction
which it was somewhat odd that a young
gentleman of the nineteenth century should
take. Some ancestor of his had collected all
the works of that crowd of impostors, quacks,
self-deceivers, enthusiasts, and martyrs to
science who have written on the transmutation

of metals, the dividing rod, the elixir
vital, the powers and properties of the stars,
and so forth — all the works, that is to say, that
he could in one short lifetime lay hands on.
Tregarthen began to grope amongst the dark
sayings of these gentry, at first with an amused
interest and then with a singular growth of
doubt. There might be something in the
doctrine of transmutation after all.

When a man begins even to doubt on a
question like that he is pretty far gone on a
road which has led oftener than not to mere
madness. Tregarthen saw the danger, but
the study drew him and absorbed him more
and more, until he began to find in it a compensation
for all tidings. If a man could
find the philosopher's stone ! Let any man
in his sane and sober senses surrender himself

to the fancy for a moment, and where
are the glories of the cave into which the
magician dropped Aladdin, or the valley
into which the roc carried Sinbad ? They
are no more than a billiard ball in comparison
with Saturn. But be touched with
doubt as to the bare possibility of its actual
discovery, and the poor mind is dazzled,
staggered, overawed, by the magnificence of
its own fancies. Tregarthen began to dream
these dreams.

He lived almost alone through the wild
winter and the blustering spring. Early
summer found him more and more ready to
surrender himself to the intoxication of this
singular madness. Perhaps it needs that a
certain strain of greatness shall lie in a man's
nature before he can go mad in that particular

vol. 1. F

way. The compact small creature whose
faculties are all of a size is as safe as the
compact great creature whose powers are
equally well balanced.

Happily for most of us, the world is too
much with us to allow us to develop to
complete fulness of eccentricity. Transplanted
to Jupiter the human race might
find elbow room enough to grow into a
huge asylum of crazy humorist, but our
crowded civilisation acts upon us as close
shelter acts on the trees in a plantation — the
outer lines grow a little twisted, perhaps,
but in the middle of the wood the stems are
straight and uniform. Tregarthen in his
island castle off the Cornish coast was still a
little sheltered. By-and-by a shelter he had
not hoped for began to grow about him.

The blustering spring had passed, and
here was a lovely day in mid-June, with a
sky of sapphire, a sea of sapphire and pearl,
and a breeze of warm spice and balm.
Tregarthen wandered, smoking and lost in
idle meditation, to the cliffs on the right side
of the sea-gate, and there cast himself full
length on the warm and scented herbage.
The splendour of the day was nothing to
him just then, and though his bodily eyes
took cognisance of one of the finest reaches
of rock-bound coast England can show, he
had no conscious pleasure in it. He pulled
his soft hat over his eyes and surrendered
himself to his pipe and his dreams. Everything
was wonderfully still. He could hear
the plash of the waves on the rocks below,
though he gave no heed to it, and the 
2

private murmurs of many insects mingled
drowsily with the voice of the sea, as though
they were of equal volume with it. Tree
dreams, under these conditions,
grew more and more dreamy ; his fancies,
like the sounds about him, became dim and
diffused. Anything was welcome to the
domination of his mind at such a moment,
and a certain idle rhythm in the fall and rise ■
of the waters down below did well enough
to think about.

He was certainly not quite wide awake,
and he was just as certainly not quite asleep
when a vision dawned upon him. Two or
three vilely-painted trees fluttered on a
ragged canvas and libelled the forest of
Arden. A dowdy female, and a melancholy
male in a fool's coxcomb walked before the

painted cloth and libelled Celia and Touchstone.
Then suddenly came into sight a
radiant creature, and a voice spoke in tones
which blended resignation and fatigue with
something almost jesting — ' Oh, Jupiter, how
weary are my spirits ! ' This voice was so
near and clear that it awoke him and brought
him bolt upright, sitting in the bracken.
There was a sound of laughter and voices
on the little strip of sand below, and,
moving to the edge of the cliff, he looked
over.

In fine summer weather it was a common
thing for people to row across from the
mainland and picnic on the island. Tree
forbears had permitted this, and
Tregarthen himself had never felt an objection
to it until now. It may be allowed that, at

the moment at which he found . himself interrupted,
his studies were not of the most
exigent sort, yet his first thought was that
the presence of these intruders and their like
would be inimical to study. Then he regretted
the loss of his dream, and blamed
the intruders for breaking it, though the
dream itself had awakened him.

His half slumber had lasted for so short '
a space of time that the pipe he held between
his finger and thumb still sent up a streak
of faint blue smoke. He stuck it between
his lips again, and had turned to ramble
homewards when the voice of his dream
spoke in his waking ear, and stayed his
footsteps.

That is Miss Churchill, the actress he
said to himself. ' There is not another voice

like that in the world, I should fancy. I
should know it amongst a thousand.'

Since the night on which he had earned
his own ruin by rebuking Colonel Pollard
for his story of the actress he had scarcely
thought about her, but he felt a curious
pleasure and interest now in the belief that
she was near. In spite of his shortsightedness
he had a very definite idea of what she
was like. It seemed to him that he could
summon her face before his mind's eye quite
clearly, and, as he saw it, it was worthy of
her figure and her voice. He confessed to
himself that he would like to see her nearer
at hand, and to know how far her mind
corresponded to his own impressions of her
genius as an actress. It could not be difficult
to devise a means of seeing her or even of

speaking to her, seeing that she was actually
a trespasser upon his ground. He thought,
however, of a score of devices, none of
which commended themselves to him, and
as he thought he strolled towards the spot
where the gradual rise of the sands and the
more precipitous fall of the cliff brought the
two upon a level. This spot was about
midway between high-water line and the
gates of the old mansion, and he reached it
almost at the same moment with the visitors
to the island. He heard the sweet voice
talking again, and was more than ever persuaded
that it belonged to Miss Churchill.

He polished his eyeglass in readiness to
observe, and before he himself was seen he
had secured a good look at every person in
the little party. The lady with the sweet

voice was tall and graceful, but her face was
not the face of his memory. Compared
with that memory the face was plain, though
few people would have expressed so unfavourable
a judgment had they but looked
at it by itself. The eyes, of no particular
colour, were large, intelligent, and sympathetic
; the lips were beautiful alike in form
and expression ; the brow was broad and
white. The skin was pallid, and the hair,
like the eyes, was of no particular colour.
Perhaps the want of definite colouring was
the chief fault of the face ; but, be that as
it may, it was thrown back, for whatever
beauty or charm it claimed, upon expression.
There was no chance of finding out all these
things at a look, and Tregarthen was only
conscious of a disappointment. The face

was not the one he remembered, nor anything
like it ; and there might be two voices
alike in the world after all.

He was a little embarrassed for a
moment, even though he stood on his own
ground and the new-comers were strangers
and intruders, for the lady looked at him
when once she had felt his glance, and regarded
him with a curiously candid and unaffected
gaze, much more like that of a child
than a woman. Before Tregarthen's sense
of embarrassment became overwhelming, one
of the lady's male companions stepped
forward, with a somewhat overwrought
flourish of politeness.

1 I believe I have the pleasure of addressing
Mr. Tregarthen ? ' Tregarthen bowed,
and the stranger flourished his hat to his

head and flourished his handkerchief out of
his pocket. 'I have not the honour of
being personally known to you, sir, but my
father was your respected father's solicitor —
Mr. Penruth of Gorbay. I have dared to
trespass in order to oblige these ladies and
gentlemen with a sight of Tregarthen
Castle.'

I remember your father, sir,' said Tree
a little confusedly, ' and you are
quite welcome here.' It was strange, he
thought, that in so little a while his absence
from the common haunts of men should
have cost him so much in savoir-faire. ' If
your friends would care to see the interior
of the house I shall be happy to admit them.
Pray introduce me.'

Mr. Penruth was obviously delighted,

and was honoured by Tregarthen's affability.
The last representative of the great local
family was not rich, as the times go, but he
had a background : a fact to which people
who have no background are apt to attach a
superstitious value. The solicitor flourished
through the introductions, and Tregarthen
caught no name until he faced the lady he
had supposed to be Miss Churchill.

Miss Farmer,' said Mr. Penruth ;
Gorbay's chief ornament. — Mr. Regard


The girl flushed at this for a moment
with a look of anger, but she bowed to Tree
as if he had been a squire of low
degree and she a princess. It crossed him
that she was not so plain as he had fancied.
Mr. Penruth was persuaded that he had said

the right thing in the right way, and got
through the remaining introductions with increased
ease and glibness.

1 If we may have your permission to visit
the castle,' he began, when the ceremony
was over Tregarthen cut him short with a
dry ' Certainly ; ' and fell into talk with the
lady of the voice. She seemed chary at first
of letting the voice be heard, but by-and-by,
at the sight of the picturesque old ruins and
remnants of Tregarthen's house, she warmed.
The dim family portraits, the arms and
armour, the black oak of walls, ceilings, and
furniture delighted her, and she took no less
interest in the grey walls from which trees
sprang, the broken arches and window spaces
opening on blue air, in what had once been
the family stronghold. In a case like this it

is perhaps less important to note what a
charming woman says than how she says
it. Her commonplaces were commonplace
enough, but they dropped on Tregarthen's
ears so pleasantly that he would rather have
listened to them than to much learning and
wisdom.

She was charmingly dressed in a fashion
which is now deservedly stigmatised as ugly.
Tregarthen thought he had rarely seen anything
so dignified, yet so gentle, as her
carriage, and the singular, soft fascination of
her voice grew upon him more and more.

When the rounds were finished the host
proffered to his guests some slight refreshment,
which the Gorbay solicitor, in behalf
of self and friends, declined with many
flourishes of humility and gratitude. Tree

saw nothing for it but to permit
them to retire, though he would willingly
have detained one of them a little longer.
When they had gone, the young gentleman
was guilty of what he felt to be a meanness.
He stationed himself at his bedroom window,
and thence, by means of a single-barrelled
opera-glass which had belonged to his
mother, he kept the lady of the voice insight
until she and her companions had
entered the boat in which they had arrived,
and the little vessel, being pushed off, disappeared
behind the cliffs.

Tregarthen did not resume his studies
that evening with anything like his customary
gusto. A commoner malady than the old
one had clapped him on the shoulder. His
books lay spread about his library table, and

now and then he fingered the leaves of one
or another of them, and even read a passage
in which he found no meaning. That was
not at all an uncommon thing at the best of
times, but it generally arose from the fact
that there was no meaning to be found,
whereas now the main reason was that he
brought no understanding to his reading.

CHAPTER IV.

The plain English of the matter was that
Tregarthen had fallen in love, though only
in an experimental fashion, He was not yet
beyond all chance — nobody ever was, as the
result of a single interview — but a lonoqno-
was upon him to see more of the woman
who had so much interested him, and he
walked into bondage with his eyes open.
Even thus early he guessed what was the
matter with him.

I must know more of her,' he said.
4 A man must be a poor creature who allows

VOL. I. G

himself to go down before a pair of expressive
eyes before he can guess whether there is a
soul behind them or not.'

The young man set forth deliberately inquest
of Miss Farmer's soul with intent to
examine and appraise it. He found the
slightest difficulty in obtaining a second introduction
to the lady, and it was managed
to look accidental and unsought. Gorbay
was not a big place, nor had it many people
of importance within its boundaries. The
importance of people is not determined, to
themselves, by the estimation in which they
are held by others, and the inhabitants of
Gorbay were as much interested in their
own affairs as if they had all been dukes and
duchesses — a provision of nature without
whose operation things would be extremely

dull for most of us. When Tregarthen,
whose seclusion had been a good deal talked
about, began to make visits to the mainland
and to cultivate the small gentry of the
town, the unfavourable opinions which had
been formed of him melted and disappeared.
The Tregarthens had always been so far
above the professional people and the small
retired capitalists of Gorbay that the condescension
displayed by this latest scion of
the house was the more remarkable and the
more valued.

There were people who could tell him
all about Miss Farmer's simple and uneventful
history. He learned that she was the
daughter of the Vicar, and, except for the
time she had spent at school and a term of
eighteen months passed in London, was bred

G 2

in Gorbay. She passed there as being
learned beyond the rights of women, but
that was the only fault that anybody found
with her. The Vicar nearly three years
ago, about the time when Tregarthen had
been awaiting his commission, had departed
this life, leaving two daughters very ill
provided for. Miss Farmer had thereupon
gone to London and had there made a living
for herself and her young sister, it was
believed by writing for the magazines.
Certain poems and stories bearing her name
had reached even to Gorbay, and there was
a general belief there that in the outer world
she was famous. But an uncle in the north
the Farmers were northern people, it
appeared — had died two years later than his
brother the Vicar, and had left to Miss

Farmer funded moneys to the value of some
five hundred a year. On this she kept
house in modest and elegant comfort, and the
return of the elder girl had been welcomed
by all who knew her. The younger had been
put to school during her sister's absence and
was now finishing her education at home.

There is not much out of the common in
this narrative to anybody who does not
happen to be in love with Miss Farmer, or
strongly inclined that way. But to Regard
the story seemed one of heroism and
sorrow, and he thought he could see already
some of those inward qualities of which he
desired to assure himself. The daughter of
a clergyman is conventionally a gentlewoman,
and he was already persuaded that
Miss Farmer possessed all desirable womanly

qualities when he met her for the second
time. They had talked commonplaces at
their first meeting and had been aware of
the fact. They talked commonplaces now
and did not know it, because they spoke of
books and art, and nobody believes that he
or she can talk commonplaces upon those
inspiring themes. Miss Farmer's soul
declared itself more and more freely to
Tregarthen's attentive observation, and he
was more and more convinced that it was of
the right quality and pattern.

The young man had taken apartments
for the rest of the summer season at ' The
George,' and Gorbay knew by this time in
what pursuit he was engaged. Mr. Tree
rambled much in the pleasant fields
beyond the town, and Miss Farmer, who

had a taste for botany and some little knowledge
of the science, was indefatigable in
exercise., The two young people met on
most days, and the little sister was old
enough to play propriety, and — which was
perhaps of more importance — was old
enough to know when she was not wanted.
Any wandering butterfly was reason enough
for a race which at least took this sensible
child round a corner of the lane in which
her elders strolled.

The searcher after the philosopher's stone
had found it, but not where he expected.
Everything had grown golden for him. The
simile is poverty-stricken, but there is no
simile which will express the spiritual wealth
of a heart which for the first time has given
away all its substance.

It was time for lover's confidences, and
they were exchanged, The sensible child
had gone full tilt round a leafy corner, and
the young man and his sweetheart lingered
at a stile. The child carolled with a wonderfully
sweet shrill voice fifty yards away and
the elders talked.

I You remember said Tregarthen, ' the
day on which we first met ? '

'Yes,' she answered with a delicious
shyness. His ardent eyes — she thought she
had never seen anything so tender, ardent as
they were — and her bashful glance met for a
moment, and she blushed a little.

I I was lying on the grass,' he said, ' on
the top of the cliff, above the landing-place,
when I heard your voice, and it awoke
me.'

Was I so boisterous ? ' she asked,
smiling, with her eyes upon the ground.

'No,' he answered, with a little tender
laugh, which of itself was a lover's flattery,
4 but it awoke me. From a curious dream,'
he added, with an air of odd reluctance.

Indeed ? ' she said questioningly.

Tre^arthen began to wish in a value
way that he had not mentioned this. His
goddess might not care to know that one of
her rarest charms had reminded him of an
actress. But, having begun, he felt bound
to go on, so he spoke with a feigned lightness,
and looked anywhere rather than at his
sweetheart's face.

1 1 suppose you don't know,' he began,
what a lovely voice you have ? ' She made
no reply to this, but still looked demurely

on the ground at her feet. ' When I first
heard it I was dreaming, and I distinctly-heard
the words, " Oh, Jupiter, how weary-are
my spirits ! " '

That was not strange she answered,
looking up at him, 'I spoke them.'

6 Did you ? ' he asked, with some confusion.
All this seemed to have been said and
done aforetime, and to have led to some unhappiness
which now again threatened from
the near future. Everybody has experienced
that curious sensation.

fc What was your dream ? '

4 Oh, my dream ? ' he answered. ' It
was nothing. I dreamed I was at the play,
and I saw Eosalind upon the stage.'

She looked up at him swiftly, with a
hint of fear and half a hint of resolution in

her face. He struck out with a transparent
pretence of being perfectly at his ease, and
cut down a nettle with his walking-cane.

Your voice reminded me,' he said, after
a little pause, ' of the most beautiful voice
I had ever heard till then. I even thought
I recognised it, and I walked down to meet
you and found that I had made a blunder.'

In meeting me ? ' she asked.

He laughed again, and their eyes met.
In hers there was a tender triumph and
gaiety which answered her own question
fairly w y ell, even without the aid of his,
which beamed with admiration.

1 No,' he answered, ' but in dreaming
that that lovely voice had ever sounded from
the stage.' He went on more at ease.
8 And yet the fancy haunted me all day.'

She was looking on the ground once more,
and with the point of her parasol was turning
a little pebble over and over. She stooped
so that her face was hidden from him by the
wide-brimmed summer hat she wore. If
this were coquetry, the fashion of the day
favoured it, for at the drooping edge of the
width of plaited straw was a fringe of fine
black lace some two or three inches deep,
and he would have had to fall upon his
knees to see her face. Could he have seen
it he could not have failed to notice how
flushed she was, and what a look of fear and
shame was in her eyes.

1 Who was the lady,' she asked, ' whose
voice so resembled mine ? '

A Miss Churchill,' said Tregarthen.
A delightful actress. The most charming



actress I ever saw.' It seemed necessary to
make as much as might reasonably be made
of Miss Churchill's perfections to excuse any
comparison, however trivial, between her
and the woman of his heart, who not only
was not an actress and was a gentlewoman,
but was also and of course beyond comparison
with anybody. ' I saw her play Eosalind,'
he hurried on, c and since the first words I
heard you speak were the first words I heard
her speak the resemblance of the voices was
accidentally heightened.'

Did you wish very much to see Miss
Churchill ? ' asked the young lady. ' Were
you very much interested in her ? '

'Not at all,' cried Tregarthen eagerly.
4 1 had forgotten her — until I heard the

voice.

BY THE GATE OF THE SEA.

Were you disappointed when you found
that it was only — me ? '

6 Only you ! ' said the lover, and would
not condescend to add to that simple but
sufficient disclaimer, except by possessing
himself first of her hand and then of her
waist. For a while she bent her head and
refused to allow him to steal the merest
glance at her face, but by-and-by she turned
upon him gently and gazed full in his eyes
for a moment, whilst her figure yielded itself
more freely to his embrace, and no longer
repulsed him by its rigidity.

If I had turned out to be Miss Churchill,'

she asked him, ' should you ? She

paused, but the very silence was eloquent.

1 Have loved you ? ' said Tregarthen.
No. I could not have fallen in love with

an actress.' It seemed to him that there
might be a touch of jealousy in the appeal,
and he was in the mood to be tender to all
love's fancies, however shadowy and unreal
they might be.

6 Why not ? ' she asked. ' There are
many good women who are actresses,
surely.'

No doubt,' he answered lightly. ' Many,
But you rub the bloom from the peach if
you handle it ever so gently. An actress
gains something more than most women
hope for or care for, but she must be content
to lose something — a delicacy, a fineness,
which is not easy to describe, but
means much to a man with any refinement
of mind.'

He was far from being actually dishonest

in saying this, and yet he was not precisely
honest. Left to himself and his own judgment
he would not have thought these
thoughts at all, but the fancy that his betrothed
had that visionary jealousy of the
actress moved him to make the jealousy impossible.


But if you had met her and had fallen
in love with her,' said the girl, ' and had
then found that she was an actress — that
would have made no difference to you ? '

Yes,' he said gravely, and as if considering
the matter, ' a serious difference.'

I fancied men thought differently,' she
said, with some little heat of scorn. ; I
fancied that they did not altogether care so
much for those of us who live along in the
one little groove of household cares and

small accomplishments and silly joys and
sorrows.'

'I shall ask you to achieve no out-of-doors
greatness,' Tregarthen answered
fondly ; ' though you are more fit to shine
in the world's eye than any other woman
now alive.' The young man was not a fine
judge of verse, and it was natural to think
the Laureate's outpourings inferior to those
of the woman he himself was in love with.
4 Be as great as you will, but shine at home,
my dear, and let me worship you.'

That was a pretty programme, and the
girl found no fault with it as it applied to
her own prospects. But she had rather —
how much rather ! — that her future husband
should have thought better of Miss Churchill's
profession. It was clear that he suspected

VOL. I. H

nothing, imagined nothing, but it was a pain
to have a secret, though it were as harmless
as her own. For Miss Churchill, though an
actress, was as pure as a daisy, and nobody-knew
better than Miss Farmer how little
evil the stage had taught her, though there
are millions who know infinitely better how
much evil it has the power to teach.

One unavoidable result came out of this-conversation.
Miss Farmer buried Miss
Churchill, and resolved that the actress
should know no resurrection. But then (as
people unfairly or secretly entombed with
fears and suspicions hanging about them
have a prescriptive right to do) Miss
Churchill assumed ghost-like airs and
revisited the upper world and peopled the
sexton's life with unreal terrors. Tregarthen

had taught the girl to love horn. She had
been an apt and willing pupil, and had
learned to love him well. She was of a
arose and generous nature, affectionate
rather than passionate, but inclined to cling
to the object of her affection with life-long
tenacity. There are few women who would
not have kept her innocent secret rather
than run the risk of losing a lover. And
Tregarthen was the one man in the world to
her, as a woman's first love always is — the
one possible idol. The mere thought of
losing him was cruel beyond expression;
the mere fancy that she might risk his loss
was scarcely bearable. She so honoured
and reverenced and loved him, that she was
forced to deceive him. That is not good
morality, but it is admirable feminine logic.

The courtship went on. and Gorbay and
the county beyond the limits of Gorbay
discussed it, and on the whole were content
with it. Tregarthen might have looked
higher in spite of those regimental escapades
of his, for the last scion of one of the oldest
houses in that part of England, where houses
are so amazingly old, might think himself
almost any man's equal. He was not a
millionaire, but he had enough, and he
was unusually personable. Everybody was
persuaded that the match, from Miss
Farmer's point of view, was all that could
be desired.

Within nine months of their first speech
with each other the young pair became man
and wife, and set up housekeeping in
Gorbay. They had an exquisitely appointed

house, standing in the midst of
some eight acres of well-timbered ground
and surrounded by trim gardens. Whilst
they lived here the old mansion on
Tregarthen island was to be restored to
something of its former grandeur, and
Mrs. Tregarthen insisted upon having a
hand in this. She insisted on having so influential
a hand in it that she placed the
whole of her own modest fortune in her
husband's hands and bade him make that
suffice.

'You bring me the grandeur of an old
name,' she said, ' and I claim to have my
share in its honours. If you refuse me this
I only half divide them.'

Tregarthen, after many affectionate
disputes, took the money.

'Whatever is mine is yours,' he said,
and whatever is yours is mine. It is like
the right hand giving to the left.'

'Precisely,' said his wife, well pleased,
and the architect was busy at once. By the
beginning of July the builders were at work,
and the young couple had great joy in
crossing from Gorbay Head to Tregarthen
and watching the slow growth of the old
place to a new being. Tregarthen's funds
were snugly invested, and there were ample
means to keep the glorified house in
reasonable state. Meantime, in other
matters they were content to retrench, and
Mrs. Tregarthen wrote industriously at a
romance on a large scale, determined not
to cost her husband a penny in dresses, and
to win an anonymous fame, of which he,

who alone should have the secret, should be
as proud as she was of him.

Visitors came thickly to Tregarthen that

summer; some, who had archaeological

tastes, from afar, bent on seeing the house

once before it assumed its new form. It

was no matter for surprise, therefore, when

a couple of sturdy boatmen pulled over a

party of ladies and gentlemen with a fat

and spectacled savant at their head, and the

fat and spectacled one began to wander

about amongst the stones and the mortar,

delivering a little lecture to his following ashe

went. The married pair were in the

habitable part of the house, and at the

moment when the boat grounded at the

Sea Gate Mrs. Tregarthen was receiving a

confession from her husband. He was

standing at the window from which he had
watched her on her first visit to the island
and was telling her, with no shamefacedness,
how he had kept her in sight after he parted
from her. It was not from any standpoint
but her own a deed to be rewarded, but
she kissed him for it with all her heart,
and they went gaily out together for a
ramble on the cliffs. Before they started,
Tregarthen took a look at the approaching
party through the single-barrelled opera-glass.


We can go out with a clear conscience,
my dear,' he said ; ' there is no one we
know amongst them.'

They had not left the house long when
an architect's clerk came racing after
them, and asked Tregarthen's presence.

The architect himself was on the ground,
and desired his opinion on some question or
another which could only be decided on the
spot.

1 Walk on,' said Tregarthen to his wife,
1 1 shall overtake you.'

She answered with a smile and a nod,
and rambled slowly over the verdurous
slopes, and enjoyed the fresh sea-breeze.
In a while she looked back, and, seeing no
sign of her husband, she sate in the shelter
of an overhanging boulder, and sinking
down in the soft mosses, surrendered herself
to happy brooding upon her husband,
her home, his love and her own, and the
cloudless sky that overhung their sweet
domestic life. She was so deep sunk in
reverie, and the mosses hereabout were so

soft and thick that a wandering footstep
near at hand failed to reach her ear, and she
was a little startled to find a picturesque
young man baring his head before her with
an almost theatrical air of homage.

1 Miss Churchill ! ' said the picturesque
young man in accents of delighted surprise.
I was assured the world was not robbed of
you, but I am amazed to find you here.
Amazed and charmed.'

She did not recognise him, and arose
with some indignation at the familiarity of
his tone. She was startled by his sudden
coming, too, and at the first flash she saw
danger in the presence of any man who had
known Miss Churchill.

I am Mrs. Tregarthen, sir,' she said
haughtily and coldly.

'I beg pardon,' said the picturesque
young man, still standing, hat in hand,
before her. 4 I cannot be mistaken. I had
the honour to meet you at the " Mirror."
My name is Marsh — Eonald Marsh. I owed
the pleasure to Mr. Lorrimer.'

4 1 have no recollection of the circumstance,'
she said, even more coldly than
before.

Mr. Eonald Marsh smiled with no touch
of embarrassment. It was a little odd that
there were people in the world who did
not leap at the chance of talking to him, but
the fact was indisputable, and he was used
to it.

I beg your pardon again,' he said, with
a graceful wave of his sombrero. ' At least
I may have the gratification of being assured

that I am not in error in assuming you to be
Miss Churchill.'

Training tells in all things, and there
was a little ring of the stage in her lovely
voice as she answered him —

I was Miss Churchill, sir ; but I have no
desire to resume acquaintance with any
person who knew me by that name.'

Mr. Eonald Marsh flushed to the roots of
his hair, and donned his sombrero, with a
final bow. She moved past him, with flashing
eyes and head erect, and sweeping thus
round the edge of the great boulder, met
Tregarthen face to face.

CHAPTER V.

Husband and wife looked at each other fora
moment, and then the wife's eyes drooped
guiltily. It is characteristic of people at large
to be wiser about other people's affairs than
they are about their own — being freed, in
the one case, of egotism's glasses — and
almost anybody can see that although there
was sufficient occasion for a domestic scene,
there was no reason to regard the position of
things as being essentially tragic. You must
endure a good deal before you tear yourself
from your dearer half in your sober senses.

But the one thing that stared each of these
people in the face was a lifelong and inevitable
separation.

I have deceived him,' said the wife,
with such a cold anguish of repentance as
could only come of detection. ' He will
never believe me nor love me again.'

4 Is this thing true ? ' asked Tregarthen
coldly. Her aspect was enough to convict
her, and he turned away. Icy as he was to
look at, he was afraid of himself, and felt
that he was not to be trusted with many
words. He would go away therefore, and
would think how best to bear himself in this
terrible and unsuspected condition of affairs.
He had not gone far when it came into his
mind that the condition of affairs — however
unexpected it might be — was scarcely so

terrible as it had seemed at first. He began
to think how strongly he had spoken, whenas
it now appeared — his wife had wished
to take him into her confidence. After all
there was no sin or shame in having been an
actress. Colonel Pollard had said things
of that very Miss Churchill with whom his
wife was now identified which were hideous
if true or possible, but he knew them to be
false. The more he thought about it the
more he was persuaded anew of what he had
always known as only a lover knows anything
— the purity of his wife's mind and
history. She had deceived him in one
matter, but then he had forced deception
upon her. And after all they were man and
wife, and he loved her as he had never loved
anybody in his life before or could hope to

love a second time. The revelation lie had
surprised was a thing to be made the best of,
to be understood and accepted once for all,
and then buried and forgotten.

This resolution was not arrived at in a
hurry, and it took him an hour or two to
put himself into the new mental attitude
necessary to its acceptance. When he had
succeeded he went home and awaited Mrs.
Tregarthen's return, intending a serious conference
and a perfect understanding. When
he took her back to confidence there should
be no lingering doubt in his mind. She
should know all that had been charged
against Miss Churchill, and she should
deny it, and there should be an end of the
episode. He was not shaken in his belief
in his wife's honour, and if she had not given

him all her confidence it was because she
had thought it would imperil his love for
her.

Has Mrs. Tregarthen returned ? ' he
asked the servant who admitted him.

4 Xo, sir.'

1 Let me know when she does so.'

Yes, sir.'

He sat a long time silent and alone,
and there came into his mind the not too
delicate commendations bestowed upon Miss
Churchill by the Captain and his echo the
Lieutenant. He went with them into the
theatre, and the magic of the beautiful voice
touched him again. He went anew through
his pleasant fancies of her, and his defence
of her against Pollard, and his first meeting
with her, and his second, and his thud — all

vol. 1. 1

the story of his courtship floated through his
mind — and he would have sworn to her
immaculate purity, or would have died to
prove his faith in it.

It grew dusk, and the early summer
moon was already shining with a ghostly
silver gleam in the darkening violet of the
sky. Fears began to rise in his mind, and
he pictured the delicate sensitive thing in"
shame and soreness of heart over this pardonable
secrecy of hers, hiding herself and
fearing to approach him. He remembered
how he had asked his question, 'Is this thing
true ? ' and how without a word from her in
answer he had turned away and left her.
His fears began to rise higher and to take
one or two horrible forms which presented
themselves persistently.

It neither increased nor dissipated these
fears when he had run down to the Gate of
the Sea and had learnt that she had left the
island two or three hours ago, and had returned
to the mainland, sending the boatmen
back to await his pleasure. He took his
seat in the boat at once and bade the men
give way. Before they were half across
the narrow waters he could see his own
house on Gorbay Head, and could make out
that the one light which twinkled in it came
from his wife's room. His heart seemed
almost to fly from his body as he sent before
him his message of forgiveness and affection ;
and when the nose of the boat ground
against the shingle he left the little vessel
with a leap and ran to the house in haste.
A man servant met him with an uninterested

face, and handed him a letter on a
salver.

'Mrs. Tregarthen ordered this to be
given to you, sir, on your return,' he
said.

6 Where is Mrs. Tregarthen ? ' asked the
husband.

8 She went up to town, sir, by the seven
-express,' returned the servant.

Alone ? ' inquired his master, turning
away to hide his face and trifling with the
letter in his hands.

Took Miss Farmer with her, sir — and
the maid.'

The servant followed him into the room
he entered, and there turned up the lamps
and laid hands upon a trifle or two upon the
sideboard and the table.

1 You may go,' said his master quietly.

The man retired, and Tregarthen sat
down by the centre table, drew the lamp
closer, and opened the envelope. For a
time the slender letters danced before his
eyes, and he could not make out a word,
but in a while he mastered himself and began
to read. What he read was incoherent and
agonised. It was written in haste, with
blots and erasures, and there were blisters
upon the paper where the writer's tears had
fallen. She had known her own un worthiness
in keeping her secret all along, she
wrote, but she had never dared to tell him
what her past life had been. And now he
had discovered her duplicity and wickedness,
and she could not bear to face him. She
had gone away, and she begged him to

forget her. But she loved him, and she
prayed heaven to bless him.

There was much more to this effect, and,
whilst he read, the shadow of a horrible
doubt fell closer and darker round his heart.
What was there in the mere discovery, taken
by itself, to excite such anguish as the letter
displayed ? What lay behind the discovery?
Was it likely that a wife would run away
from her husband and her home on a provocation
so trivial as the discovery of itself
afforded ? Then all his heart rose up to
defend her, and he was torn between doubt
and trust, and love and fear, and the little
mild passions that had dwelt within him
dilated to giant size on a sudden, and took
his soul for a battle-ground, and shook it
with their conflict.

There was no sleep for hin that night,
and all next day he wandered vaguely,
trying to make up his mind to some course
of action. His wife had given him no
address, but it did not seem to him at first
that it would be difficult to discover her in
London. But was her flight in itself a confession
of worse than he knew, or could he
bear to hear that confession if it had to be
made, or to hear her denial of it and to have
to doubt her still ?

If people always did the plain commonsense
thing, always spoke the plain truth,
and always looked circumstances in the face,
the world would be improved out of knowledge.
Mrs. Tregarthen had taken perhaps
the most foolish of possible steps, had
disguised the truth, and now ran away from

the circumstances she had herself created ; and
yet you shall not despise her if I can help it.
It was an innocent courage which had led
her — more for her sister's sake than her own
to the stage. It was a pardonable fear
which had kept her silent as to that episode
in her life. It is one of the ways of women
to look their best in the eyes of the people
they love, and this leads them to reservations
and pretences. A weakness characteristic
of a whole half of humanity must not be
judged too severely. When she ran away
she did so because a tender conscience,
hitherto void of great offence, exaggerated
her little folly into a crime. She made up
her innocent mind that she was one of the
wickedest women in the world. She had
married her husband under false pretences !

When Tregarthen turned his back upon
her she read a final renunciation in the act,
and was persuaded that she had lost him forever.
She had no blame for him then or
afterwards, and she recognised the justice of
the imagined sentence even at the moment
when its weight first crushed her. The
perfect trust which love should have in love
is a flower of slow growth indeed. Often
enough life is over before it has reached to
its full bloom, though there is this compensation
for its laggard coming, that when once
it blossoms it can know no decay.

Mrs. Tregarthen went to London, and
naturally enough sought the one place there
which she had known before — a respectable,
if somewhat dingy, boarding-house off the
Strand. The stout landlady had not

forgotten her, and received her kindly.
There was a faint flavour of home in the
stuffy bedroom, and at least it was better to
be there than to find a nest altogether
strange. But the foolish fugitive had runaway
without any prevision, and had made
no arrangements for those bodily needs
which continue their claim in spite of sins
or repentance. She had twenty pounds in
money, and her maid, being bidden to pack
for London, had naturally foreseen festivity,
and had put up all the hapless lady's jewelry.
There was no fear of immediate starvation
therefore, but none the less that terror loomed
from the future. She was sure that she was
for ever parted from her husband, and when
the first agony of that certainty had settled
down into a dull pain, she had to think of

ways and means for her sister's sake, and ina
little while (for a reason she had not
hitherto dreamed of) for her own.

The maid, who was for the first time in
London, was but poorly impressed with
town life, as may be fancied. The stuffy
lodging-house was not the sort of place in
which Mrs. Tregarthen's position gave her a
right to bestow herself, and the maid knew
it. Once or twice she had surprised her
mistress in tears, and she had found out very
early in the history of the expedition that
there were no ideas of festivity in Mrs.
Tregarthen's mind. She began to put two
and two together, and after a week she
spoke.

1 1 beg your pardon, ma'am, but it is my
wish to leave.'

4 How is that, Mary ? ' inquired the
mistress with a sinking heart. The heart
had sunk low enough already in all conscience,
but it fell lower yet when the maid
spoke of leaving. Tregarthen had himself
engaged this woman to serve his wife, and
the exile was ready to cling to anything that
bound her, however slightly, to her home
and him.

Well, ma'am,' returned the maid, ' since
you ask me, I don't understand things, and
I'd rather go.'

There would be one mouth the less to
fill, but that was little. The maid received
her wages and went away, though she kept
an eye on Mrs. Tregarthen, having fancies
of her own concerning the reasons for this
curious escapade. The expected gallant

never appeared, however, and when Mrs.
Tregarthen went abroad, she took the child
with her, and, after a purposeless walk, returned
without having spoken to a single
creature. In these circumstances the maid's
interest in her late mistress declined, and
she found another place and went her way,
content to leave a mystery unsolved.

The poor lady set aside all her gayer
dresses and attired herself in sombre raiment
as typifying mourning, and when one day
Mr. Lorrimer caught sight of her in the
street by accident, he took her for a
widow.

1 Ran away from the stage to be married,
did she, poor thing ! ' said Lorrimer to himself,
not unkindly. ' Well, if love's young
dream is over, she'll be back again. I'm a

business man, and I can't afford to miss a
chance like Miss Churchill a second
time.'

So Mr. Lorrimer, without particularly
violating his conscience, lit a new cigar,
cocked his hat a little, and dogged Mrs.
Tregarthen home.

Boarding-house. Mrs. Barnley. Respectable
poverty. Married a widower.
Widow left hard up. Encumbered with
little girl. Poor thing ! poor thing ! Get
her now on easy terms.'

Mr. Lorrimer cocked his hat anew, bit
off the end of a second cigar, struck a
brown-paper fusee on his trousers, lit the
cigar with an air of victory, and walked
homewards. Shortly before nine o'clock,
being by that time in the full glory of

evening-dress, he strolled past the house a
dozen times or so, and had begun to examine
the windows with some impatience, when a
servant girl came up the area steps bearing
half-a-dozen jugs of different sizes, and made
her way towards the corner public house.
Mr. Lorrimer intercepted her.

4 Good evening, my dear. Don't be
frightened.' The girl had pranced into the
middle of the roadway. ' I only want to
ask you a question — quite a harmless
question. Half-a-crown, my dear.' The
coin rattled into one of the jugs. ' There's
a lady staying at Mrs. Barnley's — a young
lady, dressed in mourning — goes about with
a little girl. I want to call upon her — quite
honourable and correct — I know of something
to her advantage. I used to know

her maiden name — Miss Churchill. What
is her name now ? '

Mrs. Tregarthen,' said the girl. ' That's
her sister she's got with her.'

Mrs. Tregarthen,' said Mr. Lorrimer.
1 Thank you. I've got the name all right,
have I ? Tre — gar — then ? '

That's right, sir,' responded the servant,
polishing her nose with the bottom of a
beer-jug. ' Tregarthen. Thank you, sir.'

She's at home now, I think?' said
Lorrimer.

The maid nodded, and he marched at
once to the door of the house and knocked.
Mrs. Tregartheu, sitting in her own room,
heard the knock and felt her heart so leap
at it that she was fain to rise and open her
chamber door to listen. But that was a

common experience. Not a knock had
come to the door of Mrs. Barnley's establishment,
since the unhappy lady had entered
it, without shaking her heart and fluttering
her nerves in this way. She heard the door
flung open, and then came the murmur of a
male voice, indistinct and low. The maid's
voice cackled shrill and clear in answer.

4 Mrs. Tregarthen, sir ? Yes, sir. Walk
in, sir. What name shall I say, sir ? '

It had been in Mrs. Tregarthen's mind
from the first, or almost from the first, that
Arthur might love her so well that, in spite
of her wickedness, he would seek her out
and forgive her, and this hope had buoyed
her up and weighed her down as such things
will. Now she believed that he really had
traced her, and her knees were so weakened

vol. 1. K

that she could scarce let go the door and
creep back to her chair to be in readiness
for the servant's coming. Lodging-house
maids are not more observant or sympathetic
than their neighbours as a rule, but even by
the light of the one pale candle on the table
Mrs. Tregarthen's face had so much trouble
and terror in it that the girl, when she
entered with Lorrimer's card, caught fright,
and begged to know what was the matter.

Nothing,' said the poor creature, with
her eyes wide open, and her face as white
as the lace about her throat. ' Is that forme
? '

She stretched out her hand for the card,
and when she had read the name upon it
she dropped it with a little moan of escape
and disappointment, and one or two half-hysterical

tears ran down her cheeks. The
servant bustled about the room and got hera
glass of water after much unnecessary
clatter. Lorrimer, waiting in the room
below, had undefined notions of a cavalry
skirmish floating through his mind. A
moment later the servant, a petticoated
avalanche, precipitated herself downstairs.

The lady can't see you, sir. She's took
quite ill.'

Indeed ? ' said Lorrimer, politely regretful.
' Nothing serious, I trust.'

1 I ain't so sure o' that,' returned the
maid. ' She's like a ghost, and she can't
scarcely sit in her chair, sir.'

Lorrimer opened his eyes with unfeigned
fear. He saw thousands of pounds in Mrs.
Tregarthen, and, being a sanguine man, as

K 2

theatrical managers nearly always are, he had
already arranged terms with the lady and
had her enthusiastically trumpeted, and conducted
her first performance with prodigious
eclat. At the very moment when the
cavalry skirmish began overhead he had
been returning thanks for a piece of plate
publicly presented to him (in recognition of
his having made a fortune out of her) by
the celebrated actress herself. The servant
was really frightened, and looked so, and
Lorrimer himself caught the infection.

'Back as soon as possible,' he murmured.
w Gone for a doctor.' And he shot from the
room to save his thousands and the lady
who was to make them.

He had noticed in the course of his peregrinations
to and fro before the house that a

doctor lived next door, and he rang a
startling peal at the medico's bell. The
professional gentleman ran wildly into the
boarding-house without his hat, and was
ushered into the presence of a lady who
received him with perfect self-possession and
assured him that she had no need for his
services. He was not to be got rid of, however,
until he had felt her pulse and asked
a question or two, and prescribed a tonic.

Before Lorrimer called next day the
servant had told Mrs. Tregarthen of the
interest he had displayed. The actress remembered
the manager kindly, but she had
no mind to renew their old acquaintance.
She sent word down to him in answer to his
inquiries that she was very much better and
was very much obliged to him for his kind

inquiries. Some people would have accepted
this as an intimation of polite dismissal,
but Lorrimer was not one of them.

That's right,' he said cheerfully. ' I'm
glad to hear it. Just say I should like to see
her — will you ? — if it's quite convenient to
her. If it isn't, ask when I can call again.'

Show Mr. Lorrimer into the visitors'
room,' she said in answer to this message.
It might be as well, she thought, to get Mr.
Lorrimer over at once. If it were impossible
to avoid recognition, it was still possible tolet
those who recognised her know that she
desired privacy, and it was not likely that all
who had known her would care to make
pursuit of her. She touched her hair and
the lace about her throat and wrists with
delicate fingers as she stood before her

mirror, with no result perceptible to man,
and having thus made herself fit to be seen,
she descended the stairs and found Lorrimer
awaiting her in the visitors' room — a carpeted
box with an odour of dry rot.

A stage manager who could feel any
sense oi gaudier ie in approaching an actress
must have had the practice of his profession
wasted upon him. With Lorrimer any sign
of dignified reserve, which expressed itself
without the pronounced standoffishness of a
stage attitude and gesture, was lost. He had
played many parts in his time, and to him
the saying of the melancholy Jaques was
literal — all the world was a stage. He took
out the confidential-family-adviser stop, and
addressed Mrs. Tregarthen in tones of genial
sympathy.

You left us, madam, in a somewhat
sudden and unconventional way, but it was
impossible for that or anything else to mitigate
the pleasure and advantage of having
known you. You have our profoundest
sympathy in the calamity which has brought
you back to us, but that is tempered by the
hope that you may ultimately discover that
the profession, of which you might have
been the brightest ornament, has still an
attraction for you, and that its triumphs
offer a consolation not to be despised.'

This was spoken with the air natural to
a master of the art of conversation. Lorimer
was one of those people who take their
theories so to heart that they make facts of
them. His theory was that Mrs. Tregarthen
was a widow, and in reduced circumstances.

4 Do you mean,' she asked, ' that I shall
go back to the stage, Mr. Lorrimer ? ' He
spread his hands abroad, and bowed, with a
sweeping gesture of assent. ' No, I shall
never go back to the stage.'

The wrinkles of his smile remained for a
second or two, but the light went out of his
eyes at once, and the wrinkles faded slowly
after it.

Not go back to the stage, madam ? ' he
cried. 'Waste the superb talents God has
given you on the mere desert air of private
life ? Cast away the splendid fortune which
only needs an extended hand to grasp it ?
Impossible, madam — impossible.'

Mr. Lorrimer spoke with so evident an
amazement that he impressed the listener in
spite of herself. She had gone upon the
stage simply and purely to make bread for
herself and to find an education for her
sister. Few of the triumphs or joys of stage
life had come home to her, and even when
they seemed all to lie waiting for her, she
had been able to surrender their promise for
the quiet routine of domesticity in Gorbay.
They could scarcely have seemed very valuable
to her since she had left them so easily.
But Lorrimer put the case strongly, if
grotesquely, and there could be no doubt of
his sincerity.

She was but a simple-minded creature
in spite of the talents of which Lorrimer
spoke so highly, and she had a way of speaking

straight out the thing that was in her
mind.

6 My husband ' she began, but there

she stopped with a sudden sense of heartache
at the vast emptiness of the world.
There is no pain the human heart can feel
which is heavier to bear than that.

'Your husband, madam?' said Lorrimer,
prompting her with a tone of respectful
sympathy.

6 My husband,' she began again, ' had a
profound dislike for the stage, and I must
respect his opinion.'

'That is natural and commendable,
madam,' returned Lorrimer with the family-adviser
air more strongly marked than ever.
1 But when — in the course of a week or two
the healing hand of time has softened the

sense of loss, you may find yourself less
inclined to elevate his scruples into absolute
commandments.'

She shook her head with an expression
so mournful and so resolute that Lorrimer
felt it necessary to clear his throat before he
spoke again.

'Well, madam, well, 5 he said rather
hastily. ' If you should change your mind,
you will know where I am. Fortune lies at
your feet. You have only to stoop to pickup
wealth and fame. And — as I say — if
you should change your mind you will find
nobody so devoted to your interests as
myself. I have 'made the fortune of a nincompoop
before to-day, madam, and genius
is the lever Archimedes wanted. With such
genius as you possess I could move the

world. I ask nothing but my poor share of
the glory, and half profits. But I will not
further intrude upon you now. Good day,
madam, good day.'

He was gone, but he left a seed
behind him, and though it fell on ground
unwilling to receive it, it took root and
grew.

To have done a thing, with ninety-nine
people in a hundred, is the best of all
possible reasons for continuing to do it,
especially if the thing is to be done passively.
We like or dislike our everyday acquaintances
on this principle, and it guides us in
more matters than we often care to think of.
The runaway wife had never written to her
husband to apprise him of her whereabouts,
and silence, which at first was hard, had

grown into such a habit that by this time
nothing could have forced her to break it.
She suffered, and she told herself that she
deserved to suffer. She trained the thorns
of remorse with a hand of constant care,
and cultivated unhappiness as only a penitent
and a woman could. And all the time
she waited in a sort of hopeless hope for
her husband to make some effort to recover
her. Had he found her he . could have
taken home, not merely a wife, but a lover
so full of love and penitence that she would
have been his lifelong slave for no more
than the privilege of seeing him. But he
also waited with a heart that grew bitterer
and heavier day by day, until at last the
true masculine impatience of the slow suffering
which women bear until they learn to

cherish it, bade him throw the burden
away. He seemed to cast his heart away
with it, but it had to go, and he went back
to his mad-brained books again.

That so fine a triviality as that which
separated these two hearts and lives should
breed a day's coldness might surprise a
lover. But there is no measurement for
human folly, and the fools, as often as not,
are lovable, pitiable, admirable. If only the
people who are objectionable all round made
fools of themselves, what a charming world
we should live in !

CHAPTEE VI.

Mr. Eonald Marsh gave his poems to the
world, and they made almost as much noise
as he had hoped. But when one goes forth
to make a noise in the world, the character
of the clamour which arises is as important
as the volume of it, and the public reception
of Mr. Marsh's muse, though loud enough to
satisfy anybody, aroused the bitterest scorn
in the poet's heart. Such a charivari of
chaff, such a Jovian roll and peal of laughter
arose from the great reviewers, and was
taken up by the little ones, as has rarely

rung in any poet's tingling ears since reviewing
came into fashion. The Times set him
down to roast at a whole column, the 'Riser
branded him with one red-hot paragraph,
and from every point of the compass the
critics big and little heaved the coals of fire
of friendless criticism at him by the shovelful.
But the poet, as Mr, Tennyson had
already written, is at the moment of his
birth 'dowered with the hate of hate — the
scorn of scorn,' and Mr. Marsh was not
easily to be discomfited. He bought sombreros
of a wider brim than he had ever
worn until then, he vowed in his inmost
heart that the shears of the barber should
invade his rolling locks no more, and he
ordered his tailors to add an inch or two to
the poetical cloak in which he comic

VOL. I. L

went about London. The faithless few who
had worn his livery and gone about in his
likeness fled from their colours. They had
their hair cut in the normal way, and began
to attire themselves in the conventional garb
of gentlemen. When friends talked about
the Leader they made a weak pretence of
having been in the secret all along, and tried
to make it appear that they had been hugely
tickled by the fustian which had thrilled
their simple souls. The Leader had lost his
following, as most leaders do when they
lead to ridicule, but he faced the world
alone and meditated fresh poems with an
undaunted heart.

He abandoned none of his old haunts,
but he found many of his old friends pitiless.
There are few men who need sympathy

more than the man whose book is a failure.
Within it, tangible and visible, lie the nerves
of his soul, if he has one ; he has put into it
his acutest discernment, his sweetest fancies,
his loftiest thoughts, his most cunning invention
; he has glowed with hope and gone
cold with fear about it ; he has loved it
tenderly and admiringly, as a good wife
loves her husband, and with a growth of joy
in its strength and beauty, as a father loves
his child. Then comes the grim reviewer
(born surely, with bowels of brass and heart
of adamant), and slays this darling of the
author's heart, scalps it, slits its dear little
nose and tender ears, wreaks on it all his
barbarous humour of wicked invention, and
throws its remains aside without even the
poor satisfaction of a Christian burial. Who

L 2

can need sympathy more than an author in
such a case ? But there is no more mercy
in the world for him than there is milk in a
male tower.

Yet in the conclave of ten which met in
the cramped back parlour in the Strand, the
murdered poet found men who had suffered
aforetime, and had known the joy of resurrection.
The man in the corner tossed the
light quills of the brain hither and thither,
but he aimed them not at the unsuccessful.
He had himself tried to stay the tempest,
and had written that the book was not so
bad after all. Had the poet known him as
the dealer of that unkindness cut of all, he
would have slain him in his corner before
the spectral nine. When he entered and
took his seat amongst them, they greeted

him more kindly than of old, and made
more of a comrade of him. Lorraine, who
was talking, made a point of addressing him
personally, so as to make a feature of him.

Your worship was the last man in our
mouths. You remember being here one
day, long ago now, when I sang the praises
ofMissChurchiU?'

Perfectly,' replied the poet. ' I went
with you to the final dress rehearsal, and
you put into my hands the letter she left
behind her.'

1 1 was saying so as you came in. That
brings the history up to the end of her connection
with the stage. Well, everybody
knows what a mystery that looked. Not a
soul had an idea where she disappeared to.'

I know,' said the poet. ' I met her

afterwards. She married a fellow named
Tregarthen — disreputable fellow who was
dismissed the army ; insisted on using such
fearful language at the mess-table that the
other men wouldn't stand him. Well-connected
fellow — I believe he's the last of
one of the oldest families in Cornwall — but
an awful blackguard, so I'm told.'

8 Well, upon my word,' said Lorrimer,
1 that's a pretty sort of cove to forbid his
wife with his dying breath to go upon the
stage.'

Mr. Lorrimer's theory carried him that
length.

c Dead ? ' said the poet. ' Is he dead ?
Well, she's very attractive and quite young.
With such a fortune as he could leave her
she won't be long without a husband.'

I Fortune ! ' echoed Lorraine. ' She
hasn't any fortune. Bless your soul, she's
as poor as a church mouse. Living in a
boarding-house — and a dam seedy boardinghouse
it is, I can tell you —-just off the
Strand.'

I I suppose he made ducks and drakes of
everything,' said the poet. ' My father had
a place at Gorbay years ago, and they had a
good deal of land in those days — the Tree
Poor thing ! '

The poet held no malice, except for his
reviewers. Outside his verses he was a
harmless man, and had not the least desire
to hurt anybody. He had long ago been able
to forgive Mrs. Tregarthen for snubbing him,
and he was sensitive to a tale of beauty in
distress — as a poet ought to be.

Lorrimer told his story of the interview
between himself and the lost star of the
stage, and everybody agreed that the dead
Tregarthen of Mr. Lorrimer's imagination
was the last sort of person who had a right
to have his dying wishes gratified. When
the conclave parted and the poet walked
into the Strand, he dived into the street
Lorrimer had mentioned and read the door-plates
with some little trouble in the gathering
dusk until he came upon the boardinghouse.
He remembered the brilliant and
stately creature who had swept so haughtily
away from his impertinent presence at Tree
and felt unhappy to think that she
was housed in this frowsy caravanserai.
He had but seen her twice, and she had
certainly ill-treated him, and yet he felt such

an interest in her as few women had inspired
him with. She was poor and in grief and a
widow. Mr. Eonald Marsh left the street
slowly and sadly, and thought how full of
trouble was the world, and mused on Death
and the Reviewers, and such grisly themes.

It was no business of any man's, but two
or three people who knew him caught the
poet at odd times in the act of leaving that
street after dark, with a certain marked air
of furtive adventure. II any hope of seeing
Mrs. Tregarthen again drew him that way,
or if he merely went to moon in the
neighbourhood because it induced that
curious sense of the abolition of moral responsibilities
with regard to language which
is so valuable to poets, would seem to be
uncertain. When you relax your brains for

the manufacture of verses, and allow them
to flow out where they will, diffuse and
devious, a remembrance of some person of
the opposite sex serves as a sort of centre for
the tides, dissipating or rallying them quite
apart from the will of the patient.

It had grown into winter time, and the
rainy night had fallen upon London, and the
streets had a fungous odour in the rain, and
were inch-deep in mud, when the poet,
bearing his demon with him, slashed past
the lodging-house — top-booted, with his
sombrero picturesquely flapping and his long
cloak picturesquely flying in the wet wind
which blew up from the river. He was
scathing a reviewer, and would have thrown
his annual income into Thames to have
secured a stately rhyme to ' viper ; ' but just ashe

passed the boarding-house door it opened,
and the merest glance assured him that Mrs.
Tregarthen stood there attired for the street,
A second or two later the wind caught the
door, and it slammed noisily. The poet
moderated his headlong pace, paused and
turned. Mrs. Tregarthen's tall and graceful
figure went fluttering Standards.

Eonald Marsh knew perfectly well that it
is not counted a gentlemanly thing to follow
a lady without her knowledge and consent,
and he piqued himself on being a gentleman
almost more than on being a poet. He did
not think it honourable to dog a lady's footsteps,
and it was no affair of his to know
whither she was bound on foot on a night so
inclement. Whilst he thought thus he
followed Mrs. Tregarthen, regulating his

own pace to hers. This was shameful, and
he turned away, but only for a second.
When he looked again the fluttering figure
was gone, though there was no opening on
the street to right or left, and he had seen
her outlined like a wavering silhouette
against the Strand lights a mere fraction of
time ago. A special puddle lay abreast of
where he had last seen her, noticeable
because it caught the lights of the bright
street beyond and reflected them like a
mirror laid aslant. He kept his eyes upon
this landmark, and, though as he grew closer
the light faded from it, he knew that he had
not lost the place. He was sure — with a
keener pang than anything but the reviews
had hitherto caused him — that he had not
lost the place ; for where the wind-beaten

figure had disappeared stood a swinging door,
and above it the triune globes of gold.
Poverty's storm drum is mast-high all the
year round.

The young man drew into the shadow
of a corner, and watched the door, with no
memory of his scruples of half a minute
back. It was not the business of the
moment to analyse the motives which
moved him, but they were nine-tenths made
up of pity and a helpless wish to be of
service. He had to wait in the wind and
rain for full five minutes before the swinging
door opened, and Mrs. Tregarthen reappeared,
heavily veiled, and ran against the
beating wind to the door of the boardinghouse,
where she paused to use a latch-key,
and then disappeared swiftly.

At the thought of youth, aud grace, and
genius brought to such a pass as this, the
poet was grieved, and he walked miserably
away, not seeing how to be of use, but
burdened with a heavy sense of the necessity
for doing something. A man may be brimful
of conceit and may write bad verses, and
yet have a good heart. He walked home
and dressed for dinner, and dined moodily
with people who laughed at him for being
moody. Then he went, at a late hour, to
the theatre, and there encountered Lorrimer.
He had something of a struggle with himself
before he could take the manager into
confidence ; but at length he did it, swearing
or him to secrecy. Lorrimer heard him
through with an expression of face bordering
on the distracted.

5?

8 If I don't find out something about this
by and by,' said the manager, ' I shall go
mad. Come here, into the box-office.
Look at this advertisement in the Times.
Where are we? Oh, here it is. Head
that.'

The poet read —

1 Miss Churchill is requested to claim her
private fortune at the hands of Messrs. Lowe
& Carter, of Clement's Inn. — A. T.'

'Now,' said Lorrimer, when Eonald
Marsh looked wonderingly up at him, ' what
the Moses is it all about ? These people,
Lowe and Carter, were the lawyers who
paid me my claim against Miss Churchill.
She had money then, or the means of getting
money, or she couldn't have left the stage
and have paid my claim. Now, here she is

in financial difficulties, running to the pawnbroker's
— and I'll swear she's a lady, born
and bred — and all the while she's asked in
the newspapers to go and claim her private
fortune ! Because you know it's as plain as
the nose on your face that it's the same
woman.'

Who said Tregarthen was dead ? ' said
the poet. ' These are his initials.'

/ said he was dead,' returned Lorrimer.
4 She told me so.' He was quite persuaded
that she had done so. ' It must be the same
woman. Anyway, I'll tell you what I can
do. I can go and see the lawyers and tell
'em her address. We have done business
together already. Since I saw this advertisement
I've had the curiosity to turnover
the file of the Times, and I find that

it's been published every day for nearly four
months. I wish I could persuade her to
come back to the boards. Unless her
private fortune is a precious big one, I'd
guarantee to double it for her. She's a
perfect gold mine. There never was such
a Rosalind, and I don't believe there ever
will be such another.'

The sense of romance and mystery which
seemed to grow up about Mrs. Tregarthen
helped to keep her in Eonald Marsh's mind,
and he began to haunt the street she lived
in, and, during hours of darkness, to prowl
about its neighbourhood, until the police set
watchful eyes upon him and booked him in
their own minds as a person with an unlawful
purpose.

Lorrimer wrote to the lawyers, asking if

VOL. I. M

the Miss Churchill advertised was identical
with the Miss Churchill in whose behalf
they had done business aforetime. Receiving
an answer in the affirmative, he supplied
them with her address, and waited to
hear more. No news reached him until
the poet turned up one evening, with greatly
disturbed aspect, and announced that Mrs.
Tregarthen and the little girl who lived'
with her had left the boarding-house and
had taken new lodgings in a street off the
Tottenham Court Road — that both she and
the child were poorly and scantily dressed,
and that the house in which she now lived
was fit only for the occupation of the very
poor. Lorrimer went to the lawyers, begging
to be enlightened. They, inquiring
courteously into his right to claim enlightenment

and finding it to be non-existent,
respectfully declined to satisfy him. He
retreated, and had new conferences with the
poet, who was melodramatically gloomy,
and let fall deadly hints about villany, and
betrayal, and the wild justice of revenge,
perplexing Lorrimer still more. At last,
spurred by his lofty hopes of the actress's
possible future and his own, and moved at
least in part by the promptings of good
nature, and haled towards a solution of the
mystery by a very cable of curiosity,
he leaped impatiently into a hackney carriage,
and set out in search of Mrs. Tree
He had her address from the
poet.

Sun-blistered paint, years old, upon the
door ; thick veils of dust upon the windows ;

a mere well of an area, with rusted railings
round it : doorsteps cracked and sunken at
the centre.

She might have had a house in Park
Lane by this time,' thought Lorrimer, as he
scanned the place, ' and yet she lives here.
What was her private fortune, I wonder ?
The last curse of a dying mother-in-law ?
It looks like it.'

When he tugged at the bell-pull, a long
piece of rusted iron came out from the doorpost
with a reluctant creak. He pushed it
back again, and tapped the blistered door
with his gloved knuckles. A slatternly
woman came into the well of an area,
wiping her hands upon a dirty apron, and,
having inspected him, went leisurely into
the house again, and after a pause which

'Good morning,' said Lorrimer, with
smooth politeness. ' You have a lady
staying here, ma'am, I believe, and I should
be extremely obliged if I might be allowed
to see her. We are old friends, and I have
been informed that she is in some distress.'
Lorrimer was gorgeous as to his attire, and
his manner was almost monarchical.* As he
spoke he drew a half-crown from his waistcoat
pocket, aud holding it delicately between
his finger and thumb, like a duke performing
a playful conjuring trick, dropped it into
the woman's palm, which came automatically
to receive it. The woman opened the door
a little wider.

Do you mean Mrs. Tregarthen, sir ? *
she asked.

That,' said Mr. Lorrimer, ' is the lady's
name.'

The woman opened the door still wider,
and permitted him to enter. A ragged oilcloth
clung somehow to the floor, but the
unwashed stairs were careless.

What name shall I say, sir? ' asked the
landlady.

c Say Mr. Lorrimer,' returned the
manager ; but he followed closely on her
heels as she mounted the stairs, and was
resolved to present himself before he could
be refused an audience. He could not have
told then or afterwards whether pity, curiosity,
or managerial enterprise drew him
on more strongly. Either the first or last

would have been in itself enough, and the
three together were irresistible.

The woman paused on a dark landing,
and knocked at a door invisible to Lorrimer.


1 Come in,' said a voice in reply ; and
the knocker entered.

4 A gentleman to see you, ma'am,' she
said, in a voice for which Lorrimer could
have thrown her down the stairs. He knew
one side of the world and of human nature
pretty well, and he read the hypocrisy and
propitiation of the carrying tone. He
could have sworn that the woman habitually
bullied her lodger.

4 Tell him,' said Mrs. Tregarthen in a
frightened voice, 'that I cannot see him.

Lorrimer was in the room already, and
had taken in half its sordid details at a
glance. A bed in a corner, with a little
bundle lying on it ; a chair ; a table ; a few
dresses hanging on a wall from which the
paper dripped in moist festoons ; a rusty
grate, empty.

6 Madam,' said the manager advancing,
4 you must not decline to see me. I come
as a friend.'

Pity had the better of managerial enterprise
for a moment at least, and the room
went dim to Lorrimer's eyes. Mrs. Tree
in a shabby black dress which
made her pale face look paler than it was,
stood (in the attitude in which she had arisen
from her seat on the side of the bed) with
both hands on the table, her whole figure

shrinking like that of any weak wild creature
when suddenly alarmed.

Oblige me by leaving us, if you please,'
said Lorrimer to the landlady. The woman
reluctantly withdrew, and Lorrimer held the
door open to watch her down the stairs.
He could not help being stage, for use is
second nature, but he was thoroughly in
earnest when he turned: 'My poor dear
creature— don't mind me talking to you in
tills way — I'm old enough to be your father
my poor dear creature, what on earth do
you mean by living in a place like this ? '
She had only moved to breathe since his
first entrance to the room, and her eyes
said, ' Leave me for pity's sake ! ' if ever
eyes said anything. But, as he paused, the
bundle on the bed began to move, and a

feeble cry came from it. She darted to it,
peeled from it, swiftly and delicate! 3 r , the
shawl which enfolded it, and took it to her
arms. A baby. ' Oh, Lord ! ' groaned the
manager, with the tears in his eyes again,
how can yon have the heart to throw away
such prospects as you have, when you've got
such claims upon you ? '

She looked at him almost wildly, and
walked up and down the room rocking the
crying child in her arms. He thought the
look defiant, and broke out anew.

Any grown-up creature has a right to
starve and be wretched, but, by God !
ma'am, nobody has a right to ill-treat a
baby. It's criminal, Mrs. Tregarthen ; it's
nothing less than monstrous. How dare
you throw away that child's chances in the

world ? ' Lorriraer trod the boards with
the air of amazed virtue.

1 How dare you speak so to me ? ' she
demanded, pausing suddenly in her agitated
walk about the room. ' What right have
you here ? '

'For God's sake, don't be angry with
me ! ' said Lorrimer, descending from his
place of moral pride. 'I'm the best friend
you have in the world ; I am indeed.' He
was no longer the representative of virtue
amazed, but had become the attached old
family servitor, and pleaded with the last
wilful descendant of the race he loved.

At this moment there came a rap at the
door, and the landlady appeared, bearing a
bulky parcel and a letter.

i This is underpaid, ma'am,' said the

landlady, laying the parcel on the table, ' and
the postman says there's sentence on it.'

Lorrimer drew a shilling from his waistcoat
pocket.

There, there, my good woman ; don't
interrupt us again, if you please.' He walked
to the window and looked out upon the
street. ' Pray look at your letters, Mrs. Tree
and excuse me for being here at all.'

He saw that she had glanced anxiously
at the parcel, which looked as if it enclosed
a box of some sort. She obeyed him
without a word, and he heard every movement
she made as she unforced the packet.
Then he heard the tearing of the envelope
about the letter, and the rustle of the paper,
as it shook in her hand. There was nothing
to look at in the street except a mangy cat

who stalked a town sparrow, and missed the
bird by a hair's breadth when she made her
final spring. It began to strike Lorrimer
that Mrs. Tresjarthen was a long while silent,
and when, at last, he turned round, he
raised a yell of dismay, for the poor lady
had fallen back upon the bed, and lay therein
a dead faint, with the baby still in her
lap. She looked so thin and pale and quiet
as she lay there, that the manager, who was
a bachelor, and knew nothing of women
and their weaknesses, took her for dead,
and rushed to the door with a tremulous
call for the landlady. That good creature
despatched him for brandy, and, he being
gone, she proceeded very calmly to examine
the contents of the packet and the letter.
The packet contained a prodigious quantity

of manuscript and nothing else. From the
letter the landlady-gathered (she could just
read) that Messrs. Bilge and Barker regretted
that they could not see their way to the

publication of . A step on the stair

warned her of the visitor's return.

Look up, there's a dear creature,' said
the landlady in audible solicitude. 'Ah,
that's it, my pore darling'. You'll be nicely
by and by.'

Lorrimer sweated with anxiety whilst
the landlady poured a few drops of brandy
through the patient's lips, but in a few
minutes Mrs. Tregarthen began to move and
moan, and to click her teeth together, and
then he was ordered from the room, and
paced to and fro upon the fragmentary oilcloth
in the hall for the space of half an hour.

1 How is she ? ' he asked, in a whisper,
when the woman at last came down stairs.

4 She's had a good cry, pore dear,' said
the landlady, breathing neat brandy at him ;
1 and now I've persuaded her to lie down.
She'd better not be disturbed again for a
hour or two.'

• Of course not. Of course not,' said
Lorrimer, getting with his watch-chain.
She has been very hard up, I'm afraid ? '

4 Owes me three pound thirteen shilling"
and sixpence for rent,' returned the landlady,
and being but a pore woman myself, though
with a feeling heart, I coidd not deny her
nothing, and candles of a night extravagant."

Lorrimer was unhinged by the events of
the morning, and for the moment he was
half inclined to satisfy the landlady's claim

upon the spot ; but, not having taken a final
leave of his business senses, he decided
against that course.

Whatever the lady owes,' he said, ' shall
be paid.' He drew his purse from his
pocket, and the landlady's eyes glistened.
Get her,' he said, slowly and thoughtfully,
with a half-sovereign between his thumb
and finger, ' get her something nice and
tempting and nourishing against the time she
wakes. No. Never mind, I won't trouble
you. I'll get it myself, and bring it round
in two hours' time.'

He was gone, and the landlady was
staring after him with the look the lean cat
had cast after the plump escaping sparrow a
while before.

Lorrimer was driven to Oxford Street,

and 011 the way he used much terrible
language without particular application. He
had pity enough to fill him to the brim, and
curious bewilderment enough, and (when it
could beat out the others) managerial enterprise
inflated him. For each of these profane
language seemed to furnish the only escape-pipe,
and the manager's speech would have
been appropriate to a deep-dyed villain benton
murder. He halted the carriage at a
shop door, alighted, entered, and bought
jellies and preserves, drove further and
bought wine, drove further and bought fruit,
a goodly pile, and a double handful of sweet-smelling
country blossoms.

1 Damme ! ' said Lorrimer, as he sat in
the hackney carriage and surveyed these
purchases. ' I'll win the jade's heart. I'll

VOL. I. N

make her act. I'll make her so grateful
that she can't refuse me.'

A brilliant idea struck him, and he
arrested the coach once more. He entered
a shop, and when, after the lapse of some
two or three minutes, he came once more
upon the street, he wore the smile of a man
who has just said checkmate to opposition.
He unfolded the tissue paper which wrapped
his latest purchase.

4 That ought to touch a mother's heart,'
he said, surveying it admiringly. ' Real
coral. Real silver bells, and the finest india-rubber
to be had for love or money.'

He took all his purchases to the shabby
house in the street off the Tottenham Court
Road, and he waited with such patience ashe
could command until Mrs. Tregarthen was

reported to be awake, and he could be again
admitted to her room.

A little trifle of jelly,' said Lorrimer,
balancing the preparation. l Calves-foot jelly,
my dear .madam — a most nourishing article.
Pray try a little. A glass of port. I am
never to be taken at a disadvantage. I
carry a pocket corkscrew. Try that, madam.
I guarantee it excellent. A little trifle for
the baby, Mrs. Tregarthen. I am a bachelor
myself, but I am told that children value
such gauds.'

The baby stretched out her hand for the
bauble, and Lorrimer surrendered it. The
sense of his own goodness of heart was too
much for him, and his eyes became so moist
that he had to retire to the window, where
he blew his nose and waved his pocket
2

handkerchief with an air of great nonchalance.
But Mrs. Tregarthen knew why he had
retired, and she herself began to cry out of
weakness and despair and gratitude, and
Lorrimer blew his nose with violence, as if
he were aggravated with it, and had a spite
to wreak upon it. His emotion and his
friendliness won upon the lonely woman's
heart and by and by he began to pour out
golden promises upon her. She was silent
for a long time, but at last he grew so warm
that he asked her the one question in his
mind.

How do you hope to live at all unless
you take the chances you have ? '

I thought,' she said, 'that I could make
a living by writing.'

The gesture she used sent his glance to

the table. He approached and picked up
the letter which lay there, and then turned
over a folio or two of the great pile of
manuscript.

8 Ah ! he said. c And you find you
can't? Well, my dear madam, here lies
El Dorado before you. You have only to
say Yes to my proposal, and you can leave
this wretched hole at once, and go to the
best hotel in London. You can dress like
a princess, and you can command comfort
and refinement for your child. Oh, madam,
madam,' cried the manager, with tears in his
voice, ' for your child's sake do not let me
plead with you in vain.'

If Lorrimer were half a humbug, she at
least was all in earnest in her thoughts.

Yes,' she answered ; ' I will do what

you wish. I will go back to the stage again.
For the child's sake.'

Next day saw her once more attired like
a lady, and located in sumptuous private
apartments. Lorrimer was here, there, and
everywhere, spreading the glorious news.

CHAPTER VII.

Whilst Mrs. Tregarthen was afflicting herself
with unnecessary miseries, her husband
was suffering from griefs less easily to be
avoided. The copy-books say that Innocence
is Bold, and it is one of the conventional
arguments against a Suspect that
he runs away. As a matter of course the
running away is merely an indication of
character, and has nothing to do with guilt
or innocence. The shrug of surprised pity
at the benighted accuser, the placid mien of
assured innocence, the martyr's resignation

and the saint's forgiveness, are things
familiar in our courts of justice, and are
displayed there, never by the innocent, but
daily by the branded rascals who use them
as a part of stock in trade. But it takes
much experience to kill a phrase, and
Innocence is still Bold in the copy-books
and the apprehension of the unworldly.

Mrs. Tregarthen's flight, her foolish
innocent letter, and her continued silence
were enough to prejudice the most trusting
of men against her. The real motive for
flight was absurdly inadequate to anybody
who could survey the case dispassionately.
To Tregarthen its inadequacy seemed exaggerated,
because he, better than any outsider
could have known it, knew his own
readiness to forget and forgive the small

deceit of which his wife had been guilty — if
that were all. The agonised letter, with its
talk about ' guilty deceit ' and c unknown
past,' seemed to point to more than the
wickedness of a month or two upon the
stage ; and when week after week dragged
by, and brought no news from the runaway,
Tregarthen's first suspicions and fears were
bit by bit confirmed, until they settled into
dreadful certainty.

He dismissed and paid the architect and
the builder, and brought the works at Tree
to a close. Blocks of stone, rough
or trimmed, balks of timber, mounds of
mortar, and tracts of trodden lime defaced
the grass before the old mansion, and were
left there unheeded, a visible sign of hopes
abandoned. A new unfinished wall or two

mocked the ruins, and the whole place was
desolate with the signs of raw repair.
Tregarthen left the house in which he had
resided during his brief married life, and
went back to the home of his fathers.

As may be guessed, the whole countryside
was alive with speculation. Where
everybody was equally ignorant, it was
natural that there should be many who-were
the sole repositories of truth ; and it
was equally natural that all the versions set
about by these enlightened people should
differ. But howsoever they differed in
detail, it was remarkable to notice how they
agreed in the main point. The old story
against Tregarthen revived and took additions
to itself, and it was settled by common
consent that he had done something dreadful,

and that Mrs. Tregarthen had been
compelled to desert him. Some of the
hungrier after melodrama found shivery
hints of murder in the story, and dropped
dark sayings about convenient caves on
Tregarthen Island.

In Tregarthen's mind his wife's flight
was a thing of long ago before a somewhat
obvious reflection occurred to him. She had
given him her fortune to pay for the repairs
of the old house, and he had no right to retain
it. From the moment when he thought
of this the money seemed to burn him, and
he went off in hot haste to London. Messrs.
Lowe and Carter, of Clement's Inn, had
been his wife's solicitors, and he naturally
applied to them. The senior partner was
a man of genial aspect, not at all legal in

his looks ; an elderly man, with a boyish
frankness of manner and a smiling eye.

Tregarthen told his story with a savage
brevity.

'My wife for reasons of her own has
left me. You know that she made over tome
the whole of her own fortune.'

'In spite of my advice,' said the
lawyer.

Precisely. I am here to return it, If
you have no present knowledge of her
whereabouts '

None in the world.'

You may advertise, requesting her to
apply to you, and saying that her fortune
lies in your hands. If you will execute the
necessary instruments, I will sign them
before leaving town.'

1 You wish the transfer to be absolute
and unconditional ? '

Absolute and unconditional. Be good
enough not to mention my name in the
advertisement. She will respond to the
name of Miss Churchill.'

8 Her stage name,' said the lawyer,
1 before she married.'

4 You knew that ? ' said Tree: art hen,
looking darkly at him.

'We knew that. Certainly. We
arranged her father's affairs, and were in
occasional communication with her until
a few months ago. Excuse me, Mr. Tree
Men in my profession sometimes
hear a good deal of domestic discomforts,
and sometimes succeed in patching up a
difficulty.'

I shall not ask your mediation in this
case, sir,' Tregarthen answered. ' I shall be
obliged if you will delay me as little as possible.
I have no other business in London.'

He did not leave a pleasant impression
on the lawyer's mind ; and if he had known
it or had cared to know it, he had a disagreeable
impression to clear away to begin
with. The lawyer had heard Tregarthen's
unfortunate regimental story from the one
quarter in which it was likely to be reviewed
with the least mercy. Colonel Pollard was
a client of Messrs. Lowe and Carter's, and
when the Colonel told a story he had a
knack of telling it to his own credit. In his
narrative Tregarthen shone as a rowdy and
a traducer of the sex, a roue, a boaster, and
a blackguard.

The necessary documents were drawn
up and signed, the advertisement was prepared
and inserted, and Tregarthen went
back to his island. Before he left town he
was asked one question by the lawyer.

8 Do you desire to entrust me with any
message to Mrs. Tregarthen in case the
advertisement should reach her, and she
should apply to us ? '

None,' said Tregarthen. His heart was
sore, and he was weary of the world. There
was no man in England more unhappy, and
the very necessity of the case forbade him
to repose confidence in any man.

He went back and lived almost alone,
and loathed the world. There was no
honour in man and no truth in woman, and
he had learned this bitter creed by experience.

To uplift a voice for Honour was
to call down ruin; to love was to be betrayed
; to be blameless meant that the
human rarity who dared it should be
shunned and hated.

For a long time his books were charmless,
and day by day his heart's auditor
added Despite to Hatred, and found the sum
total to be Misery. After a pause he learned"
that the lawyers had by chance discovered
Mrs. Tregarthen, and that she had refused
to touch a penny of the money from his
hands. This might have puzzled him if he
had been in the humour to be puzzled by
anything. As it was, he wrote icily back
that the money was none of his, but hers,
and that she might please herself about
accepting or refusing it. He at least had no

claim upon it. The men of law wrote once
more, saying that Mrs. Tregarthen had again
disappeared, and asking for instructions.
He had none to give, and Miss Farmer's
fortune lay at interest therefore and remained
unclaimed.

The blustering spring was back again,
and March was wilder than it had been for
many a year. For three days one tremendous
gale blew from the west, and, gathering
strength in the great ocean spaces, poured
such a tide upon the coast as had scarcely
been matched within the memory of living
men. Storms of sleet and rain swept over
the island, and communication with the
mainland was impossible. It pleased Tree
to be thus shut out from the world,
and the savage isolation the tempest brought
vol. 1.

him was in rare consonance with his mood.
The milder aspects of nature had ceased to
attract him, but this mad mingling of the
elements drew him continuously abroad, and
lie spent hours upon the western rocks when
he could hardly stand against the wind, and
could not look to windward for an instant.

On the last night of this prolonged
tempest the Atlantic rollers fell with such
force and volume that they cast stones as
large as a man's head forty or fifty yards
inland. The east was as black as ink
already, and the west was a gruesome grey,
when Tregarthen (clinging with both hands
to the wet surface of a boulder which lay
three hundred paces from the tidal line, and
taking his last look at the sea-race as it
went foaming back from the crags upon his

right) saw a sudden tongue of-light flash
out from the darkness, and heard, or
thought he heard, a second or two later, the
heavy boom of a gun. Crouching behind
the boulder, and so sheltering his eyes from
the wind, he could dimly make out the form
of a great vessel, and just as he was sure of
her he saw a second tongue of light flame
out from her, but this time, though lie
listened with all his soul, the gun was dumb
in the prodigious noises of the sea. Next,
he lost her for a minute in the gloom, and
found her again by a third tongue of flame.
Every second of that dreadful minute had
brought the fancied sound of the gun's
voice to his ears.

Each flash was nearer than the last, and
he could see that the ship was sweeping


helplessly on shore. He made his difficult
and dangerous way towards her, sometimes
sheltered by the broken ground, but oftener
so beaten by the wind that he could but
crawl upon his hands and knees. All the
time, at intervals which seemed incredibly
apart from each other, the noiseless lightning
shot from the vessel's side. Whenever the
inequalities of the ground hid her from him
he fancied he could hear the gun boom and
boom and boom, but whenever he saw the flash
the gun was dumb. He came breathless and
panting upon the northern rocks and could
make out the lines of the hapless ship more
clearly. There was no shelter for her on
the beside of the island, for, as Tregarthen
knew, the sea was running there like a mill
race magnified a myriad times. She drifted

with huge lurches towards this channel, and
Tregarthen raging with pity and helplessness
tore along the rocks. If he could he would
have cast himself upon the ground and have
seen no more until all was over, but the
fascination of horror was upon him, and he
was as powerless to resist it as he was to
save a life aboard the vessel. She was insight
now continually, and he ran down the
broad grass platform with the wind at his back,
and kept alongside at a distance of little more
than three hundred yards. What with the
dashing spray and the wind and the gloom, he
could not make out a soul on board, but the
flash spoke twice more to his helpless heart,
and then the great craft seemed resigned to die
in darkness, and even to leap at her doom, as
despairing men have been known to do.

The score of men, women, and children
who, apart from Tregarthen's household,
made up the sole population of the island,
were clustered on the northern rock above
the Sea Gate. Tregarthen's housekeeper,
maid, and man-servant were there also, and
when he came amongst them they were all
staring at the fated ship. Against the
opposite rocks she scarcely showed at all",
and she was as often fancied as seen ; but
now, in a strange way, the gloom began to
lighten, as gauze after gauze of cloud was
torn from the higher skies, and the moon
showed through, at first in a mere broadly-dispersed
but feeble gleam, but finally
shining through a clear rift with a star or
two about her.

There's where she'll break ! ' said one

old sea-clog, pointing to the southern wall of
the Sea Gate. He roared the words, but
only one man heard him in the howling of
the wind and sea.

'You'd right,' said the neighbour to
whom he spoke. ' The race sets terrible off
Gorbay Head.'

'See her comm now,' cried a third,
seizing Tregarthen by the arm.

The whole force of the main tide set
westward. To the north-west of the island
juts out a promontory four miles long and
as many broad, and when a west wind
blows upon this coast the chief force of the
current makes for the narrow passage
between Gorbay Head and Tregarthen.
Gorbay forms an irregular semicircle almost
due east of the island, and the tide, sweeping

past the southern end of Tregarthen, raves
round this arc until the narrower current
meets it, when it turns and the two break
together upon the southern Sea Gate wall.
The engines were never built which could
fight a ship's way against that awful race
when the Atlantic swells it with a storm
from the west, though at other times Gorbay
is a sheltered harbour.

Between the Head and the island the
opposing currents caught the ship, and spun
her twice or thrice in a wild circle, and then
she came bowling down, swift and steady,
as if there were a breeze abeam and every
stitch of canvas had been set.

Everybody with one consent ran for the
mouth of the Sea Gate, though they turned
their backs upon the ship to do it, and, after

a hurried clamber down the wet rocks, they
stood upon the sand and watched the
channel, and waited for the end. In spite
of her broken masts, and the tangle of spars
and cordage which encumbered her deck,
she looked stately as she swept into sight
and made for death almost at the watchers'
feet. No ear on shore heard her when she
struck. She touched the rock, and it seemed
to have power to melt her. She fell back
from the climbing seas and flying foam, and
her ponderous bows had vanished. She
drove forward again, and retired again, and
again drove forward, and fell to pieces softly,
melted away, dissolved, as if no force were
used at all. The shriek and groan of
severing timbers were no more heard than
the cry of severing soul and body.

Those on shore who had the heart to
look saw two or three wretches leap from
the deck into the boiling waters, and two or
three others clinging here and there, until
the ship had broken on the rock like a cloud
upon a cloud.

As the vessel first touched the rock the
moon was shrouded, and as she melted away
the light grew again. Whilst the watchers
stood with aching hearts, a sudden volume
of water poured into the narrow gate and
drove them back. When it fell again, reluctantly,
as if its liquid fingers clutched at
the sand, it left a fragment of a spar behind
it, and almost before the quickest eye had
seen this, another wave fell and hid it.
When that wave retired it dragged the spar
with it, and rolled it over and over. Tree

shrieked like a woman ; for there,
plain to sight, was a child lashed to the
rolling spar. None heard the cry, but all
saw the forward dash he made, and all
realised the double hope and fear. He had
reached the spar, and had wound the fingers
of his right hand among the coils of rope
which bound the child, when the next wave
swept up, and tossed him high, as if he had
been a straw. But he held on, and, when
the wave cast him to the beach, he dug his
left fingers in the sand and tried for a grip
with his toes. Hercules would have had no
more chance against that raging backward
than a baby, and Tregarthen went dragging
down the sandy slope until the advancing
wave swept up again, lifted him, rolled him
over, and cast him and the spar down together.

The spar fell uppermost, and struck
Tregarthen so heavily on the head that, with
a great crackle and sparkle of lights before
his eyes, he swooned and lay like a stone.

The spar came end-on this time, and one
Cornish sea-dog fell on it and gripped it
with his might, and a second, falling on his
knees behind the first, took him round the
loins with knitted fingers, and a third seized
the second by the leather belt he wore.
The next wave came howling up ; but
before it had them fairly in its grasp, a
fourth had seized the third by the hand, and
a fifth the fourth, and when the great
monster went grinding back with its reluctant
fingers clutching at the sand, the line
was sound. Before the sea came again,
Tregarthen and the child were out of its

reach ; for the rope had miraculously tangled
itself about the rescuer's arm, and when the
men dragged at the spar he came with
it.

There was no memory of the storm in
the mild spring air when Tregarihen next
awoke to a knowledge of the world. He
was lying in bed in his own room, and the
window, which faced to the south, was open,
so that he could just hear the gentle chiding
of the sea. He lay for a time without a
care to remember anything ; but when he
tried to move he found head, hands, and
limbs marvellously heavy, and he began to
be aware that he ached all over. Then he
remembered the storm, the shipwreck, and
the rescue he had attempted.

4 Is anybody here ? ' he asked, in a voice
so feeble that he was surprised at it.

His housekeeper's voice responded with
an ejaculation of pious joy, and the old
woman was at the bedside in a moment.

6 You know me, sir ? ' she said.

1 Yes,' he answered. ' I have been ill ?
Who saved me ? Did they save the child ? '

It was Eeuben Pollarth,' said the
housekeeper, ' went in after you first, sir.
But they all helped.'

6 Did they save the child ? ' he asked again.

The child's quite safe, sir. Don't you
talk no more now, Mr. Arthur, there's a dear.'

4 Where is the child ? In the house ? '

Yes, sir, yes,' returned the old lady.
But don't you talk, dear heart, or you'll do
yourself a mischief.'

1 It was a boy, I think,' said Tregarthen.

8 Yes. yes, sir, yes,' said the housekeeper.
Here's your sleeping' draught, Mr. Arthur.'

1 Bring him here,' said Tregarthen. ' No,
no ! ' moving his eyebrows impatiently at
the draught. ' The boy. Let me see him.
Bring him here at once.'

The old lady rustled softly from the
room, afraid to deny him longer.

The Tregarthens "11 have their way if
they are dying,' she said to herself. ' It was
their manner always.' She returned in a
moment. ' I have sent for him, sir.'

Tregarthen made a response with his
eyes, and lay still. By and by there was a
knock at the door, and the housekeeper,
answering it, led into the room a little fellow
of six or seven years of age, and set him

where her master could see him. The child
was pale, and his cheeks were hollow. He
had a profusion of light hair, a shy but
pleasant aspect, and large grey eyes.

Let him be taken care of,' said Tree
in his feeble voice. ' Bring him tome
again tomorrow. A pretty child. Anyone
else ? '

No, sir,' said the housekeeper, with a
downward glance at the child.

« Bring him again tomorrow,' said Tree
' I am tired.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

SpottUwoode a; Co. Printers, New-street Square, London,

(In Connection v:ith Muche's).

iru

^errns of SvtBscrtpftcn,

Payable in Advance, and Cumm,-n' lii.; .t an' Date.

Two \'ol<-. Tlirec Vols.

Twelve :Montis . 18 G 1 7 6

Six Months 10 6 1(3

Three Months . G 8 (>

One Month 2 G 3 G

Three Volumes at a time, taper Week.

Single Subscription, 10 6 per Annum.

Six Moisten -

Tis '^iih.<;rript>on does rwt i odd 'he Xcii-est Hooks <'}itU
the fi'i^t demand has ^■"'■.- ■ 'ci.

SINGLE YOLUWIBS LENT TO READ

AT ONE PENNY PER DAY.

•=!• 108, WESTERN ROAD, ^

fear Norfolk Square)

BIE^IGHITOn^T.

m

m^^:^^

« •«- VI

^i^^^^fer-m.t.

^^^

^

OF THE
University
Of ILLINOIS

M9G4ta

^^u.

^5

S^M

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF 'Joseph's coat' 'a life's atonement' 'coals of fire' etc.

IN T^VO VOLUMES
VOL. 11.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/bygateofseaintwo02chri

Mf^^^'

i/z.

BY THE GATE OE THE SEA,

CHAPTEE Vin.

Lorimer leaving ]airs. Tregarthen felt like
an emperor who has reconquered a rebellious
province. He was one of those people who
love success and hate failure, apart from
consequences. He wanted what he wanted
exactly that or nothing — and if he had
dug for water and struck gold, like the
famous ]mr. Dow, he would have felt
aggrieved. He had gone out to secure Miss
Churchill, and the difficulties which had been

VOL. II. B

cast in his way only made her services the
more valuable to hope for, and more precious
when secured. ' The boys,' he said to himself,
rubbing his hands with vivacity, ' will
be at the Rabbit Hutch. They shall have
the news at once to begin with.'

When he alighted in the Strand and discharged
the coachman, that personage was
astonished at the liberality of the payment
Lorrimer tendered. The manager swaggered
into the little room, beaming all over, but
there was no one to meet him except the
poet, who sat dejected with his folded arms
upon the table.

I've seen her. Marsh,' cried Lorrimer,
extending both hands. ' And what's more,
my boy, she has consented to appear again.'

That is good news,' said the poet,

mournfully. ' I congratulate you. Have
you made any definite arrangement Avitli
her ? Have you — helped her ? '

To everything the heart can wish for ! '
said Lorrimer. 'Delicacies, wine, money,
credit, and a coral for the baby. It was the
coral that did the trick, my boy.'

The — the loamy ? ' said Marsh, with a
bewildered air.

Ye-es,' said Lorrimer, rubbing his chi
with the palm of his hand and regarding
the poet with a half-reflection of his look.
A baby. I suppose it's all right. To tell
you the truth, Marsh, I don't inquire into
those matters. It's a question of principle
with me.'

The poet stretched out a hand and
struck down heavily on the gong which stood

B 2

before him, and, on the appearance of the
waiter, demanded brandy in a manner almost
tragic.

What's the matter ? ' asked Lorrimer.
You are out of sorts, dear boy.'

I am hipped,' said the poet with a sigh.
I am tired of the whole show, Lorrimer,
and I wish that the drum would bang and
the fiddles squeak no more. I should like
to see the curtain ring down on the silly
figures in the middle of the piece, but I
must sit it out, I suppose, like the rest of
us, though I'm sick of it and bored to
death.'

Ah! ' said Lorrimer, ' you're young, dear
boy, and that's why you feel like that.
When I was your age I felt older than
Jerusalem. By-and-by, you'll begin to

want to stick, and you'll get to like the
piece very well.'

There are few things more offensive to
a young man than to be reminded of his
youth by a senior. And for a poet and a
man of fashion who had just expressed the
yearnings of his soul (with what he felt
to be a very pretty conversational style), to
find himself compared with this florid vulgarian
who called Methuselah Jerusalem,
was more than commonly galling. Lorrimer
had never felt what he felt. The thing was
impossible, but it was useless to argue, and
the young man sat in a mournful and dignified
silence, and sipped his brandy-and-water
until the other members of the conclave
dropped in one by one, and Lorrimer began
to expatiate upon his own good fortune

and the great tidings lie was going to do for
Miss Churchill.

Look here,' said the manager, poking
at the rotund figure of the man of the
corner with his walking-cane. ' Here's a
chance for you. You used to want to write
a poetical comedy, you know.'

'I trust,' said the man in the corner,
that we are not about to enter on a course
of recrimination. Why should I be reminded
of the follies of the past ? I have heard it
whispered that a middle-aged, florid, fat
man who shall be nameless, had once a
desire to play Romeo.'

Xo more of that, Hal, an thou lowest
me,' said Lorrimer. ' But if you can write
a poetical comedy, my boy, here's the
woman to write up to.'

Sir,' said the mau in the corner, ' I
can write a poetical comedy as well as any
whale in arctic waters can dance a saraband.'

Well,' cried Lorrimer, ' the man who
writes a first-rate poetical comedy for Miss
Churchill has made his fortune. I knoAv
that much.'

Good afternoon, gentlemen,' said the
poet, rising wearily. There was some
protest against his going, but he pleaded a
non-existent engagement and got away.
He turned disconsolately out of the Strand
into Catherine Street, and after many indeterminate
windings, found himself at the
head of the dismal thoroughfare in which
Mrs. Tregarthen had lodgings. He stood a
full minute in hesitation, and one or two
hurrying passengers hustled him. At last

he pulled this hat over his eyes, sighed, cast
out both hands with a little gesture of
surrender, and walked home.

On the afternoon of the day on which
Mrs. Tregarthen entered her new abode,
Lorrimer called and showed her two or
three newspaper paragraphs.

The game is afoot already, madam,' he
said, ' and much as I was disappointed at the
moment, upon my word I'm beginning to
be glad that you threw me over last time.
It has excited a certain curiosity and interest,
don't you see ? Only — you mustn't do it
again, you know. My credit and reputation
are at stake.'

She told him wearily that he might rely
upon her, but she took no interest in the
preliminary puffs of which Lorrimer was so

proud. She glanced at them and put them
aside with so much languor that the manager
took fright a little.

'Upon my word,' he said, 'I'm afraid
you're not well' 'Or else,' he added
silently, 'you're anything but sweet upon
the business.'

I am very well,' she answered.

Be candid with me,' urged the manager.
'I may rely upon you? Now may I

really ? '

'You may rely upon me,' she said;
adding with more vivacity, 'I could not
repay your kindness so poorly as to disappoint
you a second time.'

There are managers,' said Lorrimer,
who in a case like this would take advantage
of youth and inexperience. But I know

better ; for my own sake I know better. 1
offer you such terms to begin with, that
you can't improve your condition by running
to anybody else. Before now, madam, I
have galvanised the town into the temporary
acceptance of a Duffer. Histrionic genius,
with Lorrimer behind it, is guaranteed
success. We shall take up a permanent
residence on the pounds of Thomas Tiddler,
madam, and shall pick up gold and silver.
But — will you forgive me for hinting at it ?
you must study, you must work — there is
nothing to be done without it.'

You shall not have reason to find fault
with me in that respect,' said Mrs. Tregarthen.
I shall be willing to rehearse as much as
you please.'

The prospect inspired her with inward

reluctance. There is a charm in the life of
a successful actress which any woman can
recognise for herself, even without the aid of
experience. But Miss Churchill had her
experience already, and a stage career no
longer showed all rose-colour to her. The
stage-door haunter, the green-room haunter,
the insolent puppy in the stage-box or
the dress-circle, the coarse-tongued stage-manager,
the Banished Duke, who when on
country tour contrived to smell of onions,
gin, and stale tobacco all at once, the tittletattle
and scandal and envy of the women,
and the lidless dragon eye of professional
jealousy amongst the men, had all combined
to dismay and disgust her. She knew that
many of the miseries she had endured aforetime
would be modified. Lorrimer was an

amazing improvement on the travelling
manager, for instance. She could rely
upon him, not merely for the payment of
her dues, but for manly protection if she
needed it ; but at its best the inner life of a
theatre was not to her taste, and she looked
forward to a resumption of her old pursuit
without enthusiasm. Arthur would know
of it, too, but there was nothing in the
world which could increase the distance between
herself and him. She even thought,
as she looked everywhere for excuses, that
her resumption of her old life might help to
bring peace to him by completing their
estrangement. He would be able to
despise her so heartily that he would cease
to regret her. There was no form of
mental self-torture which she neglected,

and none seemed to afford her much
relief.

When she had been m her new quarters
a day or two, and had provided herself
with a promising nurse for the baby, she
sat down and wrote a letter, which had for
its effect the return of her younger sister.
The sensible child had been sent away to
a small country boarding-school, and the
poor lady had expended almost her last
jewel in providing her with that temporary
refuge from those stern ills of life which had
faced them both in their latest lodging.
She had hoped to make some sort of refuge
permanent for her, and to that end she had
written a novel, and had sent it to two or
three publishers only to find it rejected
by them all.

Oh ! ' cried the sensible child, beholding
the baby for the first tire, ' what a beauty !
Oh, Clara, whose is it ? '

It is mine, my dear,' said the mother,
smiling sadly as she bent over the infant.

Isn't it Arthur's as well ? ' asked the
sensible child.

Yes,' answered the wretched runaway.
It is Arthur's and mine ! ' A tear fell on
the dimpled hand her own supported, and
the wiped it furtively away.

She is like Arthur,' said the child, examining
the baby with the look of a connoisseur.
' Her eyes are like Arthur's.
Clara, what makes children like their
fathers and mothers ? Am I like papa ? '

'Yes, dear,' said the mother, bending
over the child and feigning to arrange some

trifle of its dress to hide her eyes, ' you are
very like him.'

Clara,' the child asked suddenly, ' didn't
you like Gorbay better than London ? '

'Yes, dear; much better.'

'I didn't like the last place,' said the
child. ' It was very nasty, and the old
woman was nasty. This is better ; but I
like Gorbay better, and Tregarthen is lovely.
Shall we go back to Tregarthen ? Why do
the people call Arthur the same name as the
island ? '

Her sister had not the heart to forbid
her these painful themes, but allowed her to
ramble on, and answered her when she
could. In the midst of the child's chatter,
Lorrimer was announced.

'I have brought an agreement, madam,'

he said, after a fatherly salutation. ' I have
had it drawn up by a lawyer, and before
you sign it I should advise you to consulta
legal adviser on your own side. There's
nothing like having this sort of matter fairly
understood at the beginning, and this Httle
document binds us both for three years. So
you see it's a question of some importance,
and you'd better be sure that your interests
are properly looked after. It's in duplicate,
you observe ; and all that is to be done is
for me to sign your copy and you to sign
mine. Now when can you see your lawyer ? '
'Let me see the document, Mr. Lorrimer,'
she answered ; and he handing it to
her, she read it through. ' I think I understand
it well enough,' she said then ; ' and
I am sure I can trust you, sir.'

Madam,' said Lorrimer, with the confidential
family-adviser manner strongly
marked, ' trust nobody. Nobody. I know
no more fatal habit than that of confidence.'

j\Irs. Tregarthen smiled quite cheerfully,
the first time for many a day.

• I quite understand the agreement,' she
said ; ' and I am willing to bind myself by
it. I think the terms you offer very favourable,
sir, and I hope you will not have cause
to repent them.'

I have but seen you in three characters,
madam,' returned the manager, approaching
her, pen in hand ; ' but there are not many
men in the world who know their business
better than George Augustus Lorrimer ; and
I am pretty sure of my ground, madam,
pretty sure of my ground.'

VOL. II. c

At the close of this speech lie handed
her the pen with a bow, and she signed her
name at the foot of the document which lay
before her. Lorrimer drew up a chair to
the table, seated himself, and assuming a
pair of gold rimmed eye-glasses, which were
of no service to him, signed the duplicate,
like a stage emperor signing away a province.


There, madam ! ' he said as he arose,
'we are now bound for a term of three
years, and nothing but death or mutual
consent can separate us for that space of time.'

Miss Lina, the sensible child, had observed
all this with open eyes.

'Clara,' she said in a whisper at her
sister's ear, ' you haven't married this
gentleman, have you ? '

No,' answered Mrs. Tregarthen, aloud ;
this is a matter of business which you
cannot understand.'

The child caught her sister's tone, and
spoke aloud also-but

you're not going to marry him, are
you, Clara ? '

In spite of herself Mrs. Tregarthen
blushed scarlet ; but Lorrimer with an
unctuous stage chuckle stooped and patted
the child's head.

'No, my dear,' he said, with a grandfather
intonation. ' There is no intention
of that sort in your sister's mind, I am sure.
And for my own part,' continued Lorrimer,
suddenly quitting the grandfather attitude
and manner, and bowing jauntily at Mrs.
Tregarthen, ' I am quite a resolved old
c 2

bachelor, and not even Miss Churchill's
inestimable charms could persuade me to
the sacrifice of liberty.' He saw vaguely
that this style of waggery was scarcely
suited to the lady's taste, and became
disconcerted. 'Though I am sure,' he
added, by way of atonement for a possible
blunder, ' that if any charms could pierce a
thrice-armed heart Miss Churchill owns
them.'

This being no better received than the
former compliment, Lorrimer became almost
sheepish for a moment, but speedily
recovering himself, departed, with the stately
grace and cordiality of a beau of the old
school, returning immediately with a legal
air, to secure the document signed by Mrs.
Tregarthen, the which he folded and

pocketed with a businesslike frown, and then
relapsing into smiles again bowed himself
away finally.

That is a very funny gentleman,' said
Miss Lina, gravely.

'He is a very good man, my darling,'
returned her sister, ' and has been very
kind to both of us.'

She was so unworldly that no touch of
suspicion was in her mind when she thought
of Lorrimer and the baby's coral. It is
probable that she would have conceived
that device to be no less than diabolical
if she had pierced its meaning, but the
manager was blown out with pride at his
own knowledge of human nature whenever
he remembered the expedient.

Lorrimer,' he would say, wagging his

jovial head, ' you know your way about,
dear boy. It was the coral that did the
trick. You are a bachelor, Lorrimer, but
you are not unacquainted with feminine
human nature.'

But after all, there had been much
genuine kindness mixed up with his business
motives, and a woman might be trusted
to find out as much and to be grateful for it.

When he had Miss Churchill's signature
at the foot of his agreement, and the document
was once in his pocket, Lorrimer
exulted and beamed. He went about all
day to places where he was likely to meet
the men he wanted — shady old public
houses which have outlived their reputation
now, and no longer give shelter to dramatic
critics — and drawing one of them aside

when found, would hum a secret in his ear,
a secret confided as a particular favour to
him alone, and would then hie away to
another, with unfailing industrious mendacity,
liming his twigs for the British
public. Next morning, by the separate
influences of the gentlemen whom Mr. Lorrimer
had primed, the whole world was
made aware of the facts that an engagement
had been entered into by the Miss Churchill,
who had once disappointed London playgoers,
to appear at the Mirror Theatre, and
that she had entered into a three years'
contract with the manager of that favourite
house.

But Lorrimer did more than this, for he
was a master in his way, and could puff as
well as any man alive. Artful paragraphs

went down to the provincial papers (which
were not so well off for London news as
they are now, when every one of them is
level with the great journals of the capital),
and these paragraphs were artfully transplanted
to the columns of the metropolitan
organs, until the bruit of Liss Churchill's
coming was in all men's ears. Lorrimer
kept her constantly supplied with the news
of his achievements in this way, and frightened
her more than he guessed. Everyone
of the manager's preliminary bangs at
the drum sent a nervous fear through her
heart, and she had a premonition of failure
and disaster. She had no stage-passion to
buoy up her sinking spirits, and the memory
of her husband's scorn for the business upon
which she had a second time embarked

would have made her run away from the
enterprise altogether but for her own native
loyalty and the thought of her child and
sister. It was to be all so different, too,
from her actual experiences of the stage.
She would no longer contrast with the
failures of the provincial theatres, but would
have to move side by side with the best
actors of London and one of its best
actresses. For Lorrimer, m his own phrase,
was ' going for the gloves,' and was getting
together a picked company. He meant
to have such a glare ad blare of triumph
in London that when the time came for
the provinces, playgoers should be on the
tiptoe of expectation there ; and then with
his one star, and a cheap scratch company,
he would gather in money by the hateful.

The company being once got together
were rehearsed severely. The pale gentlewoman,
young and sad, did not promise
well for the ideal Eosahnd of any one of
them when she first came amongst them.
But the spirit of the scene began to lift her,
and when Orlando, even in his frock coat
and tall hat — most un-Orlando-like — was
supposed to have overthrown the boastful
wrestler, and she dropped the meaning
words, ' You have wrestled well and
overthrown more than your enemies,' the
sweet voice and perfect intonation angered
on the players' ears like music, her figure
grew all grace, and her face all sympathy.
Eosalind trod the stage in Victorian attire,
and the brightest and tenderest of Shakespeare's
conceptions took concrete form for

all who heard and saw. This triumph was
achieved at the first rehearsal, and the report
of it raised expectation high amongst those
who interested themselves in the matter.
Actors are a jealous race, and as a consequence
there is no class of people who
praise one another so unreservedly ; for
jealousy is not a pretty passion, and its
owner will generally go out of his way to
hide it. So when Mrs. Tregarthen's compeers
had once made up their minds that
she would inevitably outshine them all, they
gave her the most unstinted laudation
everywhere, and the whole theatrical world
got into a ferment about her.

In the earlier rehearsals the old stagers
went through their work anyhow, mumbling
inarticulately, and cutting down the immortal

sentences without remorse in their
hurry for the cue, but Eosalind would not
mutilate her lines, and could not, for her
life, speak them at all without speaking
them as they ought to be spoken. It came
about, therefore, that from the central
figure of the piece a gentle inspiration shone
out to all the rest, until they began to reflect
it ; and the dullest old stager began to work
with something of his youthful spirit.
Lorrimer saw this and exulted. He worked
as only a theatrical manager has to work,
entreating, arguing, persuading, commanding
— employing sweetest suasive art
on Celia ; with more than Chesterfield's
politeness begging leave to differ with old
Adam or Touchstone on some point of
detail ; or pouring forth wild streams of

passionate objurgation upon the carpenters.
He was ubiquitous, and seemed, like Ariel in
the storm, to divide, and burn in many places.
But all things have an end, and at
length the final rehearsal was over, the last
note of the music arranged and practised,
the last costume perfected, the last stroke of
the paintbrush dry, and even the clumsiest
super had learned his final lesson. The
great night was upon London, and only a
million or two of its inhabitants were
altogether unmoved and apathetic, The
house was crowded. The destiny of the pit
was not yet decreed, and the most sympathetic
and most experienced of playgoers and
truest of play-lovers were not scorned. The
oldsters were there, grave, almost severe,
prepared to utter judgment. The professional

critics were in the dress circle, where
they could really see the piece and were not
half brained by the cymbals and the cornet
in the entrance as they are in these
advanced days. Beauty, wit, fashion, and
old experience filled the house, and Miss
Churchill, who had long since been dressed,
and eager in her nervous terror to face them
all and get the ordeal over, was led by the
triumphant yet anxious Lorrimer to take a
peep at the crowded benches and the wide
sweep of the glittering circles. She went
back to her own room quaking, and when
she tried to think of her part she discovered
that she had forgotten her first words. She
referred to them, and they looked at her un ■
familiarly from the manuscript. ' I show
more mirth than I am mistress of.' Great

heavens ! She had to be mirthful, and in
the presence of that terrible crowd.

She had heard of this swift and sudden
disease many a time, and Igiew it by the
name of stage fright ; but she had never
guessed what it might mean until now. It
numbed every faculty of the mind. She could
think of nothing, and remember nothing.
It left her physically helpless, too, and
reduced her to a very statue of cowardice.

The orchestra was industriously scraping
and blowing its way to the final musical
spasm of the overture, and she felt that the
time of disgrace and despair was near.
The music ceased, the house applauded,
a bell rang thrice, the house applauded
anew, and the time of disgrace and despair
was nearer still. In a little time there came

a tap at her door, and the call-boy demanded
Miss Churchill. She must needs
go — there was no help for it. She took a
hasty sip of water, and walked like an automaton
to her place in the wings. Celia
was there already, and slipped an unsympathetic
arm about her waist in readiness for
the business of the stage, for they went on
twined together like two of the three graces.
The band finished its little intermediate
flourish, and somehow Eosalind was on the
stage with a sound like the noise of the sea
in her ears, and she was ready to sink and
die. Celia spoke —

I pray thee, Eosalind, sweet my coz,
be merry ! '

The two women melted apart from their
embrace at this point, and Eosalind stood

alone. There was a pause. It came out
afterwards that it was no longer than it well
miorht have been, but to Miss Chm'chiU's
heart it was quite a gulf of time. Then —
but how it came about she never knew —
she found courage and memory to speak,
and before the first little speech was over
her stage fright had flown at the reassuring
sound of her own voice, and she knew by
an instinct which is common to actors of
both sexes, that the house had settled down
with that new resolve to listen which is
the result of a first favourable impression.
Before she had taken the chain from her
own neck to give it to Orlando, she had
won every heart in the house. Lorrimer
stood at the wing to welcome her with rubicund
smile and outstretched hands, and the

VOL. II. D

house thundered behind her. It was a
night of triumph, and the triumph mounted
in a steady crescendo. The actress curtseyed
her acknowledgments again and again
before the curtain, and then went home and
cried bitterly, with fame and fortune at her
feet. Whilst she cried, half a score of practised
pens were running nimbly in her
praise, and half a score of critical intelligences
were donor their best not to be runaway
with, and some of them were not
succeeding, as the result of the next day
declared. Miss Churchill's name was newly
blown abroad, Miss Churchill's fame was
established and her fortune made.

But Mrs. Tregarthen had defied her
husband, and now began to see all manner
of possibilities which might have come

about to reconcile him if she had not made
this fatal step. A day before all these
possibilities had been impossible ; but now
she believed in them. She was unstrung
by the nights excitement, and had real
cause for sorrow and self-blame enough.
To shine in the eyes of the world, to charm,
to dazzle, to be applauded by listening
crowds, to have her comings and goings
chronicled in the public prints as if she
were a queen — what was all this to her
when she had lost Arthur ?

Curious that any one human being
should mean so much to any other ; and
yet be no wiser, no handsomer, no more
loyal, valiant, tender, than a round million
of his fellow men ?

CHAPTER IX.

It became known that there was some sort
of secret understanding afoot between the
poet and the man of the corner. They
were found together in the small chamber
in the Strand holding earnest converse,
which was suspended on the arrival of any
chance new-comer. Callers upon the man
of the corner found the poet in his chambers,
and callers upon the poet in his more
artistically furnished apartments in the
West, met there the man of the corner.
They sat together on a summer's day

with the mellow sunshine struggling through
cobwebbed windows, and showing the dust
upon the threadbare carpet and the battered
furniture. There were foils, and
candlesticks, and boxing-gloves upon the
walls, and a gun and a fishing-rod or two
in the corners of the room. The man
of the corner lounged collarless in slippers
and dressing-gown, and the poet sat at the
table, pen in hand, with a pile of manuscript
before him.

I think it will do, Smith,' said the poet,
doubtfully.

My Bard,' said the simpered lounger,
it will do. It is not Shakesperian ; but it
will do. We are humbler than we were
a year ago. Marsh, and the reviewers did us
good. They humbled us, and chastened

our style a bit, and we know now how
many poetic beans make five. We used to
think it took fifty, didn't we ? '

I fear I did,' said the poet, with a
bkish. ' You've been very kind to me.
Smith, and I'm immensely obliged to you.'

The wounded is the feeling heart,' returned
the other. ' I will tell you a secret.
I, William John Smith, writer of melodrama
and wholesale merchant in murder, was
Horace Montmorency.'

You ? ' cried the poet.

1. None other. It was this hand that
wrote " The Demogorgon." It was upon this
head the scalping knife of the reviewer fell.
I suffered before you. I roasted at the fire
of public scorn and laughter for a year.
When I saw you scalped and bleeding at

the stake, I felt for you, and as each red
reviewer hurled his tomahawk, one heart
was moved to pity. It was mine.'

The poet arose and shook hands. ' Weare
brethren in misfortune,' he said, with a
somewhat ghastly smile.

Respect my awful secret,' said his companion.
*Let us change the theme. Can
we brighten the last act with a murder ? I
have never made so long a literary journey
without blood. Let us sacrifice a victim to
propitiate the gods.'

'Well,' said the poet, 'I'm afraid we
must leave the gods propitiated. A
murder would be a little out of place in a
poetical comedy — wouldn't it ? Eh ? '

A suicide ? a divorce ? a bigamy ? a
forgery? I pine for my accustomed diet.

I will have a fuller-flavoured villain than
common in my next.'

Upon my word, Smith,' cried the poet,
earnestly, ' I wouldn't do that sort of work
if I were you. There is not a lovely fancy
or a graceful line here,' laying his hand
upon the manuscript, ' that isn't yours.
There is not a subtle touch of observation
or of human nature that isn't yours. I
brought you a feeble rickety child, and
you have tended it and nurtured it, and you
give me back a beautiful woman. Why
should a man like you waste himself on
melodrama ? '

I get an honest having,' said the lounger.
'I reward virtue and I lash vice. I
never leave an unrepentant villain happy,
or a good man in adversity. And I am at

home in my work, and I can do it. As for
what yon are pleased to say about my share
in this work — let me tell you the truth. I
am an old literary craftsman, and a pretty
good one. You are a young literary craftsman,
and your hand is not yet firm. But if
you will be humble about it, and will not
take pride to yourself, and will not think
that genius is everything and patient labour
nothing, you will do work I cannot do and
never could have done, and you will give
harmless delight to many people, and be
remembered for a generation or two. Only
labour, patience, humility — humility,
patience, labour. These, my poet, make
talent pass for genius very often, but they
make genius resplendent.'

The poet sat silent for awhile.

And you think,' he said, after this pause,
that we had better send it to Lorrimer ? '

'Certainly. With the stipulation that
we depend not upon his judgment, but
upon that of Miss Churchill. I have
written a good deal for Lorrimer, and I
respect his judgment on my own wares.
He has a rare palate for a murder, but the
flavours of this work are too delicate for
him. I shall tell him so.'

'If she will but undertake the part,*
cried the poet, 'what a creation she will
make of it.'

She is a great actress,' said the other,
and her style grows riper. But have you
noticed, Marsh ? I meet her here and thereon
Sunday evenings. She is successful, but
she is not satisfied. She is not a happy

woman. Her sorrows are not querulous,
but resigned.'

I have not noticed it said Marsh. ' I
only see her upon the stage.'

Do you know,' said the writer of
melodrama, ' I admire her infinitely. Her
blameless private life, her charity — she has
an ill word for nobody, not even for the
fools who pester her because she is an
actress. I have felt once or twice an
electric sensation in the right foot, indicative,
as I believe, of a desire to boot a
noble swell or two who hover in her train.
But to give way to that desire would only
create a scandal, and the snobs must be
allowed to flutter until she meets some good
fellow who will marry her and take her
away from the theatre.'

That would be a loss to the theatre,'
said Marsh.

And a gain to her,' retiu-ned his companion.
' No woman can live in art and be
happy. Her place is by the hearth. She
must have a man to waste her affections on,
and children to suffer for, before she can
really be at peace.'

Shall I send on the play to Lorrimer,
or will you ? ' asked the poet, after a
minute's pause.

I will,' said the playwright. ' It is so
much more your work than mine that I can
praise it with the better face.'

And I shall hear the verdict from you ? '

Just so. Are you going ? Lorrimer
shall have it at once. Good-bye.'

I am going down into Berkshire,' said

the poet, shaking, hands and taking np his
sombrero ; ' but my letters will be forwarded.
Good-bye.'

William John Smith, being left alone, lit
a pipe, and took a tumbled heap of papers
from a drawer. Then he selected a pen, sat
down at the table with the tumbled papers
before him, and tried to think about work.
But the day was languid and he was lazy,
and in a minute or two he threw down the
pen and resigned himself to his fancies.
Eonald Marsh came uppermost.

William John,' said the idler, staring
abstractedly out of the window, ' you have
done that young man a power of good.
The sentiments you so eloquently express in
conversation and so consistently ignore in
private life are telling on him. And he

wanted that hiding from the reviewers. It
did him good, and helped to drive out of
him the most intolerable puppyism with
which any man of my time has been
afflicted. There are the makings of a good
fellow in him, and they will not be wasted.'

Unconscious of this criticism the poet
went down to Berkshire, leaving the dusty
whirl of London fashion behind him, and
awaited (with what patience he could find)
Miss Churchill's judgment on the poetical
comedy. It fell upon a day that he set out,
long-cloaked, long-haired, and sombrero'd,
for a country walk, and being athirst and
weary, stepped into an inviting little roadside
inn and asked for sherry and soda.
The room in which he sat was comfortably
shaded and prettily dappled by a few stray

flecks of sunlight. There were roses at the
diamond casement, the window was open,
birds twittered about the fields outside, a
hostler in the yard to the right made a
soothing noise of hissing and splashing as he
washed the legs of a farmer's cob, and it
was difficult to believe that there were
griefs, or heartburning, or jealousies, or
troubles of any sort upon the surface of a
planet which owned so peaceful and quiet a
haven of rest as this.

Hostler ! ' said a voice outside, ' see
that there oddity in the cloak and wide-awake
going' in just now ? '

I see him, sir,' replied the hostler. ' It's
my lady's brother-in-law down from London,
sir.'

My eye ! ' said the first speaker, ' he's

a caution, ain't he ? What's he wear his
hair that long for ? Like a gell's, ain't it ? '

Well, you see, sir,' said the hostler ina
philosophic and reflective tone, ' there's
a sort as would sooner be stared at and
laughed at, than not stared at at all.'

'That's a rare good by word, hostler,'
said the other. ' You shall have a pint for
that, anyway.'

The poet stealthily arose and closed
the window. It was sufficiently unpleasant
to have overheard this conversation, and
it would have been still more disagreeable
to have it known that he had overheard it.
He tried to dismiss it from his mind as a
piece of unmeaning insolence ; but it would
not be dismissed. The hostler's philosophy
as it applied to a class at large was sound.

There were many people in the world —
the poet was assm^ecl of it — who would
much rather be laughed at than left unnoticed.
Was he one of them ? He
thought not ; he felt certain he was not.
But did he look like one of them ? Did he
commonly pass for one of them ? He had
grown so accustomed to his own sartorial
eccentricities that he himself had almost
ceased to think about them. He had
assumed them in the folly of youth as a sort
of badge and proclamation — a sign of his
office as Vates. It was possible enough,
now he came to think of it, that the cloak,
the sombrero, and the long hair had something
to do with the prodigious roasting
he had received at the hands of the
reviewers, for he had been a familiar figure

VOL. II. E

about town and in society, and was likely
to be known by sight to most of them.
When lie thought of the sounding of the
drums which had gone before the publication
of his poems he blushed all over. The
hostler's philosophy sank deep, and the
poet departed from that wayside inn
carrying a hard-earned bit of wisdom with
him.

Mr. Eonald Marsh justified Wisdom of
her latest birth by discarding the hat and
cloak, and by having his hair cut. When
he had made these changes, he felt
absurdly ashamed of himself, and fearful
of appearing before people who had known
him in his old aspect ; but he conquered
these sensations in a little while, and was
content to go about like an average

Christian, and to can no badge of genius
upon bim.

Such great events from little causes
spring, that the chance overhearing of a
hostler's speech made a tender lifelong
friendship possible for our poet, and thereby
so purified him and lifted him as to make
him at last an exceptionally good man, and
a very tolerable playwright.

Miss Churchill read the poetical comedy,
and thought well of it. The practised
writer of melodrama had seen to the
situations, and though he had chosen to be
modest about his part of the work, he had
enriched its dialogue and motive, until the
poet's simile of the rickety child and the
beautiful woman was very fairly descriptive
of the changes he had wrought in it for the
E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Dunois

better. But there were still things which
the stage instinct of the actress rejected ;
and news came to the poet that Lorrimer
and Miss Churchill desired to meet him
and his collaborateur, with a view to the
removal of certain blemishes in the piece,
and then to its early production. This announcement
was at once a source of delight
and uneasiness. To be played by Miss
Churchill was fame and glory enough in
itself. To meet Miss Churchill after his
encounter with her at Tregarthen was nota
pleasant thing. Looking back at that
meeting, he felt that he had intruded himself
impudently, and he remembered the magnificent
snub his insolence had deservedly
received. And apart from that — not to
pretend disguise about a matter which must

be tolerably plain by this time — Eonald
Marsli had been falling more and more in
love with the actress since the hour when
he had discovered her poverty, and he was
by this time further gone than any man can
be with safety. He had admired her,
and had then had to pity her profoundly,
and then to admire her anew,
and now he had been thinking of her for
months, whilst he laboured at his comedy,
with her voice constantly in his ears and
her form and face constantly before his
eyes.

He had listened anxiously to whatever
news of her private life had reached him.
Her record was blameless. Xo reproach
came near her.

It was not easy to encounter her again.

but he did not see his way to an avoidance
of the engagement. William John Smith,
'merchant in murder,' and Lorrimer were
at the house before him, and Mrs.
Tregarthen sat talking with them when he
arrived. A mild sad-mannered lady, who
acted as Mrs. Tregarthen's companion, and
wore a readable proclamation of reduced
circumstances, sat at a window knitting.

The poet had long since besought
Lorrimer not to remind the actress of his
former meeting with her. There was justa
chance that she might not recognise him,
and that he might escape the consequences
of their last meeting. If he had only
known what that meeting had led to on her
side he would never have had the courage
to face her at all. Now Mrs. Tregarthen

would almost beyond a doubt have recognised
the picturesque young man who had
helped to work such mischief, if she had
seen him in his old guise. But the poet
shorn of his disorderly halo was a man disguised,
and, thanks to the hostler's philosophy,
he passed without recognition.

The actress suggested the alterations
she desired. Lorrimer and the playwright
discussed them with her, and the poet kept
very much in the background, thankful to
be unobserved. He escaped at last with a
feeling of much relief; but he was not
nearly so afraid to face Miss Churchill a
second time. During the rehearsal of the
accepted comedy he met her frequently,
and so came more and more within her
influence, and fell more and more in love

with her. She on her side was prepossessed
with the poet, and treated him kindly. He
was a gentleman and cultured ; he never
pestered her with flatteries ; and she, who
had a native inclination to worship genius,
thought she discovered a touch of that rare
quality in him. So the poet was admitted
to a sort of intimacy, and, being busy upon
a second comedy, was allowed certain half
business-like half friendly conferences
about it, and was so lured forward that,
after hanging back with all his might, he
surrendered suddenly and went all the
way.

The Lady Marguerite Capucine was a
woman whose delight it was to know singers,
musicians, actors, authors, and such curious
folk, and she preferred a fashionable actress

to any other lioness who roars. The Lady
Marguerite had found her way to Mss
Churchill, and being herself a charming
woman (apart from the one eccentricity
which prompted her to be a trouble to all
the intellectual people she could lay her
hands on), had at first seemed the actress's
liking and regard. A little coolness sprang
up between them, however, on the ground
that Lady Marguerite had asked IViiss
Churchill to oblige a little circle of her
guests one day by the recital of a scene
from As You Like It. Miss Churchill took
it ill that this request should be made to
her, and excused herself courteously but
coolly. The hostess took it ill that the
actress should decline, and ' my feared '
Miss Churchill something more than she

need have done for the rest of the evening,
and began to dislike her.

This breach the poet set himself to heal,
and so far succeeded that his sister-in-law's
house again became one of the places in
which he could rely upon a meeting with
the actress ; and now he began to manoeuvre
for a private interview. One day it came,
not as the result of his manoeuvres, but by
pure accident. The poet was strolling in the
Park at a rather early hour, in a secluded
by-way, when he suddenly encountered the
object of his dreams, alone. He suffered a
curious breast pang, and for a second or
two stood irresolute ; but being perceived
by the lady, who gave him one of her own
sad little smiles, he perforce plucked up
heart of grace and approached her. She

received him cordially enough, but with so
matter-of-fact a manner that any hopes he
might have felt inclined to nurture were
at once frozen. But men of war sometimes
charge strongholds which are known to be
impregnable, and lovers are not always to
be held back from a declaration by the
certainty that it must be fruitless.

There was no trace of the poverty which
had first moved the poet's heart in the dress
of the stately yet gentle creature who now
walked beside him, and but little sign in her
aspect of the sorrows he knew her to have
suffered. There was always a touch of sadness
in her face when he saw it in repose, but
this only made her rare smile the more charming,
and it was never deep enough to awaken
anything beyond a pleasing sense of pity.

It was not easy to plunge in medias res,
and the transition from any other topic
bade fair to be difficult and awkward, but
he continued to talk about commonplace
matters for a little while, and it was only
when Mrs. Tregarthen spoke of moving
homewards that he made up his desperate
mind to the fulfilment of his enterprise.

Before we part, Miss Churchill,' he
said, ' I have something to say to you,
something I 7nust say, if only you will dome
the honour to listen.'

If she had not been a married woman
with a tragedy behind her, she might long
since have divined Eonald Marsh's condition.
When a maid is fancy free she is free
to fancy what she pleases, and though she
thinks young men a mighty nuisance, she

has a fair idea of the number of Lier own
admirers. But apart from the fact that
Mrs. Tregarthen was married, and had
buried her whole heart in the past, she was
by nature unobservant in this particular.
It crossed her mind that the poet might be
displeased with something she had done in
respect to his comedy — his manner seemed
to bespeak displeasure — and she answered
with a propitiatory voice,

Certainly, mr. Marsh. I shall Hasten to
anything you have to say to me.'

Few responses can be fancied which
would be less welcome to a lover, but the
poet was committed, and could not drawback.


From the earliest moment of my actual
knowledge of you, j\Iiss Churchill,' he began,

I have been learning to form an estimate
of your character which has continually
grown loftier, and now for months past I
have had to admit to my own heart that
admiration and interest have ripened into
love.'

She stopped him there with grave dignity.


Pray forget that you have ever spoken
so to me.' He would have been a more
insolent wooer than Eonald Marsh was
disposed to be who had not found himself
arrested by this command. It left him
without a single ray of hope, and he saw as
much at once. They paced side by side
for a few moments in silence, and then she
spoke again. ' I did not mean to answer
you harshly, Mr. Marsh.'

I know that,' he answered, coming to a
standstill.

But,' she said, pausing also, ' I owe you
an apology for an unintentional deceit, or
you owe one to me for an insult.'

I do not understand,' said the
poet.

I have resumed the name by which I
was first known upon the stage,' she pursued
with a tone of suppressed anger ; ' but
I can scarcely believe that you were im-aware
of my real name, or that you did not
know enough of my history to be sure that
you were dishonouring yourself and me
when

Dishonouring myself and you ! ' he interrupted.


Dishonouring yourself and me,' she repeated.

'I shall be glad to know that I
have suspected you groundlessly.'

I had known,' said Marsh, confusedly,
that you had borne another name. I had
even some slight knowledge of your late
husband

My late husband ! ' There was a look
of sudden terror in her face, for it crossed
her mind that Arthur and she were so far
apart that he might have died and she have
been left in ignorance. The poet would
have been a dull dog indeed if the emphasis
with which she spoke and the fear he read
in her face had not guided him to the
truth.

Forgive me any pain I may have given
you,' he said earnestly, baring his head
before her. ' Forgive me any pain I may

cause you now. Mr. Tregarthen is
alive ? '

Yes,' she said faintly, ' I pray so. I
believe so.'

Marsh offered her his arm with a respect
so obvious and profound that she availed
herself of its support with no hesitation, and
they walked on together for a little while
until she had recovered from the tremor
into which her fear had thrown her.

Believe me,' he said, when he saw this,
that if I had known I could never have
spoken as I did. Rely upon my most profound
and ■ respectful sympathy. There is
nothing in the world to which you may not
command me. Forgive me the pain I have
caused you, and forget '

'Let us say good morning, now, Mr.

VOL. II. F

Marsli,' she said, withdrawing her hand
from his arm, and then extending it towards
him. He took it in his own, bowed over it,
and left her.

CHAPTEE X.

Tkegaethex's housekeeper brought the child
a second time in accordance with her master's
orders. She had done what she could
to make him smart and neat, but his velvet
clothes were much damaged, and he was
too big for them.

Bring him here,' said Tregarthen, who
was stronger than he had been on the previous
day, though his eyes were still hollow,
and his unshaven face looked somewhat
ghastly. ' What is you: name ? '
F 2

Phil,' said the boy, looking shyly up at
him, and dropping his eyes again.

What else ? ' asked Tregarthen. He
leaned forward from his heaped-up pillows,
and fondled the child's head with his thin
hand. The boy murmured something unintelligible.
' What is the other name, Phil ?
I can't hear you.'

I don't think he knows the other name,
sir,' said the housekeeper. ^ I've asked him
lots of times since he got better, but he
doesn't seem to know it.'

He has been ill ? ' said Tregarthen,
leaning back again. ' No wonder.'

His poor little arm was broke, sir,' said
the kindly housekeeper, stooping to arrange
the child's collar ; ' and he was so bruised
and drowned it was a wonder he lived at all.'

Poor fellow ! ' said Tregarthen. ' Come
and sit on the bedside, Phil, and let us have
a talk together. Help him up, nurse.
Where did you come from in the ship ? '

Bombay,' said the child quite readily.

And where were you going to ? '

London.'

'And who was with you on the
ship ? '

'Ayah,' said Phil, with a small fist at
either eye. Then, as by an afterthought,
And mamma.'

'It is a ciu-ious thing, sir,' said the
housekeeper, whispering, 'the child's been
crying many a time for Ayah — whoever she
may be — but he's never once asked for his
mother.'

Is the ship's name known ? ' Tregarthen

asked, his wasted "hand still toying kindly
with the child's hair.

'She was the "Isle of Elba," sir,' responded
the housekeeper, ' from Bombay to
Liverpool. A hundred souls aboard, sir,' she
added, lowering her voice again. Regard
looked at the child meaningly, and
then from him with a glance of inquiry to
the housekeeper. ' Not another creature,'
she said in answer.

Don't cry, Phil,' said Tregarthen, with
his hand wandering absently in the child's
churls. ' You shall be taken care of. Take
him to Gorbay ' (to the housekeeper) ' and
get fitting clothing for him. You may call
on Penruth, the solicitor, and ask him to
come over here at his earliest convenience.
Good-bye, Phil. You will come and seeme

again this evening, won't you ? There's
a brave little fellow. Good-bye.'

The housekeeper, hastening to put Tree
orders into execution, set out for
Gorbay that afternoon, and had the ocean
waif measured for new garments, and bought
underclothing, boots, and collars for him.
She construed her master's wishes liberally,
and when the change was finally made, she
saw that he was pleased by it. But some
days before Phil's outfit came home, Mr.
Penruth, eager to secure Tregarthen as a
client, had paid a visit to the island and had
been invited into the invalid's room.

I want you to write to the owners of
the " Isle of Elba," lately wrecked here,' said
Tregarthen, 'and to ask for information
respecting the identity of the child who was

saved. So far as I can learn, no inquiries
have been made about him.'

Yes, sir,' responded Mr. Penruth, producing
a pocket-book, and softening the
point of a pencil with his lips. ' The child's
name, Mr. Tregarthen ? '

He calls himself Phil,' said Treo-arthen.
His mother and nurse were aboard. It
will be easy for the owners to identify
him.'

Mr. Penruth took a respectful leave of
his new client, and went below to have a
look at Phil. Phil was produced, but did
not take kindly to Mr. Penruth, and being
somewhat badgered in the legal manner by
that gentleman, cut the knot of difficulty by
protesting that he was Phil pure and simple,
and had no other name.

The solicitor put himself in correspondence
with the owners of the ill-fated ship,
and learned fi^om them that a Mrs. Maurice,
with a child and a native nurse, had sailed
from Bombay aboard the ' Isle of Elba,' but
no inquiries had been made concerning
them since the news of the wreck had
reached London. Before this scanty news
anived, Tregarthen was once more at
liberty, and he and the child were beginning
to feel at home with each other. Phil
was at the Sea Gate gathering shells within
thirty yards of the gaunt bones of the wreck
when his rescuer walked feebly out in
search of him, bearing the solicitor's letter
in his hand. He sat upon a boulder, and
the boy came running up to him.

Phil Maurice,' said Tregarthen, putting

his hands round the little fellow's neck; ' are
you Phil Maurice ? '

Yes,' said Phil, with so little trace of
doubt or hesitation, that the problem was
held to be finally solved.

Tregarthen had for a second time made
up his mind that he had no more faith or
affection to bestow upon any member of the
human race, and now for the second time
he found his own belief in himself put to
confusion. For one thing, he had risked
his life, and had very nearly lost it, to
save the child, and though he honestly
thought life a possession which was of much
more weight than value, the risk endeared
the boy to him. For another thing, the
boy himself was a delightful little fellow,
full of fearless and affectionate ways, and in

spite of disappointment and heartbreak Tree
was still young, and the current in
his veins ran warm.

It turned out that Phil's education had
been totally neglected. He was not merely
unable to read and write, but he had not
even been informed of the existence of those
accomplishments. But there was not a
trace of vulgarity or faulty breeding about
him, and only an odd habit of seizing on a
word of Hindustani when he chanced to
forget its English equivalent betrayed the
curious isolation in which he had been bred.
Tregarthen taught him his letters, and the
old housekeeper superintended his pothooks
and hangers with great diligence. When
the rescuer and his rescued came to be on
familiar terms, Phil was easily persuaded to

set forti his own simple annals. For the
most part they related to his Ayah, a syne
called Feb, and a pony called Ben. He had
picked up one or two things — as children
will — and he knew that mamma was a Avidow
and that the commissioner wanted to marry
her, and that she did not like the commissioner.
But all their talks together revealed
no trustworthy clue, and time went by and
nobody asked for Phil or for Mrs. Maurice
at the London agents' offices. Mr. Penruth's
advertisements remained unanswered, and
Phil was unidentified.

The people of Gorbay and its neighbourhood
were not to be mollified in respect
to Tregarthen, either by the courage he had
displayed or the kindness of heart which
prompted him to give his ocean waif a

permanent refuge. A man's wife is his
own flesh and blood, and charity begins at
home. There were ladies and gentlemen
who knew — by second sight perhaps — every
step of the road Tregarthen and his wife
had travelled before his wickedness drove
her from him, and these gifted people were
able to recite, and did recite to interested
audiences, long conversations between the
ill-assorted pair. On the whole Regard
desire to be lonely began to win such
practical acceptance that the island was almost
another Juan Hernandez to him, and
Phil became his boy Friday.

The boy in a little while began to know
that there were hours when his protector
was not to be disturbed, and he gathered
from the few with whom he came in contact

vague notions of mystery and of evil in
connection with these periods of seclusion.
Tregarthen had gone back to his mad
studies, and in course of time he became
more deeply absorbed than ever. He took
to the practical pursuit of chemistry and had
a laboratory set up in a sound chamber in
the deserted side of the old house. Thence
glowed strange lights at unholy hours, and
the islanders made up their minds that the
last of the Tregarthens had sold himself to
the powers of evil.

Few children have had so curious a
breeding as fell to the lot of Tregarthen's
protege yet the lad throve and grew lusty
in mind and body. He swam and boated
and fished and bird's-nested, and spent
whole nights tossing out at sea with the

island fishermen, to the great terror of the
housekeeper, who grew to love him and
tremble for him as if he had been a child of
her own. He hated books, and would have
none of them if he could help it, but he
loved a yarn with all his soul, and spent
rapt hours in listening to the rambling
stories of any old mariner, brown with sea-salt
and speckled from head to foot with fish
scales, whom he could persuade to talk to
him. He learned all the legends of the
coast and all the ballads known to the
island. These last he sang in ludicrous
imitation of the local tone and style, but
though he began to see less of Tregarthen
than of anybody else in the place, he
seemed to catch his phrases and his cultured
accent, as if he felt — as perhaps he did —

that there was a closer kinship between the
master of the island and himself than the
rougher sort of folk could claim with him.
The legends and the ballads gave a healthy
stimulus to his imagination, and there was
no danger of a lad's mind being starved
whilst he was allowed such free communion
with nature as Phil enjoyed.

There are chronicles of prodigious events
in the world's history where great spaces of
time go by in the ticking of a watch. Unto
Ever the son of Shell were born two sons,
and the name of one was Peleg, ' because
in his days the earth was divided.' In that
curt but astounding phrase the story of Penelope's
and ceases. The modern historian
handles people and events with greater
fulness and a more particular precision, but

even he may be forgiven if in a moment or
so lie dreams of the lapse of uneventful years,

A lad growing up in heaven's free air
and storms to be a man, and to know the
ways of birds and fishes, and trees and
flowers, and clouds and winds, and to love
and wonder with an open heart and soul.
A man growing down in a cramped laboratory,
intent on mastering a secret which he
knew to be worthless — a secret which would
be a very gift of the devil to any man who
might surprise it, even if it existed — shutting
out the better half of himself from communion
with the baser, and thereby feeding the
baser with all his native forces and starving
the better to a shadow.

There in the main is the history of seven
years.

VOL. II. G

Phil, by this time a strapping lad, who
could thrash the young Penrith, respectively
three and four years his senior,
whenever they ventured on the island, and
who pretty generally did it (being provoked
thereto by town-grown satire in the first
instance), was hunting one day in the
library for a gut-hne which he remembered
to have stowed away a month or two
before, using one of Tregarthen's neglected
volumes as a winding-block. After a little
time he found it and began to unwind it
from the book. The fact that the volume
he thus handled was an early and somewhat
rare and valuable copy of the ' Tempest ' by
Mr. William Shakespeare was nothing to
Phil, but though he knew as little as he
thought, his hour for entering on another

life than the one he had hitherto known had
stolen upon him. The hooked end of the
line had been set within the book so that a
firm purchase upon the rest might be taken,
and now the hooks were fastened in a page
or two. As he went about to disentangle
them his eyes fell on a passage that m-
treated him —

The strong-based promontory
Have I made shake, and by the spurs plucked up
The pine and cedar ; graves at my command
Have waked their sleepers, open, and let 'em forth
By my so-potent art.

This was worth inquiring into. Phil was
not ignorant of the reputation which clung
to his protector, but to a child commonplaces
are so wonderful that wonders have
a chance of seeming commonplace, and he
had never been amazed or frightened, or

G 2

moved in any way, by the island chatter
which had Tregarthen for its mark. The
first notion that entered Phil's mind was
that this was some fellow in Arthur's line of
business. (Tregarthen, in some doubt as to
the relationship the boy should bear to him,
had ordered that Phil should address him
by his Christian name.) So throwing down
the line he took a seat at the table, and
being by nature inclined to be thorough in
all things, he turned the leaves back until
he came to the beginning of the drama, and
for the first time in his life made acquaintance
with poetry.

There was no doubt or shadow of a
doubt in his mind. Everything he read
there was as real as the solid earth to him.
Ariel and Caliban were as indisputably true

as the propositions of Euclid are to a mathematician.
Prospero struck awe into him.
He fell in love with Miranda. He shuddered
when the wicked nobles laid their
plot to kill the King. And when the clear
and majestic thunders of the poet's deepest
tones broke about him —

The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces,
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,

he felt as Job felt when a spirit passed
before him in the night, and the hair of his
flesh stood up. For the lad, without in the
least suspecting it, had been a poet from his
cradle, and he only needed to see the
greatest of the craft into which he himself
was born to fall prostrate before him and
adore.

Reading, hitherto the greatest of earthly
bores to Phil, became his chief delight.
Tregarthen's library was especially rich in
poetry and drama, and every day Phil
plunged headlong into some new stream of
joy and bathed in it. To rush down to the
Sea Gate with a smuggled volume, to lay it
in the boat and pull out into the open, then
to ship his sculls and lie down full length,
and read, read, read, until hunger drove
him home ; this was his joy. As a matter
of course, it was not long before he began
to write and imitate, and he wept, and
flushed, and trembled over much degraded
fustian of his own making, the which he
remembered in after years ^vith shame and
pleasure. Even Tregarthen, absent as he
was, and absorbed in his crazy studies.

began to notice a change in him, and
finding him studiously inclined, undertook
to direct his reading, but soon forgot it,
having done no more than to direct his
pupil's attention to John Locke and the
Reverend Mr. Paley, with whom Phil at
once declined to hold any commerce whatever.


The seasons pursued each other, and indue
course came round the tenth anniversary
of Phil's rescue by Tregarthen. This
by tacit consent was reckoned as the lad's
seventeenth birthday, and the past of course
was dim to him. He seemed to have
spent all his life on the island, and now
that he knew of the great world through
books, and was beginning to be fired by
secret ambitions about his own fiitm-e, he

began also to long for wider spaces and a
communion with the world.

'Arthur,' he said, sitting opposite to
his protector, ' I'm seventeen to-day.'

Tregarthen looked up, absently at first,
but with a growing interest in his eyes.

Seventeen ? ' he said, with a wondering
accent. ' Stand up, Phil. Let me look at
you.'

Phil stood up, tall and slim, brown-faced
sand brown-handed. Tregarthen examined
him critically. Fine forehead, white as a
lady's ; sensible eyes of dark grey under
well-marked brows ; nose large but delicate
; mouth sensitive and firm ; chin
delicate but decided. Whilst the examination
which resulted in these observations
went on, Phil stood at ease with an elbow

on the mantelpiece and surveyed the
surveyor.

Seventeen, Phil ! ' said Tregarthen.
His eyes took their customary inward look,
and he said, with something of an inward
tone, ' Time flies. Time flies.'

Arthur,' said Phil, ' I grant to see the
world.'

My poor Phil,' said Tregarthen, ' if I
could advise you, you would leave the world
unseen. It is a poor show, dien you have
seen it all, Phil — and it will give you many
a heartache.'

'I want to see it for all that,' Phil
answered.

I have been too much centred in my
own pursuits, perhaps,' said Tregarthen ;
though they are exigent enough to shut

out everything else in the world, and can
only be fitly followed when they succeed in
doing that. But I took some duties in
hand with you, Phil, and I am afraid that I
neglected them. What do you know ? '

Nothing,' Phil answered.

You have had the run of the library,'
said Tregarthen, ' and I have seen you busy
in it for years past.'

Oh, books,' said Phil ; ' I know the
library pretty well by heart. But I know
nothing else.' Tregarthen 's look seemed to
disconcert him here, and he began to walk
about the room. ' I want 'to go into the
world, Arthur, and to mix with men and
women.'

To catch the butterfly and rub all the
paint away?' returned Tregarthen. 'Do

you think manly honour a fine thing, Phil ?
Do you think womanly virtue a fine thing ?
I have seen you at the poets, and I have
found here and there a scrap of your own
verses.' Phil blushed like fire. ' There is
very little honour in the world, Phil : there
is very little virtue. You will find men and
women mean and stupid, and cruel and
cowardly. You will find that they all
pretend to worship lofty ideals which they
trample under foot. You will find them
incredulous of everything by which they
profess to rule their lives, and bound body
and soul to every baseness they pretend to
despise. You had better stay with me,
Phil. I can put a great purpose in your
hands if you prove fit for it, perhaps a great
power

He checked himself there, and his heart
yearned a little, remembering that he had
been happy before he had learned his bitter
lessons, and that no man had striven to dash
his happiness until the time came.

The proverb is something musty,' he
said, after a turn or two about the room.
If wilful will to water, wilful must drink.
What do you want in the great world,
Phil?'

The great world itself,' said Phil, with
an embarrassed laugh. ' I want to see it,

Arthur. I want Perhaps,' he went

on, cutting down at once to the very core
of his thought, ' perhaps you were unlucky,
you know, Arthur, and perhaps I
may be luckier.'

Ah, my lad,' said Tregarthen, looking

at him with genuine pity and affection ; ' all
men think all men mortal but themselves.
Your golden idols turn out clay ! No, no.
You waste friendship on a fool, or tire hope
in following a shadow, or spend the gold of
your heart to buy the leaden counters of a
jade ! No, no. Not you. Another man
may. You can fancy that. But not yourself.'
He checked himself again, but this
time with an almost despairing bitterness.
Was it of any use to preach the stale moral ?
None. ' Go into the world, lad, if you will,
if you must, and God grant you find it a
better place than it was when I knew it.'

I am not leaving you, Arthur,' said the
lad, with evident strong feeling. ' But I
must do something, I must fit myself for
life— mustn't I .? '

I suppose SO, Phil,' answered Regard
; and there the conference ended.

A week later came a letter, a rarity at
Tregarthen. The searcher after the philosopher's
stone read it, and threw it over the
table to Phil.

You had better go over to Gorbay,' he
said, ' and order what you need. You may
start as soon as you are ready. Called
was my tutor, and he is a very good man as
men go.'

Phil read the letter, and found it signed
by one Robert Calhem, who expressed his
willingness to receive Mr. Tregarthen's
young friend,' and do his best for him.
Mr. Calhem dated from Golden Square.

'What am I to do at Mr. Calhem's,
Arthur ? ' asked Phil.

You ^vill find him a very good coach if
you care to study,' said Tregarthen. 'If
you don't care to study you will find him
a reasonable Mentor in more important
matters than mere book-learning. You had
better go over to Gorbay.'

Phil started for Gorbay with anything
but his common feeling of elasticity. Tree
views of the world might be true
after all, and it was evident that he was
sorry for Phil, and in his own mind prophesied
woes for him. But at seventeen
such reflections as those with which Regard
had bothered the lad were not likely
to linger long, and in effect he made his
preparations and started on his downward
journey with a heart full of hope.

Town was delightful, Mr. Calhem was

passably agreeable, the theatres were a
source of such wonder and delight as Phil in
his brightest dreams had never bargained
for. Tregarthen had stipulated that he
should have a week or two of properly
regulated freedom, and when Phil came to
the end of his tether he elected to work, and
began in the course of two or three months
to make amazing progress with the Greek
and Latin tongues. As time went on this
progress began to look phenomenal, and the
youngster translated divers odes and elegiac
with such grace and fineness that the coach
went round bragging of his pupil, and displaying
his exercises — sometimes cunningly
touched up by his own hand, in such wise
that had the young poet seen them he would
have torn his hair at their heartless accuracy.

It came to pass that one evening, in a
literary drawing-room of the fomlh class or
thereabouts, the host had caught a Hon.
Somebody knew the lion whom the host
knew, and the great creature was ensnared
by proxy. Mr. Calhem was there, and the
lion behig a poet, the coach felt more than
commonly tempted to trot out his own
poetical prodigy.

Do you know, Mr. Marsh,' he said,
edging himself in amongst the lion's admirers,
' I have under my care at this
moment a young gentleman in whom I
believe you would feel the deepest interest.'

Indeed .? ' said the poet, with an air as
of boredom heroically suppressed.

He is not yet eighteen,' proclaimed Mr.
Calhem, finding his opportunity in the

VOL. II. H

silence of the circle, ' and this is his rendering
of the famous Ode to Pyrrha. Hem.'

And the tutor plunged with a harsh
scholastic tone into a recital of the labours
of Phil-cum-Calhem.

Remarkable,' said Mr. Marsh, at the
close of this performance. His glance wandered
round the room in a sort of patient
entreaty. He was looking for the man who
had brought him to take him away again
gracefully.

The really remarkable tiling is,' pursued
Mr. Calhem, ' that he has had no classical
training whatever. He was bred ina
perfect Boeotia — a little island off the
Cornish coast — Tregarthen.'

Tregarthen ? ' The lion was interested
on a sudden.

^ Do yoQ know Tregarthen ? ' asked Mr.
Calhem.

I have visited the place,' returned the
poet.

My old pupil, Tregarthen of Regard
' (that sounded well, thought the tutor),
saved this young gentleman's life at the
risk of his own nearly a dozen years ago.
The child was shipwrecked, and he was
the only one of all the ship's passengers
who was saved. Tregarthen adopted him
and bred him, and I am happy to believe
that he will reflect great credit upon my
friend.'

'His verses are very remarkable,' said
the poet, ' I should be pleased to meet the
young gentleman.'

I am sure, sir,' returned Mr. Calhem
H 2

with a bow, ' that he would indeed be
proud.'

The poet walked home that evening
after parting from his friend.

'Tregarthen?' he said to himself. 'Saved
his life at the risk of his own. Adopted
him. I should like to see the lad. That
she should rejoin him after all these years
and be happy is impossible ? She worships
him yet, and will always. But after
all this lapse of years. . At least I can
see the protege and find out from him
perhaps what manner of man Tregarthen
really is. A fool's errand. But I came into
the world on one no wiser, and I may as
well run on this as another. I will call tomorrow.'


CHAPTER XI.

What it was that prevented Eonald Marsh
from carrying out this barely-formed intention
of his is scarcely worth inquiring.
Some sense that he had no right to intrude
upon Mrs. Tregarthen's affairs, some feeling
that by a pretence of being interested in a
youngster's verses he might possibly set that
youngster on a wrong tack for life, and
some little tinge of personal disquietude at
the open adulation of Mr. Calhem, were
probably mingled together, and between

them had strength enough to leave him
decided. Anyhow — whatever motives
animated him or left him inanimate — he
stayed away.

Gossamer : a Comedy in Three Acts,' a
production of ]mr. Eonald Marsh's pen, was
playing at this time at the Mirror Theatre, and
Miss Churchill was the heroine of the piece.
The poet liked to see his own work now
and again, and an evening or two after his
encounter with the tutor he looked in for
the second act, and found himself seated
beside no less a person than Calhem, who,
with a humble effusiveness, recognised him
at once, and immediately on the fall of the
curtain presented Phil. He had already
been telling Phil in an easy, unassuming sort
of way, and as if he were not bursting with

pride about the matter at all, that lie had
encountered the author of this charming
work a night or two ago at the house of
their mutual friend Brown, and now on
the author's unexpected appearance he had
nudged and whispered Phil, so that the poet
had had time to become conscious of a
slim youth with fine eyes, who took shy
looks at him with an expression of devotion.


This, Mr. Marsh,' said Calhem, ' is Mr.
Maurice, the young gentleman of whom
I spoke on Sunday evening. This, Mr.
Maurice, is Mr. Eonald Marsh, the author
of the lovely comedy we have just had the
pleasure of witnessing.'

Phil accepted the poet's hand with a
sense of worship. He had never seen a live

poet before, he was very young, and he had
laughed aloud and wept inwardly above the
comedy, so that to meet the author of it was
like coming into a holy place. He said
something in a hot shyness about the beauty
of the work, and the poet was pleased to
have touched youth so keenly, and took a
great fancy to the ingenuous eyes and handsome
face of the boy.

The proper thing — if one wanted to look
like a man of the world who knew London
seemed to the tutor to go to Evans's after
the play, and sup. He proposed this ; and
the poet, who had known the house in his
youth, after a little hesitation, consented to
make one of the party. Calhem, mighty
proud of his distinguished guest, led the
way, and having seemed a place ordered

oysters, and would, but for the protecting
influence of the poet, have coupled champagne
with them.

Phil, under the genial influences of the
theatre, the society of a poet, and supper at
a place so novel to his experiences, began
to lose the chief part of his shyness and to
talk. He was full of Miss ChmTliill, and
rather more than half in love with her, and
the poet was pleased by Ms raptures.

I have not been in London long,' said
the boy, ' and I never saw a theatre until I
came here, so that I can't pretend to be a
judge; but I should think she is the finest
actress in the world.'

She stands admittedly at the head of
her own school,' said Calhem. ' At least,'
deferring to the poet, ' I believe so.'

Why,' cried Phil, flushing with shyness
and enthusiasm, ' when she spoke that hne —

To me Regret and Memory are the same —

it wasn't like acting. It was like seeing a
slow heart-break. And how beautiful she is ! '

A fine woman,' said Calhem, ' and a
fine actress ! Beyond a doubt . . . Mr.
Maurice,' he added, with that manner of
allowance which more than anything else
in the world makes a man abominable ina
boy's eyes, ' is at the age of enthusiasm.'

'And so am I,' said Marsh, covering
Phil from the fire of patronage, 'happily
for myself. Not to admire is an art for a
yokel.'

Yet there was a great poet, sir,' said the
tutor, 'who confessed it all the art he knew.'

To make men happy,' returned Marsh.
And that is a creed for a cynic. Of all
melancholy spectacles in the world, Mr.
Maurice, a grey heart in a green body is
the most lamentable. We are all egotists,
and we like to coddle ourselves with warm
and pleasant fancies, and so, when we have
lost our youth, we say it was a giddy,
irresponsible, foolish time ; as if a gate-post
should deride a tree, or the dried rose
leaves in a Dresden saucer rustle themselves
with laughter at a rose.'

Phil, already charmed with the poet's
drama, was delighted at this. ' That,' said
he to himself, ' is how a poet ought to talk !
What would life be worth if one were never
to be young ? '

Your simile carries you a little too

far, sir,' said Calhem, who was somewhat
nettled. A schoolmaster is generally more
used to reproving than to reproof. ' The
perfect adjunct would be — a dead man
thinking poorly of a live one. Though, to
my mind, the responsible gravity of mature
life is a good exchange for the irresponsible
enthusiasm of youth.'

And what does Mr. Maurice say to
this ? ' asked Marsh.

Why, sir,' said Phil, ' nobody thinks
worse of the oldest apple tree because it has
blossoms now and then.' Marsh laughed,
but Calhem looked puzzled and offended.

Shall we go ? ' said the poet. ' Do you
walk home, Mr. Calhem ? My road lies
past your house.'

They walked to Golden Square together.

and to the tutor's chagrin, the eminent
person addressed himself chiefly to Phil,
and, at parting, it was the youngster and
not his tutor to whom he presented his card.

Come and see me when you have time,'
he said ; ' I am always at home until two
o'clock. Come up tomorrow.'

Phil promised delightedly, and scarcely
knew whether the poet or his works were
the more charming. Calhem, who was
anything but a bad fellow at bottom, got
out of his chagrin in an hour or two, and by
the time when he had smoked his nightly
pipe, and was ready for bed, he began to
think it natural that Marsh should rather
take to a bright youngster with a prospect,
like Phil, than to a middle-aged tutor ^vith
next to no prospect, like himself.

'I dropped out of the running a longtime
ago,' said he, not without a little
melancholy in his thoughts. ' Now I must
be contented to stand in my own corner
and see the boys go past me. It's the way
of the world.'

Phil went gaily off next morning, found
Mr. Marsh at home, and had a bright talk
with him. If Phil were pleased with his
host — and there was little doubt of that —
Marsh was yet the more pleased of the two.
The lad's bright face and hopeful converse
did him good. He felt rather wicked, however,
when he began to draw his guest out
about Tregarthen, and as if he were doing
an underhand thing in listening to him.
Phil described the island and the house,
told him quaint things about the score of

islanders, who were all oddities in their
way, as they were likely to be (though the
historian had never thought them so until
they grew curious by contrast with the
people of the wider world in which he now
moved), and even repeated one or two
wonderful old ballads, which sparkled for
the philologist, but were, for anybody else,
simply and merely droll.

And what manner of man is Mr. Tree
? ' asked Marsh, at length.

'Oh, Arthur?' said Phil. 'The best
man in the world, I think. He is a great
deal absorbed in scientific pursuits, chemistry,
and all that, and the islanders have
made up their minds that he holds correspondence
with the devil. Now, I shouldn't
be surprised at finding him engaged in

converse with spiritual agencies of another
sort, for he's a man without a fault. He's
a gentleman,' cried Phil, enthusiastically,
from his soul to his skin.'

This was har-idly what the poet had expected
to hear, though it was natural that
Tregarthen's ward should think well of his
preserver.

He saved your life, I think ? '
He did,' said Phil, his cheeks flushing.
Pve heard old Eeuben Hogarth tell the
story many a time. One of the men onboard
— we were on the "Isle of Elba," from
Bombay to Liverpool — tied me to a spar
and threw me overboard just before the
smash came. I can remember crying and
begging him not to do it, and fighting
before I was tied, but I can't recall anything

after that. It was such a night, old
Pollarth says, as no living man can remember.
I've known the west wind blowing
there, and the waves coming in at-the Sea
Gate, but the old man says that what I've
looked at is no more than a boy could
make by stirring a puddle with a stick in
comparison to what it was that night. I
drifted up somehow, with the spar, and
Arthur saw me, and went in after me headlong.
The next wave threw us up together,
and the spar struck him on the head and
stunned him ; but old Pollarth had time to
grip at the spar, and his son took hold of
him, and Bill Pollarth took hold of Ben
and the rest all held on, and the wave went
back without us. Arthur was a month in

VOL. II. I

bed after it, and was crazy half the time or
more.'

Marsh felt something of the glow Phil's
heart experienced as this tale was told.

The two not merely parted well pleased
with each other, but held each other in mind,
and met frequently, and in a little while
became intimates and friends. It was
natural that Phil should turn often in his
speech with Marsh to Tregarthen Island
and its owner, and there gradually grew up
in the poet's mind the clearest image of the
man — a mournful and tender-hearted cynic,
with a craze.

His wife ran away from him,' said Phil,
speaking of him one day. ' The people on
the Island and the people at Gorbay always
declare that he ill-used her, or was guilty of

some dreadful villany ; but I know better.
Nobody ever knew Arthur do a mean thing
nobody ever knew him do a cruel thing
or a cowardly thing.'

When he was alone again, Phil's mind
was so occupied with his protector, that he
must needs sit down and write to him
instanter. Tregarthen had written a week
or two before — ' Your letters are the only
murmurs of the world that reach me, and are
all I care to reach me.' Books, plays, and
picts-es filled the youngster's head chiefly,
and it was mainly of them that he wrote.

^ I have made a most fortunate acquaintance,'
wrote Phil, ' in the person of Mr.
Eonald Marsh, one of the most distinguished
of our modern poets. He is the author of a
comedy called " Gossamer," now being pert
2

formed at the Mirror, with which I was
enchanted. The chief part is taken by Miss
Churchill, who is simply divine. I have
seen all the principal actors and actresses
now, and there is nobody who comes near
Miss Churchill.' Then followed criticism :
There is about this admirable artist a grace
and refinement which other actresses lack.
You are sure at first sight that she is a
gentlewoman. Perhaps her rarest chain is
her voice, which is marvellously sweet, and
has an underlying note of melancholy even
in its most joyous passages. Not that it
invests her comedy with a tinge of the
maudlin, or that she plays a gay scene in
anv but the brightest manner ; but her
voice softens the asperities of Raillery, and
seems to assure you of a tender heart.'

There was a good deal more of this, and
Tregarthen read it with strange feelings.
The heart has wounds sometimes which
will not close until Death applies his infallible
heal-all. Tregarthen's heart was thus
wounded. Scorn is a poor plaster for such
a sore as he carried, but he knew of no
other, or cared to apply no other. Forge t-
fulness was out of his reach.

When he read this letter of Phil's, his
first impulse was to sit down and warn the
lad of women at large ; but a little reflection
told him what a hopeless task that was
how Httle likely to be prosperous in any
ease — how very unlikely to be prosperous in
the case of a vivid and impetuous lad like
Phil, who was born to fall in love as the
sparks fly upward. He went back to his

books and his crucibles and his mad experiments,
and left the youngster unanswered
altogether for the time. When in a week
or two another letter came, he expected to
find something more of Miss Churchill, and
he did not know whether relief or disappointment
were the greater when he found
no mention of her. Phil's homeward letters
touched Miss Churchill no more, and
there were reasons for this which would
have disturbed Tregarthen had he known

them.

When Eonald Marsh and his young

friend talked of Tregarthen, the poet had
occasionally to listen to second-hand diatribes
against women, of idiom his young
friend knew perhaps as little as could well
be known. These, being inspired by Tree

naturally reflected on Tregartlien's
wife, but for a time Marsli was perforce
contented to dispute them on general
grounds and to instruct Phil that no man
was ever truly good who could so libel one
half of humanity. He told Phil that a
chivalrous attitude towards women was
essential to any male human creature who
desired to be a man, and much more to the
same effect.

Now the young man was beginning to
discover that he was by no means a misogynist,
but he would answer, ' Truth before
sentiment. I know one truly good man
the best man in the world so far — the
kindest hearted, the purest-minded, and most
honourable — and he thinks extremely ill of
women. Perhaps he generalises too much

from one particular case ' (the young fellow
had wonderfully philosophic airs at this
time and talked with the gravity of a grandfather),
' but, if he does, the one case was
probably bad enough to justify him.'

Perhaps so,' said the poet. ' By the
way, Phil, did you ever meet Mss
Churchill .? '

No,' said Phil.

Should you like to meet her .^ '

'Like to meet her?' said Phil ' Pd
go from here to the Mirror on my hands
and knees to meet her.'

That is not at all necessary,' said

Marsh, smiling ; ' we can take a cab. Be

here at twelve o'clock tomorrow and we

will drive down to the theatre together.'

Phil went away uplifted at the prospect,

and sat far into the night, slaving at the
sonnet beginnings

o o

To what dim glade with airy voices filled

Of joy and sorrow hast thou charmed my soil !

This production was addressed to Miss
Churchill as Bertha in ' Gossamer,' and the
young versifier knelt at the shrine of Miss
Churchill's perfections in such ardour as
only a young versifier knows. The quality
of the verse produced has little to do with
the warmth of sentiment experienced.
Young men and young women write woeful
nonsense sometimes over which they thrill
and weep and beam as though they were
so many Apollos and Sappho ; and the
fact that Phil really was a poet made him
no warmer than he would have felt if he
had been altogether hollow-headed. The

difference is that the poet gets his thrills
and tears upon the paper, whilst, with the
other sort, all stops at the finger-tips and
will dribble not a hair's breadth further.

Of course he had had a thousand temptations
to expose his verses, or some of them,
to a real and approved poet, when he found
himself admitted to intimacy with one, but
he had always blushed at them as the pretty
Jane blushes when she hears in her day-dream
the words of courtship which are
not yet spoken. But now he so loved and
innocently worshipped' his own fancies asset
forth in this particular sonnet, that the
temptation assailed him with irresistible
force, and when he called upon Marsh, as
arranged, he produced the manuscript with
much confusion and asked him to read it.

Would you mind reading this, Mr.
Marsli ? ' he said blushing. ' There are
only fourteen hues, and it can't bore you
long. It may be dreadful rubbish '

Let me see,' returned the poet. He
read the verses with a grave face. ' Shall I
print this for you ? ' he asked. ' We pay a
guinea a page for verse, and a sonnet can
stand by itself.'

These are commercial days when even
poets go into business, and Marsh, as Phil
knew, was proprietor of a magazine. The
author of the sonnet was overwhelmed.

K you think it worth printing,' he said
with becoming diffidence.

Yes,' said Marsh, ' I think it very well
worth printing. Very well worth it indeed.
And now,' locking the sonnet in his desk.

if you are ready, we will start. Smith
reads his new play to-day, and I have
promised to be there. He was my coUabor-
ater for two or three years, and is one of
the finest fellows living. You must know
him, Phil'

Altogether, heaven seemed opening on
Master Phil this morning. William John
Smith, author of the slain and buried ' Demogorgon,'
was in the green-room with his
roll of manuscript when the poet and his
companion reached the theatre, and Miss
Churchill arrived a little later. Lorrimer
was there also, a trifle obese by this time
and more rubicund than ever. The Mirror
had a star company, and Phil saw near at
hand several celebrities whom he had hitherto
only beheld upon the stage. To be near

these celebrated people when they wore the
garments of every-day life and to hear them
talk without book was a treat to the novice.
The play was read and applauded. Then
the players drew for the most part in a knot
around William John Smith and asked about
his ideas for this stroke of business and that
stroke of business, for the said Smith had
grown mighty, and it was profitable — or
might be — to be interested in his work,
and to give him a favourable impression
about one's art enthusiasms.

It was noticeable to Phil that the poet,
for some reason as yet unknown, was
gradually becoming less and less at his ease
whilst the reading of the play went on, and
this somewhat dashed his owen interest in the
Business. Now for a time Marsh deserted

Phil altogether, and left him standing in a
corner companionless, whilst he crossed the
room and addressed Miss Churchill.

Will you give me a word ? ' asked the
poet.

Certainly.'

I have done a clumsy thing, and I
have only just begun to see it. A young
worshipper of yours, a poet, and as fine
hearted a lad as I have met anywhere,
wants to know you, and I have brought him
here.'

'I noticed him,' she answered. ' He
has an honest face. Why should you
apologise? I am always pleased to know
your friends. You have the secret of knowing
none but good people.'

Your own goodness,' he said in return,

brightens everything you shine on. Forgive
me, but I am so old a courtier that I
can dare to speak the truth now and then.
But I am afraid I may pain you, and yet I
feared you might blame me if you knew,
and if I did not bring him. I cannot tell
whether I am acting well or ill, wisely orin
my common way.'

This preamble lias a meaning ? ' she
said.

A serious one,' said the poet uneasily.
The young gentleman is a Mr. Maurice,
Mr. Philip Maurice, of — Tregarthen.'

The child,' she whispered, looking
with a white face at the poet, ' who was
saved from the wreck ? '

The same,' Marsh answered. ' If I
have done wrong '

You have not clone wrong. Excuse
me for a moment. Let him stay till I return.'


She moved with a somewhat stately
carriage from the green-room, though her
knees shook beneath her, and her heart
beat wildly. When she reached the
luxuriously furnished little chamber private
to herself, her trembling knees relaxed
altogether, and she almost fell into the
arm-chair beside the fireplace.

Does he know who I am ? ' she asked
herself, thinking of Phil. ' Does he know
v^hat Arthur thinks of me ? ' A thousand
tumultuous questions were in her mind, a
thousand tumultuous feelings ran not in her
heart. How great a sinner she had been,
sinning every day against his expressed

wishes, and earning a hateful fame and
adulation by it ! She had wrecked the
noblest of lives, broken or darkened the
manliest heart. For the millionth time lie
wondered why she had not stayed to brave
the storm, to make her confession and to
be forgiven, and to serve him like a slave
with a lifelong devotion. And even in her
self-accusing soul some faint voice of necessary
egotism sounded, ^^'ould she have
been so unworthy of him after all if he
had taken her back and forgiven her?
Would she not have loved him so, with such
an unfailing worship and such a willing
surrender of her soul, that he must have
loved her back again ? She suffered greatly
whilst she sat thus, and even wept a little ;
but calming herself by and by, and re-vol.

II. X

moving all traces of her tears, she returiKxl
to the green-room with seeming tranquillity.

There were not more than half a dozen
people left their, but amongst them were
Phil and the jx>et. She moved towards
them, and Marsh performed the office of
introduction.

I am pleased to meet you, Mr.
Maurice,' she said, in the beautiful tones
which had so moved him when he heard
them from the stage. He bowed in answer,
but was tongue-tied for the moment, as if
he had been in the presence of some gentle
divinity. ' I am alone at home this afternoon,
Mr. Marsh she added, * and I shall
be glad if you and Mr. Maurice will take a
cup of tea with me. Lina is there, of
course,* she added, with a faint smile ; ' but

sisters are not always the best of company
to each other

You libel Lina and yourself said the
poet, with a pretence of gaiety.

• l;j Ijalf an hour she said, turning
towards the door. ' May I expect you ? '

Her carriage waited at the stage entrance
to the theatre, and she drove away
with another faint smile and a nod of the
head to Phil. He and the poet followed
}jer on fool, and reaching the house were
shown into a little sewed of a room, where
everything was wonderfully neat and rich
and dainty. By and by the actress reappeared
in indoor costume, tea was brought,
and the three settled down to talk. The
hostess, with her face turned from the light,
K 2

nestled into a luxurious chair, and spoke
from a twilight in which her features were
scarcely to be discerned.

You know Tregarthen Island, Mr.
Maurice ? '

Oh, yes,' said Phil, a good deal surprised
at the question. ' I have spent more
than half my life there.'

I am a Cornish woman,' she said. ' I
was born at Gorbay. But I have not seen
it for a long time. Is it much changed P
Tell me about the Island. Are the Pollarths
living?'

'Jan is dead,' said Phil. 'Did you
know Jan ? The patriarch of the tribe ? '

Poor Jan,' she said, with a tremor in
her voice. Marsh sat ill at ease, fearing
she would break down. ' But the rest are

all living ? Eeuben and his children,
and '

All of them Phil answered. ' Janis
the only death that has taken place on
the Island for more than twelve years.'

And the castle,' she asked ; ' are the
repairs finished ? '

No,' returned Phil. ' They were
abandoned years ago. Mr. Tregarthen
never had the heart to finish them.'

How was that ? ' The cup and saucer
she held in her hands clattered against each
other, and the poet writhed upon his chair
and turned pale. Why would she torture
herself in this way ? he asked, internally.
Phil noticed nothing. What was more
natural than that a lady, great in the
world's eyes, should shut out her greatness

for a little while and talk of the places she
had known in childhood ?

It's a sad story,' said Phil, ignorantly.
Did you know Mr. Tregarthen ? ' She
answered only by a movement of the head.
He met with a great misfortune — a misfortune
which seems nearly to have broken
his heart. He married a worthless woman,
who '

Great heaven ! ' groaned the poet,
wringing his moist hands together. Phil
turned and stared at him.

A worthless woman,' said Mrs. Tree
from her shadowed corner, in a
voice so unlike her own that both her
hearers started. ' Yes. Go on.'

You are ill, madam,' cried the youngster,
rising to his feet.

Oh,' besought Marsh, rising also, and
turning an imploring look upon her, ' pursue
this interview no further.'

Be seated,' she said, in a voice less
painfully disguised by emotion, but still
strangely harsh. ' I will not keep ]Mr.
Maurice in the dark any longer. I beg
your pardon,' she continued to the amazed
visitor, ' if I have seemed to try to entrap
you. But you will tell me everything about
him — you who know him so well. I have
had nobody to tell me a word of him for
years and — I — am Mrs. Tregarthen.'

CHAPTER XII.

The situation was sufficiently embarrassing.
At the moment Mrs. Tregarthen, Marsh,
and Phil each felt it to be nothing less than
terrible. Phil was an especially sensitive
lad, unusually swift to like people, and splendidly
certain of the accuracy of his own
secret intuitions. He had met nobody who
had so impressed him as Mrs. Tregarthen.
He was sure that she was as good, as pure,
and womanly as she looked — as pure as the
sweet persecuted Bertha in the poet's
comedy. The faint smile he had twice

seen upon lier face had lingered in his mind
as that of a saint in pain. He had identified
her with the part he had seen her play— a
thing always easy for ardent youth, and
common enough in the experience of
actresses who are not models of all the
virtues, or embodiments of wit and sweet
temper. That for once the natural fancies
of a raw lad were justified was nothing to
him. He could have been quite as certain
of their truth if he had pitched on a new
Jezebel. And he had called this suffering
incarnation of goodness — to her face — a
worthless woman !

The poet, for his part, had the misery of
knowing that he was responsible for the
encounter and the shocking result which
had sprung from it.

A better artist would have told this
story better, and would have wasted less
time on non-essentials, but it is not too late
to say here what should have been set forth
earlier. An intellectual fop had grown
into a man and had put away childish
things, the man had fallen in love in no
better or worse fashion than common, and
his passion had ripened and sobered into a
most tender friendship and a most profound
respect. He saw genius in Mrs. Tregarthen's
work upon the stage, sorrow uncomplainingly
endured and undeserved in her daily
life, and to his mind, after many years of
intimacy, her soul was an entire and perfect
chrysolite. He loved her still, as a poet
and a gentleman can love a woman who is
out of the reach of desire, and the phrase

the hapless Phil had used went through him
like a knife.

Mrs. Tregarthen ^Yas true to her instincts,
and was persuaded that here, as
always, the guilt was hers. She had entrapped
the young man into this terrible
position.

Forgive me,' she said, brokenly. ' I
wanted to hear of him. I have not heard
of him for so long.'

Forgive me,' said the poet, almost in
the same breath with her. 'I would have
died rather than expose you to this indignity,
and yet I did it.'

Phil stood silent, but his face and
attitude were enough for retractation and
apology. He had to believe in Arthur in
spite of everything, his saviour and benefactor

and friend, but he believed none the
less in Miss Churchill's goodness. The unknown
Mrs. Tregarthen might have been
guilty of anything in the world, but this
unhappy lady was maligned. The mere fact
that thousands of men have been just ascertain
as himself, and have proved themselves
mistaken, was, of course, nothing to
him. The other fact that he was right
made his infatuation none the wiser. But
now and then, even in this poor world, the
soul has happy hopes that are justified, and
beliefs in goodness which are not thrown
away.

Dear friend,' said the actress, speaking
through her tears, ' let me tell you the
whole truth. I was to blame. I have
known it, bitterly, always. But I have

never deserved to be thought a worthless
woman.' Both hearers Avoid have gone to
the stake in support of that postulate without
a second's hesitation. ' When my father
died, Lina and I were left in poverty, and
I came to London as a governess. There
were private theatricals at the house where
I was engaged, and I was asked to play in
them. I was praised so highly that I
thought I might succeed upon the real
stage, and that would have enabled me todo
so much for Lina. We had looked at
the " Era " to see where to hire our dresses
for the private theatricals, and I saw advertisements
there for actors and actresses.
I looked again and answered one or two
of them, and at last I got an engagement.'
She went on with her story, telling it

plainly and without ornament, and growing
more and more self-possessed as she told it.
She told of her first encounter with Lorimer,
her professional engagement with him,
and her receipt of the letter from Messrs.
Lane and Carter, which informed her of the
disposition of her uncle's property.

I had been known all this time as Miss
Churchill,' she said then, ' but when I returned
to Gorbay I took back my own name,
and tried to forget the stage altogether. It
was at this time ' — and here again she began
to falter — ' that I met Mr. Tregarthen ; but
it was not until we were engaged that I
found what an antipathy he had to the stage.
He thought that no good woman could bean
actress without losing refinement and
purity of mind. I was frightened. I was

afraid of losing his affection. I hid the truth
from him, but it was discovered by accident
after our marriage. Some one who had
known me on the stage spoke to me on the
Island — he was one of a picnic party, or he
came with the archaeologists, and he insisted
that I was Miss Churchill. I tried to dismiss
him, but he was impertinent and would not
go. I told him at last that I had been Miss
Churchill, but that I wished to meet no one
who had known me by that name. My
husband overheard me. I knew that he
would never forgive me my deceit, and I
left the Island and came to London. He
never forgave me — he never tried to find
me.'

There she broke down altogether, and
for a while cried unrestrainedly.

It was hard measure for the poet. To
have been a popinjay and a jackanapes once
upon a time is common to the experience
of many honest men ; but it does not often
carry with it so severe a punishment as was
dealt out to Eonald Marsh. Here he had
been magnanimously pitying this lady's
sorrows for a dozen years, and now it turned
out that he was the cause of them,

Mrs. Tregarthen,' he said, trying to face
the truth, and to take all the punishment he
deserved, ' I was that miserable impertinent.
If I could have guessed what my insolence

would cost you ' Well, what was to be

said in extenuation ? He could say nothing,
could undo nothing that had been done.
But surely the man who could throw away
such a pearl of womanhood for such a trivial

cause must have been a fool past redemption.
' Nothing can be mended by more
words,' he said in a voice so tremulous that
he was ashamed of it. She must hate the
sight of him, and it was best to go.

Phil caught his ashamed and miserable
glance, and they were moving away together
when Mrs. Tregarthen arose.

Do not let me lose my friend,' she said,
almost piteously. ' Will you come tomorrow,
jVIr. Maurice ? I want to hear I

shall be better able to listen to you then.
Will you come ? '

Yes,' said Phil simply ; ' I will come if
you wish it.'

She shook hands with him and with the
poet, and they went away.

I am on fire with shame,' said the

VOL. II. L

wretched poet, when they were out of doors.
I am grieved to the heart. All this misery
was of my making. I have known her for
twelve years, and there does not breathe a
better woman. She is as pure as a flower,
as charitable as the day.'

She spoke the truth,' said Phil, who
was greatly moved. ' I am sure of it. I
know it. But there was nothing in what
she told us to make Arthur part with her.
There was something else to poison his mind
about her. He could never have driven her
away for that alone.'

Phil had to believe both in Tregarthen
and his wife, but the poet found a simple
solution to the mystery. It was plain to
him that Tregarthen was a fanatic and a
fool. But even that view would not reconcile

itself with the old stories of Tregarthen
a man so foul-mouthed that his brother
officers could not endure him.

'Do you know the history of Mr. Tree
expulsion from the army ? ' he
asked, not purposing to tell it, but seeking
any new light that might be had.

Phil did know the story, and told it ashe
had it from Tregarthen's hips. Possibly,
thought the poet, the man was a fanatic, and
certainly he was a fool.

The two friends parted, and each went
his own way. On the following afternoon
Phil called on Mrs. Tregarthen, was admitted,
and answered all her questions for an hour
or two. There was no comfort for the wife,
who had all these years been widowed, in
anything he had to tell her ; but when he

l2

had taken his leave he thinned a new idea
over in his mind, and after looking at it in
many aspects made arrangements to put it
into execution. He astonished Mr. Calhem
that evening by the announcement of his intention
to go down to Tregarthen without
delay. In answer to the tutor's inquiries he
could only say that he had lately possessed
himself of information of the utmost value
to his protector, and that it could not be
conveyed by letter, but must by the very
nature of it be delivered by word of mouth.
Phil was not the sort of young man who invents
mendacious yarns on purpose to get
opportunity for clandestine amusement ; but
the tutor was yet a little scared by this
arrangement, and not easy in his mind even
when he had accompanied his pupil to the

Station and lead seen him safely in the railway
carriage, booked through to Gorbay.

The youngster knew well enough that he
was o^oinor to wound the best friend he had
ever had in his life, but he believed (and he
nerved himself in that belief, with a courage
beyond his years) that he might bring peace
back again to a mind which had not known
peace for many a day. It was a Quixotic
enterprise perhaps, and there are even people
in the world who would think it meddlesome ;
but he was moved to it by gratitude and
affection, and by the beautiful ideals which
have value for the young.

From London to Cornwall is a longish
railway journey, and he had plenty of time
in which to look at his purpose. There
were many moments when for Arthur's sake

he felt afraid of it, but he never really
faltered in it. He had written, before starting,
to announce his arrival, and at Gorbay
station he found one of the Pollarths awaiting
him.

Grown a man, now. Mister Philip,' said
the messenger, admiring him ; ' I didn't
hardly know ye.'

He carried the traveller's portmanteau to
the water-side, set it in the boat, took the
sculls leisurely in his big brown hands and
pulled across the bay, with Phil at the
rudder. The old housekeeper stood on the
sands at the Sea Gate, and Phil, who had
kissed her when he went away, kissed her on
arrival.

How is Mr. Tregarthen? ' he asked.

Ailing,' she said ; ' ailing a bit badly.

I'm afraid, Mr. Philip. He's lead a dreadful
cold all winter, and he looks willie, as if
he was worried. And go to bed he won't
for nights together. Sits stewed up in that
liberty, and sometimes won't touch his very
meals.*

When they reached the house Phil
marched straight to the laboratory door and
would have knocked there, but the housekeeper
stopped him.

You must wait till he comes out, sir,'
she said, whisperingly. ' He won't let himself
be disturbed for anything.'

Nonsense,' said Phil, who began to feel
his home-coming a little dreary. ' He will
see me, I know.'

He knocked, and the housekeeper rustled
away. Receiving no answer he knocked

again, more loudly, and after a pause he tried
the handle of the door. Tregarthen sat, in
dressing-gown and slippers, in an old leathern
arm-chair, and at first Phil thought him
asleep. His right hand hung idly at the side
of his chair, his left lay in his lap, and his
head was bent in an attitude of complete
repose.

Arthur ! ' said Phil softly, prepared to
back without noise from the room. Regard
looked up at him.

Ah, Phil ! You here .^ ' and without
rising he stretched his languid right hand
across his body and shook hands in so
mechanical a way that Phil dropped his limp
fingers in distress. Tregarthen's released
right hand went back to its former place,
and his head was bent as before. His left

hand still lay in his lap, knuckles downwards,
and Phil now saw that Tregarthen's gaze was
fixed with a sort of dreamy intentness on a
piece of greenish crystal about the size of a
pigeon's egg — to all appearance precisely
such a trifle as might be picked from the
waste heaps of any glass factory.

Arthur,' said Phil, ' I have strange news
for you.'

Tregarthen glanced up with a singular
smile, and then looked back at his bit of
crystal. Phil noticed great changes in him.
His hair was lons^ and looked neglected, and
he had grown a full beard and moustache.
He had become so thin that his cheek bones
took great prominence. His forehead was
deeply lined, and his eyes were old.

You think your news strange, Phil ? ' he

said, dreamily staring at the object in his
palm.

Very strange,' said Phil, upon whom
the first feeling of dismay was growing
fast.

There is nothing strange under the sun,
or new,' said Tregarthen in an inward way.
Things go their round — seed, stalk, bud,
flower, fruit, decay. There is nothing new,
nothing unexpected. All things are inevitable
and in order. The smallest is the type
of the greatest. You know the Maelstrom
if you have studied an eddy in a gutter.'

I have news, though,' said Phil, trying
to dispel the comfortless feeling this singular
welcome gave him, ' which will interest you
deeply, Arthur.'

I have news, if I cared to tell it,' returned

Tregartlien, ' which would transform
the world.' He laughed, and arose from his
seat. ' How oddly,' he said, ' the inaccuracies
of speech ching to us ! I have been telling
you in effect that there is no transformation
possible for the world, and a moment later I
profess to be able to transform it. I could
resolve human native into its simple elements
of greed and hate, no doubt — such
greed, Phil, that if I told my news, men
would gnaw Mont Blanc with theh^ teeth
from its highest peak to its lowest foundations
to get at me — such hate that even hypocrisy
should vanish in its fire. So that my news
would scarcely be good news to the world,
Phil, and may as well be kept a secret.'

He spoke lightly, and yet with every
appearance of sincerity, and wild as his

words were, his manner was calm and
usual.

I don't know what to think of this said
Phil to himself. Ass a matter of fact he
knew well enough what to think of it, but
he did not dare to father his own fears.

I won't be so discourteous, Phil,' said
Tregarthen, ' as to refuse to hear your news.
You shall amaze me if you can. I will lock
up this valueless bit of devilry,' he continued,
with the greenish crystal between his finger
and thumb, ' lest any fool should find it and
do himself a mischief.' He crossed the room,
unlocked a safe which stood in one corner,
and tossed the object carelessly into a small
box. ' I was always inclined to be harmless,
Phil, but never so much inclined that way as
now. Which shows, I fancy,' he said as he

slammed the door of the safe, ' a certain
sweetness of disposition, for which I deserve
some credit. I owe the world nothing but
hatred, and I could pay the debt a million
times over.' He crossed the room again,
and, laying both hands on Phil's shoulders,
looked into his eyes with a profound and
mournful earnestness. ' Power and responsibility
are inseparable,' he said. ' The
world suffers already. Men are bitten by
the own desires, and gratified desire is despair.
And I am one of the dirty crowd
myself, Phil, though I scarcely care to think
it, and I have not the heart to give them
what they cry for.'

Phil could only look back at his benefactor
and friend A\'ith grief and wonder.

You are hungry after your journey,'

said Tregartlien, returning to his lighter
manner. ' Get something to eat, and in the
meantime I will dress. You shall tell me
your news out of doors, when you have had
luncheon. Let me look at you a^rain. You
are honest ? you are not changed ? The
little bit of leaven has not leavened the
whole lump yet? Not yet. Pure hands
and a clean heart are great gifts. They are
greater than any I could give you, though I
made emperors despair to think of you.
Don't throw them away, Phil ; don't barter
the immediate jewel of your soul for the
husks which the swine do eat.' He had laid
his hands again upon Phil's shoulders, and his
voice was full of entreaty and affection, but
he broke off abruptly and began to pace the
room. ' You will do what you must do.

Fire will not drown nor water burn because
of my beseeching. Go your way,
Phil. Eat and drink and be men — if you
may.'

Phil opened the door, passed through it,
came upon the corridor, and stood there
amazed and desolate. He could find but
one solution to the problem Tregarthen's
speech presented. That there was much
melancholy wisdom in it, and the revelation
of a heart by nature noble, made it none the
less the speech of a madman.

The housekeeper had already prepared
a meal for him, but Phil had no desire for it,
and sent it away untasted. By and by Tree
appeared.

Are you ready ? ' he said. ' Have you
lunched? Come into the open air, then.

and let me hear your news. My work is
over.' Phil rose obediently, but he asked
himself what good end he could serve by
telling the news he had travelled so far to
carry. ' I have of late,' said Tregarthen as
they came upon the grass in the rear of the
old house, ' I have of late — and wherefore I
know very well — foregone all custom of
exercises ; and indeed it goes so heavily with
my disposition that this most goodly frame,
the earth, seems to me a sterile promontory ;
this most excellent canopy, the air, look
you, this brave overhanging firmament, this
majestical roof fretted with golden fire —
why, it appears no other thing to me thana
foul and pestilential congregation of
vapours.'

He can quote Hamlet,' said Phil to

himself, ' and perhaps he is no more mad
than Hamlet after all.'

Your news, Phil ? ' said Tregarthen.
You promised to surprise me.'

'I have serious news, indeed,' Phil
answered. It looked harder than ever to
offer it now, and he could not guess how it
might be received. 'Arthur, I have met
Mrs. Tregarthen.' His companion swung
round upon his heel and faced him.

'Well?'

I owe you so much,' said Phil earnestly,
that I must try to pay a little.' He forgot
his diffidence and began to forget his fears
for Arthur If ever there was a good
woman in the world — if ever there was a
woman in the world who loved her husband
if ever there was an unhappy woman in

VOL. II. M

the world — I have seen her. Arthur, there
was a great mistake.'

You wrote of her,' said Tregarthen with
no show of feeling, ' but you did not write
ingenuously. You pretended not to know
my knowledge of her, and wrote of her as a
stranger.'

She was a stranger then,' returned Phil,
but she learned from a friend that I came
from Tregarthen, and that you had saved
my life. She sent for me and tried to question
me about you as if she had not been
interested in you ' — the lad was moved at
the memory of this scene — ' but she broke
down, and confessed who she was ; and
Arthur, since you have let me say so much
you must let me go on. I have heard the
Gorbay people talking about you a hundred

times, and in their mouths it was always
you who were at fault. But I knew better,
and I knew that you believed terrible things
about Mrs. Tregarthen. I believed them
too, but I believe them no loser. I have
seen her and spoken to her, and she has told
me all the story. She did not let you know
that she had been upon the stage, and when
you found it out she thought you could
never forgive her deceit, and she ran away.
There was something worse in your own
mind against her, or you would have traced
her and have brought her back aojain. But
that is all her story. That is all the confession
she has to make.'

You are quite sure she is innocent and
good, Phil ? ' asked Tregarthen, looking
askance at him.

M 2

'I am as sure of lier innocence and
goodness as I am of my own heart beating
at this moment.'

So was I,' returned Tregarthen.
Don't you see, Phil,' he added, ' that you
are somewhat indiscreet? This lady is my
wife, and it is a little hard that I should be
asked either to incriminate her or to condone
her crimes. Let me hear no more of
her. Your love excuses you now, and your
inexperience alone would be extenuation
enough for so well-meant a folly.' Phil
accepted his rebuff in silence, but he was
none the less sure that he was right, and
that some dreadful error had separated
Arthur and his wife. 'Let us change the
question,' said Tregarthen ; ' tell me of your
studies. Who is your friend, Mr. Marsh ?

Phil had no heart to talk, but he
answered Tregarthen's questions, and wondered
all the while what the mad speech
of an hour ago had meant. There was
no trace of madness now. The youngster
knew well enough that he had made a
foolish move in attempting to influence
Tregarthen by a mere impression of his
own, and yet he was as certain as he could
be of anything that his impression was the
true one. But Arthur seemed frozen into
indifference, and Phil had no evidence to
offer even had his benefactor been eager to
demand it. The lad was anything but a fool,
and yet it had seemed to him quite natural

to suppose that he should come down here,
hot as he was with sympathy, and by a
mere touch thaw the heart which had been
frost-bound all these years. He had miscounted
the relative forces. The frost had
conquered the fire, and his own heart for the
moment was almost as cold and dark as
Tregarthen's.

Tregarthen ceased to question, and the
two walked side by side in silence. Phil
began to muse, and while he mused the
fire began to burn again.

Arthur,' he said suddenly, ' there are
things we can't prove that we are sure of
all the same. I am sure — I know — that
she is innocent of any greater fault than
that deceit. 1 know I give you pain,
Arthur, but I should deserve nothing you

have done for me if I didn't speak. Let me
bring you together. If you could see her,
if you could hear her, you would believe
her.'

Tregarthen looked at him and saw that
there were tears in his eyes.

It is well to have a good heart, Phil,'
he said gently, ' base as the world is. Keep
you: beliefs in goodness. You are happier,
and will be happier for them, till the bitter
day when you must lose them. Virtue
and honour are fine things to believe in.'
He laughed there, and went on. ' Hope's
a toothsome dish when One-and-twenty
serves it piping hot. Hope served hot —
Hope gone cold — Cold Hope in the pot —
Kine days old. A nauseous mess, Phil.
No relishing it. Take it away.'

There was a tone in this bitter badinage
which was more afflicting to Phil than even
the tenderness which had preceded it. Tree
had given him a right to love him,
and he loved him, and he was young and
enthusiastic, and sure with the certainty of
enthusiastic youth.

You are wrong, Arthur,' he cried
almost with passion. ' Virtue and honour live
after one-and-twenty. You prove it yourself.
You are virtuous and a man of honour, and
do you think that you are a rarity in
nature ? I haven't seen much of the world,
but I know it's a better world than you
think it. You have had a cruel experience,
Arthur. You have eaten wormwood, and
everything tastes of wormwood.'

'Very well, Phil,' said Tregarthen

quietly. ' The flavour will last me my
lifetime. The coffin worm will scour well
if he scours it all away and gives me leave
to rise for judgment with a clean tongue.'
Phil sighed, and offered no reply. ' I have
had sometimes half a mind of late,' said
Tregarthen, speaking suddenly, and with a
new vivacity, ' to put this pretty world to
the test, as I could do, but I shrink from
debauching altogether men who may not yet
be wholly given over to the devil. Who
is your honestest man in the world, Phil —
your one incorruptible, unpurchaseable ? '

Here was the craze again, thought Phil,
miserably. He woidd at least be sure of
that.

How would you test the world,
Arthur?'

That is my news, Phil, if I chose to
tell it,' Tregarthen answered. ' Tell me
your honest man, and I will buy him, and
turn him to whatever creed you like.'

'Buy Thomas Carlyle,' said Phil, sardonically.
Even madness — if Arthur were
really mad, and had not some curious
meaning yet unfathomed — deserved no
courtesy on a theme like this. ' How do
you propose to do it ? ' Tregarthen laughed
allowing, as a man might laugh at a
childish puzzle offered by a child. ' What
should it profit hiin^ of all men in the
world,' asked Phil, ' to gain the whole
world and lose his own soul ? What could
you offer him ? '

'My pulse as yoiu-s doth temperately
keep time, and makes as healthful music,'

said Tregartlieii, stretching out his hand
as if to invite Phil to test him. 'Look mein
the face. Am I mad — disordered? Is
there any sign of mental derangement in
me? Do I speak in cool blood and in -
possession of my faculties? And do you
know me for a man of honour, who never
lied in his life? Well. I tell you there is
no virtue that would not sell itself, and none
I could not buy.'

All this was painful ; but, much as he
suffered in the process, Phil determined to
examine Tregarthen's mid more closely.

You mean,' he asked, ' that you yourself,
you personally, might buy all the virtue
in the world?' Tregarthen inclined his
head gravely.

I mean nothing else and nothing less

than that,' he answered, ' but as I told you
just now, power and responsibility are inseparable.
I dare not put even the meanest
wretch in the world to the test, for though
he is waiting to be debauched, and was born
for no better destiny and desires no better, I
dare not have it on my soul that he can
point to me at the great assize and say,
There is the man who first bought my conscience."
' He walked a little further, and
then, turning, said ; ' This power has been
wisely hidden from mankind, and whenever
a man has found it he has seen the harm of
his discovery, and has left no record of the
fatal gift his studies have brought him. I
shall do as my predecessors have done. I
have not even hinted until to-day my
possession of the power I hold. It will die

with me. It is better that it should. I
shall not even make use of it to prolong my
own days, for suffering is the chief gift of
many years, and I have borne enough
already.'

Phil saw no way of escape from the
dreadful truth. He was willing to b eh eve in
many marvels, but the fancies which had
taken possession of Tregarthen were the
birth of mere madness. Except that he
spoke hopelessly and like a cynic upon all
themes he touched in the course of that
afternoon's walk Arthur's mind seemed
sound enough, apart from this one astounding
aberration. What with affection and pity
Phil's heart was like to break ; and when at
last Tregarthen took him back to the house
and showed him that trumpery bit of greenish

crystal as the talisman which could give riches
and power and eternal youth to its possessor
the lad could hold in his grief no longer, but
fairly sat down with his face in his hands,
and cried.

The owner of the precious talisman took
no notice of this outburst, but, sitting in the
attitude in which Phil had discovered him a
few hours before, he stared at the treasure
with an absorbed and dreamy gaze. It was
hopeless to speak to him, useless to argue,
absurd to demand a test. Phil watched him
broken-heartedly for a while and then stole
away. There seemed to his disturbed heart
a threatening shadow on the house, and in
the chill twilight of the lonely rooms he
found a fear he had never known before.

The housekeeper summoned him to

dinner, but he excused himself at first, until
the poor woman broke out and declared
that there was a blight upon the place.

No luncheon, sir, and now no dinner,
and Mr. Arthur going about like a ghost,
eating nothing for days together, and wearing
himself into his grave. For pity's sake,
Mr. Philip, do eat something, sir — and a
healthy young gentleman like you, sir, ought
to have an appetite, I'm sure — for if you
don't I shall make up my mind there's something
dreadful in the house. I'm half
afraid to hive in it already.'

At this appeal he consented ; but when
he went to induce Tregarthen to join him,
he found the door locked against him, and
there was no answer to his summons.

CHAPTEE XIII.

Phil left the Island two days later, and Tree
was just as sane and just as insane
as he had found him on arrival.

'You are provided for, Phil,' said Regard
as he shook hands at parting. ' My
will was made long since, and there is
nobody but you to whom I care to leave a
penny. I do not wish you ill enough to
leave you my secret. It's a type of life at
large,' he added, with a mournful smile.
I have spent the best years of my life in
hunting for it, and now I have found it it is

worthless and worse than worthless. I do
not know if I shall see you again, for to outlive
hope is to almost outlive everything, and
I have nothing left to care for. Tf these are
the last words you hear of mine you will
value them. There is one possession in the
world worth coveting, and that is honour,
though it is so little valued that men sell it
for a mess of pottage. Cherish Virtue,
Phil. She will not make you happy. That
is a foolish fable. If you wish to be happy,
be a fool, and have no care for the morrow ;
be a hog with the rest, and keep your feet in
the trough. 'But if only one man in the world
should turn his back on the world's shameful
joys, let that man be yourself. Good-bye.'

He drew Phil towards him and kissed
him on the cheek, and then walked indoors.

VOL, II, 2^

Phil went away well-nigh heart-broken, and
this was the first great grief of his manhood.
He told Marsh that his intercession had
been useless, but he had not the heart to
say more about his journey, and he loved
Arthur too well to spread the story of the
talisman. He came to know more of Mrs.
Tregarthen, and to have better ground than
he had at first for his good opinion of her.
The world is never of one complexion only,
even to the most profound natures, and
neither Mrs. Tregarthen nor Phil were always
shadowed by their respective sorrows.
For one thing, ]\Iiss Lina, who had grown
into a charming and sprightly woman, was
on the eve of a brilliant marriage, and was
gay from morn till eve. She alone would
have kept a more selfish creature than her

sister from stagnation, and there were duties,
social and professional, which had to be
attended to, and served their turn in keeping
the wolf from the door.

It befell one day that the youngster,
walking in poetic cloudland towards the
house of the great actress, was suddenly
pulled from his dreams by a hand upon this
arm, and, turning round, saw the poet.

'You are going to call upon Mrs. Tree
? '

Yes,' said This.

We will go together,' said Marsh, and
they walked side by side for a little time in
silence. It was a sunlit afternoon, and there
were window gardens at every house in the
street, with bright-coloured jalousies gleaming
over the flowers, so that a pleasant sense

N 2

of warmth and colour stole to the hearts of
the two unobservant creatures as they walked
along, and brightened their dreamy fancies.
And suddenly, as if she were in some way
the product of this unusual fulness of colour
and radiance, appeared the charming Miss
Lina accompanied by a little girl of twelve
or thirteen years, who looked like an
attendant fairy. Phil saw something so surprising
in the aspect of this little stranger
that he raised his hat mechanically in answer
to the young lady's gracious salute, and
looked at the child with so curious an interrogation
that he plainly alarmed her.

Has Mrs. Tregarthen a daughter ? ' he
asked Marsh a minute later.

Yes,' said the poet. ' We have just
passed her. A pretty child, is she not ? '

I should have guessed her to be Arthur's
child, or at any rate a close relative
of his, wherever I had seen her,' returned
Phil. ' There is a portrait of Arthur's
mother at Tregarthen, painted when she was
a child. I have been familiar with it ever
since I can remember. It might have been
painted from the child we have just seen.'

This news would have been a relief to
Marsh years ago, but it had been unneeded
now for many and many a day of certainty.

It is not uncommon that a child should
resemble its father,' he said tranquilly, ' or
its father's mother. Is Tregarthen like his
mother ? '

Amazingly,' said Phil. ' His features
are masculine and hers were feminine, but
beyond that it would puzzle you to find a

difference in their pictures. The expression
governs all.'

The two made thei call upon the actress,
and there was nothing in the afternoon to
distinguish it outwardly from many others
so spent before and after. But when they
had left the house and were walking home
together the poet made a confession.

1 have been guilty of a theft,' he said.
Send that to Tregarthen. If there are any
bowels in the man at all it will bring him to
reason.'

He drew from his breast pocket a photograph
of the child, and Phil upon his first
glance at it gave a little exclamation.

'With a change of costume,' he said,
regarding the picture attentively, ' and another
arrangement of the hair, it might passas

a photograph from the picture ; ' and indeed
the likeness was remarkable.

He wrote a letter that night (though he
had little hope of piercing the darkness of
Arthur's mind) in which he told how he had
that day for the first time learned of the
existence of a daughter of Mrs. Tregarthen's,
how the surprising likeness of the child to
Tregarthen had appealed to him, and how
he had been moved again by this new knowledge
to write in behalf of a most unhappy
and most virtuous lady. He enclosed the
photograph, and having posted the letter
with his own hands, awaited a response,
without much hope. When it came he experienced
a shock.

My dear Phil,' Tregarthen's brief letter
ran, ' God's hand has so moulded my child's

face that I should be a fool as well as a
villain to deny her. She at least is mine.
It may be that you are right and that I have
been mistaken. I shall resolve that doubt
before long, for I am dying.'

Whether this news were true or fanciful
he could not tell, and he could not set his
mind at rest except by an immediate return
to Tregarthen, but before he started he must
see Marsh and consult with him if only for a
moment.

If he is dying,' said Marsh, who could
not share Phil's doubt, not guessing at the
reason he had for doubting, or even knowing
that he doubted, ' she should know it, and
should let her own heart decide whether she
shall see him.'

You have known her longer,' said Phil,

and better than I have. You can take the
letter to her. If she should decide to go,
she may accept my escort.'

Marsh accepted the errand, and fulfilled
it. In effect — Mrs. Tregarthen decided to
see her husband if he would receive her, and
she and her child, in Phil's charge, started
upon the journey. It was now thirteen
years since she had so foolishly run away
from home and happiness, darkening her
own life and the life of the man who loved
her. But that had never seemed her crime.
Her real folly was hidden in the shadow of
the mere reticence which had always seemed
criminal. Perhaps since she felt it so, and
had always felt it so, her sin really lay there,
though few people would have cared to characterise
it by so harsh a name. She had

reaped fame and riches and a heart-full of
regrets, and none of the purposes for which
she had lived had seemed worth much to
her, except in so far as they seemed to
avenge Arthur, and then they became valuable.


Phil left her with her child and her maid
at one of the hotels at Gorbay, and crossed
to the Island alone to spy out the land before
her. Tregarthen sat where he had sat
before, and Phil supposed at first that his
downward gaze was still directed at the bit of
crystal, but when he drew near he saw the
child's photograph in the father's hand. He
had knocked at the door and had received
no response, and now he had to lay his hand
upon Arthur's shoulder to arouse him from
his reverie. He was startled at the hollow

eyes and the gaunt face which turned towards
him.

You are here again, Phil ? ' said .Tree
in a waste sounding voice. ' I am
glad of that. I wanted to see you again,
but I did not care to ask you to come.'

I came because of your letter, Arthur,'
answered Phil. ' That is the photograph I
sent you ? '

Yes.'

I have brought your little daughter with
me,' said Phil tremulously. ' Would you like
to see her ? '

Yes,' said Tregarthen. ' I should like
to see her. Bring; her to me. Where is
she?'

I left her at Gorbay,' returned Phil.
Arthur, your wife is with her. She longs

to see you. She never knew till lately that
you suspected her of worse than that deceit
of hers about the state. If she had fancied
that such a construction could be put upon
her running away she would have stayed, or
have returned again to clear herself of that.
Arthur, she is as pure as crystal. I am sure
of it. I know it. Shall I bring her here ? '

Tell her,' said Tregarthen huskily, ' tell
her this before she comes. I have only a
day or two to live. Hush, Phil ! No disclaimers
can alter it. If she can come here,
if she cares to come here, and tell me I have
wronged her I will believe her. I shall
know all about it by-and-by, but I will
believe her. For my share in the fault and
folly I have borne enough to be forgiven.'

Arthur,' asked Phil, ' why do you speak

like this ? Why do you tell me you are
dying ? You only need shake off the fancies
that oppress you to be happy and well and
strong again.'

The doctor comes here,' returned Tree
with a ghastly smile, ' and prescribes
food I can't eat, medicine I can't drink, and
occupations which are impossible. I am
dying, Phil, and there is an end of it . I am
glad to go. This Hungering taking leave is
painful, but I have been patient too long to
grow impatient now. There — go, and do
your errand, Phil. Prove me twice a
fool and kill what earthly longing may be
left;

To Phil's mind the tragedy was too complete
for anything to add to it. The boatmen
rowed him back to Gorbay, and he

found Mrs. Tregartlien pale and trembling
with suspense, but self-possessed.

Tell me,' she demanded, ' whit he
said. You told him I was here ? '

Hard as it was to do it, he told her all.
She took the wondering child by the hand
and arose. She had not removed her
travelling-dress, and there was no time lost
in preparation. Phil led the way silently
through the sunlit street, and down to the
beach. The waters sparkled softly and the
Island was all amber and amethyst in the
sun, for there was a little haze abroad which
gave the effect of distance. They landed at
the Sea Gate, and she remembered her first
coming there and the last time of her
leaving, and the years that had passed since
then looked like a very gulf of time. When

she stepped upon the sands her limbs almost
refused to support her, but Phil lent her an
aiTQ, and she walked to the house trembling.
The housekeeper had seen them approach
and half guessed who the veiled lady might
be. She stood at the door with a disturbed
face, but her expression changed to one of
unmixed wonder when she saw the child.

Phil, with Mrs. Tregaithen clinging to
his arm, walked down the corridor to Tree
room, and there having rapped
once he threw open the door and tendered
his charge. The actress and her
child entered, and he having closed the
door went away.

Tregarthen with his hollow eyes and
gaunt face, his jutting beard and neglected
hair, was so unlike himself that for a

moment his wife scarcely knew him, though
they were so near to each other and each
was entangled in the other's glance.

Arthur ! ' she said, ' Arthur ! '

She was on her knees at his side. He
looked at her with intent inquiry, and at the
same time reached out a hand for the child
and drew her towards him.

Clara,' he said after a dreadful pause,
you gave me a right to doubt you. You
gave me a right to hate the world, and
throw my life away. I am dying, and I
know it. There is no one here before whom
you need pretend. I shall know everything
in an hour or two. It is not worth while to
deceive me for so brief a time. Tell me the
truth. Why did you leave me ? '

I had deceived you,' she answered, still

entangled by his glance. ' I knew that you
could never love nor respect me any more.
I could not bear to think it, and I ran
away.'

Did I marry an honest woman, Clara ? '
He had a right to ask the question, and she
knew it.

This little child,' she said, ' is no purer
than I was when we married, Arthur.'

You can say that to a dying man, and
with your arm about the child .^ '

I can say it, arthur, in God's hearing,
and call Him to witness that I speak the
truth.'

He turned away with a weak gesture of
head and hands.

Shipwrecked,' he murmured, ' by collision
with a bubble ! That sounds strange,

VOL. II. O

Clara. Aud the ship went down as
though it had struck upon a solid rock. Is
it of any use that the ghosts who wash up
against each other after all these years should
make a pretence of being alive again ? '

If this were but a poor reconciliation
for taro mortal hearts, it was yet all that
was allowed them for the time. Tregarthen
was so weak that he fell asleep after a few
minutes of silence, and his wife watched him
with such thoughts and regrets as may be
fancied.

He slept till evening, and at dusk the
housekeeper dared to enter the room and
put a light to the materials for a fire which
lay ready in the grate. The child cried at
this strange home-coming, and her mother
soothed her, and when the room was ruddy
with the firelight Tregarthen awoke.

Phil,' he said softly, without raising
his head ; ' where is Phil ? '

Shall I send for him ? ' asked Mrs.
Tregarthen.

You are here ? ' he asked, turning his
eyes upon her. ' We wasted a day or two
of pleasure here. We shall have time
enough to know each other better. Where
is Phil ? '

She moved quietly to the corridor, and
there was poor Phil walking up and down
noiselessly with slippered feet. At her
beckoning hand he came.

'He has asked for you,' she whispered.

There is a little box in the safe,' said
Tregarthen, when Phil entered the room and
bent above him. ' Give it to me.'

The key was in the lock and the safe

opened easily. Phil found the box and
placed it on Arthur's knees.

There's something in the box, Phil.
Take it out. What is it?'

A greenish bit of glass, Arthur. Nothing
else.'

'Throw it in the fire, Phil.' The
youngster obeyed him. 'That was no philosopher's
stone,' said Tregarthen, struggling
up in his chair and supporting himself with
both hands. ' I shall find the true one very
soon. It stands at the head of every peasant's
grave ? '

THE END.

Spottiswoode tb Co. Printers, New-street Square, London.

Chatty & Winds's
Lest OF Books**

For NOVELS, see pp. 19-25.
Beautifully bound in a novel style, small 4to, i6s.

THE LADY OP THE LAKE. By Sir Walter

Scott. W with numerous fine Illustrations.
.v."a^^^ ^'^'^^ °Pi^^ La^^ " has been chosen as a subject for illustration, rot only of
«/ ftf ^'w^f l^f r"/ "'Z'/^'' invite in an unusual degree the sympathetic treatment
JJtl o-^.l-^"^ '^^'°i°'i*/' rofnanttc personal interest which the story inspires, and
^S/w ff, ^^T ^°^^ "i' '^' affections of all readers. So thorough istheveri.
similitude of the poem, and so accurate are its descriptions of scenery, that the
events wh'.eh it describes are accepted as absolute history in the region where the
l"T Lfif^' ""¥ ",° ^''"^ Highlander looks with tolerance on anyone who ventures
■, tuiL^V JV''':f'l"- li .^«^ happened, therefore, that the romantic poem

1 ^T J^' ^^'"7 ofScutt has united and harmonised the legends of Loch Katrine
Tf- S Jl^'AT'J'''' ^'A^,?" ^'" ^"* Handbook te the Scottish Lake-region. It is
dnZtm ^\'Pr'''^^^^['^^trated Edition will be a welcome souvenir to thousands
of travellers who have visited that beautiful region

,J!lf/,f//i'i ''i"Z''a"'!:'^y ""^ "^''^ as freshness 'of treatment, the Publishers 
A; ) • h^17''^''^'- ""^''' ^^°^^ supervision this Edition has been
Z.rJf' T, ''•'! ^'"""^ Highlands and make sketches on the spot. Nearly
ZZh^rhn,?/nff'/°/lu f "'• P':'°r^ly ^i^ii^d and sketched by him, and thelc
ijl.^LrZ ■^°''^"^ ^^' ^^-^J^' landscapes offered in this book. These 
lu T ''"'''T' f'^""^ ^^''' ^""''y «^ '* " at the present time ; while the
actinTnhZZtZ'Y'''^ "^^''Y'f'^'ories of the figure-pieces are of the period of the
tfoTnlirrJTnT' ^'V'/ Carefully studied ram contemporary pictures and descriptio
ns, or from later authoritative works. r j r t

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt. 7s. ^dT

Advertising, A History of,

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes. Curious Specimens,
and Not cesof^ Successful Advertisers. B y Henry Sampson.

Allen (Grant)7Works^by:

SS^^^^^^V-^ Calendar. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Evolutions at Large. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

L.^V^^"l^i'/'i*"^''^S^V,"^'" o//,o/>«/ar scientific exposition that we have eves
\ha d the good fortune to fall in with"— Leeds Mercury.

1^ Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 75. 6d

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collett-Sandar>

Artemus Ward:

Artemus Ward's Works : The Works of Charles Farmer Brownie,
better known as Artemus Ward. Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile,
cloth extra, 75 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.

Edijte d, with Preface, by Edward P. Kingston. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

A History of the Chap-Books of the Eighteenth Century.

By John Ashton. With nearly 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne. Taken from Original
Sources. By John Ashton. With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.
New and cheap r Edition, crown Svo, cloth, extra, 7s. 6d. short y.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London ;

Together with Lists of Bankers from 1677. By F G. Hilton Price.

Barley (Rev. C. W.), Works by :

English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

7$. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.
All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with

Notices of the Artists, b y Sydney Armytage, Mea.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by LuDWiG Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations

by Richter.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1883.

Maid of Athens," Justin McCarthy's New Serial Story,
Illustrated by Fred. Barnard, was begun in the January Number
of Belgravia, which Number contained also the First Portion of
a Story in Three Parts, by OuiDA, entitled " Frescoes ; " the
continuation of Wilkie Collins's Novel, " Heart and Science ; "
a further instalment of Mrs. Alexander's Novel, " The Admiral's
Ward ; " and other Matters of Interest
*^* Now ready, the Volume for November 1882 to February 1883

which includes the Belgravia Annual), cloth extra, gilt edges, js. 6d.;

Cases for binding Volume s, 2S. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

Written by the well-known Authors who have been so long
cited with the Magazine, v/ill be published as usual in July.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding,

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations. 15.

Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1881. With 1 28 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1882. With 130 Illustrations. is.

Academy Notes, 1883. With Illustrations, is. [Preparing

Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 63 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1882. With 74 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes. 1883, With Illustrations, is. preparing.

Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.

Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is.

The English Pictures at the National Gallery, 1 14 lusts. is.

The O.d Masters at the National Gallery. 12S Illusts. is, 6d.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with nearly
600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-1882. A Complete Catalogue of Exhibitions
at the Grosvenor Gallery since the Commencement. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy Svo, cloth l."mp, 5s.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.
With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 3s.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."
Salon Notes, 1883. With 400 full-page Illustrations. Edited by

F. G. Dumas. (English Edition.) Demy Svo, 35.
The Art Annual. Edited by F. G. Dumas. With 250 full-page

Illustrations. Demy Svo, 3s. 6d.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1882. 114 Illustrations, is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1882. 102 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is.

Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 illustrations. is.

Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. is.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21J.

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. ScOTT. With descriptive Text.
In Illuminated Cover, crown 4to, 6s.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language and Legends.

By W. J. Gordon. lust. in Colours by Viola Houghton. [Shortly.

This sumptuous and elegant Birthday Book is the first in which our floral
treasures have been laid under really effective contribution. It has been produced at
immense cost, and in it we have one of the most accurate and beautiful Masterpieces
of Chromo-lithography yet issued from the press. Within its sixty-fov. r f idly-coloured
pages, each lithographed in fourteen printing, we have a noble Series of lovely Bouquets,
depicting in all their wealth of grace and beauty the most famous of our field
and garden jewels ; as a different flower is taken for every day in the year, there
are no fewer than three hundred and sixty-six separate selections. The legends
and the sentiments ascribed to each of the chosen blossoms have formed the theme of
some fifteen hundred lines of Original Verse, and there is thus given one of the fullest
Languages of Flowers " tn existence, and the only one which is free from duplicates.
An unusual amount of thought and labour has been expended on the work, and the
publishers congratulate themselves that in a literary and artistic sense the result has
been fully commensurate thereto. Such a collection of flowers, so complete and compact,
has never before been offered. As a Book of Birthdays and Family Records it
ts unsurpassed. The addition of the scientific names to the minutely accurate delineations
of plants renders its pages invaluable to the botanist and every lover of leaf and
bloom. The legends which form the burden of its verse will delight the scholar and
archcBologist and all students of song and folk-lore ; while the copious floral meanings,
completer than in any ether "language of flowers " yet available, will render it
the constant companion and most treasured gift of a much more numerous section oj
the community — the whole world of Sweethearts of the English-speaking nations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches :

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. L Gallops from Gorse-borough.
II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with Stag
Hounds. Oblong 410, half-bound boards, 21s.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in
facsimile of the originals. Oblong 410, half-bound, 21s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.

Brewster (Sir David), Works by

More Worlds than One : The Creed of the Philosopher and the
Hope of the Christian. By Sir David Brewster. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 45. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science : Lives of Galileo, Tycho Brake, and
Kepler. By Sir David Brewster. With Portraits. Post 8r^, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d,

Bret Harte, Works by:

Bret Harte's Collected Works, Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
VoL I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author,
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.
Vol. in. Tales qp the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches,
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed Novels, &c.

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel, Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 25,
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories, Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain, Fcap, 8vo, picture cover, is. ;

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches, Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2S.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, is. ; cloth

extra, 2s. 6d.
Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert)

Ballads of Life, Love, and

Humour. With a Frontispiece by

Arthur Hughes. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 6s.
Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by Thos.

Daniel. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,

6s.
Undertones. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 6s.
London Poems, Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Book of Form, Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 6s.
White Rose and Red : A Love

Story. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

*,* See also Novels

Works :

Idols and Legends of Inver-bum.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. Abe and his Seven Wives :

A Tale of Salt Lake City, With a
Frontispiece by A. B. Houghton.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s,
The Hybrid Isles : Wanderings
in the Land of Lome and the Outer
Hebrides, With Frontispiece by W.
Small, Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Selections from the Prose

Writings of Robert Buchanan.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. [Shortly.

Robert Buchanan's Complete

Poetical Works. In One Volume.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

[/n preparations.
pp. 19, 21, 22 and 25^

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy.

A New Edition, Complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of
the Classical Extracts,*
Also an Abridgment in "The Mayfair Library," under the title
Melancholy Anatomise," post Svo, cloth l imp, 25, 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by :

The Book of the Sword : Being a History of the Sword and its
Use m all Countries, from the Earliest Times, By Richard F Burton
With over 400 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 25s. [In preparation

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Maps and Frontispiece.
Two Vols., crown Svo, 21s.

THE STOTHARD BU NY AN. —Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. ScOTT. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by Stot-hard,
engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Commander) and Captain Burton.

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 145.

Campbell.— White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P.

Carlyle (Thomas):

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Concur D

Conway, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.
On the Choice of Books. With a Life of the Author by R. H.
Shepherd. New and Revised Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated,
IS. 6rf.

The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyle and Ralph Waldo

Emerson, 1834 to 1S72. Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. With Portraits.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.
These letters, extending over a period 0/ nearly forty years, were, by the common
consent and direction oj the illustrious writers, long since placed in Mr. Norton's
hands with the fullest powers for editing and publication. It is not too much to
claim that the correspondence forms the most valuable and entertaining work of
the kind ever issued.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some o
the Indian Tribes.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28s.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving ; Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
Born ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children: A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Hawes.
With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.
New Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth
limp, 25. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6^.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins"" My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. BucKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery :

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.

"Full of sound sense and useful hints." — Saturday Review,

Conway (Concur D.), Works by :

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two Vols., royal 8vo, with 65

Illustrations, 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Wandering Jew. Cro\'ni 8vo, cloth extra, 65.
Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. With Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Button), Works by :

Hoiirs with the Players. With a Steel Plate Frontispiece. New

and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Nights at the Play: A View of the English Stage. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 25. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Works. By Sidney
Jerrold, of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law,
Till the time arrives when copyright shall be so simple and so uniform that
it can be generally understood and enjoyed, such a handbook as this will prove of
great value. It is correct as will as concise, and gives just the kind and quantity
f information desired by persons who are ignorant of the subject, and turn to it
or information and guidance"— Athzumuu.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or, The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Crdikshank.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

With Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of " The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " De Delitti e delle Pen."
By James Anson Farmer.

fOi

Cruikshank, George

The Comic Almanac. Complete in Two Series: The First

from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the
Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith,
A Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel
Engravings by Cruikshank, Hint, Handel's, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt, two very thick volumes, ys. 6d. each.
The Life of George Cruikshank. By Blanchard Jerrold,
Author of "The Life of Napoleon Hi," &c. With numerous Illustrations
and a List of his Works. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 245.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry,

with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians. Entirely New and Revised
Edition. Illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts and Coloured Plates.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 25. 6i.

Covenant.— What shut my Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, M.A.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Dora. — Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dora, F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d, ^ 4

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players,
and Playhouses of the United Kingdom and America, from the
Earliest to the Present Times. By W. Davenport Adams. (Uniform
with Brewer's " Reader's Handbook") [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Dyer.— The Folk-Lore of Plants.

By T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. [In preparation.

Among the subjects treated of will be the following :— 1. Primitive and Savage
Notions respecting Plants — 2. Plant-Worship — 3. Plant-Life — 4. Lightning
Plants — 5. Legendary Origin of Plants — 6. Mystic Plants— 7. Plant Nomenclature
— 8. Ceremonial Use of Plants — 9. The Doctrine of Signatures— 10. Plants
in Folk-Medicine — 11. Plants in Folk-Tales— 12. Plants in Demonology and
Witchcraft — 13. Wishing-Plants— 14. Sacred Plants— 15. Luck-Plants.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s, per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

1. Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete

Poems. One Vol.

2. Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works. Two Vols.

3. Herrick's (Robert) Complete

Collected Poems. Three Vols.

4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Com*

plate Poetical Works. Three Vote.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 65.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and Precious

stones : their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6i.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.), Works by :

stories from the State Papers. With an Autotype Facsimile.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Life and Times of Prince Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender. From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. shortly.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt.— Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By
F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards
of 100 Illustrations by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler.

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

The Chemical History of a Candle : Lectures delivered before
a Juvenile Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William
Crookes, F.C.S. Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,
45. 6d.

On the Yariotis Forces of Nature, and their Relations to each
other; Lectures delivered before a Juvenile Audience at the Royal
Institution. Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
with numerous Illustrations, 45. 6d,

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fitzgerald. — Recreations of a Literary Man ;

or, Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fitzgerald.


Gardening Books :

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice
to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glens. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,
illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis
George Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1883.

The New Abelard," Robert Buchanan's New Serial Story, was
begun in the January Number of The Gentleman's Magazine.
This Number contained many other interesting Articles, the continuation
of Julian Hawthorne's Story "Dust," and a further
instalment of " Science Notes," by W. Mattieuu Williams.
F.R.A.S.

*»* Now ready, the Volume for JuLY^o December, 1882, cloth extra,
price 8s. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price 2S. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Containing Complete Novels by R. E. Francillon, the Author of
Miss Molly," Fred. Boyle, and F. Bell. Demy 8vo, illuminated

cover, IS.

THE RUSKIN GZ?/AfM.— Square 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.
Edited with an Introduction by JOHN RUSKIN. With 22 Illustrations
on Steel by George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete.
•♦ The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
my 'Elements of Drawing'' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rembrandt
sin some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . .-To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking nt them through a magnifying glass,
and never putting two lines where Cruikshank has put only one, would be »n exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt
in schools"— Extract from Introduction by John Ru skin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Blenny.— A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Blenny.
"A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. The
amateur need not wish for a better guide"— Leeds Mercury.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.



Square imo (Tauchnitz size)

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.

Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Tabic. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's "Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original
Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.
Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.
Lambs Essays of Elia, Both
Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale
for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2S. per volume.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte


St. Pierre's Paul 'and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and

Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh

Hunt,

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion
and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.
Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.

KONER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by

Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.

Must find a place, not only upon the scholar's shelves, but in every well-chosen

library of art'" — Daily News.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation to the History of Mankind.
By Arnold Guyot. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce.
and Gray; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and
copious Index.

Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,
and Disease. Translate ed from the German of Dr. J. PiNCUS.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 8s.

New Symbols Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Serpent Play. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. .

Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 12s.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vc, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character. By Mrs.

S. C. Hall. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by
Machine, Gilbert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
"The Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Milord's beautiful English

sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

bright." — Blackwood's Magazine.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the

Author. Small Svo, illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d.
A well-coiisidcrcd attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to the

point; she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her own s ex

onthe follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the

ladies whom it concerns." — Athenaeum.

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo,
cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 100
Illustrations, los. 6^.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, los. 6d.

*** See also Chaucer, p. 6 0/ this Catalogue.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.). — American Humorists.

Including Washington Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward, INIark Twain, and
Bret Harte. By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of

"The Fern World," &c.
If gardens of wild flowers do not begin at once to spring up over half the little
patches of back yard within fifty miles of London it will not be Mr. Heath's fault,
for a more exquisite picture of the felicity of horticulture has seldom been drawn for
«s by so charming and graphic a word-painter as the writer of this pleasant little
volume." — Grant Allen, in The Academy.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts;
should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and in our opinion its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed." — St. James's Gazette;.

Cr.8vo, bound in parchment, Ss. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Holmes.— The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, M.D.
The advice the author gives, coming as it does from one having authority, is
most valuable." — Nature.

CrowTi 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s. ' -

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. 1

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns and Hoaxes.
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles and Illustrations.

Tenth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 75.

Home. — Orion :

An Epic Poem, in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horne.
With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the
public frown the working man's point of view." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

HuefFer.— The Troubadours :

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By
Francis Suffer. ^ ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ireland under the Land Act :

Letters to the Standard during the Crisis. Containing the most
recent Information about the Slate of the Country the Popular
Leaders, the League, the Working of the Sub-Commissions, &c.
With Leading Cases under the Act, giving the Evidence in full ;
Judicial Dicta, &c. By E. Cant-Wall.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.
Will be found a useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacture or
decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to know something of
the ar^."— Morning Post.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jeflferies.— Nature near London.

By Richard Jefferies, Author of " The Gamekeeper at Home.'

[In the press.

A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Jennings.— The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,

illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6d
Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and

Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2$. 6d.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook

Them. By Tom Jerrold. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (William, P.S.A.), Works by:

Finger-Ring Lore : Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. With
over 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present : including the Sea and Seamen,
Miners, Talismans, Word and Letter Divination, Exorcising and
Blessing of Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c. With an Etched Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Crowns and Coronations : A History of Regalia in all Times and
Countries. With about 150 Illustrations, many full-page. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
J news " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s,

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULiA Kavanagh.
With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2S. 6d.

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand an. One Nights; Commonly called, in England,
The Arabian Nights' Entertainments." A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by Edward William Lane, Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by Wm.
Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d. each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages: Studies from " The Thousand
and One Nights." By Edward Wm. Lane, Author of " The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley Lane-Poole. Cr.Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lamb (Charles) :

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their Poems, Letters, and Remains.
With Reminiscences and Notes by '^V. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the litle-pages of the rare
First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the
Original Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, ys. 6d.
A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains to
bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a
number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodicals'" — Saturday Review.

Poetry for Children, and Prince Dons. By Charles Lamb,
Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the
hearts of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy,

The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions
We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good dea
about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." — Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Life in London ;

or, The History' of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshaxk's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J H. ALEXANDER, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
"Thoreau: A Study."

Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. Including " Outre Mer,"
"Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and
Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations by V.-vlentine Bromley.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ~s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the
Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By A Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond pleasure though the subject
be. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book; it is
bright, calm, and to the point." — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8i.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian Verse by Robert French Duff.

McCarthy (Justin, M.p), Works by:

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria
to the General Election of 1880. Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra,
I2J. each.— Also a Popular Edition, in Four Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s. each.

A Child's History of Stir Own Times. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d. [In preparation.

History of the Four Georges. Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 12s. each. fin preparation.

*«* For Mr. McCarthy's Novels, see pp. 21, 24.

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works by:

An Outline of the History of Ireland, from the Earliest Times

to the Present Day. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.
Serapis, and other Poems. Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.), Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With 11 Illustrations by James Allen.

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working Genius. With 9 Illustrations

by Arthur Hughes, Square 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

*,^* For George Macdonald's Novels, see pp. 22, 25.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Machine Portrait Gallery (The) of Illustrious

Literary Characters ; with Memoirs, Biographical, Critical, Bibliographical,
and Anecdotal, illustrative of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By William Bates, Bea. With 85
Portraits printed on an India Tint. [/« the press.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R.

Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. With

numerous Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt,

los. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations by T. R, Macquoid,
Square 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Through Brittany. With numerous Illustrations by T. R. Mac-quoit.
Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

About Yorkshire. With about 70 Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid, Engraved by Swain. Square bvo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

[In preparation.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 55.

Magna Charta,

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by:

Is Life Worth Living ? Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism on an Island. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6i.
Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment, 85.
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. Second Edition, with

a Preface. Two Vols., crown 8vo, 21s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected
throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. With 100 Illustrations. Small
8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, zs.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, zs.
The Prince and the Pauper. With nearly 200 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress :
Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land. With 234 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition, post 8vo, illustrated boards, 25.
The Stolen White Elephant, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.
Life on the Mississippi. With about 300 Original Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. [In preparation.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, ys. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living van but
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode oj
Jim Baker and his jays a piece of work that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have gone before." — Athenaeum.

Small Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 25. 6d,

Miller.— Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its application to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
"An admirable introduction to a subject which all who value health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends." — Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the

Management of the Skin; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,

&c. Small Svo, is. cloth extra, 15. 6d.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small Svo, is. ; cloth extra,

is.&d.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation to Diseases of the Skin.

Shall Svo, is. ; cloth extra, is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post 8vo, cloth limp

Mayfair Library, The :

A Journey Round My Room.

By Xavier de Maitre. Tracs-laid

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by

W. Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport Adams.

Alae Agony Column of " The

Times," from soo to 1870. Edited,
with an Introductions Alice Clay.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations

by H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of "Burton's

Anatomy of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, and Frolics. W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities andEccen-

atrocities. Selected and Edited by
W. T. Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By
Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S, Gilbert.
First Series. Containing:
The Wicked World— Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing:
Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts
— Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce —
Tom Cobb— H. Mss. Pinafore— The
Sorcerer — The Pirates of Penzance.

Animals and their Masters.

By Sir Arthur Helps.
Curiosities of Criticism. By
Henry J. Jennings.

25. 6i. per volume.

The Autocrat of the Breaks

By O, WendellHolmes.

Illustrated by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.

Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.

Forensic Anecdotes ; or, Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
Men of Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry
S. Leigh.

Jeux dee sprit. Edited by ditto.

The True History of Joshua
Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. L. Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By
Robert Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. ^L\LLOCK.
The New Republic. By ditto.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by

H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims

By H. A. Page.

Puck on Pegasus. Dy H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

More Juliana, By ditto.

The Philosophy of Handwriting.
Don Felix de Salamanca,

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Re-told, By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's

Note Book. BvDr. Andrew Wilson.

Large 4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

MoncrieflF.— The Abdication; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D, Scott-Moncrieff, With Seven
Etchings by JOHN Petrie, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth and Tom Graham,

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 75.6^.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Coins Carr, Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.
"A delightful book, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
know the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Carr's pages instead. . , Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift
It is rarely that a, both is so happily illustrated." — Contemporary Review.

New Novels :

Wand. By Ouida. 3 vols., crown 8vo. [Shortly.

PORT SALVATION; or, The Evangelist. ByALPHONSE Daudet.

Translated by C. Harry Seltzer, 2 vols., post 8vo, 125. [Shortly.

THE HANDS OF JUSTICE. By F. W. Robinson. 3 vols.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE, &c. By F. W. Robinson. 3 vols.
THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. By Walter Besant, Author

of " All Sorts and Conditions of Men," &c. 3 vols.
OP HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin

Gray," " The Golden Shaft," &c. 3 vols.
THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon. 3 vols.
Self-condemned. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt. 3 vols.
KIT : A Memory. By James Payn. 3 vols.
VAL STRANGE. By D. Christie Murray. 3 vols.
HEARTS. By David Christie Murray. 3 vols. [May.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter. 3 vols.
GIDEON Fleece. By Henry W. Lucy. 3 vols.
DUST: A Story. By Julian Hawthorne, Author of "Garth,"

Sebastian Stroke," &c. 3 vols.
HEART AND SCIENCE : A Story of the Present Day. By

WiLKiE Collins. 3 vols. [Maw.

A NEW COLLECTION of STORIES by CHARLES READE

is now in preparation, in 3 vols.
KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope. 2 vols., 12s.
MR. SCARBOROUGH'S FAMILY. By Anthony Trollope.

3 vols. [April.

Anna WATER. By Robert Buchanan. 3 vols. [May.

BEHIND A BRASS KNOCKER: Some Grim Realities in

Picture and Prose. By Fred. Barnard and C. H. Ross. Demy 8vo,

cloth extra, with 30 full-page Drawings, los. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 5s.

Number Nip (Stories about),

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur), Works by :

Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

Crown Svo, red cloth extra, 5s. each.

Ouida's Novels. — Library Edition.

Held in Bondage.

Stratlrmore.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.

Tricotarin.

Puck.

Fore Farine.

A Dog of Flanders.

Pascal.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

In Maremma.

'jj* Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last, post Svo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.
BIMBI : Stories for Children. By OuiDA. Square Svo, cloth gilt,

cinnamon edges, 7$. 6d.
WISDOM, POETRY, AND PATHOS, Selected from the Works

of Ouida. By F. S. Morris. Small or. 8vo , cl. extra, 5s. [/m the prey

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol,

Old Dramatists, The :

Ben Jonson's Works.

With Notes Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by VVn^-
Liar GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Chapman's Works.

Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains
the Plays complete, including
the doubtful ones; Vol. II. the
Poems and Minor Translations, with
»D Introductory Essay by Algerian

Charles Swinburne; Vol. III. tba
Translations of the Uiad and
Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, ty Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.

From the Text of William Gifford.
Edited by Col. Cunningham. ons
Vol.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook

of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s

Payn.— Some Private Views :

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to Tk»
Times. By James Payn, Author of " Lost Sir Massingberd," &c.

*»* For Mr. Payn's Novels, see pp. 22, 24, 25.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, los. 6d,

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne.

Proctor (Richard A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky, With 55 Illustrations. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 45. 6d.
Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year,

Drawings of the Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Science Studies. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65*
Pleasant V7ay3 in Science. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Our Place among Infinities: A Series of Essays contrasting our

Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6r
Saturn and its System. New and Revised Edition, with 13 Steel

Plates. Demy Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
The Great Pyramid : Observatory, Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mysteries of Time and Space. With Illustrations. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crovm Svo, is. 6d.

Mr. Proctor, of all writers oj our time, best conforms to Matthew A mold 's conception
of a man of culture, in that he strives to humanise knowledge and divest it
of whatever is harsh, crude, or technical, and so makes it a source oJ happiness and
brightness For aW."— Westminster Review,



Library Editions, many Illustrated, crovmSvo, cloth extra, 3«. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

popular ^tarici l»2 t^t SSfiSt Sut^arrf.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE
Ready-money Mortify.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

This Son of Vulcan.

With Harp and Crown.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,

A Child of Nature.

God and the Man.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.

Deceivers Ever.

Juliet's Guardian.

BY WILKIE COLLINS,
Antonio. | Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady,
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted HoteL
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovel.

BY R. E. Francisco.

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.

The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War,
What will the World Say t
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem,

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroma.

BY MRS ALFRED HUNT,
Thomicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.

BY JEAN Angelo.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught
The Dark Cobden.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Lean Duncan.
The World Wel Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love 1 "

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watergate Neighbours,
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford.
A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued,

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.

Lost Rose. I The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
"Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
Joseph's Coat.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies,

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
The Best of Husbands.
Fallen Fortunes. 1 Halves.
Walter's Word
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than We're Painted.
By Proxy. I Under One Roof.
High Spirits, j Carlton's Year.
A Confidential Agent.
From Exile.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Washington.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

By Charles Rk\dz— continued.
Foul Play. | A Simpleton.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Woman-hater. | Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.

Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life.

NEW VOLUMES OF THE PICCADILLY Novels IN THE PRESS.

All Sorts and Conditions of I

Men. By Walter Besant. Illustrated
by Fred. Barnard.

The Shadow of the Sword. By
Robert Buchanan.

The Martyrdom of Madeline.
By Robert Buchanan.

Love Me for Ever. By Robert

Buchanan. Front, by P. Macnab.

Sweet Anne Page. By Mortimer
Collins.

Transmigration. By M. Collins.

Blacksmith and Scholar. By
Mortimer and Frances Collins.

From Midnight to Midnight. By
Mortimer Collins.

The Village Comedy. By Mortimer
and Frances Collins.

You Play me False. By Mortimer
and Frances Collins.

Paul Foster's Daughter. By
Cotton Cook.

Hearts of Gold. By Wm. Cycles.

Dolores. By James L. Derwent.

One by One. R. E. Francillon.

The Braes of Yarrow. By
Charles Gibbon.

Prince Saroni's Wife. By Julian
Hawthorne.

Ivan de Iron. By Sir A. Helps.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. By Geo.
MacDonald, LL.D. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis, R.A.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. By
George MacDonald, LL.D. With
a Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Coals of Fire. By D. Christie
Murray. Illust.by Arthur Hopkins,
G. L. Seymour, and D. T. White.

A Grape from a Thorn. By
James Payn. Illust. by W. Small.

For Cash Only. By James Payn.

Valentine. By E. C. Price.

The Prince of Wales's Garden-party.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

By T. W. Speight.
Frau Frohmann. By Anthony

Trollope.

Marion Fay. By A. Trollope.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiE CoLLiNS's NovELS and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had
in cloth limp at 2s. 6d. See, coo, */« Piccadilly NovELsJor Library Editions.'}
BY Edmund ABOUT, By Willie Collins— co«<.

The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.

BY Mutton COOK.

Leo.

BY MRS. inde Edwards
A Point of Honour.
Archie Lovell,

The Fellah,

BY HAMILTON AIDE,
Confidences.
Carr of Carrion.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant,

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.

Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.

An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Gabriel Convoy, | Fhp.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.

The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio. | Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
The Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White,
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,

Felicia.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.

Polly. I Bella Donna.

Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUB
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.

The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What wil the World Say
In Honour Bound.
The Dead He it.
In Love and \7ar.
For the King.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.

Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW Holiday.
E very-day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.

Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.

Garth. | Ellice Question.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

The Hunchback of Notre Dame,

Popular Novels — continued,

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,

Thomicroff 8 Model.

BY JEAN Angelo.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun,

Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught,
The Dark Cobden.

BY HENRY Kingsley

Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Duncan.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watergate Neighbours.
Dear Lady Disdain.
My Enemy s Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

BY AGNES Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.

The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oath.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.

Touch and Go.
Mr. Dominion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY,
A Life's Atonement.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT,
Whiteladies.

BY OUIDA,
Held In Bondage.
Stratford. I Chances.
Under Two Flags.
Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.
Tricotria
Puck. I Fore Farine.

By OviTik—cemt,
A Dog of Flanders,
Pascal.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.
Signa.

In a Winter City.
Ariadne. I Friendship.

Moths. I Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

BY JAMES Pain,

Lost Sir Massingberd,

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Cl3rffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word. | Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

High Spirits.

A Confidential Agent,

Carlton's Year.

BY EDGAR A. POE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.

Hard Cash.

Peg Washington.

Christie Johnston.

Griffith Gaunt.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

The Autobiography of a Thief.

Put Yourself in his Place.

£5

Popular Novels — continued.
BY MRS. J. H. RID DELL.

Her Mother's Darling.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.

A Match in the Dark,

BY WALTER THORNBURY.

Tales for the Marines.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY MARK T IV A IN.

A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

Tom Sawyer.

An Idle Excursion.

BY LADY WOOD.

Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway.
Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why P. Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Neil Two-shilling NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

The Chaplain of the Fleet. By
Besant and Rice.

The Shadow of the Sword. By
Robert Buchanan.

A Child of Nature. R. Buchanan.

Sweet Anne Page. By Mortimer
Collins.

Transmigration. By M. Collins.

Frances. By M, and F. Collins.

Sweet and Twenty. Ditto.

Blacksmith and Scholar. Ditto.

From Midnight to Midnight. By
Mortimer Collins.

A Fight with Fortune. Ditto.

The Village Comedy. By Mortimer
and Frances Collins.

You Play me False. Ditto.

The Black Robe. By Wilkie
Collins.

Paul Foster's Daughter. By
Button Cook.

Dolores. By James L. Derwent.

One by One. R. E. Francillon.

Dr. Austin's Guests. Gilbert.

The Wizard of the Mountain.

By William Gilbert.

James Duke.

Sebastian Stroke. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Ivan de Iron. By Sir A. Helps.
The Leaden Casket. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.
The Rebel of the Family. By

Mrs. Lynn Linton.
My Love ! " E. Lynn Linton.
Paul Faber, Surgeon. By Geo.

MacDonald, LL.D.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate. Do
New Republic. W. H. M allow k.
Phoebe's Fortunes. By Mrs.

Robert Reilly.
From Exile. By James Payn.
Some Private Views. Ditto.
Valentine. By E. C. Price.
A Levantine Family. By Bayle

St. John.
The Two Dreamers. Saunders
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

By T. W. Speight.
Cressida. By Bertha Thomas.
Proud Maisie. Bertha Thomas.
The Violin-Player. Ditto.
What She Came Through. By

Sarah Tatler.

By Wm. Gilbert.
Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, i5. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavoumeen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's.'
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the Author of " That Lass o' Louvre's
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent By Tom Jerrold.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress — Regal,
Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military— from the Earliest Period in England
to the Reign of George the Third. Including Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a General History of the Costumes of the
Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald.
Two Vols, demy 4to, half morocco, profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, £7 js. The Volumes may also be had
separately (each complete in itself) at £z 13s. 6d. each: Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or. Heraldry Founded upon Facts. By
J. R. Planches. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. By J. R. Planche. Edited,
with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. ed,

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

V^ith Baudelaire's Essay on his Life and Writings.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, 35. 6d.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Ti me. By J. Moyr Smith.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6i.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
number vous characteristic Illustrations by Gustave Pore.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, 7s. 6d,

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Entirely New Edition, Revised, crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6i.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
pious, and stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,

revised throughout, with a New Appendix, containing a COMPLETE
English Bibliography.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Richardson. — A Ministry of Health, and

other Pa pers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. By Alfred Rimmer. With over 5©

Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, los. 6d.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. With

50 Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth gilt, io. 6d.
About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Ri mme and C. A. Vanderhoof. Sq. Svo, cl. gilt, los. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Robinson.— The Poets' Birds.

By Phil. Robinson, Author of " Noah's Ark," &c,

CHATTO 6* WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 27

Handsomely printed, price 5s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, A.D, 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colon rs.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 45. 6d. each.

Secret Out " Series, The :

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; Magician's Own Book :

Performances with Cups and Bars,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
^ ,, ^^ W. H. Cremer. 200 Illustrations.

"ACollectronofGra^cefulArts.Games, I Magic No Mystery :
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By i Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c.,
Frank Belle. 30oIllustrations. \ wrathfully descriptive Directions; the
TTo-riir-rT TD r> -r, ir-rr-^^t of Sccrct Writing; Training of

nanKy-ran^. , Performing Animals, &c. Coloured
Z^''^ ^.^fl ^/,'*^''-^'c??7 ^'J''^'']* ' Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
Tricks,Whi^eMagic,SleightofHand. ; The Secret Out :
Edited by W.H. Cremer. 200 Illusts. , q^^ Thousand Tricks with Cards,
The Merry Circle : : and other Recreations ; with Enter
Book of New Intellectual Games 1 training Experiments in Drawing-and
Amusements. By Clara Bel j room or " White Magic." By W. H.
LEW. .Many Illustrations. Cremer. 300 Engravings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Senior.— Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (" Red-Spinner "), Author of " By Stream and Sea."

Shakespeare ;

The First Folio Shakespeare. — Mr. William Shakespeare's
Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt.
1623. — A Reproduction of the extremely rare oriental, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process — ensuring the strictest accuracy in every
detail. Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, ys. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully printed in red
and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile Qi
Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 6s.
The Handbook of Shakespeare Music. Being an Account of
350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse. 4to, half-roxburgh, js.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Algerian Charles Swinburne.

Cr own 8vo, cloth extra, 8s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with lo full-page Tinted Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a Collection of Sheridaniana.

Deny 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory Notes. By Samuel A. Bent, M. A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with loo Illustrations, 7s. W.

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6i,

Slajig Dictionary, The :

Etymological. History cal, and Anecdotal.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25. 6i.

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 145,

South-West, The New:

Travelling Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, an<5
Northern Mexico. By Ernst VON HesSE-Wartegg. With 100
fine Illustrations and 3 Maps. [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Spalding.— Elizabethan Demonology:

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. With Illustrations by Walter J. Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard d Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 95,

Seaman.— Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.

Stevenson (R. Louis), Works by :

Familiar Studies of Men and Books. By R. Louis Stevenson,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

New Arabian Nights. By R. Louis Stevenson. New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
We faust place the *New Arabian Nights * very high indeed, almost hors contours,
a mong the fiction of the present day"— Vale. Mall Gazette.

Two Vols. , crown Svo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 24s.

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Strain. [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People of

England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time, With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hon,

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, 75. 6d,

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6i,

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of th
Maps in the Original Edition of " Tulliver's Travels,"

Swinburne's (Algerian

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.
Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

Atlanta in Corydon.

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s,

Chastened.

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 7J.

Poems and Ballads.
First Series. Fcap. 8vo, gs.
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. 8vo, g$.
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Notes on Poems and Reviews.

8vo, IS.

William Blake :

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy 8vo, i6s.

Songs before Sunrise.
Crown 8vo, los. td.

Bothwell :
A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 125. 6i.

Also

Also

C.) Works :

George Chapman :

An Essay. Crown 8vo, 7$,

Songs of Two Nations.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

Essays and Studies.

Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, is.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

A study of Shakespeare.

Crown 8vo, 8s.

Songs of the Springtide.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

Studies in Song.
Crown 8vo, ys.

Maj Stuart :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other
Poems. Crown 8vo, gs.

Sent

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

ax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations
in Colours, and a Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Four Vols, small 8vo, cloth boards, sos.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
•,• Also a. Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15J,

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 61,

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moor SMITH,

One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 64.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

•* Chancery," " Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " TheFool'i

Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion."

%* The Plays may also be had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6i.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Coloured Frontispiece and Hundreds of Wood
Engravings, facsimile from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 5 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Thombury (Walter), Works by:

Haunted London. Edited by Edward Walford, M.A. With
Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of J. M. W. Turner. Founded
upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Times (John), Works by :

Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its Famous
Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities : Stories of Wealth and

Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights

and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters,

&c. With nearly 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 145.

Torrens.— The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune : Wellesley and O'Connell : Historic
Portraits. By W. M. Torrens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Large folio, handsomely bound, 31s. 6i,

Turner's Rivers of England :

Sixteen Drawings by J. M. W. Turner, R.A., and Three by THOMAS
GiRTiN, Mezzotinted by Thomas Lufton, Charles Turner, and
other Engravers. With Descriptions by Mrs. Holland. A New
Edition, reproduced by Telegraph. Edited by W. Cosmo Monk-house,
Author of " The Life of Turner " in the " Great Artists "
Series. [Shortly.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans, 145.

Walcott— Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev,
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.



The Twenty-third Annual Edition, for 1883, cloth, full gilt, 50s.

Walford,— The County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M.A, Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country
Addresses, Clubs, &c.

Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler ;

or. The Contemplative Man's Recreation ; being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 35. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Wanderings in Patagonia; or,
Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport
and Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick
Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden
Time. By George Daniel. With
Illustrations by Root. Cruikshank.

The World Behind the Scenes;
By Percy Fitzgerald.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers.
By Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fciirs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account
of the Strange Fish to be found there.
By James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By
James Greenwood.

Tunis : The Land and the People.

By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a

Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.
Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;

Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. With Illusts.
The Genial Showman : Life

and Adventures of Artemus Ward.
By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry
Mathew. Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Samson
Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by
Henry Samson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By Charles Warren Standard.
lust. by Charles Mackay,

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., 2S,

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and
a Facsimile of the Great SeaL

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.

'r

Williams (Mattieuu), Works by:

Science in Short Chapters. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2S. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew), Works by :

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular History of the Darwinian and

Allied Theories of Development. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 259 Illustrations, ys. 6d.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Note-book. By Andrew Wilson,

Ph.D., F.R.S.E (A Volume of "The Mayfair Library") Post 8vo

cloth limp, 2S. 6d.
Leisure - Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew

Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with

Illustrations, 6s.
"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator,
who in the intervals 0/ his more serious professional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in Science at Edinburgh and Glasgow,
at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem
with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the
truths of nature." — Saturday Review.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 65.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. lust. by J. Moor Smith.
Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.)
With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures,
&c. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literature,

Scripture, and Painting. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST. JOHN STREET, Eg.

3 0112 052944417
