Relatives

By Jj^e^l/|flol^ op

iNCHBRACKEN

a I E> Mary

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS

82-3

C585r

y.l

♦i^

OF

INCH Broken,"

A NOVEL BY E. Leland.
♦— i-o^o— j— ♦—

Westminster Review, October, 1883.

luchbracken " is a clever sketch of Scottish life and manners at the time
of the "Disruption," or great secession from the Established Circa of
Scotland, which resulted in the formation of the Free Church. The scene
of the story is a remote country parish in the north of Scotland, within a
few miles of the highland line. The main interest centres in the young
Free Church minister and this sister and their relations, on the one hand,
with the enthusiastic supporters of the Disruption movement, mostly of the
peasant or small tradesmen class-with a sprinkling of the smaller landowners
; and, on the other hand, with the zealous supporters of the Established
Church, represented by the Drysdales of Inchbracken, the great
family of the neighbourhood. The story is well and simply told, with many
a quiet touch of humour, founded on no inconsiderable knowledge of human
nature.

Academy, 27th October, 1883.

There is a great deal of solid writing in "Inchbracken," and they who
read it Vidll hardly do so in vain. It is a story of the Disruption ; and it sets
forth, with much pains and not a little spirit, the humours and scandals of
one of the communities affected by the event. The main incident of the
story has nothing to do with the Disruption, it is true ; but its personages
are those of the time, and the uses to which they are put are such as the
Disruption made possible. Frederick Brown, the enthusiastic young Free
Church minister, finds on the sea-shore after wreck and storm, a poor little
human waif which the sea has spared. He takes the baby home, and does
his best for it. One of his parishioners has lost her character, however ; and
as Frederick, at the instigation of his beadle, the real author of her ruin, is
good enough to give her money and help, it soon becomes evident to
Inchbracken that lie is the villain, and that the balmy of the wreck is the
fruit of an illicit amour. How it ends I shall not say. I shall do no more
than note that the story of the minister's trials and the portraiture — of
elders and gossips, hags and maids and village notables — with which it is
enriched are (especially if you are not afraid of the broadest Scotch, written
with the most uncompromising regard for the national honour) amusing and
natural in no mean degree. W. E. Henley.

Inch bracken " will be found amusing by those who are familiar with
Scotch country life. The period chosen, the "Disruption time," is an
epoch in the religious and social life of Scotland, marking a revival, in an
extremely modified and not altogether genuine form, of the polemic
Puritanism of the early Presbyterians, and so furnishing a subject which
lends itself better to literary treatment than most sides of Scottish life in
this prosaic century. The author has a good descriptive gift, and makes the
most of the picturesque side of the early Free Church meetings at which
declaimers against Erastian patronage posed in the attitude of the
Covenanters of old. The story opens on a stormy night when Frederick
Brown, the young Free Church minister of Kilrundle, is summoned on a ten-mile
expedition to attend a dying woman, an expedition which involves
him in all the troubles which form the subject of the book. The patient has
nothing on her mind of an urgent character. " No, mem ! na !' " says the
messenger,

My granny's a godly auld wife, tho' maybe she's gye gracious

whiles, an' money's the sir paikin' she's given me ; gin there was

oct to confess she kens the road to the Throne better nor niaist. But

ye see there's a maggie gotten iutil her held an' she says she bent to

testified afore she gangs hence.' "

The example of Jenny G edges has been too much for the poor old woman : —

"Ay, an' I'm thinking' it's that auld carline, Jenny G edges, 'at's

raised a' the fash ! My granny gazed to hear Mester Dowlas when he

preached among the shins down by the shore, an' oh, but he was

bonny ! An' a grand screed 0' doctrine he gae us. For twa hale

hours he preached an expended an' never drew breath for a' the wind

was skirling', an' the rent whiles skein' like wild. An' I'm thinking'

my granny's gotten her death o' ta'. But oh ! an' he was grand

on Jenny G edges ! an' hoo she up wi' the creepie am' hewed it a the

Erastian's held. An' my granny was just fairly ta'en wit a', an' she

wooed she but to be a mither in Israel tae, an' when lie gazed hame

lie out wi' the auld hugger 'at she keeps the l)awbees in, neath the

hearthstone, for to buy a creepie o' her ain,— she thoclit a new ane wad

be best for the Lord's work, — an' she coupe the chair whaup hung

lier grave class,' at lie airs foment the fire ilia Saturday at even, 'an

out there cam a lowe, an' scorched a hole i' the winding' sheet, an' noo,

pair body, we'll hae to leap her in her muckle tartan plaid. An'

violins shell be a' the warmer e'y moulds for that. But, however,

she says the sheet was weel waurVl, for the guide cause. An' syne she

took til her bed, wi' a sir host, an' sma' winder, for there was a weet

daub wliaur she had been sitting' among the whigs. An' noo the

hosts settled on her that sir, she whiles canna draw her breath.

Sae she says she maun let the creepie berlin' slide, but she but to

testified afore some godly minister or lie gangs hence. An" I'm fear'd,

sir, ye maun hurry, for she's real far through."

The excuse for this loiig extract must be its excellence as a specimen of a

long-winded statement, just such as a Scotch fisher boy would make when

once the ice was broken. Not less idiomatic is the interview between Mrs.

Boague, the shepherd's wife, and Mrs. Sangster "of Auchlippie," the great

lady of the congregation, when the latter has lead her painful experience of

mountain climbing, till rescued by the "lug and the horn" at the hands

of lier spiritual pastor. Otlier good scenes are the meeting of the two old

wives in matches an the brae side, and the final discomfiture of the

hypocritical scamp Joseph Smiley by his mother-in-law, Tibbie Tirpie, who

rights her daughter's wrongs and the minister's reputation by a capital

coll, '/'' """■/(. Of more serious interest, though full of humour, are the

trials the excellent Frederick endures at the hands of his kirk session.

Ebenezer Prittie and Peter Malloch are types of many an elder minister and

ministers' wives have had to groan under, and the race is not extinct.

But all who are interested in such specimens of human nature should refer to

Mr.Cleland, who knows this countrymen as well as lie can describe his country.

Crown 8vo, cloth, 3.V. 6d. each.

By Florence Marryat.

MY SISTER THE Actress.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

PHyLLIDA.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL.

FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

By Annie Thomas.

atherton towers,
friends and lovers.
eyre of benton.

By Mrs. Eiloart.

THE DEAN'S WIFE.
SOME OF OUR GIRLS.

By Lady Constance Howard.
sweetheart and wife,
mollie darling.

By the Author of "Recommended to
Mercy."

BARBARA'S WARNING.

By Mrs. Alexander Fraser.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

By Harriettt Jay.
two men and a maid.

BY

R. CLE LA N D,

AUTHOR OF "INCHBRACKEN."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
F. V. WHITE AND CO.,
31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.
1885,

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS;

AND MIDDLE MII-L KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

CONTENTS

CHAP. PAGE

I. — Hoar HIS Relations vexed the Rich Man . . i

^

^J II.— Steadfast May . i8

^ III.— Little Arcadia . . . . .-35

i IV.— - Oui •■ 48

V-fidele . . . . . . .68

- - VI. — The Misses Stanley 87

'^ VII.— The Desolate Mother . . .103

VIII.— Ralph . . . . .121

IX.— At St. P^uphrase . 137

'-• X.- Ten Years Later . . . . .154

V XI. — Mahomet and Kadijah . . .-177

XII. — A Garden Tea . 209

XIII-On Account of Strawberries 233

^-^<^

Chapter I.

HOW HIS RELATIONS VEXED THE RICH MAN.

One evening early in July, 1858, there might
have been seen through the railings of a villa ina
suburban street of Montreal, if only the thick
shrubbery leaves would have permitted the
view, a lady — Miss Judith Herkimer, to wit
seated in a quiet corner of the verandah,
and partially concealed by the clusters of a
historia trained to the pillar against which she
leaned. Miss Judith had entered on that
uninteresting middle time of life, when, though
youth with its graces is undeniably of the past,
the grey hairs which may perchance intrude
among the brown, are not yet a crown of
honour ; the bloom and the promise of life are
VOL. I. 1

over, but the pathetic dignity of retrospect,
with its suggestions of what has or what
might have been, which make age beautiful,
are not yet arrived. It was the sear and dusty
afternoon stage ol her pilgrimage and her
spinsterhood, and there was a shade of
severity in her aspect, as though living had
Town into something to be struo^oied with
and endured — the season for duty to a serious
mind, seeing that the time for enjoyment
is manifestly gone by.

The flatness with which her hair was laid
upon her temples, and then drawn back tightly
without wave or pad to the apex of her head,
and secured in the form of an onion, left no
doubt as to the seriousness of Miss Judith's
mind, while the severe ungracefulness of her
dress argued an ascetic tendency of that
aggressive kind which says, " Brother, I would
fast, therefore you shall go without your
dinner " — a person tiresome rather than bad,
but with the long chin of that obstinacy which
can be so provoking when the understanding
and imagination are too narrow to perceive the
true relation of things.

On the lawn before her stood a mulatto lad
of about eighteen, dressed in the white linen
suit of a house servant, and with a long apron
suspended from his neck, as though he had

been called from his glass-washing in the
pantry.

"You say, Miss Judith," he was saying,
while he pulled the apron through his fingers
with a puzzled look, " dat I belong to myself
and not to de cu'nel as owns me ? Den wry dis
house as you owns not belong to me too ? "

Because property in our fellow-men is not
recognized in this free country, Cato. But you
cannot be expected to understand these intricate
questions all at once. Patience and
humility, Cato ! Now for your reading. Have
you got your book ? Ah ! yes. Here is the
place. What does rat read ? "

Cat ! Miss Judy."

"Fie I Cato. Cat h cat. That is rat!
Begins with an E. You see ? "

'Cep' de cat hab done gone eaten de rat.
Den whaar will he be. Miss Judy ? All cat
after dat ! I reckon."

Cato, you are foolish I Now, attend ! "

Cato," said another voice from the background,
" go to your pantry and assist Bridget
with her tea-things," and Miss Herkimer
stepped out on the verandah from a window
not far off. Miss Herkimer was a good many
years older than her sister, but she admitted
the fact that she was elderly, and did not seem
to find it interfere with her comfort. Her

1—2

hair was white, and hung in curls over her
temples, and the folds of her black silk gown
had a free and contented swing which refreshed
the eye after the pinched exactness of Miss
Judith's costume.

"Gerald and his friend have moved into
the smoking-room with their cigars, and as
the windows are open I was afraid your
instructions might be overheard ; and then,
Judith, there would be a commotion which
you would regret."

We must think what is right, Susan, doit,
and never mind the consequences."

"It cannot be right to interfere between
our brother Gerald and his servant. If the
customs in his country are different from ours,
that cannot be helped. He follows his own,
and while he is our guest, it is not for us to
disturb."

"Think of the iniquity of slavery, Susan
that that young man should be held in
bondage, in this free Canada ! It seems awful.
Look at him, and deny if you can that he
is a man and a brother ! "

"I have no objection whatever to admit his
being a man and brother, but I certainly
should not like to have to call him nephew !
And that is what it may come to if you provoke
Gerald. You know how violent he can

be when lie is roused, and if he thought we
were tampering with his negro, or attempting
an abolitionist scheme, he is capable even of
adopting him, we will call it — and leaving
him his whole fortune."

'• Do you think so ? That would be most
unprincipled conduct on his part."

I know he is quite capable of it ; and besides,
Judith, I think you are unnecessarily
scrupulous about that ugly word ' slavery.'
It really seems not so bad a thing after all,
come to see it in action. Gerald, now, is extremely
kind to the boy — spoils him, indeed,
with indulgence, and makes him do very little
work. How much better he is off than
Stephen's foot-boy, with a pony to mind and
the garden to weed when he is not splitting
wood or acting butler in the house. It is
Stephen's boy who is the slave, to my thinking.
Again, I heard Gerald say he refused
two thousand dollars for him from a barber
in New Orleans. He is quite a valuable boy,
and you would tempt him to leave his
master ! "

Two thousand dollars for a black boy ?
Why ! Stephen's white boy gets only ten
dollars a month and some clothes. Does it
not seem extravagant, now, to have so much
money tied up in one negro ? — and sinful ?

How much good might be done with that
money if the boy were realized! One like
Stephen's at ten dollars a month could do his
work — it seems to be only shaving his master,
and after that to do what he is bid — and
the rest of the money might do such very
great good. Five hundred dollars might
be given to African missions to enlighten
his pagan fellow-countrymen, and would
carry the truth to so many ! — and still
there would be money over to do much
stood."

"And how do you propose to realize a
negro boy, sister, except by selling him to
another slave owner ? And what about the
man and brother?"

True, Susan ! Quite true. I admit the
force of your objection. It is another illustration
of the mystery our good rector dwelt
upon so touchingly last Sunday, that good
and evil walk the earth hand-in-hand. A
solemn thought! But in this case it really
seems to me that the boy's bondage would be
well compensated. He is a slave already, you
must remember — has no idea what liberty
means — and five hundred dollars would bring
so many darkened savages within the influence
of gospel light. If the poor ignorant creature
knew enough to understand, I am sure

he would rejoice to think that so slight a
change in his own circumstances would
bring so vast a benefit to his benighted
brethren."

And you'd still be fifteen hundred dollars
to the good, Judith. Quite an operation in
another man's niggers ! Ha, ha! Godliness is
profitable ! That's sound evangelical doctrine !
Ha, ha, ha ! "

These words rang forth in a discordant
voice from a neighbouring window, the Venetians
of which were now pushed open.

The ladies gasped and turned round in dismay.
As they had grown earnest in their
conversation their voices had been rising to
the pitch at which they could not but be heard
without eaves-dropping, and they had been
overheard.

Within the window, which was open, stood
the " Gerald " of whom they had been discoursing
— a tall square-framed man, but sadly
wasted and collapsed under prolonged attacks
of malarial fever. He was between fifty and
sixty years of age, with features which had
once been stern and resolute, but now, under
the stress of continued ill-health, had grown
querulous and peevish in their expression.
He had gone to Louisiana some thirty years
before to push his fortune. From French-speaking

Lower Canada to French-understanding
Louisiana seemed less of an expatriation
than to English New York or California, and
such Freshness as he was able to bring — he
was English-born after all, and only Canadian
by education — had prepossessed the Louisiana
in his favour. He had pushed his fortune
married the heiress of a valuable plantation
near Natchez, where he had resided ever since
and amassed wealth. He had lost, however,
his wife, his child, and latterly his good-health ;
and at last had been compelled to return to
his friends in the North to give his shattered
constitution a last chance to shake off the
creeping agues which were dragging him to
the grave. He had been a year already under
his sisters' roof, greatly to his own merriment ;
for between his fever fits and the prostration
which followed them, there would intervene
hours of restless irritability, when it seemed to
him that his affairs were entangling themselves
into a knot of hopeless confusion, deprived as
they were of the master's eye which alone sees
clearly.

What do you think of that, major ? "
Gerald continued, turning to his companion
who was gnawing the end of a very large
cigar — a tall sallow man with a much waxed
and pointed black moustache and goatee, and

an exuberant display of jewellery in his shirt
front. "Who in Natchez would expect to
find me summering in a nest of blazing abolitionists?
Better say nothing when you get
home, or I may have to settle with the vigilance
committee when I go back."

I did not expect it, colonel," said the
major, pulling down his waistcoat and looking
dignified. " Amono^ fanatical Yankees I reckon
on hearing the institutions of my country
vilified, and so I give sech cattle a wide berth ;
but here, on British terr-tory, I expected some
liberality. Bless my soul ! trying to corrupt
your servant under your very nose ! "

The ladies had withdrawn in confusion under
their brother's first attack, or civility to his
hostesses must have kept the major silent. At
the same time he felt outraged. To think
that he, one of the most " high-toned " men of
his neighbourhood, and with the very soundest
Southern principles, should have been trapped
into a den of lowlived — it was always "low-lived
" — abolitionism ! His friend Herkimer
too, had always passed for a " high-toned gentleman
" of sound principles when in Natchez,
and to find him the member of such a family
was inexpressibly shocking.

Yes," said Herkimer, " it is bad — shows
what fools women can be when they don't

know, and swallow all the rant that gets into
print. After that they think they know so
much that they won't believe a word those
who could tell them can say. If my boy, Cato,
now, had not been an extra good nigger, these
sisters of mine would have made him leave me
long ago. When his mother, Amanda, died, I
promised her I would always keep him about
myself — and he does, I will say, understand
my little ways — or I never would have ventured
to bring him to Canada ; but the fact is, the
boy's fond of me, and won't leave me, say what
they like. Still it provokes a man to see his
property being tampered with. Then, too,
my sister Judith feels it her booty, she says, to
speak to me about the sinfulness of having
property in human beings. I ask her to prove
that they are human, but she just rolls her
eyes and looks solemn. She calls her talk ' a
word in season,' but she chooses the most
unseasonable times to hold forth ; generally
when my chill is coming on, and the long yawn
creeping up my back that Ave all know, when
I don't feel man enough to sav ' bo ' to a
goose. My wig ! If I could I'd say more than
bo ' to Judith. She holds on steady till I
begin to grow blue and my teeth chatter, then
I pull the bell for Cato to luring more blankets,
and he — good lad — always sends her away,

first tiling. Susan bothers too — money, generally
— but I'm free to allow she has more
gumption than Judith. Old maids both. That's
a sort of critter we don't have down Natchez
way. There they marry. Reckon you never
saw any before, major ? Pecoolier, ain't they ?"

The ladies are your sisters, colonel.
Estimable, I doubt not ; but they do not understand
our Southern institutions."

"Talking of understanding, major, do you
see much of my nephew, Ealph ? When he
went down to the plantation I gave him a letter
to you, as being my nearest neighbour, and a
good friend. I told him he might place implicit
reliance on your opinion in any case of
doubt which might arise. The overseers are
men whom I could trust to make a crop if I
was on the spot myself; but of course the
young man had to learn, and circumstances
were sure to arise in which your advice would
be most valuable. Do you see him often ? "

Major Considine — I omitted to mention
his name earlier, and I may now add by way
of making' amends for the neglect, that the
major " was a prefix of courtesy conferred
by his neighbours to describe his social status
and the extent of his possessions ; Herkimer's
colonelcy was of the same kind, but the higher
rank implied a larger holding in land and

negroes — Major Considine coughed dryly,
drew himself up, and looked shallower if possible
than his wont, while his eyes sought the
ground.

I have seen your nephew, sir," he said,
"frequently When he came down first I
invited him to come and see me, and treated
him in all respects as I would any other gentleman,
your friend ; but I am bound to own
that lately we have not met ; " and he gave
the waxed points of his moustache a further
twirl with something of an aggrieved air, as if
to intimate that while he had done his part
unimpeachably, he had reason to complain of
the way in which his advances had been met.

Herkimer frowned and threw away his
cigar. " Fact is, major," he said, '' I have a
letter from Taine. Taine has been my overseer
for a good many years, as you know, and I have
found him a good man. He talks of leaving my
employment at the end of the year, and asks
me to send him a letter stating my satisfaction
with him during the years he has been overseeing
for me. I can well do that, but I'd
hate to lose him. Good overseers are scarce.
He complains that Ealph has discharged one
of the assistant overseers against his wish, that
he interferes with the field work, and has
damaged ten of the hands to the extent of two

or three hundred dollars apiece, and the crop
prospect is reduced by forty or fifty bales. He
says that his character for getting more bales
to the hand than any other overseer in the
section is at stake, and he has concluded, if I
feel unable to return to the plantation, that he
will leave. What do you think of it ? "

Not at all surprised, sir ; Taine is not to be
blamed. Mr. Ealph Herkimer came to me
shortly after he had discharged that assistant
you mention, to ask my advice. It seems they
had met accidentally immediately after the discharge,
in some saloon, and Mister Ealph Her-aimer
being ignorant, it appears, that in our
glorious land of freedom all white men are
equal, had put on some of his plantation airs.
He has those plantation airs mighty strong,
having, as you say yourself, knocked three or
four thousand dollars off the value of your
field gangs, by nothing but whipping — clear
unmerciful whipping, they do say around Natchez.
Wall, his tale was a good deal mixed,
and I don't pretend to know the rights, but it
seems the discharged overseer asked him to
drink, to show he bore no spite. Mr. Ealph
Herkimer refused, said something about white
trash, and flung the liquor in his face. The
overseer drew his pistol, and would have fired,
but the folks in the bar-room interfered to

protect an unarmed man, and so Mr. Ealpli
Herkimer rode safe home, and shortly after
arriving there received a hostile message. He
rode over to see me with the letter in his hand,
and that is how I come to know the circumstance,
colonel. And let me add, sir, that
though I fear no man living, I would not have
pained your feeling's by alluding to it, if you
had not made it necessary yourself, by bringing
up the subject. The young man showed
me his letter of defiance, and I spoke to him,
as an older man and a gentleman, I hope,
colonel, should speak to your nephew on such
an occasion. He said he was indignant at
being addressed in that style by a common
fellow, and that where there was no equality
there could be no claim to satisfaction. I
pointed out to him that under the constitution
of our State all white men are equal, and that
we, the first families, were always scrupulously
courteous to our poorer neighbours, that being
the only way to hold the community together.
We want their help often, I told him, as at
election times, incase of jury trials, when their
goodwill goes farther to gain a verdict than all
the flattering of the lawyers ; and in case of
serious trouble with the hands we can always
depend on a Avhite man, and it is well worth
our while to accord him such equality as he

can understand. Our first families, I told him,
yield all that cheerfully, and find they can still
be exclusive enough. As he had gone so far,
I assured him he must fight, which after all
would be a high compliment to the poor devil,
and would make him — your nephew — popular
with the meaner sort, which he would find
profitable at an election, if by-and-by he were
to naturalize and go into politics. I offered to
undertake the management of the whole affair,
and you are aware, colonel, I have some experience.
I even showed him my French case of
spring triggers, and my new patent Colt's
revolvers, in case he had any preference as to
arms, the choice resting with him ; and — would
you believe it, sir? — but really, really I dare not
call up the blush of shame on your honourable
features. The — this young man — declined my
offer with thanks ! He said it did not become
him as a gentleman to go cut-throwing with
common fellows. I suggested that it was often
nothing but a reverse of fortune which turned
a gentleman into an assistant overseer. Then
he said that bloodshed on account of a trifling
misunderstanding was against his principles,
when I replied that he must have mistaken
Mississippi for Pennsylvania, and warned him
that if he did not fight when it was put upon
him, he would be insulted every time he

appeared outside his own plantation. Then
he asked me to use my good offices to accommodate
things, but I explained to him that I could
only meet the class to which his adversary
belonged, either to fight them or to order them
what they should do. After that Mr. Ealph
Herkimer grew sulky — I thought at one time
he was going to be offensive — but the pistol
cases stood open on the table, and the gentleman
don't like firearms I think ; anyhow, he
simmered down. I believe he ended by apologizing
to the assistant overseer for not drinking
his liquor; but I do know, I have never
spoken to Mr. Ealph Herkimer since."

"I don't blame you, major," said Herkimer.
"The young man is not what my father's
grandson ought to be. He won't do for
Mississippi, that's clear ; and I ain't going tolet
Taine leave me on account of him. I was
wise to let him go down for the first year
alone, leaving his wife and child here till he
knew how he liked it. He had better come
home again, for / don't like it, whether he
does or no. I had meant him to succeed me
down there, major ; but the man who first
pays off overseers and then apologizes to them
cannot do that. He is my only brother
Stephen's only son. It is disappointing. My
two sisters, whom you have seen, would not

do for planteresses in Mississippi ; but I have
another sister yet — young, major, and handsome
— my half-sister ; just about the age of
Ealph. She might be made my heiress, and
if she marries as I would wish, she shall ! I
need not conceal the truth from myself,
major. The doctors have as good as told me
I shall never return to Mississippi. You have
not seen her yet, Considine, this sister of
mine, Mary She is just about the age of
Jeanne de Beaulieu when I married her — poor
Jeanne ! — not unlike her, and quite as handsome.
Strange, would it not be, if Beaulieu
went with an heiress again ? Here comes
Cato to call us into the drawing-room for tea.
We'll go, Considine, if you have finished your
cigar ; and — who knows ? — we may see Mary''

f<S^tz3''52^S^'^S

VOL. I. 2

STEADFAST MARY.

It was late in November. The screen of
foliage which hid the villa from the road had
grown thin, changing to all gay colours, and
dropping leaf by leaf. Old Gerald's health
had not improved. The clear autumnal airs
had failed to invigorate his fever-worn system,
or brace it into vigour. They only chilled
him, and forced him to keep his room.

The light was fading out of a grey and lifeless
afternoon — one of those days when all
things are possible, rain, frost, snow, or even
a revulsion into the sunshine of a last brief
remnant of St. Martin's summer, and yet
nothing happens. Gerald sat by the window
in his easy chair, wrapped in a thick dressing-gown
and buried under many rugs. His
letters lay at his elbow unread, and the New
Orleans Picayune was on his lap, but he
was too listless to look into its contents. His
eyes were turned towards the road, and he

watched with as much impatience as his torpid
faculties were capable of feeling.

There she is at last ! " he muttered after a
while. " Glad ! She is all the company I
have now, or can expect while I am kept
indoors. Susan and Judith don't count in
that way, even if they tried to be agreeable,
which they don't. The one is for ever bothering
about my negroes and my soul, the other
about my money. What have I done that they
should imagine they may puzzle their foolish
heads over me and my affairs, or wag their
cackling tongues. I am sick, and want nursing,
so they take me for a child ? Think of
me, who consult no one, being advised by
them ! But never mind, here is little Mary.
She is always good company, and she never
bothers."

But who is the fellow walking with her ?
Big and strapping. Fair hair, whiskers and
moustache — not bad to look at, but seems
most unnecessarily eager in his attentions.
Wonder who he is. Carrying her music ?
Very proper ; but he need not linger so long
before letting go her hand. Mary shouldn't
let him — looks particular — the major would
not like that."

Presently Mary entered the room. She was
flushed, or perhaps the air had heightened her

2—2

complexion and brightened her eyes, which
shone like stars ; and there were smiles lingering
about her lips, in wait, as it were, to break
forth again on the first pretext.

"Your walk has done you good," said
Gerald. "Where have you been? I have
been wearying for you to come home ; but
now one sees you, it is impossible to grudge
your short constitutionally are so brightened
up by it. I wish Considine was here to see

you."

I have been at choir-practising. I promised
to take the solo in Sunday's anthem,
and have been trying it over. The booming
of the organ through the empty church rouses,
one, I think. I generally feel brighter after
it, and that may account for my looking so
cheerful as you say."

And who is the gentleman who carried
home your music ? "

That is Mr. Selby, our organist. A splendid
player. If you had not been such an
invalid, you would have known both his playing
and himself ere now."

It would seem that you know him very
well; and to see you walking together one
would have said that he knows you very well
too. You appear quite intimate, and yet I
have never seen him here."

No. Susan will not let him be invited to
the house. She says his is not a recognized
profession. As if a successful musician were
not better than a bungling doctor or notary !
It has something to do with the line which
she says must be drawn — between wholesale
and retail, for instance — if Montreal is to have
a Society. A ridiculous line, it seems tome,
which excludes many wealthy and accomplished
people as traders, while it lets in
poor Stephen and his wife, with her superfluous
h's, because his little business in needles
and pins is wholesale, seeing that he never sells
less than a thousand at a time."

Mrs. Stephen is my sister-in-law, and may
do with her h's what she pleases. It is not
her fault if she was born in the British
metropolis, and if Stephen is not in opulent
circumstances, it is just because it has so
happened. I have known many high-toned
families who were but in a small way secondarily
speaking. I am surprised to hear you
run Stephen and his family down, though I
confess I have been disappointed myself in
his son Ealph."

I don't run them down ; but why should
they be so particular about others ? It was
Mrs. Stephen who said to Susan that an
organist wasn't ' genteel,' — Mrs. Stephen, who

doesn't know one tune from another — and so
Mr. Selby has never been asked to the
house. And then Judith chained in with her
higher grounds.' She says that good music
is a snare and device of the High Church
party, and that you got on very well without
it long ago in the old church at .
A funny church it must have been."

"So it was, and I reckon you would not
have liked it. The village joiner and the
bellows mender played the clarion and the
bassoon in a little loft over the squire's pew,
while the blacksmith's daughter sang the
hymns, and the schoolmaster as clerk said
the responses out loud before the people.
But the world has changed since then. Yes !
I daresay an organist might do as well to
invite as anybody else. But what does it
matter ? What do you want with an organist
? You have no organ."

'*'! like to be able to invite my friends just
as other people do. If you knew him, Gerald,
you would like him."

"I dare say. There are many people one
would like if one knew them. Yet if one
does not, it seems of little consequence, there
are so many others. If you lived in Natchez,
now, you would not see much of your Canadian
friends. You would make friends down

there, and very high-toned and elegant you
would find them."

"Natchez, Gerald? What should I be
doing there ? "

Doing ? Living, of course ; surrounded
by every elegance that money and the best
society can secure. If I live and get well, it
is my intention to carry you back with me,
and make you mistress of the Beaulieu estate —
de Bully they call it for short. In case I do
not, and I can see the doctor has not much
hope of my recovery, I have willed the place
and all my property to you. Don't stare, Mary.
It is so. I feel it a duty to provide a good
mistress for those helpless creatures who are
dependent on me, and you, I am satisfied, wil
be that. I have tried Ealph, as you know,
and have found him unfit to take my place.
You are the only other member of the family
who could go there. You will marry, and the
plantation will prosper. Treat the poor creatures
kindly, Mary. But I know you will,
and Considine is an excellent manager. His
place adjoins ours. You will have the finest
estate for miles on that part of the river."

Oh ! This seems very strange to me."

"You will get used to it in time. But to
tell you the truth, I did not think the idea
would be altogether new to you. I did not

think Considine would have been so backward.
He must be hard hit to be so diffident
of his success in taking a girl's fancy. Has
he said nothing to you ? "

It would have been strange in Major Considine
to have divulged your testamentary intentions.
You surely do not think he would
speculate to me about your chances of recovery,
or what you would do with your
property. I should have stopped him at once
if he had mooted the subject, you may be sure."

I did not suppose that he had divulged
my intentions, but I think it is about time
that he had declared his own. After visiting
here so constantly all through the summer, and
keeping you singing by the hour to him downstairs
in the drawing-room, he has surely made
himself understood. Still, I wonder he has
not spoken. Not that I have a rio-ht to complain,
he has declared himself plainly enough
to me, or you may be sure I would have put
a stop to his visits long ago. Still I wonder
at his backwardness. Where are you running
to, Mary ? Has he said nothing ? "

I want to take off my things," said Mary,
her face aflame with blushes.

"Tell me before you go. What has he
said? Tell me! There is his ring' at the
front door. I must speak to him."

I don't know. But better say nothing,"
cried Mary in evident confusion, escaping
from the room.

Gerald would have recalled her, but the
major's heavy step was already audible on the
stairs. He could only throw himself back
in his chair with an impatient snort.

Colonel ! " said Considine, entering, " I
come to make you my adieux " — ' adoos '
is how he pronounced it, the Major was
certainly not French. " What orders for
Taine at the plantation ? Any commands for
any one down there ? I shall be pleased to
be your messenger. I see by the Memphis
paper there was a slight touch of frost the
other night, so the sickly season is over, and
T can safely go home to look after my affairs.
They want looking into, I reckon, after five
months' absence. I have to thank you for
the very pleasant summer I have put in here."

Do you mean it, major ? Going right off?
I have reckoned on your being here till the
New Year."

The call to go home has come sudden,
colonel, but I reckon I had best obey it."

"And what about our plan to join the
plantations ? "

I'm agreeable, colonel — anxious I should
say ; but if the lady ain't, what can I do ? "

"You don't know, major, till you try. I
reckon a sister of mine ain't just like a ripe
persimmon, to drop in a man's mouth before
lie shakes the tree."

Shakes the tree, colonel ? There ain't no
man ever shook the tree harder than I did.
I shook in both my shoes for a mortal hour
before I could steady my voice — that shook
too — enough to say what I wanted. All the
time I was trying, the lady was diverting
herself with her singing. French songs, and
Italian songs, full of all kind of rare fandangoes,
like a mocking bird in a cherry tree.
I couldn't get a word in endways for ever so
long, and when I did, at last, she just stopped
and looked at me out of her eyes. And when
I got through, she said ' Oh ! Mr. Considine,
it's all a mistake. You have misunderstood,
and I don't understand. I am quite sure I
cannot say what you desire, so we will
suppose that you have not asked me to, and
that nothing has been said at all, and we
will agree never to recur to the subject.'
And then she asked me if I did not think the
last movement in the song she had been
singing very effective, and the bravura
passage at the end powerfully written. By-and-by
1 got away. You may suppose she
did not play a great deal more music, and

that I had got about enough for that time.
I ain't a widower, colonel, as you know ; I
never was refused before, and I never backed
out of an engagement, so you may say that I
have no experience in these matters ; but it
appears to me that the young lady knows her
own mind, and there is no use in my speaking
to her again."

"But she didn't know about the joining
our plantations then. I had only just done
explaining that to her when you came in, and
she ran out, which shows that she ain't
indifferent to the idea, as who in their senses
could be? The two will make a mighty
pretty property, and you and Mary will look
well at the head of it, and raise a fine family
to come after you. She did not know she
was heir to my property when she took you
down that time. Ha, ha, major ! It makes
me laugh to think of it. You that so long
have been boss of the range, and had only to
beckon to fetch any gal in all the country —
you to come all the way to Canada to be took
down by a gal that didn't know she had a
dollar to her name ! "

Sir, the subject of your jests is not a
pleasant one. Let us pass on."

I ask your pardon, major. No offence was
intended ; but if you will speak to Mary now,

I am willing to bet any money her answer
will be different. A man of experience
should not mind every word a young woman
says, when it is about marrying. It is the
one time in life she is let have her head, and
we must not blame her for taking it, just at
first. Trust me, she has thought better of it
already. Try again."

It would be useless, colonel."

Don't give in, sir ! If the gal and the
plantation are to your liking, that is."

I think a mighty deal of the lady, sir ;
and would be fain to repeat my offer, even if
she were as much without fortune as she
believed herself to be last night ; but I do not
see my way to doing so after what has passed
between us, the more so that now my fortune
a mighty neat one though it be — will count
for less than before, seeing she knows now
how well you have provided for her."

I believe that will influence her the other
way. However, it is reasonable you should
want to halt and take breath before returning
to the attack. This is a disappointment tome,
but I won't cry beat yet, if you are still
minded to persevere. Let me speak to her,
and I will write to you. Now the ice has
been broken between you, you will be able to
take up the subject by letter."

Considine shortly took his leave, and Gerald
awaited the return of Mary, who did not
appear till Cato had been sent to hammer on
her chamber door and request her presence.

Is this true," said Gerald, when she at
length entered the room, " which I hear of
you ? Have you really gone and said ' No '
to Considine's proposal? Do you know that
he owns a hundred and fifty head of the
likeliest niggers in all the Mississippi Valley,
besides land and sundries ? — nigh on two
hundred thousand dollars, and no debts.
What do you expect to be able to catch if
Considine ain't good enough for you?"

"I didn't say he was not good enough.
He deserves a better wife than I could make
him, and I believe he will have no difficulty
in finding her."

But it is in you he thinks he has found
her, Mary! Don't be foolish, you are not
likely ever to get a better offer, or another
half as good. The man is steady and well offa
kind man and a perfect gentleman. What
more would you have?"

I do not want more, Gerald ! But then
I do not want — him."

What is your objection to him ? Is it
his appearance, or his temper, or what? Is
he not passably well-looking ? "

I would almost call him handsome."
Does he not succeed in making himself
sufficiently agreeable to you ? I can assure
you, at any rate, that you have succeeded in
being agreeable to him. He says he would
be fain to get you if you had not a cent to
your name. Can a man say more than
that?"

I do not know that he can."
Then what is your fault to him ? "
"I find no fault with him. On the contrary
"

Then why won't you marry him ? "
"Because I could not like him in that
way."

What can a girl like you know about the
marrying way ? "

"I know that I could not marry Mr.
Considine."

Why ? Is there some one else ? "
Mary's face flushed hotly and her eyes fell.
Ha ! Have I caught you ? You are
engaged already ? Why did you never tell ?
Surely you might have trusted your big
brother. You never saw me till the other
day, it is true, but we have been fast friends
for twelve months now, have we not, Mary ?
Why did you never tell me? " And he drew
her towards him as he spoke, and kissed heron

the forehead. " Think I feel no interest
in my future heir ? "

"Because, Gerald, you do not know him.
How could I tell you?"

Tell me now, then, dear. Who is he ? "

You must find out," she answered with a
watery smile and changing colour. "Girls
are not expected to say such things, because
they cannot."

"You say I do not know him? Have I
seen him ? "

"Yes."

"Do I know him by sight? Or have I
seen him recently ?"

Yes, very recently indeed — as recently as
could be."

What ? Then— you do not say ? But it
cannot be, Mary?"

There was a self-convicted look in Mary's
face which pleaded guilty to the unspoken
indictment.

Do you really mean — but no, you cannot
mean your friend the organist ? "

Mary bowed her head in silence and looked
expectantly in her brother's face, till his rising
colour and the gathering frown left no doubt
as to his reception of her tidings ; then she
removed her eyes with a heavy sigh and let
them fall on the carpet.

You cannot mean it, Mary ? You ! — my
father's daughter! — my sister! — to engage
yourself to marry a kind of fiddler I "

He is not a fiddler, in your sense, Gerald,
although he can play the violin, and indeed
most other instruments. He is a cultured
person, and has his university degree —
Bachelor of Music — while few of those who
try to look down on him have had the chance
even to get plucked for one, having never
gone to college at all."

He plays tunes at any rate in a church
loft on Sundays for a living. Is that a fit
occupation for the man who would marry my
sister ? "

"Eemember the great composers, Gerald.
More than one of them was a chapelmaster,
which is just an organist."

The great fiddlestick ! If you had seen
them in their lifetime in their frowzy little
German houses and dirty linen, with their
wives cooking their dinner, such as it was,
for there was little enough at times to put in
the pot, you would think less of their greatness.
What good is the greatness which is
not found out till after you are dead? A
great fortune ! That is the only greatness a
sensible woman will marry to."

Shame, Gerald ! You do not mean what

you say. You have been married yourself,
and I know you loved and honoured your
wife. Do you mean now to say that your
wife was a fool because she married you
when you were not rich ? Or is it that she
was mercenary and married you for your
moneys ? "

Tush ! Mary. You never saw poor Jeanne,
so you cannot speak about her. The beautiful
darling ! " Gerald's voice grew husky here,
and there was some coughing before he could
resume.

No ! She was not mercenary, and she waB
not a fool. She married me when I was a poor
man because we loved one another, and she
did not think about money. But if she had,
it was not an unwise thing, as it turned out,
which she did in marrying me, for I managed
her property successfully, and more than
doubled its value."

"Then why will you doubt that another
woman — and she your own sister — may love
as well, or that the man she intrusts
her future to, mays be as well able as you
were to take care of it? Mr. Selby has a
great many pupils, and can very well maintain
a wife."

A wife, I dare say, but not my sister. It
is true my property which I intend you to
VOL. I. 3

have is far more than Jeanne had when she
married me ; but I was able to take care of
her and of what she had, and the property
throve in my hands. An organist is different.
What could such as he do with a gang of
unruly niggers ? It needs a clear business
head and a strong arm to make plantation
property pay."

"He does not aspire to your property,
Gerald. He does not know of it, and with his
feelings I am not sure that he would consent
to become a slave-owner."

Not consent, eh ? Never fear. His consent
will not be asked, for mine shall never be given
to his owning my negroes. Slave-owning forsooth
! No. Let him manatee his chest of
whistles. I have no right and no wish to dictate
to you, though I would dearly like to see
you marry Considine ; but at least I can make
sure, and I will, that your insidious organ-grinder
shall never benefit a cent by my money,
I promise you that, and I shall alter my will
accordingly."

LITTLE ARCADIA.

Four years later, and summer once more.
Again it is in a suburban garden, not a very-extensive
one, but nicety kept ; inclosed by
tall trees and dense shrubbery on every side,
and disclosing nothing of what may stand beyond,
but here and there the corner of a
chimney intruding its morsel of red amongst
the sunny green of the tree-tops ,and the golden
cross on the neighbouring steeple soaring overall,
and shining down its benediction on the
peace below.

The grass is as short, soft, and green as constant
mowing and sprinkling and warmth can
make it. The flower-beds are masses of brilliant
colour, and in the centre stands the house, a
tin-roofed wooden cottage painted in the
whitest white, relieved by vividly green Venetians
; a broad verandah round the whole,
windows descending to the floor, and above,
small casements peering out through the 



iii tin, each with its Venetian thrown open to
admit the breeze which comes up at the decline
of day. The effect is cool, and home-ike,
notwithstanding the keenness of the
colours, and quite other than that of the atoned
packing-boxes in which so many an
American is condemned to pass the night, and
from which he is in so great a hurry to escape
in the morning. It may be merely a peculiarity
in the pitch of a French Canadian roof,
or it may be some spiritual association which
lingers about the work of these first settlers
and oldest inhabitants ; but there is a personality,
permanence, and history about the newest
and frailest of their structures which is wanting
in the buildings of their English speaking
neighbours, even when they give permanence
to vulgar commonplace by embodying it in
brick or stone.

The pillars of the verandah are garlanded
with roses — pink, crimson, white, and creamy
yellow — blooming profusely, but, to judge from
the ruin of shed petals scattered on the ground,
soon to cease. Already, however, clematis —
white, purple, blue — has begun to appear and
will be ready to catch up the song of the roses,
though in a minor key, so soon as their colour
harmonies shall fade out. Butterflies are fluttering
in the scented air, and a humming bird

flits here and there where the flowers are
thickest.

In a garden seat is Mary — no longer Her-aimer,
but Selby, now — and at her feet is a
child, something more than a year old, who rolls
and kicks upon the grass, crowing and babbling
the while in a language which only mothers
understand. Mary looks no older than she did
in her brother's sick-room ; fresher, perhaps,
and fuller of harmonious life, as well may
happen where the desires were reasonable and
are all fulfilled. She is mistress of her own
life, and of his in whom she trusts, as well as
of that other at her feet, in whom his and hers
are united and bloom anew; and as for the
life, she would not wish it to be other than it
is, even if it were in her power to change it.
She is at work upon some small matter of muslin
and lace which busies her fingers, while it
leaves her thoughts free to wander ; and their
wanderings are among pleasant places, to judge
by her smile and the big full breath of utter
content.

The winter which was coming on when we
saw Gerald last proved more than his enfeebled
system could bear up against ; he died before
it was out ; and Mary, feeling that her duty
at home was accomplished, and seeing no good
reason to sacrifice herself to the family prejudices,

took her fate in her own hands and
married the man of her choice.

And it has all turned out so beautifully,"
she was saying to herself with a well-pleased
sigh, when the click of the gate latch roused
her from her reverie. It was Selby with his
roll of music. She rose to meet him, and they
made the round of their domain together,
observing what new buds had opened since
yesterday, and telling each other the events
of the day.

I heard a man down town say that
your nephew Ealph is succeeding most
wonderfully since he dropped the law and
turned broker."

I am glad of that, George. Poor Ealph!
It was hard upon him the way Gerald seemed
to take him up at first — sending him down
to live upon the property at Natchez, and
letting him expect to inherit it — and then to
recall him and drop him so suddenly. He
refused to see him even, when he came home.
Judith says it was Colonel Considine set him
against Ealph, to make him leave everything
to me. But I do not think that. I
always found Colonel Considine ' very much
of a gentleman,' to use his own expression —
a little high-backed and tiresome, no doubt,
but incapable of a shabbiness like that.

What good would it have done him my
getting everything, considering how little we
saw or cared for each other ? "

"Speak for yourself, Mary. I am not so
sure that Considine's interest in you was
slight. From little things sou have said I
suspect — Nay, never blush for that, dearest,
though the crimson is infinitely becoming
Having gained the prize I am not churl
enough to resent another's having wished
for it. Indeed, knowing as I do now how
much he has missed, I could feel sorry for
him, and I cannot but respect ]his good taste.
I really could not believe that he attempted
to undermine Ealph in his uncle's favour ; a
thing, by-the-way, which Ealph, according
to those who know him best, is well able todo
for himself; he has so many crooked little
ways, and is proud of them, and careless
about concealment, because I suppose it does
not strike him that they can shock people, or
are at all out of the way — obtuseness of
moral perception, I fancy, it might be
called."

"And yet, George, lie was the only one
of the family who did not oppose our
marriage, and who has not given me up
utterly, even since. Surely that shows a
good heart. I, at least, shall always think

kindly of Ealpli for that, if for nothing
else."

My good innocent darling ! Do you not
see that that manoeuvre alone, if there were
nothing else, would stamp the man as selfish
and a schemer? Eemember the terms of
your brother's will. He names you as his
heiress, but he provides against contingencies
which he fears may arise. He does not leave
the property to you, but to Jordan the
notary, and Considine, as trustees. In case
you married Considine the trust was at an
end, and everything passed to you at once.
If sou did not, all was to be sold and the
money invested in Canada bank-stock and
other securities which he named. You were
to have the interest while you remained single
or married with the approval of Mr. Jordan,
in accordance with written instructions left
in his hands. If you married contrary to
these instructions, however, you were to
receive nothing. The interest and dividends
were to be re-invested as they fell
due, and at the end of twenty years from
your brother's death the whole is to be
divided among your children, share and
share alike ; and in case sou have none
it is to go to Ealph's boy. Everything
is tied up with only an annuity of a thousand

dollars each to his three sisters and
his brother. Now! Do you recognize the
true inwardness of Ealph's amiability ? "

And pray, sir " cried Mary, drawing back
with eyes wide open, "How come you to
know all this? I would have bitten my
tongue out sooner than tell you. It seems
so ungenerous in Gerald to have treated
you so."

"It shows the generosity of Gerald's sister,
and that is all I care for. But often, I will
own it, my conscience has reproached me
with depriving you of your splendid inheritance
; only, we are so happy here ; and if
love can make up for money — if my
love "

Hush, George ! I have all I want — more,
I think sometimes, than should fall to one
woman's share — and I wonder if it can last.
But who told you about the will ? "

Who but your sister Judith ! "

She ? I did not think you knew her ; and
she spoke so unkindly when I proposed to
bring and introduce you. You surprise me."

*' Ah ! Miss Judy is a woman of surprises
a woman of energy who does not stick at
trifles ; and she is a diplomatist. She would
not let you introduce me, that would have
been yielding you a point ; but she could find

me out for herself when she wished to speak
to me. That was on what she consider '.
business, and did not oblige her to know ni
next time we met. It would have forced ///
to know her afterwards, if she had wished it .
but that is nothing. Where would be the gar
in being a lady, if rules worked both ways i
Miss Judy found me out, and requested a fe\^
minutes' private conversation in the most
gracious way possible. She apologized profusely
for the intrusion, with quite a pretty
warming of the complexion and an engaging
little twitter behind her glove tips. Ass
that I was, I grew red like a lobster all over
my face, and my heart thumped against my
ribs like a smithy hammer. I imagined your
family were relenting towards me — that piety
and true principle had overcome in the
second Miss Herkimer her disapproval of our
attachment, and that she had come to tell me
so. I could have knelt down and kissed her
hand, so overcome was I with grateful joy.
It was well I did not. The group would have
been too ridiculous. Miss Judy appealed to
my feelings as a gentleman and a man of
honour ' not to ruin the prospects of her
sweet young sister ; ' that was her phrase, and
she rendered it in a fine adagio manner,
accompanied by a tremolo of her crumpled

pocket-liandkercliief, which did her artistic
instinct the greatest credit, and really made
the little petition seem both reasonable and
affecting, Judy would have succeeded on the
stage, Mary, I do believe, if they had put her
in training early."

George, you are profane. It sounds
ribald to speak of serious people in that way."

Judy and the playhouse, eh ? It is a
little incongruous, I admit ; but which has
most right to resent the juxtaposition we
need not stop to inquire. Miss Judith told
me you had come into a large fortune, and
your family were anxious about your matrimonial
prospects, so many swells were your
friends, and j^ou were so highly connected.
There was at least one general officer and
a captain of dragoons, besides many more ;
but whether they wanted to marry you, or
were only your grandfather's cousins, I did
not quite catch. You see my feelings were a
little tumultuous, like those of the man stepping
on board a steamboat to meet his sweetheart,
when he misses the plank and drops
into the water. I had a feeling of cold bath
all over, and was cross, I dare say ; at least I
did not respond to Miss Judy's condescensions
as she had expected. At once she changed
her tone, drawing herself up and looking

severely superior. It was scarcely conceivable,
she told me with dignified coldness,
that I could seriously have expected anything
more than a little notoriety would result
from my appearing in public conversing with
her sister, but if I cherished any delusion on
the subject, it was for my good that she
should speak plainly, and as a Christian she
saw it her duty to do so. It was out of the
question, she told me, that you should marry
a man in my position, and one who was nota
gentleman. This to me, whose gentlemanly
feelings she had just been appealing to ! It
sent the blood tingling down to my fingertips,
and revived me after the douche of what
she had been saying before. I told her these
were matters I declined to discuss with a
lady whom I had not the honour of being
acquainted with, and that while I enjoyed
the privilege of your friendship, none but
yourself should dictate to me the terms.
Then she pulled out a paper which she said
was a copy of your brother Gerald's will, and
another, the private instructions he had left
with Jordan. She insisted on reading them
both to me, word byword, and was especially
emphatic in her rendering of the instructions
in which I am mentioned by name as a person
you were not to marry."

I know, George ; and I think it was cruel
in Gerald to make such a stipulation. However,
it does not matter. I did not want the
money, and you do not grudge to earn money
for us both ; and what do we want which we
have not got ? "

"True, my darling ; and after all, your
dividends which fell due before you disobeyed
your kinsman's commands by marrying me
have bought us this cosy little home, so you
did not come to me a penniless bride after all.
Talking of these things, by-the-way, reminds
me — Did you observe Considine's name in the
war news this morning? He is a general
now. Why, Mary, you might have been one
of their great ladies down there, if you had
chosen ! "

But I did not choose ; and I question if a
general's lady down there has much to congratulate
herself on. Grant is in Memphis, I
see, and steadily working southwards. The
negroes on the plantations are in a ferment, and
Mrs. Dunwiddie, the refugee who is staying
with Mrs. Brown, and called here to-day, says
the boxes of silver spoons and candlesticks the
Yankee officers are sending home to their
friends by express are more than the Express
Company's car will carry, and they talk of
requisitions a gunboat to carry their loot

North to Cincinnati. I should not have liked
to ride with my plate and valuables in an
ambulance in the rear of even a husband's
column. But is it not fortunate that Gerald's
property was realized, and the money received
safely in Canada before these troubles began ?
You and I may not be the richer for it, but
think of Edith, the little elf ; what a sum it
will be when she is old enough to receive it !"

Over a million of dollars. Far too much
for a girl to have. Let us hope she may have
brothers and sisters to share it with. But
where, at the same time, have a'ou left this
great heiress ? I have not had a chance yet
to give her a kiss."

"I called Lisette to come for her when you
came in. Ah ! There she is, among the raspberry
bushes — ruining her white frock with
berry juice, I'll be bound, for it is Cato who
is carrying her. See how she clutches his
curtsy wool Vv^hile he picks fruit for her. Her
tugging must be quite sore, but he seems
positively to enjoy it, he is so fond of her."

And well he may. Have you forgot
Judith's and Ealph's attempt to ' realize ' him
when his master died? — to huddle him over
to Buffalo and sell him into slavery again.
Miss Judith thought she could do so much
good with the money, and Ealph encouraged

her, and undertook to arrange the transaction

Gi the American side, when he would quietly

h: . e pocketed the money, 1 make no doubt.

If you had not interfered and explained things

:; the poor boy he certainly would have

en into their trap, and been disposed of for

,. :h down. He is the only decent nigger I
r saw, and the only one who could have
•n so imposed on. Oh, yes! He would do
V thing for you or the child."
• Dinner will be on the table almost ate,
George. Come in and get ready."
Ah, yes ! Dinner and something cool,
,ir the long broiling day. By-and-by, when

/ ) candles are lit, and the moths and beetles
lie droning in from the darkness to singe
Ir wings in the flame, we will have music
I a little singing. Some of those dear old

: gs by the masters we used to revel in long

). Haydn and the rest. Such as ' Grateful

partner.' '

Quite so, your highness. Tliat I maye

to respond ' Spouse adored,' my most

reign lord and master ! Ha, ha, ha !

at it is to be a lord of creation! Meanly,

there is the bell. Hurry to your

in."

Off."

The hour which saw Mary Selby thus lapping
herself in her simple joys, was the same which
witnessed the brewing of the storm destined
to wreck and scatter them. A premonition
must have been upon her spirits — that impalpable
tremor and exhilaration preceding a
catastrophe which whets the perceptions to
intense enjoyment before the destroying
assault, like advancing hire which illumines,
expands, and glorifies ere it leaps on its
prey and turns it into smoke and ashes.
It is certain at least that her spirits overstepped
the limit of their tranquil wont.
She turned over the piles of music with
her husband in search of something to
sing, but the measured m-aces of the
older works were all too serious for her
mood.

Your masters are prosy, George," she
cried ; *' I could not settle down to sing them

to-night. Let us have that new duet from
the " Grand Duchesse."

From Bach to Offenbach," he answered.
What a leap ! You really are exuberant
to-night. What next ? "

Five or six miles away, on the lake-like
broadening of the river which stretches upward
from Lachine, a canoe was drifting
under the lee of the wooded islands, and in
it sat Ealph Herkimer. Remaining in town
through the summer to watch the fluctuations
of the gold-room — it was during the American
war — he betook himself each afternoon
to Lachine, to exchange the dust of streets
for the breezy coolness of the water. He
had been fishing, and Paul, an Indian from
the Indian village of Caughnawaga near by,
managed the canoe. His fishing had not
prospered. It seemed indifferent to him,
indeed, whether he got " bites " or not, but
still from time to time he made a cast of the
line, with his eyes brooding on the water
where the slackened current drifted lazily
by, with its rhythmic ripples flickering in
the reddening light. The sun went down
behind heavy banks of cloud, and the grey
twilight stole silently up with that listening
stillness which makes audible the murmur
VOL. I. 4

of the stream, a sound unnoticed in the
garish hurry of noon when the world is
vocal with a hundred noises, but heard at
eve when other things with life have sunk to
sleep.

The canoe hung idly among the gathering
shadows of the shore where the waters were
black and oily in' the shelter of the wooded
islands ; but Ealph took no heed of the
twilight closing in. The coolness, the drowsy
movement, and the murmur soothed him, and
his thoughts flowed freely in their wonted
channels. They were like the streams we
read of which run over golden sands, for they
were all about money, shares, stocks, margins,
shorts, longs, bulling and bearing the market,
with sunny visions of a hundred per cent,
glittering remotely, like islands of the blest,
and with banks of contingency drifting in
between. Then his memory wandered to the
fortune he had missed, and which should
surely have been left to him, his father's only
son, and the only male shoot of the family
tree. To think of so much money being
deliberately left past him ! — tied up for
twenty years to wait for heirs unborn at the
time of Gerald's death. He snorted and
moved restlessly in his seat as he thought of
it, till the jerking of his limbs disturbed the

unstable equilibrium of the canoe, and he
only composed and controlled himself in time
to avoid a ducking from the rolling over of
the lightly-poised craft. Paul raised his
hand and caught the water with his paddle
at the same instant, relapsing into his impassive
wont so soon as the accident was
averted.

Too bad ! " muttered Ealph, when the
disturbance of his nerves had subsided, and
his thoughts fell back into their channel.
If the old man would none of me personally,
there was my boy, and he bears his
name and is a Herkimer — nearer to him,
surely, than the music master's brat ; and shea
girl, too, as it turns out!" Then his
thoughts grew deep again — sank into silence,
as the rivers in a limestone country disappear
into the ground, and thread mysterious miles
through caves of night and blackness.

He whipped the waters with his line, letting
it drift anon and forgetting to draw it in
even when an infatuated bass caught hold
and jerked and struggled till he got away
again, and even the apathetic Paul looked up
surprised; but then, the ways of the palefaces
are not as those of the red man, so he
merely grunted, and became quiescent again
as before.

4—2

Too bad ! " Ralph muttered again. " Only
a life between my boy and a million ! — it will
be nearer three millions by the end of the
twenty years — just one life between my Gerald
and all that ; and what a life ! Only a year
old — incapable of knowing anything about
it, or taking any satisfaction out of it. A
girl, too, at that. Child of an organ-grinder.
Nobody worth knowing will ever care to
know her. Of what use can a million of
dollars be to such as she ? " Here with a
groan and a snort the black waters of
unwholesome thought sunk down again out
of sight, and out of ken of the thinker, if
that were possible, for — under the devil's
guidance shall we call it? — one will sometimes
avert the eyes from the working and
festering of his own soul with a sense of
conventional shame (hypocrisy is like the
polar frosts which strike a yard or two down
into the ground), and still with the back
turned as it were to the evil thought, as a
man must continue to do within himself if
he would retain his own good opinion, there
will be a furtive peering glance cast down
and backward into the deeper depths, awaiting
till some deeper down conscience is overcome,
which is not the admitted self at all,
yet the languishment of which will be so

good an excuse for dropping the moral
barriers in the upper stratum of admitted
consciousness. To that wave of untenable
temptation, a cyclone as it were to
which nature in her strength succumbs,
and the best of men may yield, lifting their
heads again after it, like palm trees when
the tempest has passed over, and saying,
A storm ; a convulsion beyond human
might to withstand ; for yielding to that,
who can be blamed ? Let us spread our
draggled plumage wide to dry. The gale
is over, and we shall soon be as honorable
as before."

Not that Ealpli could be called a hypocrite
in the vulgar sense. For why? He
troubled himself little about morals of any
kind, that not being, as he said, his particular
"fad." But there is a righteousness
which is not ecclesiastical. There are
decencies of life for us all, and a standard of
right and wrong, which it is base to contravene
even when we put on speculative
airs and question the Church's teachings.
Eight is always right, and wrong wrong,
decency decent, and baseness contemptible,
even if there were no God in heaven,
and no account to render at the last day ;
and there are thoughts which a man must

turn his lack on when they pass through
]his mind, if he would continue to enjoy his
own respect.

There is a way of seeing sidewise, however,
when the eyes are averted — a policy of reconciliation
between doing and eschewing, when
deeds at once vile and profitable are under
consideration — and I fear me much this
luckless Ealpli Herkimer lead found out the
trick of it.

His thoughts, at all events, sank down
deep into those sunless channels where even
he himself declined wittingly to follow them
though keeping watch. He whipped the
water more briskly than before, and stared
intently at the end of his line ; but somehow
he did not lose the thread of his reflections
; lie kept on thinking all the time
and even with more and more intentness,
though still he made pretence to himself of
ignoring the whole of the deep-down discussion
— till it was finished, that is — then
he succumbed, as who may not, under
sufficient temptation? It is a question of
price or number. Ealph yielded before the
flashing glory of million of dollars ! So
Danse may have stretched her arms, erewhile
so chaste and cold, to welcome Jove when
drest in that disguise he sought the mercenary

maid. Was not gold divine ? And
lias it not continued ever since to be the
same? Even Miss Judy can appraise to a
cent the good to be achieved with part in
saving souls, and still leave unexpressed the
balance — the pride and finery which what remains
will bring the priests and priestesses of
Goody.

Millions of dollars ! That was the burden
and refrain which repeated itself over andover
in Ealph's mind ; and it ought by
right to be his. Was not he grandson of the
father of this childless Gerald who had made
the money ? The only grandson too, and the
only person through whom future generations
of Herkimers could connect themselves with
this fortune ? And Gerald to pass him over!
Gerald who talked so much about Shropshire,
and all the rest of it, things of which he
(Ealph) knew nothing — old Uncle Gerald
who would not hear, even, of Aunt Mary's
marrying a music master. That the old
man's money should be tied up for twenty
years and then handed over to this very music
master's brats. Gerald could not have meant
it ; notwithstanding the little unpleasantness
which occurred when he (Ealph) returned from
Natchez, and Gerald refused to admit him to
his presence. The bequest must have been

merely a threat wliidi the imprudent old man
Iliad supposed so terrible that nobody would
brave it. If lie could have dreamed that Mary
Avould defy him, and marry all the same, he
would have made a different disposition of his
property altogether. What he meant was to
go on governing his relations after death ashe
had ruled them while in life.

There seemed at the moment a pathos
to this hard and worldly-minded Ealph,
swinging and oscillating silently in the
lading light, with air and tinted greyness
all around, and only the heaving, quivering
reflections upon which he swung beneath ;
there seemed a pathos in it, and he felt a
sympathy with the vanished and disappointed
maker of the fortune, or rather with
the straying misdirected wealth. If he had
lived, how different all would have been ; and
Ralph looked out into the empty evening air,
feeling as if he might catch some shadowy
glimpse of a disembodied presence, which
would look on him friendly-wise, and which he
would have greeted — oh, so reverently ! — the
revisiting shadow of a millionaire, come back
regretfully to make amends to an ill used
relative whom the glamour of life and the flesh
had led him to misjudge. Ealph felt he could
meet his uncle in a fitting spirit, friendly, forgiving,

and open to any suggestions the other
state might have enlightened him to make ; for
was he not doing his best to remedy the unfortunate
and injudicious dispositions of the
will? Had he not already taken the best
advice in the province to remedy them, and
been told that the will was good, sure, fast, and
without flaw — that it would stand, and there
was no remedy ?

He peered far off into the shadows, and
around on either hand. There was nothing
but a gradual failing in the light — neither sound
nor vision — only, over against him, let the
canoe turn as it might, there sat the Indian
Paul, an image brown and still, with dull,
quiescent eyes, gazing into nowhere, ready at
a moment to flash into fire and life, but absent
until wanted ; plainer than the unseen vision
in his thoughts, yet less to be understood — a
mute and dusky image of the unknowable.
The dark unwinking eyes gleamed with no
thought or intelligence ; they looked out
seemingly beyond, and burned, or rather
smouldered, like coals abstracted from the
nether fire, awaiting the gust of passion
to rouse the slumbering blaze. Black like
the mirrors used by necromancers, they
showed back, when he looked in them,
his own soul stripped of conventional trappings,

looking out of them into himself, and
seeming to have gathered active evil in their
dusky depths — a wish to guide the dubious
hand of Fate which deals the cards promiscuously
as though her eyes were bandaged, and
influence the falling of the aces and kings,
just one place now and then to the right or
left. We would all like to do that, if we could
just a little — and bring out more clearly as
we think, the poetical justice of Time ; but it
comes right in the end, of itself, without our
help, and "if it tarry," as the Prophet says,
wait for it ; " it is for the best.

Ealph is impatient, however ; and it is not,
besides, poetic justice that he is thinking of.
Nothing so abstract. It is money, good and
lawful coin of the realm, and it is himself and
his children, he thinks, who should have it.
Gerald, too, he takes it, having attained to
that clearer insight which is gained beyond
the grave, must wish it likewise, and if the inheritance
under that most pernicious will can
be turned aside, he feels that he will be fulfilling
the present and maturer wishes of the testator.
The law may say otherwise ; but what of the
law ? There is a higher law ! We have all
heard of it, though generally, let us hope,
when the issue was unconnected with the possession
of dollars. Gerald must have heard of

the higher law. Here was a case involving
money, and when one comes to money what
is more sacred? The forger "gets twenty
years " for his crime against property ; the
culpable homicide five. His fault is only
against life, and hj good fortune he may
escape with a rebuke from the court.

Ealpli had been meditating and considering,
calmly, earnestly, and at length, in a
way he was not accustomed to consider, and
out here amid evening's impressive silence,
where the brooding peace suggested presences
far enough removed at other times in the
common hubbub of life; and he felt —
what ? That he must not give in, or acquiesce
in a fiddler's children getting all
that money !

The higher fitness " was he to call it ? — and
old Gerald himself, who must be near, he was
sure, though he could not gain speech of him
must disapprove the misapplication of so
many dollars. But how to remedy that ills
urged will ? If Mary Herkimer, it said,
should so far forget herself as to marry the
organist, then the money was to remain accumulating
in Jordan's hands for twenty years, and
after that was to be paid to her children,
secured only against the organist by the provision
that in case they died unmarried it

should come to the children of Ealph. And
Mary had a child. But the child might die.
A tremor passed through him at the idea. Or
how would it be, he set himself to consider, if
the child were lost? Children do get lost sometimes,
and he raised himself in the canoe to
shake off any oppressiveness that might attach
to the idea. Suppose the child were lost — one
may innocently suppose anything — suppose it
could not be found, and never were found.
What then ? After a time it would be unreasonable
to keep the next in succession out of his
property ; and this next — his blood tingled to
think of it — was his own boy Gerald, a quiet,
gentle little boy, such as strangely sometimes is
given to an unscrupulous father, as if to try how
far he will venture to use the facile tool. If ever
his Gerald fell heir to property, Ealph made
sure of being able to dispose of it ; it seemed
to him that it would be like money settled on
his wife, which he could still use, though no
creditor could lay hands on — a cake quite
different from that in the children's proverb,
which one can both eat and have at the same
time.

But at present, to arrange for Mary's child
getting — lost seemed the pressing question.
There would be time enough to influence his
boy's plastic mind afterwards.

The infant's plastic mind need not be taken
into account, the infant being only a year old.
There were no impressions inscribed on it sofar,
and it would be some time yet before it
acquired any. " Get it away now," he told
himself, " and it can do nothing for its own
restoration. In a week or two it will have
forgotten its mother and there will be no
troublesome memories in after life tempting it
to suspect and try to unravel a mystery in
its fate. Yet how, and through whom, to
manage it ? " His eyes wandered questioningly
over the extent of waters, heaving with regulated
swell, suggestive of life and personality
and thought ; but never an answer came back
to him out of the sullen grey. His eye swept
the horizon and the distant shore, and at last
it rested on the apathetic face of his companion;
Still as a mask, and showing not a
sign of what might be behind, any more than
the swaying tide on which they hung betrayed
the mysteries of the pool beneath. The man's
long straight hair, and the swarthy skin
suggestive of a life apart from civilization,
could not but call up the wish that the child
could become of these. Wooden, hard, and
cold, with his bead-like eyes half closed, were
the little one in hands like his it would be as
safe as if it were in another planet ; thinking

such thoughts as it must, in Iroquois, understanding
Canadian French, and with only-enough
English to beg or trade with strangers.
Paul he knew as restless, and in some sort a
vagabond, attending those who hired him on
fishing or hunting expeditions, at times joining
the Governor of Hudson's Bay as a canoe-man,
on his journeys to Fort William, or wandering
on the Ottawa from one Indian settlement to
another. If he would only undertake to superintend
the fortunes of this inconvenient infant,
it would become a waif indeed, and lost beyond
restoration.

Ealph sighed with profound relief as the
idea passed through his mind. There had
been another shadowy suggestion present
there all the afternoon, Aldrich he had been
contemplating as it were with averted eyes,
shuddering to consider or reduce to shape, yet
refusing to dismiss it, harbouring it as one mayan
outlaw, whom it would be confusion to acknowledge
as a guest. If Paul would undertake
the business, the child might live out its
life as a squaw among the wigwams of the
upper Ottawa, without troubling any one.
Exposure to the weather would bronze her to
the hue of the other children of the wilderness ;
and if not, there are few bands now-a-days in
which there are not half-breeds, proving that

all men are of one blood, and that time and
circumstances alone are needed to blend the
races into a common stream. How infinitely
more satisfactory this would be than any fatal
accident which could be devised ! Yes ! it
must be done, and Ealpli looked up to his
companion and in his most friendly tone said,
- Paul."

Instantly the bead-like eyes awoke and
turned upon him, sharp and interrogative.
The propitiatory modulation had not escaped
the delicate ear, bred from infancy to catch
and interpret the faintest whisper of the
forest — the rustle of a leaf disturbed by passing
game, or the stroke of a wing raising
eddies in the stagnant air. Since Paul had
grown to be a man whiskey and dollars had
become the game of his eagerness pursuit, and
the mood of the white man he served for the
t ime was the hunting ground where these were
to be run down. That something was wanted
of him he knew by the extra friendliness of
tone. What Englishman having; hired him
would speak so softly if he did not want something
beyond the stipulated services, something
of value, and something which he wished
to gain cheaply ?

Ouff," was his answer, dubiously interrogative,
and altogether non-committal as to

whether he would be interested in what was
to follow.

Have you got children ? "

No," with a slight head-shake.

"Would you not like to have one?"

'' Papoose come plenty soon."

'' Then you have a wife."

'' Got squaw ; " but still he looked out impassively
over the water.

"Would she like to keep a child for me?
do you think? — good pay, you know."

Pay — Ouff ? " The words was clearly interrogative
now, and the beady eyes returned
from their wandering, and settled on the
speaker.

"A healthy child twelve months old — would
make a lusty squaw. She can make anything
of it she likes. No questions will be asked,
you know."

Yours ? "

"Not exactly. But I have an interest in
the child."

"How much money? "

Fifty dollars, as soon as she has done the
job."

The beady eyes kindled into animation, and
the lips grew moist, but the Indian sat motionless
as before, and Awaited in silence for what
was to come.

"She will have to take the child, you know.
It will not be liard for her to get it at this
time of year, when the nurse is out of doors
with it most of the time ; on the steps, at the
garden gate, or down the street. She can
easily take it away' from the nurse, a little
slip of a French girl. A strong Indian woman
could easily knock her down and run away
with the child under her blanket. Only she
must not be caught or the child brought back.
You must send her to some reservation faraway—
up West, say — the farther West the
better. I will pay as soon as she gets clear
off. But you must not mix me up in the
thing, mind that ! That is why I offer to pay
so much for the job."

Much for job P Ouff. Le Pere Theophilus
the judge court — prison long time. Ouff! "
and he shook his head slowly.

You must send her where the cure's admonitions
will not reach her. Send her to
Brantford, or up the Ottawa ; you know better
than I do where. You can do a good deal
with fifty dollars, you know, Paul."

"Ouff. And send 'way my squaw. Fidele
good squaw."

Chut ! Paul, you rascal ! You have plenty
more sweethearts you know ; and they do not
marry you so tight as us white men."

VOL. I. 5

Paul grunted. "The Pere Theoj^hile very
strict. Make squaw confess right up. Poor
Fidele go to prison — all found out. Paul sent
to Isle aux Noix — you too, then."

Stuff, man ! No fear of your letting yourself
be caught. Send your squaw away at
once, before she has time to go near her
priest."

"Police?"

Not much fear of tliern^ if you are half
sharp. But, let me see. It might not be a
bad idea if she changed clothes with some
other girl before she started West. One
squaw is so like another in white folks' e3^es.
It might turn pursuit in a wrong direction
while she is getting away."

Ouff," Paul grunted again, but nothing
more. The two dusky shadows swung silently
on the dim bosom of the waters, whitening
now beneath the glimmer of the rising moon.

See here, Paul," Ralph said at last ; " I
shall be better than my word after all. Here
are ten dollars in hand, for you. Come
round to my office as soon as the work is done
and your squaw safely off, and I will pay you
your fifty dollars. Now land us. We shall
take first train to the city. We must not be
seen together, so will take different cars.
Wait for me in the shadow of the cabstand,

and I will go up town with you and point out
the house."

Off," again was the only answer, but as
Paul's long arm stretched out to snatch the
money, and under a deft stroke or two of the
paddle the canoe shot swiftly down stream to
the landing, Ealph understood that the bargain
was struck.

i-^

riddle.

It was a day or two later, in the early forenoon.
The air was stagnant, breathlessly
awaiting the thunderstorm whose cumulus
vapour masses were already drifting up from
the distant horizon ; though as yet the sun
blazed in cloudless fervour overhead, and the
world lay panting in the intolerable heat.
The very light was sultry, and Mary Selby
had drawn close the blinds, to shut it out
where she lay on a sofa trying to stir the
thick stillness into motion with her fan ; but
the air was heavy with heat and she felt too
faint for the exertion.

She was dropping asleep when Lisette
entered with a basket of May apples. They
looked so cool in their green pith-like husks
that she could not refrain from pulling one or
two asunder to reach the blob of fragrant
pulp within, tasting and awakening from her
langour, before she asked where they had

come from. The maid answered that a
squaw without was offering them for sale,
and the mistress had then to rise and go
into an adjoining room to find her purse.

She took the basket in her lap and began
to pull open the fruit, separating the small
eatable portions from the pod-like rind.
Wliat a feast for Edith ! " she said, when she
had done ; and she called to Lisette to bring
the baby.

Lisette appeared looking hot and troubled.
She had not seen Miss Edith," she said, since
she brought the fruit to her mistress — "supposed
Cato must have got her. She had been
looking for the squaw to give her her money,
but could not find her. She thought at first
she might be prowling round the house looking
for something to steal, but she had looked
everywhere now, even in the wood shed and
coal cellar, but could not see a sign."

Mary rose to join in the search, running
out with the maid to question Cato. Cato
was in the far-off corner of the garden, delving
with a will. The sultry fervour of the air,
stifling to men of another race, was like wine
to him, recalling the torrid country of his
birth, and he tossed the spadefuls gleefully,
perspiring and singing as he worked. He
had been there all the morning, and knew nothing

of Edith or the vanished squaw ; but he
threw down his spade at once and joined the
searchers. The cook came running from her
kitchen to assist, and the Utile band now
quickening each other's alarm ran hither and
thither over the small domain, peering under
every bush, pulling about melon frames and
empty boxes, dropping stones down the well,
looking under all the beds in the house and
even up the chimney. By-and-by they were
out of breath and began to think. Then Lisette
was sent for a policeman, and Cato to
fetch a cab to carry his mistress in search of
her husband, and to the police-station in case
he could not be found.

The policeman arrived first with grave importance
and a note-book. He questioned
Lisette, but being an Irishman while she was
French, he soon lost himself amongst her
voluble but not very lucid English, emphasized
with frequent " mon Dieiw,'' and much
gesticulation. She was the only one who had
seen the squaw, and the last to see the child,
but what of that ? " Them foreigners were
of no account, and nobody could tell what
they might be after intindingtomane : " so he
turned to the cook, a countrywoman of his
own, and from her got ample satisfaction. It
is true she had seen nothing, and only knew

what she had heard Lisette say, but then she
had thought a great deal since ; and the
thoughts and the hearsay flowed in a mixed
and copious, if not too coherent stream, which
Paddy could readily follow, it was so much
like the meanderings of his own mind. He
opened his book and proceeded to write it all
down — how she had just finished washing up
her morning dishes, and the pan of water was
in her hands to empty down the sink at that
very moment " whin who should come trapez-
in' into moy kitchen but the gurrl, all breathless
like, an' hur hair flying' every way at want.
An' thinks oi to myself, ' whatever's the matter
wit the omadhaun ? ' An' sort if I was
to take me bible oath this moment, thin's
the very words that passed through me mind
whin I seed hur, an' ye may safely write them
down, for i'll stand boy thin before all the
judges and juries in the land."

I'll write thin downs mum, ye may
depend ; an' be me troth, it's mighty remarkable
them words are ; an' they do ye credit,
mum, though it's me that says it," answered
the policeman, relaxing the crooks in his
shoulder and elbow, and the frown on his
brow, which were with him the concomitants
of penmanship. He had not in truth the pen
of a ready writer, and it was only by pushing

his tongue into one cheek and closing an eye,
that he was able to construct the letters at all.
That was of little consequence, however ; the
notebook was solely for his own private eye,
or rather for the eye of the public, which
could not but respect a policeman who wrote
everything down.

It impressed the cook immensely, and
flattered her too, for never before had she seen
her words put down on paper, and she resolved
in her mind there should be a smoking hot
morsel for this " superior " man, whenever
he came round to see her of a winter's afternoon.
The man perfectly understood. There
were several kitchens on his beat where he
was wont to visit, and the cook before him
smiled so hospitably that he promised himself
not to forget her.

Cato now arrived with the cab for his
mistress, and the guardian of the peace,
hitherto engrossed with a more important
person, turned to the poor lady to favour her
with a few words at parting.

*' You're perfectly right, ma'am," he said,
to make every exertion. An' if ye call at
the station, ye'll found the gentlemen there both
polite an' accommodation'. An' ye may go wit
an aise mind, for well be having' your interests
under consideration all the same as

if ye was here. An' ye may rest assured that
the sthronsf arum of the law will be laid on
the civil doer sooner or later. An' as for the
child, ma'am, i'm bound to stop every
child of a year old that's carried through my
bait ; but ye must give me marks, ye see, or
they would soon be complaining' of me at
head quarters. Did the child squint, now,
maybe, ma'am, the party angel ? An' it's
mighty becoming' some says that same is ; an'
convenient too, whin they gits older, an' can
look both ways at want. No ? Well, no
offence, ma'am. Or maybe there was something
crooked about wan of its legs, or an
arum, or who knows but there might be
something wrong wit its f^ice. A hare lip,
now, would be a sure mark, and i'd arrest
the first wan I met. Ko ? Well, no offence,
ma'am. Oi couldn't arrest all the chiltern I
might meet, ye see, an' bring thin here for
you to oidintifee. How many teeth, thin,
might your party darling' have, ma'am ? —
though it's misdoubt' I am if the law gives
me power to open the children's mouths an'
look down their throats. But we'll do our best,
ye may depend on that. An' it's within' ye a
pliant thrive, ma'am, an' thank ye kindly,"
as Mary, driven desperate by his gabble, pushed
a dollar into his hand and hurried to her cab.

In this way " the law's delays " left the coast
clear for the escape of the kidnapper. It was
an hour or two before the police throughout
the city became aware that a squaw had runaway
with an infant, and by the time they had
begun to be on the alert, the thief had made
good her retreat. Wrapped in her bright
blue blanket and broad-leafed straw hat, she
passed swiftly along, as might any of her
fellows who hawk their beadwork and like
wares about the streets. A lump of fat, rubbed
in the juice of some narcotic herb, pushed
into the little mouth had stilled the child's
cries and made it sleep as though in its nurse's
arms — evidence of the practical wisdom of the
wilderness still lino-erins^ among? its erewhile
people, as yet but partially elevated to our
higher plane of life. Our women may become
doctors of divinity, law, or physic ; they can
play the piano, or stand in the front rank of
culture ; but can they handle a baby like the
artless daughters of the North West, whose
charges, packed in moss and fur, strapped
upon a board and suspended from a branch,
sway gently in the breeze, watching and growing
silently, like the plants, for hours together,
with never a cry to disturb the resting sire or
the laborious mother ? In the march of improvement
some useful knowledge has been

dropped by the way, and there are regrettable
losses to set off against the manifest gains.

The thunder which had been threatening
all the morning began to rumble, the sky
darkened, and soon the rain came down in
torrents. The ferry-boat between Lachine
and Caughnawaga had whistled, and was
throwing loose from the wharf, when a squaw
it was Fidele, Paul's squaw, of course — reinstated
and draggled, leaped on board. She
squatted on the deck beside the three or four
others who were the only passengers, cowering
over the bundle under her blanket, but not
uncovering its face as did the mothers near
her.

She has stolen something," the purser
observed to the mate, " and is passing it off
for a child. She don't behave to it as the
others do. If there is a constable on the pier,
I'll give her in charge. But there won't be in
this heavy rain, and there would be a row if
we attempted to stop her. Best take no notice,
I guess ; 'taint no business of ours."

On reaching the pier, Fidele was the first
to land and flit away through the village. "I
told you so," said the purser, looking wise.
You just see if we don't hear more about
that one. Blue blanket, with a tear in one
corner ; straw hat — brim badly broken ; face,

like they all have — broad and brown as a
butternut ; red cheeks — must be young — and
real spry on the pins. Guess I'd know her
again — know the clothes, any way. Injuns
are as like one another as copper cents."

Fidele reached a cabin in the outskirts, of
square logs, whitewashed, one window and a
door, with a " lean-to " addition of boards in
the rear, where the cooking-stove stood in the
warm weather. Entering, she found her sister
Theresa awaiting her, who with very few
words proceeded to strip off her own bright
printed cotton gown. Fidele carried the child
into the room behind, and returning, removed
her blanket and dripping headgear.

Ouff," said Theresa, undoing the gay
handkerchief from her head and picking up
the hat in evident disgust. " No good."

There was a small silver cross hanging from
her neck by a black riband, to which Fidele
stretched out her hand expecting it to be taken
off' likewise. But no. Theresa drew back
with a head-shake, explaining that that belonged
to the ladies of the Convent school,
adding, that it was bad enough to give up the
smart frock and kerchief in excliaii^e for such
a hat and a damp blanket. Fidele reminded
her of the new ones she was to receive from
Paul, after she had worn the blanket for a

week, and again snatched at the nuns' silver
badge of merit. Theresa caught the hand
and bit it. Fidele screamed, and a battle
was imminent, when Paul's growl from the
back room, threatening violence, restored
calm, and Theresa sulkily took up the blanket
and drew it over her head. Presently, Paul
looked out to bid her begone, and Theresa,
through the open door, saw enough to silence
remonstrance, and send her trembling away.

Paul entered as Theresa went out, and stood
before his squaw. He spoke in Iroquois,
briefly, and in the conclusive tone which
admits neither of question nor reply. Another,
Messieurs the Benedicts, of those natural gifts
dropped by the way in the march of improvement.
The squaw never " speaks back," but
the " last word " belongs of right to every
self-respecting Christian woman, and she takes
it. Ask the ladies !

To work at once," was the purport of
Paul's orders, " then sweep up. Put on your
sister's gown, and that black blanket overall.
Go out by the back, into the bush. Hide
in the old boathouse by the corner of the
clearing till sundown ; then away, across the
reservation. Take care you are not seen.
Travel all night, going west. Stay in the
woods tomorrow till dusk. Travel your

quickest till you reach Oldenburg. Cross
the river there, and go west to Brantford, taking
your own time. Go to your brother, and
tell him to expect me next winter." And so
saying, he went out by the front of the house,
locking the door behind him.

Fidele set her teeth and proceeded to obey.
It was a repulsive sight which she beheld on
entering the inner room, and the work set her
to do was horrible. A board or two of the
flooring had been pulled up, and there was a
sack filled with the earth brought up through
the opening. The hole was a foot or two
deep, and it was shaped like a grave. Paul
must have been terribly in earnest to have
it rightly done, seeing he had dug it himself.
There was a box — a soap-box seemingly, from
the village store — hammer and nails, a bundle
of withered grass, and the baby asleep lying
on it. The sight of the baby must have been
too much for Paul, for part of an old buffalo
robe had been thrown over it. He had
his design fixed and firm, but having also a
squaw why should he likewise discompose
himself ? Civilization had at least eaten so far
into his nature that to extinguish a helpless
and unresisting life was no longer delightful
enough to compensate the risk — and he had
the squaw.

Fidele sat down on the ground with the
poor little thing in her lap. How peacefully
it slept ! Was it angels whispering in those
little ears which made it smile in its sleep, as
the ladies of the Convent had said? Could
viewless spirits be hovering around, seeing and
noting all that passed ? Involuntarily she
looked over her shoulder expecting almost to
behold a presence. Then she shook herself
and snorted. Why should she call up shadowy
fears to make harder for herself the work she
had to do ? If she failed to do it she knew full
surely the terrors would be all too real —
bruises, wounds, possibly death by violence ;
assuredly violence in any less degree.

The child lay sleeping on her lap, so fair
and soft of skin, rounded and dainty in every
joint. She could not but recall the picture in
the church, of the Holy Mother with her ever
Blessed Son, high up above the altar, amid
the star-like twinkling of the tapers and the
cloudy incense ascending before it in solemn
fragrance, while holy nuns and innocent choristers
sang hymns of adoration ; and all she had
learned to think of blessedness beyond the
grave, attainable only by more than common
goodness, was that it would be like that.
The little rings of hair that framed the face
were bright and shining like burnished gold, a

glory like the gilded lialos about the heads in
that sacred picture ; and the long eyelashes
laid peacefully upon the reddening cheeks,
like clouds at daybreak, promising so enhanced
a brightness at the awakening. Fidele
laid her fingers on the little neck. How dark
and evil they looked upon its creamy whiteness
! How could she ever grasp it hard and
cruelly, till the heaving bosom grew convulsed
to bursting at the interrupted breath, and the
sweet face grew black and distorted in fruitless
gasping ? Her fingers lay more heavily as
she thought, and the slight pressure disturbed
the sleeper. The plump round shoulder and
cheek were drawn together as if tickling were
the subject of her dreams ; the lips parted in a
smile, the eyes unclosed, and the child awoke
with a low and merry laugh. She looked so
fearless and trustful out of her blue eyes and
crowed so gleefully, caressing with her own
tiny palms the dusky fingers so near her
throat, and with such fell intent, that surely a
fiend must have abandoned the thought of
doing her harm. And Fidele was no fiend at
all. Ignorance and a narrow horizon had left
her sympathies to slumber, but, so far as she
could see or know, she was true and good.
To serve her man had seemed the chief if not
the only end of her being, and she had done it

blindly hitherto ; but it appeared to her now
that to do this thing was more than she ought,
or could.

The little hands were stretched up now to
her face and the lips strained up to kiss her,
and the clear blue light of the eyes penetrated
the blackness of her own with a cooling purifying
influence which made evil intent like a
shadow slink away. She stooped and pressed
the little pink lips to her own, and to her forehead
and to her breast, and then with a big
breath of resolution she got up and set the
little one down in a corner while she fulfilled
in seeming the orders she had received. She
took the dried grass and laid it in the box
which she then closed and placed in the bottom
of the little grave. The grave she then filled up
with earth from the sack, tramping it down
tightly, and making the top level with the adjacent
soil, and strewing what earth was left
in the rain pools outside the house. She then
nailed down the flooring as before, and swept
the house, making it appear again as it had
always been. No one could now suspect that
there was a grave beneath his feet, nor could
Paul that that grave was empty. Then concealing
the child under her blanket she stole
into the bush as she had been instructed
to do, an instance of how the scrupulously
VOL. I. 6

obedient wife, even while obeying, may contrive
to effect the exact opposite of her instructions
; and showing, perhaps, that the equality
and sympathy of the civilized home may
secure a man the fulfilment of his wishes no
less, at least, than the despotism of the barbarian
plan.

In the twilight Fidele left her place of concealment
and stole away under the dripping-trees.
The storm was over, and as the light
died out of the heavens the stars came twinkling
forth, awaiting the rising moon. It was a
long and toilsome tramp across the reservation,
through wet and tangled herbage, v^^ith
many a slough and flooded brook, for she had
been bidden to avoid observation and dared not
avail herself of such paths and rude bridges as
suffice the Indians on their own domain. At
length when night had fully come, and home-going
stragglers were no longer likely to be
met, she reached a country road. The march
of the stars pointed her way and further she
knew not, for she had never been there before.
She hurried along clasping her burden, which
grew heavier as she went, for she had been
travelling for hours. It was late and she had
spent a long and a busy day, a day of hardwork
and much excitement. The child grew
heavier, and as her own strength grew less,

she clasped it the more tightly. Since she had
saved the little one's life, something of a
mother's feelings for it had stolen into her
heart. It seemed dependent on her, and her
very own ; and were not the tiny lingers even
then spreading themselves against her breast
to gather warmth ? The night seemed very
long, and yet she feared to stop and rest. A
pursuer might be on her track even now to
seize her for child-stealing. And the child in
her arms ! She could not but be taken and
punished, and the child given back. And
even when her punishment was over, and she
let out of jail, there would still be Paul to
reckon with. And what might lie not do ?
Her heart died within her at the thought, her
limbs grew feeble, and the child heavier than
lead. She staggered along looking behind her
and before, but all was still, no one to be
seen. And now she was approaching a village.
The moonlight glittered on the tin belfry of
the church, and there were houses, low-browed
liahitaiit houses, with deep projecting eaves
and great black shadows lurking under the
stoops and porches. Not a soul was stirring,
but from those coverts of obscurity what or
who might not rush forth on her as she went
by ? The law in some mysterious way might
be lying in wait for her among the dusky

6—2

shadows, or Paul himself might be in hiding
to watch her pass, and see that he was obeyed.
It would be bad for her if she were to meet
him now, and bad for the child as well. She
stopped, faltering as she thought of it, unable
to go on. Ah ! there stood one small house at
a forking of the road, where one branch ran
uphill through well-fenced woods, surrounding
a mansion, doubtless, for the moonlight glistened
on the tin of the roof ; and the other
branch ran downward to the village and the
church, and there was a broad river beyond,
with perhaps no bridge, and she might have
to wait for morning to be ferried across.
There might be a magistrate in the mansion,
she would avoid that, and down in the village
the child might be seen. No ! she dared not
carry it in either direction, but here in the
corner of the ways stood the little habitant
house, a good half-mile from both. Yet there
was no light visible in the window ; the house
might be uninhabited ; not a dog or pig was
to be seen around. But then it was late. The
voiceless stars and the silent sailing moon were
whitening the slumbering world with dim and
hazy dreams. Nothing was awake or moving
but the vagrant breeze which rustled drowsily
among the poplar leaves ; and — yes, that decided
her — the loose casement of the one

window in the roof swaying back and forth
against the flapping curtains within. There
must be people in the house, people asleep,
who would not awake till she had time to escape.
She stepped on the little porch, laid
down her burden, knocked, and fled into a
neighbouring bank of shadow, where her
dark blanketed figure was swallowed up in
the gloom and she could wait and watch.
Her occasioned feet made no sound, but the
knock awoke a dog within. The dog barked,
and presently a head looked out of the open
casement. The baby, uncovered to the night
air and laid on the hard boards, began to cry,
and the head — it was a woman's and a
mother's — recognized the voice of a hebe. The
door was opened, the woman came out and
took up the child.

Holy Madeleine ! — it is a child ! And
whose ? Another, when there are already
six, and the loaf so small, and the sous so
hard to come by ! "

Fidele saw, and she may have heard ; but
she could not understand or enter into the
white woman's troubled feelings. Sous scarce
and loaves small were just as she knew them,
when she knew them at all, which was not
always. At least it was better, both for herself
and the child, that it should not be with

her. She waited till the woman had carried it
indoors, and then, like a wandering shadow,
lie went her way, westward, with the stars
and moon. Her friends, her home, her man,
were all behind her, and she must not return
to them. She must go forward and westward
to Upper Canada, a wanderer and alone, with
nothing but the stolid patience of her unawakened
mind to bear hier up. But at least
her hands were untainted with the stain of
blood, and she could look forward to the long
dark winter ]rights and their howling winds
without fear. There would be no voices in
them to make her tremble, no cry of a murdered
child — no image in the darkness of
gasping lips and eyes rolled back in the death-struggle.
She could sleep in peace and still
ask God and His saints to shelter her.

4^

THE MISSES STANLEY.

The Misses Stanley were sitting up far into
the night. They had been prostrated in the
morning by the sultry oppression of the
coming storm. Later, when it burst, and the
blackened sky grew ablaze with lightning,
and the very earth was trembling at the
deafening thunder-claps, they fled to the
cellar, closing and bolting the door, in that
unreasoning panic which seizes even very
sensible people when the heavens begin to
utter their terrible voices ; and there they
gasped, and sighed, and panted, and listened,
forgetting even the headache which a while
before had nailed their heads to the pillow.
Ah ! " they would whisper to each other,
did you hear that ? — and that? — One of the
chimneys has surely been struck ! Can that
be the rattle of the falling bricks? Is the
roof coming down, do you think ? Are we
safe here ? " and they caught each other's

hands and pressed them tightly, and leaned
against the door with all their might, to keep
it stint against the danger.

Do you hear that hissing ? Has the house
taken fire ? Do you smell smoke ? " It was
only the first heavy downpour of the rain
upon the resounding tin roof. The steady
continuance of the monotone assured them of
that in time, as the thunder grew intermittent
and less loud. Even the hissing of the rain
grew faint after a while, and there came a
breath of cooler air down even into the
locked-up cellar.

The terror was past, and they crept out
of their hole again into the light, like the
mice and the spiders and other timid folk.
The storm was over and they were happy and
safe. They had been able to eat no breakfast ;
dinner had been standing on the table cooling
and getting spoiled while they were trembling
in the cellar. So they had tea, and partook
of it with relish. The air was purified by
the storm ; it was reviving to breathe it, and
the world, seen through the open windows,
though wet, was brightened and refreshed by
the rain, like a young girl fresh frcm the
luxury of a good cry.

It was sweet to be alive now, and drink in
the scented air, so crisp and fresh, yet without

a suspicion of cold ; and a while since life had
been a burden. The ladies sat and breathed,
and sighed, and toyed with existence, and
spoke softly to one another, and were silent ;
and evening wore on and night came, and
still it was too pleasant to move. Their lamp
was lighted — a dim one, with no garish gleam
to disturb enjoyment within, or lure the
flapping night-moths and beetles from without
— and feeling hungry they thought they
would have supper, a most unusual thing.
It was but strawberries and cakes with
lemonade and cold tea, but for them it was
a carouse ; they sat picking and sipping for
very long, forgetful of time, and most other
things, and bathed by gentle stirrings of the
soothing air, restful and in soft shadow, while
in the moonlit garden without, the white
radiance was reflected and broken into a
hundred glittering sparkles from every dripping
leaf.

I declare," said the younger sister, "midnight
is decidedly the most enjoyable part of
the day, at this time of year."

It is long past midnight, Matilda," her
sister answered, "I am afraid to look what
hour of the morning it must be."

"Morning? To-morrow morning ? This is
tomorrow then ! I like it ; and if we go to

bed it will be to-day when we get up again.
I prefer tomorrow myself. Let's sit up all
night, Tookeyy dear, and remain in the future
till daylight does appear,' and turns it into
to-day again. Commonplace affair that sun,
compared to the moon, and disagreeably hot
at this season, besides. I envy the owls, and
mice, and bats, and things, coming out at
night and sleeping all day. / can't sleep in the
daytime."

The more need to go to bed at night.
Come, Tilly! — or how shall we get up in
the morning? Late rising puts everything
out of joint for all day, and bothers the poor
servants sadly."

Bother the servants ! By all means, say I.
Never do tomorrow what should be done
to-day.' You know that is a proverb ! And
this is tomorrow. It was you who said so ;
so let us sit still. I think I have proved
my case."

Pshaw, Matilda ! don't be childish. And
the downstairs windows still to shut up !
Bring the light, dear. We'll make the round,
and see that all is fast."

It was a nightly procession in which these
two ladies walked through all the rooms on
the ground floor. Miss Penelope the elder —
called Tookeyy for short by her sister — went

first, trying the locked doors, closing and
bolting the windows, while Matilda with a
candle held aloft, kept close beside her. It
fluttered her heart to go into an empty room
after dark, and it caught her breath to remain
alone in the drawing-room while her sister
made the rounds, so she accompanied her
close, always within touching distance, and
ready to scream should occasion arise. Last
of all they closed the drawing-room windows,
and barred the heavy inside shutters, provided
with bells, so that no housebreaker
should be able to enter without ringing ; and
then with their candlesticks in their hands,
having extinguished the lamp, they stood
taking a last look, as it were, on the scene of
their waking existence, before wending upstairs
to sleep and forgetfulness, when

Bang ! The sound seemed deafening, coming
as it did so unexpectedly, in the night
stillness, with all the world slumbering save
themselves. Again ! Not so loud this time,
it seemed, with the ear already attentive. It
was a knock at the hall door. And now the
bell was rung, a jangling peal resounding
through the house, and under cover of the
uproar there was a crunching on the gravel
as of hasty steps.

The sisters looked at one another with

parted lips, and eyes that sought help and
counsel and assurance each m the other's.
Matilda assuredly had neither strength nor
wisdom for their joint support, but her need
was so great and she looked with such fervent
trustfulness at her sister, that Penelope felt
she must brace herself up and take courage
for both, though her heart was faint within
her. She was the object of a faith which supported
by its helpless reliance, and stimulated
her to effort that it might not prove misplaced.
So strength ere now has been bred of double
weakness, though in this case it was put forth
but falteringly at first.

There was a shuffling now and a whispering
in the lobby. Penelope held the door handle
and listened. Matilda threw her weight against
the door, expecting it would be burst open ;
but it was not, and thus they stood breathlessly
awaiting some unspecified terror which
did not arrive, till doubt grew too painful,
and Penelope in very desperation flung wide
the door. Three pale faces were disclosed
blinking at the gleam of the ladies' candles,
and Matilda screamed. An answering scream
was raised by the three pale faces startled by
the sudden flash of light in the darkened
passage, and already prepared to be frightened
by anything which might happen.

How very foolish ! " said Miss Penelope,
who, having wrought herself up to do battle
of some kind, had her nerves better in
hand. "Do you not see it is the servants?
Awakened by the noise, they have come
downstairs, and seeing light in here at such
an hour, supposed it was a thief. Now we
must see who is at the front door."

No, Penelope ! I implore you, do not ! "

Oh, ma'am," said the cook, " if anything
happens to you what will become of us 1 " and
the other maids looked deprecating in concert,
while even Miss Matilda ejaculated,
"What, indeed?"

We cannot stand here all night ! And we
could not go to bed with burglars perhaps waiting
on the doorstep till we are asleep."

Think, Penelope, if they should burst in
when we unbar the door ! "

'they had better not. Is there not my
father's gun ? " and so saying she stepped on
a chair to reach down that redoubtable
weapon from where it rested on two brass
hooks, high up over the fireplace in the hall.
There it had rested ever since the decease
of the late lamented Deputy Assistant Commissary
General — called General for short, or
perhaps for honour — the parent of the Misses
Stanley.

Oh, Tookeyy ! don't ! " cried Miss Matilda.
It might go off and hurt some one," and the
maids drew up their shoulders to their ears,
and looked apprehensive in chorus.

Nonsense ! '' answered Miss Stanley severely.
Do you not see I am pointing it to the
ceiling ? "

One never knows, such strange things
happen with guns. The barrels burst, they
say, or else they go off, and shoot the people
they have no business to touch, and let others
escape who really ought to have been hit. Remember
how poor Majonllopkins' gun went off,
nobody knew how, and killed papa's spaniel,
and let the duck fly away. 1 shall never forget
how cross poor papa was when he came
home, and he never asked Major Hopkins to
come again." And Miss Matilda looked
regretful, as does the Historic Muse when she
registers the might-have-beens. " Pray point
the muzzle up the chimney, dear ; it is safer."

Penelope, with a disdainful shrug, moved
to the door, raised her firearm to her shoulder,
and motioned the maids to undo the fastenings
and open. They obeyed, and as the door
flew back there entered a puff of wind which
blew out the candles and made everybody
scream — everybody except Miss Stanley.
She, like a hero, stood to her gun, and pulled

the trigger — lie pulled it frequently, in fact
but as the piece was not loaded, that made no
difference. Indeed, it was much better, her
timid companions were saved the dreadful
bang, while she herself had the heroic feeling
of having shot a gang of burglars ; that is,
she would have shot them if her gun had
been loaded, and they had been there to be
shot. But they were not, fortunately for
themselves. There was no one there at all.
The band of affrighted females came slowly to
realize the fact, as their panic subsided, and
they re-lit the candles. 'but who," they
began to inquire, " could it be, who had
knocked so loudly and rung the bell ? " As
their tremors abated they ventured out upon
the verandah, which ran round the house, to
reconnoitre. There was no one there, and
again they grew uneasy. The visitant must
have concealed himself in the shrubbery, and
if so, he must certainly be evil-disposed.
Miss Stanley took up her gun again ; she had
no misgiving about handling it noah, and it
looked as formidable as ever, for of course
the man in the shrubbery could not know
that it was unloaded, and she made sure he
would not put its being so to the test.

Here is a large parcel, ma'am ! " cried the
parlour-maid, "shall I bring it in? It is

covered with old matting and tied with a
shoe-string."

Take care, Rhoda ! " said Matilda. " Let
us look at it first. I have heard of thieves
tying themselves up in parcels in order to betaken
into the houses they intended to rob.
Perhaps you had better lire your gun into
this, Penelope ; I have known that to be done
in a story with the best effects."

Miss Penelope came to look. '' I think we
may take this one in, Tilly, without fear. If
it contains a man he cannot be very big.
See! I can lift the bundle myself. Bring it
in, Rhoda ; we will examine it in the diningroom."


It must be living, ma'am ! I see it moving.
Will it bite ? " and she took it up suspiciously
and with precaution.

A cry, small and plaintive, was now heard.

*' Do you hear that ? " said Miss Matilda.
mewing — I think. Can anybody have
brought us a cat and kittens ? A practical
joke I suppose they think it. Yet I like
kittens, — soft little balls of fluff and fun,"
she went on, putting ou her gloves at the
same time, " but strange cats may bite or
scratch. Very impertinent, was it not, of the
senders ? They mean, I suppose, that we are
old maids. Well ! If we are, at least it is

from choice, and I venture to say we are
more comfortably situated than the husband
or wife of this impertinent."

Tush ! sister," said Penelope, glancing to
the servants standing at the lower end of the
table and full of curiosity. " Have you a
penknife? Quick! Neo cat ever mewed like
that."

And now indeed it was a lusty cry, distinctly
human and articulating mamma. The strings
was cut, the wrappings were kicked away by
the struggling contents of the parcel, and a
good-sized, healthy infant, well nourished,
well clad, flushing red in the opening
paroxysm of a big cry on waking, was disclosed
to view.

A little child ! " cried Miss Matilda in
transports.

What a frightful din ! " said Miss Stanley,
putting her fingers in her ears. " To think
that anything so small should make so much
noise ! What ever shall we do with it ? "

Give it some milk, of course ; bathe it,
put it to bed. That is what they always do
with babies, I believe. Cook ! get hot water
at once — and a large basin — and some milk —
and — and — everything else that is necessary.
Quick ! you others, and help her," she added,
observing the lingering steps of the maids,

VOL. I. 7

yawning now, and utterly disgusted and
wishing themselves back in bed, though a
moment ago they had been all wakefulness
and interest.

It was curious to see how Matilda took the
lead, now that her sympathies were appealed
to, while her practical sister, the mistress and
manager of the establishment, stood aside
bewildered and confused. She took the
child in her arms and walked up and
down, dandling it, singing, and purring forth
floods of baby talk, till the little one
stopped short in the middle of its lament to
look at her, and ascertain who this voluble
person might be. Then, finding she could
make out nothing by her scrutiny, she prepared
to resume with augmented vigour, but
Matilda would not have it. She sat down
with the doubter in her lap, bent over it, and
made a bower for it with her curls, crooning
more volubly than ever, and tickling it with
the ringlet points, till the astonished infant
grew confused, forgot that it had intended to
scream, and presently was smiling and crowing
and pulling the ringlets like bell-ropes.

Miss Matilda's ringlets were perhaps her
most noticeable feature — long, waving, twining
masses of falling hair ; giving her face a pensive
and romantic expression which has long

ceased to be fashionable, though it once was
greatly admired, as was also the poetry of
Moore and Mrs. Hemans about the same time.
In her youth, and that was not so many years
before, an officer in Montreal — it was there
the family lived then — had told her she looked
like a muse, and not long after he was ordered
away to the Crimean war. Her own father
was ordered there too, but he said he owed a
higher duty to his motherless daughters than
to leave them, and he thought he owed it to
his own ease not to let himself be sent ranging
over Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt, in search
of transport mules and donkeys, and so he
left the Service. He lingered in Montreal
after the troops were withdrawn ; but soon
that community of busy traders grew insupportable
in the absence of his fellow-loungers ;
he bought a farm near Saint Euphrase, and
there established himself, carrying his
daughters with him. He had already, as he
told them, sacrificed his prospects of advancement
to their need of a protector, and
now it was for them to yield the social comforts
of town life, bury themselves in the
country, and with grateful assiduity make his
home as comfortable, and his rheumatism as
little intolerable as possible. After the fall
of Sebastopol the troops returned to Canada,

7—2

and " General " Stanley was able from time
to time to relieve the monotony of his retirement
with the society of old friends ; but the
officer who had called Matilda a muse never
re-appeared, and no other gentleman since
had said anything half as nice. So Matilda
cherished her ringlets and her recollections —
not very painful ones — and lived tranquilly
on, with no event to mark the flight of years,
till the death of her father, which took place
some three or four years before the time I
write of. After that the sisters lived on as
before, only more retiredly still. Miss Penelope
developed considerable business faculty
in managing their affairs, and overlooking
Jean Bruneauau, the factotum on the farm ; and
dropped some of the feminine helplessness
of her youth, though she was still as much in
terror of thunder, burglars, fire and snakes as
ever. Matilda having less need to exert her
powers, continued the same regretted damsel
she had always been. She busied herself with
her flowers and her birds, a little music not
too difficult or new, a little poetry and fiction,
and a good deal of kindness when the need
for it was made plain to her. Her youth was
passing or had passed into middle life, but the
current of her days had been so even that
she had not observed their flight. She had

had no cares, and her heart slept peacefully,
for it had never been awakened. Captain
Lorimer may have called her a muse, and
Major Hopkins may have looked in her eyes,
but these things had never been carried to a
disturbing length ; just enough to afford a
little pensive self-consciousness, when she read
of deserted maids, or Love's young dream, and
make her fancy that she understood it all, and
ejaculate that "it was so true." Then she
would look up and shake her curls with a
quite comfortable sigh, and her prosaic sister
would watch her admiringly, and wonder
where the men's eyes could have been that
she was still unmarried. Perhaps it was well
for her that she was so. Perhaps it would be
well, at least it would be comfortable, for
many of us if our hearts would sleep through
life, and leave digestion to do its work in
peace. How sweet and enjoyable to lead
untroubled lives, free from the ecstasies alike
of joy and woe, as do the flowers, as did this
muse " — this " grass of Parnassus " — basking
in summer suns and drinking dews, without
ambition or desire or strife.

But this is wandering. We left Miss Penelope
desirous of getting to bed ; and Miss
Matilda engrossed in her new plaything.

I shall certainly keep it, Penelope ! The

very thing of all others I should have liked
best to have."

'' Is not that rather an odd thing to say ? "
That I am charmed to have found a living
doll ? — I think it is quite natural. You are
too sensible, of course, but for other people
for me — it seems the most natural thing in
the world. You know I always doted on dolls,
especially when they could wink their eyes.
This one can do that, and lots of other things
besides. It will be delightful. And to think
how I have been mourning the loss of my lame
canary these last few days ! You would not
believe the tears I have shed every time I have
looked at the empty cage, and how lonely I have
felt ; and here, in the middle of the night, just
when we are going to bed, arrives this little
pet! Is it not opportune ? If I had awakened in
the night, I might have thought of poor dicky,
and then I should certainly have cried. Now
I shall take this sweet little image with me, and
if I awake, it will be to think how I can makeup
to it the loss of its mother ; though indeed
the mother who could find it in her breast to
cast her off in this disgraceful way can be no
loss. "

THE DESOLATE MOTHER.

It was three months later. The Selby'
shrubbery had changed from the vigorous
greens of summer to russet, paling here into
sulphur yellow, there deepening to orange
and crimson which outshone the less vivid
tints of the early chrysanthemums. The
autumn flowers, nipped by early frosts, lay
black and ragged on their erewhile brilliant
beds. The sun was warm and the air sweet
with the breath of leaves falling softly in their
brightness, one by one, peaceful, beautiful,
fragrant, like the ending of a well-spent
life.

In the parlour the windows were open ; and
a fire burning in the grate to temper the air
in shady corners proclaimed the fall of the
year.

Stretched on a sofa, thin and wan, with hair
pushed back — hair which three months before
had been soft and glossy and of the loveliest

brown, now dry, rusty, grizzled, banded with
locks of grey, and mixed all through with
threads of shining white — her fingers shrunk
and bloodless, clasping a baby's bells and
coral, and her dim eyes wet with silent tears,
lay the desolate mother mourning for her
child. She had been very ill, and bodily
weakness, unable to suffer more, was the one
consoler as yet to mitigate her grief, by benumbing
the capacity for pain. Her George
had mingled tears with hers, tears drawn as
much by the sight of what she suffered as by
its cause. He had tended and watched her
with more than a woman's tenderness, but
after all he was a man, with his day's work to
perform whatever might befall, and the doing
it supported him by bringing distraction and
thereby rest. True, it jarred miserably on
the overwrought nerves to keep up the routine
of music lessons, to watch the '•' fingering " of
inattentive pupils and have his senses pierced
by their frequent discords ; but it was easier
to find endurance for these physical ills than
for the heartstrings he had felt at home. The
patience and fatigue of the outdoor toil
brought the calmness he needed so much in
the presence of his stricken wife.

For her there was no break or respite to the
rush of black and miserable thought. If the

child had died she could have borne it. It would
have been grief, but grief of the common
kind, and for which there is consolation in
the pious certainties of another life. It would
have been agony to part with her treasure,
but agony with a hope. In time she would
have learned to bear the bereavement with
sorrowful patience and resignation — to think
of her blossom snatched away, rather as one
transplanted and comedy to be recovered in
brighter bloom, growing in immortal gardens ;
just as she looked on the other — brother of
the lost one, born since her loss, and which
had never seen the light. Oh, if she could but
have thought of the two as with each other !
But even the consolations of faith were denied
her. The child had vanished utterly, and she
was left to wonder and surmise whither it
might have been carried. Surely if it had
died there would have been found some signor
vestige, and then her mother's heart would
have been at rest. She would have wept and
there would have been an end. She could have
rested her thoughts on the armies of the Holy
Innocents, and in her dreams a cherub face
would have come to her with shining wings,
whispering hope and consolation. But even
this saddened peace was not for her. She
would not entertain the thought that her

baby was dead ; it was away somewhere —
where, oh where? — and perhaps it needed
her, and was crying for her, and she could
not come to it; and a restlessness seized hera
low dull fever of impotent longing, and
kept her pacing the chamber to and fro, till
exhaustion numbed her senses and she fell
asleep. But oh, what sleep ! It was more
miserable than waking. Fancy gave shape
to her yearnings, and dreams revived their
wretchedness into more tangible shape. The
baby's cry, as if in pain, rang through them
all, and sometimes she could see the arms
stretched out to her, but never the face. A
shadow undefined came in between, and bore
her darling away into darkness. Sometimes
her feet would be heavy as lead, and scarcely
could she drag herself after, while the shadow
fled out of sight, and the cries came to her fitfully,
and far away, borne on the wind. At
other times she would be able to pursue, but
that brought little comfort. The shadow still
fled before her, and ah, by what dreary
ways ! Sometimes it would be dark, and yet
she could see them speeding on before ; across
a raging river, where the waters tossed and
tumbled about her, lifting her from her feet,
or overwhelming her in their depths ; but still
she hurried on and clambered up the slippery

rocks on the further shore, and up and up
where there was no foothold, and she felt herself
falling through depths and catching and
clinging with her hands and drawing herself
upward and up and up among curling mists
to dreary deserts far above the clouds. And
still the shadow sped on before, and she pursued
across the sandy wastes, where horrid
reptiles hissed at her as she went by, and
clouds of dust arose and came between, obscuring
and impeding the way. And still
she would pursue and seem to be overtaking.
The child's cry would become quite close, and
she would see the very dimples at the finger
joints and the streaming hair, and she would
stretch her hand to lay it on the form, and
her hand would pass through it like a shadow
and she would awake. It was all a dream,
her darling was gone from her and she was
desolate.

On the day of the theft she had driven
about the town in search of her husband,
sometimes hearing of him but never meeting ;
and then she had gone to the police station
herself, breathless with anxiety and haste,
and there they were so mechanical and full
of formalities, and heard her story with so
aggravating an official calm that it wellnigh
drove her mad. The person she addressed on

entering was sweltering on two chairs, without
coat or collar, and his boots pulled off.
Before he would listen to a lady he felt it due
to himself to rectify his appearance. The
boots were tight and could not be quickly
stepped into ; the coat was on a nail in
another part of the office. Then the book of
complaints had to be found, and a pen, and so
many flies had drowned themselves in the ink
that the stand must be refilled, and Mary
stood wringing her hands and swaying back
and forth in agonized impatience.

Calm yourself, madame," he said, while
he dipped in the ink his pen, and then
removed first a dead fly from the point, and
next a hair. " I shall now take down your
complaints," and he bent over his book,
extending his left elbow and bending his head
towards it, with the eyes squinting across the
page he was about to illustrate with his
telegraphy, while with an expert turn of the
wrist he made a preliminary flourish in waiting
for this member of the public to begin stating
her grievance ; " but stay one moment,
madame ; I believe I have mislaid my
glasses ; " and he started up and laid his hand
upon each of his pockets in turn. " No ! I
believe I must have les dem in ze over desk
beside ze journaux."

Oh man ! man ! " cried Mary in desperation,
" while you are putting off time my baby
is being carried further and further away ;
and we know not where she may be or what
they are doing to her ! "

Be tranquillize madame ! Ze occurrence
is of frequent — how you say? — occurrence.
Sere are tree — five ! " and he held up his fingers
to show the number — " infants rich make disappearance
ail ze days, and sey all turn
themselves up again before tomorrow. Ze
beetle tings march in ze streets voisin, and
know not ze retour. Ze police arrest, and
bring here ; and voila ! — Infant perdu sees on
return to ze famille." At this point the
spectacles were discovered, and the speaker
returned to his book.

My baby could not run away. She cannot
walk yet." Mary answered. "My baby
has been carried off, and you are wasting
precious time in talk."

Ze publique sees so deraisonnable ! And
me. Behold me ! " — and he spread out all
his fingers and shrugged his shoulders in
philosophic and forbearing remonstrance —
I attend madame's informations."

The " informations " were given, recorded
and commented on, and the slow machinery
of justice set in motion at last, and the

distracted mother turned away to the grey
nunnery where soundings are received and
cared for. There she left a description of her
child, and begged that if any one resembling
hers were presented, she might at once be
informed. Then she went home. What to
her was the thunder storm and lashing rain ?
A wilder tempest of doubt raged in her own
aching heart. Her husband had arrived
before her, and in tears on his shoulder she
found the first momentary easement since her
trouble bei^an. The world was so hard and
callous, so busy, every one with his own
affairs ; people accepted her desolation so
calmly, told her not to fret, that the child would
soon be found. She could not have believed
the atrocious selfishness of mankind if she
had not seen it. The street children,
playing after the rain, were as gleeful as ever,
without a thought of her distress ; losing their
balls across the fence and coming over after
them — breaking in on her very inclosure,
sacred to miserable anxiety, as if nothing
were the matter. Her own servants were no
better, they were going on with their cooking
and their housework just as usual. There
was the dinner bell ! Who could think of
dinner on a day like this? And yet George
and she could not but own that George had

proper feeling, and was as anxious and distressed
as a man Avell could be — even George
seemed to have bodily appetite. He was not
cannibal enough to dine, but he did eat a
slice of beef, and drink a tumbler of wine
and water. It seemed incomprehensible to
her, somehow, that even the round heavens
should revolve as usual. But they did. It
was growing dark just the same as if nothing
had befallen her baby, and the long still
night was before her. There were hours and
hours to wait before another day would arise,
with its possibilities of news or restoration,
and how was she to spend them ? She could
not sit still, far less lie down. She wondered
about the house hour after hour, and three
several times her husband took a cab to the
police head-quarters in vain. There was no
news.

The morrow brought no change ; but
weariness stilled the restlessness of her
misery. She could not eat or drink or sleep,
or even wander to and fro ; she could but
wait, seated in the porch and watching the
gate for coming news — for news which did
not come. The chief of police appeared, and
questioned Lisette and went again. Another
day, and Lisette was sent for to see Indians
taken upon suspicion, and in the evening she

returned having identified one. But still
there was no news of the child. The squaw
arrested declared she knew nothing of it, had
not taken it, had not been in the city
that day.

And now Mary's strength gave way. She
fainted, and when revived it was found that
she was dangerously ill ; and through long
weeks her life trembled on the verge of
dissolution, flickering and waning till it seemed
scarce possible the spark should not go out.
And then, too weak to suffer, she began to
mend, and in the vacuity of utter exhaustion,
her mind obtained that rest which no doubt
saved her reason, sparing her the weary waiting's
on for news which never came. In her
illness a son was born — was born and died —
but only in her convalescence did she become
aware of her loss. That was a grief, but it
was grief of the more ordinary kind, and one
to which the Church's consolations effectively
minister. The little one's earthly sojourn was
accomplished ; it needed her care no longer,
and the hopes of religion were a soothing balm
to minor with her tears. But the other ? —
She was so sure the little daughter needed her
still. Sleeping or waking her heart yearned
to be with her, and often in the night when she
awoke, the baby voice would be ringing in her

ears, calling lier to come. That was a dry
aching feverish unassuageable grief, on which
ordinary consolation had no power. It might
have killed her with its gnawing carling care,
but for the gentler sorrow of the other loss,
which vented itself naturally in tears, and the
tears relieved the over-burdened heart, easing
it and strengthening it for the stronger grief.
Then, too, there was George to share her sorrow,
and sorrows are less crushing when they
are not borne alone. And there were friends
who came to see her and strove to console.
Utterly futile as was all they could say, their
presence and their sympathy were grateful.
It is so desolate after awhile to have to bear
our wretchedness all alone. An ear in which
to pour our complaints, an eye to look pitifully
on our pain, soothes and strengthens, if it cannot
mitigate the anguish. And Mary had these.
Her nephew Ealph Herkimer and his wife
were, as the servants said, most attentive ; and
the sympathy of the wife at least was very
genuine, while Ealph's was equally well expressed.
And after all, till men become able
to read each other's souls — a state of things
which even the best of us would not relish — it is
the expression which is efficacious or otherwise,
not the prompting spirit. Consider it, oh ye
of the hard shell, who plume yourselves on
VOL. I. 8

your good hearts and sweet natures ! How
many a cocoanut lias been left to rot, because
the eaters could not penetrate the husk !

Mary's sisters, too, when they heard of her
desolation, had relented ; and found they must
forgive her having married against their wish.
Being human, even if peculiar, they could not
but be sorry, only they had said so many things
in their heat that each felt awkward about
proposing to the other to relax the estrangement
so far as to call on the offender. Public
opinion, however decided the matter. Mary's
distress was perfectly well known to every one,
and when the ladies of their acquaintance
began to inquire for their sister and to express
sympathy, it was even more " awkward " to
acknowledge the estrangement than to bring
it to an end.

Circumstances were kind to them in their
attempt to make friends, and let them down
very gently. When they called the first time
their sister was far too ill to see any one, which
spared them the " awkwardness " of a meeting.
They called every day afterwards, and so had
their bulletin ready for inquiring friends, and
also had their own feelings modulated gradually
to a gentler frame. By-and-by they
were admitted to the sickroom. Mary was too
feeble to talk ; she welcomed them with a faint

smile, to wliicli the only possible answer on
their part was a kiss, a kiss of reconciliation
as well as sympathy, all the more reconciling
in that no words were possible on either side,
for so soon as it was given the nurse was ready
to usher them out again without parley.

On the late October day we have mentioned
Mary lay with her thin fingers twined about
the baby's plaything, and tears stealing from
her e3^es. As each movement of her chest
stirred the little bells, their ringing thrilled
her senses like a pain.

It was the far-away cry of a departed joy,
reminding her of its loss. And yet she clasped
the bauble but the tighter for each new sting
it inflicted on her heart ; it brought' the vanished
past a little nearer, and she almost coveted
the pain as a relief from the leaden desolation
under which she lay. So, when a wound
begins to heal, one will touch and trifle with
it, reviving the smart as an easement from the
weary numbness of the congested tissues. She
was absorbed in her sorrowful musings and did
not note the entrance of her sisters, till, in their
sabled gowns, coming betweenher and the light,
they bent over her. Susan kissed her on the
forehead, and Judith's tightened lips delivered
a peck upon her mouth. Then she opened her
eyes with a wan smile, and faintly bade them

8—2

welcome, endeavouring to raise herself the
while.

Keep still, Mary," said Susan. " Do not
attempt to move. You will get strong all the
sooner for taking care now."

I think," said Judith, observing the child's
coral in her hands, which she was at the
moment slipping away among her coverings,
you should put away those things. They
can do no good, and can only revive distressing
thoughts."

Mary sighed, and asked if they had walked.

Give it to me, Mary ! " persisted Judith
the energetic, " and let me put it away and
lock it up."

Oh, no ! " said Mary, clasping it with both
hands to her breast, and smiling sorrowfully.
It comforts me."

Very wrong ! Foolishly injudicious in
Mr. Selby to allow it," and Miss Judith stood
up with a jerk, as though she would take the
obnoxious article by force. " Susan "

Judith ! Better let alone," her sister interrupted,
attempting to draw her back to
her chair.

Judith flushed hotly. Like other zealous
reformers of their neighbours, she was irritably
intolerant of advice to herself; because, of
course, she must be right — she always was.

So are the others. She turned upon her sister
with a frown, and there might have been
words ; but at that moment the click of the
gate-latch sounded. The gate opened, and a
clergyman appeared — a young clergyman.
Judith admired clergymen, and we all admire
youth, at least all who have lost their own.

By the time the Reverend Dionysius Ounce
entered the room. Miss Judith's angry flush
had cooled down, and her tightened lips had
relaxed into a smile of virgin sweetness. She
had a taste for clergymen, just as some other
ladies have a taste for horses, and some for
cats. People talk of " pigeon-fanciers." Miss
Judith was a parson - fancier, that is, she
fancied the parsons but she could not keep
them, as the pigeon-fanciers keep their pets ;
they always flew away to fresher fields. Mr.
Bunce was curate of St. Wittikind's, the
church where Selby was organist and choir-master.
It was a place of worship which Miss
Judith's statistical scruples would not allow
her to attend. The people there were given
to singing harmoniously words which she held
should be said discordantly, and to other
practices equally to be regretted. St. Witti-
kind's, in fact, was " high," and she never
mentioned it without drawing a long breath,
and shaking her head sadly. Still, if her mind

was controversial it was also feminine, and
the curate's trim, ecclesiastical uniform attracted
her much. The linen was so white,
so tight, and so starchy, while that of the
married curate of her own St. Silas' was
yellow, limp, and even slovenly, like the services
in which he assisted. No doubt it was
right, from her standpoint, that the service
should be bald and unattractive, and she had
very decided views about vestments in church,
but in vesture out of church, she had a woman's
preference for neatness, and if she could win
this young man from his evangelical vagaries,
would it not be like plucking a brand from
the burning? She had long known him by
sight, as indeed, she knew all the clergy, but
hitherto he had been one of the black sheep
in her eyes. Now, when she met him in a
room, he was so neat and seemed so young
and inexperienced, that her heart yearned
towards him with a mother's interest — no !
not a mother's interest precisely, but an interest
of the adaptable kind, which may
change into any other sort as occasion dictates.


In Miss Susan's eyes the curate appeared
uninteresting enough. She thought him
stubby, commonplace, and scarcely a gentleman,
save that to a good churchman like

herself, his orders, like the Queen's commission
in the army, made his position unassailable.
But then, Miss Susan had no
enthusiasm, and was disposed to let the brands
burn, each in its own fashion. She would
have liked to go now, when she saw the
clergyman sit down beside Mary's sofa, and
pull out his book, and had risen with that
intention, when Judith, clasping her black
gloves and smiling with grave sweetness, as
one may smile at a christening, asked if it
was absolutely needful that they should go
away. " For herself," she said, " there was
no portion of our beautiful liturgy in which
she so much delighted as in those sweet and
improving passages which occur in the ' visitation
of the sick,' and if Mr. Bunce did not
object, she would feel it a privilege to be permitted
to remain."

Poor Mr. Bunce could only acquiesce, and
go on with his function, resigning the hope of
whatever satisfaction he mio^ht otherwise have
found in its performance, and a good deal disturbed
by Miss Judith's sighs of extreme interest
in one place, and the fervency of her
responses in another. Susan, too, perforce
sat down again, wondering internally at the
queerness of her sister's taste. For herself,
she felt perfectly well, and it only depressed

]her to listen to the curate's words. She looked
out of the window where the sun was shining,
and could not but think that it would have
been far more cheerful to be walking down
the street.

Having finished, Mr. Bunce would have
Used to remain a little for a quiet chat with
]\[rs. Selby ; but Miss Judith sat still and
seemed bent on taking on herself the entire
duty of conversing with him. It might be
well intended, he thought, to save her sister
fatigue, but it was not very interesting, so he
quickly rose to leave. Judith did so at the
same time, and when he reached the gate, the
reverend man discovered that fate had condemned
him to accompany the two ladies
along more than a mile of suburban street,
where he saw no hope of breaking away.

.^^.^.t<^ .-

RALPH.

It was with a sweet and respectful smile that
Judith looked at the curate, and left him to
make the first observation. She would have
liked to look up to him ; that being her
natural mental attitude to men of his cloth ;
but physically the thing was impracticable.
She was not notably a tall woman, but he was
distinctly a short man ; and though too bulky
to be called little, his figure justified Susan's
mental definition of him as " stumpy." He
was her junior too, and his countenance was
not impressive. It was blond as regarded
hair and eyes, indefinite in feature, pasty in
complexion ; still, it was neatly kept, and relieved
from vacuity by that undoubting self-complacency
which conies to those privileged
to reprove and exhort unchallenged, for
twenty minutes at a stretch.

Mr. Bunce waited, coughed, observed on
the fineness of the weather, and was silent.

Miss Susan agreed with him in her mind, but
having nothing to say on the subject, said
nothing, and it was left for Judith to fan the
verbal spark, and nurse it into a conversation.
She opened in dulcet tones, and with a respectful
effusiveness, like the carved nymphs round
an old fountain, catching the wasting driblets
in their marble shells. She agreed that the
weather was indeed extremely pleasant, and
counted up how many other fine days there had
been that week and the week before. But there
had been a shower the week before that, just
when the people were leaving the missionary
meeting, where the good Bishop of Earl
Tonga spoke so sweetly. Had Mr. Bunce
been there ? No ? Ah ! then, he had indeed
missed a treat. It had been most instructive.
The bishop told about a deacon who remembered
having eaten part of his grandmother,
and about the octopus coming out of the seato
eat breadfruit on shore on moonlight
nights, — perhaps it was not breadfruit, by the
way, it may have been something else ; and
perhaps it was not an octopus ; but at any
rate it was some dreadful creature, and it did
something very curious, and it was all most
interesting ; " and indeed, Mr. Bunce, you
missed a treat."

Mr. Bunce said he found his parochial duty

too heavy and too engrossing to admit of
desultory meeting-going.

But the heathen ! Mr. Bunce, if you take
no interest in the octopus."

We have heathens in Montreal, Miss
Herkimer, as ignorant of good as any South
Sea Islander. They want to be taught, and
some even to be fed, for work is scarce this
year, and winter coming on."

Ah, yes ! " answered Miss Judith, " it is
sad to think of, and," she added — with a
twinge of conscience for what she was about,
to say, for she was of St. Silas, and set no
great store by the church activities of St.
Wittikind, but then good manners and
Christian charity require one to stretch
a point verbally sometimes — " You are
doing much good in St. Wittikind's, I
understand. We in St. Silas are doing
what we can too. We distribute fifty thousand
gospel leaflets every month, and with
well, they must have the best results. So
many benighted Romanists have no other
opportunity to get a glimpse of the truth ;
and you know, Mr. Bunce, the truth must
prevail."

No doubt. Miss Herkimer, it will, some-day.
In St. Wittikind's parish, however, we
find so many in physical want, and so many

with no religion at all, that our hands are
full, and we do not attempt controversy."

Miss Judith sighed softly, so as not to be
observed. These were not the views in vogue
at St. Silas, and of course they were wrong ;
but with her "vearnin<j^ " towards this curate,
who seemed meet for better things, if he could
be won, it seemed her duty to be winning.
So she suppressed her inclination to say
something " sound," merely observing that
all souls were alike precious, and then added
that she had heard much of the zealous
beneficence exercised at St. Wittikind's, and
would he explain about those sisterhoods, of
which people talked so much."

This, to use an Americanism, "fetched" the
curate — fetched him round, as it were, to
his own shopdoor, the pulpit, into which heat
once stepped, and held forth fluently and
minutely, and at very great length, while
Judith listened with interest. Not so Susan,
who found the prelection both tedious and
unnecessary. She paid what she thought she
could afford to the different charities recommended
by her church, whose business she
considered it to see that its member's money
was well applied ; and having paid, she took
a receipt in full from her conscience, and did
not wish to hear any more about giving till

that day twelvemonths, when, if convenient,
she would renew the contribution. Every one,
she said, had her own preference in fancy-work
and amusements ; hers was Berlin wool
as indeed her drawing-room showed, where
every chair and ottoman was bedecked with
representations of impossible herbage in the
crudest of colour and design. Judith's fad
was handing tracts to ragged French and Irishmen,
an equally harmless exercise, though
with less result to show, seeing the recipients
hardly waited till her back was turned before
lighting their pipes with them.

Susan's eyes strayed from one passer-by to
the next, in search of something to interest
her more than the clerical monologue proceeding
at her side, and by-and-by she espied
a gentleman being driven in the direction from
which she had come. An idea struck her ;
she hailed the cab, which stopped before
her, and the gentleman within looked out
inquiringly.

Oh ! Mr. Jordan," she said, " forgive my
stopping you ; but this was the day that
wretched woman dio stole our little niece
was to be tried, and I know you have charge
of Mr. Selby's interests in the matter. Is the
case decided ? What have they done with
her ? Has she confessed ? "

She has been acquitted, ma'am. I am
just now on my way to Mrs. Selby's, who will
no doubt be impatient to hear the result ;
though, for myself, I have suspected for sometime
there was a mistake in arresting her."

Acquitted ? But the nurse-girl swore
positively — did she not ? — that that was the
squaw who was at the house ! And the ferry-boatmen
corroborated what she said."

Yes. The man swore that a squaw with
a bundle, which he suspected might be a baby,
crossed in the steamboat that afternoon, and
he was inclined to swear to the identity of the
blanket the prisoner wore, on account of its
being torn at one corner. The girl Lisette
was very positive about both the blanket and
the wearer, and I fear her being so will
materially prejudice any further attempts we
may make, for the priest swore to the squaw's
having been in Caughnawaga all day, and he
produced the school roll of the Ladies of the
Sacred Heart to show that she had not only
been there, but had taken the medal of honour
that day."

"Ah! ejaculated Judith with emphasis,
what a system is Popery ! So insidious ! So
soul-destroying ! — capable of any subterfuge.
I wonder you don't take out a warrant and
have that convent searched."

Mr. Bunce opened his eyes, startled and
shocked that one so much interested in works
of beneficence should have so little charity.

Mr. Jordan, who knew the lady better,
sniffed impatiently but not loud, as recognizing
the ebullition to be constitutional and
unworthy of notice. " The worst of it is,"
he said, " the girl has sworn so positively that
it will weaken the value of her testimony
when we bring her up by-and-by to identify
the real offender, if found. And we have no
other witness to produce. In my professional
experience I have always found that too much
zeal is dangerous — far worse than too little !
How do you find it, Mr. Bunce in voici" profession
? Zeal without knowledge, eh? " and he
glanced with a sly smile from Miss Judy's face
to the curate's.

The curate looked blankly before him. He
was too slightly acquainted with the ladies to
feel warranted in poking fun at their eccentricities
; and he was too much of a cleric to
welcome a layman's jest on subjects pertaining
to his cloth. It was well, he thought, that
the lady should have a zeal, whether wise or
the reverse. The trouble he had found had
oftener been to kindle a zeal than to direct
it, and he doubted not but with judicious
guidance this ardent lady might be brought

risfht — that is, to take views like his own of
most things.

The pause resulting from Mr. Jordan's wit
and the curate's unresponsiveness was broken
by Miss Susan, who was growing restless.
Though no longer young, she retained some of
the characteristics of her departed youth,
and had what, to misquote the high-heeled
dignitaries of literature, mis^ht be called "the
modern spirit." Had she been thirty years
younger than the family bible showed her to
be she would assuredly have said that all men
of the professions — especially successful ones
were prigs, and most of them bores into
the bargain ; and, as it was, she thought it.
Foolish old woman ! Her weakness, in days of
old had been for the red coats, and though
none of them had ever proposed, she was still
loyal to her ancient ideal. Her roving eye
descried her nephew Ealph on the other side
of the way, and just as the pause incident to
the curate's silence became notable, she called
aloud, "Ealph !" and waved her parasol.

Ealph obeyed the signal, and joined the
party on the curbstone, around the cab door.

Ah, Ealph ! " cried Mr. Jordan. " Going
to call on your aunt, I daresay, and tell her
the trial is over and that it is proved now we
have been on a wrong scent these last three

months, and must begin all over again from
the beginning. Here, get in ; we may as well
go together — or, better still, I will yield you
up the cab. You can explain it all, just as
well as I could ; it seems like a fresh disappointment
to the poor lady, and the news
will come better from a relative." Then,
looking at his watch, " I have a meeting due
in ten minutes from now ; I shall still be intime
; so good-bye ! and thanks."

No — you — don't ! Mr. Jordan," responded
Ealph. " I will not deny that I intended to
call at Selby's ; but, since you are so far on
your way, just complete the trip. Take all
the credit yourself and charge it in your bill.
I can't do that, you know, being only a
broker."

Jordan looked disgusted, re-seated himself
in his cab and drove away. Susan repeated
her expressions of regret at what she still
looked on as a miscarriage of justice; but
Ealph replied :

Not at all ! No one who was present at
the trial could have looked for any other
conclusion. We must just try again ; but
now that old Jordan is out of hearing, one
may venture to say it — the whole case has
been mismanaged. Why did they not offer a
reward at the first ? Now, I fear, it will be
VOL. I. 9

too late ! The little circumstances which
detectives are able to piece together to so
good a purpose are soon forgotten, and so
the clue is lost."

Poor Mary ! " said Susan, " my heart
bleeds for her. It may turn out for the
best, perhaps, and remedy the iniquity of
Gerald's preposterous will, by keeping the
money in his own family, but it is very sad.
She seems crushed. If her boy had been
spared to her — but to lose them both ! It is
turning her hair grey. She who used to bethe
flower of our family ! "

Judith's lips tightened at " flower of the
family." Herself was that interesting blossom
she thought, but that was not what she said.
On the contrary she expressed herself with
evangelical superiority to such trifles.

/ regard it as a dispensation, to wean her
from earthly joys. It is in love that, when
we make ourselves idols, they are taken
away. Perhaps, too, it may be a judgment
on her for marrying in defiance of those who
were older and wiser than herself. There are
warnings in all these mysterious happenings,
and food for thought ; " and she rolled her
eyes Sibyl-wise over Ealpli to the curate.

There was an irreverent gleam in Ealph's
eyes, and he turned to watch a passing dray

till his inclination to laugh went off. The
curate was regarding her with a puzzled
expression. He was a well-meaning young
man, who wished both to be and to do good ;
but who, not being any wiser than his
neighbours, notwithstanding the higher
ground on which, in right of bis orders, he
believed himself to stand, was often in doubt
both as to what he ought to feel and to say.
He was very sure it would never have occurred
to himself to use the language he had
listened to, and he began to wonder if he had
stumbled on some advanced serious person,
whose acquaintance would be improving, or
or something else. There seemed a fine
devotional tone in her opening words, especially
enunciated as they were, with a full
and rounded unction. They were not very
novel, perhaps ; he seemed to have heard the
like before, and more ian once ; but then,
what that is true is also new? — as was said,
or something not unlike it in sound, by a
late prime minister. Her next proposition
rather startled him, carrying him back to his
college days, and reminding him of the stealing
of Jove's thunderbolts ; but there was a
third — like the third course beloved by
another prime minister, reconciling contradictions
and committing to nothing — " mys-

9—2

serious happenings, food for thought." That
was it ! He would think it over ; and there
was bain in this, for had she not been
listening to him, as they came along, as to
another Gamaliel, while he described the
charitable schemes of St. Wittikind's ? and
would it not be painful to think otherwise
than well of so responsive a lady ?

Confused by all these thoughts the curate
did not speak ; and Susan, thinking it high
time to break up the meeting, reminded
Judith that their dressmaker lived hard by,
and now would be a good opportunity to
order their winter gowns. Judith said goodbye
regretfully and made the curate promise
to come very soon and tell her more about
St. Wittikind's, and the two gentlemen walked
downwards together.

"You seem to know my aunt well," said
Ealph. " I am agreeably surprised. I fancied
she was too grimly Low Church to speak to
any clergyman not of St. Silas or St. Zebedee.
I hope your acquaintance will broaden her
views, which are rather extreme, and something
of a nuisance in the family. However,
Aunt Judy means well. We all allow that.
The trouble is that she will never allow that
we mean well, when we go counter to her
advice ; and then she treats us to a word in

season, which is apt to be very highly seasoned
with brimstone and what not."

There was a tone of levity and indifference
to his cloth in this talk which jarred on Mr.
Bunce. It was evident that Ealph looked
on him as just like a secular person, or perhaps
as less shrewd, and this was not as he
liked. His associations were mostly with
the docile of the other sex, and the more
reverential of his own, and the company of
this robust worldling was so unpleasantly
bracing that they soon parted, and Ralph was
alone when he reached his office.

A man waiting to see you, sir."

'' What sort of man ? "

An Indian. The same I think who came
for your guns last year, when you went
camping out."

Tell him I've gone out."

'' He saw you come in through the glass
door."

Say I'm engaged."

"He says he will wait till you are at
leisure."

"Bid him come in, then," and presently
Paul stood before his employer, looking in
his eyes but saying nothing.

Well, Paul ? " said Ralph, without looking
up from the letter he appeared to be writing.

deer have been seen near the Lake of Two
Mountains, eh ? Too busy ! Shall not be
able to leave town this Fall. Hard on a man
is it not ? Wish I was an Indian and could
do as I pleased."

Ouff/' grunted Paul, with an impatient
glance, and that slight twitch of the eyebrows
equivalent to a Frenchman's shrug,
which says iso plainly " Why all these idle
words ? " Then, producing a paper from his
bosom he handed it to Ealph.

Ze notaire gave dis ! Want pay — for
Theresa — Judge court defend."

Ah ! " said Ralph, taking the paper and
glancing over it. " Your bill of costs.
Defending that squaw — eh? You want me
to look it over ? — Oh yes ! quite right. O.K ! *
all correct ! Pay it at once, Paul, and finish
the business."

Ze dollars?" answered Paul. " You give !
I pay."

"It's all right, Paul! The account, I
mean. But you must pay your own bills, you
know— defend your own family. She's your
squaw, not mine."

Paul shot a fiery glance from under his

All right. First used by an auditor of accounts in Kentucky,
who it was believed meant the letters to stand for Oil
Wreck (all correct).

gathered brows. " Sis my squaw sister !
Done for you ! — O.K? Squaw get dollars for
fetch back papoose. Easy fetch back."

What do you mean, Paul ? What will
be so easy for you to fetch back ? " said
Ealph wheeling round in his chair.

Fetch papoose. Got no dollars for pay
notaire."

"Man alive! Did I not pay you as I
promised ? "

Fifty dollars ! O.K ! Squaw take papoose
for pay. Notaire want sixty-five. Squaw
bring back papoose. Get two hundred
dollars. Pay notaire. O.K. ! "

Come now, Paul ! " cried Ealph, not over
well pleased, yet with a business man's
pleasure in a bit of smartness, even when it
told against himself. " You've echoed me,
I allow it. But don't draw the string too
tight in case it breaks. What do you
want ? '*

Two hundred dollars," said Paul.

But the bill of costs is only sixty-five."

How long live squaw and papoose on
hundred dollars ? " •

You leave thirty-five out of the reckoning.
However, we will suppose that goes to
you for your smartness. Well! I'm busy,
Paul, I'll give you your two hundred dollars

at once to get you away. Not, mind you,
that I couldn't fight you off, if I cared
to ; but I have other things to think of."
And for Fidele and the papoose ?"
That must suffice them for the present.
When it is all spent — we will see — '' and so
Ealph got rid of his importunate visitor for
the present, though not without misgiving.

^

AT SAINT Phrase.

Saint Euphrase is a village of the usual Lower
Canada type, with its big high-shouldered stone
church, made stately in front by square towers
capped with tin belfries, on which the light
twinkles as the bell tinkles to call the people
to mass. The village, like a brood of chickens,
nestles around, a cluster of little low-browed
wooden houses, with pillared porches and
verandahs, the poorer ones roofed with
weather-stained shingles, the prosperous with
red plates or tin ; pierced here and there with
little casements, shining yellow in the afternoon
sun, like inquisitive eyes prying into
their neighbours' enclosures. A few tall poplars
— sign of a French-speaking settlement —
rise here and there above the roofs, and around
are fields divided by picturesquely ill-kept
fences, in whose corners the wild plum or the
slippery elm entwined with brambles form
belts of growth which might be hedges, grateful

to the eye after the trim bald farming of
the West. A broad river runs by at about a
stone-cast's distance, but the place used to be
too small to have traffic by water ; and save
to the boatman who got his living by ferrying
people across the river, was but a desert barrier
to the villagers, cutting them off from the
West, whither Transatlantic prosperity ever
tends — lonely waters down which a few rafts
of timber passed in the Spring, and peopled
only by the duck and teal frequenting the
reedy shores of an island down stream, a bank
raised by opposing currents and gathered out of
the flood by a thicket of ash and willow. The
fields sloping upwards on the other three sides,
end in bush, which would cover the general
level of the country but for the farms, with
their houses set by the roadsides and their
narrow strips of land running for a mile or
more back into the distance. Of late a good
many country houses have been built by Mon-treaters
desiring something less suburban than
their own island affords. There is a railway,
and a few modern shops ; and gaily-dressed
townspeople may be seen driving fast horses
or playing lawn tennis in the cool of the afternoon
; but these are recent innovations on the
old time when M. le Cure in his long skirts
walked down the street alone among the bowing

habitants, smiling as he went and bestowing
his blessing.

General " Stanley was the earliest outsider
to build himself a home in the sequestered
neighbourhood, and not many as yet had
followed his example, at the time we speak of.
If it had been dull in his lifetime, his daughters
found it doubly so after his death, and but for
the horrors of moving they would have
migrated back to the city. As we grow older
it becomes ever more painful to root up formed
habits, while new ones are less and less able toto
take their place ; and Miss Stanley, at least,
acknowledged that she had reached the age
when change grows irksome. Therefore, while
they amused themselves by talking of removal,
and each Spring promised themselves the comforts
of town life for the succeeding Winter,
the years slid by and they found themselves still
where they were. The years too made havoc
among their circle of friends, and made the
city seem a less desirable residence, just as the
week works changes in our gardens, scarce
noticeable from day to day, but so complete before
the month is out. People die and marry
and move away, and the ladies' shopping-expeditions
to Montreal grew briefer and less
frequent as time went on, till from lasting over
weeks and ending in tender partings from

regretful friends, they dwindled into excursions
accomplished between a morning and an
afternoon. Soon, too, there came into the
neighbourhood a sprinkling of English-speaking
settlers, which, productive in the end of
life and spirit, was like yeast turbid and
disturbing at first, when dropped into that
sweet but stagnant reservoir of old-world
manners ; and soon there was on the outskirts
of the village a Protestant mission, a meek
little clap-boarded structure, without spire or
bell, but sufficient for the needs of its few
worshippers, and enough to rouse the watchfulness
of the cure and the jealous wrath of
his flock. However, the parson proved to bea
peace-loving man, and the zeal which at first
threatened to become flagrant, simmered down
for want of provocation, into armed neutrality,
if not into more neighbourly feelings.
These changes brought the ladies at least the
feeling of a less complete isolation than they
had experienced at first, and eventually, as the
grade of new-comers improved, a little society ;
while the earlier polemical excitement passed
them by, they being persons content to say
their own prayers in their own fashion, and to
leave their neighbours to do likewise.

Oh, Tookeyy ! " said Miss Matilda, when

the sisters met at breakfast on the morning
after the arrival of the baby, " the little darling
is simply delightful ! When I took her
upstairs Smithers most obligingly offered to
keep her through the night ; but it looked so
pretty lying fast asleep in my bed with nothing
on but a large pocket handkerchief, that I
really had not the heart to disturb it. We
bathed it, you know, and you cannot think
what a dear, soft, plump little morsel it looked
in its bath ; and it crowed — positively crowed
and smiled to me myself, for I do not think it
minded Smithers much, though it was she who
did the bathing. I daresay her hands felt
rough, you know, on its tender little skin. We
laid it in my bed and covered it with a pocket-handkerchief
— dear little morsel — while I went
to look for something small enough to dress it
in. I thought of the clothes for my immense
wax doll I was so proud of once, and kept so
long after I grew up ; but alas ! I gave that to
my godchild, and apparently every rag of its
wardrobe ; I thought I might find a little
shirt or a wrapper — I am certain they would
have been quite large enough for this one —
but Tilly Martindale seems to have got them
every one. Is it not a pity ? But, as I was
saying, we laid baby in the bed while I was
looking for the things, and she just dropped

asleep the moment Smitliers laid her down.
So I just sent Smithers off to bed, and lay down
beside the dear little duck, and it has nestled
in my arms all night, as soft as a ball of silk ;
and oh, Tookeyy ! I don't think I ever slept as
pleasantly before ; and in the morning it woke
me by stroking my cheeks with its soft little
hands. Did you notice its hands ? I never
saw anything so lovely, with a crease round the
wrist, a dimple at each knuckle, and pink little
finger-tips like rosebuds."

'* But what are we to do with the infant ?"
asked the practical Penelope.

Do ? The first thing to do is to give it
some bread and milk ! But I daresay Smother's
has done that already. I should have liked
to do it myself but was afraid to try. I remember
so well how I hurt my kitten's mouth,
trying to feed it with a teaspoon, and I wouldst
make this little beauty cry for all the world.
But I know what I will do. I have some cambric
for pocket-handkerchiefs upstairs, I shall
make it a chemise ! Smithers will know how
big to make it, or rather how little — the dear
wee love ! "

Matilda, dearest, let us be sensible. The
child must have a parent and if we can become
attached to it so warmly in a few hours what
must the feelings of that parent be to be

deprived of her ? Ought we not to endeavour
to return the child ? "

If the parents valued it so highly why did
they leave it here, without asking leave or
saying a word ? No ! They forsook it ! I shall
always say so. Besides, how can we give it
back, even if we would try ? How find the
discreditable parents ? And if we could, what
a life we might be giving up the little lamb
to!"

It does not seem right, our keeping it."

And whom, prays, would you give it up to ?
Would you give it to the village priest ? — to
be carried to some convent and brought up fora
nun ? — fasting, and scrubbing all her life long
for the sisterhood? Just look at the tiny
hands, like little flowers, and the plump little
person. Work and fasting, indeed ! Not if /
can help it."

"But there is the parson. Naturally we
would ^i\e it in claire to our own church."

And how much better would that be ?
What could an old bachelor do, but make his
housekeeper wrap it in a sliawd, and carry it
to the Protestant Orphan Home ? A very good
place you know — I have been through it—
quite proper for children such as it is meant
for — rough little squalling things, quite
tough and hardy. They are cared for, and

taught and brought up to service. A most useful
institution and I shall double my subscription,
but it would be no home for oitr little fairy.
Why, it is a blossom ! It would wither away
in that rough place within a week. And
better so, than the desecration of rearing it
there ! No, no ! I shall keep it for my own,
if it is not claimed. Of course if we knew its
parents, and they were proper people, it would
be wrong not to let them know ; but even then
I would pa' them money to let me adopt it.
And if they wanted to keep the child, why did
they bring it here ? It seems nonsense to think
about the parents at all."

I do not like the idea of keeping a stray
baby whom nobody knows anything about,
Tilly ! We should ask advice, at any rate.
I think I had better go over to Montreal and
ask Mr. Jordan what we should do."

And have yourself laughed at for a fussy
old maid, saddled with a baby ! You will
make us a laughing stock to all our friends.
Just think how ridiculous it sounds ! Besides,
wdiat can he advise ? I know quite well what
he will say, and can save you your consultation
fee. He will ask you to " be seated " in his
clients' chair — / know, for I visited him several
times about my steamboat shares, and it was
always the same performance — then he lies

back in his own chair and takes his foot upon
his knee. After that he takes ofFhis spectacles,
wipes them with his handkerchief and puts
them on again, rests his elbows on the chair
arms, clears his voice and begins, ticking off
the items of advice with the fingers of one hand
upon those of the other. He makes it very
clear, and it sounds most wise ; but when you
go away and think it over, you will find he has
told you just what you might have told yourself,
if you had only thought calmly and sensibly
about it. There is no witchcraft in Mr.
Jordan's advice. Perhaps that is wdiy people
say he is a sound lawyer. Eemember, too, he
is apt to divulge the secrets of her dear friends
to his wife. She spoke to me about my steamboat
shares, I remember ; and congratulated me
upon selling at the right time. You know
how dearly she loves a good story, and if your
dilemma should strike her in an absurd licht.
she will soon have it known all over the town.
Our dear Amelia has a very long tongue."

I only want to do what is right," said
Penelope, a little dismayed at the suggestion,
*' right to ourselves, and right to this baby. I
feel for the little waif, Tilly, though I do not
become rapturous like you."

As to the baby, then, just think. It
seems unlikely that it would have been laid

VOL. L 10

on our verandah if its friends lead wanted to
keep it at home. Even if we could return it to
them we could not make them keep it, or use
it kindly ; and there seem to be only three
other ways of disposing of it — the Protestant
Orphans' Home, the Grey Nunnery, or to
adopt it ourselves. Now, suppose we were
to do the last — I do not propose it, mind ;
but, after there seems no more likelihood of its
being claimed, if we should — would it be
nice to have our pi^otegee spoken of as a foundling,
and nobody's child ? Would it not tell
against her when she grew up, and we took
her into society with us, as of course we should
if we reared her ourselves ? "

But, my dear, the child has not been
twelve hours in the house yet, and to hear
you, one would say you are already dreaming
of bringing it up ! I have known you all your
life, Tilly, and I never heard you discuss at
such length before ; but what you say seems
reasonable enough. It would not be nice to
have Amelia making fun of our perplexities,
and yet there is no one else we can go to, whose
advice we could trust in like Mr. Jordan's.
For yourself, now, what do you think we
should do ? "

I think we should do nothing? ! Nobody
can blame us for doing' that. It is no affah*

of ours, and if only we are kind to the little
one till a claimant appears, or till we see more
plainly what we should do, we can get nothing
but praise and thanks for our charity." "• : -^

To do nothing is always an inviting course,
in times of perplexity, especially when it is the
interest of another rather than our own which
is most deeply involved ; we cannot then be
blamed for doing the wrong thing, even if we
have failed to do the right one. Time, too, hasa
way of winding up affairs left open, which is
often more satisfactory than the half-wise efforts
of meddlesome mortals. Miss Stanley accepted
the invitation to inaction and let things take
their course.

That day was a royal one for Miss Matilda.
Instead of loiterers, between her flowers and
her sofa, fanning herself and dropping asleep,
a new interest had come into her life ; and such
a pretty one ! It crept and rolled and tumbled
about on the matting at her feet ; while she sat
at her worktable in the bay window with scissors
and cambric, sewing strange garments, and
pricking her fingers a good deal, for the needle
was an unfamiliar implement in her hands ; but
she went bravely on with unflagging industry,
stopping only to get fresh bread and milk, when
she imagined the little one must be hungry, or
to find a pillow when it wanted to sleep.

10—2

The newspapers came in the afternoon as
usual, but she had no leisure to waste on
them ; the plaything at her feet was far too
engrossing. Even Penelope only glanced over
the column of" Born," "Died "land "Married "
there is no " Divorced " in a Canadian
paper, as in American ones — in search of any
known name, and then sat down to wonder at
Matilda's new-born energy and admire the baby.

These ladies were not very thorough-going
newspaper readers, although they lived in the
country and saw few visitors. The two city
newspapers they received each day were always
torn open, the marriages and deaths
glanced at, and sometimes the fashions, if it
was their time for getting new bonnets ; but
politics bewildered them, and the local gossip
had ceased to be interesting, it was so long
since they had lived in town. Their bookseller
sent them magazines and boxes of books,
their home was comfortable, and life moved
on smoothly, like a door on well-oiled hinges.
They forgot to crave for outside interests
and excitements, and the energies which in
town life might have found scope in arranging
or disarranging their neighbours' concerns,
took gentler exercise over roses, geraniums,
chickens, bees, or a rheumatic habitant, especially
if he spoke prettily and was respectful.

It was only as might be expected, then, that
nothing in the newspapers relating to their
little waif ever met their eyes. The parson —
their only visiting neighbour at that time —
was away for his summer vacation; the friends
who sometimes came to them from Montreal
were at the seaside, so there was no one to talk
with, and they heard nothing ; which indeed
was as they liked it best. All through the
remainder of that Summer and Golden Fall,
these two women, not very young, revelled
in a new-found joy — the sudden awakening
within them of the holy instinct of motherhood
— the double living, living in another life
besides their own, the joyous wondering progressive
life of childhood — re-entering anew
a world still dew-bright in the morning freshness
which it loses as life wears on ; and their
hearts grew purer and their thoughts simpler,
in this unlooked for return to the Eden
of long ago.

Before two months had passed they had
come to recognize their little visitor as a
member of the household and one of the
family — "of our own family, sister," Matilda
said one day. " Let us make her a Stanley and
call her our niece — Muriel Stanley. What do
sou say ? "

But how can we, with neither brother nor

sister, call her that ? " said Penelope the
business-minded and literal. " Think of the
stories we should have to make up ; and if
anybody asked questions we should have
to make some more, and there would be discrepancies,
and the most dreadful things
might be said."

And pray," cried Matilda the impetuous,
who will presume to ask questions when we
look them in the eye and calmly state the —
the fact that she is our brother's child, and he
is dead? Some people are not very polite, but I
never met any one who would dare to disbelieve
a lady to her face ; and if we give no
particulars and change the subject at once,
there will be no opportunity to ask questions,
If we call it a niece there Avill be no more to
say, and as soon as it is generally known it
will interest nobody. They are all too full
of their own affairs."

But, Tilly, we never had a brother."
But, Tookeyy dear, who knows that ? Papa
married in this country, and you were born
here, but you know he was sent to Bermuda
soon after, and we remained there till you and I
were grown. Nobody in Montreal knows even
that mamma was Canadian. Nobody asks anything
about the connections of the military or
commissariat. There they are. The Service is

a voucher for their respectability. It is taken
for granted that they are English with no relations
in this country, so nobody troubles to
inquire."

"But our mother's relations, Tilly, in
Upper Canada ; what are we to say to them ? ''

We have been thirteen sears in Canada
without meeting them. Mamma had only a
sister — Aunt Bunce — who died before we left
Bermuda ; if her family live in Upper Canada
still, they cannot know much about us. It is
so long since poor mamma died — before Aunt
Bunce, even — so very long that I do not
care to count the years ; it makes me feel so
old."

Don't talk of being old, child ! You have
not aged one bit. Think of me ! But why need
we bother with telling fibs about the child ?
Fibs always end in bother ; I have been taught
that all my life."

Do you want us to be laughed at? Are
you willing to confess yourself an old maid
- —a Protestant grey nun — adopting babies left
on your doorstep ? I am not, if you are ;
though I suppose I am older to-days than I
was five years ago," and she shook out her
ringlets with a defiant toss. "Just let it become
generally known that we keep an upper-class
foundling asylum, and we shall soon get

]plenty of pupils ! They will bring them from
Vermont, I daresay, or up from Quebec."

'tush! Tilly."

It is true. Only how should we dispose
of them after they were brought up ? Other
institutions train them for service ; now I do
not think we could do that, so what would
become of them? And what will become of
our own little pet if we let her be looked on
as a stray, and different from other children ?
Think of the slights she will be exposed to ;
and the unkind remarks, especially as she is
sure to be pretty. It would be cruelty to
bring her up with ourselves, and )set deprive
her of the chance of marrying. Think of her
struggles as a lonely woman to support herself
after we are gone. Our gentle nurture
would prove a curse to her and not a
blessing."

But we could not let a gentleman marry
a nameless girl under a false impression."

Certainly not. We would explain all to
any gentleman who had a right to know ; and
if he was a gentleman, I do not think it would
prevent the marriage ; but that is quite
different from proclaiming a poor girl's misfortune."


"Think the matter over, Penelope, and I
am sure you will come to see it as I do.

Meanwhile there is no hurry. We need not
converse to visitors about our protegee she
is too little yet to be shown to company, and
as the weather is growing cold, I propose we
arrange that room at the top of the house asa
nursery, and establish her there with
Smithers. She will be out of the way both of
draughts and idle curiosity."

"^"^PF^^^

TEN YEARS LATER.

Ten years later. What a startlingly abrupt
transition for the onlooker from the " then "
to the " now !" And yet how intimately the
two are connected, and how utterly the one
is dependent on the other ! Two cities on the
same broad river, the upper spreading along
the stream, set in a fruitful plain, the key to
fertile regions farther up, gathering the produce
and shipping it down the current ; the
other perched upon cliffs and overhanging
shores, and twice each day lapped by the
turning tide from the distant sea whither
everything is tending. Yet to the voyager
the transition is gradual enough, and smooth,
and natural. But for the retreating objects
along the shore he would not recognize that
he was moving, save when descending a rapid,
or running on a sandbank — the events, marriages,
deaths, failures, and successes of his
onward way. It is the same river still, in

part the very drops of water which tumbled
over Niagara long ago, passed through Ontario,
and down the rapids to Montreal, and onward
through the broads and the deeps till it meets
tide-water at Quebec, and still with all the
gathered tributes it hurries on, a river still
for scores and scores of miles between ever
widening banks, on to the misty everlasting
sea, where the voyager disappears for ever
from the view.

Not that my friends have moved their
dwelling-place down stream to Quebec, but
there is a sadness in the thought of the slowly
passing years which makes one moralize and
grow metaphoric before he is aware. No,
the people of this history are still geographically
where they were, standing on their own
ground, while the big tumultuous river rushes
by — but the figure which their permanence
suggests is even a sadder one, that of the fabled
maidens drawing water in their sieves, water
which will not be drawn or held, but keeps
oozing through and slipping away, just as the
stream runs by and will not wait ; for life is buta
sorry comedy with its starless passing. Yet
which of us would stop it if we could, even
at its best ? It always seems as if a sweeter
drop were somewhere up the stream, and
even if the present could be held, we would

let it pass to taste the fancied sweeter yet to
come.

Ill ten years the American war had ended
and specie payments were resumed. In ten
years Ealph Herkimer had made a fortune
and a " position " — the terms are interchangeable
in the moneyed world, and elsewhere too.
No one was better liked or more respected
as a good fellow, a clear-headed business man,
and a high-souled altogether superior person.
Even General Considine — who had been
taken prisoner during the war, exchanged,
'• paroled," withdrawn from the game like
the slaughtered pawn from a chess board — had
quite forgotten having grandly dropped his
acquaintance in Natchez and the reasons for
so doing ; and, on taking up his abode in
Montreal, was very pleased to renew intimacy
with his young friend of ante helium times.
Ealph was happy to respond. If there ever had
been an imputation on his courage, it seemed
well to support the only one who could
remember, in forgetting it ; though really, ashe
told himself, there was nothing to be
ashamed of. He had merely shown disapproval
of a bloodthirsty and barbarous
custom in a state of society already passed
away ; and no one who was anybody would
have the bad taste to be amused at anecdotes

told at the expense of a man so well off as himself,
and who entertained so liberally. Still,
since it is wiser to humour fools than to fight
them, he would be civil to this broken-down
greater, heap coals of fire on his head like a
good Christian, and make him thoroughly
ashamed of his rudeness in former years.

Considine, too, was no very cumbrous
protege. He was better supplied with
money than many of his compatriots at
that time, having inherited some property in
New York, which the same events which had
ruined his estate in the South had rendered
four times as valuable as before, in the paper
money of the period. His deportment exhibited
a fair share of the manly pathos
becoming a fallen hero, and made him an
interesting guest to the dwellers in a city at
peace. It is true he wore red studs in his
shirt front, as his way of mounting his country's
colours — red and white — and would defiantly
puff* out his chest so decorated whenever a
Yankee uniform came in sight. But something
must be permitted to the bruised susceptibilities
of the warrior .overcome, and at least
he did not travesty the conspiracies of exiled
Poles and old time Jacobites by joining in
absurd schemes to capture towns on the lakes,
or infect the capital with yellow fever ; in which

crack-brained escapades the excitement for the
plotters lay not so much in their design, as in
communicating it to one another with infinite
stage mystery of whisperings, signs, passwords,
and secret information. In those days a party
of refugees on one of the St. Lawrence steamboats
would make the voyage as interesting to
their fellow-passengers as a pantomime, with
their dark glances, stealing aside, mysterious
beckoning to each other, and hasty whispers,
followed by backward glances in search of
spies. There may have been real plots, but
they were carried on by practical persons
who showed no sign, and it was rumour of
these which impressed the rest, and filled
them with emulation. They imagined they
were being watched and reported on at Washington,
though what interest their vagaries
could have for Mr. Lincoln's government it is
hard to imagine. Much, however, should be
excused to people deprived by war of their fortunes
and their homes, often with but slender
means of support, and no occupation, driven
to spend eight hours of their day in euchre
playing, and the other eight in unending discussions
of the war news. To such, conspiracy
must have seemed the most delightful
of pastimes, even if barren of practical results.
When Considine approached Ralph with

a most respectable sheaf of "greenbacks"
under his arm, and appealed to him as an old
friend for advice as to their conversion into
specie, and their subsequent employment,
Ealph was genial, and by-and-by showed him
the way to the gold-room, where good Canadians,
following the lead of New York, sold
each other stacks of foreign currency which
the sellers could not deliver and the buyers
had no wish to receive. The telegraph clerk
hung up the quotations from New York at
certain hours, the " operators " took note and
]paid their losses — no ! " held settlements " is
the proper expression, for this was business.
Respectable gentlemen, church members,
and heads of families, brushed their hats
each morning and walked down to their
offices, gloved and caned, the very pink of
respectability, and from thence went on
'Change," where the money would change
hands with astounding celerity — all in the
way of " business."

Faites voice jeu, Messieurs ! Le jeu est
fait " ? Not at all ! This was in Montreal not
at Monte Carlo. Strictly "business," and
thoroughly respectable. True, many men lost,
but some won. And what would you have ?
How could it be otherwise ? There are but a
certain number of gold pieces in the world ;

and, if, after an " operation," my bag contains
more, it is certain that my neighbour's must
hold less. Currency, bullion, stocks, shares,
grain, cotton, what are any of them but the
tokens to win and lose money upon? But the
thing is done " upon 'Change," and 'Change,
like church, is a good word, and everything
belonging to it is respectable. If it were
round a green-cloth table now, how different
it would be ! though the outcome might bethe
same. Respectability cannot tolerate the
green cloth. And yet, to an all-seeing eye,
there may be less amiss when a man's money
falls upon the black and the red. At least the
play at Monte Carlo is "on the square;" there
are no misquotations or false telegrams, bogus
prospectuses, lying reports, collusive understandings,
and traps for the unwary, such as
have been heard of at times in the ]places of
better repute.

Ealph Herkimer made a great deal of
money ; Considine made some ; and by-and-by,
as American finance returned to a normal
position, other fields of enterprise were needed
as the possibilities of gambling in gold and
greenbacks grew less ; and then Considine's
American connections became a valuable introduction
for Ealph to several " good things."
There were estates whose owners, stripped of

all their other property, and still encumbered
by their debts, could not wring a subsistence
from the devastated acres, and were willing
to part with them for a trifle ; but no one
would buy — no one at hand, that is, who had
opportunity to know about the war-ravaged
fields and the intractable labourers. But at a
distance, in a land of peace, where a good
title and a veracious statement of the acreage
and the yielding capacity were the data —
where, in fact, a pencil and a piece of paper
were the means for judging the promise of the
venture — how different it all was. Here was
a country where snows and frosts were scarcely
known, or, so it was said, where the cattle could
range without shelter all through the year,
where the gardens were planted with figs and
pomegranates, and pigs fattened in the orchards
on peaches too plentiful to repay the gathering.
There were minerals too, every variety
of riches, gold, coal, copper, hidden in the
ground, and only awaiting the capital and
skill to dig them up ; and forests of pine, now
vastly enhanced in value by the Chicago fire,
waiting to be cut down and converted into
lumber if only foreign enterprise would undertake
the task. What could be better calculated
to stir the imagination of people accustomed
to contend for three long months of the

VOL. I. 11

year with the fiercest severities of winter, and
to wring fixed and moderate profits by patient
industry from a soil which still was five or
ten times the price of these fields of endless
summer? The fevers, malaria, bad water, and
general backwardness did not show on the
map, and a dense silence kept them from the
knowledge of investors.

Ealph and his friend being well-to-do, their
statements and recommendations were implicitly
accepted ; and, indeed, the statements
in themselves were not untruthful ; it was in
the counter-balancing facts, which were left
unstated, that those who afterwards considered
themselves their dupes, found the limitation
and disillusion of their hopes, which teach
men in the end that Fortune is as likely
to find them out while labouring at home,
as to be found by them without exertion and
experience, in distant places. But that was
the buyers' concern — knowledge which came
to them later and by degrees, lialph and
this friend had completed their share of the
transaction and pocketed their commission
when the sale was made ; what followed had
for them no interest.

They made many such sales, pocketing large
commissions — the larger, indeed, the worse
the property they disposed of — vast tracts in

some cases, containing untold wealth in
minerals and forests, where the buyers sunk
fortunes in endeavouring to bring the riches
within reach ; and at length, having exhausted
their resources, had to subside into the ranks
of the ruined people around them, and wait
patiently for a generation, till the march of
time should bring within reach of their children
the sums they had placed out of reach
for themselves. There were smaller farms,
too, where sturdy yeomen with their blooming
children went to make rich more quickly ;
but somehow few appeared to thrive in those
distant migrations. Their livestock was apt
to die ; too little rain, or too much, would
destroy their crops, and their own health
would fail ; and in a year or two they would
find their way back to Canada, with an enlarged
experience but a shrunken purse ;
while of the children, some would be left behind
in the foreign churchyard, and the rest,
yellow and gaunt, bore small resemblance to
the bright-eyed youngsters they had been
before.

In a few years the trade in southern homesteads
died out, Canadian enterprise laid down
her telescope and interested herself with
things nearer home. Science, ransacking her
own soil, had come on hid treasure of

11—2

many kinds, gold, copper, iron, phosphates,
and plumbago, and showed where, instead of
sending her savings abroad, she might sink
them at home — her own savings and those of
many a sanguine stranger. On every side
Ealph saw opportunities of money making,
and he was ready to use them ; but now his
operations, he found, must be on another
footing than before. Hitherto he had
been a financier ; now, his neighbours recognized
him as a capitalist. The change of
standing was gratifying, but it had its dangers
and its drawbacks.

Finance has been described as the art
of transferring money from one pocket to
another — in a Stock Exchange sense, be it
understood, not an Old Bailey one — and the
financiers are the artists who perform the
feat. Money is a volatile and also an
adhesive substance — matter in a state of
unstable equilibrium, which must not be
disturbed or changes will ensue — wherefore,
in the process of transferring, some of it is
certain to be spilled, and that the artist may
pick up if he can ; it is his perquisite. A good
deal too is apt to stick to the artist's fingers —
perquisites again — and hence the profit of
handling other people's money. If it were
one's own already, whence would come the

profit ? A man can scarcely gain by paying
perquisites to himself; though, to be sure, he
may obviate the necessity of paying them to
any one else. But there cannot be a doubt that
the financier escapes much embarrassment
when he is not a capitalist. See, for example,
with what calm unflinching pluck a " general
manager " can carry on war with a rival railway
! The next half-yearly dividend may be
sacrificed in the contest, but he does not falter,
he goes bravely on. lie is not a shareholder ;
it makes no matter to him. To seek a parallel
in the political world capitalists and financiers
stand to one another as kings to their
ministers. When things go well the minister
does the work, the king has the profit and
glory ; but when they miscarry, though the
minister did the mischief, it is the king who
loses his crown ; the minister merely withdraws
into privacy, and lives comfortably in
retirement on the emoluments of former office.
Yet who, if he could, would not be a whig, to
be trembled before and worshipped ? and after
all, the successful revolutions are not numerous.
Ealph recognized the new danger in his
path, and regretted a little, at times, when he
found he must let a profitable opportunity go
by, merely because it was one which only an
impecunious promoter durst undertake ; but

he had his compensations. Like the man who
becomes a king, he got well grovelled to, and
he liked it. He could influence, too, if the
after responsibilities of " promoting " were too
onerous to be undertaken. The use by other
men of his name, unauthorized, as a heavy
holder of their stocks, was worth money ; and,
as long as he " unloaded " in time, perfectly
safe. He did not now flutter about 'Change,
scattering reports and picking up news ; he
sat in his office, and was waited on by those
who sought his countenance in their schemes
and wished to learn its 23rice.

Only one disappointment as yet had
befallen him. He wished to become president
of a leading bank, and he knew so many of
the directors that he made sure of o^ainino^ his
point. Unfortunately the directors knew him
as well, and deemed it advisable to choose
some one else ; but then of course it was the
general body of shareholders who must bear
the blame. The ballot leaves so many things
in doubt, and covers up so much about which
there can be no doubt at all. His friends, the
directors, called on him immediately the election
was over — the traitors being probably
the first to hurry in — and expressed the most
cordial regret and condolence ; and Ealph was
too wise not to accept the profuse explanations

with gracious condescension. Their
hastening to explain was a tribute, at any rate,
to his weight, and showed that they feared
him ; and as one after another he smiled them
out, he promised himself to let them feel yet
that their fears had not been groundless. He
was not, therefore, in his most debonair mood,
when, on being informed by a new clerk that
a rough-looking man had been waiting sometime,
he permitted him to be introduced.

"Paul?"

day, sir."

It seems only the other day since you
were here last."

Six months."

"How many six months do you make ina
year ?

Two."

"Hm — I am not so sure of that. Seems
to me you have managed to pack three into
this last year. However — Here, Stinson ! " he
called to the clerk appointed to wait without
and attend his private behests, while he
scribbled a cheque. " Ask the cashier to cash
that. Quick ! " he added as he raised his
eyes and saw the stolid figure of his visitor
standing before him, a statue in copper-coloured
flesh, motionless and regarding,
unimpressed by his grandeur or the trembling

fastidiousness of his clerk ; an embodiment of
still impassible waiting, like the image carved
on the granite door-post of an Egyptian
temple. Paul did not even glance about
him, he simply stood, and with unwinking
eye gazed into space, inscrutable and indifferent
to all around.

Ealph threw himself back in his chair,
fidgeted impatiently, and coughed and
snorted. So impressive is that which cannot
be gauged or looked into, even if it contain
nothing. This was the instrument, too, and
the reminder of a crime, who stood before
him ; a crime of so long ago, and which 5^et,
so long as the Indian lives may come to light
may even be remedied, and leave him
unprovided by the deed, as well as disgraced
by its discovery. With wonder he asked himself
how he could have ventured to do
what he had done, the chances of failure
being so many, the consequences of detection
so ruinous, that to think of them even now
sent a cold thrill through him. Since it was
done, however — and he felt no remorse at the
deed — he was content enough to enjoy the
fruits, although his successes since had made
him in a measure independent of them ; still
his uncle's millions when they came — came to
his boy that is, but he ere then would be his

partner — would, added to his own, gain him
a position above rivalry ; and even now in
expectancy they enhanced his importance.

Stinson returned with the proceeds of the
cheque, and Ealph counted over two hundred
dollars to hand to Paul. His fingers lingered
lovingly over the bits of paper, touching each
dollar with a dainty caress as though he loved
it and was sad to part.

It is strange how a rich man hates to part
with money, while the poor are free and even
lavish so far as their little " pile " will go ; but
perhaps we only invert the statement of what
is a truism, that they who dislike to part with
their money keep it and grow rich, while they
who spend it lavishly grow poor. At any rate,
Ealph lingered while he counted the two hundred
dollars, and the thought occurred to him
how many times more would this have to be
done?" Eight years still before Gerald's
money became payable ! Sixteen more half-yearly
pa3anents of two hundred dollars each !
Thirty-two hundred dollars in all, besides interest
! It seemed monstrous. Could nothing
be done ? Could he not be made to take a
round sum down, and be bound to keep silence
for ever ? No ! That had been tried already,
and so soon as the money was spent he came
back for more, saying he must live, and if

Ealph would not pay, assuredly the bereaved
parents would. And so it had come about
that Paul was grown an annuitant, and came
to claim his little income every six months.

Here you are, Paul," growled Ealph, handing
over the money with a sigh ; and Paul with
a gleam in his eye laid hands upon the roll of
bills which vanished from view forthwith.

Say, Paul," speaking in a more insinuating
voice, " would it not suit you better to
get a good big lump of money once for all, than
to be coming here so often drawing it by cribs
and drabs ? If I were to give you a thousand
dollars now, all at once, see how many things
you could do with it! You could open a
tavern up the Ottawa and make your fortune
right away, and you would save all the money
you spend for drink besides."

Ah ! " said Paul, his face lighting up at the
inviting picture, and bending forward with extended
palm to receive the largess at once.

"I con-sent!"

"Consent to what?"

Take ze money."

Of course you will, my fine fellow ; I know
that. And after you have got rid of it all you
will come back to me for more."

Promise to come no more."

Of course you do ! But you will come all

the same. The promise don't count after the
money is spent. I have not forgot last time."

Paul smiled like a man who receives a compliment
. Veracity was not his point of honour.
Father, it was smartness ; and to have " done "
this rich and masterful white man seemed an
achievement to be proud of. He stroked his
beardless cheeks with a simper of gratified
vanity, and fairly laughed at last, so tickled
was he by the recollection of his cleverness.

No ! my fine fellow, you don't come it over
me again like that ! — no use supposing it.
But I'll tell you what I will do, for I like you,
you see, Paul ; though I know you're a rascal.
I have been thinking that if that child were
to die it would be bad for you. You could
not try it on with me any more by threatening
to carry the kid home to its people, and so
your pension would come to an end, and you'd
have to go to work. How would you like that,
Paul, you idle dog, after all these years ? So I
have been thinking that if that were to happen
the kid's death, you know — and you could
bring me some proof, I would give you a lump
sum and have done with you."

If the papoose die ? "

"Yes."

You give thousand dollars ? — dollars
down ? "

Down on the nail, if you bring proof."

How make sure ? "

You will tell me how it all happened, and
I shall know how to verify the fact."

No, no ! Make me sure. Thousand
dollars."

Ha ! I see. You want some assurance
that I will pay what I say ? Don't see what
more assurance I can give than to say so, or
what more you should want. Have I not kept
my word with you before ? "

Off" — and Paul plunged into thought
where he stood, while Ealph, impatient to be
rid of him, collected his papers and locked
them in his desk, rose, and took his hat and
gloves, as if about to go home.

This brought Paul's reflections to a point.
He turned to Ealph with a grin and a grunt,
and held out his hand.

Thousand dollars ! " he said with another
grunt ; and when Ealph, supposing it a fashion
of leave-taking, laid some of his fingers rather
gingerly on the extended palm, he caught and
shook them eagerly, saying :

"Pay down! Pay down ! Papoose dead."

Ealph drew back.

"Dead! When? Where? Tell me all
about it."

Dead at Caughnawaga."

"How long ago?"

Ten year — day 'twas took. Come, see, if
you will. Au-dessous dit islander at my cabane
— Thousand dollars ! " and he held out his
hand again.

Ten years ago ! And you have been
drawing money from me for that child's support
all this time ? And never told ! "

Paul looked gratified, and drew himself up
like modest genius when at length its merit
is brought to light. Then he chuckled and
moved his fingers as if to poke Ealph in the
ribs. The idea of Ealph's having been so
completely fooled was too delicious.

"But how could it have happened? You
cannot mean that you — murdered the child ? "

Ouff," grunted Paul, from whose face the
grin was fading. His sly escapade appeared
not to be appreciated as it deserved. He
placed his fingers on his throat now, and let
his tongue protrude, to describe the process of
strangulation.

Ealph drew back in horror. It is one
thing to entertain the idea of a crime hypothetically,
and even to incite to the deed. The
mind busies itself in contemplating the results,
and the act appears but a circumstance, a
necessary one perhaps, but one on which it is
unnecessary to dwell. It is another thing to

confront the deed after it lias been done, and
can no longer be overlooked, when it has
become a realized infamy", withering and dwindling
the profits and results into worthless
Dead Sea fruit. The bloodhound weill pursue
its prey for days together, eager to pull him
down and bury its fangs in his flesh, but if in
the heat of the chase it should encounter
blood, there is an end, the scent is lost, the
hunt ended. And so was Ealph staggered at
what he heard. This child's life had stood in
his way, and he had striven to set it aside.
Bat to think that it had been murdered, and
that his was the finger which touched the
spring and set the murderous machine in motion
! No ! He could not think it. It was
horrible. The instrument, the over-zealous
instrument which had done too much, must
shoulder the responsibility of his own deed ;
and, for himself, he would no longer compromise
his respectability by having dealings
with such a ruffian, now that it had become
quite safe to break with him. The blood of
the little innocent seemed crying out of the
ground for vengeance, and at least he would
wash his hands of the murderer, and not a
cent of blood-money should the homicide
receive from him. A virtuous glow diffused
itself through Ealph's pulses as these

thoughts passed through his mid m a space
far shorter than it takes to write or read
them ; indeed there had been little more than
the ordinary conversational pause between
Paul's last grunt of assent and pantomimic
signs, and Ealph's reply as he now looked him
squarely in the face with a frown of the
severest virtue, and a demeanour of dignified
rebuke which an ignorant onlooker mio^ht have
hoped would not be lost on the poor untaught
son of the wilderness.

And you have been drawing money from
me for that child's support all these years ! "
He grew indignant as he thought how he had
been imposed upon ; and Paul, quenched the
moment before, and astonished at his demeanour,
began to pluck up heart again, and
the dawn of a smile at his own cleverness
began to re-appear on his wooden visage ; but
it faded again as Ealpli proceeded :

Do you know that what you have been
accusing yourself of is a hanging offence ? A
cruel, cowardly murder of a helpless infant ?
But I will not be made accessory after the
fact ! I am done with you, Paul ! — Go ! —
Do you hear me ? Git ! "

Paul looked in his face amazed. What had
he meant then when he promised him money
to bring news of the child's death? He

was about to speak, but Ealpli stopped him
before, in his stupefaction, he could find words.

Go ! I say. And never let me see you

again. Or ! You can guess yourself

what will happen."

Confused, crestfallen and crushed, Paul
withdrew. A new view of the inscrutable
ways of the great white man had been given
him. He could only draw a great breath in
his helplessness and go his way. The white
folks were too much for him, that was the one
idea which penetrated his darkened mind.
They would make use of him when they
wanted him, and then cast him aside ; but
for the future he promised himself to keep
out of their way.

Ealph coughed and drew on his gloves, not
ill-pleased, at the last, at the turn which affairs
had taken, and hurried off to catch the afternoon
train for St. Euphrase, where this family
were spending the summer at a smart new villa
which he had built a year or two before.

MAHOMET AND KADIJAH.

Ealph Herkimer reached the station as the
train was about to start. M. Eouget was in
the act of assisting his wife and daughter into
the parlour car, and Ealph sprang in after him
just as the train moved from the platform.
M. Eouget owned the seigniory of La Hache,
on the outskirts of St. Euphrase, an outlying
fragment of which Ealph had purchased and
built upon, hoping that with the other products
of the soil there would spring up an
intimacy with the Eouget family, and thereby
an entrance to that French circle which so few
English-speaking Canadians ever penetrate.
Not that that circle is more wealthy, or of
necessity more cultured than others on the
great American continent ; but language, religion,
and customs make it less accessible and
more exclusive, and therefore, like other things
difficult, both desirable and distinguished. A
certain prescriptive precedence, too, naturally

VOL. I. 12

attaches to the first comers everywhere, if
only they are strong "enough to enforce it ;
and it must be remembered that these Lower
Canada seigniors represent the earliest settlers,
and as a body are the only approach to a
landed aristocracy in North America. North
America, it is true, is the chosen home of democracy
and equality ; but democratic equality —
what is it ? Does it not mean, my brother,
that you are on no pretext whatever to claim
any sort of bitterness over me, while /, if I
can secure distinction or superiority am to be
protected in the enjoyment of my acquisition ;
for is it not a free and a law-abiding country
that we live in? Witness the army of the
decorated in democratic France ! or the
shoals of colonels, generals, and judges in the
United States. Such is democracy. You must
have nothing which I have not, but / may
take whatever I can lay my hands on ; and
you, sir, are to bow down to me for having
it. It is the autocrat's crown cut up in slices,
and placed on the head of every one self-asserting?
enou<2;h to wear his fraction.

Ealph had made money — secured a substantial
hunch of the bread of subsistence, and
now he was minded to butter it with all the
social distinctions and advantages he could
attain to. M. Eouget passed up the car before

him, preceded by madame and the demoiselle,
his daughter. These ladies had not called
upon Ealph's wife on her coming to reside in
the neighbourhood ; but then Martha, as he
told himself, though a worthy creature, and
one who had made him an excellent wife in
his day of small things, was scarcely equal to
the promotion which had overtaken her. She
was undeniably diffident and undistinguished ;
perhaps even dowdy, he added with a sigh, as
the fresh crisp dresses of the French ladies,
befriended, beguiled, and " relieved " with
streamers of lace and ribbon, swam on in
front of him. He would claim his neighbour's
acquaintance, he thought, who doubtless would
introduce him to his family ; and then he
doubted not he should make himself so pleasant
that the ladies would re-consider their
previous reserve and call on Martha forthwith.
Already he saw himself at La Hache,
invited to meet Monseigneur the Archbishop
and the Honourable the Minister of Drainage
and Irrigation, ^v^liom after that, if he were but
civil, he should feel bound to support at
future elections, though hitherto he had voted
rouge.

So quick is thought, all this and more had
flashed through his mind, illustrated with vignettes
of gracious smiling ladies and gesticu-

12—2

hating Frenchmen — the prismatic gratings
of a snob's beatific vision — and he had not
yet reached the middle of the car. M. Eouget
was walking on before. Another step and he
would overtake him. Already his hand was
raised to touch the seignior's arm, when, sh !
the prod of a parasol point dexterously
planted in the small of his back made him
start, exclaim, stop, and turn round.

In the corner of a sofa he had passed, a
wizened little woman, somewhat dusty and
tumbled was smiling, to him from under the
freezes of her false front, wide-southerly
smiling, till every gold pin in her best set of
teeth shone in the slanting sunbeams of the
afternoon. She held out a catlike hand in a
cotton glove, by way of welcome, making room
on the sofa beside her, and dropping the parasol
point, as the wild Indian lays down his tomahawk
in sign of amity.

Judy ! " said Ealph in some disgust ; but
while he spoke he saw the Eouget party seat
themselves with some friends, and recognized
that the opportunity for his little couj^ was
past, so he recovered himself and dropped into
the place so effusively offered.

And how come you to be here, ma'am ?
The general car does not seem over-crowded.
If the treasurer of the diocesan fund were to

see you travelling in parlour cars, he would
doubt the need of that augmentation we have
been petitioning for."

It would be just like him if he did. He
is mean enough for anything in the way of
prying into the private affairs of the rural
clergy. I wonder how he would like it himself
? Still, there are a few whose goings on
he might inquire into more closely. But he
has favourites. I wish Synod would make a
change."

But they will say you are a favourite if
you travel in this regardlessly extravagant
way."

Let them, if they dare ! But there is
no fear of that. They cannot but know that
on the five hundred dollars of stipend they
allow Mr. Bunce, a clergyman's family cannot
travel at all, except on foot ; and even
that takes more shoe leather than they can
afford. They understand perfectly well, that,
but for my little income, Mr. Bunce could
not have afforded to accept the parish of St.
Euphrase at all — a fact which is no credit
to our church. And I think, Ealph, it would
have been more respectful to Mr. Bunce, and
kinder to me, if you had not alluded to our
pecuniary circumstances. We cannot all be
brokers, you must remember."

"Beg pardon, Judy. No offence. And
you remind me that I have not yet inquired
after the health of my respected uncle," he
added with an impertinent laugh. " I hope
he is well."

Ealph's acquisition of an uncle on his
Aunt Judith's marriage was rather an
ancient ground of amusement by this time,
for the marriage had taken place years before ;
but the idea of his maiden aunt created
a wife, and the cleric, his junior, transformed
into his uncle, was a perennial joke, from
which time and familiarity could not rub
the point. His other uncle, Gerald, had
been one to make a nephew quail ; and
that this mild, shaven, unhealthy, and, sofar,
youthful parson should have stepped
into the redoubtable title, was inexhaustibly
droll. It is notable how long the same quip
and jest will serve to tickle the busy man
engrossed in material interests ; but in this
case there was the excuse that the Ounces
really were an oddly-assorted pair. A
stranger could not but have inquired how
they had come to marry each other — she, so
mature, he, with his drab-coloured hair and
round smooth cheeks. " Cherubic," his
bride had called the cheeks to her bridesmaid
in a moment of enthusiasm and confidence

; but they were too loose and pasty to
deserve the title, or if not, the cherub must
have been out of health — cloyed with ambrosia
perhaps, or too much nectar, in the
Elysian Fields.

Judith herself had rejuvenated, or brightened,
perhaps, since we saw her first,
with hair and clothing severely plain, and
a look of reproving superiority to all
things pleasant. She was an old young
woman in those days, and now she was a
young old one. Then, leanness and the
tight-drawn skin prevented the crows' feet
round the eyes from being strongly marked,
and the low-toned colouring harmonized in
its way with the grizzling of the hair ; now,
with some gain of adipose tissue, and the
relaxed tension incident to a mind relieved
from the imaginary reproach of spinsterhood,
the lines and creases showed quite clearly,
like ripple marks on the sand left by the
ebbing waves of time. The hair, too, with
its faded browns sympathizing with the
greyness of the flesh tints was changed ; for
now the lady shone in a new capillary outfit,
and seemingly, when buying it, she had chosen
to revert to the livelier colouring of her
youth. The "front," "bang," "fringe," or
whatever she may have called it, was of a

cheerful gingerbread hue, which quenched
any lingering lustre of the eye, or aspiration
toward pinkness in the cheek, and gave her
somewhat the look of a mummy, which, after
ages wasted in darkness, comes forth again
to taste the happiness of life, and the warmth
of the upper world.

The love tale of these two had no doubt
been as thrilling an idol to themselves as
that of any pair of nightingales in all Arcadia,
but it appeared rather a drab-coloured
romance, or, better, no romance at all, to
their friends, who opened their eyes in blank
amaze when the project of marriage was
announced, and vowed the strangely-assorted
couple had lost their wits. Judith, the
severely Protestant virgin of St. Silas, to the
High Church — the very high — curate of St.
Wittikind's ! It seemed incredible. It was
true that for some time she had visited a
good deal among the poor of St. Wittikind's
parish, frequented its schools, guilds and
sisterhoods, where things were conducted
not precisely as the good people of St. Silas
thought best; but still that was "Church
work," and as she continued to distribute
tracts as copiously as ever in the Catholic
neighbourhood selected by the St. Silas'
ladies as their experimental farm of controversy,

they had agreed to regard the vagary
as only showing great breadth of view, and
a largely comprehensive charity, which they
hoped would lead to reciprocity, and bring
some darkling wanderer from the other pen
to their own better-lighted fold.

The reality of the case was far otherwise.
Miss Judith had a leisure and energy
ravenous of occupation, and which would
not be filled up, and appeased with
fancy-work, and dispensing printed leaves
to French people who could not understand
what she said. These are pleasing
occupations, but they grow monotonous
after a time. She had tried improving
her mind, too, a good work, but it postulates
a mind capable of being improved by
printed matter, and the minds of many who
have done the world's work, and done it
well, have not been of that kind. Miss
Judith's mind was practical rather than contemplative,
and her studies did not go great
lengths, while nature had blessed her with a
sustaining self-content. When her book
wearied her she laid it down and sought
some other occupation — somebody else to
improve, when her own mind had had enough
of it. Her sister Susan declined her offices,
knowing the teacher too well to set much

store by the lessons, and therefore she had
to carry her instructions farther afield.

Such is the sad lot of spinsterhood
in modern life, when woman misses her
natural vocation of house-mother, and
fortune exempts her from the need to
earn her living. The instincts and traits
which society for its own entertainment
encouraged and cultivated in youth lose
their power to please when bloom and
sprightliness have vanished. Then the love
of applause and excitement so attractive in
the youthful beauty turn like famished
hounds on their forsaken mistress, and rend
her own heart when she can furnish them
no other game. She has been taught to
think highly of herself, and to claim much,
and she may have learned the world and its
lessons well, but the world has grown weary
of her, and goes its way in search of a fresher
plaything. There is tragedy in this of the
unspoken kind, but it is so common, and
it drags its course so slowly — for people do
not easily die of spinsterhood — that we fail
to note the restless gnawing of hearts and
brains condemned to inaction, and only laugh
at the bizarrerie, when, growing intolerable,
it breaks out into lady-doctors of divinity,
law, or physic.

When Judith made the acquaintance of
the Eev, Dionysius Bunce, it was with something
of the trepidation with which an
explorer clambers up the side of an unknown
volcano. " Could he be a Jesuit in disguise,
as some people said ? " she wondered, " or
was he a well-meaning? but uninstructed
person who had lost his way, and now unwittingly
was travelling the broad and flowery
road, whose course is ever downward, and
which leads, we all know whither ? " What
an achievement it would be could she lead
back the wanderer, if indeed he were astray !
Or if he were, as she had been taught to think,
a wolf in sheep's clothing, what a privilege to
unmask him and save true Protestantism from
his insidious wiles !

But there was a single-minded earnestness
in this young man which interested her from
the first, and soon assured her he was no
Jesuit ; and he was so strangely willing to
listen, to discuss, and even to admit that there
might be much in her view of a question.
This was new to Judith, whose guides hitherto,
knowing all about everything, had tolerated
no differences of opinion, and lead shown her
the path of orthodoxy laid down with square
and compass from which no one must venture
to diverge under pain of running up against

some text of Scripture, set like a curbstone
by the wayside, to the peril of unwary wheels
meandering off the track. Dionysius was self-denying
in his charity, too. He would give
his dinner to the poor any day, instead of
dining first and bestowing the leavings, as is
more usual ; and self-denial is a virtue which
enthusiastic women delight in. Enthusiasm
is catching, and when it has caught, it
makes scattered units run together and cohere
like drops of quicksilver. Judith had caught
it from him as had the members of his guilds ;
and they worked away with a happy feeling
of earnestness which made things very pleasant,
and over-rode all misgivings as to whether
the dance were worth the candle, or at least
as to the usefulness or wisdom of what they
were about.

Judith was drawn by the fervour of St.
Wittikind's curate into visiting his poor, and
even decorating his sanctuary — a Low Church
lady actually embroidering crosses and polemical
symbols! — and yet in her new frame of
mind it did not occur to her she had at
first discussed with disapproval the use of
papistical emblems. He had treated her view
with every respect while differing from it, and
then had talked round the point to the other
side, and shown the amiable and pious feeling

in which such things may be done when looked
at the other way, till Judith, won by his
toleration, could not but be tolerant too, and
actually joined in the work.

It must have been this mixture of docility
and independence which won on Dionysius,
and recalled the sacred feelings with which
in his .boyhood he had regarded a venerable
aunt and a saintly mother both deceased.
He was a young man of a pre-eminently earnest
cast of mind, which turned churchyards. He
greatly admired and fain would have copied
the saints and heroes of early times. Had
the Church of Canada kept a wilderness for
retiring into, like the Thebaid of antiquity,
he would have turned hermit ; or had there
been some real genuine pagans within its
confines he would have been a missionary ;
but the Indian of the North West, part horse-thief,
part fur-trader, and altogether indifferent,
offers no opening to aspirants to the
rank of martyr or confessor ; so he was forced
to do like the rest, and stay at home.

He did what he could in St. Wittikind's,
but it was discouraging work. The men
there were mostly wealthy, and all engrossed
in business. They could not be
induced to attend either daily matins or
evensong, and though scrupulously polite

when he approached them, were sure to have
an important appointment somewhere, and
forced to hurry away. The young ladies of
course were ready, nay charmed, to attend
matins or anything else, provided the hour
was reasonable and there had been no ball
overnight. Evensong he found unpopular
with them, as interfering with " home duties,"
to wit afternoon tea ; but they were eager for
Church work," at least in the shape of
elaborate embroideries in gold thread and
ecclesiastical patterns. If Dionysius would
have interested himself in croquet or lawn
tennis, or if he would have nourished a taste
for music of a form less severe than Gregorian,
he would have come to have influence ;
but the young man at that stage of his growth
was too single-minded to have any mistress
but Religion ; and Mrs. Silvertongue, his
rector's worldly-minded wife, was heard to
compare him to a shaggy young Baptist broke
loose from the desert, when Judith rushed to
the rescue by declaring that he seemed to bea
very sound Churchman indeed, and everybody
laughed at both the ladies.

As years went on, the intimacy grew closer.
Judith found it delightful to be busy and of
importance — to be authorized to interfere with
people too poor to dare resent it ; telling them

what they must do, scolding and physicking
them as seemed best, and really being kind,
though in a provoking way ; consulting with
a clergyman, talking and being listened to by
a gentleman with interest and respect. It
was so very long ago since any gentleman
had shown interest in her conversation, or
anything but weariness, and now this ordained
pastor sometimes even consulted her. It
made her feel that she was not yet all of the
past, that there was something to live for still,
and afforded some of the old time satisfaction
in being minded by one of the stronger sex,
mixed at once with the reverence she owed a
spiritual guide, and motherly interest in one
so much her junior.

Dionysius, too, grew attached, though not
precisely in the same way as if she had been
twenty years younger. He was so good a
young man, and so sh}^, that he failed, perhaps,
to fill all the social uses of a curate, and grew
somewhat out of intimacy with the younger
ladies of his cure, who, though they saw him
daily at matins, had learned not to look for
his presence at garden parties and afternoon
teas. Judith listened to him with so ardent
an interest that he forgot his diffidence and
reserve in conversing with her, and grew even
eloquent at times, as he knew by the admiring

reverence in her face ; and then, in the gratification
of appreciated merit, he would forget
the disparity in their ages, and hail her as a
sister spirit travelling the same heavenward
road with himself. And so they continued
to fare on together in amity and trust, the
brother uttering words of wisdom, the sister
accepting them humbly, and ignorant that
they were leading her far from the truth
according to St. Silas, Avhere with her sister
on Sundays she still went to church ; for
Judith's theological mind was of the emotional
not the argumentative sort ; though she loved
to use the party catch-words, and believed
she set great store by them, they conveyed
to her no clearly defined ideas. Warmth
was what she longed for, and friendship, and
these she drew most readily from the curate
of St. Wittikind.

The intimacy between the two might have
gone on for ever unchanged, but at length
Dionysius fell ill, and then the crisis in their
friendship and their lives arrived. Judith
called regularly at her friend's lodging to
inquire for his health. By-and-by she had
messages to carry him from his poor, she sat
down by his bedside and conversed, and he
declared himself so much refreshed by her visit
that it would have been inhuman if she had

not called again. She did call again, and again ;
and by-and-by she fell into the way of bringing
jellies and little dainties to tempt the sick
man's appetite. One day as he was dining on
a warm and greasy broth, misnamed beef tea,
he laid it down scarce tasted on her entrance,
and with manifest disrelish pushed it away.
Judith peered and sniffed at the ungrateful
preparation, and pressed him to try her jelly
instead. " I know how beef-tea should be
made, and I shall bring your landlady a
supply, and then she will only have to warm
a little from time to time as you want it."

The next day Judith arrived, carrying
upstairs with difficulty a large stone jar in a
basket. In the study, which was also the
ante-chamber to the sick-room, she encountered
the landlady coming out. Mrs.
McQuirter looked her full in the face, flushing
indignantly and eyeing with a sniff and a toss
of the head the jar which Judith was lifting
with difficulty to the table.

Good morning, Mrs. McQuirter," said
Judith in her most conciliatory manner.

Morning, miss," replied the other with
a side-long glance which was far from friendly.

How do you think Mr. Bunce is to-day,
Mrs. McQuirter ? "

Guess you're going in, miss, and will see
VOL. I. 13

for yourself; so there's no good me telling
you. You'd be sure to think you knew a
deal better," and she sailed towards the door
in her grandest style ; then turning as if an
idea had struck her, and as if fearing that she
had not already been sufficiently provoking,
she added :

Say, miss ! Is that sleigh as brought you
and your basket still at the door? We've a
deal of old crockery here as don't belong tous,
and we'd be right glad to be rid on. Odd
bowls, and plates, and chipped jelly glasses as
don't match our sets, and make me feel kind o'
mean dien neighbours come in at dish-washing
time with their 'Laws, Mrs. McQuirter,
now ! and where in goodness did you ever
pick up all them cracked dishes ? ' If you're
agreeable, I will just get 'em all together and
send them back by the carman before they
get broke, for it 'ud cost more than the vale
of all the messes they brought here to replace
'em with new."

Judith felt indignant, and coloured deeply,
but as to reply in kind would have been to
raise a dragon in the path to her friend's
bedside, she restrained herself, and merely
answered : " By all means, Mrs. McQuirter.
Kindly help me to lift this jar out of the
basket, and then you can take it."

And what may you be bringing here in
your large crock, miss ? " asked the landlady
contemptuously. It seemed so impossible to
irritate this old maid into the scolding match
she thirsted for, that she was growing to
despise as well as detest her.

This is some beef tea — a most excellent
form in which to give nourishment to invalids
like Mr. Bunce."

Beef-tea, indeed ! It's more like half-melted
glue to look at. Ugh ! "

Quite natural in you to say so, Mrs.
McQuirter. So few people know what beef-tea
really should be like. It is the strength
of the stock, which has jellied in cooling,
that gives it the appearance you allude to.
If you will j must warm a cupful in a saucepan
as it is wanted, without letting it boil, you will
find it delicious. Try a little of it yourself,
I know you will like it."

Not me ! And do you know, miss, how
many large knuckles of beef I have boiled into
tea in the last ten days ? And scarce a drop
has he let pass his lips ! All clean gone to
waste. I don't hold with beef tea for Mr.
Bunce no ways. He seems to hate it like
pizen."

I am not surprised at his having refused
the decoction I saw sent up to him yesterday,"

13—2

said Judith with a reHsh. It seemed that
notwithstanding her forbearance she was to
have an innings, and she meant to use it
in truly Christian fashion ; not to exult
openly, but to rub any blistering truth which
came to hand well into the bone. " In making
beef-tea all fat is carefully removed,
and the meat is then placed in a jar with salt
and cold water, near the fire, where it must
stand for hours without boiling or even simmering.
Now, really, Mrs. McQuirter," and
she dipped a teaspoon in the jar, "just taste
how good it is ! If you will warm a cup or
so of it two or three times a day I am confident
you will have no difficulty in getting
Mr. Bunce to drink it."

I think I see me trying it, miss I And it
shows your assurance to be evening me to the
like. You are but a young lady yet, so to
say, though you were born ten years before
myself, I guess, as am the mother of six —
leastways you are but an old maid, when all is
said, and to take upon you to tell me how to
make beef-tea ! Me, as am the mother of six,
and has buried a good husband. And many a
bowl of my beef-tea the poor man drank, and
him lying on the very feather bed where the
parson lies now."

And he died, Mrs. McQuirter? I am not

surprised," said Miss Judith, thinking more
of her argument and less of conciliation as
the talk went on. " I observed the mixture
yesterday when Mr. Bunce was unable to
swallow it — a mere mixture of grease and
warm water. Do you not know that at boiling
point albumen coagulates, and becomes
insoluble, like the white of a hard-boiled egg?
You would not expect the water you boil
eggs in to be very nourishing ? Your beef-tea
is just like that, and if your late husband's
dietary contained no more nourishing items,
I cannot wonder that he did not survive."

You audacious old maid, you ! How
dear you ? To insinuate that me as has
fairly slaved for my man and his children
had a hand to his taking off. But I'll have
the law of you, I will ! and I take Mr. Bunce
in there as must have heard ye, if he's awake
yet, to witness that you said it. Me, the
mother of six, to be insulted and put upon
by an old thing as never was able to get
married at all ! And it shows the men's good
sense, that same. And here you come with your
broths and your messes after my poor young
gentleman, as is laid on the broad of his back,
and too sick to run away from you like the
rest. And it's a disgrace to your sect, you
are, miss ! for all your silk, and your sealskin,

and me but a poor lone giddy with a quiet
lodger — to be coming here at all hours courting
a gentleman as don't want you — you that
are old enough to be his grandmother and
should be at home making your soul, for
your change as must come before long,
'stead of running that shameless after the men
to make them marry you."

*' Oh ! " was all that Judith could utter,
throwing up her black gloved hands to the
ceiling and then dropping in a heap on a stool
m the corner and burying her face in her
handkerchief. The wordy hurricane had
fallen on the flower — an elder flower — and
beaten it down and crushed it ; and there she
cowered in her confusion, convulsed with
sobs, while the hurricane whistled but the more
wildly in its triumph, and would fain have
scattered and dispersed the ruin it had already
made.

And well may you hide your face after
such ongoings ! and it don't become one assets
up for quality to have done the like ; to
be coming here a forgetting of a poor young
gentleman to marry her, as it's quite uncertain
if he will see the light of next week ! Or is it
that you think you will make the people say
he has treated you bad if he don't, after you
coming here so often ? But the people knows

better, miss ! and they say you're too old for
him ; and that you've been forgetting around
him that long, it's a fair amazement between
his patience and your perseverance whatever
comes of it. The very rector of the parish
takes notice on it, and the rector's lady says
its shameless the way you go on to make him
marry you ! "

Silence, Mrs. McQuirter ! with your bad
and cruel tongue."

Mrs. McQuirter turned and stood aghast.
The door of the sleeping-room had opened
without noise, and framed in the opening
stood Dionysius, like the picture of his
canonized namesake stepped out of some
Gothic window. One arm was thrust into the
sleeve of a purple dressing-gown which was
wrapped about him, leaving exposed his chest
and other arm clothed in their snowwhite
sleeping gear. Excitement caused by the
altercation he must have overheard, and the
exertion of rising had brought a feverish
Hush to his cheeks, burning into hectic spots
amid the pallor of illness, and there was a
lustre in his eye, which could the world
have seen, it would have reconsidered its
judgment of his appearance as ordinary and
commonplace.

How dare you address my kind visitor —

my friend — in the wicked words I have heard
you use ? "

Mrs. McQuirter was taken aback ; but
being now, to use her own phrase, " in for it,"
as having sinned beyond forgiveness, and sure
to lose her lodger, it seemed best to retreat in
good order, and show neither fear nor remorse.

"What a lone giddy like me says, Mr.
Bunce, ain't of no 'count to a gentlemanlike
you, sir, and I have always done my very
best to make you comfortable, so my mind's
easy. It's what the rector's lady says, and the
quality in your church, and if you like to have
them speaking that way of you and that — that
female there, as is ashamed to look an honest
woman in the face, 'taint no affairs of mine."

Judith felt as if she would gladly die, and
sank from the stool to the carpet m a collapsed
heap. If the ground would have opened
and swallowed her, how thankful she would
have been ; but it did not, and she could but
bury her face deeper in her lap.

The lady you have presumed to scandalize
so shamefully," the curate resumed, "has called
here at my earnest request. If I could induce
her to come more frequently she would be
even more welcome ; and in case you should
still have any doubts, let me tell you plainly
that if this lady would condescend to accept

me, there is no one I would so gladly make
my wife. Now! I have said all that can
possibly interest you. Leave the room instantly,
and close the door."

The door closed behind Mrs. McQuirter and
the two were left together. Judith's confusion
was too great to permit her to lift her
head, but there was a tremor of expectancy
in the heap of silk and sealskin into which she
had collapsed, which made itself felt in the
surrounding air. She had ceased to sob, and
became all ear. Even the silk of her gown,
though she was crouched so close that to draw
breath without a movement seemed impossible,
forbore to rustle.

Dionysius stood still in his white and purple
like a Gothic saint, but less erect now that
the impulse of battle had spent itself. He
stood a committed man, yet a man who has
not yet spoken, shivering on the brink of the
proposal which he has bound himself to
make. You remember the feeling, my married
friend, when the words grew too unwieldy to
articulate, and there was a pause. The leading
up to the grand climax had been achieved,
the lady and the universe were waiting, the
very next word must be the word of fate, and
you were not dreaming of drawing back, but
still it lingered; and oh! the effort it took to

launch that ill-formed sentence ! Dionysius
stood, and his strength was waning. Before
him there was the prostrate heap of clothing
which waited but made no sign, and the air
around was still and listening. The very fire
forgot to blaze and crackle, and looked at him
silently in red unblinking expectation. Only
the clock on the mantelpiece went on unmoved,
counting the fleeting seconds as they
sped with dispassionate calmness. They were
slipping away, and so too was his strength,
and yet he had not spoken.

"Judith," he said at last with a great effort;
but when he had so far found his voice the
words came easier.

'' Judith, my fr Judith ! " and he went

and laid a tremulous hand upon her shoulder.
You have heard the words I spoke to Mrs.
McQuirter. Will you forgive me that I
should thus have declared myself in the
presence of a stranger before having spoken
to yourself. Believe me, dear, it was from
no disrespect, no lack of appreciation ; but
you know how we have been with each other.
Our close fellowship in the higher life may
have made us forgetful of mere earthly
relations, but we must remedy that now.
This foolish woman, with her idle tongue,
has spoken words of more wisdom than she

knew, and if we are to be companions on
the heavenward way, is it not well that our
earthly paths should be united ? "

A thrill ran all through Judith's frame.
He felt her tremble beneath his hand, but
still she did not lift her head.

"Judith, my own dear, you muse marry
me ! It is necessary for your good name.
If that is not enough to move you, it is
necessary for mine. I will not have them
say that I could trifle with a woman's regard.
Though what care we, either you or I, for
people's idle talk ? Have we not been walking
hand-in-hand, each helping and supporting
the other to live aright ? And has not our
companionship been for good to both ? Let
us marry, Judith! and silence babbling
tongues. It will be best so. Look up, my
friend, and answer. And yet, Judith, I must
own it, I am poor. I have nothing but the
stipend of my curacy ; and when the poor,
my brothers, have had their share, and my
yearly bills are paid, there is nothing over.
Not a cent. It will explain to you how I
never came to think of marriage before."

Then Judith raised her face suffused with
blushes, and lighted with a happy eager look
which had not been seen there before in
twenty years ; and under the transfiguring influence

of an unexpected joy, she looked for
the moment almost beautiful. So, when the
fogs and rain of autumn have spent their
strength, and the frosts of winter still linger in
their coming, there fall halcyon days, when
nature, not yet stripped bare of flower and
foliage, blooms out again in her Indian summer.
The trees are hung with wreaths of gold-bright
leaves, or garlanded with crimson, the
sod renewed by rains after the summer scorching,
is green with a greenness unseen at other
times ; the garden is still cheered by marigolds
and asters, larkspur and phlox, and the sky and
the waters have a sunny blueness, shining but
the brighter for the smoky grey which conceals
the distance — the distance which harbours
winter, tempest, rain, too soon to be let loose.

A tear was quivering on Judith's eyelash.
A happy sob gave a tremor to her voice when
she tried to speak.

Dionysius. And do you mean it ? Marry
marry me ! But it is only your gentlemanly
feeling which will not have me talked about.
I dare not take you at your word, however —

however much — I mic^ht " and her colour

deepened, and the drops rained down, and
again she hid her face.

Indeed, it is not so, Judith. You may
indeed believe me — if only you will have it so.

And we have been so much to each other —
and now we must be nothing any more, unless
you will consent to marry."

Judith moved as if trying to gain her feet,
and Dionysius took her hand to lend assistance,
and so it came about that they stood with
their arms entwined. Judith's head dropped
on the curate's shoulder, and felt as if it would
gladly linger there for ever. And he, the lady
clinging and half-supported in his arms, had a
vague sense of heroic worth and power as
man ; standing thus before the universe,
lord of another life besides his own ; and
many other feelings, surging and confused,
which would not lend themselves to words.
And little more was said, though much was
understood and agreed between them ; and
by-and-by the striking of the clock recalled
them to common life, and both sat down.
Then Dionysius, exhausted with excitement,
grew faint and returned to his room.

Judith lingered till she was assured that the
faintness was wearing off, and then she stole
softly downstairs on her way home. Softly as
she stepped, however, she was overheard, and
ere she could reach the door, Mrs. McQuirter
stood before her blocking the way ; but it was
Mrs. McQuirter in a different part from the
one she had played so lately. Then, she was

the dragon landlady ready to devour an intrusive
and defenceless spinster, now she was
the lone widow, the mother of six. One
little toddler held on to her gown, she led
another by the hand, while her other hand
held a napkin saturated with the moisture
which ran from her streaming eyes and bedewed
her face.

"Oh, miss!" lie cried with a sob, and the
little ones piped a small chorus of sympathy,
I was wishful to speak to you as you went
oat, to make it up with you for Avhat I said
upstairs. And I'm free to confess, miss, it
was not my place to speak the way I did.
But I'm hot by nature, miss, and when once I
begin, my tongue runs clean away from me.
But I bear no malice, miss, as John McQuirter
often said. ' She bears no malice,' he'd say,
and them's his very words."

"It is of no consequence, Mrs. McQuirter ;
I'm willing to overlook," and Judith endeavoured
to slide past in the narrow hallway,
but the little ones, with faces damp and sticky,
and threatening damage to any article of
apparel which might rub against them in
passing, blocked the way.

"And it's good of you to say so much,
miss ; and it does credit to Mr. Bunces choice.
And oh, Miss ! you'll remember, will you not ?

I'm a lone giddy, and the mother of six !
And it's hoping you'll have a fine family of
your own some day," which made Judith
blush. " And sou won't be for allowing Mr.
Bunce to change his lodging, and all along of
a few thoughtless words, as I'm truly sorry
for the saying on. You won't now ? Willie,
miss ? Like a dear."

I have told you, already, Mrs. McQuirter,
I shall overlook the offence. Mr. Bunce is
too ill to think of moving. He feels quite
faint after the disturbance you caused him,
and he needs nourishment. You had better
warm him a cupful of that beef-tea I brought.
Warm it in a saucepan, but don't let it boil ;
and send up a few tippets of dry toast among
with it. The sooner you can let him have it
the better." And having prescribed this
penance to the spirit-broken mother of six,
she got away.

It was near the end of Lent before the
secret of the engagement was divulged, though
the wedding was to be immediately after
Easter ; but then a storm of ridicule arose
which could not but offend those most
interested. Judith's own family were as provokingly
sarcastic as any one in the churches
of St. Silas or St. Wittikind, and that is saying
much. It became clear to the young couple

that they must leave the city ; so Dionysius
resigned his curacy and accepted the small
missionary parish of St. Euphrase. The
emoluments there were less than he had enjoyed
in the city, but his wife was possessed
of a modest competency, on which in that
sequestered place, they contrived to live in
comfort and respect.

If the taste in which Judith had endeavoured
to remunerate her appearance was doubtful,
the acquisition of a spouse had still had the
best influence in softening and sweetening her
nature, and her gratitude and devotion to the
man who had looked on her in her loneliness
were pleasant to see. For him, it was only
after marriage and the worship which it
brought him at his own fireside, that it began
to dawn on Mr. Bunce what a very superior
man he must surely be, and he felt beholden
to his helpmate for making the discovery.
So Mahomet no doubt, felt to the elderly
Kadijah, his first wife, the earliest of
his converts, and the first to recognize him
as a prophet. In after years he married
women younger and more beautiful, but none
ever held a place so high in his affection as
the wealthy widow who had married him in
his poverty and youth.

A GARDEN TEA.

It was on the same afternoon as that referred
to, previous to the long digression in the last
chapter, but perhaps a trifle earlier, though
the torrid glare of mid-day had passed, and
the cool shadows below the trees had begun
to creep eastward on the shaven lawn. The
air was full of warmth and sunshine, with just
stir enough to move the aspen leaves upon
the tree, and scatter more faint and widely
the scent of roses beyond the alleys, where
it hung in drowsy sweetness, mingling with
the droning of bees and inviting to mid-day
sleep, that crowning deliciousness of summer
weather.

The Misses Stanley were in their grounds,
and they had friends. They were in their
grounds, that is to say in a shady corner of the
lawn by the house, where three or four grand
hemlocks, survivors of the forest, spread out
umbrageous arms over a glimmering arcade of
VOL. I. 14

gloom, where never sunbeam stole, and the
shady air was fresh with the fragrant breath
of resins drawn from the upper branches
by the sun. There, lounging on cane chairs
and garden seats, they plied their fans calmly,
and chatted, but not too much or loud, in
sociable repose. It was early in July, when
everything is green and fresh and vigorous —
bud, bloom, and spray instinct with brimming
life, and not a yellowing leaf to tell of memories
or regret, all hope and promise and delight in
the flowery present and the fruitful days to
come. Great butterflies were tumbling in the
brightness, and there was a low continuous
murmur in the grass from the thousand living
things too small to be separately or distinctly
heard ; and ever and anon from around the
banks of shrubs would come the gurgling
laughter of youthful voices, so lightsome in
its freedom from care and adult emotion.

There were six of them, those youthful
ones, whose merry voices disturbed the slumbrous
heat, walking or running, heedless alike
of shade and sunshine, their hands full of
roses. Muriel was one of them, the ladies'
niece, and Tilly Martindale, Miss Matilda's goddaughter,
and Betsey Bunce, a niece of the
rector, and so a sort of cousin to the family.
There was Gerald Herkimer, Ealph's only

child, whose mother Martha was sitting with
the ladies in the shade, and Randolph Jordan,
the son of Matilda's friend Amelia who was
sitting by her at that moment. And, last, there
was Pierre Bruneauau, a black-eyed habitant
boy, the son of Jean, who managed the farm.
He had been working in the garden, and
seeing Muriel, had found some small service
to render her, and had lingered near, unconscious
of the sidelong glances of her companions.
She had given him her flowers to
carry and bade him bring them to the house,
and he, intoxicated with their fragrance, or
rather, perhaps, at being permitted to carry
them for his mistress when the young gentlemen
were by, joined gaily in the general
laughter, and even ventured to put in a jest in
his queer French-English, to the amusement and
plantation of the not over-well pleased company.
They were all between fifteen and seventeen
years old, all except Muriel. Muriel
was eleven, and all the promise of her
babyhood, which had dropped so unexpectedly
into the ladies' arms, had been more
than fulfilled. The roses and the butterflies
were pale dim things beside her, as she
skipped among the rest, her long hair shining
like threads of gold where it caught the light,
and melting into a warm shadow beneath the

14—2

leaf of her spreading garden-list, from beneath
whose brim there shone a pair of eyes luminous
in their glee and innocency, penetrating
without sharpness and soft without being
dull ; lips short, red, and parted, displaying
teeth small, regular, well apart, like a string
of evenly-assorted pearls.

The fete was hers — her birthday it was called
and in reality it was the anniversary of her
appearance in her present life, on the night after
the thunderstorm, when the ladies had found
her on their doorsteps. Penelope, prudent
and timid, would rather have left the day unmarked,
in case talk should arise ; but Matilda,
emboldened by success in her plan of adoption,
insisted that fears were now idle, " that
their darling must keep her birthday like
other children, and that it would be unthankful
to the good Providence who had sent
the little one to brighten their humdrum lives,
if they kept the feast on any other day. Besides,
what was there to fear ? Every servant
in the house had been changed over and over
in the ten years which had intervened since
then ; even Smithers the nurse, who had stayed
the longest, was gone these three years, and
she had not only been paid to hold her tongue,
but was too fond of the child to let slip a word
which could injure her. Only Bruneauau aid

his family remained about the place, and they
were such quiet and respectful habitants they
would not babble ; and even if they would,
who could understand them? The servants
did not understand French, and Jean's and his
wife's English was so awkward and hard to
come, they never spoke to any of them if it
could be avoided. There was the boy Pierre,
to be sure, " But remember, sister, how respectful
he has always been, even when, years
ago, we used to send for him to come and play
with Muriel ; and now that he has grown big
and able to work, he seems to pay far more
attention to the orders she gives him than to
any of ours." So Penelope shrugged her
shoulders with a sigh, as she always did in the
end when Matilda was " positive," and yielded
the point.

What a pretty, graceful child Muriel is,"
said Mrs. Martindale, Tilly's mother, a
widow. They had come from Montreal for
the fete.

Yes, indeed," said Mrs. Jordan, " she will
make a sensation in Montreal when you bring
her out, Matilda ; but that is some years in the
future yet. The other girls had better make
haste and arrange themselves before she
appears," and she glanced at Mrs. Martindale,
which was gratuitously unkind, seeing that

Tilly, being only fifteen, would not appear in
the world for two winters to come, and she
promised to be a remarkably fine girl, and in
quite a different style. But then her boy
Randolph had been essaying to pipe his first
small note for ladies' ears in those of the damsel,
and she, though not yet out, was grown
woman enough to desiderate whiskers or a
moustache in an admirer, and to scorn with
youth's uncompromising freedom the advances
of a callow swain of her own tender years.
Ten years later, how different her views will
be ! But so, in ten years' time, will his be too —
and the gentleman will have the pull then, as
much as the lady has it now. Wherefore, my
dear Mrs. Amelia, you might very well have
forborne to resent the seeming slight upon
your boy ! But women are such partisans,
especially the good ones ; and she who is not,
even if she be half a philosopher, is but half a
woman — and not the best half either.

And now the creaking of the entrance gate
was heard, and the crunching of wheels on the
gravel ; and presently from among the clumps
of shrubbery which screened them from the
road there issued a caleche, the French Canadian
substitute for an American buggy, high
set and hung on leather straps instead of
springs ; and in it swung the rector and his

spouse, trundling along to the front of the
house.

Mrs. Jordan lifted her pince-nez to her eyes.
Ha ! a calash ! Mr. Bunce, of course. Nobody
else would get into such a thing."

Do you know, I like them, and they are
very much used down at Quebec," observed
Mrs. Martindale, rendered generally contradictious
by the tone of the other's recent
remarks.

They make me seasick. I feel as if I were
in a cradle."

Was that the effect your cradle had,
Amelia dear? You have certainly an uncommon
memory to recollect so well ; for
surely you were in the advanced class at Mrs.
Jones' when I was learning my letters."

Quite true, Louisa," said the other, biting
her lip ; " but you know you were a backward
child. Great talent is often slow in showing
itself, you know. What a droll pair those two
make, swinging up there in company — as
contented as Darby and Joan carrying their
eggs to market. Ah, now they are out of
sight — gone round to the front door. I
am told that on their wedding tour they were
mistaken for mother and son — and, strange
to say, the error did not put them out in
the least."

I think it nice, myself," said Penelope,
to see people so content to be happy in their
own way, and so indifferent to the world's idle
talk. It is idle talk, Amelia. When two
people find each other's company desirable,
are they not foolish to give it up for fear that
somebody else will laugh? How much would
that somebody else do to make either of them
happy ? And how little he could do. Perhaps
you do not know, Amelia, that Mr. Bunce is our
cousin, and therefore we feel bound to like
him. At the same time he is your rector,
of course, while you are living at St.
Euphrase, and I admit your right to criticise
him."

And here the clerical pair coming through
a window from the drawings-room descried the
party in the shade and joined them, which
changed the conversation ; at the same time
the crunching gravel gave notice of other
arrivals. First, a waggonette carrying Jordan,
Considine and Ealph ; and before these had
time to alight and join the rest, a rockaway,
with the family from La Hache. Mrs. Martha
Herkimer, who had been enjoying the heat
and the coolness and the buzz of talk in a large
lounging chair, with her fan drooping listlessly
in her hand, and her pose indicating enjoyment
of the quiescent if not somnolent kind, roused

herself, shook out her skirts, and sat down
again bolt upright, ready to become acquainted
with the French people her husband so wished
to know, as soon as possible.

Madame Eouget led by her lord, hat in hand,
and followed by her daughter, all smiles and
sweetness, fluttered through the window to
the grass, where her hostesses met her and
exchanged salutations eked out with gesture,
in which gloves a little brighter and eyebrows
a trifle more arched than the Anglo-saxon
pattern bore an important part. Madame's
English was not fluent ; the Misses Stanley, with
the backwardness of their nation, did not venture
to use French, and there was some obscurity
and delay in the opening phrases,
during which M. Eouget stood benevolently
by, still uncovered and regardless of sun and
sunstroke. In time they reached the grateful
shade of the hemlocks, where the newcomers
inhaled the perfumed coolness with infinite
relish, after the glare and dust of their recent
drive ; and then there came presentations of
the lately come neighbours, with profuse explanations
from Madame, " that her English
so difficile had made her delay, till she was so

combe of confusions, that Ah, well ! she

prayed the ladies to excuse ; " and she smiled
very graciously, and pressed the hands of

Amelia and Martha, lisping hopes to be
better acquainted ; meaning, no doubt, as
with Penelope and lier sister, the exchange of
half-yearly visits, which, 'in view of differences
of church as well as language, was as much
as could be expected. That church counted
for a great deal became evident when " Mrs.
Bunce, the wife of my cousin the rector,"
was next presented. The smile died out of
Madame's face, and the impressment faded
from her manner as she bowed more deeply
than before with eyes fastened on the ground.
The hetise,'' as she said to her daughter afterwards,
" of those English ! To introduce the
wife of one of their married priests to me, the
niece of My Lord the Archbishop ! "

But he is of their family, we must recollect,
my mother," replied this judicious young
person. " And perhaps they do not know of
my great uncle the Archbishop. At least the
ladies intended to be kind, and Monsieur
Gerald Herkimaire, and Monsieur Randolph
are both ires comme ilfaut ? " On which Madame
patted the precocious utterer of so much
wisdom — she was not yet sixteen — with her
fan, and laughed heartily. But this did not
occur till the following morning.

Penelope was not slow to perceive that the
last presentation had not been a success, and

came promptly to the rescue, by asking Mrs.
Bunce a question, while Matilda drew off the
attention of the others by asking Mademoiselle
if she would not join the young people, and
leading her away, while the mother and the
rest fell into conversation with the gentlemen.

The young ones by this time had sent Pierre
to the house with their flowers, and were lingering
on Muriel's croquet ground until Miss
Martindale should persuade herself that she
was not too grown up to play, a conclusion
which she speedily arrived at on the appearance
of the new comer, who was quite as
advanced as herself and seemed eager to begin.

How your niece is most gracieuse, and so
pretty ! " said the Frenchwoman to Matilda
when she rejoined the elders.

Yes, indeed ! " said Mrs. Martindale, " she
is one of the very nicest little girls I know ;
and so clever. You should hear her play. It
is more like a grown person's performance
than a child's. And to think she should never
have had any governess but dear Matilda here !
I call it quite remarkable."

Ah " said Madame sympathetically. It is
always a safe observation to make, especially
in reply to what has not been very clearly
understood, and the inflection of the voice can
make it stand for so many things, that if it is

only uncertain it will mean whatever the hearer
likes best.

It is a loss to society that women like you
should be independent, Matilda," said Amelia.
What a governess you would have made !
You need not shrug ; it is a compliment, and
one which very few people can claim. If you
knew the troubles of governess-ridden mothers,
you would understand me ; so few are worth
much, and those few keep one in constant
dread of their growing dissatisfied and leaving,
till the mother's life becomes a burden. ' lam
so glad my family consists only of a boy, and
it is Jordan's business to think what is to
become of him," glancing at the croquet
players.

That young gentleman," said Madame,
following the direction of the other's eyes.
'^ Distingue! What joy to have one so fine
son ! "

Mrs. Jordan smiled her gratification and
could not help glancing across at Mrs. Martin-dale,
whose daughter's depreciation of the
paragon must have ruffled her maternal plumage
not a little.

Yes," she said, " he is a dear boy — so
manly and yet so affectionate," and her eyes
drooped, and her voice fell, as it will when
one talks of something near the heart ; and

there were signs — woman of the world though
she was — of her maundering on upon the
same sweet theme, if only there were an attentive
silence.

But this Mrs. Martha's patience could not
yield. She saw nothing so remarkable in the
Jordan boy " for that affected French woman
to make a fuss about. If it had been her
Gerald now, there might have been some sense
in it — with his delicate fair skin like a girl's, and
his sturdy broad shoulders. It was true young
Jordan had the advantage in height ; but what
matters half an inch ? And as to the manliness
" And again she seemed to be standing

in an upper window of her town house, securely
hid behind a curtain, looking down on the two
boys in a tussle. How her boy tumbled the
other over, let him get up and knocked him
down again, and pummelled him till he had
had enough. And she ? Had she been a
right-minded person — taken in the abstract —
of course she would have interfered ; but being
only a woman and a mother, and seeing it washer
side which played the winning game, she
merely stood and looked on. Lady lecturers
and authors often tell us of the higher moral
plane from which the gentle sex surveys the
world's affairs, but for honest old-world delight
in sheer physical force and muscular prowess.

can a woman be equalled ? It must be a survival
from the days of savagery and marriage
by capture. The learned professor's wife may
expect to be led out to dinner before plain
mistress, but as likely as not she is innocent of
even a smattering of the " ology " on which her
husband's reputation is built ; but she whom
good fortune has wed to a Victoria Cross
knows every detail of his achievements and
believes herself married to a demigod.

But this is discussion. It seemed to Martha
that Amelia was about to moralize aloud upon
her boy, and having a kindness for her and
being unwilling that she should make herself
absurd, she broke the momentary silence with

And really. Miss Matildy now " — Martha
was a lady ' Noo Hampshire ' — " doo tell !
Have you taught the child her letters and pothooks
and some of the multiplication table all
by yourself ; and you not married ? Well, now,
I call it real smart — you might almost do fora
school mari. That you might, with just
taking pains — at least, if you, had begun
earlier."

Ealpli was standing within earshot, and it
is not unlikely that he wished his wife had
not spoken. She was a good soul, he well
knew. She had been a beauty, and once
there had seemed a quaint charm in the

direct and high-pitched utterances which
stole from between those coral lips. But that
was years ago. The lips were withered now ;
it was on account of her poor health they had
come to live at St. Euphrase, and only the
unusual and impolite utterances remained to
wound the sensibilities of polished ears —
now, too, when he had become rich, and he
could buy her whatever she wanted, and would
have bought her some conventional refinement
as gladly as her diamonds from Tiffany's.
It was Matilda, however, who replied in support
of her own achievements.

Letters and pothooks, my dear Mrs.
Herkimer ? Muriel can read the newspapers
and even 'Paradise Lost' perfectly well. She
reads me to sleep every Sunday afternoon with
Paradise Lost ' or Young's ' Night Thoughts.'
I think poetry is improving for the child, you
know, and I enjoy it myself. It soothes me.
And, by-the-way, it was she who wrote asking
you to come here to-day."

"Well now! You don't " ejaculated

Martha; but Matilda, though mollified, ran
on : " Indeed, I believe I have gained quite
as much as Muriel by her lessons. One must
know a thing in order to teach it. I found
my own education had grown sadly rusty, and
needed brushing up. I had no idea there was

SO much interesting information to be got
from "Mangnall's Questions" and "The Child's
History of England" till I went over them
with Muriel. As to music, I used to play, but
was getting out of practice ; she has revived
my interest in it, and now we both play and
sing together — in a mild way, my dear Amelia ;
pray do not look apprehensive, I am not
meditating an exhibition. But I was going
to say, I think Muriel needs better teaching
than mine, now ; so we propose going to
Montreal for the winter. I cannot teach languages,
and her voice seems worth cultivating."


Take her to Selby, Miss Matildy," cried
the worthy Martha, little dreaming how her
husband and his aunt wished her a lockjaw.
He is married to a sister of Judy's there —
plays the organ at St. Wittikind's — does it
beautiful, my dear, but you will have heard
him — and if there is any sing in the child it is
he will bring it out. He'd make the kettle
sing."

"We can all do that," said Judith disgusted.
" Put another stick in the stove,
that's all it wants. And this is little Muriel's
birthday. Miss Matilda ? How old is she today?
Twelve? Ah— Pretty child, but not
very tall. But that is in the family, I suppose.

Dionysius is almost short, and Betsey there is
really stumpy. But I do not see much resemblance
in her to Betsey."

Neither do I."

But one would expect to see a family-likeness."


"Between second cousins? I do not seethe
necessity."

Blood always tells, you know. Yet she is

not even like Dionysius no trace of his

square intellectual forehead, or anything."

Your niece and her uncle are Bunces,
perhaps, and Muriel a Stanley."

But she is not like you either."

I confess I never was clever about seeing
likenesses, but I am sure I could not be fonder
of the child if she were ever so like me.
Penelope, do you not think we might have
tea, now ? "

Considine had heard Martha's mention of
Selby. It was the first time in years that he
had heard the name. It awoke recollections
which had long been asleep. Jordan, his co-trustee
in the Herkimer fortune had no
doubt told him the family story on his return
to Montreal, but at that time his mind was
full of his own cares, and since then the
mere periodical investment of dividends had
not called for a recurrence to the subject.
VOL. I. 15

Though, doubtless, he remembered his old attachment,
and would still have felt a kindness
for its object had his thoughts wandered that
way, the preoccupations of business led them
in other directions ; the tender passages
were relegated to the same limbo as the
memories of childhood, and his ante helium
possessions wiped out of existence by the
event of war. Love-dreams, longings, the
yearnings of what we call our " hearts," are
luxuries of the well-to-do, living at their ease.
When the wolf comes to the door, and the
means of subsistence are in doubt or danger,
Cupid, the ethereal sprite, feeding daintily on
sighs and idle fancies, wings himself way ;
and in the turmoil of hard material facts, he is
not missed. It is best so. The heart wounds, forgot
ten, skin over and heal, where head and arms
are in danger from the blows of fortune ; and so
the undivided energies are free for the combat.
But now, his personal affairs having
arranged themselves in an easy well-to-do
routine which gave no anxiety, his mind was
open to other interests, and of these there were
not enough to engage it. He often felt dull
and lonely. He would now and then accompany
Ealph to St. Euphrase, remaining overnight
and returning to town in the morning,
thereby killing a long afternoon, as on the

present occasion ; but this could be only an
occasional palliation. The "planting" years of
his youth, as he called them, and the fighting
years which followed, had not been the apprenticeship
to make him take an undivided
merest in business for its own sake after
he had secured income sufficient for his needs.
He had outlived his relish for the society of
young men — young men of business, at least —
the middle-aged had withdrawn into domestic
life, and he found himself a good deal alone.

The mention of Selby's name stirred
old associations which time and adventure
had long deprived of bitterness ; and now
he looked back with only a plaintive yearning
to the happiness which might have
been, if he had had his way, and pitied himself
in his solitary estate. If he had married,
what wealth of love was his to have bestowed!
And how he could have enjoyed being cosseted
and purred to b}^ a wife of his own, instead
of depending on hirelings whose servile
smile betrayed the hollowness of their attentions.
The smoking-room at his club, and
his own rooms at the hotel rose before his eye
in their dull solid unsatisfying comfort, and he
could not but compare them with the clean,
smoky freshness and brightness of the
woman's world around him, and confess the

15—2

two as different and apart as the close warm
stuffiness of a winter sick-room, from the clear
keen day out of doors in early spring.

What ails you, general ? You look that
glum you might have been hearing of your
brother's death," said Martha, making room
for him on the garden seat where she sat.

I am well, madam. I heard you allude
just now to a Mr. Selby as having married
the sister of Mrs. Bunce. Are you acquainted
with the lady?"

To be sure I am. She is Ealph's aunt.
A dear good soul as ever lived, but real
sorrowful-like and sickly now — she that used
to be as peart and blooming as the flowers in
May. It's heart-breaking to see her. She
has never got over the loss of her child ten
years ago, and it has fairly broke her up.
Her hair is white like a woman of sixty. She
might be older than Judy, there ; and yet she
is just one age with Ealph — not forty yet."

"I recollect her very distinctly in her
brother Gerald's lifetime — a beautiful young
lady. That was before the war ; the first
time I was in Canada."

Were you in Canady then ? But to be
sure you were ! You were Gerald's friend,
and are a trustee of his property. Ah, yes !
I recollect. And you were "

But she did not say any more ; only she
looked in his face with a new interest, and
what would have been a kind and sympathizing
smile if good manners had not restrained
the manifestation. Nothing awakens the interest
of a good woman so warmly as a story
of true enduring love. If the love have been
unrequited, its constancy seems but the more
rarely and touchingly beautiful. It is something
to be dealt with delicately, and spoken
to in low, soft, ambiguous words that may
soothe but will not flutter the tender thiner.
It was such love that Martha dreamed of in
her youth, and humbly hoped for ; and when
Ealph, young, eager and impetuous, found her
in the New England homestead, she dreamed
the divine influence had descended to stir the
hushed and waiting: waters of her life. She
cheerfully left home and kindred to dwell with
the man who loved her, and she had been his
true and devoted wife. Yet often when she
recalled the enthusiasm of that early time it
seemed to her that the love-feast had been buta
Barmecide's banquet after all, or like the
husks with which another adventurer had to
stay his hunger when he left the shelter of
the paternal home. She lavished the wealth
of her own affection, but the return had
seemed but slender and humdrum to her higfh-

wrought expectations. The young couple
went to housekeeping, which is something
quite different from the Hfe of the humming-birds
among the flowers: Love's dainty fare
of sighs and kisses gave place to the grosser
nourishment of bread and beef. The bread
had to be earned, the house had to be kept,
and very soon the pair of Arcadian found
themselves toilers like the rest of the world.
He toiled with a will, nay with a relish; it was
what he was better fitted for than the fantastic
joys of feeling; and she did her part at least
without repining. It was what she had promised,
and she did it loyally, if wearily at
times, in the colourless greyness of daily life,
when she recalled the rosy dawn of maiden
love, with the heavens above all shining and
the world sparkling with dew. So Eve, mayhap,
looked back on Paradise when she was
sent forth with her lord into common life, and
doubtless she would sio-h at times to remember

o

it, even with her boys growing up around her.
And so with Martha in her prosperity, to fancy
Considine cherishing the ashes of a blighted
love, stirred feelings not dead, but lonc^ since
grown to be a mere luxurious pain — a poignancy
of plaintive delight.

Yes," said Considine, after allowing time
for the completion of Martha's interrupted

sentence, " yes, I believe it was to Miss
Mary's adherence to her own choice in the
matter of a husband that I owe my association
with Jordan as trustee under that eccentric
will. People cannot control their likings, I
suppose, and I do think the young lady was
hardly dealt with. I hope the marriage she
was so set on has turned out well. Is she in
good circumstances ? "

They are very comfortable ; but not rich,
of course. People do not make fortunes in
Selby's profession ; but when a woman throws
away one fortune she has no right to expect
another. However they'd have done well
enough if it had not been for losing the child.
That has fairly broke them up. They live
retired, and don't care to see anybody. Mary
keeps her room half the time, and if it was
not for Susan, who lives with them since Judy
married, I don't know what they would do.
But it gives me the dumps to think of them.
Is this not a nice place, general ? And how do
3'ou like the ladies ? Seems to me Miss Matildy
is just too altogether awful nice for anything."

And so she ran on, good soul. She was
bent on withdrawing Considine from what
she considered his "just too beautiful" contemplation
of an ancient grief, and resolved to
find him a suitable consoler. The consoler,

indeed, was already fixed upon inner own mind,
and ere she went home that afternoon, she had
already begun to depict the interesting bachelor
in colours which, but for the incipient baldness
above his temples, the shaggy moustache,
and the absence of wings, might have stood
for the Cupid on an old-fashioned valentine.

Her auditor was quite interested, in a
pleasant heart-whole way, and much as she
might have been over a new variety of
Brahman or other fowl ; for besides her
lively sensibility, Matilda had a considerable
fund of sober sense, though she was
scarcely herself aware of it. Nevertheless, it
was interesting to hear of the vanquished hero.
Martha dwelt much on his warlike exploits,
and his cherishing through years and battles
the memory of his old attachment. Captain
Lorimer — who knew ? — might have done the
same, and Matilda still thought kindly of him,
though she had never read his name in any
list of killed or wounded, and she had seen or
heard nothing of him since he marched his
men on board the steamer to the strains of
The girl I left behind me," amid the waving
handkerchiefs of the ladies on the wharf ; and
henceforth Matilda felt very friendly and
exerted herself to be pleasant whenever she
found herself in Considine's company.

ON ACCOUNT OF STRAWBERRIES.

The tea-table was set on the lawn where the
lengthening shadows inscribed themselves
map-wise in islands and peninsulas of coolness ;
and within the opened windows on the verandah
were other refreshments, whither the
gentlemen were invited to bend their steps,
while the ladies with their ices remained out
of doors. Muriel looking up, saw Pierre disappearing
among the bushes along the
approach.

Auntie," she whispered to Matilda, " give
me a big heaped-up plate of strawberries and
ice-cream for poor Pierre. See, there he goes
away home, all by himself. How lonely he
must feel ! and hot, and thirsty, to see us all
sitting out here eating nice things. Quick !
Tilly, dear, or he will be through the gate,
and at his own door before I can catch him ;
and then I may meet Annette, who is never
nice to me. I don't like Annette."

The plate was speedily filled and heaped
up, and away she ran.

To Pierre, trudging ' along the gravel in his
heavy boots, the light footsteps in pursuit
were inaudible ; and it was not till passing the
gate, he stopped to close it behind him, that
he heard his name called, and looking up, saw
Muriel running towards him. Of course he
stopped, and of course, too, being French, and
a civil lad, he pulled off his cap and waited.
An English lad would probably have turned
back to meet the young mistress ; but Pierre
was apt to grow confused when Muriel appeared
suddenly, she was so airy and different
from his own heavy lumbering self. So there
he stood, stock still like Jack stepping off his
bean-stalk, when the fairy tripping down the
meadow from the giant's castle, accosted
him.

"Here, Pierre, I have brought you these.
I wish I had seen you to give them sooner.
You could have eaten them in the garden
then, which would have been nicer."

Oh ! mademoiselle sees too kind," mumbled
Pierre, reddening to the roots of his hair and
looking sheepishly grateful. " Too moose of
trouble to give mademoiselle," and the burning
black eyes looked out from under their
lashes as if they would have spoken things

forbidden to the stammering tongue. But
there came a shrill call up the road just then,
Pier-rare ! " which quenched their lustre in a
moment, and brought a faint frown of impatience
even to Muriel's sunny brow.

Your mother is calling you, Pierre. Goodnight.
Bon appetite

"Ah! coquin! What is it thou dost there?"
was the greeting which met him as he drew
near, from his mother standing in the road
before the door. " Cochon ! Bete ! And thou
interest at the gate with the donzelle, forsooth.
Thou ! — Deny it not ! Undutiful !
And I have beaten thee for it when thou wert
small, till my poor heart ached more than the
bruises on thy little skin. And still thou wilt
persist. I pray the heavenly queen upon my
knees, and all the saints, to let thee die
sooner than come to love her. 'Twere mortal
sin."

My mother ? Calm yourself It was only
that the demoiselle ran after me to give this
plate of fruit. Will you not taste it ? "

Taste gift of hers ? Enfant fausse ! " and
she pushed aside the offered strawberries
which rolled plentifully from the plate and
were scattered on the ground."

"Ah, no, my mother! Not false! The
youngest angel in heaven is not more true and

good than Mademoiselle Muriel. But you will
not think so — I remind me often how you beat
me for her sake. Beat me again, my mother,
if so it please you ; but she is good and very
beautiful."

Sacer-re I " she ground out from between
her clenched teeth, with flashing eyes glancing
up and down the road ; and then she started
with a sob of fright, and a tremor ran through
her frame as she composed herself to speak
quite calmly. " I see thy father coming home.
He must not know of what we have spoken, if
thou would'st have thy mother's blessing when
I die. Pick up thy berries. It was a heedless
gesture of my arm which upset them.
Thou can'st say so much." And she went
indoors, leaving Pierre in bewilderment to
gather the fruit.

That his mother, so gentle and fond, so
sober, industrious and sensible, should break
out like one beside herself, if their ladies'
niece were but named, was unaccountable.
A mystery, and one he dared not even try to
solve. She had threatened to curse him if he
did but inquire. And yet it was only before
himself that she betrayed her feeling. In his
father's presence she showed no sign, but
would discuss the niece of their mistresses
with him with the same composure as their

horses, sheep or cattle. And yet mademoiselle
was so sweet ! And as he thought of her the
bewilderment vanished in his mind like mist
before the morning sun, and he forgot even
to pick up his strawberries scattered around,
while he knelt on the threshold.

Heh, Pierre ! On thy knees before sundown
? Will the rosary not keep till bedtime
? " said Jean, the father, stepping past
him into the house.

I am picking up some strawberries I let
fall just now. Mademoiselle Muriel brought
me them as I went home."

She is an angel of considerateness and
kindness — never forgets the poor for the sake
of the rich — just like monsieur the general,
her grandfather, if so please the ladies, and
the demoiselles his daughters. A family most
generous, even if they are not French and
good Catholics ; " and he crammed half-a-dozen
large strawberries into his mouth at once, and
gave them a crunch as though to drink the
family's health in a bumper of strawberry
wine.

Annette looked up from the baby she was
nursing, and there was a gleam of red and
smothered fire lurking in her eye, and she set
her teeth tight to hold back the struggling
wish that the girl's gift might choke him ;

while sire and son seated themselves on the
door-sill to consume the collation, the elder,
at least, utterly unconscious that aught was
amiss.

END OF VOL I.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 041679512

Relatives

.lf]■^^o^^ Of

NCHBf^ACK

OF

INCH BRACKEN,

A NOVEL BY R. Leland.
♦ ■i-'0^o«"i »

Westminster Review, October, 1883.

luchhracken " is a clever sketch of Scottish life and nmiiiicrs at the time
of the "Disruption," or great secession from the Established Cliurcli of
Scotland, which resulted in the formation of the Free Church. The scene
of the story is a remote country parish in the north of Scotland, within a
few miles of the highland line. The main interest centres in the young
Free Church minister and his sister and their relations, on the one hand,
with the enthusiastic supporters of the Disruption movement, mostly of the
peasant or small tradesmen class, with a sprinkling of the smaller landowners
; and, on the other hand, both the zealous supporters of the Established
Chnrcli, represented liy the Drysdales of Inchl)racken, the great
family of the neighborhood. The story is well and simply told, with many
a quiet touch of humour, founded on no inconsiderable knowledge of human
natui'c.

Academy, 2jth October, 1883.

There is a great deal of solid writing in " Inchbracken," and they who
real it will hardly do so in vain. It is a story of the Disquisition ; ami it sets
forth, with much chains and not a little sjnrit, the humours and .scandals of
one of the communities affected by the event. The main incident of the
story has nothing to do with the lJi<rui)tion, it is true ; but its personages
are those of the time, and the uses to wliieli they are put are such lus the
Disruption made possible. Koderick thrown. the enthusiastic young Free
Church minister, funis on the sea-shore after wreck and storm, a poor little
human waif which the sea has shared. lie takes the baby home, and does
his best for it. One of his parishioners has lost her character, however; and
as Frederick, at the instigation of his beadle, the real author of lier ruin, is
good enough to give her money and help, it soon becomes evident to
lnclil)racken that he is the villain', and that the liaby of the wreck is the
fruit of an illicit amour. How it ends I shall not say. I shall ilo no more
than note that the story of the minister's trials and the portraiture of
elders and gossips, hags and maids and village notables-with which it is
enriched are (especially if you are not afraid of the broadest Scotch, written
with the most uncompromising regard for the national honour) amusing and
natural in no mean degree. W. K. Hkni.ky.

Incbbracken " will be found amusing by those who are familiar with
Scotch country life. The period chosen, the "Disruption time," is an
epoch in the religious and social life of Scotland, marking a revival, in an
extremely modified and not altogether genuine form, of the polemic
Puritanism of the early Presbyterians, and so furnishing a subject which
lends itself better to literary treatment than most sides of Scottish life in
this prosaic century. The author has a good descriptive gift, and makes the
most of the picturesque side of the early Free Church meetings at which
declaimers against Erastian patronage posed in the attitude of the
Covenanters of old. The story opens on a stormy night when Frederick
Brown, the young Free Church minister of Kilrundle, is summoned on a ten-mile
expedition to attend a dying woman, an expedition which involves
him in all the troubles wldch form the subject of the book. The patient has
nothing on her mind of an urgent character. " No, mem ! na !' " says the
messenger.

•' My granny's a godly auld-wife, tho' maybe she's gye gracious
whiles, an' money's the sir paikin' she's given me ; gin there was
oct to confess she kens the road to the Throne better nor mast. But
ye see there's a maggie gotten until her held an' she says she but to
testified afore she gangs hence.' "

The example of Jenny Geddes has been too much for the poor old woman : —

Ay, an' I'm thinking' it's that auld carline, Jenny Geddes, 'at's

raised a' the fash ! My granny gazed to hear Mester Dowlas when he

preached among the whigs down by the shore, an' oh, but he was

bonny ! An' a grand screed o' doctrine he gae us. For twa hale

hours he preached an expended an' never drew breath for a' the wind

was skirling', an' the rent whiles skein' like wild. An' I'm thinking'

my granny's gotten her death o' ta'. But oh ! an' he was grand

on Jenny Geddes ! an' hoo she up wi' the creepie am' hewed it a the

Erastian's Jieid. An' my granny was just fairly ta'en wart a', an' she

wooed she but to be a mither in Israel tae, an' when she gazed hame

she out wi' the auld hugger 'at she keeps the bawbees in, neath the

hearthstone, for to buy a creepie 0' her ain, — she licht a new ane wad

be best for the Lord's work, — an' she coupe the chair whaup hung

her grave class,' at she airs foment the fire ilia Saturday at e'en, 'an

out there cam a lowe, an' scorched a hole i' the winding' sheet, an' noo,

pair body, we'll hae to hap her in her muckle tartan plaid. An'

violins she'll be a' the warmer e'y moulds for that. But, however,

she says the sheet was weel warred, for the guide cause. An' syne she

took til her bed, wi' a sir host, an' sma' winder, for there was a weet

daub whaup she had been sitting' among the whigs. An' noo the

host's settled on her that sir, she whiles canna draw her breath.

Sae she says she maun let the creepie berlin' slide, but she but to

testified afore some godly minister or she gangs hence. An' I'm feai-'d,

sir, ye maun hurry, for she's real far through."

The excuse for this long extract must be its excellence as a specimen of a

long-winded statement, just such as a Scotch fisher boy would make when

once the ice was broken. Not less idiomatic is the interview between Mrs.

Boague, the shepherd's wife, and Mrs. Sangster "of Auchlippie," the great

lady of the congregation, when the latter has had her painful experience of

mountain climbing, till rescued by the "lug and the horn" at the hands

of lier spiritual pastor. Otlier good scenes are the meeting of the two old

wives in matches an the brae side, and the final discomfiture of the

hypocritical scamp Joseph Smiley by his mother-in-law, Tibbie Tirpie, who

rights her daughter's wrongs and the minister's reputation by a capital

coup dc nviin. Of more serious interest, though full of humour, are the

trials the excellent Frederick endures at the hands of this kirk session.

ELenezer Prittie and Peter Malloch are types of many an elder minister and

ministers' wives have had to groan under, and the race is not extinct.

But all who are interested in such specimens of human nature should refer to

Mr.Cleland, who knows his countrymen as well as he can describe his country.

frown Svo, ciutJi, 3*-. 6d. each.

By Florence Marryat.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM,

PHiTLLIDA.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL

FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

By Annie Thomas.

alberto towers,
friends and lovers.

EYRE OF BEEN DON.

By Mrs. Eiloart.

the dean's wife,
some of our girls.

By Lady Constance Howard.

sweetheart and wife,
mollie darling.

By the Author of "Recommended to
Mercy."

BARBARA'S WARNING.

By Mrs. Alexander Fraser.
a professional beauty.

By Harriettt Jay.

TWO MEN AND A MAID.

R. CLE LA N D,

AUTHOR OF "INCHBRACKKN."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE AND CO.,

31, Southampton STREET, STRAND, Wickedly

AND CO., Gate Street, LINCOLN'S ISX FIELDS;

AM) MIDDLE Mll-L KINOSTON-ON-TUAMES.

CONTENTS

CHAP. PAGE

I. — Finance . i

II. — Mary Selby meets her Daughter . 24

III. — Confiding . . . . . .42

IV. — Betsey en Fete . 60

V. — Randolph's Tribulations . . . .83

VI. — A Benevolent Spider . . . . 112

VII.— In the Rue des Borgnes . . . .128

Will. — The Tie of Kindred 148

IX. — Tobogganing . . . . • .160

X.— Annette . . . . • .183

Bluff 201

XII.— A Board Meeting . 218

^^i

Chapter I.i

Finance.

The sunshine and the glow faded slowly out
of the air, the world fell into shadow, and the
heavens changed their sunset glory for the
blue transparency of summer twilight. Evening
spread wings of soothing calm over the
drowsy land, worn out, as a child might be,
with its day-long revel in the garish light.
The air grew softened and refreshed with
falling dews which gathered unnoticed on the
leaves and grass blades. The winds were
still, and only fire-flies, blinking among the
herbage or pursuing aimless flights across
the deepening dimness, disturbed the perfect
rest.

VOL. II. 16

Along the dusty road came sounds of
wheels, the wheels of the Misses Stanley'
home-going guests. The sound spread far and
wide across the humid air which sublimated
it into something above the common daylight
noise, rasping and jarring against stones and
gravel, into a rumbling half musical with suggestive
echoes reverberating' through the
stillness.

Out of the gate they came, those vehicles,
along the road, around the corner where
Bruneauau's cottage stood, and down towards
the village shrouded in gathering obscurity,
with the twinkle of a candle scattered tlirouijh
it here and there in rivalry of the hire-flies in
the bushes nearer hand, but far less brilliant.
The vehicles rumbled and disappeared, and
the echoes of their wheels died out as ripples
die on the surface of a stagnant pool ;
and the road was left alone to night and
silence.

But not for long. Two passengers on foot
came forward by-and-by, their footsteps
audible in the sensitive quiet, while yet
themselves were scarce visible in the gloom,
and the fumes of their cigars tainting the
sweetness of the clover-scented air. It was
Considine and Jordan, who had preferred
to walk while the rest drove on, and were

enjoying their tobacco in the coolness on their
leisurely way.

"Fine lad that ward of ours is growing up.
Healthy, handsome, and well conditioned,
I should say by his looks. Likely to do credit
to his good fortune." It was Jordan who
spoke.

To whom do you allude, sir ? " answered
the other, with the prim formality of print,
and of his native land — a formality which
continued residence among Her Majesty's
more easy-spoken subjects was little likely to
relax at his time of life. "I am not aware
of any lad to whom I stand in the relation of
guardian to a ward."

I mean Ealph Herkimer's boy, of course.
No ! You are ricfht enough ! He is not our
ward in the lesfal sense. We can have no
voice in his education. But, really, if we
had, I do not think we could have brought
him up better."

Ha ! Ealph's boy ? Yes. He seems what
we would class as ' good ordinary,' down my
way, in the Cotton States — a shade better
than ' fair to middling.' He ain't just real
peart, I should say, but then he is not a poor
man's son, so that is natural. It takes hardwork,
and hard feed, and not too much of the
feed either, to make a lad truly peart. But he

16—2

seems high-toned, and that's the main point
with a young man of his prospects. But I
would expect no less from Mrs. Herkimer's
son. Ah, sir ! She's Noo Hampshire, 'tis
true, and I don't hold with Noo Hampshire
and its notions ; but, sir, she is a high-souled,
clear-seeing, honourable and accomplished —
lady." Strange — is it not? — how every female
American resents being called a ivoman!
and no male American dare apply that most
simple and dignified title to the sex. Let us
hope that eventually the coloured lady who
condescends to do the washing for white
women — she calls them so — will succeed in
disgusting them with the frippery pretentiousness
of the title she usurps, and educate them
into adopting the gracious style of their
illustrious mother Eve.

Oh, yes," answered Jordan, " Mrs. Ralph
is an excellent person. My wife thinks all
the world of her, and I like her too ; though,
perhaps, as you say, there is a little more
New Hampshire than there need have been.
Yes ! no doubt, young Gerald is most happy
in having such a mother. And then his
father ! Think of him ! An extremely good
fellow is Ealph Herkimer. So wealthy !
Such talent ! Must have it, you know —
though that kind of cleverness does not show

much in society — to make such a fortune.
The practical talent which amasses a fortune
never does shine in society, though we are
ready enough to give it every credit whenever
it gives us the chance, which it never
does but wien it invites us to dinner, and
that, somehow, is not often. However, Ealph
is indisputably smart, as well as rich, and of
course high principled. How could he have
made such a fortune otherwise ? Our young
friend Gerald is most fortunate in his parents
as well as in the old uncle."

Ah ! Gerald. Yes. I am with you there.
A high-toned, whole-souled gentleman. I
knew him well. Had much to do in assisting
him to manage his affairs after he came to
Canady. Very handsome affairs they were.
And I feel proud at having arranged all to
his satisfaction, and realized the whole before
our unfortunate unpleasantness, and the depreciation
of values in the South."

Yes, that was most fortunate. The old
gentleman had time to make his Canadian
investments before his demise, and so saved
you and me, friend Considine " — this was an
unwonted familiarity in Jordan's reserved
manner of speech, betraying a desire to grow
intimate, which implied something in his
mind requiring a confidential mood for its

reception. " Saved you and me from a power
of responsibility"

Considine puffed his cigar in silence. If
this rapprocliement was meant to lead up to
something behind, let it do so, he would give
it no assistance. He knew of nothing: connected
with the Herkimer estate requiring
confidential talk just then, and his thoughts
were disposed to linger on other themes.
The soothing air and the fragrance of his
weed brought pleasant fancies to his mind
than could spring from the contemplations a
dead man's money. He had spent a pleasant
afternoon, in what, to an old bachelor of his
retiring habits, was a scene of unwonted gaiety.
The low soft hum of women's voices, the
rustle of their silks, the garden scents, and a
vague impression of gentle sweetness and
pretty behaviour, so different from the tone
at his hotel and the club smoking-room, where
so many of his evenings were spent, hung
like a rosy mist over his memory ; and he
would fain have let it hang, so unaccustomed
was it, and so pleasant. There was something,
too, like the wave of falling tresses
before his eyes, and a sound of pleasant
laughter, not loud or niucli prolonged, as he
recalled this talk with Mrs. llalpli, and another
talk which followed, in which Miss Matilda

was a third at first, and by-and-by sole
auditor and interlocutor, wliicli had lasted
long and been extremely pleasant.

Bless my soul ! " said this sober elder to
himself. " How deuced agreeable I must have
been ! She really liked it — I could see that —
looked interested, no end, when I was explaining
to her. And she understood it all at once !
Intelligent, very — cultured, too, and well read
one knew that by the neat remark she made
about Seringapatam. And a fine woman.
What hair ! Well-rounded bust, too, and
what dainty slippers. Neat ankle — that time
it showed when she kicked the puppy from
under the tea-table. She looked as if she saw
that I admired it when she was drawings it
back. She coloured, I think. But not a bit
offended — they never are, to see that a fellow
appreciates their ' points.' How archly she
smiled, too, at my little sally ! What was it
again ? But I made several, now I think of
it, and she smiled at them all — not sure, but
she laughed. Yes, she did laugh once —
laughed right out. I believe she appreciates
me ! A woman of discernment. Not one to
be taken in by a sleek young puppy, fitted outby
his tailor and his barber, and nothing inside
but his dinner. No, she appreciates a man
who knows something of life ! Yes, I do believe

she really did appreciate me ; " and he
stroked his chin complacently, blowing his
smoke in a long thin tail of satisfaction into
the night, and feeling that the world with its
cakes and ale was met all over for him yet, ashe
pushed out his chest and stepped springing
forward.

Jordan had received no answer to his last
observation. He had more to sav, but was
waiting for a lead, such as his last remark
should have called forth, but no lead came.
He gnawed the end of his cigar impatiently ;
the thread of his discourse was being cut.
Worse, it was being allowed to trail idly on
the mind and be forgot ; like a purposeless
gossamer, which no one troubles to catch hold
on, and which, though its length has been
nicely calculated for the gulf it was meant to
span, will never be caught on the further
shore, and the ingenious spider dio spun it
must wait bridgeless and in vain, or else he
must begin his labour over again, and try
anew. Inwardly fuming, wishing and showing
under his breath, and gnawing his cigar,
the smoke grew turbulent and lost its way
among the passages and recesses ol his system.
It got in his eyes, first, and made them smart,
it got into his nostrils and made him snort ;
small it made a solid cliarixe backwards for

his throat, like a trapped animal struggling
to escape. Then at last he threw the vexatious
thing away, and stood in the middle of the
highway, coughing, gasping and holding his
sides, while his eyes ran water, and his companion
wondered if anything ought to be done.
Considine's day-dream after dark was dissipated
utterly, and by the time the other had composed
himself he was ready enough to attend
to whatever his companion might choose to say.

Horrid cigar, that," Jordan was at last
able to utter, as they resumed their walk.
They lull always slip a few bad ones into
each box, however good. I wish the confounded
tobacconist had had the smoking? of
that one himself, and coughed his head off, it
would have served him right. But let me see
what was it we were talking: about ? Hm —
ha. Ah, yes ! Old Herkimer's investments.
Most judicious they were. Oh, yes, very much
so. Could not have done better — at the time,
that is. But times chase. Circumstances
have altered since '59. This is '73, and no
one can see fourteen years ahead."

The stocks all stand higher to-day than
they did then," observed Considine. " Let
me see " — and he bei?an to count off on his
finger tips — "Ban que dorsal, that's one. A
very large block of stock we hold there. That

has gone up imulitily since the surrender.
How it stood in '5D I can't say."

Oh, yes. It is higher than in '59, of
course."

The l^roletarian Loan and Mort^ajre Co.
Don't know a better mark on the share list
at present than that. Pike and Steel Money Co.
<:[ood —Bank of Progress — would be i^-lad to
hold some of its stock myself — TuscaroraEoads
Consolidated Drainage. And — and three or
four more which I do not recall at present.
As for the Provincial Debentures, and Railroad
and Municipal Bonds, we went oyer them
together last time we cut the coupons — could
not be better, and I reckon our friend bought
them all at a discount. The estate will realize
a handsome profit."

Quite true. General ! " — Jordan did not
often lubricate his lips with American titles of
honour — "just what I observed. Our client
could not have acted with a sounder judgment
when he made this investments. But it
is years since then, and the business world
has had its vicissitudes, like other institutions.
Now — entre tunis, and strictly in
confidence — are there no whispers afloat in
financial circles? lias no — well, no breath —
shall I call it ? no tone of depreciation come
to your ears ? No ? You surprise me. But

to be sure, it is not so very unusual for signs
and circumstances to leek out and become
known in our profession. Not to be talked
about, of course — that would never do. Betray
the necessary confidence between lawyer
and client ? Oh, no ! Not for a moment !
But we do get to know things at times, while
you men of the world are still in the dark, and
going forward in the blindest confidence. As
to the Banque dorsal, now. Has nothing
transpired to raise the — what shall I call it ?
the shadow of a misgiving ? "

Misgiving ? — Banque dorsal ? — I believe
it stands as strong as the Bank of Commerce
of Noo York ! Certainly, fairy one ! You
cannot have looked into its last statement.
Reserve of specie, circulation, discounts, all
O.K. Never made a better showing since it
was chartered."

I confess I never muddle myself with
unnecessary figures. And as to bank statements
in general, the only reliable one of their
affairs ever issued is the one put out by the
assignee when they go into liquidation; and that
comes too late to be of much use, except to sue
the old directors upon. No, I did not look
into the statement. I have always felt that
that institution suffered an irreparable injury
in the death of Truepenny, the old president."

The shares are higher now than ever they
were in his time."

"No doubt. But what does that prove?
Is there any limit to the wrongheadedness
and mutability of investors ? — I know of
none."

But Pennywise is manager still. Think of
his long experience in the bank, and how
many years lie acted under Truepenny.
Pennywise is the most cautious and circumspect
bank manager going."

"He is slow enough, if that is what you
mean ; and that slowness is the foundation of
this high repute. It has been worth a fortune
to him. You submit your proposal and he lets
you talk, and when you have talked yourself
into a belief that he will never let so good
a thing go past him, he says ' hum,' and
coughs — he has always a cough when he
ought to speak, and gains time by eating a
lozenge. When that is over he clears his
voice with a long breath, and promises to
submit the matter to his board. Truepenny,
now, was gruff, but he was quick, and he
did not waste time. He might cut you short
in the middle of your story — he always
cut Pennywise short when he began to
wheeze and ask more questions — but it was
because he knew what you were going to

say, and he gave you your answer. It was
always the best answer for the bank's
interest, and generally it was the kindest
for the customer. His successor, Sacrament,
is rarely to be seen in the bank parlour
now, and Pennywise does as he pleases,
that is, makes people wait, till his mind
is satisfied, and their opportunity is past."

But the bank's business has not fallen
off. The profits are larger than ever this
year."

On paper, at least. But we must
wait to test the reality. It takes time to
weaken a made reputation. Sacrament, now !
Do you think that was a judicious choice? "

One of our most distinguished merchants
Why, of course ! — Each, popular, doing an
immense business of his own. Who can
understand the wants of the business community
better ? "

That is just it. I fear he understands
the ivanis of the business community too
well — knows them from personal experience.
What would you say, now, if I were
to tell you that his fine house on the
mountain was mortgaged up to the gold
weather cocks? and that the bank has had
to be content with a second mortgage , as
collateral, which is just worth the paper it

is written on, for the first will cover everything."


Hm. That sounds serious. Is it really

'• I hear so, and more. They tell me his
wife, who has her own property — ' separate
des biens,' we call it in our law — has had to
give security for a large sum."

Indeed ? But after all it is a bic institution.
If Sacrament were to bleed it for
all he is worth it would be only a pin-prick
to the Banque dorsal."

Perhaps ; but who can be sure that he is
the only blood-sucker on the board? One
cannot suppose the others would pass over
his overdrafts if they did not get something
for themselves. Why, even Pennywise will
have to get something to keep him quiet. If
it should turn out that there is a whole nest of
needy ones, who can tell how far the queer
transactions may extend ? If anything should
leak out — you see something is known, though
not to the public — it would raise a panic."

The Banque dorsal can stand a run.
Look at the specie reserve ! It }niist stand.
The government must come to its rescue incase
of need."

No doubt. But think of the. shares !
If they fall back to par — and it is not so

many years since they were only a few percents
above — the present value of an investment
would be reduced one-half. And
everything else on the share list would be
affected by the distrust it would create.
Many smaller institutions would go, and all
would suffer. It is a serious consideration.
There is the Proletarian Loan, now."

That is sound at any rate. Mortgaged
properties cannot be wiped out like the
c'est ' in a bank ledger."

"But you must recollect the Proletarian
receives deposits. They had quite a flourish
in their last statement over the increased
amount, and the smaller interest they have
to pay on such moneys than on the bonds
they issue ; which is all very well, but incase
of a run by their depositors, how are
they to realize the long-time mortgages in
which their funds are tied up ? They cannot
look for much help from the banks, who
naturally Avould not be sorry to see a competitor
for. the public savings in a tight
place. Again, are you perfectly confident
that the affairs of the Proletarian would
stand a close audit? I confess I have a
feeling myself which is not one of security,
notwithstanding the high quotations of the
shares. It lias always been a mystery to me

how old Weevil, the managing director, made
his fortune. When he went in there he
appeared to have nothing but his salary
from the company of three thousand dollars.
Now the man is undeniably wealthy. Owns
blocks of valuable city property, is director
in several companies where he must have
a large interest, and lives in a style which
his salary could not keep up for a couple of
months, far less a year — houses for his sons,
who, by-the-way, do nothing for themselves,
and English schools for his daughters, which
a thousand dollars a-piece do not begin to
pay for. I would be the very last man to
say everything was not as it should be
there, but at the same time it is hard to
understand."

Hm ! These are new lights to me, friend
Jordan. I must take time to comprehend
them. Meanwhile what is your own opinion ?
And have you any suggestion to make as to
what we should do ? "

"Candidly, then, General — and with all
deference in discussing a matter of enhance
with you, a member of the Stock Exchange,
who make the subject your profession — I
believe that you financiers have squally times
before you. Confidence will be disturbed
and quotations will fall. The investments of

our late highly valued friend stand now at
higher prices than ever before. The full
value of the property is vastly greater than
when he purchased, and I hate to think of
its shrinking back to the sum, insignificant
by comparison, which it amounted to when
it came under our care."

But I do not see that we can help that,
even if it should occur. It has not occurred
as yet. The investments were made by
Gerald himself, and if, in the fluctuations of
the market, the property becomes less valuable,
we are not responsible."

Not legally, even if morally. Still, we
would like to do our best for our worthy
friend. For myself, I confess I am proud to
be guardian of so handsome a property ; and,
seeing we are not asked to work gratuitously,
it appears to me we should do our best for
it."

All very true ; but suppose it should
turn out that our investments do not prove
profitable — that, after we have sold, the
old investments improve — what then ? The
estate will have suffered a loss, and the heir
may hold us to account."

"My dear sir, present prices cannot rise
any higher. Take my word for it. How
could they ? Unless the rate of interest falls

VOL. II. 17

materially, how could investors alTord to pay
higher prices? Consider that, and then
discount those circumstances, not generally
known, which I have mentioned to you — in
confidence — and you cannot but agree with
me. Besides, our friend Ealph — he is your
friend more than he is mine — is a business
man, prompt and ofT-hand. He knows. He
is in big operations every day ; and he will
not haggle over the odd cents like a hahitaiit
farmer."

But Ealph is not the heir. Gerald hated
him, and would have thrown this money into
the St. Lawrence sooner than Ealph should
get it."

Quite so. It is Ealph's boy, a fine lad,
too. But he will do just as his father thinks
best. Any young fellow would be like wax
in the hands of so keen a practitioner as friend
Ealph."

I think not. Mrs. Selby's child is the
heir. She was to have had the property
herself if she had not married against her
brother's wish."

My dear sir, that child is dead. It must
be. It is ten years since it disappeared. In
spite of every effort and inquiry, nothing has
been heard of it since the day it was lost.
Ealph's boy is the heir in default of Mrs.

Selby's children. Failing the boy, Ealph
would inherit from his son."

I have known so many instances in the
South of the long-lost heir turning up when he
was least expected, that I never look on anyone
as dead till I have seen the burial certificate.
After a person has been put underground,
in the presence of witnesses,! feel that his claims
have been quieted, but not before. Twenty
years from the date of Mrs. Selby's marriage
we will hand over the property to her child ;
failing a child of hers we will pay it to
Ealph's son ; and, meanwhile, we need not
trouble our heads with questions of heirship."

True ; but we would not fulfil the duty
our deceased friend expected of us if we
stood idly by while panics and fluctuations of
the Stock Market were eating away the value
of the property. Man alive ! our allowances
and commissions in selling out and re-investing
would go a long way to make up any loss
which could be proved in a court to have
arisen from our error in judgment, even if
our good intentions did not weigh with the
jury to absolve us. That is, supposing the
heir should be shabby enough to make such
a claim. But the supposition is preposterous.
If you sell out that block of stock in the
Banque dorsal and the Proletarian now,

17—2

your brokerage will be quite a pretty thing —
makes a man wish himself a broker to think
of it."

And after the shares were sold, what
would you do with the money?"

Invest in first mortgages on food real
property — never to more than half or a third
of the value. I can lay my hands on any
quantity of such security. It is safe beyond
question ; for, as you observed a little while
ai]^o, the acres cannot run away and I will
see to there being the fullest powers of
foreclosure and sale ; so there can be no
possibility of loss."

I do not understand your Canady laws
about real property, and I would be sure to
get tripped up in some nicety about titles."

But / know. General. It is my business "

Of course you do, and you would feel all
safe. But what of me ? One man don't
exactly like to shoulder a responsibility on the
strength of another man's knowledge — see?
I would consult you myself, friend Jordan,
on my own affairs, and go by what you told
me, but somehow that seems different from
going it blind in another man's business, and
making myself responsible for everything
some one else may do."

"But, my dear sir, I am as ignorant of

Stock Exchange matters as you can possibly
be of the law of real property. Suppose we
were to divide the proceeds of stocks sold
into two parts ; you to invest the one-half in
stocks and bonds, and I the other in mortgages,
and each to furnish the other with
particulars of what he had done. You would
make a very pretty sum out of your share of
the business, and I don't mean to say that I
would not do the same out of the other,
only as it is the borrower who pays the law
costs, my profits should come mostly out of
the public, while yours would come out of
the estate, so sou cannot but say I am well
disposed towards you."

But if we are to sell out the very strongest
stocks on the list in fear of a panic, it would
be a foolish thing to buy into the weaker ones
at the same time."

Buy American bonds then. You know
all about them. So much of United States
bonds, as being strong, and so much in bonds
of the better individual States, which can begot
at a discount now, and will be about
par by the time the heir is to receive them.
Quite a pretty transaction for you, I should
think, general."

The " general " coughed and hummed, and
cleared his voice as if about to speak ; but so

many different words rushed to this lips at
once — words of doubt, words of inquiry,
refusal and consent — that he could not frame
them into speech.

Think over it, general," Jordan said as
they shook hands at parting, " and let me
know as soon as you have made up your mind.
Something should be done at once."

Considine thought it would be mortifying
if the estate left in his charge should suffer
diminution or loss simply on account of his
own want of enterprise. Of course there
were chances both ways, but was it not his
business to make gain out of these chances ?
And had he not secured for himself a snug
little fortune by manipulating them for his
own advantage? And should he not risk
something to save a friend, an old and
deceased friend, who would besides, pay
brokerage on all he did for him ? Considine
valued himself, and I doubt not, justly so, on
his " high tone ; " but he was human, as we
who contemplate his conduct also are — and
those beverages did range themselves in his
mind among the considerations for and
against disturbing old Gerald's investments,
and eventually it was on the side with
beverages that this decision fell ; but we are
not therefore justified in describing Considine

with his " tone " as a specious humbug. He
meant well, as so many of us do, only he was
happy to combine his own advantage with
what he — therefore, perhaps — considered the
advantage of his trust.

'"^^^'^y^^^^l^^

MARY SELBY MEETS HER DAUGHTER.

Four years later, in a street in Montreal.
It had snowed uninterruptedly the day
before, in fine dry particles, sifting noiselessly
through the air, and filling it with prickly
points — not the broad clammy flakes of an
insular climate which loiter as they fall, and
feel damp and clay-like beneath the passer's
feet ; but rather an attenuated sand or dust,
dimming and pervading the day, and heaping
itself in drifts which overspread and bury
while you watch, yet cannot reckon how it
is they grow. And then it is so dry in its
exceeding coldness that it will not wet, and
springs and crackles merrily under foot.

It was morning — not yet nine o'clock —
and the snow levellers were only beginning
here and there to relieve the encumbered
footways, and contribute another layer to the
solidly-packed thicknesses of snow and ice
which winter had been building in the streets,
a foot or two above the neighbouring sidewalks.

The snow had ceased to fall, and the
laden clouds which had brought it having
burst and dissolved themselves, the sky was
a clear pale vault, filled with diffused and
dazzling brightness.

From a door there issued a young girl,
trim and slight. She was dressed in brown —
brown close-fitting, warm and shaggy — muffled
as to ears and chin in a wisp of " cloud " of
the same colour, out of which there peered
the daintiest little pink nose and a pair of
eyes of merry blue, shining as they looked
out from under the edge of her sealskin cap,
with the gleeful twinkle of a squirrel's in the
snugness of his nest. I would have said
they were like fawn's eyes, save that it has a
sentimental association which does not accord
with Muriel Stanley, now arrived at the
age of fifteen — the border land between
child and woman — and fancy free. She
stood on the doorsteps with a roll of
music under her arm, and her hands in the
pockets of her jacket. Muff she had none, it
is in the way with active people who do their
five or six miles on snow-shoes of winter
afternoons, and " toboggan " down slopes in
the moonlight.

The air was so chill it seemed to catch the
breath on emerging from the indoor warmth ;

but it was so transfused with brightness and
dancing sunshine that it sent the blood
coursing quicker through the veins, and
trickled in the nostrils with an exhilarating
joy, like the sting of the air bubbles in
effervescing wine.

The doorsteps were as yet unwept, and
deep in snow, the levellers being still a good
many doors off, and Muriel stood on the top
looking down and around ere she made the
knee-deep plunge, when a voice accosted her
coming down the street.

Miss Muriel ! yet surely not, at this hour
of the morning."

Yes, it's me, Mr. Gerald," she said, turning
round. " What would any one stay indoors
for on a jolly morning like this ? "

But you do not go out at this hour of the
morning in general ? "

Neither do you ; I know that much. We
see the business people go past — M. Petition
and the Feelings — about half-past eight, but
you gentlemen of the Stock Board never by
any chance before half-past ten. If I were
a man, and lazy, I would be a stockbroker.
No c^oim? back to the office in the
evening ! "

'* Ha, ha ! you are severe this morning.
Does that come of being out so early ? "

That ? Oh ! I have to go for my music
lesson this morning; if I am to have one at all.
Mr. Selby has fallen on the ice and sprained
both his ankle and his wrist. I have a note
from him, written with his left hand, asking
me to come to his house, as he cannot come
to me — written with his left hand,' actually ;
think of the trouble it must have cost him ! —
so I could not refuse to go."

"Poor old Selby! I did not hear of that.
He is my uncle, you know, or at least he is
married to my aunt. And Judy — Mrs. Bunce,
I mean — is there just now, with Betsey,
to show her the gaieties of the city. Nice
house to see the gaieties from. They will
consist of a musicale at Counter Tenor's,
the dry-goods man, and one or two select
performances of the Classical Quartette Club.
Betsey's mind won't be unsettled by the dissipation,
I guess. She won't leave town
thoroughly dissatisfied with country life.
Then again, what a pretty specimen of
musical culture poor Betsey must be for
Selby to lead around. I can imagine his
being silently thankful for the sprain as an
excuse to stay at home. Just come in the
nick of time. However, as my mother was
saying to me, though somehow it seems to
have slipped out of my mind, we must do

what we can for Betsey. If she is a rurapty-
dumpty little thing, with her hair always lying
the wrong way, she can't help it, and Uncle
Bunce is not half bad — for a parson. I have
it ! I shall go in with you now, if you don't
mind, find them all at breakfast, like an
intimate and affectionate nephew — it will
save more valuable time in the afternoon
— and offer to take Betsey to the
Sink to-day at three or four o'clock — that
is, if you will promise to be there. But
let me see ! Have I time ? Ah, yes !
Twenty minutes to spare before I am due
at Palmerston's."

Hammerstone's ? Professor Hammer-stone's
? Is it a breakfast ? Do you attend
scientific breakfasts ? "

No. But I study the sciences, though
perhaps you would not think it. You see
we have so much to do with mineral lands,
mines, metals, and that sort of thing, that the
governor thinks it is worth while for me to
try and find out what it all means. Those
sharks, the experts, impose on you so abominably
if you do not know something of what
they are talking about. So I go to Hammer-stone
for an hour three mornings in the week,
if I get up in time ; and really it is more
interesting than you would suppose. It is

settled, then, that you will be on the Sink
this afternoon?"

I scarcely think it. Mr. Considine is
coins to drive us out this afternoon."

Considine ! Phew — But gooseberries are
not in season at this time of year ! He ! he ! "

I do not understand. I said we were
going for a sleigh ride."

With Considine ? Will it not be rather
cold work sitting with your back to the
horses while the old chap makes — conversation
— to the Miss Stanleyss ? "

Aunt Penelope is afraid to venture out
these cold days."

Just what I said about wholesome summer
fruit. That old Considine must be a sad bore,
running out and in so much to one's house —
like a tame cat."

Mr. Considine is very nice. I like him.
He is so good-natured, and he never says a
word against people in their absence."

One for me ! But he is a good fellow,
and I fancy you are not the only Miss Stanley
who thinks so."

How slippery it is ! You turn off here, I
think, to go to Professor Hammerstone's, do
you not? I hope you will not be late.
Thanks for carrying my music ; I will take
it now."

But I mean to carry your music all the
way, Miss Muriel. As I told you, I am going
to look in on my three aunts at breakfast, and
ask them for a cup of hot coffee. That will
have a good effect on my aunt Judy, who I
fear suspects me of being not very steady.
She is a great promoter of coffee taverns.
Tried to start one at St. Euphrase, I believe,
and had to drink all the coffee herself because
the habitants would not buy it. She will say
I am an improving character if I ask for a cup
of coffee."

When Muriel had famished her music lesson
and was resuming her cloves and cloud, she
found herself caught from behind by a pair of
short fat arms in a sort of hug, accompanied
by a little scream of enthusiasm.

Muriel ! And were you going away without
ever asking to see me ? "

Muriel turned in surprise. " Betsey Bunce !
But I did not know you were in town till an
hour ago. You know you never wrote."

Wrote ! What is there to write about at
St. Euphrase ? — unless I were to walk up to
the farm and ask Bruneauau about your cows and
chickens. But you knew an hour ago, you
say, and yet you were going away without
asking for me. I call it real unkind."

"It is only ten o'clock, you know — far too
early an hour for calling."

You are so particular ! Just like an old
woman — and a stiff old-country woman, too —
Miss Penelope all over."

I hope so. Aunt Penelope is always
right."

Come in now, anyway, and take off your
things. I am dying for somebody to talk to,
after sitting round the stove for three days
with three old women. What with Mr. Selby's
bandages, and embrocations, and Miss Susan's
neuralgia, and Mrs. Selby's poor health, this
house is worse than a hospital. Auntie likes
it first-rate ; she enjoys giving people physic,
and says it was a Providence which brought
her here at this time ; but I find it real lonesome.
I have read through the only two
novels I can find, and I declare my back aches
with sitting still and doing nothing. Couldn't
we go down town by-and-by and look at the
shops ? Let me help you off with your jacket.
Fur-lined, I do declare ! Cost twenty dollars,
I dare say. Thirty was it ? You're the lucky
girl ! Never mind fixing up before the glass,
you're all right — here's a pin if you want one.
Wherever did you pick up that cunning neck-ribbon
? — lady bugs and grasshoppers — I call
it sweet. It would just suit my geranium-coloured

poplin ! By-the-way, do you think
that will do for evening wear, if I am asked
anywhere ? It is made with a tabHer — looked
scrumptious the night they gave charades at
Madame Podevin's boarding-house. Mille.
Ciseau cut it out for me, and I run it on the
machine myself — fits like a glove. But your
city fashions are so different, one never can be
sure. We will go upstairs and look at it ; but
first you must come into the Snuggery and seethe
old ladies."

The " Snuggery " was at the back of the
house, a sort of family room in which strangers
were not received. It had been the chief
apartment of the old log homestead which
preceded the existing dwelling. The logs had
been found so sound and the chamber so desirable
that it had been suffered to remain,
and been incorporated with the " frame "
building erected in front, which it promised to
survive, and last on in solid stability when
the lighter structure of posts and boards should
have fallen to pieces. It was cooler than
the rest of the house in warm weather, and
warmer in cold; built of twelve inch logs
carefully jointed together, plastered on the
outside, panelled and ceiled within With red
pine highly varnished, and floored with par-query
of different native woods. It had a

window on each of three sides, flanked by
heavy curtains. There was no fire-place, butin
the centre an old-fashioned box-stove, capable
of holding billets from two to three feet
long, and whose great black smoke-pipe
pierced the roof like a pivot for the family
life to revolve on.

A bear skin and rugs lay about the floor,
sofas and tables stood by the walls, and round
the domestic altar, the blazing stove, were the
rocking-chairs of the three sisters, gently oscillating
like pendulums in a clockmaker's
shop, and making the wooden chamber feel
like the cabin of a ship, heaving and swinging
on a restless tide.

Muriel was greeted effusively by Mrs. Bunce,
who looked more fidgety and alert than ever
in that reposeful place, and then she was presented
to the sisters. Miss Susan, swathed in
quilted silk and webs of knitting, a bundle
rather than a person, and immersed in her
own misery far too deeply to feel or to excite
interest in a stranger, merely bowed and
shuddered at the breath of cooler air which
entered from without ; but to the other, Mrs.
Selby, Muriel felt strongly drawn, and pleased
in a strange and restful way to feel the gentle
eyes of the sick and rather silent lady
dwelling on her with wistful kindness.
VOL. II. 18

She was tall and pale, and in the cross
licht of windows admitting the dazzling
reflections from the snow, and among the
browns and yellows of the wainscoting, there
was a lambent whiteness which associated
itself in Muriel's mind with those " shining
ones " she had read of when a child in the
Pilgrim's Progress," and filled her with pleasant
reverence.

The lady scarcely spoke, spoke only the
necessary words of welcome to a stranger,
and then withdrew from the hurry of
Betsey's and Judith's eager talk, sitting
silently by and looking on the new comer
with gentle earnest eyes. In the focus of
streaming daylight and backed by russet
shadows she sat and looked, wrapped in her
white knitted shawl, and with hair like frosted
silver, features and hands delicate, transparent,
and colourless like wax, and eyes which had
the weary faded look which comes of sleepless
nights and many tears. She found it pleasant
tobit and rest her eyes on Muriel, so elastic
and freshly bright, as she chatted with the
others ; she felt as when a breath of spring
comes rustling through the dead and wintry
woods, through sapless withered twigs and
fallen leaves, whispering of good to come, and
sweet with springing grass and opening buds .

She scanned the girl's face and guessed her
age, and then her thoughts went back across
the years, the weary sunless years which had
come and gone since her joys had withered,
and she could not but think that had her own
lost daughter been spared, she would have
been nearly of that age now, and perhaps she
would have been gay and bright and sweet as
this one was before her. Her eyes grew
moist, but it was with a softer, less harrowing
regret than she had hitherto known, more
plaintive and almost soothing in its sadness.
The girl looked so innocent and free of care,
with low sweet laughter coming from a heart
that had never known sorrow or unkindness.
It did her good to watch, and made her
feel more patient in her long and weary grief.

For the others, they had their own affairs
to make busy with, and it was not every day
they came to town. What interest, either,
for them, could there be in the emotional
variations of their silent and always sorrowful
hostess? She had suffered — though it was
fourteen years since then — and of course they
'* felt " for her ; but there is a limit to
sympathy as to all things human — if there
were not, life would be unbearable — and to
see her after so many years still cherishing
the olden sorrow had grown tedious, if yet

18—2

touching' after a sort, and the family had
grown to disregard it as a settled melancholy
or monomania, to be pitied and passed over,
like the deafness, old age, or palsy of family
friends. So Betsey and her aunt had settled
themselves one on either side of Muriel " fora
good old talk," as Betsey said, and they
talked accordingly.

I shall come round tomorrow morning to
see your aunts," said Mrs. Bunce, " and spend
a long forenoon with them," and so on ad
infinitum.

A letter was brought in while the talk was
in full swing.

An invitation ! " cried Judith. " Mrs.
Jordan — requests the pleasure — a juvenile
party. Well — I declare ! — Betsey, we forgot
to bring your pinafores — or should it have
been a certificate of the date of your birth ?
A very strange way to pay attention to their
rector's wife and niece ! I thouiifht Mrs. Jordan
would have known better."

*' Aunt Matilda and I are going," said
Muriel in astonishment. *' It was very nice
last time. More than a hundred, big and
little. They had the band, a splendid supper
and lots of fun. Indeed, Aunt Penelope was
almost unwilling I should go this time ; it was
so late when we got home."

Very proper, my dear ; I quite approve.
Young people should keep early hours ; but,
you know, Betsey is a little older than you
are. Not much," she added, as prudence
pointed to the day, only a year or two ahead,
when it would suit Betsey, if still a young
lady, to be no older than Muriel — " still she
is in long dresses, and it seems odd to invite
her the first time to a child's party."

They are not all children. Tilly Martin-dale,
for instance, is as old as Betsey. Sois
Randolph Jordan himself and Gerald
Herkimer."

Will they be there ? " cried Betsey kindling
into interest. " We'd better go, auntie, there's
no slight. I see the sort of thing it is ; there
are a few little girls — whig little girls though,
all the same — to give it the name of juvenile
and take off the stiffness. Just like the candy
pulling we had at Farmer Belmore's. You
know Farmer Belmore's, Muriel? He lives
just across the river and down below the
island at St. Euphrase. His son's family from
Michigan were with him in the fall, and his
wife and daughters are too devotes to meet
their neighbours, and are only waiting his
death to go off to the convent. However, the
old man — and a good Protestant he is — was
determined the children should have a good

time, so he gave a candy pulling and invited
everybody for miles round — said it was for
the children. So we all went — drove across the
river on the first ice of the season — whether
we knew Mrs. Belmore or no. And, Muriel,
we had just the most too-too time you can
imaf][ine. The daughters sat in the back-room
with one or two old French women, away
from everybody, and the eldest granddaughter
received the guests. There was a fiddle, and,
oh, just a lovely time ! Joe Webb and I
pulled the whitest hank of candy in the room,
and we danced eight-hand reels and country
dances, till one of my shoes gave way and I
had to sit out with Joe Webb. It was something
beyond, I tell you ! "

"Tush, Betsey!" said her aunt. "You
are in the city now and must not go into
raptures over rustic frolics, or people will
think you know no better. I shall ask the
Miss Stanleyss about this, when I see them
tomorrow. They will be able to tell me if
we had better go, and how you should
dress."

Dress ! Haven't I my geranium poplin ? "

But this is town, my dear, which may

make a difference ; one never knows. In my

young days, now, I always wore white muslin

and a blue sash ! And you cannot think how

many civil speeches I used to get " added the
old lady, bridling, with a spot of pink on
either cheek and a toss which set the treacle-coloured
curls quivering. The war-horse is
never too old to prance and champ his bit at
the sound of the trumpet, though he may be
so old that no one can remember his ever
having been in action.

I do not remember ever seeing geranium
poplin at a party," said Muriel, looking to
Betsey ; but her eyes fell before the
glance of displeased superiority she met
there.

You have not seen my dress, or you
would speak more guardedly. Besides, you
are not out yet, and cannot be expected
to know what goes on at fashionable
gatherings."

No," said Muriel, meekly, "I am only a
little girl, I know that. Still, at the juvenile
parties I go to — Mrs. Jordan's, Mrs. Her-aimer's,
and the rest — and at our parties at
home, though they are not balls by any means
quite small affairs — the people dress very
nicely — velvet, satin, lace, and so on — but I
never saw a geranium poplin."

"No! Poplin is only coming in! I know
that from ' Godeyy's Magazine.' It was just a
mere chance Quiproquo of St. Euphrase

having one dress piece. I bought it, and you
(\innot think how rich it looks. Cut square ! —
I hey are all cut square in the higher circles
this year — with elbow sleeves and a fall of
rich lace at twenty-five cents a yard."

Muriel held her breath at the catalogue of
rustic splendour. She would have liked to
say a word in mitigation of the fright she
feared Betsey was intending to make of herself,
but dreaded to have her youth flung
in her face again. The 3'oung are so ashamed
of their youth while they have it ; it is only
after it has fled, that, like flowers drooping in
the midday heat, they sigh for the dried-up
dews of mornings which erewhile weighed
down their heads with mistaken shame.

There followed more talk of millinery, and
then it was time for Muriel to go, after effusive
farewells and appointments for future
meeting. Mrs. Selby came forward last,
when the more boisterous adieux were over.
She would have liked to take this young girl
in her arms ; she felt so strongly drawn to her,
and knew not why ; but she restrained herself,
and only begged her to come often
while Betsey renuiined, and to be sure to
come to the family room in passing, next time
she came for a nuisic lesson. And Muriel,
looking in the face of the whitened lady, so

venerable and sweet, not only promised — as in
good nature she could not avoid — but really
intended to fulfil, promising herself pleasure
in doing it.

Considered

GREAT rise in the world had come to Cornelius
Jordan, Q C. They seem all to be
Q.C.'s, my reader, those lawyers in
Canada ; or more than half of them. The
Queen is so remote a centre, that the beams
of her favour are very widely, if thinly,
spread, and this especial title of honour has
come to be regarded as a polite and inexpensive
attention which new prime ministers
make haste to bestow upon their friends.
And there are so many prime ministers, that
at last it became a ground of dispute,
between the minor premiers of the several
provinces, and the premier-major at Ottawa,
as to which should have the exclusive run of
the alphabet for decorative purposes. Mr.
Jordan, I repeat, had risen since we met him
last at the Misses Stanley's garden tea. Then
he was a rising man in this profession, doing
well, and in comfortable circumstances ; now,

he was one risen — fall head and shoulders
above his fellows, living in a house of the
very largest size, and with horses and servants
to equal the most prosperous of his
neighbours, and reported to be wealthy ; not
with the startling but evanescent opulence of
the merchant prince, which to-day is, and
tomorrow is nowhere ; but with the reality
which attaches to professional wealth in the
popular mind, as money actually coined from
a man's own brain — the golden fees raked in
from grateful clients — without risk, and irrespective
of rising and falling markets. His
name was spoken with that slight involuntary
pause before and after which carries more
distinction than any title; it is a form of
respect so undefined. " What a man he must
be ! " his neighbours said, " to have made so
much money, and made it so quickly ! " made
it at his profession, too. Nobody doubted
that, for his name was never mixed up in
other affairs.

It would have been hard guessing for a
quidnunc about the Court House, had he
attempted to trace how all that prosperity
had been built up out of the fairly good
solicitor's and conveyancer's practice carried
on at his chambers, or from his not unusually
frequent or brilliant appearances in Court ;

though now that the fruits of success were
so evident, these were vastly on the increase.
Ah ! " those knowing ones would sslj, " he
is not a brilliant speaker ; but sound, sir,
sound ! What a head for Law the man must
have ! What clearness of understanding, to
have realized such an income. Wliat a style
of living he keeps up ! How many thousands
a year does it take ? Quite the leading counsel
at our bar." And so clients multiplied,
and the suitor whose case failed in his hands
felt surer it had had the best presentment
than he would have felt had it succeeded with
any one else. " If Jordan could not win the
suit, pray who could ? "

Jordan was liked, too, as well as respected.
IIow could he fail of that ? At his dinners,
given every week all through the winter, were
found the choicest bills of fare and the best
people, and every one else was invited to
share the feast. It is manifest that one cannot
talk unkindly of a man while the flavour
of his wine still hovers about the palate — so
long, that is, as there is prospect of another
invitation. When the last dinner lias been
eaten, and the last bottle of wine drunk, then
truth is apt to come up from the bottom of
her well — disturbed, no doubt, by the pumping,
when the family is forced to resume water

as a beverage — and people's memories become
wonderfully refreshed. They recollect — the
women, that is — that really the man's wife
was not a lady, that things were said at the
time of the marriage, and there has been such
levity and extravagance since ; while the men
shake their heads in cynical wisdom. They
knew it from the first, and wonder how it has
gone on so long, and how a fellow like that
could have had the effrontery to entertain
their high mightiness so profusely.

For the present, however, if there was any
unacceptable truth at the bottom of Jordan's
well, she had the kindness to remain there,
well out of sight. The hospitalities proceeded
in a genial round ; every one was proud to assist
at them and spoke highly of the entertainer.

Considine was the only man who had a
misgiving, and he kept his doubts and surmises
to himself, hoping he was in error.
He was associated with this man in many
ways ; and nothing is gained by letting slip
an insinuation against a friend, even if
good feeling did not stamp the act as
abominable. His own conscience, too, was
not at rest in the matter, for the expansion
appeared to him to date from very shortly
after the change they had adopted in managing
the Herkimer Estate. He reproached

himself constantly for having consented to
sell out the old man's investments, and wondered
hour he could have been tempted by
those miserable beverages to smirch the
honest record of a lifetime. No doubt there
had been considerable chain on the new securities
purchased with the moiety of the funds
which he administered ; but what of the other
half? Jordan had displayed so implicit a
confidence in his judgment, such complete
beautiful and gentlemanlike faith in his probity,
waiving explanations, motioning off
statements with expressions of unbounded
reliance in his ability to do what was best,
while really " in the press of other matters he
had no leisure for unnecessary examinations
into matters on which lie could not advise,"
that Considine was completely silenced, and
was left no opening to claim reciprocal explanations
as to how the moneys in Jordan's
hands had been applied.

He heard on 'Change now and then of
Jordan granting short loans at fancy rates,
and of his "doing " paper which was far
from being "gilt-edged," and he thought of
that other moiety of the Herkimer fortune.
Such operations are not the way in which
trust moneys are used for the benefit of the
trust ; Ijut rather one in which, while loss.

if there be any, must needs fall on the trust,
the extra profit accrues to the trustee. And
what other funds could Jordan have to
operate with ? Considine knew of none but
those which should have been otherwise
employed, and for which, he himself would
be held responsible if any misadventure were
to befall them, and the sum was so large that
in case of a catastrophe his own poor little
fortune would go but a small way to makeup
the loss. He could contemplate that with
comparative patience — though certainly it
would be hard, after the labours and vicissitudes
of a lifetime, to see the provision for
his declining years swept into a pit, and one
not of his own digging — but disgrace would
accompany the ruin ; that was the intolerable
thought.

To finish a life in which he had striven
to keep his hands unsoiled and his name
without reproach as a defaulting trustee!
How he had been wont to scorn such,
when they crossed his path! And to think
that he should end in being classed with
them ! Who would stop to inquire into the
merits ? Had he ever himself stopped to sift
the intricacies of a defalcation, before declaring
the defaulter to be a rogue? Had
not the money been confided to his care, and

was lie not responsible for it to the heirs ?
Many a night when he lay awake in the darkness,
with nothing to break the stillness but
the ticking of his watch at the bed-head, the
misgiving and the dread would waken in his
mind, and possess him with the restless misery
of an aching tooth, which would not be dulled
or forgotten, toss and stretch himself as he
might ; and he would vow in desperation to
go down the first thine in the mornings and have
it out with Jordan ; and so, at last, he would
fall into a dose, as the grey twilight was
stealing on the night.

In the mornings his resolution would be
with him still. All through dressing and
shaving he would feel determined " to have
it out with Jordan," and he would run over
in his mind the points of his unanswerable
argument on which his co-trustee must
needs be caught, and compelled to the
fullest explanation, clearing away another
expected sophism in the defence, with each
scrape of the razor on his chin. When
he descended to breakfast, however, the
morning papers, the smoke of the coffee, the
greetings of his fellow-boarders in the hotel,
would gradually lead him back to the tone of
every-day life and its amenities, and then his
intentions would grow less stern. The trenchant

points in his argument wonhl grow dim
before his eyes, and he woukl recollect how
many things there niis^ht be to say on the
other side. Perhaps, too, he might have been
misinformed as to something he mii^ht be
under some misapprehension — for who, after
all, can tell the true inwardness of his neighbour's
affairs until death or bankruptcy
overtake him ? — and how very uncomfortable
this position would then be ! In what
an ungenerous, nay, churlish light he woidd
be exhibiting himself before this most open-hearted
and genial of all his friends ! Indeed
the prospect was not pleasant ; then why
should lie force an interview and place himself
in a false position ? Was it not a shame
in one claiming to be " high-toned," a soldier
and a Southern gentleman of ante bellini
times, to harbour injurious suspicions of a
friend? ''He must be bilious this morning
want of exercise. He would ride off his
megrims in a two hours' gallop."

And so the days would pass in struggles to
drive away the doubts which returned but
the more persistently with darkness to spoil
his sleep, till at length, in dread of their
nightly upbraid kings, lie would nerve himself
to the ungrateful task and stride down to
Jordan's chambers, frowningly constraining
VOL. II. 19

himself to anticipate the Avorst, if only to
keep hiss eoura^ae from oozing' away, as it
sometimes would, when he reached the office
door, leaving him to turn aside at the last
moment and retreat ignominiously into his
club, there to solace his drooping self-respect
with brandy and soda. When, however, in
sterner mood he persevered, it was still not
always that the much-engaged lawyer could
be seen. He was busy upon a case and could
see no one ; a client was with him, and two
more were waiting their turn for an audience,
or he was in court, and Considine — not altogether
sorry at the respite — went home in
comparative relief. He had done what he
could, at least, and surely now the suspicions
would leave him foi* a night or two and let
him sleep in peace.

Once or twice, by a lucky chance, he was
able to catch the busy man at a vacant
moment intrenched behind black bags bursting
with briefs, volumes of consolidated
statutes, and calf-bound authorities.

Ha, Considine! " he Avould cry, in a tone
almost too jolly for " the profession " in business
hours, '' so glad to havre been disengaged
when you cared ! ^^ee you so schlom. Sit
down, oil man, and tell me what 1 can dt) for
you. ])on'l Inii-ry, I am at leisure now — that

is to say, for the next four minutes and a half,"
he would add, pulling out his watch. " Am
to see the judge in chambers just five minutes
from now. But take time, I can run down in
thirty seconds, so you have good four minutes
and a half. So glad you dropped in when I
was at leisure."

Then Considine would hesitate and grow confused.
He had charged batteries of artillery
in his day, had " difficulties " on Mississippi
steamboats, which were afterwards arranged
v/ith six shooters, " each to go on firing till one
dropped," and he had never flinched from his
task or quailed before antagonist. But how
call this man antagonist ? He seemed more
ready to embrace than to fight. It was
grievous to see him so friendly, and made our
warrior feel but a shabby fellow with his
inquiries and questions, which would sound
so like insinuations, and might wound the
genial soul which bore him so much goodwill.
Being in for it, however, lie must go on. It
would never do for a Mississippian to runaway,
even in honour's cause. He pulled from
his pocket a list of the bonds and debentures
he held under their joint trusteeship.

I want you to examine this list of securities,
which I keep in my box at the Bank
of Progress, and indorse your approval on the

19—2

Li. :.t:rvC,i1fOFfUINOJS

back, if you do approve, and we can go over
to the bank and c()in])are the ]papers with the
memorandum any day you find convenient."

Tush, man I It's all perfectly right, I am
quite certain. I have every confidence in you,
General," declining to receive the paper.

But I really wish you would look at it. I
feel this irregular responsibility unpleasant."

"Bosh! it's all regular enough amono-
friends. You know Ralph Herkimer this ever
so long, and I should hope you know }ne!
Imagine either of us getting uc^lv, and blaming-you
— whom the testator trusted so entirely —
for anything you may do. No, no ! And
really, you must excuse me, but I cannot
afford to muddle my head with unnecessary
figures — even to please you ! 1 need, all \\\\
clearness for the delicate (questions which
arise in my practice. I abominate ligures at
all times, and never tackle them unnecessarily."

But ought not I to affix some sort of approval
to the mortii:a^'es you Jive bought for
the estate ? "

Jordan lifted his eyes to the other's face, in
gentle wonder*, as a n"ood man might when
wounded i-atlier than offended by an unlooked
for aspersion on his lioiiour ; and Considine,
confused and abashed, slopped short, and tlicu
floundered on nuain :

I mean it, of course, in no distrustfulness
for Avhat should I distrust ? — but just so as
fairly and fully to divide the responsibility
in case of the heirs desiring to call us to
account."

I really do not know," answered Jordan,
matching his voice to the look of mild disappointment
without reproach which the other
found it so hard to bear up under ; " I really
don't know. I have not considered the point.
It did not occur to me that you would wish
to enter into the intricacies of titles in this
country, which is a comparatively old one,
and the tenures bear no resemblance to those
of Mississippi, where I am told you go back
only to General Jackson. Our system of law,
too, is very different, beings derived from the
French, and not from the common law, as with
you. No ! It did not occur to me that you
could possibly wish to enter into these mysteries.
Our period of trusteeship, too, is
drawing near its close. Three years, I should
suppose, would conclude it; though I cannot
speak precisely without reference to the will,
and the date of Mrs. Selby's marriage. Will
the study of our Quebec land-system repay
you, do you think ? And our friend Kalpli is
so entirely satisfied. Why should you bother ?

But we are not responsible to Kalpli."

"No, not exactly. But it ^vill be this l)oy
Gerald, which is miicli the same thing. The
lad goes into partnership ^vitllhis hither shortly,
so their interests are identical ; and it would
surprise me to be told that Master Gerald did
or knew anything but what his father told
him. A nice boy. Wish my scapegrace was
as manageable."

"I have never felt sure of that — of Ralph's
boy being heir, I mean. There has been no
proof of the missing infant's death ; and
where there is money the claimant seemingly
never dies, but is always reappearing when
least expected, lout if, as you anticipate, it
is to be lial])h we shall have to make up accounts
with in the end, I am not confident
that we might not have trouble, if he saw an
opening for complaint. I have known him
long, as you are aware, lie is a fine man for
business — none better — and has made a handsome
fortune, but I had rather not be in his
power."

No fear of that ! T fancy! know blaster
Balpli, too," pulling out his watch, "but there
are few men of mark, especially in business,
whom wc lawyers cannot lay a Ind on, when
necessary, to keep lliem (pict. His bark
would be worse tli:in this bite in our case, for I
think T know where to li'jlit on a muzzle that

will keep him quiet enough. Time's up, I
see. If you are bent on overhauling those
papers of mine, why not come up to dinner
some evening? We could do it far more
comfortably with the help of a glass of sherry
and a good cigar. What day will you come ?
Friday? Or, let me see, what are you doing
this evening ? Come up to-night. Half-past
seven, sharp. Good-bye, for the present. So
glad you are coming."

And Considine would go as invited, and
would find a number of other guests assembled ;
and Jordan would be all geniality and pleasure
at having him ; 1)ut never an allusion to business
would escape this lips, nor Avould they find
themselves alone together, even for a moment,
till the evening was spent and it was time to
go home. And so it fell that Considine's
anxieties, while seeming to himself to require
but one vigorous effort to end them, were never
resolved, but lung about him vague and undefined,
like the bei^innino- of a low fever which
has not as yet pronounced itself ; causing restlessness
and care, but bringing also a habit of
acceptance which enabled him to live his life in
spite of it, only with a diminished relish. His
distrust wore in time out of the acute into the
chronic form; and it is remarkable, with time,
how much of anxiety a healthy nun can work

ihroncrli, and a])])are]it]y Ije none the worse.
Eiuluranco l)rini.^s a kind of strciKMh to the
mind like that which persistence does to the
body, when the arsenic eater, after having consumed
ounces of the deadly stuff, becomes
able to swallow with impunity more than
would have killed him not so many months
before. The <iOuty and the rheumatic, too,
how long they live! — live and enjoy even, somewhat,
through their sufferings.

And in some such fashion Considine lived
on, in moderate comfort and prosperity, with
the shadow of possible ruin in the back-ground ;
always felt, but not so strongly that he must
disturb the daily furniture of his life by an
effort to exorcise the demon ; which is a state
of things not so very different from what the
rest of us endure. We have our threatening
shadows too, loss, disease, madness, not so
very far off, and always the dismal shade of
Death himself looming up behind and daring
all the others ; yet, like the people before
the flood, we manage pretty well to comfort
and amuse ourselves in the present.

Considine solaced himself not unsuccessfully
under his cares. He hadnatui-ally much of the
wise vegetable enjoyment of existence, and
things conducing thereto, eating, smoking Find
gentle exercise, which is natural to the country

bred more than to those brought up in cities.
He had 'Change through the days to gossip and
lounge upon, and his club in the evening. He
had opportunities too of going into society,
even if be did not make the most of them, and
very frequently he would spend an hour in the
Misses Stanley's drawing-room, sipping tea and
talking over the news. He had fallen into the
way of spending the hot months at St. Euphrase,
just as those ladies spent the cold ones in the
city. Their migrations agreed pretty closely
in time, and both he and they, owing to years
and circumstances, being somewhat out of the
swim of busy life, found it pleasant to sit
together on the banks, as it were, and watch
the gambols and antics of those younger and
brisker, who disported themselves in mid-current.


The ladies had come to town the first winter
solely for their niece's education, but the
following year they undoubtedly had their
own solacement quite as much in view as her
improvement. The tranquillity and repose of
their rural life was if anything too complete,
and after having once broken it by wintering
in the city, it would have felt like returning
to bed after lunch to have remained in the
country all the following year. There is a
feeling of companionship to be derived even

from the faces of our fellows as they pass us
in the street, wliicli is pleasant to such as have
been leadini>- secluded lives, and it takes months
for this mild excitement to lose its relish ; lout
it will grow tame eventually, and so, too, will
the morning calls amon^- ladies of a certain
age. Humanity being in two forms, which
combine with and supplement each other to
constitute the perfect whole, a social circle
comi)ose(l of owe kind alone must needs be
incomplete, tending to limpness if it be feminine,
to hardness if all of men.

The day for flirtation and matrimonial intentions
may be over, but still the habits and tastes
formed in that brighter time survive, even when
incorrigible celibacy has caused society to pass
by the offenders as hopeless subjects. Fortune,
by endowing a young lad' with competence,
grants her the ]privilege to be unworldly or
critical, so that she lets her ]precious springtime
pass unused. The privilege is by no means an
unalloyed boon as the years go by. She fmds
lier self inadmissible to the conclaves of matrons
of her ()\\\\ age, where husbands, doctors and
children are discussed with jVccdom ; yet her
god-daughters and nieces can scarcely be
expected to accept her as a compeer; she is a
demoiselle jj(fsst'(\ :in outside hovered on the
confines of social life, with the gay bachelors

of earlier decades who are still unwed, and
whom society passes by as obdurate and hopelessly
unavailable for matrimonial use.

It is pitiful to see these disappointed " have-been,"
with their palish for youthful pleasures
still unslaked, flirting in a disregarded twilight,
like Homer's ghosts, while the reviving blood
of the sacrificial bull is quaffed by other lips.
Well for them, is it not, if they can make up
a little party among themselves, and by keeping
each other in countenance, contrive to
ruffle it without ridicule among the younger
revellers ?

And so, from mutual convenience and
sympathy, Considine and the Misses Stanley
became fast comrades. In their drawing-room
he could drink a cup of tea with the
ladies whenever he had a mind, and they were
sure of an escort for the evening when they so
desired.

^•^ic-<c^-

BETSEY EX FETE.

In spile of lier pretence to make little of an
invitation to a juvenile party, the prospect of
that gaiety took strong possession of betsey
Bunce. Mr. Selby's Lameness had prevented
his taking her anywhere or ailbrding her
opportunity to spread her ]plumage among
strangers ; which, indeed, was all the satisfaction
which could have accrued from going outwith
him, she not being musical, and he very
little else. Betsey's dissipations, therefore, had
been of so meagre a kind that she might well
set store by Mrs. Jordan's invitation ; it would
at least, she told herself, be an opportunity
to show people that she was lit for better
things. Her cousin Muriel had told her she
might expect lo meet a hundred guests or
more, and surely they would not all be children,
though ]poor Muriel was too young
perhaps to know; but, at least, loth her
Montreal bcaii.r, as she choose to denominate

Randolph Jordan and Gerald Herkimer, would
be there. So she made no doubt of having a
'•^ood time." The image of Joe Webb rose
before her mind's eye as that idea occurred to
her, and he seemed to lier to look reproachful.
Poor Joe ! " she sidled to herself, Hancinc^
archly in her glass ; but Joe was fifteen miles
away, and Betsey fancied herself a heartbreaker.
" A girl can't help these things,"
her thoughts ran on; "and Joe has never
said a word — though I can tell b}^ the sinking
of his voice when he speaks to me, he would
say plenty if I just gave him encouragement.
Poor Joe! lie's too modest. The ^6^az/.i' won't
need encouragement ! I <2;uess I snail rather
have to make them stand off a bit — at first,
that is, they ain't going to think they are to
have it all their own way with an Upper
Canadian, even if she Its moved down to St.
Euphrase. Nice fellows both ; but such awful
dudes ! When they walk down the street of
St. Euphrase in their cricketing suits, the
sidewalk don't seem broad enough to give
them both room. And my ! don't the habitants
stare at them ? I kind of like a dites
or I almost think I could bring myself to like
one," and as she glanced in the glass again,
she coloured half shyly before the intelligence
in her own eyes. " Their gloves and their

boots do fit so splendid ! Their necks look
tight like in the still' collars, hut their tongues
wag freely enough — too freely' sometimes, at
St. Euphrase. They're real " massy " sometimes.
But at a large party, no doubt they'll
know enough to behave. Xo ! Dudes ain't
half bad. Jesuit these two hai'nt got the fine
manly shoulders and strong arms of Joe Webb'

Ah, how big he is ! And how safe a girl
would be with him to take care of her ! To
see him gather up the reins behind that young
team of his in one hand, when they grow
fractious, and lash them with the other till
they simmer down like lambs ! Poor Joe ! "
and she took another look at her all conquering
charms in the i>"lass.

Her hair — low should she arrange it on the
night of conquest ? There was searching of
fashion magazines for something: distinguished
yet chaste. Many startling novelties, with
much expenditure of time and hairpins, were
attempted, with signal unsuccess ; and it was
only after every florid device had been exhausted,
that she had at last to confess that a
severe simplicity accorded bestwitli her other
charms; or to speak plainly was the only
hairdressing she could succeed in.

These labours led to a more critical scrutiny
of her complexion than lie lead evcT made

before. Hitherto she had accepted it like her
other perfections in contented faith ; but now,
on closer observation, was there not just a
suspicion of yellowness under the eyes — tan
marks on the neck — a freckle or two across
the ridge of the nose ? Violet powder I that
was what she needed, and forthwith she repaired
to an apothecary, who, I fear, supplied
her with other embellishments at the same
time. It is certain, at least, that on the looked-for
evening, when, after keeping her aunt long
waiting, she at length came downstairs arrayed
in all her glory, with shawl and hood carried
in her hand, that the assembled family might
have the privilege of a private view, before
she set out on her career of conquest, Mr. and
Mrs. Selby being in the hall and a maidservant
near to open the door and catch a glimpse of
the show, lie appeared in one of those startling
complexions which are affected by equestrian
ladies of the circus, in which not the lily and
the rose combine, but the chalk-ball and rouge
contrast their rawness.

Mrs. Selby's mild and weary eyes opened in
amused amazement, and lier spouse coughed
industriously" behind his hand to stifle his
laughter. Mrs. Bunce lifted her " pinch-nose"
to her eyes in dismay and indignation.

What is it ? Who is it ? " she asked, while

betsey simpered and tossed licrliead. "Tliat
I should live to see a clergyman's niece make
a "

"Guy of herself with violet ])0\vder and
druggist's red," volunteered Mr. Selby. " Ita
mistake, my dear Betsey, I assure you,
attempting to improve Nature's choicest effort,
the cheek of a pretty girl. It's like painting
the lily — o-ildinir reined L?"old."

Jersey turned Wrathfully round, Wishing
scarlet here and there where the powder hapless
thickly. '• But perhaps he meant well,
too," she thought. Elis concluding words
implied a gratifying appreciation of her everyday
looks ; so she let it pass, and the angry
red subsided from her forehead.

Fie, Betsey !" continued the aunt. " There
is scripture against such sinful interference
with the natural complexion. Think of the
wicked Hebrew queen."

"Who])ainted her face and was thrown out
of the window," added belly, with sonu^
irreverence. Poor man, he was apt to grow
jocose.

"peut, auntie, the fashion magazine says
brilliant complexions arc all the go, especially
with simple rr>/7///yr.s- ; and! am sure mine is
simile enough — nothing" but a bani'", an Irish
wis), and — well, only three or four pads. In

Europe, it is said, they use rouge and pearl-while
quite freely. I have only put on a little
powder."

"A little my dear?" muttered Selby, half
aside, " sou look as if you had come out of a
flour barrel — with the white flakes sticking allover
you. It ought to be a fancy ball you
were going to, and you to represent a snowstorm.
The dust is flying from you every
time you turn your head."

Nonsense, George," said his wife. " You
are vexing, and very ridiculous. Why
tease the girl ? We have all made mistakes
of that kind in our day, Betsey, my dear.
You should have seen Mr. Selby himself, when
he was a young man, and wanted to lo:)k his
best. He could hardly walk — he hobbled —
from the tightness of his boots."

"You are mean, Mary, to go back to that.
If I did, it was only when I hoped to walk or
dance with you."

And you would have danced far better if
your shoes had been a larger size. But truly,
Betsey, if you will tr}^ the effect of a wet sponge
on your face, you will find your own nice
natural colour infinitely more ljecomin2^/*

'* I am afraid it will make me awful
pale. I'd hate to look pale alongside Muriel,
her colour brightens so when she gets ani-vol.
II. " "20

mated. And there's Tilly Martindale ; perhaps
she'll 1)0 there, aud I guess sites sure to have
a colour, however she conies b^^ it."

'• TliL'ji are not in the Church," said sirs.
Bunce, <>randlv.

"Nor am I, auntie. It's a j^nit/ I'm going
to." Public opinion, however, so freely expressed,
had its effect, and .Betsey returned to
her room, to reappear more like her ordinary
self, and accept with little satisfaction the
congratulations and ]praises which good-hearted
Mrs. Selby' felt bound to shower
upon her.

As the aunt and niece drew near their
destination they felt their hack suddenly slow
off into a walk. There was a sleigh in front
of them, and when Jersey stood up, craning
her short neck to reconnoitre, there was
another in front of that, and another, and
another. 'Yhcn there were gates and an illuminated
mansion beyond, up to which the
line of sleiiihs was streaming, slowly and intermittently,
as each in succession stopped to set
down its load, and then vanished.

"I declare, auntie, we're in a procession!
Ain't it cunning? and quite grand. The
company will all arrive together, and there's
no doubt they will make a grand entry, two
and two with the music ]playing a nuirch —

just like there was in Tulliver's Circus, last
year, at St. Euplirase. Only we'll have to
walk, on account of the stairs, and not having
horses. I alway's kncAV it was the stage and
the pulpit gave the law about speaking, but
I didn't know before, it was the circus set
the fashion for other things. Ain't it well,
now, that I was there P — though you scarcely
thought so at the time. You just keep as
near me as you can, and I'll tell you what todo
— all I know. But, to be sure, they'll be
providing' us with heaiLi\ and we'll have to go
wherever the gentlemen take us. Ah! When
I remember the lady in the yellow satin
riding habit, with the knight in steel button
armour and the peacock plume ! It was something
beyond. I don't see why steel button
armour should not go quite as well with
geranium poplin as yellow satin. But knights,
if there are any, won't wear their uniform at
a private party, I'm afraid. The Queen makes
them keep it for wearing at the palace, most
likely ; but it's meaii of her, all the same.
However, black swallow-tails look real nice,
with almost any colour a girl can put on, and
it's just the very thing to tone down my
geranium colour, and make it look moderate."
There was no place for Mrs. Bunce to slip
in a word as her niece ran on in a continuous

20—2

monologue — soliloquy rather, for lie vas
merely thinking aloud, and her thoughts had
"own so ena'rossino- that she probably wotild
not have heard, had she been spoken to.
Presently the sleigh came to a heal halt, and
it vas their own turn to alight and follow the
stream of cloaked figures up the stairs. A
counter-stream of those who had disentangled
themselves, like moths escaped from the dusky
chrysalids, and werc^ rusting their airy glories
into form, passed them on the banister side,
while the arrivals not 3Tt perfected in the
cloak-room slunk upwards by the wall.

Betsey's breath seemed to forsake her in
one little gasp of ecstasy. She followed her
anne upwards mechanically'. Her consciousness
had gathered itself into her eyes, and sat
there all athirst, drinking in impressions from
the novel scene. The scent of flowers was
everywhere, and the sound of sackbut, psaltery,
liddlc, and all that she could dream of festive
nmsic. Through the open doors below, as
she ascended, appeared dancing figures, whirling
and vanishing in endless succession.
Lamps and glitter seemed everywhere, and
gowns of every hue — a moving rainbow. She
could only liken it to the description from a
New York pantomime in that morning's newspaper
of the " Falls of Dazzling Light." The

hall-way, wliicli she looked down on as she
went up, was filled with people in evening
dress, circulating to and fro, and a stream of
people in festive array was passing her on
the stairs — velvets, satins, jewellery, lace and
flowers, not to speak of niceties in hair-dressing
and general arrangement, which it had not
hitherto entered into her mind to conceive,
but were still so beautiful. She caught them
all in the passage of her eye across that serried
stream as lie went up a flight of si airs. She
was a born milliner, as the upper Canadiemie
not very seldom is.

Mrs. Bunce and her niece had been almost
the last of the guests to arrive, and had been
long detained in the cloak-room by those
finishing touches to their adornment over
which it is by no means the young or the
beautiful who spend the longest time. In
the present case it was the treacle-coloured
chevelare of the aunt which had come askew
under the hoods and wrappings she had worn
upon her head, and her cap secured in its
place i)y many a hairpin required to be removed
before the other invention could be
adjusted. She lingered over minor embellishments
till the other occupants had left the
room, when she found some pretext to send
away the attendant also. Then she sprang to

the door and locked it, and turning to Betsey
with starting vehemence, made her promise
by all she liehl sacred never on any pretext
to reveal or divulge what lie was presently to
behold. Betsey has kept her promise.

Whatever awful rite may live supervened
has remained unknown. The maid at the keyhole
saw moving: iii-ures, Ijut what they were
doing she could not tell, though the time
allowed for observation was ample during
which lie was kept outside. Eventually the
door was unbarred, and ]\lrs. Bunce came forthwith
the dignified self-possession of a well-dressed
woman, betsey followed, looking pale
and anxious, as the inquisitive waiting-maid
discerned, and with the far-off look in her eyes
which the books tell us is worn by those who
have come through a new experience.

Tlu'A' were so lonc^ of <?ettinu down stairs
that Mrs. Jordan had left the doorway, in which
she had been standing to receive her quests,
and was now by a fireplace with some of her
friends. It was necessary for Mrs. 13unce to
cross the room, al some risk to herself from
passing dance's, in order lo ]pay her respects.
Betse}^ followed as well as she Alas able, but
she did not reach the presence of her Hostess.

From beyond the radius of a dowager in
trundle-coloured satin drilling easily onwards

ill the same direction, in whose wake Betsey
had found it safe and easy to steer her course
amono^ the throne — from out of the unknown
region, which the bulk of trifle-coloured
satin concealed, there came a whirlwind of
]palest blue, with silver chains and bangles
tossing an]ong. curliui]^ hair, and smiles and
dimples, revolving wildly with the music, and
with a stock and a little cry there came into
Lier arms — who but Muriel Stanley ! The
meetings was of the briefest. Tliev had
scarcely time to ejaculate each other's names
ere Muriel's cavalier had his partner well in
hand again, and they were gone, Betsey looking
after them with all her eyes. It was
Randolph Jordan avIio was dancing with
Muriel, looking, as Betse}^ phrased it, " fit to
kill," in his evening suit. One of Betsey's
helix ! How enu'ao'imxlv she looked at
him, and after him, out of her boiled gooseberry
eves — throwing enhances of fascination
which I fear fell short, or were not understood
with a simper on her round fat cheeks, and
lips parted in smiles, displaying slab-like teeth.
"Whoever was that we cannoned off just
now ? '' said liandoli)h, when his partner
stopped for breath, "('nrioiis looking person
to meet at a party'. Who is it ? You
seemed to know her."

"Tliat was my cousin, Miss Ounce. You
know her too — (quite ready to know lier out
at St. I'.uplirase you sec^n. \\\ your own
house I should have thouu'lit you ^voul(l know
every one."

"There, now, I've ]put my foot in it. Lie's
your cousin, slice's all rii^'ht of course. Doit
be vexed, Mui-ick lout what makes lier wear
that horrid own ? I never saw ain'thiufr like

It.

Somet]iin«4" stole into Muriel's eyes as she
thought of the "geranium poplin," and how
very superior its wearer intended to be when
she put it on — " made with a tablicr and cut
square "but she checked the impulse, and
ojdy said : "Poor ]betsey must feel herself a
stranger here ; I do not think she knows a soul
but those she has met at St. Eu phrase. I think
I shall sit down now. Xo ! Not another turn,
I feel quite tii'cd. Go and ask Jersey ; you will
do me a favour if you will, and then introduce
a few gentleness to her. Help lier to enjoy
herself. It must be dreadful to be so alone
in a room full of people."

"You are laird on me, ^Mui'icl, to deprive
nuM^f half my (lance and then liaiul me over
to — to — If she were (piety dressed, it would
not be so bad. She used to look quite ]passable
at St. lui])hrase in her cotton gowns;

but the sumptuous apparel is really too dreadful.
Every one will observe us. And see!
I do declare she is ogling somebody up in this
part of the room. Just look. Did you ever
see such facial contortions ? and what a
mouthful of teeth ! Like an amiable hyena,
or the show-window at a tombstone factory."

'• I am fond of my cousin Betsey, Randolph.
If you do not hurry away to her she will lose
this dance, and I shall be disappointed."

It was with tardy and reluctant steps that
Randolph obeyed, but he had not to go far to
meet the engaging Betsey. That young lady,
watching her beau from afar, saw Muriel
led to a seat, and himself, after a few words of
conversation, turn in her direction ; and with
the inspiration of conquering beauty, she
divined that it was to her his steps were tending.
And yet the steps seemed lagging even
after they were disencumbered of the partner.
They positively seemed to falter. Ah ! poor
young man, the beau was diffident — needed
encouragement ; and he should have it. It
seemed to her tender heart to be no time for
standing on punctilio. The young man
suffered ; and it was for her. That was enough.

She turned her steps to meet him as he came
meet him half-way, I might have said, had
I been censorious — and as he came in view

lie smiled, smiknl like a 1)riinini]ig tea-cup
filled Avitli siii^ai- and water : and she spread
lier hands in Aveh,'onie, spread them, that is,
as to the hnn'cr^, she did not move the wrists,
for, notwithstanding the certainty of beauty's
intuitions, there is still the ]possibility that one
may' be mistaken, as Jktsey h:Ml been ere now
- — and she stood with her eyes fixed on
Randolph's countenance.

The look met him full in the face ashe
came before her, struck him as the
jets from the lire-engines may have struck
the Parisian mob which General La
^[oriciere so cleverly dispersed without the
Iielp of steel or gunpowder ; and he would
have run away, but he could not. Not only
was Betsey before him, but Muriel was somewhere
behind, and Ijoth would have seen his
demoralization. Betsey's eyes were beamin<]^
on him with a peculiar radiance. The' swam,
it seemed to him, in a shining wariness, and
with a liakt in which the o-reen rays and the
yellow blended as they do in an over-ripe
gooseberry where the sun is shining, looking
luscious, and not too cool — inviting;, to
those whose tastes that way indite.

The greetings between these two were not
prolonged — the one had been ordered to drive
a dance, tin* other was eaijer to encourage

a beau. There was a bow and a word or
two. Miss Betsey's head lay back on her
short neck as the gentleman's arm slid around
her waist. Then, as she laid her little fat
hand on his arm, her head rolled over to the
other shoulder, and lie found herself in the
ecstasies of the mazy dance. Lie drew a loni^
breath of deli;L>ht, and leant just a trifle
heavier on the strong; encircling arm, when —
crash ! sharps and fiats. Another chord — the
music ceased, and — oh, bathos— she found
herself standing on the train of a lady's o'own,
who was roi>'ardino' her with a scowl, while
she herself was pinned to the ground from
behind in the same Avay, and she could not but
dread how the hoof-marks would look on her
geranium poplin.

It was liandolpli's turn now to draw a
breath of relief, and he looked oyer his
shoulder to where he Iliad left his little friend
little, not obviously in stature, but only
because lie said wore short frocks, though
counting for more to him than all the
grown-up ladies in the room. The feeling of
holiday, however, was of short duration ; he
could read disappointment on Muriel's features,
and when he gazed towards her as claiming
thanks for what he had done at her behest,
she looked another war, io'iiorin^ the demand.

It was little satisfaction lie could look for
duriii,i^f the rest of the evcuiiiL!- if ]\Iiiriel were
disobliged, and her present demand was one
of those disinterested ones \vhirl\ must be
fulfilled specifically and cannot be made up
for, or " squared '"' by attentiveness in other
ways ; therefore, as one Who can not make a
better of it, he turned to Jktsey, regretting
that their dance had been cut short prematurely,
and bea'trinir that the next miii-ht be his.

Betsey was nothing loth. The bean must
be very far gone indeed, lie thought, and
she could not but cast a backward and
regretful Hance of her mind to Joe Webb,
Gerald Herkimer, and several others, taking
them all pell-mell and quite " ])romiskis,'' as
she pronounced the word. However, she
could only have one, she knew that ; ami lie
intended to take whoever offered first, if he
was eligible, and not run risks bv '• fooling "
after the rest. So much for being ]practical
and not idiotic-illy In low', except
with one's own sweet self !

Randolph resigned himself to work out his
dance conscientiously, but without enthusiasm.
Her waist was so far down that he would
have to stretch to get steering leverage upon
this rather compact partner", and as has
happened before to many a tall youth vritli a

stumpy fair one, lie lead a presentiment that
his arm would ache before the exercise was
concluded. In walking round the room,
however, before the solemnity commenced, he
caught so pleasant a smile of thanks from
Muriel over his lady's head that he was consoled,
and set himself manfully to perform
the task before him ; the more so, perhaps,
that Muriel was sitting, and though he would
not have owned to grudging her a pleasure, it
pleased him best when she danced with himself.
He had kept more than half his card
free from engagements, that she mi^-ht
have plenty of dances, and his mother was
looking for an opportunity to take him to
task for the horrid way in which he Alas
neojlectin<]^ her guests. He would live been
less content could he have looked back and
seen the alacrity with which she rose a
moment later when Gerald Herkimer came
forward to claim her. Of all the " fellows "
in the room, Gerald was the only one as to
.whose standing( in Muriel's good faces he
tied a misgiving.

The dance began, and Randolph found he
had not under-estimated the work before him.
Betsey was positively festive, exuberant and
unconfined, on the very top rung of her ganuit
of feeling, as she bounced and caracoled along.

She could (lance, of course — every Canadian
woman can dance — lout lie possessed a solid
massiveness peculiar lo herschel", and really
remarkable in one of her size. Iiandolpli
found there was little he could do but merely
hold on. Strain and adjust himself as he
mi<4"ht, the centre of their joint equilibrium
would not be brought under his control.
Betsey seemed totally inelastic, and her ballast
was in her heels. "Hefty" Alas the word a
Vermont cattle dealer had used to describe
her action after a dance at St. Euphrase.
Deviously she pranced, a fly whom no rein
ever invented could be hoped to guide ; and
as the rapture of the music wore into her soul,
she threw herself back on ])()or randolph's
arm with-am abandon and an entirety wliicli
made it feel strained and paralyzed foi* long
after.

Oh, j\rr. Jordan," she crii.'d, when at last
the poor fellow was compelled to stop ; ''vou
seem fairly done up ami out of breath. Forme,
now, I feel fresher, I do declare, than when
we started of!'."

Snudl wonder," thought liaiidol[)h, '• after
making me all but caiiy you completely round
the room;" but he said nothing, merely looking
at the half-paralyzed hand and hinge's of
his strained ai"ni, and wondering: how long it

would be before lie should be able to use
them.

You're a lovely dancer," the Syren resumed.
" Eeely, too — too — awfully nice for
anything. Something quite beyond ! But to
think of your being tired ! And here's me, a
fragile girl, feeling', I declare, just as good as
new, or rather better ! Now, if you would
like to go on again, I'm quite ready," and she
drew herself up ready to relapse on the manly
support of Randolph's arm the moment it
should come behind her.

But it did not come. Randolph observed
that it was very warm ; " had they not better
walk to the other end of the room ? — they
might be able to fid ice there, or something
to drink ;" and he led her round the outskirts
of the dancers. The dancers ^v ere all intently
engaged, disporting themselves some more and
some less deftly, but all as best they could,
and Betsey eyed them enviously, o'lancimi^
reproachfully on her beau.

And then there passed them a pair wliicli
drew the eyes of both, it passed them so
easily, so lightly, so swiftly, like a curl
of blue smoke across a wooded hillside,
and it was flown, like the crotchets and
semi-quavers in a bygone bar of the tune
a Avast upon the air, they passed so lightly,

passed like the music, leaving but the memory
of <j[lauciii<^ smiles as the Duisic leaves a sense
of sweetness when it has ceased.

"Was that not Muriel went by just now,
and Gerald Herkimer P " asked Ik^sey.

I think so," said randolph, with just a
tone of sulky disgust in his voice.

'* I wonder at Penelope and Matilda bringing
a child like that to a ball like this. It's
real bad for Aounu* children brini>"ino' them
forward so soon — ;just tempts people to think
them old before their time ; and if Muriel
takes after her aunts, she'll have plenty time
for parties before she marries, even if she
came out three years late in place of three
years too soon. I doubt if she is fourteen yet."

Oh, yes, she will be sixteen next July, she
told me so herself."

A iri'cat aii'c. But still she shouldn't b3
here to-night at a grown-np dance."

This is a juvenile party. Miss l)unce."

'' .Muriel is the oily juvenile I see, and she
seems to be carrying on just like one of the
grown-ups — all but the frock. She has on a
short frock, 111 admit that, and I don't see
another in the room Ijut her own."

"The juveniles are in the ball-room. Perhaps
you have not been there yet. Would
you lice to go? This is only the drawing-room

with the carpet up, for a few grown-up
friends of my mother's — a mere side show.
Let us go and see the children. You will find
Miss Matilda Stanley there, and have an opportunity
to give her your views about Miss
Muriel's nurture."

Oh, pshaw ! " cried Betsey, in deep disgust.
It was really too tantalizing to have secured
a splendid partner for a round dance, to have
been checked in full career before the dance
was a third part over, to have been led away
under the promise of ice cream and something
to drink; and if there was anything Betsey
liked next best to dancing, it was ice cream,
with red wine after — not claret by any means,
but something sweet, warming and — if not
exactly strong, it would be so horrid to like
anything strong — at least able to communicate
a sensation of streno-th or general betterment.
To have all these delights dangled before one's
eyes, and then to be led away to look at a
parcel of children, who should have been in
their ]beds hours before, dancing the polka!
Oh, no ! Betsey felt lie was being wronged.
If she were not to have her dance out, at
least she should get the bribe she had been
promised. She would be so far true to herself
as to strike a blow for the ice cream.
It was easily done. She observed to Randolph

VOL. II. 21

that she felt a little faint, and really the rooms
were warm. He acquiesced at once. So long
as it was not to dance, he would do anything
for her. And so they sat down snugly enough
near a refreshment table and tried to be
comfortable.

-^^

Randolph's tribulations.

Randolph ! " hissed Cornelius Jordan in his
son's ear, as they met in a vacant doorway
not long after. " You're a fool ! — a pigheaded
young fool. There are plenty young
duffers around to tend the children and the
wall-flowers, and yet you have done nothing
else the whole evening. Dancing three times
running with a little girl, and then towing
round a curiosity, just as if you wanted to
tell your mother's guests that you didn't mind
any of them, and would as soon dance with a
stitcher. What do you mean, sir? " and he
shook the young man's arm to rouse him.

The young man moved his e3^es lazily round
to the other's face and said, " Yes, sir ;" whereat
the other stamped his foot.

"• Well for me, father, is it not, that I'm too
big to whip, or I'd catch it now ? "

You'll catch worse than whipping if you
don't mind. You'll ruin sour prospects for

21—2

life ! If I'd whipped you bet lei* wJieii it
was in my power, you'd be more sensible
now."

"Don't blame yourself, sir ; you did your
lest in that way. I believe I got more licking's
than the five other boys on our street all
put together. You have nothing to reproach
yourself with on that score. Yoti made me
squirm, and perhaps it did good, relieving
your feelings if it lacerated mine, i^ut it's
over now — forgotten and forgiven, I suppose,
as it has left no marks or effects behind it ;
for I fancy the other fellows' fathers have
more influence with them than we can Hatter
ourselves yon have with me."

You can come to m}" study tomorrow
morning when I am slaving* if you want me
to hear the rest of your discourse upon the
evil of harshness in bringing up a supersensitive
boy; though my own belief is that it was
your mother who spoiled you. Meanwhile,
use your comiiioii sense for once, if you have
any; hear me out, and then do as I say.

You think yourself talented, and for myself
I should be ]pleased to tliiidv so too, but you
hate work, and will not drudge at the routine
of our profession, without which success cannot
come. You think you have a turn for
politics, and rouhl make; your mark that

way; and for myself, I am bound to say I
think you might become a good speaker with
practice ; but success in poetics wants either
industry and application at the beginning,
qualities which you do not possess or will not
exercise, or else a connection with some influential
interest. This last you have not
either, luc with very moderate assiduity any
young man, who is also my son, may at this
moment acquire and retain it for life. Mile.
Eouget is of an. age to marry — just the right
age for you. Her grand uncle is archbishop,
her uncle a cabinet minister. She is an only
child, and her father is seignior of La Hache.
I have been able to be useful to the old man,
and he will consider your pretensions favourably
if you will only declare yourself. In
fact, I have in a manner declared on your
behalf, and a very moderate degree of attention
on your part, in confirmation, is all that
is necessary. You see she is French, and well
reared — willing to let her parents bestow her
hand where they see lit. So you will not be
compelled to such lavish demonstrations as I
have seen you make elsewhere, where nothing
was to be got by it ; only of course, it will
be good taste to discontinue the attentions in
other quarters while you are a pretender to
mademoiselle's hand !

"Wliy, man! ^vitli the church and the
Government at your back there is not a
constituency in the country you may not
aspire to represent ; and with experience and
my advice — which is worth more, my son,
than you in your sapience can very well
make out — there is no position whatever
which you may not rise to. Now don't be
pig-headed ! I see the obstinate look gathering
; but do not let us have a public row
for the entertainment of our friends. Go and
dance with Mille. Eouget, and be civil to
her; and take in her or her mother to supper.
That will not compromise you either way, and
it will save me for the present from the false
position in which my zeal for your prospects,
and your own indifference to them, seem like
to land me."

Jordan and his son were scarcely e^ood
friends, though both were inclined to do their
family duty. Like the positive poles of two
magnets, they never met without repelling
each other. Jordan was naturally diplomatic,
with a pronounced turn for management,
which generally ended in Ids getting his own
way, and therefore made liii disinclined to
yield. In town he was liked for his ]pleasant
ways, and generally he was yielded to ; but
at home, his consort, whom the rest of the

world found charming, had, for him, what
charming women so often possess for the enlivenment
of their nearest and dearest, and
without which, perhaps, they wouhl soon cease
to be charming at all, a will of her own. She
had an inconvenient turn for epigram, and
with a verb, or even with a laugh, could
prick a bubble or a wind-bag in its weakest
place, bringing the poor high-flyer flapping
to the ground ; and Jordan, doubtless, like
other Benedicts, though moderate in his flights
abroad, would at times adventure to soar a
little by his own fireside. Amelia permitted
no soaring there except her own — is not home
the woman's kingdom ? — and perhaps it was
thus that her boy learned a disregard for
paternal advice and reproof which could not
but irritate a man accustomed to guide and
control in the outer world. A boy ! and
his own. It would have been too humiliating
to stoop to management there, especially with
mischief-loving Amelia looking on ; so he fell
into a habit of commanding and beatings the
boy when he transgressed.

The stick, however, is a sceptre little suited
to the nineteenth century or the Western
Continent. For the subjects of the Khedive
it is manifestly just the thing. The people
understand it, and the more vigorously it is

applied the happier are the results — for the
State at least. But then His Highness is
generous even to prodigality in administering"
the State medicine, Without stint or exception,
and on every occasion. It is Thoromjlt.
which succeeds in Government. James II.
was perfectly correct when he said that it
was vieldiu2^ which cost King? Charles his
head. It was yielding, yielding after having
attempted "thorough" without the strength
or the daring to work it out. When the bad
rider, inexpert with spur, whip, and bridle,
strokes the steed's neck and says " poor fellow,"
softly and soothingly, depend upon it the
horse understands the situation as well as
his so-called master, and goes his own way.
Conciliation, reparation— what you will — to
noisy discontent, is a mistake of the same
kind ; the rider may borrow a handsome name
for it from the doctrinaire, but he will not
persuade the steed that anything but weakness
or fright has Avrung from him his pretty behaviour.
So much we may gather from recent
British history.

But the teller of this story may well leave
British history to run its own course, and he
craves pardon for his trespass. What he
would testify against, in his small way, is historical
iiic()nsistc'iic\' and hysterical interference,

however well meant, with the sequence
of events. See how a ship has to tack
and turn when the wind chaises, if she
would continue her voyage ; if the ship of
state is merely to turn her helm and scud
before an altered wind of popular feeling,
without regard to whence she comes or
whither she is bound, sooner or later she will
find herself among the breakers, and on a lee
shore.

Jordan had attempted the forester in re with
his son, bit not consistently, and especially not
persistently Indeed, like many another, he
would have let the brat alone during his
growing years, merely sending him out of the
room when he was noisy, or tossing him silver
in moments of paternal pride, for his thoughts
were kept busy on other things ; but the whelp
acquired a trick of enclosing himself behind
his mother's jj^own and bidding defiance to the
rightful lord of the manor, and then the latent
savage, which is said still to strive in the
mo-t cultured, wotild break out, and nothing
but blows and howls would appease him. On
these occasions it was the lad's mother who
brought fuel to inflame the father's wrath. It
pleased her so much that her boy should come
to her for protection in his troubles, and she
was so pleasing a person herself — or the world

t^aid so, and she had <^()t to think it — with her
vivacity, her ])rig]itiie8S, and her satiric smile,
wherewith she could i^oad old Slow-coach to
fury ; and he beinii man enoui*'!!, at least, to
respect his wife, the fury glanced harmless
past her and fell in stinging whacks on the poor
little adventurer behind her, who had raised the
storm. Yet even at his worst, Jordan could
find nothing soul satisfying in beating a small
bo', and after a clout or two lie would desist,
with no harm done except to the young one's
personal dignity and the resentment bred
therefrom, and that was an evil not to be
measured by the severity of the assault, but
rather inversely. The lighter the correction
the heavier the resentment and offence.

"If you will whip a child," as I once
heard an American lectures say — she was a
superior person who knew all about it, and
had left her own seven lambs at home under
the care of a hired help, while lie went out
into the world with her evangel of nursery
tactics — " If you //;/// whip a child, be sure
you really kuvt it'' There must be tingle
enough to overbear the indignation and resentment
which the violence you are doing to
its person will naturally arouse; you must
wliij) enough to make it forget the outrage
in the solid ]pain which it sellers. It is only

then that you need expect to super-impose
your own will upon that of the patient.

I suppose Jordan had never listened to the
American lectures, if he had, he did not lay
the homily to heart. At any rate, he struck,
when he might have managed quite as well
without ; and striking, he struck only enough
to arouse in his son feelings of deeper rebellion
than those which he undertook to quell ;
and thereafter a grudge and a suspicion came
between the old man and the young, which
perhaps the mother without any evil intent,
but merely from loving to be first with her
own son, his councillor and his friend, did
more to aggravate than any one else.

Randolph went in search of Miss Eouget to
secure his dance, but the young lady's card
was filled up. She had kept a vacancy for
him some time, but at length her mother sitting
by, displeased at the young man's neglect,
had made her fill it up with some one else, and
now glanced at the offender with a somewhat
stony reserve, which softened, however, Alien
he approached herself, and prayed the honour
of leading her to supper. On glancing
round the company she could see no good
reason why her host had not come forward in
person to perform the office. " But then those
English," as she told herself, " are so ignorant

of the convenances Again, the young man
might be dissident in pursuit of his matrimonial
aspirations, which Alas to this credit;
and also, she Alas getting very tired where she
sat. Her English was not fluent, and the French
of the others was so indifferent, that few dared
use the litlhi they had, whence she had not
been entertained with much conversation, and
the smiling bows had grown monotonous.
Supper was the one recreation open to lier,
and as lie looked, behold, her husband was
leading the way with his hostess. So after
all there was no ground of offence, and her
features relaxed into their wonted graciousness
as lie joined the ]procession. The
younger people continued to dance, and Randolph
felt a little twinge of jealousy to see
Muriel asian dancing with Gerald. He was
able to whisper to her in ]passing, however,
which was something, begging her to linger
and let him take lier to supper by-and-by.
Madame ceased speaking just then, to someone
on her other side, and claimant his attention
by an observation, so that he failed to
catch what Muriel said in reply.

Madame enjoyed her supper, as was fitting.
She had earned it bv hours of conscientious
chaj>eron(i(j(', which lead declined even
the allurements of the neighbouring!; card-room.

She was so fortunate too as to be
placed near a gentleman who spoke French
well, and now indemnified herself for the enforced
silence under which she had been
yawning so wearily. In the comings and
goings, the risings and sittings down, of some
going back to dance and others coming in to
sup, a little circle of her intimates gathered
round madame, and Randolph, no way averse,
found himself merely a supernumerary on its
outskirts. It was his opportunity ; he availed
himself of it, and stole back to look for
Muriel among the dancers. He came upon
her as she rested at the end of a dance, with
still that same too constant Gerald in attendance.


Now then, Miss Muriel," he cried ; " if you
are ready we will go at once. The dowagers
are leaving the supper-room, and after this
dance the musicians will take a rest, and there
will be a crush of all the dancers coming in at
once. If you are ready we will go."

Muriel looked up.

Thanks for the information. Miss Muriel
is going presently. We will get in ahead of
those who are dancing now," said Gerald with
a suppressed smile.

Kandolph drew himself up just a little, and
strove to look dignified while he ignored the

last speaker. " Of course there is riO need to
hurry if you prefer to rest ; but it is so much
cooler in the supper-room ; do you not think
you will be better to come at once, Muriel ? "

"I was just rising to go with Gerald Her-aimer
when you spoke."

But I spoke some time ago — when I
passed you with Madame Eouget. You were
dancing at the time."

"That was my dance, Muriel," interjected
Gerald ; " you promised then to let me take
you to supper."

Randolph drew himself up to his tallest — lie
was two inches taller than Gerald — and turned
his flushed face with all the dignity he could
muster in it upon his offending friend. " I
have only Miss Stanley to deal with in
this matter, and I prefer to settle it with
herself."

Bosh ! man. What is the use of your
putting on grand airs with me ? Haven't we
gone to school together ? It isn't a bit of good
your trying to play Don Fandango. If you
like, we can go down to your back yard, take
off our coats, and have it out with lists in the
old way ; but the people will be sure to laugh,
and we shall look rather rumpled when we
get back here. We are getting old for that
sort of tlnng, besides. Don't you see you

have made a mistake somehow, and the young
lady is engaged for supper to me ? "
" I don't ! and I won't ! and I do "

"Law, now! Mr. Jordan, ain't this just
splendid ? You are making up a party for
supper, I see, and I am a hungry party that
will be most pleased to join you ; " and Randolph
felt a fat arm slip through that arm of
his own which he had been offering so pressingly
to Muriel. There was a vision of germ
poplin flapping against him,
and when he looked round, behold. Miss Betsey
had him in possession. There was nothing
for it but to submit and lead the way while the
other two followed ; even though a smothered
haw, haw," which he could hear behind him,
filled his heart with fury, and made him long
to face about and brain the offender on the
spot. The natural man is a savage still, especially
when his inclination to the fair is
crossed ; culture, good-manners, and white kid
gloves notwithstanding.

Betsey was exuberant. Thanks to Muriel's
efforts, she had danced and eaten ice with
Randolph, and Gerald, and a good many more
danced almost continuously, and quite energetically
— having, in her own words, " a
real good time." And now she was a little
hungry, but in overflowing spirits, as she

trotted beside lie' tall ciu'alici", with her chin
]pressed into the dimpling rediiudaiiey of lier
short thick need, where every line and crease
seemed to vie with the parted lips in smilini^r
content.

Randolph stalked gloomily by her side,
realizing his helplessness, and resenting the
amused glances which met him as he proceeded.
But what could he do ? He could
only submit, and get through with the interlude
as qiiickh'as possible. He was lucky enough
to lind a small tal)le vacant in a retired corner
of the su])]KU"-i'oom, Avhere he placed himself
and his little companion, iu'iiorinj];" turns
and nods and ]pointing to more conspicuous
]places, where the lights would have shone
brighter on her beauty and her revelry —
which were just the things he wished to keep
out of sight. ]betsey had the best of everything
to eat, however, which was compensatory,
and her companion had at least
the satisfaction of sitting opposite Muriel.
He had secured them for the rest of his
own table, and if he was unable to say
much to her himself, it was something
to have prevented a tete-astute with his
rival.

Randolph's disturbed feelings were subsiding
into sullen celui. He was eating his

supper. He lead filled his companion's glass
and his own ; and Betsey, smiling to pledge
him, held her foaming goblet in her hand
awaiting his answering glance, when a sombre
body — the back and shoulders of a man's coat
interposed itself between them.

'' Jordan ! Here you are at last," it said.
It was only a man's coat, so far as Betsey
could see, intruding most impertinently between
herself and her beau. " I have been
looking for you everywhere. Now I have
found you. Madame Rouged has done supper,
and is waiting for you to go back to the
dancing-room."

Betsey made a little gulp of indignation ;
but no one perceived it, or seemed to heed
her. Randolph rose like a truant returning to
school, led away b}^ the man in the coat ; and
she, poor Betsey ! was left — lamenting ? No —
finishing her supper. She held her glass
across to Gerald for a little more champagne,
and thereby tacitly placed herself under his
protection for the rest of the meal. There
was much natural adaptability to circumstances
in Betsey, notwithstanding her too
evident lack of polish. Like the celebrated
brook, she went tranquilly forward, however
'' men might come, or men might go," in a
consistent following out of what seemed the
VOL. n. 22

attainable best for herself. With (>j)])()rtuiiity
and culture Betsey might have gone far.

Madame Rouget rose at liandolj)h's approach,
and took his arm to leave the room,
l^he showed no displeasure or cognisance of
his desertion, but there was a distinct refrigeration
of the graciousness With which she had
accepted his escort to the supper-table half-an-hour
before. In leaving the room they were
stopped for an instant in front of the little
table which randolph had risen from.
Madame lifted her eye-glass just where germ
poplin made the feature of the
view, and its wearer in much comfort held a
wine-glass to her lips, smiling across to Gerald
Herkimer, a modernized suggestion of one of
Jordan's carousing beauties, though with the
flesh tints far less delicately rend(ii"ed. She
dropped the eye-glass with a click, and a
French shrug, and that accompanying rise of
the eyebrows so infinitely more expressive of
scorn and contempt than any word.

I am desoUe, to have take Mistaire Jordan
from ze plaisirs of his soopaire. But ze demoiselle
aipj^ears herself to console ver well.
Wich rassure me ver much."

Madame must certainly have been indignant
when she used these words, for, when quite
herself, her Childish was ^rannnnticallv correct

enough if the vocabulary was restricted and
a word was sometimes used in a wrongs sense.
It is a woman's rioiit to take offence at the
for mam spread by a suitor, and if the form
despised be her daughter's instead of her
own, she can resent it with even better grace.

Not long after, Mr. Jordan senior came
upon Mr. Eouget leaving the card-room, and
expressed a hope that he lead been able to
amuse himself.

I have not the good fortunes at cards
this evening," that gentleman replied ; " I
have won nothing ; lost, rather, I fear."

So sorry ; come have a glass of wine, and
perhaps the luck may turn."

^'N'importe, I shall play no more to-night.
The fortunes are not provinces. My system
does not conform to the play of Mistaire —
what you call ? — Constantine."

Considine. Probably not. He generally
plays euchre. You were playing whist.
Liable to trump his partner's best card. I
know his weakness. Let me find sou someone
else."

'•I thank you. No. It' grows late. I go
in search of madame. Monsieur himself does
not succeed well in the little plan he did me
the honour to propose — to ally our families.
I observe Monsieur Eandolphe withholds the —

22—2

what you say? — the jjetlts soins wliicli aire
of custom lieu a gentleman pretends to the
hand of a demoiselle. N'importe, I accept
the excuses of monsieur without saying. One
knows the authority of father counts for
notliin^j: with you Enoiisli ; but the more
should have been an understanding before
to approach me."

My dear sir," Jordan began deprecatingly ;
but the other raised his hand in dignified
protest.

Enough. I make no repY03ch~^N''iinporte.
My good brother, the ministre, has views.
We will forget."

My dear Mr. Eouget — I beg ! — I weill even
admit that you have ground of offence, but
pray take into account the waywardness of a
head-strong youth who resents being dictated
to, and fancies he should decide his own
movements. Still, I must say for him, the
boy really is steady, and a good lad ; and
that, you will allow, is a (qualification not
always to be met with among the eligible
young men of the present day. The mortgage
upon La Hache would be a nice provision for
the young ]people, would save you from the
possibility of instalments falling due at inconvenient
times, and I think — though perhaps I
am too nearly related to be an impartial judge

the lad has parts, and would not discredit
the Honourable the Minister of Drainage and
Irrigation either in politics or the public
service. He has been bred to the law, as
perhaps you know, and passed his examinations
with distinction."

M. Eouget bowed his head and allowed the
look of displeasure to relax upon his countenance.
He was most willing to push forward
the matrimonial scheme, though naturally, as
being the weaker party, it behoved him to
keep that fact to himself, and to be ready, at
the first sign of backwardness on the other
side, to feign offended dignity, that he might
be able to withdraw from the fruitless negotiation
with the honours of war.

They were now leaving the supper-room
together, and Considine approached just as
the Frenchman walked forward alone in
search of his ladies.

"At last," thought Considine, "I shall
catch Jordan alone, and get over that talk I
have been so long wanting to have with him ; "
and he pressed his breast pocket to make sure
of the documents he had carried about so
long, in hopes of catching the busy man ina
moment of leisure. Jordan noticed the
movement, and was defensively on the alert
at once.

Considine, old fellow ! Not dancing "

*'My dancing days arc* over, l^iit I sav,
Jordan, I wish you would hive me just a few
minutes (quiet "

"Over? What an idea! The strongest
man of our set! Without the first sign of
either gout or rheumatism! And you would
give up dancing, and ticket yourself a fogy
before your time ? No ! no !* Couldn't think
of it. Yonder are a score of ladies, all your
friends, sitting down after supper, and waiting
to be asked to dance. Every ionian likes to
be danced with after supper, if only to show
the world that men don't look u])()n her as
too old. Come along! Let me fuit 3'ou a
partner, though you know every one here."

But I never valse."

It is Lancers this time. I am ^oinfj to
dance myself. Mrs. Martindale. A very old
friend. Knew her before either of us were
married. We always have a dance when we
meet. Come along! — ]\[iss Stanley! Here
is a gentleman so desirous of dancing with
you, and too modest to ask. Fray take ]pity
on Jun.

Miss ]matilda looked up in a little surprise,
but smiled on seeing Considine.

You are a sad wag, ]err. Jordan. It seems
scarcely fair that avc grown-u]) ]people should

crowd out the young ones. However, as Mr.

Considine is so kind " and she rose, and

taking his arm they joined the dancers.

Age is not a question to be decided by
almanacs or the comparison of dates. How
many generations of roses have bloomed and
disappeared since the aloe was sown, a hundred
years ago, which now is only opening
its flower. The willow has fallen into battered
decrepitude, while the oak, its slow-growing
contemporary hard by, has barely reached
his prime. Life should not be measured by
the tale of years, but by itself — by the measure
of oil unburnt, which remains within the lamp.
There be some, who, making bonfire of their
store — li^^htiuf? the candle at ]both ends in the
gusty weather — have consumed it mostly ere
the seventh lustrum has run out, and go darkling
thenceforth with nothing but a smoky wick
and a guttering remnant ; and there are others
who have dwelt where the winds were still,
and have shaded their lamps and trimmed
them, like prudent virgins, whose light grows
clearer as they pass along, and accompanies
them with a tranquil radiance far down into
the valley where the shadows are, and the
inevitable end. It is the excitements and the
(stares which devour our strength, the unsatisfied
greets which eat inward, the ill-regulated

pleasures wliicli exhaust. Work never killed
a man ; or, if it did, he was a wearing, or he
had mistaken Ids trade.

*' Only look!" cried Amelia Jordan, touching
her neighbour, Martha Herkimer, With
her fan, "I trunk I may Hatter myself that
my juvenile ]party is a success, when the contagious
gaiety has caught even that superannuated
couple. 1 should feel flattered, but
I confess I am not fond of frisky grey beards.
There is a tiiriC for everything', even for sitting
still and watching the young ones. I wonder
at Considine ; and really Matilda mii^ht have
lund more sense than yield to Ids absurdity."

"Do you mean the mineral and Matildy
Stanley ? Well now, 'pears to me, they're
about the likeliest couple on the floor. If
they're old it's their own business, their bones
will ache the worse and the sooner ; but as
far as looks 12-0, I will say there ain't man (^r
boy of them all looks as spry as the general.
And, as for Matildy, she looks well. I always
liked Matildy, and I adjure her."

"Oh, certainly, my dear, I quite agree with
you. I am fond of Matilda-good simple soul
I cannot think how she missed getting
married. So maun' wofsc, have established
themselves well, since she was young. I^ut
really you know it is just a little ridiculous,

at her time of life, to see her disporting herself.
Why, there are her niece and your own
boy in the same set ! "

So are Mr. Jordan and Mrs. Martindale."

Oh, yes, but that is nothing. Jordan must
make himself useful in his own house ; and
every one knows Louisa is a fool, who would
like to be thought gay, giddy, and dangerous.
I would bet a box of gloves, now, she thinks
she is breaking my heart with jealousy.
Just look how she wriggles about, and how
the chandelier so nearly over her head brings
out the crows feet and wrinkles round her
eyes. I Avould not, for fifty dollars, walk
down the centre of the room when that thing
is lighted, if anybody were looking.

You don't see no crows feet around
Mainly's eyes, I guess. She's a fine woman,
is Matildy Stanley. I wonder where the
man's eyes have been that she should have
stayed Matildy Stanley so long. See how
she walks ! As upright as a broomstick, and
as springy as a cane."

Men like other things alone' with looks,"
said Amelia bridling. " Though really Matilda
looks (quite nice — considering. One can
scarcely claim to be in one's first youth nowadays,
and we all came out the same year,
so our ages cannot be very far apart, Louisa

Martindale, Matilda, nd 1; and Louisa and I
have i^rowii u]) children."

You don't say that j\Ii\s. ^Martindale is
one ao^e with Matilda? She looks niirh on
twenty yen's older. Ymtrc different," she
added (quickly, as the ingathering of a look on
her friend's face, which did not betoken
satisfaction, became apparent.

'• Perhaps Louisa does wear a little badly,"
she answered, in returning brood humour.
That light betrays everything. Louisa has
so much vivacity, and perhaps she is just
the least bit in the world affected, I believe
it must be that has made her ctq off so. So
much simpering and smiling, when one doesn't
feel so very pleased, and makes believe a
good deal, must naturally wear creases in
the face. Do you not think so? Matilda, on
the other hand, as you know, is so calm and
trancpiil ; her face has not half the tear and
wear of Louisa's, and therefore it lasts ever so
much better. 13ut, somehow, Louisa, I should
sav, has cot more brood out of her life.
She has got more bad, too, I grant, for she
has been in the thick of everything ; but I
think T ])i-erer that. Matilda seemed never just
to hit it off with the men. 1 do not recollect
her ever receiving any marked attentions, and
she did not betray any strong preferences

to her. There are no little vignettes, that I
ever heard of, to illustrate her biography.
You know what I mean. Passages people
call them, which most of us like to bring
out of our memories and look at, when we
feel low and a little sentimental ; just as we
open the old box where our bridal wreath is
laid away, and wonder as we wrap the thing
up again in its tissue papers, if the gingerbread
has really been worth all the gilding
we overlaid it with."

Martha sniffed. It did not become an
honest married woman to talk that way, she
thought ; but she said nothing, and the sniff
proved enough to modulate Amelia's tone
down to the narration key again.

When the officers were quartered hereof
course it made society lively ; and they
paid a great deal of attention to us all," —
with just a suspicion of bridling, as she said
it, as though she had " vignettes " of her
own to remember, if it were worth while to
count the scalps won in such old-world
encounters. " Matilda was in the thick of it
all, and got plenty of attention, but it never
came to anything ; and I am bound to say
she betrayed no anxiety that it should. Her
father was an Englishman, you see, and she
has travelled ; and she has money, and a

sister; so I su])j)()sc it coins natural to
them to take tliiiiL'"s easily and be comfortable
ill tlu'ir own cool-blooded and retired sort of
way. Very nice women, I nuit admit, and
always the same wherever you meet them ;
but one cannot make free with them as we
do amongst ourselves, lineally it is quite like
\o\\\i ago, to see Matilda dancing out therewith
Considine. She is little changed. Fuller
in the figure, perhaps, but that is becoming
as one gets up in life. Her hair is in the same
old way she always wore it — in streaming
side curls. ' looks of beauty,' when I was
a little girl, displayed ladies With hair-dressing
like that ; but, except Matilda, I never
saw a living woman wear it. Though it
becomes hei."

Splendid haii'I So long and thick; and
not one white thread in it. Now, what colour
was Mrs. Martindale's originally? It's dun-dickey
mud colour now, or what you
please," and her eyes involuntarily rested on
Amelia's lead-dress, eliciting an nnurv red
spot upon either cheek, which was answered
bv a Hush of ashamed confusion on her own,
at the inadvertence, and brought the conversation
to an a])rui)t conclusion.

The unconscious subject of her friend's
criticism swam lier nd there through the

figures of lier dance in sympathy with the
music, borne up and carried forward, like a
well-trimmed yacht, upon the current of sound.
She lead danced little, if at all, for sears ; but
it came naturally to lier to dance. There
was no heart-heaviness or carling care, no
malice, envy, or uncharitableness — the unadvisable
ballast which makes so many a hull
roll heavily. Her health was good, as it had
always been, her nerves as well strung, and
her ear as sensitive to the spirit of sound.
She looked well, and she knew it, with the
mature and realized beauty of a summer
afternoon — a lady such as the late King
George admired. There was not the dewy
promise of morning, but neither were there
evening's pensive shadows pointing backward
in regret — a handsome woman who had shed
her girlhood, but showed no other sign by
which to count the years. It was pleasant
to be brought down off the shelf where
matrons and old ladies sit and contemplate
the gambols of the young, and made her think
of her first ball, and how nice it had been,
but without regret, for it was nice even now ;
and there was her own little Muriel whom she
lead reared, almost grown up, and marching
before her just like another woman in the
evolutions of the dance. And really it was

very iiicf to have a uentleiiuui so lenitive,
and all to one's self; like loni^^ ago, before her
married friends got their establishments, and
put on tlicir absurdly ]patronising airs, which
were sometimes so provoking, though always
so ridiculous — "as if one could not have done
everything ihcu succeeded in doing" if one had
cared to try."

That reflection brought perhaps a trifle
more colour in her face, and made her shake
out the ringlets just a little, till she looked
at her partner before her, carefully executing
with conscientious precision a gyration in
her honour. She could not but smile as she
gave him her hand to turn round, and the
man looked positively grateful as he received
it. Grateful, but was it for the smile or the
hand ? Yet surely he ij^ave the hand a little
squeeze. The man must be growing audacious.
And yet he was so respectful. But
Mr. Considine she knew was always respectful,
and really very luce.

Considine thought it very nice too — did
not know, in fact, how long it was since he
had enjoyed anything so much. "Amazing
fine woman," is how some of his compeers
would had' expressed tlunr feelings ; but Considine
did not even pretend to be a roue, and
he was not a fogy, though (quite old enough

to have been one, if that had been a necessary
phase of existence to pass through. He
felt happy with a respectful enjoyment, such
as he might have known thirty years earlier,
in the recognized season for such things, and
he only regretted that it was to end so soon.
He wondered if he might venture to ask her
to dance again, and that smile we have mentioned,
met him, and he thought he would
risk it ; but alas, the programme had been
arranged to suit the younger talent, and this
proved to be the last square dance. Then he
bethought him of the subscription assemblies,
and wondered if Miss Stanley attended them,
and then the evolutions of the next figure
brought him back to the business in hand.

Muriel and her partner watched him carefully
solemnizing the rite with a good deal
of amusement. Youth is so graspingly exclusive,
and so intolerant. It engrosses the
present and claims the future for itself, and
accords as little place to its quite recent
predecessors, the have beens, as would be
given to the ancient kings at Westminster, if
they should leave their vaults in the abbey
and walk across the street to the hall or the
palace over the way.

A BENEVOLENT Spider.

M. KouGET DE LA Haciie was laid up. He
was a " swell," in a small way, after the mild
colonial fashion, with a seigniory whose ancient
privileges had been curtailed by advancing
civilization ; but civilization had paid him a
£good round sum when it abolished his rights
over the persons and property of his humble
neighbours — rights which were becoming an
anachronism, and always more difficult to
exercise. Being a swell, he did not work, but
he was closely related to many who did, and
who exercised the most important functions in
the country, while they still looked up to him
as in some sort their chief; though, in reason,
the deference should have been all the other
way. M. Eouget did not work, and therefore,
not being a vegetable, it was necessary that
he should })hiy. When circumstances, in
mistaken kindness, lay no burden on a man's
shoulders, he lits one on himself — // faut

s'amuser — and one which often proves liard to
carry. There is a taskmaster, as the nursery
saw tells us, still ready to find occupation for
idle hands, occupation in which they too often
burn their fmc^ers.

Guns and dogs answer well enough at a
time, so do trotting horses ; but by-and-by
there must be other men's horses to trot with,
and give the interest of emulation. A man
cannot continue to amuse himself on his own
land ; and in colonial cities people are too
busy making' their fortunes to be amusing
company for an idle man. However, Saratoga,
in its season, was not far away, and there was
New York beyond, which lasts all the year
round — more or less. Ilouo-et had been used
to be " of the best " at home — a personage, ina
small way, wherever he appeared — and
abroad it did not occur to him to abate his
pretensions. Measured by the golden foot-rule
of New York, he Avould have found himself
on a far back bench, and even then his
neighbours would have been able to lay down
a dollar for every dime which he could produce
; but the idea of applying such a
standard did not occur to hmi. He believed
himself a notability, and looked among the
foremost for his peers. Was he not related
to several of those old French governors who
VOL. II. 23

traded beads for peltry in the wake of a
Jesuit Missionary, clattering with the simple
children of the wilderness beneath the forest
shade, ere ever a vulgar common-place Englishman
had arrived to cut timber, open a shop,
or make money? And the foremost accepted
him at his own valuation, as something " romantic,
and quite beyond." He was ready to
put down his stakes alongside theirs, and it
would not be " manners " to ask the size of
the pile from whence the stakes were drawn.
Wherefore the American heart opened genially
to receive him, just as it opens to the Lord
Toms and Sir Harry who each year enter its
hospitable gates, and remain while their money
lasts, or till they are found out.

It is hard upon the pipkin who adventures
to sail down stream with the brazen bowls.
There are eddies on the smoothest streams,
and among the eddies there will be bumping.
Only the pipkin need mind that, it is they
alone who^sufi'er. They inevitably get cracked
in a collision, while the brass goes bumping
and ringing along for very sport. It can come
to no harm. Mr. Poulet got cracked — badly
cracked — at last ; but the wonder is that it
lead not befallen him long before. His friends
did what they could for him — friends always
do, when the subject is a worthless one, while

virtue gets leave to shift for itself in its disasters,
virtue being essentially prosaic, uninteresting
and unpicturesque — but even his friends ran
dry at last, and he had to mortgage his land.
That occurred when Jordan bec^an first to invest
moneys for the Herkimer estate, and it
was he who had bought the mortgage. It was
a fairly profitable operation for Jordan, and had
been the beginning of a useful intimacy ; but
it seemed to him, ere long, after the accruing
advantages were well secured, that to sink so
large a sum in so long-winded a transaction
had been a mistake, and he might have done
better in short loans, money on call, and
general usurps There was the idea, to be
sure, of engrafting his son effectually upon
the dominant French interest by marriage,
and if that could be compassed, it might
turn out that the money had been well
invested ; but the boy was so head-strong
and contrary, so like the Irishman's pig,
which insists on going the other way, in
what way soever he may be desired to go,
that there was no certainty of working out the
scheme, however compliant they of the other
side might be.

Jordan was sitting ni his office one day, in the
week following his wife's party, examining his
diary of bills coming due, considering where

23—2

renewals might be granted, and how much he
might extort in consideration of this forbearance,
what sums woukl be paid him, and
how they were to be employed. Rouged, overbearing
the clerk who kept the sanctum door
it was an inner room, lined with tin boxes,
but free from the professional lumber which
garnished that wherein he received his clients,
the spider-hole, in fact, where he sat to devour
his Hies, and very private — appeared before
him.

Jordain ! Your clerk sees not respected.
I must complain. He tell me you were gone
out. Yen vit dis ear I hear you cough my
oneself. Everybody know Jordain's cough.
Yet he defend my entry."

Jordan laid down his pen testily, but
composed himself at once. " M. Eouget de la
Hache, eh ? The young man has orders to let
no one in here. He should have said I was
euG^ai'ed. Those were his orders."

He deed say so ; but I shut look seem in
ze eye — so ! — vit a grand severity ; and he
fail of his word, and grow copious ; and zen lie
tell me you were gone out. And so — behold
me.

Sim should stick to his orders. The first
lie is always the best and safest. Not that
this was a lie — he had his orders to say I was

enofaofed, and admit no one. You would have
been an exception, of course, had I expected
to see you. But how should I? Nevertheless,
most pleased to see you ; though really I am
very busy. Pray sit down. How can I
serve you ? "

Eouget sat down, looking vacantly about
him. To attempt to hurry him, shook up his
muddy wits, which needed all their accustomed
rest to clarify themselves in any
measure.

It was a bare little room, all but its wall covering
of shelves, supporting tin boxes which were
all brown japanned alike, and garnished with
gold letters and numbers enough to give one
headache. There were three chairs, on one
of which he was sitting, while Jordan had
another, and the third stood waiting — for
whom ? It disturbed him, this foolish question,
for it was impossible to answer it. The table
was covered with black leather, and there was
a book open — a big fat book — wonder what
it was about ? — and a bit of paper with names
and figures, which Jordan was noting down
with a pencil. Wonder what he meant by it?
Had it anything to do with him, Jean
Vincent de Paul Eouget ? But yet the pencil
and slip of paper looked unimportant enough,
and so, with the bold assurance of ignorance

Eouget concluded that they coidd not possibly
be of much consequence, and Jordan was only
making believe — a humbug, in fact, as all
people /() bai mostly were. It takes a transatlantic
" swell," who has never seen one of
the acknowledged great ones of the earth, to
fully realize the vast inferiority of the " lower
orders " to his own ineffable mightiness.

And yet it was easier to make the grand
entrance he had achieved, and even to seat
himself with dignity than to plunge at once
in medias res. He shuddered a little, like a
bather on the brink, and looked round the
room again, but it was so bare it would not
suggest anything ; and he wanted an idea —
some neutral subject of talk which could be
steered and edged about, whither he would ;
like a boat to waft him round the cliffs on the
opposing shore, to some unguarded inlet
with sloping banks, where he could land in
good order and deploy at will toward the
point he sought to gain. But this fellow was
so abrupt. The hrusquerir was not in good
taste, and at another time he would have let
him see it ; but now

How can I serve you ? " said the spider
again. He knew the value of directness and
dispatch. A fly must be well inuneslied in
the web to be there present. It is mercy to

the poor tidings to come to the point with
a bound, and bleed or devour. To prolong
the preliminaries is but adding gratuitous
pain. The victim will but flutter the more
wildly, and what usurer would make rich
if he heeded the remonstrance of impotence ?
In prolonged palaver, too, and the frantic
fluttering, may not the captive burst a
gossamer bond, and be free ? The bonds are
all gossamer, at first, like the rainbow-coloured
rays of a sea anemone, but they thicken and
grow tense when the prey gets among them,
and do it so quietly that he is partly swallowed
before he realizes his danger, and then his
struggles are apt to be in vain. Still, there
are chances, and vigour and dispatch are best.

How can I serve you ? " and Jordan
chanced into the book before him, and then
made a cross with his pence at a name and some
failures on the list he seemed to be making
It was manifest that he guessed already
what was O'oino: to be said. It was mortifying,
and still it was a relief to see that
preliminaries were unnecessary and the subject
already opened.

I find I cannot meet all the interest due
the day after tomorrow."

A mere bow of the head from the spider.
Not a motion of an eyebrow, even, in token of

surprise. This composure hurt M. Eouget
much. Was he not an important person, and
looked upon as rich ? And was it not the duty
of ordinary people to expect him to pay up ?
He felt almost insulted that anybody should
thus take his inability as a matter of course.
He coloured, and looked an interrogation.

Yes ? " said Jordan.

I will give a cheque for two thousand
dollars. You must hold over the rest for
the present."

"Make it three, and I will take your note
for the rest at thirty days — Sim ! " touching
the hand-bell at his elbow.

"That will not do! I shall not be able to
pay so soon," said Eouget more disturbed.
What did the man mean by callinirin his clerk
so quickly to increase his embarrassment ?

Never mind, Sim ! a mistake," and the
door closed again.

"Thirty days would be no use. You mus
give me time. I have had looses, and want
time to retrieve myself."

"But how? Mr. Eouget. You will say I
have no right to ask such a question, perhaps,
and I dare say I appear discourteous ; but in
business it is essential to understand the
case clearly, and our transactions are for
such large sums that you must excuse

seeming iiitnisiveness. Will sixty days suit
you ? "

No. I want tire ! and freedom from all
anxieties. I have a systole wicli is infallible
in the end, and must make me rich, but it
demands time, watchfulness, and money."

Plied ! " — Jordan whistled slowly, lying
back in his chair and burning his hands in his
pockets. " That is — Well, we will not wrangle
over spilt milk, and I do not question your
right to do as you choose with your own
money ; but it seems to me, when you granted
those large mortgages, you made use of that
same expression — referred to something,
something or other under the name of a
system."

And what then ? " said Eouget flushing.
A little indignation would help him, conversationally
at least, he began to think. Not
being in trade, he was unfamiliar with the
liberties which moneys will empower a lender
to take with the man who would borrow, or
worse, who would be excused when the time
comes round for repayment.

Oh ! nothing. Only if it has cost « 1 50,000
already before the system begins to work
favourably, it may take as much more yet,
and where is the money to come from ? "

It will not ! It cannot take so much. It

mils' be propice vcr soon. I have confidence.
I have considered. There is certainty 1 "

And the first of the three repayments of
S50,000 comes due in six months."

I know it, and I want you to add des few
thousands to the new mortgage you will draw
wit interests and commissions, all to be
sure, without question;" and the poor man
rallied his waning pomposity to make one
little shrug in naming the gains and perquisites
of the roturier ; before whom, his heart
misgave him, he might yet have to quake.

But, my dear sir, the operation is not a
profitable one, and I did not contemplate
renewing the mortgage. I can do much better
with the money on the street."

"AlonJJieu! Jordan. What do I hear?
Increase ze interests if so mus' be — and ze
security is good. Ze ministre, lion free, say
sey are firs class, and sat I pay trop — too
much."

Quite so, Mr. Eouget, that is just where
it is. I have my feelings and ni}^ reputation
like another man. Why should I place myself
in such a position that the Minister of Drainage
and Irrigation should look on me as a usurer ?
I can command better terms for my money
on the street, with nothing said, than I could
charge you on your mort^nijfe even with the

loss of reputation involved in that word
usurer."

My dear sir ! But ze mortgages were to
be for fortune to M. Eandolplie, in himself
marrying to Adeline, who would have the
survivance of La Haste for dot''

But if receiving interest on the mortgages
is to be contingent on the success of a ' system '
and of course a son-in-law must grant indulgence
if his wife's father gets behind — the
young people might not have much to live on.
In any case, there are still the other instalments
— a very fair provision — if the young lady
should condescend, and the young man can be
brought to the point — which, with the unruly
youth of the present day, is, I confess, doubtful ;
and the more difficult to accomplish, the less
ground of dissatisfaction there may be, beyond
mere aversion to be dictated to. Business
arrangements cannot be left open, in waiting,
to accommodate the whims of boys and girls."

Would you buy La Hache P How much
would you give ? "

Are you in earnest ? Do you propose to
hand it over in settlement of the mort£^ai]^es ? "

How much more would you give — ' to
boot,' as you say in buying a horse."

I didn't contemplate buying. It would
not suit me to have so large a sum tied up in

unremiinerative acres. If I were to buy, it
could only be that Imif?lit sell again, and that
involves delays, expenses, uncertainties, loss of
interest. jS'o ! Mr. Eoiiget, it is not to bethought
of. If there is a default in payment
all the morasses fall due at once, and in our
small market the sum involved in the foreclosure
is as large as any buyer would be likely
to bid on one property."

But, my friend ! Ze securities aire ample.
You had it valued four years ago."

"' Certainly'. It seemed safe for the money
at that time. But j^ou were then supposed to
be well ofr, independently of the property ; today
you haye explained that you are so no
longer, and cannot even attend to the regular
interest."

Lend me anode fifty thousand on de
property.'

Not^o be thought of."

Thirty "

'' Could not do it."

Twenty "

Sorry it cannot be."

"Ze lands aire rich."

Realize them, then, Mr. Eouget. I will
promise to place no unnecessary impediments
in your way."

Sere is health in ze round itself. Excesses

of minerals. See ! Behold," and he drew
from under his fur gloves, cap, and muller,
which he had thrown upon the table in a heap
on entering, a small box which he proceeded
to open, and displaying a number of miner a -
logical specimens, handed across to the other.
There was a green incrustation on the stones
where they had been long exposed to the
weather, but the new faces made by recent
hammer-fracture, shone red and metallic like a
beetle's back.

Ah," said Jordan. " Really very nice. I
am no judge of such things, but to my ignorant
eye some of these must be nearly pure
copper. Were they found at La Hache, and
does the deposit appear extensive ? "

Dey were in de swamp, a mile back from
the river, last fall. We were shooting, I,
that is, and a young savant of my friend's,
who studies wit Professor Hammerstone. The
professor has examined, himself, since den, and
he finds the indications ver rich and abundant.
He says sere is a fortune there beyond compute.
Now ! What say you ? You know
the Professor Hammerstone is of great reputation.
Wat you say now ? "

Say ? For one thing, Mr. Eouget, I congratulate
you, and I would say that your prospects
look infinitely more hopeful from this point of

view tliaii ill connection ^vitll your 'system,*
wliicli — yon nest forgive my saying it — was
leading yon to destruction. In heaven's name
let the ' system' slide, and apply yourself to
develop your property."

But ze money? my friend. You cannot
develop wit nothing. Lend me money, and I
will give my vor d'honnenr " — and he patted
his palms outstretched on the bosom ff his
greatcoat — " to abandon de system."

'' Mining matters are outside of my field ; I
do not understand them. Yon should call on
some of onr leading capitalists and speculators
with your specimens. They will look into the
affair, and if there is anything in it, will make
you a proposal. On one point only let me
offer a word of advice. Do not insist upon too
much money doAvn to begin Avitli. You cannot
expect them to subscribe a capital merely to
hand it over to you. Show your willingness
to take the bulk of your price in shares and
you will get something very handsome indeed.
tSo soon as the stock is all taken up, the
shares become saleable, risings and falliiiu" in
sympathy with public talk, long before any of
the ore has been got to market, and you maybe
able to sell out at good prices very soon, if
the scheme happens to strike the general fancy.
For myself, as I have said, mining is not in my

line, but I will do what I can not to embarrass
you. I will take your note at ninety days for
that unpaid interest, and as for the mortgage
due next summer, we will talk of it when the
time comes, and, meanwhile, we shall have time
to see how the mining enterprise will prosper
—Sim ! "

Sim appeared, received orders to draw a
promissory note for Mr. Eouget to sign, and
withdrew, followed by that gentleman seemingly
let down from the self-satisfied attitude
of feeling in which he had entered — meeker,
much meeker, but yet more hopeful for his
own future than he would have felt, perhaps,
if his demands had been complied with.

■^^^•rz3''ee<S^*^l-

IN THE HUE DES BORGNES.

The Banqiie Sangs Pretense occupied the
chief part of its own cut-sandstone building
on the Eue des Borgnes, the remainder, conspicuous
in brass and plate glass, being the
offices of Ealph Herkimer and Son, general
operators, who were " in " railways, in minerals,
in finance, in whatever promised to turn
an honest penny. A smart man was that
Ealph Herkimer, his neighbours said, who
tried everything, and made everything pay.
Always early in the field, and getting the
cream of the speculation, while other men
were pondering its prospects, and then putting
oil' on them the closely skimmed milk which
must always be got rid of — the shells, which
the oyster-eater must make somebody carry
away if he would not be smothered in the
ruins of his former banquets.

The baidc was an enterprise originated by
E;dph himself — evolved by him when his

ambition had found the local share list too
narrow a held. Why should he labour, he
thought, to pull strings, and not always
efficient ones, to make established stocks
jump up and down as he desired, when he
was now strong enough to build an automaton
of his own, which should obey his wishes
without fail, and without outside interference ?
His friends wondered at his choice of a name
so little calculated to invite business ; but he
was of opinion that that was of little moment.
Wherever there is money to lend, the
borrowers will scent it out, as flies discover a
honey-pot, by instinct. It was small investors
whom he wished to attract, those who,
having little money, are eager to aet much
interest. In the general increase of wealth,
and the fall in rates of interest, these worthy
people find their expenses increasing while
their incomes are falling off, and the imai^e
of a lending bloodsucker, while unattractive
to the borrower, who nevertheless submits
to the lancet, is pleasing rather than otherwise
to those who would share the spoils.

Ealph was president and manager of the
institution, "filling two offices for one salary,"
as he sometimes said, " in this desire that the
bank should do well ; " and benefiting largely
in many ways, as he did not say, by the unsu-
voL. II. 24

pervii-ed control wliicli thus fell into this hands.
The bank ]parlour and his own private lice
were only divided by a wall, and they were
connected by a very private door between
the dressing rooms pertaining to the two
apartments, so that the clerks and the business
of both establishments were at all times
under the master's eye, the master was virtually
in both ]places at the same time, and he could
at any time be in the other if an undesirable
visitor was to be evaded.

Ealph was in his office. He had been presidency
at a meeting of the St. Laurence, Martineau
and Hudson's Bay Eaihvay, consisting
of himself and a couple of others, at which
they had granted a contract to construct
another fifty miles running north. They had
also arranged to hold a demonstration on
the occasion, with speeches and champagne,
to be followed on the morrow by
placing a quantity of the stock on the market.
As soon as he was left alone he took from a
drawer some specimens of plumbago brought
from lands of his wliicli the road he had been
assisting to ]place under construction Avould
open u]). Lumps of lustrous purple blackness,
like a raven's plumage, which he lingered
admiringly, muttering to himself, "They will
bring value soon now, but we must wait till

the road is nearly built. If they were
brought out now they would be half forgot
before we could take people up to look at
them. Revivals generally fall flat, people
just remember enough of what they heard
before to make it harder to interest them
with it aixain. We must wait till just before
the road is going to open, and then spring
tracts A and B upon the public. Each
deposit, rare mineral, joint stock company,
limited liability, unlimited profit, and so forth.
When these are disposed of, and the company
is just going to work upon them, tracts C and
D can be discovered to be as rich as the others,
and offered likewise. That will be enough to
attempt for some years. By the time Candy
are in working order, the owners of A and B
will be doiuf]^ something foolish, and having*
discouragement, and then it will be no use to
offer E and F for ever so lono\ Yet it would
not improve prospects to osier all at once, it
would only bring down the value and send
other people prospecting. We can then fall
back on the phosphate beds," and he glanced
at some other specimens in his drawer. " By
that time the second fifty miles of rail will be
built, and we will be able to issue debentures.
Our stockholders Avill have had no dividends,
so they will be sure to take the bonds and

24—2

new preference shares to ^rct something out
of the old enterprise — no operation so popular
as thirsting good money after lead — and then,
to secure traffic for the far-away end of the
line, they will buy my phosphate beds, and
work them. That will answer well enough.
I shall have unloaded the last of my railway
shares ere then. I wonder why the contractors
agreed to take so much stock in payment ?
They must have more faith in our enterprise
than I have, or can they have got hold of
tracts G, K, L, and Q? ]jut they have never
named lumbago once. Can that be slyness?
In any case they want watching. Ill keep
my eyes peeled."

A card was brought in by a clerk with a
timid — "Would like to see 5'ou, sir."

"I told you, Stinson, to say I was engaged,
whoever called."

"The gentleman was so positive you would
see him, I was afraid he might have reason
for what he said."

"Who is it? — Eouget — IJm — Who wants
to be bothered with Eouget in business hours ?
Say I shall be pleased to see him at half-past
three. I am occupied till then. Let no one
in, now, but Mattock the builder, and Calamine
the architect, and bring over that roll
of })hins, and the maps marked ' proposed St.

Polite suburb,' and spread them out upon
the table. Ha ! Bank bell ? What do they want
in there ? Who can it be ? Bid those men wait,
Stinson, if they arrive before I get back from
the bank. Tell them you expect me every
moment. At the same time, if any cheques
have to be signed, send them into the bank ; I
do not know how long I may be detained.
Any one in the outer office besides Eouget?
You go first ; send him away and then tell me.
I like going into the bank by the front door."

The Bishop of Anticosti is waiting, and
two sisters of charity with a subscription list,
waiting till you are disengaged."

They can wait, then. I shall go the other
way," and so saying he disappeared by way of
the dressing-room.

It was half-past four instead of half-past
three when Eouget was at last admitted to the
presence. His consequence was a good deal
ruffled at being kept Awaiting, and he gave
Stinson to understand that he did not like it ;
whereupon the clerk suggested that he should
call another day, and was altogether so callous
and unimpressed, that, after failing to get him
to carry in another card with messages
scrawled across, Mr. Eouget desisted, submitted,
and sat down in a chair like any
humble person awaiting an audience.

Ila ! Isle. Eouget ! " Alas his reception
when at last the moment of admission arrived.
*' So sorry that you should have had to wait ;
but business — you know. IIoav do tliinfjs fjo
on at St. Euphrase ? I have been meaning
to drive over there, some day, now the ice
and the slei<diino' are so i^'ood : but have been
so busy."

'' We have been making discoveries at St.
Euphrase, ]finisterre Ilerkimaire — discoveries
of mines and metals. \\\xt do you think of dat,
for instance, Misterrere Herkimaire?" and he
laid some lumps of nearly pure copper, each
about the size of an e^g^ and a piece of rock,
green with exposure to the weather, and
veined with metallic bands upon the table.
The window, as it happened, laced the west,
catching the last of the davhi>kt from the
radiant sky. A gleam, grown ruddy, and
struggling with the gathering shadows, seemed
drawn to the polished faces of the ore, and
made them shine with enhancing lustre.

What ? " cried Ealpli, thrown oil" his guard
at the unexpected sight, which made him
forget the cool and critical attitude of a business
mind. ''- Copper ! Virgin copper, or I'm a
Dutchman ! Specimens sent in by his explorers
to the Minister of In-nation? Kind
of you to bring them to me, Mr. Eouget, and

prive me a chance to bid for the lands. Many-thanks.
I have been turning my attention to
minerals lately, I doubt not but with the
minister's goodwill we may arrange something
to our mutual advantage — yours and mine.
Moliere do they come from ? Up the Ottawa ?
Or, perhaps the Gattineau ? Yes ! that must
be it, the Gattineau. I am interested in
Gattineau lands already, and we have indications
of copper ; but I am free to confess I
did not dream of anything so fine as this.
If the government wants a company formed
to develop minerals on the Gattineau, I'm
their man. It will help us to build our railway
at once. I did not calculate on extending
so far out for a year or two, but the mines
will require an outlet, and they will bring the
road into notice, and enable us to make an
increased issue of stock. The government Avill
have to increase our land-grant, however."

liouget stood regarding the " promoter "
with a smile. How he did run on, to be
sure !

Were sou say dey come from ? "

The Gattineau, 1 have no doubt. I never
saw a Lake Superior specimen half as rich."

Feet sees not Lake Superior, you aire right.
Wat you say beef I tell you it come from sout'
of de Saint Laurence ? "

*rit will be a fortune for the owner if it
does. Freight and expenses there will be so
light in comparison with Fond du Alae."

Des specimens aire from La llaclie."

You don't "

Fact. Here is Professor Ilammerstone's
report."

'-' liammerstone ? I see him constantly,
but he has never mentioned it. lie spent
a ^veek with me at St. Euphrase last summer.
My son Gerald reads with him several times
a week, but he has heard nothing of this or
he would have told me."

liammerstone was employed by me — a
private survey — confidential alDiir."

Ah ? " said Ealpli, looking at his friend
the personage and man of pleasure with newborn
respect Who could have supposed it ?
A man he lead always looked on as a fool —
spending his days in losing money on racecourses,
his nights in poker! — to think that
such a one should have taken up with science,
economies, and the intelligent development of
this property !

'' You see it arrived to me all unexpected
to make the discovery. The 3'oung Hilliard,
of the (Vowii h:iii(ls Department, is of the
relatives of madame the most intimate. He
made a si'jour wit us tie last ►'^eptendire, and

one day we go for the chasse aux oiseaux, and
eve stop to repose ourselves in the swamp by
the river not far from Saint Euphrase — the
swamp is dried up as you may know in
Septembre — and Richard, lie cry out, and
he say, ' M. Eouget,' lie say, ' how sou aire
riche ! — more riche as the dreams of avarice.'
Behold ! ' he cr}^, and frappe wit a large
stone ze rock laid bare by the uprooting of a
fallen tree, were I myself had seated. And
truly the frae-ment broken off did shine wit
a lustre as of the metals. Richard has information
of such tings in the department,
and he advised me to consult the Professor
Hammerstone, which, by-and-by, ween the
frosts have withered the herbage, I do, and
you behold his report rendered."

Ealph took the report and read it through,
while recovering at the same time his self-possession.
It was an injudicious display of
eagerness which he had been betrayed into,
and he felt heartily ashamed as well as sorry
that his nerves should have relaxed from that
critical calm which becomes a ]proposing
buyer while the bargain is incomplete. How
many thousands, he wondered, would his
lack of circumspection cost him? Yet who
could have associated the ass Eouget with
anything to sell? It was most provoking.

Tic snifTc'd a depreciating sniff as he read
tliroiiLili the re})()rt, raised his eyebrows and
pursed his lips ; and in concluding read aloud
the savings clause in which the worthy scientist
guarded his reputation for infallibility by
reminding his readers of the impossibility
of ascertaining' the depth to which the outcropping
lodes extended, Ijy mere surface
observations, and without sinking an experimental
shaft, and the chances of faults, breaks,
and interruptions in the vein at any depth
below that to which his examination had
extended.

"You want to sell this, then, Mr. llouget ?
this parcel of, say a thousand acres, with its
metalliferous indications ? What value do you
put upon it? "

Had Itouget come there the day before,
ere he had had speech with Jordan, or had
slept and dreamed upon the encouraging
visions which that conversation had bred, and
which had been expanding themselves ever
since, as is the way with visions, there is no
doubt he would have jumped at once, named
a sum, and been thankful to take half of it;
but he had spent the night in building castles,
and storing them with the uncounted riches
which other men were to dig out of his land
and pay over to him, and the idea of a fixed

sum even if far larger than lie had yet named,
was now cold and unattractive.

I villi not to compromise my interests in
sis land. I will not sell."

Then what do you come to me for ? "

I villi to inaugurate a company to develop
ze mines."

But the mines, if there are any, are yours,
Mr. Eouget. It is for the proprietor to develop
his property."

I have hoped since three months to do so.
Money is ze difficulty ; I need money."

Then sell ! Those who have the moneys
are likely to give a good price. It will be
pure gain to you, for this thousand acres, I
dare assert, has never yielded you one cent.
Sell to wealthy men who can afford to develop
the property, it will bring in population,
perhaps originate a town, and in any case
create a new market for your tenants, and
increase the value of all your lands."

If it would be c^ood for dose wealth men
to buy, it vil be my affair not to sell. I shall
keep my interests in ze mines."

How much good will they do 3'ou if you
have no capital to work them ? "

I have come to you to get ze capital."

And how would you purpose to pay for
the accommodation ? "

Your bank lends, does it not? I would
borrow ! "

•'What security?"

Mv own. Is that not cniMieli ? And now
there will be dis mine also."

You would morti^aii'e it then to 2:et an
advance ? Can you give a first mortgage ?
No ? — mortgaged already, eh ? Then sell,
Mr. Eouget. Sell to a company. If your
ideas are reasonable I may be able to help
you ; but a large outlay' will be required to
start the enterprise, and getting up a company
is an expensive process. However, I think I
am safe in saying you can sell your unproductive
swamp for the price of the best
agricultural land in the province, or double
what any cleared land round St. Euphrase
would brings. Yes! I Avill even risk liivinof
you listy dollars the arpcnt myself, and take all
the i"isk and expense, while you will have the
prospective advantage when population comes
streaming in to work the mines."

"You are kind, Mr. llerkiuKiirc. I thank
you. But either you are not serious, or you
believe me more fool lilian is the case. messieurs
Pyrites and Sulphuret univ be willing
to put me in the way to develop my ]property.
I am told they do large business in neutrals. I
shall wish you a good evening, Mr. lleikimaire."

No, no ! Mr. Eoiio-et. Stop a moment !
Just tell me plainly what it is you want, and
I shall be pleased to promote your views
if I can. I have asked you \\o\x much you
would take for your property, or what you
wish to do with it. You have made no
answer. I then made 3"0u an offer for the
land, which of course you were quite at liberty
to refuse ; but surely your refusing to take
my price does not necessitate your taking
offence, especially seeing that j^ou have not
yet said what value you put on the property
yourself — and I am sure there is no arrangement
which Pyrites and Sulphuret would make
with you which I am not quite as able to carry
out. Since you have been good enough to
give me the first chance, pray do not go before
we have had time to understand each other.
Wliat is your own idea in the matter? "

"Mr. Jordain, he say "

Jordan is in it, then, is he ? " muttered
Ealph. " Worse luck."

He says I should place myself in the hands
of some capitalist, who would form a company,
paying me some in money and the rest in
stock. Is not that the fashion to speak of in
the lano'uacfe of commerce."

Quite so, Mr. Eouget. That is the usual
way of fixing tidings. And your futures? "

And here there arose much altercation and
argument, as was inevitable where each wanted
to get as much and give as little as possible.
The dialogue need not be recorded. Its like
can be heard in any market place, between
hucksters and old women, chattering and
wrangling over a copper cent as if their lives
depended on having it, though the one must
sell and the other will buy, in any wise, and
they both know it.

It was settled at last. Palpi was to arrange
and bring out the company, with all perquisites
thereto accruing, Eouget got a fifth
part of the stock as his price, and a few thousand
dollars, wherewith he hurried to New
York in a fever of restlessness until he should
have dropped them all into the same abyss
which had swallowed so much already, in
obedience to the infallible si/sieme. Jordan
being first mortgagee, with ]power to become
troublesome, was made solicitor of the concern,
with a handsome block of stock allotted, the
calls on which, it was understood, were not to
be pressed. Ealph, as promoter, kept still,
acquiesced, and said not much while the other
two ]preferred their extravagant demands. It
was he who was to issue the stock and handle
the funds, and as the venture progressed he
was sure of abundant profit, meanwhile, it

vas best that this mates should have their
Avay, be kept sanguine and in good humour,
if only that they might inviolate the public
mind with their brilliant anticipations.

The prospectus was a work of art, and it
was fortified by certificates from the greatest
authorities. True, these authorities had not
seen the metalhferous deposits — indeed no one
could see them just then, buried as they were
under drifts of frozen snow — but they were
allowed to see Hammerstone's survey, and
Hammerstone was a man of knowledge and
character, whom even the most distinguished
felt safe in endorsing, if the fee were sufficient.
As the mind of practical science
puts it — practical science is the science of
making as much money out of as little knowledge
as possible — to express another man's
observations in finer and more taking language,
is surely the highest compliment one can pay
him, and the most emphatic manner of granting
him our valuable information. Hammerstone
was immensely gratified to read in the ]prospectus
the opinions of Professor Sesquioxide,
of Boston, and other luminaries, his bigger
brothers among the sons of knowledge, so
minutely confirmatory of his own ; but he
wondered much as to when they had been
called in, and he felt a little hurt that they

should have been so near to him and Montreal
without visiting him.

The public mind was judiciously educated
up to the receptive point by a series of
graduated rumours and paragraphs of ascending
interest. One may come to believe
anything if it seems in sequence with what
went before ; therefore, when an assertion
seems corroborated by others already accepted,
and which yet appear to be in noway
connected with it, the natural man
accepts it at once. The newspapers swarmed
with clipping from the latest ming sensations
in Colorado, and following them would appear
rumours of important mineralogical discoveries
nearer home." By-and-by there were descriptions
of California bananas, followed by
more rumours of vast metallic wealth at the
very doors. Then an imaginative reporter
received confidential information which he
was not at liberty to divulge, but which he
felt it a duty to his beloved public to hint at
in various picturesque ways. lie described
gigantic masses of virgin copper quarried from
their beds with ]pre-historic wedges which
still lay beside tlicm in witness, and discussed
the civilization of the ancient Mound-builders
iu the popular archaeological manner, still ringing
the changes on the wealth of copper so

near at hand. Finally, when people's minds
were ready to believe, the prospectus of the
Mining Association of St. Euphrase appeared.

After the association's subscription lists
had remained open only a few days they were
suddenly closed, and it was announced that
the capital was all subscribed. Then all the
dilatory who had contemplated investing in a
general sort of way, but had not done it, grew
eager to hold shares, which they hurried to
buy at a premium. It was afterwards said
that in every instance it was Eal])h Herkimer
who was the seller, and that he only subscribed
for the shares which he soh, after he
had touched the premiums. But people are
uncharitable, and if a man ever ceases to be
rich, they are sure to recollect naughty things
Which they say he did in his time of prosperity.

Before the snow was gone, material and
machinery had been collected on the ground,
and there was a rise in the price of the stock.

When the snow went, operations ]began,
and the stock rose higher, with inquiries for
it from distant places, which sent the price
bounding still higher and fisher still.

VOL. IT. 25

THE TIE OF KINDRED.

In those days — the days of Judith's visit
George Selby and his wife were always
punctual in coming down to breakfast. It
was their hour for undisturbed conversation
and intercourse. The guests, unaccustomed
to city gaiety and late hours, were still in
their soundest sleep, when the clang of the
breakfast bell would wake them to the knowledge
that another day had begun, and they
nnist drag themselves from between the
blankets. As for Susan, owing; to neuralgia
or laziness, she always breakfasted in bed.

Mary ! " cried George eagerly, when they
met one mornings, about a week after ]^etsev's
first ball. " It is needless to ask you if you
have slept well. You look refreshed and revived
as I have not seen you look for years and
years. I have noticed a change for the better
going on for these last, two weeks, and this
morning it almost seems as if the ^[ary of long
ago were coming lack again. The clouds are

lifting, dearest, I do believe, and we shall
know peace and quiet happiness yet again.
It is wearing on to afternoon with us both now,
and ours has been a sad, black, rainy day ; but
at least we have been together thrush it all,
and that has been more than sunshine. And
now if the rain but cease and the clouds breakup,
we may be blessed with a peaceful sunset
and the serene twilight of old ashe, with the
clear, pure brightness far off behind the hills
waiting for us till we enter the eternal day."

George was a worthy, gentle soul, with
yearnings true, if not powerful, towards the
spiritual and poetic. Who, condemned to
hammer scales into stupid little girls without
ear or fingers, through all the years, could be
expected to carry more of the golden but
unpractical gift into lum-drum middle life ?

Mary laid her hand upon his shoulder, leant
her head upon his cheek, and her eyes grew
moist. They were grey-haired people both,
those two, but people do not cease to be
foolish, my dear young friends — if it is foolish,
which I deny — when they cease to be young
and handsome; that is, if they have not ceased
to be good. Goodness is the salt, the preserver,
the eternal spring, which can keep a
heart from ever growing old. Egotism in
youth, when all is fair, may shine and glitter

25—2

like a dainty varnish, but it dulls and hardens
and cracks as the years go on, and becomes
but the sorriest item in the general break-up
and decay, when that sets in. Love only is
immortal, a giver of life to the failing forces,
like the olive tree in the prophet's vision,
which supplied in continuous flow the oil to
furnish the perpetual lamp.

Mary leaned up against her husband in a
mute caress, and then drawing a long breath,
sat down at the table to pour out his coffee.
She was not accustomed to put her feelings
into words. She had suffered far too long and
too terribly for that. Had she been a woman
of emotional utterance, she must have exhausted
her sorrow or her life, whichever of
the two were the weaker, honos a<zo ; but voice
was wanting. She had held her ]peace, had
borne and lived and suffered, till those about
her had trembled for her reason ; trembled,
and yet in pity, at times, had almost hoped
for her the fearful anodyne of madness ; but
she was strong of body as well as mind, she
agonized in silence and lived on.

She poured out her husband's coffee, and,
handing it, met his eyes still fastened on her
face in earnest, happy love. " Yes," she said,
replying to his still unanswered observation,
'' I have had a long delicious sleep, without a

dream, or only one short sweet fancy before I
woke, as if our baby were lying in my arms,
as she lay that very last morning before we
lost her. Oh, George ! The delightfulness of
the sound oblivious sleep I have enjoyed of
late ! No one can conceive it who has not
gone through all these weary years. I had
forgotten what refreshing sleep was like. I
was dreadful to me to lie down at night and
give myself up to cruel horrible dreams. You
know how constantly I have wakened with a
cry — always the same bad dream, yet always
with a cruel difference in the horrors. Always
the child in danger or in pain, destruction in
every fearful shape impending, and I unable
to reach, incapable of protecting her. 1 have
always felt that she was alive and needed my
care, and how I have yearned and prayed to
get to her, God only knows. And now, George,
it seems to me that God must have heard, and
taken pity on me. It is well with her now.
I seem to feel it. She is with God I do believe,
and perhaps He lets her spirit come down and
comfort me. At least I am very sure now
that she is happy, and I feel resigned as a
Christian woman should, in a way I have
never been able to feel before."

The company of your sister Judith has
done you good, Mary. I have been wrong,

and judged lier harshly, I am afraid. She is
a good woman I believe now, for all her queerness,
and I should have thouijfht of having her
to stay with you long ere now. A fellow is so
unthinkingly selfish, and I suppose I judged of
your feelings by my own. You are my all,
you see, and I fear I grudge sharing you with
others. But it was selfish in me to forget that
you and she are sisters, and must have many
feelings in common. In any case I owe her a
debt now, and I shall never think a thought
against her ac^aiii as honors I live."

You have no occasion to blame yourself,
George. I do not imagine it is owing' to her
visit that I feel so calmed ; though certainly I
am happy to have her. We never had much
sympathy, she and I. The difference in our
age and disposition was too great. I was
always fonder of Susan. No ! It is not that.
Her coming brought me no consolation, I am
sure. I do not think I ever passed more
miserable vigils than those two first after her
comines ]hut then there came a chaiiijrc a
peace and consolation which I cannot describe
or explain, and I do not understand. It is justa
blind unreasoned certainty that all is welland
I want no more. The Good God has
heard me at last, and taken pity on a miserable
mother. He has taken my darling to Himself,

T surely believe, and lie is safe at last in the
Everlasting' Arms. Oh Gnome, I have been
wicked to repine, and distress you as I have
done, with my ignorant complaining. She is
safer far, I recognize it now, than she could
have been had she been left in such care as
mine. No ! It is the Great Consoler who has
pitied me and sent me comfort; such distraction
as poor Judith could have brought would have
been of little avail. That little girl, Betsey's
cousin, seems to bring a far more soothing influence
with her than Judith or Susan, or anyone
I ever met, but you. There seems a peacefulness
in the air when she is by, that
rests my weary, hungry heart. It does me
good to sit and look when she comes in, and
to hear her talk. She is a darling little girl,
and I could feel it in my heart to envy the
people she belongs to. She is an orphan, poor
thing, they tell me. She must be very near
the age our Edith would have been if she had
been spared to us," and the poor lady wiped
her eyes and sighed.

You mean Muriel Stanley. Yes, she is a
dear little girl, or at least she was till very
lately ; but she is opening out into young
womanhood now, as they all do, the pretty
buds that I am so fond of. I see the dawning
woman more clearly every week, and I shall

soon be IosIiilt lier. She is so pretty, yon see,
and those Wretched boys see it, too, and tell
her it. Why is there not a Herod in Montreal
to kill oil' the sprouting striplings? They
spoil all my little maids for me, just as I get
fond of them, when they are at their freshest
and sweetest ; turn there pretty heads wit!)
nonsense and make them think themselves
grown up; and then good-bye to the poor music-master.
Your 3'oung nephew — Ealph's son —
has something to answer for in this case, the
rof][ue. I have noticed him lurking: round our
gate more than once, and have kept her an
extra fifteen minutes out of pure malice.
There is always some one, and they make one
feel so old."

Alary smiled, as her husband meant slip
should, and then the door opened, and Judith
and her niece appeared together. The scenes
was changed into one of bustle and small talk,
fumigated with the smoke of coffee and hot
broiled fish.

You Avere late of getting home last night'*
said George. '^ I was so blind sleepy that I
could scarcely see you when I let you in.
Hit pray don't apologize. I am glad of it.
One wants to see ont's count ly friends entertained
when they come to town, and, what
with my sprains, [ feel conscience-stricken at

having been able to do nothing to amuse you
myself. I hope you spent a pleasant evening?



Oh, ses, Martha always does that kind of
thing well. isle's a good hostess."

And, Miss Betsey ? Were you much
admired ? "

Betsey gave her head a little toss with a
Venus Victrix glance — a la Bunce, that is.
The marble goddess in the Louvre looks
straight out of level eyes, too proud for petty
wiles ; but Betsy's glance came from the
corners. She was arch, you see, or thought
so, and the certainty of conquest was all that
she had in common with her divine prototype.

"I wore a nice new dress, Mr. Selby, a
present from Aunt Martha — cousin,! suppose
I should call her, seeing she is auntie's niece ;
but she is too old to be a cousin to fine. I
think I shall call her simply Martha, I am
sure she will not mind. She would like it, I

do believe, only " and Betsey began to

change colour.

*' Only ? " said George, who had been looking
her in the face, with a laugh. " Only it would
be awkward to be heard calling one's mother-in-law
by her Christian name, and it is not
easy to get out of a habit of speaking — is
that it?"

Betsey grew crimson and bent over lier
plate.

George ! You are too bad altogether,"
said Mary.

'' Mr. Selby, you arc a dreadful quiz," said
Betsey, not at all displeased. *but about
my dress. I was quite disappointed to find
you were not at hand as we went out, I
wanted you to admire it. Beautifully made.
It must have cost a lot of money. Black iiille^
with any quantity of Marshal Nell roses, and
just a morsel of scarlet salvia here and thereto
light it up. The salvia was my own idea,
and an immense improvement. The dressmaker
said all she could against it, and a deal
about severe simplicity ; but I hate simpletons
of all kinds, and I lear my taste is not severe
at all. However, it was I who was to wear
the gown, so T had ni" way. I would not

have chosen black myself, but M " (with

a returning flush) " Mrs. Herkimer said black,
so what could I do ? I am fond of warm
colouring myself, and a good deal of it. That
is why I got my geranium ]poplin ; but one
wants a change, and the tulle is that. Only
it is so quiet, nobody would guess how
expensive it is."

"T would pin a card with the price on
behind. People who wear ready-made

clothing have been known to appear in
public so decorated, when the showman forgot
to remove his ticket. It attracts a good deal
of attention. All for Si 5 sav, or your choice
for «20."

It cost a great deal more than that, Mr.
Selby," answered Betsey, with just a touch of
crossness in the tone, as she began to recognize
that she was being" chaffed. " Shows how
little you know about ladies' wear," she
added, as Selby rose to go into another room
and give her music lesson to Muriel Stanley,
who could be heard arriving.

The ladies gathered round the fire and
proceeded to talk over the events of the
party. Betsey sat in the middle in front of
the blaze, and as opportunity offered, strove
to enlighten the inexperience of her elders in
matters of "style" and good behaviour, with
items drawn chiefly from her recollections of
Godeyy's Magazine," which were copious, and
sometimes startling, and illustrated by reminiscences
of festivity at St. Euphrase, in which a
certain Mr. Joe Webb appeared to have borne
a prominent part. She was still in full career
when Selby returned, introducing Muriel
Stanley, whom for his wife's sake he had
persuaded to come and shake hands with her
cousin at that early hour. Mary Alas leaning

back in her chair, and had armed herself with
patience to endure the torrent of Betsey's talk,
which needed only an occasional explanation
of dissent, easily overborne, from Judith, to
keep it running in the full turbulence of its
muddy flow. No word of hers was needed,
and her thoughts had drifted away into their
accustomed channels. Her husband noted
the flush of pleasure and the kindling of her
eye at sight of the stranger, who also seemed
drawn to the invalid, and who, in the rearranging
of the party, dropped into a low
seat by her side. Unconsciously, as it seemed,
Mary's hand was laid on the girl's shoulder,
and then, as recollecting itself, drew back, to
steal again involuntarily towards her, and
touch her hair.

Muriel, too, unwittingly seemed to lean
towards the other, and accept contentedly the
unconscious caress ; and George, regarding
them, could not but wonder how the girl
seemed drawn to his wife, so nearly a stranger
to her, even in the presence of the others whom
she saw so constantly in the country. It
showed the tenderness of a womanly heart, he
thought, and its overflowing Sympathy, thus
silently to go out to the stricken invalid, and
he loved and admired his favourite pupil
more than he had ever done before.

The loquacious Betsey had other things to
think of, things to speak about, and to speak
about a great deaL The subject of the party
was taken up again from the beginning, to be
Cone all over once more, while Judith held
her hands out to the blaze to shield her eyes,
and Mary sat mutely happy, she knew not
why, gently stroking the hair plait with her
finger.

You were not at Mrs. Herkimer's party
last night, Muriel? and I did not see your
aunts."

No, they were not there. Aunt Matilda
rarely goes to a dance, except a juvenile one,
when I am invited. I am not out yet, you
know."

To be sure not, Muriel ; I know it. Time
enough, my dear," said this experienced woman
of the world. " Your time will come quite
soon enough, and I hope you will enjoy it.

Ah ! " and she heaved an ecstatic siu^h,

It was a lovely party. So many gentlemen!
And such a floor ! I put in a heavenly time,
Muriel. I wish you could have seen it. I
wish you could have seen me in my new ball-dress
— a present, you know — from auntie's
niece — by Mme. Jupon ! no less — just too
elegant for anything. Quite subdued, you
know — black tulle — much draped. Too sul>-

clue, if anything, for my taste — you know I
like things cheerful — but awfully sweet.
Garnitures of roses — large Marshal Nell roses
dollars and dollars' worth of them — frightfully
expensive — and real chaste. I saw the
people asking each other who that elegantly-dressed
person could be, and my card was
filled up just like winking. There was, let

me see, there was Mr. But what of that ?

You are not out yet. You could not be
expected to know any of them. But it was
lovely. Oh, how some of those dear men do
valse ! "

Betsey ! " said Judith reprovingly, " how
you do run on. It is scarcely feminine."

Betsey looked not well pleased, and a retort
was rising to her lips, when she caught sight
of Selby watching her, and the twinkle of
impertinent " amusement, as she thought it,
in his eye was too much. It scattered Tier
forces and snapped the thread of her discourse.

There is a toboc'i^animx party to-nia'ht.
Betse}^" said Muriel, now that there came a
lull ; '' that is, there is always one these moonlight
nights; but we are going to-night.
Would you care to come ? Aunt Penelope
will be so pleased if 3'ou and Betsey will dine
with us, Mrs. Bunce, and she can go in our
party. Aunt Matilda is going. You will

meet all your St. Euphrase friends, Betsey.
Mille. Eouget will be there, I understand."

I scarcely know the girl, and she don't
want to know me, so that is no inducement.
However, we'll go, auntie ? I think we had
better go. It's home to St. Euphrase tomorrow,
you know, with lots of time for
sedateness and parish duties. Let's enjoy
ourselves all we can while we're here'' •

And so it was agreed.

TOBOGGANING.

The moon was at the fall, and she hung, still
tending upwards, high in the transparent vault
where all the host of heaven were burning
and blinking like tapers in a fitful wind, so
brilliant was their scintillating' lustre seen
through that clear dry atmosphere where the
moonlight shows the red and the green of brick
wall and painted verandah, colours which are
but modulated greys where insular moistness
thickens and dims the air. It was bright as
day over the snow-covered landscape, with
even a trace of the yellowness of sunshine hi
the licht, but with an uncertainty in distances,
and a liquid idealizing of objects and their
shadows, sublimating reality out of commonplace,
and lifting it into the likeness of what is
seen in dreams.

The thermometer stood at zero, but the air
was still, for all the fantastic flicker of the
stars overhead; and it was so dry with the
frost, which had precipitated all moisture, that
it did not feel cold on emeraiuif from heated

houses. It owns bright and exhilarating to
breathe — like something to drink — and sent
the blood dancing more briskly than before
down to the tips of the thickly-gloved fingers
Sounds of laughter and frolic were about,
every one who was young and strong was
abroad in the intoxicating lustre, arrayed in
blanket-coat and moccasins, with togue and
sash of blue or scarlet.

It was a steep snow-covered bank in the
suburbs, with a long meadow spreading out
below. Steps and footpaths were worn up
the face on either hand, and in the middle was
the slide polished into glass, down which the
toboggaus, pushed past the brink of the
descent, a <Av\ or even two seated in front with
a man behind to steer, shot with the celerity
of an arrow from above, slackening in speed
when the .steepest of the declivity was past,
and travelling far out across the level meadow
on the spending impulse they had gathered on
their way. With steering and good luck the
crew reach a standstill as they started, the
damsel gets up, the swain draws his vehicle
by the cord, and both mount again to the
summit, once more to precipitate themselves
down the slope, and if there be no miscarriage,
resulting in shipwreck, with toboggan
overturned or broken, and crew shot out pro-vol.
n. 26

miraculously with ugly cuts and bruises, to
repeat the experience a score of times, till at
length the weary limbs shall refuse to scale
the slippery height again.

Miss Stanley," said Randolph Jordan, addressing
Miss Matilda, " won't you trust yourself
to me. I promise to steer carefully, and
I can say what every one cannot, that I have
never spilled my cargo yet."

Thanks, Mr. Randolph, I do not mistrust
you in the least ; butreallv — it is so lonj:^ since
I got upon a toboggan — that I — I shall just
stay here with Mr. Considine, now I have
got to the top of the hill, and watch you
young people like a sedate chaperon. But
here is my cousin, Betsey Bunce ; I am sure she
will be delighted. The do not tobofr^ran at
St. Euphrase, and I am sure she never saw one
in Upper Canada. Oh ! " — with a little scream
" It really is quite frightful to see them start.
And that is Muriel, I declare, and Gerald Her-aimer.
He will break the child's neck, I do
believe ; he is so heedless. I wish Ave were
home again."

Oh, law ! " cried Betsey ; '' are you sure it
is quite safe ? I used to coast with my handled,
like the rest of the kids, when I was little,
but it kind of frightens one to see the iijo-cil"
Are you quite sure you can protect my boni:,

Mr. Jordan ? " — looking clinoinoly in his face
ill search of encouragement — " I feel awful
frii]^litenecl."

"Well, perhaps you are right," said Randolph,
impervious to the cling ; " it is a good
]plan to watch the others for a while first, it
gives one confidence," and he was gone. He
lead paid his duty invitation to the head of the
party, and, not having bargained for Betsey asa
substitute, availed himself at once of the
simulated dread which was intended merely
to make him urgent and assiduous. Betsey
felt foolish, and turned round to Matilda, but
she, supposing she had provided for her charge,
had taken Considine's arm and strolled away.
Betsey was pretty well able to do for herself,
however, and ere long she descried a bachelor,
unprovided with a maid, and whom she had
danced with the evening' before ; he, on her
recognizing him, was not averse to taking heron
his conveyance faute de mieux, it being
kind o' lonesome," as he told himself, to ride
alone, " when every other fellow was provided
With his bit of muslin."

Randolph was at Miss Eouget's side in a
moment, tendering his respectful services,
which she at once accepted with the grave
bow of a maiden obedient to her parents, who
feels gratified in her conscience with the sense

26—2

of a duty fulfilled, in doing what she knows
they would approve — the superior satisfaction
of a well-regulated mind, higher, because a
moral ]pleasure, than the indulgence of mere
personal ]preference, but by no means so
gratifying to the gentleman, if he only knew
it, which, fortunately, he seldom does. Kandolph's
feelings, too, might perhaps be considered
as of that same higher moral sort,
which dispenses with good honest attachment
of the natural kind ; more exactly to be described
as indifference touched with filial piety
and flavoured with a pinch of self-interest.

Old Jordan had been immensely impressed
by the mining discoveries at La llaclie, and
although it was a damper to recognize in the
desired father-in-law of his son a rapid and an
unsuccessful gambler, still, the man's interest
in the mine could be saved, he thought, by
settling it upon his daughter as dot, if the old
man were ]permitted to enjoy the usufruct
during his life ; besides, was there not a certain
institution where troublesome old gentlemen
had been locked up ere then, at the instance
of wives or heirs? and was not monsieur the
seignior eccentric enough for any ]purpose,
with skilful counsel to lay it properly before a
iu^^■? Kand()l])h was the impertinent himself;
lie was like a badly-ridden colt, whom the

horseman, armed with whip and spur, which
he has not the judgment to use, vexes into
rebellion which he cannot overbear.

It was humiliating, but his sight was clear
enough to see that Amelia, in opposition to
whom all his dealings with his son hitherto had
been taken, must now be called in to use the
very influence which had hitherto made the
lad so unruly, and render him tractable for
once. Amelia, for a wonder, lent a favourable
ear. She recognized it as a tribute, and an
admission, in arranging the most important
circumstance in her son's life, that the arrogant
block-head, who had attempted to lord it
with so high a hand over herself and the boy,
had come to see his impotence at last. The
.sense of victory soothed her, and made her
gentle, as a filly has been known to become
under coaxing with lump sugar and carrots,
when rougher means had failed. She agreed
to take the youth in hand, and she moulded
him without his knowledge, as she had done
all his life before, like wax between her fingers.

He had as yet — whatever later years
might bring him — no very pronounced
faculty' of love for other than himself ; his attachment
to herself, as she saw full well, being
due chiefly to what she could do for him and
give him in the way of flattery, sympathy, and

help to assist liiniseli', and so lorlli. She saw
it without much pain, thouuli she was this
mother, for she was a ])ra(tiral-niincled person
who indulged in the affections but sparingly
as being too luscious and apt to ytViW ; '• it was
just," she t]iou<;-ht, " the way of the coarser
sex — brutal, selfish, stupid — overbearing in
the rude strength of their muscle, the delicate
nerve-power of the women." '* Jut brain-fibre
was more than a match in the hm^r run for
such fibre as theirs," she told herself ; and after
all the boy was her own, to be proud of among
other women, and to make do in the long run,
as she only could make him, by delicately
pulling the strings she wot of in his being,
pretty much as she would.

She was aware, of course, of his kindness for
Muriel, but lie divined that its roots did not
go deep, and when she now tO(^k him in hand
to direct his attachments, his own description
confessed the truth when he spoke of her asa
jolly little girl, and awfully pretty, whom
the fellows were crazy after, and he meant
to take the cake from them all."

"I am not so sure that you can, my boy;
having been a girl myself I am likely to guess
nearer the truth than you can ; girls are such
goose little things, and I should say your
friend Gerald has the best chance there."

Gerald ! " said the young man, drawing
himself up to the full of that one-inch advantage
he had over his friend ; but then he
remembered how Gerald had taken her in to
supper the evening or two before, and he felt
a doubt ; but it only made him angry and
more obstinate to win the prize.

I think, Randolph," his mother went on,
reading his thoughts, " your cake, as you call
her, you gluttonous boy, is hardly worth the
eating ; leave it for your friends, and make them
welcome. Muriel Stanley is no match for
you, and no great catch for anybody. She
will get her aunt's money, I suppose — a comfortable
little sum — when they die, wdiicli is
not likely to happen for twenty years ; but she
lias no connections whatever, and a good connection
is so very advantageous for a younor
man. You will realize that more and more as
you get on."

But she is awfully pretty, the prettiest
little tliino^ in Montreal, and the nicest."

I grant you that, if sou think so ; but
she is only fifteen, and her aunts will not let
her marry for five years yet. She will be
stout at twenty ; that kind of girl whose figure
forms so early, always gets stout, and you
will think her a little coarse — men of taste
always think that of plump girls, I have

observed — but you will sacrifice yourself all
the same, like a man of honour, if you are
already enga<^red. That will not be the worst,
however ; five years more and she will be positively
fat! Imagine yourself with a wifelike
that ! You will be about thirty then,
just in your prime, with your nice slim figure
merely improved from what it is now, the
shoulders a little broader, of course, which
will be no disadvantage, and your moustache
a trite heavier, but otherwise scarcely
changed— in fact, at your very best. How
will you like then walking down St. James's
Street on the circumference of a copious
wife ? — a shrift of lavender tied to a marigold !
Does the picture attract you ? "

When you drive together or have stalls at
the theatre, imagine yourself ]protruding from
among your spouse's cloaks and flounces.
The buggy could be built of extra size, to
be sure, but all the stall chairs are alike. It
is a subject for your own consideration
exclusively. Personally, I am fond of Muriel.
She is a nice little thing, and I should welcome
her as a daughter ; but it is not T who
should have to appear in public with her for
the remainder of my days; and if a man
means to go into society, he is wise to choose
a wife who will group well with him.

Now, there are our neighbours at St.
Eu phrase. Think of an only daughter ! —
heiress to a seigniory, and connected withall
the best people in the province. You
will say she lias not a good complexion ;
but how short a time complexion lasts in
this climate! and those who have had one,
and lost it, always look haggard and older
than those who never had any. A man
married to an old-looking woman, whether
fat or lean, always strikes me as a melancholy
spectacle— like a sapling sprouting from a
crumbling wall, as the poet sa3^s— and the
world is seldom respectful. It is apt to look
on him as the man who broke the commandments
and married his granada. because
nobody of this own age would have him.
There is no fear of that with Adeline Eouo-et ;
she will improve every year she lives. She is
distinguished looking now, thrush she is not
pretty. Every year she will improve, that is
the advantage of having plenty of bone. She
will look stately in middle life, and be beautiful
— the rarest kind of beauty — in old age.
Look forward always, my boy, when you
think about marrying, it is an experiment
which generally can be tried but once, so
bought experience can do you no good."

Mother and son lead a long conversation, in

wliicli lie plied him with so many flatteries,
that finally of his own free choice he promised
to "go in " for Miss Eouget, yet at the same
time felt himself magnanimous and dutiful in
vieldimi his own wish to the gratification of
his parent; and she encouraged the delusion
as likely to hold him to her ]point. Self-denial
is a heroic sort of virtue, and rather above the
purchase of most folks ; therefore, to be self-den
vinfj, and so, admirable to his seldom
gratified moral sense, while still pleasing himself,
was exaltedly delightful. If a man is
not a hero, it pleases him the more to see himself
in a heroic light. It is new, and it may
not occur again, therefore he will do his best
to retain the gallant attitude in which he finds
himself; and Randolph set himself to lice
up to his ideal.

It was in ceremonious and most well-behaved
fashion that the young lady placed herself on
the toboggan, and permitted her cavalier to
wrap the overflowing draperies more compactly
about her in gracious quietude. The
gentleman gave the equipage a push beyond
the brink, jumped in behind with a parting
kick against the shore, and they were away;
swiftly, and with ever-accelerating speed as
the hill grew steeper — '' shoot in<jf Niagara."
The biensi'ances of the convent, with their

modest tranquillity, are scarcely maintainable
in a toboggan shooting down a glassy incline
of fifty degrees or more, at the rate of miles
in a minute, with the certainty that dislodgment
from the quarter-inch board one is
seated on may hurl one anywhere, bruised or
maimed, but assuredly ridiculous.

Adeline caught her breath with a gasp as
she found they were off, and, as the pace
quickened down hill, she clenched her teeth
tightly and closed her eyes ; and then there
came a jolt as they sped across some swelling
in the ice, and she felt herself thrown backwards,
and gave a little-scream ; and Randolph
was there behind to support her, with a laugh,
as she bumped against his chest, a laugh she
could not but join in, though a little hysterically,
perhaps, at first. And then the pace
began to slacken as they reached the level of
the meadow below, and still it slackened, and
finally they stopped, and stood up, and shook
themselves from adhering snow, and found, the
experience was over, that they were both safe,
and that it had been a little thrilling, but
awfully jolly y The ice was broken between
the two young people forthwith, and the
Lady Superior with her nuns, who had taken
such pains in the formation of Adeline's
character and manners, would scarcely have

recofjjiiizcd Lier, or Ijeeii able to (li.stiiifruish
lier fi'om one of those dreadful, fast, heretical
English girls, they had been wont to hold upto
lier and her companions as models to
avoid, as she caught lLandolj)h's arm to climb
to the top of the bank again, and vowed it
had been delightful.

Conventional mannerisms are like mud
in a slough, when the animal which has
floundered throuLdi islets out into the sunshine,
it dries and })eels off and falls away
^'ery quickly. These two were average
young people who had been comfortably
reared, with warm clothes and nourishing
victuals imagination, sentiment, '* yearnings
" of any kind lead l)een omitted from
their composition, but they were unconscious
of the deficiency, so were perfectly content.
They were both healthy and strong, and the
physical surroundings of the moment were
exhilarating" in the highest decree— bright
clear air and exciting exercise. The (quickening
of their ]pulses, caused by their romp upon
the snow, Alas as high a delight as either was
capable of knowing, and they clung closer
together each time tliev I'c-climbed the steer)
to shoot again IVom the summit, and laughed
more joyously with each succeeding jot, and
[persuaded themselves even, perhaps, that they

were really foiling in love — it is a delusion
which often has no more substantial foundation.
And Muriel, too, was careering merrily
down the slope, with Gerald for steersman.
It was a sport in which they frequently indulged,
and many a chilly promenade upon
the frozen snow, on the top of the hill, had it
cost Aunt Matilda that winter, though she
never dropped a complaint which might check
or damp her darling's pleasure. Perhaps, too,
she may have found the chaperonage not
altogether an infliction in every aspect. By
some happy concurrence of circumstances
Considine was always of the party. He
might have dropped in to visit the ladies before
the hour for setting out, or else he would
accompany young Gerald when he called to
persuade them to go ; assuredly he was always
there, and freighted with rugs of the thickest
and warmest. When the ground was
reached, he was curious in his selection of the
snuggest nooks and corners sheltered from
the wind to rest in ; and when his rugs were
heaped on the seal skins she already wore, Miss
Matilda found she was not one bit cold in the
world, and Considine in attendance, dio on
these occasions was invited to smoke, was
perfectly happy, and blessed the inventor of
the toboir^an.

CO

Muriel and Gerald were experienced voyagers
who slid down and clambered up again
in calm familiarity with what they were about,
without transports of timidity or delight, butin
thorough enjoyment. Muriel sat motionless
like a part of the outfit, and Gerald was
able to steer their way intricately and securely
between others more laggard or awkward who
got in the way and would have brought. grief
to a less skilful pilot. And then it was so
pleasant to be together, though neither said
so, they were so used to it — had been used toit
for three or four winters now — and it had
grown on them so quietly that they said and
perhaps thought nothing about it. There
were no speeches ; there was no opportunity
for them, for there had been no breaks in
their intimacy. A boy and girl companionship)
at first, it had strengthened and progressed
with themselves, till, while it was possible
neither mi^lit laye confessed an attachment to
the other, it was certain they could never,
now, attach themselves to any one else. They
were comrades, at least in their winter exercises,
but without the rough familiarity which sometimes
arises in that relation. Muriel's virginal
rearing by those worthy gentlewomen, her
aunts, lead made that impossible on her side;
and Gerald had ]been his mother Martha's

vineyard," tended and weeded and cared for
assiduously as to his moral nature, brought up
in manliness to scorn evil and reverence
women, as only that quaint daughter of the
solitary places in "Noo Hampshire" could
have done.

The moon hung in the highest heaven, the
snow near by was glitter in its sheen, the distance
was dim with hazy brightness, and many
tobogganers had come in from around to join
the sport. The place was not inclosed, it was;
a bare hill-face at other times, and somewhat
out of the way ; but it suited, and when once
a few had used it into shape, all the tobogganing
world was glad to avail itself of it. Its
out-of-the-Avay-ness alone preserved it to the
use of its quieter frequenters from the gamins
and " roughs " of the more densely-peopled
streets ; but this night was so gloriously still
and bright and exhilarating that those who
had tasted its brightness could not tear themselves
away, and as the shop-lights were extinguished
they wandered farther afield instead
of creeping under dusky shelter and going to
sleep. The snow was dotted with groups of a
dozen or a score, streaming out from the
town and comines to the snow slide. All were
on foot, a few on snow shoes, and many drag-bring
hand-sleds behind them — those devices of

the enemy which make the winter street of
America so dangerous for an elderly gentleman.
He will look around for a policeman to
stop) urchins coasting in mid-highway, at the
hazard of their skulls, from passing horseback
; he will not find one, but with a roar
and a sweep) another coaster will rush down
the pavement, bruising his shins, over-turning
him, and passing on its career of devastation
before he can gather himself up to box the
audacious ears of the offenders.

What a ci-owt of people are gathering
down here at the end of the track," observed
Muriel, as she stepped off the toboggan at
the journey's end to re-climb the hill.

"Yes," said Gerald, "a great many. I do
not mind their standing down here, they seem
peaceable. They are only looking on, and
soon they will find it cold, and go away, lout
look at the crowd up there at the top ! They
seem a more unruly crew. I fear there will
be a row. Ah!" he added, "there it is! Our
pleasure is over for to-night. There is a
rowdy with a hand-sled, starting down the
course, lish ! what a pace — and another —
and a third. The third has upset, however,
and rolled down the hill. I could almost wish
he would get in front of number four. It
would certainly hurt him, and spill member

four as well, and both deserve it. It will not
be safe to launch a toboggan now. The iron
shod runners of the sleds travel as fast again
as a flat toboggan board. We shall get run
into and smashed. I fear we must knock off
for to-night. 1 am awfully sorry, but really
it is not safe, with a parcel of roughs in possession
of the slide."

Don't say so," said Muriel. They were
climbing the bank, she leaned on his arm, and
she pressed on it just a shade heavier as she
said it.

No doubt," he answered ; " they must soon
give it up. The ground is too steep for
runners. See how they shoot, and how far
they are carried beyond where we stopped.
And there is a ditch there too. The least
thing will upset them coming down at such a
bat, and somebody will get hurt. They will
all get hurt in time, but we shall have too
long to wait for it, I fear."

Don't you think we might have just one
or two more ? The evening is only beginning,
and it is so lovely. I do not feel one bit
afraid, you steer so beautifully."

And what could Gerald do but yield when
so appealed to, and so flattered ?

They made another descent in safety, and
then another, in which Gerald performed
VOL. II. 27

prodigies of steering which elicited the lively
applause of the onlookers, and filled himself
and his companion Avitli confidence and pride.
For now the sled-riding invaders were in
possession of the field, the tobogganers having
withdrawn, all save Gerald, who, in the hew
position of affairs, appeared as the intruder,
and whom the majority in possession now set
themselves deliberately to molest and chase
from the ground ; shooting down after him,
and endeavouring to run into him from different
sides, when he would suddenly veer out
of his course and leave the chasers to run
into each other, with bruises and scattering,
and derision from the onlookers.

Each descent they made Gerald begged
might be their last, but Muriel more eagerly
pleaded they might have yet another. It was so
splendid, she tliought,to see the rowdies, balked
in their malice, run thundering into each otherwhile
Gerald received rounds of applause.
What taskmaster ever drove so hard as does
the female partizan, who desires nothing for
herself but merely the glory of her champion?

They made the descent again. It was to be
really the last time. 'just this once more ;"
but it proved the once too often. They started
immediately behind a sled which shot down
like li'^htnini^', and insured a clear course at

the going off; but presently one slid by on
their right, and they had to Serve to avoid
it, and then there passed one on their left which
almost grazed them. They had scarcely escaped
when another came thundering down
behind them. Gerald veered aside as well ashe
could, but still as it came on it was only by
flinging himself against the foremost passenger
that he avoided being run over, and it cost
him his balance. In the instant, while he was
still in poise, he was able to lay a goodly stroke
with his guiding stick across the head of the
steersman of the buccaneer, and then he fell
out of his seat and rolled down the steep.
The sled had turned cross-wise to the incline,
and rolled over with the three who were its
crew ; and Muriel startled, alarmed, and with
the toboggan turned aslant, fell out likewise,
and slid downward with the toboggan atop.

Gerald reached the bottom pell-mell among
the brawling, kicking, and swearing cargo of
the sled, who set on him in concert ere yet lie
had well reached his feet, when Muriel's falling
amidst them, covered by the over-turned
toboggan, dispersed the combatants for an
instant, and gave Gerald time to recover his
guard. Then with a howl the three rushed
upon the one, or rather on the two, for they
knocked down Muriel, half risen, and trampled

27—2

the toboggan to pieces in rushing over her.
Gerald was ready with one from the shoulder,
delivered squarely in the jaw, to knock down
the first, but the other two sprang on him together,
and he would have fared ill if one from
the crowd had not leaped into the fray with
blazing eye, clenched fist, and gnashing teeth,
and a fjrowl of sssacrrre and chien, as he felled
one ruffian with a blow under the ear and attacked
the other. The first was now up again,
assaulting Gerald with foot and fist, and calling
his fellows in the crowd to come and help
him, when the ministers of the law appeared
in the persons of two burly constables, who
caught Gerald and his succourer by the collar,
and stood over the last felled of the assailants
while the other two ran away.

It was a " brace of the pace," they
declared, and all must come to the station,
stretching out a hand to seize Muriel by the
muller — an act which nearly upset Gerald's
composure, and brought him into collision
with the police ; but fortunately at that
moment Considine intervened.

He had been spending an enchanted hour
near the top of the hill with Miss Matilda,
swathed in rugs — all but her head — looking
down upon the sports, and chatting pleasantly
while he buzzed round her, near enough to

hear and answer, but far enough off to let the
fumes of his cigar travel elsewhere. Something
said in the crowd hard by had drawn
their attention to the slide. " Is not that
Muriel?" Matilda had exclaimed, jumping to
her feet ; and then the collision had come, and
the upset, and they both hurried down the bank
to arrive on the scene at the same moment as
the police.

You need not take the young lady into
custody, my man," said Considine, assuming
his grand military manner — learned in
the war" — so effective with policemen, who,
like other disciplined beings, seem to love
being spoken down to. " Here is my card,
and I write the lady's address on the back.
She will appear before the magistrate whenever
he desires."

Eoiglit, yur haunur !" said the man, coming
to " attention," and saluting.

And this gentleman will give you his card,
too, and promise to appear when wanted," a
suggestion which was also complied with, and
Gerald was liberated from custody.

And this young fellow, who has behaved
like a man, can I do nothing for him ? "

*' This is Pierre Bruneauau," cried Matilda,
** our farmer's son at St. Euphrase. So good
of you, Pierre, to come to Miss Muriel's

rescue. I did not know you were in Montreal."


Pierre pulled ofT his toque and made
a shame-faced bow, smiling gratification allover
his countenance to fid this service appreciated.


The Frenchman must com wit us, sort.
He kin help to draw the sled wit the chap he
knocked down — an' right lately he did that
same — for a Frenchman. We'll climate him
well, sort, but we'll have to lock him up.
Ye kin spake a world to his haunor tomorrow
martin', sort."

Pierre started, and looked piteously to Miss
Matilda, and then his manly heart gave wayne
was not very old — he stuffed his fists into
his eyes and wept sore. To prison ! To be
locked up ! It was dreadful, and it was shame ;
and yet, even then, if it had had to be done
over again, he would have done it just the
same. It was for Muriel he had fought, and
for her sake he was content to suffer.

ANNETTE.

Poor Pierre ! " was the natural burden of
the conversation round the Misses Stanley's
supper table that night.

Did not think it was in him," said
Considine. " A quiet, fat, soft-eyed, soft-spoken
boy — just like some of my mulatto
table-nicro-ers at home, in the old time.

GO "

Never struck me there was man in him at
all."

He struck out splendidly," cried Gerald.
Straight from the shoulder — just one almighty
drive, and the rowdy fell in his
tracks — felled like an ox — without a struggle.
Hope, for Pierre's sake, he has not killed
him. He had not moved up to the time
we left the ground. There could not have
been a prettier stroke. We must not let him
get into trouble about it. It would have
gone roughly with me if he had not run in
just then. One on either side, and I dared

not hit out at the one, for laying myself open
to the other."

You (lid very well, Gerald. Your own
man was not at all badly floored, though he
recovered more quickly than the other.
Ton honour, I felt my old blood warming at
sight of the fray. I should have been at
your side in another instant, when I saw
that ruffian get on his feet again, with musket
clubbed — walking stick, 1 should say — a
rather ridiculous object, I fear ; but the old
war-horse, you know " — and he turned to
Matilda as if he had made a happy quotation
from the poets, and she responded with an
approving smile as in duty bound — " pricks up
his ears at the noise of battle. However, the
policeman appeared, and saved me from
making a show of myself. That is one of
the troubles of getting old. A man is more
likely to get laughed at for showing his
mettle than admired."

*' Nobody would have laughed, Mr. Confiding,"
said Matilda. " It was kind of you to
mean it. But about Pierre. I can think of
nothing but poor Pierre being taken up for
trying to protect Muriel from a gang of
russians. How came he to l:>e there? He
might have dropped from the clouds, I was
so surprised."

There were some beef cattle at the farm,"
said Miss Penelope. *' Pierre drove them into
town. He was here in the afternoon. I gave
him money to stay in town overnight and
go home by the cars tomorrow. So that is
explained."

Mr. Considine, may we commission you to
engage the very best advice for Pierre ? " said
Matilda. " Beings our servant we should feel
bound to help him out of a difficulty in any case ;
but when he was assisting to protect Muriel,
we must do more still. Spare no expense.
See Mr. Jordan, or whomever you think the
best. We would have sent word to Mr.
Jordan by Randolph to act for us, but
Randolph has not come back here. He will
have walked home with Miss Eouget, I daresay.
They seemed to enjoy each other's
company immensely, which rather surprised
rae. Adeline is a nice girl, but rather
inanimate, and Randolph is a lazy fellow,
who prefers to sit still and let a lady amuse
him. So they struck me, when they went
off together, as being not a well-assorted pair,
and yet they seemed to hit it off together
uncommonly well. In fact, I have quite
come to the conclusion that in such cases
one never knows."

*' Jean Bruneauau will be anxious about his

boy if lie docs not get home by tomorrow
evening," said Penelope ; " but how to send
him word? I need not write, for he never goes
lo the post-office, and a letter to him would lie
there till the postmaster happened to see him
in the village. Telegraphing is the same ;
the message mii^lit lie a week at the postoffice."


'' We are going home tomorrow, Betsey
and I," said Mrs. ?)ini(^e. '* Can we assist you.
Miss Stanley?"

Indeed you can, Mrs. Bunce ; if it is not
too much trouble. If you would walk out to
Bruneauau's cottage and explain to them the
detention of their boy. Tell them how well
he has behaved, how indebted we feel to
lum, and how wilhngiy we will go to every
expense to send him home as soon as possible.
You will indeed do us a favour. We will
write you tomorrow, after Mr. Considine has
spoken to the magistrate, so as to give tlu^
very latest news."

The Eev. Dionysius had eaten his morning
rasher, and was consuming his second 
of buckwheat crakes and maple syrup —
there is nothing like a copious breakfast for
(Enabling one to resist the cold — and was
basking in his remained domesticated He had

been dwelling: alone for three or four weeks,
and though at first he had plunged with
enthusiasm into his books, secure of freedom
from interruption, he soon found the unbroken
stillness grow oppressive. He wanted
to speak, but there was no one to listen. He
had felt himself, like the psalmist's solitary
sparrow on the housetop, desolate and forlorn,
and now he enjoyed even his wife's
wordy narrations with a zest which surprised
himself as much as it gratified her.

She was pouring forth a continuous stream
of ecclesiastical tittle tattle, about curates,
choirs, congregations and preferments, which
would have been idle talk and a sinful waste
of time in her serious eyes if it had related
to politics or the public offices, but seeing it
was not the State which it remotely touched
on, but the Church, she believed it both
important and improving ; for with her,
Church, like charity, covered anything, and
transmuted even back-biting into holiness.

Dionysius listened and ate his cakes. Human
speech of any sort was much, after
three whole weeks of silence, broken only by
the heavy foot of his domestic, or the clatter
of delf-breaking in the kitchen. Judith,
again, was a good woman, he knew, and it
was his duty to bear with her infirmities —

and bear \i]) under tlicni, too, at times, which
was a heavier task. Perhaps she was not in
all respects as much to be admired and
respected as he lead persuaded himself when
he married her, but at least he knew that she
admired and respected Iiun, Avliich was much
more important, and very soothing.

Miss Betsey had breakfasted, and being
in haste to divulge her experiences of travel,
gaiety, and beaux, had walked ak)nir the villain
street to the post-office in hopes of meeting
a gossip. She now returned with the family
letters.

Here you are, uncle ! Four letters for
you, and one of them registered — that means
money. And here is one for you, auntie ;
everybody is in luck but me."

Did you expect a letter, my dear ? "

"Well — yes, I kind of thought I should
have heard;" and her colour deepened. Two
nights before she had striven so hard to impress
lier address on the memory of her cavalier of
the tobogganing. They had parted such good
friends — on her side at least — that she had
been promising herself a letter from him all
the day before. It would come, however,
sooner or later, she told herself, and thereby
found strength to ]possess her soul in
patience.

My letter is from Penelope Stanley," said
Mrs. Bunce. " Dionysius, can you drive me
out to the Miss Stanley's place, in the cutter*
to-day ? She asked me to deliver a message
to their man, and he should get it to-day."

I was not going in that direction to-day,
but it does not matter. I will take you ; but
you must arrange either to stay a few minutes
only, or else to wait a few hours, as I have an
appointment elsewhere."

"Here is Bruneauau's wife coming down
the hill, auntie ; carrying a fat goose and a
pair of ducks. Be sure you make a trade
with her for the ducks ; I believe in roast
duck."

"A brace of ducks, my dear,"

"A pair of ducks, uncle. They're farmyard
ducks. Think I went to Flora Female
College for nothing ? "

Call her in, Betsey, and let us take your
erudition for granted."

She won't come, auntie. Eemember
we're heretics. She wouldn't let herself
be seen coming into a Protestant parson's
house."

Oh, yes, she will, if you ask her the price
of her ducks. Money can do anything."

A one-seated sleigh, intended to carry two persons.

Annette Bruneauau was called in as she
passed ; and came, looking distrustfully to
light and left. The parson beat a retreat,
which augmented her confidence somewhat,
but still lie seemed not much at her ease. A
question as to the price of ducks, however,
reassured her. JJucks were food for Christians,
and it was the souls of men and the
flesh of little children on which the nameless
person she dreaded to see was believed to
subsist. What price for the ducks? Oh, yes,
she was herself at once, and did a very fair
stroke of business, too, extracting some twelve
or twenty cents more from the unbelievers
than she would have had the assurance to
ask from the storekeeper for whom they had
been destined.

I have a letter from Miss Stanley this
morning," said Mrs. Bunce.

'-'•All Old., madame? I hope she goes well."

She is so pleased with your boy Pierre.
Feels really indebted to him, and says he has
believed so well."

But yes, madame ? And is it upon the
affairs of Mees Stanley sat he is not of the
return ? "

He was taken up by the police. lie behaved
— oh ! remarkably well. Miss Stanley
feels under the greatest obligations to him,

and will do her very utmost to have him
well defended and brought off."

Police, madame ? My Pierre chez ze
police ! — a la prison ? But vy ? Is it as he
have casse la Ute de personne 1 Ah ! le pauvre
garcon'' and she wiped her eyes.

I feel deeply indebted to him myself —
under the very greatest obligations — which will
console you, I hope. Mr. Bunce has many
friends in town, and I shall make him use his
influence with them ; so calm yourself, my poor
woman. I owe it to your boy and also to myself
to console you. Take comfort. Your son has
behaved extremely well. Indeed, he has shown
himself a fine manly youth ; you may be
proud of him, you may indeed, Mrs. Bruneauau ;
and who knows but his arrest — the man he
knocked down was still unconscious when
Miss Stanley wrote. The inquiry was adjourned
yesterday in case it should involve
a chase of manslaughter. He must have
struck a fearful blow ! "

Manslaughter ? WQwrivQ. assassinat? In-royale
! — My Pierre ? " The tears ran down
her quivering face, and she clasped her
hands. " But perhaps I do not comprend, ze
English is difficile. Say it again."

Be comforted, my poor woman ? " and
Judith wiped her own eyes — she was sympathetic

and even kind, after a sort, notwithstanding
her absurdity. " We must submit,
you know, to the dispensations of Providence ;
and who knows but, after all, your son's
confinement may prove a precious blessing in
disguise. He may have opportunities of
coming in contact with the truth there. The
jail chaplain is an admirable man, and I am
sure will do his utmost to brims him to an
appreciation of doctrinal truth, especially if
Mr. Bunce were to write to him, as I shall
see that he does. With a blessings that miij^ht
induce the sweetest uses of adversity, as the
hymn says — though, to be sure, you cannot
be expected to understand that just yet —
and when I come to think of it, the lad will
he confined in the police cells at present, not
the jail. However, I shall always feel bound to
say a good word for your son, after his manly
assistance to my nephew ; and Gerald's father
Mr. Herkimer, you know — is bound to exert
himself, and he has a great deal of influence.
No ; there can nothing happen to your
son worse than a short detention. Keep up
your heart, my friend," and she patted her
gingerly on the shoulder.

''Ihit 1 do not coinprcnd, madame ; you say
Mistaire Herkimaire and M. Gerald — I know
him — vat sav you of dem ? "

19:

Why, you know — but, to lee sure, 3'ou
don't know, I have not had time to tell you
anything yet. These interruptions make it so
difficult for me to tell my story. You must
know that two nights ago Mr. Gerald, my
nephew, was attacked by a number of
ruffians, and your son came gallantly to his
assistance, and helped him to beat them off."

Ah ! mon brave. Ze good Pierre ! "

And one of the roughs seems to have been
hurt ; he was taken to the hospital, and is still
unconscious. The police interfered, and I
suppose it was necessary to make arrests.
The Troughs made their escape ; it was proper
to take some one into custody, so they took
your son to found a prosecution upon, as I
am told the proceedings they mean to institute
are called. They will found their prosecution,
and then the truth will be found out — you
see ? Ingenious, is it not ? and I have no
hesitation in saying your son will he honourably
acquitted ; acquitted and, perhaps, even
complimented by the bench. Think of that.
What an honour ! "

Ze bench ? I do not know him. He will
not know my poor Pierre. But M, Gerald ?
Is he also arrest ? "

He gave his card, and he promised to
appear."

VOL. II. 28

'* All ! and my poor Pierre have not ze
carte. Jut lie give ze proinesse, and he
keep it."

It could not be taken, unfortunately.
You seethe others had run away, and the law
must be vindicated. What else are the police
for?"

"Ah! — La loi! She take ze poor villi have
not ze carte, ze riches echajipent. It is not
but ze good God who have pity on ze poor,"
and she sat down rocking herself in hopeless
woe.

"You must bear up, my good woman.
There is really no ground for despondency.
Miss Stanley has engaged the very best
lawyers in Montreal to see that the young
man is brought safely through his difficulty.
She feels most grateful to him."

Mees Stanley is ver good. I have say so
always. But it was to M. Gerald Pierre bring
ze secours. Does he nottinij ? Go all his
money to buy la carte ? " — with a shrug which
rather outraged Mrs. Bunce, who claimed
much deference from the lower orders.

My nephew will see your son comes to no
harm," she said. Just a little loftily. " Set
your mind at rest as to that ; but Miss
Stanley insists on bearing all the expense.
She looks on your son as having got into

difficulty ihroufi^li defending*; lier niece ; and
indeed the young man himself, as he was
being led away, said he would have done far
]more than that for the sake of Miss Muriel.
We talked about him all through supper,
Avhen they got home — I did not go to the tobogganing
myself — and we all said it was so nice
of him. Depend on it, he will be no loser in
the end "

For Mees Muriel ? Always Mees Muriel !
My Pierre shut up for her ! Sainte Yierge !
Have pity on a wife and mother malheureux I
ah ! — And was it me who brought her there !
Serpents! Que ta in as broui les yeux par
ta vue ! Que tu as iiiaise le coeur de ton Jrere
legitime ! "

"Speak English, my good woman. What
is it you say ? You seem to have some ground
of complaint against Miss Stanley's niece''

She is not niece of Mees Stanley. She is
enfant e trouve'

What sort of an infant ? But why do you
say she is not Miss Stanley's niece ? She is
the daughter of Miss Stanley's brother. Surely
a lady like Miss Stanley must know who are
members of her own family. Why ! Mr.
Bunce is lier first cousin."

Vous vous 1romj)ez, madame. Vous vous

Imagines la mere "

28—2

** Speak English, please."

You imagine yourself the niece "

*' I do nothing of the kind. Betsey! I
think this poor soul is losing her wits "smith
grief for her bo3\ Wliat shall we do? — Call
your uncle."

Not a bit of it, auntie. She is as peart
as you or I ; but she knows something about
Muriel, and we'd better hear it. Designing
little monkey! It is just scandalous the way
that girl o-oes on with Gerald and all the
young fellows who will mind her. I have
long suspected there was something, and Uncle
Dionysius alway's said he never knew that the
Stanleyss had had a brother at all, till he was
shown this daughter."

Surely that was sufficient."

I don't know. Let's hear her, any way,"
and she drew her chair forward, smirking and
nodding her head by way of introduction to
the French woman.

** Vous avez raison. Mademoiselle .''

*' I told you so, auntie. She says I have
reason. That means sense, of course, and I
believe her ; though some people " — and she
sighed — " don't seem to see it. She is evidently
a person of penetration and sagacity, this — a
superior person. We'd better hear what she
has to say. Wee, wee, ma bong fan," turning

to the stranger ; " but speak English. Parley
Onglay, you know, we haven't much French
here."

Annette knitted her dark brows and
coughed determinedly ; and then she stopped,
and as another thought seemed to strike
her, the frown cleared itself away before the
propitiatory smile which she turned on her
interviews, as the night police cast the
gleam of their bull's-eye on those who accost
them.

Since madame and mademoiselle are of
ze parents of Mees Stanley, it is of their
right, it is able to be of their advantage to
know."

Parents ? Betsey. Penelope must be
every day as old as I am. I told you the poor
creature's wits were unsettled."

"Tush! auntie. Be quiet. Wee, wee; but
speak English, Mrs. Bruneauau. To be sure
we wish to hear something to our advantage.
Go on."

'•• But madame and mademoiselle must
promesse not never to say sat the connaissance
have come from me. My man would
lose his emploi chez Mees Stanley for sure."

We'll promise you," cried Betsey, in eager
curiosity. " Go ahead."

Cela extant "

No French now, ]please. Take your
time, but put it all into English."

Annette settled herself in her chair, clasping
her hands in her lap with a long breath ;
while her eyes rolled abstractedly in her
head in search, no doubt, of the English
words to convey her meaning. '' Madame is
inariee as me. She will kncnv la jalousie
which carries ze good vile for son epoiixJ'

"Auntie!" cried Betsey in uncontrollable
hilarity. " Were you ever so jealous of Uncle
Dionysius that you had to carry him about
with you? It would be more likely to be the
other way. It is you, I should say, would
want watching. He ! he ! "

Betsey," said Aunt Judy austerely, for
in truth her sense of propriety was outraged,
"you surprise me. No! Mrs. Bruneauau, I am
not jealous. I have no occasion."

"Madame sees heureiise ; but me — rcpoiuie
who loves as me, will have des doutes from
time in time. Sere arrive von night — it was
a hot night of summer, even ze window ver
lefT open, and I do not sleep) well, and zen
sound au dessous de lafenetre — "

Say window, and go on."

I hear ze cry of a hcbc^ I raise myself
and go down, and behold! on ze stoop it
were laid. And la jalousie she demand of me

pour-quoi at ze door of my Jean Bruneauau ? '
And I responds qitoui^ it is too evident.
And I say in myself that no ! It shall not
be that the enfant d'autrui shall eat the
route of mes enfants ; and for Jean Bruneauau,
he shall of it never know. And then I carry
to the porte of Mees Stanley, and I sound,
and hide myself till I shall see it carried in ze
house. And now, behold, the reward of my
hienfaisance I Pierre, a la prison ! And he
has lofty her since long time. Peut-etre sa
soeur ! Oh ! My boy so innocent, in sin so
mortal, and not to know ! But how to
hinder ? "

And the child is no relation to them at
all ? Well — I call it 6>?<dacious. Auntie, did
you ever hear anything like it ? A brat like
Muriel, not a drop's blood to them in the
world, to be pampered up there in sealskin
and velvet, while I, their own cousin, am glad
to dress myself in a suit of homespun."

Yes, my dear, it seems wrong. I wonder
at a correct person like Penelope Stanley
compromising herself in a thing so contrary
to all rule. But then, Matilda is flighty ; I
always thought her flighty. Beware of mightiness,
Betsey, and yielding to the momentary
impulses of an ill-regulated mind. It never
answers. In the touching lani^uaGfe of — of —

the Psalmist, I suppose — and be sure your
impulses will fid you out ! No, that isn't
just it, but it niiulit be ; that is the intention
of it. But, Mrs. Bruneauau, I feel for you " — she
rose as lie said so, to intimate that the interview
was ended — " I feel for you deeply. Be
sure of my kindest consideration. When we
hear further about your son, we will let you
know, and all my inlluence 1 promise you to
exert on his behalf. Good mornings. You
may rely on our not niakinn" an improper use
of what you have told us "

"Madame have give her promesse to be
silent. 1 confide : " and she curtsied herself outwith
a confidence which was fast wearing into
a mis<iivino- that she would have done more
wisely to hold her tongue. A secret shared
with two others, who have no interest in
maintaining it, has ceased almost to be a
secret at all.

BLUFF.

The mines brouo^lit a rush of trade to St.
Euphrase. The drowsy little place, of late
years, under the patronage of the railway,
had been growing into a sort of sequestered
rustic suburb, or at least a rural outlet for
dust-stifled townspeople during the dog days,
where such as could buy a house might pick
their own strawberries, or cut their melon
with the (lew still on it, for breakfast. It was
now breaking into the " live-village " stage of
growth, raising its own dust in most respectable
clouds, exhaling its own smoke — the
villagers had burnt only wood in their j?oldeii
age, and their atmosphere had been pure —
with brawling navvies at the lane corners to
disturb the night, and the glare of illuminated
saloons, now for the first time able to outface
the disapproval of M. le Cure, who
hitherto had been able to fend off such
dangerous allurements from his simple flock.

As spring advanced tidings progressed with
ii rush, and everybody in the district expected
to make his fortune fortlnvitli. The cautious
habitants \\\\o would not risk their savings ina
bank (remembering how once upon a time
a bank lead broke, and a grandfather had lost
some dollars), but hid them nwav in crannies
below the roof or underneath the oven, took
courage now, and bought shares. Were not
the mines there P visible to the naked eye.
Did not Baptiste and Jean earn wages there?
paid regularly every Saturday night. The
whistle of their steam engine could be heard
for miles around, and clouds of smoke drifted
across the country, dropping flakes of soot on
the lineii huno^ out to drv. It was very real,
this — definite and tangible. Had it not raised
even the price of hay, which now could be
sold at home, for the mine teams, at more than
could be got for it in Montreal?

The rustics crowded into town to l)uy
shares, and the price rose higher and higher,
till they became so valuable that no one
would sell. Still, however, shares were to begot,
with exertion, and at a good price, at the
offices of the company, Which were also those
of the Messrs. Herkimer, whose senior partner
was ]president of the conij^any.

The board of directors was so composed as

to conciliate the local interests of St. Euphrase —
M. Podevin the housekeeper, Joseph Webb,
Esquire — Esquire meaning J. P. — Farmer Bel-more,
and Stinson, Ralph's favourite clerk.
These met periodically to accept five dollars
apiece for their attendance, sanction such proposals
as their president might make, and sign
the minutes. None of them had an opinion
upon the matters to be considered, and even
if they had had one, they would have felt it
to be indelicate to question the decisions of
the city magnate who was making their
fortunes ; but that m^ red little ; it was
pleasant to sit upon . board, and be paid
for sitting, especially dien their decision
upon the points on which they came to
be consulted was already framed, to save
them the trouble of consideration, and
required only a mute assent. They found
their consequence vastly augmented among
their neighbours, dio all prayed them for
advice and private information ; which, not
having, they found it difficult to give, and
had to fall back on their habit, learned at the
board," of looking' as wise and savings as
little as possible.

It was delightful, for the time being, thus
to play at Lord Burleigh, and be thought
only the wiser the more they held their

tongues ; but tliev little inia<xiued the responsibility
they were* building up for themselves,
-when issues of stock unregistered in
the company's books, funds not accounted for,
and other irregularities had to be explained
to infuriated shareholders. The storm was
yet in the future, for the present the heavens
were shining.

That year both Herkimer and Jordan
removed their families to k^t. Euphrase quite
early in the spring, instead of waiting for the
sinner heats. It was a demonstration of
the importance they attached to the mining
operations, and their" desire to be on the spot.
Directly, it Alas whispered among their acquaintance
that fresh discoveries were being
made, and cultured persons, who combined
science with money-maxim?, hastened to bespeak
a summer residence in the favoured
village, whence they might scour the neighbourhood
on holidays, lanner in hand,
rummaging for minerals, and picking uj)
information about the remarkable lind already
made at La Ilache. Every house, and even
every shanty, to be let, was secured for the
hot months, and some impatient pi-inspectors,
unwilling to wait so Ioiilj-, arrived at once, and
established themselves with the Pere Podevin,
whose house had never been so full before,

and who, feeling that Iiis fortune was as good
as made, began to prepare his family to adorn
the great ]position they were about to il!,
withdrew his eldest daughter from the kitchen,
where she had been wont to assist, and sent her
off to the celebrated convent of St. Cecilia, at
Quebec, that she might learn to play the
piano, and be turned into a lady.

The influx of city men had scarcely become
apparent — it was the middle of May now —
when a new phenomenon met the explorer's
eye. A board fence was of a sudden run u])
around the property of the mining company,
and watchers were stationed at intervals to
see that no inquisitive stranger should scale
the barrier. Excitement among the speculators
grew intense. It was immediately inferred
that silver, or perhaps even gold, had
been found, else wh}^ this jealousy ? and the
crowds who came from town to scour the
adjacent lands were so great that the Pere
Podevin had to use his stable and poultry
house as sleeping quarters, and sold ]permission
to two gentlemen to sleep on the floor
under his billiard table on the same terms ashe
had been wont to charge for an entire
chamber.

There was constant hurry in the offices in
the Eue des Borgnes, by gaslight as well as

by day. The jaded clerks seemed always at
work, save when they crept home at night to
sum up the endless IiL'^iire columns over again
in their sleep, and hurry back to business
next morning. The president seemed as hardly
driven as his servants. The street — where
hitherto he had been a ]prominent figure,
notebook in hand, making ]bargains, picking
up information, and distributing it in passing,
because it could be done so much more quickly
than on 'Change, where some contrive to
make a little business go so far in the way of
talk and time-killing — the street knew him no
more, and he was beset by people all day long,
in his office, on every imaginable errand.

Hitherto he had been so cool, and so quick,
and so strong — a very steam engine for doinij^
business — so confident and so clear, perceiving
all the bearings of a question at once — deciding
on his course and completing an agreement
in a few incisive sentences, while another man
would still be figuring up with pencil and
paper the preliminary calculations. Now
there where shirts of fatiij^ue in the robust
figure, a stoop of the shoulders, a Irish about
the temples. His temper, too — in tinu> ]past
he had had no temper, or at least it had been
impossible to nillle it, except where anger
was made to serve a business end — his temper

had grown irritable, as the luckless clerks too
frequently found out, and he suffered from
sensations of faintness which led to his withdrawing
momentarily into his dressing-room,
where there now stood a decanter of sherry,
a thing which theretofore he would have
scorned to permit on his premises. His habit
till then had been to drink a couple of glasses
of sherry at the club by way of luncheon, but
the idea of keeping a " pick-me-up " at his
elbow, to be referred to at uncertain intervals,
had never occurred to him, because, till then,
he had found his own streno-th sufficient for
the day's work.

That may have been because things
had gone well always, and there is no tonic
in the pharmacopoeia like a habit of succeeding
; but now there were so many
tidings, mines of copper, plumbago, phosphate,
a railway, a suburb, and a bank, besides —
besides everything else ; for Ealph's greed
grew with his success, the more lie secured
the more he still desired, and he could not
see an opportunity go by without wishing to
have a flinix at it. A few months before, when
money was flowing in for copper shares, there
had seemed to be an opportunity in railways
on New York market, and Ealph went in. It
fretted him to see money lie idle when Avork

could be found for it. lie went in, but the
unforeseen lead happened, as it always will
some time, and lie found he could not come
out aL,rain without loss, such as was not to bethought
of, and therefore he must go in deeper
still.

His own railway, too, the St. Lawrence,
Gattineau, and Hudson's Bays had been suffering
a check in the shape of a swamp it had to
cross, in which it went on burying itself as
fast as it could be built above the morass. A
contractor had already failed. No other would
undertake the work. The company was compelled
to do it itself, under pain of being cut
in two, with sections built to the south and
north, and this gap in the middle, which made
both ends useless. Ealph was largely interested
in the road, which indeed he had both
]projected and promoted, to connect his plumbago
mines and his ]phosphate lands with
*' the front," ?.6^, with civilization and a market.

The plumbago mines were at work, gangs of
men diiririnii; into the <i^round and drairi-dn^
out riches which were barrelled up to await
transport ; but, until that swamp could be
bridged over, of no more present value to the
owners than so many tons of gravel. The
workmen could not eat it, and would not
accept it in payment of their wages; and to

haul it to market over distances of corduroy
road was to end by disposing of it for something
less than it had cost to bring it there.

The public were aware of the trouble, and
the shares would not sell. The bank, of
course, could be brought to the rescue up to
a certain point, but that, he began to realize,
was nearly reached. There were signs of
failing confidence at the board meetings,
whisperings, and averted glances betokening
incipient opposition, though mistrustful as
yet of strength to declare itself, which in time
past, when he could defy it, he would easily
have browbeaten into submission ; but now
he dared not attempt to browbeat, the consequences
of unsuccess would have been too
serious. He tried to conciliate and persuade,
where he had been wont to command, and
when the master tries to conciliate the pupil,
it is a sign the whip has gone from him, and
the subject divines that he has a master no
longer than he cares to accept one.

Again, the success of St. Polite Suburb
was hani^ino^ fire. The suburb had been a
tract of waste ground some years before, when
Ealph picked it up on easy terms, as being
unfit for agriculture and useless for anything
else, and his scheme was to build on it a new
and improved quarter of the town. He had
VOL. II. 29

sunk <:rreat sums in draining', levelling, and
filling up. He had laid out a park, with a
fountain, overlooked by semi-detached villas,
and approached by residence streets of a
superior kind. A few houses had become
tenanted the year before, and a great sale of
houses in June of the current year had been
written up in a series of ingenious paragraphs
in the local newspapers ; when, on the
arrival of warm weather, a visitation of ague
and typhoid fever fell upon the pioneer settlers
in the district, and frightened the public out
of all the interest which it had cost so much
money and pains to instil into its mind. The
sale came off as advertised, but the half-dozen
dwellings first offered — "replete with
every modern improvement and convenience "
fetching barely enough to pay the advances
of the Proletarian Loan and Mortgage Company,
the rest were withdrawn for the
present.

In a house of cards, though one card maybe
in doubtful equilibrium, if those other
cards it leans against are moderately steady,
it may stand. Nay, it may even contribute a
measure of support to its supporters ; but if
all are shake at the same time, it is a task of
infinite dexterity to balance the several weaknesses
each upon each. Even then the

balance is but temporary; a flutter in the surrounding
air will disturb the equipoise, and,
when that befalls, the structure holding
together only by weaknesses Which balance
each other will tumble to the ground a heap
of ruin. And this was the fate Ealph saw
impending. He was in so many ventures,
and up to his full strength in each. If only
one of them had weakened he could have
propped it with the others in such wise as he
had done before, but when everything grew
shake at the same time, it seemed as if the
pillars of the universe itself were giving way ;
and worse, he felt the giving way within himself,
a nodding to that frightful fall which was
approaching, a yielding such as he had never
known before. Hitherto each difficulty had
called out latent strength to overcome it, but
now there seemed a torpor in himself which
would not be thrown off. His mind would,
not, as hitherto, answer to his call with new-expedients
to circumvent each new check ;•
he felt benumbed, and sought to that decanter
his dressing-room for the strength, ingenuity,
and courage he had theretofore found
within himself.

It was a morning in the beginning of July —
Ealph had remained in town overnight, not
so much for the sake of doing anything as

29—2

merely to be beside this business. In time past,
Alien his affairs flourished, he had rather
prided himself on the determination with
Which he could dismiss " shop " from his mind
at live minutes past four, when he walked out
of his office, and his promptitude in resuming
it, exactly where he had left off, at a quarter
before ten next mornings. But now, when it
would have been a relief to his jaded mind
to lay cares by for a time, they clung to him
all the while, disturbing sleep, even, with
confused and harassing visions. To be away
from business ao-cxravated his anxiety — filled

CO ./

him with doubts as to what mihi occur
in his absence, and he found his mind easier
in the office than anywhere else. Even so the
mother of a sick child will sit by the bed for
hours, though the child be in sleep the most
undisturbed, and she can do nothing' more.
There is assurance in being present, if she
were away she would imagine things were
happening, and be miserable.

After the hot nii]fht in town, with its refreshing
sleep, and the untasted breakfast
wliicli followed, lialpli sat in his office listless
and limp, with nothing to brace him but that
hateful sherry in the dressing-room. It was
ten o'clock. The train from St. Euphrase must
have arrived, ]put this son had not yet appeared,

when Jordan hurried in, closing the door
behind him, and fastening it.

You were not on the train this morning,
Herkimer. Were you trying to give a
man the sip ? — and unload before any one else
knew ? "

Unload ? Slip ? I remained in town last
night. What do you mean ? Is anything
wrong?"

Podevin tells me he heard some of the
men, who were drinking in his bar, talking.
They were telling each other that our
lode was no true vein, that every bit of metal
would be out in three months' time, and they
would all be thrown idle. They were the
only people in the place at the time ; Podevin
took them in hand, and made them promise
to hold their tongues ; but it's all coming out.
can only be a question of a day or two. He
came to me in a d — 1 of a funk — says he
will be ruined, as everything he has is in it.
To tell you the truth, T shall be hard hit
myself — have never sold a share, and I have
been bu3dng. I do think you might have
given me a hint."

My dear sir, I am a heavier holder than
you and Podevin both put together. The
price has been going up so steadily I did not
care to sell ; it might have injured the property

for the rest of you ; and this is the first
I have heard of a threatening collapse. We
must sell at once, that is all'

Too late, I fear, though I am now on my
Avay to my broker. You will be selling, too ?
Wish I had known enough to hold my
tongue till after I had unloaded," he added
with a nervous pretence of hilarity. " Well !
I'm oIlV'

'' Don't be a fool, Jordan. Of course I
don't blame you for wishing to save yourself,
I do the same ; but ]perhaps it is just as well
you came in and told me first. I mean those
shares to go higher yet before I sell. I have
all along known there was a possibility of
^vhat you tell me coming to pass, though I
had hoped to get shut of the thing before it
took place, and I would have preferred to
slip out cpiietly. There will be a row, now,
perhaps ; but what of that ? If it must be,
we can weather it, so long as we save our
money. It was to provide against such a
contingency that I had that fence built round
the operations, to keep prying fools on the
outside; and you know how well that has
answered. I see by the Journal they have
been finding indications of silver; if we inclose
another hundred acres it will be taken to
indicate gold and diamonds. Jut no, that

would be too slow, and some one would blab
in the meantime. I must telegraph the superintendent
to work over-time, and contrive
that the men do not go into the villas. I
shall telegraph to the directors, too, and hold
a board meeting. It is handy having men so
easily within call, and yet so innocent of
business. You had better be present as
solicitor, and convince yourself that we are
not stealing a march. And then "

You wish me, then, not to offer my stock
to-day ? " said Jordan dubiously. The saw
tells us there is honour among thieves, and
perhaps there sometimes is, but there is
seldom confidence among the over-sharp.

As to that," cried Ealph scornfully, " you
can please yourself Go to your brokers, by
all means, if you think well. Or, if you would
like to save brokerage, you can just speak to
Stinson as you go out. Tell him what you
want to sell, and I shall buy at yesterday's
quotation ; " and he lay back in his chair with
a cheerful smile, and twiddled his gold chain
exactly like the prosperous millionaire this
neighbours thought him.

Jordan looked and hesitated, and bit his
nails, and then his brow cleared, and he drew
a long sigh of supreme relief. " Well ! " he
said, smiling effusively, " you know more

about it than I do. I'll trust your advice,
and hold on till tomorrow."

I gave you no advice whatever, sir.
Please to remember that ; " and he sat up in
his chair with a sai,^<^estion of dio-nified offence
on his features which made Jordan feel contrite
and ashamed, and thoroughly satisfied
that he had better not disturb his shares for
the next twenty-four hours at any rate.
You can tell Stinson about your shares if
you have a mind to ; but whatever you do, I
must beg that you will not only not circulate,
but that you will put down any foolish report
such as that you have just mentioned."

You may depend on me for that old
fellow," cried Jordan, nodding adieu, and
walking out Avitli a sense of disbursement
from the cares he had been carrying, which
made his middle-aged gait positively elastic.

Ealph rose, and watched through a convenient
chink his retrcatiuor furore ofT the
premises, and then he drew a breath, and
stretched himself with a sardonic twitch of
the eyebrows. " There's nothing like bluff
after all ! Yet where should I have been if
he had concluded to take my offer ? A line
rumpus those white-livered directors next
door would have raised over the cheque.
However, tJntCs weathered. Xuw for the

mines," and he sat down and wrote his telegrams.
He felt better and stronger than he
had done for weeks. There was something
to do now, action, work, combat with
circumstances. He was a man once more
with a fund of strength within, which needed
only to be drawn on to come forth. The
sherry decanter diffused its topaz radiance in
vain all that day, for never once came Ealph
within sight of the seductive lustre. He had
something to do and think of, and in doing
he found the best tonic for his system. It is
waiting and looking forward to uncertain evil,
distant as yet, and impossible to be struggled
with, which racks the nerves to pieces with
its strain, and drives the victim to artificial
supports, which they from whose coarser construction
a nervous System seems to have been
omitted, and who cannot comprehend such
needs, brand as intemperance and dissipation.

A BOARD MEETING.

It was not yet eight o'clock on a summer
morning at the little railway station of St.
Euphrase. The sweetness from the dew on
the ripening hay fields still hung on the drowsy
breezes which came lac'e^ino'ly athwart the
dusty platform, growing fainter each moment
in the waxing heat.

Farmer Belmore was the earliest intending
passenger to appear on the platform. The
ticket office was not yet open, and he flopped
about impatiently in his clean linen coat,
mopping this brow with a vast handkerchief
drawn from the crown of his broad-leafed
Panama hat. Isis grand-daughter had arranged
a poppy and a branch of southern-wood
in his button-hole by way of embellishment,
his cravat was of the fiercest l)lue, fastened
with a gold horse-shoe of the largest size,
lie felt himself, as director in a great company,
to be a man of mark, appropriately and

becomingly arrayed on the present occasion,
and it disappointed him that none of the
general public should be there to see him.

Joe Webb appeared ere long ; compact,
well knit, athletic ; an example of the very
satisfactory result to be looked for by-and-by,
Avhen the Teutonic and Gallic stocks shall
have joined and blended to form the specialized
type of a new nationality ; swarthy and
black-eyed, with the nose short, but prominent
and aquiline, marking affinity to the liigh-
spirited and vivacious French, while the level
eyebrows and forward balancing of the head
showed equal kinship with the reflective
Saxon.

Ha ! " cried both men simultaneously.
For town ? Board meeting ? " Simultaneously,
too, they answered, as if there could be any
doubt. " Yes. Thought I might as well go
this morning as another, and be present at the
meetings And draw mv five dollars," added
Belmore. "This special meeting will be just
so much pure gain, if we do not do too much
business, as I hope we shall not, and make the
next regular meeting unnecessary. But to be
sure the monthly meetings are obliged to beheld,
according to the bye-laws, or the charter,
or something — so Mr. Stinson tells me — therefore,
this is quite an ex try five dollars to the

good, and better than a poke in the eye with
a burnt stick. You think so, too, squire, I
guess."

The distant Whistle of the approaching
train was now heard, and the opening of the
ticket office with a bang. There were only
three or four other intending passengers, and
all had soon bought their tickets, and stood
awaiting the train.

What can have come to old Podevin ? "
said Webb. " If he waits for the train at
9.30 he may miss the meetings altogether, and
his fee. He will have been watching to see the
president go by before starting himself for the
station, and the president stayed in Montreal
last night. I happen to know that. Podevin
will miss his train*'

"So much the better for us. There will bethe
more for you and me. I'd love to finger
a dollar that should have been comines to
Podevin modern fifty of my own. He's that
near, it's like drawings teeth to cet a sou out
of him. He hasn't paid me yet for the cord-wood
that kept him warm last winter, and
now he wants me to take out the price in
white Yankee beans. ' No, sir,' says I ; but
I let him show me the truck, and, squire, if
you'll believe me, the weevils were that thick,
you could see them (luarrclliuLi; together who

was to get the next sound bean, and they were
that big you could see them looking out of
their holes at the buyer, and warning him like,
against the trade."

The brother directors, however, were mistaken
in supposing Podevin was minded to
forest or endanger the emoluments of his
directorship. He was in waiting, though they
did not see him, behind a convenient cattle-car
on the siding, anxious only to avoid speech
with them till all were in presence of the
president, that his own misgivings might be
resolved without prejudice ; for he dreaded
that his confreres might elicit something from
him before he had learned the right way to
view or state it himself, and so his undigested
words might get abroad and do him harm.
Wherefore he waited till he saw the couple
step on the train, and then clambered quietly
into the carriage behind, avoiding the platform
and the ticket office, and paying his fare to
the conductor on the train, who charged him
ten cents extra, wringing his heart with the
thought that two per cent of his director's
fee was thereby lost to himself and his heirs
for ever.

The board of directors of the Mining
Association of St. Euphrase assembled at
the appointed place and time. The president

was in the chair, and Jordan, the company's
solicitor, sat by his side. Podevin sat beside
Stinson, whispering anxiously, and striving to
draw support and encouragement from the
involuntary exclamations of the man he was
alarming with his tales and forebodings, while
Belmore and Webb awaited the opening of the
proceedings in the placid tranquillity of perfect
ignorance. Nothing disturbing had as yet
come into their knowledge, or even their
dreams, and they sat by the leather-covered
table contemplating the minute book and the
inkstand, and wondering how lon<]^ it would
be before they should sign their names, draw
their fee, and take their departure.

The president tapped the table with his
ruler. Stinson read the minutes of the
previous meeting, and the board was in session
and ready to proceed to business. The president
stated that he had been made the recipient
of singular information affecting the value and
prospects of their property only the day
before, and he had lost no time in calling
them tocfcther, that the matter might be inch

~ ' . .

quire into. " And our worthy solicitor, Mr.
Jordan, will now kindly repeat to the board
the statements he has already made to me in
private."

I know nothing, gentlemen," said Jordan,

"but what was mentioned to me by one of
your own number, here present. He is now,
I doubt not, ready to repeat his statements at
length for your united consideration. I
allude to ray respected friend, Mr. Podevin."

The Pere Podevin coughed behind his hand,
looking disgust from under his eyelids for a
solicitor who could thus betray a confidential
conversation. " Was the man a fool or a
rogue ? " he asked himself. If he had not
actually paid him a fee on addressing him,
had he not given information worth thousands,
if properly used ? — given it freely for the
sake of consulting him — and Jordan had
promised advice in the morning — the morning
now come — and here, instead of a friendly
hint how he might save himself, the treacherous
adviser, having already had twenty-four
hours' exclusive use of the news, was callings
him to divulge everything before the whole
board, giving an equal start to the others with
himself in the race to save something, or
rather letting himself be ruined with the
rest. However, all eyes were on him now,
and there was no escape.

It was on yesterday," he said, " sat I
hear of ze men to say, ver decrement to ze
ozers, as they have dig out all ze cuivre of ze
mine. I £five rose men to drink in retirement

from ze rest, and I ask, and sey confirm sat
of ze cuivre is no more, ^[on Dieu ! Misterrere
Ilerkimair — to think of ze moneys to nourish
my vieilles.se, and ze dots of my daughters
innocentes ! All sunk in ze mines "

Well ? " asked Ealpli a little testily ; " and
pi'ay who did it ? Who sunk your money ?
You are of lawful age, Mr. Podevin, and
believed to Ije of sound mind. You are
privileged to act for yourself, and you must
bear the consequences of your own acts. If
your shares had risen to double the price you
paid for them, you would have taken t'Jie
profit as the reward of your own smartness ;
if it turns out the other way, wdiy should you
come crumbling' to me ? / did not make you
risk your money or throw it away."

You say, Misterrere Ilerkimair, sere were
fortunes in ze rocks of La Ilache swamp, and
I believe ze riche Misterrere Herkimair, and I
give ze little bourse made up sou by sou in
all zee year vit so much of care "

"Yes, and thought to make your fortune,
Mr. Podevin ? and now you think you are
going to lose it — the chance every man is
liable to who speculates or plays poker. You
throw a sprat expecting to catch a herring,
and at times the herrings* is not caught, and the
sprat is thrown away. You must accept the

chances of the game, or else you should not
play. Look at me ! Think of the thousands
I stand to lose if our enterprise miscarries !
What are your few hundreds compared to
that ? Yet I make no lament."

Monsieur sees so riche and disfiiigne ! He
will not see a poor man lose ze springs of
his life," and he bowed cringing to the
chair.

Farmer Belmore vied with him in a ij^aze
of pathetic sweetness and tremulous hungry
adoration before the great man who had
brought his savings into jeopardy and who
yet, if any one could, could bring them safely
out. The disclosure made by Podevin had
been as unexpected by him as it was sudden.
He had fancied himself growing rich, and now
to be told that he was stripped of his savings !
He would have been furious had he dared —
talked of fraud, trickery, and the law ; but
when he saw Podevin prostrate himself inspirit
before the chair, and cry for succour
from the hand which had inaugurated the ill,
he controlled himself and lay back in his
chair, constraining his lips into sugar-coated
smiles which the doubtful and hungry
gleaning of his eyes deprived of an)^ seductiveness
they might otherwise have carried.

This is simply, gentlemen," said the
VOL. II. 30

president, coughing and raising this voice,
one of those circumstances to which every
enterprise — especially every enterprise dealing
with minerals — is liable. As business men
you calculated the risks and counted the cost
before you embarked your money. The likelihood
of profit appeared sufficient to us all
to warrant our running the risk."

Monsieur did not mention risks even he so
kindly undertook to improve my fortunes. I
confide \\\y case to ze generous souvenirs of
monsieur. He will not permit to suffer ze man
who place confiance and dollars in his records


Ealpli snorted. " Let us talk business,
gentlemen," he cried. " We are not here to
scold like old women, or to lament like
children. You are men of understanding,
who would not have dropped your money
but Avhere you saw good promise of a Large
return. Whether you gain or lose, therefore,
you have only yourselves to thank. You
know as well as I do that where money is to
be made it is also to be lost. If it Avere not
so, all the world Avould crowd in to make its
fortune every time, and there would be
nothing for anybody. Therefore, I object
to expressions such as have fallen from my
friend, Podevin. lie regrets them already

himself, I am sure, now I mention it, and he
brings his clear good sense to bear on the
point. Gentlemen I we went in to win. Of
course we did ! It goes without saying. But,
if we have to lose, let us behave like men of
business and common sense; let us not cry
over spilt milk, but let us make the best of it.
And first, let us look the matter in the face.
What is it that has happened to us ? "

Ze cuivre is not sere ! " cried Podevin,
eager to rally his self-respect and preen the
rumpled plumage on which Ealpli had sat
down 60 unceremoniously. If his plea for
help and relief must be set aside, at least a
partial satisfaction might be taken out in
scolding, and there seemed an opening here.

To put it shortly, gentlemen," said Ealph
with a shrug, " that would appear to be
about the state of the case just at this
moment ; but I would recommend you not to
say it that way out of doors, unless you want
to write off every cent you have invested in
the undertaking as dead loss. That would
not be all either, gentlemen. You, the
directors, conjointly and severally, would be
liable to suit by each individual stockholder
for misrepresenting the value of the property.
Is that not so, Jordan ? "

Clearly, they might claim to have their

subscribed stock made food. Whether tliev
would secure a verdict, would depend a good
deal, of course, on the management of the
case on both sides. 13ut that is not all. It
is possible that a criminal information might
be laid for obtaining money under false pretences,
and when commercial miscarriages
are fresh in the public mind, there is a proneness
in juries to find against the defendants.
It is really a serious consideration — a penitentiary
offence."

JIo?i JJieii ! " gasped Podevin with folded
hands, gazing at the ceiling with eyes whose
watery sorrow threatened momentarily to
overflow. Belmore pulled the posy from his
button-lisle and flung it on the ground, its
festive hue and fragrance irritated this senses
in the gloom which had fallen on him. If
he could but have cast his speculation from
him as easily, or hurled the man before him,
who had led him into it, to the ground in like
fashion, how good it would have been !

*' lout, gentlemen," cried Ealph, ]pleased at
tjjc impression which his words had made,
things have not come to that pass yet, nor
will they, if I can help) it. There is always
life for a living man ; that is, if he is willing
and ample to use it sensibly for his own preservation.
What is this which has fallen on

US after all ? It may prove to be nothing buta
fault in the lode. Such things occur frequently,
and the recovered vein, when it is
found again deeper down, is generally richer
than it was before. It is true that what we
have been working on may prove to be mere
pockets of the metal, unconnected with other
deposits, but we cannot say for certain until
we have carefully examined, and that will
require time. Meanwhile, idle tales may get
abroad, which would shake public confidence,
injure and discredit the property, and destroy
the value of the stock. We must forestall
mischievous rumours, gentlemen, and I now
propose — Stinson! enter on the minutes,
proposed and carried nem. con. that this
board now declare a dividend of one dollar
per share.' "

That will be five per cent on the paid-up
capital ? " said Joe Webb. " All the earnings,
so far, have gone in working expenses. It
seems a big dividend to declare out of
nothing."

— sh ! " muttered Belmore, pulling his
sleeve. " — sh, man ! It will be so much
saved out of all that has gone to the dogs."

But, Mr. President," Webb continued,
'' where is the money to come from to pay the
dividend ? "

VOL. II. 30 — 2

Never fear for that, squire. Declare your
dividend, and up go your shares. We Have
still stock which has not been issued yet. We
can sell it then at the advanced price, and
shall be in plenty of funds to pay anything."

'but is that right? Mr. Herkimer. Is it
honest?"

"Eight? Honest? Sir! What do you
mean ? Your words refpiirc explanation,"
and Ealpli pushed out his chest, making the
diamond studs flash scornful fire on the
farmer's inexpensive raiment, while his brow
gloomed and his cheeks grew purple like an
angry gobble.

Mr. Webb is more familiar with the procedure
at quarter sessions, and the operations
of agriculture, I suspect, than with the practice
of the financial world," observed Jordan
soothingly. He loved to lift his placid head,
like Neptune, above the troubled waves, and
still a rising storm. He used his smoothest,
oil-pouring tones, enjoying them himself, and
calming those who heard him. " I feel confident
he had no intention of reflecting on our
worthy president, who, on my thus explaining
with Mr. Webb's manifest concurrence — will
refrain from viewing as unfriendly any unadvised
expression he may have used. And,
my dear Mr. Webb, you will permit me to

say that the impulse which unadvisedly
prompted still does you infinite honour. It
would be well for our commercial community
if the noble sentiments which flourish in the
rural districts were to obtain in the busy
marts of trade. In the present instance,
however, my young friend will perhaps permit
me to say that his scruples appear to be
well, to be just, a little over-strained. As
Mr. Webb states the case, it may indeed be
said that there is a seeming impropriety in
the time chosen for declaring this dividend."

It is not the time, it is the dividend I
object to. It has not been earned, and it is to
be paid out of the subscriptions of the new
shareholders."

My good man," cried Ealph, " can you
make a better of it ? You would not throw
up the sponge — stop the workings — before it
has been proved whether it is not merely a
temporary check we are suffering. You do
not want to lose all the money you have put
in, and perhaps be sued by disappointed
shareholders besides, till you are stripped
bare of every cent you have in the world ? "

I do not want to take the money of misled
subscribers, and divide it among ourselves on
pretence of a dividend which we have not
earned."

"That is a question of book-keeping, sir,
allow me to tell you. Certain debit entries
are merely deferred, to be charged later on,
leaving a present surplus. It is easily done.
Besides, you must admit that we — that the
present shareholders — actually have earned
the premiums at which the stock stands, or
may stand hereafter. That is a profit which
the company and the older proprietors have
fairly earned by holding the stock in time
past, before it grew popular, and the price
rose. Trust the management, Mr. Webb.
The rest of us are more deeply interested even
than you are in things going right."

"1 don't like it. It does not seem to bethe
honest thins: to do."

"Mr. Webb, Mr. Webb, you are letting
yourself grow warm again, are you not ? "
said Jordan. " What other method would
you propose ? This one will give time for
examining the property and striking the vein
again, and, if we cannot do that, we shall have
time to sell out and wash our hands of the
whole operation without loss, or even at a
small profit."

But how, as honest men, could we sell
property, knowing it to be worthless, at the
same price as if it were of real value ? "

Caveat emptor, my dear sir, to quote a

legal maxim. The buyers are business men,
well able to take care of themselves, and they
will do it, you may rest assured. They will
satisfy themselves that they are not paying too
dear. Your scruples are honourable, no
doubt, but do you not think they must be
over-strained, seeing they run counter to the
general practice ? I can assure you it is
nothing unusual which has been proposed —
nothing but what has frequently taken place inmost
respectably managed concerns. There
was the Porpoise and Dolphin Oil Company,
Limited, for instance — since gone into liquidation,
but that is neither here nor there — its
management was in the hands of a body of
directors, than whom no gentlemen in the
community stand higher, among others the
Eev. Mr. Dumas, of Little Bethel, in the Eue
des Borgnes — you will have heard him preach,
no doubt — a most evangelical man, and surely
you will not take upon you to find fault With
proceedings such as he has sanctioned by
participating in."

I really could not bring myself to declare
a dividend, that is, as I understand it, to
profess that we have earned money when I
know for a f^ict that we have not earned it at
all."

"Tush, man!" whispered Belmore ; "sit

down. Let's get tliroiigli, sign the minutes,
and draw our pay. I have coal oil to buy,
and nails, and T shall miss my train if you
do not sit down and let us fmisli up."

Proposed," cried Ealph, " that the board
declare a dividend of one dollar per share,
payable on the first of next month. Gentlemen
in favour of the motion will hold up
their hands. Carried ! nem. con''

Gentlemen ! " began Webb, in a faltering
voice, which was overborne and drowned in
the rush and stream of the president's words,
which grew loud and rapid at this point, and
who went on as though unconscious of interruption.
" Ny other business to bring
forward, Stinson ? No ? Then this meeting
stands adjourned to the second monday of next
month. Sii>'n the minutes, gentlemen, and
draw your honorarium."

Webb requested Stinson to record his
dissent from the vote in the minutes, but was
informed that the meeting was closed, and
nothing could be added to its proceedings.
lie then demurred to siirniuQ', but Belmore,
heated up to the point of speaking out in
meeting for once, declared that he must, or
lie should not have this dollars — that himself
and Todevin earned them by signing their
names, and Wel^b must do likewise.

*' The dollars may slide ! " cried Joe, stowing
indignant, and tossing on his hat.

But, Mr. Webb," said Stinson, speaking
most respectfully, " will you sign the minutes
to show that 1 have done my duty, and they
are correct. You have been present, and the
law says so ; " and poor Joe Webb, unable to
bear up against a city man's polite address,
though he would have maintained his point
against all the blustering farmers in his township,
yielded, and placed himself under the
same moral condemnation with the rest, as
sanctioning for stock-jobbing purposes a
fraudulent dividend to be paid out of capital.

END OF VOL. ir.

KEl.I.Y AND Co., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN KIKI.D^^, W.C. ;

AND MIDDLE MII.F,, KINaSTON'-ON-TII Ames,

i2

)i!f'

OF

INCH BRACKEN,*

A NOVEL BY R. Leland.

Westminster Review, October, 1883.

Inchbracken " is a clever sketch of Scottish life and manners at the time
of the "Disruption," or great secession from the Established Church of
Scotland, M'hich resulted in the formation of the Free Church. The scene
of the story is a remote country parish in the north of Scotland, within a
few miles of the highland line. The main interest centres in the young
Free Church minister and his sister and their relations, on the one hand,
with the enthusiastic supporters of the Disruption movement, mostly of the
peasant or small tradesmen class, with a sprinkling of the smaller landowners
; and, on the other hand, with the zealous supporters of the Established
Church, represented by the Drysdales of Inchbracken, the great
family of the neighbourhood. The story is well and simply told, with many
a quiet touch of humour, founded on no inconsiderable knowledge of human
nature.

Academy, 27th October, 1883.

There is a great deal of solid Writing in "Inchbracken," and they who
read it will hardly do so in vain. It is a story of the Disruption ; and it sets
forth, with much pains and not a little spirit, the humours and scandals of
one of the communities affected by the event. The main incident of the
story has nothing to do with the Disruption, it is true ; but its personages
are those of the time, and the uses to which they are put are such as the
Disruption made possible. Frederick Brown, the enthusiastic young Free
Church minister, finds on the sea-shore after wreck and storm, a poor little
human waif which the sea has spared. He takes the baby home, and does
his best for it. One of his parishioners has lost her character, however ; and
as Frederick, at the instigation of his beadle, the real author of her ruin, is
good enough to give her money and help, it soon becomes evident to
Inclibracken that lie is the villain, and that the baby of the wreck is the
fruit of an illicit amour. How it ends I shall not say. 1 shall do no more
than note that the story of the minister's trials and the portraiture — of
elders and gossips, hags and' maids and village notables — with which it is
enriched are (especially if you are not afi-aid of the broadest Scotch, written
with the most uncompromising regard for the national honour) amusing and
natural in no mean degree. W. E. Hknlky.

Inch bracken " will be found amusing by those Medio are familiar with
Scotch country life. The period chosen, the " Disruption time," is an
epoch in the religious and social life of Scotland, marking a revival, in an
extremely modified and not altogether genuine form, of the polemic
Puritanism of the early Presbyterians, and so furnishing a subject which
lends itself better to literary treatment than most sides of Scottish life in
this prosaic century. The author has a good descriptive gift, and makes the
most of the picturesque side of the early Free Church meetings at which
declaimers against Erastian patronage posed in the attitude of the
Covenanters of old. The story opens on a stormy night when Frederick
Brown, the young Free Church minister of Kilrundle, is summoned on a ten-mile
expedition to attend a dying woman, an expedition which involves
him in all the troubles which form the subject of the book. The patient has
nothing on her mind of an urgent character. " No, mem ! na !' " says the
messenger.

My granny's a godly auld wife, tho' maybe she's gye gracious

whiles, an' money's the sir paikin' she's given me ; gin there was

oct to confess she kens the road to the Throne better nor mast. But

ye see there's a maggie gotten until her held an' she says she but to

testis ee afore she gangs hence. ' "

The example of Jenny Geddes has been too much for the poor old woman : —

Ay, an' I'm thinking' it's that auld carline, Jenny Geddes, 'at's

raised a' the fash ! My granny gazed to hear Mester Dowlas when he

preached among the whigs down by the shore, an' oh, but he was

bonny 1 An' a grand screed o' doctrine he gae us. For twa hale

hours he preached an expended an' never drew breath for a' the wind

was skirling', an' the rent whiles skein' like wild. An' I'm thinking'

my granny's gotten her death o' ta'. But oh ! an' he was grand

on Jenny Geddes ! an' hoo she up wi' the creepie am' hewed it a the

Erastian's heid. An' my granny was just fairly ta'en wit a', an' she

wooed she but to be a mither in Israel tae. an' when she gazed hame

she out wi' the auld hugger 'at she keeps the bawbees in, neath the

hearthstone, for to buy a creepie o' her ain,— she thocht a new ane wad

be best for the Lord's work, — an" she coupe the chair whaup hung

her grave class,' at lie airs foment the fire ilia Saturday at e'en, 'an

out there cam a lowe, an' scorched a hole i' the winding' sheet, an' noo,

pair body, we'll hae to hap her in her muckle tartan plaid. An'

violins she'll be a' the warmer e'y moulds for that. But, however,

she says the sheet was weel warred, for the guide cause. An' syne she

took til her bed, wi' a sir host, an' sma' winder, for there was a weet

daub whaup she had been sitting' among the whigs. An' noo the

host's settled on her that sir, she whiles canna draw her breath.

Sae she says she maun let the creepie berlin' slide, but she but to

testified afore some godly minister or she gangs hence. An' I'm fear'd,

sir, ye maun hurry, for she's real far through."

The excuse for this long extract must be its excellence as a specimen of a

long-winded statement, just such as a Scotch fisher boy would make when

once the ice was broken. Not less idiomatic is the interview between Mrs.

Boague, the shepherd's wife, and Mrs. Sangster "of Auchlippie," the great

lady of the congregation, when the latter has had her painful experience of

mountain climbing, till rescued by the "lug and the horn" at the hands

of her spiritual pastor. Otlier good scenes are the meeting of the two old

wives in matches an the brae side, and the final discomfiture of the

hypocritical scamp Joseph Smiley by his mother-in-law, Tibbie Tirpie, who

rights her daughter's wrongs and the minister's reputation by a capital

coup de muiiu Of more serious interest, though full of humour, are the

trials the excellent Frederick endures at the hands of his kirk session,

Ebenezer Prittie and Peter Malloch are types of many an elder minister and

ministers' wives have had to groan under, and the race is not extinct.

But all who are interested in such specimens of human nature should refer to

Mr.Cleland, who knows his countrymen as well as he can describe this country.

Crown Svo, clutch, 3.V. 6d. each.

By Florence Marryat.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.
PHYLUDA.

the root of all evil,
facing the footlights.

By Annie Thomas,
atherton towers,
friends and lovers.

EYRE OF London.

By Mrs. Eiloart.
the dean's wife,
some of our girls.

By Lady Constance Howard.
sweetheart and wife.

MOLLIE DARLING.

By the Author of "Recommended to
Mercy."

BARBARA'S WARNING.

By Mrs. Alexander Fraser.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

By Harriettt Jay.

TWO MEN AND A MAID.

BY

R. CLE LA N D,

AUTHOR OF "INCHBRACKEN."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Ill

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE AND CO.,
31, Southampton STREET, Strand, W.C.
J885,

Kelly AND 00., GATE Street, LINCOLN'S Inn FIELDS;

An't MIDDLE MILL KINGST(JN-0.N-thames,

CONTENT?

CHAP. PAGE

I. — Banks axd Brays . , . . . i

II. — A Confidante . io

III. — Friends in Council . . . . .26

IV. — moonlight and Shadow . 39

V. — MuROEK . . . . .-50

VI. — Nemesis 55

VII. — Rescue . . . . 72

VIII. — It was am. Webb's Fault . . 83

IX. — Joe Proposes. . 104

X.— At Gorham . . . . .120

XI. — Planting Hyacinths . . . . '25

XII. — Randolph's Buckling 136

XIII. At Caugiinawaga . . • '54

XIV.— Tn^RESE's Revenge . . . .167

XV.--the Selby 178

XVI. — Betsey as Good Fairy . . . • 185

Evil— At Last i93

XVIII.— The Broker Broke 204

^*^

CHAPTER I.

BANKS AND BRAYS.

Ealph's satisfaction at carrying through his
manoeuvre with the mining company's directors
amounted almost to elation. The unexpected
appearance of opposition in that docile body
had startled him at first, but he had been able
to ride it down in so summary and high-handed
a fashion that he doubted not but the
spirit was quenched for ever, and congratulated
himself on its having appeared at a
moment when it could so easily and utterly
be crushed and abolished. A meetings of the
bank directors next door was now due.
Glancing at his watch, he found that he was
already fifteen minutes late, caught up his

VOL. III. 31

portfolio of bank papers in haste, and passed byway
of the dressing-room into the bank, confident
as an Alexander mounting his warhorse,
and riding forth to new victories.

A breath of chill air blew in his face as he
entered the board-room and met reserved and
distant glances on every side. They had not
waited for his coming, and were already deep
in business. His own arm-chair, he observed
the arm-chair of pre-eminence at the end of
the table, heretofore sacred to his own use,
was occupied by M. Petitot, the pork packer,
vice-president of the bank, who, however, had
the grace to rise apologetically, and make
way, observing that they had feared Mr.
Herkimer did not intend to be present, when
Mr. Jowler, the bark dealer, sprang to his feet,
and moved that the vice-president retain the
chair for the present, M. Petipomme seconding
the motion.

Ealph bit his lip, and something like a scowl
passed momentarily across his face at the
overt act of mutiny, which not so long before
he would have quelled with a crack of the
whip, and brought the unruly curs to heel
with drooping neck and tail. But the moment
was not opportune for the exercise of authority;
his brow grew clear again, if somewhat pale,
his features calm, if a trifle set, and expressionless,

and he sat down in a vacant chair at the
lower end of the table.

The business, however, appeared to have
come to a stop ; no one spoke, and each looked
at his neighbour, while the vice-president
moved restlessly in his chair, and twiddled
his watch chain with uneasy fingers. He
coughed, cleared his voice, lifted his eye-glass
to this e3"es, and let it drop, but still he said
nothing, while Ealph looked inquiringly round
the board. Several ledgers had been brought
in from the bank and lay upon the table,
every one open at the page headed, " Ealph
Herkimer & Son ; " and while he waited, a
clerk entered with yet another, containing some
further variety of information which he laid
before the chairman, opening it and officiously
pointing out the desired record, then looking
up as he turned to withdraw, his eyes lighted
on the president himself, when a guilty flush
and a deprecatory glance betrayed that the information
he had been presenting bore upon
the same point as the rest.

You appear, gentleman, to be looking into
the working of my account," said Ealph, after
a further period of silence ; " Pray go on,
don't mind me ! You will find it is a profitable
account, perhaps the most profitable
in your books. Satisfy yourselves by all

31—2

means. It is your right. But permit me to
say that the time and the manner are not well
chosen. There is something not altogether
friendly, nor quite above-board, in this way of
gratifying your curiosity. Is it honourable,
gentleman, or manly, to watch till you get a
man's back turned before proceeding to overhaul
his account? '"'

Strong language, Mr. Herkimer," said
several voices at once.

Most unwarrantable," muttered Jowler.

"It is true, gentlemen, and not a bit
stronger than the facts warrant."

"Indeed, Mr. President," said Petitot blandly
• — he was noted for a courteous benignity
which never failed, so long at least as there
remained a chance of the other side's ability
to make him regret being otherwise. After
that — well, after those others became too weak
for it to matter, the world took little heed how
he behaved, and he acted accordingly, as
pleased him best — brutally, the sufferers called
it. " Indeed, Mr. President, you take up the
matter too seriously. The accident of your
absence when the question arose was a mere
coincidence. We are all, I assure you, well
aware of the value of your account."

Should think so," muttered Jowler, pleased
to find how quickly they were drifting to the

pith of the grievance. " It amounts to half or
two-thirds of the bank's capital already,
and it promises to swallow up the whole before
loner."

Which would not suit you, Jowler,"
retorted Ealph, sneering assiduously to conceal
his wrath, and perhaps his dismay. " But it
might be well for the country and for the
bank itself, that it should not have any funds
to dissipate in the bark business. I say ' dissipate'
designedly, gentlemen. I know of four
cargoes of cutch and gambler now on the way
for this port, with more to follow. Bark
prices must collapse, and the less we have todo
with the article at present, the better for
us. It is well for the country, I consider, that
discouragement should arise to stop the reckless
destruction of our hemlock forests. If
Jowler and his like are allowed their way, we
shall not have a hemlock left standing in ten
years' time."

And how much better off is the bank with
its tons of plumbago, which cannot be brought
to market ? " retorted Jowler angrily. " The
plumbago paper has been renewed three times
already, and the amount increased without the
sanction of the board."

Are we not drifting into a wrangle, gentlemen,
and wasting time to no good purpose ? "

said Mr. Seebriglit, of the Jovial. " The
bank settlements are going against us week
after week, and the specie reserve is running
down. What are we to do ? That is the
question."

Circulation going down every day," added
Petipomme, with an air of wisdom.

And pray, gentlemen, did you ever know
it otherwise at this season ? " cried Ealph,
eager to score any point an injudicious speaker
might put in his way. " Look into the government
returns for last year, look into them for
any year, and you will find the circulation of
the country reaches its lowest points in August
and February. It has several weeks to go on
diminishing yet, but it is larger than it was this
time last year. Wait till September, and you
will see it go up and increase steadily till it
reaches its highest point in November. The
thing is as regular as the seasons, and no resolution
this board can pass will alter it."

All very true, President," said Seebright ;
but this drain of the reserve must be stopped
somehow. How do you propose to do it ?
We must contract — realize. Where shall we
begin to prune ? "

Ealph was silent. He wanted to borrow
more, and with the particulars of the account
actually on the table, it seemed best not to

excite ill-will by proposing to impose a reduction
on anj^ one else. Jowler had taken up a
share list to cover his chagrin under Ealph's
attack ; he now laid it down with a loud
Hill ! St. Euphrase mining shares down four
per cent since yesterday ! What's up, President
? Things going badly ? "

I walked down street with old Mr. Premium
this morning," said Petipomme — ■
parted from him not half-an-hour ago. He
says there's something up, he could not make
out what, but some villager had been to him,
eager to sell out at once, and at any price.
The man was very close and would say nothing,
but he was so eager that Premium grew
panic and was going to unload."

The bank has made you an advance.
President, on some of that stock," cried
Jowler. " Four per cent off the security atone
drop ! I call on you to put up a fresh
margin."

I scarcely think you will consider that
necessary, gentlemen, when I tell you that, at
the meeting held this morning, the directors
have agreed to declare a dividend of five percent.
It will be in all the papers tomorrow.
You will find the announcement on your table,
Mr. Seebright, when you get back to your office,
and an advertisement for tomorrow's issue."

Five per cent ? " said Petitot, congratulating
himself on not having joined in the late
attempted onslaught. " Is not that unexpected
? I have heard no word of it."

It was only decided this morning, and we
agreed to declare it at once, so that bond fide
shareholders should reap the advantage
rather than mere speculators."

And it is not known yet ? " asked Petitot
eagerly. " But it loll be, in an hour's time,"
he added, answering himself. " Gentlemen ! I
think there is no other business before the
board. I declare the meeting adjourned to
this day next week ; " and, seizing his hat, Mr.
Petitot was gone, and half-way across the
street to his broker's before any of his
brethren could have interposed a word, which,
however, none of them seemed wishful to do.
Such a rush for hats and general stampede
had never been seen before ; the assistant
cashier, who wrote the minutes, found the room
deserted, when he laid down his pen, by all
but the president, and the roll of bills, which
should have been shared among the several
gentlemen, still before him — an unprecedented
circumstance.

What is to be done with this, Mr. Her-aimer?"


You and I had better share it between

US, Briggs," lie chuckled. "What would
they say if we did ? They have all skipped
off to buy St. Euphrase mining shares, and
they will make so much money they will never
miss this — that is, not before the shares are
bought. Afterwards, when they have completed
their operation, they will recollect, and
come asking for it. Put it in your desk for
the present, it will not be long till they relieve
you of the charge."

A CONFIDANTE.

The day came for the Misses Stanley's return
to the country. Muriel's classes were over,
and the streets grown hot and dusty past endurance.
Life was a burden under the all-pervading
glare shot from the vault overhead,
and the two miles breadth of glassy river, the
acres on acres of shining tin-roofs, and the
heated face of limestone pavements. The
breeze felt withering like breath from a
furnace, hotter even than the air at rest, and
cool was attainable only by ingenious contrivance,
and in twilight darkness.

Ah ! " said Considine ; he had been lingering
in town till now, and had suddenly
found out that it was time to take his yearly
villagiatura at St. Euphrase, his plans coinciding
with those of his friends so closely, that
dien the ladies reached the railway station he
was already on the platform to assist them
about tickets and baggage as well as to join
them in the parlour car ; which Miss Penelope

considered quite remarkable, but most fortunate
and " very nice." "Ah!" said Considine,
raising a window as the train rolled into
the country, " what a different air to breathe !
It smells and feels of the country already."

"Yes," said Miss Matilda, "I feel myself
absorbing new vitality from the verdure as we
pass along. Do the woods not look seductive
after the baking and withering we have
suffered of late ? One grudges even the delay
of railway speed. What will it not be this
afternoon to sit among the trees, with coolness
rustling softly through the foliage — just to
sit and feel one's self alive — with every breath
a new deliciousness, and the sense of rest
and freshness making one happy and new
down to the finger-tips. You will find it
delightful at Podevin's to-day, so close by the
river. I can imagine you will get into a boat
immediately, and go out in the stream and
drift, and smoke your cigar, I dare say ; you
gentlemen seem always doing that, though it
must spoil the flavour of a day so exquisite as
this, it seems to me."

As Podevin, whose house is full, has fitted
me up the room over the boat-house for my
chamber, I imagine I shall have my share of
any coolness stirring ; yet it woukl, I dare say,
be pleasant to make a beginning of the freshness

at full strength by getting into a boat.
However, I shall not stay long, and if you will
permit me, when the afternoon heat grows
moderate, I will walk up to your house and
learn if j^ou and Miss Stanley are still alive —
and my young friend Muriel also, though indeed,
the weather appears to suit her well
enough."

And truly at that moment Muriel was in
perfect comfort, sitting a little apart with an
escort of her own — her friend Gerald who had
deserted the cares of business for her sweet
company Not that he found her difficult of
access at other times, for they often met ; but
there is a privacy in a public railway carriage
Avhen the rumbling of the wheels drowns conversation
for every ear other than the one
addressed, and a safety from intrusion and interruption
while the journey lasts, not easily
to be found elsewhere.

Muriel sat in one corner of a sofa, with
Gerald in the other, listening to his purring,
and purring softly back. It may have been
owing to the heat of the day, but their talk
seemed less lively than at other times, and
their glances drooped shyly on the ground instead
of seeking' and meetings each other's as
they were wont. Gerald drew closer as they
talked, and by-and-by his hands secured one



of hers, and held it in possession. He Avonld
have slipped his hand behind her waist, perhaps,
if her position in the corner of the sofa
had not been beyond his reach ; and as it was,
she used some efibrtto liberate the imprisoned
hand, and regained it at last. Hushing and
growing pale the while in her fear of having
become grouped with her companion into a
tableau too interesting to escape notice. And
then her eyes rose shyly to his face, and shining
with a light they had not held before, and
her lips parted tremulously to smile, and
faltered out words which were lost in the roar
and hubbub of the rattling wheels, and Gerald
could not hear them ; but the eyes which lead
looked in his a moment, the rosy flushing and
the tremulous smile, were proof the unheard
answer was not " no," :and he was happy.
When the train reached St. Euphrase Muriel
was " engaged," while still it wanted a week
of her sixteenth birthday.

It is not very remarkable, if, in view of his
success, young Gerald stepped on the platform
with something of the victor in his mein
his head thrown back, and his coat unbuttoned,
flapping away from the expanded
chest, while his eyes looked forth on the Avorld
at large, with the broad imperial gaze of a
new-crowned conqueror, while Muriel leaned

on this arm. perhaps a slide more clingingly
than she was aware. It struck Betsey Biiiice,
at least, who, according to her custom, was
awaiting the city train, to espy the new
arrivals, and pick up any fragments of news
dropped by her acquaintance — it struck
Betsey that summer day, that Gerald was a
far finer and handsomer fellow than theretofore
she had thought him. She bowed and waved
her hand with much impressment ; she even
stepped forward to welcome him to St. Eu-phrase
at that unusual hour ; but Gerald did
not see her. His head was in the clouds, and
he inhaling that upper ether where swim the
stars and the souls of the most blest, to whom
the gods have granted all their desire. He
was dazzled by the brightness of his own
felicity — alas, that the felicity should be as
fleeting as its power to dazzle — and saw little
of what passed around him. Only he felt, and
felt only the pressure of a slender hand resting
on his arm. And so, unwittingly, he strode
past Betsey Bunce ; and Muriel, too, being
with him, and somewhat overcome, looking
down, and with her mind disturbed with new
and confusing thoughts, and feelings wdiicli, if
not so altogether new, were yet now first acknowledged
to herself permitted to harbour
there.

And Betsey believed herself to have been
sighted, and her wrath grew hot against the
young man, and her envy greener-eyed
against the girl, who continued to secure
so many things which in justice should
have been hers ; but having a " spirit,"
as she considered, she only tossed her
head, and walked forward through the
arriving passengers in search of other acquaintance.


It was the same train which carried home
the directors of the mining association after
their board meeting. Podevin was the first
to alight. He appeared a happier man than
when setting out in the morning. With him
was Belmore, who had sunk through the whole
gamut from confidence to despair, and whose
barometer of feelings had asrain risen to " tranquil."
His golden hopes for the future, indeed,
had vanished, but he expected under Stinson's
direction to sell out without loss, and by aid
of the village notary to make everything
snug in case of after litigation. Joe Webb
alone looked troubled and oppressed. The
dangers to his investment, and of his position
as director, had now for the first time been
disclosed to him, and he was at a loss how to
act ; and yet to take professional advice
seemed to his scrupulous mind to be a breach

of confidence towards his fellow directors,
while to act with them appeared dishonest to
the shareholders and the general public. It
was useless to open his mind to Belmore and
Podevin ; they were resolved to save themselves
at whatever cost to other people. He
felt that he must not breathe a word among
his neighbours, and at home he was a lonely
bachelor with only his faithful pipe to soothe
counsel and console him. It was with something
akin to gratitude, therefore, that he received
the friendly greeting of Betsey Bunce. Had
his dog been near to lick his hand in that hour
of darkness he would have been thankful ; how
much more when human sympathy and goodwill
were offered him.

You are back from town earl' to-day, Mr.
Joe," cried Betsey, holding out her hand with
demonstrative cordiality. She had felt snubbed
before the eyes of all St. Euphrase by
her " cousin Gerald," as she called him when
out of hearing, not having noticed her, and
she owed it to herself, she fancied, to show
that she did not care, and had plenty of other
young men to speak to.

"Yes," said Joe with a sigh, clasping the
proffered hand as a drowning man lays hold
on a straw. Anything is good to catch at
when one is sinking.

And you look tired," she added with
plaintive sympathy.

Worried, any way. Those town folks, you
know. Miss Betsey, ain't like us here in the
country."

Ah ! worried. I know the feeling so well ;
when one does not quite know, perhaps,
what it is one wants, and yet is quite sure
that what they would have is what we don't
want. I know it, and town folks are so
selfish."

It is marvellous how some big broad-shouldered
fellow, with a fist of his own and the
will to use it, who ruffles it among his peers
and holds unabated his manly front before odds,
opposition, and misfortune, will wilt and weaken
into drivelling self-pity for a few soft words,
spoken, mayhap, in doubtful sincerity, by
some insignificant dot of a woman, and one
for whom he feels no more than friendship.
Is it a survival of the habit in childhood
of bringing his pains and troubles to his
mother's lap ? Or is it that man needs woman
to complete his being ? — drawing courage from
her sympathy in his hour of darkness, even as
she needs the protection of his strength in
hers ? It is a fact, at least, that the bands
which knit him in his pride, soften like wax
before her, and bully Bottom lays his honest
VOL. III. 32

ass's head contentedly upon any Titania's
knee, smiling in fatuous content as she
twaddle his long ears between her dainty
fingers.

Town folks are very selfish," said Betsey
again.

If they were honest one would not mind
that. We country folk do the best we can
for ourselves, and would have both hands
under, too, every time, if only we could get
it."

You are generous, Mr. Joe. I always said
said it of you."

^' I try to be fair," he answered, looking
pleased.

And some people don't know what fairness
means," rejoined Betsey, with fervour, and a
glance of appreciation into his face. She did
not know what she meant or was speaking
about, but her companion did, and approved
her sentiments, which did just as well. She
had begun the conversation merely with a
general desire to be pleasant, but now she
was growing interested in his evident depression,
and curious to learn its cause. He was
not in love, that seemed certain — love always
struck our tender Betsey as the trouble most
natural to a fine young man. He would not
be so ready, surely, to indulge his " dumps,"

for some other girl in her company ; and if it
were herself, there was no ground for dumps
at all ; he might have her for the asking, she
half suspected, though she would not demean
herself in her own eyes by considering the
point until the gentleman brought it properly
under her notice. Wherefore Miss Betsey
went a fishing, and baiting her hook with a
gentle enthusiasm, she spoke again :

There's nothing so rare, I think, as fairness.
Only the manly men are ever fair, and women
never."

I want to do what's fair. Miss Betsey, and
I guess I have managed slick enough so far ;
but now it's a teaser to know which way to
turn. Is a man bound, think you, to harm,
himself to save his neighbours ? "

'• I guess not, Mr. Webb ; leastways, you
know well enough they wouldn't harm themselves
to benefit you — not by a good deal, and
you know it."

But what is a fellow to do ? If I hold
my tongue and let them walk into a trap they
will be sure to say it was me ensnared them
that I behoof a director knew all about it."

Director ? Mr. Webb. Surely it's not your
mining company you are talking about ? "

Joe looked confused. He had let his cat out
of the bag without meaning it. He had begun

by thinking aloud, or rather by letting the
oozing of his thoughts escape into his talk.
Then it had occurred to him that while
naming no names," he might be able to draw
a sort of sample opinion in the abstract, and
learn therefrom how his position must appear
in the eyes of others ; and here he found
himself on the brink of a full disclosure, with
an extremely compromising admission already
past recall, and confided to the doubtful
secrecy of a woman — the most talkative
woman, perhaps, in the village.

Oh, no. Miss Betsey, you are quite mistaken,
I assure you," he faltered forth, with
the shame-faced effrontery of one unused to
deception, and who scarcely expects his falsehood
to succeed.

"No, you don't, Mr. Joe Webb. You
don't fool me with your assurances. I know
quite well when a gentleman means what he
says. You may just as well trust me with
the whole story. You kjiow you can depend
on my discretion."

And you will promise not to say a word
to any living soul ? And you will give me
your hand on it ? Honour bright ? "

"My hand on it, Mr. Webb. Honour
bright," and she looked her winnings up
into his fiice. "Who knew?" she thought,

here lie was giving a first solemn promise
to handsome Joe Webb, and sharing a secret
with him, who knew but that she might make
him another promise yet ? — and what the purport
of that promise might be ? "

And I may really trust you ? "

Mr. Webb ! "

Well ! It is something to have any kind
of fellow been' one may let out one's breath
to. I've 'most 'bust, these last few hours, for
want of a soul I could speak to ; but now I
feel relieved like, and think I can bear up.
But I'll be round and see you. Miss Betsey,
and we'll have a talk about it if ever I feel
nigh busting again." In fact, Betsey's glances
had been too deeply laden with expression.
She had forgotten the advice of wise King
Solomon, and the wary bird had descried intime
the net so flagrantly spread out within
his view.

Then it's nothing at present you've been
so anxious to confide to me, Mr. Webb ? "
cried Betsey just a little tartly. '* I wondered
at your precautions, and, really, they frightened
me ; and I am very glad you have
changed your mind and are going to keep
them to yourself. So you give me back my
promise and my ' honour bright ? ' I can
breathe free again " " What you told

me," she added after a pause, and with justa
suspicion of mischief winding under her
eyelids, " about your directorship and the
company's going soon to smash, don't count,
of course, for that was before we said ' honour
bright.' "

How you do run on, Miss Betsey. Of
course I hold you to your promise, and it
covers everything we have said since we met.
If I do not tell you a lot, it is only because
there isn't a lot to tell. But really you must
not talk al)out the mining company, or there

will be the d to pay. Fact is, old

Herkimer has not been acting on the
square."

I can believe that," cried Betsey eagerly.
Gerald's offence was too recent to be forgotten
or forgiven yet awhile.

He made us declare a div — at the
meeting to-day, though he knows there is
nothing to divide, and that most all the metal
in the mine has been dug out already. He
expects to get shut of his shares that way
without losing money, and he don't care
what becomes of the concern after that, and
he is just using us directors as cats-paws to
save his chestnuts."

Quite likely. They are deep scliem-
m^ men, both father and son. Just look at

Gerald there, and the way he is going on
with poor little Muriel ! See how the little
fool is hanging to his arm."

She's a fine little girl, Miss Muriel
Stanley, and I can excuse anything a fellow
does to win her, if only he is good to her
afterwards. You think he's after the aunts'
moneys I guess. Miss Betsey ? That would bemean,
but he can't help liking, the sweet
little thing herself all the same."

"Sweet little humbug! And she isn't a
Stanleyss after all ! and not the Stanleyss' niece.
She's nobody's child, that I tell you, and nobody's
niece. She was found inside a paper
parcel. And as for their money, it's me and
my uncle should get it by right, when they
are done with it, and they won't sleep easy
in their graves if they leave it past us that
are their proper flesh and blood ; and what's
more, I mean to give them a bit of my mind
about it, and that right smartly. I'd after
them at once, but there's that old fool Considine
holding the sunshade over Matilda's
head, and we'd best keep family matters at
home. Just look at the old thing ! Faugh !
It makes me sick to see a woman of her
age, that should be at home making her
soul, philandering about the country with
an old dandy like that ! Her sunshade

lined with rose-coloured silk and no less, to
mend her old complexion — while young girls
like me must go without — and her curls like
sausages flapping about half-way down to
her waist. Ha ! There they go in at auntie's
door to get a drink of ice-water or something.
I'll to them there. Good-bye, Mr.
Webb ! You may depend on me, and trust
me fully ; " and she hastened away with the
bit of her mind " she had spoken of
already on her tongue tip waiting to be
launched.

The launching was scarcely a success, however,
or so Joe Webb inferred, when, having
claimed his horse at the stable, he rode past
the rectory on his homeward way. The
Misses Stanley were just then leaving the
house, looking flushed and indignant, the
wife following them to the door with deprecatory
looks which changed into dismay as
they departed without a sign of leave-taking,
and Betsey in the background, too crushed
and ashamed to be aware even that it was
Joe as he went by.

Whatever unpleasantness occurred passed
harmlessly by Muriel. She was walking with
Gerald down by the river's bank — her very
first walk with an acknowledged lover, for
hitherto they had kept up the boy and girl

traditions of their earlier friendship, and
these now were discarded for the first time as
the petals fall from the blossom when their work
is done, and they can lend no more assistance
to the forming fruit. She missed the altercation,
and her aunts took care that she should
not hear of it.

FRIENDS IN COUNCIL.

It was a fortnight later, it was August, and it
was dusk. Having dined, the men had stepped
forth through open windows to smoke upon
their lawns, the ladies, not far off, snuffing the
fragrance wafted through the gloom, or,
Canadian-wise, setting out on visitations to
their neighbours' precincts, or receiving uninvited
raiders on their own ; the middle-aged
to sit and fan and gossip lazily, the young
to sing or even dance, chasing the sultry
oppression with active exercise, as youth alone
is privileged to do.

Jordan had dined, and his shadowy figure
would show now and then sharp against the
sky, to be lost momentarily again on the dim
background of surrounding trees. Only the
red spark of his cigar was always seen,
travelling back and forth fitfully across the
dusky vagueness. Stow it would flash out
bright and travel briskly, and then anon it

would dwindle and grow dim in rusty redness,
creeping along or even stationary for a while,
starting" ao'ain into brightness and hurried
movement — signs of pre-occupation, doubt,
and suppressed excitement in the smoker.

Ho ! Jordan." The hail came suddenly
out of the dimness ; the light of another cigar
drawing near gradually, like the drowsy flight
of a belated beetle, being the only sign that
Jordan was no longer alone. He started,
pulling briskly at his cigar till it glowed and
lighted up not only his own features, but
those of Ealph Herkimer, who now stood
before him.

"Herkimer! Most pleased to see you.
Will you — will sou come in ? "

"No, I had rather join you here in your
stroll and smoke, if sou don't mind," lighting
a fresh cigar as he spoke.

Well ? And are you sorry now you took
my advice ? " he went on when the process of
lighting up was completed. " The difference
between the rise we brought about and the

c

impending collapse which you foresaw — and
which would inevitably have taken place if
your original block of the stock and Eouget's,
which I believe you now hold, had all been
offered at once. Must be a little fortune."
Scarcely that, perhaps, but I admit it

has turned out a very pretty thing, and does
sou the very highest credit as a financial
engineer. But tell me, how long will this
boom last ? "

Till the bubble is pricked, of course —
provided the offerings at one time are not
more than can be easily absorbed. You can
choke even a hungry dog by stuffing too big
pieces down his throat."

Will the price go higher yet ? "

Naturally, if we restrict the supply."

Fact is, I am holding, still. Never could
bring myself to sell on a rising market. I
should feel as if I paid every after advance
out of my own pocket. But I mean to begin
tomorrow — moderately, that is."

Eight," said Ealph between two puffs.
He had himself " unloaded " a week before,
and had little faith in the future ; but it
seemed unnecessary to mention that.

And there is no fear of the ugly rumours
coming out again? If the men are seen hanging
idle about the tap-rooms, for example,
will it not excite inquiry? — from those blockheads
with hammers, for instance, who are
prowling about the neighbourhood, and trying
to get at our people to treat and pump
them?"

The men speak mostly French, the

FRIENDS IN COUNCIL. 29

prowlers English. There is safety in that.
The men are good Catholics, too ; M. le Cure
recommended many of them, and they think
the English want to tamper with their religion,
so they give them a wide berth."

But how do you keep them busy ? And
how long can you keep it up ? "

I am getting all who are likely to be
troublesome away to Montana, engaging them
for a mining concern, which, if it could be
found, would no doubt employ them. The
men cannot get back from Montana before
Fall."

Bright idea, that. But there are Podevin
and the two others. They will blab, I fear,
as soon as they succeed in selling out."

Podevin won't. You made sure of him
at the board meeting, when you told him
that if it were known the directors would be
indictable for fraud. Or was it that fool
Webb said it ? Podevin and Belmore have
sold out, I know, but they are too frightened,
both, to say a word. I have seen them come
out of the notary's more than once, and doubt
not they are conveying their property to their
respective wives. I pity Belmore if he does ;
his wife is Catholic and a devotee, she is
sure to leave it all to the church for the
benefit of his heretical soul. The other fellow

is voir — I mean our — real dancer. He is as
obstinate and as stupid as a pig, and lie thinks
it would be wrong to save himself, as the rest
are doing, while at the same time he bears usa
grudge for leading him into the scrape. He
has been to me in town several times, but I
can make nothing of him, and I fear he is upto
some virtuous devilment or another. The
fool has honour enough to lit out a township,
common cad though he be. Wish I had
known sooner."

Hm ! Then I must make haste and get
out of the sinking boat."

Take care you do not founder the whole
thing in your panic. Unload by degrees —
only so much each day, and, if possible, a
little less than is asked for. That will keep
the price up, and the quotations of daily
transactions will preserve confidence."

I owe you thanks, Ealph, for your suggestions.
So far they have been most valuable.
I shall not soon forget how wisely you
encouraged me to hold on. I only wish I
could reciprocate your favours ; but that is
not to be hoped. You know all the ropes so
much better than I do. Take the will for
the deed, old man ! and if — by good fortune
if ever "

'but you can, my dear Jordan, you really

can — and I am glad to know that your goodwill
is equal to the test ; though indeed it is
nothing I am asking after all — nothing to cost
you anything."

Name it," mumbled Jordan with a good
deal less effusion than he had been indulging in
the minute before, though still as cordially as
the staccato shock to his nerves would allow.
To say truth, he felt not unlike the sportive
mouse, which, in pure lightness of heart,
has nibbled through the thread whose
yielding liberates the spring which catches
and holds as in a vice. What wonder that
instinctively he should wriggle to withdraw,
the moment he felt himself being held, even
to a position of his own choosing ? Bitten
by his own teeth, he would have felt less
foolish — less like the stag entangled by his own
antlers in a thicket, to wait the coming of the
hunter and his hounds.

Ealph noted the change in manner and
tone ; and the humour of it, causing inward
laughter, made the smoke he was inhalmi]^
lose its way, and brought on a fit of
coughing.

I want you to pay up Gerald's fortune at
once," he said at length. "It wants not much
more than a year, you know, to the time fixed.
He is of age, and he is my partner, so we shall

both be responsible. I am Gerald's next heir,
too, so it can have no bad consequences for
you, besides being a great convenience to us."

The tumult in Jordan's circulation had had
time to subside, and his voice had grown even
again. It was more mellifluously soothing now
than even its professional wont. " How I wish
it had been something else," he said ; " something
within the bounds of possibility. It
distresses me to — but "

'* Quite so, my friend. The usual way of
the world. Anything that is not wanted you
would have felt it a privilege to do. Is it not
so ? — even to pulling out your eyes, only you
know I am not a cannibal and prefer oysters ;
so they would be of no use."

Ecally, my dear Ealph, you must not put
it in that way, you know. Indeed, you have
no right to say so. Just think "

Oh, I know — quite so — by all means, if
you wish it. I know better than chop arguments
with a lawyer. That would be worse
than an altercation with a woman. He is not
satisfied, like her, with the last word, he must
have the best of it as well. But the facts
remain."

"Is that not an admission, my friend, that
you know your position will not bear
examination ? "

Look out for your own position, friend
Jordan ! I have a presentiment it would not
be impossible to knock that over like a house
of cards on the Stock Exchange tomorrow
morning, however easily you might overthrow
me in argument to-night."

I used the word ' position ' to express your
statement of the case, my dear fellow ; I meant
nothing offensive."

And what sort of statement would you
make of your own case if I were to dismiss
all the miners to-morrow open the gates, and
let the world in to see ? "

Pray do be calm, Ealph, and don't grow
excited, I had almost said violent. You forget
that I am only one of two. I can do
nothing alone."

I know it ; but you can persuade your
brother trustee, I believe, as I cannot.
Besides, he will say, like you, that he is one
of two ; so I make sure of you before approaching
him. Now, what do you say?-
My Canadian interests are in a mess. I
have washed my hands of those mines —
I can ruin you, observe, if I like, without
hurting myself — I am already deeply
dipped in Pikes Peak and Montana and
I must throw in all the rest I have to
save what is there already. My interests
VOL. III. 33

are across the lines now, and I mean
to be there myself also. So you see I can
have no personal interest in sparing you, and
I have no doubt that Wel3b's fear of a
criminal prosecution of the directors will
come true."

I am not a director."

It would be proved that you attended the
meetings and influenced the board in favour
of every irregularity — and there are plenty of
irregularities, I can tell you. The others will
insist, you may depend upon it, on the pleasure
of your company with them in the dock ; and,
for myself, I don't see why they shouldn't. I
imagine that weak chest of yours will need at
least six months to recuperate in Florida —
but there will not be time for you to save
your fortune and get away if you do not

listen to reason " " You force me to speak

plainly," he added, as Jordan stopped short in
his walk and dropped heavily upon a garden
seat, deprived of strength to stand upright.
His cigar had dropped from between his
teeth, and he sat a mere black shadow in the
dusk till Ealph, pulling his own smouldering
spark, into brilliancy, bent near and saw how
sickly pale his visage had become.

What say you, Jordan ? How are we to
arrange ? "

It will take time to realize and gather in.
The accounts, extending over eighteen years
as they do, are voluminous and complicated ; it
will take time to make them up. You see it
is nearly two years yet till the time for
handing over the trust, so there has appeared
to be no hurry so far ; but it will take months
to get the thing into shape."

I see. And you know that within a week
or two I shall be across the lines, and that it
will be a couple of years at least before I shall
care to revisit Canada. Now, really, my
friend, do you take me for the sort of person
it is .worth while talking such slop to ? Hand
me the securities as they are ; I am surely as
well able to negotiate them as you can be."

I could transfer you those mining shares,
of course, if you wished it. Yes ! That will
simplify matters ; part of them, I mean, the
second part."

Mining shares ? Come now, that's a rum
un. My uncle's estate don't hold a dollar's
worth of them. You forget the transfer books
lie in my office, and I could not have overlooked
Considine's name either for himself
or as trustee. Our company is not in his line.
He knows too much and too little for that class
of investment. But I see ! and it is what I
might have suspected from your sudden rise

33—2

in the world, only that I did not think you
could have got round Considine — I know /
could not. I admire your management, Jordan.
I really do, you must have finessed very
cleverly to nobble old Cerberus like that !
A good slice of the money has passed
through your hands, we may infer ; and, of
course, as would happen with any one else —
I don't blame you, mind — it has got a little
confused and mixed up, as it were, amongst
your own, which is natural ; and I do not mind
accommodating you as far as may be. We
will take, say, half of your holding — the first
half — and it to be sold before you disturb the
rest. We will take it at par, and give you
credit for it. What else will you give us ? "

Par ? Man alive ! I bought Eouget's at a
premium, and I have been holding the whole
ever so long, with the risk of its falling all the
time. You must take it at the market value,
say a hundred and seventy-six."

Whose money is it ? By your own admission?
And do you not receive a pension
under the will for looking after it ? If the

o

price had gone down, would you have made
good the loss ? "

You have no right to insinuate that I
would have done anything improper. However,
I will not yield to so outrageous a

demand. No man in his senses would ;
especially when you have no more business
with it than the parish priest, for two years
to come."

You will force me, however unwillingly,
to make Gerald file a petition to have your
trusteeship overhauled ; with the affidavit I can
make in support the court cannot possibly
refuse."

"I shall have an information lodged against
you for swindling before the petition can be
heard. Who will mind your affidavit after
that?"

Good for you, old man. A stale mate !
It does one good to play a match against you,
Jordan ; it brightens one's wits. Well now,
can we make a truce ? If I do my best to
gain you time to realize, and promise to keep
Gerald quiet for the next two years, will you
get me that money out of Considine's hands ?
How much is it, by-the-way ? "

Half. We divided the property to avoid
the endless consultations, each agreeing to do
his best with half, and trust the other."

Well, get Considine to hand over, and you
shall be left undisturbed."

I don't believe he will do it."

Will you try to persuade him ? "

"Yes."^

Come, then, we will find him at Podevin's,
and have it out before we sleep."

"He is not there. I saw him walk past as
I sat down to dinner ; gone to Miss Stanley's,
I fancy, as usual."

He will be back before long, now ; let us
go down and wait."

Better wait here, there are always inquisitive
loafers around there. Come in and sit
down, the moon is rising. He will not leave
his friends till it is high enough to light him
home."

MOONLIGHT AND SHADOW.

Confiding retired early to his clamber by
the river-side. The moon was up and emerging
in lucent clearness from the bands of
dimming haze which joined the transparent
heaven to the grosser earth. There was no
wind, only a stealing deliciousness on the sweet
night air, lulled by faint whispering among the
aspen leaves hard by, and the lapping oi the
waters round the boat-house. It was far too
good a time to waste in the unconsciousness
of sleep : merely to exist and feel was tranquil
joy. He extinguished his lamp, threw off his
coat, and lighting a pipe, sat by the open window,
and puffed and dreamed.

Swiftly the stream swept by beneath the casement,
each swirling eddy touched with a ring of
moonlight, and wavy gleaming lines threading
the dusky current in its course, showing the
volume and the swiftness and the mic^ht — like
time, like life, like fate. And yet it was not
gloomy. The flickering lustre brightened as the

moon rose higher, and Considine's eye rested
meditatively upon the scene. The river, it
seemed to him, was not iinUke the passing of his
own existence, with something cold and something
solitary in it, issuing from one obscurity,
and hurrying onward to another — nothing buta
passing, and yet not all a cheerless one.

A gentle influence, it seemed to him,was shining
just then on A 2 5 life also, one as pure and
good as the beams upon the passing tide, but
like that, far off, and cool, and unapproachable.
The swellings of the current seemed to leap and
glance up, longing and responsive, but the Lady
Moon smiled back still in the same cool gentle
brightness, coming never the nearer, however
the waves might flicker and burn in impotent
desire and longing. Matilda, too, was very faraway.
The sense of yearning to be near her
had long been in his soul ; it had germinated
and grown so gradually that he had not
known its presence, till at length in its spreading
it grew into his thought, and he knew that
he desired.

Yet to disturb the pleasant present by a word
seemed far too hazardous — too like hurling a
stone into the stream and breaking up the
radiance. Better, perhaps, be content to
bear in silence the cool reflection in his
bosom, than, in leaping to catch the reality,

lose even the shadow. When the pulses sober
down to the steady task of living — when the
turbulence, the cascades, and rainbows of the
upper reaches of life are past, and the even
stream has entered on the level country of
middle age, love grows less confident and bold
even in those better natures which alone retain
the capacity of loving. Familiarity with disappointment
makes man less willing to tempt
his fate, and he clings more eagerly to such
good as the gods vouchsafe, knowing its rarity
and his own weakness to hold fast. " Better
enjoy the friendship," thought Considine,
than tamper with and disturb it by futile
endeavours to warm it into love ; " and he drew
a long breath ; and somehow the air seemed
to have grown dim, though in truth it was
only a film of cloud stealing athwart the moon.
He rose and stretched himself, and yawned,
and concluded that now it was time to turn
in, when a tap at the door of his chamber
surprised him.

■" Who is there ? Ha! Jordan? Glad to
see you. And Herkimer ! Let me light the
lamp. How fortunate I had not gone to bed.
Oh, no apology ! Should have been sorry
to miss you both. Smoking I see. So am
I. Brandy and water? Bless my soul, the
ice has nearly all melted. Enough ? Glad of

A Rich Manes Relatives.

that — or here is soda if 3^011 prefer. Splendid
night, is it not ? " and so on. His visitors*
flow of talk seemed blocked in a strange way
for persons who had taken the trouble to visit
him so late. He jerked out his disjointed
sentences in answer to nods and monosyllables,
doing his best to fulfil the rites of hospitality
under difficulties.

Smoke, brightened by brandy and soda,
however, had its perfect work at last. It
dispensed, for one thing, with talk for talking
sake, till its own soothing and clarifying
innuendo had time to act ; for is not the cloud
blown by a fellow-smoker companionable and
sufficient without a words Then Jordan, clearing
his voice with a preliminary cough, began :

You are surprised, Considine, to see us at
this hour ; but Herkimer thought it our only
chance of finding you alone. You popular
bachelors are so run after. Fact is, Herkimer
says that it would be of advantage to them to
have young Gerald's fortune paid up at once,
instead of waiting for the short remainder of
the twenty years to run out. After talking it
over, I am free to confess that much may be
said in favour of his view ; and, indeed, he has
quite brought me round, so I agreed to come
with him and assure you of my willingness to
join you in acceding. Young Gerald, you will

remember, is of age now, and can legally confirm
his father's demand. They are partners
in business, and nearest of kin to each other,
and can give us a full and complete acquittance
of our responsibilities, which, speaking
for myself, I shall be thankful to be rid of; for
candidly I am not as young as I have been,
and I grow lazy, I suppose, as well as fat, and
I find my own concerns require all the attention
I have to bestow. It has been a long and
an onerous trust, and I dare say that, like myself,
you will not be sorry to be rid of it."

"I need scarcely say," observed Ealph,
that Gerald sees the importance to our
affairs of winding up the trust at once, as
strongly as I do. He has no desire, though,
that the trustees should be deprived of their
commission for management before the expiration
of the twenty years. On the contrary,
he appreciates their services so highly that it
is his wish to make the allowance permanent,
by granting them a capital sum sufficient to
represent at eight per cent their emolument
from the property."

When Jordan began to speak Considine had
set down his pipe and lay back in his chair,
his left foot across his right knee, stroking it
with his hand, while he fixed his eyes upon
the speaker. When Ealph began, an incipient

frown hovered about his eyebrows, the blood
rose hotly to his forehead as the speaker proceeded,
and he sat bolt upright, with fingers
clenched and lips compressed, ere the conclusion
was reached ; when he answered in a
voice of suppressed indignation :

I am humiliated, Mr. Herkimer, that you
should have felt at liberty to speak as you
have done. Your words might be taken to
imply an insinuation against Jordan's probity
and my own, for which I am certain that
neither I nor he have given occasion. Take
back what you have said, or I, for one, must
decline to say a word upon the subject of
your demand."

My dear general ! " cried Ealpli in amazement,
not untouched with scorn for the
canting old prig " who could pretend that
the mode of earning a dollar made any difference
in its value. '' You have completely misunderstood
me, I do assure you. Iso idea could
have been farther from my mind, or indeed from
the mind of any one who knows as I do your
delicate sense of honour. I really must protest
against your entertaining so erroneous an impression
; and it seems hard that I should be
prevented from expressing my boy's sense, and
my own, of your assiduous attention to our
interests."

That will be time enough after you know
what we have done," answered Considine
dryly. " At present you know nothing, nor
can, till the accounts of the estate have been
made up, and submitted to your examination.
However, as you agree to take back the promise
of a consideration for violating the trust
reposed in us, no more need be said."

Violating the trust ! " remonstrated Jordan.
And who, pray, my dear Considine, uses
unguarded lano^uacfe now ? "

Not I. Eemember the terms of the will,
if you please, Mr. Jordan."

Technically, my dear sir, and verbally, I
will not dispute your accuracy ; but more
than that is due to the intentions of a testator,
from friends, and among friends."

You think you know Gerald's intentions
better than he did himself, then? For my
part, I have thought the will a model of
clearness."

Think of the circumstances, general — the
present circumstances — and all that has
occurred since the will was made."

Nothing has occurred for which the will
did not provide."

Excuse me, general. Gerald has come of
age, he has gone into business, he sees a use
to which he can turn his inheritance. What

right have ive to balk him, and keep him out
of his own ? "

I deny that it is his own, or can be, till
the time appointed has arrived."

Literally speaking, of course, your position
cannot be gainsaid ; but consider the circumstances,
as I say. When the will was made,
there was every chance that quite another
person would inherit. That person would
have received the money before reaching
majority. It seems therefore unfair, and contrary
to the testator's wish, that Gerald should
have to wait."

I don't see it. What if that other should
appear and claim the inheritance? "

Is it likely ? "

"It is possible. Again, Gerald may die
within the next year-and-a-half. We should
be personally liable then to the heirs."

His father is one of them, his three aunts
are the others — all our friends of longstanding.
From what you know of them,
you can have no misgiving as to our old
friend Ealph's doing what is right by those
ladies. Had the testator been alive he could
not but have been glad to confide them to the
care of so good a fellow as his nephew Ealph."

That is just where I must beg to differ. I
knew old Gerald most intimately, and 1 have

the best ground for being sure that he would
not."

There it is, Considine ! You have always
had a kind of OTud£>:e ai^^ainst me. You know
you have," said Ealph.

'' Not at all, sir. Search your memory,
and I defy you to produce one token of ill-will.
Did I not prove myself a useful friend
at Natchez ? "

"Never mind Natchez," growled Ealph
sulkily.

Did we not do business together for years
after the war ? — business by which you profited
as much as I did? Have I ever made use of
an unfriendly or disrespectful word in your
presence ? "

You have thought and looked them ; and
you know it."

Men are not held responsible for thoughts
and looks. They cannot help them. But let
us close all this at once. It is contrary to
the letter of the will to do as you propose,
gentlemen, and I will not take the responsibility.
I believe, too, it will be for the young
man's own interest that he should come into
possession later, when his hands may be less
trammelled by business engagements."

It was useless to say more. The schemers
speedily took their leave, Ealph growling and

muttering under his breath about pig-headed
ramrods, while Jordan reflected pensively
what an impracticable old Spartan he would
have to reckon with, if ever his peculiar method
of trusteeship should come up for discussion.
Not a business man," he muttered to himself.
Emphatically not ! "

If he were to die now, would not the
whole be in your hands ? " asked Ealpli.

"Undoubtedly. Why?"

It just struck me, when we were up there,
and he was holding forth by the open window
and the river outside so swift and deep."

Jordan started.

"By G — I could have pushed him out,
and there would have been an end. But
you're chicken-hearted, Jordan. You could
not be counted on to keep quiet."

I would rather not be present at such a
transaction, certainly," and Jordan felt a
creeping run up his spine. What a desperate
fellow the man must be ! He must speak him
fair and keep out of his clutches. Considine
was impracticable, he thought again, and
Ealph was violent. If the two came in
collision, what loss would it be to him ?
Either of them might some day become
troublesome. The thought shot through his
mind, and the sickly faintness, bred of suggested

murder, tingled into a glee of terrified
exultation, which made him tremble, and the
very teeth rattle in his jaw.

"It would be all right? Would it not?"
asked Ealph.

Ye — ye — yes. But really, my dear friend,
is it necessary to take me into your confidence ?
Considine bathes in the river every morning,
by-the-way — you may count on my eagerness
to forward your views — in any — contingency
—but "

Quite so, Jordan. I'm to play cat, am I,
to your monkey, for the chestnuts? Very
well. I won't compromise you. You weren't
born to be hanged — a deal more likely to die
a sneak-chiefs death in a penitentiary hospital
! Bathes every morning, does he, in
the river? Good-night. Sound sleep and
pleasant dreams."

*H>4o«*I"

VOL. III. 34

MURDER.

It was a summer morning, between six and
seven. The last thread of mist has melted in
the warming air, air suffused with sunshine
and crisp with a lingering freshness from the
night ; the banks all dewy, and the river
sparkle in the slanting light.

Considine stepped into a skiff in the boathouse
beneath his chamber, and shot out into
the stream to take his morning plunge. Then
lingeringly snuffing the sweet cool air and
surveying the upward moving banks as he
drifted down, with pincers idling amonsf the
intricacies of buttons, and talking aloud, he
leisurely undressed himself for his swim :

Can that be the glitter of a unbarred in
the sun? It is — reminds one of the sharpshooters
on the Eappahannock river during
the war. What can the fellow be skulking for,
like that, among the bushes ? He remembers
it's the close season for duck perhaps ; but he

might take courage, and stand boldly forth
this morning ; there is not one on the river to
pop at, as far as I can see. I must give the
Game Preserving Association a hint when I goto
town, though. Well! here goes. One —
two — three ! " He dived into the river, and
the bracing coolness licked his languid limbs
into a new feeling of firmness and strength.

Regaining the surface, and shaking his eyes
clear of the dripping hair, he turned to survey
his sportsman, now standing full in view.

Ealph Herkimer ! — and taking aim ! —
last night — I understand. My God ! — if he
aims straight — I'm done for."

The skiff had drifted on in front during his
gambols, and he now struck out with all his
might to gain its side and interpose it between
himself and danger ; but he never reached it.
A flash and a puff of smoke upon the shore, a
crack, and a stinging sensation in the shoulder,
paralyzing the arm, and he went under water.
Rising presently, he struck out anew, straining
every sinew to overtake the boat, and almost
reaching it, when he lifted the sound arm to
lay hold — lifted it too soon. It fell short,
fell back on the water, and he plunged head-foremost
to the bottom. His head may have
struck upon a sunken rock, or — or anything.
He struggled, feeling himself drowning:, and

34—2

LIBRARY
^W/VERSfTYOFILUNOfS

then he grew drowsy, his consciousness grew
vague and dreamlike, and then there was
an end. The current swept onward undisturbed,
and the empty boat drifted down
stream towards the sedgy islands, where the
river took a turn, and was lost from view.

Ealph Herkimer stood upon the shore
watchings with an intentness which left him
deaf and impervious to every other impression.
The rifle had slipped from his shoulder, the
butt rested on the ground, and a thread of
smoke still crept out from the barrel. His
hand supported it mechanically. His perceptions
were out upon the river. The victim
was hit, he saw so much, and when he
sank, Ealph drew a breath of infinite relief
between his tight-set teeth ; but still he could
not turn away his eyes.

The head emerged above the tide again.
What? — and he was wounded? — and yet
about to escape ! — and it would be known
that it was he — Ealph — who had fired. He
must not let him escape — and yet, to fire
again ? The first shot, being unlocked for,
would pass unnoticed ; the next, all ears along
the river being now aroused, would surely be
observed. He clutched the rifle, with one
barrel still to fire, and watched the swimmer.
How heavily he floundered through the water,

yet with what desperate force ; and, really, he
was gaining on the boat. If he should reach
it the deed would be out — everything known
and it would then be too late to shoot. A
boat with a corpse — an empty boat, with
blood-stains, would be enough to set the law
and the detectives to Avork. He lifted the
gun, but his heart beat far too wildly to take
aim. His eyes were clouded, his hands shook ;
while out in the stream the swimmer could
be seen in frantic effort struggling along and
gaining on the boat.

And now it seems to Ealph there is no
choice. He must fire again, or the swimmer
will gain the boat, and everything be known.
Wh}^ should his hand tremble now ? When
did he ever fail to knock a squirrel from the
tree ? Has he not shot a bear in his time ?
Is not the danger of letting this man escape
worse than any mischief the bear could have
done him ? and yet

Ha ! The swimmer rises in the water,
throwing out his arm as though to grasp the
boat. It is beyond his reach. He falls forward
in the tide and disappears. A foot is
seen above the water for an instant, and is
gone. The boat drifts onward all alone. The
gun has not gone off, and Ealph sinks on the
bank, panting and weak in the revulsion of

excitement. His eyes follow the drifting boat
and watch the even glassy flowing in its wake,
but the waters part not asunder any more.
No head emerges panting and struggling to
disturb the mirrored lustre reflected from the
morning clouds. The thing is done.

'^^^^-^W'^^^'

NEMESIS.

Ealph Herkimer was late for breakfast. He
had been out with his gun ; for Gerald, setting
out to catch an early train for town, came on
him stepping from the shrubbery to gain the
verandah and his own dressing-room window
met him right in the face, to his own no small
surprise, and not, apparently, to the satisfaction
of his parent.

Ducks ! Father ? Ain't sou three weeks
ahead of time ? "

Sparrows ! my son. We shall not have a
black cherry left, for those blasted English
sparrows."

"And you took the rifle? That would have
been putting a big blast with a vengeance
into one of their little persons. Head, claws,
feathers, would have been blown to the four
winds. The rest would be nowhere."

Humph," grunted Ealph in surly wise, entering
his open window without further parley.

Old man must be out of sorts this morning,"
said the son, proceeding on his way.
"Never saw him so grumpy of a morning
before. And to take a rifle to the sparrows !
He must have gone out half awake — taken it
up without noticing, and been ashamed at
being seen — stolen back, no doubt, before
Solomon Sprout would arrive with his spade
and barrow. Solomon isn't an early bird by
any means. I suppose no gardener is. Has
the whole day before him to potter about the
place. Solomon would have laughed at the
rifle, and told us about blowing Sepoy away
from the cannon's mouth when he was soldiering
in ' Indy.' "

Ealph was very late for breakfast. He had
rung for his man, and sent him for sherry and
bitters, and then dismissed him, peremptorily
refusing to be shaved, or to be bothered in
any way.

Nine o'clock. Mrs. Martha sat by her coffee-pot,
but her spouse did not appear. She rang
for Joseph, and inquired for his master, but
he could only say that he had rung for sherry
and bitters, refused to be shaved, and ordered
him out of the room.

"He's out of sorts," sohloquized Mrs. Martha.
" Smoked too many cigars with Jordan last
night, that's what's the matter! What fools

the men are! Making themselves sick with
nasty tobacco, just for manners to one another!
I'm sure they don't really like it. I've known
the time when Ealph would sit the whole
evening with me and Gerald — Gerald was a
baby then — and never a cigar. Just a few
peaches before going to bed, and a Boston
cracker. Heigh-ho ! I was young then, to be
sure, and better looking, but I don't suppose
that signifies to Ealph. I am sure I like him
as well, and think him as fine a man as ever I
did ; and why would he not think the same of
me? It's just that eternal business ! The men
are that dead set on it they think of nothing
else, and they make believe to like tobacco to
be with one another, and keep the women
away, that they may talk business. The weary,
weary business ! Whatever good has it done
us? The richer we get, the harder Ealph
seems to work, and the less I see of him. But
I'll keep him at home to-day, anyhow. See
if I don't."

With a cup of coffee and a piece of toast,
she hastened to her husband's room.

"Well, Ealph? Still up? I fancied you
must have lain down assail. Drink your
coffee. It will do you good. Dear me ! How
pale and limp you look."

Nonsense ! I'm all riofht."

Not you. You must not think of going
to town to-day. We'll hang a hammock on
the shady side of the house and you can swing
there. The river view feels cool, and there
always comes a breeze up from the water.
Joseph ! "

Bid him hang the hammock in the front
of the house, Martha. It amuses one to see
who comes and goes. Yes ; I shall stay at
home with you to-day. I don't feel up to
much — yesterday's heat, I suppose. Bid him
hang the hammock up in front."

There's no shade worth speaking of on
that side till the afternoon. You'll broil
yourself with the glare off the flower beds.
The west verandah is the place at this hour,
and there's the pleasant outlook over the
river."

Eiver be d d. It makes me giddy to

look at it this morning. My head seems all

swim."

a

Bilious — the brandy and cigars last night.
You never could stand much of that, Ealph.
It's not for you ! Leave it to the dull
fellows who want brightening. You have
too many nerves to agree with stimulants in
quantity."

'' Don't preach, Martha, my good soul.
My head is splitting. Open the window

wider, and close the blinds. Now leave me,
please ; I think I could sleep. Send Joseph
with the brandy and some soda-water and ice."

A hair of the dog that bit you, eh ? My
poor old man. But I think you would be
better without it," and she laid her cool hand
on his forehead as he lay.

It was the touch that of all things soothed
and softened him the most. In the hurry of
life and the scramble for its prizes he had
long outgrown the early transports of the
honeymoon, real though they had been at the
time — as real as it was in his nature to experience.
The light of her eye had less power to
kindle a response within him ; it shone more
dimly, doubtless, than of old, and his receptive
organ — heart, call it? — had toughened with
the years, and was too occupied with greed
to hold much else. Her bright and sensible
talk, grown familiar, had ceased to interest ;
but the touch of that cool, soft, firm, and sympathetic
hand upon his brow, had still the old
power to soothe and charm away pain
and care. She was so true, and strong, and
faithful ; and a healing virtue dwelt for him
in her touch — the one truly good and holy
nature he had ever believed in. And she
believed so thoroughly in him — the only one,
perhaps, who did, in all the world — except

their boy — and he had only learnt the faith
from her.

She believed in him, and she was good
and true. His brow revelled in the cool,
soft, firm touch. He could have pressed it
as a dog will rub against his mistress's caressing
palm, but that he was ashamed of the
one still lingering softness in his nature.
Remembering the chicaneries of his money-making
career, how glad he was she did not
know them; and yet he felt a rogue in gaining
this testimony of her faith, more than in all
the swerving from uprightness he had ever
been guilty of. And the morning's work.
For the fraction of an instant it had been less
present with him in the luxury of that
caress. What would she think of that, if ever
she came to know? He guessed the horror
she would feel, though, strictly speaking, he
felt no horror in himself. Would he ever
come to feel any? he wondered. It was
merely a dull, stupid consciousness as yet
that he was not as other men ; that they would
none of him if they but knew ; that he was
separate from the rest of his kind. And she ?
Her hand appeared to burn him at the
thought. He felt spattered and sticky with
the dead man's blood, and it was soiling her
clean pure hand. If she knew it, she would

renounce him. Shrinkingly he turned his head
beneath her touch, and the gentle wife, pained
at perceiving her caress grow irksome, stole
silently from the room.

Alas ! How they had been drifting apart
through all the years ! " thought Martha.
The world had come between, a broadening
wedge pressing them ever more and more
asunder. Ealph had never been unkind, but
how slowly, yet steadily, he had been growing
not to care. He had so many other things
to think on." She, who sat at home with
her thoughts, and still cherished the old
fancies of her girlhood, grew hungry at the
heart with the old hunger for a perfect love ;
and the food had grown sparer and slighter
while her mind and soul had been waxing
with the years — for a woman's heart need
not wither with her complexion — and now,
Then she sought sign of love, what got she?
A roll of bank bills — a handful of Dead Sea
fruit — or costly trinkets which had no value
now that the eyes she would have pleased did
not care to look. Still, until now, he had
submitted to her caress ; she had even pleased
herself by fancying that he liked it, he had
submitted always so calmly. Now he had
shrunk from her — turned away his head.
'• Alas ! she was growing old," she thought,

he had ceased to care for her save as his
housekeeper and Gerald's mother. How hard
the men were, and utterly selfish ! " She
wiped her eyes a little, and went about her
morning occupations. At least he should
never know that she had suffered this wound.
He should never know that she had observed
a change. But never again should he have
the opportunity to spurn. She would give
him his Avay.

Ealph spent his morning in a semi-invalid
fashion strange to one of his habits. " What
was the matter with him ? " he asked himself,
"and what was he afraid of?" To both
queries he answered positively " nothing."
Yet the oppression on his spirits would not
lift, and there was a tremor or dismay at his
heart which would not be calmed or reassured.
Why would not the man roll over
and have done, and let there be an end, as
there was with the squirrel and the bear he
recollected ?

Of moral sense Ealph may be said to have
had as little as any one living in the civilized
state. He certainly had not enough to trouble
sleep or digestion, and might have been
warranted impervious to remorse. With little
benevolence, and without imagination, he
was insensible to pain or misery beyond the

circumference of his own cherished hide, as
had been shown by his pleasure in the torture
and ill-usage of his uncle's slaves. He had
even prided himself on being proof to such
phantasies as limit other men in working out
their will ; and if not brave, he had at least
the judgment which reduces danger to its
true dimensions. He surveyed his position
now, The probabilities were in his favour.
Who could have seen him ? Who suspect
him? It was unlikely at that hour that
any one had, seeing he had fired but once.
In his position nobody would suspect him,
even if he had been seen and were accused.
He need only say he had seen a bird on the
water, and, having the gun in his hand, after
frightening the sparrows from his cherry trees
hard by, he had let fly. Jordan could testify
to his spending the previous evening amicably
with the deceased, and no one could suggest
a reason for the deed. Possibly, too, the body
being in mid-stream would be carried down.
Once in the St. Laurence it was safe to be
carried over the Lachine Rapids, or rendered
unrecognizable by mere lapse of time. Danger,
he told himself, there was none, and yet the
gloom upon his spirits would not lift. Not
all the brandy and soda he could swallow
availed to cheer him.

There is a social atmosphere in which we
hive, a subtile sense of the general sentiment
of our fellows, which no obtuseness of the
nerves, no clearness of the understanding, can
be wholly proof against. We breathe it, and
live in it, and are of it, exceptional endowment
counting for but little in opposition. The
sanctity of human life, and the solidarity of
each member with the rest of the community
as far as mere existence goes, are sentiments
so derived — foregone conclusions which nobody
disputes, and nobody finds it necessary
to assert. They go without saying, and are
in the basis of our notions. And now, as a
murderer, Ealph felt himself in the position
of a lurking wolf, liable to be found out at
any moment, and hooted from the company
of men. He was already of a different kind
from his fellows — a man apart and outside of
human sympathy. If it were known, whom
would he have to depend on? Would not
his closest intimates be ready to assist the
sheriff in bringing him to punishment ? The
loneliness weighed on him. Brandy would
not lighten it. The rush of that detestable
river was in his ears, and would not be expelled,
nor the swift glassy sweeping of the
tide be obliterated from his view, use his eyes
or close them as he might.

Let me take you for a drive, Martha," he
called out at last. " A long drive in the sun
and wind, I think, will do me good."

That drive was not a happy experience for
the unfortunate horse. Urged to his utmost
speed, over endless miles of dusty way, in the
heat and glare of an August afternoon, Ealph
suffered him not to flag, though his sides were
wet with foam and his ears drooped with
fatigue. Heedless of all else, Ealph strove to
escape or outstrip the dull oppression that
had fallen on his spirit, the dismay which, like
a shadow, stood by his shoulder and at his
ear, whispering in the rushing river's voice,
and pointing him to the shimmer of waters
closing on the swimmer's head, turn his eyes
whithersoever he might. Martha sat pensively
and silent by his side. In his miserable
pre-occupation he forgot her presence, and
spoke to her not a word, bent on urging the
horse forward, in feverish merciless impatience.

Ealph ! " Martha cried at last in genuine
alarm. She had known him in feverish moods
before, which violent motion and exertion had
been able to relieve, but she never before had
seen him act and look as now. She feared for
his sanity, and kept silence while she could,
trusting to his out-wearing the fit ; but in
VOL. III. 35

time it seemed to lier that their lives were in
danger, they were liable to be thrown out at
any moment, and succour was miles away.
Ealph ! " and she laid her hand on his
sleeve. " Where are you going ? Where do
you want to take us ? You will break down
the horse and throw us out upon the road, if
you do not mind. Look at him ! — he seems
fit to drop."

Ealph started, and but for his wife the reins
would have slipped from his hand. He was
like one awakened from a horrid dream,
roused to what is going on around him.
He checked the horse, brought him to a walk,
and shortly stopped. The relief he experienced
at the moment he was disturbed was
inexpressible, he could have laughed and
dabbled with delight ; but then, too quickly,
he recollected. There was something to
conceal as well as to forget; he must guard
his every word and movement. By-and-by
unheeded incidents might be re-called, and
pieced together into a web of circumstantial
evidence from which it would be impossible
to escape. He must command himself.

It's the heat, Martha, the heat. My head
has been turning round all day. Wonder if
I can have had a slight sunstroke ? It was
well you spoke ; I must have been asleep —

sleeping with my eyes open, and driving like
mad. Poor Catchfly ! I've nearly killed him.
What will Gerald say to me for ruining his
nag? Too bad! Really I did not know
what I was doing. You should have spoken
an hour ago, Martha."

"How could I, Ealph? You have not
spoken a word since we came out. I did not
know what might be the matter. It was only
when Catchfly began to look as if he must
drop, and the road got stony, and I saw the
gravel pits by the wayside, that I began to
fear for our necks and spoke. Where are
you going ? Where are we ? "

I do not know where we are. As to
where I am going, it can only be back again,
if we can find the way."

We must 'light then, and give the poor
beast an hour or two's rest, at any rate. See
how used up he is ! It will be no wonder if
he goes lame ; and see, he has lost a shoe ! "

We must get out of this sun-beaten road,
at any rate, into the shade. There is a grove
by the road-side, a mile on the way back. See
it ? A sugar-bush * it looks like from here.

Sugar-bush. A grove of maple trees. The farmers tap the
juice in spring, and boil it into sugar. In Lower Canada
and New Hampshire, scarcely any other sugar is consumed
in the country places.

35—2

There must be a homestead not far from it.
We may hire a fresh horse there, perhaps, and
let them bring home Catchfly tomorrow."

In time the sugar-bush was reached, and
by-and-by, the farmer's house. The way
seemed long, they traversed it so slowly, for
Catchfly fell lame as he began to cool ; and
they had to alight and lead him ere the end.

In consideration of money paid, the farmer
complied with their wishes. Catchfly was
liberated from the shafts, and another horse
took his place — a horse which had toiled all
day in the turnip field, and at his best was
not remarkable for speed. They were condemned
to sit up helplessly behind, while this
patient beast trudged wearily along the road.
The day waned into twilight, and Martha's
patience died out with the light.

Say ! Ealph, you can go home and have
your dinner. I've had enough of buggy-riding
for one day. Let me out here, at Miss
Stanley's gate, she'll give me a cup of tea.
After dinner you can send up Gerald to bring
me home."

I don't feel hungry either," answered
Ealph. '' It will be dull without you. I'll go
in, too, and bring you home myself by-and-by."


The ladies were sitting in the dusk without

candles. Penelope drowsed over some knitting
by the window, while Matilda and Muriel
played old duets from memory ; the : former
seemingly without much interest or attention,
though she still kept on playing, notwithstanding
Muriel's frequent exclamations that she had
gone astray. The window was darkened for an
instant, but the music still went on, hurrying
just a little, perhaps, to reach its close. It
was only a lady who had come and sat down
by Penelope, speaking softly, as if unwilling
to interrupt. And then, through the other
window there entered a man, the dark outline
of whose figure alone was seen against the
dimly-lighted garden, and the music ceased,
for Matilda had risen.

Mr. Considine — at last. And we have
been looking for you since two o'clock. The
horses harnessed, lunch baskets packed, everything
ready. What an apology you have got
to make us ! I really do not think Penelope
can bring herself to forgive you, Whatever
you say."

Ealph gasped and started, stopped short,
looked wildly behind him, and catching hold of
a chair to steady himself, dropped into it in a
momentary palsy of fright.

Mr. Herkimer ! " Matilda corrected herself,
"What a ridiculous mistake!" and she coloured,

perhaps, but it was growing dark, and no inquisitive
eye was near. " You seem quite
faint with the heat. Muriel, get him some
wine and water. And Martha! I did not
observe you come in. Mr. Herkimer seems
quite poorly."

He has been out of sorts all day. Biliousness
and the heat combined. No ! You did
not observe me. It was impossible to mistake
my shadow for Considine's."

Ealph started and stamped his foot. That
man's name again ; and he striving so 'strenuously
to forget !

Are you worse ? Ealph," asked Martha,
noticing his movement. " I wonder, Matilda,
you should mistake Ealph for Considine.
They are both men, that is all the resemblance
I can see between them." And Martha smiled.

We expected Mr. Considine, that is all.
We have been looking for him since two
o'clock. He has not come, and he has not
sent. I never knew him serve us so before.
He is so very particular in general."

I should think so. Depend upon it there
is some good reason, or a message has miscarried."


Ealph writhed. Why would they speak of
the man ? It seemed as if they could speak
of no one else. And yet they did not know,

and they must not know. Nobody must
know ; and he must exert a vigorous control
upon himself. How was it that control should
be needed at all ? What weakness was this
that had fallen on him ? He did not understand
it. About a man already dead — done
with ; non-existent ; wiped like a cipher from
a slate — vanished and disappeared ?

Rescue.

The wooded islands which closed the river
view from St. Euphrase, shut out from sight
the homestead of Farmer Belmore lower down
the stream. Only the unreclaimed outskirts
of his land could be seen from the village,
repeating the shaggy bush of the islands upon
the farther shore, and carrying it backward
and upward to the sky line. A dense umbrageous
bush it was, containing much choice
timber, a resort of game, and also, in the
warm weather, of tramps, at times, and
specimens of the rougher dwellers in the city,
who sought in its leafy recesses temporary
change of abode, to the loss of neighbouring
gardens and hen-roosts. The farmer, however,
was safe while the depredators dwelt
upon his land, by tacit understanding ; and
therefore lie made a point of closing his
eyes, and never was cognizant of their
presence.

At this moment a gang of gypsies* were encamped
in Belmore's bush. Their waggons,
tents, and children had lain there for a week
or two, while the men scoured the surrounding
country, selling horses, and picking them
up, the screws in honest trade, the others as
might happen : for strays were certainly not
unfrequent about the time of their visits,
though none were ever traced into their
hands, which is not remarkable, as who
would look for a Canadian colt in New York
State, or a New York one in Ohio or Kentucky
?

These people, like other European products
transported to America, have thriven luxuriantly.
They have ceased to be tinkers,
though fortune-telling is still practised by the
women ; their donkeys have been exchanged
for waggons and horses, and they traverse the
settled States from the Gulf of Mexico to the St.
Lawrence, following the warm weather northward,
as the red-birds and wild canaries do,
and returning South again when summer is
over, in time to avoid the cold. Their native
love of wandering finds a wider range in their
new country, and they are comparatively

jennie J offers, queen of the gypsies in the United States,
died in Greenfield, Tennessee, March 10, 1884, and was buried at
Dayton, Ohio, April 16. Fifteen hundred gipsies from all
parts of the country were present. — America?! Paper.

wealthy, though still, as ever, they live in the
open air and apart from their fellow men.

The morning fires were alight in the gypsy
camp near the river bank. The meal was
over, but the children and the dogs still
brawled and scrambled for the scraps. The
women, and such young men as were not away,
had dispersed themselves along the woody
banks to fish or bathe ; and old Jess, the
mother of the gang, sat smoking her corn-cob
pipe upon a fallen pine which stretched far out,
dabbing its humbled plumage in the current,
and raising murmurs for its downfall in the lapping
of the water among its boughs. Jess sat
and smoked in the pleasant morning air, so full
of warmth and sunshine and gentle sound,
watching the smoke-rings vanish into air and
thinking the passive unconscious thoughts of
physical well-being, the thoughts which want
no words because they call for no expression.
The ox knows them, ruminating in his meadow ;
and mankind, innocent of printed lore, and
under no stress to act or say, must know them
too, in their harmonious vagueness, bringing the
luxury and refreshment of perfect sleep, without
the diminishment of sleep's unconsciousness.

The even movement of the glancing water
called up in a day-dream the images of bygone
things — her childhood and youth in



England, her voyage across the sea, her
husband and her sons ; and then her husband's
death, as he was fording Licken Eiver
hi a freshet, riding an unruly horse. The
current before her seemed to swell and
darken and grow turbid as she recalled the
affrighted beast plunging and floundering
through the swirling flood, swerve suddenly
aside, losing his footing, and roll over, disappearing
in a vortex, and by-and-by emerge
alone and struggle up the bank. It was a longtime
since it all had happened ; the very recollection
had ceased to be present in her daily
life, with its cares and enjoyments so completely
of the present — the affairs of her numerous
descendants and their hangers-on, over whom
she would fain retain authority as much as
might be ; and its equivalent, the money, in
her own hands.

This morning it felt different, the long ago
seemed more actual than the present as she
sat and smoked, her grizzled hair hanging
in wisps upon her shoulders, and her sun-bonnet
of yellow gingham pushed back
upon her head. A something in the water,
surging up through the surface and sinking
again, leaving rings upon the current coming
down, caught her eye as she sat gazing upstream.
It might only be a log, but yet, how

it carried back her thoughts to her old man
hurried down on that Licken freshet into the
muddy Ohio, and rolling on and on for hundreds
of miles through the yellow oozy water, till the
body stuck fast in a clay-bank and was hid forever.
It might be a log ; but no, it was not,
for now she saw white hair, which spread and
shrank ac^ain, as it sank and rose in the water.
A horse, was it ? or an ox, with a hide worth
stripping off to sell ? but no — it was a man !
She could see it plainly now, as it drifted near,
and she felt the thud as it struck against the
branches of her tree, branches which caught
it and blocked its forward course. A man !
and still alive, perhaps, for there was a redness
as from oozing blood around. She threw her
pipe away, and shouting to those within hail,
she leaped into the water and waded out with
the assistance of her tree. A youth had
hurried to her aid, the water did not reach
above his chest, and their united efforts drew
the body ashore.

A fine clean-limbed man," sighed Jess,
comparing him with her own old man, whom
partial hap, alas, had carried away for ever.
'' A fine strapping man, but never so spry as
thy own grander. Will. He tuas the man, but

he's away ; let's see to this coon. Hm " a

smothered exclamation, and a suspicious glance

at Will, to see if he had observed her pull a
diamond ring from the drowned man's finger ;
but Will's attention was drawn to something
else at the moment.

He ain't come by's end fair, granny," he
said ; " see to the blood on's back — running
still, by gum ! The man maybe ain't dead,
granny."

Granny slipped the ring into her mouth for
safety, till she should find leisure and privacy
to conceal it elsewhere, and then resumed her
interest in the drowned man.

Eunnin' sure, the blood is, Will. And
shot he's been. I heard the crack of a gun
up stream the now, I reckon, but I gave no
heed. Lay down his head, lad, and lift his
feet. Help shake the water out of him, and
roll him round. There was none by to roll
thy poor grander the day he fell in Licken
Eiver. Never fear to hurt him, lad ! The
man can't feel, and more's the pity. Shake
him well and roll him round, keep down his
head, and let the filthy water run off his stom-
mick." There was little of that same fluid
ever privileged to enter Jess's anatomy, or,
indeed to come near her person, save in the
inevitable form of rain or a fordable stream.

It was a rough and uncouth process of resuscitation,
in which the others, as they gathered

about, joined with energy, chafing the limbs,
rubbing, rolling, and kneading ; but fortunately
for himself Considine was unconscious of the
liberties which the gypsies were taking with
his person ; a brown skinned black-eyed
rabble, pawing, and pulling, and fingering
him all over, without diffidence or any
respect.

The warm sun and the vigorous handling
had their effect at last, a sigh escaped from
the inactive chest, and by-and-by another,
and then old Jess had him carried into the
bush and laid on her own bed in one of the
waggons, where she practised such surgery
as she knew in the way of binding up his
wound, poured a quantity of whisky down his
throat, and left him to sleep.

Just then some of the gypsies, who had come
on the boat lying grounded among the weedy
shallows round the island, brought it ashore ;
and Considine's towels and clothing were
appropriated and divided among the gang,
who then pushed the boat back into the
stream and let it drift. When this was done,
the camp sank back into rest and leisure.
The people wandered off into the bush, to spend
the summer day as liked them best, some to
stretch themselves in the shadow, others to
bask in the sun, while the children picked

berries or snared birds, a happy and unsophisticated
crew, till the lengthening
shadows of afternoon warned the women to
prepare supper against the return of their
men.

The men returned earlier than was expected.
A shrill whistle rang through the bush as they
appeared, which brought in the stragglers
from every direction to hover round the fire
and snufF in expectancy the savoury odours
which issued from the bubbling pots.

Eeuben, the chief man, led Jess aside,
muttering to her a rambling story of his
troubles during the day, which she listened
to with impatience and disgust.

As usual, Eeuben, alas getting in a row
along of them strays you pick up and let join
us. Thou'lt have the hull country raised again
us ere long, and we shan't know what to go
us as were so well liked every what a while
back."

It was yourself let him wive with Sail,
mother ; and you've no call to cast it up tome.
A fine thing it would have been to let
the pore wench go off with her lad, all alone ;
and her the handiest gal to tell a forth' 'twixt
here and Allegheny. Needs must when the
devil drives, so we let the coon stay. And
there's no harm in the lad as I kin see.

'cep' that he's kind o' soft like, and not peart.
He's clear off the now, and he's making' for
the Lines, but, like's not, they'll be down here
the morrow to look for him, and there's a
many thing's round this camp as wouldn't be
good for sheriffs men to see. We nun clear
out, mother ; clear out the night."

"I have a half-drownded man in the
waggon wi' me, lad — I pulled him out o' theater
myself, for the love o' your old dad as
is drownded and gone this many a year —
and what am I to do with 'n, think you ? "

Let him slide. Put him back what you
brought 'n from. I wants no stranger wi 's
this night."

We cud not leave him here for the sheriff
to find. They'd say we did for him. He
has a gunshot in's body as it is, and I hasn't
a rag to cover him wi' when we leave him.
You'd not be for given' him your own coat,
I reckon, and I know of nowt else, for I need
my blanket to keep my own old bones warm
o' nights. The lads have his pants, and boots,
and things among them, the gals have the
shirt and the towels, and I have the gold
ticker for yourself, Eeuben, and you wouldn't
be for hanging it round's neck, I reckon, to
show we didn't rob him, if we tote him to
Belmore's place afore we start."

Eeuben took the watch, opened it, held it
to his ear, bit the chain with his teeth,
tested it in such ways as occurred to him, and
finally, satisfied of its value, slipped it into his
pocket.

We'll have to take him, I repose. Keep
]him quiet, and keep the duds away from him.
He'll be bound to stay then, couldn't make off
ye know wi' nothing' but's own pelt on's back.
He'll kin pay for's liberty and new duds
afore long. And willing' too. But you'll have
to keep dark."

There was no light in the gypsy camp that
night. The fires had smouldered out, and
the shadows of the trees excluded every glance
of the moonlight. There was no sound
either ; no yelp of cur or cry of wakeful
infant ; only the hooting of a solitary owl
overhead, blinking at the moon through the
leaves, or the rustle of a fox stealing away
through the under bush, making off with a
half-picked bone. A mile away a creaking of
wheels labouring through deep encumbered
ruts, and the cracking]: of branches miofht
have been heard in the stillness, while dusky
figures shone momentarily in the moonlight
as they passed from one obscurity of shadow
to the next.

Ere morning the gang was encamped again
VOL. III. 36

in another quiet corner, twenty miles distant
from Belmore's bush, and next day they
resumed their retreat to the Vermont Line,
journeying calmly through a neighbourhood
which knew nothing of the misdoings of Sail's
husband.

Old Jess rode in the waggon with her
charge, nursing and caring for him with
much skill, but unable to extract the bullet
from his wound. That was now OTOwinsf
fevered and inflamed, the jolting must have
caused him pain, and might have elicited a
groan liable to be overheard at an inconvenient
moment ; but she contrived to keep
him in a drowse with strange drinks of her
own devising, which she administered to him,
and it was a whole day from the time of his
rescue before he was able to take note of his
situation. Even then his head was dizzy, his
shoulder ached ; his body was so wretched, and
his mind so confused, that he was glad to
turn round and court sleep and unconsciousness
again.

IT WAS ALL Webb's fault.

It was a day or two before Ealpli's nerves
recovered their tone. It mortified him to
discover that such things formed part of his
internal economy, for he had supposed himself
to resemble the strong and successful men of
history and finance, who march straight forward
to their purpose, looking neither behind
nor to either side, careless alike of the downtrodden
and the overthrown who mark their
onward path, conquering and to conquer. It
was a day or two before he calmed down, or,
as his wife expressed it, " got over that little
turn, which, now it was over, she was free to
confess, had made her feel real anxious."
The cares of business had been too much, she
thought, and she was sure he wanted a change.
Why would he not take her for a few weeks
to the sea ; or to the White Mountains she
was so fond of? Wh}^ keep a dog and be
always barking himself? Had he not made

36—2

Gerald a partner ? Then why not leave him
in charge of the business ? She was sure her
boy, with his inherited smartness and fine
education, could manage very well for a week
or two ; and at the worst there was always the
telegraph, and he could recall his father if he
found the responsibility too much for him.
Is he not a fine young man, Ealpli ? Own up
for once, though he is your own son."

Yes, my dear, certainly! — Very fine indeed,
and very nice — and a good lad to boot ; but
he knows no more of my business than you
do, and I do not wish that he ever should."

Martha sighed. She had her misofivimj^s
that there were depths and recesses in her
husband's thoughts and his affairs, which she
had never sounded or peered into, and which
might yield up skeletons and unwelcome
truths to an over-inquisitive search. She
had never attempted to know more than
was disclosed, therein manifesting her wisdom.
" Why should she, indeed ? " as she
asked herself. Ealpli had always been kind ;
once upon a time, at least, he had been more,
he had been really fond of her ; and, for
herself, she knew that she still loved him very
dearly, and therefore it was wisdom to keep
disturbing considerations out of sight. It is
so always. There is much in life to make the

moral perceptions jar. Good and evil are
linked in such close relations — concurrent
streams which occupy one channel amicably,
and with mutual convenience, but without
mingling — the wheat and tares growing up
together, and both contributing to the luxuriance
of the scene, however the strictly moral
eye may disapprove. Still, Martha had her
misgivings ; or rather, if she would have
heeded them, her intuitions. They started
from the most trivial grounds, an inadvertent
phrase, a laugh, or even a shrug of scorn, at
something good or noble, which betrayed that
there were things, and not so far either from
the gates of speech, which, if they came forth,
would raise a barrier between them which
could never be pulled down ; and so, as the
guardian of her own happiness and peace, she
resolutely turned her observation the other
way, rather than see what it would cost her
far too dear to know, as leading to an alienation
worse than widowhood ; for there could
be mingled with it no tender regret, no hope,
or even wish for reunion.

Then is Gerald to have no holidays this
year ? " said Martha, by way of resuming the
talk. " If you will not go away yourself you
may surely send him''

I don't think he wants to travel farther

was finished. No, sir-ree ! Not if I know
it."

But, my dear fellow, I really do not know
whom you are talking about. I assure sou. I
have not seen or heard of him since the other
evening when we called on him together."

Who has seen him since then, I should
like to know ? But it is clear you know well
enough what I'm driving at. Now, tell me,
for we have little time to act in, have you
taken any steps towards getting hold of his
papers yet ? "

What steps would you wish me to take ?
or rather, what steps would be possible?
Podevin — his host, remember, and the man
has no one belonging to him, or more nearly
interested in him, in this country — thinks he
must have gone to New York by the early
train the other morning ; that he went straight
from his room to the station without going
into the hotel. You see the train stops for
breakfast at that small station, fifty miles
down the line. So he is no way disturbed at
his guest's absence, who has taken his room
for the season, and goes and comes as he
likes."

But the man is drowned ! I saw him sink
with my own e3^es."

If you will report that to the authorities.

it will both simplify and hasten matters.
Only the first question which they will ask is
sure to be why you waited so many days
before saying a word. The heat, no doubt,
may be made to account for a good deal, but
you had better have medical advice before
committing yourself."

But there is the boat. He undressed in
the boat. That will tell the whole story.
One of Podevin's boats, too."

Ha ! Yes ; I think I remember, now you
mention it, Randolph's telling us at dinner,
yesterday, that Podevin's boat-house had
been broken open and a boat carried off —
yes, and the boat was picked up far down
the river, and brought back all safe. And
the old man has been fretting himself to make
out which of his servants could have given
it, for he is sure the boat-house has been
opened from the inside. Not a word about
clothes, though, and you see there is no
anxiety whatever about his disappearance.
We must wait. The body may be found."

But I am 2^oin2f off — off' to the White
Mountains with my wife, for the rest of the
warm weather, and there is no saying when I
shall get back."

No ; I suppose not."

And I want to take those securities, or

was finished. Xo, sir-ree ! Not if I know
it."

But, my dear fellow, I really do not know
whom you are talking about. I assure you I
have not seen or heard of him since the other
evening when we called on him together."

Who has seen him since then, I should
like to know ? But it is clear you know well
enough what I'm driving at. Now, tell me,
for Ave have little time to act in, have you
taken any steps towards getting hold of his
papers yet ? "

What steps would you wish me to take ?
or rather, what steps would be possible?
Podevin — his host, remember, and the man
has no one belonging to him, or more nearly
interested in him, in this country — thinks he
must have gone to New York by the early
train the other mornings ; that he Event straight
from his room to the station without going
into the hotel. You see the train stops for
breakfast at that small station, fifty miles
down the line. So he is no Avay disturbed at
his guest's absence, who has taken his room
for the season, and goes and comes as he
likes."

But the man is drowned ! I saw him sink
with my own eyes."

If you will report that to the authorities.

it will both simplify and hasten matters.
Only the first question which they will ask is
sure to be why you waited so many days
before saying a word. The heat, no doubt,
may be made to account for a good deal, but
you had better have medical advice before
committing yourself."

But there is the boat. He undressed in
the boat. That will tell the whole story.
One of Podevin's boats, too."

Ha ! Yes ; I think I remember, now you
mention it, Randolph's telling us at dinner,
yesterday, that Podevin's boat-house had
been broken open and a boat carried off —
yes, and the boat was picked up far down
the river, and brought back all safe. And
the old man has been fretting himself to make
out which of his servants could have given
it, for he is sure the boat-house has been
opened from the inside. Not a word about
clothes, though, and you see there is no
anxiety whatever about his disappearance.
"We must wait. The body may be found."

But I am going off — off* to the White
Mountains with my wife, for the rest of the
warm weather, and there is no saying when I
shall get back."

No ; I suppose not."

And I want to take those securities, or

whatever they are — you don't seem to know
yourself? a pretty trustee! — along with me.
Can I depend on you to send them after
me?"

You should know. Would you do it yourself?"
and Jordan, braced into self-assertion
by the overbearing tone of the other, looked
defiantly in his face. "In a year and ten
months from now your son will have a right
to dictate, if, as C-onsidine phrased it the
other evening, he shall then prove to be the
heir. In the meantime, I am accountable
only to my fellow trustee, and if he does not
call me to account I know of no one else in
the position to do so. At the same time,
your assistance in unloading my copper
shares might be of vast benefit to me, and
I am willing to pay for that, and pay handsomely,
though it is idle to discuss at present
what I may see my way to doing if ever I
become sole trustee."

Ealph turned away with a shrug to buy
his morning newspaper. " Brag is a good
dog, but Hold-fast is a better," was all he
said to himself as he seated himself in the
railway carriage, and began to look over
the news. It was a truism he had long been
familiar with, but one which came pleasant
when he happened to own Hold-fast, instead

of poor Brag. However, one must fight the
dog he happens to have, there are chances,
always, only one need not lament when what
might have been expected comes to pass.
It did seem to him, however, that he had
very needlessly befouled himself with crime ;
he was going to make nothing out of it,
that was pretty clear, and, as he cynically
expressed it, the devil was picking him up a
bargain, dirt cheap. His hide, however —
his moral hide, that is — was tough and
callous, and he congratulated himself on the
circumstance. So long as the "untoward
incident " was not known, it should not
interfere with his appetite or his spirits.
Already he had become accustomed to that
ugly word " murderer " in his mind ; it was
bearable he found, so long as it carried no
external mark ; though he regretted it, undoubtedly,
now that it had turned out so
utterly useless. As there was every prospect
of its never being known, he would survive it
well enough, he felt ; but he would take precious
good care next time that there should
be no mistake about the quid pro quo, before
again running the risk of so many ugly possibilities.


He reached town busied with these reflections,
and hurried to his office, where he soon

was deep in the correspondence of the days
he had been absent, with Stinson behind his
chair contributing condensed verbal information
by way of commentary as he went
along.

Yes, Stinson, you'll do," he said, when he
had laid down the last letter. " You've been
a good clerk, and an apt pupiL You have
feathered your nest nicely, I make no doubt,
and when the house goes up, as it must, in
three weeks at the outside — I think I can
keep it standing till then — you will be in a
good position, no one better, to start for
yourself; and, with what I have taught you,
to make your fortune right off. You will be
able to start at once, I say, but if you take
the advice of an old friend — who has not
been a bad friend to you either, though I
say it — you will wait on here and wind
up the business. The creditors will be
only too glad to have you. In fact, there is
no one else who ever will unravel things.
You will, and can, make your own terms with
them, I doubt not ; and the only favour I
have to ask of you is that you will do what
you can to let that boy Gerald down easy, and
get him his discharge as soon as possible. It
is well for him now, that he should have
been so unfit for business — financial business,

I mean, or rather, perhaps, our special application
of the science of finance. He would
have done well in some steady, old-fashioned,
respectable concern, I make no doubt, for
he is not a fool; but he wants enterprise,
vim, go, and he has too many scruples for a
rising man. His mother, good woman, has
spoiled his prospects for life in this walk ;
but, as he will probably be independent,
perhaps it is best so. There's nothing like
high-souled honour to keep a man's head up
in the world — when he can afford it, that is
I never could, not till after my road was
chosen, at least, when it would have been too
late ; so broad views in economics and morals
were the only ones for me, and I fancy some
of my admirers will find them to have been
even broader than they thought, after I
have cleared out, and they find their money
scattered past picking up again. But this
is digression, Stinson ; never mind nne, only
keep the boy's name clean. It would break
his spirit and kill his mother — the truest
woman alive — if any reproach fell on him.
Fling everything on me, I shall have so much
to carry that a trifle more or less will make
no matter. And, after all, when Pikes
Peak and Montana comes up to par, I shall
be back again with a pocketful of money big

enough to make them all keep quiet. If anybody
strong enough to carry on a lawsuit for
years has a colourable claim, I can settle
with him out of court ; and as for the small
fry, I shall snap my fingers at them, and they
will think me a finer fellow than ever for
being able to over-ride them. They're like
dogs, they reverence the man who can hide
them soundly. But I talk discursive this
morning. Eh, Stinson ? I hope you will
impress upon the lad, what, indeed, is the
fact, and what the books of the firm show
conclusively, and that is, that the firm is
solvent — almost, that is ; ninety-eight cents to
the dollar they show, and there would be a
surplus, if the firm's funds had not been
diverted to my private operations, with which
he has no concern, and which it would be
casting a reflection on me for him now to
touch. There is the Bank, the Copper Company,
and the St. Lawrence and Hudson's
Bay, in which he has absolutely no interest
whatever. If the creditors of these come to
]him with representations, and claims of
honour — I know how they will put it — asking
him to promise a payment out of my
uncle's fortune when he gets it, tell him
from me, that I expect him as a good son to
close his ears to every slanderous story, and

to have nothing to do with those who tell it,
and never to admit the possibility of such
claims having a foundation, by attempting to
settle them. It will not surprise me much if
that inheritance of his turns out to be no
great thing after all. It has not been in the

most judicious keeping, and But see, who

is that at the door. Tell him, whoever he is,
I am engaged, and can't see him. There are
several drawers full of papers in the safe —
the accumulation of years — I shall need your
memory to help me, perhaps. We will tackle
them to-day in case of accidents."

"Engaged most particularly," cried Stanton,
unbolting the door and holding it ajar.
Can see nobody, Mr. Jordan. Indeed, sir
you cannot come in— no, indeed ! "

Stand back, you fool. Don't I tell you
I must ? " and Jordan, looking red and white
in patches, hot and cold at once, his hat on
his head askew, and his waistcoat torn open,
struggled in, pushing Stinson aside, closing
the door again, and locking it himself.

See here ! Herkimer. Have you been
served with this? — I have got one as solicitor,
but you as president should be served
also, and so should each individual director,
I hold, and I mean to push the point as to
their being served individually ; but there

can be no question about the necessity of
serving the president."

"What is it? Let me see. Hm ! Webb
V. St. Euphrase Mining Association. Motion
to show cause — pay dividend. Don't know,
I'm sure. It may be in the outer office.
Have been busy this morning — let nobody in
but you — and that was only because Stinson
failed to keep you out. Ask in the office as
you go out, they will tell you — if you think it
of consequence."

Consequence ? If they have not served
you I can certainly get the hearing postponed,
and secure time to unload."

Time to unload ? Who wants to unload ?
don't. I unloaded long ago."

"But /do."

And pray, Mr. Jordan, what of that ? You
are not a director of this company — only the
solicitor, its paid professional adviser. Send
in your bill, it will be filed with the rest of
the claims, and rank as the law prescribes
when we go into liquidation."

Good God ! Ealph It will ruin me ! "
Jordan had grown all white now, and beads
of moisture were standing on his forehead.
We must stave off this argument in court.
The shares will be unsaleable at a cent in
the dollar. As it is, my brokers have been

able to get off none for three days back — some
inkling of this, no doubt. But if I can stave
off the argument in court for a fortnight,
there will be time for us to circulate encouraging
rumours."

Us 1 What have I to do with it ? I will
have no hand in circulating false reports.
Understand that clearly, Mr. Jordan. I
wonder what I can have done " — turning to
Stinson, who stood by the door enjoying the
comedy — " to give any one the right to approach
me with such a proposal," and he blew
his nose loudly, grinning the while under cover
of his pocket-handkerchief.

Do you want to ruin me, Herkimer ? I
have all the shares I ever took up still on my
hands, not only those I subscribed for, but all
Eouget's, and I was to have given him up his
mortgage in payment of them ; but I had
already realized that, and bought more of
your infernal shares with the money ; and
now, the fat's in the fire ! If I can't unload I
am a ruined and a dishonoured man. Everything
I have will go, and then the Law Society
will come down on me for irregularities, when
I have lost the ability to square the benchers,
and I shall be disbarred. Ealph ! " and he
clasped his hands, " I shall be ruined if you
do not help me at this pinch. You must ! "
VOL III. 37

I don't seem to see it. I fear it is impossible.
Unfortunate, of course ; but just
what happens constantly, when a man leaves
the groove of his own profession, and ventures
into fields of enterprise he does not understand,
and has no experience in. You lawyers
are so very superior to the rest of us. You
go into court and talk so glibly of our affairs,
and so much more knowingly than we can do
ourselves, that by-and-by you persuade yourselves
that you really understand them. Then
you try a hand at them yourselves, and then
you cut your fingers. It is droll, my dear
fellow. Forgive my saying so, but as a man
of the world you must see it yourself ; and if
only it had been some one else you would
have appreciated the humour of the situation
thoroughly."

"Keep your jesting, Mr. Herkimer, for a
more seemly opportunity," cried Jordan, rallying:
into something like manhood under the
sting of the other's gibes. " It will prove no
very amusing jest for yourself if I am ruined.
Your son's inheritance is involved with my
fortune, and both must sink or swim together.
Eemember that ! I have something in my
power, too, so beware ! "

I know. You seem to have forgotten our
conversation this morning very quickly. You

then defined your position with a frankness
which left nothing more to say. You made
it perfectly clear that you would never leave
hold on my uncle's fortune till we compelled
you, and we cannot do that at present. If
you saved your money at the present pinch,
you would lose it again next opportunity ; or,
at least, you would make sure that we should
not get at it. No ! Mr. Jordan. I shall put in
no rejoinder, or whatever may be the proper
name for it. Mr. Webb may have his order,
and welcome, for any obstruction from me.
In fact, as I am taking my wife on a tour
through the White Mountains, it would be
inconvenient for me to be detained watching
a lawsuit. If I might suggest, change of
scene will be beneficial to your own health, asa
relief from the worries of share-jobbing.
Meanwhile, let me wish you good-bye. No
saying how long it may be before we meet
again. StinsonI Let's get on with those
papers. I think I may be able to get away
to the White Mountains tomorrow."

The very next morning Martha, escorted
by Ealph, set out on a journey of pleasure
through the White Mountains ; and a day or
two later, Amelia Jordan, tantalized out of
patience by her husband's continued 



castigation as to their summer holiday, went
off to Long Branch alone, and it was not raan}^
days later that Jordan himself did not appear
at his office, though where he had gone nobody
knew. Some said he had followed his
wife to the fashionable seaside resort, others,
that he had joined Herkimer in his travels.
The latter view became the popular one ; it
kept the two names conjoined, which seemed
best, they came up together so often now in
the talk on 'Change ; for the great house in
the Eue des Borgnes — Ealph Herkimer & Son
had come down, and great was the fall
of it, the Banque Sangs Pretense was involved
in the ruin, so was the Mining Association
of St. Euphrase, and so were other
important concerns. They had all tumbled
together in one confusion of ruin which set
the ears of the public ringing, and filled their
eyes with so much dust that they could see
nothing clearly ; but Jordan having been
heard to anathematize " that fellow Webb,"
it was universally held during the worst days
of the excitement that he had originated or
precipitated the calamity for his own base ends.
In truth, Webb was one of the severest
sufferers, his fellow-directors having taken the
hint to save themselves in time, and even to
make money out of it ; while he, good man,

found all his savings and all his ready money
evaporated in smoke or converted into scrip fit
for nothing but pipe-lights, with impending
possibilities of litigation, should any victimized
shareholder be tempted to throw good money
after bad and relieve his indignation with a lawsuit.
But then he had the high moral satisfaction
of having vindicated his superior probity
in his own eyes — the world's, I fear, were so
busy with its own affairs that they took no heed.
He lay down at night with an easy conscience
and a light pocket, if sometimes a heavy heart,
for it must be confessed that his neighbours'
non-appreciation of his virtuous conduct was
afflicting. But he was young still, and strong,
and sanguine, and his farm and stock were
fairly good. He would make money yet, he
vowed, if only Providence would spare him in
the land of the living ; and that — money-making,
I mean — is, as all the world knows,
the whole duty of man.

Webb realized, however, that he must now
have a woman in his household, to help
him to make it quickly ; not a hireling,
as heretofore, in his days of bachelorhood and
prosperity, to be courted and considered at
every turn, lest she should go off and
leave him, but a lawful wife ; tied to his
homestead bv the institutions of God and

man, to churn this butter, fatten his poultry,
and look after his comfort ; and do it,
too, for life, without other wage than her keep,
and the dignity of being a married woman.

He had had dreams, like other young men,
of a being with golden hair and wonderful
eyes, a human bird of paradise, for whom he
was to build a delightful bower, and live
happy with her in it for ever after ; but the
day for fantastic dreaming was gone by ; birds
of paradise are expensive, and he had no
money. He must content himself with less,
with a serviceable work-a-day barn-door fowl,
content to roost anywhere, and for whom a
nest of wholesome straw would be as meet
as a gilded aviary for the other — and such
a one rose before his mind's eye in the person
of Betsey Bunce. "A homely girl," as he
told himself, " but active and handy, able to
bake and mend, and willing to do it" — for him
at least, he flattered himself. She was "awful
homely," he confessed as he mused ; " and a
fool about her clothes, but if he looked after
the spending, as he ' allowed ' to do, he would
have her dressed sensibly enough, he flattered
himself, so soon as her wedding' finery wore
out."

He did not feel as if he could ever come to
be foolishly fond of her, but he thought he

lead descried tokens that she was not indisposed
to attach herself to him. So there
would be a certain modicum of love to furnish
out their board, and if it was not he who provided
it, at least he would be its object, which
was the next best thing, and as much, perhaps,
as a man could look for, after losing his
money. Wherefore he made up his mind, and
the very next Sunday after church he put his
resolve in practice.

JOE PROPOSES.

Betsey was one of the last to come out of
church on a Sunday morning now. She hung
behind while her aunt lingered to exchange
the news with her neighbours. Since the day
when she had hastened to give the Misses Stanley
"a bit of her mind' relative to Muriel's
parentage and rearing, a something more than
coldness had sprung up. Miss Matilda's words
on that occasion had been few, but scorching,
and the look of withering disgust, which accompanied
them, had been more than even
her obtuse conceit and forwardness could bear
up against. She had not dared to face the
ladies since, and, they being in the heart of the
group of lingerers, Betsey felt constrained to
remain outside the circle, a sort of martyr to
the truth, ruminating in silence on the consequences
of proclaiming it, at least when the
proclamation is ill-timed or ill-natured.

The circle melted away in time, beginning

with Muriel and Gerald Herkimer — who, in
his bankruptcy and the absence of his family,
partook of many dinners and a great deal of
delightful sympathy at the ladies' residence —
and ending with Penelope and Matilda, the
latter of whom, though she exhibited fitful outbursts
of vivacity, appeared depressed, and far
from in good form. It was observed by those
who saw them drive from the church door that,
instead of taking the reins herself, she let the
servant drive, quite contrary to her usual
custom ; but then Mr. Considine had been in
the habit of returning with the ladies from
church, and his presence at Matilda's elbow
may have been necessary to give her confidence.


Betsey reached the open air at last, feeling
unusually meek and chastened under the lack
of notice she had been experiencing ; and in
the revulsion of feeling which ensued when
Mr. Joe Webb stepped forward, and, after
ceremoniously inquiring for her health, asked
if she would not favour him with her company
for a buggy ride down the road, while her
dinner was " di^Jiing up " at home, it is not
remarkable if she " entrusted a little," to cull
a flower of speech from the English column of
the Journal de St. Euplirase.

"- On ! Thank you, Squire ! that will be

nice " — I fear fully was the word she used,
this sweet Western flower, but means much
the same thing, only a little more so.

Then come along ! In with you ! And
we'll be stepping," which was perhaps a more
free-and-easy mode of address than Mr. Joe's
wont, for he prided himself on his fine manners
with the ladies ; but he was trying to get up
his courage by a little premature audacity for
what was to follow.

Proposing matrimony in cold blood — did
you ever try it, my reader? — is a serious
matter, or so Joe Webb thought. His mind
had been made up on the point, the night
before; in the morning he saw no reason to
change it, but he observed that the sky looked
heavy. If it had drawn to rain he would not
have been sorry, for he could, without loss of
self-respect, have remained at home, and postponed
his undertaking. The weather kept up
however, and he went to church ; but very few,
I fear, were the prayers he joined m.

What he was intending to do would keep continually
rising before his mind ; not as it had
done overnight in the comfortable after-phases,
when My Lord Benedict should have entered on
his domestic felicity, with slippers toasting inside
the fender against his return from the field
pipes filled, and tobacco fetched, without his

needing to leave the lounge where he reposed,
but in the onerous stage of how to do it.
What should he say ? and how would she take
it? Should he take her hand before beginning: ?
It would be establishing a sort of hold upon
her attention. But if she objected to that by
an unauthorized individual? — yet the very
objection would give the opening to explain,
which he desired. Only — how about getting
hold of the hand ? It might be holding up
her parasol. To snatch at it would bringdown
the article with a flap, which would
frighten the horse! Weil, he did not mind
that. He could quiet him well enough with a
cut of the whip. But how about the lady?
How to quiet her ? The whip would not do
there, yet a while ; though later, he had been
credibly informed that Blackstone authorizes
such doings on the part of husbands, provided
the stick be no thicker than their thumbs.
But the lady might refuse to be reassured ; she
might insist on being let down, or worse, she
might actually say. No. No ! The word
whistled through his mind like a gust of icy
wind, it was so new and so unexpected an idea.
He must feel tremulous, no doubt, till he
should be answered '' yes," but he could not
bring himself to contemplate the opposite. It
would be so utter a quencher to — well, if not

to love for hei which was an eventually he
could contemplate with some tranquillity, at
least to his self-love, which was too near his
heart to be thought of without dismay. He
would be, like a railway guard standing on the
roof of a carriage, and sweeping through space
at forty miles an hour, when unexpectedly
there comes a bridge which he has not looked
for, or bowed his head to in time, it catches
him between the eyes with a blow irresistible
and swift, which snuffs him out of existence,
and casts him away, and leaves him a lifeless
wreck upon the track.

Altogether Joe had not a happy or an edifying
service of it that day in church. A man's
own fancies can fret and worry him worse than
the words of others, they hit all the raw places
so much more surely. He hastened from the
sacred fane with the very earliest to go, and
stood and watched and waited till Betsey should
appear among the other dispersing worshippers,
she was long of appearing, and by-and-by he
began to think, with a very distinct sense of
relief, that she was not there and he must defer
the task he had set himself to another day,
when, behold ! the very last to come out, she
appeared ; and, seizing himself by the collar, as
it were, he marched himself into her presence,
and solicited the honour of a drive. Betsey

was gracious and compliant, and did not take
long to mount into the buggy ; he sprang in
after, and away they went.

The pace was good ; Joe kept fast cattle, and
knew how to drive them ; but the conversation
flagged. How can a man with a purpose — so
deadly to himself, at least — be at his ease, and
alive to the trifles which lead up to untrammelled
talk ? How can he be otherwise than
distraught ? There is a purpose at his breast
hanging heavy as lead, and he feels, poor creature,
as though cold water were running down
his neck. " Had it been a dance," he thought,
to which he was leading the girl out, it would
have been different." The music and the rhythm
and the motion of a waltz bring on a gentle
enthusiasm, and the sense of support and protection
conduce to the tenderness which a man
should feel at such a moment ; but this was
only a buggy-ride ; the two were perched up
together behind a horse in heat and dust, and
for the life of him he could not make up his
mind what he ought to say. He had heard of
fellows proposing in a buggy, but now when he
tried it, it was not the place it was cracked upto
be ; " and he sat in perturbed silence.

Betsey was at her ease, however ; she suspected
nothing, and she was elated at being
borne off* in a cloud of dust before the eyes

of the women who had slighted and ignored
her five minutes before. Some people it
seemed — men people, too — thought her worthy
of notice. She felt exultant, and she prattled.
She wriggled, too, just a very little, which is
scarcely dignified, perhaps, but comes natural
to some people in moments of exuberance.
She talked of the weather till some other
subject should arise, like the rest of us who
are born to speak English, but he answered
nothing ; and then she asked him if a shower
would not do good to his turnips.

He answered " yes," to that, which is not
an easy rejoinder to build the next observation
upon ; but then he was busy with his
horse at the moment, for he hit him a cross
cut with the whip, and twitched his nose and
eyebrows impatiently. And then there was a
lull, and silence disturbed only by the steady
pounding of the horse's feet, and the rasping
of a wheel against an occasional stone.

We were so sorry to hear," Betsey said at
last, after the silence had lasted some time, and
was beginning to grow oppressive ; " so very
sorry to hear that you have lost money by
those Herkimers. Do you remember, I told
you the very last time we met what I thought
of them, and that it was not much ? But
that warning came too late to benefit you, I

suppose. Is it not absurd the way that young
Gerald goes fooling around Muriel up the
way? It is just what might be expected
from a girl like her, who don't belong to anybody,
for all her airs ; but I confess I am
sorry to see his infatuation, though perhaps
it only serves the Herkimers right — the stuck-up
lot. I always saw through them — insincere,
and all show ; though of course I would not
have said it, on account of their relationship
to x\unt Judy ; but now, really, it seems downright
wrong to hold one's tongue, and looks
like countenancing their on-going," and Betsey
stopped to take breath.

Joe availed himself of the stoppage to take
up his parable. "Yes, Miss Betsey," he said,
it is quite true. I have lost the savings often
years, and all the ready money my father
left. Quite true."

Ah ! " sighed Betsey very softly.

"But I'm to the fore still; and you just
wait and see if I don't make some more — and
more than I have been echoed out of."

"I like to hear a man speak like that ! It
sounds so strong and capable."

"Do you think you could like the man himself.
Miss Betsey ? Mind you, it ain't all
talking with me ! It's going to be real, hard,
downright doing — living' ofl" what my own

farm raises, and wearing' homespun off the
backs of my own sheep, Uke a habitant ; freezing
on to every copper cent I can scrape, and
laying it all by. It will be a hard and a dull
life for the first year or two ; but it's a good
farm, and well-stocked, and in three or four
years' time, when I have bought a new reaper,
and a few such tricks, and brought in another
hundred acres of useless bush, with my own
hard work and the hired boys, I believe
things will be on the road to grow better than
ever ; for, though maybe you would not
think it, I have thrown away a deal of money
on nonsense in my time. But that's over
now. What do you think of it yourself. Miss
Betsey?"

Betsey turned and looked at him with opening
eyes, and met a steadfast gaze more
bewildering still, which made her drop them
again, and look away. "Think? I think it
sounds brave in you to speak like that. A
man should never lose heart ! "

"But it's yourself, I mean. Would you
like it yourself? "

If I were a man, that's how I'd like to be.
I'd love to play the man so."

But it ain't the mani you'd be expected to
play. Miss Betsey. It would be the ivife.''

Betsey coloured and looked a little hurt.



It's too serious a subject to play with, Mr.
Webb."

But it ain't play. It's good, downright,
honest earnest I mean."

I don't understand you." >

'' Could you bring yourself to marry a fellow
who has lost his money, and is hard up ? "

"I don't know, Mr. Webb," she laughed
uncomfortably, and a little inclined to take
(silence at such a catechism being pressed on
her, while she sat helpless in the hurrying
trap." " It would depend altogether on who
the 'fellow' was."

It's me ! Miss Betsey. Wil you take me ?
I'm no great match for any gut now, I know
til at ; but icill join take me ? "

"I don't like fooling' on such subjects, Mr.
Webb ; and it wasn't gentleman-like of you to
bring me away in your buggy to talk like
this." Her face was scarlet, as she said it,
and looked in his ; but there was no bantering
smile thereat a catch came in her throat,
which sent the blood throbbing down to her
linger tips, as the idea crossed her mind that
the man was in earnest. In that case, however,
he would speak again, so she said no
more.

"But this ain't fooling'. Miss Betsey, and I
don't know what right you have to accuse me
VOL. III. 38

of such. Did any one ever know me, man or
boy, to tell a lie ? I ask you plainly, Betsey
Bunce, will you marry me ? "

*' Oh, laws ! Joe Webb — I never — let me
out here ! I never — oh ! you've took me all
of a heap. Stop the buggy."

Joe drew rein, and stopped the equipage in
the middle of the road, just where the shadow
of a tall poplar by the Wayside would shelter
them from the sun ; and there he sat, looking
hot about the temples, and trying to settle his
eyes on the tips of his horse's ears, because
these could not return the look, while he
dared not turn elsewhere for fear a mocking
glance should meet him and complete this discomfiture,
as he sat there awaiting his answer,
feeling like a fool who has surrendered his
shoulders to the s miters— a trapped animal
awaiting the arrival of the hunters — the man
who has put it in a girl's power to say she
refused him. It was a moment of dread and
suspense for Joe.

Betsey fanned herself vehemently — what a
privilege a fan must be, sometimes. Since
their stoppage she had become less eager to
alight. She made no move, sat perfectly still,
and let the ]perturbation of her spirits expend
itself in fannin£,^ She was coming to herself
again. And, oh ! so pleasantly. " What a

"5

puss she had been ! And that — most wonderful
of all — without suspecting it herself.
And there he was on his knees before her ! or
what was just the same thing, perched at her
el])ow in infinite discomfort, looking all the
colours of .the rainbow in his misery." " And
sh(nild she have him ? that was the point. If
she had snared him without knowing it, might
there not be others sighing in secret ? " She
glanced at him over her fan— that precious
fan ! — glanced over it as the timid fawn does
over a park paling, and then is off to hide its
head in a bush when the keeper comes insight."
And how handsome he was ! and how
foolish he looked, poor fellow, getting himself
into a state about poor she ! It was delightful.
And he so broad-shouldered and manly ! She
could not find it in her heart to cause hi mi
pain — especially when he had made herself so-happy.
And those old maids she had parted
from at church, how she pitied them ! Holy
lie should continue to pity them all the rest
of her life — her married life!" She peeped
over the fan agahi, and there was poor Joc:
fidgeting worse than ever — for all the world,
like a bull at a bull-baiting — tied to the stake,,
unable to get away, amid fears and fancies at.
his own absurd position, like the yelping curs,
which plague the noble brute. Then she

38—2

glanced along the road. A cloud of dust was
approaching, a waggon within it, for already
she could hear the rattle of wheels and the
clank of harness. Already Joe was rousing
himself and gathering up his reins for a start.
Time was np. If she let this opportunity pass,
and allowed matters to fall back into everyday
life, how would she ever bring them np
again to this point ? It was provoking, the
dalliance was so pleasant, but she could not
risk a slip ; so, shutting her eyes, and shutting
np her fan, she took the leap — and
just in time, for the buggy was already in
motion.

She said it very softly. What she said Joe
could not hear for the noise of the wheels,
very likely she did not know precisely herself
what it was ; but they both took it to mean
consent, and Joe, so soon as that lumbering
waggon was fairly past, stooped down and
sealed it on her lips, as in duty bound.

Then there was a silence of some duration,
though both were too busy with their own
thoughts to notice it ; till at length Joe remembered
that the purpose of their expedition
was fulfilled, and asked his companion if she
did not think they had better return. Betsey
was ready to think whatever her Joe thought,
leaning up With an undesirable closeness that

warm day. and softly fanning their joint
countenances with a fond and lingering motion
of her fan. In time she heaved a sigh, deep
and full of overflowing enjoyment, and then
she spoke.

Do you know, Joe dear, you have given
me a great surprise to-day ? "

Joe's ti<]^ht-s trained feelings had run themselves
down now. He felt — " tired in his inside,"
I fear, would have been his inelegant
expression, and longed for a glass of beer. He
felt incapable of conversation, and even a
little grumpy, perhaps. Such strange and inconsistent
creatures are the men.

Betsey's over-roughness was quite of
another kind. Her nervous excitement, once
fairly past the turn of the tide, was inclined, as
Hamlet would have had his solid flesh incline,
to " melt and dissolve itself into a dew " — of
verbiage and watery talk. It was of a soliloquizing
tendency, too, which, though prone to
(questionings, passed on from one to the next,
indifferent to non-reply.

This has been all a great surprise ; I never
thought that sou really cared for me. Was
it not strange?" and she looked up in his
face grown stolid, and beginning to show unmistakable
signs of crossness, and fanned him
fondly, smiling into dimples, like the rapturous

maidens in " Patience," when they enthral their
poet with garlands.

"I thought it would have been the pretty
Miss Auvergne, you were so attentive to— — "'

She Avould not marry a poor man, and a
poor man, could not afford to marry her'' and
then Joe stopped. He would have liked to
kick himself for an unmannerly brute ; for
alas ! the soft impeachment was all too true.
He coughed and spluttered. Fortunately,
Betsey was too full of her own pleasant reflections
to heed anything, but he felt he must
get away and calm down, or something worse
might escape him which would not pass unnoticed,
so he pulled up by the road-side just
on the outskirts of the villas.

"Would you mind if I set you down here,
Betsey ? It is getting Late. The calves should
have been watered an hour ago, and Baptiste
and Laurent are both away."

To be sure, Joe ! A farmer's wife must
take an interest in the calves, and I mean todo
my duty," and she sprang gaily out, and
stood looking after the man and outfit as they
trotted off, with a sense of proprietorship which
was new and very pleasant.

The rector and his wife delayed their dinner
half-an-hour, and then sat down, wondering

what had become of Betsey. They had nearly
finished when she whirled in, a tumultuous
arrangement of white musKn and enthusiasm.

Oh, auntie ! Oh, Uncle Dionysius ! " She
involved first one and then the other in her
manifold frills and puffing by way of embrace.
Congratulate me! — do ! — Just think ! ''

Sit down, Betsey, and calm yourself,"
remonstrated the rector, " and then, perhaps,
it may be possible to think. Meanwhile you
take our breath away. Have you had your
dinner'? "

Well, no. But I don't care — or rather, I
dare say I icill take just a morsel. What have
you been having? Chickens? Well, I will
take just a bone, and a good plateful of salad,
and the rest of that melon. That's all I want.
Such news I Only guess ! But you would
never thiidv. Fact is, the squire— Squire
Webb — has — what do you think ? "

Why ! " cried Aunt Judy, " I saw you go
for a drive with him ? — Oh ! — Indeed."

AT GORHAM.

Mrs. Martha Herkimer, with her husband,
travelling at their leisure in " Noo Hampshire,"
the country of her girlhood, was a happy
woman. He was constantly with her, had
few letters to Avrite, and no men to talk
business with. He seemed to have laid
business aside, would read this newspaper
beside her of a morning, and drive with her
in the afternoon, to admire the scenery —
objects of interest," the American says,
meaning everything the residents plume
themselves upon, from the Falls of Niagara,
should they possess them, to the new schoolhouse
at the Five-mile Cross Roads.

It felt like a renewal of the honeymoon, or
those delightful " latter rains," spoken of in
scripture, when the thirsty earth, long parched
and chapped with drought, drinks in once
more the life-restoring moisture, and clothes
itself anew with OTass and verdure. He told

lier one day that this house had suspended
payment and he was bankrupt, but as they
were travelling with every comfort, and there
seemed no lack of money, she accepted it as
one of the inscrutable phenomena of the
commercial world, which she had long given
up attempting to understand. Her Ealph,
she told herself, could have done nothing
wrong. He was fonder of money, and harder
and keener about acquiring it, she feared, than
was perhaps, perfectly right. Her father had
been a preacher of the old Puritan school,
ministering to villagers in a sequestered valley,
and warning them against worldliness and the
race for wealth, the world of wealth being an
unknown country there about. If Ealph had
lost some of his gatherings now, it might be for
his greater good perhaps in other Avays. She
saw many around her who had failed, and yet
lived comfortably and respected afterwards,
and she would not be sorry if such were to
be the fate of her own good man. It would
wean him from the hurry and worry of
business, and let him stay more at home than
theretofore, to his own good, very probably,
and assuredly to her greater happiness.

They travelled about, by road and rail,
from one summer hotel to another — there are
many of them in the White Mountains —

climbing mountains, sailing on ponds, and
honeymooning it delightfully all day long, and
now they were arriving at Gorham by the
evening train, meaning to ascend Mount
Washington, already distinguished by his
snow-tipped summit, on the morrow. It was
a purple evening, With the eastward slopes of
the valley reddening in the afterglow, while
cool blue shadows stole out of hollows to the
westward, forerunners of the twilight. The
people on the platform stood in bright relief
as the train drew up at the station, and
Martha's eye took them all in as she alighted.

What ? " she cried, " General Considine !
you here ? " She felt a bump between her
shoulders from the wallet of Ealph close behind
her, as though he stumbled. "Ealph! "
and she turned round, but Ealph was gone —
ozone back for something[ left behind no doubt.
'' General," and she ran up to him and took
his hand, while Considine looked disturbed,
and said nothing.

What have you been about, general ?
Nobody has seen you, nobody knew you were
away ; and one of your friends — you know
who — is far from pleased, I can tell you. But
say! — your arm in a sling? Ob, general,
you have not been fighting, at your time of
day, I do hope. When 1 was a girl we always

said a Southern man must have been fighting
if he was tied up any way. What have you
been doing ? A hunting accident ? "

Madam," Considine began, clearing his
throat, and looking tall and sternly in the
good woman's face, who was regarding him
with such friendly eyes. He coughed again,
his face softened, and showed signs of discomposure.
How could he speak as he felt to
this good soul about her own husband, and
tell her he was a murderer ? He would have
liked to get away from her without saying
anything ; but she had mentioned *' a friend,"
the friend to whom he was at that moment
hastening back to apologize for, or at least to
explain, his absence. He would like to know
beforehand what the friend was saying, and
for that, self-control and reticence, combined
if necessary with invention, were needed. He
coughed again. Martha's last words, " hunting
accident," still hanging on his ear, came to
his tongue-tip of itself.

Yes. Hunting accident — gun accident,
that is. Thought I was killed. Insensible.
A gang of tramps found me, and robbed me —
they wore my own clothes before my eyes,
the rascals — and saved my life. And now
that they have cashed the cheque they made
me give them in payment of the treatment,

they have discharged me cured. But what do
the Miss Stanleyss says ? "

Matildy was mighty huffy at first. ' You
should have called to explain, or sent a note
to apologize,' she said. But dien you went
on doing neither, she grew down hearted like,
took it to heart serious, I do believe,
though she has never owned up as much to
anybody. But, if once she makes sure you
are in the land of the living', see if you don't
catch it, that's all. I guess I shouldn't like
to be you, dien you call to explain, unless
you can make the narrative real thrilling'.
But how was it, general? You must come upto
the hotel with us and see Ealph — I don't
see where that man's run to — and tell us all
about them tramps. Do, now, general, like
a dear."

Impossible, Mrs. Herkimer. I go to
Montreal by this very train. Good-bye."

PLANTING HYACINTHS.

Desdemona listening to the Moor is a parallel
not now used for the first time. The " cultured
" reader has met it before. But whereto
find a better? Matilda sat and listened
with open-eyed attention while Considine told
Iiis story.

She had received him with some slight
display of coolness, when he first appeared,
but without question and comment. If the
men cared no more than to forget their little
plan of a lunch in the woods, of what consequence
could it possibly be to them ? They
would kriow better than trouble him with
their little female festivities again, that was
all ; and if he had been indifferent or rude, at
least they knew better than make themselves
absurd by showing offence. It was "good
morning, Mr. Considine," when lie appeared.
So sorry Penelope has gone out. However,
she is only down at the farm, talking to

}3riineaii. She will be back presently." Considine
had to say everything for himself,
without the assistance which even pretending
to call him to account would have given ;
while all the time he recognized how deeply
he must have offended by the severity with
which he was chilled and sat upon, as Miss
Matilda went on most industriously with her
embroidery.

I failed to turn up at your pic-nic, Miss
Matilda."

Oh ! It was no consequence. I dare say
you would have found it dull if you had come.
As it was, the day was so sultry we felt sure
it would thunder, and did not go"

But I really wished to go, Miss Matilda. I
was most desirous — — "

Matilda lifted her face to smile a sweet incredulous
smile on the visitor, and then went
on with her work.

But it is so, Miss Matilda. I beg you will
believe me. And do j^ou suppose I would
not have sent you word if it had been
]possible ? "

We were surprised at that, now I remember.
But it was not a party. It was
nothing. Pray do not mention it ! "

But I must, Miss Matilda. It was most
important to me ! "

Miss Matilda laid lier work in lier lap and
looked up.

I went to bed, Miss Matilda, intending to
join your expedition. I got up next morning,
still intending it, at six o'clock. You were
not to start till eleven. I bathe every morning
in the river. I went out in a boat, as
usual — one of Podevin's boats. I plunged in
and swam — ^^just as I always do — when a
rascal — I will not name him — took aim at me
from the shore, and shot me in the shoulder.
You see my arm is in a sling*'

Oh ! " cried Matilda, half rising and dropping
the work ; " I did not notice your poor
arm, Mr. Considine. Indeed I did not. Shot
you in the arm ? Did it hurt much ? Shot —
You ? Pray tell me about it. Who was the
person ? "

A person we both know. But you must
not mention his name. Not that he deserves
any consideration from honest folks, but for
his wife's sake, who is a good woman, and
would be horrified if she knew. It was Kalpli
Herkimer."

Ealph Herkimer ! But why ? "

He called on me with Jordan the night
before, asking me to give up his uncle's
money, which I hold in trust. You may have
heard of the uncle's curious will, which tied

up the money out of Ealpli's reach. Ah ! he
knew the rascaL I could not give up the
money. It avouch have been a breach of trust.
And t50, the very next morning, he fires at me
while I am swimming in the river. Fired and
struck me. I tried to regain the boat, but I
could not. I was crippled of an arm, and I
sank, and know no more"'

Mr. Considine ! " and Matilda rose and
came to the sofa where he sat, her cheek
blanched, and betraying an interest which
made him feel glad that he had suffered, to
call it forth.

'rand— well, Mr. Considine, what then?"
The next thing I knew, I was barely conscious
; but I was on dry land, feeling sick
and stupid, and more dead than alive. A
whole crowd of people were about me, shaking
me, punching me, pulling me, bumping
me, Avliile I only wished they would let me
alone, and let me die ; for already I had gone
through all the horrors of drowning, and this
seemed like an after-death. And then I
found myself among blankets, and some one—
a witch she looked like — was forcing whisky
down my throat, and fingering my wounded
shoulder. I was drowsy and miserable, and,
thinking I was already dead, I wondered if
all this was for my sins. And then I slept, I

suppose, for when I woke next it was dark
or nearly so ; and there was a jolting and
rumbling which set my poor shoulder aching
miserably ; and I tried to sit up, but someone
pushed me down again and bade me keep
still. When I looked, the witch was
perched upon my pillow, with the moonlight
slanting through her grisly hair, and a long
skinny arm pressing me down. She forced
more whisky into my mouth, and then I
slept."

Oh ! Mr. Considine. Wliat an experience
! "

I woke again, and it was daylight, and the
old hag seated on my pillow had fallen asleep.
I sat up slowly and with difficulty, for I was
stiff and sore. I was in a waggon under a tree.
I tried to rise, but could find nothing save mv
blanket to dress in. The hag opened her eyes
and looked at me, and grinned, and asked me
what I wanted to do. I said, ' to go home,'
and then she laughed out, pointing to me, and
reminding me I had no clothing ; and at the
sound of her voice there gathered round a
whole crowd of swarthy vagabonds, grinning
at me, and jeering, and when I looked at them,
one rascal was wearing my coat, and another
kicked up his heels and showed me my boots.
A pimpled baby was rolled up in my nice
VOL. in. 39

clean shirt, and the captain of the gang pulling
my watch out of his pocket, told me it
was only five o'clock, and a heap too early fora
swell cove ' to think of rising. I was their
prisoner, in short, though I must confess the
old woman attended to my wounded shoulder
very kindly ; bathing it with cool water
several times a day, and bandaging it as well
as one of our surgeons could have done during
the war. They kept me several days with
them, in their journeyings and camping,
travelling by all kinds of bye-ways and
unfrequented places, and keeping me concealed
whenever strangers came about the
camp. They crossed the Lines, by-and-bye,
and travelled into the States. I knew that by
the nasal Yankee twano^ of the strangers' voices,
though great care was taken that I should not
get speech of them — and then, one day, the
captain, the fellow, at least, who wore my
watch, told me he thought I was strong
«nou£fli to travel now, and if I would crime
them some money to buy me clothes, and pay
for the care they had taken of me, I might go
my ways. I was so helplessly in their power,
that we did not haggle long about the price,
though it was a pretty steep one. I wrote
them a cheque, which they carried to a neighbouring
bank, and so soon as my bankers had

honoured it I was set at liberty. I put in a
bad time, Miss Matilda, I promise you ; but,
if you will believe me, what vexed me most of
all was to think how I had kept you waiting,
and never been able to send a word of excuse.
When I was drowning in the river, it was my
very last thought, I remember, and when I
came to myself it was my first."

Oh ! Mr. Considine. How very nice of
you to say so. But don't ! It is really too
dreadful. It is horrible. I never did hear
anything so frightful. And you say that
Ealph Herkimer did this abominable deed ?
Are you sure you are not mistaken ? Or it
may laye been an accident."

Not a bit of it. I saw him as plain as I
see you, and it was no accident. I saw him
shoulder his gun to fire again, while I was
struggling in the water, in case I had succeeded
in gaining my boat. '

You will laye him taken up, Mr. Considine?
It seems wrongs and dangerous to
leave such a person at large."

I would if it were not for his wife. But
you knoAy how she would suffer. She never
would be able to show face again. No ! For
her sake I mean to let the thing pass ; and
you must promise me, Miss Matilda, you will
never mention it."

39—2

How noble of you ! Mr. Considine. I
shall never be able to look at the ruffian
again. And his son is here constantly. But
we must put a stop to that. It will vex poor
Muriel, I fear, but she will see the reason of
the thing. You will allow me to explain to
Muriel ? There they go ; passed the window
this very minute. The assassin ! "

Nay ! Miss Matilda. Let me intercede
for the lad. There is no harm in my young
friend Gerald. A fine manly youngster — this
mother's son, every inch of him. No, no,
my little Muriel — forgive the freedom — must
know least of all. Younsr love ! Miss Matilda.
It is a charming sight to see. So full, and so
trusting — so all-in-all, and yet so delicate
and dainty. So fleeting, sometimes. Always
so fragile and so irreparable if it gets a bruise.
So hopeless to try and bring back its early
lustre if once it grows dim. So — but — I'm a
maundering old fogey, I suppose. Forgive
an old bachelor's drivel. Miss Matilda."

There's nothing to forgive, Mr. Considine.
I sympa — I agree with — it's all so true !
There's nothing like youth in all the world,
and — love — but, there now ! These are things
which middle-aged people have no business
with "

"But surely, Miss Matilda. We— they —

the middle-aged — have business with that ?
If our hearts have remained unwithered by
the world — if there should still be a germ of
life at the core, though hidden by the rind
which time brings for a protection, like the
scales on a hyacinth root in a gardener's
drawer, do you not think it allowable and
even fitting, that when warmth gets at them,
and moisture, they may sprout forth worthily,
even if out of season, each after its kind ?
Do you suppose a sound heart can ever grow
incapable of love. Miss Matilda ? Will love
ever die ? "

Ah ! " and Matilda looked upward. " My
own feeling. So true ! So comforting !
Love never dies. The poets say so. Beyond
the grave are we not assured that still and forever
we shall love ? But yet — but yet— I fear
sometimes that it shows a grovellingness in
myself, that I do not cherish the thought
more eagerly — as we grow older should our
affections not take a higher flight ? I long so
for more warmth, and regret my coldness and
frivolity ; but I feel going to church so little
helpful."

You are lonely. Miss Matilda. Aspiring
after unseen goodness is a high and abstract
flight. It needs companionship. I, too, know
what it means. But a man in the world is

little able to withdraw his thoughts from
worldliness, and I am alone. With help — a
good woman's help — Matilda ! May I say it?
as I have long felt it ? — with yours "

He took her hand and held it, looking i]i
her face.

She did not seem to hear him at first, her
eyes were far away. And then she grew to
feel the intentness of his gaze, and drew away
her hands to hold before her face, Moliere a
blush was rising ; for the look spoke more of
a human than immortal love, and it confused
her.

We will be friends," she said.

But friendship will not be enough for me,
Matilda. You must be my wife."

Matilda was white now. She leaned back in
the sofa, and her head fell forward. It seemed
to Considine that she would faint, and he had
risen to ring, when she recovered self-control,
and looked up in his face.

Being a lady of an earlier generation, when
fainting was occasionally practised as a climax
to emotion, and brides sometimes wept at the
altar on bidding adieu to the associations of
their youth, allowance must be made for
Matilda by young women of the modern and
roster school, who can ratify an engagement
for life with the same outward composure

as one for the next valse. The modes
of emotional expression and disguise are as
much a question of date as the fashions in
hair-dressing. Matilda was no more a lackadaisical
fool than you are, my good madam ;
nor are you, I do believe, one whit more hard
or heartless than she, whom I take to have
been a good and affectionate woman.

Penelope came in from the farm not long
after, and there was much to tell her. Considine
was persuaded to remain for dinner,
and went away in the evening a happy man.

The hyacinths were getting their chance at
last, and he promised himself that with care
and shelter they would sprout yet, and bloom
in the autumn, as fragrantly and gay as with
other fortune they might have done in spring.

Randolph S BUCKLING.

There was a across match at Montreal that
September, the Indians of Brautford against
the Indians of Cauo^hnawacfa, at which that
section of the community interested in sport,
and now returned from the regattas of the
coast, mustered strong. The Across Club,
the letters-up of the exhibition, were there ina
body, the school boys were all there, and
the betting men, as well as those who are
willing to go anywhere on a fine day on any
pretext, and the ladies, who like to see what
is the excitement which draws the latter class
the butterfly class— together.

See how the Caughnawagas have got the
ball, and are carrying it on, and on. There
there ! They will win. Almost at the goal.
But, ah ! That little fellow ! He seems only
a boy. How he breaks through them — See !
He has got it away — caught it on his across
throws it back over his shoulder — away

back past them all. Not a Cauglinawaga near
it. And now Brautford has got it. They
strike it again and again. Won ! By Jove !
Brautford has won. Who would have
thought it ? "

It was Randolph Jordan who spoke, springing
on his chair and waving his hat in the
general tumult of applause, and the cheering
for "Little Brautford," who now rejoined his
comrades amidst the loud plaudits in which
they all shared, but which where especially for
him who had earned the victory. They had
won the first game.

Randolph occupied a chair in front of the
grand stand, and beside him sat Adeline
Eouget, dressed in cardinal red and white,
tolerably conspicuous, and not objecting to be
looked at ; but still better pleased with the
evident admiration in Randolph's eyes, and
the devoted attention he was paying her, than
with anything else. They were old friends,
those two, now. Their friendship dated from
the night of their first tobogganing together,
when Randolph had discovered to his surprise
that mademoiselle was " really a jolly girl,
and with no nonsense in her." They had
many another tobogganing after that first, and
many a jolly waltz, and found that they suited
each other to a nicety. Both were fairly good

looking, and always well got up, and each felt
the presence of the other was a credit and set-off
to one's self in the eyes of the world to
which both belonged. It is a strong point
in a friendship when one is sure that
it looks well. A friend of the other sex,
with whom one groups badly, may be a
delightful companion at home or in the
country ; but what pleasure can there be in
being seen in society dancing with a guy ?
A certain share of the ridicule will fall on
one's self. It must always show one at a disadvantage,
and if it is a dance, how can even
the finest figure and get-up look well, if
awkwardly held or turned round, or rumpled
as to flounces, and so forth ? — or hung upon,
or stood away from, as if people were
marionettes ?

These two young people realized that they
looked well together. Their friends had told
them so frequently ; therefore it was indubitable,
even if they had not known it
themselves. Their relations had also told
them that they should marry, and as each
found the other extremely "jolly" and companionable,
and saw in a joint establishment
an indefinite prolongation of the gaieties of
the past six months, they where nothing loth.
People said they were engaged, and they supposed

SO themselves ; in fact, they must have
been, for in their conversations that was taken
for granted. They were not of a " spoony "
disposition, as they said themselves, however,
and found many other things to talk about
more interesting than an analysis of their
affections; and nothing but opposition applied
to their head-strong tempers could have fanned
their easy-going preference into an appearance
of genuine strength. That stimulus was now
afforded by the lady's papa, in a way both
sudden and unexpected.

Randolph had resumed his seat beside his
companion, and plied the fan for her, while
she managed the parasol, so as to make a
small tent, from under which they could scan
their neighbours while greatly sheltered themselves.
There was a tap on Randolph's
shoulder, accompanied by " Permit me, sir."

Randolph looked round. " Mr. Eouget !
Good morning, sir. I did not think we should
have had the happiness to see you here —
believed you were in New York. When did
you arrive in Montreal ? " His hand was
held out while he spoke, expectant of being
shaken, but it remained untouched. This
might have been an oversight, though Mr.
Eouget was scrupulously particular in such
matters, as a rule ; but on the present occasion

he seemed resolved there should be no mistake.
The extended hand not having been
withdrawn when the speaker ceased, he drew
himself u]) to the top notch of his stature —
it was French stature, and not excessive —
placing his hands behind his back with a look
of lowering majesty and indignation, which
made him as overhanging and colossal, if also
as stagy, as was possible.

Sir ! Permit me to pass you."

Randolph drew half a step aside, and backward
; it was all he could do, owing to his
companion's close proximity.

I wish to speak to mademoiselle, my
daughter."

"Adeline is here, sir ; " showing with his left
hand how the parent might place himself on
her other side.

Mademoiselle Eouget will dispense vit
your presence, sir," with severe dignity ;
and he stepped, not as ushered by Randolph's
left hand, but in the direction of his right, the
consequence being that his foot caught between
the legs of Randolph's chair, and he
found himself prostrated on the turf.

'amon Dieu I " cried Adeline, rising and
taking refuge with one of her friends, a few
chairs off, under the impression that a brawl
in public was imminent, and screening herself

from all share in it with her parasol, while she
continued to watch the scene through the
fringes.

Sac-r-r-7'e" growled the father, passing
from dignity into fury. Dignity cannot possibly
survive a trip up with a chair leg, and
there is no refuge from the ridicule of the
thing but in anger.

You would dare knock me down ?
Coquinf' as he regained his feet, grasping his
cane, and gnawing his white moustache between
his teeth.

Pardon me, Mr. Eouget," said Professor
Hammerstone, coming forward and dusting a
blade of grass with his handkerchief from the
angry gentleman's sleeve. " I hope you have
not hurt yourself. I was standing by, and
you must forgive my saying that our young
friend here is really not to blame for this little
accident. It is all the fault of those foolish
chairs. I have bruised my own shins with
them. The club would have done better to
provide benches. Jordan is as innocent of
the contretemps as I am."

Eouget bowed — what else could he do ? —
and thanked Professor Hammerstone, who at
least had done him the kindness of giving him
a cue to modulate back naturally into the
ordinary manner of civilized men ; but he

scowled at Randolph, who, in the bewilderment
caused by Eouget's unexpected address
they had parted last as any expectant father
and son-in-law might, three weeks before —
had nearly laughed at his sudden downfall.

I will request you to walk aside vit me
one instant, sir. Dis vay."

Randolph followed, and presently they were
out of the crowd, pacing the grass in silence.
Eouget cleared his throat, pushed out his
chest, and strove to be grand once more.

"It surprises me, Mistaire Jordan, to observe
you in ze society of Mademoiselle Eouget. I
demand sat you do not intrude yourself
again."

"Not speak to my promised wife, Mr.
Eouget? I do not understand."

"Understand zen, sir, sat mademoiselle is
no more professed to you. You mus be fol
to expect it. Ze son of your fader mus know
so much. He has vat you call ' chiselled '
and ' gouged' me of my money, and my shares,
and land. He has "

Mr. Eouget ! Is it the part of a gentleman
to speak of my father in such terms tome
? I did not think you would have done it.
I know nothing of business transactions between
you and my father. I presume both
are men of the world. It would be impertinent

in me to inquire into your affairs. But
you yourself have sanctioned my pretensions
to Adeline's hand, and our engagement."

Have ze bounty to speake of Mademoiselle
Eouget by her proper title — Mademoiselle
Rouget de LaHache — young sir! Ze promesse
or contract is now forfeit, as you should know,
by ze chicane of — of monsieur voice pere''
with a shrug and a low bow. " I mus
request you will not again intrude yourself onze
presence of mademoiselle my daughter,
who is on ze point to make a retraite at ze
Convent of ze Sacred Heart, and von day may
have ze blessedness to become religieuse.
Mademoiselle Eouget will not be at home to you
in future." And thereupon the little gentleman
executed his very finest bow, exhibiting
both rows of his perfectly-fitting false teeth
from ear to ear, and turned away. He was
surprised, a minute later, on turning his head,
to observe that Randolph, at a yard or two of
distance, was pursuing the same course as himself
towards where his daughter was sitting.

Mistaire Jordan ! I protest ! Have I not
defended you from coming in presence of my
daughter ? Would you draw esclandre on
mademoiselle before tout le monde ? "

I must return Mademoiselle Eouget's fan,
sir."

Eouget held forth his hand ready to become
the bearer ; but, disregarding the motion,
Randolph only quickened his pace, Eouget
following as quickly as he dared without
appearing to run a race.

Randolph arrived first, and presented the
fan, sapping, " I shall pass your garden gate
ten minutes before seven, and withdrew intime
to make way for Eouget, who presented
his arm with -a ceremonious bow, and led his
daughter from the ground.

Their walk homeward could not have been
a happy one. When Randolph met Adeline,
at ten minutes before seven, her face was
flushed and her eves swollen.

Adeline ! have you consented to be made
a nun, then ? "

Not if I know it ! Not if my Eandolphe
sees true."

"Are you game to run away, Adeline? It
would be a sin to cut off all that splendid
hair. My mother is at Long Branch. Shall
we go to her ? I have money enough to take
us down."

Long Branch ! It would be divine ! my
Eandolphe. Ze saison sees not yet there passed.
I will go. But — for ze toilettes? And so
many are demanded sere. But yes ! I do see
ze vay. I will send ze robes to cette chere

Mile. Petitot, and lie will forward by express."


The very thing ! I hate the bother of
women's trunks. Besides, we could not get
them out of the house. You can stroll in to
Mile. Petitot after dinner and explain. She
will do anything to oblige a friend. And
then your maid can bundle the things over
the wall, from the one garden to the other,
and Mile. Petitot will do the rest. Our
train leaves at half-past eleven to-night. I
shall be at the corner with a cab at eleven
sharp. Be sure and bring as little baggage
as you can ; nothing but what I can carry on
the run from here to the corner, for you know
we might be chased, and then it would be
convent, sure — a hand-bag is the best thing."

"There is the dinner bell. Au revoir. I
shall be ready at eleven."

Amelia Jordan was surprised rather than
pleased, three days after, when the cards of
her " children " were brought up to her with
her morning tea. They had arrived late overnight,
she was told, too late to disturb her, and
they hoped to see her at breakfast about ten.

Oh, you imprudent children ! " she cried
an hour later, meeting them in a broad verandah
overlooking the sea. " You impetuous,
VOL. III. 40

inconsiderate, absurd pair of children. And to
come to Long Branch, of all places. Do you
know how much a day it costs to live here?
And what about gowns, Adeline? You can
scarcely come down to breakfast, even once,
in that travelling suit, and assuredly you must
not be seen in it again after half-past eleven."

We came to you, mother, because we had
no one else," said Kandolph. " Adeline has
run away, without a single thing, unless Mile.
Petitot should send her some clothes, and that
depends on the maid's being able to throw
them over the garden wall."

You pair of babies ! Adeline, the very
wisest thing that you can do is to go right
back home again."

They'd stick her into a convent, mother.
Her father told me himself he meant to.
Besides, she's your daughter now as much as
his. We stopped over in New York yesterday
and got married."

Good gracious ! I never heard anything
so preposterous. And how do you propose
to live ? "

We mean to live with you mother, to comfort
your failing years like dutiful children ? "

Well, now, that really is kind of you,
I must say. The sooner I get back to my
quiet little house at St. Euphrase, then, the

better. I cannot afford to support a family
of three at Long Branch. It costs a great
deal too much for the mere living, not to
speak of the dressing. Again, at St. Euphrase,
I can make you young people work for your
board, as, of course, being honest, you would
like. Randolph shall dig the garden and
Adeline shall milk the cows. That will save
me two servants' wages."

"J/a25,??ia(ia??i^," whimpered Adeline, "Randolph
has me professed to come to Long
Branch for to see ze gaieties."

My child, you have no clothes to appear
in. You will have to look at the gaieties from

o

your bedroom window, and even your meals
will have to be brought 3'ou. Are you aware
that three new gowns every day is the smallest
number in which any self-respecting woman
can appear at Long Branch? You need not
smile, it is no laughing matter. You will
compromise me hopelessly if you come downstairs,
and, I may add, that any things Mile.
Petitot may send you will not help you here.
Tailor-made gowns are de rigueui\ and above
all, they must be indubitably new, and worn
for the very first time. I would recommend
a bilious attack, my dear ; keep your room.
And, after all, a fictitious attack of bile is
better than the real thing. I will arrange for

40—2

our going back to Canada, and with that
view, perhaps, I had better begin by writing
your mother. She will be anxious to know
Avhat has become of you, and I dare say I shall
be able to make your peace now, more easily
than later."

"Ah! Chere madame, do not write. Sey
will send me to ze convent. I know so veil.
And never to come out again. And sere I
shall be made make ze grande retraite for always
for marrying me vidout consent. And
it will be so triste, Iisly e pitied, ma 7nere.''

"My dear child, you may trust me. I have
no intention of giving you up, all the archbishops
in Lower Canada shall not deprive my
boy of his wife. Now, be sensible, for once !
Go back to your room, and I will do my
best for you."

And poor Adeline, like a naughty child,
went upstairs to her room.

That day Amelia had a long letter to write.
She liked letter writing, for she imagined she
had a talent for affairs, and this is what she
wrote :

Long Branch.
My Dear Madame Eouget,

I have been so startled this morning
by the thirdly undreamt of appearance of

your daughter in company with my boy Randolph.
They informed me that they stopped
over at New York and were married, and
have now come on here to favour me with a
visit during their honeymoon. I am powerless,
therefore, to separate them, as otherwise
I would. I hasten to inform you of this,
judging from my own feelings that you will
be thankful to learn that your daughter, on
her disappearance, has fallen into good hands.
At the same time, permit me to assure you,
dear Madame Eouget, that this — I scarcely
know how to express my feelings on the subject
— this elopement is none of my devising.
I neither instigated, assisted, nor approve
it. The children are of different faiths, and I
fear poor Adeline has no fortune, and no prospect
of ever having any. She has come here
claiming my maternal care, and, actually, she
has not a gown fit to appear at breakfast in.
I have recommended her to keep her room,
and, if you are the reasonable person I have
believed you, I shall see that she stays there
till she has received her mother's forgiveness
for this very foolish step. Indeed, it is superabundantly
foolish, and you may assure M.
Eouget, from me, that I deplore it far more
than he possibly can. To think that my
cherished son should have married a French

woman, and without dot. It is mortifying.
When there are differences of religion
there ought to be compensation. M. Eouget
will reply that it is owing to Randolph's
father that his daughter is not suitably
covered. Perhaps so ; I shall not express an
opinion ; but, for myself, I feel untrammelled
by such a consideration. When I was married
myself, my dearest father saw that I did not
go to my husband penniless. He availed himself
of our admirable Lower Canada law, and
I was separate des Mens. I have my own income,
which no one can touch, and my own
house at St. Euphrase, bought with my own
money. If La Hache — what is left of it — were
settled on your daughter in the same way, it
might prove a blessing some day.

"And this brings me to my purpose in writing
you. Dear Madame Eouget, had we not better
make a virtue of necessity and accept an accomplished
fact ? It would be better, surely, to
have our children properly married in a church
than merely for them to have been buckled
together by a Yankee magistrate. My boy
insists that M. Eouo-et shall assure him on
this point before he returns to Canada. His
wife, as lie calls her, being under legal age,
if any difficulty is made, he threatens to continue
living in this country, which I am sure

you would regret as much as I shall. As to
their plans, the young people can live with me
till some employment is found for Randolph.
The Minister of Drainage and Irrigation should
be able to find him something.

'• As to their religion, they have already
settled that question for themselves, having
adopted civil marriage. Had Randolph's suit
progressed, as was at one time contemplated,
it is probable that, as he is no bigot, he might
have acquiesced in any wishes of his fiancee
or her family ; but now they have forbidden
the match, and yet it has taken place. I will
not consent to any disrespect being now shown
to our venerable Church of England, and, indeed,
I have never been able to understand
how one section of the Catholic Church can
claim superiority over another. No doubt
when the present difficulty shall have been
arranged, the young couple, who appear
devotedly attached to each other, will grow
into each other's views, and both be of the
same communion. Meanwhile, I am aware
that in your church there are difficulties connected
with mixed marriages ; but his grace
the archbishop, as I have been informed,
holds discretionary power to grant a dispensation
for sufficient reason. I am confident
his grace will see such reasons in the

present case, as otherwise our hapless children
will be condemned to remain in this
most devout republic, and may become
the prey of no one knows what pernicious
sect.

Assuring you of my entire sympathy, and
begging that you will not defer your reply,
for in truth the hotel bills at Lone: Branch fora
party of three are enough to make one
shudder, believe me,

Dear Madame Eouget,

Yours in parallel tribulation,
Amelia Jordan."

.Now ! " cried the lady, throwing down
her pen ; " I defy them to pretend that
ice wanted their alliance ! " Then she read
the letter over, frowning at it critically the
while.

"It is an impertinent letter — or insolent,
rather ; but what is one to do ? If one shows
a tittle of respect they take it as their due, and
become so hoity-toity one can do nothing with
them."

The letter duly reached its destination, and
was fumed and growled over by magnates
both of Church and State. Nothing could be
done, however, and, therefore, like prudent
people, they yielded — yielded, too, with a very

tolerable grace ; and Amelia returned to St.
Euphrase triumphant, leading her children
in her suite, and with a vastly heightened
opinion of her own cleverness.

AT CAUGHNAWAGA.

The across match proceeded all the same,
though M. Eouget had withdrawn the patronage
of his presence. The interest felt in the
second game was greater than that in the first.
Every one with money to stake was on the quivive;
the chances were considered even now,
whereas in the first innings, every one believed
in Caughnawaga, and odds had to be given to
tempt the few down-hearted Upper Canadians
to back Brautford. The second game ended
like the first, to the general surprise, and again
Brautford's success was largely due to the
clever stripling, who, bounding about the field
as nimbly as the ball itself, was always where
he was most wanted, and calmly did the best
thing to do at the time. " Who is the little
one ? " was asked on every hand ; but no one
was ready with an answer other than the
obvious one, " Injun, like the rest," till a
squaw — one of the many who circulated

among the crowd, brown as horse chestnuts,
with little beads of eyes and broad flat faces,
arrayed in moccasins and blankets, yellow,
red, and blue, selling bark and bead work —
vouchsafed the laconic information, " name
Paul."

The third game was longer and more
obstinately contested than either of its predecessors.
Caughnawaga braced itself for a
supreme effort, under the reproaches of its
backers and the taunts of the very squaws.
The best of five were to take the stakes. If
Brautford won this third, the match was over,
and Cauo'hnawaf]^a " knocked into a cocked
hat." The players fought their most strenuous
on either side, with tight set teeth and wicked-looking
eyes, which boded ill for joint or limb
which should happen within the swing of a
across. Caughnawaga was desperate, following
up its capture of the ball with a compact
rush, and interposing their wiry bodies recklessly
between it and the uplifted sticks of the
other side. Rushing and scuffling, they had
carried it nearly to their goal, another lick,
and the game were won ; when, in front,
there leaped the redoubtable Paul, scooped
it up on his netting, and threw it back over
their heads.

It was done in a moment, while yet the rush

and impetus were unstemmed ; an instant later
and he was stumbled upon and run down by
his eager opponents, trampled on and stunned,
before they could stay themselves in their
rush. They tripped over him and fell in a
heap, while the Brautford men caught the ball
in the undefended middle and had little
opposition in carrying it to the other goal.

Brautford ! Hurrah for Brautford ! " The
Caughnawaga's heard the shout while they
were still disentangling and picking themselves
up, a defeated band. They picked themselves
up and slunk away like cats, that, raiding a
dairy, are suddenly drenched and discomfited
by an ambushed milker. Only Paul was left
on the ground, stunned and unable to rise.

His comrades were the first to miss him ;
and they, perhaps, were reminded of him by
their backers in the crowd, for triumph is a
self-engrossing passion, and glory so sweet a
sugar-stick, that, while sucking it, we are not
too likely to go in search of the comrade to
whom the most of it is due.

Where is the young 'un ? " was questioned
in the crowd. '• Where is Paul ? " and the
crowd turned to the now deserted portion of
the field where he had last been seen. He was
there still. A squaw in a red blanket was
beside him ; she had raised his head and was

chafing this temples. Another squaw — a
young one, this — was seen fetching water to
pour on him. But now the crowd was interested,
they had gathered round him, and
soon carried him into the refreshment tent,
where whisky, the sporting man's nostrum,
was used to restore him.

The notable Indians on the ground, the
elders who did not join in youthful sports, had
gathered to look at the youth who had done
so well, and who might yet, for anything they
could know, come forth one day, a champion
of their race. For who can tell what fancies
may be cherished by the red man ? The
white does not sympathize with them, and
therefore he puts them away, behind his impenetrable
stolidity of bearing, which might
conceal so much, but more frequently and
with equal success hides nothing at all. They
where once possessors of the land, in so far, at
least, as being there, for they shared it with
the beasts. Traditions of the physical prowess
of their fathers are handed down among them,
and who can tell but, in their dreams, they may
look forward to a hero like those of old to arise
and vindicate their place among the whites.

Our old friend, Paul, of long ago, was a
leading figure among these elders, and one of
evident consideration. A tall man, grown

iiesliy from ease and lack of exercise, the
violent exercises of his youth, with his straight
black hair threaded plentifully with white — a
respectable " Indian, one seemingly well todo.
The token of his respectability was likewise
that which deprived him of every vestige
of dignity or grace, to wit, a suit of rusty black
clothes. It is the queer tribute of respect
which men of other races pay to our European
civilization. They cast away their native
braveries and picturesqueness of apparel, and
accept the clothing of the white man taken at
its baldest and worst. An Indian, a Japanese,
or a negro, goes into full dress by putting on
a chimney-pot hat and black raiment, resembling
that worn by undertakers' mutes, never
well-fitting, never well cared for, and harmonizing
vilely with his dusky skin, while his own
natural instincts can arrange combinations so
suitable and becoming.

Paul stepped forward to where the lad lay,
and surveyed the shapely limbs. He was
conscious now, but still dull and stupid, and
not averse to being a centre of interest. Paul
laid his hand on his brow, and felt his chest,
and thought he was as fine a man of his years
as he ever beheld. The squaw in the red
blanket looked up at him, while she continued
to chafe the boy's hands, and seemed greatly

moved ; but it would have been unworthy of
a " respectable " Indian of Paul's standing, to
take notice of a squaw on a public occasion
like the present. He moved away, and out of
the throng in time, preparing to smoke a pipe
in quiet. The squaw in the red blanket
followed him, and when she had got him well
out of notice, that his lordly superiority might
not be ruffled by the familiarity in public,
she laid her hand on his arm, and said,
Paul."

Paul turned his sleepy eyes that way, but it
was only a squaw, a strange squaw. He had
nothing to say.

Your son ! " said the squaw, touching his
arm again. He stopped at that, and she
pointed over her shoulder with her thumb to
the crowd they had come from.

"Mine?"

Yours, PauL"

'who are you?"

His mother — Fidele — Your squaw."

My son ? Where born ? "

"Brautford. You bade me go to Brautford."

Oust." It would have been undignified
for a man like Paul to say more. It meant all
he had to say, too, very likely. For, doubtless,
lanc^uaf^e which is never uttered ceases to
be given birth to in the mind. He turned,

however, with Fidele, and both walked back
to the tent.

The lad was better now. Refreshment was
going on, the people seeing him able to dispense
with their care, had turned their attention
to sustaining themselves. He got up and
joined his mother coming in, and they went
out again to a quiet place, followed by Paul,
that his parental feelings might be gratified
with an interview, without compromising his
dignity by an exhibition before the world.

It seemed an unnecessary precaution.
Paul's feelings, if he had any, were under far
too good control to lead him into impropriety.
He sat down with them on a deserted bench,
however, questioned them both, and finally
accepted his son and his long absent spouse
to his heart ; that is to say, he bade them
follow him to Lachine, and then conducted
them across the river, and to his home in
Cau(yhnawa£^a.

Theresa had ruled there as mistress from
the day Fidele had gone away. That was so
long ago now, that it had never occurred to
her that lier sister would return, and the Pere
Theophilus, a wise ruler, who, while his flock
did their duty according to what he considered
their lights, and were duly submissive,
did not unnecessarily fret them with abstract

questions of affinity, ignored any irregularity,
collected the church dues from them, and
christened the children. There were but
two of these, and girls both, to the intense
disappointment and mortification of Paul.
Imagine his satisfaction, then, to find himself
in possession of a well-grown son of fifteen
years — well-grown, and such a player at
across. Was it not he alone, and not the
Brautford band in general, who had beaten
the Caughnawagas ? And now he would be
of the Cauofhnawae^as himself, and Paul
would make much money, in bets and otherwise,
out of his son's fine play.

He received, then, his new-found family into
his home and established them there with
honour. Young Paul, with the privileges of
a " buck," lolled about the place, eating,
sleeping, smoking all day long, like his father.
Fidele sat by the hearth in her blanket and
smoked her pipe, while the household drudgery,
now doubled by the addition to the household,
trebled by the presence of a squaw claiming
to be first wife, criticizing, ordering, and doing
work, fell on These and her girls — to
cut and carry wood, draw water, dig potatoes,
cook, and share the leavings, after the more
considered members had eaten their fill. It
was hard lines.

VOL. III. 41

The village was speedily aware of the
accession to its inhabitants. That same evening
the crest-fallen across players were told
that old Paul had recognized young Paul as
his son, and brought him away from the
Brautford band to themselves ; and all the
bucks in the Reservation came to welcome
the certain winner of games, and congratulate
his father. The middle-aged squaws recollected
Fidele, and came to praise her son,
squatting round the hearth in their blankets
with lighted pipes, while poor Theresa,
deposed from her motherhood of the house,
stole out to the garden-patch to dig and
bewail her fate.

It cannot be supposed that the relations of
the two squaws could be cordial when they
found themselves alone together. Their being
sisters made it none the less intolerable to be,
or to have been, supplanted. Theresa felt
injured now, and Fidele remembered the
wrongs and the jealousy of fifteen years. It
was not many days before they came to blows,
scolding, screaming, scratching, and pulling
handfuls of each other's hair, till a crowd of
squaws had gathered from the surrounding
cabins ; when Paul, the lord and master,
appeared upon the scene, and, in the grand
heroic manner of the wilderness and its uncontaminated

sons, took down his cudgel
from the wall, and belabouring them both
with soundness and impartiality, commanded
them to desist. Was it not shocking, dear
lady ? Yet, it was only one of those shocking
things which have been o-oinf^ on from the
foundation of the world— which are going on
still, in Egypt, Russia, and elsewhere. The
strong use a stick to the weak, and order,
of a sort, is maintained. We know better,
and have changed all that, and we go on
improving, though it may still be a question
how it is going to answer in the end. It is
the weakest and the shrillest voiced, with us,
who rule. The burly and the peaceable stop
their ears, and yield to escape the din. By-and-bye
we shall have all the ignorant to make
our laws and instruct us. Shall we be better
off, I wonder ? When every one is master,
who will serve ? When all become commissioned
officers, who will be left to fill the
ranks ?

There was worse yet in store for Theresa,
however. Fidele must needs go to mass in
that well-watched community. In Brant she
could please herself, but in Caughnawaga there
were ladies of the convent to be pleased, who
were so bountiful. Fide's re-appearance
came thus officially before the Pere Theophilus.

41—2

Scandal must be prevented, Paul could not
be permitted the luxury of two wives at once,
however capable he might be of keeping
them both in order. More, it was the newcomer,
in this case, who was the lawful wife.
Otherwise must go, and he laid his injunction
on Paul accordingly. Paul was submissive ;
one squaw was enough to mind his comfort, and
it mattered not which, though, if anything, the
boy's mother would suit the best. He obeyed
with promptitude, and after administering a
parting beating, he turned the three forlorn
ones out of doors.

When a turkey comes to grief, through
sickness or accident, the rest of the flock are
apt to set upon it and peck it to death. It
is a Spartan regimen, and encourages the
others to keep well. The spirit prevailing in
Caughnawaga was in so much Spartan or
turkey-wish — it is a spirit not unknown at
times in more cultured circles. Nobody
dreamed of comus? forward out of natural
kindness ; and, as a matter of duty, there was
too much of the improper in the whole story,
for any one brazenly to claim praise from the
ladies of the convent for sheltering homeless
ones such as these. It seemed irreverent,
even, to suppose it could be a Christian duty
to succour them.

The outcasts walked down the village
street, hiding their faces in their blankets,
bruised and ashamed. No one spoke to them
or pitied them. The squaws, their daily companions,
sitting at their doors, sewing, smoking,
idling, looked steadily at them as they
went by ; some with a wooden stolidity which
showed no sign of recognition, some with a
spiteful and vindictive leer. Theresa had
been better off than many of them, but who
would change places with her now ?

The dusk was falling, and the nights were
growing chilly now ; there might be frost
before morning. The gleam of firelight, the
twinkle of lamps, shone through cabin windows
and from open doors, but no one bade them
enter. There was heavy dew in the air, the
herbage was soaked with moisture, and therefore
they would not turn aside into the bush, to
drench themselves among the dripping leaves,
and be chilled to the bone with hoar frost,
perchance, ere morning. They went forward
to the river-side, and out upon the pier, where
the water swept smoothly by, murmuring
monotonously in a sombre passionless sough,
black as their own desolate misery, still and
undemonstrative as themselves.

They huddled themselves together under
the lee of some bales and boxes, their chins

upon their knees within their blankets, and
there they crouched and shivered, all through
the livelong night, sleeping at times or drowsing,
but always motionless, with the sound of
the mighty river in their ears, promising
nothing, regretting nothing, yet consoling
in its changeless continuance — a life, and
one in harmony with their own, a seeming
sympathy, when all the world beside had cast
them off.

theresa's revenge.

The daylight had returned, but the sun was
not yet up, and the air was cold, when a
heavy hand was laid upon the sleeping
squaws, and shook them roughly.

What are yes coin' here ? Stain' is it
ye're after, eh ? "

Sleep here all night," was Theresa's answer,
as she slowly regained her feet. She was stiff
with cold. " No home to go to — come here."

A shindy at home Alas it ? Turned out of
doors is it ye are ? Serves ye right, maybe.
But it's a could sleeping' place, al the same,
and wan never knows. The gates won't be
opened these two hours, but ye can come in
this way. Here's an empty luggage room,
where yes couldn't do no harm ef ye wanted."

He ushered them in, closed the door behind
them, and turned the key with a knowing
wink.

I'm clair of yes now, me beauties. The

collision can do as lie thinks best when he
comes on at sivhi o'clock. I've catched
them if they're wanted, an' that's as much as
they kin expect from a night watchman."

The police sergeant arrived at his appointed
time. The squaws had accepted their confinement
with a contented mind, and were
asleep. Under the shelter of a roof and on a
wooden floor, they could stretch themselves at
length, which was grateful after the cramped
position of the night.

Their apathetic indifference convinced the
man of authority that their tale was true ;
they had come on the pier while the gates
were open the evening before, and fallen
asleep. It was wrong, as he assured them,
and he could take them up for it ; but to
what good end ? he asked himself. He was
a virtuoso in malefactors, and did not care to
encumber himself with a capture out of
which so little credit with his superiors could
be got, as three squaws sleeping on a pier.

Look out, now ! " he said, shaking his
finger at them. " I let you off this time, but if"
another shake of his finger — " but if ever
I — catch — you here again — you may lookout
for squalls."

Theresa had lifted her head in dull indifference
; but at the sound of his voice her face

changed. She looked at him. It was now
long ago since she had heard that voice
before — when she was quite a girl, the speaker
quite a young man — but the occasion was a
momentous one. It was when she had been
arrested by mistake instead of Fidele. If
only it had been Fidele indeed ; and if Fidele
had been punished then as she deserved, she
would not have come back again, like the
hungry ghosts of the long forgotten dead, to
push the living from their stools and bring
them to ruin.

There kindled a red coal down deep at the
bottom of Theresa's eyes and made them glow
and burn, and the surging blood rose to her
weather-beaten cheek and reddened it behind
the scarce transparent ; skin the lips parted,
and the white teeth glistened, and for the
moment Theresa in her fury looked handsomer,
if in an evil way, than she had ever done in
her youth. It was no apathetic face now,
carven in walnut wood, but rather the features
of a snake-haired fury, as one may see them
at times in the caverns of a red-coal fire.

She laid her hand upon the sergeant as he
was turning to go, after having discharged
his prisoners.

I know you," she said, as he turned in
surprise. " Eemember me ? "

You ? Where have I seen you ? When
was it?"

Long ago — enfant per dice — Eemember
now ? "

"What? You the woman that stole the
child, and the nuns got off? Yes, I remember
you. You should be at the Isle aux Noix
now, I do believe. Look out, as I said a little
ago, or you'll go there yet, some day. Don't
you be expecting the ladies will do as much
for you next time."

Enfant encore perdue ? "

To be sure. Do you know where it is ? "

Mortel' grunted Theresa, with a wicked
flash of her eye — " ze bones."

Murder ? Do you say it was murdered ?
Did you see it done ? Did you do it yourself?"


No. Fidele and Paul."

Will you swear out an information.
There is a reward still out. It has not been
withdrawn that ever I heard. If I get you
that reward, is it a bargain that I am to draw
it for you and keep half? Is it a bargain ? "

Bargain."

And you will swear an information ? "

"Will swear."

Where shall I find you ? — tomorrow
morning, say ? "

Theresa shook lier head despondingly, and
looked at her children. " Hungry."

"Who's your buck?"

"Paul was."

I know Paul. Has he turned you off? "

Got Fidele."

Aha ! That's it, is it ? And you know
where those bones are ? Sure ? "

Swear."

Then you'll get even with them yet, my
beauty. And, stay, here's a dollar for you.
You say you're hungry, and Paul has turned
you out of doors. Be on the Lachine side of
the ferry this evening. I may have to lock
you up, but you'll be well used."

That evening, at sunset, the police landed
Paul and Fidele, both handcuffed, on the
Lachine wharf, where Theresa joined the
party of her own accord, and they all proceeded
by train to Montreal. Theresa could
not refrain from uttering one cluck of triumph
as she passed lier late master and looked at
his bonds, while he shot her a look of fury
and strained at his handcuffs in a way which
showed it was well that they were strong ; and
then all the party subsided into the stony
stillness of their ordinary demeanour.

There was nothing very striking in the
first examination which followed. Theresa

recollected having seen a small grave dug
in the back kitchen, and an empty box laid
beside it. Then Fidele had come in and
exchanged clothes with her, and then she
(Theresa) went away. Neither Fiddle nor
the baby had been seen afterwards. She
herself had been taken up and accused of
stealing the child, but it had been shown
that she had not left Caughnawaga on the
day of the kidnapping, and she had been
acquitted. After that Paul had taken her as
his squaw, and they had lived together ever
since. A fortnight ago Fidele had returned,
and since then she had suffered much ill-usage,
and finally been turned out of doors.

The evidence seemed sufficient, but in
court it would need as corroboration the
finding of the bones ; therefore, there was a
remand, and two days later the prisoners
were brought before the magistrate again.
The persons sent to dig under the floor had
found a box, which was produced, and a
thrill of hushed excitement ran thrush the
court room ; the male prisoner, even, threw
aside his sullen stolidity, turned to the
constable in charge, and spoke a few words.
The constable conveyed the message to the
Crown attorney, who addressed the magistrate,
and he forthwith appointed counsel

for the defence, leaning back in his chair,
and allowing the young avocat a few minutes
to converse with his client. The lawyer
listened to Paul, shook his head, raised his
hand in remonstrance, and spoke soothingly ;
but the red man's anger, having once found
voice, grew fiercer and more determined every
moment. He shook out his long straight
hair as a furious animal will toss his mane,
and gnashed his teeth, while his usually dull
eyes blazed like living coals. He put aside
the arguments and remonstrances of his
adviser with a gesture of impatience, and,
looking to the magistrate, rose to his feet.
The advocate, seeing that his client was
impracticable, preferred to take the work
upon himself, and addressed the bench.

He told " that, in spite of all which he
could says the prisoner — the male one — while
disclaiming art and part in the crime of
murder, was resolved to claim from the
court that he should not stand his trial
alone, or in company only with the ignorant
squaw who sat at his side. Whatever had
taken place — and here, in tribute to his own
professional credit, he must be permitted to
say that it was sorely against his wish and
advice that he was now driven to admit that
anything had taken place, and he would have

defied the learned counsel opposite to prove
that there had, and more, to bring it home
to these much-injured Indians — it was but
riofht that the instigator should be brought
to stand his trial by the side of his instruments,
and he claimed of the court to permit
the prisoner Paul to swear an information
against Ealph Herkimer, financier, broker,
banker," — " and bankrupt," some one muttered
— " for conspiring with and suborning,
and inciting by promise of gain, the prisoner
Paul to steal, kidnap, abduct, and make away
with the infant daughter of George Selby,
professor of music, in the city of Montreal."
He told " how the said Herkimer had continued
to pay an annual stipend or pension
to the said Paul during many years, till, on
pressing the said Paul to make away with
the said child, Paul had declared that he
could not, and the said stipend or pension
had ceased to be paid from that day forward."


It was with enhanced interest that, when
this had been settled, and a warrant ordered
to issue for Herkimer's apprehension, the box
was placed on the table, and the lid ordered
to be removed.

His worship, the magistrate, arranged his
spectacles on his nose, the county attorney

compressed his lips to steady his nerves, lest
the sight of horror to be disclosed should
disturb his delicate sensibilities ; and, then,
as the lid came away, there appeared — what
might once have been a lock of hay ! Time
and mildew had done much to destroy it,
the shaking it had undergone since it was
disturbed had contributed yet more towards
returning it to its primal condition of dust ;
but hay it was, most surely, though even
as they looked it seemed crumbling away
under the light and the freer air. The
finders had identified the box. It was manifestly
the one referred to by the chief
witness. But where were the bones ? Where
any evidence of murder? Not a morsel
was there of bone, or even a lock of
hair.

The magistrate shrugged his shoulders.
He was a disinterested party, and could
appreciate without alloy of personal feeling
the humour of his court holding inquest upon
an empty box. The Crown prosecutor bit
his lip, infinitely disconcerted, and the sergeant
of police looked foolish. There was
still the charge of kidnapping, however, that
was sworn to by the chief witness, whose
evidence, after all, was confirmed by the box.
It was a grave, a box, and a live baby which

she had seen, and she had not said that she
saw the murder. The male prisoner's own
statement and confession, after being warned,
was also in evidence against him. His
counsel turned and looked at him, as much
as to say, " I told you so ; but you ivoidd
speak out, notwithstanding my advice. Now,
take the consequence."

Paul was more surprised than anybody
at the discovery of emptiness within the
box. His jaw actually dropped in amazement,
notwithstanding the natural rigidity of
his facial muscles. He might have got off,
it almost seemed ; but then there would have
been no information laid against Herkimer,
and ever since the day he had been dismissed
with contumely from his office before all
those sniggering clerks, his fingers had been
itching to be at the man's throat, and only
prudence had restrained them. Fidele's face
remained unchanged, for, naturally, she was
not surprised ; but there came a twinkle of
childish humour into her face to see how
all those arrogant whites had been fooled by
a poor squaw.

Theresa was disappointed, but not more
than her experiences as a squaw had long
taught her to bear. The down trodden are
not much crushed when an expectation gives

way. Her foes, it was true, were not to be
tried for their lives, but they were still to ba
locked up, and punished in some sort later
on, while she herself, an indispensable witness,
would be well cared for till all was
settled.

VOL. III. 42

THE Selby.

George Selby was notified at once, of course,
that the inquiry into his chikVs disappearance
had suddenly and unexpectedly revived itself,
after so many years, with the prospect of
solving the mystery, if not of restoring the
lost one.

It was an old wound now, that sudden
banishment of the sweetest blossom which
had shone upon their lives. His wife and he,
each in pity to the other, seldom spoke of it,
and therefore there appeared a skinning over
or partial healing to have come ; but it still
bled inwardly, saddening, and oppressing with
unspoken grief. In the fifteen years of their
bereavement his wife had been brought down
from youth and strength and beauty to
premature old age. Within the last twelvemonths
a chancre had come. As she had told
him, peace and resignation had come to her,
the sad peace of the mourners who resign

their loved ones, believing it is well with them,
though knowing they shall no more meet on
earth ; and her health had greatly improved.
Why, then," thought George, " should he
disturb her ? — revive the deadened misery and
cause relapse ? There would be doubt and
anxiety while the inquiry was in progress,
and, alas ! there was little that could be called
hope to look for at the conclusion." Therefore
he said nothing to Mary, but he did not fail
to present himself at the examination before
the magistrate. It was a horrid idea that
their innocent darling should have been
murdered by Indians, though it was relieved
by the consolatory thought that in all those
years of mourning to the parents the child's
troubles had long been of the past ; and he
said nothing when he went home after the
first day's inquiry.

The next day of examination was one of the
most painful George Selby had ever known.
He shrank into an unnoticed corner when the
box was brought into the court-room — shrank
from it, but could not tear away Ins eyes.
And then he listened to Paul's accusation of
his Mary's nephew, and for the first time he
divined the motive of the seemingly wanton
and inexplicable crime. Oh! how deeply in
this heart he cursed the detestable money of

42—2

that domineering old man, who, not satisfied
With having his way in life, must needs strive
to impose it after death, working misery and
soul destruction upon his nearest kin. He
shivered and chirped his hands before his eyes
Avhen the hd was to be lifted from the box.
He heard the drawing of the nails, the creak
and giving way of each one in its turn, and
then there was a, stillness ; but after that there
came no sigh of horror, the air thrilled with a
movement of disappointment, felt rather than
to be heard, and he came forward and peered
into the faces of the crowd. The one additional
horror was to be spared him of being
called on to recognize his child's remains in
the presence of curious strangers.

He peered intently at the prisoners, one of
whom had virtually confessed but a moment
before. He noted Paul's amazement and confusion.
He noted that the squaw by his side
remained calm, save that there stole a look
of mockery into her face, as she surveyed the
court, and he felt sure that that woman was
not a murderess. It was his heart which was
on the strain, and enabled him to see and
read the reality untrammelled by judgment's
frequent errors, wrong deductions, and misinterpretations.
He could discern that of
which the professional experience of officials

took no note, for the heart is clearer sighted
than the head.

With them there was a juridical problem to
be solved by pure reason, an indictment to
be made, presentable before a judge and jury
a proposition that the prisoners at the bar
Avere guilty of a specific offence, with evidence
in proof. " Where is my child ? " was the
ruling thought which filled George Selby's
mind. The squaw at the bar was the stealer.
So much was proved by the witness under
oath, and by the implied admission of her
fellow prisoner. But she had not murdered
the child, though perhaps it had been intended
that she should ; so much could be drawn from
lier tranquillity and the confusion of her
companion. He felt that he must question
that squaw forthwith, and after the prisoners
had been formally committed to stand their
trial, he obtained speech of her through the
assistance of the police sergeant, who took
care to elicit an assurance that the reward,
advertised fifteen years before in a placard of
which he produced a copy, would still be paid
when the baby's fate was discovered.

Mary," George said to his wife that
evening when they met. " I have news."
News, George ? News of what ? "

The news we have been waiting for all
these years. The squaw is found at last — the
right one. She is sister of the one who was
taken up at the time. The two changed
clothes. That accounts for the confusion at
the trial. Those who identified her recognized
the clothes. Those who swore to her being
iu Caughnawaga that day spoke truth, too."

Oh, George ! " with a weary sigh ; " Is it
all to be gone through again ? The misery
and the pain ? Yet now I feel so sure ni}^
precious one is at peace, in the arms of God,
that I think I can bear it. It is well the discovery,
whatever it may be, did not come
earlier to embitter our grief."

And yet, my dearest, already something
which will shock you has come to light — the
instigator of the wrong is named. His
accomplice accuses him. That wretched
fortune of your most misguided brother has
been at the root of all our trouble. That men
who find themselves so little wise in direction
their own courses, should strive to perpetuate
their folly, by imposing their will on others
after they are dead ! "

You mean that it was Ealph ? I have often
suspected that ; but it seemed so merciless and
inhuman a thing to do, that I have blushed
ior shame at my suspicions, even when alone,

and cast the thought behind me. Poor
wretch ! Look at him now ! — shamed and
dishonoured — run away to the States — afraid
to show his face in Canada ! Martha and the
boy are to be pitied in belonging to him, for
they are good ; but they do not know him, and
no one will be ruffian enough to enlighten
them. Martha is back at St. Euphrase
again. Susan had a letter from her to-day.
The house there is settled on her, it seems,
and she wants to give it up to the creditors,
but Ealph says she must not, and that before
long he will be on his feet again, and pay
everybody."

I fear Ralph meant worse than merely to
set the child aside, and it is no thanks to his
intentions if he has not innocent blood on his
hands."

Hush ! George. It is right you should
tell me the facts, but do not draw inferences.
Judge not."

My dear, I judge no one ; but I have seen
the squaw. She tells me she was ordered to
make away — to bury. The very box, which
was to have been used, was produced hi court
produced as it had been dug out from
under the kitchen floor, and you may fancy
how my heart died within me at the sight ;
but when the box Alas opened, it was found to

bo empty, and itlie squaw lias told me that
when she came to look at our angel, she
found it was impossible to obey the inhuman
command. She buried the empty box and
carried the child away. She speaks of a road
with trees, and a valley with a broad river,
and says that she laid the baby upon the
stoop of a house before going down the hill.
She says she recollects the house perfectly. A
police sergeant, dio seems to have charge of
the case, says he believes it must be near St.
Euphrase, and the sheriff has allowed me to
take him and his prisoner there tomorrow.
I have ordered a carriage, and we wall endeavour
to take her over the old ground."

Something will come of it, George, I feel
sure. Take me with you, dearest ; it will be
maddening to live through the interminable
hours between now and your return. Let me
come with you."

There will not be room, dear. A squaw
out of jail would not be pleasant company
in a carriage. They are not over tidy, remember.
For myself, I shall sit with the driver."

"Then I shall take the early train to St.
Euphrase, and go to Judith's. Be sure you
come to me as early as ever you can, I shall
be faint with impatience."

BETSEY AS GOOD FAIRY.

When Mary Selby and her sister Susan arrived
at the Rectory of St. Euphrase, next morning,
the family mind was already excited by other
news ; so much so, that, notwithstanding this
was the first visit Judith's sisters had ever
paid, and it was unexpected, they were received
precisely as if they had dropped in
from the next street, and their coming were
an every-day occurrence. The family capacity
for surprise had been forestalled.

Only think ! " cried Betsey, the irrepressible
; " young Jordan has been here — Randolph,
you know. / know him quite well ;
was at a party at their house, when I stared
with you last winter — knew him a little, before
then, but not much. Well, he tells Uncle
Dionysius here — that's not here, exactly, butin
the study — that he ran away with Miss
Eouget, the seignior's daughter. Stuck-up
looking thing she is. No complexion to speak

of; a snub nose. Yes, indeed, Aunt Judy, it is
a snub. Nez retrousse, is it ? That's because
she's Miss Eouget de La Hache, and a kind of
a somebody ; though folks do say they've lost
their money all the same — like better folks
who make less moan. But, anyhow, Randolph
ran away with her — fixed a lire escape on to
her bedroom window, and down she came,
bag and baggage, in the dead of the night ;
and everybody in the house fast asleep. They
went to New York, and were married before a
squire, and now they have come home, and
are staying with Mrs. Jordan, at The Willows.
And they are going to be married all over
again, from the beginning — twice over again,
I should say, for he has just been speaking to
Uncle Dionysius, and now he has gone to the
Woman Catholic priest, with a letter from an
archbishop, and no less, bidding him raise no
difficulties, but just do it. Think of that! Is
it not impressive ? The same two people to
be three times married, and always to one
another ! 1 suppose there will be no getting
out of that, anyhow, as long as they live. If
even they were to go to Chicago, I suppose it
would take three divorce suits to separate
them. They can only dissolve one marriage
at a time, so I have heard. \¥hat do you
think. Miss Susan?"

"I never was married, my dear. I have
suffered too much from neuralgia for some
years back to be able to think of marrying,
or anything else."

Well ! That's not me, now. If I was to
have neuralgia, I'd want a man to take care
of me, all the more, 'pears to me. I'm ' takin'
steps,' as uncle there says, to get the man
right off; and then the neuralgia may come if
it wants to, I can't help it."

Both visitors' eyes were fixed on the speaker.
The recollections of their own youth furnished
no such amazing expression of maidenly
opinion. Betsey coloured a little, coughed,
and began once more, while her uncle and
aunt, taught b)^ experience, sat silent, waiting
till she should talk herself out of breath.

"The fact is, Mrs. Selby, I'm to be married
immediately ; as soon, that is, as I can get
ready, and that depends mostly on Mademoiselle
Ciseau. She'll have to make my gown,
and she says she's over head and ears in
orders, between so many deaths and all the
marriages ; for you know Matildy Stanley's
going to marry — more proper if she'd be making
her soul, at her time of life, than thinking
of such — and that chit Muriel — set her up —
she's to be married the same day as her aunt,
though they ain't no kin at all, nohow, to one

another, and Matildy knows it. I call it going
before their Maker with a lie in their risrht
hand — going' to church to be married, and
tellin' such a story."

But who are the bridegrooms, Betsey? "
Me ? I'm going to marry Mr. Joe Webb —
Squire Webb, I should say, it sounds more
respectful justice of the peace, and the handsomest
fellow round here about. But never
mind the men, just for one minute. Everybody
knows there must be a man to make a
wedding, and any kind does quite well ; but
think of a poor girl married without a gown,
or the wrong kind of one. How people
would talk ! You been' from the city, will be
able to give me an idea. Here are a lot of
swatches the storekeeper got me from Montreal,
and every one has the price marked on to it.
White satin ? Oh, yes, it's pretty and stylish ;
but I see by ' Godeyy's Magazine ' the upper
crust ain't as partial to marrying' in white as
they used to be ; and white satin would not
be much use afterwards for apple-paring bees,
and such ; that's the form our gaiety takes
mostly in the country round here. Yellow?
Well, 1 did read not long ago about a
reclierche nuptials, somewhere, and the bride
was dressed to represent a sunflower — poetical
fancy, wasn't it ? Yes, yellow's a good

colour — easily seen — but it soils just as bad
as white, or worse, for one can say earn for
dirty white, but what can be said for soiled
yellow ? Just nothing, for everybody sees it's
gone dirty.

Brown ? and navy blue ? I guess one of
these would be the best. You like the blue, eh ?
Well, now, that's strange, for to me the brown
looks a deal the best. I could be married in
my travelling dress, w^itli a bonnet trimmed
with white roses and peacock's feathers — I
seem to see it in my mind's eye. Sweet and
rather distinguished — but it would be better
with the brown, would it not, than wdtli the
blue ? Now, do really give me your candid
opinion, Mrs. Selby ; you have everything
about you at home in such good taste."

Betsey got out of breath at last, and rose to
take away her snatches, and there was an
opening for the visitors to explain the cause
of their unlooked for advent. Both Judith
and her husband were kind and sympathizing,
and both were shocked beyond measure at
the part which lialph had played in the transaction.
For Martha's sake, however, and for
the credit of the family, the subject was
dropped when Betsey returned to the room,
she being a known blab of the most flagrant
kind.

Mary succeeded in restraining lier impatience
for tidings of lier husband's success
within bounds, for several hours ; but after the
one o'clock dinner it grew stronger than lier
will, and would not be controlled.

By which way are they most likely to
reach the village, Judith ? I feel myself
fretting into a fever as I sit. I must be
up and doing, or I shall lose my senses.
Betsey, my dear, will you not come outwith
me? We will walk in the direction
we are most likely to meet them. It will
bring me the news a minute or two sooner,
and it soothes me to feel I am doing. You
will tell me about your own plans, too, dear.
It is good for me to listen to other people's
concerns, if only to distract me from my own."

Betsey was nothing loth. She was good-natured,
at least, if not endowed with all the
other virtues. They walked through the
village, and up the turnpike road coming from
the east. Mary, notwithstanding her weakness,
was so urged forward by impatience
that Betsey, scarce able to keep up with her,
was soon out of breath, and quite unable to
make the interesting confidences she had intended.


Is not that a carriage coming this way ?
I see two men on the driving-box, and one of

them is George. Oh ! the time is come.
Lend me your arm, Betsey, dear, to steady
me. I am getting faint. If this is another
disappointment, how shall I bear it ? "

The carriage drew near. One look in
George's face told all. Hopelessness had
settled on it ; he looked utterly cast down.
He alighted as his wife drew near, and the
afflicted ones embraced in silent wretchedness,
as they had done many a time before. The
story of the expedition did not take long to tell.

The squaw was able to point out the
way she had taken all across the Reservation,
with circumstantial details, which made it impossible
to doubt the accuracy of her recollection,
and argued a hopeful termination to
their search. On gaining the public road
they entered the carriage, and still the squaw
went on recognizing salient objects on either
hand, and finally, at a forking of the road,
where there stood a house, she cried out, that
there was the place. It corresponded perfectly
to her previous descriptions. They
alighted, and the sergeant knocked at the door.
A Avoman opened it, and when asked by the
officer how lone she had lived there, answered,
after many repetitions of the (question and
much explanation, and disavowing that she
understood English, twenty years. 'then

you will remember," the policeman said, " if
one summer night, many years ago, you found
an infant lying at your door ? " She answered
that babies were never left there. She was a
respectable woman, who had brought up a
family of her own, and that the proper place
to leave outcast children was a convent, or
the priest's house.

Her hearing appeared so bad, her knowledge
of English so slight, she seemed so
cross, so deaf, and so stupid, that they
could draw nothing from her but the
disavowal of any knowledge of a child having
been left there, which, however, was what they
chiefly wanted to know, and they came away
disappointed. The priest of the village might
be able to make some inquiries, and they
were now on their way to find him ; but there
was little to be expected after so many years.

Where was this house with the woman ? "
asked Betsey, with awakened interest. " Not
the first house we shall come to goings up the
hill?"

Yes," said Selby, " that is the place."

'' Well, then — but surely it cannot be I —
that is the house Bruneauau lives in — the
Stanleyss' man. Isis wife confessed to me and
Aunt Judy, only last winter, that she found a
baby at her door one summer night, many

years ago, and carried it up to the door of the
big house, where my cousins took it in and
adopted it. But, from the way she spoke of
Muriel's parentage, it can be no rehition of
yours, dear Mrs. Selby. She said it was — but
I can't says what she said."

If you please, miss," cried the sergeant,
who had been listening, " will you be so kind
as to walk back with us. As you know the
woman, she will speak different to you. from
what she did to us. I feel noways sure that she
W' as not lying when I questioned her, now you
put the notion in m}^ head."

Again there came knocking to Annette's
door. Again she opened it, and looked as if
she fain would have run away at sight of the
policeman before her.

Annette," said Betsey, " did you not tell
me that you carried that baby you found on
your stoop up to Miss Stanley's door and
left it ? "

"1 know it," answered Annette, and covering
her face with her apron, fled back into the
interior of her house. They could hear her
mount the little stair, and bang to a door, but
they saw her no more. In truth, from the
time she had unburdened her feelings to the
rector's lady, a new misgiving oppressed her
mind. Could English women be trusted to
VOL. III. 43

keep a promise, and they heretics ? What
would the Miss Stanleyss say, first of her
conduct towards themselves in foisting that
particular child on them, and next in divulging
the story, to the discredit of their adopted
niece? And now the story was out, and there
Alas a minister of the law come to take her.

^^•^

AT LAST.

Miss Stanley sat in the dining-room making
np her accounts. She sat at a table by the
window, with her bills and account books
spread in order before her, and her pen in her
hand, waiting to begin — waiting till the wandering
thoughts would come back from tlieii-
wool-gathering, and settle down to work.
Once and again she advanced so far as to dip
her pen in the iid^, but the ligures did not
come, the page before her continued white,
the ink dried up in her pen. With her elbow
on the table, her cheek upon her hand, she
went on thinking' — tlnnkini>' about her household,
though not about her accounts. She
had been head of the family so long, Jiad
steered and directed it so many years, and
they had been so happy together ; and now,
it made her head whirl to think of the changes
that were coming to pass. In the drawing-room,
at that moment, was Muriel with her
Gerald — a pair of children, and as untliink-

43—2

ingle happy. Their clear laughter penetrated
through closed doors, and she heard it where
she sat. Matilda was in the morning-room
with Considine, as utterly content, if less obstreperously
merry than her niece. And
Penelope sat alone.

The moisture gathered in her eyes as
she thought, but j^i'omptly was brushed
away as a disloyalty, for if " dear Tilly "
had come to love another more, she was
very sure she continued to love her aging
sister none the less. And yet it did seem hard
to see that other come in between. Since her
sister had been a very little girl, she had been
to her a mother, watchings over and caring for
her till they grew to be companions and
friends. They had been all the world to one
another, and while, with a mother's inconsistency,
she had wondered at the blindness
of the men, who did not come and marry her
sister, she knew that if they had, she would
have hated them for their success. And now,
after all danger seemed over, when they had
settled down to grow old together, when even
their adopted daughter was old enough to
marry the man, the devastating man, had
come — broken in, to disturb the repose of their
virginal paradise in the hour of coming twilight,
and end the pensive sweetness of their lives.

Yet, and the thought constrained lier to
admit that it was far from behoof the worst things
which had befallen, she had extorted
from her intending brother that he should
not take her sister quite away. He was to
live with her, and she with them. The house
at St. Euphrase was to be hers — Penelope's —
and they were to be her inmates. Considine
would take a house in town, where she should
hive with them ; and all three parties to the arrangement
had professed they saw no reason
Why they should not always live together.
'' Yet, why would those two marry at all ? " she
thought ; " surely the season when birds select
their mates was past for them. From the
things which Considine spoke of as remembering
he must be positively old ; and Tilly, her
precious Tilly " — a new-born candour forced
her to admit it now, though she had not
tlioui]^ht of it before — " was no long-er youno-.
Why could they not live on as friends, as they
had been doing? when Considine's company
]had really added flavour to their spinster lives.
What would people say ? " Penelope imagined,
like the rest of us, that "people" care. It is
a fancy which sticks most pertinaciously, despite
its lack of reason. Why will we not judge
people " by ourselves ? And is it not true
that lonix before our neighbours have o'rown

accustomed to their affairs themselves they
jive becoiiKi a twice-told tale to us? We
shrug our shoulders and pass on, seeking a
new diversion somevvdiere else. Whatever we
may' do which pleases ourselves, " people "
will cease to trouble their heads about it long
before the nine days are over.

The fear of this notoriety, however, was a
tonic thought to Penelope. Instinctively she
bridled to think that any should presume to
criticise a transaction in her family, and at
once she ranged herself in spirit on her sister's
side, and began to defend her. " ' A man,' " she
thought, " ' is no older than he feels.' What
eminent person is it who has written that?
It is certainly true of Considine. See how
erect he carries himself ! How cheerful he is !
and strong. Ills hair is white, but as thick as
ever. He rides, and swims, and walks, like
an active man of forty. And ' a woman is as
young as she looks.' That is true of our Tilly.
How well she wears ! Who would fancy she
was one age with Louisa Martindale ? And
yet I believe she is. What impertinence it
will be if any one presumes to say a word ! "

After that turn to her reflections, Penelope
felt ]positively refreshed, and able to pull herself
together. The pen was dipped in the
ink once uiore, the bills taken up one by one,

and the column of fio-ures extended itself
steadily down the page. ]3ut her industry
was interrupted ere long. The parlour-maid
appeared in some confusion. What was she
to do? She lead standing orders not do disturb
her mistress when closeted in the dining-room,
and she had been told an hour ago to show
no one into the drawing-room or the parlour,
and there were a lady and a gentleman and a
]policeman, and some more, asking to see Miss
Stanley.

Show them in here," Penelope said, wondering
what was the matter. The mention of
a policeman troubled her. Had it anything
to do with the Herkimer bankruptcy P —
Gerald being then in the house. The newspapers
had been full of his father's doings of
late, and they had had much trouble to keep
them from Muriel's eyes. " Too child," she
ejaculated, " I hope it is nothing to distress her''
and then the visitors walked in. Mrs. Selby
and her husband — she had called on Mrs.
Selby, and was glad to lind in oue of the
visitors a person whom she knew — a policeman
leading in a squaw, and Betsey Bunce —
the "atrocity," as she called her in her mind.
How dared she enter there, after the passage
which had taken place between them at the
rectory as to Muriel's parentage?" Yet it

was Betsey who came to the front now, seems
Selby k)ok confused, and in doubt how to beg.
I can sec by your face," said Betsey, you
ain't half well ]pleased, Cousin Penelope, to see
nie here, after me speaking my mind about
Avliat Aunt Judy and. me fished out of your
woman Annette. But it's that very same
story lias brought us all here to-day, and a
good thing it was that I got hold of it, or
goodness knoAvs what would have come to
these poor ^^elbys. You know from the
papers all about their losing their little girl
long ago. You know, too, that the squaw
was taken up last week who ran away with her.
Look at her ! There she stands, beside the
policeman, and not a bit ashamed of herself,
as far as I can see. Could you believe that
so much artfulness — you've read about it in
the papers (the changing clothes and burying
boxes, and running away, is what I allude
to) — and so much wickedness — wringing two
loving hearts (I'm sure that's the kind Mr.
and Mrs. Selby have got, for I stayed with
them last winter and found them real kind).
Look at her, Miss Penelope, and say if you
could have believed that so much artfulness,
and wickedness, and brazen effrontery— she
don't blink nn eye even — could be tied up in
one blanket."

Yes, Betsey," said Penelope, opening her
eyes, and looking partly ollcnded and partly
confused ; " and what after that ? Mr. and
Mrs. Selby and the rest scarcely allowed you
to bring them up here, merely to afford you
the pleasure of playing showman ! "

"You interrupted me, Miss Penelope, or
rather I cot carried away with liavinf]^ so
much to tell all at once ; and then I stuck
fast. However, as 1 was saying, that's the
squaw ! The Selby are the parents, and
you've got the baby in this house! You
needn't look at me, cousin, as if I was crazy,
for I ain't. It's Muriel— your Muriel— that I
mean. Ask Annette Bruneauau — by rights she
should have been here, too, to make the thing
complete, and to speak for herself ; but, as I
have spoken for all the rest, I may say for
her that she would not let herself be brought.
She ran upstairs and locked herself into her
room, so we had to come along without her.
Why don't you send for Muriel to see her
mother. Miss Penelope ? and Matildy should be
here, too. She spoke very harsh to me the
last time we met ; but she was mad, then, so I
bear no grudge. She'll be better friends
now. And she should be here, too, to see the
meeting of the long-lost child and her parents.
It'll be real touching, and she deserves to see

it, for she lias been like a mother to Muriel —
I'll allow that, for all that she said to me some
weeks back."

Penelope fetched Muriel and Matilda, and the
explanations were long and confused, mingled
with embraces and many tears. Even Confiding
blew his nose, and the policeman passed
his sleeve across his eyes ; only the squaw
looked on unmoved. "If all these whites
were happy, as they said they were, wliy did
they shed tears ? "

The rush of words grew slower and more
fitful after a while. Emotion is exhausting,
whether it be grief or joy. Mary Selby
sat with her arms round her daughter's waist,
and her face buried in her bosom, Avliile
Matilda, half-jealous, and feeling half-bereaved,
held the girl's hand

Betsey stood up and surveyed the scene. It
seemed her own handiwork, for had she not
brought these people together? The emotional
silence, when every one was Idled
with the same idea, made her think of the
closing tableau in a, pantomime, and to feel
herself the beneficent spirit Who had brought
about the happy dciiouenieiit. She could not
refrain from holding out her parasol over so
many bowed beads. It seemed to her to have
become a magic wand, tipped with a sparkling

star. She could fancy, too, that lier
gown had transformed itself into tinsel and
transparent draperies, and that she was being
slowly carried up through the ceiling to the
sound of plaintive music.

Much could have been done with Betsey,
I verily believe, if she had been caught early
and submitted to culture. But " Follower's
Circus " ]had been her only introduction to the
world of ]plastic imagination, scenic, or pictorial
art ; saving always " Godeyy's Magazine of the
Fashions," which instructed her in a variety of
knowledge she would have been better without,
the knowledge, not very accurately stated,
of how Avoient with ten times her fortune, if
she should ever come to have any, wear their
clothes.

*^"t*^'

THE BROKER BROKE.

Ealpii Herkimer sat in his New York hotel
looking oflum. The turn he had been expecting
in Pikes Peak and Montana had come ;
the stock had been bronc^tit into notice at last,
but it wouki have been better for him if it
had remained quoted on the share list, as it
had been for weeks back. The turn was one
for the worse. The shares had donc beiminf^
on Wall Street. Nobody would buy. He sat
with his hands in his pockets, his chair tilted
back, and his hat drawn over his eyes, pulling
furiously at a huge cigar, and involving himself
in smoke. It was a serious position of
his affairs, and there was nothing he could
do in the circumstances but wait — wait
till he was ruined outright, which at the
moment seemed likely enough, or be patient
through months, if not years, till improvement
came. Of the two alternatives, the
former seemed at that moment the preferable,

in so far as that it would be soonest over.

The Canada mail was in ; his letters were
brought him — an unpleasant bundle always
now. " They can wait. There is no hurry."
He pushes them aside. But, stay! There is
one from his wife. " Martha," he says, and
breaks the seal.

He was intensely sorry for himself that
afternoon. The world was so hard. Nobody
seemed a bit interested to know that he was
on the verfT^e of being: ruined ; in fact, it inclined
them rather to get out of his way. " Ill-luck,"
one would have said, to see them, " must be
infectious." His friends on Wall Street seemed
busy that day whenever he wanted to discuss
with them, and some had even been rather
short, as to a manifest bore. If he would, he
might have recollected that such are the manners
and customs among money-makers, when
a money-loser comes along. He had practised
them himself ; but that was when other people
were the losers ; now it was he, and that
made all the difference.

But Martha was fond of him, and he
turned to her letter for comfort and sympathy
in his deep self-pity. He was fond
of Martha, as fond, at least, as a busy man
with his head full of other things can afford
to be of anybody ; but that Martha was fond

(-f 111 in lie never doubted, and that was the
aspect of their connection, which was comfortable
to dwell on at that moment. lie ht a
fresh cigar, and opened his letter.

It was a long letter, and began by answering
all the questions which he had asked, and
then it went on :

Gerald and Muriel talk about their marriage
continually, as is to be expected, poor
children. I have l)een trying to stave it off
till you shall have arranged your affairs, and
are able to play the part you would wish on
the occasion; but I am only Gerald's mother,
and it is Muriel who has the right to say when.
Besides, Gerald will not allow me to put in a
word which would sound like wishing delay, and
Muriel seems to think that if Gerald is there, it
does not matter much about his father. I cannot
alton-ether blame thesfirl; itAvould havebeen
my own thought twenty-hive years ago, and, to
be sure,Ilike to see myboy valued ashe deserves.

But it is Matilda dio is hurrying things
forward in this railway fashion. No doubt
she has the best rii?ht to arrange Muriel's
affairs, she has been a mother to her ;
but the fact is, it is going to be a
double wedding. Matilda herself and Muriel
are to be married the same day ; Considine
has plucked up heart at last, proposed, and

"been accepted. Ife should have done it long
ago, as I tell him. And now that the game is
in Matilda's hands, she is more eager than the
little girl of sixteen. She has had longer to
Avait, you will say, and that there are no fools
like old fools. I know the way you men like
to talk, pretending to be hard, and you as soft
as the women — you, Ealpli, at least, only your
head is so full of business you do not give yourself
leisure to think.

'rand, oh ! Ealph, dear, I do wish you would
come back to Canada and silence the scurrilous
reports that are in circulation. Only show face,
and the cowards and liars who invent stories
about an absent man will be silenced ; for well
I know there is not a syllable of truth in the
^vhole farrago. The city papers are detestable
just now ; and really, Ealph, you ought, for
your son's and your wife's sake, as much as your
own, to write your solicitors at once, and get
them heavily fried for their abominable calumnies.
Indifferent as you are to such things, you
really cannot let that story pass which appeared
in the j^ajjcrs the other day. It is getting copied
into every paper in the Dominion, Gerald says,
and he feels so sore about it ; he won't show
face in Montreal, he says, till it is set right. I
mean, of course, the vile libel of that low
Indian, Paul, which his counsel repeated to the

magistrate, accusing you of having conspired
to carry off and make away Avitli your own
first cousin — Mary Selby's child. I wish, dear
Ealph, you would come back and face them
out, the foul-tongued ruffians. That would
shame them out of (countenance and stop their
mouths. The papers say there is a writ out
against you. Come back, Ealph, give yourself
up, and hurry on the trial. The sooner the
truth is known the better. For all my confidence
in you, I feel it painful to have the
people's eyes fixed on me when I walk up the
village to go to church, as if I were an evildoer.
Think of it, Ealph, and come.

But I am forgetting to tell you the great
news. Your daughter-in-law to be, who do
you think she is ? A niece of the Stanleyss,
you Avill say. Never more mistaken in yow
life. She is no kin to them at all — not a drop
of blood. She is your Aunt Selby's long-lost
daughter. Think of that ! The Indian, Paul,
believed his squaw had killed her, but it seems
she carried her into the country and left herat
Bruneauauauau's door, and Bruneauauauau's wife, thinking
she had enough of his children already on
her hands, carried it up, and left it on the
Stanleyss' doorstep. Everybody supposed
Muriel was their niece, though latterly the
Bunces have been rather free with their

innuendos. And now the girl turns out to bea
great heiress. Strangest of all, it is what
we have been calling Gerald's fortune, which
she is heir to, and Gerald, the lucky boy, will
get back by marriage the very fortune he
loses by law. Nobody can say either that
he marries Muriel for her money ; but to tell
the truth, they seem a pair of children in
everything that relates to that."

Ealpli smoked his cigar through to the end,
smoked it till the butt dropped of itself upon
his letter, charring the paper before it went
out. He continued to sit, rigid in every limb,
with his features drawn, and grey, and set ;
breathing heavily, but never moving. His
life seemed living itself over again before his
eyes, the prizes he had striven for, the means
by which he had tried to win them, the vicissitudes
of his career, and the end which he had
reached. "Fool," was the only word he uttered,
and it escaped him in a tone of mingled misery
and wonder ; misery, that it was himself ;
wonder, that he should have done it ; for now
his consciousness seemed divided in two, one
half judging and wondering and scorning, the
other, crushed into little save memory, and a
sense of being undone, and having become a
burden longing to be shaken off.

It was no awakening of conscience, such as
VOL. III. 44

moralists describe. He had never troubled
himself with questions of right and wrong,
true and false, honour and baseness. Success
was the honour to which he had aspired, failure
the one inexpiable baseness. A faculty unused
in well-nigh half a century will scarcely leap
into action and controlling predominance overpowers
and habits strengthened by constant
use, all of a sudden. It was by his own poor
standard that he stood condemned at last.
He had so utterly and unnecessarily failed.
What opportunities he had had ! and how
utterly they had been wasted in his hands.

He had been over-smart all through. In
striving to make doubly sure, and assisting
the forces that Avere making for his prosperity,
he had defeated them. In attempting to
shoulder up his fortunes he had pushed them
over. And all was over now. What could he
do henceforth? Even Martha, poor woman,
would turn from him when she came to know.
It was infinitely sad ; it was beyond remedy,
too altogether out of joint, ever to be set
right. And then, he was so weary of it all, he
had no heart even to try. Sleep, long and
unbroken, sleep without dreams, sleep without
a waking, that was all he yearned for, the
one last good the universe held for him.

It was dusk now ; the gas was alight all over

the hotel, and in the streets. He staggered
to his feet, and slowly went downstairs. A
druggist's shop was near, and there he asked
for essence of bitter almonds. The druggist
observed to him that it was " dangerous in
quantity," and must be used with care. " I'll
take good care," Ealph answered, as he went
out. They were the last words he was ever
heard to utter.

They telegraphed to Gerald from New York
next day. His father was dead. It is heart
disease, to which sudden deaths are attributed
now-a-days. It saves many a pang to the
loving hearts of survivors. It saved poor
Martha an accession to her grief, and' even the
world began to talk pityingly of one who had
seemed so rich so short a time before. For
really the world is not a very bad one.
With time and leisure it likes to do a good-natured
thing, and does it, if it remembers intime.
And then it has a most valuable code
of proprieties. It holds it wanton and brutal
to speak evil of the dead. And so it came to
be in bad taste to mention the Herkimer story
at all. The poor man was dead — gone to his
own place. What more was there to say?

Even the Indians profited. Their trial
came on, but no one took much interest in it.

The young lady lead come to no harm ; she
was even to marry the son of the man whose
name had been dragged into the transaction.
They pleaded guilty, and profited largely by
the leniency of the court.

The weddings were unavoidably postponed.
It was Matilda herself who proposed that they
should wait six months, out of respect for
Martha. Her extravagant haste and eagerness
had been for Muriel's behoof. She feared
that the past might get more fully canvassed,
and arrange itself into some kind of barrier,
which, though Muriel might ignore, Gerald
might feel ashamed to overpass.

Jordan's career did not close itself so
abruptly as his friend's had done, and there
were times when he envied Ealph the speedy
conclusion of his troubles. His affairs proved
to be like an old woman's knitting ; when
once a stitch of it is dropped, nobody can tell
how great may be the devastation. Jordan's
fortune had crumbled to pieces; he was a
discredited man, and worse, a pensioner on
his wife's bounty ; and that last, all who
knew the charming Amelia — and all who
knew her, voted her charming — agreed was no
enviable position. About a year after Randolph
was married, and settled in a government
office at Ottawa, the Minister of Drainage and

Irrigation exerted his influence, and got the
old man — he is really old now, seventy is the
next decade he will touch, and that before
long — made stipendiary magistrate at Anticosti,
where among the sleet storms of the
gulf of St. Lawrence he dispenses justice to
litigious fishermen. Amelia did not accompany
him. Why should she ? To be an
ornament of society in Montreal or Ottawa is
the role nature intended her to fill, and she
works the part industriously. An old habitable
woman makes Jordan an infinitely more
efficient housekeeper in the far East, where
comforts are few, and there is no society, and
she writes him every week the most delightful
letter, with all the chit-chat and scandal about
his old friends carefully chronicled. This
affords him nearly as much amusement to
read as it gave her to write, and is far more
persistently pleasant than he finds the writer,
when he spends his annual holiday with lier
at St. Eu phrase.

Gerald and Muriel are an old married
couple now. Their boy is just the age of his
mother when she was stolen away. He would
spend all his time, if he had his way, with
his grandmother Selby, who adores him,
and often calls him Edith in forge fulness.

There is a drawer upstairs in her room,
where there are little shoes, red, white
and blue, and sashes of gay colours, and
little lace frocks. They are all nicely washed
and ironed now — the frocks, that is — and the
little fellow puts them on for a lark, at times,
though he is getting too big for most of them
now. But there was a time when no one was
permitted to touch or see those things, and
when the tears of ten sears and more dropping
on the muslin and the lace had rumpled
them and blotted them into a faded yellow.
They are precious still — his mother wore them
dien she was his age — but the urchin himself
is more precious set by far. It amuses him to
try them on, and, therefore, they have been
newly done up for his lordship's greater gratification.


Muriel's fortune turned out less than it
might have been. The portion in Jordan's
hands having disappeared, Considine offered
to make good the deficiency to the last cent he
possessed as fair as it would have gone. But
the moiety he had manipulated himself had
prospered, and made a very pretty fortune as
it was ; and for the rest — no one doubts that
some day Muriel will fall heir to all that he, his
wife, and her sister possess.

The man with the two wives, is how his acquaintance

speak of Considine, for the three go
everywhere together. He is as attentive to
Penelope as to his wife, and she is far more
adoring than her sister, ^vho, being married,
has her rights, to criticise, to have little tempers
— though, indeed, Matilda's are of the
smallest — and so forth.

And now there seems no more to say.
Betsey Bunce is in her right place as mistress
of a farm. Her poultry lay larger eggs, and her
cows give more butter than those of any one
else. She is busy and cheery all day long,
and neither man nor maid dare ever be
idle on the premises. She has proved a
fortune to her husband, if she brought him
none, and he owns now that the bad luck
which first made him think of Betsey was the
luckiest circumstance of his life. She is bound
to make a rich man of him, and a legislator at
Ottawa, some day soon.

THE END.

Kelly AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-TUAMES.

\^
