f^ y.<p?*,

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

V. \

A^ B E L:

From 'tee Queen," February 2nd, 1884:

"The preface to Mr, Cliff e's poem is so clear and
intelligent and in such excellent prose that we are prepossessed
in his favour. The writing of a tragedy is
a serious undertaking, and one to which nobody should
commit himself without careful study and preparation.
The author of ' Abel ' seems to be aware of this, and
has deliberately formed and carried out his plan. He
believes that dramas founded on Biblical events ought
to have a large admixture of lyric poetry and other
features which he enumerates. The poem, consequently,
abounds in lyrical passages and elements.
It opens with a monologue by Michael, which is
followed by another by Satan. Two choruses, one of
Angels and one of Demons, occupy a decidedly conspicuous
position ; the remaining chief speakers being
Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel and their wives. Much
of the dialogue is animated, and Mr. Cliffs's facility
of versification is everywhere manifest. The composition
as a whole is graceful, sometimes vigorous,
but with occasionally feeble lines. The language
employed is consistent, and no charge of irreverence
can be brought against the author. He writes as a
man of culture, and under the influence of classical
models. We find the poem very interesting, and
regard it as worthy of praise for many admirable
qualities, originality being one of them."

Remington & Co., Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.

BY

FRANCIS HENRY Cliffs

Alcan non puo saper da chi asia amato
Quando felice in su la rota side ;
Pero c'ha i veri e i finti amici a late,
Che nostra tutti una medea fete.

Ariosto.

TWO VOLUMES

VOL I

LONDON

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN

- 1887
[Alt Rights Reserved]

7 CHAPTER I.

The Rev. Frederick Bernerr, having a large

I family and a small income, and expecting an

^ addition to the former and none to the latter,

'^ was becoming uneasy as to the future before

him. He spoke on the subject to his wife,

and she agreed with him that something

must be done to improve the state of their

finances. At last a happy thought struck

» her.

^ '' My dear Frederick," she said, '' I know
^^^a very simple way of obtaining money. We
have several spare rooms in our house, which
;^^is larger than we require, now that our
children are at school. Why not advertise
<^for pupils ? "

B

Pupils, my dear?" he asked, dubiously.
** I do not think that would answer, as I have
never taught anybody anything in my life."

'' Never mind," retorted the lady, nothing
daunted. '' When you have sufficient pupils
you can engage masters. There are plenty
of clever men to be had, and on very
reasonable terms ; I assure you there are."

Her husband did not seem convinced that
cleverness was so rife, but he promised to
think about it.

Not at all," she said ; *' you will decide
at once. I know you too well to let you put
it off. Postpone it for one day and you may
postpone it for ever."

He felt the truth of this remark ; but as he
was loth to exert himself, he made one further
attempt to obtain a reprieve.

But have you sufficiently considered,
Charlotte, the inconvenience to which we
shall be put ? How will you be able to
endure the racket of boisterous children ? "

'' There is no necessity for taking children,"
she answered. '' Young men would pay
better, and are far less of a responsibility."

'' I am afraid I could never manage young
men," he said, despondingly.

*' Because you have never tried. My dear
Frederick, how often have I told you that in
this life we must be energetic ? If you will not
rouse yourself now, I do not know how we
shall pay our bills next October."

*' But we shall have to make outlays to
receive the young men, and I am not sure
there will be any profits."

'' Of course," his wife said, '' you must
make the terms as high as you possibly can."

'' How much do you think I ought to
ask ? "

'' Two hundred and fifty guineas per
annum," said Mrs. Bernerr, positively.

Her husband gave a low whistle.

*' I should consider myself lucky with half'*

*' Nonsense ! " she exclaimed. " You must
not make yourself too cheap. The higher
the terms are, the^higher you will stand in the
estimation of parents."

One of the foremost articles in the reverend
gentleman's creed was his intense belief in
his wife's superior knowledge of the world.

*' Well, supposing," he said, '' I am obliged
to ask so much, we must bear in mind that
there are other men far more qualified for
such a task than I am, and that it is ten to
one I may not succeed."

*^ Nothing venture, nothing have," she
replied.

^* Very true, my dear ; but advertising is
so expensive."

'' I will pay it out of my own pocket," said
the enterprising lady. '' We must make a
move."

*' But if we had the young men they would
entail great outlay. At such a high rate we
could, of course, only expect sons of rich
people, accustomed to every luxury, and who
would require comforts in which we never
indulge."

'' Always but, but, but! " said Mrs. Bernerr,
becoming impatient. '' I say get the pupils
in the house, and leave the details to me.
Three or four young men, at two hundred and
fifty guineas a year each, would soon set us
up splendidly. The house does not require
much preparation. The eldest pupil shall be

put in the blue-room, and I am sure that is as
nice as anybody could wish ; and as to the
other rooms, I could soon make them most
comfortable. The furniture-dealer will give
us credit for a few months, especially when
he hears what our prospects are."

The sanguine Mrs. Bernerr was beginning
to feel as if she were coming into a fortune.
Her less buoyant husband looked round the
drawing-room, in which they were sitting,
with its faded carpet and old-fashioned furniture,
and its dreary outlook on a dingy redbrick
wall, and he could not suppress a sigh.

'one thing," she continued, 'ewe must
improve, and that is our cooking. It must
be better in quality and ampler in quantity
than hitherto. Then I shall be ready to
receive anybody who appears."

You seem so convinced that your plan
will answer," he said, after a pause, " that I
think I had better withdraw my objections
and boldly make the attempt."

That's my dear Frederick," she exclaimed
in raptures. " I will without delay draw up
the advertisement."

She sat down at her desk, and in three
minutes read the following words : —

To Parents and Guardians. — A Clergyman residing
near Richmond in a commodious house, has vacancies for
three or more sons of gentlemen desirous of completing
their education. Classics, mathematics, etc. Terms,
two hundred and fifty guineas per annum. Home comforts.
Highest references. — Address, Clericus, 5, Dull-road
Buildings, Richmond.

*' That will do admirably," he exclaimed ;
*' I do not think we could say anything
more."

In due time this advertisement appeared in
the leading papers. For several days Mrs.
Bernerr was on tiptoe of expectation, and
whenever the postman went his rounds, and
whenever a visitor's rap was heard at her
door, she could scarcely contain herself for
suspense. But she waited and waited, and
no answer came.

When a week had elapsed she was obliged
to awaken her husband to the necessity of
repeating the advertisement. He at first
demurred at the expense, and again gave
vent to his conviction that it would be useless,
but, as usual, he yielded in the end.

The advertisement reappeared in the papers,
and two days afterwards a lady called. She
said she was the mother of three most unruly
boys, who could not be induced to learn anything,
which fact almost drove her to despair.
She seemed pleased with Mr. and Mrs.
Bernerr, and made no objection to the terms.
On leaving she promised to let them know
her decision in a day or two, and Mrs. Bernerr
felt sure of being ere long in receipt of seven
hundred and fifty guineas a year. But when
the answer came it was to the effect that she
did not consider the house airy or cheerful
enough, and regretted that she did not think
it suitable for her sons.

This reply was a terrible blow to Mrs.
Bernerr, and as to her husband, it made him
sink into deeper despondency than ever.

As the second set of advertisements had
no other result, they were obliged to go to
the expense of a third. This was an advance
on the former, inasmuch as they received
five letters in reply. But they all came to
nothing.

One parent wanted to know if they would

take two boys of sixteen and seventeen atone
hundred guineas each. Mr. Bernerr
would have jumped at the offer, but his
wife was firm.

'' No," she said, '' it must be worth our
while, or we must not do it at all."

Another parent, after corresponding with
Mr. Bernerr for three weeks, suddenly broke
off the correspondence by not answering his
letters.

Negotiations were progressing favourably
with a third party, when unfortunately he
determined on having a personal interview,
and on coming to the house he was, like the
first lady who applied, unfavourably impressed
with the dulness of the abode.

The fourth answer was from a gentleman
who begged Mr. Bernerr to appoint a day for
meeting. He did so.

The gentleman appeared, and a most
pleasing man he was. He asked Mr. Bernerr
how many pupils he had, and on receiving the
answer, ^' None as yet, but I hope to have
several shortly," he declared he could not
possibly send his son to a place where he

would have no companions. In vain Mr.
and Mrs. Bernerr assured him that his son
would not be for long the only pupil. The
father declared the effects of solitude, even
for a few days, would be bad, and with this
assertion he left the house, at the same time
telling Mr. Bernerr he might write to him
when he had more inmates.

This was cold comfort, and the fifth answer
was as fruitless as the others. A guardian of
two young men, aged eighteen and twenty,
asked Mr. Bernerr to call on him on a certain
day, but when the day came round, and Mr.
Bernerr was almost ready to start, a telegram
arrived to the effect —

'' Do not come. We are going abroad."

Such was the disheartening result of their
expensive advertisements.

Nevertheless, Mrs. Bernerr persevered. They
could ill afford the outlay involved by advertising,
but she knew it was their only hope, and
she continued to battle with their difficulties.

At last, when they had spent over ten
pounds in advertising, Mr. Bernerr received
one morning the following letter : —

'' Dear Sir,—

'^ In reply to your advertisement iritis
morning's Times, I beg to state that I
should be happy to find a home, such as
you offer, for my son. He has considerable
talents, his disposition is not bad ; but I
regret to say he has formed acquaintances
of which I do not approve. I wish him
to be completely separated from them ; and
as I am so little at home that supervision
is impossible, I think it advisable to place
him in the hands of those who can look after
him. He is twenty-one years of age ; but I
have given him to understand that if he is
not submissive and well-conducted he will
incur my most serious displeasure ; and I
should wish this fact to be impressed upon
his mind. I have been too indulgent to him
up to now, but I find it necessary, for his own
good, to turn over a new leaf. Should your
references be satisfactory, I hope we may
come to an arrangement.

'' Yours faithfully,

'' Philip Beverley."

'the writer of that letter' said Mrs,

Beer, '' does not seem to me very likely
to have been over indulgent."

'how do you form that opinion?" asked
her husband.

'^ From the whole tenour of the letter."

'' It will be a disagreeable task," said Mr.
Bernerr. '' What on earth am I to do with an
unruly, dissolute young man? "

Try to influence him for good," she re-pied.


Easier said than done," he retorted.
'^ However, I must go through it ; and if
it does not answer, why — "

He did not finish his sentence, but sat
down and wrote to Mr. Beverley, giving
his references, and assuring him that he
would do his best if his son were confided
to his care.

In a few days a note came from Mn
Beverley requesting Mr. Bernerr to call upon
him the next day at half-past three in the
afternoon.

As the appointed hour drew near, Mr.
Bernerr was driving to the residence of Mr.
Beverley, a handsome house, in a fashionable

square. He was shown into the drawing-room,
a magnificent apartment, fitted outwith
extravagant luxury. The soft carpets,
the rich hangings, the inlaid tables, the
costly paintings and lofty mirrors formed a
background that threw out with almost
theatrical effect the pale and careworn face
and the somewhat Useless figure of Mr.
Bernerr. It seemed to strike Mr. Beverley
as he entered, for he fixed on his visitor a
glance of mingled surprise and inquiry, in
which, if there was no rudeness, there was
certainly no cordiality.

'^ My son, as you are already aware," he
began, when he had asked his visitor to
be seated, '' has caused me much trouble.
He is quick and clever, and, as you may
suppose, he has had every advantage. His
studies leave little to be desired ; but his
general conduct is far from satisfactory.
When his poor mother was alive she used
to look after him, and later on he had tutors
and went to the University, and I never
heard many complaints of him. But about
eighteen months ago I wished him to go into

society, and to fill the position in the world
to which he is born. When you see him,
I think you will be pleased with his appearance.
Indeed, he was only too successful in
the world ; everybody paid him attention,
everybody courted him, and in a few weeks
his head was completely turned. Parasites
and flatterers gathered round him, and he
made most undesirable acquaintances of both
sexes. You understand me. I need not
enlarge on this painful subject. As I stated
in my letter, it is impossible for me to exercise
over him the necessary supervision. I
therefore am on the look-out for a man of
experience and firmness, who will execute my
orders, and who will endeavour to counteract
the bad influence that has been at work."

During this speech Mr. Bernerr had time to
look fully at the father of his future charge.
Not having any great amount of penetration,
he merely saw a tall, good-looking, fashionable
man of the world, but the minuter details
escaped him. Mr. Beverley was a man of
vast fortune, whose natural haughtiness had
been fostered and nourished by every event

and circumstance of his life. His unconquerable
self-esteem prevented him from suspecting
that he himself was possibly in some
degree to blame for his son's vagaries. Money
was his remedy for everything. He had paid
lavishly for his son's education, and fancied
that he had, by so doing, completely discharged
his duty. He had given him plenty
of money on entering the world. And now
his plan, on seeing the bad path on which the
young man was proceeding, was to stop his
allowance, and to pay some mentor heavily
for making him virtuous again.

^' I fully understand," said Mr. Bernerr ;
*' and I think, Mr. Beverley, you will not be
disappointed with the result of my care."

The effort required to produce this confident
speech was very great, for at heart
Mr. Bernerr had grave misgivings.

'' I thought at first," said Mr. Beverley,
'' of engaging someone to be resident here ;
but on reflection I determined on sending
him away from home for the present. I
should like him to see a little good society ;
but if any of his fast associates try to get

at him again, you will please to let me know
without delay."

Mr. Bernerr promised to do so ; and they
then began to settle the details of business,
details which would have no interest for the
reader.

As Mr. Bernerr was rising to depart, Mr.
Beverley said —

'^ I may as well introduce you to my son ;
I know he is at home."

He rang the bell, and told the footman to
ask Mr. Philip to come down.

The footman returned in a few minutes,
and said —

'' Mr. Philip is out, sir."

Out ! " exclaimed Mr. Beverley. '' Why,
he told me he would be in all the afternoon."

'eyes, sir; but Sir Alexander Mansfield
called, and they both went out together."

"There!" said Mr. Beverley, 'now you
see how things are. He can't be quiet for
ten minutes but some of these fellows come
to lure him away. That Marshfield is the
greatest scamp about town ! They will go
gambling, and drinking, and doing Heaven

knows what besides, until two or three in the
morning. Can you wonder that I am driven
to desperation ? '^

Mr. Bernerr sighed, not only at the father's
distress, but at the prospect in store for
himself. However, the reward was to be
ample ; and on the Monday following it was
settled that Philip Beverley should come to
his house.

When Mr. Bernerr arrived home he found
his wife in the most extreme tension of
suspense. On hearing the happy news that
they were at last to receive an inmate, and
with him some emolument, her relief and
delight were unbounded.

*' He shall have the blue-room," she said ;
^' I will get it ready at once."

The blue-room was, in her eyes, more
august than a State apartment in Buckingham
Palace ; and to allow anybody to occupy
it was the highest sign of favour she could
confer.

There was no little respect of the world in
poor Mr. Bernerr's nature, and he dilated with
great complacency on the splendour of Mr.

Beverley's house, the great wealth he seemed
to possess, and the aristocratic name of Sir
Alexander Marshfield. Returning home after
enjoying a glimpse of so much luxury, he
more than ever doubted whether Philip
Beverley would not ere long be weary of his
new abode, and sigh for his father's house
amid the gloom of Dullroad Buildings.

He did not give vent to these thoughts, as
his wife was so completely happy, so convinced
that nothing could excel the comfort of
the blue-room, so certain that she could satisfy
the new member of their little household.

The interview took place on Wednesday,
Philip was not to come before Monday ; she
had, therefore, plenty of time for her many
preparations.

She was supremely happy. For the first
time in many months she was able to look
forward without anxiety to the future ; and
the relief seemed to give her renewed youth.
The furniture in the drawing - room was
brightened and polished ; the carpets were
taken up and beaten ; the old bedstead was
removed from the blue-room, and a handsome

C

new one, just arrived from the upholsterer,
put up in its stead. It was not her fault if a
single speck of dust was to be seen.

On Saturday afternoon everything was
ready. The house had been turned upside-down
for two days, and had at last recovered
its usual staid appearance, with a bloom of
freshness about it of which it had long been
in want. A new oilcloth had been laid down
in the hall, and the rods on the staircase had
been rubbed and rubbed until they dazzled
the eye with a more than golden brilliancy.
Flowers such as the season could offer — it
was late in September — adorned the vases in
the drawing-room, and some fine ferns stood
in the windows.

On Sunday Mrs. Bernerr rested on her
laurels, but her mind was more active than
ever. She was wondering what Philip Beverley
would be like ; whether he was tall or
short or middle-sized ; whether he was fair or
dark ; and she repeatedly remarked to her
husband that he ought to have extracted
these particulars from the father when disappointed
of seeing the son.

Do you not think you ought to meet him
at the station ? " she asked Mr. Bernerr on
Monday morning.

'' Well, it is not usual' he replied. " I
think I had better not."

The fact is he wished to put off as long ay
he could the ordeal of meeting the formidable
youth.

Mrs. Bernerr could not understand this reluctance.
If it had been seemly she would
have gone herself, so eager was she to get a
glimpse of Philip.

But Mr. Bernerr argued that as the distance
between Mr. Beverley's house and Richmond
was so trifling, it would not look well for him
to dance attendance upon a young man supposed
to be under his care.

She did not press the point, and tried her
best to occupy herself with other thoughts
than those of the coming visitor.

He was not to arrive until the afternoon,
and she was anxious to give him a good
dinner in the evening. It was remarkable to
see her buoyant activity and delight. A more
fortunate circumstance for her husband than

that his wife should have been of such a
temperament, could not have occurred, for
with his moping, indolent nature, a person of
similar disposition would have dragged him
down to perpetual languor.

The time was approaching, and whenever
Mrs. Bernerr heard carriage-wheels she fancied
it was he.

'' Do you think he will be here soon ? " she
constantly asked her husband, to which he
invariably replied —

'^ In five or ten minutes."

She went up once more to the blue-room to
see that it was in order, and to assure herself
that no comfort was missing. Everything
was as nice as she could desire. The room,
though dark like the rest of the house, was
decidedly comfortable, and the bed, with its
snow-white pillows and sheets, was delightful.

She came down with her mind at rest and
her heart overjoyed, and had scarcely taken
her seat in the drawing-room when a carriage
drove up, a knock was heard, and Mr. Philip
Beverley entered the house.

*' You went far too slowly, driver ; I told
you to gallop, and you absolutely crawled."

These were the first words that Mrs.
Bernerr heard uttered by Philip. They were
spoken in the passage. A moment afterwards
the door was thrown open, and he entered
the drawing-room.

She saw a young man, somewhat above
the average height, dressed in the newest
fashion, decidedly good-looking, fair hair, fair
moustache curled upwards, and light, bluish-grey
eyes, quick and restless in expression.

'' I thought," he said, after the customary
salutations, '' that we should never get here,
and when we were here I could scarcely

believe it was the right place — such an
incredibly dreary looking house. Well, I
know the governor meant to send me to
Land's End, and he has done so with a
vengeance."

This was a courteous way of breaking the
ice, and it made Mr. Bernerr feel more than
ever his utter insignificance. He asked
Philip if he would like to go up to his room,
and the latter assenting, he showed him
the way.

Mr. Bernerr came down in a few minutes
looking rather crestfallen, and asked his wife
what she thought of him.

*' We have scarcely seen enough of him to
judge," was her guarded reply ; but at heart
she felt that her impression was not favourable.


I am afraid I shall have a vast amount of
difficulty with him," said her husband.

In five or ten minutes they were startled
by a terrific ringing of bells. It proceeded
from Philip's room. The maid hurried up,
and ere long appeared with a most perplexed
face, and said —

'' Please, ma'am, the gentleman do want so
much, I don't know how to manage it all. He
wanted some more hot water, and I said it
wasn't boiling, and he said he must have it at
once, and he told me to send someone to buy
him a button-hole and to despatch a telegram
; and I said, there was nobody to go, as
I was so busy that I couldn't leave the house,
and he got angry, and he said it must be
done, and I really don't know what to do."

'well," said Mr. Bernerr, ''I suppose I
must take the telegram."

At this moment another violent peal of the
bell was heard.

'there it goes again," said the maid, hurrying
to answer it.

This is terrible work," said Mr. Bernerr to
his wife.

Never mind," she replied, " he will soon
settle down."

Ann, the maid, came back with the intelligence
that the gentleman wanted some
ink.

"Oh my!" she said, unable to suppress
her feelings at what she had seen, " he have

such a splendid dressing-case open. Such
beautiful crystal bottles, with silver tops, as I
never saw before ; and brushes with silver
backs ; and such a magnificent gold watch
is lying on the table ! "

Mr. Bernerr had to cut short her raptures
in order to send up the ink.

Ere long they were disturbed by another
pull at the bell, and Ann soon reappeared,
saying —

'^ Mr. Beverley's compliments, sir, and he
would be much obliged if you would come up
and speak to him."

Mr. Bernerr hastened up immediately. He
rapped at the door, and on Philip's saying
*' Come in," he entered.

The young man was standing before the
looking-glass in his shirt sleeves, brushing his
hair with two brushes. The contents of three
large trunks were strewn about the room,
that splendid blue-room of which Mrs. Bernerr
was so proud.

PhiHp's powers of observation were keen,
and the first glance he took of Mr. Bernerr on
alighting from his cab led him to believe

that he was of a docile nature, and he now
determined to experiment upon him.

Is that you, Mr. Bernerr ? " he asked,
without looking round.

"It is."

*' I should feel obliged to you if you would
help me to unpack and arrange my things. I
thought of asking the maid, but her hands
are dirty, and she seems awkward."

*' I was going to take your telegram for
you," said Mr. Bernerr, feeling that it was not
for the young man to order him about, and
yet not being able to screw up his courage
for a refusal.

'' Oh, you mustn't think of the telegram. I
have changed my mind. I will not send it." '

"But your button-hole?" suggested Mr.
Bernerr; "there is nobody but myself to get
it."

"Very kind of you; but in a Httle pokey
place like this I needn't bother about it."

Mr. Bernerr immediately began busying
himself with the clothes to hide the colour
that was mounting to his face.

That fellow is a muff," was Philip's

mental ejaculation ; but he said aloud — '' I
am afraid I am giving you a world of trouble •
but it is only for the first day, you know.
Please hang that dress-coat in the wardrobe
by my evening-suit. I have left my best
clothes at home, but if I want them I can
easily send for them. You will excuse my
writing a letter? I should like it to go by
the next post."

He sat down at the table and began
writing, looking up now and then to tell Mr.
Bernerr where to put his things.

After a short silence, during which he
finished his letter, he said —

^' I'm not accustomed to write at a round
table ; haven't you a Davenport you could put
in here?"

There is one in the drawing-room," said
Mr. Bernerr; "you can write there whenever
you like, or in my study."

'' That is not the same thing," Philip
retorted ; "I like writing my letters in
private. You must please to send me a
desk up to this room."

The reluctant promise to do so was wrung

out of Mr. Bernerr, and Philip then rose and
helped him to arrange the things.

He showed Mr. Bernerr a curious antique
watch, a silver cigar-case, and his rings,
scarf-pins, and studs, the jewels being of
great beauty and value.

He became more genial when he found Mr.
Bernerr so biddable, and was almost polite to
him when he left, with the letter in his hand,
promising to post it.

Mr. Bernerr looked at the address. It was
to Sir Alexander Marshfield.

'' This looks bad," he muttered, remembering
what Philip's father had said about the
Baronet. He read and re-read the address,
examined the large, untidy, dashing writing,,
and held the letter up to the light. But all
this scrutinizing of the envelope did not
acquaint him with its contents. However,
posted it must be, so he went and threw it
into the neighbouring pillar-post, though on
his return he expressed his doubts to his wife
as to whether he ought not to write to Mr.
Beverley to inquire whether he approved of
this correspondence or not.

She was rather surprised at the coolness
with which, by his own account, he had been
treated by Philip ; and urged him to stand
his ground in future.

When the dinner-hour drew near Philip
came down, looking very satisfied with himself,
though unadorned with a button-hole.
He sat down and talked to Mrs. Bernerr, and
she was beginning to think that he was far
pleasant than she at first supposed, when
the illusion was quickly dispelled.

^' I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Bernerr," he
said, ^' if you could not give me a nicer room.
It is all very well when the gas is lit, but in
the daytime it is rather dark, and I do not
like the bed facing the window."

This was audacity indeed ! Objecting to
the blue-room ! Despising the best bedroom
in the house, after all the pains she had
taken to make it comfortable !

'^ I am afraid," she said, '' there is no room
in the house which would please you if that
does not. But I can have the position of the
bed altered."

He thanked her, and silence ensued. She

was very much nettled, and he saw that she
was so. If her husband had been in the
room, he would have continued complaining
and making disparaging remarks, but he was
rather more polite to ladles than to men,
which Is, however, not saying much.

Mr. Bernerr came In very soon, and almost
simultaneously with his appearance dinner was
announced.

During the progress of the repast their
patience was again put to severe proof,
Philip thought the dining-room dull and
dreary, and by the expression of his face
Mrs. Bernerr could see what his opinion of it
was. The soup he allowed to pass without
any unfavourable comment ; but when he
found It was followed Immediately by meat
Instead of fish, he said he was always accustomed
to fish as well as meat at home, and
expected It elsewhere. Mrs. Bernerr promised
he should have It in future, and harmony was
restored. But not for long. The wine was
by no means to his taste, though it was the
best the Berners had had on their table for
many years.

I cannot possibly give more expensive
wine than that' said Mrs. Bernerr. '' I am
sure everybody would say it is very good."

'' So they would," he admitted ; " but it is
not what I am accustomed to."

After a somewhat unpleasant debate on
the subject, he expressed his determination
of supplying himself with his own wine. This
was not very agreeable to the Berners, but
they thought it better to raise no objection.
Consequently, he sent his orders next day to
his father's wine merchant to send him several
dozens of the oldest and choicest wines, and
these he drank with great enjoyment, never
offering a glass to anybody, except on one
occasion to Mrs. Bernerr when she was indisposed,
and she then had the spirit to refuse
it.

But we must not forestall events. When
he and Mr. Bernerr were alone, the latter
asked him how his father was.

'' Oh, he is wonderfully well," said Philip;
^' I daresay all the better for being rid of me.
He is glad enough to have a pretext to send
me into exile, because the way he goes on is

not over exemplary, and he Is delighted to
escape my observation."

Mr. Bernerr did not like to hear him talk in
this way of his father, so he found it necessary
to revert to another subject, and he
inquired about his favourite studies.

'' I do not know that there is any study of
which I am particularly fond. As a boy I
used to like the Latin poets, Catullus and
Juvenal especially ; but now I find life more
interesting than books."

Not finding much congeniality in Philip,
Mr. Bernerr was glad to rise as soon as possible
from table.

In the drawing-room Philip asked Mrs.
Bernerr to play for him. She did so, and he
complimented her on her performance, which
was, in truth, very good.

I like music," he said. '' You can sit
and listen, and listen, and think of nothing
in particular, and so the time glides by."

He then played backgammon with Mr.
Bernerr, and by the time they had had three
games he said he had some letters to write,
and retired to his room.

** Good Heavens!" he exclaimed, 'what
I have come to ! I shall go wild if this dull
Hfe continues. What would Marshfield say
if he saw me in this den ? "

Such was the close of the first day, and
the second did not open more auspiciously.

When the house was stirring, Philip gave
his usual violent pull at the bell, and when
Ann appeared, ordered hot water and a cup
of coffee to be brought as soon as possible.
Instead of getting up he wrote letters in bed,
caring little whether he inked the sheets or
not. One of the epistles was to his father,
whom he assured that he was very pleased
with his present abode.

'' If he believes I Hke it," thought Philip,
*' he will take me away all the sooner; but if
he were to know the truth, he would oblige
me to stay for months and months."

His feelings towards his father were, as the
reader may suppose, not over dutiful. Mr.
Beverley had not been quite correct in telling
Mr. Bernerr that he had been too indulgent.
No, he had not been too indulgent to his son,
but he had given him too much money. He

had frequently been very harsh to him as a
boy, and then, to make amends for it, he
used most injudiciously to bestow handsome
sums upon him. The inevitable consequence
followed. Severe restraint, succeeded by the
liberty and means of enjoyment, gave Philip
such a zest for pleasure and luxury that everyday
of his life made him more and more
selfish, frivolous, and extravagant.

The Berners did not see him at breakfast
that morning. He sent word that he had a
headache and could not come down. This
message was subsequently repeated almost
every day, so that it was the exception when
he did appear at the early meal. Mrs. Bernerr
by no means regretted this circumstance.
She had no liking for Philip, and it was with
great pains that she concealed this fact from
him.

Philip Beverley," she said to her husband,
*' has neither heart nor principle, and I greatly
fear that he will not turn out well."

'^ Surely, Charlotte," he replied, '' you are
too severe upon him. I grant that he is self-indulgent
and inconsiderate to others, but

that may wear off in time ; and I know his
talents are good if he could only be forced
to use them."

Mrs. Bernerr was far from uncharitable in
her judgment on individuals, but her keen
feminine insight made her form this unfavourable
opinion of Philip. She expressed it, but
would not dilate upon it.

Her husband was not endowed with any
preternatural perception of character, and he
could only see folly where she discovered
vice, thoughtlessness where she recognized
malignity. He was by no means averse to
Philip when the first shock of his imperiousness
passed off, and was not without the
hope of exercising a beneficial influence over
him. They read together of a morning, they
sometimes took rambles of an afternoon, and
were, on the whole, much better friends than
seemed likely at first. Whether the elder
man exercised that good influence over the
younger man which he supposed, may be
doubted. Philip delighted in dazzling him
with stories of the great people with whom he
was acquainted, and Mr. Bernerr was weak

enough to let himself be so dazzled. One
of Philip's favourite boasts was the large
amount of money he had lost and won at
betting and card-playing, and to these rhodomontade
Mr. Bernerr was too fond of
listening. One day Philip had actually the
audacity to propose that if Mr. Bernerr felt
inclined to try his luck on the turf, he would
be happy to give him his advice, and this
offer, though not accepted, was refused
without any indignation.

Notwithstanding his amicable relations
with his mentor, Philip rebelled at heart at
the dull life he was compelled to lead, and
secretly determined to endure it no longer, let
it cost what It would. From his father he
was receiving no allowance for the present,
but he had unlimited credit with his tradespeople,
who knew that he was the only son
of an opulent parent. To beguile the tedium
of his hours he would frequently order books,
clothes, curiosities, rings, all sorts of expensive
articles, only to pass a few minutes In
unpacking and looking at them.

It was a great relief to him to hear, about

a week after his arrival, from Mr. Bernerr that
they were expecting a pupil next day. He
would have been glad of any sort of companion
to break the monotony of their daily
routine ; and when he heard that the young
fellow in question was neither good-looking nor
considered clever, and thus most likely to bean
effective foil to his own accomplishments,
he was ready to give him a cordial reception.

Mr. Bernerr owed this new acquisition to
the recommendation of a brother clergyman
who was acquainted with a rich old man of
no particular family who was looking out fora
tutor to improve his son's neglected education.
It was high time, for the boy was
sixteen and as ignorant as a child of four,
and as awkward as he was uninformed.

'' A pretty kettle of fish I shall have ! " exclaimed
Mr. Bernerr on returning from his
interview with Mr. Ruddles, the father of this
promising youth. '' I never saw such a
deplorable object as the poor boy is. He
looks stupid, and heavy, and utterly neglected.
How on earth am I to improve him ? I shall
have to get a master to assist me."

Mrs. Bernerr thought this a very necessary
step, and determined to look out for a suitable
man.

When James Ruddles arrived, his appearance
did not contradict the fame that
had preceded him. He was so shy that he
could scarcely say '' How do you do ? " in
reply to Mrs. Bernerr's kind greeting, and the
striking figure of Philip Beverley made him
blush with amazement and alarm. If anybody
happened to look at him, he would cast
down his eyes and seem to find his hands
terribly in his way, for he would rub them
against his trousers and his waistcoat or let
them drop straight down. If he was sitting,
he would hang his head and contemplate his
large feet ; if he was standing, he could not
summon courage to walk across the room,
but would stand in the most clumsy, constrained
position until addressed.

Mrs. Bernerr pitied him very much, and
with maternal kindness tried to put him at
ease. But it was uphill work. At dinner,
especially, he was in a lamentable condition.
The terrible sensation that he was visible to

everybody at table, and to Ann, who planted
herself behind his chair as a compliment to
the new arrival, utterly unnerved him. He
let his spoon fall while taking his soup, and
when it was picked up for him he had no
courage to proceed. When the fish appeared,
and he was helped, he took his knife and
fork and was beginning to eat, but observing
that the others were using only their forks he
turned scarlet, and, fancying no one was
looking, he slipped the knife under his napkin
on his lap.

This absurd action did not escape Philip's
notice.

'that's right, old boy," he exclaimed,
*' always hide the proof of guilt."

The tears came into Ruddles' eyes, but he
said nothing. Mrs. Bernerr looked reproachfully
at Philip, but he was not stricken by
remorse.

To make the boy forget this incident, Mr.
Bernerr asked him about his brothers and
sisters, and his friends.

Have you many friends ? "

'• No ; but father and mother have."

Philip could not resist this opportunity of
tormenting him.

'' Do you know Sophocles?" he inquired,
with a satirical air.

''No; but perhaps father and mother do. I
never see their visitors."

This was too much for Philip. He roared
with laughter, and even Mr. Bernerr could not
suppress a smile. Mrs. Bernerr's indignation
at Philip's unfeeling mockery mastered her
sense of the ridiculous, and she determined tolet
him know after dinner what she thought
of his conduct. Poor Ruddles was bleeding
at heart, and his face quivered with emotion.

Philip gave him a short respite, and then
began again —

*' Do you know my name ? "

'' No, I don't."

** Philip Beverley. And do you know after
whom I am called Philip? "

'' No, I don't."

'' After Philip the Second, King of Spain,
who was the most popular, kind-hearted,
generous, philanthropic sovereign that ever
lived. Do you know where Spain is ? "

CAN IT BE TRUE 7

'^ It is where the oranges come from to
make marmalade."

'' A very pleasant association of ideas. I
see you have a knowledge of something ; but
why haven't you learnt more ? "

'' Because I was never taught," said
Ruddles, blushing with shame.

'' Never mind," said Mrs. Bernerr. '' You
will soon learn a great deal here."

She did her best to prevent Philip from
worrying him further, but another misadventure
was in store for him before dinner was
over. Mr. Bernerr poured him out some wine,
and Philip said —

^' If you don't drink it off quickly it will
get into your head."

What Philip wished for happened. The
novelty of drinking wine, the consciousness
of being watched by those present, the haste
in which he swallowed the beverage, according
to his tormentor's directions, all these
things had a baneful influence upon Ruddles,
and he choked. The wine that remained
in the glass was all spilt on the cloth in
the violent fit of coughing that ensued, and

the poor boy felt ready to sink into the
ground.

When this trial had passed over, further discomfort
awaited him. Mrs. Bernerr withdrew
after dessert, and he felt as if his only protector
had abandoned him. However, Philip
had teased him quite as much to aggravate
Mrs. Bernerr as to wound his own feelings,
and as this double result could now no longer
be attained, he left him comparatively at
peace.

When they repaired to the drawing-room
Ruddles was more at a loss than ever what todo
and what to leave undone. He did not
know whether he ought to stand or to sit,
to walk about or be quiet ; and, in short, he
was profoundly miserable.

Mrs. Bernerr was going to play on the piano,
and Philip went to open it. He called Ruddles
to assist him. The boy responded in great
trepidation to the call, and lighted the candles
at Philip's direction, but, having done so, he
-contrived to knock one of them down, the
wax dropping on the notes and on the
carpet. This disaster extinguished him for

the rest of the evening. He took refuge Ina
corner, and not even Mrs. Bernerr could lure
him out of it until it was bedtime, when he
took his candlestick and hurried up to his
room to cry bitterly for half-an-hour.

When he had retired, Mrs. Bernerr said to
Philip —

'' How could you be so unfeeling, Mr.
Beverley, as to make fun of that poor boy the
whole evening ? Did you not reflect that such
conduct is enough to spoil his disposition for
life ? How is it possible that you, a gentleman,
could take pleasure in humiliating a
fellow-creature like that ? "

'' Oh ! Mrs. Bernerr," he retorted, '' do not
be so tragic about such an absurd object.
How can one see him without laughing, and
how can one talk to him without being
tempted to make game of him ? "

Mrs. Bernerr would not surrender her point,
and continued to be displeased with Philip,
but he retired to his room unabashed, and
thought that for the first time since his residence
at Dullroad Buildings he had had a
few hours of genuine amusement.

Fortunately for Ruddles, next morning-philip
was in a patronizing mood, and was
gracious in demeanour towards that forlorn
youth. He met him in the passage and took
him into his room to show him his fine things,
an occupation which always put Philip in
good humour, especially when he had so
appreciative a spectator as James Ruddles,
whose surprise and admiration knew no
bounds.

While the young men were thus occupied,
Mrs. Bernerr was informing her husband that
she had found a tutor admirably adapted to
assist him in the tuition of his pupil. Mr.
Bernerr was in his study, looking over some

books, the instruments of torture in store
for Ruddles. He looked very helpless over
the task, which he did not seem to relish
at all. The pleasure with which he heard
his wife's announcement may, therefore, be
imagined.

'' How did you hear of him, Charlotte ? "
he inquired.

*^ Oh, by the merest chance. I was going
to Dr. Grimmersby to ask if he knew of a
suitable person, when I met Mrs. Rabbits."

'who is Mrs. Rabbits?"

Why, don't you know the little stout
red-faced woman who lives at number twenty-four
in this road and lets lodgings ? Well,
only think, she was just coming to me to
ask me if we knew of anybody who wanted
lessons in French or mathematics, as she
had a gentleman lodging in her house who
would be very glad to find pupils. She told
me he had given instruction at Dr. Grim-mersey's,
but had discontinued doing so
owing to a difference that had arisen between
him and the doctor. I immediately went to
her house and saw the party in question. He

looks poor enough, but seems clever, and he
referred me to Dr. Grimmersby. I went forthwith
to the doctor, who assured me that
although he could not agree personally with
Mr. Gallford, he could recommend him as
highly conscientious, clever, and efficient. So
I returned to Mrs. Rabbits' and settled
affairs with Mr. Gallford on the spot. He is
to come every morning from nine to one, and
every afternoon from three to five, Wednesdays
and Saturdays excepted, when his afternoons
are already engaged by a pupil whom
he does not wish to lose. The terms are to
be a guinea and a half a week ; he wanted
two guineas, but I held out for the lesser sum.
We are obliged to give the boys such expensive
food that we certainly cannot afford a
larger amount. I thought you would be glad,
Frederick, if I were to arrange everything on
the spot without giving you any trouble ; so
I took the responsibility on myself, and if you
do not like the man, why, we can easily discontinue
his lessons."

'' I am indeed most thankful to you, Charlotte,"
Mr. Bernerr replied, '' for saving me the

trouble, and I am quite sure he will be good
enough for Ruddles."

This was Mr. Bernerr's easy way of disposing
of the business.

'' He will enter on his duties tomorrow
morning," Mrs. Bernerr continued. '' I think
he ought to be very grateful to Mrs. Rabbits,
though I suppose she did it as much for her
own sake as for his. On my leaving the
house, she told me he owed her ten days'
board and lodging, having earned so little
since he left Dr. Grimmersby's."

To the great alarm of Ruddles Mr. Bernerr
informed him after luncheon that he wished
to speak to him in his study. The boy
followed, with palpitating heart, not knowing
what was going to be done to him, and
wondering whether he had committed any
misdemeanour. He was rather relieved on
discovering that Mr. Bernerr only wished to
find out what he had learnt, though he was
greatly ashamed at having to confess the
extent of his ignorance. He could not even
write his own name correctly — he spelt it
*' Rudders " — and his ideas were in a lamentable

state of darkness and confusion. However,
Mr. Bernerr thought that his feeling
his uneducated condition so much was a
hopeful sign, and he told him that a clever
man was coming to initiate him in the field
of knowledge. This was terrible news, and
Ruddles awaited his appearance much as a
prisoner would await the appearance of his
judge.

Punctually at nine o'clock next morning
Mr. Gallford presented himself. He was
shown into the study, where ]mr. Bernerr and
Ruddles were awaiting him, the former with
curiosity, the latter with terror. A tall, thin,
sallow man, with envious greenish eyes, a
long, satirical, quarrelsome nose, a morose
mouth, an acrimonious expression, entered
the room. He was dressed in a somewhat
shabby, though not ill-made suit ; one of his
lean hands was proved, the other bare. Giving
Mr. Bernerr a hostile look, he made a frigid
bow and waited to be addressed.

'' I was glad to hear," said Mr. Bernerr,
'* the account that Dr. Trimmers eave of
your cleverness in tuition, and I hope our

young friend may progress favourably under
your guidance."

Gallford bestowed on Ruddles a sour look,
and said —

'* If Dr. Grimmersby thinks me no ordinary
drudge, why did he treat me as such ? If he
thought me competent to teach, why did he
always interfere with my method of instruction?
Sir, we must understand our footing
before we proceed. You confide certain
branches of your pupils' education to me ;
but those branches must be completely under
my own control. If, after a certain period,
you are not satisfied with the result, you
will tell me so, and I will cease to call ; butin
the meantime I beg you will not interfere."


Mr. Bernerr was always submissive to people
of decision, and agreed to these uncompromising
terms.

'' Very well ; what am I to teach the young
gentleman ? "

'' Everything ; his education has been
neglected."

"A common case among the rich," muttered

Gallford ; '' the poor are more conscientious."


'' I am afraid," continued Mr. Bernerr, in
an apologetic tone, '' he cannot even spell
correctly."

'' Do you suppose," asked Gallford, 'that
a man of my powers of mind is to stoop to
teach blockheads their ABC? If justice
were done, I should now be renowned as the
greatest mathematician in Europe. But the
spite and jealousy of the celebrated prevent
the deserving from rising."

"It was settled," said Mr. Bernerr, 'that
you should teach whatever might be required."


"So it was," retorted the other; "but I
did not suspect I should be forced to sink sa
low."

"He wull soon make progress," said Mr.
Bernerr, soothingly ; "I am sure he is will
ing."

"He need be," muttered Gallford, with a.
contemptuous glance at the youth.

After further preliminary snarling, Gallford
sat down and began putting Ruddles through

E

his paces. It was dull, slow work, and Mr.
Bernerr soon weaned of it, and left the room.
The poor boy's unexercised brain was incapable
of performing the evolutions his
master required. The simplest task was a
mountain of difficulty, which he tried in vain
to climb. When anything was explained to
him his dull intelligence required five or six
repetitions before the meaning dawned upon
him. Gallford was a clever instructor, but his
manner was sharp and cutting, and his harshness
often undid what his ability performed.

Mr. Bernerr had told Philip what a peculiar-looking
man the new tutor was. The account
excited Philip's curiosity, and he determined
to have a look at him without delay. He
accordingly went into the study under pretext
of fetching a book. Gallford looked up at
the intruder, who appeared at his best, with
a haughty, self-confident air, a most fashionable
attire setting off his fine figure, and a
magnificent ruby scarf-pin glittering afar — a
ruby that must have cost much more than
Gallford earned in a year. Gallford's bile was
roused at this splendour.

I beg you will not interrupt the lessons I
am orivinp^," he said.

'' It is for Mr. Bernerr, not for you, to command
in this house. You can complain to
him if you choose."

Saying which, Philip opened the bookcase
and began rummaging its contents.

'will you leave the room, sir?" inquired
Gallford.

I shall do so when I have found what I
am looking for," retorted Philip.

It was a hopeless attempt to fix Ruddles'
attention when Philip was present. He had
conceived the most intense admiration for
that brilliant youth, thinking him the incarnation
of everything fashionable and accomplished.
He could not take his eyes off him
while he was in the room, and even redoubled
asperity on the part of Gallford was fruitless
to arouse him from his ecstatic contemplation.
When Philip thought he had aggravated
Gallford sufficiently, he went off ; but even
then the spell was not broken, and the master
had excessive trouble with his inattentive
pupil. He determined to speak strongly to

SSrnor.wNo.s

Mr. Bernerr on the subject ; and when that
gentleman entered the room when the lesson
was over, he did so. Mr. Bernerr made light
of it.

'' Mr. Beverley really wanted the book, and
as he did not address your pupil I do not think
you have cause to complain."

On taking his hat from the stand in the
hall, Gallford encountered Philip.

'' Are you pleased with your pupil, Mr. —
er — hum — I forget your name ? " said Philip.
'' Gallford," said the other.
^' Mr. Gallford. I hear you are a capital
hand at mathematics. Have you been
imparting that abstruse science to Mr.
Ruddles?"

Gallford opposed an invincible silence to
this impertinence. But Philip persevered.

'' I feel quite like a brother to Ruddles,
though we are so dissimilar in appearance.

If he is not handsome," said Gallford,
he is at least not a coxcomb ! "

The same thing may be observed of you,
Mr. Gallford," Philip replied, blandly. '' Are
you going home? "

'' I am going to my lodgings."

'' I hope you have not far to go this wet
day, and that when you get to them they
are comfortable. Do you entertain many
friends ? "

'' I have none' retorted Gallford, bitterly.

'^ You surprise me ! I should have thought
with your amiability you could not fail to be
surrounded by a host. Do you not feel
inclined to begin, and to enrol me the first
among your list of friends ? "

Gallford gave him a savage look, said
nothing, and left the house, slamming the
door behind him.

At luncheon Philip gave a ludicrous account
of this dialogue, and made even Ruddles
laugh at the way in which he took off the
pint of vinegar," as he called Gallford.
But Mrs. Bernerr expostulated with him. She
declared that it was very wrong of him to
wound the feelings of a fellow-creature, as
she had told him on a previous occasion ;
that Gallford was a man of cultivation, who
had probably seen better days, and that he
was battling with obscurity and poverty.

•' Bother his poverty ! " exclaimed PhlHp ;
*^ why don't poor people make money? If
the fellow comes across me with his sour looks,
for the life of me I can't help being merry
at his expense," saying which he drank off a
glass of his choicest wine with great gusto.

He was taking the most intense dislike to
Dullroad Buildings, and whenever he could
escape from the house he did so. That particular
afternoon he took a long, aimless
stroll, his mind occupied with anything but
pleasant ideas. His discontent had been
aggravated by a letter from Sir Alexander
Marshfield describing all the gaieties and
enjoyments of which he himself was for the
moment deprived, and making the contrast
between his and his friend's position all the
more painful.

Immersed in these unwelcome reflections,
he was suddenly roused by the voice of a
young man asking if he could tell him the
way to Mr. Bernerr's. He looked up, and
saw in the speaker a man of gentlemanly
appearance, about two or three years older
than himself.

'' I live at Mr. Bernerr's, and am going
home, and shall be happy to show you the
way," he replied.

It was a great relief to Philip to have
someone to talk to at that moment. If he
had been happier and more amused, his
manner would not have been so obliging. He
began talking, and soon elicited from the
other that he was living at Dr. Grimmersby's.

This gentleman, whose name is now introduced
for the third or fourth time, was a
celebrated crammer, the very reverse of Mr.
Bernerr, able, industrious, despotic, and
dreaded. He would take even the most
densely stupid youths, and force the requisite
learning into their minds. Whether they
digested it or not was all the same to the
doctor. They were stuffed with knowledge,
and at their examinations they disgorged it
with brilliant effect.

^' I have an intimate friend," said Philip's
new acquaintance, 'who wished to study
under Dr. Grimmersby, but as he has no
vacancy at present he suggested Mr. Bernerr,
and I am going to make inquiries."

'' I should be very glad if your friend were
to come to Bernerr's," said Philip ; '' we are a
miserably slow, dull set at present. The
only fellow there besides me is an oaf, and
Bernerr himself is a simpleton. The one
advantage is, you can do just as you like."

'' My friend will appreciate that highly,"
said the other, with a smile. '' It is not
altogether Liberty Hall at Dr. Grimmersby's.
He is a stiff customer, and is always up to
the mark. But for my part I like him well
enough, and I have learnt more there in nine
months under him than in five years elsewhere."


Philip could not bear to hear of anything
appertaining to study and work, so he tried to
change the subject by asking him what sort
of fellows were at the doctor's.

'' Well, they are, for the greater part, much
younger than I am ; and nearly all are so
hard-worked that the life is quite taken out of
them ; but if you were to see my friend I am
sure you would like him."

By this time they had arrived at their
destination. Laurence O'Brien, such was the

young man's name, had an Interview with Mr.
Bernerr, and arranged affairs with him for the
reception of his friend. The only difficulty
consisted in the terms. He said two hundred
and fifty guineas were too large a sum for his
friend Arthur Challoner to pay, and he was
only empowered to offer two hundred pounds.
Mr. Bernerr said he must consult his wife on
the subject, and, accordingly, Charlotte was
summoned. At first she was strongly against
any abatement, but O'Brien was so persuasive,
and he had such fine dark eyes, and he
assured her that his friend was such a
delightful man, and would give so little
trouble, that she yielded. Fine eyes were
always irresistible to Mrs. Bernerr, especially
when they were enhanced by an agreeable
manner. It was, therefore, arranged that in
two days Arthur Challoner should be received
into her house.

O'Brien rose to depart, and was met
outside by Philip, who offered to accompany
him home. Mr. Bernerr had told O'Brien,
with visible satisfaction, who Philip was, and
the name of Philip's father as one of the

richest men in England had long ere this
reached his ears. He was, therefore, desirous
of securing the good-will of so important a
personage for his friend, and gladly accepted
his offer.

'' But," he said, ^' I have to drop in at a
very odd man's abode, a man who used to
come to Dr. Grimmersby's. I do not wish to
lose sight of him ; and, indeed, I should be
very glad if you would come with me ; I
promised to bring him some friends now and
then to cheer him up, and you will be diverted
by an original."

Philip readily assented ; and they proceeded
to no other place than 24, Dullroad
Buildings, the original in question being,,
indeed, the acrimonious Gallford. O'Brien
opened the hall-door without knocking and
proceeded upstairs, followed by Philip, in
perfect ignorance as to whom he was to meet.
A room at the top of the house, looking to
the back, was O'Brien's destination. He
rapped, and entered, followed by Philip, to
whose astonished eyes a room was revealed,
the bareness and discomfort of which made

the much-despised blue-room appear palatial.
Gallford was seated at a desk, with his back
turned to them, evidently deep in thought*'

What do you want ? " was his ungracious
query.

^' I have come to see you, and have
brought a gentleman with me."

'' A man would be welcome," said the
original, without looking round, ^' but a
gentleman I spurn. In the nineteenth century
it is time that these conventional distinctions
should be things of the past."

Philip now recognized Gallford, and seemed
to enjoy the situation.

'' Come, come," said O'Brien, 'you are in
one of your perverse moods. Won't you even
look at your friends when they call ? "

'' I have told you repeatedly that I have no
friends."

'' What am I ? " asked O'Brien.

'' Certainly not my friend. How can I tell
what bad qualities may lurk under your
plausible exterior ? "

Well, I must say," exclaimed Philip, '' Mr.
Gallford has the courage of his convictions"'

On hearing the tones of his mocking voice
Gallford started up and turned round.

'sir!" he exclaimed, 'how dare you
come to my room to insult me?"

"Sir," replied Philip, "this gentleman
asked me up without mentioning your name,
and I was not aware that I was to have the
honour of being ushered into the presence of
the distinguished mathematician."

I understand you now," muttered Gall-ford
; " I have discovered the clue to your
conduct. You are an admirer of the old
dynasty of mathematicians whom my theory
would dethrone."

Philip, who had never even opened a book
on mathematics, was prodigiously tickled at
the idea of being taken for a zealot in the
science.

I assure you," he exclaimed, " I know
nothing about your theory ; and, far from
opposing it, I am willing to believe every
word of it even without its being explained tome."


That is the way they all treat me," Gall-ford
said, in an injured tone, to O'Brien. " I

have written to all the celebrities in Europe ;
they have either not answered or answered
with mockery. But I see through the hollow
disguise of their spite. It is not in vain that
I have studied and meditated. In defiance
of my enemies I shall soar like an eagle
to the summits of learning. My pinions
shall waft me above the meanness of the
age."

Philip was enjoying this scene more than
any comedy he had ever witnessed.

*^ As for that tyrant Grimmersby," continued
Gallford, '^ I have set my mark upon
his brow. He tortured me in the hopes of
making me abandon my theories ; but, with
greater fortitude than Galileo, I defied the
power of this new inquisitor. Before all the
miserable youths he was cramming I thundered
in his ears my scorn of his scientific
bigotry. The heartless creature had it in
his power to starve me, he had it not in his
power to refute me."

'* But," said O'Brien, with a mischievous
smile, "he cannot go altogether against the
spirit of the age. He has to prepare young

men for public examinations, where your
theories do not prevail."

^^ What is the wretched question of a few
muddle-headed boys passing their examinations
compared to the all-important question
of science and truth ? I will never bend to
sordid considerations, even though I perish
renowned."

Having given utterance to this lofty
declaration he sat down again at his desk,
taking no further notice of his visitors.

'' Will you not converse with us a little,
now we are here?" asked O'Brien.

'' No, I will not," said Gallford. '' I distrust
strangers, and I am tired of the way in
which you are going on. I have told you in
the most emphatic manner not to make
friends of the treacherous bipeds that inhabit
our globe. If you do not listen to my warning
you will have cause to repent it. They
are the most dangerous creatures conceivable
— full of falsehood, perfidy, meanness,
cruelty, greediness, malignity, and selfishness.
I ask you what good can come of
fellowship with such monsters?"

But there are some good people in the
world," protested O'Brien.

Say, rather, there are some clever hypocrites,"
retorted the misanthropist, '' and
then you will be nearer the truth. Be on
your guard against the ^vhole human race,
and then you will be safe ; but to make
friends of them is unpardonable folly ; false
friends have been the destruction of many."

''If you will excuse my saying so, I should
not like to live as you do," said O'Brien, '' in
such utter loneliness and gloom."

'' I am as happy as anyone can be in this
hateful world," said Gallford, bitterly ; '' much
happier than if I were dangling after wealthy
fops."

Philip laughed at this stab at himself, and
O'Brien thought it better to retreat before
even less complimentary views were expressed.


'' What an absurd man ! " exclaimed Philip
when they were in the street.

'' Say, rather, what a wrecked brain, and
withered heart," said O'Brien, sadly. '' I have
always felt for him more than I can say.

What a wretched Hfe he must have Heed to
bring him to such views ! His brain was
never powerful, though always active, and
excessive study has weakened his nerves,
especially since he fancied he had made a
discovery in science, of the fallacy of which
he cannot be convinced. The idea that he
is not appreciated, and the pressure of his
poverty, will, I fear, only tend to increase his
bitterness. I have tried to befriend him, but,
as you see, it is of no use."

Philip was highly amused at his new
acquaintance taking Gallford so seriously, for
the thought of pitying him never entered his
head. He exhorted O'Brien to take no more
notice of the snappish creature, or only to
visit him with a view of extracting amusement
from his oddities, and wound up by
inviting O'Brien to come and see him the
next day.

O'Brien accepted the offer, and thought,
with his usual buoyant heartiness, what an
agreeable friend he had made.

From Exeter to London is a long stretch,
and wet weather does not make it appear
shorter. This seemed to be the opinion of
Arthur Challoner as he surveyed the cheerless
prospect from the windows of the express
train that was whirling him along. Nor were
his own spirits sufficiently elated to enable him
to bear up against the dulness of the day.
He was thinking of his past years, so barren
of enjoyment, so void of affection, and of his.
future that did not seem more promising
Left an orphan at an early age, he had been
cast among strangers who did their duty by
the unbefriended boy, but nothing beyond it.
Ill-treated, or neglected, or oppressed, he had.i

F

not been ; his guardian had given him as good
an education as could be procured at the
lowest possible cost, and he had profited
with rare ability from the slightest advantages.
But his heart had been left out in the
cold ever since he could remember ; no matter
how bleak or wintry his destiny might be,
there was no cheerful fireside where his spirit
could be warmed, no home where his presence
would be welcome and his affection returned.
No better proof of his excellent disposition
could be given than the fact that far from
being embittered by the cheerless tenour of
his life, he became all the more ready to
respond to friendship, and to requite kindness.
At school he had formed a few boyish attachments,
but the objects of his partiality dispersed
here and there, and had soon forgotten
Arthur, who could show neither connections
nor prospects, only his own merits, to keep
his memory alive.

The one friend who remained true to him
was O'Brien. They had corresponded regularly
since their last meeting, and withheld
neither joys nor sorrows from each other.

Arthur, shortly after he came of age, received
a letter from a London solicitor, informing
him that he would, ere long, receive a small
sum, about seven or eight hundred pounds, as
one of the next-of-kin to Mr, John Challoner,
deceased, who had left a will drawn up in so
confused a manner that it had to be thrown
into Chancery, from which gulf the estate
was about to emperor, shorn of its beams,
two-thirds having been swallowed by expenses.
On the strength of this intelligence Arthur's
former guardian volunteered to advance him
two hundred pounds at seven per cent, interest
to enable him to go without delay to a
crammer's in order to qualify him for some
appointment. Arthur was willing to wait until
he had the money in his hands, as he had
waited all his life for a little prosperity ; but
the other had such excellent things to say on
the folly of losing time, on the probability of
further delay in the payment of the sum, that
Arthur, to whom it was always a prodigious
effort to say '' No," yielded, and had the
pleasure of signing a bond burthening him
with the payment of fourteen pounds per

annum, and containing the proviso that
should the sum be returned within a year
the whole year's interest was nevertheless to
be paid in full. Arthur knew the imprudence
of what he was doing, and though he thought
his conduct unwise, he was so utterly weary
of his joyless surroundings, that, merely to
escape from them a day sooner, he would
have sacrificed even a larger amount.

He asked O'Brien's advice as to where he
should go. O'Brien, as the reader knows,
recommended Dr. Grimmersby, and, failing
him, Mr. Bernerr was selected. As the latter
had secured the services of Gallford, the
choice was not entirely injudicious. Without
much hope of success, but with relief at the
impending change of scene, Arthur was now
on his way. Should he be favoured by fortune
in his future, well and good ; but should the
little money he was to have be spent in vain,
what then ? He pondered over this uncomfortable
question, and the answers he could
find were not the most reassuring. Life lay,
indeed, before him with as dreary an appearance
as the country through which he

was passing ; and the rain beating against
the carriage windows, and tricking down
them like tears, seemed quite in harmony
with his painful cogitations. But the most
tedious journey must have an end, and the
most unprosperous life a close ; and he
thought, not without a pang, that joy and
sorrow would then be equalized.

On such a day Dullroad Buildings where, as
may be supposed, entrapped in their deepest
gloom. Wherever the eye rested it encountered
dampness and dinginess. Foggy atmosphere,
drizzling rain, deep mud, cold, and
humidity greeted the new arrival. The first
object that struck Arthur was the high redbrick
wall facing the row of houses in which
the Berners lived. To reside opposite such
a sight was the next best thing to living in a
prison. As his cab slackened speed, he looked
at the houses, and their air of sullen respectability
chilled him. Number six was to be
let, and the gaunt, curtailed windows, with
their large white placards, revealed black
caverns of darkness within, and seemed to
proclaim that the last tenant had fled, overcome

by the gloom of his residence, and was
destined never to have a successor. Number
five was only less dreary because inhabited,
and when the mournful figure of Mr. Bernerr
appeared at the hall-door, Arthur felt as if he
were sinking from melancholy into despair.

This is, indeed, a far from brilliant manner
for the hero of a novel to make his first
appearance. The gentle reader must be
Informed, probably to his great surprise, that
not Philip, with all his wealth, and not
O'Brien, with his fine eyes, but our dear,
long-suffering, warm-hearted Arthur Challoner
Is the centre round whom this story turns.
Gladly would I have introduced him in the
midst of a splendid ball at a ducal mansion,
flirting with a peeress, or riding a magnificent
mare in the park, but I am not inventing fiction,
I am recording truth — truth in all Its vastness
and depth, its pitiless severity and terrible
significance.

As Arthur had neither a wealthy father nora
character for dissipation, Mrs. Bernerr was
far less eager for his arrival than she had been
for that of Philip, but when he did appear,

she gave him a kind reception, a Httle condescending,
perhaps, still much kinder than he
had ever before experienced. She was favourably
impressed with his figure, manners, and
refined, clearly-cut features.

When Philip heard that Arthur objected to
the sum of two hundred and fifty guineas as
excessive, he set him down as little better
than a pauper ; but when he saw, instead of
the tattered object in his mind's eye, the
attractive form of the new comer, he was
taken aback, and hesitated for a moment
whether he should welcome him as an ally or
defy him as a rival. Fortunately for Arthur,
a happy thought occurred to Philip. He had
projected a sudden visit to his father, accompanied
by O'Brien or Ruddles, as proof of his
present respectability, and as contrast to men
like Sir Alexander, but O'Brien was so taken
up with his studies that he would probably not
be able to accompany him, and Ruddles was
so plain that he might not make a favourable
impression on the fastidious Mr. Beverley ;
so that the scheme appeared likely to fall
through. But when Philip set eyes on Arthur,

he thought to himself, '^ The very thing," and
determined to be particularly agreeable to the
young man.

Mr. Bernerr, the first time he was alone
with Arthur, seized the opportunity of impressing
upon him the wealth, the grandeur,
the importance of the Beverley, a subject
which always inspired him with eloquence.
The unassuming Arthur thought it, therefore,
particularly graceful on the part of Philip to
show him such friendly feeling.

As for Ruddles, his allegiance was soon
divided between Philip and Arthur. He
thought the former peerless, and so far above
other mortals as to be worshipped only at a
distance ; but Arthur, although he had not
such splendid jewels or expensive habits, was
perhaps more delightful in his way, and certainly
less capricious in demeanour. Ruddles
was at a loss to know whom he should prefer.
When Philip was unkind to him, which was
not seldom, he thought Arthur perfection ;
but when Philip condescended to smile, he
was of opinion that Philip was superhuman.
Thus his preference was wafted to and fro

without either of his idols caring whether he
liked him or not.

Arthur lost no time in setting to work in
true earnest. Gallford was summoned, and
was not displeased to have a more brilliant
pupil than the dull Ruddles. He was, of
course, extremely disagreeable to Arthur,
which at first mystified him exceedingly • but
on discovering the peculiar character of the
man, he acted accordingly. While not giving
in to his whims, he showed by his industry
and attention that he valued Gallford's tuition,
a circumstance that did not fail to gratify the
misanthropist, although he studiously concealed
the fact.

Arthur's talents were first-rate, his industry
considerable, and his previous knowledge not
contemptible. He had a great turn for
languages and music ; the more abstruse
sciences had less attraction for him.

But we must not forestall events. We
must remember that we have not proceeded
in our narrative beyond the first days of
Arthur's residence at Dullroad Buildings.

He had an early visit from O'Brien, and

they had many details to recount which had
not been confided to their correspondence.

Arthur was much troubled with his
Chancery money. The solicitor had written
a letter to Dullroad Buildings, which was
awaiting him on his arrival, to inform him
that next day he would receive a cheque for
his share of the estate. Next day arrived,
and with It a letter to say that complications
had arisen, which would probably delay payment
for an Indefinite period. This was bad
news for Arthur, who had been obliged out
of the two hundred pounds to pay his guardian
several sums, which that worthy claimed as
having disbursed in former years, to say
nothing of a few trifling debts he was compelled
to discharge before leaving Exeter.

He had confidently hoped for an earl
settlement; this delay caused him considerable
inconvenience. He talked over his
troubles with O'Brien, and derived consolation
from his hearty sympathy. O'Brien
offered to help him as much as his own
slender resources would allow, should he be
hard-pressed.

While they were thus involved in debate,
Philip's cogitations were no less absorbing,
at least to himself. He was constantly hearing
from Sir Alexander, and from other associates
of former days, all urging him to rebel
against the tyranny of his father in forcing
him to live in such seclusion. He would
gladly have followed their advice could he
have seen his way to resisting his father
without injuring himself. But there was the
rub. Of one fact he was convinced : Mr.
Beverley, if annoyed beyond a certain point,
would be capable of taking much severer
measures than he had already done, and
Philip felt far from inclined to pass through
further unpleasantness. At the same time,
he was so weary of his present commonplace,
unexciting existence, that he was ready
to make any apparent submission in order to
be released. The course lying before him
was plain enough : he must make fulsome
promises to his father of future reformation,
in order to be allowed to return home ; and
that object once gained, he could revert to
his old amusements and pursuits, only with

greater secrecy than he formerly observed.
It did not cost him any effort to determine on
such a tortuous line of conduct ; and, having
arranged his plans, he carried them out with
vigour. His father's birthday was coming
round, and he wrote to him asking to be
allowed to return home for that day, and to
bring one of his companions with him, '' a
very delightful young man, to whom he had
taken a great fancy." The answer was propitious,
and put Philip in the highest spirits.
He invited Arthur to go with him, an unexpected
favour which gave the latter great
pleasure, and confirmed him in his good
opinion of Philip's disposition. Mr. Bernerr
gave Arthur to understand that he ought to
think himself highly honoured by such an
attention. Wonderful power of wealth !
Here was an upright, conscientious man,
who had undertaken the task of keeping a
dissolute youth in check, prostrating himself
even to the dust before him, and trying to
make others equally obsequious.

Arthur did not indulge in such reflections ;
he received what people said without refining

upon It, and heard with perfect good faith all
sorts of judgments and opinions. It may be
that he rose a Httle In his own estimation
after that dictum of Mr. Bernerr ; but however
this was, he felt great joy on the day he and
Philip went up to Town. It was splendid
October weather, uniting the brilliancy of
summer to the mellowness of autumn, and
giving the vast city a more joyous appearance
than It usually wears.

Mr. Beverley's carriage met them at the
station. Arthur, who wished to call on his
solicitor, as it was on his way, asked to be set
down at his office, saying he would follow on
foot ; but Philip, who was In a very amiable
mood, would not hear of this, and insisted on
waiting: for him.

The solicitor, on being handed Arthur's
card, sent word that he was too busy to see
him, but that when things were settled he
would let him know. He was not at all too
busy ; in fact, at that very moment he was
lounging In his chair and looking over a
magazine ; but he did not want to be bothered
with visits from nobodies. So Arthur had to

go away without receiving the definite information
he so much desired.

He recovered from his disappointment on
entering Mr. Beverley's house. The unwonted
splendour of every object that met
his eye, the taste and luxury to which he had
never been accustomed, surprised and interested
him. He had expected magnificence,
but not magnificence like this, so
refined and yet so lavish, so sumptuous and
yet so artistic. The gorgeousness of colour
was subdued by the perfection of its arrangement
; and the priceless value of the
marble staircase and the oak carvings, of
the tapestry and the hangings, and of the
pictures displayed in the rooms, was almost
forgotten in the harmonious effect of the
whole.

Mr. Beverley was in the drawing-room, and,
after receiving Philip's wishes for many happy
returns of the day, gave Arthur a very porte
welcome. There was another gentleman present,
to whom Arthur was introduced, and
whom he soon discovered to be a Member of
Parliament, very indignant at having been

called to order during his speech the previous
night.

'' I assure you," he said, '' Mr. — er — Challenger,
that I — er — that I said — er — absolutely
nothing to provoke — er — to call forth — er —
to give rise to — er — that sort of thing. I am
convinced — er — that is, I am certain — er —
that I — er — in fact, I had — er — lost the thread
of my — er — argument, and — er — did not knower
— was, in fact, not aware of the — er —
meaning of — er — what I was saying."

Arthur could not help smiling at the
naivete of this assertion, which was fully confirmed
by the intellectual countenance of the
speaker.

Some other gentlemen soon made their appearance.
They were all elderly, Mr. Beverley
himself being one of the youngest. Philip
was displeased at not having an opportunity
of speaking aside to his father, Mr. Beverley
was anxious to avoid his son as much as
possible, Arthur was being bored by the M.P.,
the other guests were either dull or reserved,
so that conversation languished until luncheon

was announced.



In spite of the excellence of the cuisine,.
and the richness of the wines, Arthur had
seldom sat at a duller table. He could not
help wishing that some of the wealth of the
visitors' pockets could be bestowed upon
their brains. Mr. Beverley looked by far the
cleverest of the party ; but he would either
not exert himself to talk well, or else studiously
kept down to the level of his company. Arthur
was sitting between the member and an old
gentleman who was so intent on the good
things before him that he had scarcely a word
to say, so we may imagine what slow work it
was.

After luncheon, Philip watched with lynx-like
vigilance for his opportunity. Fortune
favoured him, and he managed to draw his
father aside for a few minutes. What they
said was lost upon Arthur, as he stood in
another part of the room ; but he noticed that,
when the short dialogue was over, Philip
seemed pleased. At the moment they were
leaving, Mr. Beverley offered Philip the
carriage to take them back to the station, but
he declined it. Arthur wondered why. He

soon discovered the reason when they had
left the house. Instead of going In the
direction of the station, Philip went exactly
the opposite way. When Arthur drew his
attention to the fact, he smiled and said he
had a visit to pay.

They stopped at a house that was let in
chambers to bachelors. Philip asked for Sir
Alexander Marshfield.

They went upstairs, and were shown into a
pretty Httle room, where they were soon joined
by Sir Alexander in his dressing-gown. He
was a tall, thin, wiry man, with a languid
face, but sharp eyes. There was something
in his appearance and manner that reminded
one of a burnt-up volcano.

^' How Is the Adonis of Dullroad Buildings
? " he inquired. '' Oh, what an address !
How I laughed when I first read it ! The
only time I had laughed heartily for three
years. Is your Czar going to keep you much
longer In that Siberia ? "

'' I have seen him to-day," replied Philip,
'' and he has issued a rather more favourable
ukase."

G

'^ I'm sure I envy you your retirement,"
said Marshfield, with a weary air. '' It will
give you a relish for pleasure again, a relish
which we lose if we are for ever revolving ina
round of gaiety. There is only one thing
of which you never tire, one thing that is
invariably exciting."

'what is that," asked Philip, 'drink?"

Oh ! how can you be so low and common
in your ideas ? " Marshfield expostulated,
with mock indignation. " Drink is for the
besotted and the grovelling. What I am
thinking of rouses the mind instead of wrecking
it, sharpens the wits instead of destroying
them. Love palls upon us as years advance ;
pleasure fades and ambition declines, but the
gaming-table never ceases to attract, to rivet,
to thrill."

Arthur was becoming uneasy on finding
himself in such choice company.

What is the world but a vast game of
chance?" continued Marshfield. "What
joy is greater than making money ; what
anguish more keen than losing it ? Why
should we not go to the fountain-head of

all these sensations? If people were only
to experience for one hour the deliciousness
of play, they would cease to preach against
it. Everything else would appear so tame,
so spiritless, so lifeless. If your friend,"
with a polite glance at Arthur, " would feel
inclined to enter a club where high play is
carried on, I shall be happy to introduce him."

I am afraid," said Arthur, '' that my
finances are not in a sufficiently flourishing
condition to allow me to indulge in such
pleasures."

'the very reason for trying your luck,"
said Marshfield. " Who ought to pay more
court to Fortune than he whom she has
hitherto left unnoticed?"

Arthur's arguments were not very ready,
but he persisted in his refusal.

'' Come with us," urged Philip ; '' you need
not take part in our play ; you need only look
on."

'but are we not going home?" asked
Arthur in consternation.

Yes, we are," said Philip; "we shall be
in time for the last train."

He and Marshfield urged so strongly on
Arthur that they had set their hearts on his
accompanying them, and that he need only
look on, that he at last reluctantly gave way.
They sallied forth when Marshfield had
finished his dressing, which took him a longtime.


On reaching their club they were shown
into a private room, where they were joined
by three or four choice spirits of Sir
Alexander's style. Play began at once, and
it was in all conscience high enough. Philip
was remarkably successful, and so was
Marshfield. On seeing their luck Arthur
was induced to try his own. He won, and
then lost, and then won again, and finally rose
from the table a gainer by ten pounds.

Marshfield laughed at the paltry sums he
staked, and urged him to play for as many
hundreds. But he had had enough of it for
that evening ; his conscience was reproaching
him, and he did not wish to be late for the
train. Philip declared that he must dine
after such exciting work. Arthur felt as if
the house would fall upon his head and crush

him. He longed to leave it, and urged Philip
to come away.

They went accordingly to a fashionable
restaurant, where they caroused so heartily
that they indeed lost their train. Philip was
quite drunk, and it was with difficulty that he
was prevailed upon to go quietly to an hotel
for the night. Arthur pursued a wretched
vigil, rebuking himself for his weakness.
They returned to Dullroad Buildings next
day, and Philip silenced Mr. Bernerr's reproaches
by saying his father had kept them
for the night. He appealed to Arthur, who
had the further mortification of confirming a
lie.

We have to ask the reader's pardon for a
grave misdemeanour. He has waded through
four chapters of this story without coming
across any lady who could be the embodiment
of his ideal of beauty and accomplishments.
The only member of the fair sex
who has received any prominence as yet is
Mrs. Bernerr, whose ideas are so unromantic
as to run chiefly on her household affairs and
the means of paying her bills. He has been
expected to endure the society of young men
and their tutors, unrelieved by feminine graces.
We are, indeed, highly to blame. We feel,
and we plead, guilty. Instead of bringing
our lady characters on the stage of this true

history as soon as the curtain rose, we have
most uncourteous kept them waiting in the
green-room while our jeunes premiers are,
we hope, reaping the applause of the audience.
But weighty considerations obliged us to
begin as we did. It would not be advisable,
we thought, to make the reader acquainted
with the charming young lady who is to
adorn the pages of this book before he is
intimate with the two men destined to wield
the chief influence over her future. But now
that he is able to form his suspicions of PhlKp
and his judgment of Arthur It is time to
introduce him to Miss Flora Wentworth.

She was the sole child of a father who
died when she was still an infant, and of a
mother who lived only long enough to see
her education completed. At an age when
she was about to enter the society for which
her mother had so carefully prepared her,
she found herself an orphan with a considerable
fortune, no near relatives, and no
friends with whom she could find the home
she had lost. Two years had still to elapse
before she would come of ao^e, and her

guardian, a kinsman of her mother, being a
bachelor and having no experience in the
management of girls, thought the best way of
getting rid of her would be to provide her
with a companion of the highest respectability
and to send her travelling until she attained
her majority. He found a suitable lady in the
person of Mrs. Ford, widow of a distant connection
of his own, and a ready recipient of
his ideas. Girls were, in his opinion, like
dynamite — only to be handled with care, and
even then apt to explode unexpectedly. Two
things he thought them peculiarly liable todo
— to fall in love with married men or to runaway
with fellows beneath them. Add to
this the possibility of a girl with Flora's
money falling a prey to a designing fortune-hunter
and you have a full list of his apprehensions.
His relief was great on hearing
Mrs. Ford promise to watch over her with
more than the vigilance of a Spanish Duenna.
This promise was kept. They travelled in
Belgium, France, Germany, Switzerland,
Italy for two years, and on their return Miss
Wentworth was as heart-whole as on the day

she set out. She had seldom been allowed
to speak to a man under sixty, and at the
hotels Mrs. Ford always insisted on their
taking their meals in private for fear of their
encountering a too fascinating stranger at
the table-d'hote. Flora yielded to these
secluding arrangements the more readily as
she was naturally of a somewhat shy and
retiring disposition. But the travels were,
notwithstanding, beneficial to her. She became
a 2:ood linguist, and the constant
change of air and scene improved her health,
which had formerly been delicate.

When they again set foot on our sea-girt
isle, Mrs. Ford thought it time to turn over a
new leaf and to bring her out with all the
eclat due to her beauty and position. Accordingly
they took a house in Belgravia ;
she was presented, and appeared in society
with her indefatigable satellite Mrs. Ford,
who had, indeed, a much greater partiality
for the world than Flora.

They had been visiting in the country, and
had returned to town about the time our
story opens. Flora was glad to be in her own

home again, and had declined an excellent
invitation that would have delayed their
return for three weeks.

'' How can you, my dear," Mrs. Ford
expostulated, 'how can you throw away so
delightful an opportunity of enlarging your
circle of acquaintances ? Anybody else would
be delighted at the prospect of such a visit."

'' I only ask for one privilege," said Flora
with a smile ; '' and that is not to be obliged
to make myself a slave to pleasure and
society."

'' You are not a slave," argued Mrs. Ford,,
who was very matter-of-fact. " In the first
place, you would enjoy the visit if you would
only make the effort of accepting it ; in the
second, 1 am sure you would be the centre
of attraction to everybody in the house ; in
the third, you do very wrong to come back to
town just as the most miserable weather is
setting in ; and, finally, you ought not to
listen to what Lady Marshfield says."

Lady Marshfield, we must inform the reader,,
was the mother of Sir Alexander, a woman of
great fashion and considerable intellect, who

had taken a fancy to the charming girl, and
of whom Mrs. Ford was wildly, morbidly, unreasonably
jealous.

'' I am not influenced at all by Lady Marsh-field
in this affair," said Flora.

I am glad to hear it," replied the other.
'' A more undesirable acquaintance for you I
cannot conceive. All London knows what a
scamp her eldest son is ; her second son is
not much better, though married ; and how
her daughter obtained a husband I cannot
understand."

'' She is most agreeable and kind-hearted,"
Flora answered, with spirit. '' Nobody feels
her son's conduct more than she does ; and I
do not think she is at all to blame. As for
her daughter, she has only been rather fast
and indiscreet."

'' Flora, you surprise me ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Ford, with dignity. 'you, who have been
brought up with such high principles; you,
who are so irreproachable, how can you
possibly justify people of doubtful reputation
? "

'' I have never been taught," said Flora

to be uncharitable in my judgment of
others."

'' That has nothing on earth to do with the
question," replied Mrs. Ford, with Increasing
asperity. '' Facts are stubborn things, and
they cannot be gainsaid. Lady Marshfield
Is, I repeat it, not a desirable acquaintance for
you. Though you are now of an age to guide
your own actions, I think It my duty to give
you the benefit of my wider experience."

'' Almost always I have followed your advice,"
said Flora; 'but now, for once, we
differ. Lady Marshfield Is most kind and
genial, and her society gives me real pleasure.
I seldom meet her sons at her house ; her
daughter is living abroad, so that no harm
can come to me from that quarter. Why,
then, should I deny myself the friendship of a
woman I like ? I have had few friends to
sympathize with me since my poor mother
died, heaven knows."

Mrs. Ford was silent. Had she spoken it
might not have mended matters. Her nature
was rather stiff and dry, and she was always
at a loss to understand why her society was

not sufficient to answer the yearning of the
orphan's heart. She was really fond of Flora,
and her feelings were by no means prompted
by mercenary motives ; but her mind could
not grasp the fact that Flora was now of an
age when she was beginning to feel more expansive
emotions.

Mrs. Ford soon left the room, and Flora
was alone with her thoughts. They were not
of the cheeriest kind. A vague desire for
love, sympathy, and warmth took possession
of her heart, and made her shed some burning
tears.

At this moment Lady Marshfield was announced.
Flora received her with delight.

'' My dearest," she said, when she had
taken her seat, '' what gives you that sorrowful
expression ? Has anything occurred to
trouble you ? "

The speaker was tall and beautifully
dressed ; she had large, clear eyes, and an
expression of wit and shrewdness, tempered
by the most exquisite courtesy.

Flora, looking down, assured her It was
nothing.

'' Allow me to doubt that statement," said
Lady Marshfield, taking her hand. *' There
must be something, or you, who are generally
so cheerful, would not be dejected. I have
so often tried to prove my affection for you,
that I am sure I have a right to ask for an explanation."


'' Indeed, you have, dear Lady Marshfield,"
said the girl, '' and it is not reserve that prevents
me from speaking ; it is merely the fact
that I have nothing to say. I have no sorrow,
no anxiety ; I ought to be grateful for all the
blessings I enjoy, I know it ; and yet at times
I feel so utterly wretched."

Here her voice quivered, and she burst into
tears.

Lady Marshfield smiled fondly, and
mentally reflected that she knew the best
remedy for these hysterical moods, but she
said aloud —

'' A few tears will relieve you, Flora. You
need not restrain yourself in my presence. I
wish you to look upon me as your true and
attached friend, and not to withhold your
feelings."

She continued in this soothing strain, and
ere long Flora felt as if the load were really
being taken off her heart.

'' And now, my dearest," said Lady Marsh-field,
as she was about to leave, " I must ask
you to give me the pleasure of dining with
me tomorrow evening. We shall be quite
en canaille, except for one of Alexander's
friends, whom he wished me to invite. I am
sure you will not disappoint me by a refusal."

Flora was more than ready to accept the
invitation, and Lady Marshfield went away
pleased at having comforted her.

Mrs. Ford emerged from her retreat as
soon as the visitor was gone ; and it was not
to her satisfaction that she heard of the
engagement Flora had made for the next
evening. She was prudent enough to hold
her peace, and to make no further disparaging
remarks on Lady Marshfield ; but
she unwisely assumed a chilling demeanour
towards Flora, by no means calculated to
revive her waning influence.

Flora took great pains the next evening
with her appearance — not that she was in

need of toilette arts to enhance her attractions,
for she looked equally well in the
simplest as in the handsomest apparel — but
she was desirous of pleasing Lady Marsh-field,
whom she knew to be very fond of
fashion and dress.

The friend of Sir Alexander whom she was
to meet was Philip Beverley. He had by a
series of tricks escaped from durance vile at
Dullroad Buildings, and was now enjoying
himself in town. He had alarmed Mr.
Bernerr by informing him that he was summoned
home on urgent business for a few
days. He gave orders that his letters were
not to be forwarded, and off he went, delighted
with his '' ruse." Of course, instead
of going home he put up at an hotel, and
devoted himself to fun and amusement with
prodigious zest.

Lady Marshfield had originally hoped to
secure Flora Wentworth for her eldest son ;
but, perceiving his extreme dislike to the
matrimonial tie, she gave up the scheme, and
devoted her thoughts to obtaining elsewhere
a suitable husband for her young friend. Her

ideas of "suitable" were: firstly, rank;
secondly, riches ; thirdly, good looks ; and
only fourthly, good character and amiability.

How is it possible," she used to argue
with her daughter, when persuading her to
accept the husband who subsequently made
her so unhappy, *' how is it possible for a girl
in our position, brought up to expect every
luxury and distinction, I say, how is it possible
for her to renounce these claims merely to
gratify so fleeting a passion as love? If we
analyze love we find it is merely a figment, a.
fiction, the creation of a warm imagination
and an inexperienced heart. If, on the contrary,
we examine the advantages of fortune,,
we find them to be most real, enduring,,
permanent, and beneficial. I own that
there must be a certain liking between those
who enter the married state ; but, really, any
feeling beyond that is a luxury for which you.
will have to pay dearly."

When her daughter's married life proved
inauspicious she was not shaken in these
convictions.

'' True," she thought, '' my poor child has.

VOL. I. H

suffered from her husband's unkindness, but
she has other circumstances to console her.
If she cannot find pleasure in the enjoyment
of her wealth, she has in her children an unfailing
source of interest ; and if they are not
sufficient, she has a large circle of friends to
divert her thoughts. We must all suffer
something in this world. Rank, opulence,
consideration, all are hers ; can she not console
herself with these gifts for those of
which she is deprived?"

Her mental answer to this question was
that if she failed to do so, she would be
ungrateful and unreasonable.

Lady Marshfield herself had married for
worldly advantages, and could, therefore, not
be accused of not practising what she
preached. She had never regretted her fate.
To appear handsomely dressed, to give
parties to the elite of society, to do good ina
fashionable way, to have a town house and
a country seat, all these things constituted
her idea of human felicity. Completely
happy herself, she desired to obtain similar
prosperity for every girl of her acquaintance,

and for none more than for Flora Wentworth.
The orphan's solitude, in spite of her fortune,
touched her compassionate nature, and the
girl's attractions and accomplishments increased
her fondness. She was much disappointed
when Sir Alexander refused to be
captivated by so many charms, and for the
first time had a scene bordering on a quarrel
with him. To pacify her in some degree he
told her he knew of another man who might
suit her favourite, and on Lady Marshfield
asking his name he mentioned Philip Beverley.
She thought this a brilliant opportunity
for Flora, and eagerly desired her son to bring
him to her house.

And so it chanced that we find Philip and
Flora flirting in Lady Marshfield's drawing-room
on this eventful evening. When we say
*' flirting " we ought to qualify the expression
by stating that it was entirely carried on by
Philip, she being too shy and reserved to play
more than a passive part.

He could be pleasant when he chose, and
on this particular evening he was determined
to show himself at his best. It would hardly

have been suspected even by the keenest
observer that he was an occasional drunkard,
a constant gambler, and everything else most
undesirable. His good figure, his attractive,
if not handsome, features, and the ease and
pleasantness of his manner, would have
charmed even women with much wider
knowledge of the world than Flora.

He soon had the satisfaction of making
her talk, and when once her reserve was
overcome it was surprising how much she
had to say, and how well she expressed
herself. She forgot all her little sorrows and
trials while conversing with him, and it was
with regret that she found herself obliged to
leave when Mrs. Ford informed her that it
was time to depart.

The night was cold and stormy, and as she
entered her carriage, a gust of wind swept by
and seemed to bring back to her all the
solitude of her existence.

You appeared to enjoy yourself," remarked
Mrs. Ford as they were driving
along.

*' I did very much," said Flora.

'' I confess it surprised me that you should
take pleasure In the conversation of that fast
young man."

'' Why do you call him fast ? "

'' Because he is so."

How do you know that ?"

Flora had a puzzling way of putting these
extremely simple questions. Mrs. Ford's
mental resources were not ample enough to
enable her to give a roundabout reply, so she
could only say dogmatically —

'' Because I know it."

*' I should not have thought it. He is
neither loud nor flashy."

^' There are many ways of being fast."

Then his is a very agreeable way," said
Flora.

The duenna sighed and leant back in the
carriage. What was she to do with this
positive child ?

They were both silent. Flora's thoughts
were evidently running on Philip Beverley,
and Mrs. Ford was casting about for means
to break the charm. She thought she had
discovered a good method for doing so, but

unfortunately the sequel was to prove that
her conduct only tended to increase Flora's
partiality. She was so injudicious as to harp
continually on the faults and foibles of Lady
Mansfield and her circle, thus making her
remarks doubly unsavory to Flora by casting
a slur on her most intimate friend and
implying discredit to Philip. From morning
till night Mrs. Ford was constantly alluding
to this ill-chosen topic, with the result of
becoming at last positively irksome.

Flora took refuge as much as she could
with Lady Marshfield, and there she found
very different companionship. The utmost
cordiality, the most genial sympathy, the
most enjoyable conversation, awaited her.

With consummate tact Lady Marshfield
spoke of Philip as an old friend of Sir
Alexander, for whom she had quite a
motherly feeling. She mentioned his father
in terms of the highest esteem, and led Flora
to believe that the same excellent qualities
were to be found in the son. Without
obtruding his wealth, she did not let it remain
in the background ; and, in short, every

circumstance that could possibly captivate a
young girl's imagination was brought prominently
forward, and the darker shades were
either softened down or else left out altogether.
It was not to be wondered at that Mrs. Ford
failed and Lady Marshfield succeeded.

As for Philip, his ideas on matrimony
coincided almost entirely with those of his
friend, save that he looked forward to some
remote day In the future when he should
settle down and marry. Sir Alexander had
given him warning what was in the wind, and
he delighted immensely In being rallied on
the subject.

Lady Marshfield decided on a bold move.
She was slightly acquainted with Mr. Beverley
and wrote to ask his permission for herself
and some of her friends who were interested
in painting to see his collection of pictures.
Of course he gave a favourable answer, and
she went one day with a party consisting of
Miss Wentworth, Mrs. Ford, Miss Parsons, a
lady who was straining every nerve to become
a well-known painter, and several other ladies
and gentlemen. Lady Marshfield left the

extraordinary splendour and beauty of the
house to take Its effect on Flora.

Mrs. Ford perceived with mortification the
success of Lady Marshfield's designs. Flora
could talk of nothing when she returned
home but of Mr. Beverley's courtesy, the
likeness there was between him and his son,
the masterpieces of painting he possessed,
and the enjoyment she had derived from the
visit.

Certain of Flora, Lady Marshfield began
to devote herself to securing Philip. This
was not so easy a task. His nature was not
sufficiently affectionate to allow him to fall in
love, and he had so many pleasures and
diversions that he was far from letting his
thoughts recur constantly to Flora, as hers
were recurring to him.

But Lady Marshfield did not despair. She
arranged several meetings between the couple;
and if he was not enamoured, she perceived
that he was certainly attracted. She was
puzzling her brain as to how she could urge
him on, when events occurred that advanced
her schemes to an extent unknown to herself.

And here we cannot help pausing to reflect
on the frequency of reckless match-making
even on the part of women far loftier in
character than Lady Marshfield. Characters
are embittered, hearts broken, lives wrecked ;
and all this misery is caused, not for an end
good in itself, but merely to obtain possessions
that cannot confer happiness or inspire
affection.

After his visit to town, Arthur went through-much
that was unpleasant and unwelcome.
He had to evade the inquiries of Mr. Bernerr,
and to satisfy the curiosity of Charlotte, who
was anxious to know particulars about the
arrangements in Mr. Beverley's house ; at
the same time he had to keep guard on his
speech lest he should betray Philip and reveal
his own weakness. To him, so unversed
in falsehood, deceit, and reticence, this was a
great trial. He wished over and over again
that he had not yielded to the importunities
of his companions, and yet so much did he
long for a little friendship that in the presence
of Philip he was happy and unable to reproach

him for his conduct. Philip, as we have seen,,
went up to town several times subsequently,
and Arthur missed his company, and always
welcomed him cordially on his return.

Arthur was, In truth, the very soul of warmheartedness
and kindness. He was loth ta
believe that the generality of mankind were
far from being like himself In this respect,
and his unsuspicious nature was destined to
cause him many sorrows, as the reader will
see.

He made advances to Gallford with as
much kindness as O'Brien, and with the same
unsatisfactory result. There was no lightening
the gloom or softening the asperity of the
misanthropist, whose bitter feelings led him
one afternoon to be most cutting and wounding
in language to Arthur, and by his violent
conduct to be excluded from Mr. Bernerr's
house. Arthur had been conversing with
Philip, and on Gallford entering the room
Philip left it.

*' Is that how you pass your time," said
Gallford to Arthur, '' talking to that conceited
coxcomb ? "

'' He is one of my best friends," said
Arthur.

'' Oh, indeed ! Best friends, forsooth ! I
should Hke to know what your worst are."

I beg you will not use such offensive
language," retorted Arthur, much offended.

'' I see you are Hke the rest of the world,
you cannot bear truth. But whether you like
it or not, I am determined to tell it. I say
and maintain, that that Philip Beverley is one
of the most utterly bad creatures on the face
of the earth. You have only to look at his
countenance to see conceit, selfishness, pride,
indolence, caprice and perfidy written in
legible characters."

'' All I can say is that he has been very
kind to me."

'^ Oh, yes, of course, without doubt. I
have heard of the favours he showered upon
you. He took you one day to his father's
magnificent house, where you had a good
dinner, and where you met some of those
people whom the world calls great. I am
thankful I know none of them. If his father
were a poor man living in an obscure part of

the town, you would not have accepted the
invitation so eagerly, or have been so grateful
for it."

^' I do not see what right you have to talk
to me in this manner," said Arthur.

'^ The right of the experienced to advise
the ignorant. What do you know of the
world ? You fancy it is what it appears.
You are like that fool O'Brien, who Imagines
he makes a friend of every fellow he meets."

^' It is most ungrateful of you," said Arthur,
'' to speak in such a manner of my friend
and your benefactor."

'' That harum-scarum Irishman my benefactor
? Who put that absurd idea Into your
head ? Has he boasted of all that he did forme?
Has he made himself out an equal to
Pythias and Damon ? "

'^ He has done nothing of the kind ; but I
have heard from other sources how deeply
you are Indebted to him,"

'' To the tune of three pounds ten shillings
and sixpence. That Is the amount of what he
lent me, if you are alluding to pecuniary debts.
He forced the money on me, I suppose to be

able to applaud himself for his kindness and
generosity."

*' It was nothing of the sort," Arthur
replied ; *' it was real kindness."

'' Real bosh ! There is no such thing as
kindness. People do everything either for
their pleasure, advantage, or reputation."

Do you not believe in friendship ? "

'* No ! What people call friendship is
merely the amusement or profit they derive
from the society of particular individuals."

'* My experience teaches me that friendship
exists. I have suffered much ; many have been
unkind to me ; but some, who could have had
no selfish motives, have conferred upon me
real benefactions."

'' You think so," replied Gallford, "' because
you cannot see into them. They did not
wish to benefit you, they only desired to
enjoy your thanks and praise. Their conduct
was merely a refinement on vulgar selfishness."


'' I am thankful," said Arthur, "that I do
not look at my fellow-creatures with your
jaundiced eye."

That sentiment could only proceed from
one who is foolish and young ! "

This was more than flesh and blood could
bear. To be told that he was foolish and inexperienced
was trying enough for Arthur, but
to be taunted with his youth was beyond
endurance.

'' Mr. Gallford," he said, '' I think we had
in future better confine ourselves to our
studies, and not enter on conversation that is
unworthy of you and offensive to me''

'* If my conversation is offensive," said
Gallford, '' my presence must be so too. It is
desirable that our studies should cease as
well. I am not accustomed to be ordered
when to speak and when to hold my peace ;
I would far rather be liberated from the
necessity of holding further communication
with you."

*' As you please," said Arthur.

'* But one thing I will tell you, and you will
repeat it to O'Brien," said Gallford, rising.
** I wish all intercourse to be cut off between
you and myself, O'Brien and myself, Dr.
Grimmersby and myself. I have been persecuted

by Dr. Grimmersby, patronized by
O'Brien, and contradicted by you. These
things are quite sufficient to give me a
sickener of your set. I suppose I shall have
to come to this house to teach Ruddles ; but
if I ever meet you, I shall treat you with the
contempt you deserve. You worship Beverley's
wealth. May it do you good ; may you fatten
upon it ! The one circumstance that gives
me satisfaction, is that I have never spoken
to him in the strain of flattery and adulation.
I hope you will be accompanied through life
by friends equally estimable ! I hope you
will not find human beings the vipers I have
found them, and that you may pass through
the world without injury from false friends ! "
With this kind wish, uttered in a tone
implying exactly the reverse, Gallford left the
room. His nature was stirred to the very
depths of its soreness and bitterness. His
depressed hopes, his blighted affections, his
dreary existence, were brought before him in
all their Intensity by Philip's prosperity and
Arthur's kindness. Perhaps he remembered
the time when he had something of Arthur's

freshness and youth, perhaps the memory of
happier days came over him Hke a brilliant
dream, the vanishing of which is painful and
cruel. Who can tell ? Who can penetrate into
the abyss of wretchedness concealed within
this man's heart ?

He was seldom in a humour to bear aggravation,
least of all on this day. But his ill-luck
was keeping it in store for him. He had
to give a lesson to Ruddles before leaving, and
we may pity the poor boy who was forced to
bear the brunt of his ill-humour. Mr. Bernerr,
in an adjoining room, suddenly heard howls
proceeding from the study. He rushed in
and beheld a terrible sight, Gallford standing
over Ruddles and grasping him by the hair
of his head with one hand, and punching his
thick skull with the knuckles of the other.

Oh! boo-hoo-hoo! don't," roared Ruddles.

'' Will you pay attention, or not ? " yelled
Gallford, thumping away with increased
vigour.

Good heavens, Mr. Gallford, what are you
dreaming of?" cried Mr. Bernerr, seizing his
hand. '' Will you desist at once ? "

VOL. I. I

But Gallford, beside himself with passion,
being prevented from punching, clutched the
boy's hair so tightly that he howled louder
than ever, and thought his scalp was coming
off. His bellowing brought Mrs. Bernerr,
Philip, and Arthur into the room.

'' Oh, boo-hoo-hoo! Oh, don't, don't!"

Philip vigorously wrenched Gallford's hand
from the boy's head, and the misanthropist
presented an absurd picture of baffled rage,
being held on one side by Mr. Bernerr, on the
other by Philip, and casting furious glances
at Ruddles, who was sobbing in Mrs. Bernerr's
arms Hke the big baby he was.

*' Oh, he has hurt me so ! Boo — hoo — •
hoo!"

Never mind," said Mrs. Bernerr. '' It is
over now."

'' He shan't do it again ! " exclaimed Mr.
Bernerr, shaking his fist under the misanthropist's
nose.

'^ The damned dunce deserved it ! " cried
Gallford, struggling with his captors.

''Mr. Gallford! How dare you use such
profane language ? " said Mrs. Bernerr.

Mind your figures of speech' said Philip
to Gallford.

How dare you inflict corporal punishment
on a young gentleman under my care ? "'
asked Mr. Bernerr.

I'll tell father," said Ruddles.

How dare you ? How dare you ? How dare
you?" said Philip, shaking Gallford vigorously.
" Is that your method of making learning
agreeable ? "

Gallford darted viper like glances at everybody.


This is not the first time to-day that Mr.
Gallford has forgotten himself," said Arthur.

'^ I suspected as much ! " exclaimed Mr.
Bernerr. " I have noticed that Mr. Gallford's
temper is anything but under his control, and
I think the sooner we dispense with his
services the better."

Gallford, released from their grasp, stalked
to the door with as much dignity as he could
command. As he was opening it he turned
round and said —

Far from regretting what has occurred, I
rejoice in it. It saves me the intolerable

yoke of coming to this house, after I have
discovered the contemptible characters of
those who Hve here."

Look to your own character," said Philip.
** It is in great need of improvement."

*' I hate that Beverley ! " muttered Gallford,
as he left the house. " I wish I could serve
him off thoroughly."

Similar scenes of violence and reviling
usually ended all Gallford's relations with
people, and then he would retire to his miserable
retreat and brood over the wickedness
of the human race.

Mr. Bernerr's relief at being rid of him was
beyond description. He had from the beginning
felt an instinctive dislike to the man,
which increased as almost every interview
brought out more fully his unamiable character.
The next morning he sent Gallford
the sum owing to him, and received an
acknowledgment couched in the following
insolent terms : —

'' Received, without thanks, the above sum
from the so-called Reverend F. Bernerr.

'john Gallford."

Mr. Bernerr, in great indignation, sent back
so unseemly a receipt, and the corrected
acknowledgment ran thus : —

Wages paid.— J. Gallford."

Further bickering with so perverse a
creature being obviously useless, Mr. Bernerr
allowed this last document to pass, and turned
his attention to the search of another tutor.
His wife was, as usual, of the greatest assistance,
and discovered the very man suited to
their purpose.

Mr. Smilie made the most favourable impression
on Mr. Bernerr. He came smirking
into the room, advanced on tiptoe, made the
profoundest bows, and bestowed the blandest
salutations on Arthur and Ruddles.

It affords me the most exquisite pleasure,"
he began, '' to inform Mr. Bernerr that his old
friend the Dean has done me the honour of
choosing me to be the bearer of this letter."

Saying which, he handed an epistle to Mr.
Bernerr. Scarcely of the middle size, with
scanty fair hair, a thin, perpetually smiling,
but otherwise inexpressive face, a weak shrill

voice, Mr. Smilie presented the most striking
contrast to his predecessor.

The Dean's letter being highly laudatory,
Mr. Bernerr soon came to terms with its
bearer. When all the details were settled,
Mr. Smilie thought it time to begin paying
court to his future pupils. He smiled benignly
on Ruddles, but not knowing exactly how to
compliment him, he turned to Arthur.

Do you know, Mr. Challoner," he said,
'' that you remind me most strikingly in appearance
of a former pupil of mine. Lord
Proudham ? The same eyes, the same fine
profile, the same manly expression. He was,
perhaps, a trifle taller, but you have a more
elegant figure. The resemblance is really
wonderful. Lady Proudham, his mother, did
me the honour of being very partial to me,
and I am even now occasionally favoured by
her notice. I never had a pupil to whom I
was more devotedly attached than to Lord
Proudham, and you remind me of him, oh, so
vividly ! "

Here he clasped his hands and turned up
his eyes in an ecstasy of admiration, presenting

a most burlesque appearance. Arthur,
totally unaccustomed to such clouds of incense,
scarcely knew what to say in reply.
Ruddles thought what a pleasant person the
new tutor seemed, and as for Mr. Bernerr, he
was delighted to hear that a young man in
his house made so distinguished an appearance
and so noble an impression.

Shortly afterwards they were joined by
Philip. On being introduced to him Smilie
gave a rapturous squeak.

'' Oh-heh ! Is it possible that I have the
pleasure of addressing the son of Mr. Beverley
? My dear sir, I had once the distinguished
honour, at Lady Proudham's, of being in the
same room with your universally beloved and
respected father. From the striking resemblance
you bear to him I should have
recognized you wherever I might have had
the happiness of seeing you. The same
thoughtful brow, the same commanding eye,
enhanced by the charm of youth ! Oh ! how
delightful these unexpected meetings are ! "

At this point his emotions overpowered
him, and he was obliged to pause.

^^ I sincerely trust," he continued, after a
few moments, '^ that when last you heard from
Mr. Beverley he was in the enjoyment of
good health and spirits ? "

'' Thank you, he was in excellent health."

'' Would it be asking too great a favour,"
said Smilie, '' if you would kindly, when next
you write to Mr. Beverley, present my
respectful homage, and say how much pleasure
it gave me to be introduced to you, and
with what joy I heard that he was so well? "

I shall be happy to do so," said Philip,
superciliously, '' but I do not suppose my
father is aware of your existence."

** Oh, how true!" exclaimed the servile
creature; 'how just is that observation!
But still, if you were to grant my request
you would confer a boon upon me."

Philip, with great condescension, promised
to do so, a promise he carried out that very
evening by sending his father a farcical
account of the absurd man he had met that
day.

Arthur was so sickened by the obsequiousness
of Smilie that he almost regretted the

asperity of Gallford, who was at least honest
and Independent. But this sentiment was
not shared by the others. Philip only saw
enough of the new tutor to be diverted by
him. Ruddles was enchanted with his suavity
and lax discipline. Mrs. Bernerr endured him
because he was quiet and biddable, and her
husband was delighted to find somebody who
behaved with deference and submission.

Philip had now completely thrown off the
mask, asserting his right to absent himself
whenever he chose. At first Mr. Bernerr
tried to remonstrate, but he soon gave up his
feeble attempt as hopeless. Philip received
one day an invitation for a ball from Lady
Marshfield, and in reply begged for an invitation
for his friend Arthur Challoner. Arthur,
being still in suspense about his Chancery
money, was unwilling to go to the cost
necessitated by such an invitation, besides
wishing not to divert his mind from his
studies. But Philip, not satisfied with urging
it himself, enlisted Mr. and Mrs. Bernerr on
his side. He assured them that Arthur
wanted a little enlivening, and they joined

him in his request. Arthur at last yielded,
somewhat against his will, and thought it very
kind of Philip to be so anxious to secure him
amusement.

But there was always an underlying design
in Philip's actions. As on the day when he
took him to his father's, so this time he was
desirous of parading his friend before Lady
Marshfield, and of giving her a favourable
idea of his own kindness and amiability. He
also wished to let Arthur see how much he
was courted by the best society in England.


The day came round. They went to
Philip's favourite hotel, and Arthur sighed
to think how deep an inroad this trip would
make on his almost empty purse, Philip not
having invited him as his guest, which weare
of opinion he might well have done. But
he had no real consideration for anybody, and
no sympathy beyond himself.

The ball was splendid. Lady Marshfield's
rooms, beautiful in themselves, were made
much more so by the most exquisite decorations,
and the society was, of course, the

very best. Miss Wentworth was there, one
of the loveliest girls in the room, guarded by
Mrs. Ford.

Among those who attracted most notice
was Miss Parsons, the artist, who, thrush
not handsome, had a good figure, and a
singular cast of countenance which could
not fail to rivet attention, even if it did not
charm. Miss Parsons and Flora had taken a
liking to each other, and were fast becoming
intimate friends, a fact that caused Mrs.
Ford extreme annoyance, and made her hate
the artist almost as much as Lady Marshfield.
She had so long been the sole associate of
Flora that she could not resign herself to
become secondary in her consideration.
Unable to conquer this petty jealousy, and
too straightforward to dissemble, she recommended
herself daily less and less to Flora's
favour.

Arthur was enchanted with Miss Wentworth'
s beauty, and he was never tired of
watching her while she was dancing with
Philip.

What do you think of that girl?" asked

Philip, when she was dancing with someone
else.

Whom do you mean ? " asked Arthur.

That Wentworth girl' said Philip.

Arthur considered this a most Impolite way
of alluding to her, so he said coldly —

''I think Miss Wentworth perfection."

Her eyes are good and her hands lovely,"
said Philip, '' but otherwise I don't see much
perfection about her, although she Is above
the common run."

What would Flora, who was beginning to
love Philip with all her heart, have thought of
these ungracious words ? Happily, or rather
unhappily for her future, she was Ignorant of
their having been uttered, and she thought
Philip delightful. Philip told her that Arthur
was his most intimate friend. She, therefore,
made herself agreeable to him. He danced
with her once, and several times with Miss
Parsons. This lady, whose faculty of admiration
was great, had a vast deal to say In
praise of Flora, a theme to which Arthur was
never tired of listening. When Miss Wentworth
had taken her departure, the charm of

the entertainment seemed to Arthur to have
vanished, and even Lady Marshfield's jewels
appeared to blaze less intensely. He was
glad when Philip declared himself ready to
leave, though much to his discomfiture he
discovered that Sir Alexander was going to
accompany them. He formed a resolution of
not being again inveigled into their gambling,
even though he should be as urgently pressed
as on the former lamentable occasion.

It was too late that night for them to
indulge in any mischief, and they parted at
Philip's hotel, Sir Alexander promising to
look them up in the course of the day.

As he unfortunately kept his promise, there
was no escape for Arthur. Their importunities
overcame him, and he was obliged to
accompany them.

'' But mind," he said, ^^ I will not play."

We won't even ask you to do so," said
Philip.

So he went, merely to look on. What
harm could there be in that ? None at all.
One has only to stand by and watch. True,
you become a little excited, especially when

your friends win, but that is of no consequence.
You look on with more intense
interest than ever, and you think, " What if
such luck were mine ? " You hesitate, you
turn hot and cold, your money seems to burn
in your pocket, you draw it forth, you lay it
down, and you are in the thick of the fight.

Thus it was with Arthur. He looked on
with ever-growing interest, and when Philip
turned round and said to him : '^ You might
be as successful as I am if you only had
the pluck," he hesitated no longer, and boldly
staked all he had with him. He lost, and
was about to reproach Philip for his bad
advice, when the latter said —

I will lend you a few guineas to retrieve
your losses."

Arthur accepted the offer, and began playing
wildly. He won largely, and in high
spirits proceeded to stake his winnings in the
hope of reaping a rich harvest. But the tide
of fortune then turned, and he lost everything.
Philip once more came to his assistance, and
he was so excited that he could not tear himself
away, but eagerly seized the loan, and

lost again. Philip renewed the loan, but it
was of no use, fortune was inexorably unkind,
and at last Arthur rose from the table
fifty guineas in Philip's debt.

He was sobered by this disaster, and
seemed to awake from the dream of folly in
which he had indulged. But the harm was
done, and the misfortune irretrievable. Philip
made light of it, and assured him that next
time he would be luckier. He returned to
Dullroad Buildings with even acuter stings of
conscience than on the former occasion, and
as a memento of his imprudence he found his
poverty burthened with a debt to the heir of
countless thousands.

Number Four of that cheerful line of
desirable mansions, Dullroad Buildings, was
occupied by Miss Clarke, an elderly lady of
independent means, who had resided there for
some years with her niece. Miss Arabella
Clarke, who, we may be sure, was far from
attached to her abode. Miss Clarke was a
selfish, cross. Illiberal woman, who had
quarrelled with nearly all her friends and
acquaintances, and had retired to the congenial
gloom of Dullroad Buildings with the
firm resolution of never emerging from It
during the remainder of her natural life. Miss
Arabella, aged about twenty-three, had a certain
amount of good looks that were in

imminent danger of fading prematurely by
reason of the monotonous, depressing life she
was leading. Regular features, fair hair, a
pale complexion, likely to become sallow, and
a good figure formed her appearance, in
which, if there was nothing to repel, there was
little to attract. Her eyes were small, but
well-shaped and dark, quick of vision, and not
unpleasant in expression. She was the only
child of Miss Clarke's youngest brother, who
died when she was about sixteen, and her
mother did not long survive him. Miss Clarke,
in an unwonted moment of softness, wrote her
niece the following letter on hearing of her
double bereavement : —

'' My Dear Niece,

*' You have never heard from me before,
because there were unfortunate differences
between your poor father and myself. I am
willing to let bygones be bygones, and to offer
you the home of which you stand in need. I
hope to make you happy, but you must expect
neither absurd luxury nor frivolous amusement.
My house is very orderly, and I shall

VOL. I. K

require you to conform to that order. Send
a reply by return of post to your affectionate
aunt,

'' Lydia Clarke."

This was, for Miss Clarke, a most cordial
invitation. Arabella had no other choice but
to accept it. She had formed hopes of being
adopted by a relative of her mother, a rich
woman who had no children ; but as she received
from that quarter nothing but vague
messages of condolence, she reluctantly took
refuge with her Aunt Lydia. Without means
she could not consult her tastes, but had to
bend to necessity. What were her tastes ?
They may be summed up in one word :
^' Fashion." Her mother had mixed with the
great world before her rash marriage with
Frederick Clarke ; but as he had no money,
and she very little, their circle gradually
became narrower, until at last all that remained
to Mrs. Clarke was to dwell in
memory on the pleasures of the past. During
her frequent illnesses, when she was confined
to her bed or sofa, her solitary pastime was to

read the fashionable Intelligence In the papers,
and to dilate upon it to her daughter, who received
her mother's stories about countesses
and duchesses with eager soul.

It may be conceived how well this preparation
fitted her for Miss Clarke's melancholy
house. At first the poor girl thought she
could not endure the dreariness of such an
existence another day, but fortunately she
discovered a blessed consolation. She had a
fine pair of diamond earrings that had belonged
to her mother, and before going to bed
she would put them on, make them sparkle in
the candle-light, and look at herself for an
hour In the glass. Then her imagination
would take wing, flying away from her joyless
abode to scenes of luxury and splendour, such
as her mother used to describe. She pictured
to her mind's eye a vision of herself
being presented at Court ; and, by a natural
transition, her fancy would then revel in all the
delights of a London season — the balls,
parties, operas, and entertainments that
figured so prominently in her mother's narrations.
Without these nocturnal glimpses of

Fairyland we may doubt whether she could
have borne the heaviness of her lot, for even
with them it was intolerably irksome. When
Miss Clarke was not scolding she was taciturn,
and she strongly disliked being addressed,
so that frequently they were hours
together in the same room without talking.
Miss Clarke was always engaged on some
piece of embroidery, and Arabella used to
wonder on what her thoughts were running
while her fingers were thus occupied. She
little guessed that Miss Clarke was constantly
drawing up new wills and destroying
old ones, and that almost every time she went
out alone she visited her solicitor to consult
him on the subject. She made on an average
four wills a year, one in each season, sometimes
in favour of Arabella, sometimes leaving
her out altogether.

This life had lasted seven years without
change or interruption, except for an occasional
stay at the seaside in the summer, and
with few visits from the outer world. Miss
Clarke's acquaintances were mostly in her
own style — by no means to Arabella's liking

and none of them were intimate with her
or with her aunt.

How great, therefore, was Arabella's amazement
to see one day a carriage drive up, and
a lady alight, who was her very idea of fashion
and distinguished appearance ! She was accompanied
by a younger lady no less attractive.


My dear Miss Clarke, what pleasure it
gives me to see you again after so many
years ! Mrs. Silversnake told me you were
residing here. I had no idea of it. I
thought you were in Wales. I could not
deny myself the pleasure of coming to visit
you. Now you must tell me how you have
been, and why you never let me hear from
you."

You are very kind. Lady Marshfield,"
said Miss Clarke, coldly. " I have long
ceased to go into the world, and I do not
wish to return to it. My health is not what
it was, and the doctor has ordered me to
keep very quiet."

*' Most excellent advice. It has been given
to me times without number, but I plead guilty

to being too restless to follow it. I wish I
had your firmness and self-denial. But you
know my weaknesses of old. How glad I am
to see you again ! I am sure if you had not
told me that your health was impaired, I
should never have thought it from your
looks."

Here Lady Marshfield appealed to Arabella
to confirm her opinion, which the latter did,
though, perhaps, not with perfect sincerity ;
but she was ready to say anything that would
put her aunt in good humour.

Lady Marshfield introduced her '' dear
friend," Miss Wentworth, to the old lady,
and the girl's genial manners contrived to
break the ice.

The reader will probably have guessed why
Lady Marshfield so unexpectedly looked up
her former acquaintance. It was perfectly
true that Mrs. Silversnake had mentioned
Miss Clarke's present abode ; but it was no
less true that Lady Marshfield had known it
all along without forming the slightest intention
of renewing this intimacy. But when
she discovered Philip Beverley's Richmond

address, and saw that it was next door to
Miss Clarke's, she was seized with a sudden
revival of affection for that lady, and determined
to visit her, accompanied by Flora,
who was now her almost inseparable companion.
She trusted to chance that they
might meet Philip somewhere in the neighbourhood.
And so it happened that we see
her displaying her fascinations in Miss
Clarke's drawings-room.

'^ This reminds me quite of old times.
You and your dear niece must come and
dine with us on the earliest possible occasion."


Arabella could scarcely contain herself for
joy on hearing this welcome invitation. Her
only fear was lest her aunt should decline it.
She did so, indeed, for herself ; but Lady
Marshfield urged her so forcibly to let her
niece come that she yielded. The prospect
would have been delightful for Arabella even
in company with her aunt ; but to enjoy unrestrained
liberty for half a day exceeded the
realization of her utmost hope.

The visitors left soon after the date of the

invitation was fixed, and so well-timed was
Lady Marshfield's departure that as they
were driving off she perceived Philip and
Arthur returning from a stroll.

'' Oh, Mr. Beverley ! " she exclaimed, '' only
fancy ! I have just discovered that one of my
oldest friends lives next door to you, and we
shall be calling there very often' (This
with significance.) "Is it not delightful ?
Flora, do you not think it is delightful ? "

Flora being thus drawn into the conversation.
Lady Marshfield turned her attention to
Challoner. He looked troubled and worried,
but seemed to revive at the sight of Flora, and
possibly also at Lady Marshfield's pleasant
speeches.

After prolonging the conversation as long
as she could. Lady Marshfield bade them
good-bye, highly pleased with the success of
her visit, and determining to repeat it very
often in the hope of bringing about similar
interviews In future.

PhiHp asked Arthur if he did not consider
Miss Wentworth very charming. Arthur
warmly assenting, he continued —

Why do you not make up to her more?
It would be a fine opening for you. She has
plenty of money, and a good-looking manlike
you might easily make her fall in love."

Arthur smiled, but was not inclined to
pursue the topic. He had been much upset
by news received that morning to the effect
that the Chancery suit was in extreme complication,
and that the prospect of his receiving
his share was remote.

This was, indeed, intensely trying. But
further reflections were harrowing him. He
was far from pleased with the progress he
was making in his studies. Smilie was a
most incompetent tutor, and Arthur was
determined to speak seriously to Mr. Bernerr
on the subject. This was an unpleasant task,
as he could not bear to express displeasure
or to have to find fault with anybody.

We may, therefore, suppose that he was
unwilling to have the sore point of his affection
for Flora touched by the ungentle hand
•of Philip. He could perceive that she was
more attracted by his friend than by himself ;
and even if she had not been so he would

have been loth, considering his uncertain
prospects, to make an offer that might be
open to the misinterpretation of interested
motives.

Altogether his ruminations were far from
joyous as he walked with Philip that autumn
afternoon.

When they returned home, Mr. Bernerr
informed Arthur that a gentleman had called,
and wished to see him on urgent business,
and that he had been waiting for upwards of
half-an-hour. A feeling came over Arthur
as if ill news were in store for him, and with
palpitating heart he entered the room where
the stranger was expecting him. A tall,
thin man, with a solemn face, rose as he entered.


I come," he said, '' from Mr. Smith, your
solicitor."

'any new difficulty," asked Arthur,
anxiously, 'about the Chancery affair? "

Well, not exactly," said the stranger.

Here he paused.

Please proceed," said Arthur. " This
suspense is trying. I have waited so long.

for the settlement of this business that I am
prepared for the worst."

*' It is not about the Chancery suit that I
am calling," said the other.

•' Not ! " exclaimed Arthur. '' What on
earth can it be ? "

*' Mr. Smith bade me give you his compliments,
and say that any advice or assistance
he can offer he will be most happy to place
at your disposal."

He is very kind," said Arthur ; '* but I
am still in the dark as to what has occurred,
and what you have to communicate."

'^ I must beg and pray of you," said the
other, " not to allow yourself to be too much
agitated by what I have to say."

'Ms it so great a misfortune?" asked
Arthur, in an agony of suspense.

Far from it, my dear sir, far from it. But
Mr. Smith would be so disconsolate if you
were at all upset by my visit that he
repeatedly urged me to break the news
gradually. He is particularly considerate to
his clients when anything unusual has to be
imparted to them. You do not know how he

would blame me if I were to divulge the
object of my visit in an imprudent manner."

'^ I beg and beseech of you," said Arthur,
in a state bordering on frenzy, "to come to
the point. These preliminary hints are most
harrowing."

'' A few moments' patience, my dear sir, and
we shall have the whole affair develop itself
most perspicuously."

Arthur sighed, but tried to control his feelings.


"Mr. Smith," the other continued, "told
me to be sure to offer you his sincerest congratulations."


"Congratulations!" exclaimed Arthur.
■^' Then you are the bearer of good news ?"

*' Of very good news."

Arthur's relief was beyond expression.

You can scarcely conceive, Mr. Challenger,
the delight it affords Mr. Smith to bethe
happy channel through which prosperity
flows to his clients."

I am sure of it," said Arthur, politely.
But please proceed."

If you only knew him more intimately

you would be struck by his extremely kind
and philanthropic disposition ; and you would
then be able to measure the extent of his
satisfaction in informing you that you have
come into a legacy."

'* Oh, then the Chancery suit is decided ! "
exclaimed Arthur.

"Pardon me; I have had the pleasure of
stating to you that my present message is
totally distinct from Chancery ; in fact, it has
nothing to do with it."

Arthur thought this really good news.

'' Mr. Smith has had the pleasure of
receiving a communication to the effect that
a distant connection of yours died recently in
California. Having no family and no near
relatives, he left half of his fortune in various
legacies, and the other half to you absolutely."


Arthur was rendered speechless for some
moments by this unexpected intelligence, and
when he regained the power of speech he
said —

'' I remember having heard of my Californian
relative when I was quite a boy.

Was not his name Augustus Townley
Challoner?"

'' It was the very man."

This is singular indeed. I had never
heard from him, and I imagined he had
totally forgotten me. Is the amount of the
legacy considerable ? "

''My dear sir, this is the point where Mr.
Smith told me to be particularly cautious.
He would be so deeply grieved if your nerves
were at all tried by the change of fortune."

Is the amount so great ? " asked Arthur,
turning pale.

*' Pray compose yourself. I can assure
you it is no contemptible sum."

'' How much is it?" he asked,

Supposing you were to guess," said the
other, with a smile.

'' That is almost impossible for me to do,"
replied Arthur. " I might be wide of the
mark. Large fortunes are, or used to be,
made in California ; but I never heard that
Mr. Townley Challoner was particularly rich.
Is it about five thousand pounds ? "

Ohj that would be nothing ! "

'nothing!" echoed Arthur. 'rit would
set me up for life."

The visitor smiled at his idea of the extent
to which such a sum would go.

It is more."

More ! " exclaimed Arthur. " Can it be
twenty thousand pounds ? "

More still."

More even than that ! Can it be fifty
thousand ? "

Indeed, it is far more."

Good heavens ! " exclaimed Arthur.
You do not mean to say that it could
amount to twice that sum ? "

It even exceeds it considerably."

"My thoughts," said Arthur, "do not
reach beyond one hundred thousand."

I think I am safe in saying," said the
visitor, " that the total sum will be, even when
all expenses are paid, somewhat over five
hundred thousand pounds."

Arthur rested his forehead in his hand,
giddy and overcome with excitement and
-amazement.

A pause ensued, after which he said —

'' What on earth am I to do with this
prodigious wealth ? "

'' Oh, it is not so very much after all," said
the stranger, soothingly. '' It will only give
you about twenty thousand a year, and that is
soon spent. You will not find it at all too
much, I can assure you. There are so many
ways of enjoying one's self, and every enjoyment
is so expensive."

As it seemed rather a relief to Arthur to
hear that his money would not go far, Mr.
Field — such was the visitor's name — dilated
on the interesting topic.

You must provide yourself with a townhouse,
which must be sumptuously furnished ;
your stables must be full of the handsomest
horses ; you must have a country seat, a
shooting-box, and, if you like, a yacht. These
things are sufficient to strain the most ample
resources ; and if you marry and have a
family, you will find that your income is not
one farthing in excess of your wants."

Mr. Field looked at Arthur's position from
this point of view so successfully that he
almost persuaded himself, if not our hero,

that twenty thousand a year was barely
enough for the necessaries of life.

"The first things you have to do' he said,
*' is to enjoy yourself."

'' I beg your pardon' Arthur retorted, 'the
first think; I have to do is to go into mourning
for my relative."

This was a novel idea to ]mr, Field.

'true," he said, "but he was such a
distant connection that deep mourning will
not be necessary."

I know perfectly," said Arthur, '' what my
present position requires."

We perceive that he is already beginning
to feel the dignity accruing from his fortune.


The complaisant 'Mr. Field immediately
saw the propriety of Arthur's remark.

I admire," he said, " the delicacy of your
feelings. Nothing could be more fitting
or becoming than the sentiments you display."



Arthur inquired whether there were many
details of business to settle.

Oh, no' said Mr. Field. " The late
VOL. I. L

lamented gentleman left his affairs in such
excellent order that a few formalities will be
sufficient. You are not appointed executor,
so you will have no trouble in that respect.
Nearly the entire sum to which you are
entitled has been standing for years in the
testator's name in a London bank. It has
only to be transferred to your name, and
that will soon be done. There may bea
trifling delay of a few weeks before you
can draw on your account, but Mr. Smith
begged me to say that he will be most
happy to advance any sum you may require."


Arthur thanked him for this obliging offer,
and Mr. Field proceeded to read some documents
and business papers, the details of
which we need not inflict upon the reader.
Arthur listened with rapt attention, and
promised to call on his solicitor the next
day.

• '' Mr. Smith desired me to tell you," said
Mr. Field, '' that if it at all puts you out to
come up to town he will be more than delighted
to come and see you here."

''He is truly kind," said Arthur, 'but I
should like the changes

Most advisable," assented the other.
And, if I may venture to offer my advice, I
should now strongly recommend a walk of
twenty minutes or half-an-hour to compose
your mind and nerves after receiving such
weighty tidings."

This was the first time in Arthur's life
that anybody had ever considered his
nerves. The novelty of the circumstance
amused him, but he took the suggestion,
and asked Mr. Field if he would like to
come part of the way with him. The latter
was, of course, overcome with joy at the
honour.

Did you mention the news to anyone at
Mr. Bernerr's?" Arthur inquired, after they
had left the house.

No, I did not. I was not sure whether it
would be quite agreeable to you."

Arthur had received more consideration
and deference in the last hour than in the
whole course of his previous life. The sensation
was new and delicious, and he bade a

most courteous farewell to Mr. Field when
they parted.

He walked along with heart and mind overflowing,
and with a wild chaos of thoughts
and emotions pursuing each other.

He determined on going to see O'Brien
and to impart to him the tidings of his good
fortune. He did so, and, not only that, but
he told O'Brien that he must always look
upon him as his best friend, and that he
would ever find him ready to come to his
assistance should he require it.

O'Brien was more astonished and delighted
than words can express at his friend's brilliant
good fortune. Without the slightest
particle of envy in his nature he could take
the heartiest pleasure in the prosperity of
others.

Arthur returned home, engaged in wondering
consideration at the change in his prospects.
A few hours before how dreary did
his future appear ! And now, how joyous
and enchanting ! His spirits, however, were
less elated than might be supposed. For so
many years had he suffered adversity that

his thoughts were more prone to wander in
gloom than to revel in joy.

When he returned to the house he retired
to his room, where he remained over an hour,
until he was roused by the maid coming upto
say that Mr. Bernerr wished to speak to
him.

During their walk that afternoon Arthur
confided to Philip his dissatisfaction with
Smilie. On returning home, Philip repeated
Arthur's observations to Mr. Bernerr, not with
the intention of making mischief, but merely-stating
them as a fact. Mrs. Bernerr had
been urging on her husband the advisability
of giving Arthur notice to quit, as they had
received two further offers of pupils who were
willing to pay the full amount demanded.
If Arthur remained, they had only accommodation
for one ; it was therefore to their
interest to make him decamp. Mr. Bernerr
gladly seized the pretext of the complaint
about Smilie to give Arthur to understand

that they wished him to leave. Like most
weak men, he required spurring before he
could summon spirit to make an attack, but
once fairly on his way he could be quarrelsome
and disagreeable. When he sent the
message to ask Arthur down, he was preparing
himself for the fiorht, and his whole nervous
system was in a flurry, although his wife was
present to give him support if necessary. He
wanted her to undertake the distasteful task,
but this she declined to do. She always
desired him to stand to the fore, and, though
he would not do so of his own accord, he
generally, after some hesitation, carried out
her instructions, if not with energy, at least
with fidelity. But the effort involved in so
doing made him snappish and irritable.

On Arthur entering the room, he began
with the courage of desperation —

"I am surprised, Mr. Challoner; I am
really very surprised."

'' At what, pray ? " asked Arthur.

At the very unexpected information I
have received — "

Arthur thought Mr. Bernerr had heard the

intelligence of his accession to fortune, and
so he replied —

^' I am sure no one was more surprised than
myself'*

What do you mean? " said Mr. Bernerr,
with rising colour.

I mean to say that I was never more
astonished in all my Hfe."

*' I was told, on the contrary, by Mr. Beverley,
that you said you never expected much
from that man."

'* I had not," said Arthur, " mentioned the
subject as yet to Mr. Beverley."

^' Not mentioned the subject to Mr. Beverley,"
exclaimed Mr. Bernerr, '' when he
himself has just repeated to me your unwarrantable
observations ? "

Here he rang the bell violently. Arthur
was about to speak, but the other stopped
him, saying —

*' Please not to say anything until Mr.
Beverley appears to corroborate my words."

The maid entered, and he told her to ask
Mr. Beverley to come down at once.

'^ \ am amazed," he continued, ^'at the

whole affair. I — I consider that it puts mein
a most painful position, especially as you
choose the extraordinary course of denying
what you said."

*' There must be a mistake," said Arthur,
quite at a loss to account for his demeanour.

*' There is no mistake. You cast a slur
upon me, and the whole affair reflects discredit
upon yourself."

'' Mr. Bernerr, I beg you will moderate your
language," said Arthur, indignantly.

'' Here is Mr. Beverley," said Mr. Bernerr,
as Philip entered. '' Will you still maintain
in his presence that you never mentioned the
subject to him ? "

'' Never," Arthur declared, '' on my word."

'' Now, Mr. Beverley, what do you say to
that unheard-of asseveration ? What do you
think of it? Is it not an impudent lie, when
you yourself told me that he did nothing but
complain of Mr. Smilie all the time you
were out together ? His conduct is unjustifiable."


Your language is unjustifiable," said
Arthur, hotly. '* But I perceive there is a

mistake. I did not think you were alluding
to Mr. Smilie."

'' And to what else should I allude ? "

Allow me to explain," said Arthur, with
as much self-control as he could preserve.

'^ No, I will hear no explanation. I might,
perhaps, receive an apology, but I decline to
listen to any justification of your conduct.
It is not what I expected from you. Mr.
Smilie is a man who has had the highest
Academical honours, and to say that he is
incompetent is to cast blame, not only on
myself for employing him, but on those
eminent people by whom he is so cordially
recommended."

'' I only said what I really think," said
Arthur.

'' I must decline to enter into an argument.
I beg you will consider yourself at liberty to
leave this house as soon as it suits your convenience.
You need not hold yourself bound
to stay until the term is over."

^' You are really far too hasty, Mr. Bernerr,"
said Philip, who was much taken aback at the
scene.

^' No, I am not. I have — I have my own
feelings on the subject. I do not like it to be
said that — that — In short the whole affair is
to me most intensely unpleasant."

So it is to me," said Arthur.

*' I am glad to hear that you have that
much sense of the becoming left," said Mr.
Bernerr. *' I consider that as you pay so
much less than the others, it ill befits you to
carp at the arrangements in my house, whether
with respect to tuition or to anything else.
It was only to oblige Dr. Grimmersby that I
took you in. We shall want your room for a
young gentleman whom we are expecting.
We are forced to look to our own interests,
and we cannot afford to throw away an opportunity
such as is now presented. I should
not wish to inconvenience you, but you must
remember you were only admitted as a
favour."

Arthur had determined not to mortify him
by stating the change of fortune he had
experienced that day ; but this last sting
roused his feelings to such an extent that
he could not deny himself the gratification

of causing the Berners to repent of their incivility.


'ras to inconveniencing me," he began,.
you may be quite at rest on that score. I
shall make way for your young gentleman
long before he comes. I hope he may
progress rapidly under Mr. Smilie, and that
he may be treated with all the respect his
solvency deserves."

I decHne to be spoken to in this way,"
said Mr. Bernerr, walking up and down the
room in great agitation. " I beg you will be
silent."

*' After listening patiently to your polite
speeches," said Arthur, " I insist on being
heard in my turn. When I entered the room
I never dreamt you were alluding to my
remarks on Mr. Smilie. Under this mistake,
I made the statement which you described in
Mr. Beverley's presence as an ' impudent lie.*
I shall now explain what I was thinking of,
and if you do not retract that expression, I
shall leave your house this very evening."

Mr. Bernerr's face assumed a bewildered,
frightened expression. He had quite lost his

presence of mind, and now he could not for
the Hfe of him remember the words he had
used. From the firmness of Arthur's tone
and manner he derived a vague sense of
having gone too far.

'' There are no men," Arthur continued,
*' worthy of the name, who would submit
tamely to such language. When you began
speaking to me about unexpected information,
I naturally thought you were referring to the
news that Mr. Field brought me. As such
was not the case, and as we were both thinking
of different subjects, I beg you will
perceive your error, and retract the expression
used."

I am sure," stammered Mr. Bernerr, '' that
if — that nothing — had I considered — I am
sometimes rather hasty — I was far from implying
any doubt of your veracity. I do not
wish you to be at any inconvenience, or to
leave before it suits you."

'* It would suit me to leave any moment,"
said Arthur. '' Mr. Field came to inform me
that a distant relation of mine died lately
in California and did me the great kindness

of bequeathing me half of his large fortune."


Mr. Bernerr's eyes became round with
amazement ; Philip thought Arthur was
hoaxing them ; Mrs. Bernerr, who was seated
at work in a far corner of the room, turned
very red, and a pause ensued.

'^ I shall be obliged to go up to town on
business' Arthur continued, *' and it will
probably be necessary for me to stay therefor
the present. In any case, it would be
advisable for my residence in this house
to come to an end tomorrow morning."

With these words he left the room.

The unutterable mortification of the
Berners was written on their features, and
Philip being witness of their discomfiture
formed no slight aggravation of their misery.
With his usual malignant pleasure at the
distress of others, he began to taunt them
under the guise of sympathy.

How trying the reflection must be for
you, Mr. Bernerr, that you have offended him
just as he has had such a windfall ! But let
us hope for the best. Let us trust that it is

not so great a fortune after all, or that he has
concocted the story to avenge himself for
your observations, which, I must confess, he
bore more patiently than I should have done.
If a fellow were to say one-half to me of what
you said to him, I should knock him down
for his impudence ! "

Mr. Bernerr looked furious, but, not having
the cue from his wife to quarrel with Philip,
he held his peace.

I will just inquire of him," Philip continued,
*' all the particulars of the affair; and
perhaps I may be able to bring you the
delightful tidings that he invented the story
to annoy you."

When they were alone, husband and wife
looked blankly at each other.

That's what comes of following your
advice, Charlotte."

Nonsense, Frederick ; I never advised
you to use the language you did."

*' Who would have thought that Challoner,
of all people, would be likely to come
into a fortune ! " exclaimed Mr. Bernerr in
despair.

'' It is most unfortunate," she owned, in a
low voice.

'' Could I but have seen into the future ! "
he said, wringing his hands, and gazing wildly
upwards at the chandelier. *' Had I but
waited until he had spoken ! Why, why was
I led into such a fatal mistake? '*

*' It was done for the best," she declared.

*' But it turned out for the worst," he replied.
'' Never, never will I take your advice
again ! "

Frederick, how can you be so ungrateful
? " she cried. 'have I not been
your prop and staff for fifteen years ? Was
it not I who brought the young men into the
house ? "

'' But you are driving them out again," he
roared, in a real passion.

She burst into tears.

'' You are too cruel," she sobbed, '' after
all I have done ! After working and striving
and thinking, and doing, I repeat it, everything
for the best."

Their dull drawing-room had assuredly
never witnessed such exciting scenes as on

that day. They could not bear their misfortune
in common, but fell to quarrelling as
to who was the originator of the mischief.

While they were thus engaged, Philip was
sounding Arthur on the subject of his inheritance.
He had a lurking idea that the
story was invented for the edification of the
Berners, but it was quickly dispelled. Philip
was himself the heir to such a huge fortune
that he could look on Arthur's luck without
envy, and could congratulate him sincerely.
Arthur told him that he had no intention of
departing that evening, but his mind was
quite made up to leave next day, and never
to return to Dullroad Buildings.

That evening, before dinner, Philip again
attacked the Berners on this sore subject.

'well!" he exclaimed, '' Challoner has
come into an immense fortune ! No less than
twenty thousand a year ! I sincerely hoped,
for your sakes, that it was only a few
hundreds."

Mr. Bernerr had nothing to reply, but his
wife said with some dignity —

You are completely mistaken if you sup-vol.

I. M

pose that we do not rejoice in Mr. Challoner's
prosperity."

Philip had informed Ruddles, and Ann, and
the cook of the wonderful event, and they
were all the evening thinking and talking of
nothing else. At dinner. Ruddles could not
take his eyes off Arthur, as if he wished to
see what a person looked like who had come
into an unexpected inheritance. As for
Ann, her empressement to attend to Arthur
was prodigious, and her attentions set off
more fully Mr. Bernerr's silence and reserve.
He never addressed Arthur, who, indeed, did
not so much as look at him the whole evening.
With Mrs. Bernerr he conversed as if no
difference had arisen between them, notwithstanding
his conviction that she had prompted
her husband.

Arthur retired early, but not to rest. His
mind was too excited to be lulled in slumber.
So great was the change in his destiny that
he could scarcely realize its extent. As the
hours of darkness advanced in sable procession,
he recalled the past and anticipated the
future ; and the strong contrast they presented

enhanced the strangeness of his feelings.
He was no longer destined to endure
the neglect, unkindness, insolence, oppression,
and solitude whereby his life had hitherto
been obscured. He was now a man of importance,
weight, and position ; and what had
produced this wonderful transformation ?
About himself everything was the same. He
was a gentleman by birth, education, and
character, no alteration had taken place in
his nature. But these advantages, formerly
overlooked, would now be regarded as worthy
of the highest eulogy, and he would be
courted, flattered, and caressed. How was
such a magic change to be accounted for?
Merely by the accident of his coming into
large possessions. Far from being elated
by these considerations, he reflected, with
some contempt for the world, that had the
least worthy of mortals been in his position
the homage would be the same.

However, not for very long did his thoughts
pursue this reflective course. He soon began
to think how he should employ his fortune,
what property he should buy, what company

he should keep, what pleasures he should
procure. The delightful knowledge that he
could now consult his tastes without let or
hindrance filled his imagination with a world
of varied visions, and occupied his cogitations
until he fell asleep towards morning.

It was broad daylight when he awoke, and
his first sensation was that something unusual
had happened ; he knew not what, for the
clouds of sleep were still hanging over his
memory. At last, the events of yesterday all
rushed back upon him, though at first he had
a feeling of terror as though his felicity might
merely be a dream of the night. But the
sight of his things lying about the room,
waiting to be packed, recalled the altercation
with Mr. Bernerr, the visit of Mr. Field, and
with them the reality of his marvellous
prosperity.

He made haste in his preparations for
departure, as the morning was more advanced
than he had supposed.

The maid came up to ask if he would like
his breakfast in his room, but he sent word
that he would come down. As he had never

before received such a message, he concluded
the Berners wished to avoid him as much as
possible on the last day, and he determined
not to give them that satisfaction.

When he made his appearance, Mrs. Bernerr
informed him that her husband greatly regretted
his prevention by indisposition from
bidding him good-bye in person. Arthur
made a frigid reply, and the subject dropped.
He was glad he had driven his adversary out
of the field, but was too civil to allow this
feeling to appear. Mrs. Bernerr had done
her best to press upon her husband the
necessity of facing Arthur boldly, but his
mortification and anger were so great that he
obstinately refused to emerge from his retreat.


Ruddles was unfeignedly sorry that Arthur
was leaving, but the latter consoled him by
promising to invite him later on, when he
should be settled in his new abode, wherever
that might be. Philip felt similar regret,
though it was more selfish than the boy's.

'' I'll be hanged," he said, '' if I stay much
longer in this house. Now that you are going,

what shall I do ? It is enough to drive a
fellow mad. You were the only being who
kept me from utter dulness. I have only
Ruddles to fall back upon, and we know
what he is. O'Brien is good company, but
he is always immersed in his studies. Gall-ford
would have afforded me vast fun, but he
is now out of the question. What the deuce
am I to do ? Wait a few days, and you
shall hear news about me. I will become
such a devil that the Berners will be thankful
to get me out of the house. Mark my words
that I will. The governor, too, will have to
give in to me, whether he likes it or not.
When once I make up my mind I am as
resolute as the whole world put together ! "

He looked as if he meant what he said, and
the expression of his face was, for the moment,,
absolutely savage. But he soon smoothed
his features to their usual haughty expression,
and the episode did not make a deep effect
upon Arthur.

About half-an-hour before Arthur was to
leave, Smilie arrived. He saw the trunk in
the hall, and asked the maid '' Who was

leaving? " The answer acquainted him with
the remarkable circumstances, even including
the quarrel between Arthur and Mr. Bernerr,
which Philip had fully reported to the servants.


This was, for Smilie, too brilliant an opportunity
to be lost. He waited patiently until
Arthur made his appearance, and then rushed
forward with both hands extended, exclaiming
in an ecstatic tone —

'' I wish you joy, joy, joy ! Oh, Mr.
Challoner, what a privilege it is for me to
witness the moment of your bursting forth on
the world ! As soon as you set foot in London
you will be in your zenith. The gates of
glory will open for you, and you will be
ushered into the presence of splendour. You
will sit at the banquets of the great, and you
will receive the mighty in your halls. Then,
alas ! you will be dazzled by the attentions of
the proud, and your former friends will be
buried in the tomb of oblivion. But never
shall your memory fade from our minds ;
never shall we forget the lustre your presence
shed on our paths ; never shall James Smilie

cease to remember that he had the inestimable
honour of being one of the first to
offer you his sincerest, most cordial, most
fervent congratulations."

Arthur listened to this ovation with the
dignity of a monarch receiving the homage
of his vassal; and as Philip, Ruddles, and
Ann were witnessing this absurd scene, he
made a successful effort to keep his gravity.
He shook hands very cordially with Smilie,
assuring him that he would always have a
lively recollection of his kind expressions,
and raising him to the highest summit of
rapture by inviting him to come and see him
when in town. He took a hearty farewell of
Philip and Ruddles, promising to write frequently
to the former, and drove off in great
spirits at having left them with a favourable
parting. He had tipped the servants handsomely,
and was eager that everybody should
share in his good fortune.

How Smilie sang his praises need not be
recorded ; we have had sufficient samples of
his style to form an idea of his encomiums ;
but we must not omit to describe the way in

which Gallford received the surprising intelligence.


Mrs. Rabbits, the landlady at number
twenty-four, was the most indefatigable gossip
in all Dullroad Buildings. Early that morning
she heard the news from her milkman, who
also supplied number five, and who had learnt
it from the communicative Ann. He was so
brimful of the news that he bestowed it on
his customers while measuring out his pints
and quarts ; and when he mentioned it to
Mrs. Rabbits she had no peace of mind until
she communicated it to her lodgers. She
had been on good terms with Gallford lately,
as he had paid up his arrears ; but he was
very gruff in manner to her, and she wished
to ingratiate herself with him again, and this
seemed a golden opportunity for so doing.

'^Do you know what has 'happened, Mr.
Gallford, sir? " she said, as she brought him
his breakfast.

'' No, and don't wish to."

*' Oh, you'll not say that when you hear
what it is. It is something wonderful."

I don't want to hear it."

But as Mrs. Rabbits wanted to tell it, she
persevered.

One o' the young gentlemen as lives at
Mr. Bernerr's come into such incredible
wealth, 'hundreds and 'hundreds of thousands ! "

'' What ! " exclaimed Gallford ; '' is Beverley's
father dead ? "

*'No, it saint Mr. Beverley, it's Mr.
Challenger ; and hall unbeknown to him he
gets it. A cousin o' his dies in California,
and leaves it him, 'hundreds and 'hundreds of
thousands ! "

There was a pause, during which Gallford
looked unusually sour.

He'll waste it in debauchery," he muttered.
'' He'll squander it all in two or three
years."

'Hundreds and 'hundreds of thousands ! "
repeated the landlady, with increasing wonder.

A short course of riotous living will soon
make it vanish."

Such wealth," said Mrs. Rabbits, '' such
overwhelming' opulence, cannot vanish."

'' Nonsense ! " said Gallford. '' Give a
young fellow money and we know what he

does with It. I hope he may suffer for his
follies. I hope the day may come when he
will receive a lesson he will never forget."

'' Oh, Mr. Gallford ! " she exclaimed, in a
mournful voice, '' why did you quarrel with
him ? Why did you not put up with him ?
If you 'ad only kep' in with him you might
now be rapin' a 'heavenly reward ! He might
have took you to live with him, or he
might even have called upon you in this
'ouse, in this very 'ouse ! Oh dear ! oh dear !
Why did you fall out with him ? What a
pity ! Now, if you were, Hke a good, dear
gentleman, to take my 'humble advice, you
would sit down at that there desk and write
him a nice, long, 'earth letter, and tell him
'ow glad you was to learn his good fortune.
You will, now, won't you ? You could say
hall that so cleverly, and it would be such a
advantage for you to find a friend in so
great a gentleman as he will be now."

Mrs. Rabbits," he said, sternly, " do you
seriously advise me to compromise the dignity
of independent poverty and neglected merit
by fawning on the wealthy? Woman, forbear

! Breathe not another word of such
treason in my presence ! I know whom he
likes ; I know what sort of friends he will
favour. I likewise remember how he behaved
to me, and I turn away from him in scorn,
leaving him to the punishment he deserves ! "

'well," said Mrs. Rabbits, on relating
this dialogue to another lodger, '^ of all the
contrary people that lever I see, that dear
soul upstairs is the worst. Now, just think,
he could, I am positive on it, make friends
with that young gentleman again, who is
lever so rich ; and yet he throws away his
chance, and prefers sulkin' to pain' his respects
in a quarter where he might get no
lend of money, influence, and introductions."


The lodger agreed with Mrs. Rabbits that
such conduct was the acme of folly, wrong-headedness,
and madness.

When Arthur arrived in town he immediately,
after securing his rooms at the hotel where he
had been with Philip, drove to his solicitor's.
The reception he there received contrasted
stronorlv with the coldness that was shown
him on a former occasion. The moment his
name was announced, Mr. Smith's door opened
as if by magic, and that gentleman himself
appeared on the threshold and harangued
Arthur almost in the style of Mr. Smilie.
After his exuberance had somewhat cooled
down, they settled to business, and Arthur
heard with satisfaction that the few formalities
necessary would not take long in performing.
He availed himself of the offer made

through Mr. Field, and borrowed the sum of
two hundred pounds for immediate expenses.

All being arranged for the present, and
having nothing further to say, Arthur rose to
depart, Mr. Smith insisting on escorting him
downstairs. As they were descending they
encountered a gentleman who was coming up,
a little The man, with sharp eyes and a hook
nose, on beholding whom Mr. Smith exclaimed
—

'' Oh ! what an opportune meeting ! Mr.
Challoner, I have long wished to make you
acquainted with Mr. Silversnake. This is,
indeed, a pleasure to me. Mr. Silversnake,
you know Mr. Challoner already by name."

The gentleman rejoicing in the cognomen
of Silversnake replied that he did, and added
that he had met Mr. Townley Challoner years
ago in California. This was interesting intelligence
to Arthur, who was desirous of
having particulars about his relative ; but
not wishing to detain the stranger any longer
at that moment, he invited him to visit him
at his hotel, an invitation accepted with
alacrity.

From Mr. Smith Arthur repaired to a tailor,
recommended to him by PhiHp, and ordered
his mourning. He was anxious to pay respect
to the memory of a man to whom he owed so
much. His feelings were always of the most
elevated kind, and never led him into erroneous
actions, except, perhaps, when they persuaded
him to confer favours on people whose merits
he had not sufficiently investigated. But this
was a fault '' leaning to virtue's side," and for
which the reader will, we are sure, forgive
him.

From the tailor's he went to a bookshop
and purchased some novels and poems to
beguile his solitude at the hotel. His active
mind had always required reading, and he
was guided in the fields of literature by unusual
taste and judgment. He had studied
from a boy as much to contribute to his own
pleasure as to perform the tasks imposed upon
him, and at this particular time his reading
propensities were of great benefit to him.
Solitude in a large city is more trying than ina
small town or the country ; and he would,
indeed, have been thrown adrift the first few

days of his stay in town if he had not indulged
in the companionship of books.

However, his loneliness was not completely
unbroken, Mr. Silversnake ere long availing
himself of the invitation.

^^ Do you know," he said, '^ that I happened
to mention your name to a friend of my son,
and he declared you were an old schoolfellow
of his ? He says he should be delighted to
meet you again after such a long time. Can
you imagine who it is ? '^

^' No," said Arthur; '' please tell me, you
have aroused my curiosity."

'' George Vane."

'' Is it possible?" Arthur exclaimed. ''I
wrote to him two or three times since we last
met and never received an answer."

Oh, but you should have seen his delight
on hearing of you again ! He could scarcely
contain himself for joy."

This was not strictly true ; but it was a
sufficiently near approach to truth to satisfy
Mr. Silversnake's veracity. George Vane,
on hearing Arthur mentioned, showed the
completest indifference ; but when he was

informed that he had inherited a large fortune,
his eagerness to meet his former friend
knew no bounds, and he begged Mr. Silver-snake
to bring them together, a wish the latter
promised to gratify. Arthur, who was not
disposed to bear ill-will for neglect, expressed
a wish to see Vane, and his visitor seized the
opportunity of inviting him to his house.

My wife will be charmed to have the
pleasure of making your acquaintance ; so
will the rest of my family. If you will dine
with us tomorrow evening, Vane shall be
there, and you will confer a favour on us all'*

Arthur readily promised to come. Mr.
Silversnake was enchanted.

''If you only knew," he said, 'all the
fatigue I have constantly to undergo ; what
with being director to this company and
chairman of that board, I really sometimes
do not know how I get through my work
without breaking down, to say nothing of the
enterprises I have on hand, and which are of
such colossal magnitude that the strain on
my mind is some-times o-v-er-whel-ming."
These last words with solemn emphasis.

VOL. I. N

'' But' he resumed, in a conversational
tone, '' I shall have more to say to you on
these interesting topics later on. For the
present, I will only add that if you do not
see me tomorrow evening, you will excuse
my absence by considering that I have been
overcome by the excess of my labours."

Mr. Silversnake, as the reader may have
already suspected, was a man deeply engaged
in a variety of speculations, and who had an
eye to the assistance of Arthur's large fortune
in his future undertakings. But Arthur was
innocent of any suspicion, and thought his
visitor a pleasant, hospitable man.

Mrs. Silversnake was similar to her husband
in character, only with this difference, that
while he was devoting his energies to money-making,
she was equally active in the pursuit
of social distinction. A lady by birth, poverty
compelled her to accept the offer of a man
for whom she did not feel much affection,
but when they were married she made the
best of her position, and was not a little the
cause of her husband's hazardous speculations.
Her tastes were expensive and her

ambition unbounded, so that his money soon
took wing in her hands, and he found it
necessary to be always supplying larger
sums. They had one daughter, for whom
they were forming great matrimonial projects,
and this was chiefly the reason why
Mr. Silversnake did not oppose his wife's
lavish expenditure. If they desired to receive
the best company for Bessie's sake,
they must entertain accordingly. Their
house was, therefore, the scene of constant
hospitality and gaiety, and it must be allowed
that Mrs. Silversnake had the talent of being
an agreeable hostess. Good-looking in the
eyes of most people, and, according to some,
absolutely handsome, she had a pleasant,
insinuating manner that blinded all, except
the most penetrating, to the fact that she
was really a sly, intriguing, untrustworthy
woman. Her daughter Bessie took after her
in appearance ; she had the same cold, clear
eyes, the same defined, well-cut features, the
same slight, graceful figure, but she was
more open and natural than her mother.
Mrs. Silversnake received Arthur with her

most fascinating smiles and speeches,
George Vane had not yet arrived, and
Arthur had time to form his first impression
of his hostess and her daughter. It was not
unfavourable with regard to the latter ; but,
unaccustomed to fulsome attentions, he felt
somewhat oppressed by Mrs. Silversnake's
politeness.

To Arthur's great relief, her attention was
soon diverted to other guests, among whom
were Lady Marshfield and Sir Alexander.
Shortly afterwards Miss Wentworth and Mrs.
Ford appeared, to his joyful surprise, as he
did not know that Flora was acquainted with
the Silversnakes. She appeared to him more
charming than ever, and with her and Lady
Marshfield he conversed until George Vane
entered the room.

This former friend of Arthur was a young
man in whose hands the fairest opportunities
in life had been frittered away. Idle, capricious,
prodigal, he had wearied the kindness
of his parents, and exhausted the patience of
his friends. Arthur would scarcely have
known him again, so changed was he in

appearance, some would have said for the
better ; but Arthur was not of this opinion.
He had lost in candour what he had gained
in polish. He greeted Arthur with a wonderful
show of cordiality, and did not lose sight
of him the whole evening ; and next day
he called upon him with a scheme in his
head, which was carried out in the following
dialogue : —

'' I was amazingly glad' said Vane, '' to
see you again. I frequently thought of you,
and wondered where you were."

*'I wrote to you several times," said Arthur,
^' but never received a reply."

*' Well, I have led such a wandering life,"
Vane answered, '' that it is not strange if
letters sent to me were lost. I assure you, for
years I have not been three weeks in the same
place. You get so weary of living in one
spot and never stirring ; and if you travel,
even travelling soon loses its charm."

'' You seem," said Arthur, '' to be out of
sorts this morning. Last night you were
more cheerful."

'' I am always cheerful of an evening," his

visitor retorted ; '' but of a morning how
barren and unsatisfactory the whole world
appears ! When we are tumbling out of bed
what deplorable objects we look ! Is there
anything more dreary than the aspect of a
street at seven or eight a.m.? "

Arthur laughed at this odd fancy.

'' I find," continued Vane, ^' nothing but
vanity and affliction of spirit of a morning,
and if it had not been for my impatience to
pay you a visit, I should scarcely have
emerged from my den at such an early
hour."

This assertion was flagrantly untrue, but it
suited his purpose to appear as though he
were very partial to Arthur.

'' I should never have thought it possible,"
he went on saying, 'for anyone to bear so
great and sudden a change of fortune so
philosophically as you are doing. I should
be half wild with excitement. What astonishing
strength of mind you must have to be so
composed! "

This remark was highly gratifying to
Arthur. He had not supposed that the

manner in which he bore his good fortune
was deserving of commendation, but now that
he came to think of it he mentally agreed
with Vane that it was highly praiseworthy.

I should have a thousand schemes in my
head," said Vane, '^as to how I should enjoy
myself, and I should be so impatient that I
should certainly plunge at once into a whirl of
gaiety. Not one moment would I delay
enjoying myself."

'' There are few people," said Arthur,
'' who would not say so too. But I — well,
the fact is, I have gone through so much that
I have at present little relish for amusement."

''If you will only begin," said Vane, '' the
relish will come before you are aware of it.
You must launch forth, you must assert yourself,
you must — "

Words here failed him to express his conceptions,
so he waved his hands, as if he were
embracing all the joys and pleasures of the
world. He would, indeed, have been overjoyed
to become Arthur's guide on the
flowery path to ruin, and to occupy this post
was the great object he had in view.

Arthur, impressionable and unsuspicious,
was, within certain bounds, easily influenced.
An idea suggested to him was quickly grasped
by his mind, and improved by his lively
imagination ; and those towards whom he
was favourably disposed had additional
facility in moulding him to their will. He
was not weak, but he was kind, pliant, and
courteous, and sensitive in a high degree to
pleasant or unpleasant impressions.

We need not, therefore, marvel if he was
inclined to take George Vane into his good
graces and to make an intimate friend of
him. He invited him to stay for luncheon,
and talked all the time of his plans, of the
house he intended to take, of how he should
furnish it, of the horses he would buy, and
listened with much interest to Vane's suggestions
and recommendations. Vane was
greatly elated to find that his advances were
so well received, and he determined to derive
as much advantage as possible from his
wealthy friend's partiality.

Arthur's days were now very pleasantly
spent, what with invitations from Lady Marsh-field,

the Silversnakes, and other acquaintances,
and the agreeable occupation of fitting
up his house in the most luxurious style.
Lady Marshfield and Mrs. Silversnake were
most kind In giving him the benefit of their
taste and experience, and the solicitude which
Mrs. Silversnake showed in all his affairs was
so marked that George Vane drew from It the
inference that she was not without hopes of
securing the young, handsome, and rich
Arthur Challoner for her daughter, '' otherwise,"
he argued, 'what could her motive be
in taking such an absorbing interest in him?"
Whether this suspicion was well-founded or
not, it proves that Vane held disinterested
friendship to be a fiction and a myth.

In vast cities, where men of all nations
assemble, there is sure to be a dangerous
minority, capable of every vice and crime,
forming a nucleus of evil by which the peace
and security of the State are threatened.
Thus in Philip Beverley's disposition, exposed
by nature and fortune to every bad passion
and misleading influence, there was formed,
if we may so express ourselves, a deposit of
evil qualities which only required stirring to
poison his character and his actions. Now,
unfortunately, the time had arrived when it
was to be lashed into fury, and goaded into
frenzy. As our narrative proceeds we shall
have to trace the decline and fall of what
might have been an honourable career.

When he told Arthur that he intended to
make himself as disagreeable as possible to
the Berners, he said no more than was really
his intention ; and he lost no time in carrying
out his amiable plan.

He opened hostilities by writing a long
letter to his father, the whole tenour of which
tended to bias him against Mr. Bernerr. At
the same time, Philip professed to be perfectly
contented with his place of residence,
and to be willing to remain as long as might
be desired. He knew his father's character,
and calculated accordingly. Had he openly
decried Mr. Bernerr, his assertions would have
obtained no credit ; but this subtle method of
detraction, dictated seemingly by a friendly
spirit, and uttered, as it were, in an unconscious
manner, worked with the greatest
force and effect.

Having thus diplomatically prepared the
way for retreat, he vigorously attacked the
enemy, and made himself so disagreeable
that, when he announced his intention of
leaving, the very thought of his departure
was delightful to the Berners.

Having carried his point, Philip behaved
with tolerable civility until he left. So intense
was his selfishness, and so violent his craving
for perpetual enjoyment, that, whenever he
was thwarted in the slightest degree, he
would lose sight of the laws of decorum and
civility, and behave with odious insolence,
and even ferocity ; but if the obstacle which
roused his ire was removed, he would become
somewhat less overbearing, and more amenable
to reason.

It was a relief to the Berners when he was
gone, but Ruddles felt his loss deeply, notwithstanding
the frequent bullying to which
lie had been subjected. The boy was
naturally affectionate and forgiving, and
would have borne even harsher treatment
Without a murmur.

While these events were taking place, the
fortunes of those who lived at number 4,
Dullroad Buildings, were undergoing a change.
Arabella Clarke was destined not much
longer to remain in that dreary abode.

Miss Clarke was, as we have already
informed the reader, constantly making new

wills. Her freaks and caprices were unaccountable,
and sorely puzzled the cool,
legal mind of her solicitor, to whom the
slightest deviation from the path of a strictly
rational conduct appeared a mild lunacy.

*' Well, I declare ! " he exclaimed one
morning, '' if that isn't Miss Clarke coming
again about her everlasting will ! When
will the woman settle as to how she will leave
her property ? Not satisfied with adding
codicils, she is for ever revoking wills which
only a few weeks before she declared to
express her final decision."

Miss Clarke marched into his office with a
determined step, and after drawing out of
her reticule an enormous quantity of letters
and memoranda, she said —

*' I feel it my duty to reconsider the will I
made three months ago, and by which I left
my niece Arabella nothing. Since then I have
had reason to believe that she is looked upon
with extreme disfavour by my cousin Letitia
Jemima Elizabeth Clarke, a person to whom
I have the greatest aversion, and I therefore
intend leaving the said Arabella Clarke a

substantial legacy as the best means of provoking,
annoying, and aggravating the said
Letitia Jemima Elizabeth Clarke."

The solicitor took down her instructions,
trying his best to conceal the sardonic smile
called forth by this exhibition of petty spite.

'^ I bequeath the sum of ten thousand
pounds to my niece Arabella Clarke. Have
you written that ? "

Yes."

^' Very well. Now I am positive that she
has an intense wish to possess my rings, a
wish I am determined not to gratify. I therefore
intend leaving my emerald and diamond
ring to Mrs. Silversnake as a memento of a
devoted friend ; though I do not much care
for the woman, that phrase sounds well, so
please insert it. I leave my brilliant diamond
ring and my half-hoop ruby ring to Miss
Scratcher. Arabella is frantically jealous of
her, she will be wild at my leaving them to
Clotilda ! Miss Clotilda Scratcher ; have you
put that down ? "

'' I have."

'^As for my opal ring, I bequeath it to

Mrs. Jones. She is superstitious to the last
degree, and will be terrified at receiving it.
My half-hoop sapphire ring I bequeath to
Lady Marshfield as a slight token of affectionate
regard ! I can't say that I really
have any regard for her, but it sounds well
to have a title in the list of legatees. My
turquoise and diamond earrings I leave to
Mrs. M'Dowd, who never wears earrings.
The rest of my jewellery is to be sold, and

the proceeds to be handed over to the

Hospital. It looks well to bequeath something
to a hospital, and that particular institution
is not in want of funds. I have made ita
rule through life never to give anything in
charity ; it pauperism the recipients, and
encourages begging and idleness. I do not
deviate from that wholesome principle by
leaving a legacy to a wealthy hospital ; it is
more a present than a charity. Are you not
of that opinion ? "

*' Decidedly ; and I admire the consistency
with which you carry out your ideas."

*' Exactly ! " she exclaimed, with great
complacency, ^' that is what I am always impressing

on Arabella. ' Never be influenced
by feelings,' I say to her ; ' always by principle.
Never let your actions be the result
of whim or impulse, but always of reason.
Take an example by me, who am never
swayed by passion or caprice.' I have said
that to her times without number. But to
return to business. In my last will I left my
cook an annuity of forty pounds. She
burned my chops yesterday, and my coffee
was as weak as water. I will not be neglected
with impunity, so I shall omit her altogether
in this will. And, after all, I am not bound
to provide for her. She has only been in my
service fifteen years ; and, in my opinion,
servants employed for any period under a
quarter of a century ought not to be entitled
to form expectations. I leave the sum of
one thousand pounds to my doctor, provided
I attain the age of eighty ; if I do not attain
that age he is to have nothing. I have
already informed him of this item, and it has
had the desired effect of making him bestow
more care on my constitution. Of late I
have been feeling very ill, with the strangest

sensations all over me. I do not know what
they are."

She said these last words with a shudder,
and paused for a moment.

"As for that hateful Letitia Jemima Elizabeth
Clarke' she resumed, with desperate
energy, " she shall not have one farthing of
my money, not one halfpenny. She is on
bad terms with her brother, John Clarke ; I
therefore leave him two thousand pounds free
of duty. Arabella's money shall not be free
of duty ; that will make her angry. And I
appoint the said John Clarke and the Reverend
Frederick Bernerr my executors and trustees j
and I bequeath two hundred pounds to Mr.
Bernerr, to compensate him for the trouble he
will have. I gave him a hint one day that I
would leave him a thousand pounds ; but I
do not care for his wife, so the other sum is
ample. The lease of my house I leave to
Arabella. She hates it, and will dislike having
it on her hands. After these legacies and all
my debts are paid, I direct that the residue
of my estate be applied to erecting a magnificent
stained glass window in Church to

VOL. I. O

my memory, and that a brass tablet be placed
beneath it setting forth my munificence and
concluding with the words : ' Her spirit was
charity and love.' "

Having given with this hypocritical ostentation
the finishing touch to her frightful
exhibition of malignity and caprice, she rose
with a triumphant air.

The solicitor was too well versed in the
darker phases of human nature to feel surprise
or indignation at the frame of mind in which
she drew up her last will and testament, but
he could not suppress a feeling of intense
contempt.

He arranged to come next day with the
document in a legal form and the witnesses,
and she departed well-pleased with the result
of the interview.

Next day the document was duly signed,
Arabella having been previously sent out of
the house on some pretext by her astute aunt
that she might not guess what event was
taking place. Indeed, she was completely
ignorant of the fact that Miss Clarke had
made and revoked so many wills.

It was fortunate for Arabella that the will
was made without loss of time. Miss Clarke,
whose health had long been failing, now
rapidly declined. One evening when Arabella
had retired to her room, she heard a violent
ringing of bells, and a moment afterwards
the housemaid came running upstairs and
rapped at her door, exclaiming in an agitated
voice —

'' Do come down, Miss Arabella. We
don't know what to do. Miss Clarke is so
queer."

Arabella, in the greatest alarm, slipped on
her dressing-gown and hastened to her aunt's
room. She found her reclining in an easy-chair,
to which the cook and housemaid had
conducted her on answering the bell. She
had sunk on the floor near the bell-rope, and
was almost unconscious when they entered.
She was now somewhat relieved, and answered
Arabella's inquiries with impatience.

^^ Don't bend over me like that, child ; you
stifle me. Send for the doctor. The room
was too hot. I shall be better presently."

In spite of this assurance she looked

alarmingly ill, and Arabella lost no time in
dispatching a message to the doctor, begging
his immediate attendance.

Pending his arrival she did her best to
alleviate the pains of the sufferer ; no easy
task, for she was restless, impatient, and
savagely irritable. With the cook's assistance
Arabella managed to get her into
bed, though the trouble and exertion were
great.

At last the doctor came. The patient
watched the expression of his face with
anxiety, and answered his questions angrily
and evasively.

''I am not ill at all," she muttered; ''I
am only suffering from the effects of an overheated
room. We need not have sent for
you, but Arabella is so absurdly nervous. I
have told her times without number not to be
guided by impulse."

Here she paused for breath, closing her
eyes, and then resumed —

'' Perhaps she believes what she hopes.
We all do that. She wishes me to go. She
cannot hear what I am saying ? "

With these words she sat up in her bed
and looked wildly round the room.

'^ No, she cannot," said the doctor, soothingly.


'^ I will alter my will," she resumed, sinking
back on her pillow. '^ She shall have no
cause to rejoice ! She has been plotting and
scheming, scheming and plotting for this —
for this ! I know her ! Doctor, tell me truly :
am I in danger? "

Saying these words she clasped his hand
eagerly.

'' If you keep yourself perfectly quiet," he
replied, '' I can answer honestly that you are
not in danger."

'arabella!" she cried, with a sudden
effort. *' Arabella, come to me quickly."

Her niece obeyed the summons and hurried
to her bedside.

'' I am here. Aunt Lydia,"

'^ Arabella," she cried, '' he wishes to
prevent me from saying what I have to say ;
but I will not be silenced. They are forging
my will ! I thought so all along, I suspected
it for months, and now I know it 1 But they

shall be well punished. Send for the police,,
and have them arrested. Forgery ! police !
detectives ! ''

Arabella stood aghast on hearing these
delirious words, and gazed with alarm and
concern at the wretched old woman.

*' I must prosecute them," she continued.
*' Doctor, make me well by the time the trial
takes place. I must appear as a witness, and
so must Arabella and John Clarke. Oh, for
Heaven's sake make me well ! I have left
you a thousand pounds in my will, provided I
live to be eighty. I am actually seventy now,
though I don't look it. Don't you think you
can pull me through another ten years ? It
is to your interest to do so. Ten years are a
short time after all. Make me well, and God
will bless you. Make me well ! make me
well ! "

She moaned and shuddered and looked
appealingly at the doctor, who tried to soothe
her as best he could. He wrote a prescription,
and took his departure when she was
somewhat composed, assuring Arabella that
there was no imminent danger provided she

could be prevented from exciting herself with
talking.

Arabella sent without delay for the medicine
and spent the interval in anxious watching at
the bedside. Great lassitude had set in
after the foregoing excitement, and Arabella
fervently hoped that all danger was averted ;
but when the medicine arrived it was necessary
to give it to the patient, and Arabella
approached the bed with that object. To
her extreme dismay, Miss Clarke stubbornly
refused to take it, and pushed her aside angrily.

^' No, no," she murmured ; '' not a drop.
I want nothing. I will take nothing. I will
be left in peace. Why torment me ? Arabella,
you are unkind to me, to me who leave
you so much."

Arabella urged her to take the medicine,
but without avail. She turned her face to the
wall and feigned to fall asleep.

Seeing that further pressing was useless,
and might be injurious, Arabella desisted,
and resolved to wait for a favourable opportunity.
The hours of night were advancing,
and not a sign did Miss Clarke make. So

silent was she that at last Arabella became
alarmed and softly approached the bedside.

The sick woman started with terror, and
gazed at her with wild eyes.

What is it ? " she asked.

Arabella again implored her to take the
medicine.

'' Not I ! " she retorted. '' I am better, I
am well. The stained-glass window will look
superb, and the inscription on the tablet will
be impressive. If Letitia ever sees it she
will turn white with anger. I wish she were
suffering what I am suffering now. Give me
the medicine ; Letitia would rather I did not
take it."

Relieved at this favourable turn of affairs,
Arabella did as she was told. Miss Clarke
swallowed it eagerly ; but her mind was
wandering, and her fancies became more
strange and incoherent.

'' Burn it, burn it," she moaned. '' It is
useless — I will make another. A thousand
pounds, doctor ; remember that ! Ten years
more. Arabella, we must go away — change
of air — I shall recover. This day next year

where shall I be ? Oh, Arabella, do not say
that I shall be taken before then ! A few
years longer. I have so much to do — so
many things to settle, and it is so cold
travelling at this time of year. I must go
abroad — to Germany for the waters — I shall
then recover. Pack up everything, child, but
not my rings. They are to be given to Lady
Scratcher and Clotilda Marshfield. They
are valuable, and might be stolen. Is my
will stolen ? Have they forged it ? Keep
me back, child, keep me back. They are
carrying me away ! The passage is so
terribly rough, and the wind is so high !
Keep me back ! A thousand pounds — all
my fortune — to make me well ! "

She wandered in this harrowing strain until
her strength failed and unconsciousness set
in, from which she never rallied. She died
the next evening at half-past seven, and
Arabella, alone in the world, wept bitterly for
her loss, selfish, harsh, capricious, and unkind
though she had frequently been.

The obsequies were performed, the will
was opened and read ; and, to use the

beautiful metaphor uttered by Mr. Bernerr
on the occasion, 'the spirit of the departed
beamed on the legatees." He was pleased
with his share, but most of the others were,
as the testatrix had foreseen, sorely disappointed.
Arabella, though not dissatisfied
with the sum bequeathed to her, had confidently
expected her aunt's jewels. Letitia,
being completely passed over, had thus a
bitter grievance, which she nourished for the
rest of her life. John Clarke was indignant
at the smallness of his legacy, and Mrs.
Jones gave herself up for lost when she
received the opal ring.

But the superb window was placed in the
church, the tablet was put up with a fulsome
inscription, in which a woman who had never
done a generous action in her life was extolled
as the pattern of every virtue.

The frost and snow of winter, the winds of
March, and the fitful showers of April have
succeeded each other, and spring is advancing
into summer since the events narrated in our
last chapter. As the months went by they
brought many pleasures and gratifications to
Arthur. He had become a great favourite in
society, and, as George Vane had foreseen,
when he had tasted pleasure he was, ere long,
captivated by it. Many of his qualities that
had lain dormant were now developed by
prosperity. Eight months earlier he was buta
youth, inexperienced, diffident of himself,
and uncertain of his future ; now he was a
man, acquainted with the world, though not

disabused of its follies ; conscious of his own
advantages of nature and fortune, though not
yet versed in the correct estimation of those
who called themselves his friends ; capable
of indulging his tastes and inclinations to the
utmost, though not laying aside the real kindness
and generosity of his character.

But however much he might divert himself
with gaieties, his thoughts were constantly
reverting to Flora Wentworth and her many
attractions, and it was a sharp thorn in his
side to perceive how far deeper were her feelings
for Philip Beverley than for himself.

With O'Brien he was, as ever, on the most
cordial terms. They were drawn to each
other by an innate sympathy such as can
only be felt, not analyzed ; a sympathy for
which no reason can be adduced, except
that given by Montaigne when asked why he
was so attached to his friend : '''' Puree que
d'etat lui, parce que d'etat moi'

If O'Brien was in every sense a desirable
companion, the same cannot be said of
George Vane. Every month seemed to
develop more fully the bad qualities inherent

to his disposition, and they were
qualities unredeemed by any amiable traits.

Arthur had not seen much of Philip during
these months. Mr. Beverley had died suddenly,
and Philip had succeeded to his
enormous fortune. Neither affectionate nor
dutiful, his feelings were little in harmony
with the mourning he donned.

Mr. and Mrs. Silversnake were sedulous in
their attentions to Arthur, and surrounded
him with a delicate little web of treacherous
kindness and false civility. In which they
hoped to entangle, if not himself, at least his
fortune. Miss Silversnake had made a bosom
friend of Arabella Clarke, who was her parents'
constant visitor. At their house Arthur also
frequently met Flora and Mrs. Ford ; but he
had few opportunities of a tete-astute with
the charming girl as she was keenly watched
by her companion and he by his satellites.

And now that we see him in the clutches
of this gang of Beverley, Silversnakes, and
Vanes, to say nothing of the smaller fry of
harpies and parasites, we can confidently
prophesy that he will reap sorrow and desolation

from such a seed. We shall enumerate
one by one the wounds inflicted upon his
heart, until at last, pierced through and
through with the arrows of treachery, it will
be a marvel that he arises and lives.

'^ I'll bet you five thousand guineas that in
all Europe you could never find a handsomer
or more attractive girl than Flora Wentworth.
Even the jealous eye of Miss Silversnake fails
to discover a flaw in her beauty. If you were
to marry her, all the men would envy you and
all the women would be jealous of her. She
is peerless, and I am quite certain that you
appreciate her perfections. Why, therefore,
do you not propose to her?"

Thus Philip Beverley was saying to Arthur
one evening after dinner at the house of
the latter, and after imbibing a considerable
quantity of wine.

'' You have often asked me that question'*
said Arthur, smiling, '' and I have invariably
replied that you stand higher in her favour

than myself, and that is an excellent reason
for me not to proceed further."

*' But if I assure you," said Philip, filling
his glass, '^ that I have not the slightest
intention of marrying as yet? If I give you
my word of honour that I never paid, or
intended to pay, my addresses to Miss Wentworth
? If I declare that I really am not in
love with her, and that I have no reason to
believe that she cares for me as much as you
suppose? "

As he said these words he drank off his
wine rapidly and excitedly.

Arthur looked at him and said —

I am surely not mistaken. The insight
of love is keen, and I am convinced that
Flora Wentworth is devoted to you. Propose
to her and you will be accepted. I would bethe
last to stand in the way of your happiness.
It would give me almost as much joy to see
you happy with her as myself."

Philip's perfidious eyes had a strange
gleam in them as he answered —

*' Perhaps I may be induced to marry ten
years hence, but not now. I wish to enjoy

my liberty a little longer. You, who are so
much steadier than I am, would make a far
better husband. Why do you hesitate ? Your
fortune is, I am sure, more than ample."

'^ It is nothing to yours," said Arthur.

'what of that? Flora is not a girl to
weigh pounds, shillings, and pence ; and, even
if she were, your position is such that she
would be delighted with your offer. I would
not say all this if I did not know how happy
you would be together. Now, my dear fellow,
why oblige me to hold forth all night ? Why
not listen to reason and take the step that
will make your future delightful ? "

He proceeded to paint their connubial
felicity in such brilliant colours that Arthur,
enchanted with the prospect, gave up all
further opposition, and assured his friend that
he would propose to her next day.

'every well," thought Philip ; '' but I shall
take care that you arrive too late."

Philip Beverley had indeed placed in
Arthur's way a net of abominable guile.

We have seen enough of this young man's
nature to discover that he derived a fiend-like

pleasure from the misery of others ; and now
that he perceived this unique opportunity of
gratifying that odious taste he seized it with
eager delight. He looked upon the whole
affair as a huge joke, and whether it would
make Arthur unhappy or not was little his
concern. Accordingly, so soon as he returned
to his house that night, he wrote a
letter to Miss Wentworth declaring his love
and asking her to become his wife, a piece of
double-dyed treachery at once perfidious to
his friend and cruel to the woman he professed
to love.

When Flora Wentworth received the letter
she perused It with feelings of rapturous
elation. The plausible exterior of the arch-traitor
had captivated her, and she was one
of those who, If they love at all, love deeply
and constantly. Her reply was, as may be
supposed, a most favourable assent, highly
gratifying to Philip's vanity.

Having despatched her answer, she acquainted
Mrs. Ford with the momentous step
she had taken.

'' What ! " exclaimed that lady, '' you do

VOL. I. p

not mean to say that you have been so rash
as to accept Mr. Beverley ? "

'' I have accepted him," said Flora, "without
hesitation."

*' In spite of all my warnings ? "

I know you have a prejudice against
him," she replied ; '' but it is unfounded."

'^ On the contrary," protested Mrs. Ford,
*' I myself liked him at first, and it was not
until I had unanswerable proof of his bad
disposition that I tried to open your eyes.
Flora, we have lived long enough together
for you to know that I am not suspicious, not
censorious, not uncharitable in my judgment ;
but my love for you, and my desire for your
happiness, make me speak out boldly and
firmly, and declare that if you marry Mr.
Beverley it will be the most fatal step you
could possibly take."

I will not listen to such language," said
Flora, hotly ; " after having accepted him it
would be treason in me to do so."

There is time," argued Mrs. Ford, *' there
is yet time for you to draw back. The happiness
of your whole future is concerned. I

have heard stories about him from reliable
sources that would make you shudder."

And who has not been calumniated and
libelled?" asked Flora, indignantly. '^ How
can you stoop to make yourself the mouthpiece
of such fabrications ? "

'* They are nothing of the kind. They are
truths ; and I utter them in order to save you
from a terrible fate."

A pause ensued, and Flora seemed for a
moment impressed by her words. However,
she soon resumed her attitude of self-defence.


'' Lady Marshfield declared solemnly to me
that Philip Beverley would make an excellent
husband ; that he may have had faults, but
that they would be toned down ere long, and
that I would be very unwise to reject him."

'' Lady Marshfield ! " exclaimed Mrs. Ford,
bitterly ; " if she is to become your guide,
philosopher, and friend, I shall not wonder at
the most untoward result. But I shall say no
more. I have done my duty ; I have warned
you; I am not called upon to interfere further.
I am compelled to leave you to your own

judgment. May it guide you safely through
the dangers of life ! "

With these words, uttered with profounder
emotion than this cold, self-contained woman
had ever before shown, she left the room.

Flora was alone. In spite of herself, the
warning had sunk deeply into her soul. She
could not shake off a sense of the momentous
nature of the step she had taken. The
prospect of the future rose in vague outline
and dark colouring before her, and it required
all her affection for Philip to reassure her.
But, nevertheless, some clouds continued to
hang over her, and, although she was far from
regretting what she had done, there were
some importunate queries and fears that
would not be dispelled.

While she was in this frame of mind, Arthur
Challonerwas announced. She received him
with some surprise.

He looked unusually well on this momentous
day. His fine figure was set off by fashionable
clothes, and his face was animated by a
singularly tender and pleasing expression.
Flora could not help being struck by it, and

with her feminine keenness of perception she
vaguely, if not distinctly, foresaw on what
errand he had come.

'^ You come opportunely," she said, with a
smile. '' I have been meditating, and that
occupation does not always make us cheerful."


'' I should suppose," said Arthur, " that
your thoughts would always be of a delightful
nature."

'* Not always," she answered. " There are
moments — "

She sighed, and did not finish her phrase.

*' Yes," said Arthur, '' I, too, feel that
there are moments when our reflections are
fraught with melancholy, when we feel that
our destiny is not as we imagined it to be,
when we hope for something more beautiful
than the present can offer. I speak from
experience, for I have felt these emotions
myself. Indeed, I feel them now ; and I
shall always feel them unless a happier future
opens on my path ; I shall always feel a
loneliness and a vague desire for greater
happiness if I have not her I love to make

me happy, if my intense affection and devotion
are not requited. Need I explain myself
further? Do you not know that you, and
you alone, are, and ever have been, the joy
of my life and the ideal of my dreams?'^

He seized her hand and kissed it passionately.


Mr. Challoner," she exclaimed, '^ this is
indeed a strange time you have chosen for
such a declaration, a time when I am unprepared
for it, when 1 thought you surely
must know — you cannot be ignorant — you,
his intimate friend — are you not aware that I
am engaged to him ? ''

'' Engaged to whom ? " Arthur gasped.

'' To Mr. Beverley," she replied.

Arthur was thunderstruck. He gazed at
her with speechless astonishment.

Several minutes elapsed before he could
find voice to say —

** What do I hear ? Can it be true ? You,
engaged to Beverley, to Philip Beverley ?
To the man who — but no — there must be a
mistake. It cannot be my friend that you
mean ! "

'' But I do' she said. '' Why do you
doubt it ? "

He rested his giddy head in his hand and
closed his eyes. After an interval he asked —

'^ Since when have you been engaged?"

'' Only since to-day," she replied. '^ Why
do you inquire ? "

Because there is treachery in it," he cried,
passionately, '' because there is double-dyed
villainy in it, and falsehood, and infernal
fraud. He himself only yesterday — but no,
I cannot tell you the cruel story."

He rose, and paced excitedly up and down
the room. Her eyes followed him with a
terrified, bewildered expression.

'' You will not believe me when I relate it,"
he continued. *' Only yesterday, not twenty-four
hours ago, I told him how deeply I loved
you, and that I was only held back by my
conviction that you preferred him to me.
What was his reply ? He gave me his most
solemn word of honour that he had no intention
of declaring himself ; indeed, he assured
me " (this Arthur uttered with bitter emphasis)
'' that he did not love you, that his feelings

were not sufficiently deep for him to contemplate
matrimony. From this circumstance
you may judge the sincerity of his professions."


This is a most painful and terrible scene,"
Flora exclaimed with profound emotion. '* It
grieves me to see you so distressed, and to
hear such accusations levelled against Philip.
There must be a misunderstanding somewhere.
They cannot cannot be accurate. Pray consider,
Mr. Challoner, what you are saying.
Remember that I am now his affianced bride,
and that to attempt to sow distrust between
us would be cruel."

Here she burst into tears.

Arthur Alas moved, and said gently —

*' My dear Miss Wentworth, I grieve more
for your distress than for my own misfortune.
Never would I say a word to wound you or to
disturb your happiness ; but I must still maintain
that there is no mistake, and that I am
the victim of a most cruel, atrocious fraud."

Leave me, leave me," she cried, vehemently.
*' I cannot listen without treason to
such language respecting my future husband.

I shall speak to him, and it will all be explained.
Leave me, I pray you, leave me
without delay. I cannot endure this any
longer. Philip shall speak— he shall justify
himself — but meanwhile leave me."

Her voice was so imploring, and her look
expressive of such acute sorrow, that he was
fain to obey in silence.

He left her, a tempest raging in his heart.
Outside he encountered the sedate figure of
Mrs. Ford.

*' What has happened ? " she asked. "' I
knew by your voices something unusual had
occurred."

In disjointed, hurried phrases he told her
his story.

'' I am not surprised," she muttered. " Of
Mr. Beverley I always had an unfavourable
opinion. You have confirmed it. He will
make my poor child unhappy. By what
malignant influence is she so blinded ?
Would to God her eyes were opened ! "

Arthur sighed, and assured her that what
he said was true.

*' I believe it " she exclaimed, " I believe

it fully. I have seen the world, and I know
What Mr. Beverley is. I have tried in vain
to warn her against him. May this incident
be more successful in disabling her than my
feeble words have been ! "

She said this so kindly and sincerely that
Arthur was emboldened to ask her to let him
know how Flora would be disposed In a day
or two, to let him have a short note with information
as to how she was behaving
towards Philip. After some hesitation Mrs.
Ford agreed to comply with his request.

'' I may be wrong," she said, 'ein writing
to you in such delicate circumstances without
her knowledge ; but If you will promise not
to seek an interview of her without first informing
me, I think I shall be justified in
doing as you desire."

He readily gave the promise, and left her
with many expressions of gratitude for her
sympathy.

As he went his way he felt as if the ground
were burning under his feet, and as if the
houses were about to fall on him and crush
him. Such wickedness, such perfidy, such

deliberate and cold-blooded treachery ! He
could scarcely believe It. He doubted for a
moment whether he was not under the Influence
of a horrible nightmare. But no — It
was the bitter truth. The blood was running
hotly through his veins. He was passing
through the streets of London. The house
of the woman he loved lay behind him, and
ere long he saw before him the house of the
man he must for ever hate.

He gazed upon the lofty pile as It rose up
against the grey sky ; he pictured to himself
Flora's form passing through Its stately
doors ; he beheld In thought Philip by her
side ; the Idea overpowered him, and he
angrily resolved to call him to account, and
to make him owen face to face his treason.

Arthur, being known to the servants as one
of their master's Intimates, was admitted
without delay ; but when he came to Philip's
room he found It empty. He had expected
to see him there, and before he could recover
from his surprise, Philip's valet entered with
a message to the effect that his master was
unwell and could receive nobody. Arthur

was not to be shaken off so easily. He wrote
some lines in his pocket-book, upbraiding
Philip for his perfidious conduct, and declaring
that he would never speak to him
again. He folded up the paper and gave it
to the valet, who soon returned with the
following answer —

'' Dear Challoner,

'' I don't quite understand your note.
What I said last night was mere fun, and I
never meant you to take it seriously. The
fact is, we had both of us been drinking too
much wine. You had better not think anymore
of the affair. I have been accepted,
but you may console yourself with the
thought that you might have been the lucky
man had your offer preceded mine by a few
hours.

'' Yours truly,

''P. B."

The deliberate brazen impudence of this
answer gave Arthur a deeper insight into
Philip's nature than he had hitherto possessed.
He left the house with indignant rage, and

determined never to set foot in it again.
What a scandalously false assertion that they
had been drinking the night before ! And
how insulting was the concluding consolation
!

Had Arthur been of a designing and selfish
disposition, this action of Philip's would have
produced in him little of the surprise that
now overwhelmed him. But his very candour
and sincerity were now the gates through
which a flood of sorrow entered his soul.

When he returned home he realized more
fully than before how completely he had set
his heart on Flora Wentworth, and how bitter
was the disappointment of refusal. It was,
in truth, the first great trial of his life, his
first draught of the cup of sorrow.

Hearing as he did from the Mansfield
and the Silversnakes frequent reports as to
the preparations for Flora's wedding, his injured
feelings were constantly receiving new
wounds, whereby he was wrought up to so
acute a state of mental suffering that he
determined to absent himself for a while
from the scene of his rival's success and

happiness. He invited O'Brien to go with
him to Norway for a few weeks, in the fond
hope of escaping the sight and even the news
of the wedding.

O'Brien willingly accepted his invitation,
so without delay they started on their tour.
But before his departure Arthur sent Flora a
present of a magnificent bracelet of brilliant
and rubies, accompanied by a note expressing
in tender terms his sincere wishes for her
future happiness.

It must not be supposed that Flora received
either Arthur's present or note without a
pang. She was of so kind and sympathetic
a nature, that to see any fellow-creature in
sorrow was misery to her, and much more so
when the afflicted person was one towards
whom she entertained a feeling of partiality.
She had always liked Arthur, and was deeply
distressed on hearing from him the account
of Philip's strange, and to her inexplicable,
behaviour; nor would she have forgiven the
latter had he not possessed complete mastery
over her feelings, and had he not justified
himself by the same plea with which he justified
his conduct to Arthur.

"My dearest Flora," he said, ''do not

waste a thought on Challoner. The evening
before we both proposed we were talking of
you. I knew that he admired you, and I said
jestingly something about your being suited
to each other. I did not mean It, and should
not have said it, but one does not always
weigh one's words exactly. As to my telling
him that I had no intention of proposing to
you, it is utterly false. The fact is, he had
been taking rather more wine than was good
for him, and next morning he had but a
confused recollection of our conversation-you
may rest assured that his account of it
was a mistake from beginning to end. Do
not think of it any more, and, above all, do
not believe that I ever could have said that I
did not love you."

These words banished Flora's misgivings,
and her Idol reigned supreme over her heart.
She doubted neither his faith nor his sincerity,,
and would not listen to Mrs. Ford or to any
other person who warned her against him.

There was, indeed, much that was dazzling
in PhlHp. Apart from his Immense fortune,
he possessed qualities, neither deep nor

estimable, but, nevertheless, calculated to
make him attractive to many. Even Mrs.
Ford relented somewhat towards him, especially
when she saw the magnificent presents
he made his bride, the priceless jewels and
the invaluable lace.

Lady Marshfield's triumphant delight in
the brilliant marriage her dear Flora was
about to make, knew no bounds. She called
daily, sometimes several times a day, and was
never weary of extolling Philip's lavish gifts,
and of telling Flora how happy and enviable
was her lot.

The fifteenth of June, the day fixed for the
wedding, was drawing near. Mr. Wentworth,
Flora's former guardian, came up to town to
give her away ; the splendid trousseau was
nearly ready, and Lady Marshfield was in the
highest spirits.

Flora's dressing-room would have delighted
a painter's eye, strewn as it was with the
costliest productions of Europe and Asia,
and the tables covered with cases containing
flashing diamonds, blood-red rubies, and long
strings of exquisite pearls. Her refined

VOL. I. Q

type of beauty harmonized admirably with
her sumptuous surroundings. This was Lady
Marshfield's reflection as she gazed on the
graceful girl. She thought her the perfection
of loveliness, and congratulated herself on
having been the means whereby Flora entered
a sphere for which she was so pre-eminently
fitted.

While Philip was paying homage to Flora
by procuring her every luxury that wealth
could purchase and art devise, Arthur, in the
mountains of Norway and the rocks of
Scandinavia, was consuming his heart with
the memory of his love, and from day to day
feeling more keenly his loss. Loss it was,
although he had never possessed the object
of his desire. Loss it was, although he had
never owned the heart which now belonged
to another. The vision of Flora haunted him
in the forests of the North, and was present
to him on the billows of the sea. No distance,
and assuredly no time, could ever diminish
the charm or break the spell. As night fell
he perceived her, and as morning dawned he
thought only of her. The memory of her

was delicious sorrow and exquisite pain ; it
was encircled with a halo of grief, and
sanctified with a passionate tribute of devotion.
He might divert himself with passing
through strange countries and distant climes,
but the supreme place in his heart would still
be held by her. To avoid the sight of his
rival's triumph he repaired to the North, but
to avoid the triumph of love in his soul was
beyond his power. Nor did he wish it ; he
was far from desiring not to feel the painful
emotions that overcame him. When the first
shock was over, he derived a strange sensation,
akin to pain and yet not unmingled with pleasure,
from the intensity of his passion. It
supplied him with a perennial fountain of
thought, it gave him a companion in solitude,
it cast a new light on the world, and made
him see it in another shape than before.

O'Brien was a great solace to him in this
frame of mind. He was sympathetic and yet
cheerful, and entered thoroughly into all his
views and feelings. He was of opinion that
Arthur did well to absent himself from
England for the present. Everyone would

have agreed with him on this point, but, unfortunately,
Arthur was destined to behold
the scene from which he had so strongly
wished to escape.

Sir Alexander wrote to him now and then,
and in one of his letters he informed him that
the wedding was to take place on the fifth of
June. This day was originally chosen, but
later on, for Flora's convenience, it was postponed
until the fifteenth, and of this circumstance
Arthur did not hear. When the
momentous fifth was over, he was seized with
a restless mood, and nothing would satisfy
him but to return to England without delay.

^' Who would have thought two months ago
that I should be married to-day ? "

These words were said by Philip on the
morning of the fifteenth of June to Sir
Alexander Mansfield his best man, as they
were waiting for the carriage to take them to
church.

"Not I, for one' replied Marshfield,
laughing.

'' I should think not," said Philip. '' I amas
much surprised as you are to find myself
in this position. Of course, I should have
had to marry some day or other, but I did not
think it would be so soon."

'' In your case It is not ' better late than
never,' " said Marsh field.

'^ I can scarcely believe it myself," said
Philip ; "' but I suppose in a few hours I
shall be convinced. I have to thank Challenger
for this."

'^ It is a pity," said Sir Alexander, "' that
he is not here to receive your thanks."

'' He is cooling himself in the snows of
Norway," replied Philip, in a mocking tone ;
'' for my part I wish he were at the North
Pole."

'' What good would his residence there do
you ? " asked the other.

'' Do you think I want him dangling round
Flora after what has passed ?" Philip asked,
rather sharply. '' What the devil would the
fellow be doing? I know him better than
you do. I wish he and George Vane would
emigrate to some out-of-the-way place and
never come back."

'* I thought you Heed Vane," said Sir
Alexander.

*' I neither like nor dislike him ; but he is

always in debt, for ever in difficulties, and perpetually
asking his friends to lend him money.
Challoner is rich enough now ; why can't
he ask him, and leave me in peace ? I am
not the only rich man in the world."

Philip was in a singular mood on his
wedding day. An impatient memory of the
past, an uneasy anticipation of the future, an
irritating sense of his own faults combined
to nettle his pride and sharpen his temper.
He was ready to fall foul of everybody. Sir
Alexander perceived this, and said as little as
possible.

It was Philip's determination to have his
wedding as splendid as wealth could make it,
and the brilliancy of the scene in the church
was such as to satisfy even his exacting taste.
Flora was ablaze with the jewels he had given
her, and her beauty and grace were the
admiration of all present ; the eight bridesmaids
were scarcely inferior to her in attractions.
Lady Marshfield appeared in full
magnificence, and the church was thronged
with the greatest and noblest of the land.

As he passed down the aisle of the church
with his wife on his arm, when the ceremony
was over, he was indeed, as he had cause to
be, elated with joyous pride. Flora and he
were the centre of this splendid function ; all
eyes were fixed on him with envy, on her
with admiration ; he had eclipsed his peers
and baffled his rivals. What more complete
gratification could he ever experience ?

Flora was supremely happy ; her love for
Philip was profound ; and she firmly believed
that this day was to be the opening of a
blissful future.

The breakfast was to be at Lady Marsh-field's
house, and a brilliant company had
assembled there in expectation of the bridal
party. But they were destined to a painful
surprise and a dire alarm.

The carriage containing Philip and Flora
had nearly arrived at its destination when it
encountered another, the horses of which had
taken fright, and were tearing along at a
furious pace. They dashed violently into
Philip's equipage, smashing the windows, and

hurling It to the ground. The coachman was
thrown with terrific force from the box, the
horses reared, the spectators cried out, a
crowd assembled in a moment, and some
courageous men had the presence of mind to
stop the horses and to succour the injured.
From the carriage which had caused the
accident none other alighted than Arthur
Challoner, breathless with agitation, and
eager to come to the rescue. He had
returned from the Continent that morning,
believing that the event, the cause of so much
sorrow to him, had been over some days
before. How great was his bewildered
wonder on seeing rescued from the shattered
carriage the bleeding form of Flora in bridal
attire !

Amazement deprived him of speech for
some moments ; then, with a sudden impulse,
he rushed forward, exclaiming —
'' Is she saved ? Is she saved ? "
No answer forthcoming his blood froze
within him at the idea that the worst might
have happened. Philip, less injured than

Flora, was raising her up, assisted by several
spectators. Intent upon their task, they
paid no heed to the questioner. Again he
cried —

'ris she saved?"

PhiHp, recognizing the voice, looked up,
and it was now his turn to be astonished.

What brings you here ? " he gasped.

Without replying, Arthur seized Flora's
hand. She had lost consciousness, but her
pulse was still beating. With a jealous
movement, Philip dashed aside Arthur's arm,
and said he could assist her himself. It was
a painful sight to see the beautiful girl. In
her bridal white satin, her veil and her jewels,
lying on the road, bleeding and bespattered
with mud. Fortunately, Lady Marshfield's
house was only a few hundred yards from the
scene of the disaster ; and Arthur, in spite of
Philip's protestations, helped him to carry her
thither.

Words cannot describe the emotions felt
by those assembled for a joyous banquet
when they saw the blood-stained and inanimate

form of her whom they had expected to
welcome in all the fulness of beauty and
life.

She was carried up to a bedroom past an
inquiring throng, whose festive apparel was in
strange contrast with their pale and startled
faces. Lady Marshfield was in hysterics, and
had completely lost her presence of mind.
Sir Alexander could do nothing but utter incoherent
exclamations. Mrs. Silversnake
and her daughter, and Arabella Clarke, who
were among the company, suggested fifteen or
twenty doctors for whom it would be advisable
to send. Mrs. Ford was the only person
who preserved a certain degree of coolness
and promptitude. She assumed the command
of the frightened house ; she sent for
doctors and surgeons ; she tried to quiet the
wild apprehensions that were circulating ; in
short, she did her utmost at that trying juncture.


The doctors arrived, and, to the relief of
all, pronounced Flora's injuries not dangerous.
Arthur was relieved beyond expression on

hearing this opinion ; and Philip, who had
been in great suspense, heaved a sigh expressive
of the mental strain he had undergone.
It was a curious sight to see these two menin
the same room on such an occasion.
Philip married to the woman Arthur loved ;
Arthur the unexpected spectator of the
bridal party, and the thrilling disaster.
Arthur was too humane to show any resentment
in his manner to Philip, and the latter
was too well versed in worldly ways to betray
either embarrassment or uneasiness.

As Philip's misgivings about Flora's danger
were dispelled, his displeasure at all his plans
and arrangements being disturbed became
very marked. He was harsh and irritable
to those around him, and at nightfall returned
to his house in an angry and disappointed
mood, leaving orders that he was to be
apprised should any change for the worse
take place in Flora's condition.

Arthur required all the assurances of Mrs.
Ford and the doctors before he could set his
mind at rest that Flora was not in danger,

and before he could bring himself to leave
Lady Marsh eld's house. The excitement,
not only of the accident, but also of the
singular meeting, produced such perturbation
within him that he passed a restless and
sleepless night, and when the hour was sufficiently
advanced the first thing he did was
to send a messenger to inquire how the
patient was progressing. To his intense joy
the answer was favourable ; she had passed
a tolerable night, and the injuries were less
serious than at first they seemed.

The account of this startling termination
to so brilliant a wedding was rapidly spread,
and appeared next morning with ample details
in the newspapers. But the most extraordinary
version of the affair was that which
originated with Mrs. Silversnake. Though
it did not reach the general public through
the medium of the press, it was circulated
with amazing rapidity among her acquaintances.
The way in which she communicated
it to her intimates was pretty much in the
following style : —

'^ You have heard of the terrible accident
that happened to Mr. and Mrs. Beverley on
their wedding-day ? I had the misfortune to
witness it, and the happiness of being of
some use to the sufferer afterwards. I never
saw anything so dreadful in all my life. I
thought they were all killed. They escaped
as if by a miracle. The fright nearly proved
fatal to Lady Marshfield. If it had not been
for me I really believe she would have fainted ;
but I gave her my scent-bottle, and she revived.
Of course, you know that the carriage
that caused the accident belonged to Mr.
Challoner, the young man who recently came
into a large fortune ; and, of course, you are
aware that he was Mr. Beverley's rival in the
affections of Miss Wentworth. He was,
however, rejected for the wealthier suitor.
Now, I leave it to you to imagine what his
feelings were on finding himself thus slighted.
My husband is very intimate with Mr. Challenger,
and likes him vastly, and so do I ; but
we all know what resentment is that springs
from disappointed love. I would be the last

person to breathe a word against him ; nevertheless,
I cannot conceal the fact that I have
formed suspicions, which I trust are unfounded.
I hope you will not repeat to anybody
what I am about to say. Now, pray
observe : The carriage belonged to him ; it
was his rival's wedding-day ; he had returned
from the Continent only a few hours previously;
and just as they are driving up to
the house where the breakfast is to be held,
his carriage dashes into theirs, and an accident,
all but fatal, is the result. Now, I ask,
what do you gather from these circumstances
? Does it appear to you to be
chance or design ? I would never even remotely
suggest such a thought if the events,
when put together, did not force it invincibly
upon me. I rely on you not to say a word
about it to anybody ; but tell me whether
you yourself can refrain from looking upon
the occurrence in the same light ? I was
present when he helped Mr. Beverley to
carry the poor sufferer into the house. I
scrutinized his face, and it wore an expression

which I shudder to recall. It was the
very embodiment of hatred and revenge. I
may be wrong, I may be totally mistaken ;
but we know what things people do when
their passions are roused, and I regret to say
that I think there is cause for the strongest
suspicion."

This suspicion she communicated in the
strictest confidence to about fifty or sixty
people ; and the consequence was that the
opinion gained ground that the accident was
brought on by Arthur's diabolical vindictiveness.
Sensation-mongers and romantic
young ladies seized the idea eagerly ; and
he was ere long the centre of as thick a mass
of fable as gathered over the memory of his
Royal namesake of the Round Table. Some
people affirmed that he drew a revolver, and
was about to fire at Flora as she lay senseless,
and was only prevented by Philip rushing
forward and wresting it from his grasp.
Others discovered that he had been from his
childhood of a turbulent and dangerous
character. They related how he had threads

tenet '' to do " for his guardian, and how he
had actually stabbed one of his schoolfellows.
But worse remained behind. It was asserted
by some, who professed to be well informed,
that he had obtained his large fortune by
forging a will, and that the fact was well
known to several persons at San Francisco,
whose interest, however, was best served by
their silence.

If Mrs. Silversnake wished to set the ball
of calumny rolling, she fully had her desire.
It is not impossible that such really was her
intention. She was piqued with Arthur for
showing no symptom of falling in love with
her daughter, an event on which she had set
her heart. It is quite certain that she was
by no means a woman to utter so far-fetched
a suspicion unless prompted to do so by
malice. Her mind was too clear and acute
to entertain the absurd notions she professed.


While she was so busily employed in
spreading these rumours. Lady Marshfield
and Mrs. Ford were devoting their time and

VOL. I. R

attention to Flora. Though her injuries were
not dangerous, she required great care, and,
above all, had to be kept perfectly quiet.
When she regained consciousness her first
thought was for Philip's safety ; and when
he came to her bedside and told her that he
had not been injured her delight was indescribable.
She desired to have him constantly
beside her — a proof of affection which he did
not at all relish, as he infinitely preferred
going to his club and other places of amusement
to moping in her room. He withdrew
with as good a grace as he could, and paid
her as few visits as possible. But, although
he was so negligent of her during her illness,
he was very eager for her recovery, and
counted the days until he could proceed with
her on their honeymoon.

Arthur's solicitude continued unabated, and
numerous were the inquiries he sent after her
health. He was thankful to hear the favourable
reports, but many other considerations
gave him keen pain. He heard from Mrs.
Ford how little devotion Philip was showing,

and it was a harrowing reflection to him that
Flora now belonged to a man who did not
value her as he would have done. He took
little delight in his usual pursuits and pleasures,
and it required all the efforts of O'Brien
and George Vane to prevent him from passing
his days in seclusion and melancholy reveries
a state from which they determined to
rescue him — O'Brien out of consideration for
his peace of mind, and Vane because he
wished his friend to launch into pleasures in
which he was sure to have a share.

As long as Flora was suffering from the
effects of the accident his mind was too
uneasy to allow him to follow their advice,
but when she was sufficiently recovered to
leave town with Philip, he plunged with
desperate energy into every sort of gaiety
and dissipation. He felt the wound rankling
in his breast, and determined to stifle it with
reckless riot.

One evening he went to a dance at Mrs.
Silversnake's with O'Brien and George Vane.
He had not been feeling well all day, and ashe

entered the house, O'Brien remarked to
him that he seemed upset.

'' It is nothing," said Arthur. '' It will
pass off."

But in spite of this assurance it was as
much as he could do to keep his feet as the
hours advanced. One of the guests was
Miss Parsons, Flora's friend. With her he
danced, and was happy to be able to
exchange some words about the idol of
his heart. She subsequently danced with
O'Brien, and Arthur was interested to observe
that they seemed to take a great fancy to
each other. He felt, however, so ill that
during the supper he was scarcely conscious
of what he was doing. His eyes seemed to
be set on fire by the lights ; his brain was
confused and excited ; the heat of the rooms
produced a burning sensation all over his
frame, succeeded by intense chill and shivering.
His utmost energy was requisite to sustain
him until his departure, and by the time he
reached his own house he was in a high fever,
which increased alarmingly during the night.

His doctor was summoned without delay,
and pronounced it to be a case of brain fever.
O'Brien hastened to his bedside, and was
constantly in attendance upon him until he
was out of danger. For weary days and
nights poor Arthur lay in the splendid house
he had only recently fitted up for himself,
prostrate of body and wandering in mind.

The mental and physical excitement he had
gone through the last few months, the poignant
grief and the sudden shock, the passionate
intensity of his love, and the subsequent
frantic diversions Into which he threw himself,
were, united, too baneful in their power
for his constitution to resist. He collapsed
suddenly and with terrible completeness.

It was harrowing to O'Brien to have to
listen to his delirious words. All the events
of the past year hurried In wild chaos through
his mind. His sudden accession to wealth,
his love for Flora, his friendship towards
PhlHp so treacherously betrayed, his agony,
his voyage to Norway, the wedding, and the
accident, all claimed their share in his incoherent,

feverish wandering. At times he
would fancy that he had attained his wishes,
that he was happy with Flora, and that she
was beside him ; but soon the pleasing vision
would fade, like the chimera it was, and
would give place to wilder and darker fancies.
He would cry out against Philip, and denounce
him as the cause of his misery, and
then his mind would revert to the snowy
mountains of Norway, and another train of
visions would arise.

'' Why do they keep Flora away from
me?" he moaned. 'ris she not mine, and
am not I hers ? From the first day I saw
her I felt she must be mine. Why are the
horses running away ? Stop them ! Stop
them ! "

His eyes dilated with horror at the scene
his imagination conjured up.

'' There ! It is done ! We are lost, and she
is killed ; I have killed her. I must escape ; I
cannot stay in Norway ; I must go home. I
have had so much to do since I came into my
fortune."

He moved his head unquietly on the pillow
and sighed and groaned.

Then came a pause, during which he
seemed to be fixing his thoughts on some
terror-striking object.

'' For ever, gone for ever, lost to me forever
! Yes, we all are lost in a wilderness.
Look at those mountains and rocks how they
frown upon us ! She is on the other side, but
I cannot cross them. I am tied down, a
prisoner, and they are burning my body.
Philip laughs at me — well he may. I see his
mocking face. Why do you wish me to stay
in Norway ? I must return to England ; I am
not going to be kept in obscurity as in my
old days at Exeter. My house is ready, and
Flora calls it ' home.' How happy we shall be
together ! Only a few days' patience, I have
suffered so much, I can bear to wait. I
never expected to have the wealth I now
enjoy, but why is the night so dark? "

Such were the outpourings of his wounded
spirit and fevered brain during the long hours
of his delirium. It pained O'Brien that the

most intimate secrets of his heart should be
thus revealed to the curiosity of his household,
and he endeavoured to be as much about the
sufferer as possible ; but he was frequently
compelled to be absent, and during those
intervals he grieved that others should overhear
his wanderings.

Arthur's illness was dangerous and long,
but one morning on awaking his mind was
no longer involved in obscurity. The doctor
was beginning to apprehend that it might be
permanently affected, so serious were the
symptoms ; great, therefore, was his relief on
descrying the glimmering of returning reason.
The prostration of the general system was
extreme, and a long time elapsed before his
strength was in any degree restored. Had
he not had youth and a sound constitution on
his side, he would not have risen from his
bed, and the earth would ere long have
covered Philip's rival and victim.

Gradually he revived, and could take
interest in what was going on around him.
He could appreciate and express his gratitude

for O'Brien's devoted attention; he
could gaze with pleasure on the sky and
clouds visible from his window ; he could
begin to take stronger nourishment, and the
disastrous crisis through which he had passed
was receding and leaving him, though suffering,
not destroyed.

George Vane had kept aloof from him
during this trying time, and did not venture
into his presence until he was quite restored.
The contrast between his conduct and that
of O'Brien was very marked. Unfortunately
for Arthur, O'Brien, about the time of his
recovery, obtained an appointment in India,
and was obliged to take his departure. It
was a great grief to Arthur to lose him just
at this moment ; but the event could not be
postponed, and O'Brien went, and with him
departed Arthur's good genius.

He was now left to the baleful atmosphere
of George Vane's and Sir Alexander's interested
friendship ; and, delicate as he still
was, can we wonder that he relied unduly on
them for support ? He did so, and allowed

them to enter so far into his confidence as,
in stronger and happier days, he would assuredly
not have done.

During his convalescence he was occasionally
visited by Lady Marshfield, and
from her he received sympathy, comfort, and,
above all, tidings of Flora. She and her
husband had been to France and Switzerland
during their honeymoon ; they had now returned
to town, but intended going abroad
again for the winter. Arthur was glad to-hear
that Flora was in good health and
spirits, and that she seemed perfectly happy
with Philip. Their house had been splendidly
renovated, and they were entertaining their
friends with sumptuous balls and parties.

Arthur wondered whether Flora's thoughts
ever reverted to him ; whether his form ever
rose before her mind's eye ; whether her
heart ever felt an aching regret that he had
been rejected.

He would have given all he possessed to
gaze upon her again. But this was impossible,
and with a sigh he looked on the dreary reality

that surrounded him, and endeavoured to find
in friendship the solace that was denied him
by love.

As he regained strength, he was able to
see more of his acquaintances, and to give
them dinners which they all considered highly
enjoyable. He had a first-rate chef, his
wines were of the oldest and choicest, his
house was handsome, and he himself had the
art of pleasing and entertaining his guests.

Among those who were most frequently
seen at his house was Lord Proudham, whose
name the reader may remember to have heard
from the obsequious Smilie. Lord Proudham
was a young man who had recently come into
his title and fortune, and whose love of pleasure
was only equalled by his extravagance.
He made Arthur's acquaintance through Sir
Alexander, and thought him very gentlemanly
and agreeable. A new friend always had an
immense attraction for him, but as a rule his
liking began to wane as the individual lost
the gloss of novelty. However, he was now
at the height of his friendship for Arthur, and

had formed a little scheme for their mutual
enjoyment, which was as follows —

Arthur had been advised by the doctors to
seek a warmer climate before the winter came
on, partly for change of scene after his
dangerous illness, partly because it would be
wise for him to avoid the rigour of an English
winter. Lord Proudham recommended him
to follow their counsel, and suggested that he
should go with him and with Sir Alexander to
Monte Carlo, where he could have every advantage
of climate and plenty of amusement
besides.

'' Nothing in the world could be better for
you," he said. " I shall be delighted to have
you with me ; Marshfield will be in his
element ; lots of my friends will be there ; it
will be most enjoyable. If you don't like it,
you can easily move on further south ; but
you are sure to like it. As for me, I don't
play much ; and you needn't play at all ;
Marshfield will make up for our inactivity. I
won't take a refusal ; I have made up my
mind that you shall be one of our party, and

the affair is settled. We think of starting
early in November ; will that suit you ? "

Arthur replied that it would, and thanked
him for wishing to have his company.

When George Vane heard of this arrangement,
he gave Arthur so many hints that he
would like to join them, and alluded so openly
to the fact that his finances would not allow
him to defray his expenses, that Arthur
invited him to come and be his guest, an
invitation most eagerly accepted. And so it
was arranged that they should start for
Monte Carlo during the first week in November
; and the results of their stay at that
place we shall relate in the following
chapters.

END OF VOL. I,

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

CCbVVc

CAN IT BE

^ B E L:

From ''TEJE Queens'' February 2nd, 1884:

"The preface to Mr, Cliffs's poem is so dear and
intelligent and in such excellent prose that we are prepossessed
in his favour. The writing of a tragedy is
a serious undertaking, and one to which nobody should
commit himself without careful study and preparation.
The author of ' Abel ' seems to be aware of this, and
has deliberately formed and carried out his plan. He
believes that dramas founded on Biblical events ought
to have a large admixture of lyric poetry and other
features which he enumerates. The poem, consequently,
abounds in lyrical passages and elements.
It opens with a monologue by Michael, which is
followed by another by Satan. Two choruses, one of
Angels and one of Demons, occupy a decidedly conspicuous
position ; the remaining chief speakers being
Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel and their wives. Much
of the dialogue is animated, and Mr. Chafe's facility
of versification is everywhere manifest. The composition
as a whole is graceful, sometimes vigorous,
but with occasionally feeble lines. The language
employed is consistent, and no charge of irreverence
can be brought against the author. He writes as a
man of culture, and under the influence of classical
models. We find the poem very interesting, and
regard it as worthy of praise for many admirable
qualities, originality being one of them."

Remington & Co., Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.

FRANCIS HENRY Cliffs

Alcan non puo saper da chi asia amato
Quando felice in su la rota side ;
Pero c'ha i veri e i finti amici a late,
Che nostra tutti una medea fete.

Ariosto.

TWO VOLUMES

VOL II

LONDON

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN


1// Rights Reserved]

CHAPTER I.

By what irony of fortune is the worst den of
iniquity in Europe placed in one of her
loveliest spots ? Why should the clear sky
of Italy with its brilliant sun expand over the
building wherein so much misery is daily
caused ? Wherefore should the azure waters
of the Mediterranean lave that shore reddened
with the blood of so many victims ? More
seemly it would be if the Casino were erected
in a wilderness begirt by pestilential marshes,
infested with vipers and beasts of prey. It
would be more in accordance with the scenes
enacted if an angry, storm-laden sky were forever
lowering over it and a tempestuous sea
VOL. II. B

lashing its base. Not gardens rich with
palm trees and the rarest of exotics, but
forests of upas trees, noisome and deadly,
ought to be its everlasting surrounding.
Then we should not see the misery of
man mocked by the unfeeling loveliness of
Nature ; then we should not see the beauty
of Nature insulted by the depravity of man.
But as it is we behold a sight enough to
make angels weep, so strange and unearthly,
so discordant and fantastic, so revolting to
every reflective mind, so foul a mark on the
face of Europe, so emphatically crying out to
Heaven for vengeance.

Sir Alexander was so eager to arrive at
Monte Carlo that he preceded Arthur, Lord
Proudham, and Vane by ten days, leaving
them to follow more leisurely. When the
rooms were opened he was one of the first to
be seated at the green table ; when they were
closed he was one of the last to rise. Only
for short intervals would he absent himself,
only for the absolutely necessary refreshments.
He had said truly to Arthur at their first

meeting that life had no charms for him
beyond those of play. It was his one passion
that devoured all the rest. And yet, in spite
of the all-absorbing power it had over him,
he was cautious and cool-headed in his gambling,
always making subtle calculations
and elaborate plans, and, on the whole, not
unfavoured by fortune.

On the day of Arthur's arrival he was in
the highest spirits, having won largely the
evening before, and was, therefore, in the
best mood for doing the honours of the place
to him and to the others.

The first thing that struck Arthur on
entering the rooms was the clinking of gold
and silver and the monotonous voices of the
croupiers, exclaiming at intervals : '' Messieurs,
faites votre jeu — le jest est fait — ■
rien ne va plus' He had formed a somewhat
melodramatic conception of what the
appearance of the gamblers would be — wild,
frenzied faces, passionate eagerness, frantic
despair. But when he approached the tables
and scrutinized those seated round them, he

perceived little of the kind. True, his eye
fell on several men and women, the very type
of gamblers, who looked as if their whole
lives had been spent in watching the roulette
go round, and these people were either very
obese from leading a sedentary life or else
thin and worn with constant mental excitement.
One miserable man in particular
haunted him for days. Tall, cadaverous,
with long, thin air hanging in strings over his
forehead, with a grasping, niggardly expression
: he would have presented more the appearance
of a miser than of a gambler, had it
not been for the look of intense anxiety in his
eyes. He was diligently engaged pricking a
card with a pin, and so absorbed in the
occupation that he looked neither to the right
nor to the left. Arthur, seeing others do the
same, asked Sir Alexander what the action
meant.

'' Those cards," said his informant, '^ have
the numbers of the roulette printed on them.
You watch the roulette for a time and then
calculate what numbers come out most

frequently, and you prick accordingly. Some
people use several sets of cards ; the one for
the use I have mentioned, the other for
marking the numbers on which they have won,
and the third for various observations, and
some merely prick their cards three times for
luck. Now come with me and I will show you
some noted frequenters of the rooms. Do you
see that gaunt, sallow woman with the green
hat and the immense red bow? She is a
Countess from Turin ; her whole fortune went
in play ; she didn't calculate scientifically,
and is now reduced from rouge et noir to
roulette ; she used to stake thousands on one
card ; now she can barely stake a beggarly
five-franc piece on one number ; and sometimes
when luck goes against her she
cannot even do that, but must content
herself with looking on, as you perceive
she is doing now. She lives in a wretched
lodging at Monaco ; if she has a run
of luck, she moves to one of the crack
hotels here ; if the tide turns, she goes
back to her miserable retreat, and heaven

knows how she manages ! But, for all that,
she considers herself a great lady, and certainly
she is connected with the best families
in Piedmont. Now look at the young man
sitting near her, quite a stripling, not a hair
on his face. They are supposed not to admit
anyone under twenty-two into the rooms ;
but it is all nonsense ; I am sure that young
fellow is not twenty. He has been here five
days ; he has lost fearfully, and I shall be
much surprised if in five more days he does
not put an end to himself. Just notice his
eyes when he looks round, how wild and
feverish they are ! Do you see that lovely,
graceful woman in deep mourning ? Thereby
hangs a tale. She came here a few weeks
ago with her brother ; he won at first, she
lost, then they both lost, and were so
thoroughly ruined that he, in despair, blew
out his brains. She loved him passionately ;
her heart was ready to break ; she had not a
sou to give him a decent burial ; she went on
her knees to some people for the money to
defray the funeral expenses ; they gave it

her, and what did she do ? Her love of play
overmastering all other feelings, she hastened
to the rooms, and began gambling furiously
with the sum lent, and has gambled daily
ever since, and the brother was laid, after all,
in a pauper's grave ; and yet she loved him
dearly ; she bursts into tears whenever she
thinks of him ; and, as you see, she is clad
in the deepest mourning. Such is human
nature ! People consider her unlucky, and,
if possible, they avoid sitting next to her.
Those you see by her now are strangers who
do not know her history. Last night, when I
broke the bank, she brought me a louis and
asked me to stake it for her, but I was afraid
she would spoil my run of good luck, and so
I refused."

Sir Alexander was, like all gamblers, intensely
superstitious, and almost every other
word he uttered was 'luck" or 'good
fortune."

They seem more composed than I expected,"
said Arthur. " I do not see any
violent manifestations of excitement."

No, the interest Is too breathless for much
outward show," was the answer. " When
gamblers reach the highest pitch they burst
into a profuse perspiration, and you always
know when they mop their faces and hands
with their handkerchiefs that the tension is
extreme."

At this point there was a rush towards a
gentleman seated at the end of one of the
tables. Exclamations in many languages
were uttered, expressive of admiration and
wonder.

'' What has occurred ? " Arthur asked of a
bystander.

He has won seven times running. They
are all asking him to stake for them. I advise
you to do the same," saying which his
informant handed a louis to the favoured of
fortune, requesting him to choose a number.
Marshfield had already done so, and urged
Arthur to follow his example. Arthur drew
forth a louis, and the gentleman placed it for
him on *' Impair."

'' Why not on a number ? " asked Arthur.

'' You gave me the piece with your left
hand," said the gentleman ; '' that is unlucky
for numbers, but with ' Pair ' or ' Impair ' you
may have a chance."

Messieurs, faites voice jcii/' the croupier
was heard to exclaim. He set the roulette
in motion, and the ball rolled rapidly along.
'" Le pen est fait. Rien nie va plus''

Breathlessly was the ball watched as it
slackened speed. All e3'es followed it with
strained attention. At last it fell into the
cavity of number thirty-two.

Trente-deux' proclaimed the croupier.
Then he and his assistant croupiers with their
long wooden rakes drew all the money to the
space before them. A pause ensued, after
which they distributed gold, silver, and banknotes
all round the table to the winners, the
precious pieces clinking merrily.

Arthur lost. Several people near him had
won, and were pocketing their gains with high
satisfaction ; but he came out empty. He
had scarcely realized the fact, when Marsh-field
reproached him vehemently for having

handed his money with his left hand. To this
fact he attributed Arthur's ill-success. He
then explained to him the various chances for
and against winning with '' Pair and Impair,"
Rouge et Noir," '' Six Premiers," and, in
short, gave what he considered an almost perfect
key to success.

'^ I have an elaborate system, by which you
are sure to win if you have only courage to
persevere. For instance, you place twenty
francs on 'Impair;' if you win, well and
good, you get double the amount. If you
lose, don't be disheartened, but boldly stake
forty francs on ' Impair ' again. If you lose
for the second time, never mind, stick to
Impair,' and put eighty francs on it. ' Impair
' could scarcely keep away more than
four times running, so go on doubling the
stakes, and when 'Impair' turns up your
losses are refunded, and you have won twenty
francs. Then you begin again, always doubling
the stakes, and when you win you have
another twenty francs. You can thus go on
all day, and it will make a pretty sum in the

end. It is true that there is the chance of
the bank against you ; but that is only one
number against thirty-six, and, therefore, very
remote. At roulette you cannot play the
highest stakes ; but in the card-room you can
go up to ten thousand francs at one stake,
and I have an excellent system for that too."
It was now getting dark, and the gas was
lighted. They had been standing about, and
Marshfield was desirous of being seated at
the card-table. Accordingly, they proceeded
to the third and last room assigned to cards,
where play was carried on exclusively in gold
and bank-notes. The two former rooms were
noisy with the rolling of balls and roulette-boards,
loud with the frequent voices of the
croupiers and the large concourse of people ;
but over this third room, where there where
but two tables, brooded a death-like silence
only interrupted at considerable intervals by
the croupiers counting the cards and proclaiming
the result : '' Rouge perd et l' autre
couleur gagne^^ or " Noir perd, r autre
couleur gagne ; " and by the raking and re-distributing

of the gold, and the rustling of
the bank-notes.

Arthur felt that he was now in the throne-room
of the goddess Fortune ; hitherto he
had only been in her antechamber. A sense
weighed upon him that he now stood in the
presence of huge vice and colossal despair,
of frenzied hope and mad infatuation. The
sight presented to his eyes was picturesque
in the extreme. The shaded lamps cast their
full light on the green baize of the table,
whereon were displayed in front of the croupiers
long rows of gold pieces and thick
piles of paper-money, and a similar profusion
of gold and notes was scattered promiscuously
over the table, the whole enhanced by the
activity of numerous hands, many fingers
flashing with priceless rings ; and in semi-darkness,
encircling the scene and gazing in
the direction of the cards, were discernible the
rapt and intensely expressive faces of the
gamblers.

At one of these tables Sir Alexander took
his seat. It was presided over by a horrible

old croupier with watchful tiger-like eyes and
thin, compressed lips, and with an air as
though he were the evil genius of those
around him. Some of the other croupiers
whom Arthur had seen were young and
handsome, and one or two of them were
gentlemanly, being, indeed, ruined gamblers
who had taken to this trade to avoid destitution
; but this croupier was positively repulsive
in appearance. His eyes rested on Marshfield
for a second and then on Arthur, whom they
chilled to the core with their evil expression.
With skilful rapidity, such as only long
practice could give, he dealt out large sums
to the various winners, and arranged the still
larger sums that had been lost in symmetrical
order before him. Sir Alexander was
soon so deeply engrossed m his play that he
became oblivious of Arthur. His success
was not so constant as on the previous day,
and the pile of gold he had produced was
rapidly dwindling.

Arthur thought this a favourable moment
for going in search of Lord Proudham and

Vane, who had entered the rooms with him,
and of whom he had lost sight in the crowd.
As he scrutinized the multitude, new types
and figures of gamblers attracted his attention.
Old men, on the brink of the grave,
were displaying more eagerness in their play
than the young. He was greatly struck by
the appearance of several elderly women,
respectable, but shabby if not threadbare in
attire, who were hurrying about the rooms,
gazing longingly at the piles of money on
the tables, and occasionally staking five
francs with more trepidation and anxiety than
if they were five thousand. Arthur wondered
by what perversity of circumstances they
had been drifted to Monte Carlo. They
looked out of their element, bewildered and
forlorn, and yet their eyes were rivetted on
the tables with fatal fascination ; and when
they lost they moved on in a resigned, helpless
manner as though all hope were leaving
them. They formed in their humble garb so
striking a contrast to the showily-dressed
crowd that they could not fail to be remarked

by the most superficial observer. Arthur
was not a superficial observer ; he watched
keenly and appreciated justly, and it seemed
to him that the professional gamblers were
people of weak intellect and strong passions,
fond of excitement and eager for money.
And yet these reflections did not explain to
him how people could be lured to ruin
and suicide by a vice so barren of joy
and so fertile of despair. There must be
another influence at work to give it so
resistless and terrible a sway over its victims,
and that influence he believed to be nothing
else than the constant excitement of hope,
that strongest and most lasting of emotions,
which keeps the passions alive by presenting
to the mind visions of their gratification.
Thus gambling, in contrast to other vices, is
mental, not physical, bearing in this respect
an affinity to avarice. Indeed, gambling
might almost be defined as avarice gone
mad, for it is impossible to be a gambler
without love of money, though the winnings
are usually squandered in luxury or renewed

play. Hope and greed, raised to their
highest pitch by the fluctuations of fortune,
only too surely and too rapidly produce that
fatal hallucination which lures the gambler
on to destruction. Every man is convinced
that he has a right to the smiles of Fortune ;
if he has hitherto not enjoyed them, it is the
fault of circumstances. When the gaming-tables
seem to offer him an opening to prosperity,
he seizes it with frantic eagerness ;
if he is wise, he desists on losing ; but if he
is not wise, his losses incite him to redoubled
exertions ; he hopes to the last moment for
the return of fortune ; but when that last
moment arrives, when every chance is gone,,
when his only remaining five-franc piece is
staked and lost, then he awakes as from a
dream, and sees nothing but ruin before him.
The revulsion from hope to absolute despair
is so fierce and sudden that a violent and
bloody death is preferable to the agony it
inflicts.

Engaged in reflections such as these,.
Arthur had forgotten to look for his friends,.

when he was unexpectedly roused by someone
touching his shoulder. He looked round,
and to his astonishment perceived Philip
Beverley.

'how are you, Challoner?" he asked.
Who would have thought of meeting you
here ? Flora and I were awfully sorry to
hear you had been ill. We have been enjoying
ourselves immensely the last few months.
What a contrast my present life is to that at
Dullroad Buildings ! Shall you ever forget
that dreary place ? When did you come
here?"

Without waiting for an answer, he advanced
to the table near which he was standing,
and placed one hundred francs on a
number. He lost, and then unconcernedly
resumed the conversation.

'' Marshfield never told me you were coming.
I suppose he thought we shouldn't
care to meet. But as for me, I am not one
to bear you ill-will for trying to eclipse me ;
and if your conscience does not smite you
for saying you know what to Flora, I am

VOL. II. C

sure we can enjoy ourselves together as much
as formerly."

Arthur was so overcome by Philip's
audacity in representing himself as the
aggrieved party that he could scarcely
answer.

I am awfully glad you are here," Philip
continued. "Who is with you? You
can't, surely, be all alone ; it would be too
dull."

I came with Lord Proudham and George
Vane," said Arthur.

Proudham will be playing like wild,"
Philip went on ; " but as for Vane, I don't
think he has much to play with. I can't
persuade Flora to try her luck ; she doesn't
approve of gambling, but she had far better
amuse herself with a little moderate play
than bore me by preaching against it"

Arthur, although it was painful to him to
renew his intimacy with Philip, from whom
he had received so cruel an injury, thought it
well for Flora's sake and his own to suppress
any resentful feelings he might have, and

with tolerable composure inquired after her
health.

'' She is well enough," was the reply ; " it
is I who have been laid up, and have been
obliged to swallow a lot of infernal nostrums.
I am all right now, and mean to have a deal
of enjoyment. You must come and see us.
Flora will be pleased to meet you again. We
often speak of you."

Arthur's colour rose, and his eyes wore an
unusual expression on hearing this fact ; but
he controlled himself sufficiently to give no
further manifestations of emotion, as the
suspicion flashed across his mind that Philip
might be saying these words to make him
betray his feelings.

'' It would give me great pleasure," said
Arthur, '' to see you and Mrs. Beverley while
I am here ; but the fact is, I find my plans
are so unsettled that I may leave any day,
perhaps tomorrow, and — "

He paused, not knowing what other reason
to allege. He felt that he must not meet
Flora again ; that to expose himself to the

danger of raising the violence of his love to
still greater intensity by gazing on her once
more would be unwise and unprincipled ; that
for his peace of mind he ought to take instant
departure. These considerations occurred to-him
so rapidly that he could not think of any
plausible pretexts at the moment.

Philip would take no refusal.

^' You cannot possibly be leaving when you
have scarcely arrived ; and even if your stay
is short you can spare a few minutes for us.
It would be a great disappointment to Flora
not to see you."

Arthur desired to avoid the too obvious
appearance of wishing to escape ; and, as
Philip continued pressing him, he resigned
himself, and determined to face the inevitable
and to fortify himself against the charms of
her who was lost to him for ever.

'every enjoyable our stay will be," said
Philip. '' There is a host of places in the
neighbourhood worth seeing, and with you
and Marshfield I shall like everything much
more. Not that Flora and I want any company

; we are so fond of each other that we
should be perfectly happy in some quiet
corner in the country. But still, when we
have old friends about us, even our happiness
is enhanced."

Arthur tried hard not to believe that Philip
wished to parade his felicity in order to wound
his former rival's feelings ; but the suspicion
would arise, and it was almost confirmed by
PhiHp's exuberant show of cordiality.

They sauntered through the rooms, and
Arthur tried to assume an unconcerned air,
and to talk lightly on irrelevant topics. However,
he was not long called upon to exert
himself in this way, for their attention
was soon to be diverted in an unexpected
manner.

They were about to join Sir Alexander in
the card-room when Lord Proudham came
up to Arthur with an agitated countenance.

I can't induce Vane to come away," he
said. " We both sat down together to play ;
I did not think he had staked much, as I was
engrossed in my own proceedings, until he

asked me to lend him some of my winnings,
as he had lost all the money he had brought
with him. I lent him two thousand francs.
He lost and lost until I thought it time to
leave. I wished him to desist, but he obstinately
refused, hoping every moment to
make good his losses. I want you to come
and persuade him to give it up."

Arthur was much distressed at this intelligence,
and went with Lord Proudham and
Philip to the table where Vane was seated.
He saw with concern that the unhappy young
man was already so far gone as to be pricking
a card in the true gambler's style.

'' Come away," he said, tapping Vane on
the shoulder. '^ You have been here over
three hours."

'' I cannot come yet," said Vane. '^ See
what a lot of money I have won."

Arthur looked at the heap of gold and
bank notes.

** The very reason for leaving before you
lose again," he urged.

But think how much more I may win'

Vane retorted. '' I am just now in a lucky-run."


Saying which he placed a thousand francs
on a number.

'* For Heaven's sake," Arthur persisted
while the roulette was going round, '' do not
proceed with this folly, but be satisfied with
what you have won."

Vane, intent upon watching the ball, made
no answer. His face was flushed and excited
and his eyes wore a wild expression.

"This will end badly," thought Arthur to
himself. " How unfortunate that I ever
brought him here ! "

The ball fell, not in Vane's number, and
his thousand francs were swiftly swept away
by the croupier's rake.

Now you must have had enough of it,"
said Arthur. " Do not risk any further
sum."

Once more," said Vane, " 1 will try to
retrieve my loss. I promise you, if I am not
successful this time, that I will give it up."

After examining his card and comparing

what he thought the favourable numbers, he
placed another thousand francs on i8. His
good fortune had forsaken him, and 9 turned
up.

'' The devil is in it ! " he muttered, with an
oath. '' Twice running I have placed on
even numbers and odd ones have come out.
Now I will try ' Impair.' "

'' But not with so large a sum," expostulated
Arthur.

'' Well, then, with two hundred francs."

With these words, Vane placed that amount
on '' Impair." Eagerly he watched the ball
as it careered round and round in rapid
circles. At last it fell into the cavity of 18.

'' What a cruel blow ! " he exclaimed.
If that number had only turned up last
time what a deal I should have won ! "

'' Having lost two thousand two hundred
francs in a few minutes," said Arthur, 'you
should take a warning, and desist before
everything is gone."

'* But chance must be favourable to me
some time or other," Vane replied.

He was about to place a thousand francs
son '' Six Premiers," when Arthur held him
back and induced him to risk only one
hundred. He did so reluctantly, and when
fortune actually favoured him this time, he
looked sullenly at the money which the
croupier had dealt out to him, and angrily
observed to Arthur —

This comes of taking your advice ; had I
put down a thousand, I should have had ten
times more."

From that moment he absolutely refused to
listen to Arthur, and proceeded to play more
furiously than ever.

Arthur saw that advice and warning were
of no avail, and turned away with an aching
heart, leaving him to his destiny.

Just then Sir Alexander came out of the
card-room and advanced towards him.

I have been fairly lucky," he said ;
^' nothing like yesterday's brilliant success,
but still not contemptible."

I am glad to hear it," said Arthur. '' I
wish you would persuade Vane to give up

struggling against the tide. He is losing
and losing, and will not stop."

He is but a novice' said Marshfield,
carelessly. *' He will soon cool down and
play scientifically. We cannot wait for him.
Let us go and have our dinner."

With these words he and Arthur joined
Lord Proudham and Philip, and they all four
left the Casino.

Arthur's relief on emerging from the close
atmosphere and fevered aspect of those evil
rooms was inexpressible. At his suggestion,
before going to the hotel, they took a stroll
in the gardens. The sudden chill that on the
Riviera follows sunset had subsided, and the
night was as peaceful and beautiful as heart
could desire. The palm and eucalyptus trees
that adorn those exquisite gardens reared their
graceful forms high into the deep azure of
the starry skies ; and the Mediterranean lay
before them with scarcely a ripple to disturb
its surface. A holy calm pervaded the loveliness

of Nature, and led Arthur to contrast it
with the miserable display of sordid and reckless
passions from which he had just escaped.
Why, he wondered, why should the human
race be so ingenious in tormenting itself ?
Why should the visitors to this lovely spot,
instead of admiring and enjoying its perfections,
rivet their eyes on green baize tables
and rolling balls and tawdry cards ? Why
instead of soothing and refreshing their spirits
with the matchless air and landscape, why
should they madden their minds and ruin their
fortunes in the vortex of games of chance ?
Even in that calm garden, under the canopy
of the sparkling heavens, by the serene
depth of the sea, the demon of play pursued
and tantalized his victims. Every word that
Arthur could gather from the groups of
people whom he passed here and there bore
the same burden : fortune and ill-luck,
winnings and losings. The misery of existence
must indeed be great, he thought

to himself, for men to fly to such desperate
means of escaping from the vacancy of inaction.


He was not long suffered to pursue this
train of thought. Marshfield was impatient
to have his dinner and to hurry back to the
rooms, and Proudham and Philip did not care
for sauntering in the grounds. Philip accepted
their invitation to dine with them, and
they all proceeded to the hotel where the
three friends were staying.

In the dining-room Arthur perceived many
things worthy of attention as illustrating the
all-pervading passion that seemed to consume
every other thought and consideration.
They were in the restaurant where each party
had its own table, a huge, heavily-gilded,
richly carved, sumptuously furnished room.
There are probably no people on the face of
the earth who take their meals in a more
uncomfortable manner than regular gamblers.
The luxurious dishes and costly wines wherein

they indulge when flush of money, are bolted
and swallowed with feverish rapidity; they
frequently rise before the last course, and
leave the room with a more jaded and
harassed air than when they entered. They
seldom look at their plates ; they either sit ina
brown study over some notes they have
taken respecting their gains and losses, or
their eyes flit restlessly about, as if they were
looking for some evil omen ; or, if they have
had a run of ill-luck, they gaze vacantly
before them with an anxious, care-worn expression.


Sir Alexander possessed a certain amount
of composure and self-command, yet even
he betrayed something of these symptoms.
He was impatient to have the dinner
over, and to be seated again at the green
table.

'* No," said Arthur, filling his glass ; 'you
must not go yet, you have been playing
nearly all the afternoon. Enjoy yourself a

little with us, and don't let your thoughts
always run on the one topic."

Well said ! " exclaimed Lord Proudham.
*' Variety is the chief source of pleasure in
life."

'' But even variety would pall in time," said
Marshfield ; '' in fact, there is nothing that
does not become stale and insipid except
play."

'* I don't find much pleasure in persisting
in gambling in spite of losses," said Lord
Proudham. '' I can understand a little play
now and then, but to go on and on, and befor
ever losing, is not to my taste."

I am afraid," Arthur remarked, '^ that it
is only too much to Vane's taste. I can't
help thinking of him, and wondering how we
can get him away."

*' Oh, never mind him," ejaculated Marsh-field.
'' He would not come to much good
anywhere, and if he does lose, it will not
signify, as he is insolvent already."

But what is to become of him?" asked
Arthur. ^' What will his parents say to me
for having brought him here ? ''

^* They knew he was coming, didn't
they?"

Arthur admitted that they did.

*' Very well, then, you are not responsible
for his conduct."

If it had not been for me," said Arthur,
*' he would never have come near Monte
Carlo."

*' You may be sure," said Marshfield,
*' that he would get into mischief wherever
he might be ; there is no keeping him out of
scrapes."

'' But such a road to ruin as this," Arthur
remonstrated, '' he has never pursued before."

'' Why take for granted that he is ruining
himself? He may, on the contrary, be making,
a fortune."

'' Very unlikely."

*' Unlikeher things have occurred. People-have

sometimes won a mint of money after
losing nearly everything."

But after such luck have they not generally
lost again ? " Arthur inquired.

*' I own they have ; the ups and downs of
fortune are incalculable ; but still, by pursuing
a certain system, I think it possible to be
absolutely sure of winning in the long run. I
will coach Vane up, and if he follows my
directions he will not be a loser."

'' I beg you will do nothing of the kind,"
Arthur said seriously. '' I wish to prevent
his becoming a victim to that miserable infatuation
; you would only make it acquire a
stronger hold over him, and what would bethe
end of it all?"

'' ' Nothing hazard, nothing gain,' " Sir
Alexander retorted. '' Have you no confidence
in fortune? She favours the bold, as
the old saying has it. Vane is far better
employed in trying to get money here than
in squandering it elsewhere."

VOL. II. D

'* Believe me' Arthur urged, " that no
good will come of it as far as he is concerned.
When all he has is gone, what then ? "

'' Oh, he will easily find some friend to
advance him a few francs."

'* But if he loses those?" Arthur asked.

** My dear fellow, why always look on the
dark side ? Why for ever be supposing what
may, after all, not happen ? Your mind would
be more agreeably employed in fancying what
is equally probable, large gains, or, at least,
insignificant losses."

No, no," said Arthur; '' that is the fatal
delusion which blinds you all."

'' You cannot surely deny," retorted Sir
Alexander, *' that there is the possibility of
huge profits."

"I don't deny it; but J maintain that
the profits, if they come, will go as fast
as they were acquired. The love of play
becomes so intense, you know not when to
stop."

It seems to me," said Lord Proudham,
** that you are both arguing in a vicious circle.
Marshfield maintains that large sums can be
won, and you are of opinion that, even granted
a man is lucky, he will be the loser in the end
by squandering his gains. But, surely, this
depends on the individual himself ; one man
may have self-command enough to stop intime,
another will persist, and end disastrously.
It remains to be seen which course Vane will
pursue."

A presentiment flashed across Arthur's
mind that Vane would inevitably pursue the
latter. He burned with impatience to return
to the rooms and see what losses the unfortunate
young man had sustained. Sir Alexander
was equally ready to rise ; but Philip
and Proudham were little disposed to leave
the iced champagne which they were freely
imbibing. The arrangement was therefore
made that Arthur and Sir Alexander should
precede them.

Scarcely had Arthur and Marshfield left
the dining-room than they were startled by
the report of a shot. People were rushing
wildly through the corridors to the place
whence the sound proceeded. Arthur followed
the stream of alarmed and inquiring men and
women, and soon found himself in the midst
of a terrible scene.

Through the open door of a bedroom he
perceived a young man lying on the floor
bathed in blood, whilst a lady and a gentleman
were kneeling beside him, the former
raising his head and pressing it to her heart,
the blood deluging her with a crimson stream,
and the latter taking a revolver out of the
already lifeless hand. They were uttering
broken, passionate, agonized exclamations ina
language unknown to Arthur. They were
in their travelling clothes as though just
arrived from a long journey. Their intense
despair and frenzied misery found a ghastly
contrast in the pallor and rigidity settled on

the dead man's face. He was young, barely
twenty-five, handsome, with dark hair and
well-defined features.

Arthur's susceptible nature was so overcome
by the sight of this tragedy that he
covered his face with his hands and shuddered
convulsively. When he had somewhat
regained command over his faculties, he asked
a bystander, with quivering voice, if he knew
who the victim was.

'' He is a Russian," was the reply. " He
came here a few weeks ago with some friends,
and was in a short time so completely fascinated
by the vicissitudes of roulette and
rouge et noir that he could not tear himself
away. His losses were so great that he not
only saw every sou he had brought with him
disappear, but was obliged to write home for
more remittances ; and when these also were
swallowed up, he mortgaged the fortune he
would be entitled to at his father's death.
His ill-luck was appalling ; he played on and

on with the energy of despair ; all in vain.
At last a friend of his, terrified with the
prospect of his absolute ruin, telegraphed
to his parents, imploring them to come and
take him away from Monte Carlo. On receiving
this ominous summons they came at
once without stopping, all the way from
Odessa. Somehow or other the wretched
young man discovered or divined their approach,
and having lost the sum for which he
had bartered his birthright, and seeing certain
ruin and shame before him, he committed this
dreadful deed the very moment his parents
entered the house."

Such was the story of the young Russian,
an isolated instance of the many
catastrophes that occur annually in that evil
place.

Arthur, powerless to help or console the
survivors, hurried away from the blood-stained
room. He looked for Marshfield, who was
nowhere to be seen. He was filled with

panic terror about Vane, whom every moment
seemed to brings nearer to an end like that of
the ill-starred Russian. Without delay he
hastened to the dining-room to join Proud-ham
and Philip, whom he found still over
their wine. With agitated countenance, and
with hurried, whirling words, he told them of
the disaster. To his astonishment they were
perfectly aware of it. Lord Proudham was
somewhat overcome by the champagne he
had imbibed and paid little attention to what
was going on around him, and Philip treated
the dreadful event with unfeeling indifference.


*' You have only to be here a little longer,"
he said, " to know that such things are of
every-day occurrence. What can a fellow do
who has lost everything ? There is not
likely to be an opening for him ; he is sick of
himself and his life. What can you expect ? "

But the horror of it ! " exclaimed Arthur.
If you had only seen — "

'' Without seeing," interrupted Philip, '' I
can imagine. Of course if a man shoots
himself it creates a sensation ; but, positively,
I can't make out why you should be so upset.
It is very unpleasant for the man's family, but
as for himself his troubles are over, and if he
had lived he would only have had misery to
endure."

'' How awful it would be," said Arthur, '' if
Vane were to come to such an end ! "

'^ That is his own affair," said Philip. '' I
should scarcely think he would be so foolish.
If he is, I assure you he is not worth your
being so concerned about him. I never
allow a thought of other men's future to
disturb me, and I advise you to follow my
example."

Saying this, he rose, and, leaving Lord
Proudham to the further enjoyment of his
champagne, he proceeded with Arthur to the
Casino.

The first person whom they encountered

was Marshfield. Arthur, full of the
dreadful scene he had witnessed, said to
him —

'* I suppose you could not endure to see
that poor fellow lying there ? "

It was an awful sight," said Marshfield ;
but the fact is, it put me in mind of a
scheme for winning at rouge et noir which
I recommended a few days ago to that same
young man. If he had possessed sufficient
coolness to carry it out, he would not have
come to such an end."

How can you think it possible," asked
Arthur, " to discover a system by which
chance and hazard are reduced to rule ? "

Sir Alexander was somewhat touchy on
this subject. He knew that it was unreasonable,
and yet he believed in it with all the
superstitious faith of a gambler.

'* It is useless," he said, irritably, '' explaining
it to you. If you will not test it by playing
yourself, it can be of no consequence,

and I have better things to do than to waste
my time in talking."

Saying this he turned away and went into
the card-room.

Arthur and Philip were left to pursue their
search for Vane, whom they soon descried at
a roulette-table, apparently enjoying good
luck, as he had a pile of gold before him.
He looked flushed, weary, and intensely
excited. As he perceived them coming
towards him, he assumed a careless, indolent
air, and said —

'' I have not done so very badly while you
were absent. But it is tiring work, and the
rooms are insufferably close."

** Well, then, come away with us," said
Arthur, eagerly.

*^ So I will," said Vane, putting up his
money, *' when I have had a few turns at
rouge et noir."

** Are you not satisfied with what you have
won?" asked Philip.

Not I," retorted Vane. " I had a great
deal more about an hour ago, and I don't
mean to leave until I have regained the
larger amount. Roulette is paltry work ;
much more can be won at rouge et
noir."

'' Much more can be lost," said Arthur ;
and as they proceeded to the card-room he
told Vane of the sad end of the young
Russian.

Vane was shocked for a moment,
but soon recovered his usual levity, and
said —

*' If you mean that story to act as a
warning to me, I can assure you it is
quite unnecessary. There is no fear of
my doing away with myself. If I lose, I
shall borrow sufficient to enable me to leave
the place. I have no fortune to anticipate,
because my father is as poor as myself,
so that there is no danger of that kind.
What harm, therefore, can there be in

my trying to get a little money in this
way ? "

Arthur sighed and gave up all further
argument, fearing that opposition might make
him still more obstinate.

In an instant Vane was plunged in the
thickest of the fight. When he had secured
a chair (no easy matter, for the table was
surrounded by several circles of people,
who had to reach over those who were
seated to put down their money, and who
were often appealed to by players in the
background to give their assistance in
placing their coins on the coveted table)
he at once produced a pile of gold, and
became engrossed in the fluctuations of
fortune.

** Let us leave him," said Philip ; " he
will not listen to reason."

The lifeless form of the ill-starred Russian
haunted Arthur's imagination, and made him
look on the place where so much misery had

been caused with even greater loathing and
horror than before.

** I cannot stay here," he said to PhlHp ;
^^ the thought of the terrible scene I have
witnessed pursues me and fills me with
dread."

^' You must not allow it to prey upon you""
Philip replied ; *' it Is an every-day occurrence.
Think of something else. Amuse yourself,
and don't brood over It. Come and lunch
with us tomorrow, and throw all dark thoughts
aside."

Arthur accepted the Invitation, although he
felt he was far from being able to Imitate
Philip's selfish imperturbability. Nor did he
wish to do so. In spite of the sufferings
inflicted upon him by his sensitive sympathy,
he would not exchange them for egotistical
repose.

It was now close upon midnight, the rooms
were about to be shut, and Vane at last rose
from the table and joined them. He was

moody and silent, and Arthur was not slow to
guess the cause.

** You must now come home and take
some supper," he said. '' How many hours
have you been here without any refreshment?"


*' I don't know," Vane muttered, " my
watch is gone."

'* Gone ! " exclaimed Arthur.

"Yes; I had confounded losses at rouge
€t noir. Everything went, and a man sitting
next to me noticed my plight and offered
me seven louis for my watch. I took them,
though it was worth three times the sum. I
had to give the chain in — hang the fellow! —
and I didn't win after all."

Philip parted from them on the steps of
the Casino, and Arthur had to listen to
Vane's surly complaints as they wended their
way to the hotel. He tried to put him in a
better frame of mind by ordering an excellent
supper. Vane devoured the first two courses

ravenously, and swallowed a quantity of wine,
but the subsequent dishes he sent away untasted,
and his black mood became blacker.
Arthur endeavoured to disperse his importunate
thoughts by avoiding all censure
and expostulation, and by talking of things
which he hoped would be congenial to his
hearer. For a long time he could only elicit
monosyllabic replies, but at last, after a
pause, Vane broke out —

'* I tell you what it is, Challoner. I must
leave Monte Carlo tomorrow without delay.
I can't stand this. It will drive me wild. But
how I am to get away I can't tell. Every
farthing I had with me went in those infernal
rooms. I mustn't wait for a remittance.
If I don't go tomorrow, I shall
never go."

'' Pray do not worry yourself about the
question of money," said Arthur ; '' I shall
be glad to lend you what you require, and
you can repay it at your convenience'*

Vane became elated on hearing these-words,
and thanked him warmly.

They retired to their rooms shortly afterwards,
but, although it was past two and he
was very tired, Arthur could not sleep. The
anxiety he had gone through respecting
Vane, the suicide of the Russian, the near
certainty of meeting Flora again, all these
thoughts agitated his mind and prevented
him from obtaining the rest he so much
desired.

If he could have followed the dictates of
his own judgment he would have avoided the
dangerous pleasure of being face to face with
Philip's wife. But, pressed as the invitation
was, how could he, without betraying feelings
wished to conceal, do anything but accept
it with an appearance of readiness ? True,
he could send an excuse before the hour
arrived ; but such evasion was little to his
taste. He would not, after taking the first
step, withdraw or vacillate. And, he re

fleeted, what reason could he have to withdraw
? He had no dishonourable motives ;
no motive at all beyond the desire of not
letting Philip know how deeply he still loved
Flora.

The morning came, and with it the moment
for Vane's departure. Arthur gave him a
sum, not merely sufficient to take him back
to England, but ample enough to give him a
considerable surplus when all the expenses of
the journey were paid. Vane was profuse in
his expressions of gratitude.

Arthur drove with him to the station. They
had to pass the Casino on their way, and
Vane cast a longing look at its doors, which
where still closed, as it was not yet twelve
o'clock.

'' I wonder," he said, " whether I shall
ever see Monte Carlo again ? "

'' I hope not," was Arthur's mental exclamation.


*' What I might have brought away," Vane

VOL. II. E

muttered, '* if I had only stopped playing at
the right time ! "

Arthur, not wishing to encourage this train
of thought, gave no answer.

Vane looked at him with a singular expression,
hesitated, and then burst forth —

I say, Challoner, I might do worse than
try once more, only once, only to see if my
good fortune has quite forsaken me. Let us
turn back. I will promise not to persevere
if the first throw is unlucky ; but, if I were
successful, I could multiply the sum you lent
me a thousandfold."

'this is madness'' retorted Arthur,
angry and astonished. '' Has not one day
brought you sufficiently near to the brink
of ruin ? "

Vane was silent until they alighted at the
station. Then he renewed his importunities.
Arthur, however, was firm. He turned a deaf
ear to all the plausible hopes Vane expressed
of being luckier this time ; and he was determined

that " this time' if he could prevent
it, should never arrive.

Finding that entreaties were of no avail,
Vane resorted to reproaches.

^' You are rich enough," he said ; '' a few
hundreds more or less are of no consequence
to you ; but the possibility of making money
is all-important to me."

Arthur repeated what he had so often said
before, that he was far more likely to lose
than to win.

That is my affair ! " exclaimed Vane,
passionately. '' It is nothing to you if I lose,
but it is a great deal to me if I win. You
cannot deny it is highly probable that I
might do so if I only had one more
chance."

Instead of prolonging a useless war of
words, Arthur, without replying, went to the
ticket-ofhce, bought the ticket, then booked
Vane's luggage, and returned to him,
saying —

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

When you have cooled down, you will
thank me for acting as I do. Write to me
when you get home, and let me know how
you are.'^

Vane was too angry for speech. The train
was just entering the station. He snatched
the ticket out of Arthur's hand, and advanced
on the platform. Arthur distrusted him in
his present excited mood, and resolved to
keep him in sight until the train moved on.
Vane had evidently hoped to give him the
slip, but, seeing this was impracticable, he
entered a first-class carriage and resigned
himself in sullen wrath to the inevitable.
Arthur came up to the door, and as there
were other travellers in his compartment,
Vane was compelled to give a civil answer
to the kind words Arthur said at parting.
But when the whistle pierced the air with its
shrill sound, and the train started, his
countenance wore a savage expression of
baffled fury.

Thank Heaven," said Arthur, with a sigh
of relief as he left the station, *' that I have
succeeded in getting him safely out of the
temptation into which I so thoughtlessly led
him ! "

Philip Beverley had engaged a villa
commanding a most exquisite view of the
Mediterranean, and replete with every comfort
and luxury. It was near enough to
Monte Carlo to be within a few minutes'
walk of the Casino, and yet, standing in its
own grounds, it shut out all signs of the
vicinity of the gaming-hell. This was the
only circumstance that reconciled Flora to
her residence. She had expressed a strong
aversion to coming to Monte Carlo at all ;
but during the few months of their married

life her husband had shown complete disregard
of her wishes, and she looked upon
it as a great concession on his part that
he had taken this remoter villa instead of
one nearer the rooms, which he had at first
selected.

Arthur was not a little excited and perturbed
as he approached the house where he
was to face, after many painful occurrences,
the woman he so fondly loved.

His name was announced, he advanced
and entered the room with the consciousness
that his countenance betrayed something of
his feelings. There she sat, in an exquisite
grey gown, more charming, more beautiful
than even the image he cherished in his
heart. She said a few words of welcome in a
soft, low voice ; what they were he could not
afterwards recall ; they fell on his ear like
music, but conveyed no meaning to his
agitated mind. Philip shook his hand with
unusual heartiness, and seemed to be in a

State of triumphant gaiety. To Arthur's
great relief they were not alone. A lady
and gentleman were present, showy, elderly,
opulent-looking people ; and on being introduced
to them he was able to resort
to commonplace topics, a welcome screen
while he was composing his fluttered feelings.


I was just remarking," said the gentleman,
'' that foreigners seem to have no idea
whatever of the proper way of conducting
themselves. Only two days ago at Nice,
during the table d' hope, a man, a perfect
stranger, spoke across the table to me. The
idea of anybody presuming to bawl over a
table at me I''

Such a liberty ! " exclaimed the lady.

And as for carriages and horses," the
gentleman continued, in a pompous, monotonous
drawl, 'they get quite destroyed on
the Continent. I had some of my carriages
brought over last winter to Naples, and I

.assure you that in less than three weeks the
armorial bearings were completely scratched
off by the natives."

So careless," said the lady.

** You may imagine how annoying that was
to me' he went on with unabated solemnity.
** And not only in Italy have I been exposed
to similar annoyances. Of Spain I will not
speak ; the less said of it the better. In
Germany the way in which the people would
persist in speaking English, even after I
assured them I could understand their own
language, was most irritating to me' The
stress he laid on the personal pronoun whenever
he had occasion to use it, must have
been heard to be imagined, expressing, as it
did, the very soul of self-importance. '' I am
accustomed, when at home, to speak French
to my chef, and German to my daughter's
governess, so that I possess considerable
flu-^ncy. And foreigners have no notion of
who is who. Would you believe it possible

that at Berlin they actually asked for my
passport ?"

'' Perhaps It Is the regulation there'* said
Arthur.

'* So they told me, but I think In my case
it was superfluous. Do / look like a
vagrant ? "

'' Very far from It," said his wife, energetically.


*' Have / the appearance of a doubtful
character?" he asked, rolling his large
eyes.

*' On the contrary," said his wife.

^' These are the things one must submit
to abroad," he exclaimed with an Injured
air.

*' Then why do you not stay at home, Mr,
Houghtley?" asked Philip.

'' All my neighbours worth knowing go
abroad for the winter, and how can I possibly
stay at home ? Lord and Lady Anderson
go to the Riviera annually, the Shorelelghs

do the same, the Portions go to the Engadine
In the summer; how can we possibly remain
at Houghtley Hall?"

*' It would not be at all the thing' Mrs.
Houghtley declared, gravely.

Mr. Houghtley was a man who had acquired
a large fortune, bought a vast estate
built a splendid mansion, and who had Inconsequence
become half-crazed with the
idea of his own Importance, and the necessity
of regulating his movements according ta
those of his titled neighbours.

Lady Lannerston's children are very
fond of my daughter," said Mrs. Thoughts
to Flora. '^ And as to Lady Anderson
herself, she is the sweetest woman in
the world ! She Is going to present Ethel
and me at the first Drawing Room next
season."

*' Why did you not bring your daughter
with you ?" asked Flora. '' I should so like
to have seen her."

'' Oh, she is not out yet," said Mrs.
Hough they, "' and you have no conception
how troublesome girls are who are not
out."

She went on lamenting the provoking disposition
of girls who have not yet emerged
from their chrysalis state, while her husband
descanted to Philip and Arthur about his
grounds and his woods, his horses and his
carriages, his town house and his countryseat.


You should see my stables," he said ;
'* they are a model of order and — and — "

Words here failing him to express his
magnificent ideas, Philip calmly said —

'^ My stables are all marble inside."

This was perfectly true. His father had
spent tens of thousands on them. Mr.
Houghtley looked astonished, and barely
recovered from the effects of this statement
when luncheon was announced.

In the dining-room Arthur was seated close

to Flora, and had a good opportunity of
studying her countenance. It appeared to
him that a slight cloud of trouble was hanging
over her brow. Nor was he far wrong in
his conjecture. She had been initiated in
the sorrows of life after the marriage which
she had hoped would be the beginning of a
new era of surpassing happiness. Her husband
did not prove himself what she had
imagined him to be. He was enchanted
with her beauty, and during their honeymoon
he lavished on her all the selfish fondness of
his nature. But when that fondness waned
he showed the less favourable phases of his
character. He teased her with his caprices
and his uncertain temper. He ignored her
wishes when they were most reasonable. He
treated her with disrespect before his servants,
and occasionally gave way to his
partiality for the bottle. His health had
been disordered of late, and she tried
to explain his rudeness and whims by

that circumstance. But now that he
seemed again in his usual strength and
spirits, she began to hope that his conduct
would once more display the devotion
and affection which had formerly captivated
her.

The very presence of Arthur at her table
was in direct opposition to her wishes. When
Philip informed her that he had met Arthur
Challoner and had invited him to their house,
she expressed herself unwilling to meet
him after what had passed. Her husband
knew quite well, when he gave the invitation,
that she would object to it, but in his
love of tormenting others he determined on
forcing Arthur's company upon her. She
begged him to relieve her from the embarrassment
of meeting him ; but Philip was obdurate
; and as her resistance seemed likely to
rouse his anger, she reluctantly yielded. Not
that she disliked her former admirer, far from
it ; she felt a sincere friendship for him, and

she pitied him for the position in which he had
been placed, and that feeling of partiality made
her the more unwilling to renew her acquaintance
with him. Thus Flora and Arthur
were, both against their will, brought into
contact again ; and, as may be supposed,
their conversation had at first an undercurrent
of reserve and restraint, felt, though
not displayed.

They talked on various subjects, about her
travels, about politics, about their acquaintances.
She informed him that Mrs. Ford
;had gone to live with some relatives in Yorkshire.
Their dialogue was necessarily broken
.and disjointed, interrupted as it was by Mr.
Houghtley's pomposity, his wife's asseverations,
and Philip's remarks. But this circumstance
came rather to their relief than
otherwise. It prevented the occurrence of
those awkward pauses wherein so much is
revealed without words. She was gracious
and kind, because it was not in her nature

to be the reverse ; and Arthur, deriving confidence
from her demeanour, gave full play to
the liveliness of his intellect and the cordiality
of his manner.

The time went by rapidly, and it was much
to his regret when the moment of departure
arrived.

The magnificent Mr. Houghtley was graciously
pleased to be very civil to Arthur,
and his wife the same.

My yacht is being fitted up with the
newest improvements," he said. '' When they
are completed, I hope you will be one of
the party that I shall invite for the first
cruise. Lord and Lady Lannerston have
promised to come. Lady Lannerston's sister,
the Dowager Marchioness of Wardle, will
probably be with them. Mrs. Beverley told
me you are acquainted with Lord Proud-ham.
I think he is connected with the Far-dale
family."

'' I know he is," said Mrs. Houghtley.

His great-uncle married the third daughter
of the seventh Marquis."

*' I should be very pleased," continued Mr.
Hough they, addressing Arthur, " if you would
induce him to accompany you. I flatter
myself that there are few yachts equal to
mine in size and in beauty. No pains have
been spared to make it as commodious and
luxurious as possible. But we can talk
over this subject more fully if you will give
us the pleasure of dining with us this evening."


Thus saying, he gave Arthur the address
of his hotel, and the invitation was accepted
with much pleasure.

They parted with reciprocal satisfaction.
Arthur was elated with the prospect of the
yachting expedition, and Mr. Houghtley's
pride was gratified with the opportunity that
had presented itself of adding another title
to his list of acquaintances.

The Houghtleys returned to their hotel,

VOL. II. F

and Arthur sauntered into the Casino. He
had not been in the rooms many minutes,
when, to his unspeakable amazement, he saw
at one of the roulette tables the very man
whom he believed to be far away on his
journey to England, George Vane.

If the earth had opened suddenly before
him, Arthur's astonishment could not have
been greater than at the moment when
his eyes fell on Vane, who was so engrossed
in his play that he did not see
Arthur, thus giving the latter a favourable
opportunity for watching him closely. He
had a large pile of money before him, and
was staking heavy sums with various results ;
but, on the whole, fortune was against him.
Arthur at first thought of addressing him,
and asking why he had deceived him thus ;
but on reflection he resolved to defer the

question until they should meet alone. He
could easily guess what motive, or rather
what overpowering mania, had prompted this
return ; but still he was amazed and indignant.


On going back to the hotel his inquiries
elicited the fact that Vane had taken rooms
in a house over the way, a proof, if any were
needed, that he was determined to pursue
his reckless plan to the very end. Arthur,
though grieved, was now at peace with
himself ; he had done his best to rescue
Vane ; if he now chose to ruin himself, the
guilt and the responsibility were all his
own.

He was so preoccupied with thinking of
Vane that he nearly forgot Mr. Houghtley's
invitation. Fortunately, it occurred to him intime
to admit of leisurely preparation. When
he arrived at the Houghtleys' hotel he found
them, as he had expected, in possession of
the handsomest suite of rooms. The dinner

was excellent, and the host tried his best
to make himself agreeable. His manner
was a curious mixture of haughtiness and
deference ; extremely ostentatious in all
his sayings and doings, he was yet deeply
anxious as to the effect they would produce.


It is to be feared that Mr. Houghtley
did not derive all the enjoyment from
his wealth that might have been expected.
His tastes were different from those which
he was forced by the Moloch of Fashion
to affect ; and had he allowed himself to
follow the bent of his inclinations, his amusements
would have consisted of other things
more congenial to his nature.

When Arthur returned to his hotel, his
thoughts were occupied with the impression
made upon him by Mr. and Mrs. Houghtley,
and he could not help wondering at the
singularity of a man of such means sacrificing
all the real gratifications he might

derive from his wealth to the mere chimera
of imitating the ways and manners of
others.

However, he found them very hospitable
during their stay at Monte Carlo, and he
frequently made excursions with them and
with Philip and Flora, thus passing his time
very pleasantly.

Vane carefully avoided him ever since his
untoward return. Arthur was weary of trying
to dissuade him from gambling, and Vane
himself was not a man to forgive those who
wished to befriend him. They only met in
the rooms, and, when they did meet, they
never spoke to each other. Marshfield informed
Arthur that Vane was playing with
varying success, sometimes winning, but more
frequently losing.

Arthur, taking no pleasure in gambling,
soon tired of Monte Carlo, and resolved on
moving further south and visiting Florence,
Rome, and Naples. Before he left, Mr. and

Mrs. Houghtley arranged with him that he
should join them in their yacht at the latter
place, and he was highly pleased with their
kindness.

When in Rome he was appalled by the
awful tidings of Vane's suicide, an event which
he dreaded all along without really believing
that it would come to pass. The unhappy
man had lost and lost, had written home for
remittances, which were at first sent ; but
ere long his father, who was himself in
debt and in difficulties, informed him that
he could help him no longer. The morning
after he had received this . intelligence he
was discovered dead in his bed, an empty
bottle, labelled " laudanum," lying on the
floor.

Arthur was aghast on hearing of his
terrible end. He reproached himself bitterly
with having been one of the causes that led
Vane to self-destruction, and, in order to
avoid the harrowing thoughts that pursued

him, he plunged Into a vortex of frantic
gaiety both in Rome and in Naples.

It was a relief to him when he joined the
Houghtleys in their yacht. The martyrdom
that Mrs. Houghtley suffered during the
cruise is not to be described. She was dreadfully
afraid of the sea, and a wretched sailor.
She was almost entirely confined to her
cabin, from which she now and then emerged,
the picture of misery, and ready to pour out
her injured feelings to all who would listen.
She was astonished at Arthur finding so
much enjoyment in the watery element, and
looked upon him as an aquatic marvel. In
his poor days he had always been fond of
the water, and it had been his ambition to go
yachting ; and now that his desire was
realized in so luxurious a manner, he was not
slow to appreciate it.

Thus the winter went by. In the early
spring he was again in town. His old haunts
saw him once more, and his former acquaintances

gathered round him. The Silversnakes
in particular were very assiduous in their
attentions. Mr. Silversnake induced him to
place large sums of money in his hands,
promising to invest them profitably.

The Silversnakes, as well as Arabella Clarke
and Arthur, were invited by Lord Proudham
to his country seat, where he was entertaining
a large party. The Silversnakes and Arabella,
who seemed their inseparable companion, were
the first to avail themselves of this invitation.
Arthur followed some days later.

Proudham Hall was a splendid place on
which the wealth of successive generations
had been lavished. Lord Proudham's father
was a narrow, unamiable, avaricious man,
very unlike his progenitors, but his miserly
propensities did more to restore the fortunes
■of the family than could have been achieved
by the virtues of a better man. When his
son came into the inheritance he found it ina
flourishing condition, to say nothing of

the large sums his father had accumulated
by judicious speculations and unsparing parsimony.
To tell the truth, he was on a fairway
to squander these vast possessions by
his sumptuous way of living, and he was not
deterred from so doing by his mother. Lady
Proudham had suffered not a little from her
husband's arbitrary, morose, and avaricious
character, and as she was of a gay, pleasure-loving
disposition, the restraints he imposed
upon her were intensely galling. She was
now enjoying those pleasures to which she
had so long been a stranger, and under her
auspices her son's house became a constant
scene of gaiety and hospitality.

When Arthur arrived at Proudham Hall he
found a room assigned to his use which wasps
commodious and comfortable as he could
desire.

The house was full of guests. Not only
were Philip and Flora, the Silversnakes, and
Arabella there, but also Lord and Lady

Lannerston, a Mr. Chudley and his daughter,
and several other people. Mr. Chudley was
a singular man. His remarks were caustic
and cynical, his temper was cheerful, and his
disposition selfish. He entertained Arthur
with his paradoxical observations, and with
the satirical account he gave him of the
assembled company. In Arthur he recognized
a man superior to the common run, and
showed the favourable opinion he had formed
of him by confiding to him the impressions
he had received from the various visitors.

From Mr. Chudley Arthur learned to his
great grief that Flora was profoundly unhappy
in her marriage. Indeed, he had only
to look at her features to see that such was
the case. She wore an unmistakable expression
of secret suffering, although she was
never heard to murmur or complain. This
discovery caused him so much sorrow that
he avoided Philip as much as he could without
attracting notice. The reflection that
her lot would have been far happier had her
destiny been linked to his, aroused within him
emotions of the most poignant regret, and

only served to infix her image in his heart
more deeply than ever.

A few days after his arrival, he was
strolling in the grounds, with his thoughts
running as usual on Flora, when he chanced
to look up on hearing steps approach, and he
saw before him no other person than John
Gallford ! The very Gallford whom he remembered
at DuUroad Buildings, with the
same morose, misanthropical expression, but
showing a rise of prosperity in manner and
attire.

'' Mr. Gallford ! " Arthur exclaimed ; '' is
it possible that I see you ? "

Incredible as it may appear," said
Gallford, sarcastically, '^ that I should ever
have emerged from my proper sphere
of obscurity, it is the very man, not
much altered from what he was at the
Berners."

I am glad to see you," said Arthur.

'' Hem ! " said Gallford. '' You were glad

enough to get rid of me the last time you
saw me."

We fell out," Arthur owned ; '' but that
is no reason why we should continue to do
so."

Nor is it a reason to rejoice at meeting
again," said Gallford.

Arthur was too well acquainted with Gall-ford's
oddities to feel hurt or repelled by his
acrimony ; so he merely replied —

I had often wished to hear how you were
getting on."

'' Getting on, indeed ! " muttered Gallford.
^' Very likely that I should get on ! Getting
oiT is more in my line. I got off from Grim-mersey,
from Bernerr, from Mrs. Rabbits, and
the sooner I get off from these infernal Proud-hams
the better."

'you are not happy here?" inquired
Arthur.

'' I could put up with Lord Proudham.
He is civil, and does not meddle with me. I

.am tutor to his two younger brothers, who are
the most unmanageable, idle, rude, rascally
boys on the face of the earth. However, I
could endure life here in spite of them, if it
were not for their mother, who is the most
unreasonable, domineering woman that I ever
had the misfortune to come across."

'' Lady Proudham ! " exclaimed Arthur.
** I always heard that she was amiable and
liberal."

*' So she may be to those to whom she
takes a fancy. But she took the strongest
dislike to me the moment I set foot in her
house. She thwarts me in every possible
manner ; she puts a veto on whatever I propose
; she interferes with my system of education
; she takes my pupils' part when I have
reason to complain of them ; she tells the
servants to neglect me ; she treats me with
studied coldness whenever I have an interview
with her; in short, she has done everything
she could to goad me into throwing up

the appointment, and in this she has com-^
lately succeeded, for It was only yesterday
that I told her that she must look out for
somebody else over whom she can tyrannize."


This account of Lady Proudham's behaviour
was totally at variance with the
truth, and was founded entirely on Gall-ford's
diseased Imagination. A former pupil
of his, who had been acquainted with him
in earlier and happier days, spoke so
highly to Lady Proudham of his character
and attainments that she lost no time in
securlnor him as tutor for her sons. Gall-ford
was glad enough to accept the engagement,
as he was without any means of paying
Mrs. Rabbits for his board and lodging,,
having lost all his pupils by his Intractable
temper. It was really a relief to him to come
to Proudham Hall, and he entered on the
engagement in a more genial frame of mind
than he had known for many years. But

scarcely had he been relieved from the pressure
of Immediate distress, than his old hallucinations
(we can call them nothing else)
returned with full force. He saw so little of
Lord Proudham that he had no opportunity
of falling out with him. But the case was
different with his pupils and Lady Proudham.
His description of the boys was, on the
whole, not incorrect. They disobeyed him
and made fun of his oddities. This exasperated
him beyond measure, and he complained
of their rudeness to their mother.
She rebuked them, but not with sufficient
severity to satisfy the sensitive Gallford.
From that moment he conceived a strong
dislike to Lady Proudham. She w-as anxious
about her sons' education, and would frequently
inquire as to their studies, offering
her own suggestions on many points. This
Gallford regarded as unwarrantable interference,
and he expressed his opinion In terms
more forcible than polite. Lady Proudham
VOL. II. G

felt aggrieved at the tone he assumed, and
treated him thenceforth with distant coldness.
As he showed so much of his bitter nature to
the mistress of the house, we cannot wonder
that he did not trouble himself to conceal it
from others. He made himself so disliked by
his unbearable temper that everybody soon
retaliated by displaying open aversion. He
noticed their demeanour, and immediately
jumped at the conclusion that Lady Proud-ham
had given them the cue for rudeness.
This conviction lashed his indignation to
fury, and he determined to stay no longer in a
house in which he was exposed to such persecution.


Arthur was sufficiently acquainted with
his character to form an idea of the real
causes that had given rise to his complaints.
However, he replied by merely expressing his
regret that Gallford was leaving, and asked
him where he intended to go.

'' I don't know, and I don't much care'

Gallford replied. " Everywhere it is the
same. I must wait and see what turns up.
I shall go to Mrs. Rabbits' when I leave this.
She has left DuUroad Buildings, and is now
in town, where she has taken a house which
she lets to lodgers. She gives me a little
room cheap. She is not a bad. sort of
woman, though I do suspect that she reads
my letters when they are lying about. But
as I get so few, it is of no consequence."

During their dialogue they were advancing
towards the Hall, which they now reached.
Gallford parted from Arthur with the valedictory
assurance that he hated every stone
with which the house was built.

That evening a great surprise was offered
to the visitors. Everybody was astonished
by the announcement of Lord Proudham's
engagement to Miss Clarke. He had
never paid her marked attention ; on the
contrary, he seemed to admire Miss Silver-snake.


'' Mark my words' said Mr. Chudley to
Arthur, ^' Mrs. Silversnake will not acquiesce
silently in this marriage. It has been obvious
to me all along that she was trying to
hook Proudham for her daughter. We
shall see whether she gives up her game so
easily."

Mr. Chudley was right. She did not give
up her game. She was as much amazed at
the engagement as the other visitors. When
she retired to her room that night her mood
was anything but pleasant. She had desired
to secure Lord Proudham for her daughter,
and she had such a high opinion of her dear
child's attractions that she never dreamt of
the somewhat commonplace and insipid
Arabella being a successful rival.

*' Who would have thought it?" she reflected.
" What can he see in that uninteresting
girl to admire ? She must have managed
things with more skill than I gave her credit
for. but it must be a clever woman who can

outwit me." She laughed sarcastically, and
formed an ingenious little plan which she
was not slow in carrying out.

She feigned the greatest pleasure at her
sweet Arabella's engagement. She was constantly
hovering around her, and was persistent
in offering advice and congratulations.
This line of conduct she pursued for about a
week, at the end of which time whatever
doubts Arabella might have had as to the
sincerity of her goodwill where completely
dispelled. Mrs. Silversnake, finding that she
had now gained Arabella's confidence, asked
one afternoon to speak to her alone on an
important subject. Arabella, wondering what
that subject could be, went with her ; and
when they were closeted together, Mrs.
Silversnake said with a mysterious countenance
—

** I am sure, Arabella, you are convinced of
my friendship for you."

** I am, indeed," she said.

'' Then you will not take amiss what I am
going to say, when I declare to you that I
am only induced to speak, much against my
will, in your own interest ? "

Please speak," said Arabella. '^ What
has happened ? Do not keep me in suspense."


*' I would have spoken to you earlier,"
said Mrs. Sllversnake, '' only I required
to be convinced myself of the facts
I am about to disclose to you, before disturbing
your peace of mind by revealing
them."

'what has occurred?" asked Arabella,
turning pale.

'' I do not wish you," pursued Mrs. Silver-snake
with provoking reticence, '' to credit
what I consider it my duty to tell you, until
you have fully investigated the facts yourself.
Nothing would have induced me to speak on
this subject except the consideration of your
happiness, which is in great danger of being

destroyed. You are, forgive me for saying
it, unsuspicious and inexperienced. You are
walking blindly to heartbreaking misery.
Take a warning by Flora. She is wretched
with her husband. We do not know one-tenth
of what she suffers from his unkindness
and cruelty ; but we know enough to prove
that her lot is such that no wealth can compensate
its wretchedness."

"How does this apply to me?" asked
Arabella.

Lord Proudham is utterly unworthy of
you. His character is as bad, if not worse,
than Philip Beverley's, though he has been
more cunning in concealing it." And here
Mrs. Silversnake poured out to her horrified
listener such an account of his life as would
have utterly appalled a stronger mind than
Arabella's. The effect it had upon her was
simply annihilating. There was a slight
foundation of truth in Mrs. Silversnake's tale,
but it was so distorted and exaggerated that

what she said deserves no milder term than
vile calumny.

Arabella was indeed aghast at this revelation
of wickedness, of which she believed
every word. She had a liking, but not a real
affection, for Lord Proudham. When he proposed
marriage to her, it was chiefly the
brilliant position she would enjoy as his wife
that induced her to accept him. But she was
not so dazzled by the prospect as to be blind
to all other considerations, nor was she so
attached to him as to repel with indignation
any aspersion of which he might be the
victim. She was not a woman of great
strength of mind or of practical shrewdness
and energy. She was apprehensive for her
own comfort, and looked with dismay on a
union with a man of whom she heard such a
catalogue of offences. Mrs. Silversnake
found her task easier than she had expected,
assisted as she was by Arabella's timid disposition
and by the warning example of

Flora's married life, which she impressed
upon her listener with the desired effect. She
left her with the triumphant conviction that
she had fought the battle with masterly
tactics.

When Arabella was alone, she burst into
tears, not so much from regret for her lover
as from the pain and mortification it would
be to her to break off the engagement, and
to deprive herself of the advantages she had
already accustomed herself to enjoy in anticipation.
But notwithstanding her tears she
was determined never to run the risk of
suffering as she knew Flora suffered, who also
had been warned, and who was now expiating
her imprudence.

One step alone did she take before the
final rupture. She appealed to Lady Proud-ham
to give her a true account of her son.
Lady Proudham had not been much in favour
of the marriage, therefore she made dexterous
use of this opportunity of creating a breach.

If you have so little confidence in my
son," she said, '' as to believe in idle gossip
against him, there can be little hope of happiness
in your union."

Arabella would not state from whom she
had received her information, and we may be
sure that Mrs. Silversnake was not more
communicative. It was with a real sense of
relief that Arabella broke off the engagement.
She would not even give Lord Proud-ham
the chance of justifying himself in an
interview. She wrote him a note, not unkind
in its wording but vaorue and distant, and
returned the presents he had given her. She
left Proudham Hall that evening ; and as the
carriage was passing through the gates, she
sighed deeply, but not from grief. She
fancied herself delivered from a great peril,
and felt sincerely grateful to Mrs. Silver-snake
for having rescued her !

While these events were taking place,
Arthur had frequent opportunities of conversing

with Flora. Their interviews were,
in truth, of a painful nature. They made
him realize more and more the irreparable
loss he had sustained ; they convinced him of
her extreme unhappiness, and they confirmed
him still more in his hopeless attachment.
Not that a word was said on either side of the
feelings inspiring them both. She never complained
of her lot ; he never breathed a word
of his intense love. But much can be felt
and divined that is never uttered. It was
so with them. They understood and sympathized
with each other perhaps more than if
they had given expression to their sentiments.


Not long after Arabella's departure, Philip
and Flora left Proudham Hall. Arthur saw
them leave with a heavy heart. Philip's
health was in an unsatisfactory state ; his
habits were intemperate, and illness and intemperance
had raised his naturally irritable
temper to a pitch of absolute ferocity. It

was not difficult to imagine what Flora's life
was with such a husband. When visiting, he
was obliged to exercise some degree of self-control,
but in his own house he gave full
vent to his violence. He never had regular
quarrels with his wife, for the simple reason
that she bore his tyranny with angelic
patience, ascribing his unkindness to the
irritability caused by his illness. He was
utterly unworthy of her, but she would not
allow that conviction to take possession of
her mind. She had always been unselfish,
and in her present time of trial her nature
was tested to the utmost and not found
wanting. Had she been solicitous for her
own happiness, the contrast between the
character of her husband and that of Arthur
might have been dangerous to her peace of
mind ; but, lofty as she was in soul, it suggested
no other thought to her than pity and
compassion for Philip's condition. So unconscious
was she of any lurking peril in

Arthur's society, that she never avoided
him when they were in the same house,
and when she left Proudham Hall she
was ignorant of having passed through an
ordeal which would have been fatal to many
others.

Arthur received from Mr. Chudley full
confirmation of his worst suspicions regarding
Philip. That shrewd observer of character
was unsparing in his analysis of all the defects
and vices of his acquaintances. He let in a
flood of light on the dark nooks and corners
of human nature. Arthur augured ill for
Flora's future when he was listening to
Chudley's pitiless remarks. He was unfeignedly
glad when the hour of his departure
from Proudham Hall arrived. From the
day of Flora's wedding he was solicitous, not
of banishing her image from his mind, because
that was impossible, but of regaining the
peace and serenity he had formerly enjoyed.
But this happy goal seemed unattainable.

When abroad she unexpectedly came across
his path, and now again he had been even
more deeply harrowed by the sight of her unhappiness.
The place where he had witnessed
it became unendurable to him. The
rooms in which they had sat, the grounds in
which they had walked, all conjured up visions
too painful to entertain.

He tried to divert his mind with social
pleasures, but with Httle success. Mr. Charley
only aggravated his uneasiness by the
constant bitterness and asperity of his views.
Lord Proudham had cooled in his friendship
towards him, and was not of a very congenial
nature. The Lannerstons were commonplace.
The Silversnakes were too intent on their
own schemes to think of making themselves
agreeable. Lady Proudham required more
attention and flattery than he was disposed to
offer.

He returned to his town house, but did not
find much more satisfaction when there. His

ample fortune enabled him to indulge every
whim that crossed his mind. The moment
he formed a wish he gratified it. But constant
gratification soon palls upon the spirit,
.and all the desires he fulfilled only reminded
him more forcibly of the one desire he could
not fulfil. He became reckless and extravagant.
He surrounded himself with a bevy of
boon companions, he indulged in every luxury,
he played high, he gave most sumptuous
dinners, he speculated with wild audacity.
His life became a fevered vision, gorgeous
with all the adornments of wealth, delicious
for a time to the senses, but barren and arid
to the heart. It was a life that miorht have
satisfied men of the stamp of Sir Alexander,
a life that to many would be the complete
realization of their most cherished wishes, a
life that to him was intoxicating for a time,
but that soon produced a dreadful desire.

He squandered prodigious sums during this
period. But with all his wealth he could not

buy the Inestimable pearl of peace. He was
like the monarch in the Eastern tale, who
lived in a superb palace, surrounded with
every kind of pomp and luxury, but who
suffered at certain hours tortures almost unbearable,
and who desired to lull his sorrows
in the deep sea of oblivion.

One day, nearly a year after his stay at
Proudham Hall, Arthur was seized with a
desire to pay a visit at Dullroad Buildings to
Ruddles, with whom he had been corresponding
now and then. That youth had always
evinced great partiality for him, and often
wished to meet him again.

When Arthur arrived at Mr. Bernerr's house
the familiar scene awoke the slumbering
memories of the past. He found Mr. and
Mrs. Bernerr enjoying much greater prosperity
than when he was residing with them
They now had six pupils, and Mr. Smilie

VOL. II. H

was installed in the dignity of assistant
master. He was as obsequious as ever,
and burned plentiful incense in honour of
the visitor.

Arthur found Ruddles vastly improved in
every respect. He was no longer the awkward,
ignorant lout of former days. He had
received a certain degree of training, if not of
polish, and showed real mental and physical
progress. The Berners were extremely civil
to Arthur, and betrayed no reminiscence of
their parting disagreement. Mr. Bernerr
seemed to leave everything, with his usual
listless indolence, to his wife and to Smilie,
who had evidently quite gained the upper
hand over both.

When Arthur returned home that evening
he found a letter awaiting him. It was from
Sir Alexander Marshfield, and ran as
follows —

'' Dear Challoner, —

If I were a better hand at letter-writing

than I actually am, I could give you a
very exciting account of events that have
recently taken place.

First event : Miss Silversnake is engaged
to Proudham ; not a bad match for him from
a financial point of view, and a splendid one
for her in every respect. My mother tells me
that Arabella Clarke is beside herself at the
engagement, and swears that Mrs. Silver-snake
is the very mother of lies. It appears
that that disinterested lady urged Arabella to
throw up her fiance on the ground of bad
character. She honestly believed all that
was said, and acted accordingly. Now she
perceives the falsehood of the woman, and
is inconsolable. She is spoiling the few good
looks she has by fretting and pining. I met
her the other day. You never saw such a
woe-begone object. She looked nearer
seventy-two than twenty-seven, which is, I
believe, about her real age. She often calls
on my mother for sympathy, and the croaking

that goes on between them baffles description.


'• Second event : My mother seems destined
to be the recipient of all the grievances
of her female circle. The other night, when
she was just sitting down to dinner, who
should drive up in a growler but your old
flame, Mrs. Beverley ! It seems her lord and
master, not content with bullying and abusing
her from morning till night, proceeded to
prove his conjugal affection in the true Cossack
style by assault and battery. His better
half, reflecting that she dwelt on the banks of
the Thames and not on those of the Volga,
refused to submit to his thumps, whereupon
he locked her up in her bedroom and abused
her through the keyhole. As he justly considered
this treatment not calculated to
produce a placid frame of mind, he determined
to bring her down to the proper
level of submission by starvation. Twice a
day he regaled her with a glass of water and

a crust of bread. This incarceration lasted
three days, during which the servants several
times attempted to liberate her, but were
driven away by his ferocity. At last Bacchus
came to her aid. On the evening of the
third day Beverley indulged in spirits more
potent than those he placed before the fair
prisoner ; and, quite forgetting that his spouse
was under lock and key, he went out to enjoy
himself for the night. He had scarcely left
the house when all the servants trooped
upstairs and liberated his victim from durance
vile. The first use she made of her liberty
was not to burst into tears and faint in a
picturesque attitude, nor even to order a
hearty meal, as I should have done, after
such prison fare, but to hurry to her dressing-room,
put on her bonnet and a few wraps,
pack up some things, and rush downstairs,
after invoking a blessing on her liberators.
In less than twenty minutes she was in my
mother's house, looking extremely interesting,

and imploring her advice and protection. My
mother was in her element. There is nothing
she loves more than to advise and protect
others ; but considering that it was she who
brought about this marriage which has resulted
in such untoward proceedings, I
wonder Mrs. Beverley applies to her for
guidance and consolation, unless she goes on
the principle of ' who breaks, pays,' and
expects her to make up for the mischief she
has unwittingly done. Of course they applied
next morning to counsel learned in the law,
and so you may be prepared before long to
see in the papers a detailed and interesting
account of Beverley v. Beverley. I thought
you might like to hear this story without
delay, as you had so great a penchant for the
charming sufferer.

'' Third event : I have been most confoundedly
unlucky the last few weeks, and
last night lost huge sums. I am quite
crippled for centuries to come. A few

hundreds would set me on my feet again.
If you could help me, I would give you an
I.O.U. for double the amount.

Ever yours,

''A. M.

'' What do you say to going shares in
whatever I may win from the sum you lend
me ? I know many cases where that answered
splendidly. Think twice before you refuse,
it may be a magnificent investment. I am
generally very lucky. Let me hear soon what
you decide. I know many quarters where I
could apply with success ; but I thought I
would first make the offer to you, as you are
such an old friend. It is an opening that
does not occur every day. We may have
tenfold returns for the money."

When Arthur had read this letter he sank
into a chair in utter dismay. Flora maltreated
to such an extent by her husband that she
was obliged to take refuge in flight ! What

miseries she must have undergone before she
embraced such a desperate resolution ! His
indignation knew no bounds. He wished he
could espouse her cause and inflict the
deserved chastisement on the malefactor. All
night long sleep fled his eyes, so filled was
his imagination with the lamentable story.

As to the concluding passage in Marsh-field's
letter, Arthur did not hesitate long in
granting the request it contained, although
he placed no reliance on the promise of high
returns or even of repayment. He was
always liberal and free-handed with his
money, much more so than prudence would
approve or wisdom counsel.

He made many inquiries as to the particulars
of Flora's domestic troubles. Different
versions of her flight were circulated,
but they all agreed in presenting her husband's
conduct in the most unfavourable
light.

Her patience had, indeed, been tried to the

utmost. She had at last no alternative left
but to escape from further ill-treatment. She
bitterly reproached Lady Marshfield for the
share she had had in promoting her marriage.
Lady Marshfield retorted, not without reason,
that her attachment to Philip had been such
that all representations dissuading her from
marrying him would have been ineffectual.
Flora replied that it was precisely Lady
Marshfield's advocacy of his suit that made
her deaf to all other voices. Her state of mind
during the wrecks that followed her flight told
upon her health and nerves, and reduced her
to such a delicate state that she was unable
to attend to the legal preliminaries to the
separation. In her distress she sent for her
former companion and friend, Mrs. Ford. On
hearing of the painful events that had occurred,
Mrs. Ford hastened to join her with a
somewhat triumphant feeling at the fulfilment
of her predictions, a feeling which she but ill-succeeded
in mastering.

When Philip was informed that his wife
was really taking steps to obtain a separation,
he realized to a certain extent the enormity
of his conduct, and felt some remorse for his
actions, not so much for the sufferings they
inflicted upon Flora as for the discredit they
would bring upon himself. Now that his wife
had left him he indulged more than ever in
his propensity for drinking, and his intemperance
aggravated the malady from which he
was suffering. He fell seriously ill, and in
his solitude and abandonment felt profoundly
wretched. In his fits of depression he wrote
the most penitent letters to his wife, owning
his faults, and promising to amend in the
future if she would only forgive him and
come back to his house. These missives
were accompanied by splendid presents of
every description. At first she returned them
and left the letters unanswered. By degrees
she softened towards him so far as to reply
to his messages, though still returning the

presents. She reproached him for his unkindness
and cruelty, and asked him how he
could expect her to endure such misery again.
His answers were invariably fulsome and
pathetic. He declared that he would never
again be guilty of such conduct, and that it
was only the result of his temper having
been irritated by suffering. She replied that
she forgave him, but that she would never
return to him. He was, however, resolved
not to be so easily defeated, and made
another attempt to overcome her resistance.
He induced his doctor to represent to her
that he was utterly miserable without her,
and that her presence would be the best
remedy for him that could be devised. On
receiving this communication she announced
her resolution of returning to her husband.
This determination was strongly combated by
Mrs. Ford and by her lawyer.

'' Never ! " exclaimed Mrs. Ford. '' A
man who has behaved so abominably and

shamefully deserves no tenderness. Did he
ever consider you ? Was he not for ever
casting about for means of worrying and
annoying you ? He delighted in making you
miserable ; he did everything in his power to
make your life unbearable ; he insulted and
ill-treated you ; he showed himself utterly incapable
of appreciating your noble qualities.
You ought to pay him back in his own coin.
Let him reap as he has sown ; let him suffer
for his illdeeds. If I were in your place
I would never have put pen to paper to
answer his letters. You have shown extreme
forbearance and patience towards
him, but further patience would be weakness."


Mr. Beverley has given such irrefragable
proofs of a cruel and heartless disposition,"
said the man of law, '' that I feel it my duty
most strongly to dissuade you from condoning
his misconduct. In my whole experience
I remember few cases that presented worse

features. If you follow your kind impulses,
however laudable in themselves, I am convinced
that you will soon have to undergo a
repetition of what you have already suffered.
If his conduct was so cruel towards you when
you patiently submitted to his brutality, what
will it be now that he is certain to resent
your flight and the legal steps you are taking ?
If he has you again in his power after these
occurrences, I am positive that he will make
you feel his anger. By enduring what you
have endured, you have fulfilled all the duties
that can reasonably be expected of a wife.
He has forfeited all claims upon you by his
atrocious behaviour. To return to him now
would be little short of madness. Everybody
who has your interest at heart would dissuade
you from so doing."

'* I recognize the strength of your argument,"
Flora replied, '' and yet I cannot
bring myself to act upon it. My husband
has indeed been most cruel to me at times ;

but If I remain obdurate now that he Is so
dangerously ill, I also could justly be accused
of cruelty. I have shown that there is a
point beyond which my patience cannot be
tried ; may not this have some effect upon
him ? He has expressed penitence ; am I to
disbelieve it without giving it one trial ?
Should I not have reason to reproach myself
if I were to close my heart against him
utterly ? His doctor assures me that his
mental distress is aggravating his complaint ;
would it not be heartless of me to refuse todo
my utmost for him under these circumstances
? If he were in health and did not
need my presence, I should perhaps follow
your advice, but I cannot leave him to suffer
alone and unattended."

Flora's resolution was strongly seconded
by Lady Marshfield, who urged her to give
Philip one further chance before deciding on
a final separation. She accordingly stopped
the legal proceedings, and rejoined her husband,

sincerely forgiving all the injuries he
had inflicted upon her, and believing his
promises of future better conduct. How
those promises were kept we shall narrate
further on.

Mrs. Silversnake was on the eve of
seeing her brightest dreams fulfilled. In a
few weeks her daughter was to become the
wife of Lord Proudham. She had plotted
and schemed and intrigued for months and
months. Arabella had not been the only
obstacle in her way. With infinite patience
and dexterity she had removed all difficulties,
not the least of which was the volatile nature
of Lord Proudham's affections. Novelty
being to his mind the greatest of attractions,
he often turned away from Miss Silversnake
to pay court to other women who happened

to cross his path. Her mortification at his
levity and inconstancy was so great that she
was frequently on the verge of showing him
her resentment in an unmistakable manner.
But she was restrained from so doing by her
mother, of whom she stood in no slight
awe. Mrs. Silversnake perceived that if
he were thwarted or annoyed in any way
he would be capable of breaking off
the engagement, whatever might be the
cost to himself. Such a catastrophe she
was determined to prevent. When her
dear Bessie was suffering from peculiarly
severe attacks of jealousy, she had
some very stormy scenes with her before
she could induce her to dissemble her
anger.

One evening, about the time when the
reconciliation between Flora and Philip was
taking place, mother and daughter were
having a more than usually sharp altercation.
They were dressed for a ball to which they

VOL. II. I

were invited by Lady Marshfield. When
Mrs. Silversnake was ready she went to
her daughter's room, where she found the
poor girl sobbing bitterly, and declaring
her resolution of staying at home that evening.


^' Elizabeth, I am amazed at you ! " Her
mother always called her Elizabeth when she
was angry. '' What new freak is this, and
how dare you tell me you will not come
when you know that Proudham will be at the
ball?"

'' That is just why I refuse to go," said
Bessie. "' He has behaved shamefully to me
these days, and now I have just received
this note."

With these words she handed a post-card
to her mother. It ran as follows : —

'^ A sincere well-wisher begs to inform Miss
S — that a certain person is in the habit of
stating openly to his friends and acquaintances

that he is only marrying her for her
money."

'' Was there ever anything so cruel and
heartless ? " exclaimed the girl.

Her mother examined the card minutely.
The handwriting was a woman's, but evidently
disguised. The postmark was Reading,
and the card showed a crease down
the centre, as if it had been doubled up to
fit in an envelope. Mrs. Silversnake drew
her own inferences from these details.

'' How shameful," said her daughter, ^' to
Write such words on a post-card for all the
servants to read ! I daresay they are all
talking about it now. I will not be insulted
in this way. I shall write to him
at once, and ask him point-blank if it is true
or not."

'' You will do nothing of the kind," retorted
her mother. '' That is exactly what
the writer wishes you to do."

Who is the writer? I know nobody at
Reading."

'' It is easy to discover," said Mrs.
Silversnake, ^' that the card was sent to
somebody there to be posted. I have a
strong suspicion that it is the production
cf Arabella. However, I shall look overall
the letters I have from female correspondents,
and compare the handwritings carefully."


I shall make him explain himself," said
Bessie. " I shall not speak to him until he
has fully justified himself."

'' How would you have him justify himself?
Of course he will deny the accusation.
How are we to find out the truth of that
denial?"

When this point was presented to her
mind, Bessie burst into a fresh torrent of
tears. She threw herself into a chair, exclaiming
she wished she had never been
born.

'' Listen to me," said her mother, beginning
to lose patience. " Instead of crying and
talking nonsense you must immediately rouse
yourself, attend to your appearance, and
come to the ball with me, and make yourself
as agreeable as you possibly can. If
you disobey me, I shall send you down
tomorrow to your grandmother in Lincolnshire."


This terrible threat produced the desired
effect. Two years previously, Miss Silk
having shown herself peculiarly
intractable, her mother banished her to
the rural retreat where old Mrs. Silver-snake
was vegetating, and so intensely
did the girl suffer from the ennui and
dreariness of that abode that her mother
had ever since found an irresistible weapon
in threatening to exile her a second
time.

'' You are too cruel, mamma," she said,
rising from her seat.

Nonsense ! I am only prudent."

How can you ask me to go out in this
condition?"

'' You must put yourself in another condition.
It would never do for you tolet
Proudham go to the ball and find you
absent. You know quite well what happens
if attractive girls succeed in monopolizing
him."

^' I wish all attractive girls were in prison !"
exclaimed Miss Silversnake, stamping her
foot.

She had scarcely given utterance to this
amiable sentiment than both she and her
mother were astonished by Mr. Silversnake
bursting into the room. He had never
been known to trespass on his daughter's
apartments before. A strange, excited,
troubled expression was visible on his countenance.


*' What has occurred ? " asked his
wife.

^' Come away. I must speak to you," he
replied.

'' Speak here," she said.

'' Not before Bessie," he answered. '^ She
must not hear the dreadful news."

Mercy ! " cried Bessie. '^ Do tell me
what has happened."

'' You will hear soon enough," said her
father.

'' Tell me now," she implored. '' Has it
anything to do with Lord Proudham ? "

** Nothing as yet," he said. ^' You cannot
go to the ball. We have other things to
think of than gaiety."

'' Not go to the ball ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Silversnake. '' Are you mad ? "

*' I wish I were," said her husband. '^ I
should be less miserable than I am now."

*' Heaven save us ! " cried Bessie. ^' What
dreadful disaster has happened ? "

^' We are ruined ! We are utterly undone ! "
exclaimed her father.

A deadly pallor spread itself over Mrs.
Silversnake's face, and her daughter looked
aghast and bewildered.

In wild, incoherent words he told them
that all his speculations had turned out
unfortunately, that a man who owed him
a large sum had proved insolvent, and that
all he saw before him was ban kruptcy and
despair.

These words produced on Bessie an impression
of vague horror, but no definite idea
of what they implied. Very different was
their effect on Mrs. Silversnake. She had
in her youth known poverty and even destitution,
and now they rose before her, not
mere phantoms, but terrible, overpowering
realities.

'can we not ward off the worst?" she
gasped. '' Can we not gain time ? Can you
not raise sums sufficient to prevent the
crisis i

'' Impossible," he said ; '' my credit has

reached its lowest ebb. It has been waning
for months, though I concealed the fact
from you. I hoped against hope that I
might retrieve my fortunes, but now it is too
late, and I have nothing but despair before
me."

'' Apply to your friends," urged his wife.

'' I cannot. Many of them have lost considerable
sums through me. They will now
become my bitterest enemies."

'' Heaven be with us ! Where can we find
help ? " sobbed the wretched woman.

'the best advice I can give you," said
her husband, gloomily, '' is to bolt. Pack up
all your portable valuables and leave the
country."

'' And what is to become of me ? " cried his
daughter. '' Am I to be left behind with the
bailiffs?"

'' I am not anxious about you," said her
mother, turning on her savagely. '' Lord
Proudham must either marry you or pay

you such heavy damages as will set you
up for life. I am the one to be pitied, not
you."

Mrs. Silversnake's nature was hard and
selfish, and this sudden blow, far from stunning
her, roused her worst qualities to frantic
activity.

'' I am to be pitied," sobbed her daughter.
'what is to become of me?" she asked
again, wildly.

Mr. Silversnake paced up and down the
room immersed in gloomy and desperate
thoughts. His wife alone preserved presence
of mind. She wrote a few lines of excuse to
Lady Marshfield on the score of indisposition.
She rang the bell and handed the
note to the servant, giving her orders in a
clear and unfaltering voice. While the
servant was in the room Bessie bent over
a vase of flowers to hide the tears that
were streaming down her face. When they
were once more without a witness Mrs.

Silversnake appealed to her husband, and
said —

'' Tell me plainly ; in what position are
we?"

'' In that of beggars," he cried, bitterly.
'' Cannot you understand that we are utterly
ruined ? "

'why should I leave the country?"
she asked. '' Who would hurt me if I
stay ? "

'' Nobody ; but all our possessions will
be seized. If you make good your escape
you can at least save something from the
wreck."

'' My diamonds," said Mrs. Silversnake.
"They are valuable. I can sell them. They
will enable me to live, at least for the time
being."

Go to France or Belgium," he urged.
'' I will join you in a few days."

She gave him a furious look, and said —

'rafter having reduced me to this plight

you wish to reduce me still further. No ; if
I go abroad I go to preserve my freedom.
I am willing to send you some of the
money I may get for my jewels, but I decline
to allow you to join me after the infamous
manner in which you have deceived and
ruined me."

'' Those very jewels' he said, turning
white with rao^e, '' are mine. I bought
them with my own money. I did not give
them to you in order to enable you to
desert me in my hour of need. Is this how
you requite all my kindness and affection
? You were penniless when I made you
my wife."

'' So I was," she said, with a venomous
sneer, '' or else I should never have married
you."

He was going to reply in the most violent
strain when Bessie threw her arms round his
neck and implored her parents not to add to
their miseries by quarrelling.

Don't, don't make me more miserable
than I am," she said. '' I will do whatever I
can if you will only not quarrel. Mamma
and I will go abroad now, and you shall
come to us later on."

'' Elizabeth goes into Lincolnshire," said
Mrs. Silversnake in a determined voice, addressing
her husband.

'' Why not with you ? " he demanded,
fiercely. '' Do you wish to cast your children
off as well ? "

'' Do not be so unreasonable. If you pause
to reflect, you will see that what I propose is
for her good. What am I ? The wife of a
ruined man. That she should go with me is
unadvisable ; that she should stay with you
is utterly out of the question. Her brother is
incapable of protecting her. Therefore, the
only course open to her is to take shelter
with her grandmother. If you wish her to
have a shadow of a chance of marrying Lord
Proudham, now that so terrible a disaster

has overtaken us, you must allow her
to cut herself off completely from us. She
must be severed from us altogether. Her
father is ruined and her mother is under
a cloud in consequence ; she must not be
hampered by us, she must be free and unmolested."


'^ Oh, mamma ! " exclaimed the girl ; ^^ how
can you speak so cruelly? I will never,
never desert you."

'' Do you think Lord Proudham will have
anything to do with your family now that weare
destitute? People do not like connections
who are down in the world. If he marries
you — mind, I do not say that he will,
there are many chances against it, and
only a remote possibility in its favour — if
he marries you, you may be pretty sure
that it will only be on condition that you will
have nothing to say to your bankrupt relatives."


Mrs. Silversnake firmly believed that everybody

was as selfish, callous, and calculating
as herself, and she always took her measures
accordingly.

'' I do not want to marry him if he is so
unfeeling," said her daughter.

'you must yourself provide for your
future ; we cannot provide for you. If he
does not marry you, he must at least pay
you heavy damages. It is, therefore, to
your interest to give him no pretext for
breaking off the engagement. When I leave
for the Continent, you will leave for Lincolnshire."


She spoke so resolutely and looked so
determined that her daughter did not venture
to raise an objection.

Her husband listened to her words with an
unwilling admiration of her clear-headdress
and a shuddering dread of her coldness.

'^ Yes," he said, '' it must be so. Some
of the money you get for your diamonds will
defray her expenses."

'' I am afraid I shall want nearly
every penny of that money for myself,"
said Mrs. Silversnake. ^' You can surely
raise a few hundred pounds. You must
bestir yourself. Here am I thinking
and thinking how best to help you and
our children, while you are idly bemoaning
the misfortunes of which you are the chief
cause."

*' What would you have me do ? " he
asked, sullenly.

"' Get together money enough to enable
your son and daughter to escape from the
calamities into which you have brought them.
A little ready money would be invaluable to
James. He could go to America or the
Colonies, anywhere where your name is not
known. A very small sum would suffice for
Elizabeth until we see what Lord Proudham
does."

*' I have already told you," he retorted,
'' that there is nobody to whom I can apply

for money. But your diamonds will realize
so much that you can well — "

'' I cannot," she said, interrupting him
vehemently. '' After having brought me down
to utter ruin, the least you can do for me is
to leave me that sum clear. You can surely
find someone who will advance you the
money you want."

'' Impossible," he maintained.

'' Ask Arthur Challoner," she suggested.

'arthur Challoner ! Why, that is the
very man who loses most by my failure,
thousands and thousands."

'' The more reason for him to assist you."

'' But even his means cannot save me from
ruin."

'' You need not tell him so. Make him
believe that a few thousands will set you
right, and he is sure to let you have them.
I know him thoroughly. He is of an easy,
confiding nature, and will not doubt your
statement."

VOL. II. K

Mr. Silversnake quailed under his wife's
basilisk eye.

^^ I cannot," he muttered. '' I have injured
him sufficiently as it is."

'' Have you not injured me and my children
sufficiently ? " she cried. '^ You would appear
as a coward and a villain if you did not make
some amends to us."

When she had uttered these words, her
husband gave her a look in which he concentrated
all the despair and misery of his
soul, and he left the room in silence more
expressive than speech.

'^ Oh, mamma ! " cried Bessie, when the
door closed upon him, '' I wish I had not
lived to see this terrible day!"

'' You may thank your father' said Mrs.
Silversnake. '^ He has been deceiving me
for thirty years."

She did not pause to reflect that her
luxury and expenditure had driven him onto
the desperate speculations of which he
was now reaping the bitter harvest.

'^ Let us make haste and prepare for our
departure," she continued. *' We have no
time for idle recrimination."

She was occupied until late in the night
packing up her valuables and assisting her
daughter, who was like one dazed by the
terrific blow that had fallen upon her.

It was a wet and windy night, and as
Mr. Silversnake was proceeding to Arthur's
house the inclemency of the elements
was in accordance with the misery
of his mind. He went rapidly through
the streets, but when he arrived at his
destination he paused before he could
summon resolution to enter. Despair urged
him onwards, and once in the house his
courage returned. Arthur had been entertaining
some friends that day, and
his dwelling bore traces of the recent
festivities. He himself was in the highest

spirits. He had no presentiment of
the events that were soon to overwhelm
him. As he entered the room he was
taken aback by the disturbed expression
of Silversnake's countenance. The latter
had intended to look as unconcerned as
possible, but he was a bad actor, and his
agitation betrayed itself in his voice and
appearance.

'' What has happened ? " Arthur asked.

'' Nothing, nothing," said his visitor, uneasily.
^' I have only come to ask you — to
ask you — "

To ask me what ? " Arthur inquired
when the other seemed unable to proceed.


'the fact is," said Silversnake, "I
have overdrawn my balance at my
banker's. I shall soon set it all right again ;
but for the moment I — for the present I must
if it were possible — only for a few
days — "

It struck Arthur as very strange that Mr.
Silversnake should be so deeply agitated by
so slight a vexation.

In his nervous and distressed condition, Mr.
Silversnake imagined that Arthur's silence
implied refusal. He proceeded desperately,
losing all self-control — ■

'^ For God's sake help me, Challoner ! I
am in fearful difficulties. Everything has gone
wrong with me latterly, not through my fault.
A long series of misfortunes — "

'^ Everything gone wrong with you ! ''
Arthur exclaimed, aghast. ^' You do not
mean to say — "

'' Yes, I do," said Silversnake. '^ I
am ruined, I am lost if you do not help
me."

'M? What can I do ? "

'^ You can tide me over my present difficulties.
Only a little help, and I shall be more
successful than I ever was. I am not to
blame. I can prove to you that what has

happened was not brought on by any fault of
mine."

'' And where is the money I entrusted to
you ? "

"It is safe — I swear it is safe — that is
if — if you will only help me for the moment.
It is, indeed, safe ; believe me — believe me ! "

'^ Mr. Silversnake, I must inquire into
this."

"Inquire, investigate; do whatever you
think best," said the desperate man. " I am
not afraid of your doing so. On the contrary,
I invite you — I invite everyone — to look into
my affairs."

How long have you been in difficulties ? "
Arthur asked.

A few months."

"You should have let me know of this
before," he said, reproachfully ; "as I am
concerned for so large a sum in your affairs,
it was due to me to have acquainted me with
them."

'^ I know I should' Silversnake admitted ;
^' but every day, every hour I hoped for
better things. To the last moment I was
full of buoyancy. Forgive me, and help
me''

'await," said Arthur; ''I require a fuller
explanation."

'^ I can give It," said Silversnake.

'' Then do so," Arthur replied.

He was indignant with Silversnake for
having deceived him so completely, and he
spoke with an anger that astonished and
terrified his visitor, who had never before seen
him in a passion.

Spurred on by his intense distress,
Mr. Silversnake plunged at once into a
long, rambling, confused account of the
origin of his troubles. It is needless
to say that he did not adhere strictly
to the rules of veracity, and that he
kept Arthur in the dark as to the hopeless
entanglement of his affairs. He made believe

that a few thousands would rescue
him from his painful position, and save
Arthur's money involved in his speculations.


Arthur listened with indignation and Incredulity.
He could not credit the story,
and yet he was unwilling to think so badly of
Silversnake as to suppose him capable of
such dark treachery as Its falsehood would
imply.

He questioned him minutely, and the
answers he received were glib and plausible.
A colder and shrewder man than
Arthur would probably have been deluded
In a similar manner by these asseverations.
Arthur was not one to resist a
tale of distress. He had placed Implicit
confidence in Mr. Silversnake, and was
unwilling to admit that he had been deluded
and deceived. Silversnake remarked
with exultation that he was succeeding in
the object of his visit. He pushed his

suit boldly, and asked for so large a sum
that Arthur gazed at him in mute amazement.


'' I have lost enough through you," he
said, *' without parting with further sums."

'^ But if you help me effectually," said
Silversnake, 'all the lost money will be retrieved."


'' I cannot give what you ask," said
Arthur.

Silversnake persisted, but Arthur was firm.
The unhappy man found himself at last
obliged to yield, and contented himself
finally with demanding a slight portion
of what he originally required. But
Arthur's suspicions were fully aroused,
and he refused even this amount. Silk
was in despair, and begged him
to give at least something to save him from
utter ruin.

'' What will you do with the money if I
give it you ? " Arthur asked.

^* I will pay off my most urgent creditors
and start afresh' Silversnake replied, and
again poured forth a long account of his
affairs, winding up with the assurance
that he was certain of being once more
successful if the present crisis could be tided
over.

At last Arthur yielded, and consented
to give him a cheque for two thousand
pounds. Silversnake exclaimed at the smallness
of the amount, but Arthur said he
must either take that or nothing, so,
of course, he expressed himself willing to
take it. He had come with the hope of
obtaining an infinitely larger sum, but he
was fain to content himself with what he
could get.

*' Come with me to my study," Arthur
said.

They went, and on entering the study
Arthur opened a desk from which he took
out his cheque book. He was in the

act of dipping his pen in the ink when a
servant entered with a letter marked '' Immediate."


Arthur tore the envelope open and
hastily perused the contents. He turned
pale, and Silversnake wondered what
had happened. He was soon to discover,
Arthur could not conceal his feelings.
The paper fell from his hand, and
he sank into a chair, appalled and overwhelmed.


'^ I am ruined ! " he exclaimed. '' All my
possessions will be taken from me ! "

'' Why ? By whom ? " Silversnake asked.

Arthur pointed to the letter on the floor.

'' Read that," he muttered.

Silversnake did as he was told, and discovered
to his utter bewilderment that it
was a communication informing Arthur of
the discovery of a will made by the
late Mr. Challoner bearing a more recent
date than that by which Arthur

had received so large a legacy. The
letter was from his solicitor, and it further
stated that the newly-discovered will
would entitle him to a sum not insignificant
in itself, but far less than the
fortune he would now be compelled to
relinquish. These were terrible tidings,
especially as Arthur had drawn on the
capital which he never doubted to be entirely
his own.

'' I must give up everything," Arthur said,
^' everything I can ; but the sums I have
lost through you I can never return. What
am I to do ? You are responsible for this."

Silversnake again assured him all would be
well, at least as far as he was concerned, but
Arthur refused to credit him.

'' I have lost heavily as it is. I can resign
myself to the thought, but to be a defaulter
through you is bitter, and not what I expected
would result from the confidence I
placed in you."

Silversnake was profuse in his assurances
that whatever had happened was
owing to untoward circumstances and to
no misconduct of his. He then proceeded
to urge his request for the loan,
but to his surprise Arthur maintained
that he was no longer at liberty to
draw upon the balance he had at his
banker's.

Silversnake could not understand this
scruple. He argued, he expostulated, all in
vain ! Arthur was immovable. He said that
honour compelled him to refuse.

'' Honour" was a very vague term to Silk
; and he tried to dissuade Arthur
from following such a chimera. High words
ensued. Silversnake became urgent, then
importunate, and finally violent, whereby
he raised Arthur's indignation to such a
pitch that he left the room in utter anger
and contempt.

He unfortunately forgot, in his annoyance

and excitement, that he had left
his cheque-book behind him on the
table.

Silversnake, finding himself alone, and
being frantic at the ill-success of his
visit, no sooner cast his eyes on it than
an evil thought took possession of his
mind. He was in desperate straits, he
knew not where to turn for a farthing,
the temptation was near, the need pressing,
he himself unscrupulous ; what wonder
that he yielded ?

He looked round furtively ; no one was
present. He listened at the door ; not a
sound was to be heard. With palpitating
heart he tore a leaf out of the cheque-book,
and quickly consigned it to his
pocket. He had committed many dishonest
actions in his life, but none that
could have brought him absolutely within the
ban of the law. But now he had crossed
the fatal Rubicon ; he was a criminal, an

outlaw ; he could not return to the path
of honesty.

Full of fear and horror, he hurried out
of the house into the bleak street. The
beating rain and the cutting wind assailed
him ; but his mind was too perturbed to consider
the fury of the night, and he urged his
steps homewards, desperate and reckless.

That night he was occupied in the criminal
task which he had set himself. He had
several specimens of Arthur's handwriting,
and he produced an only too accurate facsimile.


He avoided his wife and daughter as much
as he could, and felt strangely relieved when
they took their departure on the following
day.

All the troubles and disasters that had
fallen upon him only served to confirm
him in the evil course he was pursuing.
He attempted to quiet his conscience
by the reflection that, others

having cheated him, he was retaliating
on mankind by cheating in return. By
his unscrupulous action he raised the sum
he required, and furtively left the country,
thus vanishing from the pages of our
story.

VOL. II.

For several months Arthur was completely
absorbed in the multitude of affairs
resulting from the intelligence of his
loss of fortune. It was a terrific blow
to discover that the possessions he was
enjoying were to be withdrawn from him,
and that he was again to return to the
narrow circumstances in which he had
been brought up. But Arthur, although
his character was not faultless, had in a
remarkable degree fortitude and resignation,
and these high qualities were
called forth by this untoward event. When

he had received full assurance that he
was not entitled to keep his large fortune,
he gave it up without a moment's
hesitation, and lost no time in useless
repining or resistance. It was painful to
him to leave the handsome house he had so
lovingly fitted out for his own use, but one
comfort, or rather alleviation, remained to
him. Mr. Challoner had, by his second
will, left him a legacy sufficient to enable
him to replace the considerable sums that
he had taken from the capital of which
he had believed himself to be the lawful
possessor.

After relinquishing the fortune he had
hitherto enjoyed, he would have found
himself in extreme difficulties had he not
received, at an opportune moment, the
portion that was due to him from the
estate in Chancery, for which we saw
him expectant in the early part of this
narrative. The sum was, of course, not

very great, still it was more than sufficient
to be of use to him in his sudden reverses.


He had the firmness immediately to make
the most complete retrenchment in his
style of living. His house he, of course,
shut up as soon as possible, and went to
an hotel until he had time to look about
him.

It pained him greatly to discover that
his change of fortune entailed a change of
behaviour in many of those whom he had
considered his friends. But some remained
steadfast to him. Of the latter Lady
Marshfield was one. She had always Heed
Arthur, and her lively imagination was attracted
by his sudden acquirement, and his
equally sudden loss of wealth. He felt
deeply grateful to her for her active sympathy
with him in the time that closely
followed his losses. Her house was always
open to him, and in conversing with

her about his affairs he felt relief and consolation.


Lady Marshfield had her faults, but fickleness
and timeserving were not among them.
She was really kind and helpful to Arthur ;
and, what he prized more than anything
else, she gave him frequent and full accounts
of Flora. In spite of his anxieties
she was still uppermost in his mind, and
if he could have met her again under
more auspicious circumstances he would
have felt complete alleviation of all his
troubles.

Silversnake's forgery was like a thunderbolt
to him ; but it fully opened his
eyes to the unworthiness of that individual.
Adversity was bitter, but it taught
him the wholesome lesson of discriminating
between the deserving and the
undeserving, between the upright and the
false.

One day, as he was passing along

Oxford Street, he encountered no less a
person than John Gallford. They recognized
each other simultaneously, and Gallford
said —

'' I saw it coming."

'* Saw what coming ? " Arthur asked.

^' Your loss of fortune," Gallford replied.


'indeed?" Arthur retorted. 'that was
more than I or anybody else did."

I tell you I saw it. Nothing ever deceived
me. I knew it all along."

Arthur was nearly remarking that it
was easy to be a prophet after the event,
but he looked at the man's odd countenance
and strange appearance and refrained
from making any remark that might offend
him.

The improvement that had taken place
in Gallford's outer man during his residence
at Proudham Hall was not of long
duration. He was now a more dilapidated

object than he had ever been, and
his expression was most odd and disquieting.
His house, or rather Mrs. Rabbits'
house, was not very distant, and Arthur
walked with him until he reached his destination.


He entered with Gallford, but did not stay
long. Gallford went up to his room, and
Arthur was about to leave the house, when
Mrs. Rabbits emerged from the back part
of the passage and addressed him with a
mysterious countenance.

'' I should feel obliged to you, sir, if you
would let me have a word or two with you in
private."

Arthur acquiesced, and she showed him
into her little sitting-room.

'what I have suffered," she said, after
carefully closing the door, '' from the conduct
of that there dear soul, no words
can adequately describe. He has been
rapin' me up at four o'clock in the

morning, saying that the 'ouse was been'
set on fire by my next-door neighbour,
Miss King. Now, if there is a person
in the 'ole wide world that I would trust
with every penny as I 'ave, that person
is Miss King. It was but three days
ago that she said to me, said she: 'Mrs.
Rabbits, if you value your peace of mind
and the lodgers in your 'ouse, you will
'ave that there Mr. Gallford seen to.'
Them was her very words, sir ; and when
I listened to them with my ears, I wouldn't
believe 'em. Not if you'd counted fifty
sovereigns out before me and given them
to me down would I 'ave believed 'em. But
it were true, every word come true.
Incredible as it may appear, it was only
yesterday that he said to me that the first
floor wanted to poison him. Now the first
floor is that ladylike that she refused to
marry the second floor because he doesn't
move in fashionable circles. Said I to

her : ' He would go to Land's End and
back out of pure devotion for you, and
you are that 'artless as to refuse him.'
Yes,' says she, ' I ham. I must bear
in mind my poor father's eminent position.'
Now I do assure you, sir, that the
second floor 'as took on so that my 'part
bleeds for him. He requires double the
amount of feeding' than he did before his
disappointment : 'ot meals three times a
day, and 'am and eggs with his breakfast,
and a glass of steaming' toddy before
soin' to bed to support him in his languish.
If he didn't pay me as he do,
I should be compelled to insinuate the
desirability of his lookin' out for other apartments,
because it is wearing the soul out
of me."

But Mr. Gallford," said Arthur, wishing to
bring the conversation back to the point from
which it had wandered.

Mr. Gallford, poor dear creature ! gives

me trouble all in the other direction. Sometimes
I talks myself 'coarse to him about
the duty of supporting' one's system. Sometimes
I try to make him take a glass of
hale, but he says he won't contribute to
make the publicans richer than they are.

Lor' bless me ! ' says I, ^ your takin'
a glass won't even be a drop of water
in the ocean.' So he took a little, and
all the better he was for it. His constitution
was becoming' quite undermined
On my remonstrances he ate and drank
right well for a few days and became quite
reasonable and biddable, when all unforeseen
he forms them dark suspicions of the
first floor, who bears him no grudge, I am
sure, barren' that she don't like to be awoke
two or three times a night by him crying'

Fire ! ' and saying' that the next door neighbours
are burning' us down. She don't like
it, and I am sure, sir, you wouldn't, now
would you ? "

Arthur was obliged to confess that he would

not like it at all.

"There now!" exclaimed Mrs. Rabbits
triumphantly. " I knew that I had a good
cause of complaint ; but when I told him
so, he said I and the lodgers ought to
be' grateful to him for saving our lives
by his vigilance. I don't know what to do
with him, because if he goes on like that
he will drive away all my lodgers, and I
am a poor widow who has to support herself.
I do wish his friends would come
and look after him, I do indeed. He is
becoming' that unreasonable that he maintains
that I opens and reads his letters,
though 'even knows that I would be the very
last person to do so mean a action, which I
never so much as thought of in all my born

days."

Arthur sympathized with Mrs. Rabbits and
assured her that she need not take it so much
to heart.

'' But if his friends would only see to
him ! " she exclaimed. '' I can't tell what
he is likely to do next. I get so frightened
that I trembles all over, as Miss
King and everybody else as knows me can
testify."

Arthur promised to see what steps he
could take in the painful business. He
asked her what friends Gallford had, and
she gave him two or three addresses. He
said he would write to the people named,
and would let her know the result of his
application.

He kept his word, and wrote the letters,
to which he received from each quarter
answers identical in spirit and almost identical
in terms. They all stated that
Gallford had been so perverse and unmanageable
that they had long ceased
to interest themselves in his affairs, and
that they must now decline to take any
steps on his behalf. Thus Arthur was unable

to do anything, and he was obliged
to communicate his ill-success to Mrs.
Rabbits, who had formed great hopes from
his intervention. It was necessary tolet
events take their course, and, as he
expected, he soon heard of a violent catastrophe.


At night Gallford was particularly restless,
alarming his fellow-lodgers and his
landlady with the most unearthly sounds
and cries, and often rushing about the
passages declaring that the house was on
fire. He at last became so violent that
Mrs. Rabbits was compelled to send for
the police, and when he was brought
before the magistrate it was easy to
certify that he was a dangerous lunatic.
He had declared that attempts were being
made to poison him ; he was constantly
labouring under the delusion that incendiaries
were trying to burn down the
house in which he was living j he had

purchased a revolver and had threatened
to shoot everybody who ventured to enter
his room, reasons more than sufficient to
justify his being placed under restraint.
He was almost destitute of means, the
little money he had earned was swallowed
up by his daily expenses, and
latterly people had avoided him because
of the singularity of his ways. He
owed Mrs. Rabbits no inconsiderable sum
for board and lodging, and had it not
been for her forbearance he would have
found himself without shelter long before
the time when he was deprived of
liberty.

A few papers and memoranda were found
in his desk which threw light, if further
light was required, on the disordered state
of his mind. An unfinished letter was addressed
to a former friend whom it reproached
in the bitterest terms for falsehood
and treachery —

You have assisted my persecutors. You
have persecuted me yourself. A cowardly
action to persecute a hunted-down wretch.
What have I done to you ? Nothing.
What have you done to me ? All the
harm you could possibly devise. I know
that you have bribed people to dog my
steps and to report my actions. Shame
upon you ! I am being watched night and
day ; I am surrounded by enemies, and
soon shall be utterly lost. All my miseries
are owing in great measure to you.
May your wickedness be punished before
long!"

The man to whom these lines were addressed
had done his utmost to befriend
Gallford. He had helped him in his distress,
and had offered him judicious advice ; but it
was precisely this advice that had been bitterly
resented.

Gallford's suspicious mind led him to believe
that counsels were invariably prompted

by unworthy motives, so that if anybody
recommended a particular line of conduct
he would invariably embrace one diametrically
opposed to it. This dreadful mania
grew upon him with his solitary way of
living, and with his other mental peculiarities
it gradually brought him to the lunatic
asylum, where he was destined to end his
days.

Arthur was truly grieved to hear of
this disastrous conclusion to a career
that had once been so promising. Gall
ford was not a bad man, and yet he
had alienated all his friends and wellwishers.
He was not a foolish man, and
yet he had completely ruined his prospects
in life. He was not an ignorant
man, and yet his knowledge was of no
avail to him. He was not a treacherous
man, and yet nobody trusted or esteemed
him.

A deplorable life and a lamentable end

were the result of his unbridled fancy and
his ungovernable temper, a striking instance
of how much depends on the due regulation
of the intellectual faculties.

VOL. II. M

If it were not for the material progress of
the present century, it would scarcely be
paradoxical to say that the human race is less
happy than in former times. Civilization, as
compared to its previous stages, is much
more elaborate, but it is also infinitely more
selfish. The feudal system, with all its barbarism,
had undoubtedly the merit of creating
a bond of union between men of different
ranks. A feeling of clanship was fostered ;
the inferior was loyal, and the superior solicitous
for the well-being of those under his

command. If we are now more independent,
we are also more isolated. If society as a
whole is more cultured and humane, each
individual has fewer links with his fellow-creatures.
He is exclusively devoted to his
own success in life, and, therefore, egotistical ;
and if not so by nature, he is compelled to
become so in self-defence. If he stumbles
in the race of life, he is trampled upon by
those who overtake him, and he looks round
in vain for assistance. Those above and
beneath him are strangers to him, and those
in his own sphere are too intent upon
themselves to give him a helping hand.
Hence, probably, arises much of the class-hatred,
or at least estrangement, that
forms so marked a feature of the present
age, notwithstanding its political liberty.
Perhaps a more perfect stage of civilization
may know how to combine freedom
and fraternity, the severance of which
is now so painfully apparent in spite of

the efforts made by charity to fill up the

gap.

Arthur Challoner was one of those who
suffered from the effects of our modern selfishness.
During the days of his affluence
he had many followers, but before and after
that short period he was lonely and unaided,
and the few who interested themselves in
him did so in a languid and inefficient
manner. The little money he possessed
barely supplied him with the necessaries of
life ; his natural activity prompted him to
bestir himself ; he had considerable talents,
what marvel, therefore, that he did his
utmost to find a suitable field for their
exercise ? But this was by no means
easy. His accession to fortune had incapacitated
him for some posts for which
he would originally have been fitted ; his
pride kept him away from others, and
his want of capital from many more.

He might, perhaps, have married advantageously
had not his attachment to Flora
made him consider such a step almost a
profanation. He was thus in a serious predicament.


Assistance came to him from a quarter
where he had least expected it. Mr. Thoughts
with all his pomposity and ostentation,
was really a kind-hearted man, and to those
who made themselves agreeable to him by
humouring his peculiarities he was hospitable
and generous. On hearing of Arthur's
embarrassment, he sent him an invitation
to Houghtley Hall, which was readily
accepted. Arthur passed some pleasant
weeks there, and when his visit was drawing
to a close, Mr. Houghtley, whose
health had latterly been somewhat impaired,
told him that he had been ordered
abroad, and asked him if he would like
to go with him. Of course the answer

was a glad assent, and the arrangement
was made that they should start In a fortnight.


It was Mr. Houghtley's Intention to drink
the waters at Homburg, and to proceed
thither by easy stages, stopping at Brussels,
Cologne, and Frankfort on the way.
Mrs. Houghtley stayed at home with her
daughter. Her husband travelled for the
benefit of his health, and she remained
stationary out of consideration for hers,
declaring that the agitation and discomfort
of a journey would be her death. In
reality she was by no means so fragile
as she supposed, but she took great delight
In Imagining herself to be extremely delicate
and In Inducing others to share her
conviction.

It was at first Mr. Houghtley's Intention
only to pass one night in Brussels,
but when he arrived there he changed
his mind, and told Arthur he would

stay several days. Arthur was not at
all displeased at this prospect as he was
curious to see the sights of the Belgian
capital.

On taking; his seat at the table d'hote
the evening after his arrival, what was his
surprise to find himself next to a young lady
who has already figured in these pages-miss
Silversnake! He could scarcely believe
his eyes, especially as she seemed to
be quite alone, and was dressed in an extravagant,
ostentatious style. The moment
she recognized him she opened the conversation,
which she carried on with extreme
volubility.

'who would have thought of seeing you
here, Mr. Challoner? This is unexpected!
But unexpected things are constantly happening.
Where have you been since we
last met ? As for me, I found myself
compelled to travel in order to brace my
nerves after our dreadful trials. I felt

them, oh, so keenly ! I am sure you
would pity me if you knew what I went
through. I would not revive the memory
of the past for worlds, but you know
how badly I have been treated, and how
everything conspired to my disadvantage.
Mamma has not been good to me, nor
has my brother. After making me a perfect
martyr, they are absolutely furious
because I will endure such treatment no
longer."

This was an allusion to the differences that
had arisen in her family after the disappearance
of her father. In spite of her mother's
warning, Miss Silversnake had been so imprudent
as to inform Lord Proudham of the
anonymous letter (which, by the way, was
written by a person whom she had always
befriended and helped, as she subsequently
discovered to her utter amazement) and to
ask him point-blank whether it had any
foundation. Lord Proudham had given her

as much of his affection as he was likely to
give to any woman, but his family and his
friends were so dead against his marrying
her, especially after the collapse of her
father's fortune, that he gave way to their
importunities and seized the means of effecting
his escape. He replied that the accusation
was totally unfounded, but expatiated in
bitter terms on her want of confidence in
him. She felt deeply hurt at some expressions
he used, and answered as her feelings
prompted. Her knowledge of his character
was so imperfect that she fancied he would
be filled with remorse at her reproaches.
She was soon undeceived. It is true that he
gave her of his own accord substantial
damages for his breach of promise, but the
wound inflicted on her vanity was no less
deep. Her grief was real, and it was not
lessened by the conduct of her mother and
brother when she found herself in possession
of her money. They wished to share in it,

whereas she had every intention of spending"
it exclusively on herself. They cajoled and
petted her, and when they found that did not
answer, they bullied and persecuted her. But
she displayed unexpected obstinacy. She
told them that they had saved money enough
of their own out of the general wreck, and
that what she had she was determined to
spend on her own pleasure. She said she
was of age and could do what she pleased.
Their quarrels became so violent that she
formed a desperate resolution. She corresponded
secretly with a lady whom she had
formerly known, and made arrangements to
live with her. One fine day she disappeared
from the family circle, and her mother and
brother were beside themselves at the
enormity of her conduct. She soon quarrelled
with the lady with whom she had taken refuge,
and determined to go abroad unencumbered
with any duenna. She engaged a pert
French maid, and with this companion roamed

over France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany,
and Belgium, spending a lot of money on
her dress and on the expensive hotels where
she stayed, and carrying on flirtations in a
very reckless manner. It was natural that
rumours little to her credit should be
circulated ; but she was as unaffected by
these rumours as by the fact that her
money was rapidly dwindling away. She
had not a thought beyond the present, and
gave no heed to the lamentable prospect
before her.

'' It was really preposterous," she continued,
'' the way in which mamma and my brother
went on. They absolutely drove me away.
I am sure none but those who are as
patient as I am could have endured it so
long. But sometimes I am literally overwhelmed
with sorrow when I think of their
unkindness."

Arthur wondered to himself whether it was
to drown these painful thoughts that she

imbibed such copious draughts of champagne,
and whether it was to banish care that she
was so elaborately dressed. However, he
replied as best he could with expressions of
sympathy.

Their conversation then turned on general
topics, and she showed herself quite ready to
strike up a flirtation with Arthur and even
with Mr. Houghtley.

'' Singular woman, that," said the latter
to Arthur after she had left the table, escorted
by a tall, sallow foreigner, who was
evidently deeply smitten with her many
attractions, and of whom she made a most
abject slave.

They saw her several times after that
meeting. She displayed a wonderful variety
of dresses, and was generally accompanied
by an admirer. She made herself as captivating
as possible to everybody, and it was
not from any lack of exertion on her part
that the whole world was not at her feet.

Arthur heard later on that she was continuator
her peregrinations on the Continent, dressing
in the same extravagant manner, and flitting
from place to place, never staying long anywhere.
If any tidings reached her father of
her doings, it was perhaps his keenest punishment
to reflect that it was through his misdeeds
that she was reduced to such a condition.


The intense glare of a July sun at noon
was lying over Homburg. The red walls
of the Turbans were baking in the heat.
Few people were about, and those few
were almost all Englishmen. It seems
to be a British characteristic to bid defiance
to foreign climates. The season
was an unusually good one, the place was
full, and new arrivals were pouring in daily.
Amonof these were Mr. and Mrs. Beverley.
Since their reconciliation, Philip's
health had become much worse, nor had
his temper improved. Flora had now even

more to suffer than formerly, but she made
no complaints, and only her most intimate
friends guessed what she went through.
Unkind as her husband was to her, she
was the only person who had any sort of
influence over him. She alone could induce
him to be more reasonable in his
conduct ; she alone could, by seizing favourable
moments, work upon his better feelings
and extract a spark of generosity
from his selfish nature. But it was a
hard and trying task. It required all the
real fortitude and patience she possessed
not to be discouraged. In spite of the
fortune she was enjoying, and the consequent
ease and luxury of her surroundings,
her life was full of daily trials. Her
husband's temper had become worse, if
possible, than at any former period. The
change wrought in his appearance by illness
was alarmingly great. Those who knew
him at the time when this story opened

would have found difficulty in recognizing
the emaciated figure that was lying on
a sofa in a darkened room of a Homburg
hotel.

The intense heat was weighing upon the
room in spite of the closed shutters and
drawn blinds. It oppressed the debilitated
sufferer, who was clamouring for iced champagne,
and working himself into a passion
because Flora endeavoured to dissuade him
from taking it.

He, however, carried his point as usual.
Wine always aggravated his irritability, and
on this occasion it did so more effectually
than ever. It was not Flora's fault that he
lashed himself into a frenzy ; the merest trifle
goaded him on, the most indifferent circumstance
annoyed him.

The tropical heat of the day was showing
signs of culminating in a thunderstorm.
Heavy clouds gathered in the sky,,
producing darkness almost nocturnal. Flora

drew up the blinds and threw open the
shutters. The obscurity was becoming
denser; not a breath of air disturbed the
foliage of the trees before her window ;
a few thick drops of rain were falling
sullenly. The darkness grew blacker and
blacker.

'' It will be a terrific storm ! " she observed.

*' That is a remark not worth making
said her husband, irritably. '' If you can't
say anything more original you had better
be silent."

Flora, accustomed to these amenities, held
her peace. The storm was beginning, the
thunder rolled, and vivid flashes of lightning
illuminated the darkness. Flora drew away
from the windows, and sat down beside her
husband.

*' I must say," he exclaimed, when there
was a slight lull in the storm, 'that if ever
anybody's company was slow it is yours. A
fellow may be in the same room with you for

VOL. II. N

hours and you never say a word all the
time."

'' You told me not to speak," said Flora.

'' I didn't mean it," he replied. '' What I
meant was that you ought to say something
more worth listening to. If you
won't take the trouble of making yourself
agreeable, why did you come abroad with
me?"

^' Indeed, I take every trouble."

*' Your efforts are mightily unsuccessful,"
he said, with a sneer.

*' Who, in my place, could be more successful
? " she thought, bitterly.

The storm was increasing in violence.
The lightning flashed incessantly, and the
thunder roared and reverberated peal after
peal. The vivid brilliancy of the flashes
filled the room with such an intense illumination
that Flora suggested to her husband
to go outside into the passage, which
was less oppressive and less exposed to

the lightning. He consented, and they
had scarcely passed into the corridor than
they found themselves face to face with
Arthur and Mr. Houghtley. The latter was
the first to address them. Arthur was so
astonished at this meeting that for a moment
he could not speak. He had no knowledge
that they were on the Continent, neither
had he looked at the list of visitors ; he
was, therefore, taken completely by surprise.


*' You here! " he could not help exclaiming.


Philip seemed anything but pleased at
this encounter. He was cold and distant,
not only to Arthur, but also to Mr.
Houghtley, who took no pains to conceal
his displeasure at Philip's demeanour.
The only person who was natural
and unembarrassed was Flora, although to
her the meeting was more trying than
to any of the others, and its consequences

were destined to bring upon her extreme
annoyance.

Philip was in a morose, suspicious, and
irritable frame of mind ; the slightest unpleasantness
was sufficient to lash him into a
fury ; and when he again found himself alone
with his wife, this meeting furnished him with
a pretext to give way to his unreasonable
violence.

He accused her of having made an appointment
with Arthur to come to Homburg,
of corresponding with him in secret, of being
treacherous and untruthful.

She listened to his words with indignant
astonishment.

'' You have no cause to make such accusations,"
she said : '^ I have never, never corresponded
with him, nor did I ever dream of
asking him to come here. Such a thought
never entered my mind."

These words had the effect of making
him still more angry and unreasonable.

He ranted, raved, and swore at her. The
more she attempted to justify herself, the
more his fury increased. Need we dwell
on this painful scene ? It is sufficient to
say that it culminated in such violence
on his part that even Flora's patience
was exhausted, and she left him, declaring
that she could endure such treatment
no longer, and that she was determined
to put herself beyond the reach of further
insults.

In spite of the indignation and firmness
with which she uttered these words, Philip
did not believe that she really meant them.
He thought she would relent as on many
former occasions. Great, therefore, was
his surprise when he found that she had
indeed taken her departure. Can we
blame her? She had forgiven him again
and again ; she had borne contumely,
abuse, and even ill-treatment without a
murmur, in the hope that the time would

come when his heart would soften, and
also in compassion for his physical sufferings
; but she now clearly perceived that
that hope was illusory, and that her presence,
far from being of benefit to him,
only gave him countless opportunities of
giving way to his violent temper. Was she
not fully justified in avoiding further indignities
and injuries by leaving him for the
second time ?

Arthur, all unconscious of the explosion
caused by his presence, did not stay very
long at Homburg. Mr. Houghtley, by no
means so unwell as he fancied, soon tired of
the place and announced his resolution of
leaving. He was undecided in his plans,
not wishing to return home, and yet
quite at a loss as to where he should
go. Return to England he would not ;

and yet he was constantly abusing the
Continent. His discontent Increased Instead
of dimlnlshlnor as his health Improved.
At last he heed his choice on
Carlsbad, and told Arthur to be ready to
start next morning. Arthur was not sorry
to leave Homburg, as he hoped the change
would produce a happier frame of mind
in Mr. Houghtley. But this was not to
be. The first three or four days of their
stay at Carlsbad went off smoothly enough,
but when the novelty of the Bohemian
watering-place had worn away, he became
even more restless than he had been at Homburg.


He declared that the heat was nearly
killing him, and fancied the mountain air
of Switzerland would agree with him better.
To Switzerland accordingly they went,
wandering from place to place. Arthur
enjoyed it as much as the restless discontent
of his fellow-traveller would allow.

However beautiful a spot might be, Mr.
Houghtley would not consent to tarry anywhere.
He found fault with everything, until
at last Arthur's patience was tried to the
utmost.

'' Why doesn't he return home if he
finds no place agreeable abroad ? " Arthur
said to himself. '' He only makes himself
and others wretched by wandering about
merely to cavil and carp at whatever he
sees."

Their peregrinations were prolonged in
this unsatisfactory manner until September
was far advanced. Then Mr. Thoughts
thought the time had come to make
a move. He wished it were later in the
year that he might travel in Italy with
comfort, and he rang the changes on that
subject for several days. But as grumbling
did not advance the seasons he was
fain to retrace his steps homewards.

He made a halt in Paris, hoping to derive

some pleasure from the gay city. The first
few days were, as usual with him when in a
new scene, full of pleasure and gratification,
but it was not long before his unquiet spirit
revived. He compared Paris past and
present, greatly to the disadvantage of the
latter, unceasingly lamenting to Arthur
that the golden days of the Second Empire
had vanished. He so wearied his
listener with this topic that Arthur fervently
wished that the Second Empire
had been as remote as the First, and
that its brilliant pleasures had never
given such a fertile theme for interminable
prosing.

Their stay in Paris extended a little over a
fortnight, when Mr. Houghtley at last discovered
that he would do better to make
himself comfortable at home than to fidget
about the Continent to find nothing but
ennui.

With all his oddities he was in reality a

kind-hearted man, and he had taken a great
liking to Arthur. He showed his friendship
for him in many ways ; and when they
reached London, where Arthur intended
staying for the time-being, he gave him an
invitation on parting to visit him at his
country place whenever he felt inclined to do
so.

We need not say that this invitation
was gladly accepted for some future day.
Arthur took apartments in the house of
our old friend Mrs. Rabbits. His disposition
was naturally buoyant and sanguine,
and he entertained vague hopes of
something turning up, which were sufficient
to keep him in a happy frame of mind.
It is curious to reflect that Mr. Thoughts
with all his wealth, was constantly
restless and discontented, few things giving
him pleasure, and then only for a short
time, whereas Arthur, in spite of the large
fortune he had enjoyed and lost, and of

his present narrow circumstances, was cheerful
and as happy as his attachment to Flora,
which he considered hopeless, would allow
him to be.

Arthur's days glided by with a not unpleasing
regularity and sameness. His morning
was occupied with papers and books ; in
the early part of the afternoon he took a constitutional,
after which he went to his club,
where he dined, and the evening he devoted
to theatres or to other places equally entertaining
; in short, his life was very agreeable,
but it was certainly more expensive than he
could afford with his diminished income, and
the distasteful fact stood before him, and
would not be set aside, that the day must
inevitably arrive when he would have to
relinquish all his enjoyments and luxuries.

In his early days he would have found it
easy enough to restrict himself to the mere
necessaries of life ; but we do not quaff the
cup of pleasure with impunity, and once
having indulged in whatever wealth could
procure, it was not easy, nay, it was almost
impossible, for him to be frugal and simple in
his living.

He knew what prudence dictated, but he-postponed
the necessary retrenchment and
self-denial. Of course he was to blame for
this weakness, but we never pretended that
his character was faultless, nor did we set
him up as a model ; we only represented him
as a man neither better nor worse than most
of his fellow creatures, but placed by fortune
in extremes of prosperity at one time, and in
sudden adversity at another, and whose innate
amiability was not marred by prosperity or
adversity.

At the Club he frequently saw Sir Alexander,,
who had recently come into a considerable

fortune of which he managed to rid himself
in a surprisingly short time. His advice to
Arthur was to trust in his luck and to let
things take their course ; a solution of the
problem more to be commended for its
simplicity and easy execution than for any
other qualities.

'^ I have been in debt," he said, '' pretty
well all my life, and I have not been particularly
inconvenienced by it. At first it
may worry you a little, but you will soon get
accustomed to it. I own that I have been
fortunate in extricating myself from my
difficulties ; but you need not go ahead as I
did, and you will find things will come
straight in time."

The state of Sir Alexander's affairs was
not so satisfactory as to make Arthur wish to
be in a similar plight ; he therefore discarded
his counsel, and resolved to rouse himself
from inaction.

This resolution was excellent in itself, but

the question arose— How were his energies to
be employed? He asked himself this question
times without number, and failed to discover
a suitable answer. After several days
of anxious thought the happy idea struck
him of laying his difficulties before Mr.
Houghtley, and asking his advice. This was
a most judicious step, and it was attended
with an excellent result.

Mr. Houghtley was the chief shareholder
in a company recently established. That
company was looking out for a secretary, and
he proposed Arthur, much to the surprise and
alarm of the latter, who declared that he was
not at all qualified for the post. But Mr.
Houghtley silenced his remonstrances by
telling him that he could employ an undersecretary
to discharge most of the duties ;
and his word being law with the company,
Arthur was duly elected. The salary was
handsome, and, as the duties were somewhat
onerous, he lost no time in obeying Mr.

Houghtley's Injunction of securing an experienced
assistant. His choice fell upon an
elderly man with a large family to support,
who was only too thankful to relieve Arthur
of all the drudgery of his post for about a
tithe of his salary.

The regularity of his new occupation had
the most beneficial effect. He was taken out
of his old groove of thought and action. He
had no longer the uninterrupted leisure which
allowed him to Indulge in constant reveries
that were apt to injure the vigour and healthiness
of his mind.

Nothing is more uninteresting to behold'
than perfect happiness. Idylls are only redeemed
from tediousness by their brevity ;
descriptions of felicity are only pardoned
when acting as a foil to darker or more exciting
scenes. For the credit of our story we
must, therefore, state that Arthur's happiness
was not without alloy. His love for Flora
continued as powerful as ever, and was the:

source of many a painful reflection. Nor was
he so raised above human weakness as not
occasionally to revert with regret to the time
when he was in the enjoyment of his fortune.

He was not the only person who remembered
those brilliant days. Mrs. Rabbits
delighted in drawing gorgeous pictures of his
vanished prosperity for the edification of her
other lodgers.

It is no use my telling you what he had,"
she would say, '' because it is absolutely
beyond calculation. If anybody had ever
told me that his opulence would melt away
like wax before the sun, I'd no more 'ave
believed it than that the lions in Trafalgar
Square had walked away. And he bears his
reverses with such magnanimous fortitude !
I never saw the like of him. If I had suffered
such losses I'd not have been capable of
going about as he does. I'd have drooped
and withered like a lily in the desert, that's
what I would. The 'ole of my remaining
VOL. II. O

days would be wrapped up in a mourning
veil. My appetite would go first, and my
'opes would follow. But he is as pleasant
and affable as if he had never had a penny
more than he wanted. That's what I call
bearing up bravely against the conglomerations
of fortune, and if the Lord Mayor
himself was to tell me it was not, I should
stand up boldly and say that it was."

About six months after the events narrated
in our last chapter, on a delightful morning
in May, two ladies were walking in a
fine park adorned with trees as ancient
and magnificent as the most imaginative
painter could desire. The one was clad
in deep mourning ; the other wore a plain
black gown. She was evidently trying to
divert the thoughts of her companion,
and to interest her in the beautiful scene
before them. Nor was she unsuccessful
; her friend's eye rested with pleasure

on the landscape, and she seemed
to derive peace from the loveliness of
Nature.

They continued their walk for some time
before returning to the house where they
were staying. Their conversation was unbroken
by pauses, although not animated,
and it was evidently of a confidential kind,
judging from their countenances.

Need we say that the ladies were no others
than Flora and Mrs. Ford ? Since her last
appearance in these pages Flora had become
a widow. On leaving Homburg Philip's illness
increased with alarming rapidity, on
hearing of which his wife immediately
hastened to rejoin him, and her presence
alleviated the sufferings of his last days.
She had the melancholy satisfaction of a
complete reconciliation, and her grief on
losing him was violent and profound ; all the
more so as she had not expected a fatal
termination, and his loss came upon her

with the suddenness of a thunderbolt. In
her sorrow at their parting she forgot all his
faults, and remembered him only as he appeared
in the early and happy days of their
union.

The bulk of his large fortune went, in
default of issue, to another branch of his
family ; but the property that was at his
disposal he bequeathed, with the exception
of a few legacies, to his wife, who
had thus a considerable fortune in addition
to her own.

When she recovered from the first effects
of her bereavement she wrote to her old
friend, Mrs. Ford, to come and bear her
company. The invitation was gladly accepted,
and they travelled about together in
the hope that change of scene and air would
revive Flora. It is during this tour that we
see them again.

Mrs. Ford was of a somewhat prosaic
nature, and it was beyond her comprehension

how Flora could feel her loss so
keenly and deeply, considering the unhappiness
of her married life. Certainly
if Mrs. Ford had been in her place she
would have expressed very decorous sorrow,
but would not have given way to continuous
lamentation for a man who had done
so much to afflict her during his lifetime.
She was honestly surprised at Flora's state
of mind, considering it a sign of amiable
weakness ; but she had the discretion to
keep that opinion to herself. Her presence
was welcome to Flora, as she was
not only a companion, but of real assistance,
undertaking a vast amount of necessary
correspondence, and relieving her
friend of many a distressing and painful
task that would otherwise have fallen upon
her.

Mrs. Ford's mind, as far as it went, was
clear and vigorous, and she was very acute
in detecting the slightest traces of imposition,

qualities that made her an excellent
woman of business, and enabled
her to transact Flora's affairs much more
dexterously than the latter could have
done at any time, even when not labouring
under the disadvantage of being immersed
in grief.

We said above that they were returning
to the house where they were staying ;
it was one that Flora had taken for a
month, thinking its position beautiful and
the air of the district salubrious. The
month was now almost at its end, and she
had begun making her preparations for
moving.

They found luncheon awaiting them, and
also a batch of letters. Flora glanced over
the addresses and handed them to her
companion after reserving two for her own
perusal.

"Will you kindly read those?" she said"'
They are business letters, as usual. You

can give me the pith of their contents, and
please answer those that must be attended
to."

After luncheon Mrs. Ford applied herself
to her task, and Flora read the two missives
she had selected from the others. They
seemed to engage her thoughts very deeply.
She sat for a long time reading them over
and over again. The one was from Lady
Marshfield, the other from Arabella Clarke.
The former had written at considerable
length, the latter had not filled more than
the orthodox four pages.

Mrs. Ford was so busily engaged that she
did not notice Flora's absorbed interest. It
was not until she looked up for the purpose
of speaking to her that she was struck
with it.

'' What has occurred ? " she asked.

'' Why, there are some singular things in
these letters," was the reply, '' and I am
rather at a loss what to think of them."

Mrs. Ford rose from her desk and came
nearer.

'' Miss Clarke's letter has been forwarded
from London," Flora continued, '' and there
was a delay about It ; but Lady Marshfield's
was directed here."

'' From Lady Marshfield and Miss Clarke?"
said Mrs. Ford, Interrogatively. She was
by no means pleased when Flora heard
from the former, still bearing In mind her
old antipathy. She was curious to know
the contents of the letters, but Flora betrayed
no Intention of imparting them to
her ; on the contrary, she turned the subject
to the letters Mrs. Ford had been
reading, and did not revert to the others.
Her companion hoped that she would be
more communicative later on ; but she
was destined to disappointment. The day
wore on, and Flora revealed nothing to
her.

When she retired to her room for the

night she again perused the two letters,
pausing at intervals to reflect on what
she had read. That from Arabella ran as
follows : —

'^37, Street,

'' London, S.W.,

'' May 17, 1884.
'' My dear Mrs. Beverley,

'^ I hope you will excuse my troubling
you with this letter, but it must carry with it
its own excuse.

'^ You will be surprised to hear what I have
to communicate to you, but not more so than
I was when I found it out.

'' I was dining the other evening at the
house of a friend, where I met Mrs. Beverley,
the wife of your late husband's kinsman who
came into the Beverley property. When I
was leaving, my friend told me that that
lady's husband intends bringing a lawsuit

against you with the object of depriving you
of the fortune bequeathed to you by Mr.
Beverley, who, he maintains, had no right
to dispose of it as he did. I was amazed
to the last degree at this intelligence, so
much so that I refused to credit it,
but my informant was so positive, and
urged me so strongly to give you a timely
warning of these hostile intentions, that
I had no alternative but to send you
these lines. #'

I fear you will have a vast deal of trouble
and worry in consequence of this unwarrantable
proceeding, and I am truly sorry to bethe
sender of such bad news. There is a 'faint
hope that the statement may be unfounded ;
but from what I have heard of Mr. Beverley's
character I should say that it seems only too
probable He is reported to be extremely
grasping and litigious, and without any sort
of conscience or compunction. I know for a
fact that he treated his sister most unkindly

without the slightest provocation on her
part. You may expect the worst from
such an antagonist. I sincerely hope you
may be able to prevent him from carrying
out his nefarious designs, and trusting
you will not be too much agitated by these
tidings,

'' I remain,

'' Dear Mrs. Beverley,
*' Yours very truly,

'arabella Clarke."

Lady Marshfield's letter contained precisely
the same intelligence in other words,
adding a long chapter of advice as to how
she should act during the contest.

Flora enjoyed no sleep that night. The
news seemed to her so incredible that had
she only heard it from one quarter it would
have given her Httle uneasiness, but when
two sources, completely independent of each
other, supplied her with it she could not help

being filled with the gravest alarm. She had
never met the Mr, Beverley in question. Her
husband had not been on good terms with
him, and never mentioned his name but to
abuse him.

On first reading these letters she was so
utterly taken aback that she could not screw
up her courage to tell Mrs. Ford what their
contents were. " To-morrow," she reflected,
'' weill be time enough." She probably suffered
more by keeping this trouble to
herself than if she had sought comfort
in the confidence of her friend. But when
the morning came she no longer delayed
the painful communication, and placed Mrs.
Ford in possession of the facts after breakfast,
indulging in a torrent of tears while
doing so.

Mrs. Ford received the news in the
manner Flora expected. She said little,
but that little was inspired by the bitterest
indignation. If the man against whom

she inveighed could have heard her, even
his obdurate nature would have been stung
by her language.

She agreed with Flora that no time should
be lost in going up to town and taking legal
advice as to what should be done. Much as
Flora regretted leaving the agreeable place
where she was staying, she prepared at once
to go, and that very evening saw them depart
by the London express.

The journey lasted over five hours, but
those hours vanished with extreme rapidity,
so engaged were they both in their thoughts
and misgivings. It was quite dark when
they arrived at their destination. Wearied
as Flora was with her journey and with
her previous sleepless night, she was thankful
to reach her house and to retire to
rest.

She went to her solicitor early on the
following morning, and from him she received
the assurance that if Mr. Beverley

was really so ill advised as to bring an action
against her it would be the worse for him,
and that she could not fail to issue triumphant
from the contest. She was greatly
reassured by these words, and became almost
reconciled to the prospect of the impending
litigation.

In the afternoon she visited Arabella, and
thanked her for the timely warning. She
found her in luxurious apartments and most
beautifully dressed, but looking discontented,
disappointed and aged. In truth she had
never recovered from the blow inflicted upon
her by Mrs. Silversnake. The recollection
of her folly in believing the vile inventions
of that woman was for ever rankling in her
heart, and it had recently been embittered by
the news that Lord Proudham was engaged
to Miss Chudley and by the descriptions of
the brilliant preparations for the wedding.
She reflected with unavailing regret that but
for her credulity she might long ere now have

occupied the enviable position which Miss
Chudley was soon to attain. She went a
great deal into society, but, much to her
chagrin, she did not receive any offers of
marriage.

In spite of the adverse opinion of several
eminent lawyers whom he consulted, Mr.
Beverley, carried away by his cupidity,,
decided on disputing Flora's claim to a
large portion of the money left her by
her husband. She thus found herself under
the necessity of taking measures of self-defence
and of doing her utmost to make
her righteous cause finally triumph. She
had fortunately sufficient means to engage
celebrated counsel on her side, and she
presented a formidable array of forensic
VOL. II. P

talent against her opponent. In this emergency
she displayed a vigour for which
her friends had scarcely given her credit ;
and, indeed, the exertion she was compelled
to make acted beneficially upon
her mind and body, arousing her from the
languor into which she was in danger of
falling.

Being still in mourning Flora visited none
but her intimate friends, and of these Lady
Marshfield was the most prominent. As we
related in a former chapter, when her domestic
dissensions had reached an intolerable
climax, she was not sparing of her reproaches
to Lady Marshfield for being
such a powerful factor in bringing about
her marriage, and these reproaches were
repulsed with vehement indignation ; but
time and her final reconciliation with her
husband had wrought a change, and the
charm of her friend's manner and society
soon restored the interrupted harmony.

They were again on as confidential a footing
as at the opening of our story, and
Lady Marshfield had the pleasure and satisfaction
of constantly seeing the charming
widow at her house.

These visits were about Flora's only diversion,
and she found real enjoyment in her
friend's company. At first she insisted on
seeing her alone, declaring herself unequal
to meeting others ; but by degrees she
was induced to suffer her solitude to be
invaded by a few of Lady Marshfield's acquaintances.


She would probably not have remained in
town had not her legal business made it advisable
for her to stay. She would have preferred
enjoying the fresh air of the country,
and it was these visits alone that reconciled
her to town.

Arthur was one of those who were most
frequently seen in Lady Marshfield's .
It was with great emotion that

he met Flora for the first time since her
widowhood. She was natural and unembarrassed
in manner, and seemed ready to
receive him as a friend. Whether she would
ever be open to warmer feelings towards
him he was at a loss to know.

Lady Marshfield, who was well aware of
his attachment, plainly hinted to him that
he might hope for the best. But many
considerations held him back, at least for
the time being. Had he still possessed
his former income he would have declared
himself without hesitation ; but now Flora
was rich and he was poor ; thus she might
reasonably suspect that he was paying
his addresses from interested motives, and
to incur that suspicion was intolerable
to him. No, he could not possibly let
such an interpretation be placed upon
his actions ; on that point his mind was
clear. He would rather preserve complete

silence than imperil his honourable attachment.


This feeling may have sprung from morbid
pride or from moral irresolution ; but still it
was praiseworthy from his point of view,
and he did better in yielding to it than if
he had done violence to his nature by overcoming
it.

Lady Marshfield, however, took a different
view of his conduct. She had no sympathy
with the sensitive sophistries of conscience,
and one day when he confided to her what his
sentiments were she gave him her opinion
without reserve.

'* You say that you are deeply attached to
Mrs. Beverley and that you have been soever
since you knew her. I do not wonder
at it. You could not fix your affections on a
worthier object. I am only surprised that
you do not declare yourself to her. A
sufficient length of time has elapsed since

she became a widow for you to be able to do
so with perfect delicacy."

'' You know," Arthur replied, '' that I think
the difference of our fortunes a serious
barrier."

'' I know that your self-love stands in the
way of your happiness."

'' My self-love ! " Arthur exclaimed. '^ How
do you think that ? "

You are reluctant," she replied, ^' to propose
to Mrs. Beverley lest she should imagine
that you wish to gain possession of her money.
Is not that so ? "

''.It is," he answered.

'' What do you call that feeling ? "

'well, I should find it difficult," he
answered, after a pause, " to define it inexact
words, but I think all men of honour
would share it with me."

Vanity, vanity ! " she exclaimed, with a
smile. "You must confess that there is no
other answer."

Indeed, I can confess nothing of the
kind," he said ; '' I feel very strongly on the
subject."

I beg of you to discard your feelings for
the present," she retorted, '' and to exercise
your understanding. You must acknowledge
that it would be very foolish to let the opportunity
of happiness escape for a morbid
scruple."

'but is it a morbid scruple?" he asked.
'' Is it not something far higher ? "

*' No, it is not," she said, emphatically.
'' I grant that if you were both poor you
would do wisely not to think of marriage.
But if both parties have love, though only
one may have wealth, what obstacle can
there be' to their union ? It passes my
comprehension how you can waver for a
moment."

'' Lady Marshfield," he said, '' consider
my position ; how long I have been attached
to Mrs. Beverley ; how much I

have felt for her in her trials ; how I have
reason to believe that she knew my sentiments
long ago and felt compassion for
my position ; and can you really wish me
to forfeit my place in her esteem by an
offer at the present moment ? Better times
may come, I may attain independence
again ; I may then be able to speak with
more justification."

'' And by that time," said Lady Marsh-field,
'' somebody else may have forestalled
you. I am losing patience with you altogether.
You are filling your mind with
a lot of crazy delusions that would be
ludicrous were it not for the misfortune
they may bring upon you. Are women
of property not to receive offers except
from men who have larger incomes than
they ? The idea is simply preposterous.
I know several instances among my own
acquaintance where men with little or no
means have proposed to women with thousands

; those that were accepted were of
course very happy ; and those that where
rejected did not labour under the disadvantage
of being considered rapacious by
the ladies to whom they paid their addresses.
You may be sure of one thing,
.a woman has always a sufficiently good
opinion of herself to believe that she is
loved solely and exclusively for her own
attractions."

This shrewd observation seemed to strike
him very forcibly, and Lady Marshfield
pursued her advantage.

You might, with a little dexterity, propose
to twenty rich women, and not one of
them would entertain the suspicion that
you wanted her money more than herself.
And in this case there is no likelihood of
any such motive being imputed to you. I
know Flora thoroughly. She is anything
but suspicious ; indeed, she is confiding to
a fault."

Then you think I am justified in de
daring myself ? " he asked.

'' Most decidedly," was Lady Marsh-field's
answer. '^ I will even go so far
as to say that you would be much to
blame if you did not. I think well enough
of you to believe that you would make
an excellent husband. Poor Flora has
gone through enough misery in her first
marriage to deserve happiness in her second.
Take my advice, and I am sure you will
not have cause to regret it. Rid yourself of
all chimerical notions, look at facts as they
are, and you will be happy. Indulge in a
morbid dread of being misunderstood and
depreciated, and you will raise up an insurmountable
barrier against everything that
will make your life enjoyable, and at a future
time you will look back with unavailing regret
at not having seized the golden opportunity."


Arthur felt intensely relieved on receiving

this emphatic opinion, and he determined to
act upon it.

But before he had the opportunity of so
doing he was invited to be present at a
joyous ceremony — no less an event than the
marriage of his old friend O'Brien with Miss
Parsons.

In their case the course of true love ran
smooth, although they had more delays in
attaining their wishes than were agreeable to
either. During his stay in India O'Brien
was most assiduous in writing to her at immense
length, and she answered in epistles
equally voluminous. This correspondence,
covering as it did reams and reams of paper,
filled a large box when the letters of both
writers were put together. She looked
upon them with the greatest attachment,
and would not consent to a bonfire being
made of them, as her husband suggested.
In after-life it became her favourite pastime
to peruse these documents, reviving

the memory of the days when they were
written. Shortly after the wadding they
returned to India, accompanied by the best
wishes of their friends, wishes that were
destined to be happily realized.

The day appointed for the lawsuit to be
heard was drawing near. Flora was in continual
suspense and agitation, not so much
for the sum at stake as for the justice of
her cause. Her counsel told her that she
need have but little fear, if any, because
the chances were ten to one in her favour.
Mr. Beverley's case was weak, hers was
strong ; nothing could alter that fundamental
fact ; and yet she had her misgivings.
She reflected that a shrewd manlike
her opponent would not be likely to

rush into costly litigation without a fair prospect
of success.

She expressed this thought to Lady
Marshfield one afternoon, and the latter
tried to lessen her anxiety.

'' We all believe readily what we desire,"
she said. '' Mr. Beverley is surely no exception
to the rule. His cupidity is blinding
him and carrying him away."

'' His conduct is villainous ! " exclaimed
Flora.

'' So it is," said the other. '' And your
desolate position makes it all the more
iniquitous."

'' I daresay he has not thought of that,"
Flora replied. " In these days of woman's
rights a woman is supposed to be quite equal
to defending herself."

'' And yet in many cases she is not,"
said Lady Marshfield. '' How many
shackles are imposed upon her by society,

and, indeed, by herself. If she has right
feelings ! "

She paused for a moment, but as Flora
said nothing she resumed her discourse.

*' Especially if she is young and good-looking
her difficulties are incalculably multiplied,
and slander soon takes possession of the
slightest semblance of a mistake. But when
a woman is married, her position, at least
with regard to the outer world, is greatly
strengthened. If you were not alone in the
world you may be sure that Mr. Beverley
would have thought twice before attacking
you."

'' But surely," said Flora, " this is entirely
a legal question, and my solitude does not
influence it."

"Granted," replied Lady Marshfield. "Still,
however true that may be, you will always
find that there is more readiness to crush a
lonely woman than one who has a protector in
her husband."

'' That consideration," said Flora, smiling
*' would not be powerful enough to induce me
to marry again."

Why not ? Surely you will not maintain
that it is better to pass through life
alone ? "

'' I am only thinking of my case, and do
not pretend to lay down a general rule."

'' And why," Lady Marshfield asked' should
you not marry again if you meet someone you
can love ? "

Never ! " Flora exclaimed ; '' never ! "

'' Give me your reasons."

'' My reasons may be weak, but my feelings
are strong."

'* You surprise me," said Lady Marshfield ;
^' and I should very much like to fathom your
heart at this moment."

Flora smiled, but did not answer.

'' I know from experience that second
marriages are sometimes happier than first.
The character is more matured, the mind

is formed by the events of life, prudence
and discretion are more powerful than
formerly."

Lady Marshfield had touched the exact
point. It was precisely Flora's unhappiness
in her married life that made her
form an aversion to a second marriage ;
but she would have thought it treason to
the memory of Philip to confess the fact.
She remained silent, and Lady Marshfield
went on.

Much depends upon the choice you
make, and not a little on the fruit you
have gathered from the past. Former
events may explain the present and even
illuminate the darkness in which the
future is still lying. Considering your
youth and attractions, you would surely not
wish always to remain in your present
condition ? ''

*' We have to endure something in every
state of life," was the reply.

VOL. II. Q

"True; but there is a more and a less of
endurance according to our lot. Why choose
the harder of the two ? "

'' We may differ as to which would be the
harder."

'' That most in accordance with nature and
the fitness of things is the least hard. There
is no real doubt about that ; all objections
would be the merest sophistry."

Lady Marshfield was beginning to be
concerned for the success of Arthur's suit
when she heard these utterances ; it was,
therefore, her endeavour to refute them as
strenuously as she could. If the dialogue
had been prolonged, she would undoubtedly
have been victorious in the argument, but
whether she would have convinced Flora
is another question, which we will not take
upon ourselves to answer in the affirmative
; but it was destined to be interrupted
by the appearance of no less a person than
Arthur himself.

He was welcomed by Lady Marshfield
with great satisfaction. In the hope that
he might declare himself to Flora she
soon contrived to slip out of the room,
thus giving him an opportunity of which
he was unfeignedly glad. He had revolved
the whole question in his mind, arriving at
the conclusion that if he was to speak at
all he had better do so while the lawsuit
was pending.

He opened the conversation by talking of
his Swiss tour with Mr. Houghtley, a topic
suggested by some photographs of Alpine
scenes that were lying on a table. He then
referred to the vicissitudes of his life, thus
facilitating the transition to the point he had
in view.

'' I often wonder," he said, '' whether
those whose lives are smooth and unruffled
are in reality happier than those
who have gone through sunshine and storm.
Do they feel their joys more keenly, or

are they not rather so used to prosperity
that their zest for it becomes blunted to
a certain degree ? For my part, though
I have suffered much, my troubles have
acted as a foil to my happier days, and
I value any glimpse of happiness all the
more."

'rand yet," said Flora, ''if we had the
choice, we should not hesitate to choose a
state of uninterrupted felicity,"

True," he replied. " The wish to be
perfectly happy is innate in us all. But
how few, if any, attain that felicity ! It
generally remains a vague desire, insatiate
and never appeased. I myself have
not yet attained it ; my trials have been
numerous, my hopes have been destroyed,
and still I feel and know that in one way I
might call it mine, that I might enjoy it, if
only—"

Here he paused. She said nothing, and
after a moment he resumed : —

*' Flora — if you will allow me to call you by
a name which I have long held dearer than
words can express — I was doubtful whether I
should venture to speak now that my prospects
have undergone so great a change ; but
I cannot be silent, I cannot suppress the
feelings within me, I cannot see you and
not declare what I am sure you know :
how deeply and constantly I love you and
ever have loved you, and how I hope and
trust you will not give me an unfavourable
answer."

During this address . Flora had time to
collect her thoughts. Although she had not
expected this declaration she was not surprised
by it. She knew how much he had
loved her formerly, and when listening to
his words the first sensation she felt was
pleasure at the constancy that had held
its ground against so many adverse circumstances.


She remained silent for a moment, and
then said —

'' We have both had many trials. We are,
or at least we ought to be, inured to the blows
of fortune. Let us bear our afflictions with
fortitude, and not attempt to escape from
them."

What am I to gather from these words ? "
he asked.

'' I would not wound your feelings," she
continued. " You have a true and noble
nature, and I always valued you as a constant
friend."

'' But I would be more," he exclaimed.
'* My whole life is centred in you."

So you imagine, but time will change your
ideas."

*' Never, never ! " he declared.

Think of the past," she said. '* On a
former occasion you spoke to me as you are
speaking now, and did you not console yourself
then?"

Heaven knows it was a bitter struggle."

He micrht have added that the bitterness
was enhanced by the fact that she was unhappy
in her marriage, but he had too much
delicacy to do so.

She felt touched by his words and the tone
in which they were uttered.

We have both changed since that time,"
she said. " We have become more experienced
; we have, I think, learnt and
unlearnt much. Why cannot we, therefore,
enter on a new phase of friendship ? "

"' It is not for friendship that I ask, but
love."

'' But if," she remonstrated, "' I have resolved
never a^-ain to olive mv love ? Whitish
me to be untrue to my convictions
that tell me not to enter on a second marriage
? "

'' I am destined to be wretched I '' he
exclaimed. '' How I longed for the moment
when I could declare myself I And

now how cruelly it is ending ! Everything
with me has gone wrong ; my fortune has
vanished, my friends have fallen off, and
now you, even you, wound me with a
mockery of my love ! I am weary of endurance.
My misery is more than I can
bear!"

'' Stay, stay ! " she exclaimed, terrified at
his passionate intensity.

*' You will never find another to love
you as I have done," he continued. '' For
years I lived only in thoughts of you.
And now that I offer you all the affection
of my heart you talk to me coldly of
friendship ! I gave you credit for greater
humanity ! "

'' It is not I who have offended you," she
said, gently; 'rit is your own sensitiveness
that makes you distort my innocent words.
Not for any consideration would I say anything
unkind."

I have deserved better treatment,"

he replied. '' You are cruel to me, to me
who would gladly lay down my life for
you."

Flora burst into tears. Arthur's anger disappeared
as if by magic at this pathetic sight.
He seized her hand and covered it with
kisses.

'' I am to blame," he said ; '' I— I alone.
Forgive me; I am half-distracted. Grant
me but a ray of hope and I shall leave you a
transfigured being."

'' I cannot yet," she replied ; '' not yet.
It is too soon. I have many cares
weighing upon me. Let the clouds pass
away."

'' Share your troubles with me and they
weill be lighter."

''I can say no more at present. Leave
me, I beseech of you. Leave everything to
time."

He was fain to content himself with this
token of favour.

^' Grant me one thing," he Implored. *' Let
me write to you."

Certainly," she replied.

She held out her hand to him and he
kissed it passionately. In another moment
he was gone.

When Lady Marshfield returned she found
Flora alone, and perceived that she had been
in tears.

'' I hope you have not been unkind to
him," she said. '' True love like his is
rare enough to be prized. He has often
told me of the depth of his attachment for
you."

The two sat for a long time together
Flora not giving full utterance to all she
thought and felt, and Lady Marshfield
pleading Arthur's cause with the greatest
energy.

Flora could not withhold the fact that she
returned his love ; she could not conceal the
signs by which her listener augured well for

his cause. In truth, various emotions were
contending in Flora's bosom. All that she
had suffered in her first marriage alarmed her
as to the future, much as she loved and
trusted Arthur.

Her statement to Lady Marshfield that
she would not marry again was sincere
and spontaneous ; and probably if anybody
but Arthur had proposed to her she would
have adhered to that resolution. But when
he offered her his love, when he proved
to her how deep and constant was his attachment,
her firmness wavered, and she
could not bring herself utterly to reject him.
Nor would she absolutely bind herself ; for
the present at least her object was to gain
time, to preserve her liberty of action for a
little while yet, and then — she did not own
to herself what she might do ; she preferred
remaining in a not unpleasing uncertainty,
relying fully on Arthur's fidelity
and devotion.

He was not slow in availing himself of her
permission to correspond with her ; and in
his letters he entered on the details of
his position, concealing nothing from her,
and telling her frankly how very slight were
his prospects.

She had not considered this aspect of
the question until he suggested it to her,
and then it was only to dismiss it from
her mind after assuring him that it was
of secondary importance. She said that
even if she were so unfortunate as to
lose the lawsuit, her own independence,
added to what would still be left her,
would be ample for all requirements,
and that it was not for any consideration
of money that she had not accepted
him.

She was not destined to be despoiled of the
fortune coveted by Mr. Beverley. The action
lasted two days, and judgment was given for
Flora with costs, the judge remarking that he

had seldom met with a case more unfounded
and vexatious.

On achieving this triumph congratulations
poured in from all her friends and acquaintances.
Arthur was one of the first to express
pleasure on the issue. She left town almost
immediately after the case was decided, but
he had the consolation of hearing from her
frequently.

Her letters were always In a kind and
even affectionate strain, but when he urged
her to make him happy her reply was that
even if she were to accept him it was too
soon, and they would have to wait, and
that she could not give him an answer as
yet.

The summer passed while this correspondence
was going on, and the autumn was far
advanced when they met again.

She appeared to him more beautiful than
at any former time. The repose and the
freedom from trouble that she had been

enjoying restored all her freshness and gave
her new spirits and energy. His love became
more ardent, if possible, than before ;
and again he urged upon her in burning
words to grant his suit, and to pass through
life with him as her devoted and loving companion.


This time he was successful. She yielded
at last and promised to become his wife.
His joy knew no bounds. All the trials
of days gone by seemed to him as nothing
compared to the felicity of the present.
He even rejoiced in the fact that he no
longer possessed his former wealth, because
it proved that he was accepted for himself
alone.

She also, when the die was cast, was happy
beyond expression. She felt that she had
done wisely and that the result would be such
as her hopes depicted.

At her desire the wedding was as quiet
and unostentatious as possible. Only a

few intimate friends were present at the
ceremony, which took place in a picturesque
old country church near the scene
where her early days were passed with her
mother. Mr. and Mrs. Hough they gave
the bride some magnificent presents, and
placed their country house at the disposal
of the happy couple during the honeymoon.


We have but little to add. After so many
trials and so many changes of fortune, both
Flora and Arthur enjoyed days of as perfect
bliss as can fall to the share of mortals.
Their characters harmonized and their sympathies
coincided, and it would have been
impossible to find a pair more suited to each
other.

Flora bought a house near Richmond, surrounded
by a large and beautiful garden, and
there it was the greatest pleasure to her and
her husband to receive their friends and to
see a pleasant circle around them. Lady

Marshfield and Sir Alexander, the Proud-hams,
the Houghtleys, Arabella, Mrs. Ford,
and O'Brien and his wife when they came
over from India, were their chief guests.
Nor was Ruddles forgotten. He had developed
into a very presentable young man,
and he still retained his old liking for
Arthur.

As to Arthur himself, he could at times
scarcely believe that he was really in the
enjoyment of all the happiness he felt. It
seemed like a dream when he contrasted
it with his past; his lonely, neglected childhood,
his chequered, unprosperous youth,
his sudden accession to fortune and the
turbulent enjoyment it produced, his love,
so full of pangs and sorrow at the time,
his losses and the solitude in which he found
himself in consequence, and, finally, when
the shades seemed to be closing around
him, a ray of light developing into the fullest
sunshine of joyance.

When he reviewed this succession of events
he could not refrain from expressing the most
intense gratitude and rapture that even his
sorest trials had conduced to shower upon
him the choicest blessings that love and
nature can bestow.

THE END.
